LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

^v'Vu 

©l^,.i..:. ®npj|rjg]^ :|a 

Shelf.v:.5.5 1> 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



//7 27 (L 




ST. PAUL'S CHURCH. 



Pen and ink sketch by J. H. Gratacap. 



A NEW 

DAILY FOOD 



A COLLECTION OF TRIED AND RELLABLE RECIPES, 

BROUGHT FORTH FROM THE STORE HOUSE 

OF THINGS NEW AND OLD, 



BY THE 



Ladies of St. Paul's Church, 

MORRISANIA, NEW YORK. 



n^r I EDITED AND COMPILED BY 

LYDIA SHILLABER. 

''The turnpike road to people's hearts I find ^ ■ / — ,• . 
Is through their mouths, or I mistake mankind!" / 



NEW YORK. 

PRESS OF BEDELL & BROTHER, 

1885. 



# 



CbPYRIGHTED 1885. 



INDEX. 
Chapter L— BREAD. 

Biscuit 20 

Boston Brown Bread (steamed) No. i 25 

Boston Brown Bread (.steamed) No. 2 25 

Broun Bread No. 3 25 

Breakfast Gems 23 

Chester Muffins 23 

Corn Muffins 24 

Corn Bread 26 

Cream Muffins 22 

Directions regarding bread ij 

Dora's Steamed Brown Bread 26 

English Muffins 23 

Flannel Cakes , 21 

German Puffs 22 

( jraham Bread jo 

( iraham Gems 21 

Graham Muffins 24 

Home Brewed Veast (No. 2) 18 

Lottie' s Baked Brown Bread 25 

Muffins 22 

Pop-overs 21 

Potato Yeast (No. i) ly 

Potato Yeast (No. 3) 18 

Rice Gems 2- 

Rolls ,9 

Rye Muffins 22 

Short Cakes > 20 

Squash Cakes 24 

Tea Biscuit .>o 

Waffles 21 

White Bread 18 

White Raised Muffins 24 

Chapter n.— SOUPS. 

Clam Soup 29^ 

Cream of Rice Soup 28 

Ham or Pea Soup 28 

Lobster Soup 29 

Mock Bisque Soup 29 

Pea Soup 2S 

Potato Soup 27 

Potato Soup (Western style) 28 

Tomato Soup (No. i) 27 

Tomato Soup (No. 2) 20 

Chapter III.— FISH AND OYSTERS. 

Baked Fish ^,j 

Baked Blue Fish ." ." ; 30 

Broiled Fish, or Scrod 



Clam Chowder. 



31 



Deviled Ovsters '->■> 



A XEW DAILY FOOD. 



Escaloped Oysters 35 

Fancy Roast 33 

Fish Chowder 32 

Fricassee of Oysters 34 

Fried Oysters 33 

Lobster Cro(iuettes 35 

Pickled Fisli 31 

Potted Shad 32 

Potted Mackerel 32 

ScalloiK'd Oysters 33 

Shrimps en Coquille 36 

Stewed Lobster 35 

Stewed Oysters 32 

Stuffed Clams 35 

To Boil Fish 30 

To Fry Fish 3^ 

To Pot Shrimps 36 

Chapteu IV. -meat. 

Baked Meat Pie 38 

Beef Steak 38 

Beef Jelly with Cream 41 

Boiled Flank of Beef 39 

Braised Beef 40 

Breakfast Meat Cakes 46 

Cauliflower Sauce 52 

Calf's Liver and Bacon 45 

Celery Sauce for Turkey 51 

Chickens Fried in l^atter 50 

Cnicken ("roquettes 49 

Chicken Souffle 49 

Chipped Beef 39 

Drawn Butter 50 

French Slew 39 

Fried Tripe 45 

Gravy 5" 

Gravy for Fowl 5 ' 

Haricot of .Muiton or Lamb 43 

Horseradish Sauce (No. i) 52 

Horseradish Sauce (No. 2) 52 

Hashed Veal or Hashed Turkey 45 

Jellied Tongue 42 

Lamb Cutlets (Baked) 43 

Made Mustard 53 

Meat Cakes 47 

Meat Pates 46 

Mint Sauce for Spring Lamb 53 

Mock Duck 40 

Mutton Chops 44 

Mutton Stew 43 

Oyster Sauce for Poultry 51 

Pickled Sheep's Tongue 47 

Poultry 47 

Pot Pie 38 

Pressed Beef 4^ 

Ouail 50 

Ragout of Cold Roasted <>r P.oiled Mutton 45 

Roast Beef —Second D.iy 41 

Roast Meat 37 

Salt Pork Fried in Bati' r 46 



A NEW DAILY FOOD 



Sauer Brouten ^ , 

Sausages ^6 

Steamed Turkey ^8 

Stewed Leg of Mutton ^ - 

Stuffing for Fowl (No. i) 48 

Stufifing for Fowl (No. 2") ^s 

To Boil Meat 37 

To Cook a Ham 42 

Veal Fricassee ^^ 

Veal Loaf 44 

\'cal Steaks or Cutlets . ■ 



Chapter V.- SALADS AND PICKLES. 

Chili Sauce 6 > 

Chow-chow (No. i) ^g 

Chow chow (No. 2) 60 

Cucumber Pickle:: 38 

Cucumber Pickles 38 

German Herring Salad '^5 



Lobster Salad . 



54 



Louise's Tomato Catsup 5ti 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. i) 55 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 2) 36 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 3) .^6 

Mustard Pickles 60 

Pickled Beans 5g 

Pickled Cucumbers 5^ 

Pickled Peaches 61 

Pickled Pears 61 

Pickled Oysters (No. i) 61 

Pickled Oysters (No. 2) 62 

Plum Pickles 61 

Sauce for Lobster 54 

Simple Potato Salad 54 

Tomato Salad 54 

Tomato Catsup 56 

Tomato Catsup 57 

Tomato Catsup 57 

Chapter VI. -VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus 65 

Asparagus Omelet 69 

Baked Macaroni 6^ 

Baked and Stufifed Tomatoes 66 

Baked Cabbage 68 

Broiled Tomatoes 67 

Delmonico Fries 64 

Duchess Potatoes 63 

Fried Tomatoes 66 

Fresh Mushrooms 70 

Green Corn 65 

Green Corn Pudding 70 

Ladies Ca"„bage 68 

Onions 68 

Peas 65 

Potatoes (Boiled) 63 

Potatoes (Steamed) 6- 

Potato Balls [ 6^ 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Potato Puflf 64 

Potato Souffle 64 

Puff Tomato Omelet 69 

Potato Croquettes 64 

Kice (as a vegetable' 67 

Saratoga Potatoes 64 

Scalloped Tomatoes 66 

Shelled Beans 66 

Spagetthi 69 

Spinach 67 

Stewed Mushrooms 70 

Stewed Potatoes 65 

String Beans 65 

Winter Squash 67 

Yorkshire Pudding with Roast Beef 68 

Yorkshire Pudding (No. 2) 69 

Chapter VIL— EGGS. 

Dropped 71 

Omelet (No. 1) 71 

Omelet (No. 2) 72 

Poached Eggs 71 

Puff Omelet : 72 

Chapter VIII. —DESSERTS. 

Baked Custard . . 74 

Brunswick Cream 74 

Charlotte Russe (No. 1) 75 

Charlotte Russe (No. 2) . . : 75 

Cider Jelly 76 

Custard Souffle 74 

Delicate Dessert 75 

Frozen Pudding '. 74 

Ice Cream 77 

Italian Cream 73 

Orange Ice 77 

Orange J elly 76 

f)range Jelly 76 

Raspberry Sherbet 78 

Steamed ( ustard 73 

Steamed Sweet Apples 78 

To Serve a Watermelon 78 

To Serve Orange Jelly 77 

To Beat the Whites of Eggs 73 

Water Ice 78 

Wine Jelly 76 

Chapter IX.— PUDDINGS. 

Banana Pudding 84 

Bread Pudding. 80 

Bread Pudding 82 

Bun Pudding 81 

Chocolate Pudding 86 

Cocoanut Pudding 84 

Cracker Pudding 81 

Creamy Sauce 89 

Danish Pudding 87 



A NEW DAILY FOOD, 



Delicate Bread Pudding 82 

English Plum Pudding 79 

Foaming Sauce 89 

German Pudding 88 

Grandma's J.'s Plum Pudding 81 

Hard Sauce 89 

Indian Pudding (No. 1) 83 

Indian Pudding (No. 2) 83 

King George's Pudding with Sauce 79 

Lemon Pudding 85 

Lemon Rice Pudding 86 

Molasses Sauce 89 

Old-Fashioned Bread Pudding 80 

Orange Pudding 84 

Prune Pudding 85 

Rice Pudding 84 

Saratoga Pudding 87 

Simple Suet Pudding 79 

Snow Pudding (No. i ) 88 

Snow Pudding (No. 2) 88 

Strawberry Pudding 85 

Swedish Honeycomb Pudding 81 

Sauce 82 

Tapioca Cream 87 

Tipsy Parson Pudding 86 



Chapter X.-PIES. 

Apple Pie 93 

Cocoanut Pie 93 

Cranberry Pie 94 

Gooseberry Pie 93 

Lemon Pie (No. i) 95 

Lemon Pie (No. 2) 95 

Mince Meat (No. i) , 91 

Mince Meat (No. 2) 92 

Mince Meat (No. 3) 92 

Pie Crust (No. i) 90 

Pie Crust (No. 2) 9*:> 

Puff Paste 90 

Raisin Pie 94 

Rhubarb Pie 94 

Squash Pie 94 



Chaptek XI. -CAKE. 

Almond Cake 104 

Angel's Food, or, White Sponge Cake 106 

Apple Fruit Cake 98 

Barnard Cake 112 

Berwick Sponge Cake 104 

Blueberry Cake 109 

Boston Cookies 113 

Bride Cake 105 

Chocolate Cake 102 

Chocolate Filling no 

Chocolate Frosting 116 

Chocolate Layer Cake 109 

Chocolate Marble Cake 103 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cleveland Fruit Cake 98 

Corn Starch Cake 100 

Corn Starch Cake 104 

Cream Cakes • 108 

Cream Layer Cake 107 

Cream Pie (No. i) 107 

Cream Pie (No. 2) 107 

Cup Cake 99 

Directions regarding Cake 96 

Doughnuts 115 

English Cheese Cakes 108 

Filling for Layer Cake no 

French Cake 99 

Frosting 115 

Frosting (No. 3) 116 

Frosting (No. 5) 116 

Fruit Cake (No. 1) 97 

Gelatine Frosting 115 

Gingerbread 114 

Ginger Snaps (No. i^ 114 

Ginger Snaps (No. 2) 114 

Hard Sugar Gingerbread 114 

Harlequin Cake loi 

Jelly Roll 105 

Jumbles 113 

Lemon Jelly loi 

M classes Cake 115 

New Years' Cakes m 

Orange Cake in 

Orange Cake Filling no 

Orange or Lemon Filling no 

Orange Short-Cake 112 

Pink Coloring 101 

Plain Cake for Layer Cake no 

Ribbon Cake 105 

Soft Gingerbread n 3 

Sour Milk Cake 103 

Spanish Bun 09 

Sponge Cake (No. 1 ) 102 

Sponge Cake (No. 2) 102 

Strawberry Short Cake m 

Sugar Cookies 112 

Sugar Cookies 112 

Wafers 109 

Walnut Cake loi 

Washington Cake 106 

Watermelon Cake lOo 

Wedding Cake 98 

Whigs 103 

White Cake 106 

Chapter XH.— PEESEKVES. 

Brandied Peaches 117 

Cranberry Sauce 119 

Delicious Apple Sauce 118 

Gooseberry Sauce 119 

Preserves 117 

Ouince Preserves 117 

Rhubarb Jelly 118 

Sunday .Apple Sauce 1 j 8 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter XHI— CANDY. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. i) 120 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 2) 120 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 1) 120 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 2> 120 

Cream Peppermint Candy 121 

French Candies 121 

Hoarhound Candy 121 

Lemon Candy 121 



Chapter XIV.— MISCELLANEOUS, 

A Good Brine for Butter 127 

Beef 1 ea 127 

Boiled Biscuit 123 

Boston Baked Beans 124 

Cheese Relish 126 

Claret Cup 126 

Cream Toast 123 

French Toast 124 

Hominy Cakes 126 

Lemonade 125 

Liver Pudding 126 

Noodles 123 

Scotch Panada . . : 127 

Split Peas (Boiled) 124 

To renovate Black Kid Gloves or French Kid Boots 127 

To Wash Blankets 127 

To Clean Combs and Brushes 128 

Water Toast 123 

Welsh Rarebit (No. i) 125 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 2) 125 

Welsh Rarebit (Ne. -i) 125 



ERRATA, 



Page 2o. —English Muffins should ooutaiu • Yeast Cake, one- 
quaiter of one. " 



ERRATA. 

Page 23. — English Muffins should contain "Yeast Cake, one- 
quarter of one." 

Page 38.— Beefsteak, for " gridiron, " read "frying-pan." 

Page 62. — To Pickled Oysters (No. 2) sufficient white wine 
vinegar should be added to suit the taste. 

Page 69.— In Baked Macaroni, the tomatoes should be stewed 
for an hour before being added to the Macaroni. 

Page 103.— Whigs, which are breakfast cakes, should not be 
frosted. The frosting is for loaf cakes. 

Page 111.— Strawberry Short Cake should have one cup of 
flour. 

Page 121.— Cream Peppermint Candy, for "Heat it until it 
creams," read "Beat it until it creams." 



PREFACE. 

The Editor deems it nuuecessary to offer any apology for the 
title of this book. 

Should the purchaser be disappointed to find that it is not 
strictly a religious work, we hope that he will be consoled by 
discovering that it tends in that direction. 

Sody and soul are mutually dependent upon each other, for 
health and perfect development. 

It is physically impossible for a dyspeptic to be a cheerful 
Christian and to "serve the Lord with gladness," and many a pious 
man has mourned because he thought himself enveloped in 
spiritual clouds, when he was only suffering from indigestion 

The members of The Ladies' Society think it fitting to supple- 
ment the efforts of their rector, who labors so assiduously to bring 
the Church to a healthy spiritual gi-owth. by work which is pro- 
perly in their sphere, namely, directing attention to the nourishing 
of their physical nature and furnishing aid to that end, that their 
bodies may also be presented as an acceptable sacrifice, which is 
their ' ' reasonable ser\ ice. " 

L. S. 
MoRRisANiA, Feb., 188."). 



12 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



MRS. PARTINGTON ENDORSES THE NEW DAILY FOOD. 

"Well, well,' said Mrs, Partington, her spectacles beaming 
with delight, as slie turned over the leaves of the new cook-book, 
" I declare it excites my salvation glands even to read the titles of 
the good things here signed and receipted for. It seems as though 
the gi-eatest epicac might find something among these meats and 
cosmetics to give a jest to ap]ietite. " 

She read on with increasing interest, and it was a pleasure to 
watch the emotions expressed on her face, that, like a sensitive 
photogi'aphic plate, revealed her reflections. 

" The good Lord sends vittles," she continued, "and His in- 
tentions should be carried out in the cookin' of 'em, though some 
seem to think it's enough to throw them together anyhow and leave 
'em to cook themselves. 

' ' Ah ! many a fair home has been desicM'ated by poor cooking, 
and a man's table has been the rock ahead on which his happiness 
has SDlit. A hard rock too, sometimes, with bread and pastry you 
could throw through a stone wall and not hurt it. If a man's as 
pious as Beelezebub his stomach can't stand everything. 

" Now a book like this will come into a house like a dessert In 
an O I(?es, and be a (juarantine of jierpetual peac*^. 

• ' Better is a stolid ox. and contention therewith, than 

"Isaac, dear, if you are so glutinous that mince-pie will stick 
in your sarcophagus and kill you wdthin an inch of your life ! " 

" It can't stick long, " said Ike, as plainly as he could articulate 
with his mouth full. 

"Why can't it, if you swallow it so fast ? " aske<l Mrs. P . 

" "Cause it's a turnorer ! " said Ike jocosely. 

Mrs. Partington settled tlie question by tu]-ning o\er the re- 
mainder of the pie into a clean plate and setting it upon the top 
shelf. But she smiled appreciatively as Ike departed with a (piar- 
ter section of the comestible in his hand, and murmured : 

" He is mt-h a funny boy ! So full ot* humors ! ' 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 13 



INTRODUCTORY. 

" It were easier to show twenty what were good to be done tliau 
to be one of the twenty to follow my own showing. " 

We hope that our New Daily Food will prove to be of such 
universal value that "no family should be without it." 

It contains a portion of the united wisdom of many experienced 
housekeepers. Though all are too modest to claim any superior 
skill, yet no one who follows a calling for many years can fail to 
make discoveries that are of benefit to the inexperienced. 

We have tried to make our directions so plain that ■' she who 
runs may read," remembermg that many a young housekeeper 
besides Bella Wilfer has been ready to apostrophize the cookery- 
book from which she was trying in \'ain to obtain available informa- 
tion, as a "Stupid old donkey ! " 

Happy the woman who has such well-trained servants that 
she is spared the every-day wear and tear of nerve and brain that 
the average housekeeper is subjected to, and who can save the best 
of herself for husband, children and friends. 

But, in the chaotic state of service in this country, the mistress 
of a house must often be left to the mercy of the utterly raw 
material that is stranded upon our shores to be utilized and edu- 
cated as " help." 

To the mistress ignorant of household duties, housekeeping is 
a torment and a snare, and the domestic machinery can never run 
smootldy ; while an expert manager with an intelligent knowledge 
of the routine, who can, if occasion requires, illustrate as well as 
explain, may obtain good results from the most unpromising ap- 
pearances. 

To the wise we bring new ideas, to the ignorant knowledge. 

Esi)ecially do we aim to assist the house-mother of whom cir- 
cumstances recjuire the daily sacrifice of strength as well as thought, 
and v\ho realizes by tired experience the truism that •' woman's work 
is never done." 



14 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



To such the followiug application— made by a lady distin- 
guished in literature, who is also a skilful housekeeper — of one of 
Alice's adventures in the Looking-f<la.ss, will seem no absurdity. 

"When Alice was in the Looking-glass world, she was greatly 
surjjrised. when, in the middle of a conversation with the queen, 
that the lady seized her hand and began running rapidly. After 
they had run awhile, Alice percei^ ed that they were in the same 
place, and naturally intiuired what it meant. Said the ({ueen: 'Our 
world revolves so rapidly that we have to run like this in order to 
remain in the same place, — when we wish to go anywhere we have 
to run twice as fast.' Thus it is with housekeei^ers. They are ob- 
liged to maintain a lively run, in order to just stay where they are, 
and kee}) from getting behind-hand : and when they msh to gain a 
day they must go twice as fast.' 

To such busy workers, especially if they be young and unskil- 
ful, we bring practical aid by telling them what others ha^•e learned 
in the dear school of experience, thus sa\ ing valuable material and 
more valuable time from being lost in experiment. 

It will encourage them also to remember that no ser^ice can be 
menial that is sweetened by lo^■e and duty. One can do anything 
for one's own, and the work of the mistress should therefore be 
much better than that of the maid ; though even of her lowly tasks, 
the good Geo. Herbert says : 

" A servant with this clause 
Makes drudgery divine. 
Who sweeps a room as to Thy laws 
Makes that and the action fine." 

Tnese words have been as •' the shadow of a great rock in a weary 
land ■■ to many a conscientious toiler hard pressed Avith petty duties. 

Euskin probably never did house-work, yet he describes the 
gi-eatness in littleness of it. 

"Every action— however mean or inconsiderable— is Ciipable of 
a peculiar dignity in the manner of it, and a still higher dignity in 
the motive of it. For there is no action so slight, but it may be 
done to a great purpose, and ennobled therefore." 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 15 



THINGS FOR A YOUNG HODSEIEEPER TO REMEMBER. 

That all experienced liousekeeper.s were ouce bef^iiiuers, and 
blundered and wasted as you do. 

That a generous, wholesome diet is less expensive than doctors' 
bills, and le^ss trouble than the care of the sick, and no money or 
time spent in fui'nishing it is wasted. 

That, "variety is the spice of Hfe," at the table as well as 
elsewhere. Though it may be a saving of trouble to have a regular 
routine for every day in the week, it is exceedingly monotonous. 
Avoid the conventional boarding-house system of announcing the 
day of the week by the odor from the kitchen, the boih d meat and 
vegetables coming around as regularly as the Thursday, and a 
breakfast of lish-hash and a dinner of chowder being as inevitable 
as the Friday. A dainty siu'pi'ise will often tempt back a lost or 
wandering appetite 

That there is a limit to the labor that can be accomplished by 
one pair of hands: therefore, resolve, that the "non-essentials" 
only shall hv neglected. The daily comfort of the family, and the 
mental and moral training of the children, are of more importance 
tliau frosted fruit cake for company, or embroidered pillow-shams 
and mantel lambrequins in the guest-chamber. 

That sting3' or lazy people never make good cooks. It requires 
plenty of good materials, and much care in theu- preparation to 
accomplish good results in this unportant department of domestic 
science. 

That many things which are usually thrown away will be found 
"handy to have in the house. " Bread, a tnile stale, will make ex- 
cellent Cream or Water Toast, for which see rule. When not 
wanted for that, it may be dried in a slow oven, and rolled or 
pounded into crumbs. It will then serve for puddings, stuffing, 
or brea<ling meat or oysters. Stale crackers can be made crisp by 
putting them in the oven a few minutes, and can be kept a long 



IC) A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



time thus. Drippings. — The skimming of good roast beef gravy, 
or the remnauts of the fat of roast beef, melted in the oven and 
strained, and the skimming of soup stock before vegetables are 
added, can be used in place of lard or cooking butter, and are as 
wholesome as either. Cooking butter is one of the littles that 
make the mickle in housekeeping. It should be good and sweet, 
and can be bought much cheaper than the best tal)le-butter, which 
melts away like dew in the sun, if used for all cooking purposes. 

That, while ' ' economy is wealth, " and nothing of use should 
be thrown away, it is the worst sort of waste to try, 1 )y any artifice 
of cooking or disguise of condiments, to insinuate things unfit to 
be eaten into people's stomachs. It is criminal to impede the deli- 
cate processes of nature by compelling her to do scavenger work. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 17 



A New Daily Food. 



Chapter I.— BREAD. 

Directions Regarding Bread. 

The first requisite for good bread is good floiu' ; the second, 
good yeast ; the third, patience. 

The housewife can, if she wishes, make her own yeast, and will 
find dii-ections for so doing. But good yeast can be easily pro- 
cured in liquid or compressed form, which is perfectly reliable 
when fresh. Any good yeast will make good bread, and if cooks 
complain of having no luck in making bread, it must argue some 
want of pains or of understanding. 

Bread should be made up warm, but the yeast should never 
be scalded, as that would take away its ' ' liveliness. " 

Good materials, careful mixing, and long kneading will always 
secure good bread. Home-made bread is much more satisfying and 
cheaper than bakers' bread, and one does not tire of it. A cook 
cannot acquire a more valuable accomplishment than that of making 
good bread. It is " the staff of life." 

Potato Yeast (No. 1). 
Pare and cut in several pieces three large, fair potatoes. Boil 
these, having removed all dark specks, in a quart of water, in a 
porcelain-lined or tin saucepan kept for this purpose. When soft, 
put them into a pitcher holding three pints. Add to the water in 
which they were boiled a small pinch of hops, and boil ten minutes. 
(If you add too many hops the water will be too dark-colored.) 
Meanwhile, mash the potatoes with a silver spoon. (An iron 
spoon would blacken them.) Next stir in half a cup of flour, half 
a cup of white sugar and a tablespoonful of salt. Put the 



18 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



pitcher upon the hearth or back of the stove, and set a strainer on 
top of it. Strain the hot water as it boila upon the potato. When 
you have poured in a part of the water, stir till the flour is smooth; 
then add the rest. Should the mixture seem thick, add a few 
spoonfuls of boiling water— enough to make it like a very thin batter. 

Set it away to cool. When warm to your finger, not hot, add 
half a cup of lively yeast, and put the pitcher in a warm place. It 
will rise rapidly. When it begins to foam stu* it once or twice. 
This will make it still lighter. 

One cup will raise a sponge for five or six loaves. Keep the 
pitcher in a cool place covered with a saucer. Never put it into a 
bottle or jug. It will keep sweet two or three weeks. Always save 
half a cupful for raising the yeast the next time. — Mes. Conelius. 

Home-Brewed Yeast (No. 2). 

Potatoes four ; Flour four tablespoonfuls ; 

Hops one ounce ; Sugar one tablespoonful ; 

Salt one teaspoonful ; Yeast one cup, 

or Compressed Yeast one cake. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, and mix with the flour, sugar and 
salt. Pour over this two quarts of boiling water ; stir, and put it 
aside to cool. Steep the hops in a pint of water. When blood- 
warm, mix all the ingredients, and set in a warm place to rise. 
When it begins to work, pour it into a stone jug and cork tightly, 
and keep it in a cool place. For four moderate sized loaves of 
bread one cup of Home-Brewed is sufficient. —Mrs. C. Golderman. 

Potato Yeast (No. 3). 

Potatoes (grated) one cup ; Salt one-half cup ; 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Boil a pinch of hops in a little water and pour over the above. 
Add enough water to make two quarts. Put on the stove until it 
comes to a boil ; then set it away till it is milk- warm, when add one- 
half cup of yeast. Set it in a warm place to rise. — Mrs. Clement. 

White Bread. 
Have ready two quarts of sifted flour ; then scald one quart 
of milk ; dissolve in this one tablespoonful of butter or lard, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt. Dissolve a cake of com- 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 19 



pressed yeast in a little luke-warm water ; add it to the milk when 
partly cooled. Stir this gradually into the flour. Knead twenty 
minutes. Cover with a clean bread towel, and set to rise. If set 
at night, it will be risen in the morning, and should have another 
thorough kneading, and then be put into the pans to rise again. 
This quantity will make two good-sized loaves and a pan of bis- 
cuits. The loaves will require about three-quarters of an hour 
to bake. The biscuits should bake in from twenty minutes to 
half an houi*. Tliis bread can be made up with all or part water 
instead of milk, and is as good as any bread mixed with water. It 
can be sweetened more if desired. 

Graham Bread. 

Graham floiu' sufficient for the batter; 

"White flour four cups ; Yeast one cup ; 

or Compressed Yeast ... one-half cake; 

Salt one teaspoonful ; Water (warm) one quart ; 

Indian meal one cup ; Sugar one cup ; 

Soda two teaspoonfuls (scant). 

Make a sponge at night of the water, which must be warm, the 
white flour, yeast and salt. 

In the morning, when the sponge is light, add the Indian meal, 
sugar, and the soda dissolved in a little boiling water. 

Then scatter in gradually as much Graham flour as you can 
possibly stir in smooth, and put the dough in pans to rise. This 
will make two good loaves. It is a good recipe. 

Rolls. 

Milk one quart ; Eggs four ; 

Sugar one tablespoonful ; Butter one-half cup ; 

Compressed Yeast half of a cake ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful ; Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Warm the milk sufficiently to melt the butter, add the eggs 
beaten Hght, enough flour to make a stiff sponge, then the yeast 
dissolved in a little luke-warm water. In the morning add the 
salt, the soda dissolved in a little boiling water, and as much flour 
as is needed to mould it easily. Roll out and cut into biscuit, and 



20 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



let them stand for about an hour. They should rise to about twice 
their original size. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

This dough will serve for wajffles, muffins or griddle cakes. 

—Mrs. M. B. Arnold. 

Biscuit. 

Flour one quart ; 

Bakmg Powder three teaspoonfuls ; 

Salt one teaspoonf ul. 

Sift altogether; add milk enough to moisten. The dough 
should be quite soft. Roll an inch thick; cut into cakes and bake. 
Twenty minutes in quick oven should be sufficient. 

A teaspoonful of shortening may be added to the dry flour. 

Tea Biscuit. 

Flour one quart ; 

Baking Powder three and a half teaspoonfuls ; 

Lard . . . one-half tablespoonful ; Butter, one-half tablespoonf ul ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful ; 

Milk sufficient to moisten the above. 

Sift the yeast powder and flour into a bowl. Rub into them 
the butter and lard, add the salt and soften with sweet milk. 

Roll out the dough, cut into cakes and bake in a quick oven 
about ten minutes. — Mrs. Arnold. 

Short Cakes. 

Flour one pint ; Salt one-half teaspoonful ; 

Baking Powder two teaspoonfuls ; 

Butter one tablespoonful ; Milk one cup (scant). 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder. Into them rub the 
butter and moisten with the milk. Add sufficient milk to make a 
dough that will handle easily. Pat with a rolling-pin about half 
an inch thick, cut into small cakes and fry in a hot spider or griddle 
until brown. Brown both sides, letting them cook slowly. 

For a dessert, split them open and spread with fruit and sugar. 

—Mrs. Oliver. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 21 



Waffles. 

Milk one pint ; Butter, one large tablespoonful ; 

Eggs four ; Flour one-quarter pound ; 

Yeast, one large tablespoonful ; Salt a little. 

Warm half the milk till it will melt the butter. Beat the egg'i 
and mix them with the cold milk; then stir in the flour, add the 
salt, and mix with the warm milk and butter; add the yeast and set 
in a warm place. 

Cook on hot waffle irons. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Graham Gems. 

Graham flour two cups ; 

Sour milk one and two-thirds cnps ; 

Soda one teaspoonful ; Molasses one-tablespoonful ; 

Butter one teaspoonful ; Salt a little. 

Dissolve the soda in a portion of the sour milk and melt the 
butter. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Butter one-half cup 

Milk (sweet) one and one-half pints 

Milk (sour) one and one-half pints 

Eggs three ; Soda two teaspoonfuls. 

Dissolve the soda in a little of the sour milk ; add flour enough 
to make a thick batter. — Mrs. Ford. 

Pop-overs. 

Milk two cups ; 

Flour two cups a little heaped ; 

Eggs two ; 

Sugar one tablespoonful, heaped ; 

Butter one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one-quarter of one ; 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Pour the milk upon the flour gradually to avoid lumps. Add 
the eggs well beaten, and melted butter, then the sugar, spice and 
salt. Beat very light. 

Bate in cups or muffin pans twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



22 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Rye Muffins. 

Bye flour three cups; White flour, one and a half cups; 

Sour milk three cups; Soda one teaspoonful ; 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls. 

This may be made with sweet milk, when two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar should be added. —Mrs. Oliver. 

Cream-Muffins. 

Flour one pint ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; 

Baking powder one and a half teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs two; 

Cream thi'ee-quarters cup. 

Mix well together the salt, flour and baking powder. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs thoroughly, to which add the cream. Stir all to- 
gether and add the whites, which must be beaten stiff last. 
Bake in muffin pans. Serve hot. 

German Puffs. 

Flour three cups ; 

Milk thi-ee cups ; 

Eggs three ; 

Butter three teaspoonfuls ; 

Baking powder one-half teaspoonful ; 

Salt one saltspoonful. 

Mix and bake as in directions for pop-overs. — Mrs. White. 

Muffins. 

Flour one quart; 

Baking powder one and a half teaspoonfuls; 

or Soda one-half teaspoonful; 

Cream of tartar. ... one teaspoonful; 

and Salt one teaspoonful; 

Eggs three or four; 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonfuls; 

Milk enough to make a batter. 

Mix the baking powder (or soda and cream of tartar) dry with 
flour; moisten with the milk, add the eggs and melted butter last. 

—Mrs. Comfort. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 23 



English Muffins. 

Milk one pint; Flour .... to make a stiff batter; 

Egg one; Butter one tablespoonful; 

Salt a little. 

Wai'm the milk, melt the butter in it, mix and let the batter 
rise four or five hours in a warm place or over night in a cool one. 
Bake in muffin rings. — Mrs. W. C. Emery. 

Chester Muffins. 

Flour four quarts; Sugar one cup; 

Butter one cup; Yeast one cup; 

Eggs four; Salt a little; 

Milk two quarts. 

Mix at night, let it rise till morning, bake in a good oven in 
muffin rings or pans, — Mrs. Stroud. 

Breakfast Gems. 

Flour three cups; 

Milk two cups; 

Sugar one-quarter cup; 

Egg one; 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls; 

Soda one teaspoonf iil; 

Salt a little. 

Bake in a quick oven in gem pans. —Mrs. Cummings. 

Kice Gems, 

Boiled rice two cups; 

Milk four cups; 

Eggs three; 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls; 

Soda one teaspoonful; 

Sugar a Httle; 

Salt a httle; 

Flour sufficient to make a medium stiff batter. 

Bake in a gem pan. This will make thirty gems. — jNIiss Emery. 



24 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Squash Cakes. 

Squash, (sifted.) one-half pint; 

Butter, (melted,) one tablespoonful; 

Milk one-half cup; 

Flour three cups; 

Salt a little; 

Yeast cake one-quarter of one. 

Raise them over night and bake in gem pans. —Miss Emery. 

Graham Muffins. 

Flour one cup; 

Molasses two-thirds cup; 

Compressed yeast one-half cake; 

Butter one teaspoonf ul ; 

Water one quart ; 

Graham flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. 

Raise over night. —Miss Emery. 

White-Raised Muffins. 

Milk one pint ; 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls ; 

Butter size of an egg ; 

Compressed yeast one-quarter of a cake ; 

Egg one; 

Flour . sufficient for a stiff batter. 

Raise over night. — Miss Emery. 

Co-n Muffins. 

Corn meal ; 

Water, warm one cup ; 

Lard or butter one small tablespoonful ; 

Sour milk or buttermilk one large cup ; 

Eggs two ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful ; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Melt the lard or butter in the warm water ; then add the milk, 
the eggs well beaten, and the salt. Stir in corn meal enough to 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 25 



make a thick batter. Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of hot 
water, and pom* into the mixture, stirring very fast. 

Pour it immediately, during the effervescence, into the muffin 
pans. — Mrs. Ford. 

Boston Brown Bread, (Steamed), No. 1. 

Indian meal one quart; Rye flour one pint; 

Sour milk one quart; Molasses one cup; 

Soda two teaspoonfuls. 

Mix the meal and flour, add the milk gi-adually, to avoid 
lumps. Add the molasses. Dissolve the soda in two tablespoon- 
fuls of hot water, and add, stii*ring very fast. Steam six hours in 
a well greased double kettle. Set in the oven for one hour- before 
dinner. —Mrs. Harris. 

Boston Brown Bread (Steamed), No. 2. 

Indian or corn meal, .two cups; Rye flour or meal one cup; 

Milk .one pint; Molasses one-half cup; 

Soda one even teaspoonful. 

Mix as in above recipe (No. 1). Steam five hom-s. Sour milk 
may be used, in which case a half -teaspoonful more of soda must 
be added. 

Brown Bread (No. 3). 

Indian meal three cups; 

Rye meal or flour three cups; 

Molasses one half cup ; 

Salt one teaspoonful ; 

Saleratus one teaspoonful ; 

Milk enough to make a stiff batter. 

Steam five or six hours. 

This will make enough to fill a two-quart pan.— Mrs. Eaton. 

Lottie's Baked Brown Bread. 

Indian meal five cups; Rye meal five cups; 

Molasses -one cup; Soda one teaspoonful; 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Mix with lukewarm water and bake three or four hoiu:s. 

— Mrs. WinsiiOW. 



26 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Dora's Steamed Brown Bread. 

Indian meal two and one-half cups ; 

Kye meal two cups ; 

Flour one cup ; 

Molasses one cup ; 

Soda one teaspoonf ul ; 

Salt one teaspoonf al. 

Mix with warm water, steam three or foiu* hours. 

—Mrs. WiNSiiOw. 

Corn Bread. 

Yellow meal one cup ; 

Flour two cups ; 

Baking powder two teaspoonf uls ; 

Eggs three ; 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls ; 

Milk one pint ; 

Butter size of an egg ; 

Salt a salt-spoonful. 

Sift the flour, meal, baking-powder, and salt together. Add 
ihe sugar, the butter melted, the eggs well beaten, and last, the 
milk gradually. Bake in gem pans half an hour. — Mks. White. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 27 



Chapter II.— SOUPS. 

Gilbert Stuai-t was asked by one of his admirers, and perhaps 
imitators, how he mixed his colors. His reply was, ' 'According to 
my taste, " which was equivalent to saying that no artist could give 
an exact rule for mixing colors. 

In cooking, as in other fine arts, no exact ride can be given for 
many mixtmres. In soups, more than in most things, the taste 
must guide. "What is one's meat is another's poison," and all 
<5ooks must discover the taste of those to whom they have to cater, 
and govern themselves accordingly. 

Beef furnishes a good foundation for soup stock. It should be 
put on in cold water, about two quarts to the pound, and boiled 
«lowly. It may be varied each day by different seasoning and 
Tegetables, and used till the juice of the meat is all extracted. It 
may be thickened with vermicelli or spagetthi, which require about 
fifteen mimites to boil; or rice, which should boil half an hour, or 
barley, which requires tlu'ee quarters of an hour. Strained tomato 
sauce or a few spoonfuls of tomato catsup may be added to the soup 
just before serving, for an occasional change. 

Tomato Soup. 

Soup stock four quarts; Tomatoes one-half peck ; 

Onions two; Sugar two tablespoonfuls ; 

Salt to taste; Pepper to taste ; 

Celery a little. 

Boil all together, strain and thicken with browned flour. 

—Mrs. W. C. Emeby. 

Potato Soup. 

Potatoes, large twelve; Onions two; 

Carrot one; Soup celery . .one small bunch. 

Boil these together two hours. Then strain through a col- 
ander and return to the ft re. Melt a quarter of a cup of butter in 
a frying-pan, and stir into it while still over the fire a cup of flour, 
dry. Add this to the soup. Serve hot. —Mrs. W. C. Emert. 



28 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Potato Soup (Western Style). 
For two quarts of soup, peel and slice a quart of potatoes, 
and three large wliite onions. Put them over the fire in sufficient 
boiling water to cover them, with a teaspoonful of salt, and a table- 
spoonful of butter, and boil them until they can be rubbed through 
a sieve with a potato masher. Meantime rub to a smooth paste a 
heaping teaspoonful each of flour and butter. After the potatoes 
have been rubbed through a sieve, put them again over the fire, 
with two quarts of hot milk, the flour and butter rubbed together, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the soup until it boils ; let it boil 
two or thi'ee minutes, and after that serve it with small dice of 
toasted bread. 

Ham or Pea Soup. 

Boil a pint of split peas, which have been soaked for three 
hours, in three quarts of cold water, with a ham bone. 

Cook slowly seven hours and strain, rubbing the peas through 
a colander. 

Season to taste, and pom* over small squares of dry toast. 

White beans may be substituted for peas. — Mks. Stroud. 

Cream of Rice Soup. 

Soup stock two quarts; Milk one quart; 

Rice one cup; Onion one. 

Cook all together very slowly two hours, and strain. Serve 
very hot. —Mrs. Munrob. 

Pea Soup. 

Split peas one pint; 

Corned beef or pork one pound; 

Carrot one; 

Turnip one; 

Onion • one; 

Celery, one tablespoonful, or celery leaves . . a handful. 
Soak the peas over night. In the morning boil them with the 
meat for three hours, hard. 

Add the chopped vegetables and boil one hour more. Strain 
and season. 

Pour the soup over two thin slices of toast, which must be cut 
up like dice and placed in tli(^, bottom of the tureen. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 29 



Tomato Soup. 

Soup stock four quarts; Tomatoes half-peck; 

Onions two. 

Boil, strain and thicken with browned flour. Add two teaspoon- 
f Ills of sugar, salt and j^epper to taste. — Mrs. Emery. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

Tomatoes half can; 

Milk one quart; 

Corn starch two even tablespoonfuls; 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Smooth the corn starch in a little cold milk. Add it to the rest 
of the milk which must be boiling, then the butter and salt. Last 
the tomatoe, which must be previously stewed and strained. 

A saltspoonful of soda may be put into the tomato, if it is very 
sour. Serve hot. 

Clam Soup. 
Clams; cold water, one quart to a dozen clams. 
Chop the clams, which should be large and plump, very fine. 
Put the clams with their liquor and a quart of cold water for every 
dozen clams, upon the fire in a perfectly clean vessel, and let them 
simmer gently, but not boil, for about an hour and a half. 

The clams should be so well cooked that you seem to have only a 
thick broth. 

Season to taste and pour into a tureen in which a few slices of 
well browned toast have been placed. 

If desired, an egg and a cup of milk may be added for every 
two dozen clams. The egg should be thoroughly beaten and the 
milk added to it gradually, then, after the soup is removed from 
the fire they may be stirred into it. — Mrs. Stroud. 

Lobster Soup. 
Put one quart of milk on to boil ; put one large tablespoonful 
butter in a saucepan. When bubbling add two heaping table- 
spoonfuls flour ; then add the boiled milk gradually; season highly 
with pepper and salt ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Dry the coral 
in the oven and rub through a strainer into milk until it has a pink 
•color, then add the meat chopped fine; cook five minutes. 

If you wish you can strain it before serving. The shell can be 
boiled in the milk. — Mrs. DrLUNGHAM. 



30 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter III.— FISH AND OYSTERS. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean thoroughly, and dry with a cloth outside and in. Stuff 
with slices of buttered bread, sprinkled with salt, pepper, and 
parsley. Skewer together, flour and salt it, and put it in a baking 
pan, on a rack. Put a little hot water in the bottom of the pan. 
Skewer small sUces of pork over the top of the fish. Baste occa- 
sionally. If it weighs about three or four pounds, it will requhe 
one hour to cook. 

May be served with drawn butter, to which pieces of hard 
boiled eggs, and parsley are added. Garnish with parsley and 
shoes of lemon. 

Baked Blue-fish. 

Have a medium sized blue-fish scaled, dra^vn and washed. 
Boll a pound of crackers, not too tine, mix with them two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of butter, slightly melted, one teaspoonful each 
of salt, sweet-marjoram and summer-savory, half a teaspoonful of 
pepper and one raw egg, and just enough boiling water to moisten 
the crumbs. Stuff the fish with this, and lay it in the baking-pan. 
Put with it two tablespoonfuls of butter, a level teaspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of catsup or any good table sauce, and a 
pint of hot water. 

Put the fish in a hot oven and baste it every ten minutes. 
After it has been in the oven half an hour, dredge it all over with 
flour, and let it brown. Then baste again and dredge again. Ee- 
peat the basting and dredging every fifteen minutes until the fish 
has been baked an houi', and is nicely browned all over. This may 
be served with drawn butter sauce, or the gravy in the dripping- 
pan may be thickened with browned floui'. 

To Boil Fish. 
A cod or a sohd piece of halibut or salmon may be boiled as 
follows : 

After the fish has been thoroughly cleaned, that is, soaked in 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 31 



warm water and scraped, and then washed in cold salt and water, 
it should be tied up in a floured cloth, and put into cold water, 
enough to cover it, with a tablespoonful of salt in it. 

The water should be skimmed often. It should be boiled for 
about twenty or twenty-five minutes to every pound. 

SHp it out of the cloth carefully upon the platter, so as not to 
spoil its shape. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

{Serve with drawn butter sauce. 

Broiled Fish, or Scrod. 

Cod, Spanish mackerel and bluefish are very nice broUed. 

Have the fish split and the bone removed. "Wash, and dry in 
a cloth. 

Grease the gridiron well. It should be a wire one that can be 
turned. 

Broil over a good, but not too hot fire. Put the skin side down 
first. It will take from twenty minutes to half an hour to cook, 
and must be nicely browned, but not scorched. 

Salt when half-done, and again when laid in the platter. 
Spread with butter. Serve hot. 

To Fry Fish. 

When cleaned and dried, dip in Indian meal and fry in hot 
pork fat slowly till brown. 

Pickled Fish. 

Raw fresh fish (shad is the best); salt ; pepper (whole); cloves 
(whole); onion (sHced), half a one ; vinegar. 

Put a layer of raw fresh fish in the bottom of a stone pot. The 
pot should be large at the top, as it is easier to remove the fish 
without breaking. Season with salt, pepper and cloves, and a little 
onion. Then put in another layer of fish, to which add seasoning 
as before. Repeat this till the pot is f uU. Pour over all sufficient 
vinegar to cover it. Put it in a luke-warm oven at evening, and 
leave it until morning. In the morning set it away to cool and 
you will have an excellent relish ready for the table without any 
further preparation. — Mrs. Ludlow. 



32 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Fish. Chowder. 

Fry four slices larding pork in tlie bottom of a deep kettle. 
Take out and keep hot in a small platter. Cut in moderately thin 
slices twelve raw potatoes and three raw onions. 

Put these in the kettle in layers alternately, with four pounds 
of haddock or codfish steak, adding salt and pepper to each layer ; 
pour in at once boiling water enough to cover all. Lay over the 
top half a dozen pilot biscuits, and boil moderately three-quarters 
of an hour. When all is done, add two cups of milk, dredge in a 
little flour, and boil up once. — Mbs. Emery. 

Potted Shad. 

Cut one shad through the back, wash and dry. Cut it in small 
pieces and season with salt, pepper, allspice, cloves and mace. Pack 
tight in a stone jar. Make it tight by putting a paste crust over 
the top. Cover and bake in a moderate oven two hours. When 
taken out of the oven remove the crust and cover with vinegar. 

To be eaten next day. —Mrs. HuLii. 

Potted Mackerel. 

Small mackerel one dozen; Salt half cup; 

Cloves one tablespoonf ul, heaped; 

Allspice one tablespoonful, heaped. 

Clean the mackerel and cut them in halves. EoU each piece in 
the salt and spices mixed; put into an earthen pot, cover with 
vinegar, cover close, and bake six hours in a slow oven. 

— Mrs. Oliver. 

Stewed Oysters. 

Separate the liquor from the oysters. Strain the liquor and if 
the oysters are " solid," add as much water as liquor. 

Put this upon the fire, and at the same time another saucepan 
containing milk equal in quantity to the oyster liquor. Let the 
milk heat upon the back of the stove, but not boil. 

When the oyster liquor boils add the oysters and let Ihem boil 
till the beards begin to curl up. 

Then add the milk and let it boil up once. Too long boiling 
curdles the milk. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 33 



Pour the stew into a tureen containing two tablespoonfuls of 
fine oyster cracker crumbs and two tablespoonfuls (more if desired) 
of butter. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Butter a pudding dish. 

Spread cracker crumbs over the bottom ; put evenly over this 
a layer of oysters. Take them from the liquor one by one, with a 
silver fork ; you can thus see if any particles of shell adhere ; 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper. 

Spread over these another layer of crumbs with bits of butter 
scattered over them, then another layer of oysters seasoned as be- 
fore, then more crumbs and butter, till all the oysters are used. 

Strain the oyster liquor and pour over all. If there is not suf- 
ficient hquor to moisten them thoroughly, add a little milk. 

Put large pieces of butter on the top, and gi-ate a little nutmeg 
over it. 

The success of this dish depends upon a lavish use of butter 
and seasoning. It is safe to say that a quart of oysters will require 
a cupful of butter. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Oysters, chopped fine twenty-five; 

Cracker crumbs one-half cup; 

Melted butter one tablespoonful; 

Cream one cup; 

Salt to taste; 

Pepper, red and black to taste. 

Mix and cook fifteen minutes on well buttered oyster shells, 
putting a large spoonful of the mixture on each sheU. 

Fried Oysters. 

Dry in a clean towel ; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs. 
Fry in equal parts of butter and lard. 

Fancy Roast. 
Boil the oyster liquor, add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful 
of butter ; then put in the oysters. When done pour over slices of 
buttered toast. 



34 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Fricassee of Oysters. 

Oysters one quart or twenty-five oysters; 

Butter size of an egg or two ounces; 

riour (sifted) one tablespoonful; 

Eggs two; 

Salt to taste; 

Red pepper a pinch; 

Nutmeg one-quarter of one. 

Put the oysters on the fire in theii* own liquor; the moment they 
begin to boil drain the liquor into a hot dish, through a colander, 
leaving the oysters in the colander. 

Put the butter into a saucepan ; Avhen it bubbles sprinkle in 
the sifted flour. Let it cook a minute without taking aolor, stirring 
it well all the time, with a wire egg beater ; then add a cup of the 
oyster liquor, mixing well. Take this from the fire, mix in the 
jolks of the eggs, the salt and red pepper and nutmeg. A tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice can be added here if desired. Beat all 
well together, retui-n to the fire to set the eggs, but do not allow it 
to boil ; then put in the oysters. 

All the dishes used in the preparation of this must be hot and 
the beating done with care that the cream may be smooth and 
velvety. — Miss Niebuhr. 

Clam Chowder. 

Hard clams twenty-five; 

Soft clams one large bunch; 

Potatoes six; 

Onions six; 

Carrot one; 

Pork, very fat one-half pound; 

Tomatoes one-half a can, or six large ones; 

Celery one-half bunch; 

Crackers three (broken) ; 

Sherry wine one glass. 

Cut the pork in thin " slices and fiy slowly in an iron pot. 
When the fat is tned out, cut the pork into small pieces, and chop 
the other ingredients ^/ie, and place them in the pot in layers. The 
pork fat, then the clams, then the crackers and vegetables, season- 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 35 



ing to taste. Add water euongh to cover all, and cook slowly three 
or four hours, without stirring. Add the wine just before taking 
from the fire. — Mrs. Waterman. 

Stuffed Clams. 

Take equal quantities of finely-chopped clams and bread soaked 
in milk. Season with pepper and parsley. Mix well and add the 
yolk of one egg. 

Put a small piece of butter into a frying-pan. When hot, add 
a teaspoonful of flour. Stir the clam mixtiu-e into this. Brown 
and add some tomato sauce. 

Fill the clam shells ; cover over with fine bread crumbs, and 
keep warm until served. 

Stewed Lobster. 

Take the lobster from the shell and chop it, but not too fine. 

Put it upon the fire in a saucepan, with water enough to nearly 
cover it, a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, according to taste, 
a little pepper, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Let it stew slowly 
for ten minutes. Then dredge in a little flour. Let it boil up once, 
pour in a deep dish, and serve hot. 

This is a very nice and wholesome way of preparing lobster. 

Escaloped Lobster. 

Kemove the meat of a lobster and cut it in pieces one quarter 
of an inch thick. 

Make one cup of thick white sauce with one tablespoonful but- 
ter, one heaping of fioui*, and one cup hot milk, season highly with 
salt, pepper, lemon juice and cayenne. 

Mix the lobster with the sauce, put it into the shells, cover 
with buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. Garnish with the 
claws and parsley. — Mrs. Henry DiLiiiNGHAM. 

Lobster Croquettes. 
To the meat of two boiled lobsters chopped fine, add a little 
pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and a quarter as much bread 
crumbs as meat. Make into egg-shaped balls, with a little melted 
butter. Roll in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in 
butter or nice lard. Serve dry and hot. — Mrs. Krahnstover. 



36 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Shrimps en Coquille. 
Pick over carefully one can of shrimps. Make a thick white 
sauce with one cup of cream or milk, one tablespooDful of butter, 
and one large tablespoonful of flour, season with salt and pepper, 
add the shrimps, fill the shells and cover with cracker crumbs 
moistened with butter. — Mrs. DiLiiiNGHAM. 

To Pot Shrimps. 

Pick over carefully, but do not wash one can of Gulf Shrimps. 
Oil carefully about four ounces of butter. Put these into a por- 
celain-lined saucepan with a pinch of ground mace and the same 
of red pepper. Heat them through, say for four minutes. Then 
press them into a jar. When cold, put a little clarified butter over 
them. • — Mrs. Krahnstover. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 37 



Chapter IV.— MEAT. 



To Boil Meat. 

Meat should be put into boiling water and boiled steadily but 
not violently, and skimmed often. 

When done the meat will cleave from the bone. 

Leibig says, that "if the flesh be introduced into the boiler 
when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling 
be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot be put in a warm place 
so that the temperature of the water is kept at 158 to 165 degrees, 
we have the united conditions for giving to the meat the qualities 
that best fit it for being eaten." 

By this means the meat is both wholesome and jjalatable, as it 
keeps aU its nourishing properties. 

Koast Meat. 

Meat to be roasted, especially beef, should be put into a very 
hot oven, so that it will cook quickly upon the outside. The 
juices are thus retained, which would simmer out into the drip- 
ping pan if the oven were only moderately warm. 

Roasting meat should be thoroughly dredged with flour before 
being put into the oven, but should not be salted till partly cooked, 
as salt extracts the juices from raw meat. 

Beef should be cooked for about fifteen minutes for every 
pound if it is to be eaten rare, which is the most healthful way to 
eat it. 

Mutton requires about twenty minutes to the pound, lamb a 
little more, as the latter should never be served rare. 

Veal, venison and pork require long roasting. Four or five 
hours is not too much, and a few slices of salt pork should be 
skewered over the top. Venison may be wrapped in a crust of pas- 
try, which keeps the juices from escaping. If pork is ever fit to be 
eaten, it is only when thoroughly done, and should be roasted 
from three to five hours. 

A roasting pan should be furnished with a rack or grate upon 



38 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



wliich the meat can be placed. It is thus prevented fr5m becom- 
ing "soggy " by soaking in the gravy. It should, however, be bas- 
ted frequently. 

Pot Pie. 

Boil the meat or fowl till nearly done. Add eight or ten sliced 
potatoes, a small onion and pepper and salt to taste. 

When the potatoes have boiled fifteen minutes put dumplings 
made like yeast powder biscuit over the top of all. Care should be 
taken that the water does not boil over the dumplings, or they will 
be heavy. If the kettle contains too much water remove some of 
it till the dumplings have risen. The gravy may be returned as it 
is needed. 

When the dumplings are done, which will be in about twenty 
or twenty-five minutes, put them on a platter and place them where 
they will keep warm. Serve the potatoes and meat on another 
platter. Thicken the gravy, let it boil up, and serve it in a gravy 
dish. 

Baked Meat Pie. 

Boil the meat, lamb, veal or poultry — till tender. Line a deep 
dish with a crust made with about two-thirds as much shortening 
as for pies. Put in the meat, season it well with salt and pepper, 
pour in the gravy in which the meat Avas boiled, put two or three 
slices of salt pork or a few lumps of butter over it, cover with a 
thick upper crust, pierced with holes to let the steam escape, and 
bake till the crust is done. 

Beef Steak. 

The best way to cook a steak is to broil it over moderately hot 
coals, turning often. 

But this method has its disadvantages. It causes much smoke, 
which, if there is no smoke-escape over the range, fills the kitchen 
and finds its way to the dining-room, besides investing the cook 
with an aroma suggestive of a ham just from the smoke-house. If 
the cook happens also to be the "lady of the house," the family 
will be quite contented with a steak cooked as follows: 

Have the gridiron hot. Grease the bottom, but leave no surplus 
fat. Put in the steak, and as soon as it is brown turn it. Keep 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 39 



turning it every minute or two till the outside is cooked. This 
will keep in the juices. Then cover it and let it cook for about 
three minutes. Turn it and cook it for three minutes more. If it 
is not a very thick steak, it will be done sufficiently by this time 
for those who like a rare-done steak. 

If it is turned often at iirst, and cooked just long enough, it 
cannot be distinguished from a broiled steak. 

French Stew. 

Beef, in one solid piece three pounds; 

Onion •. . .one; 

Carrot one; 

Turnip one; 

Celery two sprigs; 

Parsley two sprigs; 

Tomatoes two; 

Water one quart; 

Vinegar two tablespoonfuls; 

Sugar one tablespoon ful ; 

Salt to taste; 

Pepper to taste; 

Flour to thicken the gravy. 

First put the meat in the C3ld water, with vinegar and sugar. 
After it boils steadily one hour add chopped vegetables, salt and 
pepper. Boil one hour longer, or until the meat is tender. 

—Mrs. W. 0. Emery> 

Boiled Flank of Beef. 

Wash the flank ; salt and pepper it, and spread over it a dress- 
ing made as for poultry. Eoll this up and tie it firmly. Then sew 
it up in a cloth. Lay it on a small plate in an iron pot, cover 
with six quarts of boiling water, and boil gently six hours. 

When done remove the cloth,, but do not take off the twine until 
the meat is entirely cold. 

Cut m thin slic-^% and serve for lunch or tea. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Chipped Beef. 

Beef two poimds ; Suet one-quarter pound. 

Have these chopped together very fine by the butcher. 



40 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cover with cold water, and cook slowly two hours. Season to 
taste, and just before removing it from the fire dredge in a little 
flour. Let it boil up. 

This may be cooked a day beforehand, and warmed up for 
breakfast. 

When ready to serve, pour it hot upon slices of toast. Dropped 
or poached eggs may be spread over the top. —Mrs. Arnold. 

Braised Beef, 
Beef, from four to six pounds from the round or face of the 
rump. Trim and tie in good shape. Eub well with salt, pepper 
and flour. Cut two onions, one-half of a small carrot and one-half 
of a small turnip fine and fry them till light brown m salt pork fat 
or dripping. Skim them out into a braising pan. Brown the 
meat all over in the frying pan, adding more fat if necessary. 
Put the meat into the braising pan and add a quart of boiling 
water and a tablespoonful of mixed herbs. Cover closely and 
bake in the oven four hours, basting every twenty minutes. Turn 
it over after two hours. When tender, take the meat from 
the pan, remove the fat from the gravy, add more salt and pepper 
if needed, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour wet in cold 
water. Cook ten minutes and strain over the meat. Add one-half 
can tomato before straining, if liked. —Mrs. Dillingham. 

Mock Duck. 

Take two pieces of thick steak, pound it a little, put a layer of 
stuffing, made as for duck, in between the slices, skewer together 
and rub beaten egg and bits of butter over it. 

The meat should be cooked on a grate, which raises it from 
the pan. Cover the bottom of the pan with water. Bake about 
one hour, basting often. —Miss Fairbanks. 

Pressed Beef. 

A shank of beef ; salt, pepper, sage or any sweet herb. 

Crack the bone in several places. Wash and cut the meat in 
small pieces. Cover Avitli cold water and boil slowly, adding more 
hot water as the water boils away. 

When the meat will cleave from the bone, by which time the 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 41 



water will be reduced two thirds, take out the meat and set it and 
the broth away till next day. 

Then chop the meat fine, and strain the broth (having removed 
the fat) into it. Season, place upon the fire, and stew till dry, 
stirring constantly to prevent its burning. Put into an oblong pan 
and serve cold, cut in slices. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Beef Jelly with Cream. 

This jelly is made from a shin bone of beef. It should be 
boiled without any salt, and long and slowly. After cooling remove 
all fat and sediment. Then to this jelly — one and one half pints— 
add lemons, juice of two and rind of one ; sugar, one cup ; white 
wine, one cup. 

Heat these together and when broken, add one cup of cream. 

Take it from the fire before it boils, and pour into cups or 
glasses while hot. —Mrs. Oliver. 

Roast Beef (Second day). 
Cut cold roast beef into thin slices, and brown it lightly in a 
hot buttered spider. Do not salt it. Have the pan quite hot, 
that the meat may brown quickly without losing its juices. Take 
it from the pan, and mix well a spoonful of butter and one of flour 
in the hot pan. Add a cup of boiling water and boil a minute. 
Season to taste. Add a little catsup or Worcestershire sauce if de- 
sired. Pour the gravy over the meat and serve. 

Sauer Brouten. 
For the Pickle. 

Kound of beef (larded) four pounds ; 

Cloves (whole) one ounce ; Black pepper(whole),one ounce; 

Onion one-half of one ; Bay leaves ; 

Vinegar. 
For the Stew. 

Butter one tablespoonf ul ; Water one tablespoonf ul ; 

Bacon (sliced) one-quarter pound. 

To lard the meat, fill a lardmg needle, to be obtained at any 
furnishing store, with larding pork and di-aw it several times 



42 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



through the beef ; this done put the meat in a stone pot and cover 
it with vinegar ; add the cloves, j)epper, onion and bay leaves. 

Let it remain four days ; then drain and put it on the fire in an 
iron pot with the butter, water and bacon as given above and cook 
two hours, turning frequently. When done add to the gravy in the 
pot a little flour, a little vinegar, and serve. — Mrs. LudijOw. 

To cook a Ham. 
Wash and scrape the ham thoroughly. Boil it three or four 
hours, according to its size. Skin it and put it in a roasting pan 
in the oven for half an hour. Then take it out and shake over it 
powdered rusk, or bread, or cracker crumbs, and a little sugar if 
desired. 

Eeturn to the oven for half an hour longer, or until the crumbs 
are browned. A ham is made more tender by baking and much of 
tlie gross fat is tried out. 
It is better to have a rack or grate in your roasting pan. 

— Mrs. Stroud. 

Jellied Tongrue. 

Tongue, boiled and cold one ; 

Gelatine, two ounces dissolved in Water . one-half pint ; 

Veal gravy (browned) one tea cup ; 

Liquor in which the tongue was boiled one pint ; 

Sugar one tablespoonful ; 

Burnt Sugar, for coloring one tablespoonful ; 

Vinegar, .three tablespoonfuls ; Boiling water one pint 

Put together the gravy, liquor, sugar, vinegar, and the table- 
spoonful of burnt sugar, dissolved in cold water. Add the dis- 
solved gelatine and mix well, then add the boiling water and strain 
through a flannel. Cut the tongue in slices as for the table. Let 
the jelly cool and begin to thicken. Wet a mould with cold water, 
put a little jelly into the bottom, then a layer of tongue, and so on 
in alternate layers till all is used. Set the mould, well covered, in 
a cool place. 

To turn it out, dip the mould in hot water for an instant, in- 
vert it upon a dish and garnish with celery sprigs and nasturtium 
flowers, if you can get them. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 43 



Cut with a thin sharp knife, perpendicularly. 

This is a handsome and delicious dish and easily made. 

— Mks. Oliver. 

Stewed Leg of Mutton. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in an iron pot. Put the 
leg of mutton in and cook it one hour. After that time tui*n it 
frequently until it is brown all over. 

About an hour before taking it up sprinkle in a handful of 
flour and salt to taste. If there is too much fat, skim it now. Cut 
up tiu-nip and carrot, about two tablespoonfuls, and boil till tender. 
Drain them, and after the meat is taken up, put them into the pot 
and cook ten minutes longer. 

It will require from three to four hours to cook. 

— Mes. W. D. Ludlow. 

Haricot of Mutton or Lamb. 
Take a leg of lamb or a small leg of mutton ; trim off the fat ; 
put it into a kettle with water enough to cover it. Skim this well 
as it boils. Keep it covered and boil it slowly foui* hours. When 
about half done, salt it and add an onion, a carrot and a turnip, 
chopped fine. Let the water waste away till only enough for the 
gravy is left. Thicken this with browned flour, add half a cup of 
tomato ketchup, let it boil up once, and pour it over the mu ton, 
which should be removed to a hot platter before the gravy is made. 

Mutton Stew. 
Cut up three or four pounds of mutton or lamb, removing the 
most of the fat. Stew an hour, in water enough to cover it. Then 
add half a pound of salt pork cut into strips and a chopped onion. 
Season with a little salt, pepper, parsley and thyme. Thicken with 
flour stu-red into a cup of cold milk. This is much improved by 
adding a can of sweet corn, or in the season, half a dozen ears of 
corn cut from the cob. Put slices of buttered toast in the bottom 
of the platter and pour the stew over it. —Mrs. Emery. 

Lamb Cutlets (Baked). 
Cut from the neck and fore shoulder and trim neatly. Lay 
aside all the bones and bits of meat for gravy. Dip the cutlets in 



44 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



melted butter, and then in beaten egg, and roll in cracker crumbs. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

For gravy — Put on the bones and bits of meat in enough cold 
water to cover them. Stew, and season with a little thyme, salt, 
and pepper, and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup. Strain and 
thicken with corn-starch or browned flour. This may be poured 
over the meat, or served in a gravy boat. — Mrs. Emery. 

Mutton Chops, 
Fry in their own fat. When in the platter, put a small lump 
of butter on each chop. Keep the fat for soap grease. 

Veal Steaks or Cutlets. 

"Wash, dry in a cloth, dip in beaten eggi^, then in cracker or 
bread crumbs. 

Fry in salt pork fat, or half lard and half butter. Veal re- 
quires long, slow cooking. Thicken the gravy with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, browned if you wish, and let it boil up, adding as 
much water as you need for the requisite quantity of gravy. Melt 
a liberal piece of butter in this and pour it over the meat. 

Veal Loaf. 

Veal, both fat and lean three and one-half pounds; 

Salt fat pork one tliick slice; 

Crackers, pounded tine six; 

Eggs two; 

Butter half a cup; 

Pepper one teaspoonful; 

Cloves a pinch; 

Sweet herbs to taste. 

Chop the meat raw. Mix all loell, and form a loaf. Place in a 
shallow pan with a little water and bits of butter on top. Dredge 
with flour. 

Bake slowly two hours, basting frequently. It will keep for 
some time and is a nice dish for lunch or tea. — Mrs. Omver. 

Veal Fricassee. 
Take a piece of veal from the breast or ribs. Cut it in thin 
pieces about tliree inches square. Wash it, and put it over the 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 45 



fire in enough water to yield plenty of gravy. After it boils, skim 
it well. Add an onion, some salt, some leaves or stalks of celery 
tied in a bunch, and let it cook slowly for two hours. 

Just before taking it up, add a tablespoonful of butter and a 
tablespoonful of flour creamed together. After removing the meat 
add a httle chopped parsley to the gravy. — Mrs. A. K. Seables. 

Hashed Veal or Hashed Turkey. 

Chop the cold remnants of either of the above very fine. Seas- 
on with pepper, and salt, and warm up in the gravy. A little water 
may be added if there is not sufficient gravy left to make it quite 
moist. 

Add a liberal piece of butter, and spread over slices of buttered 
toast in a hot platter. Eggs cooked in hot water, called by some 
dropped, by others poached, may be spread over the top. 

Ragout of Cold Roasted or Boiled Mutton. 

Cut the meat in sHces and put over the fire in cold water. 
When it boils add a few bay leaves, cloves, slices of onion, and a 
little salt. Let it simmer slowly for two hours. 

Half an hour before serving, add sufficient browned flour 
smoothed in cold water to thicken the gravy. Add at last a little 
vinegar and a pinch of sugar. —Mrs. A. R Searles. 

Fried Tripe. 

Tripe should be kept in salt and water in a cool place till it is 
time to cook it, as it spoils very quickly. 

Before cooking it, pour boiling water upon it, let it stand a 
minute; then drain it and rinse it two or three times in cold water. 
Dry it in a clean towel, cut it in pieces, dip each piece in beaten 
egg, then in crumbs, and fry in a hot spider in salt pork fat or 
good drippings, or in lard and butter in equal quantities. 

Served hot, as soon as fried, this makes a good breakfast dish. 
It is as acceptable to some people as a beefsteak, and much cheaper. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. 
Have the bacon sHced very thin. Remove the rind, fry till 
crisp. Take out the bacon and put it around the edge of a platter. 



46 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Pour hot water upon tlie liver and let it stand a moment. Dry 
it in a towel and fry till brown in the bacon fat. Lay the slices in 
the middle of the platter. 

Beef's Hver may be cooked in the same way, but needs more 
soaking, as it contains more blood. 

Sausages. 

Prick them all over with a fork and fry in a hot spider slowly. 
They will fry in their own fat, and should be done through thor- 
oughly. 

Pile mashed potato, made quite dry, and with but little butter, 
in the center of the dish and place the sausages around it. The 
gravy is too gross to be eaten. 

Salt Pork Fried in Batter. 
Cut the pork in thin slices, let it soak in water over night. 
Put it in a spider, pour boiling water over it, then turn the 
water off and fry the pork until it is brown. 

Then dip each slice in a batter made of one egg, one heaping 
tablespoouful flour and a little milk. 
Fry again in hot lard. 

Cold potatoes cut lengthwise and wheat or brown bread are good 
fried in this way. — Mes. Stkoud. 

Meat Pates. 
Put the remnants of a piece of corned beef into a tray and chop 
fine. Chop a small onion and add, also butter, the size of an egg, 
pepper and salt to taste and sufficient water to moisten. 

Make a pastry as for i)ies, cut it into squares and put a spoon- 
ful of the meat into each square. Fold over the dough like a turn- 
over and bake it in a hot oven. Or, fry in hot lard like doughnuts. 

— Mrs. Stroud. 
Breakfast Meat Cakes. 
Take any cold meat that is suitable for hash. 
Chop it fine and add 

Egg one ; MUk one-half cup. 

Butter . . . . , a little ; Pepper and salt to taste. 

Roll into balls and fry in a pan with very little lard. 

—Mrs. F. W. Emery. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 47 



Meat Cakes. 

Meat, chopped one cupful; 

Bread crumbs one cupful; 

Butter, melted two tablespoonfuls; 

Onion one (small;) 

Milk six tablespoonfuls; 

Salt, pepper and allspice. 
Fii-st mix floiu', crumbs, spice and salt, then add the meat and 
chopped onion, and stir well together, afterwards the milk and 
melted butter; roll into round cakes, and fry in fat. 

—Mrs. W. E. 8a WIN. 

Pickled Sheep's Tongue. 
Boil till done. Add hot vinegar and spices and bay leaves, and 
put away in a stone pot. This will keep for months. 

Poultry. 

The easiest way to dress poultry is to get the butcher to do it. 

Even then it must be examined to see if no bits of the wind- 
pipe or other refuse is left. 

If it is necessary for you to remove the inwards, remember that 
if you put your hand far enough into the body of the fowl to gi*asp 
the heart, you can remove all at once, and need not fear breaking 
the gall bag. 

Fowl should be singed, all pin feathers removed, and washed 
in several waters; then dried both outside and in. Many people 
stuff the body of the turkey or chicken; but for those who do not 
hke a moist stuffing it is better to stuff the neck. 

x\.fter the crop is removed, twist off the neck near the body. 
Tie a string around the skin of the neck where the head was cut 
off, stuff the space left vacant by the removal of the neck and crop 
and sew it up. 

Put a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper in the 
body of the turkey. Rub salt over the outside, skewer and tie 
down the legs and wings and di'edge well with flour. 

Bake it on a rack. 

A turkey weighing twelve pounds will cook in three houi's. 

The giblets and neck should be boiled by themselves and put 



48 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



into the dripping-pan half an hour before the turkey is done. The 
water in which they are boiled can be thrown away. 

The giblets are sometimes chopped and added to the gravy. 
The gravy of a roast turkey should be skimmed of the gross fat 
before it is thickened. 

Stuffing for Fowl (No. 1), 

Bread or cracker crumbs two cups ; 

Sweet marjoram three tablespoonfuls; 

Salt one tablespoonful; 

Pepper one saltspoonful; 

Butter two-thirds cup; 

Eggs one. 

Mix the crumbs and seasoning. Place the butter in the center 
of the dish containing them, and pour in boilmg water sufficient to 
melt the butter. If this does not moisten the crumbs, add more 
water. Dried bread crumbs require more wetting than crackers. 
Do not get them very moist. Add an egg and beat all well together. 

Stuffing for Fowl —No. 2. 

Baker's bread one loaf; 

Thyme (powdered) two teaspoon fuls; 

Summer savory two teaspoonf uls; 

Sage one teaspoonful; 

Egg one; 

Onion one-half of a small one chopped or grated. 

Remove the crust from the bread and soak the soft part for 
several houi*s in cold water. 

When thoroughly soaked, squeeze all the water out tlu'ough a 
cloth or fine strainer. Then mix with the herbs and onion; last the 
beaten egg. 

This is enough for a ten-pound turkey. — Mrs. W. C. Emery. 

Steamed Turkey. 

Prepare the tm-key as for baking, except that chopped celery 
is added to the stuffing and it must be made quite dry, as steam- 
ing makes it more moist. 

A turkey weighing eleven pounds needs to be steamed about 
two and a half hours. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 49 



It should be served with oyster sauce, which is made accord- 
ing to the rule for drawn butter (see gravies), with oysters added. 
The di-awn butter should be a little thicker than for meats, as the 
liquor from the oysters thins it. 

This is a dehcious way of cooking a fowl. — Mrs. White. 

Chicken Souffle. 

Cooked chicken one pint, (chopped;) 

Cream sauce one pint; 

Eggs four; 

Chopped parsley one teaspoonful; 

Chopped onion one teaspoonful; 

Put salt, pepper, and other seasoning to taste into the sauce. 
Cook two minutes. 

Add yolks of the eggs well beaten, and when cold add the 
whites beaten stiff. 

Bake haK an hour in a buttered dish. Serve with mushroom 
or celery sauce. — Mks. Dillingham. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Chickens two, large; 

Sweet-breads three pairs; 

Onion one, small; 

Flour three tablespoonfuls; 

Butter three tablespoonfuls; 

Cream one pint; 

Black pepper one teaspoonful (scant; 

Cayenne pepper one-half teaspoonful (scant); 

Nutmeg (grated) one half teaspoonful; 

Mustard one teaspoonful; 

Salt two teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs yolks of two; 

This can be made without the sweet-breads, but if they are 
used they should be parboiled, as should also the chickens. Chop 
these very fine. 

Mix the melted butter with the floui", spice and seasoning. 
When smooth, add the cream, put all in a tin which place in a pot 
of boiling water. Stir until thick, then set it away to cool. 



50 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



When cool add the chicken, onion, and well beaten yolks of the 
eggs. 

Form into long rolls by rolling in fine cracker crumbs and egg, 
and fry in boiling lard to a delicate brown. — Miss Niebuhr. 

Chickens fried in Batter. 

Eggs two ; Milk one cup. 

Mix, add a little salt, thicken with flour. 

Parboil the chickens a little, cut them up and season them. 
Dip the pieces in the batter and fry m hot lard. Make a gravy by 
pouiing half a cup of water into the pan and adding a tablespoon- 
ful of flour smoothed in cold water, and a lump of butter. 

— Mrs. Oliver. 

Qiuail. 

Split, clean and wash the quail. 

Broil on a buttered gridu'on over a lively fire, taking care that 
they do not scorch at first. 

Season, put a bit of butter on each and serve hot on buttered 
toast, from w4iich the crusts have been removed. 

Gravy. 

The foundation of gravies is the juice of the meat which is left 
in the dripping pan with the water, after the roast is removed. If 
it is very fat it should be skimmed and as much water added as is 
needed for the requisite amount of gravy. It should be thickened 
with a tablespoon ful of flour, which may have been previously 
browned, if a dark gravy is desired. 

Salt to taste, and if the gravy is not rich add a bit of butter. 

Prawn Butter. 

Butter one (small) cup ; Flour one tablespoonf ul. 

Mix till smooth, pour half a pint of boiling water gi'adually 
over this till all is dissolved. Set it upon the fire and let it boil up 
once. More boiling makes it oily. Or, 

Stir one large tablespoonf ul of flour into half a pint of boiling 
water. When it has thickened add a cup of butter, and stir till it 
is all melted. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 51 



This is more easily made as there is not so much danger of its 
separating and becoming oily. 

Milk may be substituted for the water. For boiled lamb two 
tablespoonfuls of capers may be added just before taking it from 
the fire. 

For fish two or three hard boiled eggs and a Httle chopped 
parsley should be added. 

Celery Sauce — For Turkey. 

Milk ' one quart. 

Celery four small heads; 

Pepper corns tAvo or three; 

Onion one; 

Cloves two or three to be stuck into the onion; 

Mace one blade; 

Cut the celery very small, using the white part only, and boil 
until soft. It takes an hour and a half. When boiled, thicken to 
the consistency of custard, or thick enough to keep its place when 
poured over the turkey. Before thickening the sauce, remove the 
onion and spice. 

Gravy for Fowl. 

Put the giblets and neck in a saucepan with cold water, add an 
onion, a tomato or a spoonful of canned tomato, a pinch of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and a slice of dry bread which has been made 
very brown in the oven. Let this boil two or three hours, then 
strain it. 

Chop the giblets fine, and put them and the gravy back into 
the saucepan. Thicken with a little flour, add the brown gravy 
from the bottom of the pan in which the fowl was cooked, after 
skimming oflf the fat. Add a teaspoonful of vinegar and serve hot. 

— Mrs. W. D. Ludlow. 

Oyster Sauce for Poultry. 

Put the oysters in a saucepan, pour over them the strained 
liquor and let them heat slowly, allowing them to simmer but not 
to boil. 

After they have simmered a few minutes beard them. Stir into 



62 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



the liquor a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful 
of flour. Let it boil and add a cup of cream. 

Put back the oysters with a little cayenne pepper and simmer 
until wanted. 

Cauliflower Sauce. 

Butter one tablespoonful : 

Flour (sifted) one tablespoonful 

Soup stock ; one cupful 

Egg yolk of one 

Lemon juice of half a one. 

Put the butter in a pan. When it bubbles add the flour and 
soup stock. Let it boil. Take it off the fire and add the well 
beaten yolk of the egg and the lemon juice. Pour, hot, over the 
cauliflower. 

Horseradish Sauce (No. 1). 

Grated horseradish four tablespoonf uls ; 

Powdered sugar one teaspoonf ul ; 

White vinegar four tablespoonf uls ; 

Salt , . a Uttle. 

Mix these and add gradually four tablespoonfuls of cream or 
milk. 

Warm this to serve with hot meat. 

Horseradisli Sauce (No. 2). 

Breads crumbs one cup ; 

Beef liquor one pint ; 

Butter one teaspoonful ; 

Pepper one-quarter saltspoonful ; 

Salt one saltspoonful ; 

Oil one teaspoonful ; 

Horseradish ten cents worth. 

Boil the crumbs and beef liquor together for five minutes, then 
add the other ingredients and boil hard fifteen minutes. 

— Mrs. Ludlow. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 53 



Mint Sauce for Spring Lamb. 

Chop the mint, mix with half a cup of nice cider vinegar and 
one tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

Made Mustard. 
Pour a very little boiling water over three tablespoonfuls mus- 
tard. Stir into this gi'adually a teaspoonful of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of oil, a saltspoonful of salt and the beaten yolk of an egg; 
add vinegar to taste. 



54 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter V.— SALADS AND PICKLES. 

Tomato Salad. 

Pour boiling water upon fair, ripe tomatoes, and remove the 
skins. Slice and place in the dish in which they are to be served, 
scattering a little salt and a little pepper upon each layer. Pour 
over all, a little vinegar and (if desired) a little olive oil. Serve 
cold. 

Simple Potato Salad. 

Boil the potatoes with the skins on, as they will slice more 
smoothly. When cold, slice them thin. Add half an onion, 
chopped fine, sprinkle with salt and pepper, moisten mth vinegar 
and sweet oil — twice as much vinegar as oil— added gradually. 
Place it in a dish Hned with lettuce. Keep it in a cool place till 
wanted. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take the lobster from the shell and chop fine. Chop two heads 
of lettuce fine, or pick it apart ^vith a silver fork. The dressing is 
made as follows: 

Eggs two; Mustard one teaspoonful; 

Sug^^r four teaspoonfuls; Vinegar three-quarters cup; 

Cream three-quarters cup; Salt and pepper, a little. 

Boil the eggs hard. Mix the yolks and the tomally of the lob- 
ster together. Add the mustard, sugar, salt and pepper. Then 
the vinegar slowly, and last the cream. 

Put into the dish in which it is to be served a layer of lobster, 
then one of the chopped lettuce ; pour over this three or four 
spoonfuls of the dressing; so continue till aU is used. Spread the 
whites of the eggs, cut in slices over the top. Garnish with whole 
lettuce leaves and the claws of the lobster. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Sauce for Liobster. 
(For those who do not like oil.) 

Vinegar one cup; Butter one-half cup; 

Mustard one tablespoonful; Eggs yolks of four. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 55 



Mix; simmer, not boil, a moment. A cup of scalded cream is 
an improvement. — Mrs. Oliver. 

German Herring Salad. 
Herrings, Potatoes, Cold Roast Veal, Pickles, 



Sour apples. Eggs. Capers, 

Oil, Salt, Pepper, Mustard, 

Parsley. 

Put six salt herrings, which have been dressed and washed, to 
soak in cold water over night. In the morning remove the skin 
and bones and chop or cut them in small pieces. 

Boil potatoes with the peeling on. After they are peeled and 
cooled take a quantity equal to the herring and the same amount of 
cold boiled beets, pickled cucumbers, sour apples (peeled and 
cored) and cold roast veal: also six hard boiled eggs. Chop each 
separately, but not too fine, as that would hurt the appearance of 
the salad. Then prepare a sauce of good salad oil, a teaspoonful 
of French mustard, some soup stock, pepper, salt and capers. Mix 
the ingredients; pour over them the sauce, stirring carefully but 
thoroughly. Let it stand in an earthen dish several hours before 
you wish to use it. Then repeat the stirring; serve in a bowl and 
dress it. 

With the back of a knife impress the figure of a star on the 
top. Fill the spaces with different colors; for instance, in one por- 
tion put chopped pai'sley, Iq another beets, in another the yolk of 
the egg, in another the chopped white. This ornamentation has a 
pretty effect. —Mrs. A. R. Searles. 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 1). 

Egg yolk of one; 

Mixed mustard one tablespoonful; 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonful; 

Oil six tablespoonf uls. 

Stir the mustard, yolk of egg (raw) and salt together until they 
thicken. Then add the oil gradually. A little vinegar may be 
added if desired. — Miss Smith. 



56 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 2). 

Egg yolk of one; 

Olive Oil one-half tumbler;. 

Vinegar one-half wine glass; 

Mustard one-half teaspoonful (scant); 

Salt one teaspoonful (even) ; 

Red pepper a little (if desired). 

Put the egg in a large bowl. Add to it the oil, a teaspoon- 
ful at u time, stirring with right hand while pouring with the left. 
This will make a thick batter. Mix in the glass which contains 
the oil the other ingredients. When thoroughly beaten add them 
slowly to the oil batter, stirring all the time. —Mrs. White. 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 3). 

Put the yolks of two eggs in a deep dish with a little white 
pepper; into these stu' briskly with a wooden spoon some olive oil, 
which must be added very gradually and alternated every httle 
while with a few spoonfuls of vinegar and one spoonful of Crosse 
& Blackwell's Tarragon vinegar. Then add a Uttle condensed 
milk (not canned). 

This dressing should have an agreeable flavor, and a rather 
stiff consistency. — Mrs. Krahnstover. 

Keep salad oil in a dry, cool place, and always in the dark. The 
bottle should be tightly corked. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Tomatoes one dozen three pound cans; 

Vinegar four quarts; 

Allspice one tablespoonful; 

Cinnamon one tablespoonful; 

Hed pepper one tablespoonful scant; 

Black pepper one tablespoonful; 

Mustard two tablespoonfuls; 

Nutmegs two; 

Salt four tablespoonfuls; 

Sugar one cup; 

Boil till thick enough, which will be four or five hours. 

— Mrs. Oliver. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 57 



Tomato Catsup. 

Tomatoes (ripe) one bushel (not peeled) ; 

Vinegar one quart; 

Salt one pound; 

Black pepper one-quarter pound; 

Red pepper twelve pods; 

Allspice one-quarter pound; 

Cloves one ounce; 

English mustard three ounces; 

Onions six; 

Brown sugar two pounds; 

Peach leaves one handful; 

Garlic a little; 

Boil till of the right consistency, being careful not to let it 
burn, then strain through a wire sieve. It is best to rub it through 
when cool enough. 

It should be quite thick when done. — Mrs. Krahnstover. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Tomatoes one bushel; 

Salt one pint; 

Allspice one ounce; 

Cloves one ounce; 

Ginger one ounce; 

Cinnamon one ounce; 

Mace one-half ounce; 

White pepper one-eighth pound; 

Mustard seed one-quarter pound; 

Cayenne one teaspoonful; 

Wash and dry the tomatoes, cut them in pieces, and boil them 
for about half an hour. Then strain them through a fine sieve. 

]\Iix with the spices, and boil them eight hours, very fast. Put 
them, hot, into perfectly clean bottles, fu'st immersing the bottle 
in hot water. 

Liquor bottles keep the catsup best. Let them stand till the 
next day, then cork them with new stoppers, and seal them with 
sealing-wax. —Mrs. Arnold. 



58 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Louise's Tomato Catsup. 

Tomato juice one gallon; 

Ground cloves one (heaping) tablespoonful; 

Ground allspice one (heaping) tablespoonful; 

Ground black pepper, .three (heaping) tablespoonfuls; 

Salt four (heaping) tablespoonfuls; 

Vinegar one pint; 

Worcestershire sauce four tablespoonfuls; 

Boil till of the consistency of cream. A handful of peach 
leaves may be boiled with it to add flavor. — Mrs. Comfort. 

Cucuinber Pickles. 

{Spiced and sliglitly sweet.) 
Make a brine of cold water and salt, strong enough to bear up 
an egg. Heat it boiling hot and pour over the pickles. 

Let them stand twenty hours, then take them out and wipe- 
them dry. 

Scald vinegar and pour over them and let tuem stand twenty- 
four hours more. Then pom- off the vinegar and poui' over the 
following mixture, boiling hot: 

Fresh vinegar sufficient to cover the pickles; 

Brown sugar one quart; 

Peppers (green) two large; 

White mustard seed one-half jDound; 

Ginger (root) six cents worth; 

Cinnamon six cents worth (ground) ; 

Allspice six cents worth (ground); 

Cloves six cents worth (ground) ; 

Celery seed. one tablespoonful; 

Alum size of a butternut. 

Put the spices in a bag. —Mrs. W. E. Sawin. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Brine to bear up an egg,. 

Pour it over the pickles and let them stand two or three days. 
Then soak them in cold water for a day. 

The second day pour off this water and cover them with fresh 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 59 



water. Let them stand on the back of the range till they get hot, 
but do not let them come to the boiling point. 

Take them from the range and set them away to cool. When 
cool put the cucumbers into jars and pour hot vinegar, spiced to 
taste, over them. —Mrs. Waterman. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 
Wash and wipe the cucumbers and put them into stone jars. 
Heat together 

Vinegar one gallon; Cloves one ounce; 

Allspice one ounce; Mustard seed two ounces; 

Black pepper one ounce; Alum two ounces (scant); 

Salt one cupful (scant.) 

Do not let it come to the boiling point. Pour it hot over the 
cucumbers. Cover with cabbage leaves. — Mrs. SEARiiES. 

Pickled Beans. 
Young string beans may be boiled in salted water till they are 
tender, then pickled in the same way as cucumbers. 

Chow-chow No. 1. 

Green tomatoes one-half bushel; 

Onions one dozen; 

Peppers one dozen; 

Chop these fine. Sprinkle on them, salt, one pint. 
Let them stand over night. Scald them in vinegar. Pour off 
the vinegar, scald again in fresh vinegar, to which must be added. 

Brown sugar two pounds; 

Mustard seed (whole) one-quarter pound; 

Cloves one tablespoonful; 

Cinnamon one-half tablespoonful; 

Allspice one tablespoonful: 

Cayenne pepper a pinch (if desired); 

Celery seed ... a small one-half teaspoonful, if you like 
the flavor. 

Cook it well. —Mrs. White. 



60 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chow-chow No. 2. 

Green tomatoes one-half bushel: 

Onions (white) one peck; 

Green peppers twelve; 

Mustard (mixed) two tea-cups; 

Cloves (whole) two ounces; 

Allspice two ounces; 

Chop the tomatoes, onions, and peppers, fine. Put them in a 
dish with alternate layers of salt. Let them remain over night. In 
the morning, squeeze them dry, put them in a kettle with vinegar 
enough to cover them. Add the mustard and spices, and boil ten 
minutes, stirring all the time. — Mrs. Waterman. 

Chili Sauce. 

Tomatoes (ripe) twelve; Onions eight 

Peppers (green) five; Salt two tablespoonfuls 

Sugar one tablespoonful; Vinegar one quart 

Boil till the onions are tender. —Mrs. W. E. Sawin. 

Mustard Pickles. 

White onions (small) two quarts; 

Cabbage one (large) ; 

Cauliflowers two (large) ; 

Green tomatoes (small) one half-peck; 

Cucumbers (small) fifty; 

String beans two quarts; 

Red peppers half-dozen. 

Put these in salt over night. In the morning wipe the pickles 
dry. If the onions, tomatoes and cucumbers are not very small, 
cut them in two. Cut the cabbage and cauliflower in small pieces. 
Scald all in vinegar enough to cover them. Then make a dressing 
as follows : 

To vinegar one gallon, put; 

White pepper (ground) one quarter-pound; 

Mustard (ground) nine ounces; 

Tumeric (ground) two ounces; 

Ginger (ground) one ounce. 

Mix these with a little cold water, and sth them into the hot 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 61 



vinegar, having first removed the pickles. Boil up well and pour 
over the pickles. 

This is much like Grosse and Blackwell's chowchow, and fully 
as good. — Mks. W. E. Sawin. 

The above dressing makes an excellent sauce for pickled lamb's 
tongues. 

Plum Pickles. 

Plums three quarts; Sugar two pounds; 

Vinegar one pint; Cinnamon one ounce; 

Cloves . one ounce. 

Pour the vinegar on the plums and let them stand over night. 
Then pour the vinegar off and mix with the other ingredients. 
The cinnamon (stick) should be broken in pieces. Boil the mix- 
ture and pour over the plums. Repeat this process two or three 
days in succession. —Mrs. Fokd. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Peaches seven pounds; Sugar four pounds; 

Cider vinegar. . .one large pint; Stick cinnamon. . . , .one ounce; 
Cloves (whole) four for each peach. 

Boil the sugar, vinegar and cinnamon together, and skim the 
mixture carefully. After it has boiled a few minutes, take out the 
cinnamon, stick four cloves into each peach and put a layer of 
peaches into the kettle. Boil them till tender, lay them in jars and 
boil the syrup twenty minutes longer. Pour the liquor boiling 
hot over the peaches and seal the jars at once. —Mrs. Arnold. 

Pickled Pears. 
Boil the pears in water till quite tender, then proceed as in the 
rule for pickled peachei. These will keep in a cool place without 
sealing. 

Pickled Oysters (No. 1). 

Black pepper (whole) one teaspoonful; 

Mace two blades-, 

Allspice (whole) one teaspoonful; 

Vinegar four tablespoonfuls; 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

The above proportion to one quart of oyster liquor. 



62 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Simmer the oysters for five minutes in this mixture, then skim 
out the oysters and boil the liquor. 

Skim it and turn it over the oysters. —Mrs. Comfobt. 

Pickled Oysters (No. 2). 
Have equal quantities of oyster juice and boiling water. Bring 
these, with the oysters, to a scald. Then skim out the oysters, and 
throw them into cold water, changing the water two or three times. 
Then into about half the juice put ground cinnamon, whole white 
peppers, mace, and salt to taste. Boil these up together, and when 
nearly cool pour over the oysters. —Mrs. Arnold. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 63 



Chapter VI,— VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes (Boiled). 

Wlien potatoes are old, peel them and let them he an hour or 
two in cold water before boiling. 

They should be boiled in hot water with a Uttle salt in it; as 
little water as possible should be used. It is desirable to have it 
all dry away by the time the potatoes are done. Cover them with 
a towel, take them to the open air and shake them. If they are to 
be mashed, take a wooden spoon or potato masher and beat them 
till soft and light, in the kettle they were cooked in or in a hot 
dish. Add butter and seasoning to taste, and moisten with a little 
milk. Potatoes pressed through a colander make a pretty dish. 

Potatoes (Steamed). 
Potatoes may be put in a colander or steamer over a kettle of 
hot water and steamed till done. They will be very mealy, but 
Tequire more time than to boil in water. They can be put over the 
kettle containing some other boiling vegetable, and thus save the 
space of an extra kettle. 

Potato Balls. 

Take one pint mashed potato, highly seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, celery, chopped parsley and butter, and moisten with a little 
hot milk or cream. Beat one egg Ught. Add part of it to the 
potato. Shape into smooth, round balls. Brush over with the 
remainder of the egg and bake on a buttered tin till brown. Be 
careful and not get them too moist. — Mrs. Henry Dillingham. 

Duchess Potatoes. 

Potatoes five; Flour. . .five dessert-spoonfuls; 

Milk one large half cup; Eggs two. 

Grate the potatoes, which should be boiled and cold. Mix 
them with the flour and milk gradually. 

Add the egg, and drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard. 

Take them out the instant they are of a delicate brown. 



64 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Potato Souffl6 (Nice). 

Potatoes . . six large and smooth; Butter one tablespoonful; 

Salt one teaspoonf ul ; Pepper. . . one-half saltspoonf ul; 

Eggs whites of four; Milk (hot) to moisten. 

Wash the potatoes very clean. 

Bake them until just done. 

Cut them in halves lengthwise. 

Scoop out the potato into a hot bowl, mash, add the seasoning 
and half the beaten egg. Fill the skins with the mixture and cover 
lightly with the remaining egg, well salted. 

Brown lightly. —Mrs. Dillingham. 

Potato Puff. 

Cold mashed potato two cups; 

Butter, melted two tablespoonfuls; 

Eggs two; 

Milk one cup; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Beat the potato and butter to a cream, add the eggs, beaten 
light, then the milk, then the salt. Beat all together Avell, pour into 
a deep dish and bake in a quick oven till brown. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 
Pare and wash raw potatoes and wipe dry. Cut in very thin 
slices, and fry in hot lard. Take from the fat as soon as brown, 
with a perforated skimmer, put into a colander, and keep hot. 

Delmonico Fries. 
Pare, wash, and wipe the potatoes as above. Cut in strips 
about the size of the little finger. Fry in hot fat. Lay in a colan- 
der on straw paper or a clean towel, which will absorb any fat that 
may adhere. — Mrs. Emery. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Potatoes six; Eggs (yolks only) two: 

Butter size of an egg; Salt to taste; 

Pepper to taste; Crumbs 

Pare the potatoes and put them into boiling salt and water. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. G5 



When cooked, mash fine. Season with the butter, salt and pepper; 
add two thirds of the beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat these together 
very Hglit, and rub through a sieve. 

When cool, shape into balls, dip in bread crumbs, then in yolk 
of egg, again in crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. Lay on a pan 
covered with paper, to drain. 

— Mrs. Henry Dillingham. 

Stewed Potatoes. 
Take some cold boiled potatoes that have been cooked in salted 
water with their skins on. Peel and cut them in slices ; put them 
into a saucepan with milk or cream. Let them boil five or six 
minutes, Thicken with a little flour just before serving. Add a 
piece of good butter, a little pepper to taste, and dash a little finely 
chopped parsley over it. —Mrs. Krahnstoveb. 

Peas. 

Peas should be shelled by clean hands into a clean dish, as 
they are better not to be washed. Put them into cold water, and 
boil them till tender. The amount of time they will require de- 
pends upon their freshness. Half an hour should be sufficient for 
peas fit to be eaten. Have as little water as will suffice in the kettle. 

String Beans. 
Beans require long boiling, say an hour and a half. Strip off 
the strings and break them in inch pieces. Put them into cold 
water. Boil a piece of salt pork with them. When done, drain, 
add plenty of butter and salt. Serve the pork with the beans if 
desired. As little water as possible should be used that the good- 
ness of the beans may not be wasted. 

Green Corn. 
Put com into boiling water and if fresh, it will cook in ten 
minutes. Too much boiling spoils it. 

Asparagus. 
Wash in several waters. Cut off the tough end, scrape the 
white part, tie up in bunches and throw them into boiling water 
with salt in it. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Boil twenty-five minutes, more if required. Try one or two 
stalks and see if it is tender. 

Lay the bunches evenly, with the green ends toward the centre 
of the platter, upon slices of moistened buttered toast. Cut and 
remove the strings, spread bountifully with bits of butter and 
serve hot. 

Some people cut the asparagus into inch pieces after it is 
boiled tender, and pour drawn butter over it and serve it in a vege- 
table dish. 

Shelled Beans. 
Put them into just enough cold water to cover them. Cook 
an hour or till tender. Add salt and butter. 

Baked and Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Select firm, ripe tomatoes, and mth a sharp knife cut olff a thin 
slice from the stem end. Now remove the green core and fill the 
orifice with an onion chopped very fine, a small piece of butter, a 
little pepper, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of cracker-dust or 
bread crumbs; arrange them in a baking pan, add a little water 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Fried Tomatoes. 
Cut ripe tomatoes in half and fry them on both sides in hot 
lard and butter. After the tomatoes ai'e taken from the frying- 
pan, pour into it a cupful of cream, thickened mth flour, and 
seasoned with a little cayenne and salt. Pour over the tomatoes 
and serve hot. Cold boiled ham chopped or grated fine may be 
added to this. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Scald and skin half a peck of firm, ripe tomatoes; cut them 
into sHces; take one pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of best 
butter, two ounces of fine sugar, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and one of onion chopped fine. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of crumbs, upon which place a 
layer of sliced tomatoes; upon these place a few bits of butter, a 
little of the chopped onion, a sprinkling of pepper, sugar and salt, 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 67 



now another layer of crumbs, and then another of tomatoes and 
butter, etc. 

Fill the dish with alternate layers in this way, making the last 
layer of crumbs, dotting it over with pieces of butter and dusting 
with pepper and salt. 

Bake in a good oven an hour. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 
Select firm, ripe tomatoes, cut them in two and place upon a 
well-greased broiler. Broil them over a clear fire, putting the skin 
side next the fire first. Pour melted butter over them. Season 
with pepper and salt. Serve on a hot dish. 

Spinach. 

Wash in several waters. Put into plenty of water and boil an 
hour and a half, or till tender. Take from the pot and drain. 

It may now be seasoned with salt, a little pepper and a table- 
spoonful or two of butter, and garnished with slices of hard boiled 
eggs and sent to the table thus; or, after removing from the pot, 
drain in a colander, rinse thoroughly with cold water, then chop 
it in a tray quite fine. Heat in a spider a tablespoonf ul of butter, 
a tablespoonful of flour, a few bits of chopped or grated onion, salt 
and pepper. Mix this thoroughly wdth the spinach; garnish with 
slices of egg and serve. 

Rice (as a vegetable). 

Soak the rice, after picking it over and washing it, in cold 
water for two hours. Scatter this slowly into a large kettleful of 
boiling water and cook twenty minutes without stirring. 

Drain in a colander and serve. 

Winter Squash. 
A hard skinned Hubbard squash need not be peeled before 
boiling, as the squash can be easily removed from the rind with a 
spoon. Other kinds should be peeled, the seeds and soft fibres 
removed from the inside. Cut it in pieces and put into a colander 
or steamer over a kettle of boiling water. It will cook in about two 



68 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



hours, and will be much dryer than if boiled in water. Strain 
through a hot colander, add plenty of butter and salt, a httle pep- 
per and serve. 

Baked Cabbage. 
Wash the cabbage and lay it in cold water for an hour. Put it 
into well salted, boiling water. Change the water after it has boiled 
half an hoiu'. When done, drain, chop fine, and add one cup milk, 
one-half cup butter, one teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon pepper, 
two eggs. Put it in a shallow dish, cover with bread crumbs 
moistened with butter and bake till the crumbs are brown. 

— MbS. DlIililNQHAM. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

Cabbage. . one, a fine white one; Eggs two; 

Butter one tablespoonful; Milk three tablespoonf uls ; 

Pepper a little; Salt a little. 

Boil the cabbage. When cool chop fine, and add the eggs well 
beaten, then the other ingredients. Mix well and bake in a butter- 
ed dish till brown. —Mrs. Oliver. 

Onions. 

Peel ten or twelve small onions. Put them in boiling salted 
water. When they have boiled five minutes change the water, and 
again after ten minutes. Boil till they are tender, but not broken. 
Drain off the water, cover them with milk and cook five or ten 
minutes longer. Season with salt and pepper. 

Serve plain or as a garnish for beef or pour white sauce over 
them . —Mrs. Henry Dillingham. 

Yorkshire Pudding with Roast Beef. 

Eggs six; Flour six tablespoonf uls; 

Milk one pint. 

Beat the eggs, add one-quarter of the milk, then the flour, 
then gradually the rest of the milk. 

Bake in the pan in which the beef had been roasted for twenty 
minutes or half an hour, leaving enough gravy in the pan to pre- 
vent the pudding sticking. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 69 



Yorkshire Pudding. — No. 2. 

Eggs three; Flour. . one and one-half cups; 

Salt a pinch; Milk to make a thin batter. 

Bake as above fifteen minutes. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Break in inch pieces and boil half a package of macaroni for 
half an hour. The water should be boiling when the macaroni is 
put into it; and well salted. There should be ten times as much 
water as macaroni. 

At the end of the half hour drain it in a colander. Return it 
to the kettle with four or five tablespoonf uls of beef dripj)ings and 
a little salt. Let it heat through ; then put it into an earthen dish, 
add a can of strained tomatoes, a few spoonfuls of milk, a httle 
butter, a httle cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 

Grate some old English cheese over the top, and set it in the 
oven to brown. 

Spagetthi. 

Spagetthi may be cooked in the same way as macaroni. It is 
more delicate, and need not be boiled more than fifteen minutes. 
Butter may be substituted for the beef drippings when more con- 
venient. -^Mrs. Arnold. 

Puff Tomato Omelet. 

Tomatoes. . .four, medium size; Flour two tablespoonf uls; 

Butter a small piece; Eggs six; 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Peel and chop the tomatoes. Rub the flour and butter to- 
gether and mix with the tomatoes. Add pepper and salt. Beat 
the eggs hght and stir into the mixture and fry in a hot frying-pan. 

—Mrs. Oliver. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

Asparagus two pounds; 

Eggs yolks of five, whites of three; 

Cream two tablespoonf uls; 

Salt a httle. 

Boil the asparagus, which should be tender and fresh, in as 



70 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



little water as possible, or better still, steam it till tender. Then 
chop it very fine, mix it mth eggs (well beaten) and cream. Fry 
it in butter and serve hot. —Mrs. Stroud. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Corn one dozen ears, or one can; 

Milk one quart; 

Sugar one tablespoonful; 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonfuls; 

Eggs (well beaten) four. 

Mix all thoroughly and bake an houi*, or until the custard is set. 

— Mrs. EiiLA St. John. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 
Put a can of French Mushrooms into a porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan. Add a little pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon and a good- 
sized piece of butter. Cover the pan and let them stew slowly half 
an hour. Then add floiu', which has been smoothed in milk, suffi- 
cient to thicken them to the consistency of cream. Remove any 
particles of butter which are floating on top, add a little grated 
nutmeg, and let them simmer till they are tender. 

Fresh Mushrooms. 
Too great care cannot be exercised in the use of fresh mush- 
rooms. To know if they are good, put a little salt on the gills. If 
they turn black they are good. Cook them in the same way as 
canned mushrooms. As the canned are handled by experts, it is 
safer to use them. — Mrs. Krahnstover. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 71 



Chapter VII.— EGGS. 



Dropped. 

Have a saucepan nearly full of boiling water with a little salt 
in it. 

Break each egg separately, being careful not to break the yolk. 

Put a skimmer into the saucepan and upon that, drop the egg. 
When the white is cooked draw out the skimmer with the egg in it, 
carefully. Serve upon slices of buttered toast that have been 
soaked a little, or upon hashed meat. 

Poached Eggs. 

Eggs six; Milk one pint; 

Butter one tablespoonful; Salt 

Put the milk upon the fire in a pan. When it is nearly boiling, 
add the salt and butter. Then the eggs, well beaten, and stir 
steadily till it thickens. Take from the fire before it becomes too 
thick, and pour over slices of buttered toast. 

Omelet (No. 1). 

The requisites for success in cooking an omelet are a smooth 
spider, good butter, and dexterity. 

Beat together 
Eggs four; Cream four tablespoonfuls; 

Put into a hot spider a large tablespoonful of butter. Let it 
melt and tui-n to a golden yellow, but do not let it brown. The 
pan must not be too hot. Pour in the mixture, stir very gently 
with a fork. When it begins to set, loosen the edge with a knife, 
fold, and serve in a hot platter. Let each one salt it to his taste, as 
salt if added before it is cooked makes it heavy. 

Small bits of ham, smoked tongue or beef may be sprinkled 
over it before it is folded. 



72 A NEW DAILY FOOD, 



Omelet (No. 2). 

Eggs four; Milk one cupful; 

Flour four teaspoonfuls; Parsley one teaspoonful; 

Thyme one teaspoonful; Salt one-half teaspoonful; 

Pepper a pinch; 

Onion (chopped fine) one teaspoonful. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly. To them add the flour, 
then the seasoning, then stir in the milk ; lastly add the whites 
beaten very stiff. 

Have an omelet pan hot over the fire with a tablespoonful of 
butter. Pour in the omelet and stir till half done. Let it stand a 
minute and then fold one half over the other with a fritter turner. 
Serve hot. —Mrs. Hull. 

Puff Omelet. 

Milk one cup; Eggs six. 

Heat the milk, add a little salt and butter ; beat together the 
yolks of the six eggs and the whites of three ; stir them into the 
hot milk ; pour into a hot, buttered dish, and add the other three 
whites well beaten. Bake ten or fifteen minutes. If the top browns 
before the rest is done finish cooking it upon the top of the stove. 

—Mrs. Oliver. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 73 



Chapter VIII.— DESSERTS. 

To Beat the Whites of Eggs. 

The whites of eggs will froth more quickly if they are cold. 
Let the eggs lie in cold water before breaking them. Cool the 
dish into which they are to be broken by setting it on the ice or 
letting the cold water run upon the bottom of it. Let them stand 
in a cool place till you are ready to beat them. If they are cold 
and fresh they will soon become stiff enough to stay in any form 
they are put in. 

Eggs, unless they are fresh laid, should be broken into a cup 
one by one that the whole may not be spoiled by the addition of a 
stale one. 

Steamed Custard. 

This should be made in a double kettle, the outside one con- 
taining boiling water. Into the inner kettle put the milk, and when 
it comes as near to boiling as it will in a double kettle, add well- 
beaten eggs in the proportion of four or five to the pint of milk, 
and sugar two-thirds of a cup to a pint. It is well to beat the 
sugar and eggs together before adding them to the milk. The 
whites of the eggs, or a part of them, may be reserved to garnish 
the custard. Beat them to a stiff froth, add gradually a few spoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and spread or drop this over the top. 

Italian Cream. 

Milk one pint; 

Eggs two; 

Gelatine, .three-eighths of an ounce (or the Aveight of 
three thick nickel pennies) ; 

Sugar one tablespoonf ul. 

Soak the gelatine half an horn* in three tablespoonfuls of cold 
•water. 

Boil the milk and stir into the gelatine, and when cool strain 
them into the eggs, which must have been beaten very light. Add 
the sugar; flavor with vanilla. Beat well and pour into a mould. 
Set on the ice. Serve with cream and sugar. —Mrs. Oliver. 



74 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Frozen Pudding. 
Fill a mo^lld with alternate layers as follows: First, plices of 
sponge cake, then slices of banana, then some smooth jelly, then 
macaroons till the mould is full. Pour steamed custard, in which 
a teaspoonful of gelatine has been dissolved, over all. Freeze. 

—Miss Dingley. 

Brunswick Cream. 

Milk one quart; Gelatine one-half box; 

Sugar eight tablespoonfuls; Eggs six; 

Brandy or Sherry wine . . one wineglassful. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk ten minutes; place over the fire 
and let it come to the boiling point. Add the sugar and the yolks 
of the eggs beaten very light and stu- till it is a thick custard. Ee- 
move it from the fire and let it stand five minutes. Stir in the 
whites, well beaten, and the wine. —Miss Hull. 

Baked Custard. 

Milk one quart ; Sugar one cup ; 

Eggs four ; Vanilla or Nutmeg to taste. 

Boil the milk ; when nearly cool add the sugar, eggs and flavor- 
ing. 

Bake in a pudding dish in a slow oven till done. 

Try it by slipping a spoon handle into the edge. If the milk 
does not follow the spoon the custard is set. 

This qaantity will make a filling for two pies, to be baked with- 
out an upper crust. 

Custard Soufla^. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls ; Flour two tablespoonfuls ; 

Milk (boiling) one cup ; Eggs four ; 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter, add the flour, and gradually the milk which 
must be boiling ; then add the yolks of the eggs which must have 
been thoroughly beaten and mixed with the sugar. 

When cool add the beaten whites and bake in a buttered dish, 
in a moderate oven, thirty minutes or more. 

Serve instantly. —Mrs. Dillingham. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 75 



Charlotte Russe (No. 1). 

Cream one pint; 

Eggs whites of two; 

Sugar two-thirds cup; 

Gelatine one-quarter box dissolved in 

Milk two-thirds cup; 

Vanilla one teaspoonf ill. 

Beat the cream, skimming off the froth as it rises, and putting 
it into another pan, set in ice water. Then sth* in the sugar and the 
whites of the eggs beaten stifif. Next the gelatine, which must have 
been dissolved in the milk. Stir all together, and when thick enough 
to just poui', tiu*n into moulds lined with thin slices of sponge cake. 

—Mrs. W. H. Sawyer. 

Charlotte Russe (No. 2). 

Milk one pint; 

Eggs four; 

Cream one pint; 

English gelatme one-half ounce; 

Sugar one cup; 

Vanilla one teaspoonf ul or more. 

Put the gelatine into a gill of milk and place it upon the back 
of the stove, where it will warm slowly. 

Whip the cream to a complete froth, and add the gelatine when 
it is thoroughly dissolved. 

Make a boiled custard (see recipe) of the pint of milk and four 
eggs and enough sugar to make it very sweet. 

"When the custard is cold, flavor it with the vanilla, and add it 
to the whipped cream. 

Line a mould that holds a quart, with thin slices of sponge 
cake, pour the mixtiu-e into it, and set it in a cool place to stiJBfen. 

—Mrs. Clement. 

Delicate Dessert. 
Bake a sponge cake in a shallow pan, so that the cake will be 
about two inches thick when done. 

Just before serving, pour some boiled custard over this, and 



76 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



spread a layer of sliced oranges or peaches upon it. Beat the 
whites of the eggs, about four, which may be reserved from the 
custard, to a stiff froth, and drop them over the top. 

— Mrs. Oliver. 

"Wine Jelly. 

Cox's gelatine. . . .one package; Water three pints; 

Cut sugar one pound; Lemons juice of three; 

Sicily Madeira wine one pint. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a pint of cold water. Add the sugar 
and lemon juice. Upon this pom* two pints of boiling water. Add 
the wine and strain into bowls or moulds. Set it away in a cool 
place. It will requu-e about eight hours to harden. 

—Mrs. Arnold. 

Cider Jelly. 

Cider two quarts; 

Sugar three cups; 

Lemons the juice and grated rind of two; 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Dissolve the gelatine and sugar for half an hour in one pint of 
the cider. 

Boil the remaining three pints of cider, and when it boils, add 
the rest of the cider, the sugar and gelatine. Let it thoroughly 
mix, but not boil. Kemove from the fire, flavor and strain into 
moulds. 

If the cider is pretty sour, the lemon juice may be omitted. 

Orange Jelly. 

Gelatine. . .half box dissolved in Cold water half-cup; add 

Hot water . . one small cup; then Orange juice one pint; 

Lemon juice of one; Sugar one cup. 

Stir and strain, —Mrs. Bemis. 

Orange Jelly. 

Gelatine half-box; Sugar one and a half cups; 

Oranges juice of four; Lemon . . one; 

Water one pint. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 77 



Moisten the gelatine with cold water. Pour over it the pint of 
boiling water, add the sugar and fruit juiee, let it boil up once, 
then strain into a mould, wet with cold water. 

To Serve Orange Jelly. 

Cut a small piece from the tops of the oranges, smoothly. 
Take out all the inside. When the jelly has cooled a little, pour it 
into the oranges, as into cups, and set them on the ice to harden. 

When the jelly is firm, serve on a glass dish ornamented with 
green leaves. 

Ice Cream. 

Milk one quart; 

Flour one tablespoonful; 

Sugar (white powdered) three cups; 

Gelatine one tablespoonful; 

Eggs (yolks only) three; 

Vanilla or lemon extract one tablespoonful; 

Cream three pints. 

Bring the milk to a boil, and add to it the flour smoothed in a 
little cold milk. Then add the eggs beaten up with one cup of 
the sugar. Then the gelatine dissolved in a little cold milk. Re- 
move from the fire and strain. 

The next day add to the mixture, the remaining two cups of 
sugar, the cream, and flavoring. Beat all together and freeze. 

— Miss DiNoiiEY. 

Any kind of fruit juice can be added after the cream is partly 
frozen, instead of lemon or vanilla flavoring. 

Orangre Ice. 

Oranges six of large size; Lemons two; 

Water (boiling) five gills. 

After squeezing the juice from the fruit, pour the boiling water 
over the peel and pulp, and let it stand until cool. Then add it to 
the juice, sweeten to taste and freeze. Mrs. Oliver. 



78 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Raspberry Sherbet. 

RaspbeiTy jam one cup; Water . . one and one-half pints; 

Sugar one cup; Lemon, juice of one-half of one; 

Gelatine one tablespoonful; 

Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the water, mix with the other 
ingredients, strain, put into a mould and freeze. 

Substitute three-quarters package of gelatine for the above 
quantity, melt all together over the fii'e, strain and set away till cold, 
and you will have excellent jelly. 

Water Ice. 

Make strong lemonade, very sweet; dissolve a teaspoonful of 
gelatine in cold water ; to these add sufficient cold water to make 
the requisite quantity of ice. Orange or any other fruit juice may 
be substituted for lemon. 

To Serve a Watermelon. 
Cut the melon in two. Take out the pink part in smooth 
spoonfuls, removing the seeds, and pile up in a glass dish. Orna- 
ment with flakes of white of egg, frothed and sweetened with a 
little powdered sugar. Set on the ice till ready to serve. 

Steamed Sweet Apples. 
Wash and core some fair sweet apples. Lay them in a porce- 
lain lined kettle. Fill the hole in the center with white sugar 
and scatter a little sugar over the top. Put a little warm water 
into the kettle and steam them till they are soft. Add more water 
as it is needed, so that there will be sufficient for a little juice when 
done. Keep them covered closely. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 79 



Chapter IX.— PUDDINGS. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Flour .... three and a half cups; Milk one cup; 

Suet one cup; Chopped raisins one cup; 

Currants one cup; Soda one teaspoonful; 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Warm the molasses and sth the suet, which must be freed from 
strings and chopped very fine, into it. Pour this gradually upon 
the flour. Then add the other ingredients, last the saleratus, which 
must be dissolved in a little of the warm molasses reserved for the 
purpose. Stir fast and thoroughly after the saleratus is added. 
Steam in a well greased double kettle four hours. 
This may be eaten with hot or cold sauce. 

King George's Pudding. 

Floui' three cups; Kaisins. two cups; 

Currants one cup; Milk one cup; 

Molasses one cup; Suet (chopped fine) . . . one cup; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Mix as in Enghsh Plum Pudding. Boil three hours. 

Sauce. 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Butter two tablespoonfuls; 

Flour one tablespoonful; 

Beat together and add 

Egg the white of one beaten to a froth. 

Add a giU of boihng water, stin-ing fast. Flavor mth wine or 
brandy. This is a good sauce for any hot pudding. 

—Mrs. AENOiiD. 
Simple Suet Pudding. 

Chopped raisins one cup; Suet one cup; 

Molasses one cup; Milk one cup; 

Prepared flour three cups. 

Steam in a double kettle— one with a hole in the center is best 
— three and a half hours. — Mrs. Comfort. 



80 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Bread Pudding. 

Milk three pints; Sugar one cup; 

Raisins, stoned one cup; Butter one-haK cup; 

Eggs four or five ; Bread 

Spices. 

Break stale bread into the milk, and set it upon the back of the 
range; baker's bread will make the lightest pudding, though any 
pieces of stale bread maybe used; pieces of cake, slightly stale, may 
also be used up in this way. About as much bread as the milk will 
thoroughly soak will make it of the proper consistency. 

Add the butter, and let it melt, then the sugar, then the eggs, 
well beaten, last the raisins. 

Spice to taste; all kinds may be used. A tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses wDl make it look dark and rich. 

Any bread pudding may be varied by spreading a layer of jelly 
over the top and frosting it with the whites of one or two of the 
eggs beaten up with a little sugar. 

Old-fashioned Bread Pudding. 

Bread (baker's) one loaf; 

Milk sufficient to soak the bread; 

Sugar one cup; 

Molasses one cup; 

Eggs five; 

Baisins (stoned) one-half pound; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Spices. 

Slice the bread and pour over it milk enough to cover it. Add 
the sugar, molasses and eggs, well beaten. Mix, and add the raisins; 
add spices to taste, half a nutmeg or half a teaspoonf ul of clove and 
cinnamon each; a little salt may be added if desired. Turn into a 
dish holding about two or three quarts, fill it up with milk, and 
bake slowly five hours. When it has baked four hours set it in a 
pan of hot water for the rest of the time. Can bo eaten with any 
liquid pudding sauce. Is good warmed over. — Mrs. Oxjver. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 81 



Grandma's J's Plum Pudding. 

Baker's bread (stale) . . .one loaf; Suet one cup; 

Molasses one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Raisins one pound; Currants one pound; 

Citron one-half pound; Eggs . . .- nine; 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful; Cloves one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one; Wine one wine-glassful; 

Brandy one wine-glassful. 

Soak the bread in milk over night. In the morning pour away 
the milk not absorbed, and mix all the ingredients in a bowl over a 
kettle of hot water. Bake very slowly five hours. 

Cracker Pudding. 

Cracker crumbs, two-thirds cup; Milk one quart; 

Raisins one cup; Sugar one cup; 

Butter. two-thirds cup; Eggs four. 

Boil the milk and pour it over the cracker crumbs, which must 
be rolled fine. Add the butter and sugar then the eggs and rai- 
sins. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour. —Mrs. Winslow. 



Bun Pudding. 



Baker's buns six 

Eggs three 

Salt alittle 



Milk one quart; 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Spice to taste. 

Soak the buns over night in half the milk. Next day add the 
other things and bake till a light brown. May be eaten cold or 
hot with sauce: if cold, a hard sauce should be served with it. 

— Mrs. Harris. 
Swedish Honeycomb Pudding. 

Flour one cup; Sugar one-half cup; 

Molasses one cup; Milk one-half cup ; 

Butter one-half cup; Eggs four; 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Beat flour (sifted), sugar and molasses together. Melt the but- 
ter in the warm milk; to this add the soda. 

Mix all these ingredients, and add the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 



82 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Sauce. 

Sugai* one cup; Butter size of a walnut; 

Eggs one. 

Beat altogether, add hot water sufficient and flavor with wine 
or any flavoring Kked. — Mrs. Fakdon. 

Delicate Bread Pudding. 

Bread crumbs one pint; or 

Cracker crumbs one pint; 

Milk one quart; 

Sugar one cup; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonful; 

Powdered sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Raisins one cup (chopped) ; 

Eggs four; 

Spices to taste. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk till soft. Add the sugar, then 
the yolks of the eggs, and salt and spices. Put in the butter and 
raisins and set in the oven. After it has stood long enough for 
the butter to melt, stir it well from the bottom. 

It will require from half to three-quarters of an hour in a mod- 
erate oven to bake. When done, frost with the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff, and the four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar added 
gradually. Brown. — Mrs. OiiiVER. 

Bread Pudding. 

Bread Crumbs one and a half pints, or three cups; 

Milk one quart; 

Butter one-eighth pound; 

Eggs six; 

Sugar one-half cup (or more if desired); 

Powdered sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Spice or essence 

Scald the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs, and stir in 
the butter while warm. When cool, add the sugar, then the whites 
of the eggs except two, which should be reserved for frosting. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 83 



Add spice or flavoring to taste, and bake in an earthen dish in 
a slow oven from thii-ty-live to fifty mintues. 

When done frost the top with the whites of the eggs, which 
must have been beaten to a stiff froth and sweetened with the four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, — Mks. Ford. 

Indian Pudding No. 1 (very nice). 

Corn meal four even tablespoonfuls; 

Floiu* four even tablespoonfuls; 

Salt a little. 

Mix the above vnth a little cold milk. 

Add to these one quart of scalded milk. Then 

Eggs four, well beaten; 

Soda . . one teaspoonf ul tlissolved in two tablespoonfuls 
of hot water. 
Add to the soda and water 

Molasses one cup; 

Eaisins (stoned) one cup; 

Cinnamon a little. 

Steam three hours. To be eaten with sugar and cream. 

—Mrs. Oliver. 

Indian Pudding No. 2. 

Milk one quart; 

Indian meal two cups; 

Molasses one-half cup; 

Suet two tablespoonfuls (chopped) ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; 

Cinnamon one-half teaspoonful; 

Ginger one-half teaspoonful; 

Flour one-half cup. 

Boil aU but a cupful of the milk, and pour it hot over the 
other ingredients. 

Bake in a high pudding pot, slowly, three hours. 
Then pour half of the cold milk over it, and bake another horn*; 
then add the rest of the cold milk, cover with a plate and bake 
three hours longer. —Mrs. W. C. Emery. 



84 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Rice Pudding.— To be Eaten Cold. 

Milk one quart; 

Rice one tablespoonful; 

Salt a pinch; 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Nutmeg or Vanilla to taste. 

Mix and bake slowly four hours. 
Economical and delicious. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Cocoanut one (grated); or 

Desiccated cocoanut one and one-half cups; 

Milk ■ one quart; 

Eggs five; 

Sugar one cup, (if grated cocoanut is used;) or 

Sugar half-cup, (if desiccated cocoanut). 

Boil the milk, and add the eggs well beaten, and the sugar and 
cocoanut. 

It is better to soak the desiccated cocoanut in the milk for an 
hour before adding the eggs and sugar. 

Banana Pudding. 

Gelatine one-half box; Milk one quai-t; 

Sugar two cups; Bananas five; 

Cream one pint. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a cup of cold water. Scald the sugar 
and milk together. Thin the gelatine with a little of the hot milk, 
strain it and add the rest of the milk. Let it simmer upon the 
back of the stove for ten minutes. Pour into a bowl to cool. Stir 
the bananas, which must be peeled and cut into small pieces into 
the mixtiu-e, after it has cooled, (but not stiffened.) 

Serve with the cream whii)ped to a froth, sweetened if desired. 

This should be made a day before it is to be used, to give it 
time to harden. —Miss RANDAiiL. 

Orange Pudding. 

Sugar one-half pound; Butter one-quarter pound; 

Eggs six; Oranges two. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the juice and grated rind of 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 85 



the oranges, then the yolks of the eggs, one by one. Then slowly 
the whites, well beaten. 

Line a deep dish Avith puflf paste, pour in the mixture and 
bake. —Mrs. Oliver. 

Strawberry Pudding. 

Line a bowl or mould with thin slices of stale baker's bread. 

Pour into this a quart of stewed strawberries, hot. 

If the strawberries are fresh they must be made very sweet. 
If canned, half a cup of sugar should be added. 

Set this away till cool. Then turn it out into a glass dish, 
without disturb! ug its shape. Pour around it a steamed custard 
made of a pint of milk and the yolks of three or four eggs and two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar. 

Ornament the top of the pudding with a meringue made of the 
beaten whites of the eggs and three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. 

Prune Pudding. 

Prunes, large and nice one cup; 

Eggs wh ites of five: 

Cream of tartar one-half teaspoonf ul; 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Cook the prunes till soft in as little water as possible, then rub 
through a colander. Beat the whites of i-be eggs to a stiff froth 
and add to the strained prunes. Mix the sugar and cream of 
tartar thoroughly and sift them into Ihe prunes. 

Bake it a few minutes in a moderate oven to cook the egg. 
It may be served with whipped or sweetened cream, or a 
custard may be made of the yolks of the eggs for a sauce. 

— Miss RANDAiiii. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Sugar one-half pound or one cupful 

Butter one-quarter pound or half a cupful 

Eggs three 

Lemon one 

Cracker one (if desired) 



86 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cream the butter and sugar together, add the eggs beaten 
light, then the juice and grated rind of the lemon. The cracker 
may be rolled anil sifted and added if desired. It %vill give the 
pudding more consistency. —Mrs. Ford. 

liemon Rice Pudding. 

Kice one cupful; Milk one pint; 

Butter. one large tablespoon fnl; Sugar one cupful; 

Eggs four; Powdered do . four tablespoonfuls; 

Lemon one. 

Boil the rice in salted water seventeen minutes. Add the milk 
and butter to the rice while hot. Then add the sugar and the 
yolks of the four eggs, well beaten, with the grated rind and a 
teaspoonful of the lemon juice. Bake this. 

Beat the whit es to a stiff froth, add the remainder of the lemon 
juice and, gradually, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Spread this over the pudding when done, and brown lightly. 

— Mrs. Oliver. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Chocolate, gi-ated. two ouucrs; Milk, boiled one quart; 

Corn starch. . .one teaspoonful; Eggs four; 

Vanilla half teaspoonful. 

Boil the milk, add the chocolate, and boil five minutes. Add 
the corn starch smoothed in a little cold milk. Cool a little, and 
add the eggs except the whites of two, which are reserved for 
frostmg. Add the vanQla. 

Bake slowly for half an hour. Wlien done, fi-ost with the 
whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, to wliich four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar have been added gradually. Brown the frost- 
ing hghtly. — Mrs. Frank Clement. 

Tipsy Parson Pudding. 

Pour over slices of slightly stale cake, (sponge is best), wine and 
water enough to cover. When soaked, drain off the water. 

Make a steamed custard and pour over it. Serve cold. 

The wine may be omitted and the custard flavored with vanilla 
or lemon. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 87 



This pudding may be ornamented mth the white of one of the 
eggs used in the custard, beaten stiff and dropped over the top. 

Half a dozen cocoanut macaroons may be placed around the 
edge. 

Danish Pudding. 

Pearl tapioca one cup; 

Cold water one pint; 

Boihng water one pint; 

Sugar one-half cup; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; 

Jelly, ciuTant or some acid jelly one cupful. 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water over night. 
In the morning put it into a double kettle with the boihng 
water, and cook an hour, or until transparent; stir often. Add the 
sugar, salt and jelly. Stir well and put into a mould to cool. 
Serve with cream and sugar. — Mrs. Bemis. 

Saratoga Pudding. 

Tapioca one coffee cup; Water two quarts; 

Sugar (white) one cup; Raisins (stoned) one cup; 

Lemon one; Apples (chopped) . . . one quart. 

Soak the tapioca in the water over night. In the morning add 
the apples, then the sugar, then the juice and grated rind of the 
lemon. Lastly the stoned raisins. Bake, in a covered dish, in a 
slow oven, two hoiu's. — Mrs. Huli;. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Tapioca one-half cup; Milk one quart; 

Eggs five; Sugar one cup. 

Soak the tapioca in water thi-ee or four hom-s. Have just water 
enough to keep it covered. 

Boil the milk in a double kettle, add the tapioca and cook till 
it is perfectly soft. Then add the yolks of the eggs, beaten up 
with the sugar. Cook ten minutes longer. 

Turn it into the dish in which it is to be served, and beat into 
it gently with a silver fork the whites of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a froth. 

Flavor with vanilla. Serve very cold. 



88 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Snow Pudding (No. 1.) 

Eggs six; Corn starch . .six tablespoonf uls; 

Sugar one tablespoonf ul; Lemon juice of one; 

Salt a little; Water one quart. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold water. Poui* a quart 
of boiling water over it. Add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 
Stir well, set it in a basin of boiling water, or double kettle, cook 
ten minutes. Tiu*n into a mould and put away to harden. 

Make a steamed custard for sauce, of the yoliis of the eggs, a 
pint or a pint and a half of milk, two-thii-ds of a cup of sugar, and 
a teaspoonful of vanilla or any flavoring preferred. (See rule for 
Steamed Custard.) 

Turn the pudding when cold into a dish and pom* the custard 
around it before servjtig. 

Snow Pudding (No. 2.) 

Lemon juice of one; 

Gelatine or Cooper's prepared isin-glass .... half- ounce; 

Sugar (white) half-pound; 

Eggs two; 

Water one pint. 

Dissolve the gelatine or isin-glass in the boiling water. Let it 
stand till cool. Add the lemon juice, sugar and whites of the eggs 
(well beaten). Beat till it thickens. Set it on the ice or in a cool 
place until it hardens. It may need to be beaten for an hour. 

For sauce, make a steamed custard, (see rule) of the yolks of the 
eggs and a pint of milk. When cold, flavor mth wine. 

— Mrs. Ford. 

German Pudding. 

Eggs ten ; Gelatine . . . four teaspoonfuls; 

Lemons, three small or two large; Sugar one-half pound; 

Water one cup; 

Boil the water and dissolve in it the sugar and gelatine. Add 
the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the juice of the lemons, and the 
rind of one. 

Let this come to a boil. When a little cool add the whites of 
the eggs beaten stiff. Beat all together and cool. 

— Miss Niebuhr. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Foaming Sauce. 

Sugar one cup (heaped) ; Butter one-half cup; 

Egg one; Lemon one; 

Water three tablespoon fuls. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg well beaten, then the 
juice and half the grated rind of the lemon. Last, the three table- 
spoonfuls of water, which must be boiling, stirred in slowly. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Molasses one cup; Butter a tablespoonful; 

Vinegar or cider, one-quarter of a cup ; more if desired. 
Boil the molasses (it should be very nice) until it thickens a 
little. Add the vinegar or cider, and boil up again; stu' in the but- 
ter and serve warm. 

(Good with apple dumpHngs or boiled rice pudding.) 

Creamy Sauce. 

Butter one-half cup; 

Powdered sugar, sifted one cup; 

Wine four tablespoonfuls; 

Cream or milk two tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter. Add gradually the sifted sugar. Then 
add, gradually, beating all the time, the four tablespoonfuls of 
wine, then the two of cream or milk. 

When this is beaten well, and just before serving, place the 
bowl in hot water and stir until smooth or creamy. 

— Mrs. Dillingham. 

Hard Sauce. 

Sugar (powdered) ten tablespoonfuls; 

Butter (nice) two tablespoonfuls. 

Beat to a perfect cream. Add the white of one egg beaten to 
a stiff froth. 

Flavor with wine, brandy or lemon or vanilla extract, or grate 
a little nutmeg over the top. 



90 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter X.— PIES, 



Pie Crust (No. 1). 

Sifted flour five cups; Butter one cup ; 

Lard one cup; Ice water one cup; 

Salt to taste. 

This will keep well in a cool place. — Miss. Smith. 

Pie Crust (No. 2). 

Flour six cups; Butter, at first one cup; 

Lard, at first one cup; Salt one teaspoonful. 

Chop the shortening, flour and salt together in a chopping 
tray. (It is a good plan to wash the butter the day before. Many 
cooks do this also for cake, as they think it makes it Ughter. ) 

Then wet with ice water. 

Roll out about an inch thick, and with a knife spread little bits 
of additional butter all over it, and roll it again. Do this three 
times, always dredging flour over the butter before folding the 
paste. After rolling in the butter three times in this way, make 
the paste into a long roll and lay it on the ice or in a very cool 
place for an hour or more. 

Cut a piece from the end of the roll and roll out lightly a thin 
crust of the size of the plate. 

Chopping the shortening in obviates the necessity of handling 
the paste, which makes it heavy. — Mrs. Hood. 

PuiF Paste. 

Butter one pound; Flour one pound; 

Egg yolk of one; Lemon juice of one; 

Salt a pinch. 

Wash the butter the night before. Make a hole in the middle 
of the flour; put in the yolk of the egg, the juice of the lemon and 
the salt. Mix this with ice water; then put in the butter and roll 
out four times. 

Set the paste on the ice for an hour before rolling out for the 
plates. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



91 



Mince Meat (No. 1). 

Meat, round of beef three pounds; 

Suet one pound; 

Apples three pounds; 

Cinnamon two teaspoonfuls; 

Allspice two teaspoonfuls; 

Cloves two teaspoonfuls; 

Nutmeg one; 

Cider three cups; 

Sugar three pounds; 

Molasses one cup; 

Raisins one and one-half pounds; 

Currants one pound; 

Citron one-half pound; 

Salt to taste; 

Lemons grated rind and juice of two; or 

Vinegar, best cider one-half cup. 

Boil the meat till tender, in a small quantity of water, so that 
there will be only one or two cupfuls of liquor. Chop the 
meat very fine. Peel, slice and chop the apples. Chop the suet, 
and remember that it is impossible to get any of these ingredients 
too fine. Chop the citron, stone the raisins, grate the rind of the 
lemon and squeeze out the juice, wash the currants. 

Boil together in a porcelain lined kettle the cider, molasses, 
sugar and suet. Also the vinegar if you use it instead of lemons. 
It gives a more pronounced taste to the mince. 

Pour these hot upon the other ingredients which must first be 
well mixed. This will keep a long time with the addition of a little 
brandy. If at any time you fear its spoiling, put it into a preserv- 
ing kettle and set it on the back of the range and let it scald 
through. 

If you wish, spread a few bits of butter on each pie before 
you cover it, a little additional salt, and a few teaspoonfuls of 
sugar. 

If anything seems to be lacking in mince meat, it is usually 
either sugar or salt. 

The juice of preserved fruit or jelly may be added to the 



92 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



mince meat, to which the saying, "the more good things the 
better, " is particularly applicable. 

Mince Meat (No. 2). 

Beef (second cut from the neck) five pounds; 

Suet (chopped tine) three-quarter pound; 

Raisins (stoned) one and one-half pounds; 

Apples (peeled, sliced and chopped) five pounds; 

Cinnamon two teaspoonfuls; 

Allspice two teaspoonfuls; 

Cloves two teaspoonfuls; 

Mace one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg (grated) one; 

Cider one quart; 

Sugar to taste. 

Boil the cider down one-half, and add the juice the meat was 
boiled in, and a little of the fat. Then add the other ingredients, 
with wine and brandy to taste. —Mrs. ARNOiiD. 

Mince Meat (No. 3). 

Chopped meat two pounds; 

Chopped apples four pounds; 

Suet (freed from strings and chopped) one pound; 

Raisins (stoned and chopped) one pound; 

Currants (cleaned) one pound; 

Citron (chopped) one-quarter pound; 

Sugar (brown) three pounds; 

Cider three pints; or 

Brandy one pint; or 

Wine one bottle; 

Nutmegs one and one-half; 

Cloves (ground) one tablespoonful; 

Cinnamon (ground) one tablespoonful; 

Allspice two tablespoonfuls; 

Mace one-half teaspoonful; 

Salt two tablespoonfuls; 

Lemons juice and grated rind of three. 

The meat must be boiled tender and chopped very fine. It is 



A NEW DAILY FOOD, 93 



desirable to have but little of the meat liquor left, which may be 
added to the mixture. Cook all together twenty minutes, except 
the wine or brandy, which must be added last. If a richer prepar- 
ation is desired, another pound of raisins and currants each may be 
added, and a pound of sultanas and half a jDound of citron. 

— Mrs. OiirvTjR. 
Apple Pie. 
Bake a sliced apple pie in a deep pie plate. Heap the apple 
lip, as it shrinks, as it softens. Allow six tablespoonf uls of sugar 
and one of molasses to a pie. Spread little bits of butter and a 
pinch of salt over the top. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Cut 
a narrow strip of crust for the edge, dip it in water and j^ut it be- 
tween the two crusts, pressing the upper one down. This forms a 
paste which joins the two crusts firmly and prevents the juice from 
escaping, — a good expedient for all juicy pies. 

Gooseberry Pie 
This may be made in the same way as cranberry pie, using 
gooseberry instead of cranberry sauce (see rule). 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Cocoanut (grated), one, or cocoanut (desiccated), two cups; 

Milk one pint; 

Sugar one cup ; 

Lemon one-half grated rind and juice; 

Eggs four; 

Butter one tablespoonf ul; 

Crackers (pounded and sifted) two. 

If desiccated cocoanut is used, soak it for two hours in the 
milk, and use only half as much sugar, as the desiccated cocoanut 
is sweetened. Bake in a deep dish lined witli nice paste without 
upper crust. 

The whites of two of the eggs may be reserved for frosting. 
Beat them to a stiff froth, sweeten with three tablespoonf uls of 
powdered sugar, add a little lemon juice, and after the pie is baked 
pile the frosting over it in little mounds. Return it to the oven 
and brown lightly. 



94 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Rhubarb Pie. 
Rhubarb (chopped).. . .one cup; Sugar. . .one and one-half cups; 

Eggs three. 

Mix the rhubarb, sugar and yolks of the eggs. Bake in a deep 
plate without an upper crust. When done, frost with the beaten 
whites of the eggs, mixed with three or four tablespoonfiils of 
sugar. Brown lightly. 

Cranberry Pie. 
Fill a deep plate lined with crust with cranberry sauce (see 
rule) and bake till the crust is done. 

A few strips of pie crust crossed over the top will improve its 
appearance, and a little powdered sugar may be sifted over it just 
before serving. 

Squash Pie. 

Squash one large pint; 

Sugar two and a half cups; 

Milk one quart; 

Butter two tablespoonfuls; 

Cracker Crumbs three tablespoonfuls; 

Eggs four; 

Ginger one teaspoonful; or 

Extract lemon one teaspoonful; 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Peel, steam till soft and strain the squash. 

To a large pint add the sugar, spice and cracker crumbs, which 
must be rolled tine and sifted. 

Boil the milk and melt the butter in it. Add it to the squash, 
etc., one-half at a time. When well mixed, add the eggs well- 
beaten. 

Bake in a deep plate, with a nice undercrust. 

Raisin Pie. 

Raisins one pound; Lemon one; 

Sugar one cup; Crackers three. 

Boil, stone and chop the raisins, roll the crackers fine, mix all 
and bake with two crusts. This makes three pies. 

—Mrs. J. O. Bemis. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 95 



Lemon Pie (No. 1). 

Eggs four; 

Lemons one large or two small; 

Powdered sugar, eight tablespoonfuls for pie, four for 
frosting; 

Butter (melted) one large tablespoonful. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs by themselves. Grate the rind and 
strain the juice of the lemons into them and add the eight spoon- 
fuls of sugar. Beat all together until very light. Then add the 
melted butter. Pour into a deep plate lined with crust, and bake. 
When done, frost with the whites, which must be beaten to a 
stiff froth and sweetened with the four tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Brown in the oven. — Mrs. White. 

Lemon Pie (No 2). 

Lemons one large or two small; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs three; 

Cornstarch or white flour three teaspoonfuls. 

Mix the juice of the lemons and the grated rind with the sugar. 
Smooth the flour or cornstarch with a little of the milk, and 
mix all together. Bake in a deep pieplate, lined with nice paste. 

When done, frost with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown slightly. 



96 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter XL— CAKE. 



Directions Regarding Cake. 

An old-fasliioned tea -cup holds half a pint. A goblet or 
ordinary tumbler about the same. "A pint is a pound all the 
world round." A piece of butter "the size of an egg is one 
tablespoonf ul. " 

Use the same vessel for measuring the ingredients to be used 
in anything you are cooking, that the proportion may not be 
changed. 

Baking powder or yeast powder is cream of tartar and soda 
mixed in the proper proportion of two parts of the former to one 
of the latter. It is a saving of trouble to use the chemicals thus; 
and baking powder should be mixed and sifted with the dry flour. 

If however the cream of tartar or soda are used separately, the 
former should be mixed with the dry flour and the latter dissolved 
in a Httle hot water, or in the milk, if milk is used. 

Prepared flour is flour with the baking powder already mixed 
with it. 

Before making cake get all the ingredients called for in the 
recipe, ready to your hand. 

Currants, which are very dirty usually, should have been 
thoroughly washed and dried. 

Raisins should have been stoned. Have a cup of water at your 
side when stoning raisins and drop the stones into it. This 
washes the Angers at the same time and prevents their becoming 
sticky. This can be done whenever there is a little time of leisure 
or waiting in the kitchen. Sift the flour. 

In mixing cake the butter and sugar should first be beaten 
together till they look like cream. This should be done with a 
wooden spoon, as an iron one is apt to discolor the cake. It saves 
a good deal of strength to beat cake with the hand, and this may 
be done in cool weather. But in summer the heat of the hand 
makes it heavy. 

Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately, and add the yolks 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 9' 



to the butter and sugar, then the whites. Next add half the milk, 
and when this is well mixed half the flom-, then the rest of the 
milk and the remainder of the flour containing the baking powder. 
If fruit is used, save out a third of the flour to mix it with. It is 
less Hkely to sink to the bottom of the pan. Add flavoring. 

This is a good general method to follow, unless otherwise 
directed in the recipe. 

Grease the pans well. The cake is more certain to tiun out 
easily if the pan is lined with a well greased paper. Have a brisk 
but not too hot an oven. 

Have your tire just right, so that you need not touch it till the 
cake is done. The old proverb that ' ' There is more in baking 
than there is in making,' applies here. If it is mixed ever so care- 
fully and not properly baked, it is labor and material wasted. Do 
not move it, if you can help it, till it is done. If it begins to brown 
before it is properly raised, cool the oven a little by removing the 
cover from the stove a little way — just a crack. 

The cake will shrink from the sides of the pan when it is done. 
Try it also with a broom straw, and when no dough sticks to the 
straw it is safe to consider it baked sufliciently. Turn it carefully 
from the pan upon a toast rack or clean broiler. Let it cool before 
j)utting it away in the cake-box. 

Fruit cake needs a long, slow baking. It is safe to leave it in 
the oven half an hour after you think it is done. 

All cakes containing molasses bmii more easily than sugar 



Fruit Cake (No. 1). 

Floiu" One pound; Sugar one pound; 

Butter one i)ound; Fggs ten; 

Eaisins three pounds; Citron one-half pound; 

Wine one gill; Nutmeg one; 

Cloves .... one-half teaspoonful; Allspice . . one-half teaspoonful; 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add the brandy. Beat 
the eggs very light, strain and add them. Add two thii'ds of 
the flour. Mix the fruit with the rest of the flour and add it 
with the spices. The juice and grated rind of a lemon improves 



98 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



this cake. Bake in well greased pans, lined with paper, also well 
greased, in a moderate oven from one and one-half to two hours. 

— Mrs. Arnold. 
Wedding Cake. 

Sugar (brown) .-.one pound; 

Butter one pound; 

Flour one pound ; 

Eggs ten; 

Citron three pounds; 

Stoned Raisins four pounds; 

Currants four pounds; 

Molasses (darkest) one-half pint; 

Mace, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg (a little more cloves 

and mace) one ounce each; 

Brandy one gill. 

Mix as in the ^jreceding recipe. —Mrs. J. Bolton. 

Cleveland Fruit Cake 

Sugar one pound; 

Butter three-quarters pound; 

Citron one-half pound; 

Currants one pound; 

Raisins (stoned and chopped) one pound; 

Flour one pound; 

Molasses one-half cup; 

Eggs eight; 

Spices all kinds. 

Bake four hours. —Mrs. Clement. 

Apple Fruit Cake 

Molasses two cups; Sugar, brown one cup; 

Floiu' four cups; Eggs three; 

Raisins (chopped) . . one pound; Butter one cup; 

Soda one teaspoonful; Cloves one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one; Citron one-half pound; 

Salt a little; Dried apples three cups. 

Soak the dried apples over night and in the morning stew them 
in one (;up of the molasses. Add them to cake when mixed as by 
tlirections for other fruit cake. This will keep well.— Miss Smith. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD, 



99 



Cup Cake. 
An old reliable and generally useful rule for cake, and one 
easily remembered, is the old-fashioned One, two, three, four cake. 
Only instead of three put three and a half, and remember that 
there are two ones. 

Of butter one cup; 

Milk one cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Flour, three and a half cups; three does not make it 
quite stiff enough; 

Eggs four; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls: 

This should be mixed according to the preceding directions, 
and is good as a plain cake; or it may be made into currant cake by 
adding a cup of currants; or raisin cake by adding a cup of raisins; 
marble cake by adding to one-half of the batter, spices of all kinds 
and a small half cup of molasses, and putting into the baking pan 
in alternate layers; or fruit cake by adding spices, molasses and 
raisins to all the batter; or layer cake, by baking in Washington 
pie pans, when a little less baking powder should be used. 

The dullest servant, if she cannot read, can easily learn this, 
rule. 

French Cake (Reliable and Good.) 

Sugar two cups; Butter one-half cup,' 

Flour three cups; Milk one cup; 

Eggs three; Baking powder, two teaspoonfuls. 

— Mrs. Clement 
Spanish Bun. 

Eggs four; 

Butter three-quarter cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Milk one cup; 

Cinnamon one tablesj)oonful; 

Flom* two cups; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Reserve the white of one egg for icing. Cream the butter and 
sugar; add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, then the whites beaten 



100 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



to a froth, then half the milk, then half the flour, then the rest of 
the milk and the rest of the flour. Last, the spice. 

Bake in a shallow pan. When done, spread over it a thin icing 
made of the white of the egg and two teaspoonfuls of sugar, and 
half a teaspoouful of cinnamon. — Miss Fairbanks. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

Sugar two cups; 

Butter one cup; 

Flour two cups; 

Corn Starch one cup, dissolved in 

Milk one cup; 

Baking powder three teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs whites of six. 

—Mrs. Winslow. 

Watermelon Cake. 
For the white part: 

Butter one-third cup; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk one-quarter cup; 

Flour one and one-quarter cup; 

Soda ... one-quarter teaspoon ; 

Cream of Tartar three-quarter teaspoon; or 

Baking powder one teaspoonful: 

Eggs whites of four. 

For the red part: 

Butter one-thii-d cup ; 

Eggs yolks of four; 

Bed Sugar one cup; 

Milk one-quarter cup; 

Flour two cups; 

Baisins, stoned and quartered one cup; 

Baking powder two even teaspoonfuls. 

Put the red part in the centre of a round pan, scatter the 
raisins through it to kx^k like the seeds, and put the white around 
the edge. -Mrs. Oliver. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 101 



Walnut Cake. 

Sugar oue aud oue-half cups; 

Butter one-half cup; 

Milk oue-half cup; 

■ Eggs three; 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful; 

Walnut meats one cup; 

Flour two cups; 

Vanilla one-half teaspoonful. 

Mix as in cup cake, adding the walnuts, broken very fine, last. 

— Miis. F. W. Emery. 

Harlequin Cake. 
Cream one cup butter; add two cups sugar; mix well; add 
three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; sift one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, with 
three cnps of flour; add alternately mth one cup of milk. Divide 
it into foui' parts: color one part with two squares melted choco- 
late, one part with pink coloring and leave two i^ai'ts uncolored. 
Bake separately, and when done put together with lemon jelly. 

Pink Coloring. 

Cochineal one-half ounce; 

Alum one-half ounce; 

Cream of tartar one-half ounce; 

Salts of tartar one-half ounce. 

To the first three ingredients add half pint boiling water. Let 
it stand on the stove two minutes; then add the salts of tartar 
gradually. Add one-half pound sugar, and strain through a cloth. 

Lenion Jelly. 

Sugar one cnp; 

Lemon grated rind and juice of one; 

Flour, two tablespoon fuls, stirred into a well-beaten 
egg; 

AVater one cup. 

Mix all and cook till thick and smooth like cream. 



102 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Sponge Cake (No. 1). 

Sugar. . . three-quarters pound; Eggs six; 

Lemon one; Flour one-half pound; 

Water one-half tumbler or cup. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water by setting it upon the back of 
the range. Beat the eggs very light, and add them to the sugar 
and water. Then beat fifteen minutes. Add the grated rind of the 
lemon, and three-teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Last, the flour 
(sifted). —Miss Smith. 

Sponge Cake (No. 2). 
Simple Old sure. 

Eggs three; 

Sugar one cup ; 

Flour one cup; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Lemon juice and grated rind of one. 

Sift all together, l>ut the eggs and lemon, which add last. Beat 
well, and bake quickly in one loaf. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Butter one cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs five, except the whites of two; 

Flour three and one-half cups; 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonf ul ; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful; 

Lemon extract one teaspoonful; 

Fri»<ti)}(]. 

Chocolate two squares; 

Powdered sugar one and one-half cups; 

Eggs whites of two; 

Melt the chocolate over the steam of a kettle. Add the sugai* 
and eggs, and frost the cake as soon as it comes from the oven. A 
little vanilla may be added to the frosting. — IMrs. F. W. Emery. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



103 



Chocolate Marble Cake. 

Butter one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Milk one cup: Eggs four; 

Flour three cups; Baking powder, two teaspoonfuls. 

Dissolve a tablespoonful of chocolate in a little milk or cream. 
Stu' this thoroughly into a cupful of the cake batter. Spread the 
dark batter over the light at intervals, forming little rings of the 
dark, that the cake may look like marble when done. 

—Mrs. Oliver. 

Sour Milk Cake. 

(Withovt eggs.) 

Flour four cui)s; 

Sugar (brown) two cups; 

Butter two-thirds cup; 

Sour milk one and one-half cups; 

Soda one teaspoonful, to be dissolved in the milk; 

Raisins two cups, stoned and chopped or halved; 

Spices All kinds, to taste. 

This is a very nice rule. —Mrs. Winslow. 

Whigs. 

Milk one pint; 

Butter one tablesi)Oonful; 

Sugar one cup; 

Soda one dessertspoonful; 

Cream of tartar two dessertspoonfuls; 

Eggs three; 

Flour five cups. 

Mix as in previous recipes. 

Frosting for the ahore. 

Eggs white of one beaten to a froth; 

Lemon juice of one ; 

Flour one tablespoonful; 

Sugar (powdered) one pound. 

—Mrs. Harris. 



104 



A 1«EW DAILY FOOD. 



Com Starch Cake. 

Butter cue-half cup; 

Hugar one and one-half cups; 

Eggs four; 

Corn Starch one-half cup; 

Milk one-half cup ; 

Flour one and one-half cups; 

Lemon Extract one teaspoonful; 

Baking powder two teuspoonfuls. 

Dissolve the <'orn-starch in the milk, and mix by previous di- 
rections. —Miss Smith. 

Berwick Sponge Cake. 

Beat Eggs, .six yolks and whites together two minutes; 

Add Sugar three cups, and V)eat five minutes; then 

Flour two 3ups, with 

Cream of Tartar, .two teaspoonfuls, l>eat two minutes; 

Then cold water one cup, with 

Soda one teaspoonful, l)eat one minute; then 

Lemon one-half grated lind and juice; 

Flour two cups, beat three minutes. 

Obsei-ve the time exactly, and V)ake in rather deep cup-cake 
pans in a good oven. —Mrs. J. O. Bemis. 

Almond Cake. 

Butter one and one-half cups; 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Milk one and one-half cups; 

Flour two and one-half cups; 

Eggs (whites only) four; 

Cream of tartai* one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Soda one-quarter teaspoonful; 

Almonds . . two dozen, placed over the top of the cake. 
The almonds must be blanched by soaking three minutes in 
boiling water ; then put them into cold water and rub off the skins. 
Flavor with essence of almond. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 105 



JeUy Roll. 

Eggs six; Sugar two cups; 

Flour two cups; Milk, .one large tablespoonful; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Put in the pans very thin. Do not bake too long. Lay it be- 
tween cloths when done to keep it moist tiU cool. 

Spread with jeUy, roll and place in napkins to kee^) it in shape. 
This may be flavored with the grated rind of a lemon or a few 
drops of lemon extract. — Mrs. Hull. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Sugar two and one-half cups; 

Butter one cup; 

Flour two and a half cups; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs four; 

Baking powder two heaping teaspoonfuls; 

Raisins one cup; 

Currants one cup; 

Molasses. one tablespoonful; 

Si)ices all kinds to taste. 

Mix as in previous directions. Separate the batter into three 
parts. To one j^art add the fruit, molasses and spices, and bake 
the three parts in pans of corresponding size. 

Put the dark layer between the other two with a little jelly 
between the layers. Press lightly together. 

Frosting may be added if deshed. — Mrs. Stroud. 

Bride Cake. 

Eggs six (whites only) ; 

Flour two and one-half cups; 

Butter one-half cup; 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Milk one-half cup; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the milk; then the flour, 
mixed with the baking powder; the whites of the eggs, well beaten^ 
last. 

Flavor with rose or almond. 



106 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Angel's Food, or White Sponge Cake. 

Eggs whites of eleven ; 

Sugar, powdered or sifted granulated, one and one- 
half cups; 

Flour one cu] > ; 

Vanilla one teaspoonful (scant): 

Cream of tartar one teaspoouf ul; 

Sift some flour four times; then measure out the cupful; add 
the cream of tartar and sift again. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the sugar lightly, then 
the flom* very gently, then the vanilla. 

Do not stop beating till the cake is in the pan. Bake forty 
minutes in a moderate oven in an angel cake pan with a hole in the 
centre, that must be kept for that purpose alone, and must not be 



Turn the pan upside down to cool. When cool cut round the 
edge with a knife and remove. 

White Cake 

Sugar, powdered two cups: 

Butter one-half cup; 

Milk one-half cup; 

rioui' two cups; 

Eggs ... whites of foiu-; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Almond to taste. 

Bake in a brisk but not too hot oveu. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Washington Cake. 

Butter three-quarter cup; 

Sugar one j^ound: 

Flour one pound: 

Eggs six; 

Milk one cup; 

Baking powder one teaspoonful (scant). 

Mix as in previous directions. —Mrs. Waterman. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



107 



Cream Pie (No. 1). 

Eggs , three; 

Flour one cup; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk two tablespoonfuls; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Salt alittle; 

Flavoring vanilla or lemon. 

Mix as in previous directions for cake, and bake in jelly cake 
pans; place between the layers the 

Cremn. 

Milk one pint; Sugar one (scant) cup; 

Floiu' one-half cup; Eggs two; 

Salt alittle. 

To the boiling milk add the other ingi-edients, all beaten to- 
gether; boil until it thickens; flavor -svith vanilla or lemon. 

—Mrs. Clement. 

Cream Pie (No. 2). 

Eggs three; 

Sugar one cup; 

Flour one cup; 

Cream of tartar.. one teaspoonful mixed with the flour; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful, dissolved in 

Warm water three teaspoonfuls. 

Bake in three layers. 

FilUny. 

Milk one pint; Eggs one; 

Flom- one tablespoonf ul ; Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Scald the milk and add the other ingredients. Flavoi- ^^ith 
vanilla. —Mrs. J. D. Winslow. 

Cream Layer Cake. 

Eggs three; 

Powdered sugar one cup; 

Flour one and one-half cups; 

Water three tablespoonfuls; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls. 



108 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Filling. 

Milk one pint; 

Sugar one-lialf cup; 

Butter two tablespoonfuls; 

Corn Starch one tablespoonf ul. 

Mix as in Cream Pie No. 1. — Miss HuiiL. 

Cream Cakes. 

Butter one-half cup; Water one cup; 

Flour one cup; Eggs three. 

Boil the water and butter together, then stir in the flour. Set 
it away to cool. When cold add the eggs without beating. 

Butter a pan very shghtly and drop a large spoonful of the 
batter at intervals. 

Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

Filling. 

Milk two cups; Eggs two; 

Sugar one cup; Flour two tablespoonfuls: 

Salt a little. 

Scald the milk and add the other ingredients. 

—Mrs. CiiEMENT. 

Eng-lish Cheese Cakes. 
Make a nice puff paste (see rule) roll out and cut into cakes 
with a cooky cutter. Bake brown and fill with 

Ijtinoii Filling. 

Sugar (gi-anulated).two pounds; Butter nine ounces; 

Eggs (whites only) twelve; Lemons eight or ten. 

Grate the rinds and squeeze out the juice of the lemons. Beat 
the eggs to a froth, mix altogether and boil in a double kettle or a 
jar set in a pan of water, till it thickens. Stir often. 

— Mrs. Krahnstover. 

It is a good idea to have one or two dozen clean cork stoppers 
to put between the crusts before baking. When done, separate 
the crusts; remove the cork and fill the vacant space with the lemon 
jelly. Wash and dry the corks after using and keep covered from 
dust for the next time. — Mrs. K. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 109 



Blueberry Cake. 

Blueberries one cup. or more if desired ; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk one cup (scant) ; 

Eggs two; 

Butter one teaspoonf ul ; 

Baking powder three teaspoonf uls; 

riour for a stiff batter. 

— Mrs. Frank CiiEivrENT. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

Butter one cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Flour (prepared) two and a half cups; 

M^ilk one cup; 

Eggs five; 

Grated Chocolate (Baker's) one-half cake; 

Vanilla two teaspoonfuls. 

Bake in Washington-pie plates and put l^etween the layers the 

FiUuHj. 

Baker's chocolate, one -half or three-quarter cake 
(melted) ; 

Sugar two cups, dissolved in l)oiling water; 

Eggs whites of two, lieaten a little. 

Boil all together; when cool add 

Vanilla four teaspoonfuls; 

Cocoanut one cupful (if desired). 

— Mrs. Searles. 

Wafers (Very nice). 

Butter one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Milk one-half cup: Lemon juice of one; 

Nutmeg one; Soda one teaspoonf ul; 

Flour enough to roll out. 

Roll the dough very thin, sprinkle gTanulated sugar over them 
and press it in with the rolling-pin. Cut in rounds and bake 
quickly. 



110 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Plain Cake for Layer Cake. 

Sugar one and a half cups; 

Butter oiio-lialf cup; 

Water one cup; 

Flour two and a half cups; 

Baking x^owder tAvo teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs three (white of one reserved for icing) ; 

Lemon gi-ated rind of one, if convenient. 

—Mrs. Huiiii. 
Orange or Lemon Filling. 

Water two cups; 

Corn Starch three tablesj^oonfuls; 

Oranges juice of three, grated rind of two; or 

Lemons two; 

Sugar one cup ; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Eggs yolks of three; 

Add the corn starch dissolved in one-half cu]3 of the cold water, 
to the rest of the water when it boils; add the rest of the ingi-edi- 
ents; cook all together ten minutes or until it thickens. 

Chocolate Filling. 

Bakers chocolate. ..one square; Sugar one cup; 

Eggs yolks of two; Milk .... one-third cup (boiled). 

Stir the chocolate and sugar into the boiling milk, then add 
the egg well beaten. Simmer ten minutes; flavor with vanilla. 
Let it cool before using. — Miss Smith. 

Filling for Layer Cake. 

Raisins, stoned and chopped fine one cup; 

Eggs whites of two well beaten. 

Mix; add the juice of one or two lemons. 

Orange Cake Filling. 

Oranges gi-ated rind and juice of two; 

Eggs whites of two; 

Sugar enough to stiffen the above. 

—Mrs. Harris. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. Ill 



Orange Cake. 

( To be baked in layers. ) 

Eggs five; 

Sugar two cups; 

Powdered sugar for frosting 

Sweet milk one-half cup; 

Baking powder one teaspoonlul; 

Flour two cups; 

Butter one teaspoonful or size of a walnut; 

Orange one. 

Grate the rind of the orange and reserve the whites of two eggs 
for the filling. Sweeten this with the powdered sugar and spread 
between the layers. 

Strawberry Short-Cake. 

Milk(soiu') one cup; 

Butter size of a walnut; 

Soda, one-third of a teaspoonful dissolved in a Httle of 
the milk. Mix lightly and bake in a quick oven. 
Mash and sweeten a pint and half of berries. When the cake 
is baked, split it and butter each part. Si»read the strawberries 
between the layers and serve immediately, 

Strawberries mashed and sweetened may be spread between 
any layer cake. Then garnish the top with whole strawbenies. 

— Mrs. C. C. Dillingham, 

New Years Cakes. 

Butter one and one-quarter pounds; 

Lard one pound; 

Sugar two pounds; 

Luke warm water one pint; 

Soda one teaspoonful; 

Caraway seed five teaspoonfuls; 

Flour, about six pounds, or enough to make it suffici- 
ently stiff to roll out. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the flour, th-op in the caraway 
seeds, then add the water and the soda dissolved in a little hot 
water. Roll about half an inch thick and cut with a wooden cake 
cutter. —Mrs. Arnold. 



112 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Orange Short-Cake. 

Make a crust as for strawberry short-cake, and spread sliced 
oranges, from whicli the seeds and as much as possible of the pulp 
have been removed, between the layers. A little grated or desic- 
cated cocoanut may be mixed with the orange for variety. 

—Mrs. T. S. Dillingham. 

Barnard Cake. 

Butter one cup; Sugar three cups; 

Elour . . .four and one-half cups; Eggs four. 

Milk one cup; Soda one teaspoonful; 

Lemon juice and rind of one. 

Sugar Cookies (Rich). 

Butter two-thii-ds of a cupful ; 

Sugar two-tlmxls of a cupful; 

Flour one heaping cupful; 

Cinnamon (gTOimd) one teaspoonful; 

Mace or nutmeg (gTound) one-half teaspoonful; 

Egg one; 

Cold water one teasiwonful. 

Cream the sugar and butter, add the egg and spice, then gTad- 
ually tlie flour. E(^ll as thin as possible, cut into cookies and bake. 

—Mrs. Emery. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Sugar two cups; 

Butter one cup; 

Eggs two; 

Milk one-half cup 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Nutmeg (grated) one; 

Elour to roll stiff. 

Mix as for cake, add as much flour as is needed, roll very thin, 
out out, scatter a little sugar over the top before putting in pans, 
and press it down with the rolling-pin. —Mrs. Winslow. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 113 



Jumbles. 

Flour thiee-quiirfcer pound; Sugar one-half pound; 

Butter six ounces; Eggs two; 

Nutmeg and rosewater to taste. 

Mix as for cake; roll them out with your ]iands, dip tliem 
in sugar, and bake in round rings. — Mrs. Ford. 

Boston Cookies. 

Molasses two cups; Sugar one cup; 

Butter one cup; Milk one cup; 

Soda two teaspoonfuls; Floui- five cups; 

Eggs two; Ginger one tiiblespoonful. 

Melt the butter in the molasses, poui- them upon the sugar 
mixed with the spice and a small part of the flour. Add the eggs, 
well beaten; dissolve the soda in the milk; and add, then the rest 
of the flour. Bake in gem pans. —Mrs. Wtnslow. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

Butter, lard or nice beef drippings one cup; 

Sugar one cup; 

Molasses two cups; 

Sour milk one cup; 

Eggs two; 

Soda one teaspoonful; 

Ginger one tablespoonful; 

Cloves, cinnamon and allspice, one-haK teaspoonful of 
each, if desii-ed; 

Flour to make a batter as thick as cup cake. 

Put the sugar, one or two cups of flour and the spices in n dish, 
and mix. Melt the shortening in the boiled molasses and add 
gradually. Then add half the milk, then a little more flour, then 
the other half of the milk, with the soda dissolved in it, lastly the 
eggs and sufficient floui* to make it of the right consistency. 

Gingerbread as well as cake depends upon proper mixing and 
thorough beating for its lightness. — Mrs. Ford. 



114 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Gingerbread. 

Molasses one cup; 

Boiling water one cup; 

Lard or butter one tablespoonlul; 

Ginger one tablespoonlul; 

Baking soda one teaspoonful; 

Salt a little; 

Flour as much as can be stirred into the molasses. 

Mix the flour and molasses, then add the soda dissolved in a 
little boiling water, then the ginger, salt and shortening. 

—Mrs. Cummings. 

Hard Sugar Gingerbread. 

Butter one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Egg 9ne; Milk three-( quarters cup; 

Ginger one teaspoonful; Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Mix rather stiff; add flour to roll out. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Ginger Snaps (No. 1). 

Molasses one cup; Sugar one cup; 

Butter three-quarters cup; Soda one teaspoonful; 

Water (hot) one-third cup; Ginger two teaspoonful s; 

Flour sufficient to roll out. 

Boil the sugar and molasses together one minute. Add the 
butter, then the soda dissolved in the hot water, then the ginger 
and flour. Will roll out very thin. —Mrs. Bemis. 

Ginger Snaps (No. 2). 

Butter two-thii-ds cup; 

Xiard tAN o-thirds cup; 

Sugar (brown) one cup; 

Molasses one pint; 

Ginger two tablespoonfuls; 

Flour one quart (at first) ; 

Soda two teaspoonfuls, dissolved in 

Milk four tal^lespoonfuls; 

Spice a little of all kinds; 

Pepper one-half teaspoonful (if liked). 

After mixing, add flour enough to roll out. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 115 



Molasses Cake. 

Molasses one large eiip; 

Warm water one-lialf cup; 

Sliortening one-half cup; 

Baking powder one teaspoonfnl; 

Ginger one-half teaspoonfnl; 

Cinnamon one-half teaspoonfnl; 

Nutmeg one-half one; 

Flour to make a batter. 

—Mrs. Horace C. Fardon. 

Doughnuts. 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Butter one-half teaspoonfnl; 

Milk one cuj); 

Eggs two; 

Baking powder tlu-ee teaspoonfuls; 

Nutmeg one and one-half; 

Flour enough to roll out. 

Mix as for cake, cut out, and fry in plenty of hot lard. Tiy a 
piece of the dough ; if it rises quickly to the top of the lard, and 
does not scorch, the heat \nl\ be right. When it rises, turn the 
doughnut over. Tliey should be rolled about one-quarter of an 
inch thick. Sift powdered sugar over them before you put them 
upon the table. 

Frosting. 
Easily made. 

Egg white of one; Powdered sugar, one large cup; 

Corn Starch one teaspoonfnl. 

Beat the egg a little — not till white, stu* in the sugar gi-adually, 
then the com starch. When smooth, spread it on your cake. 

—Mrs. J. D. Winslow. 

Gelatine Frosting. 

Gelatine one teasi)oonful ; 

Water one-thii*d of a cup; 

Sugar (powdered) sufficient to thicken; 

Vinegar (nice) one-half teaspoonful. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water on the back of the range. 



116 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Add the sugar, gTiidually, mid the vinegar. This hardens 
quickly and is easily made. It is tliick enough when it will just 
spread smoothly without running. —Mrs. Clement. 

Frosting (No. 3). 

This is usually made by beating the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth. 

For a meringue, add very slowly a tablespoont'ul of powdered 
sug-ar to an egg. 

For a stiff frosting add gradually to the beaten whites suffici- 
ent powdered sugar to make it stiff enough to spread smoothly, 
but not to run. 

A teaspoonful of lemon juice or nice vinegar lielps it to harden. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Eggs whites of two; 

Sugar (powdered) one-half cup; 

Cho3olate one square or six tablespoonfuls; 

Vanilla one teaspoonful. 

Melt over the fire, the choc )late and sugar in two tablesjDoon- 
fuls of water. Wlien smooth add the egg. 

Frosting (No. 5), 
For the white of ons egg, add teaspoonful of lemon juice and 
one teaspoonful of powdere 1 sugar. Beat thoroughly, then add 
another teaspoonful of sugar, and so on till the frosting is thick 
enough to cut with a knife and leave its mark. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 117 



Chapter XI I.— PRESERVES. 

Preserves. 

Jellies should be made from the juice (only) of fruits. Equal 
quantities of juice and sugar, heated separately, and then boiled 
together hard and ceaselessly for twenty minutes, is a good general 
rule. Jam is made from the juice and pulp of fruit— all that can 
be squeezed through a sieve. Equal quantities of pulp and sugar 
boiled together till quite tlu'ck. It must be stirred constantly. Ti-y 
it on the ice to judge when it is thick enough. 

Canned preserves require about two cups of sugar to a cup of 
water. Boil the syrup by itself, adding a cup of water once or 
twice as it boils away. Skim it carefully. Add the fruit and boil 
till tender. The cans should be filled with boiling Iwt preserve, 
entii-ely full, and closed immediately, air-tight. Lay the cans on 
the side and if they are not tight they will probably leak. 

Glasses for jellies and preserve^s should be immersed in hot 
water before filling. 

A silver spoon or forlv put into a glass will draw the heat from 
the hot liquid and present the glass from breaking. Setting the 
glasses upon a wet towel will serve the same puipose. 

duince Preserve. 

Of nice orange quinces take equal quantities of fruit and sugar. 

Peel the quinces and cut into quarters or eighths. 

Boil them, in water enough to cover them, till they are tender. 
Take them out one by one and lay them upon a platter. 

Make a syrup of the water and sugar by boiling them together, 
skimming if necessary. Return the cjuince to the preserving ket- 
tle and boil all three-quarters of an hour longer. Put into a stone 
jar, spread a brandied paper over the preserve and co^•er close- 
Tie a piece of wrapping paper over the cover of the jar. 

Brandied Peaches. 
Lay the peaches for a few moments in a kettle of Doiling water. 
Then they may be held in a dry towel and peeled off smoothly. 



118 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Make a syrup in the proportion of one-lialf pound of sugar to 
one pound of fruit. Boil a few minutes. 

Put the fruit in jars and pour over them equal parts of the syrup 
and white brandy. —Mrs. Harris. 

Rhubarb Jelly. 

Cut up the rhubarb without peeling. Stmm it till very soft. 
Then lay it on a hair sieve to drain over night till all the juice is 
out. It may be pressed a little at last. 

To a pint of juice allow a scant pound of sugar. 

Boil the juice, and skim. Heat tlie sugar in tlie oven while the 
juice is boiling. Add the hot sugar to the juice, and boil till it 
forms jelly when tried. 

This looks and tastes like giiara jelly, and keeps well. 



Delicious Apple Sauce. 

Place a layer of peeled and (Quartered apples in a bean pot; 
sprinkle a little sugar over them; then put in another layer of 
a]>ples which sweeten as before; continue till the pot is about two- 
tliirds full. 

Cover tightly and l^ake three or four hours. Put no water in 
them, but do not let them bake diy. Take them from the oven 
while moist and juicy, and do not alhnv them to Ijake too fast. 

Tasteless, insipid apples become in this manner rich in color 
and flavor. 

Sunday Apple Sauce. 

Core and 1)ake, tilling the holes with sugar, seven or eight 
apples. 

Wlien veiy soft strain them into a small pudding dish. Grate 
in the rind of a lemon, and spread over the top the white of an egg- 
beaten to a stiff frost and mixed with half a cup of powdered sugar. 
Brown slightly. 

To be eaten cold. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 119 



Cranberry Sauce. 

Wash and pick over the craiibenies ftirefiilly; cover the bottom 
of a porcelain-Hned kettle Avith water, put in the l)erries Avith two- 
thirds tlie quantity of sugar. Poiu* over them a teacu])ful more of 
water and boil slowly till every ben-y is l)r()ken. 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Follow dii-ections for Cranbeny Sauce. 

This or the preceding rule will make a good filling for pies. 



120 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter XilL— CANDY. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 1). 

Wattu- three-quarter cuj); Sngur three cups. 

Boil ten minutes Avithout stirring. Just before taking from the 
fii-e add one and one-half cups of cocoanut and a little cream of 
tartar. 

Beat until cold. Spread over buttered paper. 

— Miss Clifford. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 2.) 

Sugar two cupfuls; Water one-third of a cup; 

Lemon or vanilla . . . one teaspoonful, (more, if desired. ) 
Boil the water and sugar less than five minutes, till it is 
stringy. When ct)ld beat with a fork till it has a creamy appear- 
ance. Flavor with lemon or vanilla and stir in cocoanut till it is 
thick enough. Pour into a platter to liarden.— M. F. Shillauer. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 1.) 

Sugar one cup; Molasses one cujj; 

Milk one-quarter cup; Butter o)ie tablespoonful; 

Chocolate. . .six tablespoonfuls; Vanilla two teaspoonfuls. 

Boil tlie sugai- and molasses together ft)r fifteen minutes, add 
the chocolate, butter and milk and boil fifteen minutes more. Try 
in cold water. When it ^vill harden take it fiom the fire. Add the 
flavoring and pour into a buttered platter. 

Mark off into squares before it is quite cold. 

— M. F. SniliLABER. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 2). 

Sugar one cu}); Butter one-half cup; 

Molasses one cup; Chocolate, .(me-quarter pound. 

Boil from thirty to forty minutes or until brittle, when put in 
water. Flavor with vanilla. — Miss Smith. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



121 



Cream Peppermint Candy. 

GraiiTilated sugar tlii-ee cups ; 

Hot water one ciip; 

Cream of tartar one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Mix these, and put them upon the fire. Boil hard ten minutes. 
Do not stir it till you take it from the fire. Then drop eight or ten 
th-ops of oil of peppemient into it. Heat it until it creams and will 
drop on paper. -^ii«s Smith. 

Lemon Candy. 

Sugar two cups; 

Water one cup; 

Vinegar tln-ee-quarters cup; 

Butter oi^^' tablespoonful; 

Essence of lemon one teaspoonful. 

Boil the sugar, water and vinegar together. Put in the butter 
when nearly done, and the lemon after it is taken from the fire. 
Tiy in a cup of water, when it will harden ; turn into a well-gi-eased 
platter. When nearly cool, mark off into squares. 



-M. F. SHILIiABER. 



Hoarhound Candy. 



Hoarhound tea (strong) one cup; 

Sugar two pounds; 

Water one-half cup; 

Cream of tartar one-cpiarter teaspoonful. 

Dissolve all together. Boil hard. Turn upon a plate thin. 
Cut while hot. 

French Candies. 

A 1 confectioner's sugar must be used in making these candies. 
It must be rolled and sifted. 

Place the whites of two eggs in a tumbler, and mark the 
amount. Pour this into a dish and add the same of cold water, 
and a scant teaspoonful of vanilla. Stii- these well together, and 
have ready about two pounds of the sugai-; add this slowly, stimng 



122 A XEW DAILY FOOD. 



with a silver spoon. A little more or less sugar must be used ac- 
cording to the size of the eggs. 

Have ready, 

Cocoanut, grated one; 

English walnuts, shelled one-half pound; 

Almonds, shelled one-lialf pound; 

Dates, stoned one-half pound. 

Take a part of the mixture on to the bread-board and knead a 
little more sugar into it, then roll it out half an inch thick. 

Cut off small i)ieces mth a silver knife, and shape with tlie 
hands into balls; set this aside to harden for cliocolate drops. 

Cut off other pieces, and shaping tliem with the hands place 
halves of the walnuts on each side. 

Eoll the almonds in pieces of the dough, and then in gTanu- 
lated sugar, shaping them nicely. 

Stone the dates and fill the opening with the dough, then roll 
in granulated sugar. 

Place some more of the dough upon the board and knead into 
it as much cocoanut as it will hold, then roll and cut into squares. 
The broken pieces of nuts may be chopped and mixed with the co- 
coanut, and moulded into the dough and cut into squares. 

Melt lialf a cake of Baker's chocolate on the back of the 
stove — do not let it boil. Drop the balls which were reserved at 
first into this, dip them out witli a silver fork and place them on a 
paper to harden. 

This makes delicious candy. —Mrs. W. H. Sawyer. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 125 



Chapter XIV.— MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cream Toast. 

Milk one pint; Butter one half cup; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; Flour one tablespoonful. 

Boil the milk, add the flour, smoothed in a little cold milk. 
Stir it until it thickens. Add the butter, stu^ it until it melts; add 
the salt. Dip slices of nicely browned toast, one by one, into this 
cream. When they are well soaked put them into a dish, pour the 
cream over them, cover and serve hot. 

Water Toast. 

Boiling water one )nnt; Butter one cup; 

Floui- one tablespoonful; Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Smooth the flour in cold water, stir it into the boUng water 
till it thickens. Add the butter, stirring till it is melted; then the 
salt and pour over the toast. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

Boiled Biscuit. 

Soak half a dozen nice fresh pilot biscuit in wate^ a little 
salted, over night. In the morning steam them in a perforated 
steamer till thoroughly heated through. 

Stir two-thirds of a cup of butter into them till it is melted J 
salt to taste and serve hot. 

Noodles. 

Add gradually to two or three eggs (not beaten), sufficient 
flom- to make a very stiff batter. When too stiff to stir with a 
spoon, mould Avith the hands. 

Cut the dough in two. If there are any small holes in it 
mould it still longer until it is entirely smooth. 

Eoll out vei-y thin, and leave the paste on the moulding-board 
till perfectly dry, or it may be spread ux3on a clean cloth to dry. 

When dry, cut into narrow strips. These requii*e about five 
minutes to boil, and are excellent to thicken soups, or may be 
boiled in salted water to eat with meat, when squares of fried bread 
may be spread over the top, after they are put in the dish in which 
they ai-e to be served. 



124 



A NEW DAILY FOOD- 



Boston Baked Beans 

Dried pea beans one quart ; 

Salt pork one pound; 

Granulated sugar or molasses. ... .two tablespoonfuls; 
Salt and pepper 

Put on the beans in plenty of cold water and let them come to 
a boil. Parboil until the skins "wrinkle, " changing the water two 
or three times. 

Drain and wash thoroughly. 

Put in a deep "Boston bean pot," and lay the pork, scored, over 
the top. Put in sugar and salt, and pour o^ er them boiling water 
enough to cover them. 

Bake from eight to twelve hours, keeping a cover over the top 
until an hour before serving. Add more boiling water once ©r 
twice. To serve, remove the jiork first, then pour out the beans. 
Do not dip out with a spoon. 



Split Peas (Boiled). 

Wash a cupful of spHt peas. Put them to soak over night in 
twice the quantity of water that will cover them. In the morning 
boil them till they are soft and the water is nearly boiled away. 
Season with salt and melt a tablesi3oonful of butter in them. 
Turn into a mould wet with cold water. When cold, it can be 
turned out into a i)latter and cut into slices like cheese. 

Instead of the butter, a slice of pork may be boiled with the 
peas, if pork is liked. 

French Toast. 

Soak slices of bread, with the crusts trimmed off", in a batter 
made of two eggs and half a pint of milk, then fry in a buttered 
frying-pan. 

This may be eaten for dessert with a sauce made as follows: 
Two eggs and a cup of powdered sugar beaten to a froth. Just 
before sei-ving, add nearly a cup of boiling milk and flavor with 
vanilla. This is a good sauce for any pudding, and easily made. 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 125 



Welsh Rarebit (No. 1.) 

• Cheese one cupful; 

Butter one large tablespooiiful; 

Milk or cream two or three teaspoonfuls; 

Egg one; 

Pep])er 

Salt 

Mustard 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cheese cut small, then 
the milk or cream. Stir often till the cheese is melted. Add the 
beaten egg and seasoning. 

Pour on to some sHces of buttered toast in a hot dish. Serve 
hot. — Mrs. Oliver. 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 2). 

Select the richest and best American cheese, the milder it is 
the better, as melting it brings out the strength. To make five 
rarebits, take one pound of cheese. Grate it, and in\t it into a por- 
celain-lined saucepan. Add ale enough to thin the cheese suffi- 
ciently, say about a wineglassful to each rarebit. Sth until all 
is melted. Have ready a slice of toast, A\ith the crust trimmed off, 
for eacli rarebit. Put a slice on each plate, pour over each slice 
the melted cheese, and serve hot. A poached egg may be carefully 
placed on the tojj of each rarebit. —Mrs. Krahnstover. 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 3). 

Cheese one pound; Milk one cup; 

Mustard. . one-haK teaspoonful; Butter one lump; 

Egg one; Pepper and salt to taste. 

Heat the butter, milk, and mustard through. Add the pepper 
and salt. Grate or cut into small pieces the cheese, and stir it into 
the heated milk. When melted, sth in the egg. Let it boil up, 
and ixiur over small pieces of toast. Serve hot. 

Lemonade. 

To every doz-en lemons put half a dozen oranges. Sweeten to 
tiiste. —Mrs. Jones. 



126 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cheese Kelish. 

Commou crackers two and one-half, rolled fine; 

Grated cheese three tablespoontuls; 

Milk one cup. 

Heat milk in a saucepan ; add the other ingTetlients ; then 
a small piece of 1 )utter. Pepper and salt to taste. Should be served 
at once. — Mrs. Oliver. 

liiver Pudding. 

Beef liver one pound; Bread one pound; 

Suet one cup; Almonds (bitter) six; 

Almonds (sweet) six; Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the liver and suet, carefully removing the fibre and skin. 
Pour boiling water over the bread. When thoroughly moistened, 
squeeze out the water. Remove the skins from the ahuonds, and 
<;ut them in slices. Add the pepper and salt, and beat all together 
into a smooth paste. Bake in a well-})uttered dish an hour and a 
half. —Mrs. C. Golderman. 

Hominy Cakes. 

Hominy one pint; Eggs two; 

Salt aUttle. 

Boil the hominy three hours in a double kettle. When cool, 
mix with the well beaten eggs. Floiu- the hands thoroughly, and 
roll the hominy into balls and fry in hot lard. 

—Mrs. Horace C. Fardon. 

Claret Cup. 

This is something delightful for cultivated palates. 

Take one bottle of claret (not twenty-five cent claret), the rind 
of half a lemon, a few cloves, half a stick of cinnamon, and sufficient 
sugar to sweeten. (Do not make it too sweet). 

Let it just boil in an agate-ware saucepan. 

Tlien take one pint of cream, and the yolks of two fresh-laid 
•eggs, and beat them to a froth. 0%er this pour the boiling claret 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 127 



very gently, continuing the beating. Stir for ten minutes so that 
it may not curdle. Remove the clo^ es, cinnamon and lemon peel, 
pour into a claret jug, and serve while warm. 

After a dance, this, if properly made, is nectar itself. 

—Mrs. Krahnstover. 

Scotch Panada. 

Soda biscuit six; Sugar two teaspoonfuls; 

Salt a pinch; Nutmeg a little. 

Scatter a little sugar and a gi-ain of salt over each cracker. 
Cover A\-itli boiling water and gTate the netnieg over all. Cover the 
dish and let it stand in a wann place till the crackers are slightly 
soaked. This is nice for an invalid. — An Old Nurse. 

Beef Tea 

Have the l)eef chopped very fine; co^er it with cold water and 
let it stand for an hour and a half. Tlien set it u^jon the back of 
the range and let it simmer till the juice of the meat is all extracted. 

Skim off all the fat and season. — A Physician. 

A good Brine for E utter. 

"Water two quarts; Clean white salt one quart; 

Wliite sugar one pound; Saltpetre one teaspoon. 

Mix. When it has stood an hour, strain tlu-ough a flannel cloth 
and poiu" over the butter. Less salt may l)e enough but as much 
should l>e used as the water will take up. — Mrs. Oliver. 

To Renovate Black Kid Gloves or French Kid Boots. 
Stir a few drops of ink and sweet oil together, and apply the 
mixture to any spots that are rubbed or white. 

To Wash Blankets. 

Dissolve a bar of soap in hot water. Put this into a tub of 
luke warm water, throw into the water a large handful of borax. 

Soak the blankets in this over night. Rinse in three clean 
w^aters. 



128 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Do not wiiug them out, but let two persons take liold of eitlier 
end and sbake them thoroughly. 

If there be any soiled spots a thread should be sewed around 
them, as they cannot be distinguished when wet. A little soap 
may be rubbed upon these spots. 

Turn them once in a while as they hang upon the line. Take 
a good drying season for washing bed clothing. 

To Clean Combs and Brushes. 

Immerse them in water in which a little ammonia or a little 
borax has been put. Shake them thoroughly and diy as quickly 
as possible. 



ADDENDA. 

Sabylon Pudding. 

Eggs, yolks only ten; 

Sugar eighteen teaspoonfnls; 

Marsala wine eighteen half egg-sheUfuls. 

Mix; boil until thick, stirring constantly. Serve cold in little 
cups. 

Orange Cake. 

Butter one-half cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Eggs fo^^i'; 

Milk one-half cup; 

j^lour two cups; 

goda one teaspoonful; 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful. 

Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately, reserving the whites 
of two for frosting. Bake in layers. Fill with orange tilling, for 
which see rule. —Mrs. Harris. 



s.^Ah 



^ 



'^ 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



REED & BARTON, 



MANUFACTURERS OF FINE 

\^\\t ^jjare and J aiirg |)a0d 



IN GOLD AND SILVER PLATE. 



37 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK. 

SIDWELL, S. RANDALL, 

ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR, AND NOTARY PUBLIC. 

Kesifience, 1323 Franklin Avenne. 



DAVIS COLLAMORE. 



S. D. BONFILS 



ESTABLISHED, 1842. 



DAVIS COLLAMORE & CO, 

IMPORTERS 

POECELAIN :-: POTTEEY :-: GLASS 
ART GOODS. 



NEW YORK : 
921 BROADWAY, Cor. 21st ST., and 151 FIFTH AVE. OONNECTIMG. 



ADVEETISEMENTS. 



IBXJ'S' 



YOUR GROCERIES FROM 

HORSTJVTA^JNriNr, 

Late H. F. FISCHER, 

FOURTH AVE., Cor. 172d St., TREMONT, N. Y 

CENTENNIAL MARKET. 

I>EALEB IN 

Beef, Veal, Mutton and Poultry. 

The ('hoicest Meats Always on Hand. 

177th ST. and R. R. AVE., opp. R. R. Station. TREMONT. 

JACOB SCHAPPERT, 

DEALER IN CHOICE 

BEEF, VEAL, MUTTON, LAMB, POHK, ETC. 

Game and Poultry in Season. 

Cor. THIRD AVENUE and i69th STREET. 



a. C. GRUr^THAL, 

DEALER IN 

FAMILY GROCERIES: 

Teas, Coffees, Sugars, Spires, 

Fruits, Vegetables, Canned 

Goods, Etc., Etc. 

Cor. 170th ST. and N. 3d AVE. 



PAULSEN & WALTEK 

Receive their 

Gilt Edge CreameryButter 

Direct from the Creamery. 

Try It. 
We Make a Specialty of it. 

Cor. 177th ST. and 4th AVE. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



1095 NORTH THIRD AVENUE, 
Bet. i66th &. 167th Sts., MORRISANIA, N. Y. 



LOUIS EIOKIVOKT 

German Pharmacist, 

712 TREMONT AVE., 



Bet. Washington & B. R. Aves., 
TREMONT, N. 7. CITY. 

SAILE & GREEN, 

Successors to C. J. ALLEN, 
1225 FRANKLIN AVENUE 

Cor. 168th Street, 
Deutsche Apoth<:ke, 

American Pharmacy. 

ALLEN'S FEVER AND AGUE 
PILLS. 



JOHN A. YORK. WM. H. SWIFT. 

YORK & SWIFT, 

lURNISaiNG 

NORTH THIRD AVF., 
Cor. 145th St., New York. 



M. E. MONAGHAN, 

Chemist ani Druggist, 

Cor. lera Street aaiSflAveHe, 

Morrii^ania, N. Y. 



RICHARD DAMM, 

HOME-MADE 

Bread, Cake and Pie 

BAKERY, 

1319 N. THIRD AVENUE, 

Bet. 169tli and 170th StB. 



WM. EPPINGER &SON, 

Tinsinitlis and Boofers, 

Stoves and Ranges For Sale. 
1311 N. THIRD AVE., 

Bet. 169th and 170th Sts. 
Stoves and Ranges put up at short notic. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



JOHN ESCH, 

Bet. 169th and 170th Streets, 

One block eait of Boston Road, 

MORRISANIA. 



A. ERDENBRECHER, 

AND 

ICB CHBAM5 

1123 N. Third Ave., 
Bet. 166th and 167th Sts , NEW YORK. 



HENRY J. METZ, 

florist* 

Washington Avenne and 170th St., 

— AND— 

125th Street and 116th Street. 
Floral Work a Specialty. 



"A New Daily Food." 



PRICE, 75 CENTS. 



BEDELL & BRO., Publishers, 
1809 N. 3d Ave., N. Y. 



J REINKEN 



Dealer in 



-FINE - 

167th Street, 

Corner Washington Avenue. 



C. H. SCHNAUFER 

Dealer in 



Beef Veal, Lamb, Mutton, 

PORK AND SAUSAGES, 

Garne and Poultry in Season. 

Cor. 3d Av. and t67lh St. 

Patronage Solicited. 

Satisfaction Guaranteed. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 

KETOHAM &L MOFFAT, 

DEALERS IN FINE 

68 WEST 125th STREET, NEW YORK. 

GEO. E. KETCHAM, JR. Orders hy Mail receive prompt atten- 

ANDREW MOFFAT. ^*'^^- -^^^ 9oods delivered 

Late with Acker, Merrall & Condit. promptly. 

Geo. E. Charles & Co., 

GROCERS AND FRUITERERS, 

43cl St. & Vanderbilt Av,, op. Grand Central Depot. 

Suburban Orders Called for and Delivered Free oj Charge. 

Dealer in Thurber's Reliable Food Products, Canned Goods, Teas, 

Coffees and ISpices. Fine Butter a Specialty. 

1294 WASHINGTON AVE., cor. 169th St., Morrisania. 

— DEALIK IN— 

FOURTH AVE, COR. 175th ST., 

TREMONT, N. Y. 

A7vxa:iTE3 cfc 00., 

DEALERS IN 

C.0A1 ^ ANB «- WOUB, 

FLOUR, HAY, GRAIN AND FEED. 
BKOOK AVENUE, bet. I62d and I (5i3d 8TKI:ETS. 

C. F. WHITE. J. LTNA. 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



SCHUSINCERLIBRAIIV 



RS niR R 



d 







RADCLIFFE COLLEGE LIBRARYI 



WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

1960 





M 


WM 


W^ 


^^S 



















J^arfaart (ffollege liirara 

^RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 
1X926 ^ 



Digitized by 



Goo^ 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 




ST. PAUL'S CHURCH. 



Pen and ink sketch by J. H. Gratacap. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW 

DAILY FOOD 



A COLLECTION OF TRIED AND RELIABLE RECIPES, 

BROUGHT FORTH FROM THE STORE HOUSE 

OF THINGS NEW AND OLD, 



BY THE 



Ladies of St. Paul's Church, 

MORRISANIA, NEW YORK. 



EDITED AND COMPILED BY 

LYDIA SHILLABER. 



*The tumi>ike road to peojrfe's hearts I find 
Is throusfh their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 



NEW YORK. 

PRESS OF BEDELL & BROTHER. 

1885. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Ti$Uit2$.ss.i 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 

MRS. CHESTER H. GREENOUGH 

lEPTEMBER 20, 1926 



Copyrighted 1885. 






Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



INDEX. 



Chapter L— BREAD. 

Biscuit 20 

Boston Brown Bread (steamed) No. i 25 

Boston Brown Bread (steamed) No. 2 25 

Brown Bread No. 3 25 

Breakfast Gems 23 

Chester Muffins 23 

Corn Muffins 24 

Com Bread 26 

Cream Muffins 22 

Directions regarding bread '. 17 

Dora's Steamed Brown Bread 26 

English Muffins 23 

Flannel Cakes ai 

German Puffs 22 

(rraham Bread 19 

Graham Gems 21 

Graham Muffins 24 

Home Brewed Yeast (No, 2) 18 

Lottie's Baked Brown Bread 25 

Muffins 22 

Pop-overs 21 

Potato Yeast (No. i) 17 

Potato Yeast (No. 3) i8 

Rice Gems 23 

Rolls 19 

Rye Muffins 22 

Short Cakes 20 

Squash Cakes 24 

Tea Biscuit 20 

Waffles 21 

White Bread 18 

White Raised Muffins 24 

Chapter H.— SOUPS. 

Clam Soup. 2^ 

Cream of Rice Soup 28. 

Ham or Pea Soup 28 

Lobster Soup 29 

Mock Bisque Soup 29 

Pea Soup 28 

Potato Soup 27 

Potato Soup (Western style) 28 

Tomato Soup (No. i) 27 

Tomato Soup (No. 2) 20, 

Chapter IH.— FISH AND OYSTERS. 

Baked Fish 30 

Baked Blue Fish 30 

Broiled Fish, or Scrod 31 

Clam Chowder 34 

Deviled Oysters 33 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Escaloped Oysters 35 

Fancy Roast 33 

Fish Chowder 32 

Fricassee of Oysters 34 

Fried Oysters 33 

Lobster Croquettes 35 

Pickled Fish 31 

Potted Shad 32 

Potted Mackerel 32 

Scalloped Oysters 33 

Shrimps en Coquille 36 

Stewed Lobster 35 

Stewed Oysters » 32 

Stuffed Clams 35 

To Boil Fish 30 

To Fry Fish 31 

To Pot Shrimps 36 

Chapter IV. —MEAT. 

Baked Meat Pie 38 

Beef Steak 38 

Beef Jelly with Cream 41 

Boiled Flank of Beef 39 

Braised Beef 40 

Breakfast Meat Cakes 46 

Cauliflower Sauce .^. 52 

Calf's Liver and Bacon 45 

Celery Sauce for Turkey 51 

Chickens Fried in Batter 50 

Chicken Croquettes 49 

Chicken Souffle 49 

Chipped Beef 39 

Drawn Butter 50 

French Stew 39 

Fried Tripe 45 

Gravy. 50 

Gravy for Fowl 51 

Haricot of Mutton or Lamb 43 

Horseradish Sauce (No. 1) 52 

Horseradish Sauce (No. 2) i 52 

Hashed Veal or Hashed Turkey 45 

Jellied Tongue 42 

Lamb Cutlets (Baked) 43 

Made Mustard S3 

Meat Cakes 47 

Meat Pates ; 46 

Mint Sauce for Spring Lamb 53 

Mock Duck , 40 

Mutton Chops 44 

Mutton Stew 43 

Oyster Sauce for Poultry 51 

Pickled Sheep's Tongue 47 

Poultry 47 

Pot Pie '. 38 

Pressed Beef 40 

Quail 50 

Ragout of Cold Roasted or Boiled Mutton 45 

Roast Beef —Second Day , 41 

Roast Meat 37 

Salt Pork Fried in Bat ti r 46 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD 



Sauer Brouten 41 

Sausages 46 

Steamed Turkey 48 

Stewed Leg of Mutton 43 

Stuffing for Fowl (No. i) 48 

Stuffing for Fowl (No. 2) 48 

To Boil Meat 37 

To Cook a Ham 42 

Veal Fricassee 44 

Veal Loaf 44 

Veal Steaks or Cutlets 44 

Chapteb v. -salads AND PICKLES. 

Chili Sauce 6 j 

Chow-chow (No. i) 59 

Chow chow (No. 2) 60 

Cucumber Pickler 58 

Cucumber Pickles , 58 

German Herring Salad 55 

Lobster Salad 54 

Louise's Tomato Catsup 58 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. i) 55 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 2) 56 

Mayonnaise Dressing (No. 3) 56 

Mustard Pickles 60 

Pickled Beans 59 

Pickled Cucumbers 59 

Pickled Peaches 61 

Pickled Pears 61 

Pickled Oysters (No. i) 61 

Pickled Oysters (No. 2) 62 

Plum Pickles , 61 

Sauce for Lobster 54 

Simple Potato Salad 54 

Tomato Salad 54 

I'omato Catsup 56 

Tomato Catsup 57 

Tomato Catsup 57 

Chapter VI. -VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus 65 

^paragus Omelet 69 

Baked Macaroni 69 

Baked and Stuffed Tomatoes 66 

Baked Cabbage 68 

Broiled Tomatoes 67 

Delmonico Fries 64 

Duchess Potatoes 63 

Fried Tomatoes 66 

Fresh Mushrooms 70 

Green Com .~. . 65 

Green Corn Pudding 70 

Ladies CaLbage 68 

Onions 68 

Peas 65 

PoUtoes (Boiled) 63 

Poutoes (Steamed) 63 

Pouto Balls 63 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Potato Puff 64 

Potato Souffle 64 

Puff Tomato Omelet 69 

Potato Croquettes 64 

Rice (as a vegetable) 67 

Saratoga Potatoes 64 

Scalloped Tomatoes 66 

Shelled Beans 66 

Spagetthi 69 

Spinach i 67 

Stewed Mushrooms 70 

Stewed Potatoes 65 

String Beans 65 

Winter Squash 67 

Yorkshire Pudding with Roast Beef 68 

Yorkshire Pudding (No, 2) 69 

Chapter VH— EGGS. 

Dropped < 71 

Omelet (No. 1) 71 

Omelet (No. 2) 72 

Poached Eggs 71 

Puff Omelet : 72 

Ohapteb vnL— desserts. 

Baked Custard 74 

Brunswick Cream 74 

Charlotte Russe (No. i) 75 

Charlotte Russe (No. 2) 75 

Cider Jelly 76 

Custard Souffle 74 

Delicate Dessert 75 

Frozen Pudding 74 

Ice Cream 77 

Italian Cream 73 

Orange Ice 77 

Orange Jelly 76 

Orange Jelly 76 

RaspDeny Sherbet 78 

Steamed Custard 73 

Steamed Sweet Apples 78 

To Serve a Watermelon 78 

To Serve Orange Jelly 77 

To Beat the Whites of Eggs 73 

Water Ice 78 

Wine Jelly , 76 

Chapter IX.— PUDDINGS. 

Banana Pudding 84 

Bread Pudding .• 80 

Bread Pudding 82 

Bun Pudding 8i 

Chocolate Pudding 86 

Cocoanut Pudding 84 

Cracker Pudding 81 

Creamy Sauce 89 

Danish Pudding 87 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Delicate Bread Pudding 82 

English Plum Pudding 79 

Foaming Sauce 89 

German Pudding 88 

Grandma's J.'sPlum Pudding 81 

Hard Sauce 89 

Indian Pudding (No. i) 83 

Indian Pudding (No. 2) 83 

King George's Pudding with Sauce 79 

Lemon Pudding 85 

Lemon Rice Pudding 86 

Molasses Sauce 89 

Old-Fashioned Bread Pudding 80 

Orange Pudding 84 

Prune Pudding 85 

Rice Pudding 84 

Saratoga Pudding 87 

Simple Suet Pudding 79 

Snow Pudding (No. i) 88 

Snow Pudding (No. 2) 88 

Strawberry Pudding 85 

Swedish Honeycomb Pudding 81 

Sauce 82 

Tapioca Cream 87 

Tipsy Parson Pudding 86 



Chaptkr X.— pies. 

Apple Pie 93 

Cocoanut Pie 93 

Cranberry Pie 94 

Gooseberry Pie 93 

Lemon Pie (No. 1) ; 95 

Lemon Pie (No. 2) 95 

Mince Meat (No. i) 91 

Mince Meat (No. 2) 92 

Mince Meat (No. 3) 92 

Pie Crust (No. i) 90 

Pie Crust (No. 2) 90 

Puflf Paste 90 

Raisin Pie 04 

Rhubarb Pie ^4 

Squash Pie 94 



Chaptbb XI.— cake. 

Almond Cake ' 104 

Angel's Food, or, White Sponge Cake 106 

Apple Fruit Cake.. 98 

Barnard Cake 1x2 

Berwick Sponge Cake 104 

Blueberry Cake 109 

Boston Cookies 113 

Bride Cake 105 

Chocolate Cake loa 

Chocolate Filling no 

Chocolate Frosting 116 

Chocolate Layer Cake 109 

Chocolate Marble Cake 103 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cle\*cl3Lr)ti Fruit Cakt 98 

Corn Starch Cake n , lOO 

Cofn Starch Cake.... 104 

Cream Cakes 108 

Cream Layer Cake. 107 

Crtram Pie (No, i) 107 

Cream Pie (No. s).,* 107 

Cup Cake ,* 99 

Directions regardjng Csike 96 

Doughnuts . . . .^1 . ^ 115 

EnKJish Cheese Cakes. 108 

FJIIinF for Layer Cake no 

FrenJn CaJ%e .- 99 

FroKtiag. 115 

Frosling: {No. ;})..,»,, 116 

Frosting (No. s^,-.- — 116 

Fruit Cak^ [Xo, !)-.►►*. 97 

Gelatine Frosling 115 

Ging^erbread..*^.*^...* 114 

Ginger Snaps (No. 1}, 114 

Ginger Snaps iNo, 2) 114 

Hard Su^ar Gitififcrbread 114 

Harlequin C'aku loi 

Jelly Roll 105 

JumblcR ^^. 113 

Ljemon Jelly.. ^-,. , .► loi 

Mola^sc^ Cake , 115 

New Vears' Cakes..,. in 

< Jrange Cake in 

Oranj^e Cake Filling no 

Orange or Lemoa Filling no 

Orange Short-Cake.. , 112 

Pink Coloring 101 

Plain Cake for Layer Cake ^ no 

Ribbon Cake 105 

Soft Gingerbread 113 

Sour Milk Cake 103 

Spanish Bun 99 

Sponge Cake (No. i) 102 

Sponge Cake (No. 2) 102 

Strawberry Short Cake in 

Sugar Cookies 112 

Sugar Cookies 112 

Wafers 109 

Walnut Cake loi 

Washington Cake 106 

Watermelon Cake 10© 

Wedding Cake 98 

Whigs 103 

White Cake 106 

Chapteb Xn.—PRESEKVES. 

Brandied Peaches 117 

Cranberry Sauce 119 

DeHcious Apple Sauce 118 

Gooseberry Sauce 119 

Preserves 117 

Quince Preserves 117 

Rhubarb Jelly n8 

Sunday Apple Sauce 118 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter Xm. —CANDY. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. i) lao 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 2) lao 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 1) lao 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 2» lao 

Cream Peppermint Candy 121 

French Candies 121 

Hoarhound Candy 121 

Lemon Candy 121 



Chaptbr XIV.-MISCELLANEOUS. 

A Good Brine for Butter 127 

Beef lea 127 

Boiled Biscuit 123 

Boston Baked Beans 124 

Cheese Relish 126 

Claret Cup 126 

Cream Toast 123 

French Toast 124 

Hominy Cakes 126 

Lemonade 125 

Liver Pudding 126 

Noodles ; 123 

Scotch Panada.. : 127 

Split Peas (Boiled) 124 

To renovate Black Kid Gloves or French Kid Boots 127 

To Wash Blankets 127 

To Clean Combs and Brushes 128 

Water Toast '. 123 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 1) 125 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 2) 125 

Welsh Rarebit (N©. 3) 125 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ERRATA. 



Page 33.— English Muffins should contain "Yeast Cake» one- 
quarter of one." 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



PREFACE. 

The Editor deems it nuueoessary to offer any apology for the 
title of this book. 

Should the purchaser be disappointed to find that it is not 
strictly a religious work, we hope that he will be consoled by 
discorering that it tends in tliat direction. 

Body and soul are mutuaUy dependent upon each other, for 
health and perfect development. 

It is physically impossible for a dyspeptic to be a cheerful 
Christian and to ** serve the Lord with ghuiness," and many a pious 
man has mourned becaune he thought himself enveloped in 
spiritual clouds, when he was only suffering from indigestion 

The members of Tlie Ladies' Society think it fitting to supple- 
ment the efforts of their rector, who labors so assiduously to bring 
the Church to a healthy spiritual growth, by work which is pro- 
perly in their sphere, namely, dii'ecting attention to the nourishing 
of their physical nature and furnishing aid to that end, that their 
bodies may also be presented as an acceptable sacrifice, which is 
their * * reasonable service. " 

L. S. 
MoBBisANiA, Feb., 1885. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



12 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



MRS. FAfiTINSTOM ENDORSES THE NEW DAM FOOD. 

•*Well, well," said Mrs. Partington, her spectacles beaming 
with delight, as she turned over the leaves of the new cook-book, 
** I declare it excites my salvation glands even to read the tities of 
the good tilings here signed and receipted for. It seems as thongh 
the greatest epicac might find something among these meats and 
cosmetics to give a jest to appetite." 

She read on with increasing interest, and it was a pleasure to 
watch the emotions expressed on her face, that, like a sensitive 
photographic plate, revealeil her reflections. 

•' The good Lord sends vittles," she continued, ** and His in- 
tentions should be carried out in the cookin' of 'em, though some 
seem to think it's enough to throw them together anyhow and leave 
'em to cook themselves. 

'* Ah 1 many a fair home has been desict^-ted by poor cooking, 
and a man's table has been the rock ahead on which his happiness 
has BDlit. A liard rock too, sometimes, with bread and pastry you 
could throw through a stone wall and not hurt it. If a man's as 
pious as Beelezebub his stomach can't stand everything. 

*' Now a book like this will come into a house like a dessert in 
an O Ices, and be a quarantine of perpetual peacp. 

** Better is a stolid ox, and contention therewith, tlian 

'* Isaac, dear, if you are so glutinous that mince-pie will stick 
in your sarcophagus and kill you within an inch of your life ! " 

'* It can't stick long," said Ike, as plainly as he could articulate 
with his mouth full. 

** Why can't it, if you swallow it so fast ? " asked Mi*s. P . 

** 'Cause it's a turnover! " said Ike jocosely. 

Mrs. Partington settled the question by turning over the re- 
mainder of the pie into a clean plate and setting it upon the top 
shelf. But she smiled appreciatively as Ike departed witii a quar- 
ter section of the comestible in his hand, and murmured : 

" He is iiV4^h a fimny boy ! So full of humors ! " 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 13 



I NTRODUCTOR Y. 

** It were easier to show twenty what were good to be done than 
to be one of the twenty to follow my own showing." 

We hope that om* New Daily Food will prove to be of such 
universal value that ** no family should be without it." 

It contains a portion of the united wisdom of many experienced 
housekeepers. Tliough all are too modest to claim any superior 
skill, yet no one who follows a calling for many years can fail to 
make discoveries that are of benefit to the inexperienced. 

We have tried to make our directions so plain that *' she who 
runs may read," remembering that many a young housekeeper 
besides Bella Wilfer has been ready to apostrophize the cookery- 
book from which she was trying in vain to obtain available informa- 
tion, as a *' Stupid old donkey ! " 

Happy the woman who has such well-trained ser\ants that 
she is spared the every-day wear and tear of ner\'e and brain that 
the average housekeeper is subjected to, and who can save the best 
of herself for husband, children and friends. 

But, in the chaotic state of ser^ice in this country, the mistress 
of a house must often be left to the mercy of the utterly raw 
material that is stranded upon our shores to be utilized and edu- 
cated as "help." 

To the misti'ess ignoitmt of household duties, housekeeping is 
a torment and a snare, and the domestic machinery can never run 
smoothly ; while an expert manager with an intelligent knowledge 
of the routine, who can, if occasion requires, illustrate as well as 
explain, may obtain good results from the most unpromising ap- 
pearances. 

To the wise we biing new ideas, to the ignoi'ant knowledge. 

Especially do we aim to assist the house-mother of whom cir- 
cumstances require the daily sacrifice of strength as well as thought, 
and ^ho realizes by tired experience the truism that *' woman's work 
is never done." 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



14 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



To such the following application— made by a lady distin> 
guished in literature, who is also a skilful housekeeper— of one of 
Alice's adventures in the Looking-glass, will seem no absurdity. 

"When Alice was in the Looking-glass world, she was greatly 
surprised, when, in the middle of a conversation with the queen, 
that the lady seized her hand and b^an running rapidly. After 
they had run awhile, Alice perceived that they were in the same 
place, and naturally inquired what it meant Said the queen: * Our 
world revolves so rapidly tliat we have to run like this in order to 
remain in the same place,— when we wish to go anywhere we have 
to run twice as fast.' Thus it is with housekeepers. They are ob- 
liged to maintain a lively run, in order to just stay where tliey are, 
and keep from getting behind-liand ; and when they wish to gain a 
day they must go twice as fast." 

To such busy workers, especially if they be young and unskil- 
ful, we bring practical aid by telling them what others liave learned 
in the dear school of experience, thus saving valuable material and 
more valuable time from being lost in experiment. 

It will encourage them also to remember that no service can be 
menial that is sweetened by love and duty. One can do anything 
for one's own, and the work of the mistress should therefore be 
much better than tliat of the maid ; though even of her lowly tasks 
the good Geo. Herbert says : 

" A servant with this clause 
Makes drudgery divine. 
Who sweeps a room as to Thy laws 
Makes that and the action fine." 

These words have been as '* the shadow of a great rock in a weary 
land " to many a conscientious toiler hard pressed with petty duties. 

Buskin probably never did house-work, yet he describes the 
greatness in littleness of it. 

"Every action—however mean or inconsiderable— is capable of 
a peculiar dignity in the manner of it, and a still higher dignity in 
the motive of it. For there is no action so slight, but it may be 
done to a great purpose, and ennobled therefore. " 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 15 



THIN&S FOR A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER TO KEHEHBER. 

That all experienced housekeepers were onoe beginners, and 
blundered and wasted as you do. 

That a generous, wholesome diet is less expensive than doctors' 
bills, and less trouble than the care of the sick, and no money or 
time spent in furnishing it is wasted. 

That, •* variety is the spice of life," at the table as well as 
elsewhere. Though it may be a saving of trouble to have a regular 
routine for every day in the week, it is exceedingly monotonous. 
Avoid the conventional boarding-house system of announciug the 
day of the week by the odor from the kitchen, the boilt d meat and 
vegetables coming around as regularly as the Thursday, and a 
breakfast of fish-hash and a dinner of chowder being as inevitable 
as the Friday. A dainty surprise vrtll often tempt back a lost or 
wandering appetite 

That there is a limit^ to the labor that can be accomplished by 
one pair of hands: therefore, resolve, that the ** non-essentials" 
only shall be neglected. The daily comfort of the family, and the 
mental and moral training of the children, are of more importance 
than frosted fruit cake for company, or embroidered pillow-shams 
and mantel lambrequins in the guest-chamber. 

That stingy or lazy people never make good cooks. It requires 
plenty of good materials, and much c^re in their preparation to 
accomplish good results in this important department of domestic 
science. 

That many things which are usually thrown away will be found 
*' handy to have in the house.'' Bread, a tnfle stale, will make ex- 
cellent Cream or Water Toast, for which see rule. When not 
wanted for that, it may be dried in a slow oven, and rolled or 
pounded into crumbs. It will then serve for puddings, stuffing, 
or breading meat or oysters. Stale crackers can be made crisp by 
putting them in the oven a few minutes, and can be kept a long 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



16 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



time thus. Drippings.— The skiinming of good roast beef gravy, 
or the remnaDts of the fat of roast beef, melted in the oven and 
strained, and the skimming of soup stock before vegetables are 
added, can be used in place of lard or cooking butter, and are as 
wholesome as either. Cooking butter is one of the littles that 
make tl?e mickle in housekeeping. It should be good and sweet, 
and can be bought much cheaper than the best table-butter, which 
melts away like dew in the sim, if used for all cooking purposes. 

That, while "economy is wealth," and nothing of use should 
be thrown away, it is the worst sort of waste to try, by any artifice 
of cooking or disguise of condiments, to insinuate things unfit to 
be eaten into people's stomachs. It is criminal to impede the deli- 
cate processes of nature by compelling her to do scavenger work. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 17 



A New Daily Food. 



Chapter I.— BREAD. 

Directions B^^arding Bread. 

The first requisite for good bread is good flour ; the second, 
good yeast ; the third, patience. 

The housewife cau, if she wishes, make her own yeast, and will 
find directions for so doing. But good yeast can be easily pro- 
cured in liquid or compressed form, which is perfectly reliable 
when fresh. Any good yeast will make good bread, and if cooks 
complain of having no luck in making bread, it must argue some 
want of pains or of understanding. 

Bread should be made up warm, but the yeast should never 
be scalded, as that would take away its "liveh'ness." 

Good materials, careful mixing, and long kneading will always 
secure good bread. Home-made bread is much more satisfying and 
cheaper than bakers' bread, and one does not tire of it. A cook 
cannot acquire a more valuable accomplishment than that of making 
good bread. It is ' * the staff of life. " 

Potato Yeast (No. 1). 
Pare and cut in several pieces three large, fair potatoes. Boil 
these, having removed all dark specks, in a quart of water, in a 
porcelain-lined or tin saucepan kept for this purpose. When soft, 
put them into a pitcher holding three pints. Add to the water in 
which they were boiled a small pinch of hops, and boil ten minutes. 
<If you add too many hops the water will be too dark-colored.) 
Meanwhile, mash the potatoes with a silver spoon. (An iron 
spoon would blacken them.) Next stir in half a cup of flour, half 
a cup of white sugar and a tablespoonfnl of salt Put the 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



18 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



pitcher upon the hearth or back of the stove, and set a strainer on 
top of it. Strain the hot water as it boils upon the potato. When 
you have poured in a part of the water, stir till the flour is smooth; 
then add the rest Should the mixture seem thick, add a few 
spoonfuls of boiling water— enough to make it like a very thin batter. 

Set it away to cool. When warm to your finger, not hot, add 
half a cup of lively yeast, and put the pitcher in a warm place. It 
will rise rapidly. When it begins to foam stir it once or twice. 
This will make it still lighter. 

One cup will raise a sponge for five or six loaves. Keep the 
pitcher in a cool place covered with a saucer. Never put it into a 
bottle or jug. It will keep sweet two or three weeks. Always save 
half a cupful for raising the yeast the next time. —Mrs. Conemus. 

Home-Brewed Yeast (No. 2). 

Potatoes four ; Flour four tablespoonfuls ; 

Hops one ounce ; Sugar one tablespoonful ; 

Salt one teaspoonf ul ; Yeast one cup> 

or Compressed Yeast one cake. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, and mix with the flour, sugar and 
salt Pour over this two quarts of boiling water ; stir, and put it 
aside to cool. Steep the hop» in a pint of water. When blood- 
warm, mix all the ingredients, and set in a warm place to lise. 
When it begins to work, pour it into a stone jug and cork tightly, 
and keep it in a cool place. For four moderate sized loaves of 
bread one cup of Home-Brewed is sufficient — Mbs. 0. GoiiDERMAN. 

Pctato Yeast (No. 3). 

Potatoes (grated) one cup ; Salt one-half cup ; 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Boil a pinch of hops in a little water and pour over the above. 
Add enough water to make two quarts. Put on the stove until it 
comes to a boil ; then set it away till it is milk-warm, when add one- 
half cup of yeast Set it in a warm place to rise.— Mrs. CijEjiem'. 

White Bread. 
Have ready two quarts of sifted flour; then scald one quart 
of milk ; dissolve in this one tablespoonful of butter or lard, two 
tablespoonfuls of BOgar, and a little salt Dissolve a cake of com- 



' Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 19 



pressed yeast in a little luke-warm water ; add it to the milk when 
partly cooled. Stir this gradually into the flour. Knead twenty 
minutes. Cover with a clean bread towel, and set to rise. If set 
at night, it will be risen in the morning, and should have another 
thorough kneading, and then be put into the pans to rise again. 
This quantity will make two good-sized loaves and a pan of bis- 
cuits. The loaves will require about three-quarters of an hour 
to bake. The biscuits should bake in from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. This bread can be made up witji all or part water 
instead of milk, and is as good as any bread mixed with water. It 
can be sweetened more if desired. 

Graham Bread. 

Graham flour sufficient for the batter; 

White flour four cups ; . Yeast one cup ; 

or Compressed Yeast one-half cake; 

Salt one teaspoonful ; Water (warm) one quart ; 

Indian meal one cup ; Sugar one cup ; 

Soda two teaspoonfuls (scant). 

Make a sponge at night of the water, which must be warm, the 
white flour, yeast and salt. 

In the morning, when the sponge is light, add the Indian meal, 
sugar, and the soda dissolved in a little boiling water. 

Then scatter in gradually as much Graham flour as you can 
possibly stir in smooth, and put the dough in pans to rise. This 
will make two good loaves. It is a good recipe. 

Rolls. 

Milk one quart ; Eggs four ; 

Sugar one tablespoonful ; Butter one-half cup ; 

Compressed Yeast half of a cake ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful ; Soda one-half teaspoonf uL 

Warm the milk sufficiently to melt the butter, add the eggs 
beaten light, enough flour to make a stiff sponge, then the yeast 
dissolved in a little luke-warm water. In the morning add the 
salt, the soda dissolved in a little boilmg water, and as much flour 
as is needed to mould it easily. Boll out and cut into biscuit, and 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



20 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



let them stand for about an hour. They should rise to about twice 
their original size. 

Bake in a quick oren. 

This dough will serve for waffles, muffins or griddle cakes. 

—Mrs, M. B. ArnoijD. 

Biscuit. 

Flour '. one quart ; 

Baking Powder three teaspoonfuls ; 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Sift altogether; add milk enough to moisten. The dough 
should be quite soft. BoU an inch thick; cut into cakes and bake. 
Twenty minutes in quick oven should be sufficient. 

A teaspoonful of shortening may be added to the dry flour. 

Tea Biscuit 

Flour one quart ; 

Baking Powder three and a half teaspoonfuls ; 

Lard. . .one-half tablespoonful ; Butter, one-half tablespoonful ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful ; 

Milk sufficient to moisten the above. 

Sift the yeast powder and flour into a bowL Bub into them 
the butter and lard, add the salt and soften with sweet milk. 

Boll out the dough, cut into cakes and bake in a quick oven 
about ten minutes. —Mrs. ArnoijD. 

Short Cakes. 

Flour one pint ; Salt one-half teaspoonful ; 

Baking Powder two teaspoonfuls ; 

Butter one tablespoonful ; Milk one cup (scant). 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder. Into them rub the 
butter and moisten with the milk. Add sufficient milk to make a 
dough that will handle easily. Pat with a rolling-pin about half 
an inch thick, cut into small cakes and fry in a hot spider or griddle 
until brown. Brown both sides, letting them cook slowly. 

For a dessert, spht them open and spread with fruit and sugar. 

—Mrs. Omver. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY POOD. 21 



Waffles. 

Milk one pint ; Butter, one large tablespoonful; 

Eggs four; Flour one-quarter pound ; 

Yeast» one large tablespoonful ; Salt a little. 

Warm half the milk till it will melt the butter. Beat the eggs 
and mix them with the cold mUk; then stir in the flour, add the 
salt, and mix with the warm milk and butter; add the yeast and set 
in a warm place. 

CJook on 7wt waffle irons. — Mks. Qlivbr. 

Graham Gtoms. 

Graham flour two cups ; 

Sour milk one and two-thirds cnps ; 

Soda one teaspoonf ul ; Molasses one-tablespoonful ; 

Butter one teaspoonful ; Salt a little* 

Dissolye the soda in a portion of the sour milk and melt the 
butter. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Butter one-half cup ; 

Milk (sweet) one and one-half pints ; 

Milk (sour) one and one-half pints ; 

Eggs three ; Soda. two teaspoonfuls. 

Dissolve the soda in a little of the sour milk ; add flour enough 
to make a thick batter. — Mrs. Fobd. 

Pop-overs. 

Milk .two cups ; 

Flour two cups a little heaped ; 

Eggs two ; 

Sugar one tablespoonful, heaped ; 

Butter one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one-quarter of one ; 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonfuL 

Pour the milk upon the flour gradually to avoid lumps. Add 
the eggs well beaten, and melted butter, then the sugar, spice and 
salt Beat very light. 

BaRe in cups or mufl^ pans twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



22 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Bye Mufans. 

Rye flour three cups ; White flour, one and a half cups ; 

Sour milk three cups; Soda one teaspoonful ; 

Sugar , four tablespoonf uls. 

This may be made with sweet milk, when two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar should be added. — Mrs. Omver, 

Cream-Muffins. 

Flour one pint ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; 

Baking powder one and a half teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs two; 

Cream three-quarters cup. 

Mix well together the salt, flour and baking powder. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs thoroughly, to which add the cream. Stir all to- 
gether and add the whites, which must be beaten stiflflast. 
Bake in muffin pans. Serve hot. 

German Puffs. 

Flour three cups ; 

Milk three cups ; 

Eggs three ; 

Butter three teaspoonfuls ; 

Baking powder one-half teaspoonful ; 

Salt one saltspoonful. 

Mix and bake as in directions for pop-overs. — Mrs. Whttb. 

Muffins. 

Flour one quart; 

Baking powder one and a half teaspoonfuls; 

or Soda one-half teaspoonful; 

Cream of tartar .one teaspoonful; 

and Salt one teaspoonful; 

Eggs three or four; 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonf uls; 

Milk enough to make a batter. 

Mix the baking powder (or soda and cream of tartar) dry with 
flour; moisten with the milk, add the eggs and melted butter last. 

— Mrs. Comport. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 23 



English Muffins. 

Milk Dne pint; Flour to make a stiff batter; 

Egg one; Butter one tablespoonful; 

Salt a little. 

Warm the milk, melt the butter in it, mix and let the batter 
rise four or five hours in a warm place or over night in a cool one. 
Bake in muffin ringa —Mrs. W. C. Emeby. 

Chester Muffins. 

Flour four quarts; Sugar one cup; 

Butter one cup; Yeast one cup; 

Eggs ^ four; Salt a Kttle; 

Milk two quarts. 

Mix at night, let it rise till morning, bake in a good oven in 
muffin rings or pans. —Mrs. Stroud. 

Breakfast Gems. 

Flour three cups; 

Milk. two cups; 

Sugar one-quarter cup; 

Egg one; 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls; 

Soda one teaspoonf ul; 

Salt alittle. 

Bake in a quick oven in gem pans. —Mrs. Ottmionos. 

Rice Gems. 

Boiled rice two cups; 

Milk four cups; 

Eggs three; 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls; 

Soda one teaspoonful; 

Sugar a Httle; 

Salt a Uttle; 

Flour sufficient to make a medium stiflf batter. 

Bake in a gem pan. This will make thirty gems. —Miss Eheby. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



24 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Squash tiakes. 

Squash, (sifted,) .♦. . one-half pint; 

Butter, (melted,) one tablespoonfol; 

Milk one-half cup; 

Hour three cups; 

Salt a little ; 

Teast cake one-quarter of ona 

Baise them over night and bake in gem pana —Miss Emery. 

Graham Muffins. 

Flour one cup; 

Molasses two-thirds cup; 

Compressed yeast. one-half cake; 

Butter one teaspoonful ; 

Water ^ one quart ; 

Graham flour. sufficient to make a stiff batter. 

Baise oyer night —Miss Emery. 

Whlte-Baised Muffins. 

Milk one pint ; 

Sugar. two tablespoonfuls ; 

Butter size of an egg ; 

Compressed yeast one-quarter of a cake ; 

Egg one; 

Flour sufficient for a stiff batter. 

Baise over night —Miss Emery. 

Co^n Muffins. 

Com meal ; 

Water, warm one cup ; 

Lard or butter one small tablespoonful ; 

Sour milk or buttermilk one large cup ; 

Figgs two ; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful ; 

Soda. one-half teaspoonful. 

Melt the lard or butter in the warm water ; then add the milk, 
the eggs well beaten, and the salt Stir in com meal enough to 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 25' 



make a thick batter. Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonfnl of hot 
water, and pour into the mixture, stirring very fast 

Pour it immediately, during the effervescence, into the mufiln 
pans. — Mbs. Ford. 

Boston Brown Bread, (Steamed), No. 1. 

Indian meal one quart; Bye flour one pint;. 

Sour milk one quart; Molasses one cup; 

Soda two teaspoonfula 

Mix the meal and flour, add the milk gradually, to avoid 
lumps. Add the mokusses. Dissolve the soda in two tablespoon- 
fuls of hot water, and add, stirring very fast Steam six hours in 
a well greased double kettle. Set in the oven for oue hour before^ 
dinner. —Mbs. Habbis. 

Boston Brown Bread (Steamed), No. 2. 

Indian or com meal . . two cups; Bye flour or meal one oup;. 

Milk one pint; Molasses one-half cup^ 

Soda one even teaspoonful. 

Mix as in above recipe (No. 1). Steam five hours. Sour milk 
may be uned, in which case a half -teaspoonful more of soda must 
be added. 

Brown Bread (No. 3). 

Indian meal three cups; 

Bye meal or flour three cups; 

Molasses one half cup ; 

Salt one teaspoonful ; 

Saleratus one teaspoonful ; 

Milk enough to make a stiff batter. 

Steam five or six hours. 

This will make enough to fiU a two-quart pan.— Mbs. Eaton. 

Lottie's Baked Brown Bread. 

Indian meal five cups; Bye meal five cups^ 

Molasses -one cup; Soda one teaspoonful^ 

Salt one teaspoonful 

Mix with lukewarm water and bake three or four houra 

—Mbs. WinsijOW. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



26 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Dora's Steamed Brown Bread. 

Indian meal two and one-half cups ; 

Eye meal two cups ; 

Flour one cup ; 

Molasses one cup ; 

Soda one teaspoonful ; 

Salt one teaspoonfuL 

Mix with warm water, steam three or four hours. 

— Mes. Winslow. 

Corn Bread. 

Yellow meal one cup ; 

Flour two cups ; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls ; 

Eggs three; 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls ; 

Milk one pint ; 

Butter size of an egg ; 

Salt a salt-spoonfuL 

Sift the flour, meal, baking-powder, aud salt together. Add 
iihe sugar, the butter melted, the eggs well beaten, and last, the 
jnQk gradually. Bake in gem pans half an hour.—MRa Whttb. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 27 



Chapter II.— SOUPS. 

Gilbert Stuart was asked by one of his admirers, and perhaps 
imitators, how he mixed his colors. His reply was, * 'According to 
my taste," which was equivalent to saying that no artist could give 
an exact rule for mixing colors. 

In cooking, as in other fine arts, no exact rule can be given for 
many mixtures. In soups, more than in most things, the taste 
must guide. *'What is one's meat is another's poison," and all 
oooks must discover the taste of those to whom they have to cater, 
and govern themselves accordingly. 

Beef famishes a good foundation for soup stock. It should be 
put on in cold water, about two quarts to the pound, and boiled 
slowly. It may be varied each day by different seasoning and 
vegetables, and used till the juice of the meat is aU extracted. It 
may be thickened with vermicelli or spagetthi, which require about 
fifteen minutes to boil; or rice, which should boil half an hour, or 
barley, which requires three quarters of an hour. Strained tomato 
sauce or a few spoonfuls of tomato catsup may be added to the soup 
just before serving, for an occasional change. 

Tomato Soup. 

Soup stock four quarts; Tomatoes one-half peck ; 

Onions two; Sugar. two tablespoonfuls ; 

Salt to taste; Pepper. to taste; 

Celery a little. 

Boil all together, strain and thicken with browned flour. 

—Mrs. W. 0. Emeby. 

Potato Soup. 

Potatoes, large twelve; Onions two; 

Carrot one; Soup celery . .one small bunch. 

Boil these together two hours. Then strain through a col- 
ander and return to the fire. Melt a quarter of a cup of butter in 
a frying-pan, and stir into it while still over the fire a cup of flour, 
dry. Add this to the soup. Serve hot — Mrs. W. C. Emery. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



28 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Potato Soup (Western Style). 
For two quarts of soup, peel and slice a quart of potatoes, 
and three large white onions. Put them over the fire in sufficient 
boiling water to oover them, with a teaspoonful of salt, and a table- 
spoonful of butter, and boiL them until they can be rubbed through 
a sieve with a potato masher. Meantime rub to a smooth paste & 
heaping teaspoonful each of flour and butter. After the potatoes 
have been rubbed through a sieve, put them again over the fire, 
with two quarts of hot milk, the flour and butter rubbed together, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the soup until it boils ; let it boil 
two or three minutes, and after that serve it with small dice of 

toasted bread. 

Ham or Pea Soup. 

Boil a pint of split peas, which have been soaked for three 
hours, in three quarts of cold water, with a ham bone. 

Cook slowly seven hours and strain, rubbing the peas through 
a colander. 

Season to taste, and pour over small squares of dry toast 

White beans may be substituted for peas. — Mbs. Stroud. 

Cream of Bice Soup. 

Soup stock two quarts; JVTilk one quart; 

Rice one cup; Onion one. 

Cook all together very slowly two hours, and strain. Serve 
very hot. > —Mrs. Munrob. 

Pea Soup. 

Split peas one pint; 

Corned beef or pork one pound; 

Carrot one; 

Turnip one; 

Onion one; 

Celery, one tablespoonful, or celery leaves, .a handful. 
Soak the peas over night. In the morning boiL them with the 
meat for three hours, hard. 

Add the chopped vegetables and boil one hour more. Strain 
and season. 

Pour the soup over two thin slices of toast, which must be cut 
up like dice and placed in the bottom of the tureen. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 29 



Tomato Soup. 

Soup stock; four quarts; Tomatoes half-peok; 

Onions two. 

Boil, strain and thicken with browned flour. Add two teaspoon- 
fiils of sugar, salt and pepper to taste. —Mrs. Emeby. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

Tomatoes half can; 

Milk one quart; 

Com starch two even tablespoonfuls; 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Smooth the com starch in a little cold milk. Add it to the rest 
of the milk which must be boiling, then the butter and salt Last 
the tomatoe, which must be previously stewed and strained. 

A saltspoonf ul of soda may be put into the tomato, if it is very 
sour. Serve hot. 

Clam Soup. 
Clams; cold water, one quart to a dozen clams. 
Chop the clams, which should be large and plump, very fine. 
Put the clams with their liquor and a quart of cold water for every 
•dozen clams, upon the Are in a perfectly clean vessel, and let them 
simmer gently, but not boil, for about an hour and a half. 

The clams should be so well cooked that you seem to have only a 
thick broth. 

Season to taste and pour into a tureen in which a few slices of 
vireU browned toast have been placed. 

If desired, an egg and a cup of milk may be added for every 
two dozen clams. The egg should be thoroughly beaten and the 
milk added to it gradually, then, after the soup is removed from 
the fire they may be stirred into it. — Mrs. Stroud. 

Lobster Soup. 
Put one quart of milk on to boil ; put one large tablespoonful 
butter in a saucepan. When bubbling add two heaping table- 
spoonfuls flour ; then add the boiled milk gradually; season highly 
with pepper and salt ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Dry the coral 
in the oven and rub through a strainer into milk until it has a pink 
-color, then add the meat chopped fine; cook five minutes. 

If you wish you can strain it before serving. The shell can be 
boiled in the milk. — MRa DiiiiiiNaHAM. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



30 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter ML— FISH AND OYSTERS. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean thoroughly, and dry with a cloth outside and in. Stuff 
with slices of buttered bread, sprinkled with salt, pepper, and 
parsley. Skewer together, flour and salt it, and put it in a baking^ 
pan, on a rack. Put a httle hot water in the bottom of the pan. 
Skewer small slices of pork over the top of the fish. Baste occa- 
sionally. 'If it weighs about three or four pounds, it will require 
one hour to cook. 

May be served with drawn butter, to which pieces of hard 
boiled eggs, and parsley are added. Garnish with parsley and 
shoes of lemon. 

Baked Blue-fish. 

Have a medium sized blue-fish scaled, drawn and washed. 
Boll a pound of crackers, not too fine, mix with them two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of butter, slightly melted, one teaspoonful each 
of salt, sweet-marjoram and summer-savory, half a teaspoonful of 
pepper and one raw egg, and just enough boiling water to moisten 
the crumbs. StuJff the fish Avith this, and lay it in the baking-pan. 
Put with it two tablespoonfuls of butter, a level teaspoonfid of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of catsup or any good table sauce, and a 
pint of hot water. 

Put the fish in a hot oven and baste it every ten minutes. 
After it has been in the oven half an hour, dredge it all over with 
flour, and let it brown. Then baste again and dredge again. Be- 
peat the basting and dredging every fifteen minutes until the fish 
has been baked an hour, and is nicely browned all over. This may 
be served with drawn butter sauce, or the gravy in the dripping- 
pan may be thickened with browned flour. 

To Boil Fish. 
A cod or a solid piece of halibut or ealmon may be boiled as 
follows : 

After the fish has been thoroughly cleaned, that is, soaked in 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 3L 



warm water and scraped, and then washed in cold salt and water^ 
it should be tied up in a floured cloth, and put into cold water,, 
enough to cover it, with a tablespoonful of salt in it 

The water should be skimmed often. It should be boiled for 
about twenty or twenty-five minutes to every pound. 

Shp it out of the cloth carefully upon the platter, so as not to 
spoil its shape. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

SServe with drawn butter sauce. 

Broiled Fish, or Scrod. 

Cod, Spanish mackerel and bluefish are very nice broile,d. 

Have the fish split and the bone removed. Wash, and dry in 
a doth. 

Grease the gridiron welL It should be a wire one that can be 
turned. 

Broil over a good, but not too hot fire. Put the skin side down 
first. It will take from twenty minutes to half an hour to cook, 
and must be nicely browned, but not scorched. 

Salt when half-done, and again when laid in the platter- 
Spread with butter. Serve hot 

To Fry Fish. 

When cleaned and dried, dip in Indian meal and fry in hot 
pork fat slowly till brown. 

Pickled Fish. 

Eaw fresh fish (shad is the best); salt ; pepper (whole); cloves 
(whole); onion (sHced), half a one ; vinegar. 

Put a layer of raw fresh fish in the bottom of a stone pot. The 
pot should be large at the top, as it is easier to remove the fish 
without breaking. Season with salt, pepper and cloves, and a little 
onion. Then put in another layer of fish, to which add seasoning 
as before. Bepeat this till the pot is full. Pour over all sufficient 
vinegar to cover it. Put it in a luke-warm oven at evening, and 
leave it until morning. In the morning set it away to cool and 
you will have an excellent relish ready for the table without any 
further preparation. * —Mrs. LudiiOW. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



32 A NEW DAILT FOOD. 



Fish Chowder. 

Fry f onr slices larding pork in the bottom of a deep kettle. 
Take out and keep hot in a small platter. Cnt in moderately thin 
Btices twelve raw potatoes and three raw onions. 

Put these in the kettle in layers alternately, with four pounds 
of haddock or codfish steak, adding salt and pepper to each layer ; 
pour in at once boiling water enough to cover alL Lay over the 
top half a dozen pilot biscuits, and boiL moderately three-quarters 
of an hour. When all is done, add two cups of milk, dredge in a 
little flour, and boil up once. — Mrs. Emeby. 

Potted Shad. 

Cut one shad through the back, wash and dry. Gut it in small 
pieces and season with salt, pepper, allspice, cloves and mace. Pack 
tight in a stone jar. Make it tight by putting a paste crust over 
the top. Cover and bake in a moderate oven two hours. When 
taken out of the oven remove the crust and cover with vinegar. 

To be eaten next day. —Mrs. HuiiIi. 

Potted Mackerel 

Small mackerel one dozen; Salt half cup; 

Cloves one tablespoonful, heaped; 

Allspice one tablespoonful, heaped. 

Clean the mackerel and cut them in halves. Boll each piece in 
the salt and spices mixed; put into an earthen pot, cover with 
vinegar, cover dose, and bake six hours in a slow oven. 

— Mrs. Oliver. 

Stewed Oysters. 

Separate the liquor from the oysters. Strain the liquor and if 
the oysters are " solid," add as much water as liquor. 

Put this upon the fire, and at the same time another saucepan 
containing milk equal in quantity to the oyster liquor. Let the 
milk heat upon the back of the stove, but not boil. 

When the oyster Uquor boils add the oysters and let Ihem boil 
till the beards begin to curl up. 

Then add the rnilk and let it boil up once. Too long boiling 
ourdles the milk. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILT FOOD. 33 



Poor the stew into a tureen containing two tableepoonfnls of 
fine oyster cracker cmmbs and two tablespoon! ols (more if desired) 
of butter. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Butter a pudding dish. 

Spread cracker crumbs over the bottom ; put evenly over this 
a layer of oysters. Take them from the liquor one by one, with a 
silvfr fork; you can thus see if any partides of shell adhere; 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper. 

Spread over these another layer of crumbs with bits of butter 
scattered over them, then another layer of oysters seasoned as be- 
fore, then more crumbs and butter, idll all the oysters are used. 

Strain the oyster liquor and pour over all. If there is not suf- 
ficient liquor to moisten them thoroughly, add a little milk. 

Put large pieces of butter on the top, and grate a little nutmeg 
over it. 

The success of this dish depends upon a lavish use of butter 
and seasoning. It is safe to say that a quart of oysters will require 
a cupful of butter. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Oysters, chopped fine twenty-five; 

Cracker crumbs one-half cup; 

Melted butter. one tablespoonful; 

Cream one cup; 

Salt to taste; 

Pepper, red and black to taste. 

Mix and cook fifteen minutes on well buttered oyster shells, 
putting a large spoonful of the mixture on each shelL 

Fried Oysters. 
Dry in a clean towel ; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs. 
Fry in equal parts of butter and lard. 

Fancy Boast. 
Boil the oyster liquor, add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful 
of butt^ ; then put in the oysters. When done pour over slices of 
buttered toast 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



34 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Fricassee of Oysters. 

Oysters one quart or twenty-five oysters; 

Butter size of an egg or two ounces; 

Flour (sifted) one tablespoonful; 

Eggs two; 

Salt to taste; 

Red pepper a pinch; 

Nutmeg one-quarter of one. 

Put the oysters on the fire in their own liquor; the moment they 
b^;in to boiL drain the liquor into a hot dish, through a colander, 
leaving the oysters in the colander. 

Put the butter into a saucepan ; when it bubbles sprinkle in 
the sifted flour. Let it cook a minute without taking solor, stirring 
it well all the time, with a wire egg beater ; then add a cup of the 
oyster liquor, mixing well. Take this from the fire, mix in the 
jolks of the eggs, the salt and red pepper and nutmeg. A tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice can be added here if desired. Beat all 
i^ell together, return to the fire to set the eggs, but do not allow it 
to boil ; then put in the oysters. 

All the dishes used in the preparation of this must be hot and 
the beating done with care that the cream may be smooth and 
velvety. — Miss Niebuhb. 

Clam Chowder. 

Hard clams twenty-five; 

Soft clams one large bunch; 

Potatoes six; 

Onions six; 

Carrot one; 

Pork, very fat one-half pound; 

Tomatoes one-half a can, or six large ones; 

Celery one-half bunch; 

Crackers three (broken); 

Sherry wine one glass. 

Cut the pork in thin slices and fry slowly in an iron pot. 
When the fat is tried out, cut the pork into smaU pieces, and chop 
the other ingredients ji/ie, and place them in the pot in layers. The 
pork fat, then the clams, then the crackers and vegetables, season- 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 36 



ing to taste. Add water enough to cover all, and cook slowly three 
or f onr hours, without stirring. Add the wine just before taking 
from the fira — Mbs. Waterman. 

Stuffed Clams. 

Take equal quantities of finely-chopped dams and bread soaked 
in mUk. Season with pepper and parsley. Mix well and add the 
yolk of one egg. 

Put a small piece of butter into a frying-pan. When hot, add 
a teaspoonful of flour. Stir the dam mixture into this. Brown 
and add some tomato sauce. 

Fill the clam shells ; cover over with fine bread crumbs, and 
keep warm until served. 

Stewed Lobster. 
Take the lobster from the shell and chop it, but not too fina 
Put it upon the fire in a saucepan, with water enough to nearly 
cover it, a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, according to taste, 
a little pepper, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Let it stew slowly 
for ten minutes. Then dredge in a httle flour. Let it boil up once, 
pour in a deep dish, and serve hot 

Thii^ is a very nice and wholesome way of preparing lobster. 

Escaloped Lobster. 

Remove the meat of a lobster and cut it in pieces one quarter 
of an inch thick. 

Make one cup of thick white sauce with one tablespoonful but- 
ter; one heaping of flour, and one cup hot milk, season highly with 
salt, pepper, lemon juice and cayenne. 

Mix the lobster with the sauce, put it into the shells, cover 
with buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. Oamish with the 
daws and parsley. —Mrs. Henry DtLLiNGHAM. 

Lobster Croquettes. 
To the meat of two boiled lobsters chopped fine, add a little 
pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and a quarter as much bread 
crumbs as meat Make into egg-shaped balls, with a little mdted 
butter. Roll in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in 
butter or nice lard. Serve dry and hot —Mrs. Krahnstovbr. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



36 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Shrimps en Ck>quille. 
Pick over oarefally one can of shrimps. Make a thick white 
sauce with one cup of cream or milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
and one large tablespoonful of flour, season with salt and pepper, 
add the shrimps, fill the shells and cover with cracker crumbs 
moistened with butter. — Mrs. DinLiNGHAM. 

To Pot Shrimps. 
Pick over carefully, but do not wash one can of Gulf Shrimps. 
Oil carefully about four ounces of butter. Put these into a por- 
celain-lined saucepan with a pinch of ground mace and the same 
of red pepper. Heat them through, say for four minutes. Then 
press them into a jar. When cold, put a Uttle clarified butter over 
them. — Mrs. Krahnstovbr. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 37 



Chapter IV.— MEAT. 

To Boil Meat 

Meat shonld be put into boiling water and boiled steadily but 
not violently, and skimmed often. 

When done the meat will cleave from the bone. 

Leibig says, that ''if the flesh ba introduced into the boiler 
when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling 
be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot be put in a warm place 
so that the temperature of the water is kept at 158 to 165 degrees, 
we have the united conditions for giving to the meat the qualities 
that best fit it for being eaten. " 

By this means the meat is both wholesome and palatable, as it 
keeps all its nourishing properties. 

Boast Meat. 

Meat to be roasted, especially beef, should be put into a very 
hot oven, so that it will cook quickly upon the outside. The 
juices are thus retained, which would simmer out into the drip- 
ping pan if the oven were only moderately warm. 

Boasting meat should be thoroughly dredged with flour before 
being put into the oven, but should not be salted till partly cooked, 
as salt extracts the juices from raw^^neat. 

Beef should be cooked for about flfteen minutes for every 
pound if it is to be eaten rare, whidh is the most healthful way to 
eat it. 

Mutton requires about twenty minutes to the pound, lamb a 
little more, as the latter should never be served rare. 

Veal, venison and pork require long roasting. Four or flve 
hours is not too much, and a few slices of salt pork should be 
skewered over the top. Venison may be wrapped in a crust of pas- 
try, which keeps the juices from escaping. If pork is ever fit to be 
eaten, it is only when thoroughly done, and should be roasted 
from three to five hours. 

A roasting pan should be furnished with a rack or grate upon 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



38 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



which the meat can be placed. It is thus prevented from becom- 
ing "soggy " by soaking in the gravy. It should, however, be baa- 
ted frequently. 

Pot Pie. 

Boil the meat or fowl till nearly done. Add eight or ten sliced 
potatoes, a small onion and pepper and salt to tasta 

When the potatoes have boiled fifteen minutes put dumplings 
made like yeast powder biscuit over the top of alL Care should be 
taken that the water does not boil over the dumplings, or they will 
be heavy. If the kettle contains too much water remove some of 
it till the dumplings have risen. The gravy may be returned as it 
is needed. 

When the dumplings are done, which will be in about twenty 
or twenty-five minutes, put them on a platter and place them where 
they will keep warm. Serve the potatoes and meat on another 
platter. Thicken the gravy, let it boil up, and serve it in a gravy 
dish. 

Baked Meat Pie. 

Boil the meat, lamb, veal or poultry— till tender. Line a deep 
dish with a crust made with about two-thirds as much shortening 
as for pies. Put in the meat, season it well with salt and pepper, 
pour in the gravy in which the meat was boiled, put two or three 
slices of salt pork or a few lumps of butter over it, cover with a 
thick upper crust, pierced with holes to let the steam escape, and 
bake till the crust is done. 

Beef Steak. 

The best way to cook a steak is to broil it over moderately hot 
coals, turning often. 

But this method has its disadvantages. It rauses much smoke, 
which, if there is no smoke-escape over the range, fills the kitchen 
and finds its way to the dining-room, besides investing the cook 
with an aroma suggestive of a ham just from the smoke-house. If 
the cook happens also to be the **lady of the house,'* the family 
will be quite contented with a steak cooked as follows: 

Have the gridiron hot. Grease the bottom, but leave no surplus 
fat. Put in the steak, and as soon as it is brown turn it. Keep 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 39 



taming it every minute or two till the outside is cooked. This 
will keep in the juices. Then cover it and let it cook for about 
three minutes. Turn it and cook it for three minutes more. If it 
is not a very thick steak, it will be done sufficiently by this time 
for those who like a rare-done steak. 

If it is turned often at first, and cooked just long enough, it 
cannot be distinguished from a broiled steak. 

Erencli Stew. 

Beef, in one solid piece three pounds; 

Onion one; 

Carrot one; 

Turnip one; 

Celery two sprigs; 

Parsley two sprigs; 

Tomatoes two; 

Water one quart; 

Vinegar two tablespoonfuls; 

Sugar : one tablespoonful; 

Salt to taste; 

Pepper to taste; 

Flour to thicken the gravy. 

First put the meat in the CDld water, with vinegar and sugar. 
After it boils steadily one hour add chopped vegetables, salt and 
pepper. Boil one hour longer, or until the meat is tender. 

—Mrs. W. C. Emery. 

Boiled Flank of Beef. 

Wash the flank ; salt and pepper it, and spread over it a dress- 
ing made as for poultry. Roll this up and tie it firmly. Then sew 
it up in a cloth. Lay it on a small plate in an iron pot, cover 
with six quarts of boiling water, and boil gently six hours. 

When done remove the cloth,i,but do not take off the twine until 
the meat is entirely cold. 

Cut in thin slio^i, and serve for lunch or tea.— Mrs. Qlivbr. 

Chipped Beef 

Beef two pounds ; Suet one-quarter pound. 

Have these chopped together very fine by the butcher. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



40 ^ A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cover with cold water, and cook slowly two hours. Season to 
taste, and just before remoying it from the fire dredge in a little 
flonr. Let it boil up. 

This may be cooked a day beforehand, and warmed up for 
breakfast 

When ready to serve, pour it hot upon sUces of toast. Dropped 
or poached eggs may be spread over the top. — Mbs. AbnoijD. 

Braised Beef. 

Beef, from four to six pounds from the round or face of the 
rump. Trim and tie in good shape. Rub well with salt, pepper 
and flour. Cut two onions, one-half of a small carrot and one-half 
of a small turnip fine and fry them till light brown in salt pork fat 
or dripping. Skim them out into a braising pan. Brown the 
meat all over in the frying pan, adding more fat if necessary. 
Put the meat into the braising pan and add a quart of boiling 
water and a tablespoonful of mixed herbs. Cover closely and 
bake in the oven four hours, basting every twenty minutes. Turn 
it over after two hours. When tender, take the meat from 
the pan, remove the fat from the gravy, add more salt and pepper 
if needed, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour wet in cold 
water. Cook ten minutes and strain over the meat. Add one-half 
can tomato before straining, if liked. —Mbs. DhiIiIngham. 

Mock Duck. 

Take two pieces of thick steak, pound it a little, put a layer of 
stuffing, made as for duck, in between the slices, skewer together 
and rub beaten egg and bits of butter over it 

The meat should be cooked on a grate, which raises it from 
the pan. Cover the bottom of the pan with water. Bake about 
one hour, basting often. — Miss Faibbanks. 

Pressed Beef. 

A shank of beef ; salt, pepper, sage or any sweet herb. 

Crack the bone in several places. Wash and cut the meat in 
small pieces. Cover with cold water and boil slowly, adding more 
hot water as the water boils away. 

When the meat will cleave from the bone, by which time the 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 41 



water will be reduced two thirds, take out the meat and set it and 
the broth away till next day. 

Then chop the meat fine, and strain the broth (haying removed 
the fat) into it Season, place npon the fire, and stew till dry, 
stirring constantly to prevent its burning. Put into an oblong pan 
and serve cold, cut in sUces. ~Mbs. Ouvbb. 

Beef Jelly with Cream. 

This jelly is made from a shin bone of beef. It should be 
boiled without any salt, and long and slowly. After cooling remove 
all fat and sediment Then to this jelly — one and one half pints- 
add lemons, juice of two and rind of one ; sugar, one cup ; white 
wine, one cup. 

Heat these together and when broken, add one cup of cream. 

Take it from the fire before it boils, and pour into cups or 
glasses while hot. — Mrs. Ouvbb. 

Boast Beef (Second day). 
Cut cold roast beef into thin slices, and brown it lightly in a 
hot buttered spider. Do not salt it Have the pan quite hot 
that the meat may brown quickly without losing its juices. Take 
it from the pan, and mix well a spoonful of butter and one of flour 
in the hot pan. Add a cup of boiling water and boil a minute. 
Season to taste. Add a little catsup or Worcestershire sauce if de- 
sired. Pour the gravy over the meat and serve. 

Sauer Brouten. 
F(yr the Pickle, 

Bound of beef (larded) four pounds ; 

Cloves (whole) one ounce ; Black pepper (whole), one ounce; 

Onion one-half of one ; Bay leaves ; 

Vinegar. 
F<yr the Stew. 

Butter one tablespoonful ; Water one tablespoonful ; 

Bacon (sliced) one-quarter pound. 

To lard the meat fill a larding needle, to be obtained at any 
furnishing store, with larding pork and draw it several times 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



42 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



through the beef ; this done put the meat in a stone pot and cover 
it "with vinegar ; add the cloves, pepper, onion and bay leaves. 

Let it remain four days ; then drain and put it on the fire in an 
iron pot with the butter, water and bacon as given above and cook 
two hours, turning frequently. When done add to the gravy in the 
pot a little flour, a Httle vinegar, and serve. — Mbs. LudijOW. 

To cook a Ham. 
Wash and scrape the ham thoroughly. Boil it three or four 
hours, according to its size. Skin it and put it in a roasting pan 
in the oven for half an hour. Then take it out and shake over it 
powdered rusk, or bread, or cracker crumbs, and a Jittle sugar if 
desired. 

Eetum to the oven for half an hour longer, or until the crumbs 
are browned. A ham is made more tender by baking and much of 
the gross fat is tried out. 
It is better to have a rack or grate in your roasting pan. 

— Mbs. Stroud. 

Jellied Tongue. 

Tongue, boiled and cold one ; 

Gelatine, two ounces dissolved in Water . one-half pint ; 

Veal gravy (browned) one tea cup ; 

Liquor in which the tongue was boiled one pint ; 

Sugar one tab!espoonful ; 

Burnt Sugar, for coloring one tab]espoonful ; 

Vinegar. . three tablespoonfuls ; Boiling water one pint. 

Put together the gravy, liquor, sugar, vinegar, and the table- 
spoonful of burnt sugar, dissolved in cold water. Add the dis- 
solved gelatine and mix well, then add the boiling water and strain 
through a flannel Cut the tongue in slices as for the table. Let 
the jelly cool and begin to thicken. Wet a mould with cold water, 
put a littie jelly into the bottom, then a layer of tongue, and so on 
in alternate layers till aU is used. Set the mould, well covered, in 
a cool place. 

To turn it out, dip the mould in hot water for an instant, in- 
vert it upon a dish and garnish with celery sprigs and nasturtium 
flowers, if you can get them. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 45 



Cut with a thin sharp knife, perpendicularly. 

This is a handsome and delicious dish and easily made. 

— Mbs. Omvbb. 

Stewed Leg of Mutton. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in an iron pot. Put the 
leg of mutton in and cook it one hour. After that time turn it 
frequently until it is brown all over. 

About an hour before taking it up sprinkle in a handful of 
flour and salt to taste. If there is Jx>o much fat, skim it now. Cut 
up turnip and carrot, about two tablespoonfuls, and boil till tender. 
Drain them, and after the meat is taken up, put them into the pot 
and cook ten minutes longer. 

It will require from three to four hours to cook. 

—Mrs. W. D. LuDiiOW. 

Haricot of Mutton or Lamb. 
Take a leg of lamb or a small leg of mutton ; trim off the fat ; 
put it into a kettle with water enough to cover it. Skim this well 
as it boils. Keep it covered and boil it slowly four hours. When 
about half done, salt it and add an onion, a carrot and a turnip, 
chopped fine. Let the water waste away till only enough for the 
gravy is left. Thicken this with browned flour, add half a cup of 
tomato ketchup, let it boil up once, and pour it over the mu ton, 
which should be removed to a hot platter before the gravy is made. 

Mutton Stew. 
Cut up three or four pounds of mutton or lamb, removing the 
most of the fat. Stew an hour, in water enough to cover ii Then 
add half a pound of salt pork cut into strips and a chopped onion. 
Season with a little salt, pepper, parsley and thyme. Thicken with 
flour stirred into a cup of cold milk. This is much improved by 
adding a can of sw^t com, or in the season, half a dozen ears of 
com cut from the cob. Put slices of buttered toast in the bottom 
of the platter and pour the stew over it. —Mbs. Embbt. 

Lamb Cutlets (Baked). 
Cut from the neck and fore shoulder and trim neatly. Lay 
aside all the bones and bits of meat for gravy. Dip the cutlets in 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



44 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



melted bntter, and then in beaten egg, and roll in cracker crumbs. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

For grayy — Put on the bones and bits of meat in enough cold 
-water to coyer them. Stew, and season with a little thyme, salt, 
and pepper, and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup. Strain and 
thicken with corn-starch or browned flour. This may be poured 
over the meat, or served in a gravy boat. — Mrs. Ebieby. 

Mutton Chops. 
Fry in their own fat. When in the platter, put a small lump 
of butter on each chop. Keep the fat for soap grease. 

Veal Steaks or Cutlets. 

Wash, dry in a cloth, dip in beaten eggB, then in cracker or 
bread crumbs. 

Fry in salt pork fat, or half lard and half butter. Veal re- 
quires long, slow cooking. Thicken the gravy with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, browned if you wish, and let it boil up, adding as 
much water as you need for the requisite quantity of gravy. Melt 
a liberal piece of butter in this and pour it over the meat. 

Veal Loaf. 

Yea], both fat and lean three and one-half pounds; 

Salt fat pork one thick slice; 

Crackers, pounded fine six; 

Eggs two; 

Butter half a cup; 

Pepper one teaspoonful; 

Cloves a pinch; 

Sweet herbs to taste. 

Chop the meat raw. Mix all weU^ and form a loaf. Place in a 
shallow pan with a little water and bits of butter on top. Dredg<» 
with flour. 

Bake slowly two hours, basting frequently. It will keep for 
some time and is a nice dish for lunch or tea. —Mrs. OiiIVBb. 

Veal Fricassee. 
Take a piece of veal from the breast or ribs. Cut it in thin 
pieces about three inches square. Wash it, and put it over the 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 45 



fire in enough water to yield plenty of gravy. Alter it boils, skim 
it welL Add an onion, some salt, some leaves or stalks of celery 
tied in a bunch, and let it cook slowly for two hours. 

Just before taking it up, add a tables)XK>nf ul of butter and a 
tablespoonful of flour creamed together. After removing the meat 
add a Uttle chopped parsley to the gravy. — Mrs. A. R SbabijBS. 

Hashed Veal or Hashed Turkey. 

Chop the cold remnants of either of the above very fine. Seas- 
on with pepper, and salt, and warm up in the gravy. A little water 
may be added if there is not sufficient gravy left to make it quite 
moist 

Add a liberal piece of butter, and spread over slices of buttered 
toast in a hot platter. Eggs cooked in hot water, caUed by some 
dropped, by others poached, may be spread over the top. 

Bagout of Cold Boasted or Boiled Mutton. 

Cut the meat in slices and put over the fire in cold water. 
When it boils add a few bay leaves, doves, slices of onion, and a 
little salt. Let it simmer slowly for two hours. 

Half an hour before serving, add sufficient browned flour 
smoothed in cold water to thicken the gravy. Add at last a little 
vinegar and a pinch of sugar. — Mbs. A. R SbabiiES. 

Fried Tripe. 

Tripe should be kept in salt and water in a cool place till it is 
time to cook it, as it spoils very quickly. 

Before cooking it, pour boiUng water upon it, let it stand a 
minute; then drain it and rinse it two or three times in cold water. 
Dry it in a dean towd, cut it in pieces, dip each piece in beaten 
egg, then in crumbs, and fry in a hot spider in salt pork fat or 
good drippings, or in lard and butter in equal quantities. 

Served hot, as soon as fried, this makes a good breakfast dish. 
It is as acceptable to some people as a beefsteak, and much dieaper. 

Calf 8 Liver and Bacon. 
Have the bacon sUced very thin. Remove the rind, fry till 
orisp. Take out the bacon and put it around the edge of a platter. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



46 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Pour hot water upon the liyer and let it stand a moment. Dry 
it in a towel and fry till brown in the bacon fai Lay the slices in 
the middle of the platter. 

Beefs liyer may be cooked in the same way, but needs more 
soaking, as it contains more blood. 

Sausages. 

Prick them all over with a fork and fry in a hot spider slowly. 
They will fry in their own fat, and should be done through thor- 
oughly. 

Pile mashed potato, made quite dry, and with but little butter, 
in the center of the dish and place the sausages around it The 
gravy is too gross to be eaten. 

Salt Pork Fried in Batter. 
Cut the pork in thin slices, let it soak in water over night. 
Put it in a spider, pour boiling water over it, then turn the 
water off and fry the pork until it is brown. 

Then dip each slice in a batter made of one egg, one heaping 
tablespoonful flour and a little milk. 
Fry again in hot lard. 

Cold potatoes cut lengthwise and wheat or brown bread are good 
fried in this way. ^ — Mbs. Stjroud. 

Meat P4t6s. 
Put the remnants of a piece of corned beef into a tray and chop 
flne. Chop a small onion and add, also butter, the size of an egg, 
pepper and salt to taste and sufficient water to moisten. 

Make a pastry as for pies, cut it into squares and put a spoon- 
ful of the meat into each square. Fold over the dough like a turn- 
over and bake it in a hot oven. Or, fry in hot lard like doughnuts. 

— Mbs. Stboud. 
Breakfast Meat Cakes. 
Take any cold meat that is suitable for hash. 
Chop it fine and add 

Egg one ; Milk one-half cup. 

Butter , a little ; Pepper and salt to taste. 

Roll into balls and fry in a pan with very little lard. 

—Mrs. F. W. Emebt. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A NBW DAILY FOOD. 47 



Meat Cakes. 

Meat, chopped one cupful; 

Bread crumbs one cupful; 

Butter, melted two tablespoonfuls; 

Onion one (small;) 

Milk six tablespoonfuls; 

Salt, pepper and allspice. 
First mix flour, crumbs, spice and salt, then add the meat and 
ohopped onion, and stir well together, afterwards the milk and 
melted butter; roll into round cakes, and fry in fat. 

—Mrs. W. E. Sawin. 

Pickled Sheep's Tongue. 
Boil till dona Add hot vinegar and spices and bay leaves, and 
put away in a stone pot. This will keep for months. 

Poultry. 

The easiest way to dress poultry is to get the butcher to do it. 

Even then it must be examined to see if no bits of the wind- 
pipe or other refuse is left. 

If it is necessary for you to remove the inwards, remember that 
if you put your hand far enough into the body of the fowl to grasp 
the heart, you can remove all at once, and need not fear breaking 
the gall bag. 

Fowl should be singed, all pin feathers removed, and washed 
in several waters; then dried both outside and in. Many people 
stuff the body of the turkey or chicken; but for those who do not 
like a moist stuffing it is better to stuff the neck 

After the crop is removed, twist off the neck near the body. 
Tie a string around the skin of the neck where the head was cut 
off, stuff the space left vacant by the removal of the neck and crop 
and sew it up. 

Put a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper in the 
body of the turkey. Bub salt over the outside, skewer and tie 
down the legs and wings and dredge well with flour. 

Bake it on a rack. 

A turkey weighing twelve pounds will cook in three hours. 

The giblets and neck should be boiled by themselves and put 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



48 A MEW DAILY FOOD. 



into the dripping-pan half an hoar before the turkey' is done. The 
water in which they are boiled can be thrown away. 

The giblets are sometimes chopped and added to the gravy. 
The gravy of a roast turkey should be skimmed of the gross fat 
before it is thickened. 

Stuffing for Fowl (No. 1). 

Bread or cracker crumbs two cups; 

Sweet marjoram three tablespoonfuls; 

Salt one tablespoonful; 

Pepper one saltspoonful; 

Butter two-thirds cup; 

Eggs one. 

Mix the crumbs and seasoning. Place the butter in the center 
of the dish containing them, and pour in boiling water sufficient to 
melt the butter. If this does not moisten the crumb's, add more 
water. Dried bread crumbs require more wetting than crackers. 
Do not get them very moist Add an egg and beat all well together. 

Stuffing for Fowl —No. 2. 

Baker's bread one loaf; 

Thyme (powdered) two teaspoonfuls; 

Summer savory two teaspoonfuls; 

Sage one teaspoonful; 

Egg one; 

Onion one-half of « small one chopped or grated. 

Eemove the crust from the bread and soak the soft part for 
several hours in cold water. 

When thoroughly soaked, squeeze all the water out through a 
doth or fine strainer. Then mix with the herbs and onion; last the 
beaten egg. 

This is enough for a ten-pound turkey.— Mrs. W. 0. Emebt. 

Steamed Turkey. 

Prepare the turkey as for baking, except that chopped celery 
is added to the stuffing and it must be made quite dry, as steam- 
ing makes it more moist 

A turkey weighing eleven pounds needs to be steamed about 
two and a half hours. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 49 



It ahotdd be served with oyster sanoe, which is made accord- 
ing to the role .for drawn butter (see gravies), with oysters added. 
The drawn butter should be a little thicker than for meats, as the 
liquor from the oysters thins it. 

This is a delicious way of cooking a f owL — Mbs. Whitb. 

Chicken 8oufil6. 

Cooked chicken .one pint, (chopped;) 

Cream sauce one pint; 

Eggs four ; 

Chopped parsley one teaspoonful; 

Chopped onion one teaspoonful; 

Put salt, pepper, and other seasoning to taste into the sauce. 
Cook two minutes. 

Add yqlks of the eggB well beaten, and when cold add the 
whites beaten stiff. 

Bake half an hour in a buttered dish. Serve with mushroom 
or celery sauce. —Mrs. DmLiNGHAM. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Chickens two, large; 

Sweet-breads three pairs; 

Onion one, small; 

Flour three tablespoonfuls; 

Butter three tablespoonfuls; 

Cream one pint; 

Black pepper one teaspoonful (scant; 

Cayenne pepper one-half teaspoonful (scant); 

Nutmeg (grated) one half teaspdonful; 

Mustard one teaspoonful; 

Salt two teaspoonfuls; 

Egg.^i yolks of two; 

This can be made without the sweet-breads, but if they are 
used they should be parboiled, as should also the chickens. Chop 
these very fine. 

Mix the melted butter with the flour, spice and seasoning. 
When smooth, add the cream, put all in a tin which place in a pot 
of boiling water. Stir until thick, then set it away to cool. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 




"^S? X •^•Cf^!*^ 



^•- JI-. ^«M^:n=^ ^'^*•=^:a»^JlI3=sa•iaJfce center 
~r z.-a. ^.^ >-*^-ir Vilinar^aarscSkiaitto 
^ tl,*^'* ^ ^=«-Kia ::i4? srnnr^. j^id mate 

Jtt -ag^ ica j^itt i^ ^eil sugedier. 
*^^ 1 ' MtJiicciiiiiis; 



>* son. -ca? ^iiiioptfti ^s-^zxted. 
I " '!.^r .^^ ^"^ ^ "^^ *^^ «^ 5&«e sua pMt far 



-*i ^ 2H? S4 






■^8r oat tiirooglia 
tt^oiiioa:]Kttfae 



-> a»- isci -'Sr i »K».icaii 



i3irsHy:^lC5a^ Wl e Bmrnta. 



^rr^-- 






Digitized 



byGoOJ 



JMSC£ "^VKL 






Choipn 









»»y 



I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



50 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



When cool add the chicken, onion, and well beaten yolks of the 

Form into long rolls by rolling in fine cracker crombs and egg, 
and fry in boiHng lard to a delicate brown. —Miss Nibbuhb. 

Chickens f^ed in Batter. 

Eggs two ; Milk one cup. 

Mix, add a little salt, thicken with flour. ' 

Parboil the chickens a little, cnt them np and season them. 
Dip the pieces in the batter and fry in hot lard. Make a gravy by 
pouring half a cup of water into the pan and adding a tablespoon- 
ful of flour smoothed in cold water, and a lump of butter. 

— Mrs. OiiIveb. 
duail. 

Split, clean and wash the qnaiL 

Broil on a buttered gridiron oyer a lively fire, taking care that 
they do not scorch at first. 

Season, put a bit of butter on each and serve hot on buttered 
toast, from which the crusts have been removed. 

Gravy. 

The foundation of gravies is the juice of the meat which is left 
in the dripping pan with the water, after the roast is removed. If 
it is very fat it should be skimmed and as much water added as is 
needed for the requisite amount of gravy. It should be thickened 
with a tablespoonful of flour, which may have been previously 
browned, if a dark gravy is desired. 

Salt to taste, and if the gravy is not rich add a bit of butter. 

Drawn Butter. 
Butter one (small) cup ; Flour one tablespoonfuL 

MJT till smooth, pour half a pint of boiling water gradually 
over this till all is dissolved. Set it upon the fire and let it boil up 
once. More boiling makes it oily. Or, 

Stir one large tablespoonful of flour into half a pint of boiling 
water. When it has thickened add a cup of butter, and stir tiU it 
is all melted. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC . 



A NEW DAILT FOOD. 61 



This is more easily made as there is not so mnch danger of its 
separating and becoming oily. 

Milk may be substituted for the water. For boiled lamb two 
tablespoonf uls of capers may be added just before taking it from 
the fire. 

For fish two or three hard boiled eggs and a little chopped 
parsley should be added. 

Celery Sauce—For Turkey. 

Milk one quart 

Celery four small heads; 

Pepper corns two or three; 

Onion one; 

Cloyes two or three to be stuck into the onion; 

Mace one blades 

Cut the celery very «nall, using the white part only, and boil 
imtil soft. It takes an hour and a hall When boiled, thicken to 
the consistency of custard, or thick enough to keep its place when 
poured over the turkey. Before thickening the sauce, remove the 
onion and spice. 

Ghravy for FowL 

Put the giblets and neck in a saucepan with cold water, add an 
onion, a tomato or a spoonful of canned tomato, a pinch of salt, a 
pinch of pepper, and a slice of dry bread which has been made 
yery brown in the oven. Let this boil two or three hours, then 
strain it 

Chop the giblets fine, and put them and the gravy back into 
the saucepan. Thicken with a little flour, add the brown gravy 
from the bottom of the pan in which the fowl was cooked, after 
skimming off the fat Add a teaspoonful of vinegar and serve hoi 

— Mbs. W. D. LudijOW. 

Oyster Sauce for Poultry. 

Put the oysters in a saucepan, pour over them the strained 
liquor and let them heat slowly, allowing them to simmer but not 
toboiL 

After they have simmered a few minutes beard them. Stir into 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



52 A NEW DAILT FOOD. 



the Uqnor a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a tablespoonfnl 
of flour. Let it boil and add a cup of cream. 

Put back the oysters with a little cayenne pepper and simmer 
until wanted. 

Cauliflower Sauce. 

Butter one tablespoonfnl ; 

Flour -(sifted) one tablespoonfnl ; 

Soup stock one cupful ; 

Egg yolk of one ; 

Lemon juice of half a ona 

Put the butter in a pan. When it bubbles add the flour and 
soup stock. Let it boiL Take it off the fire and add the well 
beaten yolk of the egg and the lemon juice. Pour, hot, oyer the 
cauliflower. 

Horseradish Sauce (No. 1). 

Grated horseradish four tablespoonfuls ; 

Powdered sugar one teaspoonful ; 

White yinegar four tablespoonfuls ; 

Salt a Httle. 

Mi^ these and add gradually four tablespoonfuls of cream or 
milk. 

Warm this to serve with hot meat. 

Horseradish Sauce (No. 2). 

Breads crumbs one cup ; 

Beef liquor one pint ; 

Butter one teaspoonful ; 

Pepper one-quarter saltspoonf ul ; 

Salt one saltspoonful ; 

Oil one teaspoonful ; 

Horseradish ten cents worth. 

Boil the crumbs and beef liquor together for five minutes, then 
add the other ingredients and boil hard fifteen minutes. 

—Mrs. LudijOW. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NBW DAILY FOOD. . 53 



Mint Sauce for Spring Lamb. 
Chop the mint, mix with half a cup of nice cider vinegar and 
one tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

Made Mustard. 
Pour a very little boiling wat-er over three tablespoonfuls mus- 
tard. Stir into this gradually a teaspoonful of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of oil, a saltspoonful of salt and the beaten yolk of an egg; 
add vinegar to taste. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



64 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter V.— SALADS AND PICKLES. 

Tomato Salad. 

Pour boiling water upon fair, ripe tomatoes, and remove the 
flddna Slioe and plaoe in the dish in which they are to be served, 
soattering a little salt and a little pepper npon each layer. Pour 
over all, a little vinegar and (if desired) a little olive oil Serve 
cold. 

Simple Potato Salad. 

Boil the potatoes with the skins on, as they will slice more 
smoothly. When cold, slice them thin. Add half an onion, 
chopped fine, sprinkle with salt and pepper, moisten with vinegar 
and sweet oil— twice as much vinegar as oil— added gradually. 
Place it in a dish lined with lettuce. £eep it in a cool plaoe till 
wanted. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take the lobster from the shell and chop fine. Chop two heads 
of lettuce fine, or pick ii apart with a silver fork. The dressing is 
made as follows: 

Eggs two; Mustard one teaspoonful; 

Sugar four teaspoonfnls; Vinegar three-quarters cup; 

Cream three-quarters cup; Salt and pepper, a little. 

Boil the eggs hard. Mix the yolks and the tomally of the lob- 
ster together. Add the mustard, sugar, salt and pepper. Then 
the vinegar slowly, and last the cream. 

Put into the dish in which it is to be served a layer of lobster, 
then one of the chopped lettuce ; pour over this three or four 
spoonfuls of the dressing; so continue till all is used. Spread the 
whites of the eggs, cut in slices over the top. Gkumish with whole 
lettuce leaves and the daws of the lobster. —Mrs. Qlivbb. 

Sauce for Lobster. 
(For those who do not like oiL) 

Vinegar one cup; Butter one-half cup; 

Mustard one tablespoonful; Eggs yolks of four. 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 65 



Mix; Bimmer, not boil, a moment A cap of scsJded cream is 
an improvement — Mbs. Omvbb. 

German Herrings Salad. 
Herrings, Potatoes, Cold Boast Yeal, Pickles, 



Sour apples. Eggs. Capers, 

Oil, Salt, Pepper, Mustard, 

Parsley. 

Put six salt herrings, which have been dressed and washed, to 
soak in cold water over night. In the morning remove the skin 
and bones and chop or cat them in small pieces. 

Boil potatoes with the peeling on. After they are peeled and 
cooled take a quantity equal to the herring and the same amount of 
cold boiled beets, pickled cucumbers, sour apples (peeled and 
oored) and cold roast veal; also six hard boiled eggs. Chop each 
separately, but not too fine, as that would hurt the appearance of 
the salad. Then prepare a sauce of good salad oil, a teaspoonful 
of French mustard, some soup stock, pepper, salt and capers. Mix 
the ingredients; pour over them the sauce, stirring carefully but 
thoroughly. Let it stand in an earthen dish several hours before 
you wish to use it Then repeat the stirring; serve in a bowl and 
dress it 

With the back of a knife impress the figure of a star on the 
top. Fill the spaces with different colors; for instance, in one por- 
tion put chopped parsley, in another beets, in another the yolk of 
the egg, in another the chopped white. This ornamentation has a 
pretty effect — Mbs. A. R Sbabubs. 

Kayonnaise Dressing (No. 1). 

Egg yolk of one; 

Mixed mustard one tablespoonful; 

Salt. . ! .one-quarter teaspoonful; 

Cil sixtableepoonfuls. 

Stir the mustard, yolk of egg (raw) and salt together until they 
thicken. Then add the oil gradually. A little vinegar may be 
added if desired. —Miss Smith. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



56 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Mayoxmaise Dressing (No. 2). 

Egg yolk of one; 

Olive Oil one-half tumbler; 

Vinegar one-half wine glass; 

Mustard one-half teaspoonful (scant); 

Salt one teaspoonful (even); 

Eed pepper a little (if desired). 

Put the egg in a large bowL Add to it the oil, a teaspoon- 
ful at a time, stirring with right hand while pouring with the left. 
This will make a thick batter. Mix in the glass which contains 
the oil the other ingredients. When thoroughly beaten add them 
slowly to the oil batter, stirring all the time. — Mbs. White. 

Kayonnaise Dressing (No. 8). 

Put the yolks of two eggs in a deep dish with a little white 
pepper; into these stir briskly with a wooden spoon some olive oil, 
which must be added very gradually and alternated every little 
while with a few spoonfuls of vinegar and one spoonful of Crosse 
& Blackwell's Tarragon vinegar. Then add a little condensed 
milk (not canned). 

This dressing should have an agreeable flavor, and a rather 
stiff consistency. — Mrs. Ebahnstoveb. 

Keep salad oil in a dry, cool place, and always in the dark. The 
bottle should be tightly corked. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Tomatoes one dozen three pound cans; 

Vinegar four quarts; 

Allspice one tablespoonful; 

Cinnamon one tablespoonful; 

Red pepper one tablespoonful scant; 

Black pepper one tablespoonful; 

Mustard two tablespoonfuls; 

Nutmegs two; 

Salt four tablespoonfuls; 

Sugar one cup; 

Boil till thick enough, which will be four or &ye hours. 

— Mna OiiivBR. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 57 



Tomato Catsup. 

Tomatoes (ripe) onp bushel (not peeled); 

Yinegar. one quart; 

Salt one pound; 

Black pepper one-quarter pound; 

Bed pepper twelve pods; 

Allspice one-quarter pound; 

Cloves one ounce; 

English mustard three ounces; 

Onions six; 

Brown sugar two pounds; 

Peach leaves one handful; 

Garlia a little; 

Boil till of the right consistency, being careful not to let it 
bum, then strain through a wire sieve. It is best to rub it through 
when cool enough. 

It should be quite thick when done, — Mbs. Kbahnstoveb. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Tomatoes one bushel; 

Salt one pint; 

Allspice one ounce; 

Cloves one ounce; 

Ginger one ounce; 

Cinnamon one ounce; 

Mace one-half ounce; 

White pepper one-eighth pound; 

Mustard seed one-quarter pound; 

Cayenne one teaspoonful; 

Wash and dry the tomatoes, cut them in pieces, and boil them 
for about half an hour. Then strain them through a fine sieve. 

Mix with the spices, and boil them eight hours, very fast. Put 
them, hot, into perfectly clean bottles, first immersing the bottle 
in hot water. 

Liquor bottles keep the catsup best. Let them stand till the 
next day, then cork them with new stoppers, and seal them with 
sealing-wax. — Mbs. Abnou). 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



58 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Louise's Tomato Catsup. 

Tomato jnice one gallon; 

Ground doves one (heaping) tablespoonful; 

Ground allspice one (heaping) tablespoonful; 

Ground black pepper, .three (heaping) tablespoonfnls; 

Salt four (heaping) tablespoonfnls; 

Vinegar one pint; 

Worcestershire sauce four tablespoonfnls; 

Boil till of the consistency of cream. A handful of peach 
leaves may be boiled with it to add flavor. — Mbs.Gomfobt. 

Cucumber Pickles. 
{Spiced and dighUy sweet.) 
Make a brine of cold water and salt, strong enough to bear up 
an egg. Heat it boiling hot and pour over the pickles. 

Let them stand twenty hours, then take them out and wipe 
them dry. 

Scald vinegar and pour over them and let them stand twenty- 
four hours more. Then pour off the vinegar and pour over the 
following mixture, boiling hot: 

Fresh vinegar sufficient to cover the pickles; 

Brown sugar one quart; 

Peppers (green) two large; 

White mustard seed one-half pound; 

Ginger (root) six cents worth; 

Cinnamon six cents worth (ground); 

Allspice six cents worth (ground); 

Cloves six cents worth (ground); 

Celery seed one tablespoonful; 

Alum size of a butternut. 

Put the spices in a bag. —Mrs. W. E. Sawin. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Brine to bear up an egg. 

Pour it over the pickles and let them stand two or three days. 
Then soak them in cold water for a day. 

The second day pour off this water and cover them with fresh 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



water. Let them stand on the back of the range till they get hot» 
but do not let them come to the boiling point 

Take them from the range and set tiiem awa j to oooL When 
oool put the cucumbers into jars and pour hot vinegar, spioed to 
over them. — Mb& Watbbman. 



Pickled Cucumbers. 

Wash and wipe the cucumbers and put them into stone jars. 
Heat together 

Vinegar one gallon; Cloves one ounce; 

Allspice one ounce; Mustard seed two ounces; 

Black pepper one ounce; Alum two ounces (scant); 

Salt c one cupful (scant) 

Do not let it come to the boiling point Pour it hot over the 
cucumbers. Cover with cabbage leaves. — Mbs. SwaktiWH. 

Pickled Beans. 
Toung string beans may be boiled in salted water till they are 
tender, then pickled in the same way as cucumbers. 

Chow-chow No. 1. 

Green tomatoes one-half bushel; 

Onions one dozen; 

Peppers one dozen; 

Chop these fine. Sprinkle on them, salt, one pint. 
Let them stand over night Scald them in vinegar. Pour off 
the vinegar, scald again in fresh vinegar, to which must be added. 

Brown sugar two pounds; 

Mustard seed (whole) one-quarter pound; 

Cloves one tablespoonful; 

Cinnamon one-half tablespoonful; 

Allspice one tablespoonful: 

Cayenne pepper a pinch (if desired); 

Celery seed. . .a small one-half teaspoonful, if you like 
the flavor. 

Cook it well. —Mrs. Whttb. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



60 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chow-chow No. 2. 

Green tomatoes one-half bushel: 

Onions (white) one peck; 

Green peppers twelve; 

Mustard (mixed) two tea-cups; 

Cloves (whole) two ounces; 

Allspice two ounces; 

Chop the tomatoes, onions, and peppers, fine. Put them in a 
dish with alternate layers of salt. Let them remain over night In 
the morning, squeeze them dry, put them in a kettle with vinegar 
enough to cover them. Add the mustard and spices, and boil ten 
minutes, stirring all the time. — Mbs. Watebman. 

Chili Sauce. 

Tomatoes (ripe) twelve; Onions. eight; 

Peppers (green) five; Salt two tablespoonfuls; 

Sugar one tablespoonful; Vinegar. one quart; 

Boil till the onions are tender. —Mrs. W. E. Sawin. 

Mustard Pickles. 

White onions (small) two quarts; 

Cabbage one (large); 

Cauliflowers two (large); 

Green tomatoes (small) one half-^eck; 

Cucumbers (small) fifty; 

String beans two quarts; 

Red peppers half-dozen. 

Put these in salt over night. In the morning wipe the pickles 
dry. If the onions, tomatoes and cucumbers are not very small, 
cut them in two. Cut the cabbage and cauliflower in small pieces. 
Scald all in vinegar enough to cover them. Then make a dressing 
as follows : 

To vinegar one gallon, put; 

White pepper (ground) one quarter-pound; 

Mustard (ground) nine ounces; 

Tumeric (ground) two ounces; 

Ginger (ground) one ounce. 

Mix these with a httle cold water, and stir them into the hot 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 61 



vinegar, having first removed the piokles. Boil up well and pour 
over the pickles. 

This is much like Crosse and Blaokwell's chowohow, and foll^ 
as good. — Mks. W. R Sawin. 

The above dressing makes an excellent sauce for pickled lamb's 
tongues. 

Plum Pickles. 

Plums three quarts; Sugar two pounds; 

Vinegar one pint; Cinnamon one ounce; 

Cloves one ounce. 

Pour the vinegar on the plums and let them stand over night. 
Then pour the vinegar oflf and mix with the other ingredients. 
The cinnamon (stick) should be broken in pieces. Boil the mix- 
ture and pour over the plums. Bepeat this process two or three 
days in succession. — Mbs. Fobd. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Peaches seven pounds; Sugar four pounds; 

Cider vinegar. . .one large pint; Stick cinnamon one ounce; 

Cloves (whole) four for each peach. 

Boil the sugar, vinegar and cinnamon together, and skim the 
mixture carefully. After it has boiled a few minutes, take out the 
cinnamon, stick four cloves into each peach and put a layer of 
peaches into the kefctle. Boil them till tender, lay them in jars and 
boil the syrup twenty minutes longer. Pour the liquor boiling 
hot over the peaches and seal the jars at once. — Mr& ArnoiiD. 

Pickled Pears. 
Boil the pears in water till quite tender, then proceed as in the 
rule for pickled peache?. These will keep in a cool place without 
sealing. 

Pickled Oysters (No. 1). 

Black pepper (whole) one teaspoonful; 

Mace two blades; 

Allspice (whole) one teaspoonful; 

Vinegar four tablespoonfuls; 

Salt one teaspoonful 

The above proportion to one quart of oyster liquor. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



62 A SOeW DAILT FOOD. 



Simmer tbe oysters for five minutes in this mixture, then skim 
out the oysters and boil the liq\ior. 

Skim it and turn it over the oysters. >-Mb& Gomfobt. 

Pickled Oysters (No. 2). 
Have eqtial quantities of oyster juioe and boiling water. Brings 
these, with the oysters, to a scald. Then skim out the oysters, and 
throw them into cold water, changing the water two or three times. 
Then into about half the juice put ground cinnamon, whole white 
peppers, mace, and salt to taste. Boil these up together, and when 
nearly cool pour over the oysters. — Mb& AbnoiiD. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter VI.— VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes (Boiled). 

When potatoes are old, peel them and let them lie an hour or 
two in cold water before boiling. 

They should be boiled in hot water with a little salt in it; as 
little water as possible should be used. It is desirable to have it 
all dry away by the time the potatoes are done. Cover them with 
A towel, take tiiem to the open air and shake them. If they are to 
be mashed, take a wooden spoon or potato masher and beat them 
till soft and light, in the kettle they were cooked in or in a hot 
dish. Add butter and seasoning to taste, and moisten with a little 
milk. Potatoes pressed through a colander make a pretty dish. 

Potatoes (Steamed). 
Potatoes may be put in a colander or steamer over a kettle of 
hot water and steamed till done. They will be very mealy, but 
Tequire more time than to boil in water. They can be put over the 
kettle containing some other boiling vegetable, and thus save the 
space of an extra kettle. 

Potato Balls. 
Take one pint mashed potato, highly seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, celery, chopped parsley and butter, and moisten with a Httie 
hot milk or cream. Beat one egg light Add part of it to the 
potato. Shape into smooth, round balls. Brush over with the 
remainder of the egg and bake on a buttered tin till brown. Be 
careful and not get them too moist — Mbs. Henry DiiiUnoham. 

Duchess Potatoes. 

Potatoes ^ye; Flour. . .five dessert-spoonfuls; 

Milk one large half cup; Egg& two. 

Grate the potatoes, which should be boiled and cold. Mix 
them with the flour and milk gradually. 

Add the egg, and drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard. 

Take them out the instant they are of a delicate brown. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



64 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Potato Souffl6 (Nice). 

Potatoes . . six large and smooth; Butter one tablespoonfnl; 

Salt one teaspoonfnl ; Pepper. . . one-half saltspoonfol; 

Eggs whites of four; Milk (hot) to moisten. 

Wash the potatoes very dean. 

Bake them until just done. 

Gut them in halves lengthwise. 

Scoop out the potato into a hot bowl, mai^, add the seasoning 
and half the beaten egg. Fill the skins with the mixture and cover 
lightly with the remaining egg, well salted. 

Brown lightly. —Mrs. DiLiimoHAM. 

Potato PuJK 

Cold mashed potato two cups; 

Butter, melted two tablespoonfuls; 

Eggs. . . . : .two; 

Milk one cup; 

Salt one-half teaspoonfiiL 

Beat the potato and butter to a cream, add the eggs, beaten 
light, then the milk, then the sali Beat all together well, pour into 
a deep dish and bake in a quick oven till brown.— Mrs. Qlivbr. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 
Pare and wash raw potatoes and wipe dry. Gut in very thin 
slices, and fry in hot lard. Take from the fat as soon as brown, 
with a perforated skimmer, put into a colander., and keep hot. 

Delmonico Fries. 
Pare, wash, and wipe the potatoes as above. Gut in strips 
about the size of the little finger. Fry in hot fat. Lay in a colaii- 
der on straw paper or a clean towel, which will absorb any fat that 
may adhere. —Mrs. Emery. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Potatoes six; Eggs (yolks only) two: 

Butter size of an egg; Salt to taste; 

Pepper to taste; Grumbs 

Pare the potatoes and put them into boiling salt and water. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 65 



When cooked, mash fine. Season with the butter, salt and pepper; 
add two thirds of the beaten yolks of the egg& Beat these together 
very light, and rub through a sieve. 

When cool, shape into balls, dip in bread crumbs, then in yolk 
of eggf again in crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. Lay on a pan 
covered with paper, to drain. 

—Mrs. Hbnby DuiLinoham. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Take some cold boiled potatoes that have been cooked in salted 
water with their skins on. Peel and cut them in slices ; put them 
into a saucepan with milk or cream. Let them boil five or six 
minutes. Thicken with a little flour just before serving. Add a 
piece of good butter, a little p^per to taste, and dash a little finely 
chopped parsley over it. — Mrs. Krahnstovxr. 

Peas. 
Peas should be shelled by clean hands into a clean dish, as 
they are better not to be washed. Put them into cold water, and 
boil them till tender. The amount of time they will require de- 
pends upon their freshness. Half an hour should be sufficient for 
peas fit to be eaten. Have as little water as will suffice in the kettle. 

String Beans. 
Beans require long boiling, say an hour and a half. Strip off 
the strings and break them in inch pieoes. Put them into cold 
water. Boil a piece of salt pork with them. When done, drain, 
add pleniy of butter and salt Serve the pork with the beans if 
desired. As little water as possible should be used that the good- 
ness of the beans may not be wasted. 

Oreen Com. 
Put com into boiling water and if fresh, it wiU cook in ten 
minutes. Too much boiling spoils it. 

Asparagus. 
Wash in several waters. Cut off the tough end, scrape the 
white part, tie up in btmches and throw them into boiling wat«r 
with salt in it. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



66 A NKW DAILY FOOD. 



Boil twenty-five minutes, more If required. Try one or two 
stalks and see if it is tender. 

Lay the bunches evenly, with the green ends toward the centre 
of the platter, upon slices of moistened buttered toast Cut and 
remove the strings, spread bountifully with bits of butter and 
serve hot 

Some people cut the asparagus into inch pieces after it ia 
boiled tender, and pour drawn butter over it and serve it in a v^e- 
table dish. 

Shelled Beans. 

Put them into just enough cold water to cover them. Cook 
an hour or till tender. Add salt and butter. 

Baked and Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Select firm, ripe tomatoes, and with a sharp knife cut off a thin 
slice from the stem end. Now remove the green core and fill the 
orifice with an onion chopped very fine, a small piece of butter, a 
little pepper, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of cracker-dust or 
bread crumbs; arrange them in a baking pan, add a little water 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Fried Tomatoes. 
Cut ripe tomatoes in half and fry them on both sides in hot 
lard and butter. After the tomatoes are taken from the frying- 
pan, pour into it a cupful of cream, thickened with flour, and 
seasoned with a little cayenne and salt Pour over the tomatoes 
and serve hot Cold boiled ham chopped or grated fine may be 
added to this. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Scald and skin half a peck of firm, ripe tomatoes; cut them 
into slices; take one pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of best 
butter, two ounces of fine sugar, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and one of onion chopped fine. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of crumbs, upon which place a 
layer of sliced tomatoes; upon these place a few bits of butter, a 
Httle of the chopped onion, a sprinkling of pepper, sugar and salt. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY POOD. 67 



now another layer of crumbs, and then another of tomatoes and 
butter, etc. 

Fill the dish with alternate layers in this way, making the last 
layer of crumbs, dotting it over with pieces of butter and dusting 
with pepper and salt 

Bake in a good oven an hour. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 
Select firm, ripe tomatoes, cut them in two and place upon a 
well-greased broiler. Broil them over a clear fire, putting the skin 
side next the fire first. Pour melted butter over them. Season 
with pepper and salt Serve on a hot dish. 

Spinach. 

Wash in several waters. Put into plenty ot water and boil an 
hour and a half, or till tender. Take from the pot and drain. 

It may now be seasoned with salt, a little pepper and a table- 
spoonful or two of butter, and garnished with slices of hard boiled 
eggs and sent to the table thus; or, after removing from the pot, 
drain in a colander, rinse thoroughly with cold water, then chop 
it in a tray quite fine. Heat in a spider a tablespoonf ul of butter, 
a tablespoonful of flour, a few bits of chopped or grated onion, salt 
and pepper. Mix this thoroughly with the spinach; garnish with 
slices of Qgg and serve. 

Bice (as a vegetable). 

Soak the rice, after picking it over and washing it, in cold 
water for two hours. Scatter this slowly into a large kettleful of 
boiling water and cook twenty minutes without stirring. 

Drain in a colander and serve. 

Winter Squash. 
A hard skinned Hubbard squash need not be peeled before 
boiling, as the squash can be easily removed from the rind with a 
spoon. Other kinds should be peeled, the seeds and soft fibres 
removed from the inside. Cut it in pieces and put into a colander 
or steamer over a kettle of boiling water. It will cook in about two 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



68 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



hours, and will be muoh dryer than if boiled in water. Strain 
through a hot colander, add plenty of butter and salt, a little pep- 
per and serve. 

Baked Cabbage. 
Wash the cabbage and lay it in cold water for an hour. Put it 
into well salted, boiling water. Change the water after it has boiled 
half an hour. When done, drain, chop fine, and add one cup milk, 
one-half cup butter, one teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon pepper, 
two eggs. Put it in a shallow dish, cover with bread crumbs 
moistened with butter and bake till the crumbs are brown. 

— MbS. DlIililNaHAM. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

Cabbage, .one, a fine white one; Eggs two; 

Butter one tablespoonful; Milk ..... three tablespoonfuls; 

Pepper a little; Salt a little. 

Boil the cabbage. When cool chop fine, and add the eggs well 
beaten, then the other ingredients. Mix well and bake in a butter- 
ed dish till brown. —Mrs. OiiivBR. 

Onions. 

Peel ten or twelve small oniona Put them in boiling salted 
water. When they have boiled five minutes change the water, and 
again after ten minutes. Boil till they are tender, but not broken. 
Drain off the water, cover them with milk and cook five or ten 
minutes longer. Season with salt and pepper. 

Serve plain or as a garnish for beef or pour white sauce over 
them. — Mna Hbnbt DiLiiiNaHAM. 

Yorkshire Pudding with' Boast Beef. 

Eggs six; Flour six tablespoonfuls; 

Milk one pint. 

Beat the eggs, add one-quarter of the milk, then the flour, 
then gradually the rest of the milk 

Bake in the pan in which the beef had been roasted for twenty 
minutes or half an hour, leaving enough gravy in the pan to pre- 
vent the pudding sticking. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 69 



Torkshire Fuddin^r.—No. 2. 

Eggs three: Flour. . .one and one-half cups; 

Salt apinoh; Milk. to make a thin batter. 

Bake as above fifteen minutes. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Break in inch pieoes and boil half a package of macaroni for 
half an hour. The water should be boiling when the macaroni is 
put into it; and well salted. There should be ten times as much 
water as macaroni. 

At the end of the half hour drain it in a colander. Return it 
to the kettle with four or five tablespoonf uls of beef drippings and 
a Httle salt. Let it heat through ; then put it into an earthen dish, 
add a can of strained tomatoes, a few spoonfuls of milk, a little 
butter, a little cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 

Grate some old English cheese over the top, and set it in the 
oven to brown. 

Spagetthi. 

Spagetthi may be cooked in the same way as macaroni. It is 
more delicate, and need not be boiled more tiian fifteen minutes. 
Butter may be substituted for the beef drippings when more con- 
venient. ' ^Mbs. AbNOIjD. 

Puff Tomato Omelet. 

Tomatoes. . .four, medium size; Flour two tablespoonfuls; 

Butter a small piece; Eggs six; 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Peel and chop the tomatoes. Bub the flour and butter to- 
gether and mix with the tomatoes. Add pepper and salt. Beat 
the eggs hght and stir into the mixture and fry in a hot frying-pan. 

— Mbs. Olivbb. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

Asparagus two pounds; 

Eggs yolks of five, whites of three; 

Cream two tablespoonfuls; 

Salt r a little. 

Boil the asparagus, which should be tender and fresh, in as 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



70 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



little water as possible, or better still, steam it till tender. Then 
chop it very fiae, mix it with eggs (well beaten) and cream. Fry 
it in batter and serve hot. —Mrs. Stroud. 

Oreen Ck>m Pudding. 

Com one dozen ears, or one can; 

Milk one qnart; 

Sngar one tablespoonfol; 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonfuls; 

Eggs (well beaten) four. 

Mix all thoroughly and bake an hour, or until the oustard is set. 

— Mrs. EiiIiA St. John. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 
Put a can of French Mushrooms into a porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan. Add a little pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon and a good- 
sized piece of butter. Cover the pan and let them stew slowly half 
an hour. Then add flour, which has been smoothed in milk, suffi- 
cient to thicken them to the consistency of cream. Remove any 
particles of butter which are floating on top, add a little grated 
nutmeg, and let them simmer till they are tender. 

Fresh Mushrooms. 
Too great care cannot be exercised in the use of fresh mush- 
rooms. To know if they are good, put a little salt on the gills. If 
they turn black they are good. Cook them in the same way as 
canned mushrooms. As the canned are handled by experts, it is 
safer to use them. — Mrs. Krahnstover. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 71 



Chapter VII.— EGGS. 

Dropped. 

Have a saucepan nearly full of boiling water with a little salt 
in it 

Break each egg separately, being careful not to break the yolk. 

Put a skimmer into the saucepan and upon that, drop the egg- 
When the white is cooked draw out the skimmer with the egg in it, 
carefully. Serve upon slices of buttered toast that have been 
soaked a little, or upon hashed meat. 

Poached Eggs. 

Eggs six; Milk one pint; 

Butter one tablespoonful; Salt 

Put the milk upon the fire in a pan. When it is nearly boiling, 
add the salt and butter. Then the eggs, well beaten, and stir 
steadily till it thickens. Take from the fire before it becomes too 
thick, and pour over slices of buttered toast. 

Omelet (No. 1). 

The requisites for success in cooking an omelet are a smooth 
spider, good butter, and dexterity. 

Beat together 
Eggs four; Cream four tablespoonfuls; 

Put into a hot spider a large tablespoonful of butter. Let it 
melt and turn to a golden yellow, but do not let it brown. The 
pan must not be too hot Pour in the mixture, stir very gently 
with a fork. When it begins to set, loosen the edge with a knife, 
fold, and serve in a hot platter. Let each one salt it to his taste, as 
salt if added before it is cooked makes it heavy. 

Small bits of ham, smoked tongue or beef may be sprinkled 
over it before it is folded. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



72 A NEW DAILY POOD. 



Omelet (No. 2). 

Eggs four; Milk one cupful 

Flour four teaspoonfuls; Parsley one teaspoonf ul 

Thyme one teaspoonful; Salt one-half teaspoonful 

Pepper a pinch; 

Onion (chopped fine) one teaspoonful 

Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly. To them add the flour, 
then the seasoning, then stir in the milk ; lastly add the whites 
beaten very stiff. 

Haye an omelet pan hot over the fire with a tablespoonful of 
butter. Pour in the omelet and stir till half done. Let it stand a 
minute and then fold one half over the other with a fritter turner. 
Serve hot. —Mrs. HuijIi. 

Puff Omelet. 

Milk one* cup; Eggs six. 

Heat the mUk, add a little salt and butter ; beat together the 
yolks of the six eggs and the whites of three ; stir them into the 
hot milk ; pour into a hot, buttered dish, and add the other three 
whites well beaten. Sake ten or fifteen minutes. If the top browns 
before the rest is done finish cooking it upon the top of the stove. 

— Mrs. Omvbr. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 73 



Chapter VII I.— DESSERTS. 

To Beat the Whites of Eggs. 

The whites of eggs will froth more quickly if they are cold. 
Let the eggs lie in cold water before breaking them. Cool the 
dish into which they are to be broken by setting it on the ice of 
letting the cold water run upon the bottom of it. Let them stand 
in a cool place till you are ready to beat them. If they are cold 
and fresh they will soon become stiff enough to stay in any form 
they are put in. 

Eggs, unless they are fresh laid, should be broken into a cup 
one by one that the whole may not be spoiled by the addition of a 
stale ona 

Steamed Custard. 

This should be made in a double kettle, the outside one con- 
taining boiling water. Into the inner kettle put the milk, and when 
it comes as near to boiling as it will in a double kettle, add well- 
beaten eggs in the proportion of four or five to the pint of milk, 
and sugar two-thirds of a cup to a pint. It is well to beat the 
sugar and eggs together before adding them to the milk. The 
whites of the eggs, or a part of them, may be reserved to garnish 
the custard. Beat them to a stiff froth, add gradually a few spoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and spread or drop this over the top. 

Italian Cream. 

Milk one pint; 

Eggs two; 

Gelatine, three-eighths of an ounce (or the weight of 
three thick nickel pennies); 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Soak the gelatine half an hour in three tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. 

Boil the milk and stir into the gelatine, and when cool strain 
them into the eggs, which must have been beaten very light Add 
the sugar; flavor with vanilla. Beat well and pour into a mould. 
Set on the ice. Serve with cream and sugar. — Mna Omvbb. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



74 A NEW DAILY POOD. 



Frozen Pudding. 
Fill a mould with alternate layers as follows: First, slices of 
sponge cake, then slices of banana, then some smooth jelly, then 
macaroons till the mould is f ulL Pour steamed custard, in which 
a teaspoonful of gelatine has been dissolved, over alL Freeze. 

—Miss DiNGIiBT. 

Brunswick Cream. 

Milk one quart; Gelatine one-half box; 

Sugar eight tablespoonfuls; Egga six; 

Brandy or Sherry wine, .one wlneglassfuL 

Soak the gelatine in the milk ten minutes; place over the fire 
and let it come to the boiling point. Add the sugar and the yolks 
of the eggs beaten very light and stir till it is a thick custard. Be- 
move it from the fire and let it stand five minutes. Stir in the 
whites, weU beaten, and the wine. —Miss Huiiii. 

Baked Custard. 

Milk one quart ; Sugar one cup ; 

Eggs four ; Vanilla or Nutmeg to taste. 

Boil the milk ; when nearly cool add the sugar, eggs and flavor- 
ing. 

Bake in a pudding dish in a slow oven till done. 

Try it by slipping a spoon handle into the edge. If the milk 
does not follow the spoon the custard is set. 

This quantity will make a filling for two pies, to be baked with- 
out an upper crust. 

Custard Soufii6. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls ; Flour two tablespoonfuls ; 

Milk (boiling) one cup ; Eggs four ; 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter, add the flour, and gradually the milk which 
must be boiling ; then add the yolks of the eggs which must have 
been thoroughly beaten and mixed with the sugar. 

When cool add the beaten whites and bake in a buttered dish, 
in a moderate oven, thiriy minutes or more. 

Serve instantly. —Mrs. Delunqham. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 76 



Charlotte Busse (No. 1). 

Cream one pint; 

Eggs whites of two; 

Sugar two-thirds cup; 

Oelatine one-quarter box dissolved in 

MOk two-thirds cup; 

Vanilla one teaspoonful. 

Beat the cream, skimming off the froth as it rises, and putting 
it into another pan, set in ice water. Then stir in the sugar and tlie 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Next the gelatine, which must have 
been dissolved in the milk. Stir all together, and when thick enough 
to just pour, turn into moulds lined with thin slices of sponge cake. 

—Mrs. W. H. Sawyer. 

Charlotte Busse (No. 2). 

Milk one pint; 

Eggs four; 

Cream one pint; 

English gelatme one-half ounce; 

Sugar one cup; 

Vanilla one teaspoonful or more. 

Put the gelatine into a gill of milk and place it upon the back 
of the stove, where it will warm slowly. 

Whip the cream to a complete froth, and add the gelatine when 
it is thoroughly dissolved. 

Make a boiled custard (see recipe) of the pint of milk and four 
eggs and enough sugar to make it very sweet. 

When the custard is cold, flavor it with the vanilla, and add it 
to the whipped cream. 

Line a mould that holds a quart, with thin slices of sponge 
cake, pour the mixture into it, and set it in a cool place to stiffen. 

—Mrs. Clbmekt. 

Delicate Dessert. 
Bake a sponge cake in a shallow pan, so that the cake will be 
about two inches thick when done. 

Just before serving, pour some boiled custard over this, and 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



76 A NEW DAILY POOD. 



spread a layer of slioed oranges or peaches upon it. Beat the 
whites of the eggs, about four, which may be reserved from the 
custard, to a stiff froth, and drop them over the top. 

— Mrs. Omveb. 

Wine Jelly. 

Cox's gelatine one package; Water three pints; 

Cut sugar one pound; Lemons juice of three; 

Sicily Madeira wine one pint 

Dissolve the gelatine in a pint of cold water. Add the sugar 
and lemon juice. Upon this pour two pints of boiling water. Add 
the wine and strain into bowls or moulds. Set it away in a cool 
place. It will require about eight hours to harden. 

—Mrs. ArnoijD. 

Cider Jelly. 

Cider two quarts; 

Sugar three cups; 

Lemons the juice and grated rind of two; 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Dissolve the gelatine and sugar for half an hour in one pint of 
the cider. 

Boil the remaining three pints of cider, and when it boils, add 
the rest of the cider, the sugar and gelatine. Let it thoroughly 
mix, but not boiL Bemove from the fire, flavor and strain into 
moulds. 

If the cider is pretty sour, the lemon juice may be omitted. 

Orangpe Jelly. 

Gelatine . . . half box dissolved in Cold water half -cup; add 

Hot water . . one small cup ; then Orange juice one pint; 

Lemon juice of one; Sugar one cup. 

Stir and strain. —Mrs. Beios. 

Orange Jelly. 

Gelatine half-box; Sugar one and a half cups; 

Oranges juice of four; Lemon one; 

Water one pint. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. - 77 



Moisten the gelatine with cold water. Pour over it the pint of 
boiling water, add the sugar and fruit juiee, let it boil up once, 
then strain into a mould, wet with cold water. 

To Serve Orange Jelly. 

Out a small piece from the tops of the oranges, smoothly. 
Take out all the inside. When the jelly has cooled a little, pour it 
into the oranges, as into cups, and set theAi on the ice to harden. 

When the jelly is firm, serve on a glass dish ornamented with 
green leaves. 

Ice Creamu 

Milk one quart; 

Flour one tablespoonful; 

Sugar (white powdered) three cups; 

Gelatine one tablespoonful; 

Eggs (yolks only) three; 

Vanilla or lemon extract one tablespoonful; 

Cream, three pints. 

Bring the milk to a boil, and add to it the flour smoothed in a 
little cold milk. Then add the eggs beaten up with one cup of 
the sugar. Then the gelatine dissolved in a little cold tnillf Be- 
move from the fire and strain. 

The next day add to the mixture, the remaining two cups of 
sugar, the cream, and flavoring. Beat all together and freeze. 

—Miss Dingley. 

Any kind of fruit juice can be added after the cream is partly 
frozen, instead of lemon or vanilla flavoring. 

Oranfire Ice. 

Oranges six of large size; Lemons. two; 

Water (boiling) five gills. 

After squeezing the juice from the fruit, pour the boiling water 
over the peel and pulp, and let it stand until cooL Then add it to 
the juice, sweeten to taste and freeze. Mrs. OiiivBB. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



78 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Raspberry Sherbet. 

Baspbeny jam one cup; Water . . one and one-half pints; 

Sugar one cup; Lemon, jnioe of one-half of one; 

(Gelatine one tablespoonfnl; 

Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the water, mix with the other 
ingredients, strain, put into a mould and freeze. 

Substitute three-quarters package of gelatine for the above 
quantity, melt all together over the fire, strain and set away till cold, 
and you will have excellent jelly. 

Water Ice. 
Make strong lemonade, very sweet; dissolve a teaspoonful of 
gelatine in cold water ; to these add sufficient cold water to make 
the requisite quantity of ice. Orange or any other fruit juice may 
be substituted for lemon. 

To Serve a Watermelon. 
Out the melon in two. Take out the pink part in smooth 
spoonfuls, removing the seeds, and pile up in a glass dish Orna- 
ment with flakes of white of egg, frothed and sweetened with a 
little powdered sugar. Set on the ice till ready to serve. 

Steamed Sweet Apples. 
Wash and core some fair sweet applea Lay them in a porce- 
lain lined kettla Fill the hole in the center with white sugar 
and scatter a httle sugar over the top. Put a Httle warm water 
into the kettle and steam them till they are soft Add more water 
as it is needed, so that there will be sufficient for a little juice when 
done. Keep them covered closely. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 79 



Chapter IX.— PUDDINGS. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Flour three and a half cups; Milk one cup; 

Suet one cup; Chopped raisins one cup; 

Currants one cup; Soda. one teaspoonful; 

Salt one teaspoonfuL 

Warm the molasses and stir the suet, which must be freed from 
strings and chopped very fine, into it. Pour this gradually upon 
the flour. Then add the other ingredients, last the saleratus, which 
must be dissolved in a little of the warm molasses reserved for the 
purpose. Stir fast and thoroughly after the saleratus is added. 
Steam in a well greased double kettle four hours, 
l^iis may be eaten with hot or cold sauce. 

King (George's Pudding. 

Flour three cups; Baisins. two cups; 

Currants T one cup; Milk one cup; 

Molasses one cup; Suet (chopped fine) . . .one cup; 

Soda one-half teaspoonfuL 

Mix as in English Plum Pudding. Boil three hours. 

Sauce. 

Sugar. four tablespoonfnls; 

Butter two tablespoonfnls; 

Flour one tablespoonful; 

Beat together and add 

Egg the white of one beaten to a froth. 

Add a gill of boiling water, stirring fast Flavor with wine or 
brandy. This is a good sauce for any hot pudding. 

—Mrs. Abnoij>. 
Simple Suet Pudding. 

Chopped raisins one cup; Suet one cup; 

Molasses one cup; Milk one cup; 

Prepared flour three cups. 

Steam in a double kettle— one with a hole in the center is best 
—three and a half hours. — Mbs. Comfobt. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



80 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Bread Pudding. 

Milk three pints; Sugar one cup; 

Baisins, stoned one cup; Butter one-half cup; 

Eggs four or five; Bread 

Spices. 

Break stale bread into the milk, and set it upon the back of the 
range; baker's bread will make the lightest pudding, though any 
pieces of stale bread maybe used; pieces of cake, slightly stale, may 
also be used up in this way. About as much bread as the millr will 
thoroughly soak will make it of the proper consistency. 

Add the butter, and let it melt, then the sugar, then the eggs, 
well beaten, last the raisins. 

Spice to taste; all kinds may be used. A tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses will make it look dark and rich. 

Any bread pudding may be varied by spreading a layer of jelly 
over the top and frosting it with the whites of one or two of the 
eggs beaten up with a little sugar. 

Old-fashioned Bread Pudding. 

Bread (baker's) one loaf; 

Milk sufficient to soak the bread; 

Sugar one cup; 

Molasses one cup; 

Eggs five; 

Baisins (stoned) one-half pound; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Spices. 

Slice the bread and pour over it milk enough to cover it Add 
the sugar, molasses and eggs, well beaten. Mix, and add the raisins; 
add spices to taste, half a nutmeg or half a teaspoonf nl of clove and 
cinnamon each; a little salt may be added if desired. Turn into a 
dish holding about two or three quarts, fill it up with milk, and 
bake slowly five hours. When it has baked four hours set it in a 
pan of hot water for the rest of the time. Can be eaten with any 
liquid pudding sauce. Is good warmed over. — Mbs. Ouvbb. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 81 



Ghrandma'8 J's Plum Pudding. 

Baker's bread (stale) . ..one loaf; Suet one oup; 

Molasses one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Baisins one pound; Currants one pound; 

Citron one-half pound; Eggs nine; 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful; Cloves one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one; Wine one wine-glassful; 

Brandy one wine-glassful. 

Soak the bread in milk over night. In the morning pour awaj 
the milk not absorbed, and mix aU the ingredients in a bowl over a 
kettle of hot water. Bake very slowly five houra 

Cracker Pudding. 

Cracker crumbs, two-thirds cup; Milk. one quart; 

Baisins onecup; Sugar one cup; 

Butter. two-thirds cup; Eggs four. 

Boil the milk and pour it over the cracker crumbs, which must 
be rolled fine. Add the butter and sugar then the eggs and rai- 
sins. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour. —Mrs. WiNsiiOw. 

Bun Pudding. 

Baker's buns six; Milk one quart; 

Eggs three; Sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Salt alittle; Spice to taste. 

Soak the buns over night in half the milk. Next day add the 
other things and bake till a light brown. May be eaten cold or 
hot with sauce: if cold, a hard sauce should be served with it 

— Mna Habbis. 
Swedish Honeycomb Pudding. 

Flour one cup; Sugar. one-half cup; 

Molasses one cup; Milk one-half cup ; 

Butter one-half cup; Eggs four; 

Soda one teaspoonful 

Beat flour (sifted), sugar and molasses together. Melt the but- 
ter in the warm milk; to this add the soda. 

Mix all these ingredients, and add the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth.- Bake three-quarters of an hour. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



82 A 3JEW DAILY FOOD. 



Sauce. 

Sugar one cup; Butter size of a walnut; 

Eggs one. 

Beat altogether, add hot water sufficient and flavor with wine 
or any flavoring liked. — Mna Fabdon. 

Delicate Bread Pudding. 

Bread crumbs one pint; or 

Cracker crumbs one pint; 

Milk one quart; 

Sugar one cup; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonful; 

Powdered sugar four tablespoonfuls; 

Baisins one cup (chopped); 

Eggs four; 

Spices to taste. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk till soft Add the sugar, then 
the yolks of the eggs, and salt and spices. Put in the butter and 
raisins and set in the oven. After it has stood long enough for 
the butter to melt, stir it well from the bottom. 

It will require from half to three-quarters of an hour in a mod- 
erate oven to baka When done, frost with the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff, and the four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar added 
gradually. Brown. — Mna Ouvbr. 

Bread Pudding. 

Bread Crumbs one and a half pints, or three cups; 

Milk one quart; 

Butter one-eighth pound; 

Eggs six; 

Sugar one-half cup (or more if desired); 

Powdered sugar. four tablespoonfuls; 

Spice or essence. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs, and stir in 
the butter while warm. When cool, add the sugar, then the whites 
of the eggs except two, which should be reserved for frosting. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 83 



Add spioe or flayoring to taste, and bake in an earthen dish in 
a slow oyen from thirty-Hye to fifty mintue& 

When done frost the top with the whites of the eggs, which 
must haye been beaten to a stiff froth and sweetened with the four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. —Mrs. Fobd. 

Indian Pudding No. 1 (very nice). 

Com meal four eyen tablespoonfuls; 

Flour. four eyen tablespoonfuls; 

Salt aUttle. 

Mix the aboye with a little cold milk. 

Add to these one quart of scalded milk. Then 

Eggs four, well beaten; 

Soda, .one teaspoonfnl dissoWed in two tablespoonfuls 
of hot water. 
Add to the soda and water 

Molasses one cup; 

Baisins (stoned) one cup; 

Cinnamon a little. 

Steam three hours. To be eaten with sugar and cream. 

—Mrs. OuyBR. 

Indian Pudding No. 2. 

Milk one quart; 

Indian meal two cups; 

Molasses one-half cup; 

Suet two tablespoonfuls (chopped); 

Salt one-hdlf teaspoonful; 

Cinnamon one-half teaspoonful; 

Ginger one-half teaspoonful; 

Flour one-half cup. 

Boil all but a cupful of the milk, and pour it hot oyer the 
other ingredients. 

Bake in a high pudding pot, slowly, three hours. 
Then pour half of the cold milk oyer it, and bake another hour; 
then add the rest of the cold milk, coyer with a plate and bake 
three hours longer. —Mrs. W. C. Emery. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



84 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Bice Pudding.~To be Eaten Gold. 

Milk one quart; 

Bioe one tablespoonfnl 

Salt .a pinch 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls 

Nutmeg or Vanilla to taste. 

Mix and bake slowly four hours. 

Economical and delicious. 

Crocoanut Pudding. 

CJocoanut one (grated); or 

Desiccated cocoanut one and one-half cups; 

Milk one quart; 

Eggs five; 

Sugar .one cup, (if grated cocoanut is used;) or 

Sugar half-cup, (if desiccated cocoanut). 

Boil the milk, and add the eggs well beaten, and the sugar and 
cocoanut. 

It is better to soak the desiccated cocoanut in the milk for an 
hour before adding the eggs and sugar. 

Banana Pudding. 

Gelatine one-half box; Milk one quart; 

Sugar two cups; Bananas five; 

Cream one pint. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a cup of cold water. Scald the sugar 
and milk together. Thin the gelatine with a little of the hot milk, 
strain it and add the rest of the milk. Liet it simmer upon the 
back of the stove for ten minutes. Pour into a bowl to cooL Stir 
the bananas, which must be peeled and cut into small pieces into 
the mixture, after it has cooled, (but not stiffened.) 

Serve with the cream whipped to a froth, sweetened if desired. 

This should be made a day before it is to be used, to give it 
time to harden. —Miss BandatjTi. 

Orange Pudding. 

Sugar one-half pound; Butter one-quarter pound; 

Eggs six; Oranges two. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the juice and grated rind of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 85 



tile oranges, then the yolks of the eggs, one by one. Then slowly 
the whites, well beaten. 

Line a deep dish with puff paste, ponr in the mixture and 
bake. — Mbs. Oi^tveb. 

Strawberry Pudding. 

Line a bowl or mould with thin siioes of stale baker*s bread. 

Pour into this a quart of stewed strawberries, hot. 

If -the strawberries are fresh they must be made yeiy sweet 
If canned, half a cup of sugar should be added. 

Set this away till cooL Then turn it out into a glass dish, 
without disturbing its shape. Pour around it a steamed custard 
made of a pint of milk and the yolks of three or four eggs and two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar. • 

Ornament the top of the pudding with a meringue made of the 
beaten whites of the eggs and three tablespoonf uls of powdered 
sugar. 

Prune Pudding. 

Prunes, large and nice . .one cup; 

Eggs whites of five; 

Cream of tartar one-half teaspoonful; 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Cook the prunes till soft in as little water as possible, then rub 
through a colander. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
and add to the strained prunes. Mix the sugar and cream of 
tartar thoroughly and sift them into the prunes. 

Bake it a few minutes in a moderate oven to cook the egg. 
It may be served with whipped or sweetened cream, or a 
custard may be made of the yolks of the eggs for a sauca 

— Miss BaNDAIjIi. 
Liemon Pudding. 

Sugar one-half pound or one cupful 

Butter one-quarter pound or half aoupful; 

Eggs three; 

Lemon one; 

Cracker one (if desired). 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



86 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Cream the butter and sugar together, add the eggs beaten 
hght, then the juice and grated rind of the lemon. The cracker 
majberoUed and sifted and added if desired. It will give the 
pudding more consistency. —Mrs. Ford. 

Lemon Rice Pudding. 

Rice one cupful; Milk one pint; 

Butter, one large tablespoouful; Sugar one cupful; 

Eggs four; Powdered do. four tablespoonfuls; 

Lemon one. 

Boil the rice in salted water seventeen minutes. Add the milk 
and butter to the rice while hoi Then add the sugar and the 
yolks of the four eggs, well beaten, with the grated rind and a 
teaspoonful of the lemon juice. Bake this. 

* Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the remainder of the lemon 
juice and, gradually, four tablespooofuls of powdered sugar. 
Spread this over the pudding when done, and brown lightly. 

—Mrs. Omver. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Chocolate, grated, .two ounces; Milk, boiled one quart; 

Corn starch. . .one teaspoonful; Eggs four; 

Vanilla half teaspoonful. 

Boil the milk, add the chocolate, and boil five minutes. Add 
the corn starch smoothed in a little cold mOk. Cool a little, and 
Add the eggs except the whites of two, which are reserved for 
frosting. Add the vanilla. 

Bake slowly, for half an hour. When done, frost with the 
whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, to which four table- 
«pooufuls of sugar have been added gradually. Brown the frost- 
ing hghtly. —Mrs. Frank Ci^embnt. 

Tipsy Parson Pudding. 

Pour over slices of slightly stale cake, (sponge is best), wine and 
water enough to cover. When soaked, drain off the water. 
Make a steamed custard and pour over it Serve cold, 
The wine may be omitted and the custard flavored with vanilla 
or lemon. 



Digitized by GoOglC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 87 



This pudding may be ornamented with the white of one of the 
eggs used in the custard, beaten stiff and dropped over the top. 

Half a dozen cocoanut macaroons may be placed around the 
edge. 

Danish Pudding. 

Pearl tapioca one cup; / 

CJold water one pint; 

Boiling water one pint; 

Sugar one-half cup; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; 

Jelly, currant or some acid jelly one cupful. 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water over night. 
In the morning put it into a double kettle with the boiling 
water, and cook an hour, or until transparent; stir often. Add the 
sugar, salt and jelly. Stir well and put into a mould to cooL 
Serve with cream and sugar. — Mrs. Bbmis. 

Saratoga Pudding. 

Tapioca one coffee cup; Water two quarts; 

Sugar (white) . one cup; Baisins (stoned) one cup; 

Lemon one; Apples (chopped) . . .one quart. 

Soak the tapioca in the water over night In the morning add 
the apples, then the sugar, then the juice and grated rind of the 
lemon. Lastly the stoned raisins. Bake, in a covered dish, in a 
slow oven, two hours. —Mrs. Bjtul, 

Tapioca Cream. 

Tapioca one-half cup; MQk one quart; 

Eggs five; Sugar one cup. 

Soak the tapioca in water three or four hours. Have just water 
enough to keep it covered. 

Boil the milk in a double kettle, add the tapioca and cook till 
it is perfectly soft. Then add the yolks of the eggs, beaten up 
with the sugar. Cook ten minutes longer. 

Turn it into the dish in which it is to be served, and beat into 
it gently with a silver fork the whites of the eggs, which have been 
beaten to a froth. 

Flavor with vanilla. Serve very cold. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



88 A NEW DAILT POOD. 



Snow Pudding (No. 1.) 

Eggs , . . six; Coni8tardi..8ix tablespoonfalfl; 

Sugar. ..... .one tablespooaful; Lemon juice of one; 

Salt alittle; Water ore quart 

Dissolye the oom starch in a little cold water. Pour a quart 
of boiling water oyer it. Add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 
Stir well, set it in a basin of boiling water, or double kettle, cook 
ten minutes. Turn into a mould and put away to harden. 

Make a Lteamed custard for sauce, of the yolKs of the oggs, a 
pint or a pint and a half of milk, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, and 
a teaspoonf ul of yanilla or any flavoring preferred. (See rule for 
Steamed Custard.) 

Turn the pudding when cold into a dish and pour the custard 
around it before serving. 

Snow Pudding (No. 2.) 

Jjemon juice of one; 

Gelatine or Cooper's prepared isin-glass half-ounce; 

Sugar (white) half-pound; 

Eggs two; 

Water. ... one pint 

Dissolve the gelatine or isin-glass in the boiling water. Let it 
stand till cooL Add the lemon juice, sugar and whites of the eggs 
(well beaten). Beat till it thickens. Set it on the ice or in a cool 
place until it hardens. It may need to be beaten for an hour. 

For sauce, make a steamed custard, (see rule) of the yolks of the 
eggs and a pint of milk. When cold, flavor with wine. 

— Mbs. Fobd. 

German Pudding. 

Eggs ten; Gelatine., .four teaspoonfuls; 

Lemons, three small or two large; Sugar one-half pound; 

Water one cup; 

Boil the water and dissolve in it the sugar and gelatina Add 
the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the juice of the lemons, and the 
rind of one. 

Let this come to a boil. When a little cool add the whites of 
the eggs beaten stiff. Beat all together and cool. 

—Miss NiBBUHB. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A KEW DAILY FOOD. 89 



Foaming Sauce. 

Sugar one cup (heaped); Butter one-half cup; 

Egg one; Lemon one; 

Water three tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg Well beaten, then the 
juice and half the grated rind of the lemon. Last, the three table- 
spoonfals of water, which must be boiling, stirred in slowly. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Molasses one cup; Butter a tablespoonfnl; 

Vinegar or cider, one-quarter of a cup; more if desired. 
Boil the molasses (it should be very nice) until it thickens a 
littla Add the vinegar or cider, and boil up again; stir in the but- 
ter and serve warm. ^ 
(Good with apple dumplings or boiled rice pudding.) 

• 

Creamy Sauce. 

Butter one-half cup; 

Powdered sugar, sifted one cup; 

Wine four tablespoonfuls; 

Cream or milk two tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter. Add gradually the sifted sugar. Then 
add, gradually, beating all the time, the four tablespoonfuls of 
wine, then the two of cream or milk. 

When this is beaten well, and just before serving, place the 
bowl in hot water and stir until smooth or creamy. 

—Mrs. Dh^likgham. 

Hard Sauce. 

Sugar (powdered) ten tablespoonfuls; 

Butter (nice) two tablespoonfnla 

Beat to a perfect cream Add the white of one egg beaten to 
a stiff frotb. 

Flavor with wine, brandy or lemon or vanilla extract, or grate 
a little nutmeg over the top. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



90 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter X.— PIES. 

Pie Crust (No. 1). 

Sifted flour five cups; Butter. one cup; 

Lard one cup; Ice water one cup; 

Salt to taste. 

This will keep well in a cool place. — Miss. Smith. 

Pie Crust (No. 2). 

Flour six cups; Butter, at first one cup; 

Lard, at first one cup; Salt one t^uspoonful. 

Chop the shortening, flour and salt together in a chopping 
tray. (It is a good plan to wash the butter the day before. Many 
cooks do this also for cake, as they think it makes it lighter.) 

Then wet with ice water. 

BoU out about an inch thick, and with a knife spread little bits 
of additional butter all over it, and roll it again. Do this three 
times, always dredging flour over the butter before folding the 
paste. After rolling in the butter three times in this way, make 
the paste into a long roll and lay it on the ice or in a very cool 
place for an hour or more. 

Cut a piece from the end of the roll and roll out lightly a thin 
crust of the size of the plate. 

Chopping the shortening in obviates the necessity of handling 
the paste, which makes it heavy. — Mjta Hood. 

Puff Paste. 

Butter one pound; Flour. . .one pound; 

Egg yolk of one; Lemon juice of one; 

Salt a pinch. 

Wash the butter the night before. Make a hole in the middle 
of the flour; put in the yolk of the egg, the juice of the lemon and 
the salt. Mix this with ice water; then put in the butter and roll 
out four times. 

Set the paste on the ice for an hour before rolling out for the 
plates. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 91 



Mince Meat (No. 1). 

Meat, round of beef three pounds; 

Suet one pound; 

Apples three pounds; 

Cinnamon two teaspoonfnls; 

Allspice two teaspoonfuis; 

Cloves .two teaspoonfnls; 

Nutmeg one; 

Cider three cups; 

Sugar three potuids; 

Molasses one cup; 

Eaisins one and one-half pounds; 

Currants one pound; 

Citron one-half pound; 

Salt to taste; 

Lemons grated rind and juice of two; or 

Vinegar, best cider one-half cup. 

Boil the meat till tender, in a small quantity of water, so that 
there will be only one or two cupfuls of liquor. Chop the 
meat very fine. Peel, slice and chop the apples. Chop the suet, 
and remember that it is impossible to get any of these ingredients 
too fine. Chop the citron, stone the raisins, grate the rind of the 
lemon and squeeze out the juice, wash the currants. 

Boil together in a porcelain lined kettle the cider, molasses, 
sugar and suet. Also the vinegar if you use it instead of lemons. 
It gives a more pronounced taste to the mince. 

Pour these hot upon the other ingredients which must first be 
well mixed. This will keep a long time with the addition of a little 
brandy. If at any time you fear its spoiling, put it into a preserv- 
ing kettle and set it on the back of the range and let it scald 
through. 

If you wish, spread a few bits of butter on each pie before 
you cover it, a little additional salt, and a few teaspoonfuis of 
sugar. 

If anything seems to be lacking in mince meat, it is usually 
either sugar or salt. 

The juice of preserved fruit or jelly may be added to the 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



92 A NSW DAILY FOOD. 



minoe meat» to which the Sftying, ''the more good things the 
better/* is partionlarly appHoabla 

Mince Meat (No. 2). 

Beef (second out from the neck) five pounds; 

Suet (chopped fine) three-quarter ponnd; 

Baisins (stoned) one and one-half pounds; 

Apples (peeled, sliced and chopped) five pounds; 

Cinnamon two teaspoonfnls; 

Allspice two teaspoonfuls; 

doves two teaspoonfuls; 

Mace one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg (grated) one; 

Cider one quart; 

Sugar to taste. 

Boil the cider down one-half, and add the juice the meat was 
boiled in, and a little of the fai Then add the other ingredients, 
with wine and brandy to taste. —Mrs. Abnou>. 

Mince Meat (No. 3). 

Chopped meat two pounds; 

Chopped apples four pounds; 

Suet (freed from strings and chopped) one pound; 

Baisins (stoned and chopped) one poimd; 

Currants (cleaned) one pound; 

Citron (chopped) one-quarter pound; 

Sugar (brown) three pounds; 

Cider three pints; or 

Brandy one pint; or 

Wine one bottle; 

Nutmegs one and one-half; 

Cloves (ground) one tablespoonful; 

Cinnamon (ground) one tablespoonful; 

Allspice two tablespoonfuls; 

Mace one-half teaspoonful; 

Salt two tablespoonfuls; 

Lemons juice and grated rind of three. 

The meat must be boiled tender and chopped very fine. It is 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 93 



desirable to have bat little of the meat liquor left, which may be 
added to the mixtnra Cook all together twenty minutes, except 
the wine or brandy, which must be added last. If a richer prepar- 
ation is desired, another pound of raisins and currants each may be 
added, and a pound of sultanas and half a pound of citron. 

— Mrs. Oliveb. 
Apple Pie. 
Bake a sliced apple pie in a deep pie plate. Heap the apple 
up, as it shrinks, as it softens. Allow six tablespoonf uls of sugar 
and one of molasses to a pie. Spread little bits of butter and a 
pinch of salt over the top. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Cut 
a narrow strip of crust for the edge, dip it in water and put it be- 
tween the two crusts, pressing the upper one down. This forms a 
paste which joins the two crusts firmly and prevents the juice from 
escaping, — a good expedient for all juicy pies. 

Gooseberry Pie 
This may be made in the same way as cranberry pie, using 
gooseberry instead of cranberry sauce (see rule). 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Oocoanut (grated), one, or cocoanut (desiccated), two cups; 

Milk one pint; 

Sugar one cup; 

Lemon one-half grated rind and juice; 

Eggs four; 

Butter one tablespoonf ul; 

Crackers (pounded and sifted) two. 

If desiccated cocoanut is used, soak it for two hours in the 
milk, and use only half as much sugar, as the desiccated oocoanut 
is sweetened. Bake in a deep dish lined witli nice paste without 
upper crust. 

The whites of two of the eggs, may be reserved for frosting. 
Beat them to a stiff froth, sweeten with three tablespoonf uls of 
powdered sugar, add a little lemon juice, and after the pie is baked 
pile the frosting over it in little mounds. Return it to the oven 
and brown lightly. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



94 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Bhubarb Pie. 
Rhubarb (chopped) — one cup; Sugar. . .one and one-half onps; 

Eggs three. 

Mix the rhubarb, sugar and yolks of the eggs. Bake in a deep 
plate without an upper cmsi When done, frost with the beaten 
whites of the eggs, mixed with three or four tablespoonfnls of 
sugar. Brown lightly. 

Cranberry Pie. 
Fill a deep plate lined with crust with cranberry sauce (see 
rule) and bake till the crust is done. 

A few strips of pie crust crossed over the top will improve its 
appearance, and a little powdered sugar may be sifted over it just 
before serving. 

Squash Pie. 

Squash one large pint; 

Sugar two and a half cu)>s; 

Milk one quart; 

Butter two tablespoonfnls; 

Cracker Crumbs three tablespoonfnls; 

Eggs four; 

Ginger one teaspoonful; or 

Extract lemon one teaspoonful; 

Salt one teaspoonful 

Pee], steam till soft and strain the squash. 
To a large pint add the sugar, spice and cracker crumbs, which 
must be rolled fine and sifted. 

Boil the milk and melt the butter in it. Add it to the squash, 
etc., one-half at a time. When well mixed, add the eggs well- 
beaten. 

Bake in a deep plate, with a nice undercrust 

Baisin Pie. 

Baisin& one pound; Lemon. one; 

Sugar one cup; Crackers three. 

Boil, stone and chop the raisins, roll the crackers fine, mix all 
and bake with two crusts. This makes three pies. 

—Mrs. J. O. Bemis. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 95 



Liemon Pie (No. 1). 

Eggs four ; 

Lemons one large or two small; 

Powdered sugar, eight tablespoonfuls for pie, four for 
frosting; 

Butter (melted) one large tablespoonf uL 

Beat the yolks of the eggs by themselves. Grate the rind and 
strain the juice of the lemons into them and add the eight spoon- 
fuls of sugar. Beat all together until very light. Th(>n add the 
melted butter. Pour into a deep plate lined with crust, and bake. 
When done, frost with the whites, which must be beaten to a 
stiff froth and sweetened with the four tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Brown in the oven, —Mrs. Whttb. 

Lemon Pie (No 2). 

Lemona one large or two small; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs three; 

Comstarch or white flour. three teaspoonfuls. 

Mix the juice of the lemons and the grated rind with the sugar. 
Smooth the flour or cornstarch with a little of the milk, and 
mix all together. Bake in a deep pieplate, lined with nice paste. 

When done, frost with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiflf 
froth, and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown slightly. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



96 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter XI.— CAKE. 

Directions Begarding Cake. 

An old-fashioned tea -cap holds half a pint. A goblet or 
ordinary tumbler about the same. *' A pint is a pound aU the 
world round." A piece of butter "the size of an egg is one 
tableepoonfuL" 

Use the same vessel for measuring the ingredients to be used 
in anything you are cooking, that the proportion may not be 
changed. 

Baking powder or yeast powder is cream of tartar and soda 
mixed in the proper proportion of two parts of the former to one 
of the latter. It is a saying of trouble to use the chemicals thus; 
and baking powder should be mixed and sifted with the dry flour. 

If however the cream of tartar or soda are used separately, the 
former should be mixed with the dry flour and the latter ^ssolved 
in a little hot water, or in the milk, if milk is used. 

Prepared flour is flour with the baking powder ahready mixed 
with it 

Before making cake get all the ingredients called for in the 
recipe, ready to your hand. 

Currants, which are very dirty usually, should have been 
thoroughly washed and dried. 

Baisins should have been stoned. Have a cup of water at your 
side when stoning raisins and drop the stones into it. This 
washes the fingers at the same time and prevents their becoming 
sticky. This can be done whenever there is a little time of leisure 
or waiting in the kitchen. Sift the flour. 

In mixing cake the butter and sugar should first be beaten 
together till they look like cream. This should be done with a 
wooden spoon, as an iron one is apt to discolor the cake. It saves 
a good deal of strength to beat cake with the hand, and this may 
be done in cool weather. But in summer the heat of the hand 
makes it heavy. 

Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately, and add the yolks 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 97 



to the butter and sugar, then the whites. Next add half the milk, 
and when this is well mixed half the flour, then the rest of the 
milk and the remainder of the flour containing the baking powder. 
If fruit is used, save out a third of the flour to mix it witL It is 
less likely to sink to the bottom of the pan. Add flavoring. 

This is a good general method to follow, unless otherwise 
directed in the recipe. 

Grease the pans well. The cake is more certain to turn out 
easily if the pan is lined with a well greased paper. Have a brisk 
but not too hot an oven. 

Have your fire just right, so that you need not touch it till the 
cake is done. The old proverb that "There is more in baking 
than there is in making," applies here. If it is mixed ever so care- 
fully and not properly baked, it is labor and material wa^^ted. Do 
not move it, if you can help it, till it is done. If it begins to brown 
before it is properly raised, cool the oven a litUe by removing the 
cover from the stove a little way — just a crack. 

The cake will shrink from the sides of the pan when it is done. 
Try it also with a broom straw, and when no dough sticks to the 
straw it is safe to consider it baked sufficiently. Turn it carefully 
from the pan upon a toast rack or dean broiler. Iiet it cool before 
putting it away in the cake-box. 

Fruit cake needs a long, slow baking. It is safe to leave it in 
the oven half an hour after you think it is done. 

All cakes containing molasses bum more easily than sugar 
cakes. 

Fruit Cake (No. 1). 

Flour One pound; Sugar. one pound 

Butter one pound; Figgs ten 

Baisins three pounds; Citron one-half pound 

Wine one gill; Nutmeg one 

Cloves one-half teaspoonful ; Allspice . . one-half teaspoonf ul 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add the brandy. Beat 
the eggs very light, strain and add them. Add two thirds of 
the flour. Mix the fruit with the rest of the flour and add it 
with the spices. The juice and grated rind of a lemon improves 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



98 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



this cake. Bake in well greased pans, lined with paper, also well 
greased, in a moderate oven from one and one-half to two hours. 

— Mbs. AknoijD. 
Wedding Cake. 

Sugar (brown) one pound; 

Butter one pound; 

Flour one pound; 

Eggs ten ; 

Citron three pounds; 

Stoned Raisins. four pounds; 

Currants four pounds; 

Molasses (darkest) one-half pint; 

Mace, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg (a little more cloves 

and mace) one ounce each; 

Brandy one gilL 

Mix as in the preceding recipe. —Mbs. J. BoijTon. 

Cleveland Fruit Cake 

Sugar one pound; 

Butter three-quarters pound; 

Citron one-half pound; 

Currants one pound; 

Eaisins (stoned and chopped) one pound; 

Flour one pound; 

Molasses one-half cup; 

Eggs eight; 

Spices all kinds. 

Bake four hours. — Mrs. CijEMent. 

Apple Fruit Cake 

Molasses two cups; Sugar, brown one cup; 

Flour four cups; Eggs three; 

Baisins (chopped) . . one pound; Butter one cup; 

Soda. one teaspoonful; Cloves one teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one; Citron one-half pound; 

Salt a little; Dried apples three cups. 

Soak the dried apples over night and in the morning stew them 
in one cup of the molassea Add them to cake when mixed as by 
directions for other fruit cake. This will keep welL— Miss Smith. 



Digitized by VjOQQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 99 



Cup Cake. 
An old reliable and generally useful rule for cake, and one 
easily remembered, is the old-fashioned One, two, three, four cake. 
Only instead of three put three and a half, and remember that 
there are two one«. 

Of butter one cup; 

Milk one cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Flour, three and a half cups; three does not make it 
quite stiff enough ; 

Eggs four; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls: 

This should be mixed according to the preceding directions, 
and is good as a plain cake; or it may be made into currant cake by 
adding a cup of currants; or raisin cake by adding a cup of raisins; 
marble cake by adding to one-half of the batter, spices of all kinds 
and a small half cup of molasses, and putting into the baking pan 
in alternate layers; or fruit cake by adding spices, molasses and 
raisins to all tiie batter; or layer cake, by baking in Washington 
pie pans, when a little less baking powder should be used. 

The dullest servant, if she cannot read, can easily learn thia 
rule. 

French Cake (Reliable and Good.) 

Sugar two cups; Butter one-half cup} 

Flour three cups; Milk one cup; 

Eggs three; Baking powder, two teaspoonfuls. 

—Mrs. Clement 
Spanish Bun. 

Eggs four; 

Butter .three-quarter cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Milk one cup; 

Cinnamon one tablespoonful; 

Flour two cups; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Beserve the white of one egg for icing. Cream the butter and 
sugar; add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, then the whites beaten 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



100 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



to a froth, then half the milk, then half the flour, then the rest of 
the milk and the rest of the floor. Last, the spioe. 

Bake in a shallow pan. When done, spread over it a thin ioing 
made of the white of the egg and two teaspoonfols of sugar, and 
half a teaspoonful of cinnamon. — Miss Fairbanks. 

Gorn Starch Cake. 

Sugai- two cups; 

Butter one cup; 

Flour two cups; 

Corn Starch one cup, dissolved in 

Milk one cup; 

Baking powder three teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs whites of six. 

— Mrs. WinsiiOW. 

Watermelon Cake. 
For the white part: 

Butter one-third cup; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk one-quarter cup; 

Flour one and one-quarter cup; 

Soda one-quarter teaspoon; 

Cream of Tartar three-quarter teaspoon; or 

Baking powder one teaspoonful; 

Eggs whites of f oiu*. 

F'or the red par1>: 

Butter one-third cup; 

Eggs yolks of four; 

Hed Sugar one cup; 

Milk one-quarter cup; 

Flour. two cups; 

ilaisins, stoned and quartered one cup; 

Baking powder two even teaspoonfuls. 

Put the red pait in the centre of a round pan, scatter the 
raisins through it to look like the seeds, and put the white around 
the edg«. —Mrs. OiiiVER. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 101 

Walnut Cake. 

Sugar one and oue-half cups; 

Butter one-half cup; 

Milk one-half cup; 

Eggs three; 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful; 

Soda. one-half teaspoonful; 

Walnut meats one cup; 

Flour two cups; 

Vanilla one-half teaspoonful. 

Mix as in cup cake, adding the walnuts, broken very fine, last 

—Mrs. F. W. Emery. 

Harlequin Cake. 
Cream one cup butter; add two cups sugar; mix well; add 
three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; sift one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, with 
three cnps of flour; add alternately with one cup of milk. Divide 
it into four parts; color one part with two squares melted ohoco- 
late, one part with pink coloring and leave two parts uncolored. 
Bake separately, and when done put together with lemon jelly. 

Pink Coloring. 

Cochineal one-half ounce; 

Alum one-half ounce; 

Cream of tartar one-half ounce; 

Salts of tartar one-half ounce. 

To the first three ingredients add half pint boiling water. Let 
it stand on the stove two minutes; then add the salts of tartar 
gradually. Add one-half pound sugar, and strain through a cloth. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Sugar one cup; 

Lemon grated rind and juice of one; 

Flour, two tablespoonfuls, stirred into a well-beaten 
egg; 

Water one cup. 

Mix all and cook till thick and smooth like cream. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



102 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Sponge Gake (No. 1). 

Sugar. . .three-quarters pound; Eggs six; 

Lemon one; Flour one-half pound; 

Water one-half tumbler or cup. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water by setting it upon the back of 
the range. Beat the eggs very light, and add them to the sugar 
and water. Then beat fifteen minutes. Add the grated rind of the 
lemon, and three-teaspoonfuls of lemon jnioe. Last, the flour 
(sifted). —Miss Smith. 

Sponge Cake (No. 2). 
Simple and sure. 

Eggs three; 

Sug«r one cup 

Flour one cup 

Baking powder. ... one and one-half teanpoonfuls 

Lemon juice and grated rind of one. 

Sift all together, )>ut the eggs and lemon, which add last Beat 
well, and bake quickly in one loaf. 



Ghocolate Cake. 

Butter one oui^; 

Sugar two cui^s; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs five, except the whites of two; 

Flour three and one-half cups; 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful; 

Lemon extract one teaspoonful: 

Fi'osting, 

Chocolate two squares; 

Powdered sugar one and one-half cups; 

Eggs whites of two; 

Melt the chocolate over the steam of a kettle. Add the sugar 
and eggs, and frost the cake as soon as it comes from the oven. A 
little vanilla may be added to the frosting. — Mks. F. W. Emery. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 103 



Chocolate Marble Cake. 

Butter one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Milk one cup; Eggs four; 

Flour three cups; Baking powder,two teaspoonfnls. 

Dissolve a tablespoonf ul of chocolate in a little milk or cream. 
Stir this thoroughly into a cupful of the cake batter. Spread the 
dark batter over the light at intervalf), forming little rings of the 
dark, that the cake may look like marble when done. 

—Mrs. Omveb. 

Sour Milk Cake. 

{Wiihmd eggs,) 

Flour four cups; 

Sugar (brown) two cups; 

Butter two-thirds cup; 

Sour milk one and one-half cups; 

Soda one teaspoonful, to be dissolved in the milk; 

Raisins two cups, stoned and chopped or halved; 

Spices All kmds, to taste. 

This is a very nice rule. — Mbs. Winslow. 

Whigs. 

Milk one pint 

Butter one tablespoonful 

Sugar one cup 

Soda one dessertspoonful 

Cream of tartar two dessertspoonfuls 

Eggs three 

Flour five cups. 

Mix as in previous recipes. 

Frosting fo^" the above. 

Eggs white of one beaten to a froth; 

Lemon juice of one; 

Flour one tablespoonful; 

Sugar (i)Owdered) one x)Ound. 

—Mrs. Harris. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



104 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Com Starcli Cake. 

Butter one-half onp; 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Eggs four; 

Com Starch one-half cup; 

Milk — one -half cup; 

Flour one and one-half cups; 

Lemon Extract one teaspoonful; 

Baking powder two teuspoonfuls. 

Dissolve the corn-starch in the milk, and mix by previous di- 
rections. —Miss Smith. 

Berwick Sponge Cake. 

Beat Eggs, .six yolks and whites together two minutes; 

Add Sugar three cups, and beat five minutes; then 

Flour two sups, with 

Cream of Tartar, .two teaspoonfuls, beat two minutes; 

Then cold water one cup, with 

Soda one teaspoonful, beat one minute; then 

Lemon one-half grated rind and juice; 

Flour two cups, beat three minutes. 

Observe the time exactly, and liake in itither deep cup-cake 
pans in a good oven. —Mrs. J. O. Bemis. 

Almond Cake. 

Butter one and one-half cups; 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Milk one and one-half cups; 

Flour two and one-half cups; 

Eggs (whites only) four; 

Cream of tartar one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Soda one-quarter teaspoonful; 

Almonds . . two dozen, placed over the top of the cake. 
The almonds must be blanched by soaking three minutes in 
.boiling water ; then put them into cold water and rub off the skins. 
Flavor with essence of almond. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 105 



JeUy Boll. 

'Eggs six; Sugar two cups; 

Flour two cups; Milk, .one large tablespoonful; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Put in the pans very thin. Do not bake too long. Lay it be-^ 
tween cloths when done to keep it moist till cool. 

Spread with jelly, roll and place in napkins to keep it in shape. 
This may be flavored with the grated rind of a lemon or a few 
drops of lemon extract — Mrs. HuiiL. 

BibTx>n Cake. 

Sugar two and one-half cui>s; 

Butter one cup; 

Flour two and a half cups; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs four; 

Baking powder two heaping teaspoonfuls; 

Eaisins one cup; 

Currants one cup; 

Molasses one tablespoonful; 

Spices all kinds to taste. 

Mix as in previous directions. Separate the batter into three 
parts. To one part add the fruit, molasses and spices, and bake 
the three parts in pans of corresponding size. 

Put the dark layer between the other two with a little jelly 
between the layers. Press lightly together. 

Frosting may be added if desired. —Mrs. Stroud. 

Bride Cake. 

Eggs six (whites only); 

Flour two and one-half cups; 

Butter .one-half cup; 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Milk one-half cup; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the milk; then the flour, 
mixed with the baking powder; the whites of the eggs, well beaten^ 
last. 

Flavor with rose or almond. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



106 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Angel's Food, or White Sponge Cake. 

Eggs whites of eleven; 

Sugar, powdered or sifted granulated, one and one- 
half oups; 

Flour one cup; 

Vanilla one teaspoonful (scant); . 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful; 

Sift some flour four times; then measure out the cupful; add 
the cream of tartar and sift again. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the sugar lightly, then 
the flour very gently, then the vanilla. 

Do not stop beating till the cake is in the pan. Bake forty 
minutes in a moderate oven in an angel cake pan with a hole in the 
^)entre, that must be kept for that purpose alone, and must not be 
greased. 

Turn the pan upside down to cooL When cool cut round the 
•edge with a knife and remove. 

White Cake 

Sugar, powdered two cups; 

Butter one-half cup; 

Milk one-half cup; 

Flour two cups; 

Eggs whites of four; 

Baking powder one and one-half teasix)onfuls; 

Almond to taste. 

Bake in a brisk but not too hot oven. . —Mrs. OiiiVER. 

Washington Cake. 

Butter three-quarter cuij; 

Sugar one pound; 

Flour one pound; 

Eggs six; 

Milk one cup; 

Baking powder one teaspoonful (scant). 

Mix as in previous dii'ections. —Mrs. Waterman. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 107 



Cream Pie (No. 1). 

Eggs three; 

Flour one cup; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk two tablespoonfuls; 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls; 

Salt aUttle; 

Flavoring vanilla or lemon. 

Mix as in previous du*ections for cake, and bake in jelly cake 
pans; place between the layers the 

Cream, 

Milk one pint; Sugai- one (scant) cup; 

Floui- one-half cup; Eggs two; 

Salt aUttle. 

To the boiling milk add the other ingredients, all beaten to- 
gether; boil until it thickens; flavor with vanilla or lemon. 

— MbS. CliBMBNT. 

Gream Pie (No. 2)« 

Eggs three; 

Sugar one cup; 

Floui- one cup; 

Cream of tartar.. one teaspoonful mixed with the flom*; 

Soda one-half teaspoonful, dissolved in 

Warm water three teaspoonfuls. 

Bake in three layers. 

FiUing, 

Milk one pint; Eggs one; 

Flour one tablespoonful; Sugar. two tablespoonfuls. 

Scald the milk and add the other ingredients. Flavor with 
vanilla. —Mrs. J. D. Winslow. 

Cream Layer Cake. 

Eggs three 

Powdered sugar one cup 

Flour one and one-half cups; 

Water tliree tablespoonfuls; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



108 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



FiUing, 

Milk one pint; 

Sugar one-half cup; 

Butter two tablespoonfuls; 

Com Staitsh one tablespoonfuL 

Mix as in Cream Pie No. 1. —Miss Hum*. 

Gream Cakes. 

Butter one-half cup; Water one cup; 

Flour one cup; Eggs three. 

Boil the water and butter together, then stir in the flour. Set 
it away to cool. When cold add the eggs without beating. 

Butter a pan very slightly and drop a large spoonful of the 
batter at intervals. 

Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

FiUing, 

Milk two cups; Eggs two; 

Sugar one cup; Flour two tablespoonfuls; 

Salt a little. 

Scald the milk and add the other ingredients. 

—Mrs. Clement. 

English Cheese Cakes. 
Make a nice puff paste (see rule) roU out and cut into cakes 
with a cooky cutter. Bake brown and fill with 

Lemon Filling, 

Sugar (granulated), two pounds; Butter. nine ounces; 

Eggs (whites only) twelve; Lemons eight or ten. 

Grate the rmds and squeeze out the juice of the lemons. Beat 
the eggs to a froth, mix altogether and boil in a double kettle or a 
jar set in a pan of water, tall it thickens. Stir often. 

— Mbs. Krahnstoybr. 

It is a good idea to have one or two dozen clean cork stoppers 
to put between the crusts before baking. When done, separate 
the crusts; remove the cork and fill the vacant space with the lemon 
jelly. Wash and dry the corks after using and keep covered from 
dust for the next time. — Mrs. K. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY POOD. 109 



Blueberry Cake. 

Blueberries one cup, or more if desired; 

Sugar one cup; 

Milk one cup (scant) ; 

Eggs two; 

Butter one teaspoonful; 

Baking powder three teasi)oonful8; 

Flour for a stiff batter. 

—Mrs. Frank Clement. 

Chocolate I^ayer Cake. 

Butter one cup; 

Sugar two cups; 

Flour (prepared) two and a half cups; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs five; 

Grated Chocolate (Baker's) one-half cake; 

Vanilla. two teaspoonfulB. 

Bake in Washington-pie plates and put between the layers the 

FiUing. 
Baker's chocolate, one -half or three-quarter cake 
(melted); 

Sugar two cups, dissolved in Iwiling water; 

Eggs whites of two, l>eaten a little. 

Boil all together; when cool add 

Vanilla four teasix>onfalK; 

Coooanut one cupful (if desired). 

—Mrs. Searles. 

Wafers (Very nice). 

Butter one cup; Sugar two cups; 

Milk one-half cup; Lemon juice of one; 

Nutmeg. r one; Soda one teaspoonful; 

Flour enough to roll out. 

Boll the dough veiy thin, sprinkle granulated sugar over them 
and press it in with the rolling-pin. Cut in rounds and bake 
quickly. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



^ 









^9JiPm 





^ 


•«pe 




T'f»m^- 


%. - . 




*w 




fMa^wmi 


tg^t^ 


ymdmO. 




'm^n»»m. 




leu 


«»«> -i - 



IS 



id; 
«p; 



S«IM1 







cop; 
cop: 



infill. 



the rM 



* cop 

aecQp 

*wcapn; 

(me oQp; 

two 

laiKpooolol 

WeKpoonfal 

''^Kpoonfnl of 



L> k a8 onp oake. 
_ ■ ItheKpioeRin^^lj^ 

' ' '^ *^^"l« more floor th«i 
--l;-U^lve.linitZ^^ 

^ tofferi^UoonHUUmcT 

^htness. ^ Pwp«r minng tad 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



110 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Plain Gake for Layer Cake. 

Sugar one and a half cui>s; 

Butter one-half cup; 

Water one cup; 

Flour two and a half cups; 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls; 

Eggs three (white of one reserved for icing); 

Lemon -.grated rind of one, if convenient. 

—Mrs. Huiiij. 
Orange or Lemon Filling. 

Water two cups; 

Com Starch three tablespoonfuls; 

Oranges juice of three, grated rind of two; or 

Lemons two; 

Sugar one cup; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Eggs yolks of three; 

Add the com starch dissolved in one-half cup of the cold water, 
to the rest of the water when it boils; add the rest of the ingredi- 
ents; cook all together ten minutes or until it thickens. 

Chocolate Filling. 

Baker's chocolate. ..one square; Sugar one cup; 

£ggs yolks of two; Milk one-third cup (boiled). 

Stir the chocolate and sugar into tlie boiling milk, then add 
the egg well beaten. Simmer ten minutes; flavor with vanilla. 
Let it cool before using. • —Miss Smith. 

Filling for Layer Cake. 

Baisins, stoned and chopped fine. one cup; 

Eggs whites of two well beaten. 

Mix; add the juice of one or two lemons. 

Orange Cake Filling. * 

Oranges grated rind and juice of two; 

Eggs whites of two; 

Sugar enough to stiffen the above. 

—Mrs. Harbis. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. Ill 



Orange Cake. 

(To he baked in layers. ) 

Eggs five; 

Sugar two cups; 

Powdered sugar for frosting 

Sweet milk one-half cup; 

Baking powder , one teaspoonful; 

Flour two cups; 

Butter one teaspoonful or size of a walnut; 

Orange one. 

Grate the rind of the orange and re8er\'e the whites of two eggs 
for the filling. Sweeten tliis with the jwwdered sugar and spread 
between the layers. 

Strawberry Short-Cake. 

Milk (sour) one cup; 

Butter size of a walnut; 

Soda, one-third of a teaspoonful dissolved in a little of 
the milk. Mix lightly and bake in a quick oven. 
Mash and sweeten a pint and half of berries. When the cake 
is baked, split it and butter each part Spread the strawberries 
between the layers and serve immediately, 

Strawbemee mashed and sweetened may be spread between 
any layer eoke. Then garnish the top with whole strawberries. 

—Mrs. C. C. Dilungham, 

New Tears Cakes. 

Butter one and one-quarter pounds; 

Lard one pound; 

Sugar two jwunds; 

Luke warm water one pint; 

Soda one teaspoonful; 

Caraway seed five teaspoonfuls; 

Flour, about six pounds, or enough to make it suffici- 
ently stiff to roll out. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the flom-, drop in the caraway 
seeds, then add the water and the soda dissolved in a little hot 
water. Boll about half an inch thick and cut with a wooden cake 
cutter. —Mrs. Arnom). 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



112 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Orange Bhort-Cake. 
Make u crust us for strawberry short-oake, and spread sliced 
oranges, from which the seeds and as much as possible of the pulp 
have been removed, between the layers. A little grateil or desic- 
cated ooooanut may be mixed with the orange for variety. 

—Mrs. T. S. DiUiiNOHAM. 

Barnard Cake. 

Butter one cup; Sugar three cups; 

Mour. ..four and one-half cups; Eggs four. 

Milk one cup; Soda one teaspoonful; 

Lemon juice and rind of one. 

Sugar Cookies (Bich). 

Butter two-thirtls of a cupful; 

Sugar two-thirds of a cupful; 

Flour one heaping cupful; 

Cinnamon (ground) one teaspoonful; 

Mace or nutmeg (ground) one-half teasiK)onful; 

Egg one ; 

Cold water one teaspoonful. 

Cream the sugar and butter, add the egg and spice, then grad- 
ually the flour. Roll as thin as possible, cut into cookies and bake. 

—Mrs. Emery. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Sugar Hvo cups; 

Butter ^e cup; 

Eggs t vo; 

Milk one I . - ., 

Baking powder one and one-half teaspof>ii: ' 

Nutmeg (gi-ated) oL . 

Flour to roll stiff. 

Mix as for cake, add as much flour as is needed, roll veiy thii: 
cut out, scatter a little sugar over the top before putting in pans, 
and press it down with the rolling-pin. —Mrs. WinsijOW. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 113 

Jiunbles. 

Flour three-quarter pound; Sugar one-half pound; 

Butter. six ounces; Eggs two; 

Nutmeg and rosewater to taste. 

Mix as for oake; roll them out with your hands, dip them 
in sugar, and bake in round rings. —Mrs. Ford. 

Boston Crookies. 

Molasses two oups; Sugar one cup; 

Butter. . .^ one cup; Milk. one cup; 

Soda two teaspoonfuls; Flour five cups; 

Eggs two; Ginger one tablespoonful. 

Melt the butter in the molasses, pour them upon the sugar 
mixed with the spice and a small part of the flour. Add the eggs, 
yveU beaten; dissolve the soda in the milk; and add, then the rest 
of the flour. Bake in gem pans. —Mrs. WinsijOW. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

Butter, lard or nice beef drippings one cup; 

Sugar one cup; 

Molasses two cups; 

Sour milk. one cup; 

Eggs two; 

Soda one teaspoonful; 

Ginger one tablespoonful; 

Cloves, cinnamon and allspice, one-half teaspoonful of 
each, if desired; 

Flour. to make a batter as thick as cup cake. 

Put the sugar, one or two cups of flour and the spices in a dish, 
and mix. Melt the shortening in the boiled molasses and add 
gradually. Then add half the milk, then a little more flour, then 
the other half of the milk, with the soda dissolved in it, lastly the 
eggs and sufficient flour to make it of the right consistency. 

Gingerbread as well as cake depends upon proper mixing and 
thorough beating for its lightness. —Mrs. Ford. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



114 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Gingerbread. 

Molasses one cup; 

Boiling water one cup; 

Lard or butter one tablespoonful; 

Ginger one tablespoon|ul; 

Baking soda one teaspoonful; 

Salt aUttle; 

Flour as much as can be stirred into the m'ilasses. 

Mix the flour and molasses, then add the soda dissolved in a 
little boiling water, then the ginger, salt and shortening. 

—Mrs. Gumming& 

Hard Sugar Gingerbread. 

Butter one cup; Sugai- two cups; 

Egg one; Milk three-quarters cup; 

GKnger one teaspoonful; Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Mix ratlier stiff; add flour to roll out — Mbs. Omvbr. 

Ginger Snaps (No. 1). 

Molasses one cup; Sugai* one cup; 

Butter tliree-quartere cup; Scxla one teaspoonful; 

Water (hot) one-third cup; Ginger two teaspoonfuls; 

Flour sufficient to roll out. 

Boil the sugar and molasses together one minute. Add the 
butter, then the soda dissolved in tlie hot wiater, then the ginger 
itnd flour. Will roll out very thin. —Mbs. Bemis. 

Ginger Snaps (No. 2). 

Butter two-thirds cup; 

liard two-thirds cup; 

Sugar (brown) one cup; 

Molasses one pint; 

Ginger. tWo tablespoonfuls; 

Flour one quart (at first); 

Soda two teaspoonfuls, dissolved in 

Milk four tablespoonfuls; 

Spice a little of all kinds; 

Pepper one-half teaspoonful (if liked). 

After mixing, add flour enough to roll out. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 115 



Molasses Cake. 

Molasses one large cup; 

Warm water one-half cup; 

Shortening one-half cup; 

Baking powder one teaspoonful; 

Ginger one-half teaspoonful; 

Cinnamon one-half teaspoonful; 

Nutmeg one-half one; 

Flour to make a batter. 

—Mrs. Horace C. Fardon. 

Douglinuts. 

Sugar one and one-half cups; 

Butter one-half teaspoonful; 

Milk one cup; 

Eggs ^o; 

Baking ix)wder three teaspoonfuls; 

Nutmeg one and one-half; 

Flour enough to roll out 

Mix as for cake, cut out, and fry in plenty of hot Wd. Tiy a 
piece of the dough ; if it rises quickly to the top of the lard, and 
does not scorch, the heat will be right. When it rises, turn the 
doughnut over. They should be rolled about one-quarter of an 
inch thick. Sift iwwdered sugar over them l>ef oi-e you put them 
upon the table. 

Frosting. 
Easily made. 

X^gg white of one; Powdered sugar. one large cup; 

Com Starch one teaspoonful. 

Beat the eg^ a little— noi till white, stir in the sugai- gradually, 
then the com starch. When smooth, spread it on your cake. 

— Mrs. Jr D. WiNsiiOw. 

Gelatine Frosting. 

Gelatine one teaspoonful; 

"Water one-third of a cup; 

Sugar (powdered) sufficient to thicken ; 

Vinegar (nice) one-half teaspoonful. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water on the back of the range. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



116 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Add the sugar, gradually, and the vinegar. This hardens 
quickly and is easily made. It is thick enough when it will just 
spread smoothly witliout running. — Mrs. Clement. 

Frosting (No. 3). 

This is usually made by beating the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth. 

For a meringue, add very slowly a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar to an egg. 

For a stiff frosting add gradually to the beaten whites suffici> 
ent powdered sugar to make it stiff enough to spread smoothly, 
but not to run. 

A teaspoonful of lemon juice or nice vinegar helps it to harden. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Eggs whites of two; 

Sugar (powdered) .one-half cup; 

Chooolate one square or six tablespoonfuls; 

Vanilla one teaspoonful. 

Melt over the fire, the chocolate and sugar in two tablespoon- 
fuls of water. When smooth add the egg. 

Frosting (No. 5). 
For the wliite of one egg, add teaspoonful of lemon juice and 
one teaspoonful of powJerel sugar. Beat thoroughly, then add 
another teaspoonful of sugar, and so on till the frosting is thick 
enough to cut witli a knife and leave its mark. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 117 



Chapter XII.— PRESERVES. 

Preserves. 

Jellies should be made from the juice (only) of fruits. Equal 
quantitiee of juice and sugar, heated separately, and then boiled 
together hard and ceaselessly for twenty minutes, is a good general 
rule. Jam is made from the juice and pulp of fi-uit— all that can 
be squeezed through a sieve. Equal quantities of pulp and sugar 
boiled together till quite thick. It must be stirred constantly. Try 
it on the ice to judge when it is thick enough. 

Canned preserves require about two cups of sugar to a cup of 
water. Boil the syrup by itself, adding a cup of water once or 
twice as it boils away. Skim it carefully. Add the fruit and boil 
till tender. The cans should be filled with boiling hot preserve, 
entirely full, and closed immediately, air-tight. Lay the cans on 
the side and if they are not tight they will probably leak. 

Glasses for jellies and preseiTCs should be immersed in hot 
water before filling. 

A silver spoon or fork put into a glass will (h-aw the heat from 
the hot liquid and prevent the glass from breaking. Setting the 
glasses upon a wet towel will serve the same purpose. 

duince Preserve. 

Of nice orange quinces take equal quantities of f niit and sugar. 

Peel the quinces and cut into quarters or eighths. 

Boil them, in water enough to cover them, till they are tender. 
Take them out one by one and lay them upon a platter. 

Make a syrup of the water and sugar by boiling them together, 
skimming if necessary. Return the quince to the preserving ket- 
tle and boil all three-quarters of an hour longer. Put into a stone 
jar, spread a brandied paper over the preserve and co>er close- 
Tie a piece of wrapping paper over the cover of the jar. 

Brandied Peaches. 
Lay the peaches for a few moments in a kettle of boiling water. 
Then they may be held in a dry towel and peeled off smoothly. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



118 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Make a syrup in the proportion of one-lialf pound of sugar to 
one pound of fruit Boil a few minutes. 

Put tlie trait in jars and pour over them equal parts of the syrup 
and white brandy. —Mrs. Habbis. 

Rhubarb Jelly. 

Cut up the rhubarb without peeling. Steam it till very isoft 
Then lay it on a hair sieve to drain over night till all the juice is 
out It may be pressed a little at last 

To a pint of juioe allow a scant pound of sugar. 

Boil the juice, and skim. Heat the sugar in tlie oven while the 
juice is boiling. Add the hot sugar to the juice, and boil till it 
forms jelly when tried. 

Tliis looks and tastes like guava jelly, and keeps well 



Delicious Apple Sauce. 

Place a layer of peeled and quartered apples in a bean pot; 
sprinkle a little sugai* over them; then put in another layer of 
apples which sweeten as before; continue till the pot is about two- 
thirds full. 

Cover tightly and bake thi-ee or four hours. Put no water in 
them, but do not let them bake dry. Take them from the oven 
while moist and juicy, and do not allow them to bake too fast. 

Tasteless, insipid apples become in this manner rich in color 
and flavor. 

Sunday Apple Sauce. 

Core and l3ake, filling tlie holes \iitli sugar, seven or eight 
apples. 

Wlien veiy soft strain them into a small pudding dish. Grate 
in the rind of a lemon, and spread over the top the white of aii egg 
beaten to a stiff frost and mixed with half a cup of powdered sugar. 
Brown slightly. 

To be eaten cold. 



Digitized by tjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



119 



Cranberry Sauce. 

Wash and pick over the cranberries carefully; cover the bottom 
of a porcelain-lined kettle with water, put in the berries with two- 
thirds the quantity of sugar. Pour over them a teacupful more of 
water and boil slowly till every beny is broken. . 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Follow directions for Cranberry Sauce. 

This or the preceding rule will make a good filUng for pies. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



120 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Chapter XIII.— CANDY. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 1). 

Water three-quarter cup; Sugar tliree cups. 

Boil Um minutes A\ithout stirring. Just before taking from the 
fire add one and one-half cups of cocoanut and a little cream of 
tartai*. 

Beat until cold. Spread over buttered paper. 

—Miss CiiiFPORD. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy (No. 2.) 

Sugar two cupfuls; Water one-third of a cup; 

Lemon or vanilla. . .one teaspoonful, (more, if desired.) 
Boil the water and sugar less than five minutes, till it is 
stringy. When cold beat with a fork till it has a creamy api>ear- 
ance. Flavor with lemon or vanilla and stir in cocoanut till it is 
thick enough. Poiu* into a platter to harden. — M. F. SniLiiABER. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 1.) 

Sugar one cup; Molasses one cui>; 

Milk one-quai-ter cup; Butter one tablespoonful; 

Chocolate. . .six tablespoonfuls; Vanilla two teaspoonfuls. 

Boil the sugar and molasses together for fifteen minutes, add 
the chocolate, butter and milk and boil fifteen minutes more. Try 
in oold water. When it will liarden take it from the fire. Add the 
flavoiing and ix>m* into a buttered platter. 

Mark off into squai*es before it is quite cold. 

— M. F. Shillaber. 

Chocolate Caramels (No. 2). 

Sugar one cup; Butter one-half cup; 

Molasses one cup; Chocolate, .one-quarter ix)und. 

Boil from thuiy to foiiy minutes or until brittle, when put in 
water. Flavor ^-ith vanilla. — Miss Smith. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 121 



Cream Peppermint Candy. 

Granulated sugar three cups; 

Hot water one cup; 

Cream of tartar one-quarter teaspoonfuL 

Mix these, and put them upon the fire. Boil hard ten minutes. 
Do not stir it till you take it from the fire. Then drop eight or ten 
drops of oil of i>epperment into it. Heat it until it creams and will 
drop on paper. — Miss Smith. 

Lemon Candy. 

Sugar two cups; 

Water one cup; 

Vinegar , . . three-quarters cup; 

Butter one tablespoonful; 

Essence of lemon one teaspoonful. 

Boil the sugar, water and vinegar together. Put in the butter 
when nearly done, and the lemon after it is taken from the fire. 
Try in a cup of water, when it will harden ; turn into a well-greased 
platter. Wlien nearly cool, mark oflf into squares. 

— M. F. SmMiABEB. 

Hoarhound Candy. 

Hoju-hound tea (strong) one cup; 

Sugai* two pounds; 

Water one-half cup; 

Cream of tai*tar one-quarter teasixxjnful. 

Dissolve all together. Boil harcL Turn uiK>n a i>late thin. 
Cut while hot. 

French Candies. 

A 1 confectioner's sugar must be used in making these candies. 
It must be rolled and sifted. 

Place the wliites of two eggs in a tumbler, and mark the 
amount. Pour this into a dish and add the same of cold water, 
and a scant teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir these well together, and 
have ready about two pounds of the sugar; add this slowly, stirring 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



122 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



with a silver spoon. A little more or less sngar most be used ac- 
cording to the size of the ^gs. 

Have ready » 

Cocoanut, grated one; 

English walnuts, shelled : one-half pound; 

Almonds, shelled one-half pound; 

Dates, stoned ^ one-half pound. 

Take a part of the mixture on to the bread-board and knead a 
little more sugar into it, then roll it out half an inch thick. 

Cut off small pieces witli a silver knife, and shape with the 
hands into balls; set this aside to harden for chocolate drops. 

Gut off other pieces, and shaping them with the hands place 
halves of the walnuts on each side. 

Eoll the almonds in pieces of the dough, and then in granu- 
lated sugar, shaping them nicely. 

Stone the dates and fill tlie opening with the dough, then roll 
in granulated sugar. 

Place some more of the dough upon the board and knead into 
it as much cocoanut as it will hold, then roll and cut into squares. 
The broken pieces of nuts may be chopped and mixed with the co- 
coanut, and moulded into the dough and cut into squares. 

Melt half a cake of Baker's chocolate on the back of the 
stove — do not let it boil. Drop the balls which were reserved at 
first into this, dip them out with a silver fork and place them on a 
paper to harden. 

This makes delicious candy. — Mrs. W. H. Sawybr. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY POOD. 12S 



Chapter XIV.— MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cream Toast. 

Milk one pint; Butter one half cup; 

Salt one-half teaspoonful; Flour one tablespoonfuL 

Boil the milk, add the flour, smoothed in a little cold milk. 
Stir it until it thickens. Add the butter, stir it until it melts; add 
the salt Dip slices of nicely browned toast, one by one, into thia 
cream. When they are well soaked put them into a dish, pour the 
cream over them, cover and serve hot. 

Water Toast. 

Boiling water. one pint; Butter one cup; 

Flour .one tableepoonful; Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Smooth the flour in cold water, stir it into the boil ng water 
till it thickens. Add the butter, stirring till it is melted; then the 
salt and pour over the toast. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

Boiled Biscuit. 

Soak half a dozen nice fresh pilot biscuit in water, a little 
salted, over night. In the morning steam them in a perforated 
steamer tiU thoroughly heated through. 

Stir two-thirds of a cup of butter into them till it is melted » 
salt to taste and serve hot. 

Noodles. 

Add gradually to two or three eggs (not beaten), sufficient 
flour to make a very stiff batter. "When too stiff to stu- with a 
spoon, mould with the hands. 

Cut the dough in two. If there are any small holes in it 
mould it still longer until it is entirely smooth. 

Roll out very thin, and leave the paste on the moulding-board 
till perfectly dry, or it may be spread upon a dean cloth to dry. 

When dry, cut into narrow strips. These require about five 
minutes to boil, and are excellent to thicken soups, or may be 
boiled in salted water to eat with meat, when squares of fried bread 
may be spread over the top, after they are put in the dish in which 
they ai'e to be served. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



124 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Boston Baked Beans. 

Dried pea beana one quart; 

Salt pork. one pound; 

Granulated sugai* or molasses. two tablespoonfuls; 

Salt and pepper 

Put on the beans in plenty of cold water and let them come to 
a boiL Parboil until the skins *' wrinkle, " changing the water two 
or three times. 

Drain and wash thoroughly. 

Put in a deep ** Boston beam pot, " and lay the pork, scored, over 
the top. Put in sugar and salt, and pour over them boiling water 
enough to cover them. 

Bake from eight to twelve hours, keeping a cover over the top 
tmtil an hour before serving. Add more boiling water once or 
twice. To serve, remove the pork first, then ix)ur out the beans. 
Do not dip out with a spoon. 



Split Peas (Boiled). 

Wash a cupful of split peas. Put them to soak over night in 
twice the quantity of water that will cover them. In the morning 
boil them till they are soft and the water is nearly boiled away. 
Season with salt and melt a tablespoonful of butter in them. 
Turn into a mould wet with cold water. When cold, it can be 
turned out into a platter and cut into slices like cheese. 

Instead of the butter, a slice of pork may be boiled with the 
peas, if pork is liked. 

French Toast. 

Soak slices of bread, with the crusts trimmed ofT, in a batter 
made of two eggs and half a pint of milk, then fry in a buttered 
frying-pan. 

This may be eaten for dessert with a sauce made as follows: 
Two eggs and a cup of powdered sugar beaten to a froth. Just 
before sei-ving, add nearly a cup of boiling milk and flavor with 
vanilla. This is a good sauce for any pudding, and easily made. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 125 



Welsh Rarebit (No. 1.) 

Cheese one cupful; 

Butter one large tablespoonful; 

Milk or cream two or three teaspoonfuls; 

Egg one; 

Pepper 

Salt 

Mustard ^ 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cheese cut small, then 
the milk or cream. Stir often tiU the cheese is melted. Add the 
beaten egg and seasoning. 

Pour on to some slices of buttered toast in a hot dish Serve 
hot. —Mrs. Omvbr. 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 2). 
Select the richest and best American cheese, the milder it is 
the better, as melting it brings out the strengtli. To make five 
rarebits, take one pound of cheese. Grate it, and put it into a por- 
celain-lined saucepan. Add ale enough to thin the cheese suffi- 
ciently, say about a wineglassful to each rarebit. Stir until all 
is melted. Have ready a slice of toast, with the crust trimmed ofl^ 
for each rarebit. Put a slice on each plate, pour over each slice 
the melted cheese, and serve hot. A poached egg may be carefully 
placed on the top of each rarebii —Mrs. Krahnstovbr. 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 8). 

Cheese one pound; Milk one cup; 

Mustard. . one-half teaspoonful; Butter one lump; 

Egg one; Pepper and salt to taste. 

Heat the butter, milk, and mustard through. Add the pepper 
and salt Orate or cut into small pi^ces the cheese, and stir it into 
the heated milk. When melted, stir in the egg. Let it boil up, 
and pour over small pieces of toast. Serve hoi 

Lemonade. 

To every dozen lemcns put half a dozen oranges. Sweeten to 
taste. —Mrs. Jonbs. 

Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



126 A NBW DAILY FOOD. 



Cheese Relish. 

Common crackers two and one-half, rolled fine; 

Grated cheese three tablespoonfuls; 

Milk one cup. 

Heat milk in a saucepan ; add the other ingredients ; then 
a small piece of butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Should, be served 
at once. ^ — Mrs. Omver. 

Liver Fudding. 

Beef liver one pound; Bread one ix)und; 

Suet one cup; Almonds (bitter) six; 

Almonds (sweet) six; Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the liver and suet, carefully removing the fibre and skin. 
Pour boiling water over the bread. Wlien thoroughly moistened, 
squeeze out the water. Remove the skins from the almonds, and 
cut them in slices. Add the pepper and salt, and beat all together 
into a smooth paste. Bake in a well-buttered dish an hour and a 
half. —Mrs. C. Gk)ij>ERMAN. 

Hominy Cakes. 

Hominy one pint; Eggs two; 

Salt a Kttle. 

Boil tlie hominy three hours in a double kettle. When oool» 
mix with the well beaten eggs. Flour the hands thoroughly, and 
roll the hommy into balls and fry in hot lard. 

— Mrs. Horace C. Fardon. 

Claret Cup. 

This is sometliing delightful for cultivated palates. 

Take one bottle of claret (not twenty-five cent claret), the rind 
of half a lemon, a few cloves, half a stick of cinnamon, and sufficient 
sugar to sweeten. (Do not make it too sweet). 

Let it just boil in an agate-ware saucepan. 

Then take one pint of cream, and the yolks of two fresh-laid 
eggs, and beat them to a froth. Over this pour the boiling claret 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



A NEW DAILY FOOD. 127 



very gently, eontmuiiig the beating. Stir for ten minntes so that 
it may not curdle. Bemove the cloves, cinnamon and lemon peel, 
ponr into a claret jug, and serv^e while warm. 

After a dance, tliis, if properly made, is nectai- itself. 

— Mrs. Kbahnstoveb. 

Scotch Panada. 

^Joda biscuit si^i; Sugar , . .two teasixwnfuls; 

;Salt a pinch; Nutmeg a little. 

Scatter a little sugar and a grain of salt over each cracker. 
•Cover with boiling water and grate the netmeg over all. Cover the 
ilish and let it stand in a warm place till the crackera are slightly 
soaked. Tliis is nice for an invalid. — An Old Nurse. 

Beef Tea 

Have the l)eef choppe<l very fine; w)ver it with cold water and 
let it stand for an hoiu* and a lialf . Then set it upon the back of 
the range and let it simmer till the juice of the meat is all extracted. 

Skim off all the fat and season. —A Physician. 

A good Brine for F utter. 

Water two quarts; Clean wliite salt one quart; 

White sugai* one ix)imd; Saltpetre one teaspoon. 

Mix. When it lias stood an hour, strain tlu'ough a flannel cloth 
tind pour over the butter. Less salt may be enough but as much 
should be used as tlie water will take up. — Mrs. Oliver. 

To Renovate Black Kid Oloves or French Kid Boots. 
Stir a few drops of ink and sweet oil together, and api)ly the 
mixture to any spots tliat are nibbed or white. 

To Wash Blankets. 

Dissolve a bar of soap in hot water. Put this into a tub of 
luke warm water, throw into the water a lai-ge handful of borax. 

Soak the blankets in tliis over night. Biuse in three dean 
waters. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



128 A NEW DAILY FOOD. 



Do not wring them ont» but let two persons take hold of either 
end and shake them thoroughly. 

If there be any soiled spots a thread should be sewed around 
them, as they cannot be distinguished when wet. A little soap 
may be rubbed upon these spots. 

Turn them onoe in a while as they hamg upon the line. Take 
a good drying season for washing bed clothing. 

To Cleai^ Combs and Brushes. 

Immerse them in water in which a little ammonia or a little 
borax has been put Shake them thoroughly and dry as quickly 
as possible. 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



Digitized 



byGoOgl 



^ 




■^ 



Digilizedly Google 



