Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



\ 



\ 



•rS 






THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK 



THE KINGSWOOD 



COOKERY BOOK 



BY 

H. F. WICKEN 



LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL 

Limited 
1885 



/-,- V r . /^ 



CHARLES DICKBNS AND BVANS, 
CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS. 




^2-'<fob2- 



/ 



PREFACE. 



In sending this little book out into the world, I must 
apologise for adding one more to the vast number which 
have already been published. I have written it with great 
pleasure, at the request of many ladies who have attended 
my demonstrations. I have tried to make all my instruc- 
tions and recipes as plain and simple as possible, so that 
the youngest student cannot fail to understand them. 

The art of good cooking (if I may call it so) is so 
absolutely necessary to the comfort and well-being of all 
classes of the community, that I think its value cannot be 
over-estimated. A dinner well cooked promotes digestion, 
and conduces to contentment and happiness. I hope that 
the day is not far distant when cookery will form an 
important item in the education of our girls. The pleasure 
and gratification (to say nothing of the utility) of being 
able to place on the table a dinner prepared and cooked, if 
necessary, by her own hands, is so great, that no English 
woman can realise, unless she has experienced it, and 
having once felt it would, I am sure, be willing to give up a 
small portion of her time to acquire a knowledge which 
would prove so pleasant and profitable to herself and her 
household. Cooking can be accomplished with so much 



vi PREFACE, 



ease and dexterity, if a few simple rules are mastered at the 
commencement ; it is astonishing how quickly food can be 
prepared, when a method and rule are established. I would 
advise students to give up guessing, and weigh everything ; 
by doing this the exact proportion is obtained : guessing is 
always unsatisfactory, and the different ingredients are 
almost sure to be out of proportion. If a thing is worth 
doing at all, it is surely worth doing well. I would urge 
my readers not to attempt too much at first, begin with a 
few simple dishes, and if they do not turn out well the 
first time, make them over again ; a satisfactory result will 
soon be obtained. The recipes I have given have all been 
well tested ; they are simple and inexpensive of their kind : 
it is easy to make them richer by adding more eggs and 
milk or cream, as the case may be. I have striven to give 
dishes which may prove useful to give variety (which is a 
great charm to our daily table). I will close these few 
remarks with the earnest wish, that what I have written 
may prove useful and beneficial to the Women of England, 
to whom I dedicate my book. 

KiNGSWOOD. 

January 20M, 1885. 



CONTENTS. 



Soups and Purees ... 
Boiling and Stewing 

Roasting 

Braising 

Tea-Cakes and Scones 
Invalid Cookery ... 

Cold Meat 

Puddings 

Omelettes and SoufHees 

Pastry 

Vegetables 

Jellies and Creams 

f ISU ••• •.. ••• 

SOUPS. 

Very Good Stock 
Second Stock 
Clear Soup ... 
Macaroni Soup 
Haricot Pur6e 
Bonne Femme Soup 
Vegetable Pur^e .. 
Tapioca Cream 
Potato Puree 
Vegetable Soup 
Semolina Soup 
Pur^e of Rabbit ... 
Mulligatawny Soup 
Kingswood Soup ... 
Puree of Green Peas 
Tomato Soup 

FISH. 

Maltre d'Hotel Soles 
Sole k la Cardinal ... 
Boudins of Whiting 
Boiled Sole... 
Collared Eels 
Fish Cakes ... 
Potted Fish 
Potted Bloaters 
Sole au Gratin 
Kedgeree ... 
Curried Cod 

SAVOURY DISHES OF 
AND POULTRY. 

Croquettes of Chicken 
Fillets of Beef k la Bearnaise 
Rhode Island Chicken 
Fillets of Beef k la Fran9aise 
Sweetbreads with Spinach 



PAGE 

I 

2 

3 

3 

4 

4 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 

10 

II 



13 

13 

14 

15 

15 
i6 

i6 

17 
17 

i8 
i8 

19 
19 

20 
21 
.21 



22 

23 

23 

24 

24 

25 

25 
26 

26 

27 
27 

MEAT 



28 

29 
29 

3« 
30 



PAGB 

31 
31 

32 

32 

33 
33 
34 
35 

36 
37 
37 
38 

39 
40 

40 

41 
41 
42 
42 



Oysters Superbe 

Lobster Cutlets 
Kromeskis of Lobster 

Boiled Mutton 

Boiled Fowl and Egg Sauce 

Rolled Mutton 

Galantine of Turkey 
Savoury Luncheon Dish ... 

BRAISING. 

Braised Veal 
Braised Fowl 
Braised Partridges... 
Braised Fillets of Veal 

STEWS. 

Haricot Mutton ... 

Scotch Collops 

Stewed Steak 

Leg of Beef Stew ... 

Brazilian Stew 

Irish Stew with Oysters . 

Boone's Stew 

VEGETABLES. 

Croquettes of Potatoes 

Potato Chips 

Potatoes k la Duchesse .. 

Tomatoes Stuffed 

Cauliflower au Gratin 
Turnips Stewed in Stock.. 
Stewed Carrots 

COLD MEAT. 

Shepherd's Pie 

Rissoles 

Croquettes of Cold Meat . . . 

Dry Curry 

Savoury Hash and Savoury Mutton 48 

Boudinettes of Meat 49 

Mince 49 

Curry of Cold Meat 50 

GS,teau of Cold Meat 50 

PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Semolina Pudding 51 

College Pudding 51 

Queen of Puddings 52 

Bread and Butter Pudding ... 52 

Rice Meringues 53 

Bread and Fruit Pudding ... 53 

Bread Pudding 53 

Douglas Pudding 54 



43 
43 
44 
44 
45 
45 
45 

46 
46 

47 
47 



Vlll 



CONTENTS. 



Savoury Pudding ... 
Cape Pudding 
Diplomatic Pudding 
Cheesecake Pudding 

Potato Pie 

Raised Pork Pie ... 
Veal and Ham Pie 
Beefsteak and Kidney Pie 
Kingswood Pudding 
Cassel Pudding 
Apple Pudding 
Tadworth Pudding 
Marmalade Pudding 

PASTRY. 

General Crust 
Pufif Pastry... 
Rough Pufif Pastry 
Short Crust..! 
Genoese Pastry 
Swiss Roll ... 
Chantilly Tartlets 
Lemon Cheesecakes 
Plain Cheesecakes... 



PACK 

54 
55 
55 
56 
56 
56 
57 
57 
58 
58 
59 
59 
59 

60 
60 
61 
62 
62 

63 
63 
64 
64 



OMELETTES AND SOUFFL^ES. 

Sweet Omelette 
Savoury Omelette 
Rice Soufflee 
Vanilla Soufflee 
Cheese Soufflee , 
Apricot Soufflee 
Pineapple Soufflee 
Apple Soufflee 



JELLIES AND CREAMS 

Bavarais of Coffee... 
Corn-flour Blancmange 
Gateau of Apricots 
Vanilla Cream 
Velvet Cream 
Lemon Jelly 
Port Wme Jelly 
Princess Jelly 
Charlotte Russe 
Aspic Jelly ... 
Blancmange 

BREAD AND CAKES. 

Sponge Cakes 
Cup Cake ... 
Ginger Cake 
Queen Cakes 
Sultana Scones 
Hot Tea-Cakes 



65 

65 
66 

66 

ej 

67 
68 

69 

70 

70 

71 

71 

71 
72 

72 

72 

73 
73 
74 

75 
75 
76 
76 
77 
77 



PAGE 



Shortbread 


77 


Rice Buns 


78 


Milk Rolls 


78 


Vienna Bread 


79 


Oatmeal Biscuits ... 


79 


Kingswood Cakes ... 


80 


Yorkshire Tea-Cakes 


80 


Scones 


81 


Tipsy Cake 


81 


Biscuits 


82 


Corn-flour Buns ... 


82 


Gingerbread Cake... 


82 


Shrewsbury Cakes... 


83 


Sultana Cakes 


83 


SAVOURIES 


;. 


D*Artois Parmesan 


84 


Sardine Toast 


84 


Anchovy Toast 


84 


Stuffed Eggs 


85 


Potted Eggs 


85 


Potted Meat 


85 


Eggs ^ r Aurora ... 


86 


Savoury Toast 


86 


SAUCES. 




Apricot Sauce 


87 


"Wine Sauce 


87 


German "Wine Sauce 


88 


Mayonnaise Sauce... 


... 88 


Bread Sauce 


88 


Parsley and Butter Sauce. 


88 


Good Brown Sauce 


89 


Brown Sauce 


89 


"White Sauce 


90 


Melted Butter 


90 


Piquante Sauce 


90 


ODDS AND £] 


ffDS. 


Fried Bread 


91 


Boiled Rice 


91 


Boiled Custard 


92 


Savoury Custard ... 


93 


To Boil Eggs Hard 


92 


Veal Seasoning 


93 


German Paste 


93 


Salad Dressing 


93 


Maltre d*H6tel Butter . 


94 


Apple "Water 


94 


Corn-flour 


94 


Gruel 


94 


Beef Tea ... 


95 


Refreshing Drink ... 


95 


Raw Beef Tea 


95 


Mutton Broth 


96 



THE 



KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 

The first subject that I wish to speak to you on is 
Soups and Purees. I do not think in ordinary English 
households that importance enough is attached to soup as 
a food. In the winter time a plateful of warm soup 
stimulates the digestion, and is quite an appetiser for 
the dinner ; and in summer time, even in very hot weather, 
one would scarcely believe until one had tried it, how 
refreshing a plateful of soup just warm is, when one feels 
quite exhausted by the heat. Now in an ordinary way 
expensive soups are not necessary, and when two or 
three joints are had in the course of the week, soup 
sufficient for three or four persons every day may be had 
without buying any soup meat. Bones contain a large 
quantity of gelatine ; long boiling only will extract this. 
A stock-pot is absolutely necessary ; this should be placed 
on in the morning (I need hardly say perfectly clean). 
The bones broken up of all joints, with the trimmings 
and pieces of gristle, should be put into this saucepan and 
well covered with water; one or two onions stuck with 
cloves, some peppercorns, a carrot and turnip and some 
salt. This should be allowed to boil several hours. It 
may be strained and stood by for use the next day ; when 
the fat has been well removed you have the foundation of 

B 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



any sort of soup. The bones and head of a rabbit, chicken 
bones, etc., make beautiful stock. The liquor in which a 
joint of meat has been boiled must all be saved and turned 
to account. Soups should be just thick enough to coat 
the spoon. I don't like flour for thickening soups; rice, 
crushed tapioca, or semolina are much better. Purees are 
much thicker than soups. Purees should never be allowed 
to boil when put back in the saucepan after being rubbed 
through the sieve, they must just come to the boil and no 
more. Both soups and purees should be served very hot, 
lukewarm soup is very disagreeable, and to ensure them 
being hot when in the soup plate, they should be turned 
boiling into a warm tureen. In concluding these remarks, 
I would insist upon the necessity of extreme cleanliness in 
saucepans and all cooking utensils. They should be filled 
with cold water directly the food prepared in them is 
served; never allow them to be put away dirty. The 
remains of the food are so hard to remove if left on for 
some time ; not only does it spoil the taste of the dish next 
prepared^ but it is injurious to health. 

BOILING AND STEWING. 

Boiling and stewing are two different operations, and I 
think there is not distinction enough made between them. 
For boiling we require a very clean saucepan, plenty of 
pure water, and a steady heat to keep the water about the 
same temperature. To boil meat perfectly it should be 
put into hot water, and allowed to come quickly to the 
boil ; the pot should then be well skimmed. Salt and 
vegetables should then be put in, and when it has boiled 
up again, it should again be skimmed, and then drawn 
back from the fire to a cooler place where it will keep 
steadily simmering but will not boil violently; quick 
boiling only hardens the meat, and makes it tough and 
stringy. The rule of twenty minutes to the pound is a 
good one, but very much depends on the size and shape 
of tie joint ; experience alone will teach a cook just how 
long to allow any particular joint. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



Stewing cannot be conducted too slowly. Very little 
water should be used, as the meat must cook in its own 
juices. The meat should be put into hot water, and 
brought quickly to the boil, and drawn back immediately 
— a few minutes' fast boiling will quite spoil a stew. When 
it has been brought to boiling point, the scum should be 
taken off, vegetables and seasoning added, and stood 
where it will only just simmer very gently. Allow it 
half as long again as boiling time. If cooked in this way 
the meat will be tender and the gravy delicious. I have 
heard people say, '^ Curries are so quickly made." That 
is quite a mistake : curries should be allowed quite as long 
as stews, if you would have them in perfection. 



ROASTING. 

To roast meat nicely in a gas or kitchener oven you 
must get the oven thoroughly hot, and allow it to remain 
at the same temperature for ten minutes after you have 
put in the joint ; then reduce the heat, and cook slowly. 
In this way the juices of the meat remain in the joint. 
Always hang a joint in the oven if possible ; it will be 
much nicer than if cooked on the shelf. It should be 
basted while cooking. The time usually allowed is fifteen 
minutes to every pound ; but in gas ovens, five pounds 
will cook in the hour. When the meat is ready to be 
taken up, warm a little gravy from the stock-pot to pour 
round the joint; the gravy from the dripping-pan pour into 
a basin with the dripping — if served with the meat it is 
always greasy; but when the dripping is cold, remove it, 
and the gravy is then excellent for mince or stew. 



BRAISING. 

Braising is stewing in stock. The heat must come 
from above as well as below. If you are cooking by 
a fire, place some hot cinders on the lid of the braising 

B 2 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



pot, which should have a flat, close-fitting lid. If you are 
cooking by gas, place the braising-pan inside the oven, shut 
the door> and keep the oven at a moderate heat all the 
time the meat is cooking. Braised meat or poultry is a 
very savoury dish. Care should be taken to have a 
nicely flavoured stock, plenty of fresh vegetables, and 
allow the meat to cook slowly. 

The recipe for braised veal is especially good. 

All kinds of poultry, game, and meat are good braised ; 
fillets of veal and fillets of beef larded and carefully braised 
are an exceedingly nice dish. 



TEA-CAKES AND SCONES. 

I only write a few words on this subject, and give a 
few recipes which have been well tried and approved. I can 
especially recommend the Yorkshire tea-cakes. They are 
easily made, and I have never known them fail to please. 
Always sift the flour, for two reasons. You have it then 
so light in the basin to work upon, and there is no fear of 
finding little hard knots in the cakes, which you often see 
in flour. Be careful, too, that the eggs are quite fresh. 
Nothing is more unpleasant than a stale or musty tgg, 
and one such egg will spoil a whole batch of cakes. 



INVALID COOKERY. 

It falls to the lot of most women, at one time or 
another, to prepare food for an invalid. There are a few 
simple rules to be observed when called upon to do so. 
All food must be of a nutritious character, and should be 
made to look as tempting as possible. Beef tea is generally 
the first thing called for, and I shudder when I think of the 
wretched stuff which has been brought to me and called 
beef tea. The recipe which I have written, was given to 
me by a physician, and I have found it answer admirably. 
The beef when strained away, is quite hard and white. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



because all the nourishment has been extracted ; it is always 
better to make it the day before it is wanted, the fat can be 
removed so much better when it is cold. In severe cases 
of fever, etc., raw beef tea is often ordered. I have given a 
recipe for this : if the patient is conscious, it is better to put 
it into a covered cup or boat, as it does not look nice. All 
milk puddings are much lighter if the whites of the eggs 
are beaten separately, and added just before the pudding is 
put into the oven. There is not much nourishment in 
arrowroot and corn-flour puddings ; semolina and macaroni 
are much better, the others should only be given when a 
change is desired. Boiled sole or boudins of whiting are 
very nice dishes for an invalid, and whiting are the least 
oily and most digestible of all fish, and therefore especially 
suited for a sick room. All the common sorts of fish 
contain the most nourishment, such as fresh haddocks and 
herrings, but herrings are so oily that they cannot often be 
given. Rabbits, too, form a pleasant and agreeable change 
in the bill of fare. A chicken cut in half and cooked in 
two different ways makes two nice dishes, and gives variety 
roasted one day with simple brown gravy, and boiled the 
next with a good white sauce poured over. If the chicken 
is boiled in a small quantity of water, and this liquor is 
reduced, then allowed to stand until cold, and all fat 
removed ; served with rice or macaroni, this makes a nice 
supper or luncheon dish. In conclusion, remember to have 
everything very hot and well cooked, and served in a tasty 
appetising manner, and exactly at the time it is expected ; 
nothing is more trying to an invalid than waiting for a 
meal, the appetite often vanishes if the food is waited for. 



COLD MEAT. 

The great cold meat question is such an important 
one to housekeepers, that I feel sure a few recipes on this 
head will be acceptable. So many nice tasty dishes may 
be made with the remains of a cold joint, if one knows 
just the right way to prepare them. Many people say that 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



meat re-cooked is always tough ; but it need not be if it is 
carefully dressed. Hash or mince should never be allowed 
to boil. Never use sauces of any kind in the preparation 
of gravies ; these can always be added at table. Many 
people, to hide bad cooking, put in a large quantity of 
sauce ; in fact, you can taste nothing else. Gravies should 
be nicely seasoned and carefully prepared. Fry the onion 
and vegetables brown in a little butter ; if after that your 
gravy is not dark enough in colour, put in a small piece 
of a French pastille. These can be bought in tins at a small 
cost, and are very useful. Use plenty of fresh vegetables for 
flavouring the gravy, and corn-flour to thicken it. If 
rissoles, croquettes, or boudinettes of meat are required 
for breakfast, they may be prepared the day before ; egg 
and bread-crumb them thoroughly, put them in a cool 
place. They can be fried in hot fat in a few minutes in the 
morning. A raised pie made of cold meat is a very nice 
dish, and is an elegant way of serving cold meat. It must 
be well seasoned. 



PUDDINGS. 

There is such a variety of puddings made in so many 
different ways, that I can make but a few general remarks^ 
upon them. For all sorts of boiled puddings the mould 
must be quite full, or the water will settle on the top of 
the pudding and cause it to become sodden. Should the 
pudding mixture not quite fill the mould in which you 
wish to boil it, place a few crusts of bread on the top ; 
these will absorb the water and prevent the pudding being 
heavy; they are easily removed when it is dished up. 
Pudding cloths should be dipped in boiling water and 
placed over the pudding quite wet. Be sure that the 
water boils before the pudding is put in, and keep it 
boiling the whole time of cooking. When the pudding 
is cooked enough, take it out of the saucepan, take off^ 
the cloth, then let it stand for a minute or two. The 
steam will draw the pudding from the sides of the mould 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



and ft will be much easier to turn out Take a hot dish, 
place it on the top of the mould, and turn the pudding 
u^ ; if the mould has been well greased the pudding- will 
turn out directly. 

Baked milk puddings should not be placed in a: very 
hot oven -; they should be cooked slowly. Always he 
careful that the eggs are perfectly fresh ; break each one 
separately into a cup, for one musty ^^'g will spoil the 
dish.. Always strain the eggs for custard puddings; be 
careful too that the milk is fresh and sweet. 

In mixing puddings of any kind, mix each ingredient 
as you add it \ in this way you can mix more thoroughly 
than if you leave it all to the last- Puddings made with 
suet require boiling for a long time. Boiled puddings 
should be well covered with water, and more water added 
as it boils away. Steamed puddings should be. covered 
with a piece of kitchen paper well greased, and the water 
in the saucepan should not boil too fast, and not reach 
more than halfway up the mould* 



OMELETTES AND SOUFFLEES, 

The principles of making omelettes and souffldes* is so 
easy and simple that it has always been a puzzle to me 
that not one cook in fifty can send up either fit to be 
eaten. The great point to be considered is lightness. To 
ensure this the eggs must be fresh, and well beaten ; the 
whites must be whipped very stiff indeed. Remember to 
have everything very clean and cold. Never attempt to 
whip eggs in a basin or plate which has just been washed 
up. If only two whites are required, take a large plate 
and a long thin knife ; add either a little salt, 6x a little 
sugar. This will make it easier to whip. A special pan 
should be kept for omelettes, and it should be used for 
nothing else. The oftener it is used the better it will be. 
Never begin to cook an omelette until it is waited for ; it 
must be served instantly it is cooked, and very hot^ to be 
thoroughly enjoyed. A most delicious and exquisite dish 



8 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



may be made with only eggs, butter, and sugar, which 
articles are nearly always available. No pains should be 
spared in the preparation of this delicacy. The recipes are 
most simple, and will, if carried out, give satisfaction. 

Souffldes are also a most delicious dish, and easily pre- 
pared when the principle is mastered. The foundation is 
always the same, but variety may be obtained by using 
different flavourings, such as apricot, vanilla, strawberry, 
etc. Always put in one more white than yolk of egg, and 
the great point to be remembered is to whip the whites very 
stiff, and steam very steadily, and also to serve instantly. 
If souffldes are made for a dinner party it is well always to 
have something to fall back upon, for if the dinner is 
delayed the souffl^e will be spoilt. They must be timed for 
exactly the hour at which they are to be served, and must 
on no account be allowed to stand about. The lighter the 
soufflde is the quicker it will fall. They are a most light and 
wholesome dish for invalids, and will be fully appreciated if 
the following recipes are carried out. 



PASTRY. 

In making pastry fthere are a few rules which must 
always be observed. For best pastry the best flour must 
be used, but as it does not contain so much nourishment as 
the commoner sorts of flour, I would recommend that for 
every-day pastry household flour should be substituted, and 
the best pastry whites only used when puff pastry is to be 
made. Always sift the flour into the basin ; you will often 
find little hard knots in the flour which would not be nice 
in the pastry ; and then again, if the flour is sifted you 
have it so much lighter in the basin to work upon. Rub 
the butter or lard into the flour thoroughly but very lightly 
with the fingers, not with the palms of the hands, as they 
are always warmer, and pastry must be kept as cool as 
possible, and for that reason never use a basin or plate 
that has just been washed up in warm water. Always 
allow half a pint of water to every pound of flour. If 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 9 

the flour is very good and old you will require a little 
more, but never use less. Keep the paste about the con- 
sistency you want it to be ; don't make it too stiff ; roll it 
very lightly always one way, and only have enough flour 
on the board to prevent it from sticking. A very hot oven 
is required for puff* pastry, or it will not rise, however care- 
fully it is prepared. Meat and other pies will require a long 
time to cook ; put them into the hottest part of the oven 
first of all, and then remove to a cooler part, to cook 
slowly when the crust has risen. 



VEGETABLES. 

The general rule for cooking green vegetables is to 
plunge them into plenty of boiling water which has been 
well salted and a very small piece of washing soda added ; 
replace the lid until they come to the boil ; then well skim 
the pot, and allow it to remain uncovered until the vege- 
table is cooked, pressing it down well into the water from 
time to time. Spinach is the only vegetable that should 
be boiled in a small quantity of water. Peas are better 
put on in cold water, with a little sugar, and left 
uncovered. 

It is rather a difficult matter to give any rule for boiling 
potatoes ; there are so many different varieties, and they must 
be boiled in various ways. Old potatoes should be put 
into cold water, new ones into boiling water; some potatoes 
will only bear boiling ten minutes, and must then be 
finished in the steam ; but as a rule it is the best plan to 
boil them until the fork will go through easily, then strain 
the water from them, cover them with a clean cloth, and 
allow them to remain until perfectly dry. Some potatoes 
will steam much better than they will boil ; but they take 
much longer to cook in this way. If a pretty dish of potatoes 
is desired, potato croquettes might be made ; they are very 
simple, and never fail to give satisfaction if nicely fried. 
If we consider what an important dish potatoes are, I am 
sure that we shall feel no pains ought to be spared in the 



lo THR KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



cooking of this dish ; and yet how few cooks there are 
that can send up a dish of potatoes really well boiled. To 
cook potatoes and boil eggs are supposed to be two of the 
simplest of all operations, and yet how few can achieve the 
desired result ! 

Vegetables, especially in the summer time, should form 
a very important item in our diet. They contain a great 
deal of potash, which is very beneficial to the blood. Well 
cooked fruit and vegetables should be freely partaken of 
in warm weather. 

The recipes which I give are very simple and easily 
carried out. 

JELLIES AND CREAMS, 

Jellies and creams are considered by many cooks very 
difficult dishes, but I think them very easy and simple, and 
if the following directions are faithfully carried out I trust 
that all my readers will think so too. The first thing we 
want is a very clean saucepan. One should be kept for 
jelly and used for nothing else. For a strainer, take an 
ordinary kitchen tea-cloth ; jelly-bags are very troublesome 
things, they very soon harden, and are difficult things to 
keep clean. On the other hand, a tea-cloth is easily washed, 
and makes a most effectual strainer. If you have not a 
jelly stand, turn a chair upside down on the table, and tie 
the cloth firmly over the four legs with some string. When 
the jelly is ready to strain, pour some boiling water through 
the cloth, and have two basins ready. The basins should 
be large enough just to slip easily in and out. When the 
jelly is poured through the cloth, remove the basin, and 
replace with the other one, and pour the little that has run 
through back into the strainer, as that will not be quite 
clear. It will only be necessary then to strain the jelly 
once, unless a very brilliant jelly is desired. Do not hurry 
the jelly. Place the strainer in a moderately warm place, 
out of the way, and let it take its own time to drop through. 
There is one thing that must be always remembered in 
making jelly, and that is to have no flour about ; the least 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. ir 



bit of flour will effectually cloud it, and no amount of 
straining will clear it. See, therefore, that tables, hands, 
apron, etc., are all free from flour. There is one other very 
important thing to remember, and that is do not whisk the 
contents of the saucepan when the jelly is on the fire, after 
it boils. It is much better to leave off whisking too soon, 
than to whisk too long. Directly it seems inclined to boil, 
take the whisk out, and let it have a good boil up. Then 
draw it away from the fire, where it does not boil, and yet 
will keep warm, and allow it to remain perfectly still for 
twenty or thirty minutes. Always use the best French 
gelatine for both jellies and creams. When you are making 
creams, remember to have everything very clean and cold. 
Use thick, sound cream, and whip it one way until it 
becomes a stiff froth. A little castor-sugar will help it rise. 
Mix the cream thoroughly with whatever flavouring is used, 
or the cream will look streaky. If these directions are 
carefully read and attended to there will be no fear of 
failure. 

FISH, 

For frying fish I always recommend that it shall be 
fried in the French fashion, viz., in a deep kettle with 
a large quantity of oil. Fish if properly fried like this 
is not at all greasy, and is far nicer than if fried in the 
frying-pan ; and there is another recommendation, it is so 
much easier, and more economical. There is a great 
deal to be learnt before one can fry really well. The fish 
must be perfectly dry ; to ensure this, wash it, and dry for 
a few minutes in a cloth, then mix some flour with salt and 
pepper on a plate and quickly cover well each fish, beat 
up an ^%^ with a little watef and ^ oz. of dissolved butter^ 
take the fish at once out of the flour and dip it in the ^g'g \ 
be sure to cover every part, then well smother in dry bread- 
crumbs; use plenty of crumbs and cover the fish thoroughly; 
before touching it with the hand, shake off all the loose 
crumbs and it will be ready for frying ; it may either be 
fried immediately or laid by for an hour or two. Now 



12 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



about the frying fat : use either cotton-seed oil or lard ; 
if oil, put at least yi gallon into a deep frying kettle, or 
2 or 3 lbs. lard if that is to be used. 

The temperature must rise to 385^ before you put the 
fish in, upon this depends whether the fish eats fresh and 
crisp, or greasy and sodden. If you have no thermometer 
you must judge when it is hot enough : you can do this by 
observing when the fat is still, and the smoke drawing to 
the side of the kettle. It is a great mistake to say that fat 
must boil, it will not do that until the heat rises to 600 or 
700^, and if the fish is put in then, it would become 
black in a minute. Do not put the slice in for a minute or 
two, as that cools the fat ; no turning is required, but with 
the slice keep the fish well under the fat ; it will be cooked 
in a very few minutes if the fat is hot enough. Take it 
out, and drain on a piece of kitchen paper for a 
few minutes before serving. After using the oil or fat, 
it must be strained through an old but sound hair sieve, as 
some of the loose crumbs are sure to remain in it, and 
these would burn and spoil the next dish. The same fat 
maybe used for a long time; when it has lost its virtue, you 
will find that it will bubble up in the kettle like soap-suds ; 
it must then be thrown away. If these directions are 
carried out, perfection will be the result. 



SOUPS. 



VERY GOOD STOCK. 

Seven pounds of shin beef, or 

Four pounds of beef and three pounds of veal. 

Eight pints of water. 

Twenty peppercorns. 

Two onions. 

One carrot. 

Six cloves. 

Salt. 

One bouquet garni. 

Cut the meat into small pieces, break up the bone and 
take out the marrow; cut all the skin and gristle away, 
that will do for the second stock. Put the water into a 
very clean saucepan, add the meat cut up, the bones and 
vegetables, let it conle gradually to the boil, then skim 
well, add the peppercorns and salt ; let this all boil steadily 
for five hours, skimming it from time to time ; strain it 
through a kitchen cloth, and let it stand until the next 
day ; then remove all the fat, and it is ready for use. This 
is very good stock for clear and other rich soups. 



SECOND STOCK. 

The bones and trimmings of joints and poultry or 
rabbits, the meat from the first or best stock, or bones may 
be bought at the butcher's and broken up small; these 



14 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



should all be put into a clean saucepan, well covered with 
cold water; put in some peppercorns, one or two cloves, 
two onions, one carrot, a little celery, and bouquet garni. 
Let all simmer together for several hours, strain and stand 
by till the next day. 



CLEAR SOUR 

Three pints of best stock. 

One pound of lean steak. 

Two carrots. 

One small onion. 

Six cloves. 

Six peppercorns. 

Two eggs. 

Salt. 

One bouquet garni. 

Put the stock in a clean stewpan ; scrape the beef, or 
put it twice through a sausage-machine, and add that; 
stick the cloves in the onion, and put them in whole with 
the peppercorns, bouquet garni, salt, and the whites and 
shells of two eggs. Stand the stewpan over the fire, and 
whisk gently until it is just on the boil (but be sure not to 
whisk after it boils) ; let it simmer gently for ten minutes, 
and then draw it on one side and let it stand half-an-hour 
where it will keep quite hot. Place a kitchen cloth on the 
jelly stand, or tie it over a chair turned upside down ; run 
some boiling water through the cloth ; when the soup is 
ready strain it through the cloth. Have ready two basins ; 
when you have all the contents in the cloth, remove the 
first basin, as the first few drops will not be clear ; pour 
this slowly over the meat in the cloth ; the beef settles at 
the bottom, and acts as a filter ; the soup, as a rule, will 
only require straining once. If a brilliant soup is desired, 
it may be strained twice. Make it hot in a clean sauce- 
pan ; have some tarragon leaves in the tureen^ and pour 
the hotsDup on to them. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 15 



MACARONI SOUR 

Two ounces of macaroni. 

Three pints of stock. 

Two onions. 

One carrot. 

A half turnip." 

One bouquet garni. 

Six peppercorns. 

Salt 

One ounce of butter. 

Half-ounce of corn-flour. 

Fry the fonion, carrot, turnip, and peppercorns in the 
butter; mix the corn-flour with a little cold water to a 
smooth paste, and add that when tlie vegetables are brown ; 
put in the stock and simmer for half-an-hour, and strain 
into a clean saucepan. Boil the macaroni in salt and 
water until tender, then cut it into pieces one inch in 
length; add it to the soup, and simmer for five minutes. 
It is then ready for serving. 



HARICOT PUREE. 



One pint of haricot beans. 
One onion. 
One pint of milk. 
Pepper and salt. 



Soak the haricots all night, -and boil them with the 
onion for three hours in two quarts of water, then rub them 
through a sieve, put them back into a clean saucepan; 
season nicely with white pepper and salt ; add the milk, 
and stir until thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. It is 
then ready for serving. 



1 6 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



BONNE FEMME SOUP. 

Three pints of white stock. 
One lettuce. 
Half a cucumber. 
Two ounces of butter. 
Four sprigs of tarragon. 
Yolks of four eggs. 
One gill of cream. 
Foiu" sprigs of chervil. 
One salt -spoonful of sugar. 

Wash all the vegetables and herbs, and shred them 
finely ; put the butter into a stewpan and sweat the vege- 
tables and herbs in it for five minutes, sprinkling over 
them the salt and sugar ; put the stock on, and when it is 
boiling pour it on the vegetables, etc., and boil gently for 
ten minutes, or until the vegetables are tender. Put the 
yolks of the eggs in a basin, and beat them with the cream 
or milk; strain these into the soup and let all get thoroughly 
hot, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. As soon 
as the eggs thicken, the soup is ready. Fried or toasted 
bread may be served with this ; cut the bread into fancy 
shapes. 

VEGETABLE PUREE. 

Three carrots. 

One turnip. 

Half a head of celery. 

Two onions. 

One small cabbage, 

Ten peppercorns. 

Half-pint of green peas. 

Two ounces of butter. 

One sprig of parsley. 

Six spinach leaves. 

Salt. 

Two-and-a-half quarts of water. 

Cut all the vegetables into small pieces, and sweat 
them well in the butter ; add the water, and let all boil 
well together for one-and-a-half hours ; then remove the 
saucepan from the fire and pass the contents through a fine 
wire sieve. Make hot in a clean saucepan, and it is ready 
for serving. Serve with fried bread. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK, 17 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

One-and-a-half pints of white stock. 
Two ounces of crushed tapioca. 
Three eggs. 
Half-pint of milk. 
Salt and white pepper. 

Put the stock in a clean saucepan, and when it is hot 
sprinkle in the tapioca, and let it boil until the tapioca is 
clear. Beat the yolks of the eggs in a basin, with salt and 
white pepper ; add the milk, and strain this into the soup. 
Let it come to boiling point to cook the eggs, keep stirring 
it in the hot saucepan for a few minutes, and serve in a hot 
tureen. 



POTATO PUREE. 

One-and-a-half pounds of potatoes. 

Two pints of white stock. 

One pint of milk. 

One Spanish onion. 

One ounce of butter. 

Salt and white pepper. 

Wash, peel, and slice the potatoes, and weigh them 
then. Put the butter into astewpan ; when it is dissolved, 
put in the potatoes and slice in the onions ; sweat these 
over the fire for five minutes, but don't let them acquire 
any colour. Make the stock hot and pour it over the 
potatoes, but keep back half a pint to help the potatoes 
through the sieve ; let the potatoes boil quickly until they 
are quite soft, then rub them through a fine wire or hair 
sieve ; return them to a clean saucepan, add the milk and 
salt, and stir until it is quite hot. If the purde is not thick 
enough, sprinkle in a table-spoonful of crushed tapioca ; 
as soon as this becomes clear, the purde is ready. If a 
rich purde is desired, add one gill of cream just before 
serving. Send fried bread to table with this puree. 

c 



i8 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



VEGETABLE SOUR 



One cabbage. 

One pint of green peas. 

Two carrots. 

Half turnip. 

Two sticks of celery. 

Two onions. 

One bouquet garni. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

Two quarts of stock. 

Ten peppercorns. 

Salt. 



Put the butter into a large stewpan to dissolve, slice the 
cabbage and put it into the hot butter ; stir it well about for 
five minutes or until the butter is absorbed, but do not 
let the cabbage get brown ; then put in all the other 
ingredients with the stock, and boil gently for an hour and 
a half, or until the vegetables are quite soft ; then remove 
the saucepan from the fire, and rub through a fine wire 
sieve. Return to a clean saucepan and let it get hot through, 
pour into a warm tureen, and serve with fried bread. 



SEMOLINA SOUP. 

One pint of stock. 
Half-pint of milk. 
Two ounces of semolina. 
Salt and pepper. 

Put the stock into a saucepan, and when it boils stir in 
the semolina ; let it boil for fifteen minutes, then add the 
milk and seasoning ; let it get quite hot, and pour into a 
warm tureen. Serve with fried bread. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK, 19 



PUREE OF RABBIT. 

One rabbit. 

One quart of good brown sauce. 

One ounce of flour. 

One gill of milk. 

Half-ounce of butter. 

Cut the meat off the back of the rabbit in two long 
fillets, wrap the remainder in buttered paper, and bake for 
half an hour. Then take it from the oven, and cut all the 
meat from the bones; put the brown sauce into a saucepan, 
and add the bones and pieces of rabbit, and boil gently for 
an hour and a half. Then take the saucepan from t^je fire, 
and rub the contents through a hair sieve. Take the fillets 
of rabbit, put them through the sausage-machine, and then 
piound them well in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. 
Put the half ounce of butter into a small saucepan, and 
when it is dissolved stir in the flour ; then add the milk, and 
stir quickly until it boils ; let it boil two or three minutes, 
take the saucepan from the fire, season the rabbit that you 
have pounded in the mortar, and mix it well with the 
panada. Shape this in tea-spoons like quenelles, butter a 
saut^ pan, pour in some hot water, and poach the quenelles 
for ten minutes ; then put them into a hot tureen, make the 
soup hot, and pour it on to the quenelles in the tureen. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

Three pints of brown stock. 

One rasher of bacon. 

Two small onions. 

One carrot. 

One apple. 

One ounce of butter. 

One dessert-spoonful of curry powder. 

Half tea-spoonful of mulligatawny paste. 

One ounce of corn-flour. 

One wild rabbit 

Salt. 

One bouquet garni. 

Quarter-pound of rice. 

Put the butter into a stewpan. and when it is dissolved 
put in the bacon . cut into small pieces, the vegetables cut 

c 2 



30 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



up, and the apple and bouquet garni, and fry them for five 
minutes. Mix the curry powder, mulligatawny, and corn- 
flour into a smooth paste with a little stock, and put these 
in; then stir it well about, add the stock, and stir until 
it boils ; draw it away from the fire, where it will only 
simmer. Cut the rabbit into neat joints, and put them 
into the soup ; boil this all gently for an hour and a half, 
then take the saucepan from the fire, take out the pieces of 
rabbit, and rub the soup through a hair sieve ; return it to 
a clean saucepan, and let it get quite hot. Cut the meat 
from the rabbit into neat pieces about an inch square, put 
these in a hot tureen, and pour the boiling soup on them. 
Boil*the rice by directions given on another page, pile it 
high on a dish, and send it to table with the soup. 



KINGSWOOD SOUP. 

Four tomatoes. 

One carrot. 

Two small onions. 

Ten peppercorns. 

Two sticks of celery. 

One ounce of butter. 

One ounce of corn-flour. 

Three pints of stock. 

One ounce of crushed tapioca. 

Curry powder, 

Salt. 

Bay-leaf. 

Two cloves* 

Put the butter into a stewpan, and fry the onions and 
peppercorns ; mix the corn-flour with a little stock, and stir 
in with the onions; add the tomatoes, celery, bay-leaf, and 
as much curry powder as will lay on the point of a knife ; 
then put in the stock, and boil gently for one hour. Rub 
the contents of the saucepan through a fine sieve, return to 
a clean saucepan, and sprinkle in the crushed tapioca. 
When this is clear it is ready for serving. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 21 



PUREE OF GREEN PEAS. 

Half-peck of peas. 

Three pints of white stock. 

Ten spinach leaves. 

Ten mint leaves. 

Salt and white pepper. 

One tea-spoonful of castor sugar. 

Shell the peas and boil them for ten niinutes in water ; 
take them up, and place them in a clean saucepan, with 
the stock, spinach, mint, sugar, salt, and pepper. Boil all 
these together until the peas are very soft ; then take the 
saucepan from the fire and rub the contents through a hair 
sieve; return to a clean saucepan, and make hot. Pour 
into a warm tureen^ and serve with fried bread. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

Two pounds of tomatoes. 

Two quarts of stock. 

Two onions. 

One carrot* 

One rasher of bacon. 

One bouquet garni. 

Ten peppercorns. 

One ounce of butter. 

One-and-a-half ounces of corn-flour. 

Salt. 

Put the butter into a stewpan to dissolve, and when it 
is melted, slice in the onions, carrot, and bacon, put in the 
peppercorns and bouquet garni, and fry a good brown ; 
mix the corn-flour to a smooth paste with a little stock, 
and stir that in. When it is brown, put in the tomatoes ; 
add the stock and the salt, and let all simmer together for 
one hour ; then remove the stewpan from the fire, and 
pass the contents through a fine wire or hair sieve. Put 
it back into a clean saucepan and let it get quite hot ; if 
not thick enough sprinkle in a table-spoonful of crushed 
tapioca or semolina. Serve with fried bread. 



FISH. 



MAITRE D'HOTEL SOLES. 



Two soles. 

Two ounces of butter. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon^juice. 

One-and-half tea-spoonfiils of parsley. 

Three-quarters of a pint of milk. 

Half-ounce of best flour. 



Fillet the soles, roll them up, with the part which has 
been next the bone outside, place them on a buttered tin, 
sprinkle over them some lemon-juice, cover over with 
buttered paper, and bake in the oven for ten or fifteen 
minutes, according to size ; take them out, and arrange on 
a dish, and pour over them the sauce made as follows : 
Boil the bones of the fish in the milk, and then strain off; 
put half the butter into a small stewpan, and when it is 
dissolved put in the flour and mix smoothly ; add the milk, 
and stir until it boils ; let it boil for three minutes, then 
take the saucepan from the fire, and stand it on the table, 
put in the rest of the butter in small pieces, then the lemon- 
juice and seasoning, and last of all the parsley, which 
should be finely chopped. It is then ready to pour over 
the fish. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 23 



SOLE A LA CARDINAL. 

Two soles. 

Three ounces of butter. 

One tea-spoonfiil of parsley. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Half-ounce of flour. 

Quarter tea-spoonful of lobster coral. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Fillet the soles and roll them up, with the side which 
has been near the bone outside, put them on to a buttered 
tin, pour some clarified butter and chopped parsley over 
them, cover them with a piece of buttered paper, and bake 
in the oven for twenty minutes. Make a nice smooth 
white sauce with the milk, flour, and one-and-a-half, ounces 
of butter, season it nicely with salt and cayenne, stir in the 
lobster coral, take the fillets of sole from the oven, arrange 
them on a dish, and pour over them this sauce. Serve at 
once. 



BOUDINS OF WHITING. 

Four whiting. 

Four eggs. 

Half-pint of white sauce. 

One gill of cream. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of parsley. 

Lobster coraU 

Skin and fillet the whiting, and pound in a mortar, then 
put through a wire sieve ; put it back in the mortar and 
pound again, adding the eggs one at a time. It must then 
be rubbed through a hair sieve, turned into a basin, and 
mixed with the cream, pepper, and salt. Butter some 
small moulds, sprinkle some with lobster coral and some 
with chopped parsley, fill with the mixture, and steam for 
twenty minutes, or until it is firm ; take the white sauce, 
season it. nicely, mix some parsley and lobster coral with 
it, turn the mixture out of the moulds, and pour round the 
^auce. Serve at once* 



24 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



BOILED SOLE. 

One sole. 

Half-pint of white sauce. 

One Qgg, 

Salt. 



Wash and clean the sole carefully, and put it into a 
very clean frying-pan half full of hot water nicely salted ; 
boil very gently ten minutes, take it up, drain away the 
water, put it on a dish, and pour over the white sauce. 
Rub the yolk of the egg through a sieve, and garnish with 
this and a little chopped parsley or lobster coral. 



COLLARED EELS. 

Tw« eels. 

One onion. 

One bay-leaf. 

One tea-spoonful of vinegar. 

Two cloves. 

Ten peppercorns. 

One quart of stock. 

Two eggs. 

One ounce of gelatine. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Thoroughly cleanse the eels, put them into the stock 
with the onion, bay-leaf, vinegar, cloves, and peppercorns, 
and some salt ; let them boil until the eels are quite tender, 
then take them up, slip out the bones, and cut them into 
pieces about two inches square. Strain the liquor in which 
the eels have been boiled, put it into a clean saucepan, and 
let it boil without the lid, skimming it until it becomes 
quite clear. Put in the gelatine, and when that is dissolved, 
let it stand on one side to cool. Rinse a plain mould in 
cold water, have ready the two eggs boiled hard and cut 
in slices ; arrange the pieces of fish in this mould, with a 
layer of eggs and small sprigs of parsley. When you have 
used up these, pour in the gravy very slowly, a table-spoon- 



, J 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 25 



ful at a time, until the mould is full. Stand the mould in 
cold water for seven or eight hours ; then dip in warm 
water and turn out. This dish may be garnished, with 
parsley, lemon, and beetroot. 



FISH CAKES. 

Half-pound of cold boiled fish. 

Half-pound of boiled potatoes. 

One Qgg. 

One ounce of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

Egg and bread-crumbs. 

Break the fish in pieces and remove the bones ; boil 
the potatoes, and rub them through a sieve ; put the butter 
into a saucepan, and when it is dissolved, put in the pota- 
toes, fish, egg, and seasoning, and mix well together. 
Turn it on to a plate, and when cold shape it into small 
flat cakes about four inches round and one inch high, 
Egg and bread-crumb these, shape them again with a knife, 
and fry a golden brown in hot fat ; drain on a piece of 
kitchen paper for a few minutes, and serve on a dish paper, 
with fried parsley in the centre. 



POTTED FISH. 

One pound of cold boiled fish. 

One dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Cayenne. 

Pick the fish free from bone and skin, put it into the 
mortar with the butter, cayenne, and anchovy ; pound well, 
then turn it into small pots, and run some dissolved butter 
over it. 



26 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



POTTED BLOATERS. 

Six bloaters. 

Three ounces of butter. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce. 

Cayenne or pepper lo taste. 

Cook SIX bloaters, skin them, and cut them open down 
the back ; raise the backbone at the tail and carefully 
remove it, then pick out all the smaller bones (as far as 
you can). Put the fish with the butter and seasoning 
into the mortar, and pound thoroughly ; then press it into 
small pots, and cover with dissolved butter. This mixture 
will keep good for some time and is a delicious relish ; 
those who have once tasted this will not; I think, care 
again for any bought preparation. 



SOLE AU GRATIMf. 

One sole* 

One tea-spoonful of parsley. 

Half a small shaloL 

Four mushrooms. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 

One ounce of butter. 

Two table-spoonfuls of thick gravy. 

A few brown bread-crumbs. 

Salt and pepper. 

Chop the parsley, shalot, and mushrooms finely, season 
with pepper and salt, and mix well together. Butter a tin 
dish and sprinkle half these ingredients on it, and half the 
lemon-juice ; then lay on the sole, and put the rest of the 
parsley, etc., on the top ; brush over with the gravy and 
sprinkle with the bread-crumbs. Bake for twenty or 
twenty-five minutes according to the size; carefully remove 
the fish to another dish, pour round the gravy, and serve. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 27 



KEDGEREE, 

One dried haddock. 

Quarter-pound of rice. 

Two eggs. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

Cayenne or pepper. 

Cook the rice in nicely salted water as by recipe given ; 
boil the haddock in water seven or eight nlinutes, according 
to size, take all the bones from the fish and pick it into 
small pieces ; have ready two eggs boiled hard, take the 
whites and cut them into small pieces ; put the butter into 
a stewpan, and when it is dissolved put in the rice, fish, 
pepper, and white of ^g'g^ and mix all well together; then 
pile it high on a dish, and rub the yolks of eggs through a 
sieve on the top. It is then ready to serve. 



CURRIED COD. 

Two pounds of cod. 

Half -pint of gravy. 

One small onion. 

One apple. 

One small tea-spoonfiil of curry powder. 

One small tea-spoonful of corn-flour. 

Quarter tea-spoonful of mulligatawny paste. 

Salt. 

One ounce of butter. 

Quarter-pound of rice. 

Put the butter into a stewpan, and when it is dissolved 
and hot put in the onion and apple (which have been 
peeled and cut into small pieces), and fry a light brown. 
Mix the curry powder, corn-flour, and mulligatawny paste 
and salt into a smooth paste with a little gravy, and turn 
into the frying-pan. When this is thoroughly mixed pour 
in the gravy, and stir until it boils ; let it simmer gently for 
ten minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, lay in the cod, 
and simmer for half-an-hour ; take up the fish, and pour 
the sauce round. It may be garnished with hard boiled 
€ggs. 



SAVOURY DISHES OF MEAT 
AND POULTRY. 



CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN. 

Half cold chicken. 
Three ounce? of ham. 
Three mushrooms. 
One tea-spoonful of parsley. 
One ounce of butter. 
One ounce of flour. 
One gill of milk. 
Salt and cayenne. 
Half-pound of good pastry. 

Mince the chicken and ham very finely; chop the 
mushrooms and parsley ; season and mix the ingredients 
all well together; put the butter into a stewpan, and when 
it is dissolved stir in the flour, add the stock, and make 
into a smooth panada. Mix this with the chicken, etc., 
then turn on to a plate and let it get cool. Roll the 
pastry out very thin, and cut it out with a paste-cutter ; 
put a small piece of the mixture into the crust, wet the 
edges with water or egg, fold over, press well together, 
put them into egg and fine bread-crumbs, fry in very hot 
fat, drain on paper, and then arrange on a dish paper in a 
circle ; serve with fresh parsley. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 29 



FILLETS OF BEEF A LA BEARNAISE. 

Seven fillets. 

Half-pint of good brown sauce. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Egg and bread-crumbs. 

One dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. 

One table-spoonful of white sauce. 

Three yolks of eggs. 

Two ounces of butter. 

One tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. 

One tea-spoonful of shalot. 

Prepare the fillets, egg, and bread-crumbs, and fry in 
hot butter ; drain them on kitchen paper, and dish nicely 
with the Bdarnaise sauce in the centre. Prepare this as 
follows : Chop the shalot finely, and put it into a saucepan 
with the vinegar, and let the vinegar all boil away ; then 
add the white sauce and the yolks of the eggs, cook the 
eggs thoroughly, stirring all the time. When done it should 
be quite thick. Take the saucepan from the fire, add the 
butter in small pieces, and lastly stir in the parsley ; place this 
in the centre of the fillets, pour round the brown sauce, and 

serve. 

RHODE ISLAND CHICKEN. 

One chicken. 

One gill of cream. 

Two ounces of butter. 

One tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. 

One e.'gg. 

Fine bread-crumbs. 

A little nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and salt. 

Parboil a chicken, skin it, and cut it into neat joints ; beat 
up the egg, mix the bread-crumbs with the parsley, nutmeg, 
seasoning, and a little grated lemon-peel. Dip each joint 
of chicken in the egg, and then thoroughly cover it with 
the bread-crumbs ; put the butter into the frying pan, and 
when it is quite hot place in the chicken and fry a golden 
brown. When these are done lay them for a few minutes 
on some kitchen paper and then arrange nicely on a hot 
dish ; then put the cream into the frying-pan and shake it 
well about until it is thoroughly hot, pour it over the fowl 
and serve at once. 



30 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



FILLETS OF BEEF A LA FRANCAISE. 

Seven fillets of beef. 

One tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. 

One ounce of fresh butter. 

One-and-a-half gills of glaze or strong jelly. 

Half-pint of potato chips. 

Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Take the fillets and shape them nicely, and have as 
many pieces of fat as you have fillets ; cook the fat in the 
oven, then pour the melted fat into a sauti or frying-pan ; 
if there is not sufficient to fry the fillets in, add a little 
butter. When this is quite hot lay in the fillets, and fry a 
nice brown (they should be rather uhderdone) ; take them 
up, and place them on a plate to keep warm ; then take 
the glaze or jelly and pour it into a frying-pan and let it 
boil for a few minutes. Season the fillets with pepper and 
salt, and dish them on a round of mashed potatoes. Have 
ready some potatoes which have been cut into rounds 
about the size of sixpence, and frjed in hot fat, place these 
in the centre, then pour the gjaze jelly nicely over the 
fillets. A small piece of fat and a piece of maitre d^hdtel 
butter about the size of sixpence should be laid on each 
fillet ; it is then ready for serving. 

SWEETBREADS WITH SPINACH. 

Two sweetbreads. 

Two pounds of spinach. 

One pint of white stock. 

Two dozen mushrooms. 

Half-pint of brown stock. 

Six ounces of butter. 

Two eggs. 

One table-spoonful of cream. 

Salt and pepper. 

Eggs and bread-crumbs. 

Simmer the sweetbreads gently in the white stock for 
twenty minutes, and let them get quite cold, then divide 
into neat pieces. Boil the mushrooms in the brown stock, 
and rub them through a wire sieve ; put them into a stew- 
pan with three ounces butter and the yolks of two eggs, 
and work into a paste, seasoning it well with pepper and 
salt ; let this cool, then spread it thickly over the pieces 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 31 



of sweetbread, dip in egg and fine bread-crumbs, and fry 
in hot butter. Boil some spinach nicely, and squeeze it 
very dry ; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add the 
cream, salt, and pepper, put in the spinach, and mix well 
together. Dish the sweetbreads on a round of mashed 
potatoes in a circle, place the spinach in the centre, and 
pour round a good brown sauce which has been flavoured 
with mushrooms. 

OYSTERS SUPERBE. 

One dozen oysters. 

One dozen strips of bacon. 

One dozen croutons of bread. 

Cayenne. 

Nutmeg. 

Fried parsley. 

Hot fat. 

Take the oysters, trim off the beards, and season with 
the nutmeg and cayenne, roll each oyster in a strip of fat 
bacon, thread on to a small fine skewer, and fry in hot fat. 
Have ready some fried croutons of bread, dish each oyster 
on one of these, and serve very hot, with fried parsley in 
the centre. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

One lobster. 

One gill of milk. 

One ounce of flour. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

One dessert -spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Cayenne. 

Egg and bread-crumbs. 

Hot fat. 

Take all the white meat from the lobster and chop it 
finely ; put the shells into the milk to extract the flavour, 
put the butter into a stewpan, and when it is dissolved stir 
in the flour, strain in the milk, and stir until it boils; 
remove from the fire, put in the lobster, cayenne, and 
anchovy. Mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. When 
cold, shape into cutlets, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in 
hot fat. Drain on a paper, and serve with fresh parsley : 
a small piece of the feeler of the lobster should be put in 
the end of each cutlet. 



32 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



KROMESKIS OF LOBSTER. 

Half-pound of lobster cutlet mixture. 

Six rashers of bacon. 

Quarter-pound of flour. 

One table-spoonful of salad oil. 

Two eggs. 

One gill of tepid water. 

Hot fat. 

Take the lobster cutlet mixture in cork-shaped pieces 
and roll each piece in a thin strip of bacon. To make a 
frying batter silt the flour into a basin, then pour in the oil 
and with the tepid water make a smooth batter ; stand 
it by for an hour, then whisk well the whites of two eggs 
with a little salt to a stiff froth, stir these into the batter. 
Take the kromeskis, dip each one in the batter, and drop 
•into very hot fat ; fry a golden brown, drain on a piece of 
kitchen paper, then arrange in a circle on a hot dish and 
serve with fried parsley. 



BOILED MUTTON. 

Four pounds of neck of mutton. 

Three pints of water. 

One pint of parsley-and-butter sauce. 

Five peppercorns. 

One onion. 

One tea-spoonful of salt. 

^ "^ Trim the mutton and remove the pith from the bones. 
When tnc water boils put in the mutton, and let it boil 
quickly for two minutes ; throw in the salt, draw the 
saucepan on one side, and skim well ; put in the onion 
and peppercorns, and stand the saucepan where it will 
simmer gently for one-and-a-half hours, skimming it from 
time to time ; take it up, and pour over the parsley-and- 
butter sauce. If turnips are served these may be boiled 
with the meat ; they should be sliced and boiled for three- 
quarters of an hour. The water in which the meat was 
boiled will do for the stock-pot. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 33 



BOILED FOWL AND EGG SAUCE. 

One fowl. 

Two eggs. 

One onion. 

One bouquet garni. 

One pint of white sauce. 

Six peppercorns. 

Salt. 

Truss the fowl for boiling, butter a piece of kitchen 
paper, roll the fowl in it, and tie it up ; have ready enough 
boiling water to cover it, put in the seasoning and onions, 
let it boil very fast for a few minutes, then draw on one 
side and let it simmer gently for one hour. Boil the eggs 
hard, cut them carefully in half, wash the whites well in 
cold water, and fill them with a few green peas or Brussels 
sprouts ; take up the fowl and pour over it a nicely-seasoned 
white sauce, place the whites of eggs at the corner of the 
dish and rub the yolks through the wire sieve on to the 
breast of the fowl. It is then ready for serving. 



ROLLED MUTTON. 

PbTtr*potinds of neck of mutton. 
One pint of brown sauce. 
Half-'pound of veal seasoning. 
One quart of stock. 
A little glaze.. 

Bone the mutton, cut away some of the fat, lay in the 
seasoning, roll and sew up securely. If you have no stock 
in which to boil it, take the bones and put them into about 
a quart of water with some vegetables, place the mutton in 
and boil gently for an hour-and-a-half ; then take it out, 
glaze it, and serve with good brown sauce and vegetables 
cut into fancy shapes, 

n 



34 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



GALANTINE OF TURKEY. 

One turkey. 

One tongue. 

Two pounds of sausage-meat. 

One pound of bacon. 

Pepper and salt. 

Two onions stuck with six cloves. 

Two carrots. 

One bouquet garni. 

Three quarts of water. 

One quart of aspic jelly. 

Bone the turkey ; have ready a tongue which has been 
boiled and skinned; trim away the roots from this; take 
the trimmings and put them through the sausage-machine, 
or chop finely and mix with the sausage-meat. Cut the 
bacon into strips, lay open the turkey, and pack with the 
tongue, sausage meat, bacon, and seasoning; fold it to- 
gether, and shape it nicely, roll it in a clean cloth, tie it up 
securely, lay it in a large stewpan with the water, the 
bones of the turkey, the onions, carrots, etc.; when it 
comes to the boil, skim well, and let it boil very gently for 
two or three hours, according to the size of the turkey. 
Take it up, press it between heavy weights, and leave it 
until the next day ; strain the gravy and put it by. The 
next day take the turkey out of the cloth; reduce the gravy 
to a glaze, and nicely glaze the galantine ; cut a slice off 
one end, then take the aspic jelly and chop it up, some 
finely and some in larger pieces ; decorate with the finely- 
chopped aspic on the top, and the larger pieces round the 
dish. 



THE KJNGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 35 



SAVOURY LUNCHEON DISH. 

One pound of knuckle of veal. 
One pound of leg of beef. 
Two eggs. 
Four cloves. 
Ground ginger. 
One quart of water. 

Cut the veal and beef into small pieces, and put them 
into a clean saucepan with the cloves and as much ginger 
as will lay on the point of a knife ; cover with the water, 
and stew well for two-and-a-half hours. Take out the 
meat, cut it into small pieces, and arrange in a mould with 
the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices or blocks. Cover with 
the gravy, and stand in a cool place till set ; it will then be 
in a firm jelly. Remove the fat from the top, turn on to 
a dish, and garnish with beetroot and small salad. 



D 2 



BRAISING. 



BRAISED YEAL. 

Six pounds of neck of veal. 

One quart of stock. 

Half-pound of veal seasoning. 

One carrot. 

One onion stuck with three cloves. 

Six peppercorns. 

One bouquet garni« 

Salt. 

Three rashers of fat bacon. 

Bone the veal, lay in the seasoning, roll it up and 
securely fasten it ; then cut the bacon into thin strips and 
lard the top of the roll. Lay it in the braising-pan, pour 
round it the stock, put in the bouquet garni, the carrot, 
onion, peppercorns and salt, then cover it closely, and 
either put the pan into the oven or stand it where it will 
simmer gently, and put some hot ashes on the lid; take the 
lid off from time to time and baste the meat with the gravy. 
Let it cook gently for two hours, then take the meat out of 
the braising-pan and put it in the oven or in front of the 
fire for a few minutes while you strain the gravy. Return 
the gravy to a clean saucepan and let it boil very quickly 
without the lid for ten minutes to reduce ; then pour some 
round the veal. Garnish with some vegetables that have 
been cut into fancy shapes and boiled separately. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 37 



BRAISED FOWL. 

One fowL 

One quart of stock. 

One carrot. 

One small onion. 

Two rashers of bacon. 

Half-pound of forcemeat. 

Six peppercorns. 

Three cloves. 

A little turnip, celery, and bay leaf. 

Salt. 

Lard the breast of the fowl with some strips of fat 
bacon, lay two rashers of lean bacon at the bottom of 
the braising-pan, place the fowl on these, add the vege- 
tables, etc., pour in the stock, cover the breast of the fowl 
with a piece of well-greased paper. Put the lid of the pan 
on closely, and stand it in the oven. Take it out from time 
to time, and baste well with the stock. Let it cook gently 
for an hour-and-a-quarter, then take the fowl out, put it in 
front of the fire or in the oven for a few minutes to brown. 
Strain the gravy, let it boil quickly without the lid until it 
is a half glaze, place the fowl on a dish, and pour over it 
the gravy. The forcemeat should be made into balls, and 
baked in the oven ; place these round the dish ; it may also 
be garnished with Brussels sprouts or green peas. 



BRAISED PARTRIDGES, 

Two partridges. 

One-and-a-half pints of good beef stock. 

One rasher of ham. 

One carrot. 

One onion stuck with three cloves. 

One bouquet garni. 

Ten peppercorns. 

Salt. 

Truss the partridges as for roasting ; put the ham in 
the braising pan ; lay the partridges on it ; place all round 
the vegetables, etc., and pour over a good brown gravy. 



38 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



Cover over, and place in the oven for one hour, basting the 
birds constantly with the stock. When the birds are done, 
place them for a few minutes in the oven or in front of the 
fire to brown; strain the gravy, and reduce it to a half 
glaze. Place the birds in a dish, and pour round the gravy. 
Glaze the breasts with a little good glaze, and serve with 
bread sauce. 



BRAISED FILLETS OF VEAL. 

Two pounds of fillet of veal. 

Half-pound of fat bacon rashers. 

One-and-a-half pints of stock. 

One onion. 

One carrot. 

Bouquet garni. 

Seven peppercorns and salt. 

Cut nine or eleven fillets all of one size, lard half of 
them with thin strips of fat bacon, place them in the 
braising-pan in a circle, overlapping as far as they are 
larded ; put in the centre the seasoning, vegetables, and 
stock ; simmer gently for one-and-a-half hours ; dish them 
in a circle with spinach or peas in the centre, reduce the 
gravy to a half glaze, and pour over. 



• STEWS. 



HARICOT MUTTON. 

Two pounds of neck chops. 

One pint of stock or water. 

One onion. 

One ounce of flour. 

Half-ounce of butter. 

Six peppercorns. 

One carrot. 

Haifa turnip. 

Celery. 

One bouquet garni. 

Salt. 

Trim the fat away from the chops, put the butter into a 
stewpan, and fry the chops a nice brown ; then fry the 
onion, mix the flour to a smooth paste, and pour that into 
the stewpan ; then add the water or stock, and when it has 
boiled up lay in the chops ; let it then simmer gently for 
one-and-a-half-hours, skimming it from time to time. Cut 
the vegetables into fancy shapes, put the trimmings in with 
the meat, and boil the others separately. When the meat 
is tender arrange the chops in a circle on a dish, pour over 
them the gravy, which has again been well skimmed, 
and garnish with the vegetables that have been boiled 
separately. 



40 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



SCOTCH COLLOPS. 

One pound of lean steak. 

One ounce of butter. 

One shalot. 

One gill of stock. 

Salt and pepper. • 

Mince very finely, but do not chop the steak, fry it in 
the butter ; add the shalot, salt, pepper, and stock, and 
simmer gently for one hour. Arrange nicely on a dish^ 
and serve with sippets of toasted bread as a garnish. 



STEWED STEAK, 

One pound of fillet steak. 

One onion. 

One carrot. 

A little celery. 

Salt and six peppercorns. - 

One tea-spoonful of corn-flour. 

Three-quarters of a pint of gravy or water. 

One ounce of butter. 

Trim all the fat away from the steak, put the butter 
into a stewpan, and when dissolved put in the steak and 
fry it a good brown ; when half fried add the onion. Mix 
the corn-flour with a little cold water, pour in the gravy 
and add the corn-flour, stir until it boils ; put in the 
trimmings of the vegetables, salt, etc., and let all simmer 
very gently for one-and-a-half hours. The best part of 
the vegetables should be cut into fancy shapes and boiled 
separately. Dish the steak, skim the gravy, pour over 
and garnish with the fresh-boiled vegetables. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 4^ 



LEG OF BEEF STEW. 



Three pounds of leg of beef. 

Two quarts of water. 

One Spanish onion. 

Two carrots. 

Ha^ a turnip. 

Two sticks of celery. 

Salt and pepper. 



Cut the beef into small pieces, put it in cold water, and 
bring quickly to the boil ; skim well, add the vegetables cut 
up and the seasoning, and let it simmer well for two-and- 
a-half hours, skimming it from time to time. It may be 
thickened with a little corn-flour, or served up quite 
plainly. 



BRAZILIAN STEW. 



Two pounds of leg or sticking of beef. 

One gill of vinegar. 

One onion. 

One carrot 

Half a turnip. 

Pepper and salt. 



Cut the meat into small pieces, and dip each piece in 
the vinegar; lay these in a saucepan, cover with the 
vegetables and seasoning, and stand it over the fire. Let 
it cook very slowly for three hours. Arrange the meat on 
a hot dish, pour round the gravy, heap the vegetables on 
top, and garnish with mashed potatoes. 



42 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



IRISH STEW WITH OYSTERS. 

Two pounds of middle neck of mutton. 
One dozen oysters. 
One-and-a-half pounds of potatoes. 
One pint of white stock. 
One small onion. 
Pepper and salt 

Cut the mutton into neat pieces, slice the potatoes — 
they should be weighed after they are peeled — shred the 
onion ; place a layer of potatoes, then one of meat, then 
a little onion and seasoning, and proceed until all the 
ingredients are used up ; put in the stock, place over a 
slow fire and cook gently for two hours, shaking the sauce- 
pan frequently ; put in the oysters, and shake over the fire 
for five minutes, it is then ready for serving ; pile high in 
a hotjdish. This is a very savoury and nourishing dish. 



BOONE'S STEW. 

One pound of lean steak. 

One pound of potatoes. 

One pound of tomatoes. 

One large onion. 

One pint of water. 

Pepper and salt. 

Quarter-pound of flour. 

One ounce of butter. 

Half tea-spoonful of baking powder. 

Cut the steak into neat pieces, lay it in a saucepan, 
slice up the tomatoes and onion, peel the potatoes, and 
place all with the seasoning on the top of the meat ; add 
the water, and when it boils add the dumplings made 
with the flour, butter, and baking powder. Rub the butter 
into the flour, stir in the baking powder and a pinch of 
salt ; mix with two table-spoonfuls of water into a dough, 
shape them into small dumplings, drop them into the stew, 
and let all simmer together for an hour. It is then ready 
to serve ; pile it high on a very hot dishj and garnish with 
the dumplings. 



VEGKTABLES. 



CROQUETTES OF POTATOES. 

One pound of potatoes. 

One ounce of butter. 

One dessert-spoonful of milk. 

One egg. 

Cayenne or pepper and salt. 

Boil the potatoes, dry them well, and rub them through 
a wire sieve ; put the butter and milk into a saucepan, and 
when hot, put in the potatoes ; season them nicely, add the 
egg, and mix well. Turn on to a plate to cool ; when the 
mixture is cold, slightly flour the board, and roll into balls and 
cork-shaped pieces, egg and bread-crumb them thoroughly, 
shape them again, and lay them in a frying basket ; fry in 
hot fat until a golden brown. Drain for a few minutes on 
kitchen paper, and serve on a folded d'oyley with fried 
parsley. 



POTATO CHIPS. 

Peel some potatoes, cut them into quarters, and shape 
nicely, dry well in a cloth, and fry in hot fat. Drain for a 
few minutes on kitchen paper, and arrange nicely on a dish 
paper with fried parsley. 



44 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE, 

Two pounds of potatoes. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

Two eggs. 

One ounce of flour. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Boil the potatoes well, and rub them through a sieve* 
Put the butter into a stewpan, and when it is dissolved put 
in the potatoes, t%gs^ salt, and flour, and mix well with a 
little cayenne, then turn on to a place to cool ; have ready 
plenty of fat, well heated ; take the potatoes up with a 
spoon in rough rocky lumps, and drop into the hot fat and 
fry a golden brown. Drain for a few minutes, and serve 
with fried parsley. 



TOMATOES STUFFED. 

Seven tomatoes. 

One small shalot. 

One dessert-spoonful of parsley, 

One tea-spoonful of sweet herbs. 

Two ounces of ham. 

One table-spoonful of bread-crumbs. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

Seven croutons pf bread* 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut the centre out of the tomatoes with a sharp knife, 
then mince finely the shalot, parsley, ham, and herbs; 
add the bread-crumbs and seasoning, and bind together 
with the butter. Place some of this mixture in the centre 
of the tomato, place on a buttered tin, and bake for fifteen 
minutes. Have ready some fried crouton of bread, place 
each tomato on a crouton, and serve. If gravy is desired, 
boil the pieces of tomato that were cut out in a gill of stock 
for five minutes, and strain round the tomatoes. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 45 



CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

One cauliflower. 

One pint of white sauce. 

Three ounces of Parmesan cheese. 

One ounce of butter. 

Boil the cauliflower, and squeeze all the water from 
it j place it in a vegetable dish, put half the grated cheese 
in the sauce, and pour this over the cauliflower ; sprinkle 
the rest of the cheese over the top, and place the butter in 
small pieces over it; then put the dish in front of the 
fire, and let it get a golden brown. It is then ready for 
serving. 

TURNIPS STEWED IN STOCK. 

Six turnips. 
Half-pint of stock. 
Two ounces of butter. 
Salt and pepper; 

Peel the turnips, cut them into quarters, and shape 
nicely; put the butter into a stewpan, and brown the 
turnips in this, season them and add the stock, simmer for 
half-an-hour, arrange them in a dish. Boil the stock 
quickly without the lid to reduce it, and pour it over the 
turnips. They are then ready for serving. 



STEWED CARROTS. 

Six carrots. 

One pint of brown gravy. 

One tea-spoonful of parsley. 

One lump of sugar. 

Suet. 

Scrape the carrots, and boil them until tender in the 
gravy ; take them out and keep hot while you reduce the 
gravy to a half glaze, putting in the sugar and salt ; stand 
the carrots in a circle, and pour the gravy when quite thick 
over them ; sprinkle with the chopped parsley,, and serve 
very hot. 



COLD MEAT 



SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

One pound of cold meat. 

One-and-a-half pounds of potatoes. 

One ounce of butter. 

One table-spoonful of milk. 

One gill of gravy. 

Pepper and salt. 

Boil the potatoes, and rub them through a wire sieve ; 
put the milk and butter, with some pepper and salt,, into a 
saucepan, and when that is quite hot put in the potatoes, 
and mix well ; cut the meat into neat pieces, season it, and 
lay it in a pie-dish ; pour in the gravy, and cover over with 
the mashed potatoes ; smooth them over the top, and 
brush over with egg, if you have one about ; put it into a 
moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters of an hour, 

RISSOLES. 

Half-pound of cold meat. 

One onion. 

Half-tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. 

Half-ounce of butter. 

Half-ounce of flour. 

One gill of gravy. 

Pepper and salt. 

Peel and chop the onion finely, put the butter into a 
small saucepan, and when it is hot put in the onion and fry 
a light brown, but do not let it burn ; stir in the flour, and 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 47 



when it is quite smooth pour in the gravy and stir until it 
boils. Chop the meat finely, mix in the parsley, and put 
all into the saucepan, season nicely and mix well ; turn the 
mixture on to a plate to cool ; when quite cold roll it into 
balls ; egg and bread-crumb them, put them into a frying 
basket and fry in hot fat. Dish in a circle with fried 
parsley in the centre. 



CROQUETTES OF COLD MEAT. 

Half-pound of short crust. 

Half-pound of cold meat. 

One gill of stock. 

Half-ounce of flour. 

Half-ounce of butter. 

One tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, or two mushrooms. 

Pepper and salt. 

Chop the meat finely, mix with it the parsley, or finely 
chopped mushrooms, and seasoning ; put the butter into a 
saucepan ; when it is dissolved stir in the flour, and add the 
stock, and make this into a smooth sauce ; put in the meat, 
etc., and mix well together ; turn on to a plate to cool. 
Roll the pastry out very thinly and cut out with a small 
pastry-cutter ; place some meat in the centre, wet the 
edges with water, and fold over, press the edges well 
together, and cut with a knife ; dip these croquettes into 
a well-beaten ^g^^ cover with fine bread-crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat ; drain for a few minutes on a piece of kitchen 
paper, dish on a fancy paper in a circle, and put fried 
parsley in the centre, 

DRY CURRY. 

Cut some neat slices of mutton, mix some curry powder 
and salt together, and sprinkle the mutton with this ; put 
one ounce of butter into a frying-pan, and fry the meat a 
nice brown ; pile high on a dish, and serve in a border of 
rice. 



48 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



SAVOURY HASH. 

Cut all the meat from the remains of a joint, put the 
bones and trimmings in a saucepan with an onion and 
carrot, some peppercorns, salt, etc., and cover well with 
cold water ; let these boil for two hours, strain them into 
a basin, and take off all the fat ; fry an onion in a little 
butter, slice in a carrot, piece of turnip and celery, a tomato 
or mushrooms ; stir in half an ounce of corn-flour, and then 
pour in the gravy, and let all boil for ten minutes. Cut the 
meat for the hash into neat pieces, and put into a clean 
saucepan, strain the gravy on to them and let it get 
thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Arrange the meat 
on a hot dish, pour over the gravy and garnish with carrots 
and turnips cut into fancy shapes and boiled separately, 
or with mashed potatoes and toasted sippets of bread. 



SAVOUHY MUTTON. 

One pound of cold mutton. 
Three mushrooms. 
Half-pint of gravy. 
One ounce of butter. 
Half*ounce of flour. 
Salt and pepper. 

Cut the meat into neat slices ; cut up the mushrooms ; 
put the butter into the frying-pan, and fry the mutton and 
mushrooms slightly ; add the gravy, salt and pepper ; mix 
the flour with a little cold water or milk to a smooth paste ; 
stir this in, and continue stirring until it boils ; let it simmer 
gently for ten minutes ; place the meat on a hot dish, and 
pour over it the gravy and mushrooms. This may be 
served with a border of mashed potatoes or sippets^of toast. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 49 



BOUDINETTES OF MEAT. 

Half-pound of cold meat. 
Half-pound of potatoes. 
Two mushrooms. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Egg and bread-crumbs. 
One ounce of butter. 

Take some cold meat, mince it finely, free from fat and 
gristle, and weigh after it is minced ; boil the potatoes, dry 
them thoroughly, and rub them through a sieve ; chop the 
mushrooms, mix with the meat, and season nicely ; put the 
butter into a stewpan, and when it is dissolved put in the 
potatoes, and mix well ; add the chopped meat and mush- 
rooms, and mix all together ; turn on to a plate to cool. 
When cold make up into cork-shaped pieces, egg and 
bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain for a few 
minutes on kitchen paper; dish dn a folded d'oyley in a 
circle, with fried parsley in the centre. 



MINCE. 

One pound of cold meat. 

H&lf-pint of gravy. 

One ounce of butter. 

One onion. 

One carrot. 

One tea-spoonful of corn-flour. 

Pepper and salt. 

Mince the meat finely ; put the butter into a stewpan, 
and when it is dissolved slice the onion, and fry a light 
brown ; add the carrot, and then stir in the corn-flour ; put 
in the gravy, and stir until it boils ; let it boil for fifteen 
minutes, then strain it into a clean saucepan ; season the 
meat, put it in the gravy, and let it get hot through ; 
simmer^ but not boil, for ten minutes. Put it on a hot dish, 
and serve with sippets of toast. 

E 



so THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



CURRY OF COLD MEAT. 

One pound of cold meat. 

Half-pint of gravy. 

One apple. 

One onion. 

One dessert-spoonful of curry-powder. 

A little mulligatawny paste. 

One tea-spoonful of corn-flour. 

One ounce of butter. 

Salt. 

Peel the apple and onion and slice them up ; put the 
butter into the frying-pan, and when it is dissolved fry 
these a light brown ; mix the curry powder, paste, and 
corn-flour and salt to a smooth paste with a little cold 
water. Pour these into frying-pan, and when they are 
thoroughly mixed put in the gravy and stir until it boils. 
Let all simmer together for ten minutes ; strain into a 
clean saucepan, cut the meat (be sure to have some fat 
with it) into small pieces ; put them in the curry gravy 
and let all simmer very gently for half-an-hour. Arrange 
on a dish, and serve with it some well-boiled rice. 

GATEAU OF COLD MEAT. 

One pound of cold meal. 

One shalot. 

One ounce of butter. 

One gill of stock. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of parsley. • 

Three eggs. 

One table-spoonful of brown bread-crumbs. 

Pepper and salt. 

Well grease a plain cake-tin and sprinkle with the 
bread-crumbs. Mince the meat finely and put it into a 
basin ; chop the parsley and shalot very small, and mix 
with the meat, and season nicely with pepper and salt. 
Beat the yolks of two and one whole egg with the stock 
and strain it over the meat; mix well, turn into the pre- 
pared tin, and bake for three-quarters of an hour ; then 
turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with a good gravy 
poured round. 



PUDDINGS AND PIES. 



SEMOLINA PUDDING. 

Two ounces of semolina. 
One pint of milk. 



Two ounces of sugar. 
Three eggs. 

Put the semolina into a saucepan with half a pint 
of cold milk and some sugar, and boil for a quarter of 
an hour. Make a custard of the eggs and milk (use only 
one white of egg) ; mix .it with the semolina, turn into a 
buttered pie-dish, and bake for half-an-hour. 



COLLEGE PUDDING. 

Half-pint of mUk. 
One ounce of butter. 
One ounce of sugar. 
Quarter-pound of bread-crumbs. 
Half-ounce of candied-peel. 
Two eggs. 

Put the milk, butter, and sugar into a saucepan, and 
when boiling pour it on to the bread-crumbs ; put in the 
candied-peel, cut into very tiny pieces, beat up the eggs well 
and stir them into the bread-crumbs, etc. ; flavour with a 
little brandy, sherry, or vanilla. Bake in well-buttered 
cups for fifteen minutes, or until a rich brown colour, and 
serve with sifted sugar and sherry. The cups should be 
only three parts full when put into the oven. 

£ 2 



52 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK, 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread-crumbs. 

One quart of milk. 

Two lemons. 

Four eggs. 

Three ounces of castor sugar. 

Three table-spoonfuls of jam. 

Quarter-pound of icing sugar. 

Pour the milk boiling on to the bread-crumbs, sweeten 
with the castor sugar, put in the grated rind of two 
lemons and the yolks of the eggs ; put this mixture into a 
buttered dish and bake until set. Put the icing sugar into 
a basin with the whites of the eggs, and the juice of the 
lemons ; beat all to a stiff froth, put a layer of strawberry 
jam on the top of the baked mixture, and then a thick 
layer of icing ; replace in a very cool oven until set, but 
not brown. To be eaten cold. This is a most delicious 
pudding. Half the icing may be coloured with a little 
cochineal, and a layer of this put on first and allowed to 
get quite hard before putting on the layer of white. 



BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Three slices of bread and butler. 

One pint of milk. 

Three eggs. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

One ounce of candied-peeL 

Butter a pie-dish, and cut three slices of thin bread 
and butter, and place them at the bottom, sprinkle over 
the candied-peel cut into very small pieces ; put the milk 
into a saucepan with the sugar, let it come to boiling 
point, then pour it on to the eggs which have been well 
beaten (it is better to use only one white and three yolks), 
whisk well for five minutes, and then strain on to the bread 
and butter. Let it stand, if possible, for half-an-hour, and 
then bake in a slow oven for half-an-hour, or until set. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 53 



RICE MERINGUES. 

One tea-cupful of ground rice. 
One-and-a-half pints of milk. 
Three eggs. 

One-and-a-half ounces of castor sugar. 
Half-pound of jam. 

Put the rice and milk into a clean stewpan, and simmer 
until soft j add the yolks of the eggs beaten, and let them 
cook but not boil, then pile it high in the centre of a 
dish, and well cover with jam; whisk the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, spread over the jam and sprinkle well 
with castor sugar ; put it into a cool ' oven for twenty 
minutes, leave the door open to prevent it acquiring any 
colour. When it is cold it is ready for serving. 



BREAD AND FRUIT PUDDING. 
(To use up Stale Bread.) 

Put a small round of bread at the bottom of a basin 
then place all round in an upright position fingers of bread 
about half-an-inch apart. Take a bottle of fruit, boil the 
juice with sugar and half-pint of water, put the fruit in for 
a minute or two, then take it out with a spoon and put it 
in a basin ; dissolve six sheets of gelatine in the syrup, 
strain this over the fruit ; let it stand until cold and set, 
then turn out and serve. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

Half-pound of scraps of bread. 
Two eggs. 
. One gill of milk. 
Two ounces of sugar. 
Layer of jam. 

Soak the bread in cold water until quite soft ; then 
squeeze it dry ; put it into a basin, and mix with it the 



54 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 

sugar, yolks of eggs, and milk ; half-fill a pie-dish with 
this, and put in a layer of jam ; fill up the dish, and bake 
until set; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 
When the pudding is baked put these on the top ; replace 
in the oven to bro^^n. It is then ready for serving. 



DOUGLAS PUDDING. 

Three eggs. 

Five apples. 

Three ounces of bread-crumbs. 

Three ounces of currants. 

Three ounces of sugar. 

A little lemon-peel. 

Chop the apples and put them into a basin, mix with 
them the bread-crumbs, currants, sugar, eggs well beaten ; 
beat it well, pour into a buttered basin, and boil two hours. 
Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with sifted sugar and a 
little sherry, if liked. 



SAVOURY PUDDING. 

« 

Three onions. 

Four ounces of bread-crumbs. 
Two ounces of flour. 
Two ounces of oatmeal. 
Two ounces of suet. 
One tea-spoonful of sage. 
Half-pint of milk. 
Salt and pepper. 

Boil the onions for twenty minutes, chop them finely, 
and mix them with the other ingredients (the sage must be 
finely powdered), add the milk, and beat all well together ; 
put it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. ^^ 



CAPE PUDDING. 

Half-pound of bread-crumbs. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Two eggs. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

Half-pound of jam. 

Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, mix with them the 
sugar, put the butter and milk on the fire, and when they 
are boiling pour on to the crumbs and sugar ; put in the 
yolks of the eggs, beat well, and pour into a buttered 
pie-dish. Bake until set; when it is cool spread over a 
layer of jam, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
with a little sugar, and pile them on the top. Stand in a 
cool oven to set, but not brown. When the pudding is cold 
it is ready. 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Five eggs. 

Two-and-a-half ounces of sweet biscuits. 

One-and-a-half ounces of gelatine. 

Two ounces of sugar, • 

Twenty dried cherries. 

A little angelica. 

One glass of sherry. 

One pint of jelly. 

Make a custard of the milk and eggs, using only one 
white ; when nearly cold cut the biscuits into small pieces, 
and put them in the custard. Cut the cherries in half, and 
the angelica into small pieces, and add them ; put in the 
wine, dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of cold water, 
and strain that in. Have ready a mould prettily deco- 
rated with red and white jelly; sprinkle the red jelly with 
desiccated cocoa-nut, and the white jelly with pistachio 
kernels chopped finely. When the pudding is nearly cold, 
pour it into this mould, and stand it in a cool place until 
firm ; turn it out carefully, chop the rest of the jelly, and 
place it round the pudding. It is then ready for serving. 



56 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



CHEESECAKE PUDDING. 

One pound of potatoes. 

Three eggs. 

One pint of milk. 

Three ounces of sugar. 

Lemon-peel. 

Three ounces of sultanas. 

Cook the potatoes, and rub them through a sieve ; add 
the eggs (yolks only) with lemon-peel, sugar, and sultanas ; 
mix well, turn into a buttered dish, and bake until a light 
brown and firm. The dish may be bordered with pastry if 
liked. 



POTATO PIE. 

One-and-a-half pounds of middle neck of mutton. 

One-and-a-half pounds of potatoes. 

One small onion. 

Half-pound of short crust. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Pepper and salt. 

Cut the meat into pieces about one inch square, chop 
through the bones, put a layer of meat in a pie-dish, then 
one of potatoes, then a little- onion and seasoning ; continue 
in this way until the dish is full, pour in the milk and cover 
with the pie-crust ; bake in a very moderate oven for one- 
and-a-quarter hours. This pie may be made with cold 
meat. 

RAISED PORK PIE. 

One pound of flour. 
Quarter-pound of lard. 
One gill of water. 
One pound of pork. 
Pepper, salt, and a little sage. 

Cut the pork into small pieces, and season well ; put 
the lard and water into a saucepan, and when it is boiling 
pour it on to the flour, and work into a paste. Cut off 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK, 57 

two-thirds, and roll it into a strip ; wet the edges, and form 
into a pocket; stand this up, and with the hand shape 
nicely ; put in the pork, cover over, and ornament with 
leaves; brush over with an egg, and bake for one-and- 
a-half hours. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. 

One-and-a-half pounds of veal. 

Quarter-pound of ham. 

Two eggs. 

One dessert-spoonful of parsley. 

One tea-spoon of sweet herbs. 

One pint of gravy. 

Three-quarters pound of rough pufF pastry. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut the veal into thin slices, and the ham into small 
pieces, and roll the ham in the veal, seasoning each roll 
with a little parsley and herbs, pepper and salt ; pile these 
high in the dish; putting in the hard-boiled eggs in layers ; 
pour round half the gravy and cover with the pastry ; cut 
out some leaves to ornament the top of the pie. Brush 
over with a well-beaten egg and place in a moderate oven ; 
bake for one-and-a-half to two hours. Take the rest of the 
gravy and boil it quickly, if not in a jelly put in three sheets 
of gelatine ; when the pie is baked, pour this in and stand 
by until cool. 

BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PIE- 

One-and-a-half pounds of beefsteak. 

Half-pound of kidney. 

Salt and pepper. 

Half- pint of water. 

Three-quarters pound of rough puff pastry. 

Cut the steak and kidney into thin slices, mix some 
flour on a plate with the salt and pepper, dip each piece of 
meat and kidney in this, and then roll the meat with the 
kidney inside ; pile high in the dish, pour round the water, 
cover with the pastry. Cut out some leaves to ornament 
the top, and 'put the pie into a moderate oven, and bake 
for one-and-a-half to two hours. Have ready a little gravy, 
or hot water, to pour in .when the pie is baked. 



58 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



KJNGSWOOD PUDDING. 

Half-pound of bread-crumbs. 
Quarter*pound of flour. 
Half-pound of sugar. 
Quarter-pound of raisins. 
Quarter-pound of currants. 
Quarter-pound of candied-peel. 
Half-pound of suet. 
Two large apples. 
One ounce of sweet almonds. 

Chop the suet finely, stone the raisins and pull in half, 
cut the peel into small pieces, and chop the almonds. Mix 
these ingredients well with the flour, bread-crumbs, and 
sugar. Peel and chop finely the apples (put the apple- 
pips in, as they impart a nice flavour). Mix all these 
things well together, and press into a paste. The juice of 
the apples, and the moisture from the raisins, will make it 
adhere without either eggs or milk ; press it well into a 
buttered mould, and boil for eight hours. This is a 
delicious pudding. It may be made, boiled, and kept 
for some weeks, boiling it again the day that it is wanted. 
It is a capital stock pudding to keep in the house, and 
never fails to please. 



CASSEL PUDDING. 

Quarter-pound of sugar. 
Quarter-pound of flour. 
Quarter-pound of butter. 
Two eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream, sift in the powdered sugar, 
beating all the time, then the yolks of the eggs beaten, 
and then the whites which have been whipped to a stiff 
froth, and last of all the flour, which must be slowly sifted 
in. Put this mixture into buttered cups, and bake for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. These puddings may be served 
either hot or .cold, with sifted sugar and sherry. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 59 



APPLE PUDDING. 

One pound of apples. 

Quarter-pound of bread-crumbs. 

One ounce of butter. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. 

Peel, core, and slice the apples thinly, butter a pie-dish, 
and put in a layer of bread-crumbs, then one of sliced 
apples, sprinkle well with sugar and lemon-juice, then 
another layer of bread-crumbs, and continue in this way 
until the dish is full. Put the butter in small pieces on the 
top of the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. This pudding may be served 
plainly, or turned out and a boiled custard poured round. 

TADWORTH PUDDING. 

Two ounces of suet 

Two ounces of bread-crumbs. 

Two ounces of sugar. • 

Half-tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. 

One gill of milk. 

One ^%%, 

Chop the suet finely, and mix the . dry ingredients 
thoroughly ; make into a light dough, with the egg and 
milk ; turn it into a well-buttered basin, and steam for one 
hour ; turn carefully out, and serve with sherry, 

MARMALADE PUDDING. 

Half-pound of suet. 
Half-pound of bread-crumbs. 
Half-pound of sugar. 
Half -pot of marmalade. 
Two eggs. 
One lemon. 

Chop the suet finely, and mix with the bread-crumbs 
and sugar, add a pinch of salt and the rind of one lemon, 
put in the marmalade, beat the eggs, and mix all well 
together ; pour into a buttered mould, and boil for three 
hours. Serve with sifted sugar and sherry. 



PASTRY. 



GENERAL CRUST. 

One pound of flour. 

Four ounces of butter. 

Five ounces of lard or dripping. 

Half-pint of water. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 

Sift the flour into the basin, rub in three ounces of the 
lard or dripping, mix the lemon-juice and water, and with 
this make the flour into a light paste ; roll the butter and 
the rest of the lard into thin sheets, roll the crust out 
thinly, put on a layer of butter and lard, fold the crust into 
three, roll out again, and lay on the rest of the butter and 
lard, fold again into three and roll out. It is then ready 
for use, or it may stand by for an hour in a cool place. 



PUFF PASTRY. 

One pound of flour. 

One pound of butter. 

Half-pint of water. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of lemon -juice. 

Sift the flour on to the board, make a hole in the 
centre, and put in the lemon-juice, stir it with the finger 
and add by degrees the water, and make it into a light 
paste. It should be about the same consistency as the 
butter. Work it well about on the board ; then take the 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 6i 



butter and press it well in a clean cloth, to extract all the 
water, and make it into a square cake ; roll out the pastry, 
place the butter in the centre, fold the pastry over it and 
let it lie by for ten minutes ; then roll it carefully out into 
a long thin strip, fold it into three and put it by again 
for ten minutes. It must be rolled out seven times, putting 
it by between each roll for ten or fifteen minutes. Always 
roll one way, lift the rolling pin constantly, and use only 
just enough flour to prevent the crust sticking to the board. 
If it does stick pass a thin knife under it, don't attempt 
to pull it away. Puff pastry requires care and attention in 
making. Always make it in the coolest possible place, 
and be careful that the butter does not come through when 
it is rolled ; if it does, the crust is spoilt. When rolling the 
pastry turn the open ends towards you. If this pastry is 
to be used for oyster, meat, or jam patties roll the paste out 
. half-an-inch in thickness, dip a paste-cutter in hot water, 
and cut into rounds. Take another cutter several sizes 
smaller, and cut about half through the pastry. When 
the patty is baked this can be removed, and the space 
filled with jam or forcemeat. 



ROUGH PUFF PASTRY. 

One pound of flour. 
Ten ounces of butter. 
Half-pint of water. 

Sift the flour into a basin, put in the butter, and just 
cut it through a few times with a knife, then mix it into 
a dough with the water, roll it out five times ; flour the 
board when you turn the doughout, roll it into a long thin 
strip, and fold it into three. Turn the open edge towards 
you when you begin to roll it again. Roll lightly, and lift 
the rolling pin constantly. It is ready for use directly it 
is made, or it may stand by in a cool place for an hour. 



62 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



SHORT CRUST. 

One pound of flour. 
Ten ounces of butter. 
One-and-a-half gills of water. 
One tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. 

Sift the flour into a basin, and rub the butter thoroughly 
in; mix the lemon-juice .and water together, and with this 
work it into a light dough. Roll out once, and it is ready 
for use. 



GENOESE PASTRY. 

Eight ounces of castor sugar. 

Seven eggs. 

Six ounces of flour. 

Five ounces of butter. 

Half-pound of jam. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a large basin, sift the flour, 
and put the butter into a saucepan to dissolve; line a 
baking-sheet with kitchen paper, and rub it all over with 
the dissolved butter. Place the basin containing the eggs 
and sugar over a saucepan half full of hot water ; whisk it 
well for twenty minutes, then place the basin on the table, 
pour in the warm butter, and then sift in the flour. Pour 
the mixture into the lined baking-sheet, put into a mode- 
rate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes, or until it 
is a pale brown and feels firm. While it is baking, put 
the jam into a saucepan and let it get quite warm; lay a 
piece of paper on the. table and sprinkle it well with castor 
sugar. Wehn the pastry is done, turn it out, the brown 
side on the paper ; carefully remove the greased paper as 
quickly as possible, and spread the jam evenly over it, and 
roll it up, or else cut it in half, fold it over, and cut it into 
squares ; when it is cool it is ready for serving. This may 
also be baked in a plain or fancy mould as a cake. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 65 



SWISS ROLL. 

Two eggs. 

Two ounces of butter. 

The weight of the eggs in sugar and fiour. 

Half-tea-spoonful of baking powder. 

Half-pound of jam. 

One table-spoonful of milk. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; then put in one 
egg and half the flour, then the other egg and the rest of 
the flour, then the milk and the baking powder. Line a 
baking-sheet with well-greased kitchen paper, pour in the 
mixture, and bake until a pale brown and set. While it is 
baking, warm the jam ; when the roll is done, turn it on to 
a piece of paper well sprinkled with sugar, spread the jam 
over and roll it up quickly. 



CHANTILLY TARTLETS. 

Half-pound of short crust. 

One pint of milk. 

Two table-spoonfuls of flour. 

Quarter- pound of castor sugar. 

Six eggs. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Two ounces of ratafia-crumbs. 

Apricot jam. 

Line some patty-pans with short crust and half fill them 
with jam, and bake them ; then put the sugar and flour into 
a stewpan, and with the pint of cold milk make into a batter; 
beat up the eggs and add them, and stir over the fire until 
it thickens like custard ; stand it on one Side to cool, then fill 
the patty-pans with this, laying it on top of the jam. Put the 
butter into a small stewpan and mix in the ratafia-crumbs ; 
when this is cold, put a layer of this on top, and hold a 
salamander over for a few minutes to brown them. To be 
eaten cold. 



64 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



LEMON CHEESECAKES. 

' One pound of loaf sugar. 

Quarter-pound of butter. 
Six eggs. 
Three lemons. 

Put the butter and sugar into a saucepan, beat the yolks 
of four and two whole eggs and add to the butter and 
sugar ; grate over them the rinds of the lemons and squeeze 
in the juice. Stir it over a slow fire until it is of the con- 
sistency of cream ; turn into a basin, and when the mixture 
is cold, it may be put into gallipots and tied down the 
same as jam. It will keep good some time. A few ratafia 
or macaroon crumbs may be stirred into it when using. 



PLAIN CHEESECAKES. 

Half-pint of milk. 
Eight ounces of bread-crumbs. 
Three ounces of butter. 
Three ounces of sugar. 
Three eggs. 

Three ounces of sultanas. 
One table-spoonful of brandy. 

Pour the milk boiling on to the bread-crumbs, and let 
them soak until they are cold. Then add the butter 
melted, the sugar, and sultanas,- beat the yolks of two eggs 
and one whole egg with the brandy, and stir them with the 
other ingredients. Half-fill the patty-pans, which have 
been lined with short paste, and bake for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 



OMELETTES AND SOUFL^ES. 



SWEET OMELETTE. 

Two eggs. 

One ounce of castor sugar. 
Two table-spoonfuls of jam. 
One ounce of butter. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, and work them 
for a few minutes with a spoon ; put the whites on to a 
plate, and whisk to a stiff froth with some sugar ; put the 
jam on a plate, and make it quite hot ; place the butter into 
a small clean frying-pan; when it is dissolved, mix the 
yolks and whites of the eggs together, and pour this 
mixture into the frying-pan ; form it with a spoon into an 
oval shape, and cook over the fire for three minutes ; then 
hold the pan in front of the fire, or put it in the oven to 
lightly brown the top of the omelette. Pass a thin knife 
round the pan, and slip the omelette on to the jam; 
sprinkle some castor sugar over it, and serve instantly. 



SAVOURY OMELETTE. 

I' 

^ Three eggs. 

One tea-spoonful of parsley or ham. 
One ounce of butter. 
Salt and pepper. 

Put the butter into a small frying-pan ; when it is dis- 
solved put in the parsley or ham ; beat the eggs for two or 
three minutes ; season with pepper and salt, and pour them 

F 



66 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



into the frying-pan. Work them about with a fork, and 
when they begin to set work them into an oval shape ; 
cook them for two minutes ; hold the pan in front of the 
fire to cook lightly on the upper side. Turn on to a hot 
plate, and serve instantly. 



RICE SOUFFLEE. 

Two ounces of rice. 

One pint of milk. 

Four eggs. 

One lemon. 

Three ounces of sugar. 

Put the milk into a clean stewpan, and when it boils 
wash the rice well and sprinkle it in ; stir until the rice is 
well cooked, then turn into a basin ; grate in the rind of the 
lemon, add the sugar and mix in (one at a time) the yolks 
of four eggs, whisk the whites to a stiff froth with a little 
sugar and stir these lightly in. Well butter a mould, 
and sprinkle it with sugar and brown bread-crumbs, put 
in the souffl^e and bake in a moderate oven for thirty 
minutes or until it is firm and brown ; turn carefully on to a 
hot dish and pour round it some wine sauce. 



VANILLA SOUFFLEE. 

Four eggs. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

One ounce of sugar. 

One gill of milk. 

One tea-spoonful of vanilla. 

One ounce of flour. 

Put the butter into a clean stewpan, and when it is 
dissolved put in the flour, and mix well ; add the milk, and 
stir until it boils ; let it boil for three minutes ; then stand 
the saucepan on the table and put in the sugar, then the 
yolks of three eggs (one at a time), then the vanilla ; put 
the whites of the eggs into a basin, and whisk to a stiff 
froth ; stir these lightly in. Well butter a plain mould, and 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 67 

line up with kitchen paper, which must als6 be well 
greased ; pour the mixture in, cover over with a piece of 
greased paper, and stand in a saucepan of boiling water 
{the water should only reach half-way up the mould) ; 
steam for one-and-a-quarter hours. Turn quickly on to a 
hot dish, pour some wine sauce round, and serve instantly. 

CHEESE SOUFFLEE. 

One ounce of butter. 
One ounce of flour. 
Twenty peppercorns. 
One gill of milk. 
Three eggs. 
Three ounces of cheese. 

Fry the peppercorns in the butter ; strain the butter 
into a clean stewpan, and put over the fire ; then stir in the 
flour, and make a smooth sauce with the milk ; add the 
yolks of two eggs and the cheese ; beat the whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt ; stir these in, put 
it in a well-buttered mould, and bake for twenty minutes, 
pin a fancy paper round the tin, and serve instantly. 

APRICOT SOUFFLfeE. 

Half-pint of apricot pur6e. 

One gill of milk. 

One ounce of butter. 

One ounce of floor. 

Four eggs. 

One-and-a-half ounces of sugar. 

Put the butter into a stewpan, and when it is dissolved 
stir in the flour ; add the milk, and make a very smooth 
sauce ; put in the sugar ; add the yolks of three eggs (one 
at a time), then the apricot pur^e ; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Well butter 
a plain mould, and line it up with kitchen paper ; pour the 
mixture in, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water (the 
water should be half-way up the mould), and steam for 
one-and-a-quarter hours, turn it quickly on to a hot dish, 
and pour round it some apricot sauce, and serve instantly. 

F 2 



6S THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



PINEAPPLE SOUFFLEE. 

Half-tin of pineapple. 
One gill of milk. 
One ounce of butter. 
One ounce of flour. 
One-and^-half ounces of sugar. 
Four eggs. 

For the sauce : 

Two ounces of pineapple. 

One ounce of sugar. 

One gill of water. 

Half-gill of sherry. 

One tea-spoonful of corn-flour. 

A few drops of cochineaL 

First of all prepare a mould by dipping the paste-brush 
into some warm butter and thoroughly greasing the inside ; 
take a piece of kitchen paper, tie it about three inches 
above the tin on the outside, and well grease that too. Put 
the butter into a stewpan, and when it is dissolved, stir in 
the flour ; when that is quite smooth add the milk, and stir 
until it boils, then let it cook for two or three minutes. 
Remove the saucepan from the fire, stand it on the table, 
put in the sugar and then the yolks of three eggs, stirring 
each one in separately ; cut the pineapple into small pieces 
and put that in. Put the whites of four eggs into a large 
basin with a little sugar and whisk them to a very stiff 
froth; stir these lightly into the foundation of the souffl^e ; 
turn into the mould and stand in a saucepan of boiling 
water (the water should only reach half-way up the mould), 
cover over with a piece of paper, and steam for one hour- 
and-a-quarter. Turn it on to a hot dish and serve imme- 
diately, with the sauce poured round, made as follows : 
Put the pineapple cut into small pieces into a small 
stewpan with the sugar, half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice 
and water, and let it boil for five minutes ; mix the corn- 
flour smoothly with a little cold water, and pour that in 
and stir until it boils ; let it boil for a few minutes, then 
put in the cochineal and sherry, strain, and pour round the 
souffl^e. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 69 



APPLE SOUFFLEE. 

Two pounds of apples. 
Quarter-pound of castor sugar. 
One pint of milk. 
Three eggs. 
Lemon-peel. 

r Peel and core the apples and place them in a saucepan 
with the apple-pips, lemon-peel, butter, and sufficient water 
to cover the bottom of the saucepan ; boil them until soft 
enough to rub through a wire sieve ; then take them up, 
rub them through a sieve into a basin, make a custard with 
the yolks of the eggs and the milk, mix the tustard and 
apples together and sweeten them ; whip the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and when you have arranged the 
apples and custards on a glass dish, heap the whites on the 
top and sprinkle with castor sugar ; the whites of the eggs 
may be flavoured with vanilla. 



JELLIES AND CREAMS. 



BAYARAIS OF COFFEE. 

Half-gill essence of coffee. 
One ounce of gelatine. 
Four eggs. 
One gill of milk. 
Two ounces of sugar. 
Half-pint of cream. 

Make a boiled custard of the milk and yolks of the 
eggs and let it get cool ; whip the cream until it is quite 
stiff, dissolve the gelatine in half-a-gill of water, mix 
together the coffee, sugar, and custard, then add the cream ; 
mix well together, strain in the gelatine, decorate the 
mould with red jelly, pour in the cream and let it stand 
until it is cold and set, then dip the mould in hot water, 
shake it, and turn on to a glass dish. 

CORN-FLOUR BLANCMANGE. 

One pint of milk. 
One-and-a-half ounces of sugar. 
One-and-a-half ounces of corn-flour. 
Half-tea-spoonful of vanilla. 

Put the milk in a clean saucepan with- the sugar; 
mix the corn-flour into smooth paste with a little cold milk ; 
when the milk is nearly boiling pour this in and continue 
stirring until it boils ; let it boil five minutes, then add the 
flavouring, and pour into a mould which has been dipped in 
cold water. Let it stand in a cool place until set, dip the 
mould into hot water and turn carefully into a glass dish. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 71 



GATEAU OF APRICOTS. 

One tin of apricots. 

One ounce of gelatine. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 

Rub the apricots through a sieve, put in the lemon- 
juice and sugar, dissolve the gelatine in half-a-gill of water, 
and strain into the apricots. Decorate a mould with dried 
cherries and angelica, pour in the giteau, and let it stand 
until it is cold and set. When you wish to turn it out, 
dip the mould in warm water, shake it and turn carefully 
on to a glass dish. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Four eggs. 

Half-pint of cream. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

One tea-spoonful of vanilla. 

One-and-a-half gills of red jelly. 

One ounce of gdatine. 

Make a custard of the eggs and milk, and let it get 
nearly cold, whip the cream, and mix these together ; add 
the sugar and vanilla ; dissolve the gelatine in half-a-gill of 
water, strain that in, stir gently until nearly cold, and pour 
into a mould which has been decorated with red jelly. 

VELVET CREAM. 

One pint of cream. 

One ounce of gelatine. 

One gill of honey. 

Two ounces of castor sugar. 

One lemon. 

One gill of sherry. 

Put the gelatine in half-a-gill of water to dissolve. 
Whip the cream until it is quite stiff, add to this the honey, 
castor sugar, and the juice of the lemon, then the sherry ; 
when the gelatine is quite dissolved, strain that in. Put 
into a mould which has been decorated with red jelly. 



72 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



LEMON JELLY. 

Two quarts of water. 

Quarter-pound of gelatine. 

One pint of wine. 

Half-pint of lemon-juice. 

Rind of eight lemons. 

One pound of loaf sugar. 

Four whites and two shells of eggs. 

Four cloves. 

Put all these ingredients into a large clean saucepan 
and whisk until it is just on the boil, but on no account 
after it has boiled ; draw it on one side of the fire and let it 
stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, for twenty minutes. 
Tie a kitchen cloth over a chair or jelly-stand, run sortie 
boiling water through it, then turn the whole contents of 
the saucepan into the cloth ; change the basin immediately, 
as the first few drops will not be clear. Unless a very 
brilliant jelly is desired, it is only necessary to strain it 
once if it has been carefully prepared. It may be moulded 
with fresh or dried fruits, or the mould partly filled with 
red jelly ; jellies should always be put into a wet mould. 

PORT WINE JELLY. 

Half-pint of port. 

Four sheets of gelatine. 

One lemon. 

One ounce of sugar. 

A few drops of cochineal. 

Put the wine, gelatine, juice of one lemon, and peel of 
half a lemon with the sugar into a saucepan ; when it is 
dissolved strain it through a hair sieve into a wet mould ; if 
not a good colour, add a few drops of cochineal. 

PRINCESS JELLY. 

One pint of lemon jelly. 

Two sheets of gold or silver leaf. 

One gill of wine. 

This is a very elegant dish and very easily made. Take 
the lemon jelly while it is warm, add a little wine to it, then 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



very carefully open a book of gold leaf and turn two leaves 
into the jelly ; stir with a spoon until it is nearly cold, then 
put into a wet mould and continue moving about until the 
jelly begins to set ; then stand by in a cool place. The 
mould does not require to be decorated, one jelly of gold 
leaf and one of silver looks very pretty on the table. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, 

Half-pint of cream. 

One ounce of sugar. 

Half-ounce of gelatine. 

Half-tea-spoonful of vanilla. 

Some finger biscuits, dried cherries and angelica. 

Take a plain mould, decorate the bottom with the 
cherries and angelicas, and a little red jelly if you like ; line 
the sides of the mould with finger biscuits, put the gelatine 
into a small saucepan to dissolve with half-a-gill of cold 
water. Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it, stir in the 
gelatine ; when it has quite dissolved, turn into the decorated 
mould, and stand, by until cold and set. The mould for 
a Charlotte Russe should be used dry ; if jelly is used 
for decorating the bottom, wet only the bottom of the 
mould. If the biscuits are carefully placed it will turn 
out well. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

One quart of water. 

Twenty-five sheets of gelatine. 

One onion. 

Six cloves. 

One carrot. 

A little celery and turnip. 

One bouquet garni. 

Whites and shells of two eggs. 

Twenty peppercorns. 

One gill of plain and tarragon vinegar. 

One-and-a-half gills of sherry. 

Salt. 

Put the water into a good-sized clean stewpan, add the 
gelatine, an onion stuck with six cloves, the vegetables 



74 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 

sliced up, bouquet garni, whites and shells of two eggs, 
vinegar, peppercorns, sherry, and salt ; put the stewpan on 
the fire, and whisk until it is very hot, but on no account 
after it boils: When it has well boiled up, draw it on one 
side and let it stand for twenty minutes, then strain it 
through a kitchen -cloth ; if a brilliant jelly is desired, 
strain twice. 

A very pretty mould of aspic jelly may be made "with 
lobster coral, hard-boiled eggs, and little pieces of water- 
cress, endive, etc. ; or it may be moulded in a plain cup 
mould, with plovers' eggs. 



BLANCMANGE. 

One quart of milk. 
One gill of cream. 
Two ounces of sugar. 
One tea-spoonful of vanilla. 
One ounce of gelatine. 

Put the gelatine in the milk, and when it is dissolved 
stir in the sugar, cream, and flavouring. When nearly 
cold turn into a decorated mould. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 



SPONGE CAKES. 

Ten ounces of sugar. 
Six ounces of flour. 
Five eggs. 
One lemon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs in a basin and the whites on 
a plate to a stiff froth ; mix well together with the whisky 
and then put in the grated rind of the lemon and sift in 
the sugar ; continue beating one way, till the mixture be- 
comes thick and white. Line two cake-tins with buttered 
paper, which must come much higher than the tin ; the 
flour must now be lightly stirred in with a wooden spoon. 
Half fill the tins with the mixture, and bake in a very steady 
oven for one hour. 

CUP CAKE. 

Two cups of flour. 
One cup of sugar. 
One cup of currants. 

§ne cup of sultanas, 
ne cup of candied-peeL 
One cup of milk. 
Half-cup of butter. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
One tea-spoonful of soda. 
Three eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream and add the sugar, then the 
eggs ; put the cream of tartar into a cup with the milk, stir 



76 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



in the soda until it froths, then mix it with the butter, etc.; 
stir in the flour gradually, then the fruit and peel, and mix 
thoroughly. Put it into a well-buttered tin and bake for 
one hour or more. 



GINGER CAKE, 

One pound of flour. 
Half-pound of butter. 
Half-pound of sugar. 
Two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. 
Quarter-pound of candied-peeL 
One table-spoonful of ground ginger. 
Four eggs. 
One gill of railk. 

Sift the flour into a basin, rub the butter lightly in, stir 
in the sugar, candied-peel (cut finely), and ginger, then the 
baking powder ; beat up the eggs and mix them with the 
milk; mix the dry ingredients with these into a light mix- 
ture, [place in a well-greased tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for an hour-and-a-half. 



QUEEN CAKES. 

One pound of flour. 
One pound of butter. 
One pound of sugar. 
Half-pound of currants. 
Quarter-pound of candied-peel. 
Eight eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, then the 
eggs (one at a time), then the currants and peel, and the 
flour ; beat all well together ; butter some small tins, half 
fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for 
fifteen or twenty minutes according to size ; turn out 
carefully, and stand on a sieve until cool. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 77 



SULTANA SCONES, 

One pound of flour. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. 

Three ounces of butter. 

One ounce of sugar. 

Two ounces of sultanas. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Salt. 

Sift the flour into a basin, and add a pinch of salt, rub 
the butter lightly in and stir in the sugar, then the sultanas, 
and last of all the baking powder. Mix into a dough with 
half-pint of milk, turn on to a floured board, and divide into 
eight pieces, put at once into the oven, and bake for fifteen 
minutes ; just before they are done, brush them over with 
milk ; place them on a sieve till cold. 

HOT TEA-CAKES, 

One pound of flour. 

Two eggs. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Salt. 

Sift the flour into a basin, add a little salt, rub in the 
butter, and stir in the baking powder ; make a hole in the 
centre of the flour, drop in the eggs, make the milk tepid 
and pour on to them, and make into a light dough ; turn on 
to a floured board, and shape into small flat cakes, place 
on a buttered tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Cut them 
open, butter well and serve hot. 

SHORTBREAD. 

Half-pound of flour. 
Four ounces of butter. 
Two ounces of castor sugar. 

Sift the flour into a basin, and add the sugar. Warm 
the butter in a small stewpan, and when it is dissolved 



78 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



pour it on the flour and work into a paste ; turn it on to a 
lightly floured board, and work it out with a rolling pin 
about a quarter-inch thick. Cut it out then with a pastry- 
cutter, put it on a floured tin, and bake a very pale brown. 



RICE BUNS. 

Quarter-pound of ground rice. 

Quarter-pound of flour. 

Half-tea-spoonful of baking powder. 

Three ounces of butter. 

Three ounces of sugar. 

Two eggs. 

Half-giUofmilk. 

Mix the rice, flour, and baking powder together, cream 
the butter and sugar together ; then add one egg and half 
the rice and flour, beat well, and then put the other egg 
and milk, then the rest of the rice and flour ; beat well, 
put it into small buttered tins (they should only be half 
full), and bake in a moderate oven until they are a golden 
brown. Turn on to a sieve to cool. 



MILK ROLLS. 

One pound of self-raising flour. 
Half-pint of oiilk. 
One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 
Salt. 

Sift the flour into a basin and add the salt ; rub in the 
butter and make into a dough with the milk. Turn on to 
a floured board ; shape into rolls and twists ; put on to a 
floured tin and place in the oven directly; brush over 
with milk when nearly baked, and return to the oven. 
The oven should be moderately hot, and the rolls should be 
baked twenty minutes. Place on a sieve till cold. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 79 



VIENNA BREAD. 

One pound of flour. 

Half-ounce of yeast. 

Half-pint of milk. 

One ounce of butter. 

Salt. 

One small tea-spoonful of sugar. 

Sift the flour and salt into a basin, dissolve the butter 
in a small stewpan, and add the milk, and let it get tepid. 
Cream the yeast and sugar together ; pour on the warm 
milk and butter, and strain into the flour ; work quickly 
into a light dough ; flour a clean basin, put in the dough, 
cover it over with a piece of kitchen paper or a cloth, and 
stand it in a warm place for one-and-a-half hours ; turn it 
then on to a floured board, and knead well for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Make it then into small rolls, or put it 
into small floured tins ; cover it over, and let it stand for 
ten minutes in a warm place ; then put it into a steady 
well-heated oven, and bake for fifteen minutes, or longer, 
according to the size of the rolls. It should be brushed 
over with milk just before it is finished. Run a small clean 
skewer in, if it comes out bright the bread is done. Turn 
it carefully on to a sieve, and leave it to cool. It should 
not be put into a cold place until it has been out of the 
oven for some time. 



OATMEAL BISCUITS. 

Three ounces of butter. 
Six ounces of flour. 
Five ounces of oatmeal. 
Quarter-of-a-pound of sugar. 
One tea-spoonful of bakingpowder, 
One table-spoonful of milk. 
One ^zg. 

Rub the butter into the flour, mix in the oatmeal and 
sugar and baking powder; beat the ^g'g and milk, and 
mix the dry ingredients with these into a stiff paste ; roll 
out very thin, cut into biscuits, and bake in a slow oven. 



8o THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



KINGSWOOD CAKES. 



Three penny sponge cakes. 
Quarter-pound of strawberry jam. 
Half-pint of boiled custard. 
Little red jelly. 



Cut open the sponge cakes, and spread with jam ; put 
them into a glass dish and pour round the custard ; chop 
some red jelly finely and put it on the top of cakes ; whip 
the whites of the eggs saved from the custard to a stiff 
froth and put round the cakes. 



YORKSHIRE TEA-CAKES. 

Three-quarters of a pound of flour. 

One-and-a-half gills of milk. 

One ounce of butter. 

One e%g. 

Half-ounce of German yeast. 

One dessert-spoonful of sugar. 

Sift the flour into a basin, and . make a hole in the 
centre ; drop into this the egg unbeaten. Warm the butter 
and milk (it should be tepid). Cream the yeast and sugar 
in a small basin, and pour on the warm milk and dissolved 
butter ; strain these on to the flour and egg, and work all 
into a light dough ; beat it well, and turn on to a floured 
board ; divide into two pieces, shape into a round cake, 
and place in a small well-buttered tin. Cover the tin with 
a piece of kitchen paper, and stand in a warm place for an 
hour, or until the cake has risen to the top of the tin. Bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty minutes ; just before it is 
done take it out of the oven, and brush over with milk, and 
replace in the oven. When it is baked enough, turn care- 
fully out, and place on a sieve until cold. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 8i 



SCONES. 



One pound of flour. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Half-ounce of cream of tartar. 

Quarter-ounce of carbonate of soda. 

One ounce of sugar. 

Salt. 



Sift the flour and cream of tartar into a basin; rub 
in the butter and sugar. Make milk tepid. Put the soda 
in a small basin and mix it smoothly with a little milk, 
then add the rest of the milk and pour on to the flour ; 
make into a dough ; turn on a floured board ; divide into 
eight pieces and bake in a floured tin for fifteen minutes ; 
brush over with milk, and they are ready to serve. 



TIPSY CAKE. 



One sponge cake. 

Half-pint of sherry. 

One ounce of sweet almonds. 

One pint of good boiled custard. 



Choose a high stale sponge cake, pour the sherry 
over this, and let it soak all night. Make a pint 
of good boiled custard, flavoured with vanilla or lemon. 
Blanch the almonds, cut them into quarters, and stick 
them all over the cake. When the custard is cool pour 
it round the cake. This may be decorated with dried 
cherries or angelica. 

G 



82 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



BISCUITS. 

Half-pound of flour. 

One tea-spoonful of baking powder. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

Two eggs. 

Salt. 

Sift the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, rub in 
the butter and sugar, and with the eggs make it into a stiff 
paste. Turn on to a floured board and roll out very thin ; 
cut them with a pastry-cutter into small round biscuits, and 
bake in a moderate oven a light brown. 

CORN-FLOUR BUNS. 

Quarter-pound of corn-flour. 

Quarter-pound of flour. 

Three eggs. 

Three ounces of butter. 

Three ounces of sugar. 

Half-tea-spoonful of baking powder. 

Mix the corn-flour, flour, and baking powder together, 
cream the butter and sugar, put in one egg, then some 
corn-flour, etc., then another ^^^^ and some more corn- 
flour; beat well, add the other egg and corn-flour; put 
in small well-buttered tins and bake in a moderate oven 
till a golden brown ; turn on to a sieve to cool. 

GINGERBREAD CAKE. 

One-and-a-half pounds of flour. 
' One pound of butter. 

Three-quarters-pound of sugar. 

Three-quarters-pound of treacle. 

Two ounces of ginger. 

One ounce of spice. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. 

Eight eggs. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and the 
eggs (one at a time) ; then the treacle, ginger, and spice ; 
mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir lightly in ; 
place in a well-buttered tin, and bake for two hours. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 83 



SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

Quarter-pound of butter. 
Quarter-pound of sugar. 
Six ounces of flour. 
One tea-spoonful of lemon-rind. 
One egg. 

Put the butter and sugar together in a basin, and beat 
them to a cream ; add the tgg and lemon-rind, stir in the 
flour, and make into a smooth paste ; turn on to a floured 
board, and roll out thinly; cut out with a pastry-cutter, 
put on to a buttered tin, and bake until a very light brown ; 
place them on a sieve until cold, and they are then ready. 



SULTANA CAKES. 

One pound of flour. 
Half-pound of butter. 
Half-pound of sugar. 
Half-pound of sultanas. 
Quarter-pound of candied-peel. 
Two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. 
Four eggs. 
One gill of milk. 

Sift the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, stir in the 
sugar, sultanas, peel, and baking powder, beat up the. eggs 
and milk, strain into the dry ingredients, and mix 
thoroughly ; well butter a tin, pour in the cake, and bake 
in a moderate oven for two hours ; turn out of the tin care- 
fully and place on a sieve until cold. 



6 2 



SAVOURIES. 



D'ARTOIS PARMESAN. 

Quarter-pound of puff paste. 
Two yolks and one white of egg. 
Three ounces of Parmesan cheese. 
One ounce of butter. 
Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Beat the ^gs in a basin, melt the butter, and add that 
and the seasoning, then stir in the cheese. Roll out the 
pastry very thin, cover with the mixture, and lay another 
piece of very thin paste on the top ; brush over with egg, 
cut out with a paste-cutter, and bake in a hot oven ten 
minutes. 

SARDINE TOAST. 

Make some nice toast, butter it, and spread over some 
anchovy paste ; take a sardine, cut it in half, bone it, and 
curl half in centre of each toast ; put a small leaf of parsley 
in eacL 

ANCHOVY TOAST. 

Two eggs. 

Two ounces of butter. 

One dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

One tea-spoonful of Worcester sauce. 

Pepper to taste. 

Take a very hot plate, and melt on it the butter, then 
add the yolks of two eggs, and stir them well together ; 
add the sauce and pepper, stirring well all the time. Have 
ready some hot, crisp, buttered toast arranged in a p)aamld ; 
pour this sauce all over it, and serve at once. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 85 



STUFFED EGGS. 

Six whites of eggs. 
Twelve croutons of bread. 
Three ounces of forcemeat. 

This IS a useful and pretty dish. It should be made 
after the potted eggs, as you only require the whites of the 
eggs, and those left from, the potted eggs will do. Cut the 
eggs in half, carefully wash the whites well, and keep them 
in water until you are ready to use them ; cut some bread 
into small round shapes with a paste-cutter, fry them in hot 
fat a golden brown, stand each half white on a crouton of 
bread, and fill them with some forcemeat made of chicken 
or veal. A Pompadour dish may be made by filling some 
with anchovy paste, and some with dressed spinach. 

POTTED EGGS. 

Six eggs. 

Two ounces of butter. 

One tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Pepper to taste. 

Boil the eggs hard by directions already given, put 
them into a basin of cold water ; when cold remove the 
shells, cut the eggs in half, take out the yolks, and put 
them into a mortar, with one-and-a-half ounces of butter, 
the anchovy sauce, and pepper ; pound well until thoroughly 
mixed. Then put into small pots, dissolve the half-ounce 
of butter, and run it well over the top to keep out the air. 
This is a delicious relish for breakfast and luncheon, and 
will keep good two or three days. 

POTTED MEAT. 

One pound of lean steak. 
Quarter-pound of butter. 
Half-tea-spoonful of spice. 
Salt and pepper. 

Take a nice lean piece of steak, put it into a dish and 
cook it well in the oven in its own juice, then cut it into 



g6 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



small pieces, and put it into the mortar with the butter 
and seasoning, and pound well. When it is thoroughly 
mixed and pounded, put it into small pots, and run some 
dissolved butter over it. If this meat is to be eaten soon 
after it is made, the gravy that ran from it in cooking may 
be added when it is put into the mortar. If it is for 
keeping, add more butter and no gravy. 

EGGS A L' AURORA. 

Four eggs. 
Half-pint of milk. 
Half-ounce of flour. 
One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 
Three ounces of grated cheese. 
Anchovy or tomato sauce. 
Pepper and salt. 
Croutons of fried bread. 

Boil the eggs very hard, and when cold shell them and 
separate the yolks from the whites ; take the whites and cut 
them into small pieces. Make a sauce of the milk, butter, 
and flour, season it nicely, and flavour with two tea- 
spoonfuls of tomato, or one tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. 
Arrange the bread in a circle on a plate, and in the centr 
put first a layer of white of ^^'g^ then one of cheese, then 
one of sauce, and continue until all is used up ; rub the 
yolks of the eggs through a wire sieve on to the top; 
divide into quarters with some croutons of bread, and it is 
ready to serve. 

SAVOURY TOAST. 

One dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce. 
One dessert-spoonful of Worcester sauce. 
One dessert-spoonful of cream. 
One tea-spoonful of vinegar. 
One yolk of ^%%. 

Mix these ingredients in a saucepan over a slow fire ; 
then throw in a handful of cold boiled French beans, finely 
sliced, mix well, and spread over some rounds of hot 
buttered crisp toast. 



SAUCES. 



APRICOT SAUCE. 

Three apricots. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 

One ounce of sugar. 

A few drops of cochineal. 

One gill of water. 



Boil all these ingredients together for ten minutes ; rub 
through a sieve ; return to a saucepan, and make it quite 
hot. It is then ready for serving. 



WINE SAUCE. 

One gill of sherry. 

One ounce of sugar. 

One table-spoonful of jam. 

One tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 

One tea-spoonful of corn-flour. 

One gill of water. 

Put the water, sugar, and jam into a small stewpan ; 
mix the corn-flour with -a little cold water, and add this 
with the lemon-juice and sherry. If the sauce is not a 
good colour, put a few drops of cochineal ; boil together for 
five minutes, and strain. It is then ready. 



88 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 

GERMAN WINE SAUCE. 

Two eggs. 

One gill of sherry. 

One ounce of sugar. 

Put the yolks of the eggs into a small saucepan with 
the sugar and sherry ; whisk well until the eggs thicken. 
It is then ready to serve. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Two eggs. 

One.and-a-half gills of salad oil 

One table-spoonful of vinegar. 

Salt. 

Put the eggs into a basin and whisk well, add the oil 
drop by drop, and stir the sauce until it is very thick, then 
put in the vinegar very slowly, and it is ready. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Quarter-pound of bread-crumbs. 

Half-pint of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

Pepper, salt, and a little mace or cinnamon. 

Put the bread-crumbs into a small clean stewpan ; put 
the milk into another saucepan, with the mace and season- 
ing ; when this boils, pour it on the bread-crumbs, put in 
the butter, and beat well together. When the butter is 
dissolved and the sauce is well mixed, it is ready. 

PARSLEY AND BUTTER SAUCE. 

Half-pint of water in which meat was boiled. 

Half-pint of milk. 

One ounce of flour. 

One table-spoonful of parsley. 

One-and-a-half ounces of butter. 

Salt 

Put the butter in a small stewpan, and when it is 
dissolved put in the flour and mix well, pour in the liquor 
and milk, and make a smooth sauce, chop the parsley 
finely, and put that in last, with salt to taste. It is then 
ready. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 89 



GOOD BROWN SAUCK 

One carrot. 
One onion. 
One turnip. 
One bouquet garni. 
One rasher of bacon. 
One tomato. 
One ounce of flour. 
One ounce of butter. 
Ten peppercorns. 
Three cloves, 
' Pepper and salt. 
One pint of stock. 

Put the butter in a stewpan, and when it is dissolved, 
cut the bacon and vegetables into dice and fry them a good 
brown; then add the flour, and when that too is quite 
brown, add the stock and seasoning; stir until it boils, 
and let it simmer well for one hour, then strain, and it 
is ready for use. This sauce may be varied in many ways, 
sometimes with a pinch of curry powder; again with a 
tea-spoonful of vinegar (which will make it a piquante sauce), 
or with bones and trimmings of any kind of poultry. 



BROWN SAUCE. 

One onion. 
One carrot. 
One turnip. 
One bouquet garni. 
One ounce of flour. 
One ounce of butter. 
One pint of water. 
Salt and pepper. 

Put the butter in a stewpan, and when it is dissolved, 
put in the vegetables cut into small pieces and fry a nice 
brown; stir in the flour, and work all about till it is of a 
good brown colour ; then put in the bouquet garni and the 
seasoning, stir until it boils and let it simmer for three- 
quarters of an hour, then strain it off*, and it is ready 
for use. 



90 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



WHITE SAUCE. 

One pint of milk. 
One ounce of flour. 
Two ounces of butter. 
Salt. 

Put the butter into a clean stewpan, and when it is 
dissolved, put in the flour and mix smoothly with a 
wooden spoon, then add all at once the cold milk, and stir 
until it boils; let it boil for five minutes, stirring con- 
tinually. It is then ready for use. 

MELTED BUTTER. 

One pint of water. 
Three ounces of butter. 
One ounce of flour. 
Salt. 

Put half the butter into a stewpan, and when it is 
dissolved, put in the flour and mix smoothly ; then add the 
cold water, stir it until it boils, and let it boil for three 
minutes ; then take the saucepan from the fire, and put in 
the rest of the butter in small pieces; as soon as the butter 
is dissolved, it is ready for serving. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

One pint of water. 
One ounce of flour. 
One ounce of butter. 
One onion. 
One carrot. 
Ten peppercorns. 
Half a turnip. 
Stick of celery. 
One bouquet garni. 
Half a gill of vinegar. 
Salt. 

Put the butter into a stewpan ; when it is dissolved 
slice in the onion and fry brown, put in the vinegar, and let 
it boil half away, stir in the flour, and mix well ; then 
add the water, and stir until it boils ; then put in the other 
ingredients, and let all simmer together for one hour; 
strain it carefully, put it back into a clean saucepan, make 
it hot, and it is ready. If stock is used instead of water 
it will make a superior sauce. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



FRIED BREAD. 

Cut some slices of bread from a stale loaf, not more 
than a quarter of an inch thick ; cut this again into small 
dice. Put three ounces of lard into a small saucepan, and 
when it is hot, put in the bread, and fry a golden brown. 
Drain the fat away, and lay the bread on a piece of 
kitchen paper for a few minutes ; then place it on a dish 
paper, and serve. 



BOILED RICE. 

Quarter-pound of rice. 
Three quarts of water. 
One salt-spoonful of salt. 

Wash the rice well, put it into boiling water nicely 
salted, and boil very quickly for fifteen minutes. Turn into 
the colander and let cold water run on it for two or three 
minutes; stand the colander on a tin and cover over with an 
old plate, put this on the stove, or in a cool oven, until it 
is quite dry; shake from time to time and it will soon 
become perfectly dry. It is then ready for use; 



92 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



BOILED CUSTARD, 

Four eggs. 

One pint of milk. 

Two ounces of sugar. 

Half-tea-spoonful of vanilla. 

Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, beat the yolks 
of the eggs in a basin, and when the milk boils pour it on 
to the eggs, whisking all the time. When well mixed 
strain it back into the saucepan, stand it over the fire, and 
whisk until the custard thickens, but do not let it boil. 
Pour it then into a clean basin, put in the flavouring, and 
stir until nearly cold ; then put it into custard cups, and if 
liked grate a little nutmeg on the top. 



SAVOURY CUSTARD. 

One t.gg. 

One gill of beef tea. 

Salt. 

Quarter-ounce of butter. 

Beat up a very fresh egg to a strong froth ; mix with it 
the beef tea and salt ; butter a gallipot, and strain the 
mixture in. Stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, covered 
over with a piece of paper, and steam for twenty minutes. 
Turn it carefully on to a hot dish, and it is ready for 
serving. 



TO BOIL EGGS HARD. 

Put the eggs into boiling water, and boil steadily for 
fifteen minutes. Be sure that the eggs are well covered 
with the water, and that they do not stop boiling. Take 
them up, and place them in a basin of cold water until cold. 



THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK. 93 



VEAL SEASONING. 

Quarter-pound of fine bread-crumbs. 
Three ounces of suet. 
One table-spoonful of chopped parsley. 
One tea-spoonful of sweet herbs. 
Two ounces of ham or bacon. 
Quarter-tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. 
One ^%z. 
Pepper and salt 

Chop the suet and parsley very finely, and mix with the 
bread-crumbs and seasoning ; mince the ham, and add 
that with the lemon-rind. Bind all together with an egg. 
The t%g is not beaten, but dropped in and worked up with 
the seasoning. 

GERMAN PASTE. 

Seven ounces of flour. 
Four ounces of butter. 
Four ounces of sifted sugar. 
One tzg. 
Lemon-rind. 

Sift the flour into a basin, add the sugar and lemon- 
rind, rub in the butter, beat up the egg, and mix into a stiff 
paste. This paste may be rolled out and cut into biscuits, 
or used as pastry. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Two eggs. 

One tea-spoonful of brown sugar. 

Two table-spoonfuls of salad oil. 

Two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

One dessert-spoonful of Harvey's sauce. 

One gill of cream. 

Salt and pepper and mustard to taste. 

Boil the eggs hard, and pound them well in a mortar ; 
put them into a basin with the mustard, pepper, salt, and 
sugar, and mix well ; then add the oil gradually, and after- 
wards the vinegar and Harvey sauce, and when these are 
all thoroughly mixed, put in the cream. This dressing 
should be slowly and carefully made, and poured over the 
salad just before serving. 



94 THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 



MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Two ounces of butter. 
Two tea-spoonfuls of chopped paisley. 
Half-tea-spooniiil of lemon-juioe. 
Cajrenne or pepper to taste. 

Chop the parsley veiy finely, mix it thoroughly with the 
butter, lemon-juice, and seasoning, then shape it into a 
small roll and cut as many rounds as may be required. 

APPLE WATER, 

Six apples. 

Two otmces of sugar. 

One lemon. 

Peel and core the apples, put in the lemon-rind and 
juice, sprinkle over the sugar. Pour over these a quart of 
boiling water, cover over, and when it is cold strain. It is 
then ready. 

CORN-FLOUR. 

One ounce of corn-flour. 
Three-quarters-pint of milk. 
Sugar to taste. 

Put the milk into a clean saucepan ; mix the corn-flour 
with a little cold milk to a smooth paste ; when the milk 
is nearly boiling pour this into it, and continue stirring; 
let it boil for three or four minutes. Turn it out into a 
basin^ and it is ready. 

GRUEL. 

Half-pint of milk. 
Half -pint of water. 
Two-and-a-half ounces of oatmeaL 
Sugar to taste. 

Put the milk and water into a clean stewpan to boil ; 
mix the oatmeal with a little cold water to a smooth paste. 
When the milk and water nearly boils pour this in, and 
continue stirring. Gruel should boil for at least fifteen 
minutes, as oatmeal is indigestible and unwholesome unless 
well boiled. 



THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. 95 



BEEF TEA. 



I One pound of lean steak. 



One pint of water. 
Salt to taste. 

Take a lean piece of steak, and scrape it the way 
of the grain with a sharp knife, or else put it twice 
through a sausage machine; place the meat thus pre- 
pared in the cold water, and let it remain three hours \ 
then place it in a cool oven, and let it gradually come to 
the boil ; cook it slowly for an hour, or until it tastes done, 
then add the salt. Let it stand until cold, then^ if there is 
any fat on it, it can be removed easily ; strain it, and make 
it hot as required. 



REFRESHING DRINK. 

Three ounces of rice. 

One quart of water. 

One ounce of sugar. 

One table-spoonful of flavouring. 

Wash the rice thoroughly, and boil it well for an hour ; 
strain away the water, sweeten and flavour with fruit or 
vanilla essence. When cold it is a nourishing and refresh- 
ing drink. 



RAW BEEF TEA. 

Half-pound of steak. 
Half-pint of water. 
Salt. 

Take a piece of very lean steak, and scrape it with a 
sharp knife ; put it into the cold water, with a little salt, 
and allow it to stand for two hours ; then strain, and it is 
ready. This should only be made in small quantities, as it 
will soon turn sour. 



96 THE KINGS WOOD COOKERY BOOK 



MUTTON BROTH. 

Two pounds of scrag of mutton. 
One quart of water. 
One ounce of rice. 
Salt. 

Thoroughly clean the mutton, cut it into small pieces, 
put it into cold water, and let it very gradually come to 
the boil ; add the salt, and strain well ; half a pint more 
water should then be added to allow for straining and 
boiling away. Let it boil steadily for three hours. Wash 
the rice, and add about one hour before the broth is cooked. 
Pour into a basin, and let it stand till cold ; the fat can 
then be removed. It may be served with finely-chopped 
parsley. 



THE END. 



CHARLBS DICKBNS AND BVANS, CRYSTAL PALACB PRESS. 



THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE 

Rational 'draining (School for Cookerg, 

THE LESSONS^^ON COOKERY 



THE ORDINARY COURSE OF INSTRUCTION IN THE SCHOOL, 

LISTS OF UTENSILS NECESSARY, AND LESSONS ON CLEANING UTENSILS. 

COMPILED BY R. O. C. 
FROM THE COURSE OF PRACTICE IN THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL. 



"The number of inhabitants who may be supported in any country, upon its 
ialemal produce, depends ibout as much upon the state of the Arl of Cooktryi, as 
upon thai of Agriculture, but if Cookery be of so much importance, it certainly 
deserves to be studied with the greatest cate. Cookery and Agriculture ate arts of 
civilised nations ; Savages understand neither of them,'' — Count Rum/ord'i Works, 



" The good point about the boolt is that it presupposes complete ignorance on the 
part of the pupil ; nothing is left to haphazard ; every quantity is given in its exact and 
due proportion, and the price of each ingredient carefully set down. All these lessons, 
moreover, have been practically tested in the ^'ati□nal Training School, and may 
therefore be accepted in good faith. It is not, however, to be supposed that any 
cunning recipes or rare and costly dishes are to be found in this book ; the ' first 
principles ' of good cookery is the lesson it professes to teach, and certainly the 
methml of tuition is direct and easy to follow. " — Timis. 

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, ii, HENRIETTA STREET, W.C. 



Soldb; 

all tor 

GROCERS, BREAKFASTS, 

K LUNCHEONS, 

In Tins and 

H to 31 lbs. SUPPERS. 



S. & H. HARRIS'S 

HOUS EHOLD REQUIS ITES. 

EBONITE boots! shoes. POH?liiNG j^ASTE. 
WATERPROOF 
■■ WRING. 



E roB IT. 



PLATE POWDER, 



BRUNSWICK BLACK, 

For Stota or Iron Work. 



STEEL POWDER, 

For Bright Giata ud Fire Irons. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

BO HOQBE OOHFLETE WITHOUT TEEH. 



SOLD EVERYWHERE. 

manufactory: 57, MANSELL STREET, LONDON, E. 



FIITEST KEAT-F£ATOTXSIira ZHaKEDIENT FOA S01TPS, 
HADE DISHES, SAirCES, tc. 

INVALnABLE AND EFFICIENT TONIC FOB INVAUDS. 
N.B.— Genuine ONLY with facsimile of Buon Lieliig's Signature, in blue inic acrosi latiei. 



