LIBRARY OF^CONGRESS. 



Sllelf£&-A2^> 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



y 



PITTSBUEaH 



Tested Recipes, 



PREPARED BY THE LADIES 



Trinity M. E. Church, 



SMALLMAN AND TWENTY-FIFTH STREETS. 
Q^^' \ 18 85. 




Sold by H. Watts & Co., 431 Wood Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PITTSBURGH: 

From the Press of Stevenson & Fosteb, No. 529 Wood Street. 
1885. 






Kutered according to Act of Congress, in the jear 1885, by 

JVNIATA DE ArMIT AND MrS. M. E. JOHNSTON, 

In tlie Ortiie of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



Pr^Faoe, 



Nearly three thousand years ago the zvise man said, "Of 
making r/iany books there is no end ; ' ' and we presume there are 
those who will he ready to say, " of making many Cook Books 
there is no end ;" yet, as Meredith wrote : 

We may live without poetry, music and art ; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 

We may live without friends, we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live loithout cooks. 
He may live without books - what is hwwledge but (jiving f 
He may live without hope— what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love— what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining?'' 

This little volume has been prepared and published wider the 
auspices of the "Ladies and Castor's Christian Unio7i" of Trinity 
■ M.E, Church, Pittsburgh, Ta., for the benefit of their church. 
It is not a hap^hazard collection of Recipes gathered at random 
from doubtful sources, but are zvhat their title states, " Tested Tle= 
cipes," being made up from the choicest bits of the best experience 
of hundreds who have affixed their signature to each, thereby 
vouching for the same. 

We heartily commend to the patronage of the public the firms 
advertising in this book, who have thus kindly assisted us in its 
publication, and we hereby express to them our thanks, and to all, 
who have in any way assisted us in our work. 

In launching this book forth upon the great ocean of the literary 
world, we submit it just as it is, to the generous judgment of those 
who consult it ; with the hope that it may lessen the perplexities, 
and assist those who travel the daily round of household duties, not 
drudgingly, but lovingly, with heart and hands enlisted in the 
work. 

In preparing this work we have been greatly assisted by our 
pastor, Ttev.M. T). Lichliter. 

JUNIATA DE ARMIT, 

MRS. M. E. JOHNSTON, ( 

MRS. WM. S. BAILEY, > Committee. 

MRS. E. T. MILLAR, ' ) 














p «■«■■■■« naiv MHU II Mifp 

LADIES' AND MISSES' SUITS, 

rimmingiS, Hoaisryi, Sto. 



OUR METHOD. 
OUR SlTUy\TION. 

OUR VA[[1ETY, 



Selling goods strictly for CASH, we are enabled 
to give our patrons the very best possible value. 

Being central, (on Market Street, between Fifth 
Avenue and Liberty Street), we can easily reach 
all depots in delivering our goods promptly. 

As our stock occupies six entire floors, we are 
able to suit every taste and every purse. Our 
rapidly increasing business leads us to feel that 
WE CAN SUIT YOU. 



WE CALL SPECIAL ATTENTION TO OUR 

Silk and Velvet Department. 

Our large outlet enables us to handle these goods direct from the importer, and 

place them in your hands without the middleman's profit — a saving of 

about 20 per cent. 

Our Black Silks 

Are from the most reliable and notable Lyons makers. We offer rich service- 
able goods at $1.00, $1.10, $1.20 and upward. Eeally nice goods as 
low as ()5 and 75 cents. 

HEARD, BIBER & EASTON, 
506 &507 Market St. 

PITTSBURGH. PA. 



Pittsburgh Sook '^Qoh. 



BREAD. 



Bread is a necessary article on every table ; it is, therefore, import- 
ant that it should be good. The most luxurious meal will not be a 
success if the bread is unpalatable. 

Every step of the process, from the setting of the sponge to the re- 
moval from the oven, should be taken with the greatest care. The 
flour should be of the best quality, and always sifted, as that gives it 
additional lightness. The sponge must be kept warm ; this may be 
done in cold weather by setting the vessel containing the sponge in 
another containing hot water. A stone crock will retain the warmth 
much better than tin. The oven should be just hot enough to hold 
the hand in while you can count twenty quickly. 



YEAST >o. 1. 

Put one large handful of hops in a bag, boil in three pints of water 
with six medium-sized pared potatoes ; when boiled take the potatoes 
out and beat until very light ; then put them into the hop water again 
and set on the stove until scalding hot ; then put in a crock one pint 
of flour and one teaspoonful of ginger, and pour potato water gradu- 
ally over this and beat until cool ; then add one cup of yeast. It 
should be made in the morning and kept in a warm place all day and 
stirred often ; one teacup will bake eight or nine loaves of bread. 

Keep in a cool place. 

Mrs. Elliott, New Florence, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



YEAST, No. 2. 

Grate eight potatoes, one handful of hops, boil and strain ; one cup 
of salt, one cup of sugar; pour on this one gallon of boiling water. 
AVhen cool put in yeast and let it rise. 

Mks. a. B. Todd, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



BEST DRIED YEAST, >o. 3. 

One dozen potatoes, three handsful of hops, five quarts of water ; 
wash the potatoes clean, but do not j^eel ; put them on to boil with the 
hops and water and boil one hour ; mash the potatoes well in with the 
hops, put one quart of flour in a crock, and pour the mixture boiling 
hot through a sieve on the flour ; stir it well when cool ; add one pint 
good yeast. When light take two-thirds corn meal and one-third flour, 

mix well and spread out to dry. 

Mother, Bolivar, Pa. 



YEAST, No. 4. 

Potato Ball. — Take six good sized potatoes, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt; boil and mash the potatoes and mix well togeth- 
er with the salt and sugar ; make into ball and let this stand two 
days ; then make another ball as before and mix the two balls to- 
gether ; then divide into two separate balls ; use one for baking and 
put the other away for the next time ; always make two balls before 
baking. One ball is sufficient strength for nine good sized loaves, 
and makes excellent bread without any other yeast. 

Mrs. Jennie Drumm, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BREAD. 

Pare and boil six good sized potatoes ; mash them in the water and 
strain through the colander ; when lukewarm stir in a cup of yeast and 
let stand over night ; in the morning stir in enough flour to make a 
batter, and a little salt, and let it stand until light, which will take 
about two hours ; then mix stiff* and let rise the third time ; when light 
mould out into loaves and let it stand until very light, then bake about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Ella Huffman, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



LIGHT BISCUIT. 

One pint sweet milk come to the boil ; then stir in one tablespoon 
lard and one teacup sugar ; when lukewarm one teacup yeast and 
flour to make a stiff batter, not as stiff as bread ; in the morning add 
one-half cup more sugar and knead ; let raise again; then make into 
biscuit. 

Mrs. E. Potter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MUFFINS. 

With one pint of sweet milk and sufficient wheat flour make a thick 
batter ; add a little salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder ; bake quickly in muffin rings. 

Mrs. H. p. Hartley. 



CORN BREAD, No. 1. 

One pint corn meal, one-half pint flour, one-half cup sugar, two eggs, 
tablespoonful butter, teaspoonful of soda ; mix with buttermilk ; bake 
twenty minutes. 

Mary Douglas, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CORN BREAD, No. 2. 

Two eggs well beaten, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, one and one-half cups corn meal, one-half 
cup of wheat flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Jennie Bossart, Latrobe, Pa. 



CORN BREAD, No. 3. 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of sour milk, one cup of sugar, 
three-fourths cup of butter, two cups of corn meal, two cups of flour, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar ; beat eggs, butter and sugar together. 

Mrs. J. M. Keister, Irwin, Pa. 



CORN PONE. 

Two cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, one-hajf cup of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of lard, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, one cup of milk. 

Mrs. J. FocER, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

Two cups of sweet milk, three cups of sour milk, five cups of meal 
and two of flour, one cup of sugar, two teaspoons of salt, one teaspoon 
of soda; steam three hours, then bake till brown. 

Alice M. W., New Florence, Pa. 



CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One and one-half cups of corn meal, same of flour, one-half cup of 
sugar, one teaspoon of salt, two eggs, one tablespoon of butter, two 
teaspoons baking powder, and milk or water enough to make a stifli 
batter ; bake in gem pans. 

Mrs. W. Cramp, Crafton, Pa. 



TEA ROLLS. 

Scald a pint of milk, add one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs well beaten, one-half cup 
of yeast, and flour enough to make a stiff" batter ; let rise over night ; 
in the morning mix stiff"; knead well and let it rise again ; when light 
roll it three-fourths of an inch thick ; cut with a biscuit cutter and 
butter one-half and roll the other half over it ; let it rise until very- 
light, then bake. 

Mrs. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



RICE MUFFINS. 

One cup of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, two eggs, one quart 
of milk, one tablespoon of butter; mix all together and bake quickly. 

Mrs. M. Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SHORT CAKE. 

Sift together one and one-half pints of flour, four tablespoons sugar, 

one-half teaspoon of salt, a heaping teaspoon of baking powder ; put 

in four tablespoons of butter cold, add three beaten eggs, one cup of 

milk ; mix into a smooth dough with little hand rolling out in two 

cakes ; place one on top of the other and bake. This is very nice with 

any kind of fruit. I like it best with oranges sliced very thin and 

smothered in sugar. 

Mrs. Ash, Scottdale, Pa. 



S. H^IVIILTOlNr, 

87 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

LARGEST PIAP(0>p ORG/H HOUSE 




fi^ SPECIAL REDUCTION IN PRICES."^ 

Come and get one of our elegant full sized 

COTTAGE UPRIGHT PIANOS, 

For $200, $225 and $250. 

WE HAVE ALSO THE 

MATCHLESS DECKER BROS. 

—AND— 

KNABE & CO.'S PIANOS. 
The SUPERB FISCHER 

—AND— 

PEASE & CO. PIANOS. 

Or the Beautiful Gold Medal 

BEHCI?, BRO.'S FI.A.IsrOS. 

The acknowledged best line of goods in the world. 

THE 

Great Estey Cottage Organs, 

The Beautiful SHONINGER Organ,with Chime of Bells, 

STERLING, ard STORY & CLARK Organs, and 

CLOUGH & WARREN Church Organs. 



If you have an old instrument, of any make, exchange it for a new one. We will 
take it as part payment, and if it don't suit you to pay all cash, will arrange Easy Terms 
of payment for balance. 

Come and see us. or write to us. We guarantee to please you. 

87 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



10 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

LETTIE'.S BROWN BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of unbolted flour, one teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon 
of butter and lard, mixed well ; then take a quart and a half of sour 
oream and add one-half teaspoon of soda ; do not make them stiff, but 
mix well and turn out on the board, well covered with wheat flour, 
pressed to the required thickness with the hand. Bake in a hot oven 
for ten minutes. 

Letitia McCune, Allegheny City, Pa. 



BROWX BREAD. 

For sponge take one quart of water, one potato and one cup of 
yeast, and enough brown flour to thicken the sponge ; in the morning 
take one tablespoon of lard and one tablespoon of sugar and a little 
salt and mix with sponge ; stiffen with white flour. This makes two 
loaves. 

Caroline Hay, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two tea cups of Graham flour, one and a half cups corn meal, one- 
half cup of molasses, pinch of salt, one pint of sweet milk, one-half tea- 
spoon of soda; mix Graham, cornmeal and milk; stir soda in molasses 
and add last ; steam three hours in tight pail ; set in kettle of hot 
water ; put in oven a few minutes to brown. 

Mrs. Wm. Bailey, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two eggs, one tea cup of sugar, one half cup of butter, one and a 
half cups of sweet milk, one and a half cups cornmeal, one and a half 
cups of flour, three teaspoons baking powder, a little salt ; bake half 
an hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. Wm. Bailey, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



TEA CAKE. 

Take three eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, one-third of a cup 
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, four cups of flour having in it one 
measure of Banner powder. 

Ada Boyle, Allegheny City, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 1^ 



MOTHER'S RUSK. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of lard, one pint of 
sweet milk, one-half cup of yeast ; beat eggs and sugar together ; heat 
the milk enough to melt the lard ; stir these ingredients together with 
enough flour to make a stiff batter ; let this stand over night ; in the 
morning add flour enough to make the dough the consistency of 
bread dough ; let it raise until light and bake the same as light cakes. 

JuNiE De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CRACKERS. 

One pint of flour, one tablespoonful of lard and butter mixed ^ 
work these together until they are very stiff"; beat fifteen minutes and ' 
roll very thin ; bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. L. D. Ayers, Sharpsburg, Pa. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup of corn meal, two cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one 

half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, three eggs, three teaspoon- 

fuls baking powder added just before baking ; bake in muffin rings or 

gem pans. 

Mrs. Southerland, Newport, R. I. 



NEW ENCiJLAND BROAVN BREAD. 

One cup of Indian meal, one cup of white flour, one cup of Graham 
flour, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, a teaspoonful of salt and two of 
baking powder ; mix to a thin batter with sweet milk ; boil in a pud- 
ding boiler or tin pail with close lid, placed in a pot of boiling water 
three hours ; care must be taken that the water does not come so high 
on the tin pail as to get in round the lid ; eat while hot. 

Mrs. Southerland, Newport, R. I. 



PONE, No. 1. 

One quart of sour milk, three eggs, a little salt, one-half cup of 
Orleans molasses, one-half teaspoon of butter, two tablespoons of flour, 
corn meal to make a light batter ; bake quick in hot oven. 

Mrs. Eckley, Scottdale, Pa. 



12 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

PONE, No. 2. 

One pint of sour milk, one cup of flour, two cups of corn meal, two 
tablespoonful of sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
little milk, a little salt; bake in pie pans. 

Maggie Hammers, Bolivar, Pa, 



BISCUIT. 

Take one quart of flour, one measure of Banner baking powder and 
one teaspoonful of cold shortening and mix in with a spoon sufficient 
cold sweet milk or water ; this makes a dough too soft to be rolled ; 
turn it out on your tray lid well floured ; press with your hand to the 
desired thickness ; cut in shapes and bake at once in a very quick 
oven. 

Mrs. Sophia Hague, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon of shortening melted, one 
cup of sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
warm water, one-half teaspoonful of salt ; mix rather stiff" and bake 
in muffin rings for twenty minutes. 

Mrs. E. T. Millar, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



EXTRA SODA BISCUIT. 

One pound of flour, three ounces of shortening, one ounce of baking 
powder, milk to make a soft dough, a little salt. 

Mrs. Collard, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

One quart of flour, half white and half Graham, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one tablespoonful of butter, one saltspoon of salt, one 
beaten egg, one-fourth cup of sugar ; stir together with sweet milk to 

the proper consistency and bake. 

Mrs. Robinson, Erie, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 13 

fiJRAHAM BISCUIT. 

Three pints of Graham flour, one teaspoon of salt, three tablespoons 
of brown sugar, three tablespoons of baking powder, two large 
tablespoons of lard ; mix with enough cold water to make a soft dough. 

Mrs. J. B. Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SPANISH BUNS. 

Two and a half cups brown sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, 
one teaspoon of soda, one cup of sour milk, two whole eggs, six yolks, 
whites for frosting, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one-half tablespoon of 
cloves, 1 tablespoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon lemon ; thicken same as 
cake; bake in sheets, cut in squares and frost on all sides ; very nice. 

Mrs. C. M. Bryant, Bufl^alo, N. Y. 



FIG FILLING FOR €AKE. 

One pound of figs washed and chopped fine, one cup of water, one 
cup of sugar ; boil until quite thick. 

Mrs. C. M. Bryant, Buffalo, N. Y. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



A DELICIOUS CUP OF COFFEE. 

Never buy ground coffee. When about to make coffee take the 
brown berries and heat them hot, then grind while hot ; have your 
coffee-pot clean, empty and dry, allowing no coffee or old grounds. 
Put your dry coffee in the pot, tied up loosely in a bit of lace-net or 
very thin Swiss mull, and pour over it as much hard hoiling water as 
you want coffee ; put a tight cork in the spout and see that the lid fits 
closely ; put a cloth in it if it does not, and let it stand back for ten 
minutes. The idea is to keep all the aroma-charged steam in the 
coffee-pot, and have the subtle oil retained instead of wandering out of 
doors regaling the neighbors, while you drink brown warm water. 

Rev. M. D. Lichliter. 



V\^iLL Price, 



HEADIJUAKTERS FOR 



-^^ 



MEN'S FORNISHING GOODS, 



^+^ 



No. 47 Sixth Street, 



Hotel Anderson Block, 



Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PRACTICAL 



ALL GOODS AND WORK WARRANTED TO GIVE SATISFACTION. 
PRICES AS LOW AS THE LOWEST. 



A GOOD ASSORTMENT QF 



Always on hand or procured at Short Notice. 

PENN AVE., Near 27th St., - PITTSBURGH. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 15 



FRENCH TOAST. 

Take two or three eggs, beat well and stir with pint of milk (water 
will do), and pinch of salt ; have skillet hot with butter, then dip the 
bread in the mixture ; fry a nice brown quickly and serve while hot. 

Miss Aggie Wightman, Freedom, Pa, 



RICE ftRIDDLE CAKES. 

For a family of four take oue-half cup of rice and cook well ; when 
cold mix with a batter of one quart of flour, two eggs, not quite a 
pint of milk, and as much baking powder as you would put in for 
biscuit ; bake the same as any other gx-iddle cake ; don't forget to salt 
the rice when boiling it. 

K. Neiper, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

BREAD CAKES. 

Pour a pint of buttermilk over pieces of dry bread ; let it stand 
over night; in the morning beat fine with a spoon, put in one well 
beaten egg, a little salt and a teaspoonful of baking soda, flour enough 
to make a nice batter and bake like griddle cakes. 

Mrs. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CORN FRITTERS. 

One can of corn, yolks of two eggs, whites beaten, little salt, one 
large spoonful of flour; drop in hot lard. 

Cora P. Pershing, New Florence, Pa. 



CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one pint sour milk, two-thirds 
of cornmeal, one-third of flour, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
warm water ; this is an excellent recipe. 

Ella Huffman, Apollo, Pa. 



PANCAKES. 

One egg, one quart of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of 
salt, enough flour to make a stiff batter; bake on a hot griddle. 

Emma De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



10 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

RHODE ISLAND JOHNNY CAKES. 

Take two cups of Indian meal, a little salt, and scald with boiling 
water sufficient to wet all the meal, add one cup of flour, one egg, a 
little sugar and milk sufficient to make a thin batter; then put in half 
a teaspoonful of baking powder ; have your griddle well greased with 
lard . 

Mary A. Halpin, Newport. 



FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two eggs, one quart of sour milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, salt, 
ftour to make a thin batter ; add one handful of either Graham flour 
or corn meal ; bake on a hot griddle and serve immediately ; these are 
nice eaten with maple syrup. 

Mrs. W. W. Ross, Erie, Pa. 



WAFFLES. 

Three eggs, one quart of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt 
and two teaspoonsfuls of baking powder ; beat the yolks of the eggs 
and salt together, then add the milk and flour, having in it the poAv- 
der ; lastly, add the whites beaten to a froth ; bake in waflie irons. 

Juniata De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MEATS. 



RECIPE FOR CURING MEAT. 

To one gallon of water take one and a half pounds of salt, one-half 
pound of sugar, one-fourth ounce saltpetre. In this proportion the 
amount of pickle may be increased to any quantity desired. Boil 
these together and skim thoroughly, then place in a tub to cool, and 
when cold pour it over the beef or pork until entirely covered. The 
meat should not be cured for at least tM'o days after killing, and dur- 
ing this time should be lightly sprinkled with powdered saltpetre, 
which removes the surface blood. If the meat is to be smoked it 
should remain in the brine for six weeks, then be smoked with hick- 
ory wood. 

Mrs. Richard Allan, Butler, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 17 



NEW METHOD OF COOKING MEAT. 

A good way to cook meat is to seal it in a vessel hermetically tight. 
Cooked thus a long time in its own juices, it is rendered very tender, 
and has a peculiar appetizing flavor. Take an earthen jar that will 
stand heat, with tight fitting cover. If beef is to be the dish for din- 
ner, cut it in convenient pieces, lay them in the jar, rub each piece 
with salt and pepper and a little lump of sugar, and put in a little 
water ; then lay on a piece of thick buttered paper, and press down 
the cover. If you think it will allow any steam to escape mix shorts 
of rye meal with water to a paste ; press strips of this all around the 
edge of the cover. Bake in a moderate oven four or five hours, 
according to tenderness of meat. Chickens or turkeys are excellent 
cooked in this way. The toughest meat is rendered tender by this 
process, and none of the nutritious matter is wasted as in many of the 
forms of cooking. 

Mrs. J. LiNDis, Mt. Pleasant, Pa. 



RECIPE FOR DRY-SALTING MEAT. 

Allow the meat to lie at least twenty-four hours after it is killed; 
have a vessel from which the brine will drain away ; rub the meat 
thoroughly with dry salt all over, then lay the meat with the skin 
side down, and cover each course with a half inch layer of salt ; 
allow it to lie in a dry, cool place, so arranged that the brine will 
drain away as fast as formed, for six weeks ; then hang it up in the 
same position it would have in the live animal, and smoke with hickory 
wood for about one week ; that is, hang the hams and shoulders with 
the shank end down, and the side pieces in a similar way. 

Palmer Graham, Butler, Pa. 



FRIED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Clip the outer edges, to keep from curling up when frying ; dip in 
egg, well beaten, then in bread crumbs or cracker dust, and fry in hot 
dripping or butter. To make a gravy, mix a tablespoonful "of flour 
with the dripping the cutlets were fried in, adding a little hot water 
and a cup of milk. 

Mrs. E. E. Rinehart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



J. B.YOUNGSON'S 



Confettioifcrg aqtl pntug |(ocin|5. 



Fresh Cakes, Pies and Home-Made Bread Every Day. 
Weddings and Parties a Specialty. 

Ice Cream, all Flavors, Made to Order. 



MEALS, TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 

No. 413 Smithfield Street, - Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JAMES S. IRWIN. 



GEO. B. IRWIN. 



John M. Irwin & 



ivdi^a^XTxr^'.A.C'X'-crieEis.s oif 



..^C^4&lk^.> 

















Do. 441 SmithfisM St. 



PITTSBURGH, PA, 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 19 



POTTED BEEF, No. 1. 

Three pounds of lean beef, steamed for three hours ; when put in 
the steamer, cut an onion fine and pepper and salt it ; after steaming 
mince as fine as possible and add half a cup of catsup, put it in a 
mould and press firm. 

Mrs. Collard, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POTTED BEEF, No, 2. 

^ A veal bone three pounds of beef off the shank, cut in pieces the 
size of an egg ; stew until well done ; then season to taste with pepper 
and salt ; take out all the bones, pour it in a large bowl or crock and 
let it stand until cold ; then slice cold. 

Mrs. Alice Luffman, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

STUFFED FLANK STEAK. 

Cut the flank steak open in the shape of a bag ; stufl' same as for 
turkey, and roast about one-half hour. 

Mrs. Wm. Freeman, Allegheny City, Pa. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Three pounds of beefsteak, three-fourths of a pound of suet ; both 
chopped fine ; salt, pepper and a little sage ; three eggs ; six Boston 
crackers, rolled ; make into roll and bake. 

Mrs. Alice Luffman, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

VEAL OMELET. 

Two pounds of veal steak, finely chopped ; eight crackers, rolled ; 
butter size of an egg; three eggs, well beaten ; one-half pint of cold 
water; salt, sage and pepper to suit the taste; mix thoroughly to- 
gether and bake one hour. 

Mrs. S. McCune, Blairsville, Pa. 

HAM OMELET. 

Chop up one-half pound of cold boiled ham, add to it five eggs, 
well beaten, with a little salt and pepper ; put a lump of butter' in' 
the pan ; turn in the eggs and ham and let brown. 

Mrs. E. E. Rinehart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



20 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

BROILED STEAK. 

Lay the steak on a gridiron, over a clear, hot fire ; when done put 
it on a hot j^latter with butter, salt and pepper. 

Mrs. Ann Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROAST BEEF, WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDINf;. 

Set the beef on sticks across a dripping pan ; mix the pudding and 
pour into the pan, three-quarters of an hour before the meat is done, 
and let the drippings fall on the pudding ; when done cut it in squares 
and lay around the meat when dished. For the Pudding. — One pimt 
milk ; four eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately ; two cups flour ; 
one teaspoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Mrs. F. R. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BAKED HAM. 

Soak the ham in cold water for twelve hours ; theai parboil in fresh 
water ; remove from the kettle and spread over the top a batter of 
flour and water, and place in the oven to bake, allowing twenty 
minutes to each pound ; when done remove the batter and put in a 
€ool place. 

Juniata De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



TO CURE HAMS. 

For one hog, eight ounces of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one cup 
of molasses ; mix and rub the hams good with the mixture ; put down 
in a barrel ; make a brine that will carry an egg ; let stand six weeks 
then smoke. 

Mrs. Mary A. Johns, Derry Station, Pa. 



POT ROAST. 

Take a piece of meat, with fat and bone in it, and put on it enough 
water to boil it for three hours steady ; when the water is boiled off 
the fat that boiled from the meat will be enough to brown the meat ; 
turn it a few times till it is brown, and put your salt on it one hour 
before it is done. For gravy, add some water when the meat is out 
and stir in a little flour ; season to taste. 

Miss Maggie Frank, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 21 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Take one quart of small white beaus ; wash and boil with about 
three pounds of hara till beans are well cooked ; then put in oven 
half hour to brown. 

Miss Maud Pollock, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Take one pound of veal ; one-half pound of suet ; two slices of 
hara ; some crumbs of bread ; chop them very fine, and put in the 
yolks of two eggs ; season with parsley, thyme, mace, pepper and salt ; 
roll into small balls and fry brown. 

Mrs. L. D. Ayers, Sharpsburg, Pa. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal, chopped fine; three eggs, well beaten; six 
common soda crackers rolled fine ; piece of butter size of an egg ; 
one teaspoonful of salt ; one teaspounful of pepper; one grated nut 
meg ; one teaspoonful of sage or sweet marjoram. Mix well together, 
and bake in a sheet-iron pan from two to three hours, with sufficient 
water around it to baste often. 

Mrs. W. S. Rippey. 

BEEF BALL. 

Chop, very fine, two pounds of raw beef and one-fourth of a pound 
of suet ; mix with a handful of flour, season to taste with salt, 
pepper and cloves, make it into cakes, and fry in dripping to a nice 
brown on both sides, keeping covered all the time. 

Mrs. E. E. Rinehart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TEAL rOT PIE. 

Cut from two to three pounds of veal in small pieces and put in a 

quart of cold water ; make a dough, as for apple dumplings, roll it 

out thin and cut it in strips or squares, reserving a piece large enough 

to cover the top of the pot ; pare and slice a few potatoes ; take out 

most of your meat, and put in a few pieces of dough and a handful 

of sliced potatoes, then add veal and dough until all is used ; season 

with pepper and salt, and cover Avith water, then place a cover of 

dough over this, well perforated, cover with a tight lid and boil thirty 

minutes. 

Miss Nannie Pollock, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



22 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



BEEF, A LA MODE. 

Two pounds beef chopped fine ; four soda crackers chopped fine ; 

two eggs, two tablespoonsful of melted butter ; salt and pepper, sage 

and onion, to taste ; mix and roll and work ; use enough flour to 

make stick together ; put in a pan with a little water ; baste as meat. 

Mrs. a. F. Turnkr, Temperanceville, Pa. 



TOAD IN A HOLE, No. 1. 

Make a batter of one pint of flour, one egg, a little salt, and a little 
milk. Grease a dish well with butter ; put in Iamb chops, add a 
little water, pepper and salt ; pour batter over it and bake for one 
hour. 

Mrs. F. R. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TOAD IN A HOLE, No. 2. 

One pound of tender beefsteak, cut fine and place it in a long pan ; 
two eggs well beaten ; one pint of sweet milk ; one tablespoonful 
of flour ; season to taste with salt and pepper ; drop small pieces of 
butter over the top. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Annie E. Hamilton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



A BREAKFAST DISH. 

Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, and lay them in a tin saucepan, 
set in a pot of boiling water ; cover them with a gravy made of three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one of walnut catsup, a tablespoonful 
of vinegar, a little salt and pepper, a spoonful of currant jelly, a tea- 
spoonful made mustard, and some warm water ; cover tightly and 
steam for half an hour,, keeping the water in the outer vessel at a hard 
boil all the time. If the meat is underdone this is very nice. 

Mrs. R. S. Marsland, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TO STEW MUTTON. 

Take one pound of nice mutton, not too fat, cut in small pieces, 
boil one hour and a half, season with salt and pepper, take two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mix smooth with cold water, and stir in the boil- 
ing meat ; add a little parsley if desired. 

Mrs. Wm. Pollock, Pittsburgh, Pa. 




-t$^« 



s 



-Q^-^ 



l|» 



THE FOLLOWING IS WORTH CONSIDERING 



It is well-known that all so-called shoemakers 
do not make good shoes, and all so-called dress- 
makers cannot make a satisfactory dress, and it 
is perhaps even more so with bakers. 

Comparatively few bakers can make good bread, 
crackers or cakes, as in order to make these arti- 
cles good, many things are necessary, namely, 
good flour, sugar, butter, lard, spices, flavorings, 
&c., and it requires FTOod judgment and a liberal 
purse to get these articles of the best quality. 
Then it requires skilled workmen, as a first- class 
baker only can be relied on, cleanly men of intel- 
ligence, in a clean, well-ventilated room, with the 
best of ovens and the most approved machinery. 
Such, in brief, is the condition of things in 

S. S. Marvin & Co.'s Mammoth Bakeries. 

The present management has had twenty-two 
years' practical experience, and succeeding as we 
do the old successful J. Davis management of 
over fifty years, is it any wonder that we have so 
good a reputation ? No other concern in the coun- 
try is so well supplied. 

It is well to be particular when buying crack- 
ers, and be sure that you get Marvins's crackers. 
No matter what sort of cracker you wish, you 
will find Marvin's always the best, and if you 
cannot get them fresh and nice at your grocers, 
then send or call at 18 Fifth Avenue, or at the 
Works, Liberty Street, between Fourth and Fifth, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. __ 

S. S- Maruin ^^ (3o. 



24 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

HAM TOAST. 

Chop a piece of boiled ham fine, and mix it with beaten egg, season 
with pepper, place this on buttered toast and put in the oven for three 
or four minutes. 

Mrs. E. T. Millar, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROAST MEAT. 

Cover the meat with a pan the same size of the one in which the 
meat is to be cooked ; use enough water to cook the meat tender, and 
season with salt, pepper and a small piece of butter ; when the meat 
is nearly done remove the cover and brown well. 

Mrs. Frank, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF. 

To one quarter of beef take four gallons of water, one pint molassCii, 
one and a half pound of^ sugar, two ounces saltpetre, salt sufficient to 
make a brine to carry an egg. 

Mrs. Johns, Derry Station, Pa. 

CURE FOR TONGUE. 

Te each tongue one cup salt, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful saltpetre ; rub in well, let stand for two weeks, then hang up to 
dry. 

Mrs. Johns, Derry Station, Pa. 



HAM SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine the lean of cold boiled ham, season with prepared mus- 
tard and black pepper, add some chopped celery or celery seed, then 
some melted butter and sweet cream until it makes a sraoothe paste, 
and spread it between pieces of bread. 

Mrs. E. Rinehart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MEAT CROQUETTES. 

Cut any kind of fresh, cold meat, season with salt and pepper ; 
make a batter the same as for griddle cakes; have the griddle hot, 
and buttered to prevent sticking ; lay a spoonful of batter on the 
griddle, then one of the chopped meat, and another of batter ; when 
browned on one side turn and brown on the other. Serve hot. 

Mrs. S. Moore, Crafton, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 25 



SANDWICHES. 

Boil a few pounds of ham, and chop it very fine while it is still 
warm— fat and lean together — rub dry mustard, in proportions to 
suit your taste, through the mass, add as much sweet butter as would 
do the spreading of your sandwiches, and when it is thoroughly 
mixed, split light biscuits in halves and spread the ham between. 
These will be found excellent. 

Mrs. Anna Pershing, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



BEEF PUDDING. 

Three pounds of chopped beef, one cup rolled oyster crackers, one 
egg, salt and pepper to taste, a little nutmeg, a tablespoonful butter ; 
mix, put in a pan and bake one hour. 

Mrs. Carson, Allegheny, Pa. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

First, make a crust of half a pound of suet, chopped fine ; one 
pound flour ; one-half spoonful of salt ; one teaspoonful of baking 
powder; mixed together; sufficient cold water added to make it stiff 
paste. Second, cut one-third of paste for the cover of the pudding 
basin in which the pudding is to be boiled ; roll the rest of the paste 
to size required to line the pudding basin ; grease with butter the 
basin, and lay the paste in neatly. Third, take two pounds of beef, 
cut in slices ; dip each in flour as you lay it in the basin, along with 
two kidneys, a little chopped parsley, a bit of good butter the size of 
an egg, a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, one teacup of water, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. Fourth, 
roll out the paste cover to the size of the top of the basin ; wet the 
edges of the paste ; then lay the cover on and press the two edges to- 
gether ; dip a clean pudding cloth in boiling water, flour it and tie it 
over the top of the basin ; place the basin in a saucepan of water and 
keep it boiling four hours ; for serving, remove the cloth and turn the 
basin over a warm plate, and lift the basin. The basin mentioned is 
a bowl of crockery ware, holding a quart, with a thick rim around 
the top. 

Mrs. J. B. Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



26 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

STUFFED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Have the butcher take out the first joint in a leg of mutton, or it 
can be done at home by using a very sharp narrow-bladed knife and 
holding it close to the bone ; rub in a tablespoonful of salt, and then 
fill with a dressing made as follows: one pint of fine bread or cracker 
crumbs, in which have been mixed dry one even tablespoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of pepper ; chop one onion very fine and add it to one 
egg well beaten, one teaspoonful of sage ; melt a piece of butter the 
size of an egg and pour on the crumbs, if not enough to moisten 
thoroughly then add a little more ; tie and roast in the oven; skim 
all the fat from the gravy, as the flavor of mutton fat is never pleasant ; 
the meat must be basted and dredged with flour as carefully as beef. 
The stuffed leg of mutton tastes like duck, but is more delicate. 

Mrs. J. B. Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROAST GOOSE. 

Two ounces of onions, and half as much green sage chopped fine, 
and one coffee-cup bread crumbs, a little pepper and salt, the yolks 
of two eggs ; do not quite fill the goose, but leave room to swell ; 
roast from one hour and a half to two hours, and serve with gravy 
and apple sauce. 

Mrs. J. B. Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

MA'S WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 

Cut the chickens up, put in a pan cover with water, let it stew as 
usual ; when done, make a thickening of cream or milk and flour, 
add butter, pepper and salt ; have ready a nice shortcake baked and 
cut in squares, rolled thin, as for crust, lay the cakes on a dish and 
pour the chicken and gravy on them while hot. 

Mrs Jos. B, Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



HINTS FOR ROASTING CHICKEN. 

When roasting a chicken, or small fowl, there is danger of the legs 
browning or becoming too hard to be eaten ; to avoid this, take strips 
of muslin, dip them in a little melted lard, or even just rub them 
over with lard, and wind them around the legs; remove them in time 
to allow the chicken to brown nicely. 

Mrs. Thos. Johnston, Apollo, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. "' 



TEAL AND SAUSAGE PIES. 

Line a deep, oval dish with a very nice paste ; lay at the bottom a 
thin veal cutlet, seasoned with powdered mace ; place upon it some of 
the best sausage meat, spread thin ; then another veal cutlet, then 
more sausage ; repeat this till the dish is full, finishing with sausage 
meat on the top ; then cover the pie with a rather thick lid or upper 
crust, uniting the two edges at ihe rim by crimping or notching them 
neatly ; make a cross slit in the center of the lid ; bake the pie well 
and serve hot ; put no water in this pie, as the veal and sausage will 
give out sufficient gravy. 

Mrs. Thos. Boddington, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED CHICKEN. 

After cutting the chicken, if not very young, parboil until a fork 
can be run in it ; season with salt and pepper, and roll in flour and 
fry in hot butter ; when done put into the oven to keep warm ; then 
thoroughly mix a tablespoonful of flour with the butter iu the frying 
pan ; add a little hot water, and a cup of cream, and a little chopped 
parsley, and pour over the chicken. 

Mrs. E. Kinehart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Cold chicken ; one cup of milk ; three tablespoonsful of flour ; one 
egg, and pepper and salt ; cut the chicken in small pieces; make a 
batter of the egg, flour and milk ; fry in hot lard. 

M. L. Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



A DAINTY DISH. 

When stewing chicken, remove the breast before making the gravy ; 

when cold, shred into inch pieces, take equal amount of nicely 

blanched celery, put it into a sauce-pan with a little water, and cook 

until slightly tender, then add the shredded chicken and the minced 

liver of the fowl ; pour over it one-half cup of sweet milk, season with 

the seasoning prepared for salads, rub a desert spoonful of butter and 

flour together until creamed, and thicken, boil a few minutes, and 

serve. 

Mrs. J. Miller, Terre Haute, Ind. 



H. VyATTS & CO. 

AND 

ENGRAVERS, 



No. 431 WOOD ST. pi-p-j-s B U RG H , PA. 



A large stock of Miscellaneous and Standard Books always on 
our Shelves. We are constantly receiving the NEW BOOKS as' 
soon as published. Having increased our facilities for 




r)5Pa^;r)C( -=; 



WE ARE PREPARED TO DO 

M^^d^io^, ^mrd mud Mono^rem Work 

IN FINEST EXECUTION. 

We have a fine selection of STATIONERY, and a choice collection, 
of PICTURES in Artistic Frannes, together with a large stock of 

POTTERY, 

BRIC-A-BRAC, ART FURNITURE, 

PERSIAN and TURKISH HANGINGS and DRAPERIES, 

JAPANESE and CHINESE GOODS 

Especially suitable for Household Decoration and 
We take pleasure in showing our stock. 

EC. "VV^^TTS & OO- 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 29 

PLAIN STUFFING. 

Take stale bread, cut off all the crust, rub very fine, and pour over 
it as much melted butter as will make it crumble in your hands ; salt, 
pepper and sage to taste. 

Mrs. J. B. Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up the chicken and boil it for three-quarters of an hour ; make 
the dough the aame as for biscuit, and cover the bottom of the dish 
with a layer ; set it in the oven to partially cook it ; then pour in the 
chicken and water in which it was cooked ; season with salt and pep- 
per, and before putting on the upper crust invert a teacup in the mid- 
dle of the pie, to remain ; then put on the upper crust, with incisions 
in it the same as for any pie. 

E. Erw^in, Allegheny City, Pa. 



ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Having picked and drawn the fowl, wash well in two or three 
waters ; wipe dry ; rub inside and outside with salt and pepper ; then 
make a dressing of bread, not too fine, butter, salt and pepper to 
taste ; fill the body and crop ; then bake from one to three hours ; 
baste frequently while roasting ; then make a gravy of the giblets 
chopped fine ; thicken with a little flour, which has been previously 
wet with water ; boil up and serve in a gravy boat. 

Mrs. J. W. McCuTCHEON, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Take two chickens, cut them up, and lay them in your skillet, with 

two slices of lean ham, two small eschalots and a few blades of mace; 

then season your fowls with pepper and salt; add a little water ; when 

about half done, add half a pint of cream and a lump of butter the 

size of a walnut, rolled in flour ; keep the fricassee constantly stirring 

till done. 

A. Martin, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PRESSED BEEF, No. 1. 

A neck piece, boiled until falling apart; chop to a jelly; add 

celery or parsley; season with salt and pepper ; press in a mould, and 

slice cold for use. 

Mary E. Smith, Latrobe, Pa. 



30 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

PON MASS. 

Take six quarts of water, two pounds of beef, two pounds of pork, 
two pounds of beef liver and a marraw-bone ; boil till quite tender ; 
chop fine, as if for mince meat ; put back in the kettle ; season with 
pepper and salt to taste ; chop fine six medium-sized onions, (if de- 
sirable) and add to the rest, together with a small quantity of sage, or 
if preferable, summer savory or sweet marjoram ; keep adding water 
so as to have the original quantity when the meat is done ; then 
thicken with corn meal to the consistency of thin mush ; dip in shal- 
low pans ; when cold, cut in slices and fry like mush. In boiling the 
above meats the liver should only be allowed to boil a half hour. 

Mrs. J. B. Nobbs, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SPICED BEEF. 

Take three pounds of beef; stew in a small quantity of water; add 
pepper, salt, six cloves, a few blades of mace and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; let it boil dry ; when cold, cut in half inch slices and fry 
in butter and lard, half each, or slice thin and serve cold. 

Mrs. J. B. Nobbs, Pittsburgh, Pa, 

PRESSED BEEF, No. 2. 

Take a shank joint; boil until falling apart, adding an onion two 
hours before done ; chop fine and season ; boil down the broth and 
pour over meat ; press in a mould, and slice very thin. 

Mary E. Smith, Latrobe, Pa. 



BEEF CHEESE. 

Take a piece of shank boiling meat, without any bone in it, and 
put it on to cook in a dinner pot ; when boiling an hour and a half, put 
in some veal bones or a veal shank, with hardly any meat on; let it all 
boil till the meat falls to pieces, and take the bones out ; chop the meat 
up ; season to taste, and put in a dish, and when cold you can turn it 
out and cut it off like head cheese ; if you like, add a little vinegar 
while it is hot, and any spices you may desire. 

Mrs. C. Frank, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 31 



FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut in pieces and drain ; take the whites of three eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth ; put flour, pepper and salt in a dish ; roll chicken in this 
and then in the beaten eggs ; fry in hot butter ; this, of course, is for 
spring chicken, an old one may be prepared the same way by first 
boiling until tender. 

Lizzie A. Covode, 



BEAFSTEAK ROLLED. 

Take a nice round steak; make a stuffing of bread, onion, parsley 
and celfcry, adding pepper, salt and a small piece of butter ; spi'ead 
carefully over steak and roll ; tie the roll to keep in shape ; bake in 
oven, basting very often; make gravy of drippings, adding flour, 
water and a little butter mixed ; seasoning with salt and pepper ; 
strain, skim off" fat and pour around meat when served. 

Mrs. Irene Denay, Ligonier, Pa. 



VEAL JELLY. 

Wash a knuckle of veal, and boil slowly until the meat will slip 
from the bones ; take out of liquor, remove the bones and chop fine ; 
season with salt, pepper and sage ; put back in liquor and boil until 
almost dry and can be stirred with difficulty ; turn into a mould until 
next day; slice cold and garnish with lemon and parsley. 

Mrs. Wm. Scandrett. 



CODFISH BALLS. 

Pick the fish fine and freshen ; boil potatoes and mash them ; mix 

fish and potatoes together while potatoes are hot, taking two-thirds 

potatoes and one-third fish ; put in plenty of butter ; make into balls 

and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Cramp, Grafton, Pa. 



MEAT CAKES. 

Mince any kind of cold meat very finely ; season with salt and pep- 
per ; make a batter, the same as for flannel cakes ; lay one spoonful of 
batter on the griddle, then one spoonful of the chopped meat, then a 
spoonful of batter ; when browned on one side, turn and brown on the 

other ; serve hot. 

Mrs. Samuel Moore, Crafton, Pa. 



32 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil two cliickens until falling from the bones ; chop in pieces about 
two inches long; season with pepper and salt; put in a mould and 
pour over it the broth, with one-half ounce dissolved gelatine; put 
in a cold place to form, and cut out in thin slices. 

Lizzie CovodEj Ligonier, Pa. 

BAKED CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil the chicken until nearly done ; have a paste made same as for 
biscuit; roll and cut in strips; put some across the bottom of pudding 
pan ; then put a layer of chicken and pieces of dough alternately ; 
put in part of the gravy in which the chicken was boiled ; season 
well ; cover with an upper crust and bake about one hour ; put the 
rest of the gravy over it when it is taken out of oven. 

Mrs. S. Moore, Crafton, Pa. 



BEEF LOAF. 

One and one-half pounds raw beef, chopped ; one cup cracker, roll- 
ed ; one egg ; four tablespoonsful of milk ; season to taste ; make in a 
loaf and bake in covers, with just enough gravy to baste frequently. 

Mrs. Wm. Scandrett. 



BOILED HAM. 

Soak over night ; cut off end of knuckle bone ; put on in cold water 
and cook slowly five hours ; skin, then cover with cracker crumbs and 
one egg, sticking ham full of cloves in small diamonds ; bake in oven 
until nicely browned. 

Mrs. Irene Denny, Ligonier, Pa. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil a chicken, in as little water as possible, until falling from the 
bones ; chop rather fine and season with pepper and salt ; chop about 
one-third as much celery as meat and mix well ; boil three eggs until 
hard ; mince and add to chicken ; put in a mould and pour over it the 
broth, with one-quarter of an ounce dissolved gelatine ; put in a cold 
place to form. 

Lizzie Covode, Ligonier. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 33 

BEEF ROLL. 

Two pounds beef chopped fine; one cup of bread crumbs; three 
eggs ; one cup of sweet milk ; butter size of an egg ; salt and pepper 
to taste ; mix well ; bake in dish, or tin pan in \vhich a plate can be 
fitted ; put an iron on the top of this to press it ; bake two and one- 
half hours in a slow oven ; leave plate and iron on until done ; take 
off plate and iron when done, and leave roll in oven a few minutes to 
brown ; wrap in a cloth to keep soft. 

Kate J. Endsley, Johnstown, Pa. 



SCRAPPLE. 

Scrapple can be made of either beef or pork ; pork makes it richer. 
Take four pounds of meat ; put four quarts of water on it and let i^ 
boil until quite tender, adding more water as it boils ; take out the 
meat and chop it fine ; then return to the pot again, and stir in corn 
meal enough to make a thin mush ; then let it boil on a slow fire for 
half an hour, stirring constantly ; season with salt and pepper to taste ; 
if beef is used for scrapple, boil a good marrow bone with it. 

Mrs. a. Hoffman, Philadelphia, Pa, 



MEAT PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt ; be careful not to get it too 
stiff; then place in the dripping pan ; take a piece of roast beef and 
roast it until within a half hour's time of being done ; drain off the fat, 
leaving only enough to prevent the batter from sticking to the bottom ; 
lay the roast meat on a grater across the dripping pan and let drip on 
the pudding. Mrs. E. J. Hardy, Newport, R. I, 



POT ROAST. 

Meat that is not tender enough for roasting in the oven will do 

nicely for a pot roast ; put the meat in the boiler with a little water ; 

salt and pepper ; as the water boils down add to it a little at a time ; 

watch carefully that it does not burn, as it requires from three to four 

hours to become tender, (it must be a tough old cow) ; when tender let 

the water boil down and brown the meat over a slow fire ; when done 

take the meat out and put in a little flour and water and let it boil for 

the gravy. 

3 Mrs. Hoffman, Philadelphia, Pa. 



F. & J. HEINZ, 



I»IAI<«11KACXUK.ERS, 



General Offices, 189 to 197 First Ave. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 



I nfficG & warehouse PithoL, 
(general "[^I^^^^^^JJ' ttsbur|^, 



Pa 



factory. La Porte. Indiana, 




"^Sr^M^Sl^SSli 



'^«t^r Factory Allegheny, P* 



Sau 



in§ House walKerton, 



ind- 



The Agencies found are in most of the large Eastern, Western, 
Northern and Southern Cities. 

GOLD MEDALS AND DIPLOMAS 



u 



KlFsf * J@)eGfpee * oj * iT/GPif 



J? 



"Were awarded at the World's Exposition at New Orleans, La., over 
all competitors, both foreign and domestic. Their Pickles, Jellies, 
Fruit Butters, Preserves, etc., have thus achieved almost a world- 
wide reputation for 

EXCELLENCE AND PURITY. 



-^ GOODS ON SALE BY ALL LEADING GROCERS. -&- 



Pittsburgh Cook Bo(jk. 35 



SOUPS. 



BEEF STOCK. 

Take three pounds of beef, three pints of water, salt to taste ; boil 
until the water is half boiled away ; strain carefully and put away to 
flavor soup when you have not time to boil meat or have no meat to 
boil. 

Mils. M. E. Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Beat up an egg and add enough flour to make a stiff" dough ; roll it 
out into a thin sheet ; flour it and roll it up closely ; then with a sharp 
knife cut in shavings about one-eighth of an inch wide ; flour to keep 
them from adhering to each other ; add to the soup while it is boiling ; 
boil ten minutes. 

Mrs. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh; Pa. 



NOODLE SOUP. 

Beef, veal or chicken may be used, but chicken is best ; boil until 
the meat separates from the bones, skimming well ; mix one pint of 
flour with two beaten eggs ; add more flour until it is quite stiff; roll 
thin, sprinkle flour all over, and roll up ; cut up in pieces about one- 
half inch wide ; put this in your boiling soup and cook fifteen minutes. 

Mother, Smoky City. 



GOOD TOMATO SOUP, No. 1. 

One can of tomatoes, one pint of water, one quart of sweet milk, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half pound of 
rolled crackers \ salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. Mary Johns, Derry Station, Pa. 



TOMATO SOUP, No. 2. 

Twelve large tomatoes, two quarts of rich milk, one pint of oyster 
crackers, butter size of an egg ; pare the tomatoes, cut fine, and let 
them stand one hour, then add milk, crackers rolled and butter and 
stir constantly. 

Mrs. Focer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



36 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak a pint of beans over night; in the morning boil two hours ; 
boil in another vessel one pound salt pork in as much water as you 
want Soup ; when the meat is cooked enough put into it the cooked 
beans and boil together a half hour and serve. 

Mrs. H. C. Frazer, California. 



PEA SOUP. 

One pint of split peas ; soak over night in a quart of water ; in the 
morning put with one-half pound of salt pork ; boil slowly all fore- 
noon, adding water when necessary; strain through a sieve; season 
with salt, a little sugar and nutmeg ; take stale bread and toast quite 
brown ; spread with butter and cut in small squares and serve with 
the soup. 

Mary A. Halpin, Newport, R, I. 



CORN SOUP. 

Twelve ears of corn scraped and the cobs boiled twenty minutes in 
one quart of water ; remove the cobs and put in the corn and boil 
fifteen minutes ; then add two quarts of rich milk ; season with salt, 
pepper and butter and thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour ; boil 
the who^e ten minutes and turn into a tureen in which the yolks of 
three eggs have been well beaten. 

Mrs. W. McCutcheon, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



RICE SOUP. 

Two tablespoonfuls of rice, teaspoonful and a half of salt, one pound 
of tender meat and one quart of water and boil for two hours slowly '> 
season with pepper. 

Mrs. a. Kelly, Altoona, Pa. 



GUMBO SOUP. 

This soup requires about five hours for preparation ; two gallons of 
cold water ; add three pounds of fresh beef and one sliced onion ; in 
about two hours add one pint of stewed tomatoes^ one pint of sliced 
gumbo, one pint of sliced potatoes, the corn cut from two ears, one- 
half pint Lima beans ; season with pepper, salt and one small pod of 
pepper and one teaspoonful of sugar. 

Mrs. L. D. Ayres, kSharpsburg, Pa. 



PiTTSBUKGH CoOK BoOK. 37 

MURPHY SOUP. 

Pare and cut into dice pieces a half dozen of potatoes ; stew them in 
as much watc as you want soup ; when cooked break into it three 
eggs ; stir rapidly to break the eggs before they are cooked. 

Bridget. 

TURKISH SOUP. 

Yolks of two eggs, one quart of stock, one-half teacupful of cold 
rice, one tablespoonful of cream, little pepper and salt ; wash rice in 
cold water , put in pan with stock and boil twenty minutes ; pass it 
through a sieve ; mix well with the beaten yolks of the eggs and milk : 
add pepper and salt ; stir over the fire until eggs begin to thicken. 

Miss Strange, Boston, Mass. 

POTATO SAUCE. 

Pare and slice thin ; season some milk with butter, pepper and salt ; 
let it boil up ; then add potatoes and boil five minutes. 

Annie Pope, Crafton, Pa. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Take sufficient stale bread to make a pudding the size you require; 
after it is soaked well beat fine with a fork ; add one-half cup of gra- 
ted cocoanut ; make a custard of one quart of milk and four eggs ; 
flavor with nutmegs, sweeten, pour over and bake. 

Annie Pope, Crafton, Pa. 



OYSTERS AND FISH, 



STEWED OrSTERS. 

Take one quart of oysters and place them in the colander; when 
the liquor has passed through, place it on the fire and when it boils 
add a cup ^f milk ; when these come to a boil, put in the oysters and 
season with pepper and salt ; remove from the fire whenever it boils. 

Emma De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



38 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter a pudding dish ; roll crackers very fine; put a layer of 
crackers, then a layer of oysters ; season with salt and pepper ; put 
small bits of butter over the oysters; fill the dish nearly full, having 
crackers on top ; moisten each layer with the oyster juice ; bake about 
half an hour. 

Mrs. J. H. Nobbs, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Use large oysters, and place on a coarse towel to dry ; have ready 
cracker dust seasoned with pepper and salt; beat two eggs; dip each 
oyster into the beaten egg, then in the cracker dust ; fry in hot lard 
and butter mixed, and serve on a dish bordered with parsley or celery 
leaves. 

Mes. M. E. Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



OYSTER PIE. 

Make pie crust, and cover a deep dish; put in layer of oysters and 
drop in small pieces of dough ; then more oysters, until the dish is 
full ; put in plenty of butter, pepper and salt ; cover with dough, and 
bake in hot oven, and you have a pie fit for a king. 

Mrs. M. L. Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



STEWED BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTERS. 

Take tender beefsteak cut from the sirloin (if used from the round 
it should be beaten with a rolling pin) ; place in a close stew pan, with 
barely sufficient water to prevent burning and set them over the fire 
to brown ; this done, add enough oyster-liquor to cook them, and some 
bits of fresh butter rolled in flour; let them stew slowly for an hour 
or till they are thoroughly done; then add three or lour dozen of fine, 
large, fresh oysters, in proportion to the quantity of meat, seasoning 
them well with nutmeg, a few blades of mace and a litte cayenne; 
cover the pan, and simmer them till the oysters are well plumped, but 
not till they come to a boil; when all are properly cooked, transfer 
the whole to a deep dish and send it to the table hot. 

Mrs. Boddington, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



USE 



Jsrjuj^jiEnsoJsrs 



cjlrmijsja. ti j^je 



—FOR— 

Cholera Morbus, Summer Complaints, 
Children Teething, 

BEST msr TliE 3VI.a.e,is:et. 



Hendersons -f Cough + Syrup, 

—FOR— 

CROUP AND COLDS. 

FOR SALE BY 

A., a hendersoj:^, ^^^^_^z^^^^^. 



MACDONALD & HARRAH, 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

TRICTLYPUREJONFECTlQNERYj 

167 & 169 Second Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



J8@='SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO SUNDAY SCHOOL ORDERS. 

C0M:E ^ISTD SEE US. 



40 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

OYSTER SAUSAGES. 

Mix a pint of oysters, one-fourth of a pound of veal, one-fourth 
pound suet and some bread crumbs, and chop these together ; season 
with salt and pepper; make into small cakes, using one egg and a little 
flour to roll them in ; fry in hot lard until dry and serve hot. 

Mrs. E. T. Millar, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SPICED SALMON. 

For two or three pounds of fish use one small onion and one-half a 
lemon chopped fine ; cut your fish suitable for serving, with salt, red 
and black pepper ; put one-half the onion and lemon and one-half tea- 
spoonful of allspice and cloves in your dish, and then add your fish 
and the remainder of your lemon and onion ; cover with vinegar, not 
too strong ; bake two hours in earthen bowl or crock, covered with 

brown paper. 

Mrs. T. W. Hays, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED MACKEREL. 

Take the skin off* and soak over night ; in the morning wipe dry, 
roll in flour and fry brown in hot lard. 

* Mrs. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BOILED MACKEREL. 

Take off" the skin and soak over night; cover with boiling water 
and let it stand five minutes, then pour off* the water ; put the fish in 
a buttered pan ; pour on it one-half teacupful of sweet cream and a 
little pepper ; set in the oven and let it brown, then serve. 

Mrs. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROAST FISH. 

Take a fish, five or six pounds ; clean it, wash it and dry it with a 

cloth ; take stale bread and rub fine; add butter, pepper and salt; fill 

the fish, sew it up and place it in a pan ; dredge with flour, a little 

salt, pepper and some good sweet lard, and roast till it becomes a nice 

brown. 

Mrs. Ann Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 41 



TO BAKE WHITE FISH. 

After cleaning the fish and drying it, rub both inside and outside 
with salt and pepper mixed in flour ; have your lard hot and bake the 
fish three-quarters of an hour. 

Mrs. C. a. Pollock 



FRIED FISH. 

If the fish is large cut out the backbone and slice the body cross- 
wise into six or eight pieces ; dip in beaten egg and roll in flour ; put 
into a thick bottomed skillet, skin side uppermost, with hot lard or 
drippings (never in butter) ; fry slowly and turn when a light brown ; 

serve with slices of lemon. 

A. Martin, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CODFISH BALLS. 

Soak a codfish over night ; boil very soft and remove the bones ; 
then chop the fish very fine ; boil an equal amount of potatoes and 
mash them ; mix together and make into small flat cakes, well season- 
ed ; drop into hot lard and fry until brown. 

Mrs. Jennie Bropie, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SALT CODFISH. 

Soak well, then boil for one hour, changing the water twice ; then 

remove into a dish, and with a knife and fork mince well and place 

on the fire, with sweet milk enough to co ver it ; add a littler flour, 

butter, pepper and salt. 

Mrs. C. a. Pollock, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED SARDINES. 

Always use the large-sized fish ; take as many as you wish to use 
from the box ; wipe the oil from them, and pass them through an egg 
whipped and then strew thickly with rolled cracker, and fry as other 
fish; serve on hot buttered toast. This is an agreeable dish for 
luncheon or supper, and quickly prepared. 

Annette Martin, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



42 Pittsbur(;h Cook Book, 



VEGETABLES. 



COLD SLAW, No. 1. 

Cut the cabbage not too fine, sprinkle pepper and salt over it, and 
place in a cool place to keep it crisp. Dressing. — Beat the yolks of 
three eggs, or the whole of two, with five tablespoonfuls of strong vin- 
egar, two heaping teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, and butter the size of an almond ; place these ingredients in a 
tiucup, stir them until they are about to boil, and then remove from 
the fire and allow it to cool ; this done mix it thoroughly through the 
cabbage, and cover the top with hard boiled eggs sliced. 

Mrs. Sophia Hague, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



(OLD SLAW, No. 2. 

Cut a head of cabbage fine, put in a dish, take a small teaspoonful 
of salt, a teaspoonful of mustard, and one-half teacupful of sugar ; 
mix it through the cut cabbage ; then take an egg, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, a small lump of butter ; beat well together and stir it into 
one-half teacup of vinegar , let it come to boil and pour over the cab- 
bage. 

Mrs. a. Conn, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



HOT SLAW. 

Cut the cabbage fine, put it in a skillet and boil until tender in a 
very little water ; make a dressing of one egg, a teaspoonful of flour, 
a teaspoonful of sugar, a half cup of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, 
mixed together; put it in the cabbage and let it come to a boil and 
serve. 

Mrs. M. E. Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED TOMATOES. 

Take ripe, firm tomatoes ; slice thick, dip in flour, fry in hot lard 
and butter mixed ; sprinkle over with a little salt; whtn brown lift 
carefully and sprinkle with a little sugar. 

Mrs. G. Chester, Portland, Me. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 43 

CREAM CABBAGE. 

Beat together the yolks of two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of vinegar, butter the size of an egg, salt and a little Cayenne 
pepper ; put the mixture into a saucepan and stir until it boils ; then 
stir in one cup of cream ; let it boil and pour over the cabbage while 
hot. 

Annie Pope, Crafton, Pa. 



ROAST TOMATOES. 

Place the whole tomatoes in a small bread pan and with them water 

enough to half cover them ; drop butter over each of them about the 

size of a hickory nut; sprickle with salt and pepper and dredge Avith 

flour ; place in the oven and bake until very brown, adding water as 

it is needed. 

Mattie Tanner, Frankfort, Ky. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes and slice them thin ; take a tin pudding pan, put 
in a layer of potatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper and a little but- 
ter ; then another layer of potatoes and seasoning, until the pan is 
filled ; then fill the pan with milk and bake half an hour. 

Miss Maud Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POTATO PUFF. 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes and stir into it two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating it to a white cream before 
adding anything else ; then put with this two eggs, whipped very 
light, and a teacupful of cream or milk ; salt to taste ; beat all well ; 
pour into deep dish and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. 

Mrs. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POTATO (RULLERS. 

Cut large potatoes in blocks about one-half inch square ; after par- 
ing place in ice cold water and let them stand until quite crisp; then 
fry in hot lard as you would doughnuts, and season with pepper and 
salt when they have been removed from the lard. 

Lucy De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



John D. Knox & Co. 

LOAN AGENTS. 



Invest Money on First Mortgages on 
Kansas Real Estate. 



These Mortgages secure Bonds which, with half-yearly interest, are made payable 
at the Banking House of John D. Knox & Co. 

They are made payable here because we bind ourselves to watch over all our 
investments. Collect and Forward all interest and principal, and conduct all cases of 
foreclosure when such steps become necessary. 

We make all collections of interest and principal and remit to owners without 
cost to them. 

Eight per cent, is the best rates to be obtained upon our mortgages, and, where- 
it is preferred to seven per cent., which bear our guaranty, we furnish it on first 
class mortgages. 

V/E GUARANTEE 

At seven per cent.; we not only get the very best security, but place ujion such 
Bonds and Coupons our written guarantee. 

We issue Time Certificates of Deposit from our Bank for money left a designated 
length of time, bearing six per cent, per annum. 

I*ersoii8 desiring' to invest may forward money by Bank Draft or 
Registered Letter ; or, if further particulars are desired, address 

JOHN n. j^jvojc ^' CO. 

E-E^^X. EST.A.TE .£^1^1D XjO-A-InT -A^G-EKITS, 
302 KANISAS AVE., TOPEKA, KAX. 



A READABLE BOOK.— The following very strong endorsement of Rev. John 
D. Knox's Book, "Paths to Wealth," was sent him by Rev. Bishop Ninde. 

" One of the most readable books I have lately met with is Knox's 'Paths to 
Wealth.' ^The author. Rev. John D. Knox, of the Kansas conference, was compelled, 
by broken health, to retire from the pastorate many years ago. He entered upon a 
business career, and in this handy volume embodies the ripe results of his observa- 
tion and experience. The book is full of pithy sentiments, happy illustrations, 
bright aphorisms and useful maxims, with enough of healthy moralizing to give it 
tone and vigor. Its counsels are thoroughly sound, and while the work is not osten- 
.sibly religious, it gives religious character and experience its proper place, and is 
everywhere pervaded with a devout spirit. It is a tlmply book for an employer to 
put into the hands of his young apprentice or clerk, and might better be given a 
place on tlie shelves of our Sunday school libraries than much of the literature 
generally found there. W. X. NINDE." 

ToPEKA, Kan.sas, August?, 1885. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 45 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Peel and slice lengthwise cold boiled sweet potatoes ; fry brown in 
butter and serve. 

Mrs. J. Houston, Denver, Col. 



E(;G plant, No. 1. 

Pare and slice thin ; rub a little salt on each side ; dip in flour and 

fry brown in hot lard. 

Mes. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED EGG PLANT, No. 2. 

Pare and slice thin ; make a batter with one egg, a tablespoonful of 
flour and a half cup of water, adding a half teaspoouful of salt ; dip 
in each slice and fry brown in hot lard. 

Mrs. John Brown, Omaha, Neb. 



BEATEN POTATOES. 

Boil large potatoes until soft; dry them on the fire and peel them ; 
warm in a saucepan half a pint of rich, sweet milk and two ounces of 
butter ; put the potatoes, after peeling them, into a colander, and mash 
them through this into the milk and butter; add a teaspoonful of salt 
and a little pepper ; with a wooden paddle beat this mixture till it is 
dry and stiff; put it in a bowl and turn it out upon a dish in form ; 
roughen the surface with a fork, brown in the oven, and serve hot. 

Emma De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



TOMATO HASH. 

Butter a dish ; put in a layer of peeled and sliced tomatoes, a layer 
of cold meat in thin slices, a layer of bread and butter, and so on 
until the dish is full; add seasoning to each layer ; pour beaten eggs 
over the top ; bake brown. 

Mrs, F. Pi. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BAKED BEANS. 

One quart of soup beans soaked over night, one small onion, two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, one-fourth pound of bacon, salt to taste; 
cover the beans with cold water and bake three hours. 

Miss Ella Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



46 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Take one quart of the small white beans ; put them on in cold 
water in the morning ; let them stand on the back of the stove until 
after dinner, occasionally pouring off the hot water and putting in cold 
water ; wash one pound of salt pork, cutting the rind two or three 
times across ; put it in with the beans ; add two teaspoonfuls of sugar ; 
parboil a little while and place in the oven ; bake slowly for three or 
four hours ; care should be taken to have in them a sufficient quantity 
of water, so that they will not be too dry when done. 

Mrs. Southerland, Newport, R. I. 



POTATO BUNS. 

Boil and mash through a colander as many potatoes as will make a 
pint; mix with one quart of flour, one cup of sugar, two eggs well 
beaten, one cup yeast; let this stand all night; in the morning add 
half cup of yeast, one cup of sugar, one cup of lard and butter mixed, 
one teaspoonful.of soda, flour enough to stiffen ; let it rise quite light ; 
make out in cakes and let it rise again ; bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. a. R. West, Bolivar, Pa. 



CORN FRITTERS. 

Six ears of sweet corn, yolks of four eggs with cup of milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour; beat the whites to a froth and use last; season 
to taste and fry in hot lard ; excellent. 

Miss M. Smith, Allegheny, Pa. 



GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Boil the corn ; grate it as for pudding; beat six eggs very light and 
stir them gradually into a quart of milk ; then stir in by degrees the 
grated corn till you have a moderately thick batter ; add a saltspoon- 
ful of salt ; butter the inside of your muffin rings ; place them on a 
hot griddle over a clear fire and nearly fill them with the batter ; 
bake well and send to the table hot. 

Mrs. F. R. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 47 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Grate as many ears of corn as will make one pint ; add one tea- 
spoonful of flour, half a cup of butter and one egg ; fry in butter. 

Miss K. Luella Kennedy, Erie, Pa. 



DELICIOUS BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Put one and one-half pints of small navy b^ans into a crock that 
will hold a quart or little more ; fill it with water and let it stand over 
night; in the morning pour off" the water and cover the beans with 
fresh water and enough salt to season, in which is mixed one table- 
spoonful of common molasses; put one-fourth pound of pickled pork 
in the center, leaving a little of the pork above the beans ; bake them 
eight hours with a steady fire, and without stirriug the beans; add a 
cupful of hot water every hour, except the last two ; earthen pots with 
narrow mouths are made expressly for baking beans ; cooking them 
in this manner each bean will be perfectly whole and at the same time 
thoroughly cooked ; serve with the pork in the center of the plate ; 
some like a very little vinegar with them, this, however, should be left 
to the taste of the individual, after helping them to the baked beans. 
Mrs. S. Hamilton, Pittsburgh, Pa., East End. 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose large smooth tomatoes, cut oS'a thin slice from blossom end, 
lay it aside for future use ; scoop out the inside and chop it fine ; add 
some bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of white sugar, a tablespoonful of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt and pepper ; mix well and stuff' the hollow 
tomatoes; fit the tops on neatly ; place in circular rows in a deep dish 
and bake three-quarters of an hour till light brown. 

Mrs. E J. Hardy, Newport, R. I. 



LYONAISE POTATOES. 

One-half pound cold boiled potatoes, two ounces of onion, heaping 
teaspoonful minced parsley, butter size of an egg ; slice potatoes ; put 
butter in saucepan ; when hot throw in the chopped onion ; fry to a 
light color ; add sliced potatoes, turn until hot and of a light brown ; 
mix in parsley and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Irene Denny, Ligonier, Pa. 



48 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



BAKED POTATOES. 

Pare and slice thin as many potatoes as required ; then take a but- 
tered pudding pan, and put in a layer of potatoes; dredge with flour 
and sprinkle a little salt and pepper and a little butter; then another 
layer, and so on until the pan is full ; more than half fill the pan with 
sweet milk and bake about two hours. 

Ida Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ONION SAUCE. 

Four white onions, one teacupful of hot milk, three tablespoonfuls 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. Paul Graff, Blairsville, Pa. 



CREAM SLAW. 
Cut with slaw cutter one small head of cabbage quite fine. Dress- 
ing. — Take one cupful of vinegar, one-half cupful rich cream, either 
sweet or sour, one heaped teaspoonful sugar ; after seasoning the cab- 
bage with salt, pepper and mustard, add the dressing, mixing well. 

Annie H. Pettit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CORN OYSTERS. 

Cut fine on a slaw cutter enough ears to make a pint of corn ; dust 
with flour ; add a very little milk and three eggs, the whites beaten 
separately, pepper and salt ; fry in hot butter and lard. 

Mrs. W. a. Stewart, Johnstown, Pa. 



FRIED APPLES. 

Have good cooking apples ; cut them in slices ; fry in hot lard ; 

sprinkle sugar over them and serve while hot. 

Annie. 



TO DRESS NEW BEETS. 

Boil until perfectly tender ; drain and cut in pieces convenient for 

serving. Dressing. — Make a dressing of one cupful of vinegar, one 

teaspoonful of sugar, butter size of a walnut, pepper and salt; pour 

over beets and let come to the boil; then thicken with a little flour 

and water ; serve while hot. 

Miss Lizzie Covode, Ligonier, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 49 



SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Take as many potatoes as desired and have enough melted lard to 
cover them completely ; pare and cut potatoes in pieces about three- 
fourths of an inch in diameter, wash and wrap in a dry towel; about 
twenty minutes before ready to serve have lard so hot a blue smoke 
rises; throw in potatoes and let cook until of a brown color and per- 
fectly tender ; lift in a dish and sprinkle each layer with salt ; serve 

immediately. 

Lizzie Covode, Ligonier, Pa. 



BAKED CABBAGE. 

Quarter a cabbage, put it on in cold water, let it boil fifteen min- 
tes ; then drain and pour on enough boiling water to cover and boil 
twenty minutes longer ; then take out, drain it, chop fine, season to 
taste, add a lump of butter size of a hickory nut ; beat together four 
spoonfuls of milk and two eggs, mix this with the cabbage ; put in a 
pudding dish and bake until it is browned. 

Emma De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



DELICIOUS POTATOES. 

Pare and slice raw potatoes ; grease a tin pudding dish ; put a layer 
of potatoes, a little salt and very small lumps of butter ; then another 
layer of potatoes, salt and butter, until all are in the dish ; now put a 
few spoonfuls of cream or milk ; bake one and one-fourth hours and 
serve right out of the dish in which they were baked. 

Mrs. S. Hamilton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Take cold sweet potatoes and slice thin ; have in a frying pan a 
large tablespoonful of butter hoi, or mixed lard and butter ; put the 
potatoes in, sprinkle them with a tablespoonful of sugar, and keep 
stirring until well cooked ; never use pepper and salt in dressing a 
sweet potato. 

Rev. M. D. Lichliter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
4 



C. C. FAWCETT. F. M. MILLIKEN. 

FaWCETT & MiLLIKEN, 



IMPORTERS OF 



Qu00qs\A/ar0 



Gliiqa, ^G- 



JOBBERS IN 



GLASSWARE. LAMPS. &c 

No. 31 DIAMOND ST. 



FittsbizTglx, J?(X, 



L. T. YODKR, 

MANUFACTURER, 

No. 305 Smithfield St., Pittsburgh, Pa, 



SUNDAY SCHOOLS 

Supplied at short notice. Prices as low as any in the city 
for quality of goods. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 5^ 

POTATO CAKES. 

One quart of mashed potatoes, three eggs, one-half cup of milk, 

three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, salt and pepper to suit taste ; 

to be fried in lard. 

Miss K. Luella Kennedy, Erie, Pa, 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, a little salt, one pint of flour, one pint 
of chopped apples, with or without one teaspoonful of baking powder ; 
beat the eggs well ; add part of the flour and milk alternately with the 
salt, beating it quickly and cooking it immediately, dropping it by the 
spoonful into boiling hot lard, 

Mrs. S. Hamilton, Pittsburgh, Pa., East End, 



PUDDINGS. 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One grated cocoanut ; save the milk; boil one quart milk and add 
the beaten yolks of five eggs, one cup sugar ; one teaspoonful butter, 
two teaspoonfuls vanilla and a little salt with milk from the nut ; let 
boil and pour over grated nut ; bake in pudding dish lined with rich 
paste ; when done cover with the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
and return to oven until of a delicate brown. This is excellent baked 
as pies, with under crust only. 

Miss Mary Smith, Latrobe, Pa, 

PEACH TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak half pint of tapioca in a pint and a half of cold water over 
night ; fill your dish half full of canned peaches, leaving out the 
syrup; when you put tapioca to cook, add the syrup and a half cup 
of sugar ; set it on the stove and boil until it is dissolved and clear . 
when cooked pour it over the peaches, place in oven, and bake half an 
hour; eat cold with cream, 

Mrs, W, S, Bailey, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



52 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Pare and core enough apples to fill dish ; put into each lemon bit of 
lemon peel ; soak one-half pint of tapioca in one quart of lukewarm 
water one hour; add a little salt ; flavor with lemon ; pour over ap- 
ples ; bake till apples are tender ; eat when cold with cream and sugar. 

Mrs. a. B., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



WHIPPED CREAM. 

One and one-half pints of good rich cream sweetened and flavored 
to taste, three teaspoonfuls of vanilla ; whip to a stiff froth ; dissolve 
three-fourths ounce of best gelatine in a small teacup of hot water, 
and when cool pour into the cream ; stir thoroughly, pour in mo aid and 
set on ice, or in a very cool place. 

Miss Jessie L. Hays, Johnstown, Pa. 



APPLE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two-thirds 
of a cup of milk, flour to make stiff as cake dough, one measure of 
baking powder ; line a dish with a quart of sliced apples ; cover these 
with a cup of sugar and a little butter ; pour in the batter and bake 
one hour ; eat with milk. 

Mary Douglas, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SNOW DRIFT. 

Stew one-half dozen apples and rub them through the colander ; let 
stand until cool, then add the beaten whites of three eggs, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon and one-half cupful of sugar; beat all to a 
froth and lay in heaps in a glass dish ; beat the yolks of three eggs 
with a small cupful of sugar ; boil a point of milk, stir the beaten 
yolks into the milk ; serve this with the snowdrift. 

Miss Effie Moore, Grafton, Pa. 

BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding dish ; place in it alternate layers of bread crumbs 
and thinly sliced apples ; sprinkle sugar over each layer ; let the top 
layer be of bread crumbs, over which two or three spoonfuls of melted 
butter should be poured ; bake in moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. M. Laughlin, Derry Station, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 53 



ORANGE PUDDING, No. 1. 

A delicious orange pudding is made of the yolks of three eggs, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, one cup of sugar, one pint of sweet 
milk ; while this custard is boiling peel and slice five oranges, and put 
the slices into a pudding dish with sugar sprinkled over each layer ; 
when the custard is done and while hot pour it over the oranges; 
make a meringue of the whites of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls 
even (not heaping) full of sugar. 

Caroline Hay, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ORANGE PUDDING, No, 2. 

Slice and sugar two large juicy oranges ; boil one pint of rich milk 
or cream and add one tablespoonful of corn starch and the yolks of 
two eggs well beaten ; pour over the oranges while hot and mix well ; 
then beat the whites of the eggs light and pour on top ; set in the oven 
and brown ; to be eaten cold. 

Mrs. J. M. Ashbaugh, Mt. Pleasant. 



CREAM DU CAFE. 

One pint of rich cream whipped light, one-half box gelatine soaked 

in one cupful of milk, one cupful of strong coffee, one cupful of white 

sugar, the whites of two eggs ; dissolve the soaked gelatine and sugar 

in the boiling coffee and let it cool ; whip the cream and whites of 

eggs in separate dishes ; when the gelatine is perfectly cool, beat it 

gradually into the whites until it is a fine froth, then whip in the 

cream ; rinse the mould in cold water, fill it with the mixture and set 

on ice to cool. 

Mrs. L. D. Ayres, Sharpsburg, Pa. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

Five pints grated bread crumbs, four eggs, pinch of salt, one pint 
pulverized sugar, four pints of milk, grating of one large lemon, one- 
half teacup butter, melted and poured in milk after baking ; beat 
the whites of two eggs with a little sugar spread on top and return to 

oven a few moments to brown. 

Mrs. J. B. Rowley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



54 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

SPANISH CREAM, No. 1. 

One-half box gelatine, pour over it one quart cold milk ; place on 
the fire until dissolved ; then beat the yolks of four eggs with one- 
half cupful of sugar ; when the gelatine is dissolved, stir this in and 
let come to a boil, then flavor ; have the whites beaten to a froth with 
one-half cupful of sugar and j)our into the other ; when it boils take 
off the fire and pour into moulds. 

Mrs. M. J. Lewis, Blairsville, Pa. 



SPANISH (REAM, No. 2. 

One pint milk, three eggs, five teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-half box 
Cox's gelatine ; dissolve gelatine slowly in milk ; then scald ; add 
sugar, yolks of eggs and whites of eggs well beaten ; turn into a mould 
and let stand twelve hours ; serve with cream. 

Mrs. Wm. Scandrett, Allegheny City, Pa. 

IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE. 

Take one-half teacupful of Irish moss; wash it in warm water; put 
it in a tin pail, with one (piart of milk ; cover closely and set in a 
kettle of boiling water ; let it stand until it begins to thicken, then 
strain through a fine sieve ; sweeten with white sugar, very lightly ; 
flavor with vanilla; pour into a mould and set it in a cool place; 
when quite firm turn out onto a platter; eat with sugar and cream. 

Mary A. Halpin, Newport, R. I. 



QUEEN PUDDING. 

Soak a cupful of tapioca in a pint water over night ; pare and cut 
in slices about four nice apples ; stew a cupful of raisins; butter a 
pudding dish and place in alternate layers the apple, tapioca and 
raisins ; sugar to taste ; have the last layer tapioca ; bake two hours . 
stir occasionally ; eat with sweetened cream. 

M. E. Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROLLY PUDDING. 

Make a crust same as for biscuit ; roll out about one-fourth of an 
inch thick ; spread with currant or cherry preserves ; then roll it up, 
pin a cloth around it and steam about two hours for medium size. 

Mrs. S. Moore, Crafton, Pa. 



PITTSBURGH FEMi^LE COLLEGE 

—AND— 

CoThserj^citoTy of JMixsic. 

THIRTY ACCOMPLISHED TEACHERS. 



KARE ADVANTAGES IN 



LITERATURE, MUSIC, ELOCUTION, ART, 

MODERN LANGUAGES, NEEDLE WORK, &c. 



CHARGES GRADED TO THE TIMES, 

— AND— 
LESS THAN ANY SCHOOL AFFORDING EQUAL ADVANTAGES. 

PUPILS CAN ENTER AT ANY TIME. 
^end for catalogue to ^^^ ^ ^^ PERSHING, D. D. 

PITTSBURGH, PA. 



PATRONIZE TH E BEST A ND CHEAPEST, 

THE nTTSBTJE^GH: 

Christian Advocate. 

ESTABLISHED 1833. 

REV. C. W. SMITH, D. D., Editor. 

OFFICE, 527 SMITHFIELD ST, 

Organ of the Methodist Episcopal Church in Western Pennsylvania, East- 
ern Ohio and West Virginia. 

Able editorials on all the live questions of the day. The Contributors in- 
clude some of the most eminent writers of the Church. 

The weekly exposition of the Sunday School Lesson is pronounced by lead- 
ing Sunday School workers to be unexcelled. Interesting news from all the 
Churches. 

Special attention given to the Young Folks' Department. 

Terms S2 00 per year, in advance. All Itinerant Ministers of the M. E. 
Church are agents, to whom subscriptions may be paid. Sample copies seat free. 

Address CHRISTIAN ADVOCATE, 

PITTSBURGH, PA. 



56 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



LUCY^S SUET PUDDING. 

One-half pound raisins, one-half pound currants, one cupful bread 
crumbs, one-half pound suet, one-half pound sugar, two spoonfuls of 
flour, spice to suit taste ; mix all together and tie up in muslin bag, 
and boil one and one-half hours. This can be eaten with sauce to taste* 

L. A. De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHOICE PUDDING. 

Boil one-half cupful of rice in two cupfuls of water; before it is 
quite done stir in two cupfuls of milk and cook until soft ; beat the 
yolks of four eggs with one-half cupful of sugar, a little salt and one- 
half teaspoonful of vanilla ; stir this into the rice ; then take off the 
fire and stir in the whites of two eggs beaten stiff; beat the other two 
whites with one-half cupful of sugar; spread over the top and set in 
the oven to brown ; eat with cream. 

Mrs. W. Moore, Grafton. 



CALEDONIAN CREAM. 

Two ounces of raspberry jam or jelly, two ounces of red currant 
jelly, two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, the whites of two eggs; put into 
a bowl and beaten with a spoon for three-quarters of an hour. This 
makes a very pretty cream, and is good and economical. 

Julia M. Hughes, Bolivar, Pa. 

FRENCH PUDDING. 

Remove the crust from four large pieces of bread ; place them in a 
bowl, covering with cold water and placing a weight on it to keep 
under water ; after being well soaked, squeeze out quite dry, and to 
every pint of moistened bread add three well beaten eggs and a small 
teaspoonful of salt and a pint of milk ; place in a well buttered pan 
and bake forty minutes. Sauce. — One cupful of sugar, one-half cup- 
ful of cold water ; boil and add a teaspoonful of corn starch mixed in 
a little cold water ; cook well and remove from the fire, adding the 
grated rind and juice of one orange and one spoonful of butter. 

Mrs. J. Miller, Terre Haute, Ind. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 57 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound of figs chopped fine, one cupful of suet chopped 
fine, one heaping cupful of bread crumbs, one heaping cupful of sugar 
two eggs, two measures of baking powder, cup not quite full of milk, 
flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon ; put in a mould and steam three 
hours ; dip or sauce to suit the taste. 

Miss Mary Zimmers, Blairsville, Pa. 

BEEF DUMPLINGS. 

Boil a fresh fat marrow bone or piece of beef, adding salt to taste ; 
when juice is extracted remove from pot; take half a dozen slices of 
stale bread, cut the crusts up fine and moisten with broth, using the 
fat which has gathered on top ; add the rest of the bread crumbed 
fine ; salt to taste, pepper, cinnamon, sage and broth enough to make 
the consistency of stufling for fowls ; mix paste as for apple dump- 
lings ; cut in squares and fill with above preparation ; round nicely 
and put in remainder of broth, which must be boiling; boil until 
cooked through ; this is an excellent way to use stale bread, besides 
making a palatable dish. 

Alice M. W., New Florence, Pa. 



FRUIT DUMPLINGS. 

Prepare dough as for biscuits ; roll out and cut into squares ; then 
place the fruit in the centre, bring the ends together, and drop into 
boiling water; when done serve with sauce. 

Mrs. R. DeA. Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SWEET BREAD. 

Soak one hour ; boil twenty minutes ; throw in cold water until 
cold; next remove skin, etc.; put away in cool place until next morn- 
ing, then cut in pieces and fry in eggs and cracker crumbs ; make a 

gravy of cream. 

Mrs. I. Denny. 



58 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

One quart of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder ; mix salt, flour and powder together, and add 
water enough to make a stiff" batter ; pare and core six good apples 
and cut them in thin slices ; grease six cups with butter ; put a table- 
spoonful of batter in each cup ; fill in with the apples and cover with 
batter; put the cups in steamer; cook for half an hour. 

Mrs. Wm. A. Scandrett, Allegheny City, Pa. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS WITH SCALDED FLOUR. 

Put flour in a bowl with a little salt ; have the teakettle boiling ; 
pour the water boiling hot over the flour, stirring all the time until it 
is of a consistency to mould nicely ; have the apples pared and quar- 
tered ; when the paste is cool enough break off" enough for one dump- 
ling and mould it around the apples with the hand ; drop into boiling 
water and cook until the apples are soft ; eat with cream or sauce. 

Mrs. S. Hamilton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PRUNE DROP DUMPLINGS. 

One pound French prunes and two quarts of water; let them boil 
until soft; make a batter of a pint and a half of flour, small piece 
of butter, half teaspoonful of baking powder, pinch of salt and 
enough water to have it drop easily from the spoon •, drop this in with 
the prunes and boil until dumplings are well done; then sweeten to 
taste. 

Mrs. M. F. Lichliter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



AMERICAN CREAM. 

One ounce box of gelatine, one quart of milk, four eggs, nine table- 
spoonfuls of sugar ; cover the gelatine with water and allow to soak 
one hour before using ; place the milk on stove until it is hot, then add 
the gelatine and allow it to come to a boil ; beat the whites of the eggs, 
then add the sugar ; beat the yolks of the eggs and mix them with the 
whites, then add the milk and gelatine ; then boil until it becomes 
ropy; then flavor with vanilla and then mould; to be made twenty- 
four hours before using. 

Mrs. John Meyers, Allegheny City, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 59 

TYLER PUDDING. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one cup of sour 
cream, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour; this fills three crusts. 

Alice Inskeep. 



CORN PUDDING. 

One dozen of corn grated, one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, one tablespoouful ot 
flour, salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. Frank H. Torrens, Pittsburgh, Pa., East End. 



BANANA FLOAT. 

One box of gelatine dissolved in a teacupful of cold water ; boil 
three pints of milk with two-thirds of a cup of sugar ; take enough 
hot milk to thoroughly dissolve the gelatine ; then boil all together ten 
minutes ; when cool, not stiff, break six bananas with a fork ; stir in ; 
put on ice ; serve with cream. 

Mrs, Southerland, Newport, R. I. 



BREAD CRUMB PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one-half pint of bread crumbs, three eggs, one 
lemon; sweeten to taste; beat sugar and yolks together; add milk> 
■crumbs and grated rind of lemon ; place in the oven ; when baked 
have whites of eggs, juice of lemon and one-half cup of powdered 
sugar beaten stiff'; put this over the top of the pudding and return to 
the oven just long enough to brown. 

Mrs. Rufus Martin, Pittsburgh, Pa., East End. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Use sponge cake or one dozen lady fingers, one pint of cream, whites 
•of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar; have the cream cold; put 
in the whites and with an egg beater beat to a froth ; then sweeten 
and flavor. 

Mrs. Southerland, Newport, R. I. 



WM. M. VOGLESON. D. W. BAIRD. D. H. CAMPBELL. 

WM. M. VOGLESON, 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 

E 



CONFECTIONERY 

Foreign Fruits, Nuts, Crackers, &c. 

TAFFIES, CARAMELS, CREAMS, CHOCOLATES, MADE FRESH 

EVERY DAY. 



When you are wanting Pure, Good Candy, call at our Retail or Wholesale Rooms, 

No. 51 SIXTH STREET, 

bovj^jrd, rosji: # co. 

FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC 

CARPETS. 

LIlSrOLETJMS , LIOISri7MS , 

Oil Gloths, 

MATTINGS, STAIR RODS, SHADES, 

ART-SQUARES, RUGS AND MATS. 

No. 39 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 61 



SNOW PUDDING. 

Into one pint of hot water put one-half box of gelatine and one 
sliced lemon ; let it stand on the stove till the gelatine is all dissolved ; 
then strain, add two cups of sugar and let it stand till cool ; then add 
whites of three eggs well beaten ; beat well together and place in the 
refrigerator till cold ; serve with a cream made with the yolks of three 
eggs and one pint of milk ; heat sufficient to thicken, add a little salt, 
sweeten to taste and flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Jos. Hollingshead, Newport, R. I. 



STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cup of suet (chopped fine), one cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
milk, one-half pound of currants, three eggs, one teaspoonful of baking 
soda, flour to thicken ; steam three hours. Dip for Padding. — Three 
tablepoonsfuls of flour, a lump of butter, mix the flour with boiling 
water ; flavor to taste. 

Miss Ella Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



RAISIN PUDDING. 

One cup of raisins, one cup of suet, one-half cup of sugar, one cup 
of flour and little salt ; mix stiff* with water ; roll in a cloth and boil 
three hours. Pudding /Sawcfi.— Three tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint 
of water boiled until thick, a little salt, one-half teaspoonful of butter ; 
sweeten to taste ; add a little nutmeg. 

Mrs. Alice Luffman, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

A scant china teacupful of Indian meal; scald it with boiling 
water ; let it cook ten or fifteen minutes ; put this mixture with one 
quart of boiling milk, one-half cup of Orleans molasses, piece of but- 
ter the size of a hickory nut, a little salt, and flavor with cinnamon 
and nutmeg ; bake about three hours slowly, or until the whey sepa- 
rates from the curd. 

Mrs. Sutherland, Newport, R. I. 



02 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

ADDIE LOVEJOY'S DOLLY VARDEN CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two 
cups of flour, whites of three eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder ; 
for frosting yolks of three eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of sugar ; flavor 
with vanilla. 

Mrs. Jos. Hollingshead, Newport, R. I. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

Take one-half teacup of rice, after washing carefully; put it into 
one quart of milk ; sweeten with white sugar to taste ; add a little salt 
and nutmeg; bake slowly from two to three hours; if the milk is not 
rich, butter the size of a hickory nut. 

Mrs. Southerland, Newport, R. I. 

MINNEHAHA PUDDINO. 

One teacupful of tapioca soaked in cold water over night ; boil in 
the morning in the same water that it was soaked in, and flavor with 
orange ; sweeten to taste ; then boil a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch and yolks of two eggs ; take a little of the milk to mix 
the corn starch and eggs ; sweeten to taste ; flavor with vanilla and 
stir into the milk ; when it boils set it away to cool ; when cool pour 
it over the tapioca ; beat the whites of two eggs stiff" and sweeten to 
taste ; spread over the top and place in the oven until it is a light 
brown. 

Mrs. Louisa Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



CREAM PUDDING. 

Stir together one pint of cream, three ounces of sugar, the yolks of 
three eggs and a little grated nutmeg ; add the well-beaten whites, 
stirring lightly, and pour into a buttered pie plate, on which has been 
sprinkled the crumbs of stale bread to about the thickness of ordinary 
crust, sprinkle over the top a layer of bread crumbs and bake. 

Mrs. J. C. Naser, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One-half cupful butter, one cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, 
one-half cupful of milk. 

Mrs. M. J. Lewis, Blairsville, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 63 

RICE PUDDING. 

One-half cupful rice, one quart sweet milk, butter size of a walnut, 

sweeten to taste and flavor with nutmeg ; bake about two hours in a 

slow oven. 

Mrs. Young, Allegheny City, Pa. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Layer of raisins, layer of currants, layer of chopped suet, layer of 

sugar, layer of thin bread and butter ; pour milk and let stand over 

night ; beat two eggs with milk and sugar enough to cover ; bake one 

and one-half hours. 

Miss M. Smith, Allegheny City, Pa. 



BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding pan and slice nice tart apples in it ; make a batter 
of one cupful sour cream, one teaspoonful soda, one egg, a little salt, 
and flour enough to make a stiff batter ; pour this over the apples and 
bake ; when done turn bottom side up and spread thickly with good 
sweet butter and sugar. To be eaten warm with cream. 

Mrs. G. M. Murphy, Pittsburgh, Pa., South Side, 



BIRD'S NEST. 

Use lemon jelly chopped fine ; place around the sides of desert dish ; 
make eggs of one pint of milk, one-half cupful of sugar, one-half box of 
gelatine; boil and mould in egg shells; after it becomes hard remove 
shells and place in center of lemon jelly. 

Mrs. Irene Denny, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

■ Beat the yolks of three eggs untill very light, sweeten and flavor to 
taste ; stir into a quart of boiling milk; cook till it thickens; when 
cool pour into a low glass dish ; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff" 
froth, sweeten, lay them in spoonfuls upon boiling water for two or 
three minutes, then put upon the custard, far enought apart so that 
the " little white islands " will not touch each other. A pleasing 
effect will be produced by dropping little specks of bright jelly 
on each island ; also filling wine glasses with it and arranging 
round the stand adds to the appearance of the lable. Set upon ice to 
get cold. 

Mrs. Jane Campbell, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



64 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

RICE APPLE PUDDING. 

Take one-half cupful of rice and boil till soft; pare apples and cover 
each with the boiled rice; then wrap each with a rag and boil until 
the apples are cooked ; serve with milk and sugar. 

Miss C. Ha.y, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



TO COOK RICE WHERE MILK IS PLENTY. 

Take one-half pound of rice, wash it, put it in a buttered pudding 
pan ; add two quarts of milk and four large teaspoonfuls of sugar ; 
add a little cinnamon and bake about two hours in a slow oven. 

Ida Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

PEACH SAUCE. 

Place peach juice from can in small sauce pan ; add equal volume 
of water, little more sugar and eight or ten raisins ; boil this ten min- 
utes, strain, and just before serving, add eight drops extract of bitter 
almonds. 

Mrs. H. Barrett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

Whip a pint of thick sweet cream; add the beaten whites of two 
eggs ; sweeten to taste ; place pudding in centre of dish and surround 
with sauce, or pile up in the center and surround with mould blanc 
mange or fruit puddings. 

Mrs. J. C. Naser, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

One-half cupful of butter, beaten to a cream with one cupful of 
white sugar ; stir until it is white and foamy ; just before pour on it 
one cupful of boiling water and stir a moment. 

Effie Moore, Crafton, Pa. 



CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak three tablespooufuls of farina tapioca in warm water two 

hours ; then stir it into one quart of boiling milk ; let it boil fifteen 

minutes ; beat together the yolks of four eggs and one cupful of sugar ; 

stir them into the pudding ; flavor with lemon or vanilla; pour all into 

a baking dish ; beat the whites of the eggs with three tablespooufuls 

of sugar to a stiff froth, put this over the pudding and bake five 

minutes. 

Mary F. Ridinger, Irwin, Pa. 



PiTTSBUEGH CoOK BoOK. 65 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak over night in one quart of new milk, four heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of tapioca; in the morning boil over stirring from the bottom- 
add four eggs well beaten, one-fourth pound of sugar, lastly, one cup- 
ful sweet milk ; flavor with extract of lemon ; serve cold. 

Mrs. Ada Seaton, Bolivar, Pa. 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of tapioca ; cook very slowly till soft in r 
quart of milk; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, a little salt' 
and sweeten and flavor to taste ; boil a few moments ; set off" and stir 
in lightly the whites of three eggs well beaten ; set away to cool. 

Mes. Jos. Hollingshead, Newport, R. I, 



EGOLESS PLtM PUDDING. 

Heaping cupful of bread crumbs, two cupfuls of flour, one cupful 
of suet chopped fine, one cupful of raisins, one-half cupful of molasses, 
one cupful of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of salt, cloves and cinnamon; boil two and one-half hours in a two- 
quart pail, placed in a kettle of boiling water or steam for the same 
time. Sauce. — For the sauce, take one cupful of white sugar, butter 
size of an egg, grated rind of one lemon and white of an egg. 

Mrs. D. Reed, Pittsburgh, East End. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half cupfuls of suet, one and one-half cupful of raisins, 
two eggs, one cupful of milk, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of 
currants, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cloves, one nut- 
meg, three and one-half cupfuls of flour ; steam three or four hours. 
Sauce. — One cupful of butter, mashed, two cupsful of sugar, one large 
spoonful of corn starch ; stir well together ; grate one-half of a nutmeg, 
one cupful of boiling water ; boil about fifteen minutes, stirring all 
the time. 

Mrs. J. H. Nobbs, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

5 



BANNER 




POWDER 

Always the Best. 



If there is a perfectly pure high-grade cream tartar baking powder, on the 
market deserving the patronage of a discriminative public, the "Banner" Baking 
Powder seems to be such a composition. It was established in the year 1865, 
arid thousands throughout the country who are daily using it testify to its merits. 
Recently we have had the cream tartar used in its manufacture submitted to 
chemical analysis by three chemists. It will be noted that they sustain the claim 
put forth by the manufacturers, that for years they have used a 99 per cent. 

cream tartar. 

The sample of ground Cream of Tartar received from you in metal bottles, by 
express, contains Bitartrate of Potash 99.20 per cent. Water at 100 degrees, 0.10. 
Your obedient servant, 

W. M. HABIRSHAW, F. C. S., 

London Analysist, New Yorlt City* 

The sample of Cream Tartar you sent me contains 99.67 per cent. Bitartrate o, 
Potash. As it contains a fraction of moisture, which is absorbed from the air, it can 
at least, chemically speaking, be considered pure. 

Yours, respectfully, 

OTTO WIirH, 

Analytical Chemist, Pittsburgh 

I would report that I have made an analysis of the Cream of Tartar received 
from you llirough Mr. Warren, of this city, and that I find It to be a perfectly pure 
article, containing no foreign adulteration whaterer. 

Respectfully yours, 

E. S. WAYNE, Ph. D., M. D., 

Cincinnati. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 67 



EVE'S PUDDIIvG}. 

One-half pound of beef suet chopped fine, one-half pound pared 
apples chopped fine, one-half pound sugar, one-half pound flour, one- 
half pound stoned raisins, one-half teaspoonful salt, five eggs, a little 
nutmeg ; steam two hours and serve with liquid sauce. 

Mrs. Davison, Pittsburgh, East End. 

COCOANUT PTTDDINtJ. 

Grate one-half of a cocoanut, and then make a custard of four eggs 
and one quart of milk, and add the grated cocoanut and sugar to 
taste; place in a buttered dish and bake from thirty to forty minutes. 

Mrs. R. Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CAKES. 



THE HOUSEKEEPERS' TABLE. 

1 pound of Wheat Flour 1 quart. 

1 pound and 2 ounces of Indian Meal 1 quart. 

1 pound of Butter, when soft 1 quart. 

1 pound and 1 ounce of White Sugar, powdered 1 quart. 

1 pound Loaf Sugar, broken 1 quart, 

1 pound and 2 ounces best Brown Sugar 1 quart. 

10 Eggs 1 pound. 

16 large tablespoonfuls - 1 pint. 

8 large tablespoonfuls J pint. 

4 large tablespoonfuls 1 gjH, 

1 common-sized tumbler ^ pint. 

1 large tablespoonful i ounce. 

40 drops 1 tablespoonful. 

4 teaspoonfuls 1 tablespoonful. 



In making cakes the ingredients should always be of the best quality ; 
eggs fresh and beaten until they will hang from the fork without drop- 
ping; butter and sugar should always be mixed first and stirred to a 
cream ; flour must be thoroughly sifted and the pan well greased with 
unsalted lard. Before icing a cake dredge flour over it, then wipe 
and lay on the icing with a broad-bladed knife 'previously dipped in 
water. 



08 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

One sheet of Cooper's isinglass dissolved in a small teaeupful of 
boiling water ; stir into it two pounds pulverized white sugar and 
flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. K. Blackburn. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Light Part. — Whites of seven eggs, two cupfuls white sugar, one 
cupful of butter, three-fourths cupful of milk, two spoonfuls cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, three cupfuls of flour. Dark Part. 
— Yolks of seven eggs, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of but- 
ter, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of sour cream, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful of cloves, nutmeg, one teaspoonful 
of soda, five cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

Mrs. Paul Graff, Blairsville, Pa. 



CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter rubbed to a cream, one 
cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, three eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, one-half cupful of corn starch, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder ; sift corn starch with flour and add last thing, 

Mrs. Geo. Mitchell, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



COMPOSITION CAKE. 

One and three-fourth pounds of flour, one and three-fourths pounds 
of sugar, three-fourths pound of butter, four eggs, one pint of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one pound of seedless raisins, one- 
fourth pound of citron sliced, one teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg ; makes two loaves and will keep nicely. 

Mrs. a. E. Hunt. 



CREAM SPONGE. 

Six eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, six tablespoon- 
fuls of water, three tablespoonfuls of baking powder. Filling. — One 
pint of milk, four small teaspoonfuls cornstarch, two eggs, one cupful 
of sugar, flavoring to taste. 

Mrs. I. D. Pore, Latrobe, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 69 

CREAM CAKE, No. 1. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, one- 
half cupful of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of water, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in two cupfuls of flour ; sift the baking powder 
through the flour ; add the flour last; bake quickly. Cream. — One- 
half pint of sweet milk, one-half cupful of sugar, small piece of butter, 
one egg, one tablespoonful of flour; boil until thick; when nearly cold 
flavor with vanilla and spread between. 

Mr8. Adda Seaton, Bolivar, Pa. 



CREAM CAKE, No. 2. 

Two level cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of 
milk, three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of six eggs add last. Custard. — One cupful of milk, yolks of 
three eggs, heaping teaspoonful corn starch, one teaspoonful of butter, 
whites of two eggs for icing top and sidej. 

Mrs. E. Potter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls flour, four 
well-beaten eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder; take out one cupful of this batter and mix with four table- 
spoonfuls of chocolate dissolved with a little cream ; cover the bottom 
of the pan with the white batter and drop upon it in places a spoonful 
of the chocolate, forming rings; then another layer of the b-itter, and 
so on until all is used ; bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Wm. Doak, Derry Station, Pa. 



SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

One egg, one cupful of molasses, one-third cupful of butter, one-half 
cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of gin- 
ger, two and one-half cupfuls of flour and a little salt ; dissolve the 
soda in a very little hot water. 

Mrs. "Wm. Doak, Derry Station, Pa. 



70 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

GOLD CAKE. 

The yolks of eight eggs, one cupful of sugar, three-fourths cupful of 
butter, one-half cupful of sweet milk, one and one-half cupfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder ; flavor with lemon. 

LuELLA Graff, Blairsville, Pa. 



SILVER CAKE. 

The whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, three-fourths cupful of milk, three cupfuls of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder ; flavor. 

LuELLA Graff, Blairsville, Pa. 



SNOW CAKE. 

Whites of ten eggs well beaten, one-fourth pound of good butter, 
ten ounces of flour, three-fourths pound of pulverized sugar, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder; sift the baking powder with the 
flour ; mix all together and beat well ; bake in two layers in jelly pans; 
for the icing take the whites of three eggs beaten stiff' and mix four 
tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar. 

Mrs. Wm. A. Scandrett, Allegheny City, Pa. 

ORANGE CAKE, No, 1. 

One and a half pounds of white sugar, one pound of butter, whites 
of sixteen eggs, two pounds of flour, a pint of milk, one pennyweight 
of soda, two pennyweights of cream tartar ; flavor with orange ; bake 
in long pans, make water ice and flavor with orange; add yolks of 
eggs to make it a light yellow. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ORANGE CAKE, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, one-half cup of water, yolks 
of five eggs, whites of four eggs, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, juice and rind of one orange. Icing. — White of one egg, 
juice and rind of two oranges, sugar to make stiff" as common icing. 

Mrs. S. McCune, Blairsville, Pa. 



ittsKurgh, Pa. 



48 FIFTH AVENUE. 



FANCY GOODS DEPARTMENT. 



Fine Stationery, 
Seals, Sealing Wax and Trays, 
Photograph and Autograph Albums, 
Plush Cases of all descriptions, 
Pocket Books, Card Cases, Bags, &c. 
Novelties and Cards for Progressive 
Euchre. 



ART DEPARTMENT. 



Winsor & Newton's and Janentzky & 
Weber Oil Colors. 

Water, China, Lustra, and Tapestry 
Colors; also Hancock & Son's En- 
amel or Overglaze Colors. 

Crayon and Charcoal Material, 

Decorative Art Goods, 

Repousse Tools and Designs, 

Choice Studies. 



Wedding and Reception Invitations; Visiting and At Home Cards 

finely engraved ; Engraved Dies, for Embossing and Illuminating, 

executed in first-class style; Menu and Guest Cards, German 

Favors, <fte., <&e, 




Artist and Pliotograplier 

16 SIXTH ST., PITTSBURGH. 



Fine work at reasonable prices. 

CRAYON OB OIL PORTRAITS from sitting, or copied from any kind 
of likeness. 

An assortment of FINE PORTRAIT FRAMES. 
All sittings made with care. 

THE LATEST, QUICKEST, BEST PROCESS 

WORKED SUCCESSFULLY. 



72 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Four cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of sour 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter, baking powder and raisins. 

Mrs. Geo. Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SPICED MOUNTAIN CAEK. 

Five eggs, save the whites of three for icing; one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, one and a half cups 
of flour, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, one grat ed nutmeg, as 
much baking powder as you generally use ; bake in layers and make 
an icing of the whites of three eggs and sugar. 

S. K. Neiper, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



COCOANUT CAKE, No. 1. 

To the yolks of four eggs well beaten add one cup of white sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half pint of water, three pints of 
flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; bake in jelly cake pans. 
For icing use four eggs (whites) beaten stiff, to which add one pound 
of pulverized or powdered sugar, mixed well ; then spread on the lay- 
ers of the cake when cold; sprinkle a teaspoonful of cocoanut between 
each layer ; ice the top and sides ; sprinkle cocoanut over all and put 
in the baker to dry, but not too fast; it requires one-half pound 
of cocoanut. 

LiBBiE McCuNE, Allegheny City, Pa. 

COCOANUT CAKE, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, three 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; bake in layers with frosting 
and cocoanut between. 

Mrs. a. B. Todd. 



COCOANUT CAKE, No. 3. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, four 
and a half cups of flour, four eggs, with whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mrs. Will Ramsay, Derry Station, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 73 



STRIPED CAKE. 

Seven eggs beaten separately, one cup of milk, one cup of butter 
two cups of sugar, three teaspoonfuls baking powder; mix together 
and divide the batter in two parts; take a quarter cake of Baker's 
chocolate, steam it, and mix in with one-half of the batter and bake in 
jelly cake pans, building a dark and light layer alternately. Icing. — 
One-half cup of Baker's chocolate, steamed ; boil one cup pulverized 
sugar and one-half cup of water together till it becomes a little hard, 
then add the whites of two eggs well beaten. 

Miss Bertha Martin, Johnstown, Pa. 

FIG CAKE, No. 1. 

Silver Part. — Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, scant 
two-thirds cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder thoroughly sifted with three cups of flour ; stir 
sugar and butter to a cream ; add the milk and flour, and last the 
whites of eggs well beaten. Gold Part. — One cup of sugar, three- 
fourths cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder sifted in one and three-fourths cups of 
flour, yolks of seven eggs thoroughly beaten and one whole egg, one- 
half teaspoonful of allspice and cinnamon ; bake the silver part in 
two long tin pans ; put half the gold part in a pie-tin, and lay on one 
pound of figs (cut in half and dredged with flour), so they will just 
touch each other ; put the rest of the gold over that and bake ; put 
the cakes together with frosting while warm, the gold between the 
white ones, and cover with frosting. 

Mrs. Haney, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

BRUNSWICK CAKE. 

One-fourth pound of sugar, yolks of five eggs rubbed through the 
sugar; then melt one-fourth pound of butter and stir it in ; now beat 
up your five whites of eggs stiflf; add one-fourth pound of corn starch 
and mix all together ; bake on sheets of paper in a moderate heat ; 
when baked, cut into half and put some currant jelly between it ; 
then ice with pink icing ; cut in slices. 

M. Blocker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



74 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

FIG C4KE, No. 2. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, whites 
of six eggs ; bake in two sheets. Inside. — Chop very fine one-half 
pound of figs, one pound of English walnuts and mix with a part of 
the boiled frosting; spread between the layers of cake and frost the 
top with the remainder of the frosting. Boiled Frosting. — Boil two 
cups of granulated sugar dissolved in one-half cup of water until it 
waxes well ; then stir it into the beaten whites of two eggs ; stir until 
perfectly smooth ; add a little lemon juice. 

Mrs. a. E. Hunt, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ANGEL FOOD, No. 1. 

Whites of eleven eggs, three-fourths pound of pulverized sugar, fiv^e 
ounces of flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar ; beat eggs very stiflT, add sugar and beat gently ; 
sift flour four times, add cream of tartar and sift again ; add to it the 
eggs and sugar and beat them all gently ; then add vanilla, beating 
until ready for the oven ; line the pan with stiff white paper instead 
of greasing; bake forty minutes in a moderate oven; let cool with 
something under the edge of pan and cut with a sharp knife. 

EsTE],LE McCuLLOUGH, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ANGEL FOOD, No. 2. 

Whites of eleven eggs beaten well, one and one-half tumblerfuls of 
sugar sifted well, one tumblerful of flour sifted well, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla in the whites; first add sugar in the eggs and 
then flour, 

Cora B. Pershing, New Florence, Pa. 



ENGLISH WALNUr CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, yolks of four eggs, 
one-half cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one-half pound of English walnuts, 
chopped fine ; flavor with lemon • cover with frosting and while it is 
yet soft place half the kernels of the walnuts about two inches apart 
over the top of it. 

Mrs. a. C. Ellis, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 75 



CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

To the yolks of four eggs well beaten, add two cupfuls of white 
sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful sweet milk, three cupfuls of 
flour having in it one measure of baking powder, then add the whites 
of four eggs well beaten; bake in jelly cake pans. Cream. — To four 
ounces of plain chocolate grated, add one cupful of white sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one cupful of sweet milk, one tablespoon- 
ful of vanilla; mix well together and boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly ; when cold spread it on the layers of the cake. 

Ida Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter beaten to a creara, add 
one cupful of sweet milk, four cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder in the flour, whites often eggs ; bake in jelly tins and 
put together with icing made by boiling one-half cupful of water and 
three cupfuls of sugar, till thick or threads when dropped from the 
end of the spoon; pour it slowly over the well-beaten whites of three 
eggs and beat all together till cool ; sprinkle the layer thickly with 
grated cocoanut, after icing them. 

Mrs. W. S. Bailey, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, whites of four eggs, 
one-half cupful of milk, two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda, flavor with almond ; cover 
with frosting, in which mix enough of the yolk of the egg to color 
nicely ;then cover with blanched almonds same as in the walnut cake. 

Mks. a. C. Ellis, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



NEW YORK FLOPP CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar, whites of three eggs well beaten, one 
ounce melted chocolate ; lay them out in bag with tube in it on flour- 
ed pans, the shape of lady fingers^; let them stand for one hour ; then 
bake in very moderate oven ; take off pans when cool. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



■ I. K. BECKER, 

Fancy Glassware 

Artistic Gas Fixtures 



LAMPS. 

Plumbing, Gas Fitting and Drainage 

ON APPROVED SVSTEM. 

646 PENN AVENUE, PITTSBURGH. PA. 

(OLD ESTABLISHMENT OF JAS. SHIDLE & SON.) 
No. 403 Smithfield St. 

NEAR FOURTH AVENUE, PTTTSRTTRPH P* A 



Geter C. Shidle, 

ARTISTIC PAPER HANGINGS, LINCRUSTA WALTON, 

CEILING DECORATIONS, 

LEATHER PAPERS, EMBOSSED BRONZES, VELVETS 

— AND— 

IRIDESCENT PAPERS. 

lELEPHONE 953. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 77 

POUND CAKE, No. 1. 

One pound butter beat thoroughly, one ponnd sugar rolled ; stir in 
the butter one dozen eggs ; break eggs two at a time ; two teaspoonfuls 
grated nutmeg ; beat all thoroughly ; greased brown paper placed on 
top will prevent it from browning too much. 

Mrs. Henry, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POUND C4KE, No. 2. 

One pound fresh butter worked to a cream, one pound sifted flour, 
put into the butter and work smooth, ten eggs beaten to a froth, one 
pound sifted ^oaf sugar; work the eggs and sugar in a separate bucket, 
after the butter and flour is worked smooth and the eggs and sugar 
are well beaten pour the two together ; then one teaspoonful grated 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls essence 
of lemon ; beat one hour if possible; put in the middle of the oven 
and do not move it after being put in ; bake one and one-fourth 

hours. 

Mrs. Julia Acheson, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



COFFEE CAKE, No. 1. 

Two cupfuls brown sugar, four cupfuls of flour, one cupful of but- 
ter, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of strong coffee, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
cloves, one nutmeg, one pound of raisins. 

Mrs. Frank Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



COFFEE CAKE, No. 2. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, three-fourths cupful of 
butter, one cupful of cold coffee, four cupfuls of flour, some nutmeg, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of cloves, four table- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one pound of raisins, one-half pound of 
currants, two eggs; bake one hour in slow oven. 

Miss Mary Zimmers, Blairsville, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



SNOW CAKE. 

Three fourth cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
milk, one cupful of corn starch, two cupfuls of flour and one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of powder ; mix milk, flour and corn starch together ; 
then add butter, sugar, milk and whites of seven eggs, beaten stiff; 
flavor to taste, 

Mrs, Wm. Walker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SALLY LUNN CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, two cupfuls flour, butter the size of an egg, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two eggs, 
one cupful of milk, spice to taste. 

Miss Caroline Hay, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRUIT CAKE, No. 1. 

Three eggs, one cup of sour cream, one cup of butter, four cups of 
flour, two and one-half cups of rasins chopped fine, two cups of brown 
sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon. 

Mrs. C. F. Bilheimer, Irwin, Pa. 



CHEAP FRUIT CAKE, No. 2. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of good brown sugar, one cupful 
of sour milk, one cup raisins chopped and floured, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one spoonful each of cloves, allspice, nutmeg and 
cinnamon, three cups of flour. 

Mrs. Bozzart, Latrobe, Pa. 



ELEGANT FRUIT CAKE, No. 3. 

One pound of butter, one pound of dark brown sugar, two nutmegs, 
two teapoonsfuls of cloves, three teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, ten eggs, 
two pounds of figs (chopped fine), two pounds of chopped raisins, two 
pounds of currants, two pounds of almonds, blanched and chopped, 
one pint of black molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half pound of 
citron, one-half cup of rose water, one pound of flour. 

Mrs. H. a. Sisson, Erie, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 79 



FRUIT CAKE, No. 4. 

One pound of butter, one pound of white sugar, one pound of flour, 
ten eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two pounds of seedless raisins, two 
pounds of currants, two pounds of dates, two pounds of figs, one-half 
pound of citron, one-half pound of lemon peel, one pound of almonds, 
one-half pound of walnuts, cloves, nutmegs, cinnamon and allspice, 
teaspoonful of each ; chop all the fruit fine and sprinkle with flour ; 
mix butter and sugar, then add the yolks of eggs, then the flour, then 
the fruit, nuts, and spices, then add the beaten whites of eggs ; bake 
four hours in a moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. Frank H. Torrens Pittsburgh, East End. 



PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. 

Light Part— One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of corn starch, one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonsful of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of flour, whites of three eggs ; 
bake in jelly pans. Dark Part.— One cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one cup of sour milk, two cups of flour, one cup of chopped 
raisins, one teaspoonful of soda in water, one tablespoonful of molas- 
ses, yolks of three eggs, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, teaspoonful each. 
Mrs. M. a. Fowler, Derry Statioc, Pa. 



TRIO CAKE— RED, WHITE AND YELLOW. 

Far the White.— One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
whites of four eggs beaten stiff", two-thirds cup of sweet cream, one 
cup of flour having in it one-third measure of baking powder. For 
the i?ed.— Same as for white, only using the yolks of eggs and red 
sugar. Repeat the same for the yellow, using the yolks of eggs ; 
when cold cover each layer with a thin coat of icing and lay in layers 
of yellow, red and white ; cover top layer with a heavier coat of 

icing. nr.. , , Ti 

M. Katie Kretzeur, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



80 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



CUP CAKE. 

Three-fourths of a cup of butter beaten to a cream ; add two cups 
of white sugar, one cup of sweet milk, four eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, three cups of flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, first mixing the powder in the dry flour ; bake in a 
quick oven. 

Mrs. Jennie Brodie, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ONE MUi CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one egg, one measure 
baking powder, one cup of water, flour enough to stiffen. 

Mrs. D. Reed, Pittsburgh. East End. 



RICH SPICE CAKE. 

One pound of brown sugar, one-half pound of butter, four eggs, one 
cup of milk, four cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one nutmeg, 
cinnamon, cloves, one pound of raisins, one cup of molasses, one table- 
spoonful of flavoring extract ; beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add 
milk with half the soda dissolved in it, then molasses with the rest of 
the soda, then spices, flour, and, last of all, the eggs ; bake about two 
huurs. 

Mrs. S. E. Eckerman, New Florence, Pa. 



FRENCH CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, three 
eggs, one cup of milk, one measure of baking powder. 

Mrs. George Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of flour, one cup 
of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of ten eggs. 
Icing. — Four cups of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of citrine acid, whites 
of four eggs, flavor with vanilla, one cup of water ; boil water and 
sugar to a clear thick syrup ; try it in water ; when it threads and 
breaks like taffy pour in a hot crock ; then add vanilla and citrine 
acid dissolved into a teaspoonful of water ; pour in the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth and stir till perfectly cold. 

Mrs. S. Ridinger, Irwin Station, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 81 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Two pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, two pints of eggs, two 
pounds of flour, two pounds ot almonds (chopped fine) ; mix the in- 
gredients same as pound cake. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CAMBRIA CAKE. 

To the whites of five eggs lightly beaten add two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, one cup of milk, three cups of flour and three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder ; bake in thin layers, and use as a cream to 
spread between two and one-half cups of sugar and one-half cup of 
water boiled together ; beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, 
and when the syrup will hair, pour it into the whites and stir as fast 
as possible ; flavor with lemon or vanilla and spread between the lay- 
ers and over the top. 

MoLLiE M. Davies, Johnstown, Pa. 



EXCELSIOR CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one cup of butter, one cup of 
corn starch, whites of eight eggs, two cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls 
«f baking powder. Icing. — Whites of four eggs, four cups of sugar 
pour one-half pint boiling water on sugar, boil till thick when dropped 
in water, but not brittle; pour on the beaten eggs, stirring constantly 
till cool enough to spread ; add while hot vanilla, citric acid or lemon. 

Ada E. Elliott, New Florence, Pa. 



LEMON JELLY CAKE, No. 1. 

To the yolks of six eggs well beaten add three-fourths of a pound of 
white sugar, juice of one lemon, one-half pound of flour having in it 
one measure of baking powder, then add the whites of six eggs beaten 
stiff; bake in jelly cake pans. For the Jelly. — Take the yolks of three 
eggs beaten, one-half pound of white sugar, juice of one grated rind of 
two lemons and whites of three eggs beaten very stiff; put in a vessel 
and place in boiling water ; boil until it thickens ; when it is cold 
spread over each layer of the cake except the top one. 

Mrs. Gillespie, Allegheny City, Pa. 
6 



DEMMLER BRO.'S 



l^^^-» 



■^^^ 



HOUSE FURNISHING STORES, 



^+^ 



Nos. 526 & 528 Smithfield St., jpittsburgb, j^a. 



HEADQUARTERS 

for the Latest Novelties in Housekeeping, such as 

REED'S PAT. ROASTER AND BAKER, 

For producing the best and juiciest meat with the least attention. 

BOSS ONE MINUTE COFFEE POT. 

For making tlie strongest and best coffee with the least grounds. 

SPARROW'S PAT. MIXTURE. 

For l>eating eggs and mixing any kind of batter most thoroughly, with 
the least labor. 

SPARROW'S PAT. KNEADER, 

A most excellent contrivance for kneading bread without putting the hands 
into the dough. 

PERFORATED PIE PLATES. 

That bake the bottom crust of juicy pies as well as the top crust. 

ENTERPRISE MEAT CHOPPERS, 

That chop meat quicker and and more regularly than any other chopper 
ever offered. 



Also, a Full Line of 



QISCS. 



FIEE IRONS, FENDERS, 

SPEAR'S STOVES A.NJD FIRE PLi^CE HEATERS, 



I^ircfl, Sag^s, Z^g>. 



Pittsburgh Cook 5ook- 83 



LEMON JELLY CAKE, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three eggs, two and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three cups of flour. For the Jelly. 
— Use grated rind of two lemons, juice also, one cup of sugar, one egg, 
one-half cup of water, one teaspoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour mixed with a little water ; boil until it thickens. 

Mrs. M. J. Lewis, Blairsville, Pa. 



IMPERLVL CAKE. 

One pound of white sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound of figs chopped 
fine, one-half pound of almonds chopped fine, one-fourth pound of 
citron, one-fourth pound of canned lemon peel, two tablespoonfuls cf 
rose water, two tablespoonfuls of bitter almonds, two tablespoonfuls 
of vanilla ; beat yolks and whites separately. 

Mrs. Alice S. Kober, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs, one-half cup 
of almonds blanched by pouring water on them until skins easily 
slip off* and cut in fine shreds, one-half teaspoonful extract of bitter 
almonds, one pint of flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one-half cupful of milk ; rub butter and sugar to smooth 
white cream, add eggs, one at a time, beating three or four 
minutes between each ; sift flour and powder together ; add to 
butter, etc., with almonds extract of bitter almonds and milk; mix 
into smooth, medium batter ; bake carefully in rather hot oven twenty 
minutes in a fluted mould. 

Mrs. H. Barrett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CUP CAKE. 

Two cups of coffee sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one cup ot 
milk, three cups of flour mixed with one measure of baking powder ; 
bake about twenty minutes. 

Sadie Douglass, Pittsburgh-, Pa. 



84 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Whites of nine eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, one cup of corn starch, two cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, one-third teaspoonful of soda. 

Mrs. a. B. Topd, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



WHITE HOUSE CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
dozen of fresh eggs, one pint of cream, one grated nutmeg, one table- 
spoonful of mace and cinnamon, one teaspf^onful of soda ; bake 
thoroughly in large square buttered tin ; when cool sift powdered 
sugar over it and cut into squares. 

M. Blocker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMON CAKE, No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three or four cups of flour ; 
bake in jelly pans. Jelly for Cake, — Juice and grated rind of two 
lemons, two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, large cup of sugar ; beat 
well and boil five minutes, stirring constantly ; when cold spread on 
the cake. 

Mrs. D. Coulter, Bolivar, Pa. 



LEMON CAKE, No. 2. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two and a half 
cups of flour, five eggs beaten separately, four ^teaspoonfuls of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Jelly. — One cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two eggs and 
juice of two lemons ; beat together and place in a vessel of hot water 
and boil until thick as jelly. 

Mary J. Conlin, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



AUNT BRIDGET'S CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sngar, one cup of molasses, four cups 
of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda ; flavor with cinnamon. 

Miss C. Hay, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 85 ' 

SMOKY CITY CAKE. 

Fourteen ounces of granulated sugar, twelve ounces of white butter, 
one egg, about thirteen whites, eight ounces of fine flour, ten ounces of 
corn starch, juice of one lemon, one-half cupful of Mier's flavoring 
extracts; clout beat whites to froth; cream the butter and sugar 
together ; add the whites a little at a time; then starch and flour 5 
then lemon juice, flavorings and milk; beat well. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CUSTARD CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, two 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately ; mix together and flavor with 
lemon or vanilla ; add two and a half cups of flour having mixed in 
it three teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; bake in jelly cake pans. For 
the Custard. — Take two cups of milk ; when it boils add two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, two eggs well beaten, one-half cup of 
white sugar ; flavor with same as in cake ; put the custard between 
the layers of the cake while both are warm. 

LuE Graff, Blairsville, Pa. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

Three fourths pound of flour, six ounces of butter, six ounces of 
sugar, whites of six eggs, one-half pint of milk, a pinch of ammonia ; 
flavor with extract of peach ; bake in square cake pans lined with 
paper. 

M. Beocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROMAN CREAM CAKE. 

Eight ounces of fresh grated cocoanut, one pound of sugar, four 
large oranges, two lemons, four ounces of butter, six yolks and two 
whole eggs; grate the rinds and squeeze the juice of the oranges and 
lemons into the sugar and bring it to a boil, making a flavored syrup ; 
throw in the butter, then the cocoanut, and boil five minutes ; stir in 
the eggs and cook slowly till thick ; spread between layers of delicate 
cake. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



86 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

LADY CAKE. 

Take three-fourths of a cup of butter beaten to a cream, add two cups 
of white sugar, one cup of sweet milk, four eggs beaten stiff and three 
cups of flour, with one measure of baking powder, first mixing the 
powder with the flour and passing both through a sieve. 

Mrs. H, Barrett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JELLY CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, five eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

A. M. Ghrist, Blairsville, Pa. 



WATERMELON CAKE. 

White Part. — Two cups of white sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, whites of five eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, three teacups of flour ; flavor to suit taste. Red Part. — 
One cup of red sugar, one-half cup of butter, two-thirdsof a cup of sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, whites of 
five eggs and one-half pound raisins for seeds ; in filling the cake pan 
put white part outside and red in middle ; drop raisins in red part for 
seeds. 

Mrs. D. M. Weston, Derry Station, Pa. 



SCOTCH CAKE. 

Two ounces of the following spices : Cinnamon, allspice and mace, 
one and a half pounds of sugar, one-half pound of butter, three and a 
half pounds of flour, three eggs ; roll out thin and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

M. Blooher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



HOT WATER CAKE. 

One cup of granulated sugar, three eggs; beat until sugar is dis- 
solved ; add one-third cup of boiling water ; stir well while adding ; 
then sifc one heaping cup of flour, with one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder; stir until smooth ; flavor and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Anna Benford, Johnstown, Pa. 



J. M. GUSKY, 

THE 

^.^c^^xo^ -# CLOTSI^ER, 



300 TO 400 Market Street, 

From Third to Fourth Aveues, "p; j. j. j^1_, , y.Q."|— "Pn 



— — CLOTHINa — ^ 

Hats, Gaps, I^oots, ShoGs, 



:puK.isrzsx3:iisrc3- a-oo3DS. 

Low^est Prices and Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

ANTHONY MEYER. L. VILSACK. HENRY ARNOLD, 

E. FRAUENHEIM. A. FRAUENHEIM. 

MEYER, ARNOLD & CO,, LIMITED, 

(SUCCESSORS TO JOSEPH MEYER & SON,) 

Fine & Plain Furniture 

Nos. 68, 70, 72 and 74 Diamond St. 

Below Smithfield Street< 
—AND— 

NO. 806 LIBERTY ST. PITTSBU RGH , PA. 



Undertaking in all its Branches 

PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO, AT 

11-4-3 PENN AVBNUE. 



88 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

White Part. — One-half cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of corn starch, two cups of flour, whites of 
four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Dark Fart. — One cup 
of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one-half cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of strong coffee, two and a half cups of flour, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
cloves, one-half cup of raisins, one-half cup of currants, one-fourth 
cup of citron, one nutmeg. 

Mrs. J. M. Keister, Irwin's Station, Pa. 



WHITE CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, four 
cups of flour, whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder ; lemon flavoring. 

Mrs. J. B. Mitchell, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



EXCELLENT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of pulverized sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, half cup of corn starch, four eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 

Mrs. J. C. Naser, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one-half cup of 
milk, five cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar. 

Mrs. Jennie Days, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MONT BLANC CAKE. 

Two cups of pulverized sugar, three-fourths cup of butter creamed 
with sugar ; add one cup of sweet milk, three cups of sifted flour, 
whites of five eggs well beaten and four teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mrs. E. L. Oakes, Blairsville, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. ^" 



SPICED MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

To the yolks of five eggs well beaten add one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one and a half cups of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, grate one nutmeg, the whites of two eggs well 
beaten, one and a half cups of flour having in it one and a half 
measures of Banner baking powder ; bake in jelly cake pans and 
when cold spread with icing. 

Ada Boyle, Allegheny City, Pa. 



HECLA CAKE. 



Two cups of sugar, four eggs beaten separately, one cup of boiling 
water, three and a half cups of flour, three heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder ; flavor with a little lemon or vanilla. 

Miss M. Zimmer, Blairsville, Pa. 



QUEEN CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, eight eggs, two pounds of flour, one-half 
pint milk, one-half ounce of ammonia ; rub butter and sugar ; then add 
milk and ammonia ; stir well ; then add flour; bake in square pans, with 
a few currants on top, and in a slow oven. 

M. Blocker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PEARL CAKE. 

Two cups of white sugar, two cups of flour, three-fourths of a cup of 
sweet milk, one-half cup of butter, whites of six eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder ; cream the sugar and butter, add a little milk 
and flour, then the rest of the ingredients. 

Mrs. Wm. Walker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



RIBBON CAKE, No. 1. 

Take one-half cup of sugar, two and a half cups of flour into which 
has been sifted two heaping teaspoonfuls of Banner baking powder, 
one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk and four eggs; divide into 
three parts ; to one part add one cup of raisins and one cup of cur- 
rants ; spice to taste and bake ; then put the part with the fruit between 
the other two, spreading it very thin. 

Mrs. S. B. Stewart, Florence, Pa. 



90 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

RIBBON CAKE, No. 2. 

Two cu])s of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, three cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, three eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda ; flavor with lemon ; bake two-thirds of 
this in two tins ; to the remaining third add one tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses, one cup of chopped raisins, one-half cup of currants, a small 
piece of citron chopped fine, one tablespoonful of flour and one tea- 
spoonful of all kinds of spice ; bake thin in one tin ; put these three 
layers together with a little jelly or white of an egg, placing the fruit 
part between the other two layers. 

Mrs. a. E. Hunt, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ERIE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three 
and a fourth cups of flour, six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mrs. a. H. Faulkner, Erie, Pa. 



FEATHER CAKE. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup 
of butter, two measures of baking powder, flour to stiffen ; flavor to 
taste. 

Mrs. a. C. Keepers, Latrobe, Pa. 



YELLOW CAKE. 

Yolks of eight eggs, two teacups of sugar, one teacup of butter, one 
teacup of milk, three teacups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Miss ]3ert Sheaffer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRENCH TEA CAKE. 

Beat twenty eggs very good, dissolve one ounce of cream of tartar 
in hot water and let it stand to cool ; then put it with the eggs and 
beat again for ten minutes ; then add one-half pound of sugar, one- 
half pound of flour; put in square tins and bake in a quick oven. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 91 



WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Three pounds of raisins, one-half pound of citron, three and a half 
cups of flour, one and three-fourths cups of brown sugar, two eggs, 
one cup of sour cream, one nutmeg, one-half pound of butter, one tea- 
spoonful ol soda dissolved in hot water. 

Mrs. S. B. Kennedy, Erie, Pa. 



FEATHER CAKE. 

Take two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two-thirds of a 
cup of milk, three cups of flour, three eggs and three teaspoonfuls of 
Banner baking powder ; flavor with Ismon or vanilla. 

Mrs. S. B. Stewart, Florence, Pa. 



MOLASSES CAKE. 

Beat together one cup of butter and one cup of brown sugar ; add 
one-half cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one egg, one and a half 
pints of flour sifted with one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Minnie Roney, Allegheny, Pa. 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and a half cups of flour. 

one-half cup of corn starch, one cup of sweet milk, one-half pound of 

raisins chopped, one-half pound of currants, four teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder, whites of four eggs. 

Mrs. E. L. Oakes, Blairsville, Pa. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

One and a half pounds of sugar, one pint of molasses, one and a 
half pounds of butter, two pounds of flour, two pounds of currants, 
two pounds of raisins, one-half pound of citron, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of soda, one teaspoonful of cloves, one-half of an ounce of 
ground nutmeg, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
mace, twelve eggs ; add the grated rind of one lemon. 

Mrs. Medina Sterritt, Allegheny City, Pa. 



TaJ^e ^dT^ice in Time. 

Fuj^e Teas ctiicl Coffees, 



Why buy trashy goods when you cannot drink them? Is it to destroy your 
liealtli ? Where does tlie economy come in? Talie advice in time before it is loo 
late. Buy your Teas and Cofl'ees from the old Reliable Pioneer Tea Ilou»ie, 
that has been been before the people of the U. S. for over a Quarter of a Century. 

THE 



GREAT ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA CO 

» 

34 FIFTH AVENUE, \ 

1703 CARSON STREET, I _ PITTSBURGH, PA. 

4314 BUTLER STREET, j 

118 FEDERAL STREET, - ALLEGHENY, PA. 

You will enjoy pleasure and happiness in drinking their Teas and Coflfees, long 
ife and good health by the use of them. 



DON'T BE LED ASTRAY BY HUMBUGS. 

U.SE A. A P. BAKINC; POWDER. 




Lamps, Chandeliers, 

Burners, Brackets, Chimneys, Wicks, 

John C.Shaler, Jr. 

No. 417 SMITHFIELD STREET, 

PITTSBURGH, PA. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 93 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, six eggs (leaving out the whites of three), one 
cup of boiling hot water, two and a half cups of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of baking pow^der in the floiir ; beat the yolks a little ; add the 
sugar and beat fifteen (minutes ; add the three beaten whites and the 
cup of boiling \vater just before the flour ; flavor with a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract and bake in three layers, putting between them icing 
made by adding to the three whites of eggs beaten to a stiff" froth, six 
dessert spoons of pulverized sugar to each egg ; add lemon to flavor. 
Mrs. Ruth E. Lenhart, Derry Station, Pa. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs beaten separately, the yolks together, with one coffee cup 
of white sugar united and beaten until quite light; then add one 
tablespoonful of good vinegar and one cup of flour, putting in a 
tablespoonful of flour and the whites alternately. 

Mrs. J. Hay, Johnstown, Pa. 



MINUTE SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat three eggs two minutes; add one cup and a half of sugar ; beat 
one minute one cup of flour having in it one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar; beat one minute; add half a cup of cold water with half a tea- 
spoonful of soda ; add one cup of flour ; beat one minute ; bake in jelly 
tins. 

Mrs. M. Laughlin, Derry Station, Pa. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, two cups of sugar; beat yolks and sugar to a cream ; add 
five tablespoonfuls of warm water, one teaspoonful of vanilla, two and 
a half cups of flour, with two small teaspoonfuls of baking powder in 
it ; then add the whites beaten to a stiff" froth ; bake in a moderately 
quick oven. 

Miss Etta Kober, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CURRANT CAKE, 

Three cups of flour, one cup of butter, three eggs, oue^cup of water 
or milk, one measure of baking powder, one cup of currants. 

Mrs. Geo. Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



94 PiTTSBriRGH Cook Rook. 



PERFECTION CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup 
of milk, one cup of corn starch, the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth ; before sifting the flour put in three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder; sift all together; dissolve the corn starch in the milk and add 
it to the butter and sugar well beaten together; then add the flour and 
whites of the eggs; never beat in a tin dish. 

Mrs. G. M. Murphy, Pittsburgh, South Side. 



PORK CAKE. 

One pound of fat pork without any lean ; cut up fine; simmer on 
stove in three pints of water until dissolved ; put in one pound of 
sugar, one pint of molasses, two pounds of raisins, one pound of cur- 
rants, one piece of citron, three nutmegs grated, three tablespoonfuls 
of soda ; stiffen with flour and bake in three cakes ; it will keep a 
month. 

Mrs. W. Cramp, Crafton, Pa. 



DATE CAKE. 

One pound of dates, eight eggs, three-fourths cup of cracker flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves, a little nutmeg ; mix 
together and add the dates well floured. 

Mrs. Davison, Pittsburgh, East End. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, three-fourths cup of butter, three-fourths cup 
of sweet milk, two cups of white sugar ; flavor with lemon, one pound 
of citron chopped fine, one pound of prepared cocoanut, flour and 
baking powder in proportion. 

Mrs. R. Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



DERRY CAKE. 

Six eggs, leaving out the whites of three, two cups of sugar, two and 
one-half cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with 
the flour, one cup of boiling water stirred in before adding flour. 
Custard. — One cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of corn starch ; boil and let cool. 

Mrs. Naomi Berry, Derry Station, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 95 

LIBERTY CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten one minute, add one and one-half cups of sugar 
beaten five minutes, one cup of flour beaten one minute, one-half cup 
of cold water and another cup of flour, in which has been mixed two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder beaten one minute ; bake in a slow 
oven, 

Mrs. a. Cunningham, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BOILED ICING FOR CAKE. 

One cup granulated sugar, three teaspoonfuls of water ; boil until 
thick enough to string from the spoon ; then beat white of one egg and 
add to this and beat all together until cold ; flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Erie, Pa. 



ICING. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of water; dissolve and then boil 
three or four minutes; have the white of one egg beaten stifl'and then 
pour together ; beat until nearly cold, then flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Wm. Walker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup of milk, one-half cup of butter, whites of 
six eggs, three cups of flour; bake in layers; two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Icing. — Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of water • 
boil together five minutes ; beat till cool ; spread on cake ; have melt- 
ed one-half cake of Baker's chocolate and spread over the sugar. 

Mrs. W. a. Stewart, Johnstown, Pa. 

APPLE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

One grated lemon, one large apple grated, one cup of sugar, one 
egg ; boil four minutes. 

Mrs. E. Chapman, Erie, Pa. 



WINSOR CAKE. 

One and one-half" cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of sweet milk, one-half grated nutmeg, one egg, one-half teaspoon- 
ful soda and one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, flour to make a soft 
dough ; bake in a quick oven, 

Nannie E. Horrell, Ligonier, Pa. 



96 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CREAM PUFFS, No. 1. 

Six ounces of lard, six ounces of flour, one-half pint of water, eight 
to ten eggs, as much ammonia as the point of a knife will hold ; place 
the water and lard upon a brisk fire to boil , stir in your flour with a 
paddle so long until a smooth compact paste has resulted ; then remove 
quickly from fire, throw into a wooden bowl ; now warm your eggs 
and work them in two at a time until a soft smooth paste is the result ; 
when all is ready add the ammonia; drop on lightly floured pans and 
bake in brisk oven ; when done cut open with a sharp knife on one 
side to the middle. Filling. — One quart of cream boiled on fire ; then 
stir in a mixture of six yolks of eggs, six ounces of sugar, one spoon- 
ful of vanilla, two ounces of flour well mixed ; boil until thick. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CREAM PUFFS, No. 2. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, one-half pint of water, one and three- 
fourths pints of flour, five eggs ; put the water and butter in a pan, 
when it boils stir in the dry flour ; when it cools beat the eggs sepa- 
rately and stir in ; drop a spoonful in each on a large pan ; bake about 
twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. Cream. — One egg, one-half cup of 
sugar, one-half pint of milk; let it boil until thick ; put a little of this 
in each puflT. 

' Mrs. H. p. Hartley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LADY FINGERS. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to a cream 
four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
enough flour to stir stiff" with a spoon, flavor with lemon or vanilla; 
roll and sprinkle with sugar; press lightly with rolling pin to keep 
sugar from falling off"; cut with a long narrow cutter ; do not let them 
touch in pan ; bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SUGAR CAKES. 

One and one half cups sugar, one egg, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, spice to taste ; bake on buttered tins quickly and they 
will give satisfaction. 

Mrs. Jennie Horrell, Latrobe, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 97 

JUMBLES. 

Three eggs, one-half cup of butter, one heaped cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, flour for a soft dough ; roll, sprinkle thickly with 
sugar ; cut round with hole in center. 

Mrs. Glosser, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Three grated cocoanuts, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, 
two pounds of flour, three eggs ; mix all together ; break out in small 
pieces about the size of a hickory nut ; spread some powdered sugar 
on the board ; cover and roll them out in the sugar about four inches 
long ; place them on flat pans and join the ends and form a ring. 

M. Blocker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One pint of water, one-half pound of butter, three-fourths pound of 
flour, ten eggs ; boil water ; when boiling put in butter, then stir in 
flour; stir all five minutes ; cool and stir in ten eggs, one teaspoonfjl 
of soda ; then drop in greased pans ; bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. Cream. — One cup of flour, one quart of milk, two cups of 
sugar, four eggs ; boil milk and sugar ; when boiling add eggs, well 
beaten, and flour; when done add vanilla and lemon to taste ; when 
the. cakes are baked, open by cutting around the edge ; remove the 
center, which makes the opening to be filled with the above mixture. 

Mrs. Clara Colvin. 



COCOANUT CAKES. 

Two cups of grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and the whites of three eggs beaten stiff"; bake on buttered paper 
in a quick oven. 

Miss Ida Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



WHITE COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, one egg, nutmeg and three pints of flour, one and one-half 
measures of baking powder ; roll thin and bake quickly. 

7 Mrs. D. Coulter, Bolivar, Pa. 



KORNBLUM. 




ScieH^tllio QpticicVW^ 



No 37 FIFTH AVENUE, 

Bet. Wood and Market St. 



-'^PITTSBURGH, PA. 



THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK OF 

SJE^BCTJ^CLES^ll^JEYE GLJlSSJES, 

In Gold. Silver, Steel and Zylonlte Frames. 

J. L. LINDSEY, 



MANUFACTURER OF 




marbleImantels;^ 




Sllat^Mc, QinMizicaw Sc Scotch ^zcv^nH'c 
MONUMENTS AND GRAVESTONES, 

Do. 271D P@qri Hu@. JPittsbusrqlx.FCL. 

Bet. 27th and 28th Sts. <i/ ■' 



STONE WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 99 



BRITTLE SWEETS. 

Three quarts of sifted flour, one pound of butter, three eggs, one 
pint of sweet cream ; beat the eggs well and mix with the cream ; rub 
the butter into the flour and add the cream and eggs to the consistency 
of pastry, but do not knead, as it will make the dough tough ; fold the 
dough in a napkin and put in a cool place for several hours (it must 
not be frozen — the time for cooling should be not less than three hours, 
more than this will not affect it); after having cooled, roll in one di- 
rection (never crosswise,) for three-quarters of an hour, or until the 
appearance of small blisters on the surface ; then roll out the dough 
to about an eighth of an inch thick and cut into any desired shape 
and drop into hot lard ; do not prick them while frying; when fried 
roll them in sugar that has previously been mixed with cinnamon, 
about one-half ounce of cinnamon to one pound of sugar. The above 
are nice when wrapped around cylindrical tin forms of one inch di- 
ameter and three inches long, tied with cord. 

M. Katie Kreutzer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

GINGER SNAPS, No. 1. 

Two cups of Orleans molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
butter or butter and nice fresh lard melted together, two tablespoon- 
fuls of ginger, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, one teaspoonful of 
soda, add flour enough to roll thin, and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Anna Benford, Johnstown, Pa. 



GINGER SNAPS, No. 2. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of lard boiled together, two table- 
spoonfuls of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, 
a little cayenne pepper, flour to stiffen ; roll thin. 

Mrs. Bossart, Latrobe, Pa. 



COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one cup of milk, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with flour ; roll thin. 

Miss Mary Zimmers, Blairsville, Pa. 



100 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



SAND TARTS. 

Two pounds of flour and one and a fourth pounds of butter rubbed 
together, two pounds of sugar, three eggs ; after they are all rolled 
thin wet them with egg and sprinkle granulated sugar over before 
baking; bake until a light brown. 

Mr8. Stofiel, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

One pint of molasses, one coffee cupful of brown sugar, one coffee 
cupful of butter, one tablespoonful of ginger, and one heaping tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoonful of hot water; mix 
very thick with flour and roll thin. 

SA.DIE KiEE, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JELLY ROLL, No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one egg, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda ; mix cream tartar with a cup of 
flour ; dissolve soda with a little milk and put in the last thing ; bake 
in a hot oven ; roll while hot. 

Mrs. Focer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JELLY ROLL, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of sour milk, 

one teaspoonful of soda, flour to make a stiff batter ; bake in a bread 

pan. 

Maggie Hammers, Bolivar, Pa. 



CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

Two ounces of chocolate, two pounds of pulverized sugar, whites of 
six eggs ; dissolve the chocolate in a pan, mix in the sugar and whites 
of eggs, lay out on a floured pan, and let stand one-half hour or more 
before you bake in a moderate oven. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 101 



CRULLERS. 

Two cups of sugar, two eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar and one of soda, enough flour to 
stiffen for rolling ; cut with a doughnut cutter and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Biggert, Idlewood, Pa. 



CREAM COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sour cream, one cup of but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of lemon, flour enough to 
make a dough as soft as can be rolled. 

Jennie Rossart, Latrobe, Pa. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of sugar, four eggs, one and a half cups of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-half ounce of salt, some grated nut- 
meg, three tablespoonfuls of melted lard ; stiffen with flour and roll 
out and fry in hot lard, 

Mrs. G. W. Hay, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



RAISIN COOKIES. 

Three eggs, one cup of batter, one and a half cups of sugar, one cup 
of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little milk, 
one teaspoonful of spices mixed ; roll a little thicker than ordinary 
cookies. 

Mrs. C. F. Bilheimer, Irwin Station, Pa. 



KITTY'S CAKE. 

Take three eggs, two teacups of sugar, one teacup of flour, one tea- 
cup of milk, four cups of flour and three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der ; after this is well beaten divide it in three parts ; to one part add 
one teacup of raisins chopped with a few currants, two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla and one-fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg"; bake 
in three shallow pans, and put the dark cake betweec the others, with 
icing between and on top. 

Mrs. D. W. Blackburn, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



102 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



GlINCiERBREAD, No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of raolasses, one cup of butter, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one cup of hot water, three and a 
half cups of flour, spice to taste ; bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Bruerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup of sour milk, one-half cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of sugar, one cup of butter and lard mixed, desert spoon level 
full of soda, flour to stiffen. 

Mrs. Lynda McGuire, Johnstown, Pa. 



EGGLESS GINGERBREAD, No. 3. 

Two cups of raolasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, five cups 
of flour, one tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of soda, enough 
buttermilk to make stiff" as cake; bake in an iron pan. 

Mrs. Jennie Drumm, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



GINGERBREAD, No. 4. 

Three eggs, one cup of lard, large pint of molasses, one cup of but- 
termilk, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger, flour to 
make thick batter; bake in medium oven. 

Florence Davis, Ligonier, Pa. 



MADELINES. 

Four eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; bake in gem 
pans and put three raisins on each cake. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Erie, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 103 



PASTRY. 



PIE CRUST. 

One quart of flour, one pound of butter and lard mixed equally, 
one teacup of cold water, a little salt ; mix as quickly as possible and 
place on the pie board ; roll in thin layers, always rolling away from 
you with a light movement. 

Experience. 



COMBINATION PIE. 

Five cups of chopped apples, one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of 
citron, one cup of currants, molasses, sugar, a little salt, a teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, mace, cloves, nutmeg, orange peel if you like, or figs 
and almonds. 

Mrs. R. DeA. Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMON PIE, No, J. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of water, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one large lemon ; beat the yolks of eggs 
until very smooth, add the sugar, beat well, stir in the flour, then the 
water ; place the vessel that contains this in another vessel of boiling 
water, stir well until done, then add the juice of lemon ; line pie pans 
with paste, and be sure to prick the paste well with a fork ; place in 
the oven to bake ; when done remove from oven and pour in the cus- 
tard ; spread over them the whites of the eggs beaten dry and smooth, 
with two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; return to oven and brown slightly. 
The above recipe is for two pies. 

M. Katie Kreutzer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMON PIE, No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one cup of boil- 
ing water, butter half the size of an egg, the grated rind and juice of 
a lemon ; cook together till clear, and when cold add the yolk of an 
egg ; line the plate with paste and bake ; then fill, putting on the white 
of an egg with a little sugar for icing ; then put in the oven and brown. 
Mrs. Anna Pershing, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



1871. 




d886. 



mi^ 



Artistic Pliotograplier, 

2 & 4 SIXTH ST. 

Suspension Bridge, PittslbUrghl,^^. 



Near 



With an experience of more than thirty years in bu.siness, and fifteen in 
this city, a reputation should be established. 

Onlv tiie best material used and workmen employed. 

LIFE SIZE PORTRAITS in Crayon and Pastel. Personal attention 
given to all sittings. Copying of all kinds done with care and promptness. 

GALLERY UP OSLT ONE FLIGHT OF STAIRS. 

ESTABLISHED 1827. 

S. H. McMASTER, 

THE 

Has constantly on hand a Complete Stock ot 



H 



\U 



Ladies' Fancy Furs a Specialty. 

No. 434 MARKET ST. (j^ittsbZLl-qh, JPCL, 

Near Fifth Avenue, cJ ■> 



^■cries irE:i=a? i2-uriex3<TC3- othe: sxr3\^iv£Eie. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 105 



LEMON PIE, No. 3, 

Two lemons to two pies ; press out the juice after grating the rind ; 
take two cups of white sugar, one cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, six eggs ; beat the whites separate until very light ; mix 
the lemons, sugar, corn starch and milk together; then pour it on 
your crust as you would any other custard and bake ; while the pie is 
baking beat the whites and stir in seven tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar ; when the pie is done spread this on the top and set in the oven 
a few minutes to brown. 

Mrs. Laura Wade, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMON PIE, No. 4. 

Heat one grated lemon with seeds removed and one cup of cold 
water until boiling ; then add one tablespoonful of corn starch mixed 
in a half cup of cold water; stir in the yolks of two eggs and cook 
preparation until thick ; the pie crust should be baked first, then put 
the mixture in it ; beat the whites of ihe eggs ; then add two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar and spread over pie, and then put in 

oven to brown. 

Mrs. John Meyers, A^llegheny City, Pa. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

Take a large sized pumpkin, firm and of deep color; wash and boil 
just as you would potatoes with skin on; when thoroughly cooked 
pass carefully through sieve, clearing it of all lumps, seeds, etc. ; take 
one cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, and mix well together; 
beat the whites and yolks of four eggs well together and mix with 
the pumpkin thoroughly ; add the molasses and sugar, with a pinch of 
salt, four teaspoonfuls of ginger, one spoonful of cinnamon and one 
cup of milk. This should make six pies. 

Mrs. H. Barrett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POTATO PIE. 

To one cup of raw potatoes grated add one quart of sweet milk, 
boiled ; when cool add two or three eggs well beaten, sugar and nut- 
meg to taste ; bake without upper crust ; serve when fresh. This 
amount makes two pies, 

Sadie Tanner, Frankfort, Ky. 



106 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



RASPBERRY PIE. 

Three cups of raspberries, one cup of sugar ; line pie plate with the 
paste ; prick over with a fork to prevent shrinking and blistering ; cut 
a top crust out a little larger than the other ; prick this also and bake ; 
put the fruit and sugar in the pie ph te and cover with the top crust ; 
if the fruit is ripe they will steam tender, if not just return to the oven 
until hot enough. 

Mrs. H, Barrett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MERINGUE PIE. 

One cup of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cups 
of milk, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, juice and grated peel of one 
lemon, butter half the size of an egg; beat the yolks light, add sugar 
and butter ; put the corn starch and milk together and with it the 
lemon ; put the ingredients together and beat well ; line two pie pans 
with rich paste ; fill in custard and bake ; when done spread with the 
whites of the eggs well beaten and sweetened ; place in the oven to 
brown, 

Alice M. W., New Florence, Pa. 



CUST4RD PIE. 

One and one-half pints of milk, four eggs, one cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful extract of lemon ; line well-greased pie plate one- fourth inch 
thick; take ball of paste, flour it well and proceed with palm of left 
hand, pressed againt the edge, to push the paste from center into a 
thick, high rim on edge of plate ; fill while in oven with sugar, eggs 
and milk beaten, with extract and strained ; bake in moderate oven 
twenty minutes. 

Mrs. H. Barrett. Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SWEET POTATO PIE, 

Slice cold boiled sweet potates as thick as bread and lay them in a 
pie plate that is covered with paste ; put in one tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; fill the plates with water and sprinkle 
bits of butter and a little flour ; season with allspice and bake with an 
upper crust. 

Lucy De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 107 

COCOANLT PIE, No. 1. 

Beat four eggs together and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, to this 
add one grated cocoanut and stir in one quart of milk ; line a plate 
with a crust and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. S. McCune, Blairsville, Pa. 



COCOANUT PIE, No. 2. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, one grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar; 
beat eggs and sugar together ; stir in milk boiling hot, add cocoanut ; 
bake twenty minutes. 

Maggie Johnston, Apollo, Pa. 

CREAM PIE, No. 1. 

Yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour 
or corn starch ; beat up together; then add one pint of sweet milk ; 
put on a slow fire and keep stirring all the time till it gets stiff; beat 
up the whites of the eggs and three tablf spoonfuls of sugar ; flavor to 
taste and put on pies. 

Miss Ida Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CREAM PIE, No. 2. 

Bake a crust as for plain custard ; make a custard of one pint of 
milk, four eggs, one-half cup of sugar and a large spoonful of flour ; 
beat the yolks and sugar very light and flavor with vanilla ; have the 
milk boiling over hot water and pour this into it. Icing — Take one- 
half cup of white sugar and beaten whites of four eggs; flavor with 
vanilla ; bake the crust, then add custard, then the icing and set in 
oven to brown. This makes two pies. 

Mrs. Mame Phillipps, Johnstown, Pa. 



CORN PIE. 

Take four ears of good sweet corn, cut two ott and grate two ; make 
good short pie crust, roll and line a pan ; put the cut off corn in and 
then the grated ; pepper and salt, and butter the size of a walnut and 
one-half cup of water ; put a layer of crust on top and bake. 

Mrs. a. E. Gulp, Altoona, Pa. 



108 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CRACKER PIE. 

Soak ten crackers in one and one-half cups boiling water, add one 
cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of raisins, 
two-thirds cup of vinegar, one-half nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful ground 
cloves, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon ; bake with two crusts, 

Annie Pope, Crafton, Pa. 



MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of rolled crackers, 
one cup of chopped apples, three cups of water, one and one-half cups 
of vinegar, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

Mrs. I. T>. Pore, Latrobe, Pa. 



ORANtlE PIE. 

Cream one-half cup of white sugar and one tablespoonful of butter, 
to this add four eggs well beaten and the grated rind and juice of two 
oranges; just before placing in the oven add the whites, mixed in 
lightly and bake with under crust. 

Mrs. a. Riley, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MINCE MEAT, No. 1. 

Take three pounds of beef, one and one-fourth pounds of suet, two 
pounds each of raisins and currants, one-half pound citron, five pounds 
of apples, one pint of molasses, nutmeg, allspice, cloves and cinnamon, 
about a teaspoonful of each, three pounds of sugar, and thin to suit. 

Mrs. James Douglas, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MINCE MEAT, No. 2. 

Two pounds of beef, boil tender and chop fine, four pounds tart ap- 
ples chopped, one pound of raisins, one-half pound of citron, one-half 
pound of suet, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, three pints 
of cider, sweeten to taste with New Orleans molasses. This makes 
good mince meat and no mistake. 

Mrs. F. R. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PiTTSBURCxH Cook Book. 109 

SUMMER MINCE MEAT. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, two cups of hot water, one- 
half cup of vinegar, one-fourth cup of butter, three eggs, five butter 
crackers, spice to taste, one cup of raisins, one cup of currants. 

Ella Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick over and wash the cranberries, and put in the preserving ket- 
tle with half a pint of water to one quart of berries ; now put the 
sugar — granulated is the best — on the top of the berries ; set on the 
fire and stir about half an hour ; stir often to prevent burning ; they 
will not need straining, and will preserve their rich color cooked in 
this way ; never cook cranberries before putting in the sugar ; less 
sugar may be used if you do not wish them very rich. 

Mrs. a. Holt, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



HARD SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter beaten to a cream ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar ; beat well together ; flavor with vanilla or 
lemon ; this sauce is suitable for warm pie or pudding. 

Mrs. G. M. Murphey, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POTATO SALAD, No. 1. 

Take some cold boiled potatoes and slice very thin ; ,'chop one 
small onion ; in a salad dish put a layer of potatoes, then a layer of 
hard boiled eggs sliced thin, and sprinkle over them a little chopped 
onion, salt and pepper. For Dressing. — Take half pint of vinegar 
and let it get hot, beat up two eggs, half a tablespoonful of flour, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of mustard, a little salt and 
pepper and four tablespoonfuls of sweet cream ; stir this in the vine- 
gar and let the whole boil up till it is like custard ; then mix with the 

salad. 

Mrs. G. M. Murphy, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JROSENBAJCTJl cf' CO. 

Nos. 510 & 512 Market Street, 



OFFERS A CHOICE LINE OF 



PLUSH COATS. 

Misses' Garments, Dress and Cloak Trimmings, Kid Gloves and 
Corsets, Hosiery. Pans, &c. 

THE LARGEST STOCK OF 

And Millinery Goods in the City. 



ALWAYS THE LOWEST PRICES. 





JVo. 29 Fiftlx^i^-ejxjze, 

— ^ J_i. c<. Ie)upl s C)r)oes. 

CUSTOM WORK A SPECIALTY. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. Ill 

POTATO SALAD, INo. 2. 

Boil one dozen of potatoes not too soft, and cut into pieces the size 
of a chestnut ; make a dressing of three eggs, one pint of vinegar, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; let boil till thick ; melt three table- 
spoonfuls of butter and pour it over the potatoes ; add a small onion 
chopped fine; season with a half teaspoonful of celery seed, salt, pep- 
per and mustard ; a little chopped ham improves the salad. 

Mrs. Anna Pershing, West E'izabeth, Pa. 



POTATO SALAD, No. 3. 

Six boiled potatoes cut fine, two bunches of celery, two onions, one 
egg; chop this all fine. Dressing. — One egg, cup of vinegar, a little 
sugar, salt and pepper, small bit of butter ; let come to a boil. 

Mrs. Frank H. Torrens, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

ALLEGHENY SALAD. 

Take two and a half pounds of veal well cooked and cut up fine, 
one-half head of cabbage and three bunches of celery cut fine ; then 
add one teaspoonful of mustard, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one- 
half pint of cream, one tablespoonf'ul of butter, three eggs, one-half 
pint of cider, with salt to taste ; mix well. 

Ella McCune, Allegheny, Pa. 



CHICKEN SALAD, No. 1. 

Take equal parts of celery and chicken ; for each chicken take for 
dressing three eggs well beaten, add six tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoonful of mixed mus- 
tard, one tablespoonful of salt, eight tablespoonfuls of strong vinegar, 
pepper to taste ; cook in an earthen dish to consistency desired ; two 
eggs boiled hard, the whites chopped and added to the meat, while the 
yolks are rubbed smooth and added to the dressing. 

Mrs. Ella Chapman, Erie, Pa. 

CHICKEN SALAD, No. 2. 

Breasts of two chickens cooked ; chop fine ; one head of salad, one 
teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of black pepper, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one and a half cups of vinegar; serve cold. 

Mrs. C. H. Harkins, Bolivar, Pa. 



112 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Shred cabbage very fine and cut celery into small dice ; mix well 
together and sprinkle with salt and pepper ; put one gill of vinegar 
into a saucepan and stir in a well beaten egg; stir over a hot fire till 
as thick as cream ; add a salt spoonful of mixed mustard, a table- 
spoonful of olive oil, and a teaspoonful of sugar ; beat well together, 
and when cold pour over the cabbage and celery. 

Ella Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CELERY SAUCE. 

Chop celery and pour over it the following dressing, yolks of three 
eggs, six tablespoonfuls sweet cream and two teaspoonfuls of butter, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls of mustard and one pint of good vinegar, 
stir all together until it boils ; then add a little flour and water to 
thicken slightly and remove from stove ; stir in lightly the beaten 
whites of the eggs and pour over celery. 

Mrs. Irene Denny, Ligonier, Pa. 



SIDNEY SMITH'S WINTER SALAD. 

Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve 

Unwanted softness to the salad give ; 

Of Mordant mustard add a single spoon — 

Distrust the condiment which bites too soon ; 

But deem it not, though made of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt; 

Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. 

And once with vinegar procured from town. 

True flavor needs it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 

And, half suspected, animate the whole; 

And lastly, on the favored compound toss 

A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. 

Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, 

Though ham and turkey are not boiled enough. 

Serenely full, the epicure shall say, 

" Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day." 

Rev. M. D. Lioh liter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 113 



HORSE RADISH SAUCE. 

One dessert spoonful of olive oil, same quantity of powdered mus- 
tard, one tablespoonful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of grated horse 
radish and one teaspoonful of saJt. 

W. E. Megraw, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



CABBAGE SALAD. 

Small cup of vinegar, butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, a little salt ; pour boiling on two well beaten eggs and one tea- 
spoonful of mustard ; return it to the fire until it thickens like a 
custard; then add one-half cup of cream or milk and a little red pep- 
per ; have your cabbage prepared cold and pour dressing on while 
warm. This is good. 

Mrs. D. Coulter, Bolivar, Pa. 

GREEN TOMATO SOY. 

Two gallons of green tomatoes, sliced without peeling, slice also 
twelve good-sized onions, two quarts of vinegar, one quart of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls each of salt, ground mustard and ground black 
pepper, one tablespoonful of cloves and allspice ; mix all together and 
stew until tender, stirring often lest they should scorch ; put up in 
glass jars. A good sauce for all kinds of meat or fish. 

Lizzie A. Covode, Ligonier, Pa. 

VEAL SALAD. 

Two pounds of cold boiled veal, one-half head of cabbage, two 
bunches of celery, salt and pepper to taste, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
mustard, one teaspoonful of celery seed ; chop all very fine and mix 
well. Dressing. — One-half pint of vinegar, two eggs, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar ; heat the vinegar and 
then stir this into it, with the yolks of the two eggs boiled hard ; let 
this come to a boil ; remove from the fire and when nearly cold pour 
it over the salad and mix well ; garnish with the whites of the eggs. 
Mrs. Frank Torrens, Pittsburgh, East End. 

8 



114 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Take three teaspoonfuls of ground mustard, one teaspoonful of flour, 
two spoonfuls if the mustard seems very strong, one-half teaspoonful 
of sugar ; pour boiling water on these and mix to a smooth, thick 
paste ; when cold add vinegar enough to make ready for use and serve 
with salt. This resembles the French mustard. 

Mrs. Wm. Haney, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Take one-half pint of oysters and remove all particles of shell and 
place them in a pint of boiling water and let them boil for three min- 
utes ; skim well and stir in one-half cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour ; let it come to a boil ; serve with 

turkey. 

Lucy A. De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHEESE roNDTT. 

This is a very nice economical dish and takes the place of a salad. 
To make it take one-half pound cheese, two cups of bread crumbs, one 
pint milk, three eggs, a small lump of butter, and a pinch of salt ; beat 
the eggs separately, then thoroughly mix with the other ingredients ; 
butter a pan, pour in and bake twenty minutes in a brisk oven. 

Katie Inskeep, Allegheny City, Pa. 



PICKLES. 



SWEET PICKLES. 

Slice a dozen of pickles^ one-half an ounce cloves, one-half an ounce 
of allupice, one-half an ounce of cinnamon to a quart of boiling vinegar ; 
add one-half cup of sugar ; pour over and let stand till cold. You 
can double the amount. 

Mrs. Annie Cunningham, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Any lady piir- 
cliasino: this bonk 
can obtain 40 lbs. 
Cork Shavings 




..-^4^<. 



lE^ia 



^3P 



^^ 




fori?2.00. They 

are the MOST 

HEALTHFUL 

bed in use. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



jMaahin® Gut Gorks, 

Cork Insoles for Shoes, Cork Shaving for Beds and Mattresses, 
Granulated Cork for Packing Purposes. 

Let all orders be sent to the Factory at 

Corner 41st St. and A, V, R, R. Pittsburgh, Pa, 



THOMPSON & CO, 



Manufacturers of MATTRESSES of all 
kinds, Woven Wires, Spiral Springs, 
Lace Curtains, Cornice Poles, and 




The "No. 27," All steel Wire Bed, Japanned. A regu'ar full sized No. 27 contains 117 springs, 
6 inches high. Absolutely Vermi)i Proof, and the most comfortable of Bed Bottoms. Price, S7.(J0 . 

No. 420 liVOOD STREET, 

■TELEPHONE 206. :PITTSBXJ."EIC3-I3:3 T>J^. 



116 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Be very careful in selecting your pickles to have them solid and of 
uniform size ; wash and pack in jars and cover with water, to find out 
the quantity of vinegar you will need, then pour off and measure 
water ; then wipe the pickles and crocks both perfectly dry and pack 
in place again ; to each gallon of vinegar (the best you can get,) take 
eight tablespoonfuls of salt, twelve tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, two 
tablespoonfuls of tumeric, two tablespoonfuls of cayenne pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of whole cloves, one handful of licorice leaves; boil all 
together and yvhen j^erfedly cold pour over the pickles; tie up the jars, 
and they will keep indefinitely— if the vinegar is the best. 

Mrs. T. a. Stewart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



TO PICKLE SMALL CUCUMBERS. 

Cover with fresh water and let them stand twelve hours ; then cover 

with strong salt water and let stand twelve hours ; boil enough weak 

cider vinegar (in which dissolve a small lump of alum,) to cover them 

and allow them to stand over night ; then pack in bottles or jars, mixing 

with them mustard seed, cloves, cinnamon and pieces of red pepper, 

adding a spoonful of sugar to each bottle ; cover with wine vinegar ; 

tie or seal up and put away in a cool place ; they will be fit for use in 

short time. 

Mrs. a. C. Ellis, Pittsburgh, East End. 



PICKLES. 

Make a brine of salt water strong enough to bear an egg ; let it 
come to a boil ; pour over the pickles ; scald the brine and pour over 
the pickles five mornings ; the sixth morning wash and put in cold 
water that evening ; pnt them in weak alum water seventh morning ; 
put in jars, with small onions, small peppers, a few sprigs of tanagon 
(herb); put pure cider vinegar, enough to cover them ; put on fire to 
boil; add some whole black pepper, mustard seed, white ginger root, 
a few cloves ; when it boils stir in some mixed mustard ; as soon as it 
comes to a boil pour over your pickles. 

Mrs. R. S. Marsland, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 117 

YANKEE SAUCE. 

One-half of a peck of green tomatoes, ten large onions, one head 
of cabbage, twelve large cucumbers, one head of cauliflower, one stick 
of celery, two tablespoonfuls of grated horse radish, two tablespoon- 
fuls of mustard seed, one-half of an ounce of celery seed, one-fourth of 
an ounce of tumeric, one-half of an ounce of black pepper, four table- 
spoonfuls salad oil; cut the tomatoes, cabbage, cauliflower, celery, 
onions and cucumbers fine, and salt well and let them remain in the 
salt one night ; then drain and cover with cider vinegar and let stand 
fur three days ; then pour that vinegar away ; boil as much vinegar 
with a pound of brown sugar, as will cover this and pour on hot ; mix 
all the spices together, except the mustard ; sprinkle the spices on '> 
then this vinegar must be boiled for three mornings ; when cold the 
third morning add two tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, mixed with 
four tablespoonfuls of salad oil ; put all in kettle and let come to a 
boil and then bottle. 

Mrs. Frank H. Torrens, Pittsburgh, East End. 



PKKLEI) PEPPERS. 

One dozen large red peppers, cut through center to stem, but not in 
two ; clean the insides out thoroughly ; place in a crock of strong salt 
water to soak twenty-four hours ; have chopped very fine some red and 
white cabbage and a very few onions ; stuff each pepper full, then tie 
tightly together; put in a crock; boil the vinegar together with mus- 
tard seed and whole black pepper, pour over the peppers and put 

away. 

Mrs. Wm. Acheson, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHO^\ CHOW, No. 1. 

Two quarts of green tomatoes, one dozen large cucumbers, one head 
of cabbage, eight onions ; cut all together ; fine salt; let stand all day, 
then drain and let stand over night; add to this three-fourths of a 
pound of brown sugar, one ounce of celery seed, one-half pound ©f 
mustard seed, two and one-half tablespoonfuls of black pepper; mix 
all together in three quarts good vinegar ; let come to a boil ; then 
add one-half of a pint of grated horseradish and about one dozen red 
peppers chopped fine ; then put in glass jars air tight. 

JMrs. F. Pinkerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



118 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CHOW CHOW, No. 2. 

Cut fine one large head of cabbage, one dozen large peppers and one 
dozen white onions ; put these, with three roots of grated horse radish* 
into a kettle ; cover with strong salt water ; boil till the cabbage is 
tender and then drain through a sieve ; boil in three pints of vinegar, 
one-half of an ounce of tumerick and one-fourth of a pound of white 
mustard seed, and pour this hot over the vegetables ; when cold add 
a teacupful of salad oil and same quantity of mustard, mixed as for 
the table ; then seal up in jars. 

Mrs. T. W. Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CHOW CHOW, T^o. 3. 

Take one dozen cucumbers, one large head of cabbage, one-quarter 
peck of onions, one dozen of red peppers, one stalk of horse radish > 
chop all very fine ; sprinkle with salt and let drain over night ; in the 
morning take one pint of wine vinegar, three pints of water, one cup 
of sugar, of cloves, whole cinnamon, and mustard seed each one ounce; 
mix well together cold and bottle. 

Mrs. J. Seaton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



HODGE PODGE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one large head of cabbage ; chop fine, 
salt and drain one night ; add six bunches of celery and three large 
garden peppers ; cut fine ; mustard seed and horse radish grated to 
suit the taste ; cover with vinegar. Cucumbers and large onions used 
instead of the tomatoes and cabbage make an excellent relish. 

Mrs. Geo. Keyser, Allegheny City, Pa. 

CABBAGE SOT. 

Two gallons of chopped cabbage, one and one-half gallons of chop- 
ped green tomatoes, six large onions chopped fine, six sweet peppers 
chopped fine, three quarts of vinegar, one and three-fourths pounds of 
brown sugar, one ounce of celery seed, one ounce of ground cloves, 
three ounces of mustard seed, one gill salt, pepper to taste ; chop the 
tomatoes separately and squeeze out the green water ; mix all together 
and set on the fire until thoroughly scalded through ; put away in jars. 

Miss Lizzie Jackson, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 119 



TOMATO SOY. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes, one dozen onions, one dozen 
green peppers; chop all finely together ; sprinkle over all one pint of 
salt ; let it stand over night, then drain oflf the brine; cover with good 
vinegar, cook slowly for one hour, then drain and pack in ajar; take 
two pounds of brown sugar, two tablespoonfals of cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful of allspice, one tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of 
pepper (all ground), one cup of mustard seed, one-half of a cup of 
celery seed, one pint of grated horse radish, vinegar enough to mix ; 
when boiling hot pour over contents of jar and cover tight ; it is ready 
for use and will keep for months. 

Miss Lou Heiner, Kittanning, Pa. 



RELISH. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, one cup of mustard, two cups of sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful of Cayenne pepper, one tablespoonful of cloves, one quart of 
sliced onions, one quart of cider vinegar ; boil together and stir one 
hour ; use wide-necked bottles and seal while hot. 

Sadie Rowswell, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PICKLED CHOP. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one-fourth peck of onions, one large 
head of cabbage ; chop all fine; sprinkle a little salt; put all in a 
crock ; then boil one-half gallon of vinegar, spice and one red pepper ; 
cut fine a little black pepper ; mix thoroughly, and then boil vinegar 
for two mornings and pour over the chop. 

Mrs. C. M. Ho oxen, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FRENCH RELISH. 

Six bunches of celery, two heads of red cabbage, two cauliflowers ; 

chop these very fine ; boil one gallon of vinegar, one-half ounce of 

whole allspice, one ounce of mustard seed and one cupful of sugar, 

and throw this over the chopped materials and mix thoroughly and 

pack in a crock. 

Mrs. Wm. Ac;heson, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



MONEY SAVED BY BUYING YOUR 

FURNITURE 

JOHN KENWORTHY'S 

Furniture Warerooms. 

Including: Cherry, Walnut and Mahogany Suits, Plusn and 

Mohair Parlor Suits, Reed and Rattan Chairs, 

Mattresses and Spring Beds. 

Everything New and of Latest Designs , 

Old No. 1018, New No. 2726, 
Near 28th St. Crossingr. jPJUJSrjST A-^ENTJE. 

Prices are lower than any other house in the city. 

LIVERY-UNDERTAKING, 

D. N.WALLAKEEfSON, 

AND 

— — GrqbgiIiT[0rs, 

No. 2543 PENN AVENUE, 

AND 

Nos. 2532 & 2534 SMALLMAM STREET. 



Most complete and thorough Livery and Undertaking Rooms in the city. 
We give careful attention to Moving Honsehold Goods, Pianos, &c. 

TELEPHONE 129—4. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 121 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Take nice heads of purple cabbage, pull off the loose leaves and 
slice iu slices about one-half of an inch thick ; place in a stone jar, 
sprinkle well with salt and let stand twenty-four hours ; prepare vine- 
gar as follows : to a gallon add one ounce of mace, an ounce of whole 
pepper and a little mustard seed ; drain cabbage, put back iu jar, 
scald vinegar and spices and pour over cabbage, repeating the scald- 
ing operation two or three times, and cover jar very tight ; when done 
the cabbage will be a handsome red color. 

Mks. Lizzie D. Duve, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



BEAN PICKLES. 

Pick green beans when young and tender ; string and place in a ket- 
tle to boil with salt to taste until they can be pierced with a fork ; 
drain well through a colander ; put in a stone jar; sprinkle with ground 
black pepper and cover with strong cider vinegar ; sugar may be 
added if desired. 

Mrs. Lizzie Duve, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PICKLED ONIONS. 

Pare the onions and put in salt water over night ; to a peck of 
onions take one-half pound of mustard seed, two ounces of whole 
black pepper and as much good vinegar as will cover them ; boil it 
and pour over them ; let it stand a few days. 

Mrs. Ann Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Take fine ripe cherries with stems on, and to each quart allow a 
pint of good vinegar and a coffee cupful of white sugar ; boil sugar 
and vinegar together ten minutes, skimming as needed ; pour cold 
over the cherries; spice may be added if you please, but the stones 
give a pleasant flavor of themselves. 

Mrs. p. a. C, Johnstown, Pa. 

PEACH PICKLES. 

To seven pounds of fruit add three pounds of sugar ; boil for half an 
hour in vinegar to cover them ; season to taste ; cloves are best. 

Maud Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



122 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



PICCALILLI, No. 1. 

Two gallons of cabbage sliced, one gallon of green tomatoes chop- 
ped, twelve onions chopped, one gallon of vinegar, one pound of brown 
sugar, one tablespoonful of black pepper, one-half ounce of turmeric 
powder, one ounce of celery seed, one-fourth pound of mustard seed, 
cloves and cinnamon to suit taste, salt and drain ; then put on with 
vinegar and sugar ; boil until soft and add spices. 

Mrs. Alice McWilliams, Manor Station, Pa. 



PICCALILLI, No. 2. 

Slice green tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and let stand twenty-four 
hours ; drain well and put in porcelain kettle first a layer of tomatoes ; 
sprinkle with cloves, cinnamon, allspice, mustard seed, white ginger 
root and sugar, then more tomatoes and another layer of spices until 
all are in ; pour over it good cider vinegar and let cook on a slow fire. 

Ella Peoples, Ligonier, Pa. 



SWEET PICCALILLI, No. 3. 

Slice tomatoes in a basket, sprinkling each layer with salt and leave 
standing over night; in the morning pour over them water and then 
pack in crocks, placing between them here and there celery seed, mus- 
tard seed, whole cloves and cut peppers; take enough diluted wine 
vinegar to cover thera, and to everj^ quart of this take one and a half 
pounds of brown sugar ; boil the vinegar and sugar and pour it over 
the tomatoes ; repeat this boiling for three days, each time allowing it 
to boil down to the original quantity. 

Mrs. R. Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TOMATO LILLI. 

One peck of tomatoes, two large heads of cabbage, twelve large 
onions, twelve peppers, eight tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls 
of cloves, three tablespoonfuls of b^ack pepper, one-half pint of white 
mustard seed, two pounds of brown sugar; cover well with vinegar ; 
boil slowly for two hours ; if you like you can add five ounces of ground 
mustard. 

Mrs. Bruerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 123 

PEPPER HASH. 

One-half of a peck of solid green tomatoes, one head of cabbage, 
two bunches of celery, one-half dozen of green peppers ; chop all fine 
and drain over night ; then add two tablespoon fuls of mustard seed, 
one tablespoonful of salt, whole cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one- 
half pound of sugar; mix all together and cover with best wine vine- 
gar ; will keep without sealing. 

Mary Karns, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SLICED CUCUMBERS, No. 1. 

One dozen of cucumbers sliced on a cutter, one-half dozen of lem- 
ons ; salt these well and drain for five hours ; put in a large vessel ; 
mix through one-half ounce of mustard seed, one-fourth of a small 
red pepper ; cover well with pure wine vinegar and pack in air-tight 
jars without any cooking. 

Miss Jennie Acheson, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SLICED CUCUMBERS, No. 2, CANNED. 

Slice cucumbers a little thicker than for table use ; sprinkle salt 
over them and let stand one hour or two ; drain well and have ready 
on the stove boiling vinegar with pepper ; put the sliced cucumbers in 
this and let them come to a boil, then seal in glass jars ; a little spice 
may be used if desired. 

Lizzie A. Covode, Ligonier, Pa. 



HIGDOM. 

One head of cabbage, one dozen peppers chopped very fine, one- 
half of a pound of horse radish, one-fourth of a pound of tumeric, one- 
fourth of a pound of mustard seed, one-half of a gallon of vinegar 
poured over without boiling. 

Mrs. M. Bossart, Latrobe, Pa. 



SWEET CATSUP. 

One peck of tomatoes, one-half dozen onions chopped fine, two table - 
spoonfuls of black pepper, two tablespoonfuls of allspice, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cloves, two ounces of celery seed, one-fourth of a pound of salt, 
one pound of brown sugar, one quart of vinegar. 

Miss Ei.la Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



124 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CATSUP, No. 1. 

Boil and strain through a sieve one bushel of tomatoes ; take tive 
cents worth each of cloves, allspice and mustard seed, all whole, with 
one-fourth of a pound of black pepper and put in a bag and boil in 
the tomatoes after they are strained ; then add one quart of cider 
vinegar just before taking off and put in one teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper and salt to taste, 

Mrs. C. a. McCune, Allegheny, Pa. 

CATSUP, No. 2. 

One-half of a peck ripe tomatoes, three green and three red sweet 
peppers, three onions (all chopped very fine), one quart of vinegar, 
one cup of sugar, one-third of a cup of salt, one-fourth of a pound of 
black and white mustard seed, one teaspoonful each of celery seed, 
cloves and mace ; mix well and bottle. 

Mary F. Ridinger, Irwin, Pa. 



CATSUP, No. 3. 

One peck ripe tomates chopped fine, one cup of onions, one cup of 
celery, one cup of horse radish, three small peppers, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of salt, one cup of mustard seed, one teaspoonful of 
ground pepper, ten cents worth of celery seed, five cents worth of 
ground cinnamon, three pints of good cider vinegar ; mix all together 
and scald ; take all the seeds out of the tomatoes you can, also all the 
water you can press out; seal up in good jars while hot. This is an 
excellent pickle — I have made it often. 

Mrs. Sue Pershing, New Florence, Pa. 



CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Grate cucumbers and let stand over night in a colander, chop six 
large onions, to a gallon of grated cucumbers; add vinegar, salt, pep- 
per, sugar and grated horse radish to taste ; bottle without cooking. 

Mrs. W. Dibert, Johnstown, Pa. 



M. ARMSTRONG. J. CROZIER. 

AEMSTEONG & CO. 



Successors to C. H. Arinsti-ong & Co. 

DEALERS IN 



'^ou.gl iioglLeTLij^ JPcui^-JEIcLTLdZe 

COAL 

AND 

CO KB 



OFFICE AND YARDS, 



Twenty-Ninth and Liberty Streets. 

TELEPHONE CONNECTION. All Orders Promptly Filled. 

Geo. W. Biggs & Co. 

Have Removed to their New Store, 

CORNER SMITHFIELD ST. AND SIXTH AYE. 

NEW liEWIiSi BLOCK, 

Where they have opened up a New and Elegant Stock of Goods, consisting of 

WATCHES, DIAMONDS, 

jyiarble piocks, ^ronze and fancy poods, 

NOVELTIES FOR WEDDING PRESENTS. 



AN EXAMINATION IS' REQUESTED. 



Goods can now be selected and put aside for the holidays. 



126 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

SMOKY CITY SAUCE. 

Eight quarts of tomatoes, three cups of peppers, two cups of onious, 
three cups of sugar, one cup of salt, one and one-half quarts of vinegar, 
three tablespoonfuls of cloves, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, two 
tablespoonfuls of ginger, two tablespoonfuls of nutmeg ; boil three 
hours; chop tomatoes, peppers and onions very fine ; bottle up and seal. 
Mrs. Rebecca Douglass, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



(GERMAN SAUCE. 

One gallon of green tomatoes, one quart of onions, one gallon of 
cabbage, three bunches of celery ; chop these together and with them mix 
one gill of whole mustard, one gill of black pepper, allspice and cloves^ 
also one pound of brown sugar, one quart of cider vinegar ; cook all 
together for twenty minutes and place in air-tight jars. 

Mrs. R. Grounds, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Twelve cucumbers, six onions, two good-sized red peppers, one small 
cup of brown sugar, one ounce of mustard seed, one tablespoonful of 
celery seed, vinegar to cover; boil fifteen minutes ; pare the cucumbers, 
scrape the pulp out thoroughly, chop fine and let drain over night. 

Mrs. Bruerton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PEPPER SAUCE. 

Three heads of cabbage, one-half of a dozen green peppers, three 
red peppers, one-half of a cup of salt, one ounce of celery seed, horse 
radish; chop fine and cover with cold vinegar. Will keep all winter. 

Mrs. I. N. Richadrs, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

FRENCH SAUCE. 

One head of cabbage, nine large onions, one-half of a peck of green 

tomatoes, six red peppers, one teacup of sugar, one-half of a pound of 

mustard seed, one tablespoonful of allspice, two tablespoonfuls of whole 

cloves, three tablespoonfuls of salt, vinegar to cover ; boil one-half of 

an hour. 

Mrs. R. R. Mehaffer, Erie, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 127 

WINTER SAUCE. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, three green peppers, two onions, one 
tablespoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, three cups of vinegar ; peel tomatoes and onions ; chop very- 
fine ; add the peppers, chopped, with the other ingredients and boil 
one and one-half hours ; put in bottles or glass jars. This is excel- 
lent and much more healthful than catsups. 

Mrs. J. Hays, Johnstown, Pa. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Take green peppers and open them and take the seeds out of them . 
stuff with cabbage cut fine, season with salt and celery seeds and tie • 
pack in a jar and cover with good cider vinegar. 

Mrs. F. S. Hamilton, Millvale, Pa. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

One and a half dozen of large cucumbers, three dozen of 
onions, two heads of cabbage, seven green peppers ; chop all fine and 
drain in different bags; one-fourth pound of Coleman's mustard, one 
pound of white sugar, three ounces of mustard seed ; cook w'ell in 
vinegar. 

Mrs. Mary D. Moore. 



BORDEAUX SAUCE. 

Take two gallons of cabbage, cut fine, one gallon of green tomatoes, 
sliced, one dozen of onions, one ounce of celery seed, one ounce each 
of whole black pepper, ground black pepper, ground ginger, allspice, 
whole, cloves, one and a half ounces of mustard seed, one gill of salt, 
one and three-fourths pounds of sugar and one gallon of vinegar ; mix 
and boil one hour. 

Mrs. Wm. Hamilton, Allegheny City, Pa. 



PERSIAN SAUCE. 

Nine cups of vinegar, thirty good ripe tomatoes, eight red peppers 
and eight onions chojjped fine, one cup of sugar, five tablespoonfuls of 
salt ; boil two hours. 

Mrs. Wm. Sheaffer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



128 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

COMBINATION SAUCE. 

Take one peck of tomatoes and nine large onions ; chop fine ; add 
one gallon of cider vinegar, one pound of brown sugar, one-fourth 
of a pound each of ground cloves, cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg, twelve 
ball peppers ; boil quite thick. 

Mrs. M. J. Sharp. 



CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-four good large ripe tomatoes, twelve bell peppers, eight 
onions ; chop onions and peppers fine ; peel and slice tomatoes ; put all 
together and boil one hour ; add four tablespoonfuls of salt, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, four teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, four teaspoonfuls of 
ginger, four teaspoonfuls of cloves, eight cups of cider vinegar ; boil 
another hour and .seal. 

Miss Ida Lindsay, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PRESERVES. JELLIES, Etc. 



In making jelly do not have the fruit too ripe. It can be strained 
easier by heating. Strain first through a sieve and afterward through 
a flannel bag. From fifteen to twenty minutes will be long enough to 
cook after it begins to boil. Put in glasses and set in hot sun until 
cold. Cover the jelly with a piece of writing paper dipped in brandy 
to keep from moulding ; then cover over the glass tight with paper, 
having the edges dipped in the white of an egg. 

If you wish to pour boiling hot liquid into a glass jar or tumbler, 
it can be safely accomplished by first placing a spoon in the vessel. 

To Prevent Fruit Jars from Breaking. — Place them on a folded 
towel thoroughly soaked in cold water, and proceed to pour in the 
fruit with safety. 

To Open Fruit Jars. — If they are hard to open, place the jar, up- 
side down, in a vessel of hot water, and remove it in a minute or two, 
and it will open with ease. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 129 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To each quart of berries add one pint of red currant juice ; place on 
the fire and stir constantly until it boils ; after boiling five minutes re- 
move from the fire and pour into glass jars. 

Mrs. Acker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Take sour apples with red skins ; wipe and cut into quarters, but do 
not peel them ; to each pound of fruit put three pints of cold water ; 
bring to a boil and then boil rapidly for thirty minutes ; strain and to 
every pint of juice add one pound of granulated or loaf sugar; return 
to the kettle and again boil rapidly for thirty minutes ; put immedi- 
ately into tumblers; it will keep good for years. This will do f»r 
either common sour apples or Siberian crab apples. 

Mrs. Richard Allan, Butler Co., Pa. 



ELDERBERRY JELLY, No. 1. 

Cook the elderberries thoroughly and strain through a flannel 
cloth ; cook one-half as many green grapes and strain them ; to each 
quart of berry juice add one pint of grape juice, and one pint of gran- 
ulated sugar to each pint of the mixture ; cook until jellied. 

J. De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ELDERBERRY JELLY, No. 2. 

To one bucket of elderberries take one-half peck of crab apples ; 
boil and then strain through thin crash ; take as much sugar as juice 
and boil two quarts at a time ; boil twenty minutes. 

Mrs. L. Patton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

One-half peck of crab apples and two pounds of grapes ; boil each 
separate; then strain and mix juice ; for every pint of juice add one 
pint of granulated sugar. 

Mrs. E. T. Millar, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
9 



130 PiTTSBUEGH CoOK BoOK. 



PRESERVED PINE APPLE. 

Take ripe apples and cut them into quarters with the skin on ; 
grate them in a large dish ; do not let the rind get in; put in three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit ; boil steadily for 
twenty minutes, or until a clear amber color and the right thickness; 
put in tumblers while warm and tie up with two thicknesses of tissue 
paper, 

Mrs. L. D. Ayres, Sharpsburg, Pa. 



PRESERVED GRAPES, No. 1. 

Take one quart of cider vinegar, three pounds of sugar and one-half 
of an ounce each of cinnamon and cloves, whole, and boil together 
down to a syrup ; select sound grapes and place carefully in a jar ; 
pour the boiling syrup over them until all are covered; then seal air 
tight; grapes may be left in Avhole bunches or separated, leaving a 
particle of stem to each grape. 

Mrs, L. K, Mussler, Allegheny City, Pa. 



PRESERVED GRAPES, No. 2. 

Pick the grapes off the stems; then wash and squeeze the pulp out; 
put the skins in a dish, the pulp in a kettle and boil well, after which 
put them through the colander ; then add the skins and pint for pint 
of granulated sugar, and boil until the juice becomes a thick jelly. 

Mrs. a., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Select the best of Florida or Seville oranges; cut them in two; take 
out all the pulp and juice into a basin ; pick out the skins and seeds ; 
boil the rinds in hard water till tender ; change the water two or three 
times while boiling ; then pound in a wedgewood mortar ; add to it the 
juice and pulp ; then put all in preserving pan with double its weight 
of loaf sugar, and set over a slow fire ; boil one-half hour or more ; 
put into pots and cover tight with brandy paper. 

Mrs. H, Barrett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 131 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One large cup of sugar, nearly half cup of butter, one egg, juice of 
one lemon and half of the grated rind, one teaspoonful of nutmeg 
grated, three tablespoonfuls of boiling water ; cream the butter and 
sugar and beat in the eggs whipped light, adding the lemon and nut- 
meg; beat all together for ten minutes except the water, adding this a 
spoonful at a time, and place in hot water vessel ; don't allow the mix- 
ture to boil, but keep near the boiling point. 

A. E. Elliot, New Florence, Pa. 

LEMON GELATINE. 

One box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold water ; then 
pour over it one quart of boiling water ; add to this one pint of sugar 
and the juice of two lemons ; strain through a thin cloth and set on 
ice to cool. 

Mrs. Wm. Scandrett, Allegheny City, Pa. 



PIG'S FEET JELLY. 

Clean carefully and place on the stove, with water sufBcient to 
cover them ; boil until all the bones are removed ; then put into a 
mould and sprinkle with salt and pepper and cover with vinegar ; let. 
this stand for twelve hours ; then serve in slices. 

Mrs. Bella Hooten, Pittsburgh, Pa.. 



QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare quinces and quarter them ; put in porcelain kettle and cover 
with water and boil until you can run a broom splint through them ; 
then drain off in colander; use one pound of sugar for every pound of 
fruit ; boil until the juice jellies and place in jars. 

Mrs. a., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



QUINCE JELLY. 

Boil your parings in the water used to boil the quinces for preserv- 
ing ; after boiling well strain through a jelly bag ; use one pound of 
granulated sugar to each pint of juice; boil until jellied. 

Mrs. a., Pittsburgh, Pa^ 






Xw 



mm, Al«JHIJKlH 



■av£^ IRON W4ijp 

JOBBER, 

GENERAL Son„ « «KB.DWAE£, 

COOK AND HEATING STOVES. 

CRATER HEATER A SPECIALTY. 

STORE AND WORKS, 

No. 2629 PENN AVENUE, PITTSBURGH, PA. 

Dickson, Stewart & Co, 

Miners, SMppers and Dealers in a superior Qnallly of 

Gas, Family & Blacksmitlis' 



(B®&% 



OFFICE AND YARDS, 



Ul-l-lUt AINU TAKUB, Y~>. 1 1 T-\ 

Corner 15th and Liberty Sts. Pittsburgh, ra. 



ORDERS FOR FAMILY COAL SOLICITED. 

TELEPHONE CONNECTIONS. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 133 

WATERMELON PRESERVES. 

Pare off the outside green rind and cut in pieces two inches long, 
weigh, throw into cold water, skim out ; add a heaping teaspoonful 
each of salt and pulverized alum to two gallons of rinds; let stand 
until salt and alum dissolve; fill the kettle with cold water and let it 
come slowly to the boiling point, covering with a large plate to keep 
rinds under ; boil until soft, drain and put in the following syrup : 
Bruise and tie up four ounces of ginger root and boil in two or three 
pints of water until strongly flavored ; also boil in water until tender 
three or four sliced lemons ; make a syrup of the sugar and the water 
in which the ginger root and lemons were boiled ; add the rinds and 
sliced lemon to this and boil slowly for three-quarters of an hour. 

Mrs. R. Douglass, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PRESERVED TOMATOES, No. 1. 

Select nice, ripe, solid tomatoes ; scald and pare ; take an equal 
quantity of sugar and tomatoes ; boil slowly until the syrup is thick ; 
add a rind of a lemon or a little ginger root if preferred, or they are 
nice without either. 

Mrs. a. Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



TO PRESERVE A HUSBAND. 

Be careful in your selection ; do not choose too young, and take 
only such varieties as have been reared in a good moral atmosphere ; 
when once decided upon and selected, let that part remain forever 
settled, and give your entire thought to preparation for domestic use. 
Some insist on keeping them in a pickle, while others are constantly 
getting them into hot water. Even poor varieties may be made 
sweet, tender and good by garnishing them with patience, well sweet- 
ened with smiles and flavored with kisses to taste ; then wrap well in 
a mantle of charity; keep warm with a steady fire of domestic devo- 
tion and serve with peaches and cream. AVhen thus prepared they 

will keep for years. 

Aunt Hannah, Erie, Pa. 



134 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Four gallons of cleaned tomatoes, one-half of a gallon of apple 
sauce, five quarts of molasses, spiced to taste ; boiled to two gallons. 

M. A. Fowler, Derry Station, Pa. 



APPLE BUTTER. 

To two gallons of stewed apples add one and one-half pints of cider 
vinegar and four pounds of brown sugar ; boil down about one-third 
and season with lemon or other spice if preferred. 

Mrs. C. Snyder, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PEAR BUTTER. 

To one peck of Bartlett pears take one-fourth of a peck of sour 
apples ; remove the skins and cores from the pears and place them on 
the fire with water to nearly cover them ; place both apples and pears 
in the kettle and pour over them the juice from the boiled parings 
and cores ; add sugar to taste and boil until smooth, stirring con- 
stantly ; when done place in air-tight jars. 

Lucy A. De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PEACH BUTTER. 

Ten pounds of peaches, five pounds of white sugar, one pint of vine- 
gar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Excellent. 

Miss M. Smith, Allegheny City, Pa. 



QUINCE BUTTER. 

Four dozen quinces, one dozen apples ; when well cooked add six 
pounds of cofiee sugar ; boil one hour after you add the sugar. 

Mrs. Geo. Larimer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMON BUTTER, 

Three lemons, four eggs, two cups of sugar, small piece of butter ; 
place in a vessel over boiling water and remove when thick as jelly. 

BiBD Elliot, New Florence, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 135 



SPICED WATERMELON RIND. 

Pare the rind of a watermelon ; boil it one hour in clear water; 
make a syrup of two pounds of white sugar, one-half of a teacup of 
wine vinegar and one teacup of water; drain the water from the cook- 
ed rind and put it in the syrup ; add one tablespoonful of broken cin- 
namon, one tablespoonful of allspice and one tablespoonful of cloves; 

boil three hours. 

Mrs. T. Rankin, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



EUCHERED PEARS, No. 1. 

Pare one-half of a peck of pears ; lay in crock ; boil one pint of 
cider vinegar, three pounds of brown sugar, two ounces of stick cin- 
namon broken up, one ounce of whole cloves ; boil your vinegar, 
sugar and spices ; teem over your fruit and cover; leave stand twenty- 
four hours; then boil juice well; teem over your fruit, then stand 
twenty-four hours; the third time boil fruit with juice until you can 
stick a broom splint through them ; put your fruit in your crock ; 
then boil your juice until it thickens ; then they are ready for use. 
Euchered peaches are made just the same as the above. 

Mrs. a., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



EUCHERED PEARS, No. 2. 

Five pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one cup of vinegar, 

spiced to taste. 

Ella Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PRESERVED TOMATOES, No. 2. 

Pare the tomatoes, pierce them with a needle and lay on plates to 
•drain over night; do not use the juice; for each pound of tomatoes 
take one pound of granulated sugar and boil until the juice is jellied. 

Mrs. a., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CANNED PINE APPLE. 

Pare the fruit carefully and stew in a little sugar and water, until 
it can be pierced with a broom straw ; then put in jars, being careful 
to cover the fruit with the liquor ; seal air-tight. 

Mrs. a. Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



136 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

To ten pounds of pared pears take four pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, one teaspooni'ul ot cloves, one-half ounce of stick cinna- 
mon ; tie the spices up in a thin cloth and boil until the syrup is 
thick. 

Mrs. Ann Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Pare and then grate the quinces ; to one pint of the grated quinces 
add one pint of sugar and one one pint of water ; let come to a boil 
and then boil for twenty minutes ; if too thick add more water. 

Mrs. Geo. Keyser, Allegheny City, Pa. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Cut citron and boil in strong alum water for forty minutes ; then 
put them in clear water and let stand over night ; in morning change 
the water and boil until quite soft and the color is changed ; then 
make a syrup and add lemon, ginger and any spice you may wish. 
Mrs. Finley Torrens, Pittsburgh, East End. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 

Weigh the berries and allow a pound of coffee sugar for each pound 
of fruit ; place the sugar in the kettle, with just enough water to keep 
from sticking; when it has boiled transparent add the fruit and cook 
one-half of an hour, skimming constantly; then remove the berries to 
a flat dish and allow the syrup to boil twenty minutes, and add the 
fruit again and boil twenty minutes; remove from the fire and seal. 

Miss Aggie Douglass, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

EVERYDAY PRESERVES. 

One-half of a bushel of sweet apples, pared, quartered and sliced 
one-eighth of an inch thick, four gallons of sweet cider, six pounds of 
cheap sugar ; boil the cider one hour; add the apples and sugar, and 
boil until the apples are cooked the same color through. 

Mrs. K. M. Cameron, Derry Station, Pa. 



Old Country Tea House 

THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE 

TEA AND FAMILY GROCERY 

WEST OF NE W YORK. 



OUR FANCY AND STAPLE 
IgTrocepv • Je)ep(a:pfir)er)f . 

In this dEpartment we are excellsd by nn housE in the Country. 
Our linE of Fins GrocBriES consists of svEry uansty of 

California Fruits, Preserves in Cans, Jars and Pails, 
English Fruits, Marmalade and Jam, 

Crosse & Blaekwell's Pickles and Condiments, Catsups, 
Sauces and Relishes. 

Gordon & Dilworth's Fruits and Preserves. 

Raisins, French Prunes, Malaga Grapes and Figs. 
Nuts of Every Description. 
Imported Edam, Pineapple, Sap Sago, Roquefort, 
Neufchatel, Parmasson and Swiss Cheese, 
Fine New York State Cream Cheese, 

French Peas, Mushrooms, Artichokes and all variety of 
French Vegetables, 

Fine California Honey, Maple Syrup, 
Atmore's Celebrated Mince Meat, 

Fry's Chocolate Creams in Fancy Boxes, 
and lOO other 

Goads UEliuETEd to all parts of thE Tu/a Citiss, Ffee of Charge, 

'The Housekeeper's Guide,' our monthly price list, mailed free 
to any address. 



JAPANESE & CHINESE CURIO DEPARTMENT, 

The most wonderful exhibit of the kind in the city. Favors for the 
German. Articles for prog-ressive euchre parties. Ornamental and 
useful presents for all purposes. New goods arriving every day. 

Our Japanese Wareroom, on Second Floor, has been considerably en- 
larged, well ventilated, and conveniently arranged for the disrlay of 
the ware to the best advantage. PLEASE VISIT THIS DEPARTMENT 

We kindly solicit a share of your patronage. 
Yours, Very Respectfully, 

Mm, Hasla§® ^^ 3ori, 

18 DIAMOND, ;iVIARKET SQUARE), PITTSBURGH PA 



138 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

To twelve pounds of fruit take six pounds of sugar and one pint of 
vinegar; pare the fruit and stick a small piece of cinnamon, one clove 
and a small piece of mace in each peach>; put all on the fire together 
and boil until you can put a broom straw through them ; then seal 
air-tight. Pears can be spiced just the same way. 

Emma De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CANNED CORN. 

Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in one pint of water ; add one 
teaspoonful of this liquid to each pint of boiling corn. 

Mrs. Anna Pershing, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



SPICED GRAPES. 

Four pounds of grapes, two pounds of sugar, one ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half gallon of vinegar, one quart of water; put sugar and 
vinegar on to boil for one-half of an hour ; then let it cool and pour 
over the grapes, either on the pod or shelled, in earthen jars. 

Mrs. D. Coulter, ]5olivar, Pa. 



ALL SORTS. 



HINTS. 

In making frosting beat sugar and egg together, as it makes it 
lighter. 

When boiled frosting is not used, dredge the cake with flour and 
■wipe carefully before putting on the frosting ; then it will not run. 

One cup of sugar is used for every egg in making frosting. 

Cake should be frosted warm. 

In boiling fish place the flesh part down. 

In cutting cottage pudding use a hot knife. 

Chocolate should be made in porcelain, always using a silver spoon. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 139 

STUFFED STEAK. 

Get a nice flank steak and have a hole cut in it ; make a stuffing of 

bread and onions ; season with sage, pepper, salt and butter ; fill the 

steak and sew it up ; put in the pan with potatoes and dust with flour; 

salt and pepper ; add some butter on top of the steak and roast until 

done. 

Mrs. J. Snyder, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROAST PIGEONS. 

Wipe them quite dry ; truss them and season inside with pepper and 
salt ; put a piece of butter in each the size of a walnut ; have a hot 
fire and baste all the time they are cooking, which will take about 
iialf an hour ; garnish with parsley and serve with bread sauce. 

M. F. LiCHLiTER, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



GRANDMA'S OYSTER PIE. 

Pare and slice six potatoes and put on to boil in two quarts of 
ivater ; prepare some dough as for pies ; roll thin and cut in small 
■squares ; drop in the boiling water with the potatoes ; season with salt, 
pepper and a generous piece of good butter ; of the same pastry bake 
two squares the size of biscuit pan and as thick as pie crust; have all 
ready and when the pot pie is done drop in the oysters ; let come to a 
boil and serve ; place one crust on bottom of large steak or turkey 
dish ; dip a part of the pot pie on that, then another crust, and the 
remainder of the pot pie ; the soup should be thick and rich ; makes 
an excellent dish for dinner with cabbage salad for relish. 

Alice M. Lichliter, Allegheny City, Pa. 



PRESSED BEEF. 

Boil a shin of five pounds of meat until it will fall from the bone; 
chop it fine and set the liquor away to cool; when cool skim off* all the 
fat and put it on and boil down to a pint ; return the chopped meat to 
it while hot ; add pepper and salt and any spice you choose ; let it boil 
a few minutes, stirring all the while ; put into a mould to cool ; cut in 
slices for tea. 

Mrs. O'Neal, Crafton, Pa. 



140 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

RICE AND MEAT CROQUETTES. 

One cupful of boiled rice, one cupful of finely chopped cooked 
meat of any kind, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, two table* 
spoonfuls of butter, half a cupful of milk, one egg; put the milk on 
to boil, and add the meat, rice and seasoning; when this boils add the 
egg well beaten ; stir one minute ; after cooling shape, dip in egg and 
crumbs and fry as before directed. 

Mrs. J. C. Naser, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ENGLISH PUFFS. 

Boil one pint of milk, and while it is boiling stir ia flour enough 
for the spoon to stand up in the batter when it is cold ; let it cool and 
then add half a tablespoonful of melted butter, a little salt and six 
eggs, one at a time without beating; drop from a spoon into hot lard, 
and fry a light brown ; sprinkle sugar over them as soon as they are 
taken from the fat, and serve at once without sauce. 

Ida B. Eicher, Allegheny City, Pa. 



YANKEE BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of Indian meal, one cup of rye meal, one cup of flour, 
three cups of thick sour milk, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful 
of soda, a little salt; steam or bake four hours. 

Mrs. a. E. Hunt, who is a real Yankee. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

One and one-half cups of corn meal, same of flour, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one and one-half cup of sugar, one-half 
of a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of butter, two eggs, and milk 
enough to make a stiff batter ; bake in muffin rings in medium oven. 

Mrs. W. H. Covode, Ligonier, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 141 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

One quart Graham flour, two level tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 
sift the baking powder with the flour ; rub in the butter and stir in 
sweet milk enough to make a very stiff batter; drop into a pan pieces 
■the size of a walnut, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. K. M. Cameron, Derry Station, Pa. 



INDIAN BREAFAST CAKE. 

Two cups of sour milk, four tablespoonfuls of cream or butter, the 
same of brown sugar, two cups of Indian meal, one cup of flour. 

Mrs. a. B. Todd, West Elizabeth, Pa. 



TEA BISCUIT. 

Three pounds of flour, one quart of milk, six ounces of butter, two 
pennyweights of light soda, two ounces of cream of tartar ; bake in a 
quick oven. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

At night take two quarts of flour and rub in two tablespoocfuls of 
lard ; make a hole in the middle and put in one pint of cold boiled 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little salt and half a cup of 
yeast, or half a yeast cake dissolved in half cup of lukewarm water ; 
let this stand until morning without mixing ; then mix into a loaf and 
let stand until noon ; then roll out and cut round, spread on a little 
butter and fold over ; put in pans so they will not touch when risen, 
and let stand until ready to bake ; bake in hot oven, 

Mrs. C. M. Bryant, Buflfalo, N. Y. 




THE B. A. ELLIOTT CO. 

' Of 54 SIXTH ST., PITTSBURCJH, growing all the flow 

ers they use at their extensive cut; flower growing establish- 

1 1 ment, on Charles St., Allegheny, have at all times a large stock 

I'; of perfectly fresh flowers to ofler. These flowers are at least 

' ' 40 hours fresher than those brought here from the East. 



JOSEPH EHRSTEIN, 
Druggist EiuA n^- 

Corner 28lh 8t, and Penn Avenue, 




'Jpittsbixrgli, JPcl. 



Deutsche ^i.i0thclic. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 14 S 



FRENCH OMELETTE. 

Take six eggs beaten separately, a cup of milk, one teaspoonful of 
butter, a tablespoonful of flour and a pinch of salt; beat the yolks; 
add to them the butter, milk, flour and salt ; stir well together ; then 
add the beaten whites ; butter a long pan ; pour it in and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Mrs. Wesley Moore, Crafton, Pa. 



BAKIXt} POWDER. 

The following is the simplest and best baking powder known : Two 
pounds cream of tartar, one pound of bicarbonate of soda, two ounces 
of corn starch well mixed and sifted several times ; this powder will 
never fail if the articles are pure ; add a tablespoonful for each pound 
of flour. 

M. Blocher, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CORN PONE. 

Two cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of soda; 
bake twenty-five minutes. 

Mrs, Kate Thomas, Allegheny City, Pa. 

BREAD CAKE SPONGE. 

One cup of sponge, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one-half of a 
cup of butter, two eggs, one cup of raisins, one teaspoonful of soda. 

Miss K. L. Kennedy, Erie, Pa. 



ICED TEA. 

Use the best green or black tea or these mixed, and make stronger 
than when used warm ; bottle and place in ice chest or on ice until 
served ; use neither milk or sugar. 

Mrs. a. Wallaker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LATER CAKE. 

Half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour having two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar 
sifted in it; then add one teaspoonful of baking soda dissolved in a 
little milk. 

Mrs. Maggie Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



144 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

TAYLOR CAKES. 

One-half pound of brown sugar, three-fourths pound of butter, 
eight eggs, one quart of New Orleans molasses, one pint of water, two 
ounces of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger, allspice and cloves, three 
and a half pounds of flour ; drop on pans and bake in a moderate 
oven ; excellent. 

Mrs, a. H. Keally, Pittsburgh, East End. 



ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Peal and slice six oranges ; put in a glass dish a layer of oranges, 
then one of sugar, and so on until all the oranges are used, and let 
stand two hours ; make a soft boiled custard of yolks of three eggs, 
pint of milk, sugar to taste, with grating of orange peel to taste, and 
pour over the oranges when cool enough not to break dish ; beat whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in sugar, and put over the pudding. 

Mrs. Wm. Haney. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Set a quart of milk to boil ; stir into it the beaten yolks of six eggs; 
flavor to taste; beat the whites of eggs stifl"; when the custard is thick 
put it into a deep dish and heap the beaten eggs upon it ; put pieces 
of currant jelly on top and serve cold. 

Mrs. W. Cramp, Crafton, Pa. 



BUTIERMILK PUDDING. 

One tin of bread crumbs, one tin of buttermilk, two eggs well 
beaten, one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of baking soda, and 
a small lump of butter and a little grated nutmeg. Sauce. — Use 
sauce of flour and water, small lump of butter; sweeten and flavor to 
taste ; eat hot. 

Mrs. C. Bauersmith, Allegheny City, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 145 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

Make puff paste iu this way : To every pound of flour add three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, the yolk of one egg ; use cold water ; 
chop half the butter into the flour ; then stir in the egg and work all 
into a dough ; roll out thin and spread on some of the butter ; fold 
closely (butter side in) and roll again ; do this until the butter is used 
up, and keep the paste in a cool place while preparing the oysters ; 
set the oysters on the stove, in a saucepan, with liquid enough to cover 
them; as soon as they come to a boil skim them, stir in a little butter 
and pepper, and, if desired, a little cream ; line small tins with the 
paste, and put three or four oysters in each ; add a little of the liquor 
and then cover with paste; bake in a quick oven twenty minutes ; 
while hot wash once the top with a beaten egg, using a swab or brush, 
and set in the oven a minute or two to glaze. 

J. J, McIlyar, Allegheny City, Pa. 



BEEF SAUSAGE. 



To three pounds of beef, very lean, put one and a half pounds of 
suet ; chop very fine ; season with powdered sage, allspice, pepper and 
salt ; fry in cakes like pork sausage, or drop a spoonful between layers 
of batter on griddle and fry like flannel cakes. 

Mrs. O'Neal, Crafton, Pa. 



QUICK LOAF. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, two eggs thoroughly beaten, one liberal tablespoonful of butter, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar sifted in flour, one salt spoonful of salt ; beat well but 
quickly together, and bake in a well greased mould; test with a straw 
to see when it is done ; turn out upon a plate and serve hot. 

Mrs. a. W., Bolivar, Pa. 
10 



146 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

Trim off the superfluous fat and skin so as to give the chops a good 
shape; dip each one in beaten egg, roll in pounded crackers, and fry 
in hot lard; sprinkle with salt and pepper before rolling in the egg, 
or you may omit the cracker and broil on a gridiron over a clean fire. 

Mrs. Kate Reed, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



EGG ROLLS. 

Two cups of sweet milk, two eggs, a little salt, three and one-half 
small cups of sifted flour ; bake in hot gem pans. 

Ada Bailey, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FOR DRESSING EGGS. 

Take six eggs and boil until hard ; remove shell and cut in halves ; 
make a dressing of one cup of vinegar, one teaspoonful of sugar, pep- 
per and salt, butter the size of a walnut ; let come to the boil and 
thicken slightly with flour ; pour over your eggs and serve hot or 
cold. 

Lizzie A. Covode, Ligonier, Pa. 



EGG OMELETTE. 

One quart of milk, six eggs whites and yolks beaten separately, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch or flour dissolved in a little of the milk, 
season to taste, and add the whites of the eggs last; pour into a bak- 
ing pan in which is melted a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; bake 
in a moderately hot oven about twenty minutes. 

Bertie Shephard, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SWEET POTATO PONE. 

To one large grated sweet potato add two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
well creamed, with three of sugar and one teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg; beat light the yolks of four eggs and add to the above ; beat 
well together and then add lightly the well beaten whites; bake in a 
well buttered pan ; excellent eaten hot or cold. 

Mrs. M. F. Lichliter, Allegheny City, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 147 

WHITE SUGAR SYRUP FOR HOT CAKES. 

Five pounds of granulated sugar, two and a half pints of boiling 
water, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar ; boil from twenty minutes to 
half an hour; try small portion in a cup; as it cools if too thin boil 
still longer ; if too thick add water. 

Mrs. J. Bender, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

One cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two eggs and a heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder ; with these make a batter, adding one 
tablespoonful of sugar and a little salt ; pare and slice eight sour ap- 
ples and mix them in this batter ; have ready hot lard, and with each 
large spoonful of batter take one slice of apple and fry as you would 
doughnuts. 

Mrs. a. Wallaker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ENGLISH BREAD PUDDING. 

Butter three slices of bread on the loaf; cut very thin ; place a layer 
of the bread and butter in the pudding dish, half a pound of raisins 
and half a pound of currants washed and drained, layer of raisins 
and a layer of currants, then another layer of bread and butter, then 
another of your fruit, another layer of bread and butter, then anoth- 
er layer of your fruit, one pint of sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, 
coffee cup of sugar, a little grated nutmeg ; bake in moderate oven. 
Sauce. — Make a sauce of milk and sugar ; eat w'arm. 

Mrs. a., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Prepare short cake as you would pie crust and bake in bread pans, 
marking off into three inch squares, leaving it sufficiently thick to 
split when baked ; have your berries carefully picked over and slightly 
crushed and sweetened ; when ready to serve, butter the split short 
cake and spread with berries ; serve immediately. 

Mrs. a, Riley, 'Pittsburgh, Pa, 



++++-I-+++++++-M- ■!-+++ +4- ++-M-++-^ + -l- + -f--^++-F+++++++++-l--;-+T- + + -r++ + +-f++++HH-+++H-++++ 



DR. J. H. MAUST, 




No. 912 Penn Ave. 



Between 9th and 10th Sts. 



Pittslbur5h,Pa. 



Teeth extracted without paiu by a painless process. Finest Gold and other Fillings. 
All kinds of Artificial work done at Lowest Prices and warranted. 



-++4-++++ + -M- •;-+++■!-+-;-+++ -M--T-+-M--^ + -;-+++++-!-+++ + 1-+H- •)-+ + + ■■^■++++++1 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 149 

APPLE FLOAT, No. 1. 

Take six good sized apples and stew until thoroughly done ; then 
strain them through a colander and sweeten to taste ; beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth ; add the apples and flavor with lemon or 
vanilla ; serve with cream. 

Mrs. a. Hannen, Pittsburgh, East End. 



APPLE FLOAT, No. 2. 

To one quart of apples, partly stewed and well mashed, put the 

whites of three eggs well beaten and four heaping tablespoonfuls of 

loaf sugar ; beat them together fifteen minutes and eat with rich milk 

and nutmeg. 

Julia M. Hughes. Bolivar, Pa. 



KELLY ISLAND LAYER CAKE. 

, One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-halt 
cup of milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a grated lemon, a 
large tart apple, one egg and a cup of sugar ; boil four minutes ; spread 
on each layer when cold. 

Mrs. Jesse Yarnall, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ADDIE'S WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken up, put in a pan and cover with water ; let it stew 
as usual ; when done make a thickening of cream and flour; add but- 
ter, pepper and salt ; have ready a nice short cake, baked and cut in 
squares ; roll thin as for a pie crust; lay these cakes on a dish and pour 
the chicken and gravy over them while hot. 

Mrs. E. L. Long, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LIMA BEANS. 

Wash the shelled beans in cold water and boil them for one hour 
when done pass them through the colander and season with butter, 
salt and pepper ; if the beans are dried, soak them over night and boil 
for three hours. 

Miss Dollie Pore, Latrobe, Pa. 



150 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



LEMON MERINGUE. 

One lemon grated, four tablcspoonfuls of sugar, the yolks of three 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch or prepared cracker ; beat all to- 
gether in a pint measure ; fill up the measure with milk ; bake in a 
rich crust ; beat the whites with three tablcspoonfuls of pulverized 
sugar ; place on the pie when done ; then slightly brown in oven. 

Mrs Chas. Lockhart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, six tablcspoonfuls of sugar flavored 

with vanilla. 

Ella Vierheller, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POTATO PUFFS. 

Take cold roast meat (either beef, veal or mutton) ; clear it from 
gristle and chop fine ; season with pepper and salt ; boil and mash 
some potatoes and make them into a paste with one or two eggs ; roll 
it out with a little flour ; cut it round with a saucer ; put your season- 
ed meats on one-half; fold it over like a puflT; turn it neatly round and 

fry it a light brown. 

CoRNiE MoNDUE, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SWEET PEPPERS. 

First clean them out ; chop the cabbage fine ; stuff" them and sew 
them up ; put in salt water for twenty-four hours ; then take them out 
and to each teacup of vinegar add one tablespoonful of sugar ; put 
them in the vinegar and scald. 

Mrs. Jesse Yarnall, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Take a large dish and butter it and spread a rich paste over the 
sides and around the edge, but not on the bottom ; the oysters should 
be as large as possible ; drain off" part of the liquor from the oysters ; 
put them into a pan and season them with pepper, salt, spice and but- 
ter ; have ready the yolks of three boiled eggs. 

Mrs. Chas. Fife, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 151 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE (SWEET). 

Eight pounds of green tomatoes, sliced without peeling; four 
pounds of brown sugar, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of 
cloves, one quart of vinegar; boil the tomatoes two hours; add the 
vinegar and spice ; boil two hours longer and remove from the fire. 

Sadie Tanner, Frankfort, Ky. 



PICKLED CABBAGE. 

One large head of cabbage cut very fine with a chopping knife ; 
sprinkle two handfuls of salt and let stand ten minutes ; then squeeze 
dry with your hands into a crock ; then boil half a gallon of cider 
vinegar, two ounces of mustard seed, stick cinnamon and whole pep- 
per mixed together and one ounce of celery seed ; boil all together and 
pour over the cabbage when hot. 

Mrs. Martha Nicholls, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

Take three dozen large cucumbers ; if fresh, put them in brine four 
or five days ; if salt, soak in water twenty-four hours ; four heads of 
cabbage chopped fine ; let the cabbage lie in salt eight hours ; four 
dozen seed onions, fourteen green pepper pods, soaked in salt water ; 
squeeze all of the above ingredients as dry as possible with the hands ; 
then place a layer of the articles in a kettle, alternately with a layer 
of seasoning composed of two ounces of white mustard seed, one ounce 
of celery seed, one box of Coleman's mustard, one ounce of tumeric, 
two pounds of white sugar, the whole mixed with a moderate quan- 
tity of good strong vinegar ; boil one half hour or until it thickens 
and then bottle tight. 

Mrs. S. p. Tanner, Frankfort, Ky. 



MEAT CROQUETTES. 

Use cold roast beef; chop it fine and season with pepper and salt; 
add one-third the quantity of bread crumbs and moisten with a little 
milk ; have your hands floured ; rub the meat into balls ; dip it into 
beaten egg, then into fine pulverized cracker, and fry in butter ; gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Mrs. a. C. Taylor, Osborne, Pa. 



152 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Chop one-half peck of tomatoes, three onions, a gill of horse radish , 
three green peppers ; put them in a sieve and drain dry ; salt in layers 
and let them stand one night; drain the next day ; scald vinegar and 
pour over it ; let it stand two or three days and drain again ; scald a 
pound of sugar to a quart of vinegar, a tablespoonful of black pepper, 
the same of allspice, three ounces of ground cloves, three ounces of 
mustard, a gill of mustard seed ; boil the spices in a little vinegar. 

Mrs. Kate Wood8, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



WINTER SAUCE. 

Two gallons ot cabbage cut fine, one gallon ol green tomatoes 
sliced, one dozen of onions sliced, one ounce of tumeric powder, one 
ounce of celery seed, one ounce of whole allspice, one ounce of whole 
cloves, one ounce of ground ginger, one ounce of black pepper ground, 
one gill of saH, one-half pound of white mustard seed, one and a half 
pounds of white sugar, one gallon of wine vinegar ; mix all together 
and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Mrs. M. J. Phtck, Allegheny City, Pa, 



COLD SLAW. 

One-half of a head of cabbage chopped fine ; rub to a paste the 
yolks of three hard boiled eggs ; add a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
one teaspoonful of dry mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar and one 
gill of vinegar ; mix thoroughly with the cabbage and garnish with 
whites of eggs ; cut in rings. 

Mrs. C. Fife, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ROAST RABBIT OR SQUIRREL. 

Split through the breast and soak one hour in salt water; then put 
in a pan and slice an onion all over it ; sprinkle with celery seed and 
a little sage and a tablespoonful of butter ; place in the oven to roast. 

Mrs. S. p. Tanner, Frankfort, Ky. 
♦ 

COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, one measure 
of baking powder ; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Jesse Yarnall, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



JAS. McCABE. 



JNO. McCABE. 



Jas. McCabe & Bro. 



H 



UNERAL Directors, 

No. 2642 Penn Avenue. 

SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO EMBALMING, 



FINE STOCK OF 



81^rouds and glotl^ Severed (Easkets, 

AT REASONABLE TERMS 

Hearse anrj Carriages furnished. Carriages furnished for Balls. Parties 
Operas, &c. ^ 

^ ' Teuephome 652-2 



2^iis. JE. TiijLn:Ejsricj^, 

FASHIONABLE 



i^^kff ■ 




MILLIMEB Y. m 



-AND- 



Ladies' Fancy Goods and Notions, 

Corner 43d and Butlsr Streets, t-n 

— Pittsburgh 



154 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



YOUNG FOLK'S DEPARTMENT 



The most wholesome recipes that are will breed satiety, 
Except we should admit of some variety, 
Still kept within the list of good sobriety. 
Wherefore, if any think this book unseasonable. 
Men of reason may think they are unreasonable. 

John Ha.rington. 



CARAMELS. 

The white of three eggs beaten up very light, 
Mixed up with fine sugar both pure and right white ; 
Of J. Baker's chocolate take half of a cake, 
And set on hot water to melt but not bake. 
With your fingers make out in pyramidal form. 
And roll in the chocolate while yet it is warm ; 
Each piece set apart to dry and to cool, 
And lovers of sweets will say you're no fool. 

Rev. Cha8. Miller, Calcutta, India. 



COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

Two cups of grated cocoanut, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, the whites of three eggs beaten stiff; bake on buttered paper 
in a quick oven. 

Minnie Roney, Allegheny City, Pa. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup of grated chocolate, one cup of coffee sugar, one cup of New 
Orleans molasses, one cup of milk and butter the size of an egg ; boil 
about half an hour ; pour in pans, and before it becomes hai'd mark 
in small squares. 

Mrs. Clara Lee, Allegheny City, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 155 



CHOCOLATE CREAM DROPS. 

Two cups of pulverized sugar and one-half cup of milk ; boil to- 
gether three minutes; after beginning to boil all over then add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla ; then take off and stir until stiff and mould 
into drops. Coating.— Melt three-fourths of a cake of Baker's choco- 
late, drop cream into chocolate, and lay upon buttered paper until 
dry. 

Mrs. Hays, Plattsraouth, Neb. 



CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

Two cups of sugar and one-half cup of milk ; boil twenty minutes ; 
cool in a pan of cold water; grate two ounces of chocolate and melt 
over the tea kettle ; stir constantly. 

Ida Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CHOCOLATE GLAZE. 

One pound of sugar, one gill of water, f)ur ounces of chocolate 
grated ; boil all together almost to candy point; flavor with vanilla ; 
when partly cooled beat a short time ; spread over cake. 

M. BLonHER, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups of coffee sugar and one-half cup of cold water ; coil about 
fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring constantly ; remove vessel contain- 
ing candy and place in another vessel partly filled with cold water ; 
stir until it becomes creamy and add one teaspoonful of vanilla; shape 
into balls before it hardens ; grate chocolate and hold plate containing 
it over a kettle of boiling water ; when it becomes moist roll candy in 
chocolate and place on brown paper to harden. 

Mrs. Beebe, Allegheny City, Pa. 

HOREHOIND CANDY. 

Boil two ounces of horehound in three pints of water for one-half 
hour; strain carefully and then add three and a half pounds of brown 
sugar; boil quickly until it is as thick as taffy and then remove it and 
pour into well greased tin pans ; when cooled a little mark into small 
squares with a knife, 

R. A. Taylor, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



156 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

KISSES. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup of pulverized sugar, one small tea- 
spoonful of vinegar; beat stiff and bake in puffs. 

Mrs, Wm. Walker, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMON CANDY. 

Take a pound of loaf sugar and a cup of water, and ; fter cooking 
over a slow fire half an hour clear with a little hot vinegar ; take off 
the scum as it rises, testing by raising with a spoon, and when the 
" threads" will snap, pour into buttered pan; before pouring into pan 
add lemon or finely chopped nuts, or Brazil nuts sliced. 

Alice M. Lichliter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ICE CREAM CANDY. 

Two pounds of white sugar, one pint of water, one tablespoonful of 
cream of tartar; boil until it hardens in cold water; pull until white . 

Twin Sister, Coketown, Pa. 

ICE CREAM. 

Heat one quart of cream and two quarts ot milk almost to boiling, 
and pour by degrees into this eight eggs well beaten and one cup of 
sugar ; return to fire, stir constantly until it boils, and then set aside 
to cool ; add one spoonful of vanilla ; when it is cold put in freezer and 
freeze. 

Emma De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BUTTER SCOTCH, No. 1. 

One pound of " coffee A" sugar, butter the size of an egg; add as 
much cold water as will dissolve the sugar ; boil without stirring until 
it will easily break when dropped in cold water ; when done add few 
drops of extract of lemon or vanilla ; have a pan well buttered and 
pour in ; when partly cold mark in squares. 

Master Mac. H. Lichliter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BUTTER SCOTCH, No. 2. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter; boil 
until done without stirring. 

Minnie Roney, Allegheny City, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 1^^ 

BUTTER SCOTCH, No. 3. 

Three pounds of best brown sugar; boil with one and a half pints 
of water until candy hardens in cold water ; then add a half pound of 
fresh butter, which will soften the candy ; bull a few minutes until it 
again hardens and pour into trays ; flavor with lemon. 

Mrs Lewis, Blairsville, Pa. 



WHITE TAFFY. 

One pound of granulated sugar, one-half cup of water, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. 

Ella Welsh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

YELLOW TAFFY. 

One pint of molasses and two pounds of brown sugar; put in a ket- 
tle and cook until it breaks; try it in cold water; when done flavor to 
taste and pull it until it is a light yellow. 

Mrs. Geo. Lange, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



POPCORN BALLS. 

Boil a pint of molasses fifteen minutes ; have five quarts of popped 
corn in a pan and pour the boiling molasses over it ; stir until thor- 
oughly mixed and make into balls. 

Katie. 



VINEGAR CANDY. 

Three cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup of vinegar, one-hall 

cup of water, one-half teaspoonful of butter ; season with lemon ; mix 

the sugar, water and vinegar together ; boil until the candy is found 

to be brittle by dropping a little in cold water ; then add butter and 

lemon . 

Mrs. M. J. Lew^is, Blairsville, Pa. 

CREAM WALNUTS. 

Take two cups of coffee sugar and a half cup of water ; boil ten 
minutes, stirring constantly ; after boiling set the vessel in another 
vessel containing cold water and stir until stiff' ; flavor with a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla ; when cool enough make in little balls, putting kernels 

of English walnuts inside. 

Geo. Yarnall, Pittsburgh, Pa. 




JAS, W, GROVE, 

IMPORTER AND JOBBER IN 



-»^tcir^©irs:^^<- 



If Children's Carriages,Velocipedes 



vMiri'Uiii; 

^tcHl^i^ . 2Bicvcfci>, ♦ Baskets, 

S^^^^S SATCHELS, ETC. 

No. 504 WOOD STREET, p T TTQ BURGH 



TELEPHONE 272, 



y^ELSH BUG TITERS, 



DEALERS IN 




FINE'GROGERIES ^ffl 



NOTIONS- 



No. 2554 PENN AVE. 



PittslburQ]i,Pa- 



GOODS DELIVERED FREE OP EXPENSE. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 159 



MARSH MALLOW PASTE. 

Dissolve one pound of dean gum arable in one quart of water; 
strain and add one pound of refined sugar; place over a fire, stirring 
continually until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture has become 
of the consistence of honey ; next add gradually the whites of eight 
eggs well beaten until it loses its stickiness and does not adhere to the 
fingers when touched ; the mass may now be poured out into a pan or 
box slightly dusted with starch, and when cool divide into small 
squares or strips; just before turning out the paste it should be &&- 
vo^ed. Twin Sister, Coketown, Pa. 

CREAM ALMONDS. 

Have about one-half pound of almond nuts shelled and the white of 
one egg beaten as stifl?" as possible ; then put on the fire one pound 
of white sugar with just enough water to wet it and let boil till it 
drops like tafly ; take off and beat the egg in it till it looks like thick 
cream ; take some of it in your hands and roll an almond in it ; spread 
on a paper or board and let them dry a little while ; they will be 
ready to eat almost as soon as cold. 

Mattie Tanner, Frankfort, Ky. 

TART CANDY. 

Boil six tablespoonfuls of sugar, four of water and two of vinegar 
together for twenty minutes ; pour into buttered pans. 

Mamie Seaton, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

HALLOWEEN TAFFY. 

One quart of New Orleans molasses, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
one cup of brown sugar, butter the size of a hazel nut, one quart of 
blanched pea nuts ; boil molasses, vinegar, sugar and butter until it 
becomes brittle in water ; then remove from the fire and stir in one- 
half teaspoonful of baking soda until the color is changed ; have pre- 
pared buttered pie pans in which have been placed a layer of the 
nuts ; pour the tafiy over these and cover the top with nuts. 

Margie Douglass, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pound of confectioner's ^ugar, the white of one egg well beaten, 
one cup of milk and one tablespoonful of vanilla or lemon ; mix thor- 
oughly and mould in balls. Emma De Armitt, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



160 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 



An invalid's food should be prepared and presented with great care 
and neatness. A sick person is more fastidious than a well person. 
Do not prepare too much food at one time ; a small quantity daintily 
prepared will tempt the invalid to taste, "because it looks so nice," 
while a large amount will disgust. Spread a clean napkin on the 
tray and use as small and as nice dishes as you can. Don't send the 
same food to your patient the second time in the same dishes. Do not 
keep any article of food or drink standing in the sick room ; a little 
trouble more or less is nothing compared to the comfort and safety of 
the sick. Be careful not to burn the toast or scorch or smoke the 
food, and avoid all greasiness. A physician's directions should always 
be observed with the strictest fidelity. 

CRUST COFFEE. 

Very nourishing ; toast bread very brown ; pour on boiling water 
and strain; add cream, sugar and nutmeg if desired. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take the first and second joints of a chicken and boil in one quart 
of water until tender ; season with very little salt and pepper. 



JELLICE. 

One teaspoonful of eurrant, lemon, grape or cranberry jelly ; put in 
a goblet ; beat well with two tablespoonfals of water ; fill up with ice 
water and you have a refreshing drink for a fever patient. 

OATMEAL BLANC-MANGE. 

A delicious blanc-mange is made by stirring two heaping table- 
spoonfuls oatmeal into a little cold water ; then stir into a quart of 
boiling milk ; flavor and pour into moulds to cool, when cream or 
jelly may be eaten with it. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 161 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Put two heaping tablespoonfuls of oatmeal in one quart of cold 
water ; stir until it commences to boil ; cook one hour ; do not let it 
scorch ; season with salt, sugar and any spice desired. For infants and 
very sick patients it must be strained and not salted. 

M. F. LicHLiTER, Allegheny City, Pa. 

MULLED BUTTERMILK. 

Put on good buttermilk, and when it boils add the well-beaten yolk 
of an egg; let boil up and serve, or stir into boiling buttermilk thick- 
ening made of cold buttermilk and flour; excellent for convalescing 
patients. 

Mes. W. Stewabt, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



PANADA. 

Take two rich crackers and pour on boiling water ; let stand a few 
minutes ; beat up an egg and sweeten to taste ; stir all together ; grate 
nutmeg to suit the invalid, or bread into a pint bowl of toasted bread, 
and pour over boiling water, adding a small lump of butter ; sweeten 
and flavor to taste. 

A. McKee, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

UNCOOKED EGG. 

This is quite palatable and very strengthening; put the yolk of an 

egg in a goblet ; add teaspoonful of sugar ; beat well and flavor of any 

kind desired ; add rich milk or cream ; stir in lightly the well-whipped 

white of the egg. 

M. F. LicHLiTER, Allegheny City, Pa. 



BEEF TEA. 

Take a pound of juicy lean beef and mince it ; put it with its juice 
into an earthen vessel containing a pint of tepid water ; let this stand 
for one hour; stoutly beat to boiling ; boil three minutes and strain ; 
stir in a little salt ; if allowed pepper and allspice may be added. 
Mutton tea may be prepared same way. 

J. H. NoBBS, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
11 



162 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

CRUST COFFEE. 

Toast bread very brown ; pour on boiling water ; strain and add 
cream and sugar and nutmeg if desired. 



CREAM SOTTP. 

One pint of boiling water and a half teacupful of cream ; add bro- 
ken pieces of toasted bread and a little salt. 



BAKED MILK. 

Bake two quarts of milk for eight or ten hours in a moderate oven, 
in a jar covered with writing paper tied down ; it will then be as thick 
as cream, and may be used by weak persons. 

EGG GRUEL. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful of sugar ; beat in the 
white separately ; add a teacup of boiling water to the yolk ; then stir 
in the white and add any seasoning; good for a cold. 

Bird Sheaffer, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



SAGO CUSTARD. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of sago in a tumbler of water an hour or 
so ; then boil in same water until clear ; add a tumbler of sweet milk ; 
when it boils add sugar to taste, then a beaten egg and flavoring. 



HOT LEMONADE. 

Cut the lemons through the center and take out the seeds ; then 
squeeze out the juice; to every lemon take one-fourth cup of sugar 
and a pint of boiling water ; sprinkle a little black pepper in this and 

drink while hot. 

Maud Aughinbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa, 



POACHED CRACKERS. 

Place enough butter crackers in a covered tureen to fill it ; sprinkle 
a half cup of white sugar over them and butter the size of an egg ; 
this done cover the contents with a cup of boiling water and place the 
lid on quickly and serve in ten minutes. 

Juniata De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 163 

SOFT TOAST. 

Toast well, but not too brown, a couple of thin slices of bread • put 
them on a warm plate and pour over boiling water ; cover quickly 
with another plate of the same size and drain the water off; remove 
the upper plate, butter the toast, put in the oven one minute and 
serve at once. 

Mrs. Jenny Snyder, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
PA>ADA. 

taste""' ^""'^'"^ ''^^'' ""''' ^""'^^ '""^^ crackers; sugar and nutmeg to 

Annie Bennett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

A SUMMER DRINK. 

The grated rind of a lemon, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar 
half a cup of loaf sugar and one pint of boiling water. This is ..ood 
to purify the blood. * 

Annie Bennett, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

COUGH SYRUP. 

Take one ounce of boneset and one ounce of flaxseed ; boil and 
strain ; then add one pint of molasses and a half pound of loaf sugar. 

J. C. Stewart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TO STOP BLEEDING. 

Take a handful of flour and bind on the cut or cover with a cob- 
web. 

COUGH REMEDY. 

Two ounces of horehound, two ounces of elecompane, two ounces of 
comfrey, two ounces of spinard, three pints of water ; boil to half a 
pint ; strain and add one pint of honey and one-half pint of white wine 
vinegar ; take one tablespoonful three times a day. 

Mrs. Chas. Snyder, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

HOARSENESS. 

White of one egg beaten to a stiff" froth, well sweetened, and juice 
of one lemon added. Take a teaspoonful about every half hour. 

Blanche Manifold. 



164 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



FOR DIPHTHERIA. 

Inasmuch as our city and surrounding vicinity is seemingly never 
without alarming eruptions of this terrible complaint. Every family 
should be made familiar with the modes of successful relief, and as 
the Christian ladies who compile this volume intend therein to afford 
such immediate and remote helps to the suffering as can be procured, 
they confidently rely upon the good results assured by the simple pro- 
cess placed in their hands, for this volume of formulas, by S. C, Greene 
of this city. Dr. Delthill, of the French Academy of Medicine, in a 
detailed report of numerous cures, says the vapors of tar and turpen- 
tine will dissolve the fibrinous exudations which choke up the throat 
in croup and diphtheria. R Equal parts of tar and turpentine are 
placed in a pan or cup and ignited, the vapors are inhaled, and relief 
is said to follow immediately. 

S. C. Greene, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FOR CHOLERA. 

R Nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, of each §1; capsicum, 25. 
Let these be ground and added to one pint of cognac brandy and di- 
gested three or four days. The dose for immediate effect should be 
one teaspoonful and about a teaspoonful of white sugar, with a table- 
spoonful of boiling water added and supped as warm as possible. 
May be taken for all choleric pains, dysentery and diarrhoea. In the 
great plague of 1832 this remedy cured four hundred successive cases 
of malignant Asiatic cholera, and in the hand of the cantributor has 
checked many obstinate acute dysenteries, as well as chronic diarrhoea. 
No measure of value can be placed upon a formula so effectual, and 
may be prepared by anyone and held ready for use. 

S. C. Greene, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TO PREVENT BED SORES. 

A crock of fresh water placed daily under the bed of any sick per- 
son will prevent bed sores. B. M. 



TO PREVENT DISCOLORING AFTER A BRUISE. 

To prevent discoloring the flesh after a fall or bruise, rinse a cloth 
out of hot water and lay on immediately, and it will keep the blood 
in circulation and prevent it discoloring. 

Mrs. Hattie D. Taft, Sturbridge, Mass. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 165 



EARACHE. 

Five drops of chloroform on a little cotton in the bowl of a pipe — 
clay pipe is the best — then blow the vapor through the stem into the 
aching ear and instant relief will be afforded. 

Mrs. Hattie D. Taft, Sturbridge, Mass. 



ROUGH OR CHAPPED HA^DS. 

One of the best remedies for rough or chapped hands is the follow- 
ing : One ounce of glycerine, one ounce of rose water, six drops of 
carbolic acid. In cold weather when it is necessary to wash the hands, 
apply a few drops while they are moist and rub well into the skin. 
It may also be used for the face. 



FOR COLOGNE. 

Oil of lavender, one drachm ; oil of lemon, two drachms; oil of 
bergamont, two drachms; oil of rosemary, two drachms ; oil of cloves, 
eight drops ; tincture of musk, ten drops ; rectified spirits of wine, one 
pint. 



REMEDY FOR COUGH. 

One ounce of elecampane root, one ounce of wild cherry bark, one 
ounce of comfrey root, one ounce of horehound ; boil well in two 
quarts of water; add one pound of brown sugar; strain and add one 
pint of best spirits. Take one-half of a wineglass three times a day. 



FOR BURNES. 

Common baking soda has been found to cui-e burns or scalds, afford- 
ing immediate relief when promptly applied. For a dry burn the 
soda should be made into a paste with water ; for a scald or wet burn 
powdered soda (or borax will do as well,) should be dusted on. 

Mrs. Hattie D. Saft, Sturbridge, Mass. 



(OLDS. 

One quart of water, two lemons sliced and seeds removed, ten cents 
worth of rock candy, ten cents worth of best gum arabic ; boil down 
to one pint and keep stirring. Blanche Manifold. 



166 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

One quart of juice, one ounce of cinnamon, one-half of an ounce of 
cloves ; boil until the strength is extracted ; skim while boiling ; strain, 
then add one pound of white sugar ; boil a few minutes ; when cold 
add one pint of good brandy ; bottle. 

Mrs. Mary Johns. 



TO PUT 0> BURNS. 

Cover a cloth thickly with baking soda ; wet it with cold water and 
cover the burn completely ; let it remain until all the fire is drawn 
out. 

Mrs. D. W. Stofiel, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



diRUEL FOR THE SICK. 

To one pint of boiling water add two tablespoonfuls of oat meal 
mixed in a little cold water ; stir into the boiling water and boil well ; 
to this add a small pinch of salt, a handful of currants, well washed 
and sweetened to taste, and flavor with nutmeg. 

Mary Liz. 



DELICATE DISH. 

Take water crackers, pour boiling water over them and let stand 
one minute, then drain off and butter, and eat with fruit or jelly of 
of any kind. 

Mary Liz. 



A RECIPE FOR CASES OF DYSENTERY. 

The following recipe is recommended as an excellent cure for dys- 
entery. The cost at any drug store for putting up is about fifteen 
cents : Three drachms of prepared chalk, three drachms of white 
sugar, one-sixth of an ounce of paragoric, one drachm of prepared 
gum arable ; make a mixture ; dose, after shaking well, one table- 
spoonful for adults and one-half tablespoonful for children, every two 
hours until relieved. 



MUSTARD PLASTER. 

In making a mustard plaster mix the mustard with the white of an 
egg and it will not blister, no matter how long it is left on. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 167 



RAW EGGS FOR THE SICK. 

We may speak of an article, highly nutritious, easily digested and 
retained, and but little used, viz., raw eggs. The only objections to 
their use is the individual objections of the patients, and this only be- 
fore the first is taken, for they seldom object afterward. The egg may 
be broken into a glass, care being taken that the yolk is not broken, 
and a little salt and pepper added if desired. The patient has scarce- 
ly the trouble of swallowing it, for it goes down of itself. We have 
seen patients retain easily and even relish a raw egg, who could retain 
nothing else, more than six hundred having been taken in one case 
within three or four months. It goes without saying that the egg 
should be carefully selected ; and, indeed, for fear that one which has 
seen its best days should disgust the patient, it were better to prepare 
the egg out of his sight. 

Florexck Ahl, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



EGG LEMONADE. 

Take the juice of half a lemon, one heaping tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar, one very fresh eg^ ; put all in a goblet ; fill it with 
water and stir with an egg-beater until the egg is well beaten. This 
makes a cooling and nutritious drink. 

Julia De Armit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

A REMEDY FOR NEURALGIA IN THE FACE. 

Toast a slice of bread and scald with boiling water; put between a 
flannel and put to the face ; it will draw the cold out and stop the 
pain. 



SORE MOUTH. 

Take an ounce of bayberry powder and make a weak tea ; rinse the 
mouth frequently with this solution; it is an excellent remedy. 

Mrs. W. Stewart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



BEEF TEA. 

Take a small piece of juicy lean beef and pound it until very ten- 
der ; then place it in a wide mouthed bottle and cork tight ; then place 
the bottle in a kettle of cold water and allow it to boil for one hour or 
longer if possible. Mrs. Chas. Potter, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



168 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

WEAK BACK REMEDY. 

Bathe the back with a liquid made by using a beef's gall, having 
poured over it one pint of alcohol ; use this frequently. 

Mrs. C. Hooten, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ARROTVROOT. 

Take two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot and mix smoothly with a little 
water ; pour over this one-half pint of boiling water ; season with 
lemon juice. If made for children it can be made thicker than the 
above and thinned with milk. 

Mrs. Geo. Yarnall, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



LEMONADE. 

One-half of a lemon and a lump of sugar to taste ; pare the rind of 
the lemon thinly; cut the lemon into thick slices and remove as much 
as possible of the white outside pith and all the pips ; put the lemon, 
the peel and sugar into a jar ; pour over the boiling water ; cover 
closely and in two hours it will be fit to drink ; it uhould either be 
strained or poured off from the sediment. 

Mrs. England, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



ONION GRUEL. 

Slice a few onions and boil in a pint of new milk ; stir in a sprinkle 
of oatmeal and a very little salt ; boil till the onions are quite tender ; 
then sup rapidly and go to bed. 



ELDERBERRY SYRUP. 

Take elderberries perfectly ripe ; wash and strain them ; put a pint 
of molasses to a pint of juice; boil it twenty minutes, stirring it con. 
stantly ; when cold add to each quart a pint of French brandy ; bottle 
and cork it tight. It is an excellent remedy for cough. 



COLD ON THE CHEST. 

A flannel dipped in boiling water and sprinkled with turpentine, 
laid on the chest as quickly as possible, will relieve the most severe 
cold or hoarseness. 

Mrs. England, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 169 



BURNS AND SCALDS. 

A burn or scald can be instantly relieved by the use of commou 
baking soda ; put two tablespoonfuls of soda in a half cup of water ; 
wtt a piece of linen cloth in solution and lay it on the burn ; the pain 
will disappear as if by magic ; if the burn is so deep that the skin has 
peeled off, dredge the dry soda directly on the part affected. 

Mks. England, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



A FEW HINTS. 

A bag of hot sand relieves neuralgia. 

A hot, strong lemonade taken before bed time breaks up a bad cold. 
A little soda water will relieve sick headache caused by indigestion. 
Consumptive night sweats may be arrested by sponging the body 
nightly in salt water. 

Mrs. England, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



FAMILY RECIPES. 



CEMENT FOR FAMILY JARS. 

Take a large portion of mutual love and stir in it all the forbear- 
ance you have on hand ; add to this a readiness to forgive and general 
good temper ; mix well together and you have an admirable cement ; 
to avoid breakage keep all family jars in the back shelf. 



A DELICIOUS CREAM. 

Let the milk of true faith stand long enough and it will yield the 
cream of assurance; flavor with essence of love. 



TO MAKE A HOT STEW. 

Keep all the troubles of life locked up in the heart and carefully 
nurse them day and night; if you have not enough troubles of your 
own, borrow all you can from your neighbors, and see to it that you 
cross every bridge before coming to it. 



170 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

TO PICKLE CRA.BS. 

As far as possible meddle with other peoples' business ; look after 
their affairs more than your own, and always act on the rule of policy 
rather than on that of truth and honesty. 

COMMON FRITTERS. 

Indulge in novel reading, silly conversation, gossiping and late 
rising, and your time soon fritters away. Heavenly pilgrims have no 
time to waste. 



TARTS. 

Bottle until ready to use, and when an occasion presents itself gar- 
nish them with the froth of wit, and then give them to others. A sure 
recipe to wound the feelings and lead to general sourness. 



TO CURE STAMMERING. 

Repeat the various names of the Japanese embassy on the run, and 
then reverse your engine and repeat them backward. 

TO PREVENT SLEEPING IN CHURCH. 

Accidentally leave your house door unfastened, and just as the 
minister commences his sermon remember the fact, and at the same 
time call to mind that your purse was left lying on the table, 

M. D. LlCHLITER. 

FOR CLOTHES THAT FADE. 

One ounce of sugar of lead in a pail of rain water; soak over 
night. 



COAL FIRE. 

If your fire is low throw on a tablespoonful of salt; it will do much 
good. 



A CEMENT FOR MENDING CHINA. 

When your china is broken it can be made whole by mixing flour 
with the white of an egg to paste; hot water does not injure but har- 
dens this simple cement. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 171 



TO CLEAN FIRE IRONS OR STAIR RODS. 

Take powdered bath brick ; wet a piece of old flannel with turpen- 
tine and add bath brick ; rub the article and brighten immediately 
with a dry piece of flannel. 



TO CLEAN FIRE FRONTS. 

To one cup of cold coffee add one tablespoonful of molasses ; take 
a dark rag and wash off" the front when cool. 



TO CLEAN BLACK DRESS GOODS. 

Soap tree bark, with boiling water added, is good for cleaning black 
dress goods. 



FURNITURE POLISH. 

Four ounces of linseed oil, two ounces of wine vinegar, one and a 
half ounces of turpentine, one-fourth ounce of ether, <ine-fourth ounce 
of butter of antimony ; shake well before using. 



TO STOP CRACKS IN IRON VESSELS. 

Take wood ashes and salt, and by adding a little water you will 
have a paste which can be applied to the cracks. 



TO MAKE CALICO WASH WITHOUI FADING. 

To one gallon of boiling water add three-fourths of a pint of salt ; 
place the calico in this solution when it is boiling and let it remain 
until the water is cold. This fixes the colors, and all danger of its 
fading is removed. 



TO KEEP MOSQUITOES FROM BITING. 

To one ounce of quassi-chips put one pint of boiling water ; let it 
stand until cold and strain and put in bottles ; when retiring wet the 
hands and face freely, and the miserable pests will let you have some 
rest. 

TO CLEAN BRASS KETTLE. 

Scour with soap and ashes ; then put in a half pint of vinegar and 
a handful of salt ; put on stove anc" let come to a boil ; take a cloth, 
wash thoroughly, and rinse out with water. 



172 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



STARCH POLISH. 

Three ounces of white wax and six ounces of spermaceti ; melt to- 
gether and cool in cakes. To a pint of starch put in a piece of polish 
the size of a pea. 



WASHING FLUID, No. 1. 

One pound of sal-soda, one-half pound of unslaked lime and one 
gallon of water; let this boil twenty minutes and then drain and cork 
tight for use. Directions for Use. — Soak the clothes in cold water ; 
then soap well and boil twenty minutes, using two-thirds of a cup of 
fluid to a boiler of clothes. 

Mrs. T. B. Stewart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 



WASHING FLUID, No. 2. 

Four and a half gallons of soft water, one pound of unslacked lime, 
one pound of rosin soap and three and a half pounds of soda ash ; 
boil one hour. Soak the clothes over night, soap the dirty spots, and 
boil before washing ; two-thirds of a pint to a boiler of water; rinse 
well after washing. 



CARPET CLEANSER. 

Mix one gallon of water and two tablespoonfuls of ammonia ; 
wring flannel cloths out of this and rub the carpet ; afterwards rub 
with a clean dry cloth. 

CARPET FLUID. 

Boil one pound of bar soap in one gallon of water ; after melting 
add four ounces Of borax and eight ounces of sal soda; stir well ; add 
four gallons of water and four ounces of ether. 



FOR SPRAINS. 

The white of an egg and salt mixed to a paste is one of the best 
remedies for sprains or bruises ; rub well the parts affected. 



Wash gilt frames with the water in which onions have been boiled 
and the flies will not touch them. 

Benzine will take grease out of carpet and leave no stain. 

French chalk will take grease out of cloth ; scrape it fine on the 
spot, cover with a piece of brown paper, and hold a warm iron on it. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 173 



MUCILAGE. 

Melt together eight ounces of gum arabic, one ounce of sugar, eight 
ounces of water and four ounces of vinegar ; this will not get sour. 

TO KEEP EGGS. 

Place a half inch layer of salt in the bottom of the vessel used, and 
set your eggs close together on the small end ; be sure that the small 
end is down ; cover them over with salt so that there are no openings ; 
then place in another layer of eggs and cover again with salt, and so 
on until all the eggs are packed ; cover the vessel tight and place it 
where there is no danger of freezing, and the eggs will keep for any 
length of time. 

W. A. Proudfit, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

TO CLEAN ALPACA. 

Sponge with strained coffee; iron on wrong side, having black cam- 
bric under the goods. 

TO STIFFEN LINEN COLLARS AND CUFFS. 

Add a small piece of white wax to a pint of fine starch and mix 
with this one teaspoouful of brandy ; if the iron sticks, soap it. 

TO REMOTE INK STAINS FROM CLOTHING. 

Dip the spots in pure melted tallow ; wash out the tallow and the 
ink will disappear. 



FRUIT STAINS. 

Colored cottons or woolens stained with wine or fruit should be put 
in alcohol and ammonia ; then sponge off gently with alcohol ; after 
that, if the material will warrant it, wash in tepid soap-suds 

FOR FLIES. 

Burn pepper or any other strong spice on a shovel ; they dislike 
spices and will flee from it. 



SEALING WAX. 

Sealing wax is made of two parts of beeswax and one of resin, 
melted together. 



174 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



lir)fs f© 1 



lusel^eepeps. 



.p< 



For ivy poison apply sweet oil. 
Kerosene oil will remove rust in iron. 
Keep tea in a close canister or closet. 
Keep cofiee by itself and closely covered. 
Keep bread or cake in a tin box or stone jar. 
Use whiting moistened with kerosene to scour tins. 
A newspaper is preferable to a brush for polishing a stove. 
Frequent sponging with warm soda water will relieve fever. 
A hot iron applied to old putty will soften it almost instantly. 
Unslaked lime cleans small articles of polished steel, like buckles, 
etc. 

If salt is strewn over carpets before they are swept, it will tend to 
freshen their colors. 

The annoyance of squeaking soles on boots may be disposed of by an 
application of linseed oil. 

The fumes of a brimstone match will remove berry stains from a 
paper, book or engraving. 

When corks are too large to go into a bottle, throw them into hot 
water and they will soften. 

One-half teaspoonful of soda in a half cup of water will relieve 
headache caused by indigestion. 

Matting can be easily cleaned by thorough sweeping after sprink- 
ling salt or moist corn meal upon it. 

A dish of cold water placed in an oven that is too hot for baking 
will speedily reduce the temperature. 

A little whiting and a few old newspapers are almost indispensable 
for polishing the windows and mirrors. 

Oranges, lemons and similar acid fruits should be put up in glass 
vessels, as the acid readily attacks tin plate. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 175 



To test eggs, place them in water, and if the large end turns down 
they are fresh. 

Corn starch is a good substitute for eggs in cookies and doughnuts; 
one tablespoonful of starch is equal to an egg. 

An application of distilled water or rain water, with which has been 
mixed a small amount of cream of tartar, will cure redness of the eyes. 

For iced tea it is claimed that a cold infusion is preferable to a hot 
one. Pour cold water on this dry tea at least four hours before it is 
needed for drinking; place it in the ice chest and add the ice when 
served. 

Brass, copper or tin vessels should never be used in making pickles, 
as the action of the acid frequently produces poison. A porcelain or 
granite iron vessel is best for pickle-making. 

There are innumerable uses for lime water. If good milk disagrees 
with a child, three or four tablespoonfuls of lime water to a pint of 
milk will usually assist digestion. 

One of the best liniments for stiff necks and joints, or to relieve in- 
ternal swelling, is a mixture of one part ammonia to two of olive oil 
This should be well rubbed in and frequently applied. 

To prevent mould forming on fruit jellies, pour a little melted par- 
affine over the top. It will harden into a solid cake when it cools and 
It can be easily removed. It can be saved and used again next season 

With due observation of sanitary laws, plenty of wholesome food 
and fresh air, the acquirement of a little medicinal intelligence and 
the exercise of a little surgical skill, the average family will not often 
require the services of a physician. 

An excellent method of administering castor oil to children is 
arrived at by pouring the oil into a pan over a moderate fire then 
breaking an egg into it and stirring well. Flavored with a little sugar 
or currant jelly, the mixture will not be disagreeable. 

To prevent glassware and dishes from cracking while being in use 
put on a pot of cold water and add one pint of salt ; put in what ever 
you wish to keep from cracking ; let the water come to a boil ; then 
lift ofl and let the dish, or whatever it may be, cool off in the same 
water. 



176 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 



Lime water used in the same manner will prevent flatulence in 
adults and counteract pain from wind in the stomach. For acidity of 
the stomach it is one of the best remedies. A child of two years or 
so may be given a teaspoonful. A gill or more is required for an 
adult. A larger portion will have no bad effects. 



We have a remedy here which has proved a sure cure for chills and 
fever : Beat up a raw egg with one teaspoonful of salt and one of vin- 
egar, and eat with cracker the first thing in the morning. If the salt 
proves too strong, use one-half of it, Take it until there is no sign of 
malaria remaining in the system. 



Nothing better for drawing the heat out of burns has been discov- 
ered for hundreds of years than carron oil. The relief it aflfords is 
instantaneous. It is made of equal parts of lime water and olive oil. 
It has been known and used by medical men for a very long time. 
Simple as it is, the knowledge of it has been confined to a very lim- 
ited number. 



Paper bags that have been emptied can be made useful in many 
ways. They are handy to cover the lamp-chimney to keep off" flies 
and dust ; to cover the glass jars of canned fruit when set on closet 
shelves, as they keep the fruit from turning dark ; are good to lay over 
the top of bread or cake in the oven when baking too fast ; placed over 
a pitcher with ice in it they will prevent too rapid melting. 



A bottle of lime water should always stand ready for use in every 
household. One gill of good lime is enough for a quart of water. 
Put the lime and water into a tall bottle and let it stand where it is 
not jarred. Have the lime first slaked with water before putting it 
into the bottle. The lime will settle, leaving clear lime water at the 
top. Pour this off" as required and add more water. The lime should 
be removed and fresh lime put in once a year. 



Pittsburgh Cook Book. 177 



^As 0f i\)<t ^eikf. 



Beauty and health constitute a royal inheritance. 
Pure air and plenty of it is better than any patent medicine. 
The sunlight will give a fresher tinge to a lady's cheek than any 
French powder. 

To Keen the Hands Smooth. — Rub them gently with pumice stone. 

For the Hair. — Wash in cold sage tea. For dandruff a wash of 
camphor and borax, an ounce of each into a pint and a half of cold 
water; after using rub a little pure oil into the scalp. A lotion of 
borax and glycerine, two drachms of each to eight ounces of distilled 
water, is cooling, and allays dryness of the skin. Brushing is a more 
effective stimulant than water. 

For Chapped Hands, Face and Lips.— Ten drops of carbolic acid in 
one ounce of glycerine ; apply freely at night. 

To Remove Sunburn — Scrape a cake of pure brown Windsor soap 
to a powder; add one ounce each of eau de cologne and lemon juice; 
mix well and form into cakes. 

The use of gloves, especially kids, help to preserve the softness of 
the hands. The nail brush should be used vigorously. Biting nails 
is a bad habit. To break children of it dip the finger ends in a solu- 
tion of aloes. The nails should be cut frequently, always oval shape. 

Do not plunge the face or hands into cold water when suffering 
from sunburn or exposure to wind or water. It is a shock to the sys- 
tem and will permanently injure the complexion. Wait until cooled 
or bathe them in sweet milk, cream or pure buttermilk. 



178 Pittsburgh Cook Book. 

Queen Bess Complexion Wash. — Put in a vial one drachm of ben- 
zoin gum in powder, one drachm of nutmeg oil, six drops of orange 
blossom tea, or elder flower or apple blossom ; boil down to one tea- 
spoonful and strain; put in a pint of sherry wine. Bathing the face 
night and morning will remove freckles and give a beautiful com- 
plexion. 

Care of the Teeth. — Most tooth powders are injurious, and if used 
the mouth should be carefully rinsed. The following'preparation is 
harmless, preserves the teeth and arrests decay : Dissolve two ounces 
of borax in three pints of boiling water, and before it is cold add one 
tea?poonful of spirits of camphor. Bottle for use a tablespoonful of 
this mixture with as much tepid water as is sufficient for daily use. 

How to Remove Corns. — The strongest vinegar applied night and 
morning with a small brush will remove them in a short time. Ap- 
ply with a brush a solution of per-chloride of iron for two weeks. 
A large cranberry cut in half and bound to the toe is very good. 

Garden perfumes are charming in linen when put away, and are 
much more delicate and more desirable than the stronger odors so 
freely used. Always preserve the cuttings of rose-geraniums in envel- 
opes, sweet clover blossoms, lavender and any other simple perfumes 
for such purposes. 

Chapped Hands and Lips. — Take one-half pound of honey and one- 
fourth pound of mutton tallow; cook together until well mixed ; then 
remove from the fire and pour into a bowl and keep stirring until 
cold. 




JAS. DOUGLAS. A. D. KEALLY. JAS. A. JOHNSTON. 

DOUGLAS, KEALLY & CO. 

MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS rN 

FLOORING,*WEATHER* BOARDS, 



L UMBER, 



LATH, SHINGLES, SASH, DOORS, BLINDS 

AND 

MOULDINGS. 

Bids Given on all Kinds of Planing Mill Work. 

SITUATED REAR OF LIBERTY HALL, ' 

20th WARD, PittshvurgK, Feu. 

H. H. HAYS. 

Nos. 2634 & 2636 Penn Ave. ^^Pittsburgh Pa. 

BOUGHT, SOLD AND EXCHANGED. 

We also make a specialty of New Furniture, Bedroom S'ets, 

Cushion Parlor Suits, Oil Paintings, Chromos, Wall 

Brackets, Mirrors, Vases, Comforts, Blankets, 

Pillows, all kinds of Carpets, and 

ALL KINDS OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS. 

CALL AND EXAMINE OUR STOCK. 

Nos. 2634 and 2636 Penn Avenue, 

NEAR TWENTY-SEVENTH ST. 

We have been enlarging our store, and have a complete stock of Latest Styles 
and Lowest Prices. 




Over Nos. 538 and 540 Penn Ave. 



And 40, 42, 44, 46, 48 and 50 Sixth Street. 

THIRTY TEACHERS. OVER 800 STUDENTS LAST YEAR, 

The L'^adingr Business College and Normal School of the State. 

The only College in (he countrv having a whole Faculty of Specialists. 
Tlie English Training School for Boys, 
The Normal Department, 
Tiie Penmanship Department, 
The Ladies' Seminary Department, 
The College of Commerce, 
Tlie School of Elocution and Oratory, 
The School of Sliort-hand and Type Writing, 
Tlie Conservatory of Music, 
The Night School, Saturday Normal Classes. 
Send for Circulars and Specimens of Penmanship. 

W. W. McClelland, ArtU/ Ppnmnn. S. BI^^SELL, Musical Director. 

BYRON VV. KING, Etnr.ulin-nixl. 
HARMON D. WILLIAM*!, JAS. CLARK WILLIAMS, A. M.. 

Busi'irss Mannc/er. Principal. 

We recommend a trial of the Recipes in this book, if you will 
use as ingredients our Special Brands of 

Tictoria, Majnslia or Best hmk Fiour, 

AMERICAN OAT MEAL, 

AvEN AND Rolled V\^heat. 

f MAKE A TRIAL OF OUR 

CHOICE B,0./1 STEP COFFEES. CHOCOLATES, 
FI^E GREFJV AJ^D BLACK TEAS , 

Canned and Bottled Fruits and Veeefables, Evaporated and 
Imported Fruits in great variety. 

JNO. A. RENSHAW & CO. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL FAMILY GROCERIES, 

Liberty & Ninth St., Pittsburgh. 



CONTENTS. 



Paoe. 
Preface 3 

Yeast, Bread, Biscuit 5 

Breakfast Dishes 13 

Meats 16 

Soups 35 

Oysters and Fish 37 

Vegetables 42 

Puddings 51 

Cakes 67 

Pastry 103 

Salads and Sauces 109 

Pickles 114 

Preserves, Jellies, &c 128 

All Sorts 138 

Young Folks' Department 154 

Medical Department 160 

Family Recipes 169 

Hints to Housekeepers 174 

Toilet 177 



