f m pM¥ ' iJ H!.'iiii |i ! * * !W' ' ' «' !* >; ' I I '. <'i,..J>j< »|jfa, > ^.l(M.M «jWMBWW?MPW'W» 



^^&£<Wkj^3^ fn* *»*f " ^ f *' f. '»^ ^>'* * r 






%K 




UJUHjh lDJtW, 

'Revi s ed and Enid to eel 






■.fTKT,';5j'"'r^ 




RETURN TO 
ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 

ITHACA, N. Y. 



Cornell University Library 
TX 651.T47 1885 

Food and feeding, with an appendix. 



3 1924 003 570 201 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003570201 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



FOOT) ANDFEEmNG. 

SIR HENEY THOMPSON, F.RC.S., &c. 



WITH AN APPENDIX. 
FOURTH EDITION. 

CONSIDERABLY ENLAEOED. 




LONDON AND NEW YORK: 
FREDEEICK WARNE & CO. 



LONDON : 
BRipBTmV, AGKEW, & CO., PBmTEKS, WHITBFI.IAB.. 




PKEFACE 

TO THE FOUETH EDITION. 



Little more than a year has passed since the 
Third Edition was issued, with considerable 
additions by the Author. 

A Fourth Edition having been called for, 
the work has been carefully revised and a few 
emendations have been made in the hope of 
increasing its utility. 

35, WiMPOLE Street, 
Nov., 1886. 



PEEFACE 

TO THE THIKD EDITION". 



A Third Edition of this little work having 
l)ocn called for,. the publishers have had it en- 
tirely re-composed, and the author has carefully 
revised it throughout, making emendations, 
where they have appeared to be necessary, and 
numerous additions. Among the latter, a new 
chapter, the fourth, has been devoted to one of 
the most important articles of food consumed 
in this country, viz., Cow's IMilk, to which no 
special consideration had been given in any 
previous issue. 

The subject of Fish in relation to diet has 
also been discussed much more fully than 
liefore, and several fresh suggestions made as 
to the preparation of it for the table. These 
appear partly in Chapter VI., and partly in 
the Appendix. 

March, 1884. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGE 

Importance of the proper selection and preparation of food 
— Improper feeding common among all classes, and at 
all periods of life — Necessary constituents in food for 
nourishing the human hody— Comparison between animal 
food and vegetable food — Individual peculiarities . . 1 



CHAPTER II. 

Materials at man's command for food — Grain — Legumes — 
Tubers — Green vegetables — Fruits — Salt — Animal food— 
Flesh — Milk — Eggs — Fish — Keptiles — Man omnivorous ; 
his food largely determined by circumstances — Food of the 
tropics— North Africa — Arabia— Italy — Spain — France — 
German Empire and Russia — The Arctic zone . . .14 

CHAPTER III. 

Food of the English peasant — Food of Englishmen generally 
too solid or stimulating — Value of fish as an article of diet 
— Food for the sedentary — Of the leguminous plants, 
haricots and lentils — Whole meal of wheat : its employ- 
ment for bread — Eice, maize, macaroni, and potato . 25 

CHAPTER IT. 

Milk, an example of a natural "complete" food — Its employ- 
ment as food, almost universal — Essentially an animal 



viii Contents. 



PAOE 

food — Exceedingly susceptible of injury — Mode of dis- 
tribution, a fertile source of disease — Milk epidemics of 
fever, &c. — Composition of milk — Value as a diet — Whey 
— Koumiss — Means to be adopted in order to secure the 
purity and wholesomeness of milk 48 



CHAPTEE V. 

Food of the middle-class Englishman — Baking and roasting — 
Braising, methods of— Stewing — Boeuf a la mode — Oppo- 
site principles in French and English cookery — Superi- 
ority of each in some particulars — Frjdng, and its action 
on materials of food — The omelette . . . .58 



CHAPTEE VI. 

Preparation of food continued — Soups — Pot-au-feu — The stock- 
pot — Bouillon — Cmisomm^— Mode of producing endless 
variety — The foundations of all soups — Fish soups and 
stews — Vegetable soups — Use of the gridiron — Garnishes 
— Cookery of vegetables d VAnglaise and « la Frangaise 
— Fish and various modes of cooking it — Sauces— Cooking 
of macaroni, and of rice — Cold meats— Salads . . .70 



CHAPTEE VII. 

The combination of dishes to form a meal — Three speoiiic 
systems of arranging the daUy meals — Characteristics of 
each meal — Breakfast — Lunch- — Dinner— Of two kinds — 
Value of initial soup — Plan of dishes to follow — Hors 
d'ceuvre 99 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

Dinners of invitation— Two kinds— Small and select — Lai-ge 

The old pretentious style— Scheme of a rational dinner- 



Contents. ix 



FASE 

party— Priority in tlie service of various dishes— The 
half -hour after dinner — Turtle and flsh dinners — Curry — 
Sketch for a small dinner 108 

CHAPTER IX. 

The question of wine with dinner — Should be pure but not 
pretentious — Relation of various kinds with certain dishes 
— Cigarettes after dinner — Tobacco and cofifee — Common 
water — ^Aerated waters — Foreign mineral waters — Sweet 
drinks at dinner objectionable 117 

CHAPTEE X. 

In order to arrange a dinner some practical acquaintance with 
food necessary — Also of the season at which it is in per- 
fection — The scheme or elementary outline of a dinner — 
Menus should be written in French — Two menus for each 
month in the year — Numerous dishes not included 
among them 126 

CHAPTEE XI. 

The public dinner — Its undue length — Toasts too numerous 
— Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good 
cookery independent of pedantic and complicated receipts 
— Schools of cookerj' — Better food, in better condition, 
and in more abundant supply, a pressing want for London 
— Conclusion. ... .... Ii2 



APPENDIX. 

PAET I. 

On the PoT-itr-FEU, Soups, and Bkaising. 

Fot-au-feu : Jules Gouffe's instructions for making it — Direc- 
tions given by BriUat-Savarin — The receipt of Alexandre 



Contetits. 



PAGE 

Dumas — Gouffe's instructions for braising ; and par- 
ticularly relative to lauf a la inode— Consomme w^ie 
irom vegetables only 153 



PAET II. 

On tho Belection and preparation of fish ; and on fish soups • 
and stews . . 165 



FOOD AND FEEDING. 



CHAPTER I. 



Importance of the proper selection and preparation of food — Im- 
proper feeding common among all classes, and at all periods 
of life. — Necessaiy constituents in food for nourishing the 
human body . —Comparison between nnimal food and vegetable 
food — Individual peculiarities. 

I THINK I shall not be far wrong if I say that there 
are few subjects more important to the well-being of 
man than the selection and preparation of his food. 
Our forefathers in their wisdom have provided, by- 
ample and generously endowed organisations, for the 
dissemination of moral precepts in relation to human 
conduct, and for the constant supply of sustenance to 
meet the cravings of religious emotions common to all 
sorts and conditions of men. In these provisions no 
student of human nature can fail to recognise the 
spirit of wisdom and a lofty purpose. But it is not a 
sign of ancestral wisdom that so little thought has 
been bestowed on the teaching of what we should eat 
and drink ; that the relations, not only between food 
and a healthy population, but between food and virtue, 



Pood and Feeding. 



between the process of digestion and the state of mind 
which results from it, have occupied a subordinate 
place in the practical arrangements of life. No doubt 
there has long been some practical acknowledgment, 
on the part of a few educated persons, of the simple 
fact, that a man's temper, and consequently most of 
his actions, depend on such an alternative as whether 
he habitually digests his food well or iU ; whether 
the meals which he eats are properly converted into 
healthy material, suitable for the ceaseless work of 
building up both muscle and brain ; or whether 
unhealthy products constantly pollute the course of 
nutritive supply. But the truth of that fact has 
never been generally admitted to an extent at all 
comparable with its exceeding importance. It pro- 
duces no practical result on the habits of men in the 
least degree commensurate with the pregnant import 
contained therein. For it is certain that an adequate 
practical recognition of the value of proper food to the 
individual in maintaining a high standard of health, 
in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of un- 
healthy life being small gain either to the individual 
or to the community), and thus largely promoting 
cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved 
moral t(me, would achieve almost a revolution in the 
habits of a large part of the community. 

The general outlines of a man's mental character 
and physical tendencies are doubtless largely deter- 
mined by the impress of race and family. That is to 
say, the scheme of the building, its characteristics and 



Improper Food in Early Life. 3 

dimensions, are inherited ; but to a very large extent 
the materials and filling in of the framework depend, 
in regard of their quality, upon his food and training. 
By the latter term may be understood all that relates 
to mental and moral and even to physical education, 
assumed to be faiily provided for, and not to be con- 
sidered here. No matter, then, how consummate the 
scheme of the architect, nor how vast the design, 
more or less of failure to rear the edifice results when 
the materials are ill chosen or for the most part un- 
worthy to be used. Other sources of failure there 
may be which it is no part of my business to note ; 
but the influence of food is not only itself cardinal in 
rank, but, by priority of action, is the source of various 
forces, injurious or the reverse, as the case may be. 

A very slight sketch of the course of development 
observed in the most ordinary types of human hfe wiU 
suf&ce to illustrate this truth. 

To commence then, I fear it must be admitted that 
the majority of British infants are reared on imperfect 
milk by weak or ill-fed mothers. And thus it follows 
that the signs of feeble vitality, of fretful disposition or 
of disease, may be observed at a very early age, and 
are apparent in symptoms of indigestion or in the 
cravings of want manifested by the " peevish " and 
sleepless child. In circumstances where there is no 
want of abundant nutriment, over-feeding or compli- 
cated forms of food, suitable only for older persons, 
produce for another infant troubles which are no less 
grave than those of the former. In the next stage of 

B 2" 



Food and Feeding. 



between the process of digestion and the state of mind 
which results from it, have occupied a subordinate 
place in the practical arrangements of life. No doubt 
there has long been some practical acknowledgment, 
on the part of a few educated persons, of the simple 
fact, that a man's temper, and consequently most of 
his actions, depend on such an alternative as whether 
he habitually digests his food well or ill ; whether 
the meals which he eats are properly converted into 
healthy material, suitable for the ceaseless work of 
building up both muscle and brain ; or whether 
unhealthy products constantly pollute, the course of 
nutritive supply. But the truth of that fact has 
never been generally admitted to an extent at all 
comparable with its exceeding importance. It pro- 
duces no practical result on the habits of men in the 
least degree commensurate with the pregnant import 
contained therein. For it is certain that an adequate 
practical recognition of the value of proper food to the 
individual in maintaining a high standard of health, 
in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of un- 
healthy life being small gain either to the individual 
or to the commanity), and thus largely promoting 
cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved 
moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the 
habits of a large part of the community. 

The general outlines of a man's mental character 
and physical tendencies are doubtless largely deter- 
mined by the impress of race and family. That is to 
say, the scheme of the building, its characteristics and 



Improper Food in Early Life. 3 

dimensions, are inherited ; but to a very large extent 
the materials and filling in of the framework depend, 
in regard of their quality, upon his food and training. 
By the latter term may be understood all that relates 
to mental and moral and even to physical education, 
assumed to be faii-ly provided for, and not to be con- 
sidered here. No matter, then, how consummate the 
scheme of the architect, nor how vast the design, 
more or less of failure to rear the edifice results when 
the materials are ill chosen or for the most part un- 
worthy to be used. Other sources of failure there 
may be which it is no part of my business to note ; 
but the influence of food is not only itself cardinal in 
rank, but, by priority of action, is the source of various 
forces, injurious or the reverse, as the case may be. 

A very slight sketch of the course of development 
observed in the most ordinary types of human life will 
sufiice to illustrate this truth. 

To commence then, I fear it must be admitted that 
the majority of British infants are reared on imperfect 
milk by weak or ill-fed mothers. And thus it follows 
that the signs of feeble vitality, of fretful disposition or 
of disease, may be observed at a very early age, and 
are apparent in symptoms of indigestion or in the 
cravitigs of want manifested by the " peevish " and 
sleepless child. In circumstances where there is no 
want of abundant nutriment, over-feeding or compli- 
cated forms of food, suitable only for older persons, 
produce for another infant troubles which are no less 
grave than those of the former. In the next stage of 

B 2 



Food and Feeding. 



]ife, among the poor the child takes his place at the 
parents' table, where lack of means, as well as of 
knowledge, deprives him of food more suitable than 
the rough fare of the adult, and moreover obtains for 
him, perchance, his little share of beer or gin. On 
the whole, perhaps he is not much worse off than the 
child of the well-to-do, who becomes a pet, and is 
already familiarised with complex and too solid forms 
of food, as well as with stimulating drinks, which cus- 
tom and self-indulgence have placed on the daily 
table. And soon afterwards commence in conse- 
quence — and entirely in consequence, a fact it is im- 
possible too much to emphasize — the " sick head- 
aches" and "biUous attacks," which pursue their 
victim through half a lifetime, to be exchanged for 
gout or worse at or before the grand climacteric. And 
so common are these evils that they are regarded by 
people in general as a necessary appanage of " poor 
humanity." No notion can be more erroneous, since 
it is absolutely true that the complaints referred to 
are self-engendered, form no necessary part of our 
physical nature, and for their existence are dependent 
almost entirely on our habits in relation to food and 
drink. I except, of course, those cases in which 
hereditary tendencies are so strong as to produce 
these evils, despite of some care on the part of the 
unfortunate victim of an ancestor's self-indulgence. 
Equally, however, on the part of that little-to-bc- 
revered progenitor was ill-chosen food, or more pro- 
bably excess in quantity, the cause of disease, and not 
the physical nature of man. 



Improper Food in Boyliood and Youth. 5 

The next stage of boyhood transfers the child just 
spoken of to a public school, where too often insuffi- 
cient or inappropriate diet, at the most critical period 
of growth, has to be siipplomonted from other sources. 
It is almost unnecessary to say that chief among them 
are those unsuitable purveyors, the pastrycook and the 
vendor of portable provisions, for much of which latter 
that skin-staffed compound of unknown origin, an un- 
certified sausage, may be accepted as the type. 

After this period arise the temptations to drink, 
among the youth of all classes, whether at beerhouse, 
tavern, or club. For it has been taught in the bosom 
of tliG family, by the father's example and by the 
mother's precept, that wine, beer, and spirits are 
useful, nay, necessary to health, and that they 
augment the strengtli. And the lessons thus incul- 
cated and too well learned have proved to be the 
ste;)5 which lead tj wider experience in the pursuit of 
h'jalth and strength by larger use of the same means. 
Under such circumstances it often happens, as the 
youth gro'ws up, that a flagging appetite or a failing 
digestion habitually demands a dram before or between 
meals, and that these latter are regarded rather as 
occasions to indulge in variety of liquor than as repasts 
for nourishing the body. It is not surprising, with 
such training, that the true object of both eating and 
drinking is entirely lost sight of. The gratification of 
acquired tastes usurps the function of that zest which 
healthy appetite produces ; and the intention that 
food should be adapted to the physical needs of the 



Food and Feeaing. 



body and the healthy action of the mind is forgotten 
altogether. So it often comes to pass that at middle 
age, when man finds himself in the full current of 
life's occupatioDs, struggling for pre-eminence with his 
fellows, indigestion has become persistent in some of 
its numerous forms, shortens his " staying power," or 
spoils his judgment or temper. And, besides all this, 
how apparent it is that few causes are more potent 
than an incompetent stomach to engender habits of 
selfishness and egotism. A constant care to provide 
little personal wants of various kinds, thus rendered 
necessary, developes the growth of these sentiments, 
and they influence the man's whole character in con- 
sequence. On the other hand, the poor man, advanc- 
ing in years, shows signs of damage to his constitu- 
tion from continuous toil with inadequate food, the 
supply of which is often diminished by his expenditure 
for beer, which, although not seldom noxious, he 
regards as the elixir of life, never to be missed when 
fair occasion for obtaining it is offered. Many of this 
class are prematurely crippled by articular disease, 
&c., and become permanent inmates of the parish 
workhouse or infirmary. 

It must be obvious to everybody how much more of 
detail might be added to fill in the outlines of Ibis 
little sketch. It is meagre in the extreme : neverthe- 
less it amply suffices for my purpose ; other illustra- 
tions may occur hereafter. 

But it is necessary to say at this point, and I desire 
to say it emphatically, that the suljject of food need 



Mode of considering the Subject. 7 

not, even with the views just enunciated, be treated 
in an ascetic spirit. It is to be considered in relation 
to a principle, in which we may certainly believe, .that 
aliments most adapted to develop the individual, 
sound in body and mind, shall not only be most ac- 
ceptable, but that they may be selected and prepared 
so as to afford scope for the exercise of a refined taste, 
and produce a fair degree of an innocent pleasure 
naturally associated with the function of the palate, 
and derived from a study of the table. For it is 
certain that nine-tenths of the gourmandise which is 
practised, at all events in English society — where for 
the most part it is the result of faith without know- 
ledge — is no more a source of gratification to the 
eater's gustatory sense than it is of digestible susten- 
ance to his body. 

Our subject now shapes itself. Food must first be 
regarded in relation to its value as material to be 
used for building up and sustaining that composite 
structure, the human body, under the varied condi- 
tions in which it may be placed. Secondly, the 
selection of food, and the best modes of preparing it, 
resulting in the production of " the dish," a subject of 
great extent and importance, must be dealt with very 
briefly. Lastly, the exercise of taste in relation to the 
serving of food and drink, or the art of combining 
dishes to form " a meal," must also be considered in 
relation to various purposes. 

I shall not regard this as the place in which to 
offer any scientific definition of the term food, I. 



8 Food and Feeding. 

shall include within its range all the solid materials 
popularly so regarded and therefore eaten. And 
drink being as necessary as solids for the purpose 
of digestion, and to supply that large proportion of 
fluid which the body contains in every mesh and 
cell thereof, I shall regard as "drink" all tha 
liquids which it is customary to swallow with our 
meals, although probably very few, if any, of them 
can be regarded as food in any strict sense of the 
term. 

Food is essential to the body in order to fulfil two 
distinct purposes, or to supply two distinct wants in- 
separable from animal life. As certainly as a steam- 
engine requires fuel, by the combustion or oxidation of 
which force is called into action for various purposes — 
as the engine itself requires the mending and replacing 
of parts wasted in the process of working — so certainly 
does the animal body require fuel to evoke its force, 
and material to replace those portions which are neces- 
sarily wasted by labour, whether the latter be what 
is called physical or mental, that is, of limbs or of 
brain. The material which is competent to supply 
both requirements is a complete or perfect food. 
Examples of complete food exist in milk and the egg, 
sufficing as these do for all the wants of the young 
animal during the period of early growth. Neverthe- 
less a single animal product like either of the two 
named, although complex in itself, is not more perfect 
than an artificial combination of various simpler sub- 
stances, provided the mixture (dish or meal) contains 



Constituents necessary in Human Food. 9 

all the elements required in due proportion for the 
purposes of the body. 

It would be out of place to occupy much space 
with those elementary details of the chemical consti- 
tution of the body which may be found in any small 
manual of human physiology ; * but for the right 
understanding of our subject, a brief sketch must be 
presented. Let it suffice to say that carbon, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen, the three all-pervading elements of 
the vegetable world, enter largely into the composi- 
tion of the animal body ; and that the two former 
combined especially constitute a fuel, the oxidation of 
which produces animal heat, and developes the force 
in its varied forms, physical and mental, which the 
body is capable of exerting. Besides these, nitrogen, 
obtainable from certain vegetable products, not from 
all, but forming definite combinations with the three 
elements just named, is essential to the repair and 
reproduction of the body itself, being one of its most 
important constituents. Lastly must be named several 
other elements which, in small proportions, are also 
essential constituents of the body ; such as sulphur, 
phosphorus, salts of lime, magnesia, potash, &c., with 
traces of iron and other metals. All these must be 
present in the food supplied, otherwise animal exist- 
ence cannot be supported ; and all are found in the 

* Such as Pliysiology, Science Primer, by M. Foster, M.A., M.D., 
(Macmillan) ; Lessons in Elementary Physiology, by Professor Huxley 
(Macmillan). For a full consideration of the subject Dr. Pavey's very 
complete Treatise on Food and Dietetics (Churchill, London, 1875). 



TO Food and Feeding. 

vegetable kingdom, and may be obtained directly 
therefrom by man in feeding on vegetables alone* 
But tbe process of obtaining and combining these 
simple elements into the more complex forms vehich 
constitute the bases of animal tissues — definite com- 
pounds of nitrogen with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen 
— is also accomplished by the lower animals, which 
are exclusively vegetable feeders. These animals we 
can consume as food, and thus procure, if we please, 
ready prepared for our purpose, the materials of flesh, 
sinew, and bone, for immediate use. We obtain also 
from the animal milk and the egg, already said to be 
" perfect " foods ; and they are so because they con- 
tain the nitrogenous compounds referred to, fatty 
matter abundantly, and the various saline or mineral 
matters requisite. But compounds simpler in form 
than the preceding, -of a non-nitrogenous kind, that 
is, of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen only, are neces- 
sary as food for the production of animal heat and 
force. These consist, first, of the fat of animals of 
various kinds, and of butter ; and from the vegetable 
kingdom, of the fatty matter which exists in grain 
and legumes, and largely in the olive and in many 
seeds : secondly, of the starchy matters, all derived 
from vegetables, such as a large part of wheaten and 

* The vegetable kingdom compreliends the cereals, legumes, roots, 
starches, sxigar, herbs, and fruits. Persons who style themselves 
vegetarians, often consume milk, eggs, butter, and lard, which are 
choice foods from the animal kingdom. There are other persons, of 
course, who are strictly vegetable eaters, and such alone have any 
right to the title of vegetarians, 



Combination of Various Elements. 1 1 

other flour, rice, arrowroot, and potatoes ; together 
■with sugar, gum, and other minor vegetable products 
of a similar kind. The fats form the more important 
group of the two, both in relation to the production 
of heat and force ; and without a constant supply of 
fat as food the body would cease to exist. The vege- 
table eater, pure and simple, can therefore extract 
from his food all the principles necessary for the 
growth and support of the body as well as for the 
production of heat and force, provided that he selects 
vegetables which contain all the essential elements 
named. But he must for this purpose consume the 
best cereals, wheat or oats ; or the legumes, beans, 
peas, or lentils ; or he must swallow and digest a 
large weight of vegetable matter of less nutritive 
value, and therefore containing at least one element 
in large excess, in order to obtain all the elements he 
needs. Thus the Irishman requires for his support 
ten to eleven pounds of potatoes daily, which contain 
chiefly starch — of which therefore he consumes a 
superfluous quantity — very little nitrogen, and scarcely 
any fat ; hence ho obtains, when he can, milk, lard, 
or bacon, or a herring to supply the deficiency. The 
Highlander, living mainly on oatmeal, requires a 
much smaller weight, since this grain contains not only 
starch, but much nitrogen and a fair amount of fat, 
although not quite sufficient for his purpose, which is 
usually supplied by adding milk or a Kttle bacon to his 
diet. On the other hand, the man who lives chiefly or 
largely on flesh- and eggs as well as bread, obtains pre- 



12 Food and Feeding. 

cisely the same principles, but served in a concen- 
trated form, and a weight of about two or three pounds 
of such food is a full equivalent to the Irishman's ten 
or eleven pounds of potatoes and extras. The meat- 
eater's digestion is taxed with a far less quantity of 
solid, but that very concentration in regard of quality 
entails on some stomachs an expenditure of force in 
digestion equal to that required by the vegetable eatci- 
to assimilate his much larger portions. And it must 
be admitted, as a fact beyond question, that some 
persons are stronger and more healthy who live chiefly 
or altogether on vegetables, while there are many 
others for whom a proportion of animal food appears 
to be desirable, if not necessary. In studying this 
matter, individual habit must be taken into account. 
An animal feeder may by slow degrees become a 
vegetarian, without loss of weight or strength, not 
without feeling some inconveni;nco in the process ; 
but a sudden change in diet in this direction is for a 
time almost equivalent to starvation. The digestive 
organs require a considerable period to accommodate 
themselves to the performance of work different from 
that to which they have been long accustomed, and 
in some constitutions might fail altogether in the 
attempt. Besides, in matters of diet essentially, many 
persons have individual peculiarities ; and while cer- 
tain fixed principles exist, such as those already laid 
down as absolutely cardinal, in the detail of their 
application to each man's wants, an infinity of 
stomach-eccentricities is to be reckoned on. The old 



Individual Peculiarities as to Diet. 13 

proverb expresses the fact strongly but truly : " What 
is one man's meat is another man's poison." Yet 
nothing is more common — and one rarely leaves a 
social dinner table without observing it — than to hear 
some good-natured person recommending to his neigh- 
bour, with a confidence rarely found except in alliance 
with profound ignorance of the matter in hand, some 
special form of food, or drink, or system of diet, solely 
because the adviser happens to have found it useful 
to himself! 



CHAPTER II. 

Materials at man's command for food — Grain — Legumes — Tubers 
—Green vegetables— Fruits— Salt— Animal food— Flesh- Milk 
— Eggs — Fish — Eeptiles — Man omnivorous : his food largely 
detei-mined by circumstances — Food of the tropics — North 
Africa — Arabia — Italy — Spain — France — German Empire and 
Russia— The Arctic zone. 

It will be interesting now to take a general but 
brief survey of the vast range of materials whicb 
civilised man has at his command for the purpose of 
food : these few preliminary remarks on the chemical 
constituents of food having been intended to aid in 
appreciating the value of different kinds. 

Commencing with the vegetable kingdom, from 
which our early progenitors, probably during long 
ages, drew all their sustenance, the cereals, or culti- 
vated grasses, come first, as containing all the ele- 
ments necessary to life, and being therefore the most 
largely consumed. Wheat and its congeners, which 
rank highest in quality, had been distinguished, in 
the form of bread, as "the staff of life," long before 
the physiological demonstration of the fact had been 
attained. Wheat, oats, rye and barley, maize and rice, 
are the chief members of this group ; wheat contain- 
ing most of the nitrogenous or flesh-forming material, 



Grains — Legmnes — Tubers and Roots. 15 

besides abundance of starch, a moderate amount of fat, 
together with sufficient saline and mineral elements. 
Rice, on the other hand, contains very little nitrogen, 
fat, and mineral constituents, but starch in great 
abundance ; ■while maize, with a fair supply of nitro- 
genous and starchy matter, contains the most fatty 
material of the whole group. As derived from wheat 
must be named those valuable aliments, macaroni, 
vermicelli, and all the Italian pastes. Derived from 
barley is malt-saccharine, parent of the large family 
of fermented liquors known as beer. And from 
various other grains are obtained by fermentation and 
distillation, several forms of ardent spirit. Vinegar, 
best when produced from the grape, is also largely 
made from grain. 

The legumes, such as beans, lentils, and peas, form 
an aliment of great value, containing more nitrogen 
even than the cereals, but with fat in very small pro- 
portion, while starchy matter and the mineral elements 
abound in both groups. 

The tuber finds its type in the potato which, like 
rice, contains much starch, little nitrogen, and almost 
no fat ; the same may be said of the yam also. The 
roots may be illustrated by the beet, carrot, parsnip, 
and turnip, all containing little nitrogen, but much 
sugar, and water in large proportion. Derived from 
roots and stems of foreign growth, we have arrowroot, 
tapioca, and sago, aU starches and destitute of nitro- 
gen. Fatty matter is abundantly found in the olive, 
which supplies a large part of the world with an im- 



1 6 Food and Feeding. 

portant article of food. The almond and other seeds, 
as rape, cotton, mustard are also fruitful sources of oil. 

Under the term "green vegetables," a few leading 
plants may be enumerated as types of the vast natural 
supplies which everywhere exist : — The entire cabbage 
tribe in great variety ; lettuces, endive, and cresses ; 
spinach, seakale, asparagus, celery, onions, artichokes, 
and tomato, all valuable not so much for nutritive 
property, which is not considerable, as for admixture 
with other food chiefly on account of salts which they 
contain, and for their appetising aroma and varied 
flavours. Thus condiments are useful, as the sweet 
and aromatic spices, the peppers, mustard, and 
the various potherbs, so essential to an agreeable 
cuisine. Seaweeds, under the name of laver, and the 
whole tribe of mushrooms, should be named, as rank- 
ing much higher in nutritive value than green 
vegetables. Pumpkins, gourds or marrows, and cu- 
cumbers, chestnuts, and other nuts largely support life 
in some countries. The bread fruit is of high value ; 
so also are the cocoanut and the banana in tropical 
climates. 

Lastly must be named all those delicious but not 
very nutritive products of most varied kind and 
source, grouped under the name of fruits. These are 
characterised chiefly by the presence of sugar, acid, 
vegetable jelly, and some saline matter, often com- 
bined with scent and flavour of exquisite quality. 
Derived from grapes as its chief source, stands wine 
in its innumerable varieties, so closely associated by 



Variety of Animal Foods. 1 7 

all civilised nations with the use of aliments, although 
not universally admitted to rank in technical language 
as a food. Next may be named sugar in its various 
forms, a non-nitrogenous product of great value, and, 
in a less degree, honey. No less important are the 
tea plant, the coffee berry, and the seeds of the cacao 
tree. 

There is a single element belonging to the mineral 
kingdom which is taken in its natural state as an 
addition to food, namely, common salt ; and it is so 
universally recognised as necessary, that it cannot be 
omitted here. The foregoing list possesses no claim 
to be exhaustive, only to be fairly typical and sug- 
gestive ; a few omissions, which some may think im- 
portant, doubtless exist. In like manner, a rapid 
survey may be taken of the animal kingdom. 

First, the flesh of domestic quadrupeds : the ox and 
sheep, both adult and young ; the pig ; the goat ; the 
horse and ass, chiefly in France. Milk, butter, and cheese 
in endless variety are derived chiefly from this group. 
More or less wild are the red deer, the fallow deer, 
and the roe-deer. As game, the hare and rabbit ; 
abroad, the bison, wild boar, bear, chamois, and kan- 
garoo, are esteemed for food among civilised nations ; 
but many other animals are eaten by half-civilised 
and savage peoples. All these are rich in nitrogen, 
fatty matters, and saline materials. 

Among birds, we have domestic poultry in great 
variety of size and quality, with eggs in great abund- 
ance furnished chiefly by this class. All the wild 



Food and Feeding. 



fowl and aquatic birds; the pigeon tribe and the 
small birds. Winged game in all its well-known 
variety. 

Of fish it is unnecessary to enumerate the enormous 
supply and the various species which exist everywhere, 
and especially on our own shores, from the sturgeon to 
whitebait, besides those in fresh- water rivers and lakes. 
AU of them furnish nitrogenous matter largely, but, 
and particularly the white fish, possess fat in very 
small quantity, with a fair proportion of saline ma- 
terials. The salmon, mackerel, eels, and herring tribes 
have more fat, the last named in considerable quantity, 
forming a useful food well calculated to supplement 
cereal aliments, and largely adopted for the purpose 
both in the south and north of Europe. 

The so-called reptiles furnish turtle, tortoise, and 
edible frog. Among articulated animals are the lob- 
sters, crabs, and shrimps. Among molluscs, the oyster 
and aU the shellfish, which, as well as the preceding 
animals, in chemical composition closely resemble that 
of fish properly so called. 

I shall not enter on a discussion of the question : 
Is man designed to be a vegetable feeder, or a flesh- 
eating or an omnivorous animal ? Nor shall his teeth 
or other organs be examined in reference thereto. 
Any evidence to be found by anatomical investigation 
can only be safely regarded as showing what man is 
and has been. That he has been and is omnivorous 
to the extent of his means, there can exist no doubt. 
Whether he has been generally prudent or happy in 



Work and Food must Correspond. 19 

his choice of food and drink is highly improbable, 
seeing that until very recently he has possessed no 
certain knowledge touching the relations which matters 
used as food hold with respect to the structure and 
■wants of his body, and that such recent knowledge has 
been confined to a very few individuals. Whatever 
sound practice he may have attained, and it is not in- 
considerable, in his choice and treatment of food, is 
the result of many centuries of empirical observation, 
the process of which has been attended with much 
disastrous failure and some damage to the experi- 
menters. No doubt much unsound constitution and 
proclivity to certain diseases result from the persistent 
use through many generations of improper food and 
drink. 

Speaking in general terms, man seems, at the pre- 
sent time, prone to choose foods which are unneces- 
sarily concentrated and too rich in nitrogenous or 
flesh-forming material, and to consume more in quan- 
tity than is necessary for the healthy performance of 
the animal functions. He is apt to leave out of sight 
the great difference, in relation to both quantity and 
quality of food, which different habits of life demand, 
e.g., between the habits of those who are chiefly seden- 
tary and brain-workers, and of those who are active 
and exercise muscle more than brain. He makes very 
small account of the different requirements by the 
child, the mature adult, and the declining or aged 
person. And he seems to be still less aware of the 
frequent existence of notable individual peculiarities 

c 2 



20 Food and Feeding. 

in relation to the tolerance of certain aliments and 
drinks. As a rule, man has little knowledge of, or 
interest in, the processes by which food is prepared 
for the table, or the conditions necessary to the healthy 
digestion of it by himself. Until a tolerably high 
standard of civilisation is reached, he cares more for 
quantity than quality, desires little variety, and re- 
gards as impertinent an innovation in the shape of a 
new aliment, expecting the same food at the same 
hour daily, his enjoyment of which apparently greatly 
depends on his ability to swaUow the portion with 
extreme rapidity, that he may apply himself to some 
other and more important occupation without delay. 
Eating is treated in fact by multitudes much as they 
are disposed to treat religious duty — which eating 
assuredly is, if my opening remarks are true — that is, 
as a duty which is generally irksome, but unfortu- 
nately necessary to be performed. As to any exercise 
of taste in the serving or in the combining of different 
foods at a meal, the subject is completely out of reach 
of the great majority of people, and is as little com- 
prehended by them as the structure and harmonies of 
a symphony are by the first whistling boy one chances 
to meet in the street. The intelligent reader who has 
sufficient interest in this subject to have followed me 
thus far may fancy this a sketch from savage life. On 
the contrary, I can assure him that ignorance and in- 
difi'erence to the nature and object of food mark the 
condition of a large majority of the so-called educated 
people of this country. Men even boast of their ignor- 



Little Animal Food needed z'/z Tropics. 21 

ance of so trivial a subject, regard it as unworthy the 
exercise of their powers, and — small compliment to 
their wives and sisters — fit only for the occupation of 
women. 

Admitting man, then, to be physically so con- 
stituted as to be able to derive all that is necessary to 
the healthy performance of all his functions from the 
animal or from the vegetable kingdom, either singly 
or combined, he can scarcely be regarded otherwise 
than as qualified to be an omnivorous animal. Add 
to this fact his possession of an intelligence which 
enables him to obtain food of aU kinds and climes, to 
investigate its qualities, and to render it more fit 
for digestion by heat — powers which no other animal 
possesses — and there appears no a priori reason for 
limiting his diet to products of either kingdom exclu- 
sively. 

It becomes then a matter of no little interest to 
ascertain what materials, under the empirical condi- 
tions named, have furnished the staple food of the 
common people of various climates and races — what, 
in short, supports the life and labour of the chief part 
of the world's population. 

In the tropics and adjacent portions of the temperate 
zones, high temperature being incompatible with the 
physical activity familiar to northern races, a very 
little nitrogenous material suffices, since the expendi- 
ture is small. Only a moderate quantity of fat is 
taken, the demand for heat and for force being incon- 
siderable. The chiefly starchy products supply nearly 



2 2 Food and Feeding. 

all the nutriment required, and such are found in rice, 
millet, &c. Rice by itself is the principal food of the 
wide zone thus indicated, including a large part of 
China, the East Indies, part of Africa and America, 
and also the West Indies. Small additions, where 
obtainable, are made of other seeds, of oil, butter, &c. ; 
and as temperature decreases by distance ft-om the 
equator, some fish, fowl, or other light form of animal 
food, are added. 

In the north of Afi-ica, Arabia, and some neigh- 
bouring parts, the date, which contains sugar in 
abundance, is largely eaten, as well as maize and 
other cereals. 

Crossing to Europe, the southern Italian is found 
subsisting on macaroni, legumes, rice, fruits, and 
salads, with oil, cheese, fish, and small birds, but 
very little meat, ilore northward, besides fish and 
a little meat, maize is the chief aUment, rye and 
other cereals taking a second place. The chestnut 
also is largely eaten by the poorer population, both it 
and maize containing more fatty matter than wheat, 
oats, and legumes. 

In Spain, the inhabitants subsist chiefly on maize 
and rice, with some wheat and legumes, among them 
the garbanzo or " chick pea," and one of the prin- 
cipal vegetable components of the national olla, which 
contains also a considerable proportion of animal food 
in variety, as bacon, sausage, fowl, &c. Fruit is fine 
and abundant ; especially so are grapes, figs, and 
melons. There is little or no butter, the universal 



Relation of Food to Climate. 23 

substitute for ■which is olive oil, produced in great 
quantity. Fowls and the pig furnish the chief animal 
food, and garlic is the favourite condiment. 

Going northward, flesh of all kinds occupies a more 
considerable place in the dietary. In France the 
garden vegetables and legumes form an important 
staple of diet for all classes ; but the very numerous 
small land proprietors subsist largely on the direct 
products of the soil, adding little more than milk, 
poultry, and eggs, the produce of their small farms. 
The national ^Jo!^-(7;f-/e» is an admirable mixed dish, 
in which a small portion of meat is made to yield all 
its nutritive qualities, and to go far in mingling its 
odour and savour with those of the fragrant vegetables 
which are so largely added to the stock. The beef, 
which is an essential portion of the dish, is often eaten 
hot after the soup, hut sometimes cold, with plenty of 
green salad and oil, doubtless the most palatable mode 
of serving, while it furnishes a source of fat, if not 
otherwise provided for by butter, cheese, &c.* 

Throughout the German Empire, the cereals, 
legumes, greens, roots, and fruits supply an im- 
portant proportion of the food consumed by the com- 
mon population. Wheaten bread chiefly, and some 
made from rye, also beans and peas, are used abun- 
dantly. Potatoes and green vegetables of all kinds 
are served in numerous ways, but largely in soup, a 
favourite dish. Meats, chiefly pork, are greatly 

* For full details as to the nature and preijaration of tlie pot-au- 
feu, see page 72, and the Appendix. 



24 Food and Feeding. 

esteemed in the form of sausage, and appear also in 
small portions or joints, but freely garnistied with 
vegetables, on the tables of those who can afford 
animal diet. Going northward, where the climate is 
no longer adapted for the production of wheat, as 
in parts of Russia, rye and oats form the staple food 
from the vegetable kingdom, associated with an 
increased quantity of meat and fatty materials. 

Lastly, it is well known that the inhabitants of the 
Arctic zone are compelled to consume large quantities 
of oily matter, in order to generate heat abundantly ; 
and also that animal food is necessarily the staple of 
their dietary. Vegetables, which moreover are not 
producible in so severe a climate, would there be 
wholly inadequate to support life. 



CHAPTER III. 

Food of the Euglibli peasant— Food of Englislnnen generally too 
solid or stimulating— Value of fish as an article of diet— Food 
for the sedentary— Of the leguminous plants, haricots and 
lentils — Whole meal of wheat : its employment for bread — 
Kice, maize, macaroni, and potato. 

AVe will now consider the food whicli the English 
peasant and artisan provide. The former lives, for 
the most part, on wheaten bread and cheese, with 
occasionally a little bacon, some potatoes, and per- 
haps garden greens ; it is only occasionally indeed 
that he can obtain fresh meat. To this dietary the 
artisan adds meat as a rule, mostly beef or mutton, 
and some butter. A piece of fresh, and therefore not 
tender beef, is baked, or cooked in a frying-pan, in 
the latter case becoming a hard, and not very diges- 
tible morsel ; by the former process a somewhat better 
dish is produced, the meat being usually surrounded 
by potatoes or by a layer of batter, since both con- 
tain starchy products, and absorb the fat which lea'^'es 
the meat. The food of the peasant might, however, 
be cheaper and better; while the provision of the 
artisan is extravagant and bad. At this period of 
our national history, when food is scarce, and the 
supply of meat insufficient to meet the demand 
which our national habits of feeding perpetuate, it 



26 Food and Feeding. 

is an object of the first importance to consider 
whether other aliments can be obtained at a cheaper 
rate, and at the same time equal in quality to those 
of the existing dietary. Many believe that this 
object may be accomplished without difficulty, and 
that the chief obstacle to improvement in the food- 
supply, not only of the classes referred to, but in that 
of the English table generally, is the common pre- 
judice which exists against any aliment not yet widely 
known or tried. The one idea which the working 
classes possess in relation to improvement in diet, 
and which they invariably realise when wages are 
high, is an abundant supply of butcher's meat. To 
make this the chief element of at least three meals 
daily, and to despise bread and vegetables, is for them 
no less a sign of taste, than a declaration of belief in 
the perfection of such food for the purposes of nutrition. 
We have already seen that not only can all that 
is necessary to the human body he supplied by the 
vegetable kingdom solely, but that, as a matter of 
fact, the world's population is to a large extent sup- 
ported by vegetable products. Such form, at all 
events, the most wholesome and agreeable diet for 
the inhabitants of the tropics. Between about forty 
and nearly sixty degrees of latitude we find large 
populations of fine races trained to be the best 
labourers in the world on little more than cereals 
and legumes, with milk (cheese and butter), as food ; 
that little consisting of irregular and scanty supplies 
of fish, flesh, and fatty matter. In colder regions 



Englishmen consume ioo much Animal Pood. 2 7 

vegetable products are tardly to be obtained, and 
flesh and fat are indispensable. Thus man is clearly 
omnivorous ; wbile men may be advantageously vege- 
tarian in one climate, mixed eaters in another, and 
exclusively flesh-eaters in a third. 

I have not hesitated to say that Englishmen gene- 
rally have adopted a diet adapted for a somewbat more 
northerly latitude than that which they occupy ; that 
the cost of their food is therefore greater than it need 
be, and that their numerous forms of indigestion and 
much resulting chronic disease are further necessary 
consequences of the same error. They consume too 
much animal food, particularly the flesh of cattle. 
For all who are occupied with severe and continuous 
mechanical labour, a mixed diet, of which cereals and 
legumes form a large portion, and fish, a little fat 
meat, bacon, or lard, eggs, and milk form a moderate, 
but constant proportion, is more nutritious and whole- 
some than almost entirely animal food. For those 
whose labour is chiefly mental, and whose muscular 
exercise is inconsiderable, still less of concentrated 
nitrogenous food is desirable. Then there is a large 
class of persons who indulge, not necessarily in quantity, 
but in a kind of food generally reputed "simple and 
wholesome," which nevertheless for them creates a 
condition of corpulence, not merely inconvenient, 
but prejudicial to health, and to their prospects of 
longevity. Such tendencies existing, and especially 
if the individual does not, or cannot take much 
exercise, the choice of food, free from fatty constituent, 



28 Food and Feeding. 



or from fat-producing elements, is a matter of no small 
importance. Then, again, it is absolutely certain, 
contrary to the popular belief as this is, that while a 
good supply of food is essential during the period of 
growth and active middle life, a diminished supply is 
desirable in relation to health and prolongation of life 
during declining years, when physical exertion is 
small, and the digestive faculty sometimes becomes 
less powerful also. I shall not regard it as within my 
province here to dilate largely on this topic, but I 
desire to point out that the system of " supporting " 
aged persons, as it is termed, with increased quantities 
of food and stimulant, is an error of cardinal importance, 
and, without doubt, tends to shorten, or to embitter life. 
This erroneous practice ignores the important fact that 
as age increases, the ability to eliminate food un- 
necessarily consumed notably diminishes. The func- 
tions by which surplus and effete matters are thrown 
off from the system are less active than in youth and 
middle age ; and the results of over-feeding, which a 
robust constitution can get rid of vnthout obvious evil, 
become a source of dangerous embarrassment to the 
feebler organization of one advanced in years. Hence 
the appearance of a crowd of chronic troubles peculiar 
to the latter third of life, are to a great extent avoid- 
able. So far from continuing to select the strong 
nourishment which may have been necessary during 
tlio toil and anxieties of thirty years or more of adult 
energy and activity throughout the prime of life, the 
elderly man who desires to preserve fair health, and 



Land Produce, and Imports. 29 

to attain to longevity, should gradually diminish his 
use of strong nitrogenous and much fatty food. He 
should substitute a lighter dietary, as he subsides 
naturally, and more or less gradually, into the class of 
the sedentary, and adopts the regimen best adapted 
thereto, hereafter to be considered. 

These things being so, a consideration of no small 
concern arises in relation to the economical manage- 
ment of the national resources. For it is a fair com- 
putation that every acre of land devoted to the pro- 
duction of meat is capable of becoming the source of 
three or four times the amount of produce of equivalent 
value as food, if devoted to the production of grain. 
In other words, a given area of land cropped "with 
cereals and legumes, wiU support a population more 
than three times as numerous as that which can be 
sustained on the same land devoted to the growth of 
cattle. Moreover, the corn-land will produce, almost 
without extra cost, a considerable quantity of animal 
food, in the form of pigs and poultry, from the offal or 
coarser parts of vegetable produce which is unsuitable 
for human consumption. 

Thus this country purchases every year a large and 
increasing quantity of corn and flour from foreign 
countries, while more of our own land is yearly de- 
voted to grazing purposes. The value of corn and flour 
imported by Great Britain in 1877 was no less than 
63,536,322;., while in 1875 it was only just over 
53,000,000/. The increased import during the last 
thirty-two years is well exhibited in the following 



30 Food and Feeding. 

extract: — "In 1846 the imports of corn and .flour 
amounted to seventeen pounds weight per head of 
population ; in 1865 they had risen to seventy pounds 
per head ; and in 1865 to ninety-three pounds weight 
per head of population. Finally, in 1877 the imports 
of corn and flour amounted to 170 pounds weight per 
head of population of the United Kingdom." * 

Lastly, those who are interested in the national 
supply of food must lament that, while Great Britain 
possesses perhaps the best opportunities in the world 
for securing a large and cheap supply of fish, she fails 
to attain it, and procures so little only, that it is to the 
great majority of the inhabitants an expensive luxury. 
Fish is a food of great value ; nevertheless it ought in 
this country to be one of the cheapest aliments, since 
production and growth cost absolutely nothing, only 
the expenses of catching, and of a short transport 
being incurred. This is a question which must sooner 
or later be solved by the public themselves, unless some 
persons in the trade, more enterprising than those who 
now pursue it, will abandon existing conventional rules 
and habits, and venture on the assuredly safe and profi- 
table enterprise of supplying fish good and fresh, at 
prices far lower than those which it is agreed shall 
rule at present. 

* states-man's Tear Book, 1879, p. 268. And what might be the 
extra cost of obtaining this supply in time of war ?— a oontingeucj we 
ought seriously to reckon on. We should then, perhaps, draw much 
more largely than we do at present on the enormous resources which 
exist on all our shores, referred to in the succeeding paragraph. 



Fish as an element of Diet. 3 1 

A very large proportion of our town population 
would profit by exchanging some of their meat, as an 
article of daily diet, for fish. Where occupation is 
chiefly of an intellectual kind, and demands little 
physical exertion, fish is often much more suitable 
than butcher's meat. Without active exercise in the 
open air, the digestive system is apt to become over- 
loaded and oppressed by meals consisting chiefly of 
meat; and even if the primary digestion of it is, 
in these circumstances, fairly accomplished, many a 
constitution suffers from an over- supply of nutritive 
matters, which cannot be disposed of easily without 
considerable habitual muscular activity. 

There is no doubt that the obvious and admitted 
value of a highly nitrogenous food, of which meat is a 
concentrated form, to the labouring man, has occasioned 
the almost universal belief that such meat, of which 
let beef and mutton be the type, is the most desirable 
food staple for all. " If you wish to be strong, eat 
plenty of meat ; " " If you are feeling weak, eat more 
meat, and at every meal ; " such are the weU-known 
articles of a creed which is deeply graven in the 
popular mind. Nevertheless few statements relating 
to diet can be more misleading, and this is, as already 
intimated, one which gives rise to much serious ill 
health. 

It is this habit of adopting meat as the chief element 
of his dietary, which the sedentary man, with little 
opportunity for bodily exercise, the man who uses his 
brain more than his muscles, should especially aroid. 



Food and Feeding. 



Equally also should he abstain from fatty matters in 
large quantity, taking only a moderate proportion, 
■which is not only permissible, but to that extent 
necessary. For if he habitually consumes these two 
classes of food freely, materials are introduced into 
the system which it cannot eliminate, and which must 
ultimately obstruct the function of some internal organ. 
Thus the periodical biKous attack, or the recurring fit 
of gout, or some other relentless tormentor, clears the 
system for a time of the offending matter which the 
daily error in diet is perpetually reproducing and 
accumulating. Those who are thus affected often 
endeavour to ward off their troubles by systematic 
muscular exercises, fencing, rowing, and the like, and 
they do so with a certain amount of success. It is for 
the purpose of getting rid of' superfluous nutritive 
materials that others (who may be wholly unconscious 
of the need which impels them) secure their yearly 
shootings, make Alpine excursions, or seek the 
mineral springs of a foreign spa, contrivances, all of 
them, for effecting the required elimination once or 
twice a year by a method more or less agreeable, but 
which would not be necessary had food suitable to a 
sedentary life only been taken. Many a man might 
indeed safely pursue a sedentary career, taking only 
a small amount of exercise, and yet maintain an 
excellent standard of health, if only he were careful 
that the " intake " in the form of diet corresponded 
with the expenditure which his occupations, mental 
and physical, demand. Let him by all means enjoy 



Advantages of a Fish Diet. 33 

— — ■ — ' — _ — > 'til 

tis annual pastime, and profit by it, to rest his mind 
and augment his natural forces, but not for the mere 
purpose of neutralising the evil effects of habitual 
dietetic wrong-doing.* 

It is for this large and increasing class of the com- 
munity, who are emphatically brain-workers, that fish 
furnishes an appropriate food ; and as the tendency of 
civilisation is slowly but surely to develop mental 
activity, and to dispense with laborious handicraft, a 
good supply of cheap fish becomes every day more 
important to the community. 

iFor the sedentary man, whatever his calling in life, 
whose engagements permit him only to take just that 
moderate amount of muscular exercise which is in 
all circumstances essential to health ; for a great 
proportion of women, whose habits mostly are not, 
and often cannot be active, the nutritive elements 
afibrded by fish admirably supply an important part 
of the wants of the body. The moderate amount of 
flesh-forming material present in fish, and in a form 
which entails little labour on the digestive organs — 
for most persons certainly less than meat — and the 
facility with which fish may be associated with other 
elements — some fatty matters, with cereals and vege- 
tables, as well as fruits — place it in the first rank of 
foods in that mixed dietary which is- suitable to those 
who lead more or less the kind of life referred to. I 
by no means say that it should supersede the use of 

* See article entitled, "Diet in relation to Age and Activity," by 
the Author. " Nineteenth Century," May, 1885. 



34 Food and Feeding. 

meat altogetlier, although it may do so sometimes with 
advantage ; a point only to be determined in each 
individual instance after some observation and ex- 
periment. For in all cases, it is to be remembered 
that no man who has habitually eaten meat two or 
three times daily can at once exchange it for fish and 
cereals or vegetables, without some discomfort, to say 
the least. All radical changes in diet, even in the right 
direction, require to be gradually made ; the stomach 
conforms slowly, when long accustomed to deal with 
highly nitrogenised animal food, to the task of deriving 
from unaccustomed materials the support necessary 
to the body. Given time for such modification of 
function, and it is remarkable — at least it appears so 
to those who have not practically studied the subject 
— that a diet which, if adopted suddenly might be 
equivalent to semi-starvation, may by degrees become 
the most healthful and nutritious which the individual 
can adopt. 

I may here advert to a belief which appears to be 
vndely entertained, viz., that fish contains certain 
elements which adapt it in an especial manner to reno- 
vate the brain, and so to support mental labour. 
There is no foundation whatever for this view : the 
value of fish to the brain-worker is due simply to the 
facts already referred to, viz., that it contains, in 
smaller proportion than meat, those materials which 
taken abundantly demand much physical labour for 
their complete consumption, and which without this, 
produce an unhealthy condition of body, more or less 



The Fare of the Agricultural Labourer. 35 

incompatible with the easy and active exercise of the 
functions of the brain. 

Having enunciated some general principles, which 
it is important should first be established, I shall offer 
briefly an illustration or two of the manner in which 
they may be applied. This brings ns to the second 
division of the subject, viz., the practical treatment of 
certain aliments, in order to render them suitable for 
food. Dealing first with that of the agricultural 
labourer, our object is to economise his small pittance; 
to give him, if possible, a rather more nutritive, 
wholesome, and agreeable dish — he can have but one 
— than his means have hitherto furnished. But here 
there is little scope for change ; already said to live 
chiefly on bread and cheese, with occasionally bacon, 
two indications only for improvement can be followed, 
viz., augmentation of nitrogenous matter and of fatty 
matter, to support the body and to furnish heat and 
force. A fair proportion of meat, one of the best 
means of fulfilling them, is not within his reach. 
First, his daily bread ought to contain all the con- 
stituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour 
from which most of the mineral elements have been 
removed. But beans and peas are richer in nitrogen 
than wheat, and equal it in starch, mineral matters, 
and fat, the last being in very small quantity, while 
maize has three times their proportion of fat. Hence 
aU of these would be useful additions to his dietary, 
being cheaper than wheat in the market, although, 
the retail demand being at present_smaU, they may.jiot 

D 2 



36 Food and Feeding. 

be so in the small shops. As an illustration of the 
value of legumes combined with fat, it may be remem- 
bered how well the Erbswurst supported the work of 
the Grerman armies during the winter of 1870-71, an 
instructive lesson for us in England at the present 
moment. It consists of a simple pea-soup mixed with 
a certain proportion of bacon or lard, and dried so as 
to be portable, constituting in very small compass a 
perfect food, especially suitable for supporting mus- 
cular activity and exposure to cold. Better than any 
flesh, certainly any which could be transported with 
ease, the cost was not more than half that of ordinary 
meat. It was better also, because the form of the 
food is one in which the nutriment is readily acces- 
sible and easily digested ; it was relished cold, or could 
be converted in a few minutes into good soup with 
boiling water. But for our labourer probably the best 
of the legumes is the haricot bean, red or white, the 
dried mature bean of the plant whose pods we eat in 
the early green state as "French beans."* For this 
purpose they may be treated thus : Soak, say, a quart 
of the dried haricots in cold water for about twelve 
hours, after which place them in a saucepan, with 
two quarts of cold water and a little salt, on the fire ; 

* What we call ' ' French beans " may be the product of several 
kindred varieties of the kidney bean, dwarf or climbing, varying 
according to locality and soil, and distributed over a very large part of 
Evirope. When gathered early, before it is fully grown, the bean is 
green, like a green pea, and forms an admirable dish, known in France 
as flageolets. When the ordinary French beans (immature green pods) 
are mixed in about 'equal proportions with the flageolets, the dish, 



Various methods of cooking Haricots. 37 

when boiling remove to the corner and simmer slowly 
until the beans are tender ; the time required being 
about two to' three hours.* This quantity will fill a 
large dish, and may bo eaten with salt and pepper. 
It will be greatly improved at small cost by the addi- 
tion of a bit of butter, or of melted butter with parsley, 
or if an onion or two have been sliced and stewed 
with the haricots. A better dish still may be made 
by putting all or part, after boiling, into a shallow 
frying pan, and lightly frying for a few minutes with 
a little lard and some sliced onions. With a few 
slices of bacon added, a comparatively luxurious and 
highly nutritive meal may be made. But there is 
still in the saucepan, after boiling the haricots, a resi- 
due of value, which the French peasant's wife, who 
turns everything to account, utilises in a manner 
quite incomprehensible to the Englishwoman. The 
water in which dried haricots have stewed, and also 
that in which green French beans have been boiled, 
contains a proportion of nutritive matter. The French- 
woman preserves this liquor carefully, cuts and fries 
some onions, adds to it these and some thick slices of 
bread, a little salt and pepper with a potherb or two 
from the corner of the garden, and thus serves hot an 
agreeable and useful crokte aupot. It ought to be added 
that the haricots so largely used by the working classes 

wliich is a veiy palatable one, is well knowu in France as haricots mis 
uanaches (variegated), and might be served at our tables with ad- 
vantage. 

* If the water is hard, a little soda should be added to soften it. 



38 Food and Feeding. 

throughout Europe are not precisely either "red" 
or " white," but some cheaper local varieties, known 
as haricots da paya. These are now supplied here at 
about twopence a pound, and in large quantity might 
be obtained at a somewhat cheaper rate, their quality 
as food being not inferior to other kinds. 

But haricots — let them be the fine white Soissons — 
are good enough to be welcome at any table. A roast 
leg or shoulder of mutton should be garnished by a 
pint boiled as just directed, lying in the gravy of the 
dish ; and some persons think that, with a good supply 
of the meat gravy, and a little salt and pepper, " the 
haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton." 
Then with a smooth ^;»rec of mild onions, which have 
been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served 
freely as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots become 
the (j'xjot a la hrctonnc well koown to all lovers of 
wholesome and savoury cookery. Next, white haricots 
stewed until soft, made into a rather thick |j»/'eV, deli- 
cately flavoured by adding a small portion of white 
puree of onions (not browned by frying as in the pre- 
ceding sauce), prodiice an agreeable garnish for the 
centre of a dish of small cutlets, or an entree of fowl, 
&c. Again, the same haricot puree blended with a 
veal stock, well flavoured with fresh vegetables, fur- 
nishes an admirable and nutritious white soup. The 
red haricots, in like manner, with a beef stock make a 
superlative brown soup, which, with the addition of 
portions of game, especially of hare, forms, for those 
who do not despise economy in cuisine where the result 



Vainous methods of cooking Haricots. 39 

attained is so excellent, a soup which in texture and in 
flavour would by many persons not be distinguishable 
from a common ^^((re'e of game itself. Stewed haricots 
also furnish, when cold, an admirable salad, improved 
by adding slices of tomato, &c., the oil supplying the 
one element in which the bean is deficient ; and a 
perfectly nutritious food is produced for those who can 
digest it — and they are numerous — -in this form. The 
same dietetic principle, it may be observed, has, al- 
though empirically, produced the well-known dishes 
of beans and bacon, ham and green peas, boiled pork 
and pease-pudding, all of them old and popular but 
scientific combinations. Thus also the French, b%xw- 
ing petits pois as a separate dish, add butter freely and 
a dash of sugar, the former making the compound phy- 
siologically complete, the latter agreeably heightening 
the natural sweetness of the vegetable, especially when 
the peas are a little old, insipid, or have lost their 
accustomed flavour. 

Let me recall, at the close of these few hints about 
the haricot, the fact, that there is no product of the 
vegetable kingdom so nutritious ; holding its own in 
this respect, as it well can, even against the beef and 
mutton of the animal kingdom. The haricot ranks 
just above lentils, which have been so much praised of 
late, and rightly, the haricot being also to most palates 
more agreeable. By most stomachs, too, haricots are 
more easily digested than meat is; and, consuming 
weight for weight, the eater feels lighter and less 
oppressed, as a rule, after the leguminous dish ; while 



40 Food and Feeding. 

the comparative cost is very greatly in favour of the 
latter. I do not of course overlook in the dish of 
simple haricots the absence of savoury odours proper 
to vi^ell-cooked meat : but nothing is easier than to 
combine one part of meat with two parts of haricots, 
adding vegetables and garden herbs, so as to produce 
a stew which shall be more nutritious, wholesome, and 
palatable than a stew of all meat with vegetables and 
no haricots. Moreover, the cost of the latter will be 
more than double that of the former. 

I have just adverted to the bread of the labourer, 
and recommended that it should be made from entire 
wheat meal ; but it should not be so coarsely ground 
as that commonly sold in London as " whole meal." 
The coarseness of "whole meal" is a condition de- 
signed to exert a specific effect on the digestion for 
those who need it, and, useful as it is in its place, is 
not desirable for the average population referred to. 
It is worth observing, in relation to this coarse meal, 
that it does not readily produce light agreeable bread 
when made in the form of ordinary loaves : a soHd 
mass of this meal being a bad conductor of heat, will 
have a hard flinty crust if baked suf&ciently to cook 
the interior ; or it will have a soft dough-like interior, 
if the baking is checked when the crust is properly 
done. Consequently the form of a flat cake, resembling 
that of the ordinary tea-cake, is preferable, since it 
admits of the right amount of heat operating equally 
througliout the mass. 

The following receipt will be found successful, pro- 



A Receipt for whole-meal Bread. 41 

bably after a trial or two, in producing excellent, light, 
friable, and most palatable bread : — 

To two pounds of coarsely ground or crushed whole 
wheat-meal, add half a pound of fine flour and a 
sufficient quantity of baking powder and salt ; when 
these are well mixed, rub in about two ounces of 
butter, and make into dough with half milk and water, 
with skimmed milk, warm, or with all milk if pre- 
ferred. Make into flat cakes like "tea-cakes," and 
bake without delay in a quick oven, leaving them 
afterwards to finish thoroughly at a lower tempera- 
ture* The butter and milk supply fatty matter in 
which the wheat is somewhat deficient ; all the saline 
and mineral matters of the husk are retained; and 
thus a more nutritive form of bread cannot be made. 
Moreover, it retains the natural flavour of the wheat, 
in place of the insipidity which is characteristic of fine 
flour, although it is indisputable that bread produced 
from the latter, especially at Paris and Vienna, is un- 
rivalled for delicacy, texture, and colour. A palatable 
addition is made, in my opinion, by exchanging the 
half pound of flour ordered in the foregoing receipt 

* The following is a simple and excellent formula for "baking 
powder ; " one whieli has been long used for this and other purposes. 
It may be obtained at any chemist's and in any quantity, based on the 
following proportions : 

Tartaric acid, 2 ozs. 

Bicarbonate of soda, 3 ozs. 

Common arrowroot, 3 ozs. 

Mix well ; place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep perfectly 
dry. 



Food and Feeding. 



for the same quantity of medium fine Scotch oatmeal. 
The change adds to the brittleness and lightness of the 
product. Whole meal may be bought ; but mills are 
now cheaply made for home use, and wheat may be 
ground to any degree of coarseness desired* 

Further examples are unnecessary here, although it 
would be an easy task to fill a volume with matter of 
this kind, illustrating the ample means which exist 
for diminishing somewhat the present wasteful use of 
"butchers' meats" with positive advantage to the con- 
sumer. Many facts in support of this position will 
appear as we proceed. But another important object 
in furnishing the foregoing details is to point out how 
combinations of the nitrogenous, starchy, fatty, and 
mineral elements may be made, in well-proportioned 
mixtures, so as to produce what I have termed a 
" perfect" dish — perfect, that is, so far as the chief in- 
dication is concerned, viz., one which supplies every 
demand of the body, without containing any one 
element in undue proportion. For it is obvious that 
one or two of these elements may exist in injurious 
excess, especially for delicate stomachs, the varied 
peculiarities of which, as before insisted on, must 
sometimes render necessary a modification of all rules. 
Thus it is easy to make the fatty constituent too large, 
and thereby derange digestion, a result frequently 
experienced by persons of sedentary habits, to whom a 
little pastry, a morsel of foie gnis, or a rich cream is a 

* Kent & Cu. , the well-known makers of domestic ajjpliances, in 
Holborn, supply such mills. 



Rice, and its combinations in food. 43 

source of great discomfort, or of a " bilious attack ; " 
while the outdoor labourer, who requires lauch fatty 
material for his work, would have no difficulty in 
consuming a large quantity of such compounds with 
advantage. Nitrogenous matter also is commonly 
supplied at all middle-class tables beyond the eater's 
wants ; and if more is consumed than can be used for 
the purposes which such aliment subserves, it must be 
eliminated in some way from the system ; and pro- 
bably, as T/e have seen, by some uncomfortable 
method. 

Quitting the subject of wheat and the leguminous 
seeds, it will be interesting to review briefly the com- 
binations of rice, which furnishes so large a portion 
of the world with a vegetable staple of diet. Re- 
membering that it contains chiefly starch, with nitro- 
gen in small proportion, and almost no fat or mineral 
elements, and just sufficing perhaps to meet the wants 
of an inactive population in a tropical climate, the first 
addition necessary for the people who dwell on the 
temperate margin of this limit, and just beyond it, will 
be fat, and, after that, more nitrogen. Hence an illus- 
tration of one of the first efforts to make a dish of 
rice " complete " is afforded by the addition of butter 
and a little Parmesan cheese, in the simple risotto, 
from which, as a starting point, improvement, both 
for nutritive purposes and for the demands of the 
palate, may be carried to any extent (see p. 93). 
Fresh additions are made in the shape of marrow, of 
morsels of liver, &c., of meat broth with onion and 



44 Food and Feeding. 

spice, which constitute the mixture, when well pre- 
pared, nutritious and highly agreeable. The analogue 
of this mainly Italian dish is the pilau or pilaff of the 
orientals, consisting, as it chiefly does, of rice lightly 
boiled in the broth of a fowl : a basis susceptible of 
various slight modifications and additions. The curry 
of rabbit or of poultry and the kedgeree of fish are 
further varieties which it is unnecessary to describe. 
Following the same combination to Spain, we find it 
a popular national dish, not greatly difiering from 
the foregoing, in the polio con arroz, which consists of 
abundance of rice, stewed with a little broth and 
containing morsels of fowl, bacon, and sausage, with 
appetising spices, and sufficing for an excellent meal. 

Another farinaceous product of world-wide use is 
the maize or Indian corn. With a fair amount of 
nitrogen, starch, and mineral elements, it contains 
also a good proportion of fat, and is made into bread, 
cakes, and puddings of various kinds. It is complete, 
but susceptible of improvement by the addition of 
nitrogen. Hence in the United States, where it is 
largely used, it is often eaten with beans, under the 
name of " succotash." In Italy it is ground into the 
beautiful yellow flour which is conspicuous in the 
streets of almost every town ; when made into a firm 
paste, by boiling in water, and sprinkled with Parmesan 
cheese, a nitrogenous aliment, it becomes what is 
known as polenta, and is largely consumed with some 
relish in the shape of fried fish, sardines, sausage, 
little birds, or morsels of fowl or goose, by which of 



Potato, and combinations as food. 45 

course fresh nitrogen is added. Macaroni has been 
already alluded to in connection with wheat, from 
which it is made ; although rich in nitrogenous and 
starchy materials, it is deficient in fat. Hence it is 
boiled and eaten with butter andParmesan (rf I'ltalienne) 
and with tomatoes, which furnish saline matters, with 
meat grav}' or with milk. 

Nearer home the potato forms a vegetable basis in 
composition closely resembling rice, and requiring 
therefore additions of nitrogenous and fatty elements. 
The Irishman's inseparable ally, the pig, is the natural, 
and to him necessary, complement of the tuber, making 
the latter a complete and palatable dish. The every- 
day combination of mashed potato and sausage is an 
application of the same principle. In the absence of 
pork, the potato eater substitutes a cheap oily fish, the 
herring. The combination of fatty material with the 
potato is still further illustrated in our baked potato 
and butter, in fried potatoes in their endless variety of 
form, in potato mashed with milk or cream, also served 
in the ordinary way with maltre d'hdtel butter; finally 
arriving at the most perfect and finished combination 
in Hke pommes de terre sautdes au heurre of a first-class 
French restaurant, where it becomes almost a plat de 
luxe. Even the simple bread and butter or bread and 
cheese of our own country equally owe their form and 
popularity to physiological necessity ; the deficient fat 
of the bread being supplemented by the fatty elements 
of each addition, the cheese supplying also its propor- 
tion of nitrogenous matter, which exists so largely in 



46 Food and Feeding. 

its peculiar principle, caseine. So again, all the suet 
puddings, "short cake," plum cakes, pie-crust, or 
pastry, whether baked or boiled, which consist simply 
of farinaceous food rendered stronger nutriment by the 
addition of fatty matter ; are illustrations of the same 
principle unintentionally applied by their inventors. 

In the same way almost every national dish might 
be analysed up to the pot-au-feu of our neighbours, 
the right management of which combines the nutritious 
quality of flesh with the abundant aroma and flavour 
of fresh vegetables which enter so largely into this 
economical and excellent mess. Among the poorer 
classes this dish is, of course, intended to supplement 
a considerable quantity of bread. 

It win be apparent that, up to this point, our esti- 
mate of the value of these combinations has been 
limited, or almost so, by their physiological complete- 
ness as foods, and by their economical value in relation 
to the resources of that great majority of all popula- 
tions, which is poor. But when the inexorable neces- 
sity for duly considering economy has been complied 
with, the next aim is to render food as easily digestible 
as possible, and agreeable to the senses of taste, smell, 
and sight. 

The hard labourer with simple diet, provided his 
aliment is complete and fairly well cooked, will suffer 
little from indigestion. He cannot be guilty, for want 
of means, of eating too much, fertile source of deranged 
stomach Jwith those who have the means; physical 
labour being also in many circumstances the best pre- 



Food not only to be cheap, but agreeable. 47 

ventive of dyspepsia. " Live on sixpence a day and 
earn it," attributed to Abernethy as tbe sum of his 
dietary for a gluttonous eater, is a maxim of value, 
endorsed by millions. But for the numerous sedentary 
workers in shops, offices, in business and professions 
of all kinds, the dish must not only be "complete;" 
it must be so prepared as to be easily digestible by 
stomachs of moderate power, and it should also be as 
appetising and agreeable as circumstances admit. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Milk, an example of a natural " complete" food — Its employment 
as food, almost universal— Essentially an animal food — Ex- 
ceedingly susceptible of injury — Mode of distribution, a fertile 
source of disease — Milk epidemics of fever, &o. — Composition 
of milk — Value as a diet — Whey — Koumiss — Means to be 
adopted in order to secure the purity and wholesomeness of 
milk. 

The term " complete," as we have seen in the fore- 
going chapter, is employed to denote that the food so 
designated contains all the elements necessary to the 
support of the body, and to the activity of its functions. 
Most commonly, such nourishment is a compound of 
two or more animal or vegetable substances, combined 
in order to afford the various elements necessary to 
meet all the demands of animal life. But there is a 
notable example of a single animal product, perhaps 
the best which can be offered as a complete food ; one 
prepared by nature, furnished in great abundance, and 
which we are all well acquainted with, namely, milk. 
It is a product which slightly varies in different 
species of the mammalian family. That form which 
we are most familiar with is the milk of the cow, and 
it may be taken as the type. It forms so considerable 
and so valuable a part of the food of man in temperate 
climates, that some account of it is desirable here, par- 



Importance of pure Milk. 49 

ticularly as the subject is rapidly grovviag iu interest 
aad importance, and as the popular knowledge respect- 
ing it is very inaperfect. 

I have said that the subject of milk is growing in 
importance ; this is true on the following grounds. 
First, because it is essential to the well-being of young 
children to have milk which is produced of excellent 
quality at its source ; and secondly, it is no less neces- 
sary that it should be unadulterated, or be otherwise 
uninjured in the processes of transit and distribution. 
Meantime, as our population grows more dense, sources 
of contamination increase, and the task of obtaining an 
absolutely pure supply is more difficult. Very much 
more is contained in these simple statements than is at 
first discerned by the popular eye. 

Before making further comments thereupon, let us 
recall the fact that, excepting only the article of 
wheaten bread, milk is perhaps the most universally 
employed food in this country. And I am not quite 
sure that the exception made above is correctly stated 
to be so. Every man, woman, and child in the king- 
dom, with few exceptions, consume milk in some form 
at least once or twice daily ; while for the youngest 
part of the community, during the most critical stage 
of early growth, milk forms the chief and the best 
source of nourishment. Now it is to be remembered 
in connection with these striking facts, that milk is a 
complex animal food, and one which so rapidly decom- 
poses, that in hot weather a few hours suffice to injure 
it materially. Moreover, it is extremely liable to con- 



50 Food and Feeding. 

tamination if exposed to impure atmospheric influ- 
ences, &c. But the most serious danger connected 
with milk as food is associated with the vast daily 
process of distribution necessary in order to convey 
the product from the cow to the consumer. No doubt 
that water is wilfully added in seme small quantity to 
a very large proportion of the supply in order to 
cheapen it ; but where this is not done, all the vessels . 
employed in dairy operations are more or less carefully 
and completely washed twice a day. It is this contact 
with water, employed by no means always, as it ought 
to be, at the boiling point, which constitutes the milk 
trade a ready and unceasing agency for the spread of 
three or four forms of disease among the population. 
It is only within the last few years that we have be- 
come aware that one of the chief methods by which 
typhoid fever, scarlet fever, and diphtheria are propa- 
gated, is by the agency of this great organization 
which conveys the daily milk from the cow to every 
house in the empire. "Water which contains the 
smallest admixture of sewage matter is naturally, 
amidst the innumerable chances afforded, now and 
then contaminated with the excreta of persons suffer- 
ing from infectious disease ; and thus, in its very em- 
ployment for cleansing milk vessels, the seeds of fatal 
disease may be deposited in a single milk can, from 
which twenty families, say, are supplied. It is foolish, 
or worse, wilfully to shut our eyes to this, and similar 
sources of danger to the community, which are asso- 
ciated with the growth of population, or to affect, 



Propagation of Fever iy Milk. 51 

after the fashion of certain teachers, that it is the part 
of msdom to take the chances of life as it comes, 
and deliberately to avoid knowledge of its risks, 
although that knowledge alone can render them harm- 
less and make life secure, healthful, and enjoyable. 

Had such counsel been listened to by our fore- 
fathers, the mortality from fever might still be in this 
, country what it was forty years ago ; moreover, we 
know that the cause now in question, like every other 
cause of fever, is a removable one, if reasonable pre- 
cautions are taken. It was greatly due to the late 
Dr. Murchison, and to Mr. Ernest Hart, who more 
than anyone has studied this subject exhaustively, that 
the great epidemic of typhoid fever in the parish of 
Marylebone, in 1873, was traced to a single case at a 
country farm which supplied milk to a dairy in that 
parish ; directly occasioning no less than 218 cases of 
fever among the customers of that dairy, of whom 
twenty-six died. From these a vast number of other 
cases arose, how many could never by any inquiry be 
correctly estimated. 

Since that time no less than eighty-one (separate) 
epidemics have been similarly traced in various parts 
of this country to milk distribution.* 

The foregoing brief statements suffi(5e to show the 

* See an admirable and very concise account of ihe subject in a 
paper read at a meeting of tlie Social Science Congress, at Hudders- 
field, October, 1883, by Mr. Ernest Hart, and entitled, "Is it desirable 
to take any, and wbat, further measures to prevent the spread of 
Zymotic Diseases through the Milk Supply of our Towns?" (London ; 
Smith, Elder &-Co.) 



52 Food and Feeding. 

importance of the dairy and its products, in connec- 
tion with the subject of food, even when considered 
apart from the question of their dietetic value. I 
shall next proceed to describe the composition and 
characteristics of good milk, adding some remarks on 
its use as diet, and then indicate the practical mode in 
which those who are interested in obtaining it un- 
adulterated and uncontaminated may attain their 
object. 

Of good cow's milk, nearly one seventh part by 
weight is solid matter, the remainder is water. 

Of this seventh part, rather more than a third is 
" lactose " or milk-sugar ; rather less than a third is 
"casein," the basis of cheese; rather more than a 
fourth is " milk-fat," or cream ; the small remainder 
being salts or mineral matter. The foregoing propor- 
tions are sufficiently correct for ordinary purposes, and 
are easily remembered. A more exact analysis is 
given here of the proportions in 100 parts of milk by 
weight. 

WaUr 86-5 

Solids^- 

Milk fat or cream . . 3 '9 

Casein or albuminoid . 4 '2 

Milk sugar, or lactose . . 4 '6 

Salts .... -8 

13-5 

100-0 

The specific gravity is generally about 1030 to 1033, 
at 60° Fab. ; but specific gravity alone cannot be 



Value of Milk easily tested. 5 3 

regarded as an exact test of quality, since the quan- 
tity of cream varies with different specimens ; and as 
cream is of lighter specific gravity than milk, a speci- 
men of the latter which is extremely rich in cream, 
other ingredients being the same, will weigh lighter 
than one which is deficient in cream. But that a 
sample of milk exceptionally rich in cream should be 
offered for sale, although hypothetically possible, must 
be regarded as practically impossible in the last degree. 
The nutritive value of milk corresponds of course with 
the aggregate amount of all the sohds contained, and 
for all purposes of the consumer, the specific gravity 
corresponds with that amount, the figure rising as the 
solids are augmented. 

The specific gravity of unadulterated milk furnished 
by different healthy cows may be regarded as ranging 
between 1027 and 1035. But the mixed product of 
several such cows equals at least 1030 or 1031. If 
the milk furnished by any dealer is persistently below 
1030, there is ground for complaint on the part of the 
customer ; and I think it may be said that any metro- 
politan dairy of repute will furnish an uniform supply 
of milk decidedly above 1030. Nevertheless, there is 
a large quantity sold by the small dealers to the poor, 
of which the specific gravity is no more than 1025 or 
1026. Nothing, however, is easier than to ascertain the 
real value of any sample which the purchaser desires 
to test. A lactometer may be bought for 2s. %d. : it 
is only necessary to float it in a jug of milk, and the 
figure on its scale which is level with the surface of 



54 Food and Feeding. 

the milk is the specific gravity ; the temperature 
should be about 60° Fah. 

Where an exact analysis is required, as for example, 
to determine the question of fining a fraudulent dealer, 
the value of the sample has to be found, by ascertain- 
ing the amount of solids present, apart from the cream, 
and estimating the latter separately. 

The Society of Public Analysts requires a mini- 
mum of "nine per cent of solids, not fat;" and any 
sample which does not reach that amount has almost 
iavariably been adulterated vsdth water, and the seller 
of it is liable to a fine. But " nine per cent." is a low 
standard, determined on to avoid the infliction of 
hardship on any small dealer who may have been 
supplied from the country with a genuine, though 
exceptionally poor milk, of which the solids did not 
exceed nine per cent. ; and it may probably yet be 
altered. Hence vast quantities of milk which are 
sold every day at that standard, contain a good deal 
of added water. The standard of the best metro- 
politan dairies, whose interest it is to supply unadul- 
terated milk, is always higher. 

Milk is essentially the food of the growing animal. 
Supplied by nature for the rapid development of the 
young calf, it is, with a little modification, admirably 
adapted for our young children. It is excellent food, 
too, for some adults, by no means for all. Those who 
take much exercise, or follow laborious occupations, 
may make it a useful portion of their dietary. It is 
rarely suitable for sedentary persons, or for those who 



Milk as drink : Wkey : Koumiss. 5 5 

have reached the latter stage of life when the powers 
diminish, and the habits become less active than hereto- 
fore. As a drink at meal time, it is for the most part 
undesirable ; for liquids taken with solid food need not 
be nutritious, indeed are better not to be so : they are 
rather required to dQute and dissolve the latter; 
nutritive material being for the most part abundantly 
supplied by the solid constituents of a meal. 

Milk forms a more suitable form of drink when the 
fat has been removed, when in short it has been 
skimmed. If the casein is also taken out, as in cheese- 
making, the whey, which now contains little besides 
the sugar and the salts, is a very wholesome beverage, 
when fresh. Milk may be fermented also, and an 
agreeable light effervescing drink results, known as 
Koumiss, and largely used in Russian Tartary, where 
it is made chiefly from the milk of the mare, which 
slightly difl'ers from that of the cow. The latter, how- 
ever, is now treated here in the same way ; and is in 
no respect inferior ; it is widely recognised as useful in 
some chronic complaints, and is becoming increasingly 
popular. 

In order to ensure unadulterated and uncontami- 
nated milk, it is necessary to adopt habitually certain 
precautions, or the probability of obtaining that which 
is impure at some time or another, during the long 
array of chances which life affords, is not inconsider- 
able. This fact makes it desirable that the milk trade 
should be subjected to official sanitary supervision. For 
the present the following hintsforguidance may be useful. 



56 Food and Feeding, 

First. In country districts, where the consumer is 
commonly supplied direct from the farm, it should be 
ascertained that the dairy is completely detached from 
all the drains of the house and yards, and that the 
well used for dairy washing should be uncontaminated 
by sewage. It should be an absolute rule that all 
A'essels are scalded once a day at least with boiling 
water. 

Secondly. When in such districts infectious disease 
occurs in the dairy farm, no milk should be distributed 
on any pretext, until the sources of infection have 
disappeared. 

Thirdly. "When doubt exists as to the source of 
milk, as during a fever epidemic, and no milk abso- 
lutely beyond suspicion is to be had, it should be well 
boiled before it is used as food, by which process it is 
rendered safe. Some of those who have most studied 
the subject, are so impressed with its importance, and 
especially in relation to the interests of the family, as 
to advise that all milk should be boiled before it is 
consumed. They believe that it is wise to regard milk 
as a raw food, undesirable, on the grounds above 
stated, for human consumption, until it has been 
cooked. Continental travellers will do well to take it 
in this form, and as it is always thus served for cafe- 
an-lait abroad, there is no difficulty in obtaining it at 
any time. 

Fourthly. In all large towns and in the metropolis, 
milk should be obtained solely from some extensive 
organization of high repute, well known to have made 



Means to secure pure Milk. 5 7 

it an absolute principle of its business to distribute 
milk solely from sources which are held under vigilant 
supervision by a competent person. Moreover, every 
can of milk received from the country for distribution 
should be examined for quality, before being delivered 
to the public. This is a mode of proceeding which is 
now thoroughly understood and practised, at least in 
London ; and there is no real difficulty in adopting 
such precautions, as well as others not less important, 
as has been practically proved for several years, at 
least by one great institution, on a large scale, in this 
metropolis. For the present, it is incumbent on every 
housekeeper who regards the health of his family, to 
exercise caution after the manner here indicated. At 
no distant period, all country dairies from whence 
milk is sent away for sale, as well as the public milk- 
shops held by dealers in towns, will, without doubt, 
be subject to official inspection, and be regulated by 
sanitary enactments. In the accomplishment of this 
ceaseless task of milk distribution, almost nothing 
can be done by any single individual to avert the 
dangers to which carelessness and misfortune expose 
him ; while well-devised arrangements of the nature 
.suggested may render him almost secure. 



CHAPTER V. 

Pood of the middle-class Englishman — Baking and roasting — 
Braising, methods of — Stewing — Bxuf A la mode, — Opposite 
principles in French and English cookery— Superiority of 
each in some particulars — Frying, and its action on materials 
of food — The omelette. 

On questioning the average middle-class Eniglish- 
man as to the nature of his food, the all but universal 
answer is, " My living is plain, always roast and 
boiled " — words which but too clearly indicate the 
dreary monotony, not to say unwholesomeness, of his 
daily food ; while they furthermore express his satis- 
faction, such as it is, that he is no luxurious feeder, 
and that, in his opinion, he has no right to suffer from 
an indigestion. Joints of beef and mutton, of which 
we all know the very shape and changeless odours, 
follow each other with unvarying precision, sis roast 
to one boiled, and have done so ever since he began to 
keep house some five-and- twenty years ago ! I am not 
sanguine enough to suppose that this unbroken order, 
which rules the dietary of the great majority of British 
families of moderate and even of ample means, will be 
disturbed by any suggestions of mine. JSTevertheless, 
in some younger households, where habits followed for 
want of thought or knowledge have not yet hardened 



Roasting v. Baking. 59 

into law, there may be a disposition to adopt a healthier 
diet and a more grateful variety of aliment. For 
variety is not to be obtained in the search for new 
animal food. Often as the lament is heard that some 
new meat is not discovered, that the butcher's display 
of joints offers so small a range for choice, it is not 
from this source that wholesome and pleasing additions 
to the table will be obtained. 

But our most respectable paterfamilias, addicted to 
" plain living," might be surprised to learn that the 
vaunted "roasting" has no longer in his household 
the same significance it had five-and-twenty years 
ago ; and that probably, during the latter half of that 
term, he has eaten no roast meat, whatever he may 
aver to the contrary. Baking, at best in a half- venti- 
lated oven, has long usurped the function of the spit 
in most houses, thanks to the ingenuity of economical 
range-makers. And the joint, which formerly turned 
in fresh air, and was basted before a well-made fire, is 
now half stifled in a close atmosphere of its own va- 
pours, much to the destruction of the characteristic 
flavour of a roast. No doubt modern range-makers 
have to some extent improved the oven by ventilating 
it, but a true roast, constantly watched and basted at 
the proper time, is only to be produced before the open 
fire. 

Again, in relation to our present object, the defect 
just described is perhapsjiot less considerable than our 
neglect in this country of the process of braising as a 
valuable one iu the preparation of animal food. By 



6o Food and Feeding. 

this I understand, of course, a mode of cooking supe- 
rior in some respects to that which the term "stewing" 
denotes. 

In braising, the meat is just covered with a strong 
liquor of vegetable and animal juices (technically 
called hraise or mirepoix) in a closely covered vessel, 
from which as little evaporation as possible is per- 
mitted, and is exposed for a considerable time to a 
surrounding heat just short of boiling. By this treat- 
ment tough fibrous flesh, even if old, whether of 
poultry, of cattle, or meat unduly fresh, such as it is 
difficult to avoid during the summer heats in towns, 
is made tender and easily digestible. Moreover, it 
becomes impregnated with the odours and flavour of 
fresh vegetables and sweet herbs, while the liquor 
itself, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes the most 
appropriate, fragrant, and delicious sauce, with which 
to surround the portion when served at table. Thus, 
also, meats which are dry, or with little natural 
flavour, as veal, become saturated with juices, and 
combined with sapid substances, which render the food 
succulent and delicious to the palate. Small portions 
sufiicing for a single meal, however small the family, 
can be thus dealt with ; so that a richauffi, or cold 
meat for to-morrow, is not a thing of necessity, but only 
of choice when preferred. 

To judge by the braised products which rarely ap- 
pear on English tables, and by such descriptions of it 
as exist in our cookery books, the process itself is 
scarcely understood. Certainly it is not one uniform 



Principles and Practice of braising. 6i 

method, to which the term is applied, and consequently 
the cook's conception of it is apt to he somewhat loose 
and indefinite. 

The first principle essential to a hraise, is, that the 
meat so to he treated must he very slowly cooked ; in 
a closely covered vessel ; and with a small quantity of 
liquid. 

The second principle is, that the meat shall he im- 
pregnated in this process with the flavours of vege- 
tahles, herbs, &c., and of some spices, and, if desired, 
with wine. This is to be done by placing in the 
braise-pot around the meat, slices of ham or bacon, 
cut carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, various herbs, 
a bay leaf, cloves and other spices, and a little wine ; 
together with a small quantity of good meat stock. 
Another way of conducting the braise is to make 
beforehand a strong decoction of all these materials, 
with stock, and wine serving in part to flavour, and 
in part to preserve the liquor, and reducing the 
whole, making, in fact, what is called a mire-poix. 
A small quantity of this is then to serve as the fluid 
in which the portion of meat or bird, &c., is to be 
braised. 

The third principle is not generally considered ab- 
solutely essential to the process ; although it is un- 
doubtedly the last refinement necessary to produce a 
first-rate braise. It is that of partially browning or 
half-roasting the portion also ; and this may be accom- 
plished in two ways. The legitimate or original way 

f doing this, is, to have well fitted to the braise-pot a 



62 Food ana Feeding. 

sunk copper or iron cover, in wliicli some hot coals or 
charcoal are placed, in order to transmit downwards 
a scorching heat to the top of the portion which 
is uncovered by the liquid in the pot below. In 
this case it is usual to cover the portion, especially 
if a fowl, with a piece of white paper, which serves 
to shield a delicate morsel from a too fierce heat. 
The other and inferior way is to very lightly roast 
the meat, before putting it into the pot to braise, 
and so dispense with the coals on the cover ; but this 
hardens it, and prevents the juices penetrating. 

It may be seen then, that a braise in which no 
roasting is employed, does not, after the necessary 
materials have been prepared, require a great deal 
of attention, if the cook knows the corner of the 
fire or hot plate, where the slow and very gentle 
simmering will maintain itself regularly for two or 
three hours. 

Common braising or- stewing, that is, conducted 
without the coals on the lid, and without a previously 
prepared liquor, is well illustrated in the production 
of a well-known French dish, h«uf a la mode, which 
is always good, when served in a simple, inexpensive 
manner for the people, and may be rendered most 
excellent with more care and refinement, so as to be 
suitable at a table of the highest rank. I shall sub- 
join Gouffe's receipt ; he regards the process as an 
important and typical one, and gives it at length. See 
Appendix, page 161. 

I have a general observation to make relative to the 



English and French Cookery compared. 63 

treatment of flesh in cookery (butcher's meat, poultry, 
and game), which finds its place appropriately here. 
It may be easily recognized that two opposite prin- 
ciples dominate that treatment, within certain limits, 
and that one of these characterizes the best English 
cookery, while the other has been, and still is to a 
large extent, the ruling principle of French cookery. 
Both are rational — each perhaps in turn the better 
one in its place; and only illogical products and 
examples of defective taste can arise in practical 
cookery by confounding the two ideas, an error how- 
ever which is far from uncommon. In spite of the 
admiration which it is impossible to withhold for the 
talent of the French cook, it is nevertheless in France 
that the confusion I speak of is chiefly to be met with. 
And it is only in our own country, I venture to affirm, 
that the former of the two principles is carried out to 
perfection. That principle is, that our own meat and 
game shall be presented at table in the highest state 
of perfection attainable, so far as breeding, feeding, 
and keeping can accomplish it : each animal, when 
served, to be characterized by its own proper flavour, 
which is on no account to be masked or disguised by 
others, which are adventitious. Delicate additions 
tending to heighten the natural flavour, or agreeably 
subordinated to it, shall alone be admitted. It is a 
principle which can be successfully followed only 
where these meats exist in high perfection : where 
meat is inferior or insipid, an opposite treatment is 
the better one. And I do not hesitate to claim for 



64 Food and Feeding. 

tlie intelligent English consumer, that it has long 
been essentially his aim to cultivate the best meat 
and game in the world, and to enjoy it for its own 
sake, unalloyed by any of those sauces which are so 
valuable for improving materials which are wanting in 
quality or flavour. 

The opposite principle is that which has been deve- 
loped in association with the production of meats and 
poultry which are naturally somewhat insipid. Since 
it has been the custom not to rear in France fine 
mature beef or mutton, as we understand those meats 
here, but rather to consume almost exclusively an 
immature product, veal, as well as poultry, much of 
which, although the best of its kind, is naturally 
wanting in sapid character ; these have become, and 
rightly so, the vehicles of various delicious adventi- 
tious flavours, for which purpose the white meats are 
valued rather than for their inherent qualities. This 
character of veal is illustrated in a passage occurring 
in the flrst number of the famous Ahnanach des Gour- 
mands, which appeared in Paris at the commencement 
of the present century : — " Veal lends itself to so 
many metamorphoses that we may fairly term it ' the 
chameleon of cookery.' " * Precisely the same view is 
held by BrUlat-Savarin, but in relation to poultry, 
when he says, " Poultry is for cookery what canvas is 
to the painter." t In such conditions, therefore, it is 
natural that French cuisine should be essentially 

" Almanack des Goiinnainls. Paris, 1803, li. 17. 
t Fhysiologie du GoAt, Paris, 1843, p. 3C. 



English Cookery contrasted wit Ji, Frencli. 65 

distinguished for its sauces, by which it adorns and 
transforms material in itself somewhat uninteresting 
or uninviting. 

The Englishman loves the flavour of three or four 
years old mutton (unhappily almost a tradition now), 
mature beef, the wildest game, both winged and 
ground; and he cares not how little of "sauce" is 
supplied — he demands only "gravy" — so that they 
are in fine condition and simply cooked, for the most 
part carefully roasted. To lard mutton or venison is, 
for him, to desecrate them ; to lard or farce a grouse 
or partridge is dishonour equally to the game and to the 
guest. An English partridge is not improved, I ven- 
ture to submit, even by barding, although the reverse 
is true of quail. 

The French chef treats the white meat, veal and 
domestic poultry, with so many ingeniously contrived 
sauces, as to render those two meats as good as six. 
So successful is the achievement, that lie is too often 
tempted to extend his art to dark-fleshed game, and 
seeking to adorn it with new flavours, destroys the 
original savour and aroma, in which consists the value 
of the dish. 

During the last few years, however, a change has 
been slowly taking place in the practice of the best 
French cooks in this respect, better and more mature 
meat is to be found in Paris than formerly. I have 
recently seen served there, as the latest idea of 
perfection, a fine wild duck, lightly roasted, served 
without an atom of sauce ; only with abundance of 



66 Food and Feeding. 

hot rich red gravy, expressed on the table before us 
by a powerful raachine, from all that remained of the 
bird when the breast had been fully sliced on the hot 
plates of the two guests who partook of it. The 
pinions, legs and back, indeed all but the sliced 
breast, had contributed tbeir entire juices in the 
form of about a small cupful of what might be called 
the essence of the bird. Such precisely accords 
with our own view of what is the best, and was 
most admirably realized. Let us continue to culti- 
vate the finest meats, and to present them simply, and 
we shall have no cause to be ashamed of the course in 
which they appear at an English table. In making 
the best of second-rate and insipid morsels we may 
still learn with advantage. 

The art of frying is little understood, and the 
omelette is almost entirely neglected by our country- 
men. The products of our frying-pan are often 
greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, 
the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the 
process of boiling in oil, that is, at a heat of nearly 
600° Fahr., that of boiling water being 212°. This 
high temperature produces results, which are equiva- 
lent indeed to quick roasting, when the article to be 
cooked is immersed in the boiling fat. Frying, as 
generally conducted, is rather a combination of broil- 
ing and toasting or scorching; and the use of the 
deep pan of boiling oil or dripping, which is essential 
to the right performance of the process, and especially 
preventing greasiness, is a rare exception, and not the 



Frying: in Oil and in Dripping. 67 



rule in ordinary kitchens. The principle on which 
success depends is, that at the moment of contact with 
the almost boiling oil, a thin film of every part of the 
surface of the fish or other object to be fried is coagu- 
lated, so that the juices with their flavours, &c., are at 
once locked up within, and no quality can escape. 
The bath of oil should therefore be in quantity suffi- 
cient, and also be hot enough, to effect this result in 
an instant, after which, and during the few minutes 
requisite to cook the interior, the heat is often slightly 
lowered with advantage. The fish emerges when 
done, with a surface to which a little oil adheres, but 
this will drain off owing to its extreme fluidity when 
hot, if left on a napkin slanting a minute or two 
before the fire ; it may thus be served absolutely free 
from grease. The film of egg often applied to the 
surface of an object to be fried, is in the same manner 
instantly coagulated and forms an impermeable case ; 
while the fine bread crumbs adhering to it take a fine 
yellow colour from being slightly charred by the high 
temperature they are exposed to. 

Excellent and fresh olive oil, which need not be so 
perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest kinds re- 
served for the salad-bowl, is the best available form 
of fat for frying, and is sold at a moderate price by 
the gallon for this purpose at the best Italian ware- 
houses. Nothing, perhaps, is better than well-clarifled 
beef dripping, such as is produced, often abundantly, 
in every English kitchen ; but the time-honoured 
traditions of our perquisite system enable any Eng- 

F 2 



68 Food and Feeding. 

lish cook to sell this for herself, at sma.ll price, to a 
little trader round the corner, while she buys, at her 
employer's cost, a quantity of pork lard for frying 
material, at double the price obtained for the drip- 
ping. Lard is, moreover, the worst menstruum for 
the purpose, the most difficult to work in so as to 
free the matters fried in it from grease ; and we 
might be glad to buy back our own dripping from 
the aforesaid little trader, at a profit to him of cent, 
per cent., if only the purchase could be diplomatically 
negotiated. But so sweet is acquisition by way of 
perquisite, that none of the present race of cooks 
appear disposed to part with this particular one for 
any consideration which can be offered. They are 
doubtless, after their fashion, true to their order, and 
regard in the light of sacrilege any interference with 
these principles and traditions. 

There is one dish which may be mentioned here 
appropriately, of which English cooks have not much 
practical knowledge ; very few can make a tolerable 
omelette : and thus one of the most delicious and 
nutritious products of culinary art, with the further 
merit that it can be more rapidly prepared than any 
other dish, must really at present be almost regarded 
as an exotic. The method of proceeding is one which 
it is almost impossible to describe in writing, and no 
cookery book instructions which I have ever seen 
convey a notion of the necessary manipulation in 
which the whole art consists — to the uninitiated. 
Competent instruction at first and a little practice are 



The Omelette. 69 



required, in order to attain a mastery in producing an 
omelette; but these given, there is no difficulty in 
turning out a first-rate specimen. The ability to do 
this may be so useful in the varied circumstances of 
travel, &c., that no young man destined for foreign 
service, or even who lives in chambers, should fail to 
attain the easily acqiaired art. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Preparation of Food oontiiiued — Soups — I'ot-au-fcu — The Stock-pot 
— Bouillon — Consomm^— Mode of producing endless variety — 
The foundations of all Soups — Ksh Soups and Stews — Vegetable 
Soups — Use of the Gridiron^— Garnishes — Cookery of Vegetables 
ti VAnglaise and a la Fraiifaise — Fish and various modes of 
Cooking it — Sauces — Coolving of Macaroni and of Rice — Cold 
Meals — Salads. 

I THINK it may be said that soups, whether clear 
(that is, prepared from the juices of meat and vege- 
tables only), or thick (that is, ■pnreefs of animal or 
vegetable matters), are far too lightly esteemed by 
most classes in England, while they are almost un- 
known to the working man. For the latter they 
might furnish an important cheap and savoury dish ; 
by the former they are too often regarded as the mere 
prelude to a meal, to be swallowed hastily, or dis- 
regarded altogether as mostly unworthy of attention. 
The great variety of vegetable purees, which can be 
easily made and blended with light animal broths, 
admits of daily change in the matter of soup to a 
remarkable extent, and affords scope for taste in the 
selection and combination of flavours. The use of 
fresh vegetables in abundance ■ — such as carrots, 
turnips, artichokes, celery, cabbage, sorrel, leeks, and 



The neglect of Soups in England. 71 

onions — renders such soups wholesome and appetising. 
The supply of garden produce ought in this country to 
be singularly plentiful ; and, owing to the unrivalled 
means of transport, all comiaon vegetables ought to 
be obtained fresh in every part of London. The 
contrary, however, is unhappily the fact. It is a 
matter of extreme regret that vegetables, dried and 
compressed after a modern method, should be so 
much used as they are for soup, by hotel-keepers and 
other caterers for the public. Unquestionably useful 
as these dried products are on board ship, and to 
travellers camping out, to employ them at home, 
when fresh can be had, is the result of sheer indolence 
or of gross ignorance. All the finest qualities of scent 
and flavour, with some of the fresh juices, are lost in 
the drying process ; and the infusions of preserved 
vegetables no more resemble a freshly made odorife- 
rous soup, than a cup of that thick brown, odourless, 
insipid mixture, consisting of some bottled " essence " 
dissolved in hot water, and now supplied as coffee at 
most railway stations and hotels in this country, 
resembles the recently made infusion of the freshly 
roasted berry. It says little for the taste of our 
countrymen that such imperfect imitations are so 
generally tolerated without complaint. 

How different is the result of intelligent cookery, 
as we find it exemplified in the simple national soup 
of France. Here the appetising odours of fresh meat 
and vegetables are discerned with pleasure, the 
moment a pot-au-feu enters the room. Relative to 



72 Food and Fetdiitg. 

ttls dish so much has of late appeared in pubho 
prints, failing to explain what is understood in France 
by it, that I think an accurate description of what it 
really is may prove acceptable here. 

The pot-ccu-feii is a composite dish which produces, 
first a simple, but not strong, beef broth [bouillon), 
well flavoured by fresh vegetables ; secondly, a some- 
what over-cooked and exhausted piece of beef (hoiillH) 
which is served after the soup ; and, lastly, the vege- 
tables themselves. 

This is a different thing from the common " stock- 
pot" of the French peasant, so frequently termed a 
pot-aii-feu, and confounded with it. The primary 
object of a "stock-pot" is to make a decoction or 
basis for soiip — of animal food, if possible — and every 
morsel of flesh, poultry, trimmings from joints, bones 
well bruised, &c., which are available for the purpose, 
are reserved for it. To the pot of the peasant, who 
wastes nothing whatever, all things are welcome ; and 
every atom of nutritive material — solid or liquid — 
goes into it, to which are always added herbs and 
vegetables, together with the liquor in which any of 
the latter may chance to have been boiled. But some- 
times it is & pot inaiijre, no meat of any kind having 
been procurable, and very good vegetable soups, 
moreover, are educible therefrom, of which more 
hereafter. Then again, besides, or instead of the 
slices of bread which are usually put into the broth 
when served, the good wife now and then cleans a 
fresh cabbage, boils it in water, as much as possible 



The Pot-au-Feii. Stock Pot. 73 

of which she removes by pressure in a cloth, then 
puts the cabbage for a few minutes into her pot, and 
finally serves it as a welcome addition to the dish. 
But in none of these forms can the tme jMt-ati-feu 
be recognised ; and no Frenchman who has the least 
acquaintance with the national cookery will allow it 
to rank as one. 

The pot- ail -feu has for its object, as already stated, 
not only the making of a weU-flavoured beef broth, 
but the cooking of a portion of the beef to be eaten 
separately after, either cold or hot, according to taste, 
together with the vegetables necessarily associated 
with it. Formerly, this houilli always appeared at an 
ordinary French table immediately after the bouillon ; 
but, strictly speaking, it is not worth eating, certainly 
by those who can afford better food, and it has a good 
deal disappeared during the last few years. So the 
pot-au-fvu has come to signify at ordinary tables only 
a soup, and it may appear at the best tables in that 
capacity; still, strictly as a beef broth, but of the 
most perfect kind, well seasoned and flavoured by 
herbs and vegetables. 

To return to the family stock-pot. This has, on 
the Continent, especially in families of the middle 
class, another use beside that of preparing a basis for 
soup. Thus when a boiled fowl is required, it is a 
■ common practice to conduct the process in the sim- 
mering pot. Any nutritive matter, however small, 
which might have been lost in the water used in 
ordinary boiling, is saved for the soup, while the fowl 



74 Food and Feeding. 

boiled in stock is certainly preferred when it comes to 
table, to one which has been boiled in water. And 
so with many other articles ; for example, a small 
and well cleaned ham may be cooked — and this is an 
affair of several hours — in a capacious stock-pot, with 
advantage equally to the soup and the ham, provided, 
of course, that the ham has already been soaked some 
twenty-four hours or so beforehand to remove super- 
fluous salt ; nor should any salt be put into the stock- 
pot itself when required for this operation. 

But besides the bouillon of the pot-au-feu there is 
the grand bouillon also, a distinct and elementary 
product of French cookery; this is a decoction, 
stronger than the preceding, of beef and veal, with 
any supplementary bone and sinew from the butcher, 
in order to add gelatine ; and this is combined also 
with vegetables. Lastly, there is the consomme, which 
is a decoction of beef, veal, and fowl, the two latter 
partially roasted for the purpose of heightening 
flavour ; and it is made, not with water, but with 
bouillon — GoufPe orders the grand bouillon just de- 
scribed — and with a few more vegetables. This is 
therefore the highest form of soup from beef, veal, 
poultry, and vegetables which can be produced. 

Now, as the mode of making pot-au-feu is an im- 
portant initial step in the art of soup -making, I shall 
place in an appendix at the end of this volume, a 
somewhat abridged translation of the very complete 
instructions given by Gouffe. The right management 
is with him a matter of the highest importance ; and, 



Five Leading Species of Soup. 75 



simple as the dish is, he devotes no less than nine 
pages to the task of illustrating the elementary princi- 
ples of cookery which are involved in the process. 

By way of further illustrating the subject, I shall 
place there also some extracts relating to it, which 
are extremely interesting, from BrUlat-Savarin's 
Physiologie du Goid, and also from Dumas' Grand 
Dictionnaire de Cuisine. 

It is not at all surprising that many persons should 
be somewhat bewildered by the almost endless variety 
of appellation under which the single article of soup 
is presented at table. It has been estimated that the 
titles which denote these numerous varieties, number 
altogether not less perhaps than five hundred. And 
proceeding on the principle on which these are pro- 
duced, there appears to be no reason why even the 
present list should not be doubled in length. In 
reality the number of species is very limited ; but the 
slightest addition to a soup having been held sufficient 
to confer upon it a distinctive name, the idea of com- 
plexity and number has been' unnecessarily fostered. 
Regarded analytically, there are but five leading 
species from which all varieties are produced by slight 
additions and combinations of flavour. 

1. A clear decoction (weak, or " broth " ; strong, or 

consomme) of meat : of beef, veal, sometimes 
mutton ; and of pork in the form of ham or 
bacon. 

2. A clear decoction of fowl. 



76 Food and Feeding. 

3. A clear decoction of game. 

4. A decoction of fish proper, and with shell fish 

(oysters, mussels, &c.) ; including "bisques," 
p. 135. 

5. A decoction of vegetables only, comprising also 

herbs, roots, grains, and farinaceous substances. 

^Vny of these may be used as made at first hand ; 
then most may be presented with some slight addi- 
tion, such as with the well-known dried Italian pastes, 
and also fresh made pastes {noidUcH and quenelle^ ; cut 
fresh vegetables, in rounds, in squares, in long strips, 
fresh, or lightly fried before adding them, with crusts 
of bread, with an egg, &c. ; each single addition de- 
noted by a distinctive appellation, which will suggest 
itself in each example named above, to any one who 
has the least acquaintance with cookery. 

The consommi of meat, or of veal, beef, and fowl 
mixed, or of game, may also be thickened by addition 
of a flesh, fowl, and game 2mr(''o respectively ; white 
soups, commencing with a consomme of veal and 
poultry, thickened with a puree of the white meat of 
fowl; and brown purees following, from consomme of 
beef and veal, and of game. 

The same consomme, or the weaker broth, furnish 
bases for vegetable pnrees in like manner, either 
white or coloured. ]\Iany of these, like the others, 
have their distinctive names ; e.g., puree of carrot as 
Crecy, of green peas as S. Germain, of red haricots as 
T'onde, and of artichokes, curiously enough, and by 
virtue of a bad pun, called Palestine. 



Fish Sotips. and Tttrtlc. 77 

Thus the variations and additions which may he 
made by means of a little skill in combination, are 
iterally endless. A short list of exceptional soups, 
each Avdth a distinct individual character, may still be 
referred to as not belonging to the above-mentioned 
classes. 

Such as real turtle, made either in part or wholly 
from the Hve animal; a large proportion is prepared 
from the imported dried flesh, when the stock is almost 
invariably made from veal and beef;* after this come 
mock turtle or calf 's head ; ox-tail, mulligatawny; while 
giblet and "cock-a-leekie," are almost stews ; the latter 
doubtless designed originally to present the patriarch of 
the poultry yard in an eatable form. Another Scotch 
soup, "hotch-potch," like an Italian "minestrone," 
may contain almost a meal of fragrant combinations. 

Then there is an important distinction, recognised 
chiefly on the Continent, and related to the demands of 
religious observance, between soups which have meat 
for their basis {potage gras), and those which have 

* An amusing controversy took place last autumn in consequence of 
my having stated in a paper read at the Fisheries Exhibition that 
turtle soup when *'a^ its best" was composed of a stock made from the 
conger eel, the turtle furnishing the garnish and the name. The turtle 
soup makers rushed into print, especially some well-known artists at 
the East end of London, who used language which was more remark- 
able for force than for elegance. Never was there a more striking 
illustration of the proverb, "qui s' excuse s' accuse." I had never 
brought any accusation against any turtle soup maker : I had merely 
expressed the opinion given above ; one to wljioh I still firmly adhere. 
Mucli less was I guilty of aflrming in any of my writings, that the 
artists above alluded to had ever made turtle soup " at its best ! " 



78 Food and Feeding. 

fish, or exclusively vegetable bases {potage maigre) ; 
into the latter class also, eggs are admitted. All 
these take rank of course among the five classes 
first named ; but they are referred to separately here 
in order to draw attention to a fact not generally 
recognised in this country, that excellent soups may be 
made without employing meat. 

Vegetable soups, clear and thick, are extremely 
palatable ; the former being agreeable and wholesome, 
especially in the warm season when fresh vegetable 
growth is abundant, and full of juice and fragrance ; 
and the latter or thick soup, may be very nutritious 
also, as already shown, since they contain a consider- 
able quantity of barley, peas, beans, haricots, Indian 
corn, rice, &c. See receipts in the Appendix ; page 164. 

Nutritious and palatable soups may also be made 
from, fish, the cheaper sorts being available for stock, 
while the better sorts are applicable as garnish. 
When we possess an adequate, and therefore cheap 
supply — an event which, with the enormous resources 
of this country, can only be a question of time — 
valuable soups and stews of fish and of shell fish, will 
be available for the poorer classes, whose tastes only 
require educating in order to appreciate them, doubt- 
less also a work of some little time. I need only 
to refer to oyster soups, to the much esteemed bisques, 
a term usually denoting highly flavoured purees of 
crayfish, and to that delicious dish, houillabaise, eaten 
in perfection at Marseilles, as among the most agree- 
able products of culinary art in this direction. 



JBouillabaise : importance of good Consommd. 79 

Thackeray's well-known rhymes do not exaggerate its 
good qualities, and enumerate its component elements 
almost with sufficient accuracy to direct the cook.* 
See Appendix, p. 165, for remarks on the selection and 
preparation of Fish ; for receipts for fish soups and 
stew including details, with directions for preparing a 
Marsellaise Bouillabaise, p. 173. 

I may conclude this brief sketch of soups by ob- 
serving that the abiHty to make a good, fragrant, 
and clear consomme — and nothing is easier, granted a 
moderate intelligence and the power of executing 
simple details with care — affords the key to almost 
all. The preparation of vegetables and the making 
of purees, are merely mechanical processes, easily 
attained. The judgment necessary to add and com- 
bine spices, essences, and other sources of flavour, is 
the one element which when possessed, in addition to 
the character of an attentive, dexterous, and pains- 
taking workman, essential to success in every profes- 
sion, constitutes a finished cook, and denotes his or her 
rank. And thus it is that, the department of sauces 
especially gives opportunity to develop and illustrate 

*"TMb Bouillabaisse a noble dish is 

A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, 
Or hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes 

That (Greenwich never could outdo : 
Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, safifern, 

Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace ; 
All these you eat at Jerre's tavern 
In that one dish of Bouillabaisse.'' 

The Ballads. 



8o Food and Feeding. 

these qualities ; and here it is that the artist's skill 
is most clearly manifested. 

The value of the gridiron is, perhaps, nowhere better 
understood than in England, especially in relation to 
chops, steak, and kidney ; the blade bone, or even a 
small shoulder of mutton — all of which may be sent to 
table in the highest perfection from a clear fire, 
managed by careful and competent hands. Still it 
is not quite so widely appreciated as it deserves to be 
in the preparation of many a small dish of fish, fowl, 
and meat, or "bone," to say nothing of a grilled 
mushroom, either alone, or as an accompaniment to 
any of them. And it may be worth while, perhaps, 
remarking that the sauce par excellence for broils is 
mushroom ketchup ; and the garnish cool lettuce, 
watercress, or endive. 

And this consideration suggests a word or two on 
the important addition which may be made to most 
small dishes of animal food under the title of 
"garnish." Whether it be a small filet, braised or 
roasted, or a portion thereof broiled ; a fricandeau, 
or the choice end of a neck of mutton made square and 
compact by shortening the bones ; or a small loin, or a 
dish of trimmed neck cutlets, or a choice portion of 
broiled rumpsteak ; a tender ox tongue, a couple of 
sweetbreads, poultry, pigeon, or what not — the garnish 
should be a matter of consideration. Whether the 
dish be carved on the family table, as it rarely fails 
to be when its head is interested in the cuisine, or 
whether it is handed in the presence of guests, the 



Garnishes. 8 1 



quality and the appearance of the dish greatly depend 
on the garnish. According to the meat may be added, 
with a view both to taste and appearance, some of the 
following — imrees of sorrel, spinach, chicory, and other 
greens, of turnips, and of potatoes plain, in shapes, or 
in croquettes ; cut carrots, peas, beans, endive, sprouts, 
and other green vegetables ; stewed onions, small or 
Spanish; cucumbers, tomatoes, macaroni in all forms; 
sometimes a few sultanas boiled, mushrooms, olives, 
truffles. In the same way chestnuts are admirable, 
whole, boiled, or roasted, and as ^ puree freely served, 
especially in winter, when vegetables are scarce ; 
serving also as farce for fowls and turkeys. While 
such vegetables as green peas, French and young broad 
beans, celery and celeriac, asparagus, seakale, cauH- 
flower, spinach, artichokes, salsify, vegetable marrows, 
&c., are worth procuring in their best and freshest 
condition, to prepare with especial care as separate 
dishes.* 

* A hint about boiling asparagus is worthy of mention, since the 
proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. 

Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the "giant" variety, 
should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing ends 
upward, in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should 
be out of the water — the steam sufficing to cook them, as they form 
the teuderest part of the plant ; while the hard stalky part is rendered 
soft and succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits. 
Instead of the orthodox twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus 
lying horizontally, in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk, 
and overcooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a 
period of thirty or forty minutes, on the plan recommended, will 
render fully a third more of the stalk delicious, whUe the head will 
be properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not 

o 



Food and Feeding. 



And here, again, the distinctive principles, already 
referred to, of French and English cuisine, are illus- 
trated in relation to the cooking of vegetables ; and 
again, let me add, not to the disadvantage of our own 
system. I find it the more necessary to call atten- 
tion to this subject, as much has of late been said, 
which may lead many to believe that French usage 
is invariably right, and English usage invariably 
wrong. Yery far from the truth, I humbly submit, 
is such an allegation as this, even in regard' of our 
treatment of vegetables. No doubt we are too often 
guilty of carelessness and inattention to the condition 
in which vegetables are presented, in the service of 
our tables, but our principle is in the main correct, 
and only wants to be pursued with intelligence. When 
vegetables are really good, well grown, and fresh, no 
good judge desires that their natural qualities of 
flavour, odour, and consistence, or even colour, should 
be destroyed by the addition of other materials, and of 
foreign flavours. Let us take two, in illustration of 
these remarks, the pea and the tomato. 

Garden peas,^:>e<»Ys^jojs, when young, quickly grown, 
and fresh, have a delicious characteristic flavour of 
their own, are rather sweet, and almost crisp when 
eaten ; and maintain these attributes unimpaired, if 
simply boiled in salt and water. Such should be 
eaten a VAnglam, the use of the term itself being a 

uncommon to heai- the best produce of the fields of Axgenteuil in- 
sufficiently appreciated here, and our own asparagus preferred, is, that 
he former is rarely sufficiently cooked at English tables. 



Methods of dressing Peas and Beans. 83 

tacit admission on the part of the French chef, that 
the simple cooking advocated here, and practised in 
this country, is often right. All that is produced under 
this name is a dish of peas, cooked as described, with 
a pat of fresh butter, and some salt, accompanied by 
the capital little pepper-mill, which is natural to a 
French table, and almost unknown here. A morsel 
of the butter is stirred into the hot peas, a little black 
pepper, full of fragrance, freshly ground over them, 
and a pinch of salt, according to taste, and the whole 
stirred. The same process is equally applicable to 
French beans, and also to that excellent mixture 
of French beans and flageolets, so well-known as 
panaches, so rarely served in this country. All these 
vegetables, when in excellent condition, are doubtless 
served at their best, a, I'Angkme, not only in relation 
to the palate, but also in view of the average digestion. 
But who does not know that the common mode, both 
in town and province throughout France, is to serve 
not only French beans, but other vegetables, floating 
in rich, yellow, melted butter, rendering them for 
most English stomachs, at all events, hazardous, and 
to some repulsive. 

To return to our petits pok as the type. When 
green peas are a little hard, old, and tough, or a little 
coarse in flavour, and without sweetness, then it is 
that the French cook treats them with advantage. 
For such peas as these, when no others are to be had 
— and it must be confessed that inferior peas are far 
too commonly met with — by all msans let them be 

c 2 



84 Food and Feeding. 

served d. la Frangaise. This is stewing gently in a 
little water, a good proportion of butter, with sliced 
onion, and salt, stirring in a little flour, and a 
smaU quantity of sugar. Some, exceptionally, add a 
little cream, and yolk of egg. Another excellent 
French method, d la Paysanne, is to add first butter 
as before, salt and onion ; and then stew slowly in a 
fair quantity of stock, with lettuces, finely sliced, some 
sugar, and a shred or two of parsley, if desired. 
Almost any peas may be rendered tender and appe- 
tising, if thus treated. 

Again, haricots verts sautes au heurre, is a favourite 
mode of cooking them ; but no superfluous butter 
should appear when they are served; the quantity 
allowed in which to toss them for a few minutes on a 
brisk fire, after boiling, should amount to no more, ac- 
cording to the rule, then a tenth part by weight of that 
of the vegetables themselves when dry.* 

The natural inference from all this is, that certain 
French methods are desirable, and their success is re- 
markable, when — as we have already seen in relation 
to meats — the materials are inferior ; but the English 
method is the simplest and best, when the materials 

* Some persons who have not studied practical cookery may not 
quite understand the French term sauter, or the corresponding Eng- 
lish term, "toss." It means, to fry lightly or partially in butter 
sing a shallow pan, and, moving the material to be fried, or, rather, 
* 'tossed," so as to avoid the production of a temperature high enough 
to brown the surface — a condition which is intended to be produced 
by frying proper, as before explained (p. 66) to take place, by immers- 
ing the material in heated oil. 



The Tomato. Fish undervalued. 85 

are — as they always should be — the best of their 
kind. 

And now, briefly, for the tomato ; in almost any 
condition, simple cookery alone is admissible for it. 
Doubtless, if ripe and fresh, it is best of all when 
eaten raw ; but if served hot, only plain boiling, 
baking, or broiling, will cook this delicious half-fruit, 
half-vegetable, so as least to alter or diminish its 
natural flavour. But it is excellent also boiled and 
peeled when hot, and served cold, to eat, adding a 
little salt and pepper, with cold meat, or with savoury 
rice, or indeed in many ways. But to serve a hot 
tomato, by stuffing it with onion, parsley, and shalot, 
is mischievous meddling carried to its highest pitch ! 
Yet this is almost the only form in which tomato 
appears at foreign tables. Certainly, Talleyrand's 
well-known caution, " Trojj de zele," applies no less 
forcibly sometimes to professional cooks, than as a 
maxim for diplomatists. 

It is doubtful whether fish is esteemed so highly as 
an aliment, as its nutritious qualities entitle it to be ; 
while it ofl'ers great opportunity for agreeable variety 
in treatment. As a general observation, it may be 
said that in preparing it for table sufficient trouble is 
not taken to remove some portion of the bones ; this 
can be advantageously done by a clever cook, without 
disfiguring or injuring the fish. Sauces should be 
appropriately served : for example, the fat sauces, as 
liollandcme, and other forms of melted butter, are an 
appropriate complement of hot boiled fish, while 



86 Food mtd Feeding. 

mayonnaise is similarly related to cold. These and 
their variations, which are numerous, may also ac- 
company both broiled and fried fish ; but both are 
often more wholesome and agreeable when served 
with only a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a few grains 
of the zest, if approved, when a fresh green lemon is 
not to be had — and it rarely can be here. But the 
juice of the mushroom is preferred, and no doubt 
justly, by some. Endless variations and additions 
may be made according to taste on these principles. 
But there is another no less important principle, viz. 
that the fish itself often furnishes a sauce from its 
own juices, more appropriate than some of the com- 
plicated and not very digestible mixtures prepared by 
the cook. Thus " melted butter " — which is regarded 
as essentially an English sauce — when intended to 
accompany fish, should not be, as it almost invariably 
is, a carelessly made compound of butter, flour, and 
water ; but in place of the last-named ingredient there 
should be a concentrated liquor made from the trim- 
mings of the fish itself, with the addition of a few 
drops of lemon juice, and strengthened, if necessary, 
from other sources, as from shell-fish of some kind. 
Thus an evcry-day sauce of wholesome and agreeable 
quality is easily made : it finds its highest expression 
in that admirable dish, the sole with sauce au vin 
blanc of the French, or, as associated with shell-fish, 
in the sole d la normande.* Some fish furnish their 

* A leading review, in a friendly notice of the above when it first 
appeared, spoke of a " mistake " made ty me in " imagining a sola en 



Fish and its Sauces. 



own sauce in a still simpler manner, of which an 
illustration no less striking is at hand in the easiest, 
but perhaps best mode of cooking a red mullet, viz., 
baking it, and securing thd gravy of delicious flavour, 
which issues abundantly from the fish, chiefly from 
the liver, as its only sauce. 

mafelole normandc to be a simpler dish than it really is. " I certainly 
intended the sentence in which it is named, and which is reprinted above 
without change, to signify my high respect for this finished dish, and if 
I have not made this clear, I hereby desire to do so. It was named to 
show that the principle of employing the juices of fish, and especially 
of shell-fish, as a sauce, finds its highest expression in the sole a la 
normandc. Turning to my copy of Jules Gouffd's classical work, 
p. 621-2 of the original edition, Paris, 1867, I see that he remarks 
specially thereupon, "la recette que j'indique n'a pour base comme on 
a pu constater, que I'essence de poisson," precisely warranting what I 
had stated. It is understood, of course, that these juices are com- 
bined with a good velouU to make the sauce, and that it may be 
garnished further to any extent, according to the luxury demanded by 
the guest, or for the entertainment. 

I have eaten sole a la norinaiide several times in Paris, but nowhere 
so good as in the South of France j probably in ^axt because the 
fish and garnish were fresher there. 

Paris suffers greatly in the matter of fish by distance from the sea- 
board. London has a far fresher supply. No Frenchman knows 
what salmon is until he tastes, sometimes with much astonishment 
a Severn or Christchurch fish, taken from the water in the morning, 
crimped on arrival in London in the afternoon, such as our lead- 
ing fishmongers can supply during all the spring and summer in 
time for dinner. It is one of the few things which we are able to offer 
our neighbours without fear of rivalry. 

Perhaps I ought to add, lest a doubt should exist in the mind of 
any one, that crimping thus done inflicts no pain whatever on the 
fish ; were it otherwise I would not sanction it for any consideration 
whatever. To cook crimped salmon in perfection, a slice should be 
plunged into an ample saucepan of foiling salted water, and allowed 
to boil eight minutes only. 



Food and Feeding. 



Closely related to the baking of tish is another mode 
of cooking it, which is applicable to nearly every variety, 
and which has the advantage of retaining all the nutri- 
tive material, while the juices and the characteristic 
flavour are preserved in a manner not attained by any 
other process. It is rarely practised, because any other 
than those conventional methods which have been 
universally employed in cookery are slowly adopted 
by the public, until attention has been thoroughly 
aroused on the subject. Nevertheless the method I 
am about to advocate is widely applicable, and well 
deserves at least to rank among the other and better 
known modes of preparing fish. It consists in placing 
the fish, after the usual cleaning, entire, if of moderate 
size, say from a sole to a small turbot or dory, in a tin 
or plated copi^er dish adapted to the form and size of 
the fish, but a little deeper than the thickness of it, so 
as to retain all the juices ; which by exposure to the 
heat will flow out. First, however, the surface of the 
fish is to be lightly spread with butter, and a morsel 
or two added round it ; the dish is then to be placed 
iu a Dutch or American oven, in front of a clear fire.* 
The advantages of this method are, that the fish is 
cooked entirely in its own juices, which are abundant, 
and form the best sauce, and that these juices which 



* Jfr. W. Burton of Oxford Street, some time ago made for me an 
oven anil ilislies expressly for the pnrpose of cooking fisli before tlie fire. 
The oven is a modification of tliat linovvn as tlie " American," being 
rather clecpei', from before backwards, and inucli shallovrer, from above 
c! iwinvards, on account of the flat form of fish not occupying the 
space which is required by joints of meat. 



Neio Method of Cooking Fish. 89 

contain part of the nutriment and niuoli of the charac- 
teristic flavour are saved and utilised ; lastly, the direct 
action of the fire browning the surface of the fish, gives 
that appetising flavour which is the especial charm of 
the " roast " and the " grill," and which is known to 
appreciative palates as " tasting of the fire." In fact, 
the proper term for denoting the method described, is 
that of " roasting," for the fish is literally roasted 
before the fire, and basted in its own gravy ; and with 
the same advantage in result as that which roasted 
meat possesses by universal consent over that which is 
baked in an oven. It is necessary to guard against 
over-roasting so as to dry the fish and evaporate the 
gravy ; and if through carelessness this condition has 
been reached, the fish should be moistened by the 
addition of a little light stock before serving ; and this 
is always done on the dish in which the cooldng has 
taken place. The method is susceptible of innumera- 
ble variations to accommodate different tastes. Portions 
of fish prepared as fillets may be treated as well as 
entire fish ; garnishes of all kinds, as shell-fish, &c., 
may be added, flavouring also with fine herbs and 
condiments, according to taste. I may add that the 
process may be conducted in an oven where a clear 
fire is really not to be had, which is then of course 
ordinary baking ; but this dries the fish unduly ; or 
the dish may be first placed in the oven, and be 
finished before the fire, M'hich is better. Cooked, how- 
ever, as first described, such a dish may be welcome at 
any table ; in preparing red mullet, for example, as 



90 Food and Feeding. 

just referred to, it is inimitable ; while a fresh haddock 
takes higher rank by being thus treated. But the 
working man also can thus advantageously cook before 
his kitchen fire, in a common Dutch oven, some fillets 
of plaice or skate with a slice or two of bacon ; the 
dish to be filled or garnished with some previously 
boiled haricots, and by this means he may secure an 
economical and most savoury meal, which is at the 
same time nutritious. This is but a single illustration 
among many which might be adduced, of what may be 
done by this simple method for those whose resources 
are of the slenderest kind. 

It is certainly to be lamented that so little use is 
made in our country of the Italian pastes, macaroni in 
all its forms ; and that rice, largely used as it is, 
is not so well cooked, and therefore not so highly 
appreciated among the upper and middle classes as it 
deserves to be. 

The mention of macaroni conveys to nineteen out of 
twenty Englishmen, as it does also to our cooks, the 
idea of an indigestible mess, containing much toasted 
cheese and butter, well peppered and over baked, which 
is sometimes served at the end of dinner as "bout," 
or savoury entremets. In this form it ought rarely if 
ever to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment of 
very high nutritious power, being formed chiefly of 
the gluten, the most valuable part of the wheat from 
which the starch has been removed. Weight for 
weight, it may be regarded as not less valuable for 
flesh-making purposes, in the animal economy, than 



Modes of Cooking Macaroni. 91 



beef and mutton. Most people can digest it more 
easily and rapidly than meat : it offers, therefore, an 
admirable substitute for meat, particularly for lunch 
or mid-day meals, among those whose employments 
demand continuous attention during the whole of a 
long afternoon. To dine, or eat a heavy meal in the 
middle of the day is, for busy men, a great mistake : 
one nevertheless which is extremely common, and 
productive of great discomfort, to say the least. 
Macaroni might, with advantage to the public, and 
especially to city men, who are closely occupied 
between breakfast and dinner, be prepared at the 
restaurants there as a staple dish, in two or three 
forms, since it sustains the power without taxing too 
much the digestion, or rendering the individual heavy, 
sleepy,- and incompetent afterwards. One of the best 
forms for serving it is that known as macaroni a 
ritalienne, a simple and excellent mode of preparing 
which is as follows : 

Place in a quart stewpan a pint and a half of 
boiling water ; throw in four ounces of macaroni ; 
season with salt and pepper, and boil gently for 
twenty minutes. Strain completely from the water 
in a colander, wipe out the stewpan, and put back 
into it the macaroni, with a quarter of a pint of 
good stock ; let it simmer gently until all the liquid 
is absorbed by the macaroni, a process requiring 
about twenty minutes. Grate and mix together an 
ounce of Parmesan and an ounce of Gruyfere or good 
English cheese. Half of this quantity is to be put 



92 Food and Feeding. 

into the stewpan, stirring the cheese into the maca- 
roni over the fire. When this quantity is dissolved, 
add the rest of the cheese, together with rather more 
than half an ounce of butter, and stir until all is 
melted. Season, and serve in a hot deep dish. The 
macaroni ought to "spin" well, that is to say, deli- 
cate fibres should extend from one portion to another 
when moved. It may be eaten with or without 
tomato sauce, which makes an excellent addition. 

If, instead of stock, milk is used, an agreeable 
change may be made. Abroad, this constitutes 
macaroni au maigre, the foregoing receipt being au 
gras. I may add that, for many English stomachs 
the quantity of cheese named above is too large. I 
have given the proportions ordered by Gouffe, but 
should, as a rule, prefer only half the Gruyere and 
half the butter. 

Macaroni au jus is prepared in the same way, but 
the stock should be better, and rather more of it 
in proportion to the macaroni should be added, so 
that all the gravy is not absorbed, but some left 
adhering in the form of a thick glaze, after slowly 
reducing over the fire. It should be seasoned with 
a little catsup or sauce to taste, and served with a 
sprinkle of grated Parmesan on it, with or without 
tomato sauce, or with stewed tomatoes, as preferred. 

Of rice, the modes of cooking are endless, and yet 
few dishes are adopted here besides the well-known 
pudding with milk and sugar, with or without eggs ; 
the moulds of boiled rice, variously treated, to be 



Modes of Cooking Rice. 93 

eateu with fruit ; and rice, rarely well prepared, for 
service with a curry. There is also no doubt the 
boiled fowl and rice, usually regarded as a conrales- 
cent's dish, and not rendered suiBciently interesting or 
attractive to merit the attention of others. As ex- 
amples of nutritious, and at the same time very 
palatable savoury dishes, I will offer two examples ; 
viz., the risotto a, la Milanaise, and the pilau of the 
East : varieties of the latter are common among all 
the populations dwelling adjacent to the Mediter- 
ranean, from Spain to the Levant. A dish of boiled 
rice being in some sort the culinary analogue in the 
vegetable kingdom, of veal and poultry in the animal, 
furnishing an insipid but wholesome basis, is well fitted 
to be the vehicle for producing innumerable flavours 
and odours, and even colours, at the table ; and is 
thus capable of furnishing various dishes, according 
to the treatment, and to the materials for addition, 
obtainable in different districts. 

To make risotto a la Milanaise for two persons. — 
Put two ounces of fresh butter, with an onion chopped 
very fine, into a stewpan, and fry until the onion has 
a pale gold colour. Then add half a pound of well 
washed East India rice, with a very little powdered 
saffron, stirring it constantly for about two minutes 
with a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the 
stewpan ; after this two minutes' cooking, add about 
a pint of good stock very gradually ; let it simmer 
gently, stirring very frequently, till the rice is just 
soft; before it is quite finished, add a little grated 



94 Food and Feeding. 

nutmeg and some grated Parmesan cheese; -after this, 
boil for one minute ; then remove it from the fire and 
set it on a hot plate, add a little more butter, cover 
for a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock 
or beef-tea can he varied according as the risotto is 
preferred thick or otherwise. 

For a Turkish 'pilau, well wash six ounces of East 
India rice, and boil in a pint of water for eight or 
ten minutes at the most ; throw into a colander that 
it may thoroughly drain. Then place it in a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 
stirring well, and adding by degrees about half-a-pint 
of good fowl broth. After about fifteen minutes or so 
it should be properly done, turning out with the 
grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot. 
The foregoing is a true ■pilau, but additions may be 
made of portions of the meat of the fowl, or of other 
animal matter ; of a little curry powder ; of chutney ; 
of fried onions, mushrooms, &c., &c. 

Passing rapidly on without naming the ordinary 
and well-known service of cold meats, fresh and 
preserved, poultry and game, open or under paste, 
in some form, to be found in profusion on table or 
sideboard, and in which this country is unrivalled, a 
hint or two relating to some lighter cold entrees may 
be suggested. It is scarcely possible to treat these 
apart from the salad which, admirable by itself, also 
forms the natural garnish for cold dishes. A simple 
aspic jelly, little more than the consomme of yesterday 
flavoured with a little lemon-peel and tarragon vinegar, 



Salad-making. 95 



fumishes another form of garnish, or a basis in which 
to present choice morsels in tempting forms, such as 
poultry livers, ox-palates, quenelles, fillets of game, 
chicken, wild fowl or fish, prawns, plover's eggs, &c., 
associated with a well-made salad. On this system 
an enterprising cook can furnish many changes of light 
but excellent nutritious dishes. 

On salad so much has been written, that one might 
suppose, as of many other culinary productions, that 
to make a good one was rhe result of some difficult 
and complicated process, instead of being simple and 
easy to a degree. The materials must be secured 
fresh, are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be 
well cleansed and washed without handling, and all 
water removed as far as possible. It should be made 
by the hostess, or by some member of the family, im- 
mediately before the meal, and be kept cool until 
wanted. Very few servants can be trusted to execute 
the simple details involved in cross-cutting the lettuce, 
endive, or what not, but two or three times in a roomy 
salad bowl ; in placing one salt-spoonful of salt and 
half that quantity of pepper in a tablespoon, which is 
to be filled three times consecutively with the best 
fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condi- 
ments have been thoroughly mixed, and at the same 
time distributed over the salad. This is next to be 
tossed well, but lightly, until every portion glistens, 
scattering meantime a little finely chopped fresh tarra- 
gon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives over the 
whole. Lastly, but only immediately before serving. 



96 Food and Feeding. 

one small table-spoonful of mild Frencli or, better still, 
Italian wine-vinegar is to be sprinkled over all, fol- 
lowed by anotber tossing of tbe salad.* Tbe uncooked 
tomato, itself the prince of salads, may be sliced and 
similarly treated for separate service, or added to the 
former, equally for taste and appearance. A tomato, 
however, should never be cut — it may have been pre- 
viously trimmed a little — until the moment it is 
wanted for eating, as the juice and pulp of a ripe 
fruit drain away, and leave only its cellular frame- 
work, if it has been divided half an hour beforehand. 
Then, as much of the skin as can be easily removed, 
should be got rid of. Cold boiled asparagus served 
with a mayonnaise forms a dish of its kind not to be 
surpassed. At present ranking, when the quality is 
fine, as an expensive luxury, there is no reason why, 
with the improved methods of cultivating this delicious 
and wholesome vegetable, it should not be produced 
in great abundance, and for less than half its present 
price. t As to the manifold green stuffs which, 
changing ■\^■ith the season, may be presented as salad, 
their name is legion ; and their choice must be left to 
the eater's judgment, fancy, and digestion, all of which 
of course vary greatly. 

But there is another form of salad which is always 
available, and welcome, too, in any season of the 

* A salad for fire or six persons is supposed. 

+ On asparagus, and also on salad culture, see The Parks wild 
Gardens of Paris, 'by W. Kobinson, F.L.S., p. 468 et seq. 2nd ed. 
MacmiUan, 1878. 



Salads of Cooked Vegetables. 97 

year, viz., the salad of cold boiled table vegetables. 
An excellent basis may be made of cooked French 
beans, dressed as directed in the previous paragraph ; 
for this purpose those preserved in tins may be used: 
greatly inferior as these are wh'en served hot to the 
fresh haricots verts, they are very acceptable as salad 
in winter and early spring. The preserved green 
haricots {flageolets), similarly treated and added in 
equal proportion, with a garnish of sliced carrot, beet- 
root, or tomato, may be arranged not only as a most 
savoury and wholesome, but even as an elegant dish 
Cold boiled potatoes,* carrots, turnips, broad beans, 
peas, cauliflower, and othei greens, may all be em- 
ployed thus : combined and garnished according to the 
maker's taste, which there is abundant opportunity for 
displaying. The dish may be made more substantial 
by the addition of small fillets of sole or trout, and its 
flavour may be heightened, if desired, by morsels of 
haddock, sardine, &c. "Well known and appreciated 
as the Salade de ldguines\ always is at a Paris restau- 

* The best variety of potato for the purpose is that kno-wn as 
Yitelotte. 

f Salad of Cooked Vesetables. 

The French salad of cold cooked vegetables, Salade de ligumes, re- 
ferred to p. 79 : 

Take 4 oz. of carrots cut in squares of aboot a quarter of an inch ; 
3 oz. of turnips cut in the same vay ; 4 oz. of small green asparagus 
cut in pieces ; 4 oz. of peas, 4 oz. of French beans cut in squares like 
the turnips and carrots. Boil each of these vegetables separately in 
about a quart of water, with a teaspoonful of salt ; when cooked 
strain them on a cloth ; let them cool, and then place the French beans 



98 Food and Feeding. 

rant, most persons here would prefer the yegetahles 
simply sliced, so as to preserve some of their natural 
form and texture, rather than cut into innumerable 
small cuhes, as usually presented. In aU cases, such 
salad should be kept very cool, and be dressed imme- 
diately before serving in warm weather. 

at the bottom of a salad bowl. Arrange the other vegetables in little 
heaps around, first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then 
the asparagus, so as to alternate the colours, and so on again. The rest 
of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and sprinkled 
with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (fresh tarragon, chervil, parsley, 
and chives). Serve "with oil in vinegar apart. 



CHAPTER VII. 

The oorabination of dislies to form a meal — Three specific systems 
of ai-rangirig the daily meals— Charactei-istics of each meal — 
Breakfast — Lunch — Dinner of two kinds — Value of initial 
soup — Plan of dishes to follow — I£ors-d' ceuvres. 

The art of combiaing dishes to form, a meal now 
demands our consideration. The occupations of maa 
in a civilised state, no less than the natural suggestions 
of his appetite, require stated and regular times for 
feeding. But the number of these set apart in the 
twenty-four hours differs considerably among different 
peoples and classes. Taking a general view of the 
subject, it may be said that there are three principal 
systems to which all varieties of habit may be reduced. 
From an English point of view, these may be re- 
garded as^ 

1. The Continental system of two meals a day. 

2. The system of provincial Ufe (Great Britain), or 
four meals. 

3. The system of town life (ditto), or three meals. 

1. In the Continental system, the slight refresh- 
ment served in the early morning, in the form of 
coffee or chocolate, with a rusk or a morsel of bread, 
does not amount to a meal. It is only a dish, and that 

H 2 



lOO Food and Feeding. 



a light one, and not a combination of dishes, which is 
then taken. At or about noon a substantial meal, 
the dejeuner, is served ; and at six or seven o'clock, 
an ample dinner. Such is the two-meal system, and 
it appears to answer well throughout the "West and 
South of Europe. 

2. What I have termed the provincial system con- 
sists of a substantial breakfast at eight or nine, a 
dinner at one or two, a light tea about five, and a 
supper at nine or ten. It is this which is popular 
throughout our own provincial districts, and also 
among middle-class society of our northern districts 
throughout both town and country. The habits also 
of the great German nation correspond more to this 
than to the first-named system. 

3. The prevailing system of London, and of the 
numerous English families throughout the country 
whose habits are formed from partial residence in 
town, or by more or less intimate acquaintance with 
town Hfe, is that of three meals daily. In general 
terms the breakfast takes place between eight and ten ; 
the lunch from one to two ; the dinner from half-past 
six to eight. 

In all cases each meal has its own specific character. 
Thus, here, breakfast is the most irregular in its ser- 
vice, and least of all demands general and intimate 
coherence of the party assembled. Individual interests 
concerned in the letter-bag, in the morning news, in 
plans for the day, in cares of coming business, &c., are 
respected. Provision for acknowledged dietetic pecu- 



Characteristics of various Meals. loi 

liarities on the part of individuals is not forgotten, and 
everyone comes or goes as he pleases. 

At lunch the assembly is still somewhat uncertain. 
Thus some members of the family are absent without 
remark ; intimate friends may appear without special 
invitation ; while those less intimate can be asked 
with small ceremony. Occupations of pleasure or 
of business still press for pursuit during the afternoon, 
and the meal for such may not be too substantial. It 
should suffice amply to support activity ; it should 
never be so considerable as to impair it. Here may be 
just named an invention of comparatively recent date, 
afternoon tea ; which, however, cannot be reckoned as 
a meal. In reality a pleasant excuse to mark the 
hour for friendly gossip with a hostess " at home," it 
may be the occasion of undesirable habits, if enough 
solid food is eaten to impair digestion and "spoil" the 
coming dinner. But apropos of tea, many of us might 
with advantage avoid the sugar and the cream, which at 
this hour interfere with the stomach far more than does 
the infusion itself, and add in their place a delicate slice 
of lemon neither thicker nor larger than a halfcrown, 
the flavour of which — fragrant peel and a hint of acid 
— combines with the aroma of good tea, without in 
the least disguising or flattening it as the conventional 
additions do ? It would be almost as rational to add 
cream and sugar to wine, as to fine and delicately 
flavoured tea ! Occasionally tea is served with lemou 
in this country, but it is mostly added in excess. A 



102 Food and Feeding. 

very slight shaving, which contains both peel and pulp, 
is ample for an ordinary cup. 

The last meal of the three, dinner, has characters 
wholly different from the preceding. The prime occu- 
pations of the day are over; the guests are known and 
numbered ; the sentiment is one of reunion after the 
dispersion of the day — of relaxation after its labours, 
sports, or other active pleasures. Whatever economy 
of time may have been necessary in relation to the 
foregoing meals, all trace of hurry should disappear 
at dinner. A like feeling makes the supper of the 
"provincial" system a similarly easy and enjoyable 
meal. And all this is equally true of dinner, whether 
it unites the family only, or brings an addition of 
guests. General conversation : the events and per- 
sonal incidents of the day, the current topics of the 
hour, are discussed in a light spirit, such as is com- 
patible with proper attention to the dishes provided. 
All that follows late dinner should for the most part 
be amusement — it may be at the theatre, an evening 
party, or a quiet evening at home. There should be 
ample time, however, for every coming engagement, 
and security for some intervening rest for digestion. 
Dinner, then, is the only meal which — as the greater 
includes the less — need be discussed in the third part 
of our subject, which claims to treat of custom and art 
in combining dishes to form a repast. AVith the 
requirements and under the circumstances just speci- 
fied, it should not be a heavy meal, but it should be 
sufficing. No one after dinner should feel complete 



Dinner a Period of Relaxation. 103 

satiety or repletion, -with a sense of repugnance at the 
idea of eating more ; but all should still enjoy the 
conviction that a good meal furnishes delightful and 
refreshing occupation. 

Dinners are of two kinds — the ordinary meal of the 
family, and the dinner to which guests are invited. 
There is a third dinner in this country, of common — 
too common — occurrence, viz., the public dinner, 
which is essentially a British institution, and cannot 
be passed by in silence. 

The late dinner should never include children. It 
is a meal which is in every way unsuited to them ; 
and they are quite unfitted to take part in its func- 
tions ; besides, the four-meal system is better adapted 
to their requirements of growth and digestion in early 
life. A family dinner may usually consist of a soup, 
fish, entree, roast and sweet ; the entree may even be 
omitted ; on the other hand, if the meal is required to 
be more substantial, a joint may be served in addition 
after the fish ; but this should be very rarely necessary. 
A special dish of vegetables may be advantageously 
placed before or after the roast, according to circum- 
stances ; and supplementary vegetables should be 
always at hand. 

The rationale of the initial soup has often been dis- 
cussed : some regard it as calculated to diminish 
digestive power, on the theory that so much fluid 
taken at first dilutes the gastric juices. But there 
appears to be no foundation for this belief: a clear 
soup, or the fluid constituents of a purie, disappear 



I04 Food and Feeding. 

almost immediately after entering the stomach, being 
absorbed by the proper vessels, and in no way inter- 
fere with the gastric juice which is stored in its 
appropriate cells ready for action. The habit of 
commencing dinner with soup has without doubt its 
origin in the fact that aliment in this fluid form — in 
fact, ready digested — soon enters the blood and rapidly 
refreshes the hungry man, who, after a considerable 
fast and much activity, sits down with a sense of ex- 
haustion to commence his principal meal. In two or 
three minutes after taking a plate of good warm con- 
somme, the feehng of exhaustion disappears, and irri- 
tability gives way to the gradually rising sense of 
good-fellowship with the circle. Some persons have 
the custom of allaying exhaustion with a glass of 
sherry before food — a gastronomic no less than a 
physiological blunder, injuring the stomach and de- 
praving the palate. The soup introduces at once into 
the system a small instalment of ready- digested food, 
and saves the period of time which, in the absence of 
soup, must be spent by the stomach in deriving some 
portion of nutriment from solid aliment ; and thus the 
organ of digestion itself is indirectly strengthened for 
its forthcoming duties. Few will be found to dispute 
the second place in order to fish, although this 
arrangement is in some quarters an open question : 
its discussion, however, can scarcely be regarded as 
within the limit of our space. The third dish should 
consist of the chief meat, the joint, if desired ; if not, 
one of the smaller dishes of meat, such as fricandeau, 



Hors-d'GEtivre. 105 

cutlets, filet, or sweetbread, before spoken of, -well 
garnished, will be appropriate, and to many prefer- 
able. Next the well-roasted bird — of game or poultry 
— accompanied or followed by salad, and by a dish of 
choice vegetables. Then one light simple sweet, for 
those who take it, and a slight savoury biscuit, a 
grilled mushroom or a morsel of cheese completes 
the repast. Such a meal contains within its limits all 
that can be desired for daily enjoyment and use. If 
well and liberally served, it is complete in every sense 
of the word. Dessert and its extent is a matter of 
individual taste ; of wines, coffee, and liqueurs I shall 
speak hereafter. 

A word about hors-d'ceuere. It is well known that 
the custom exists to a very wide extent among Conti- 
nental nations of commencing either midday dejeuner 
or dinner by eating small portions of cold pickled fish, 
of raw vegetables, of highly-flavoured sausage thinly 
sliced, &c., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. 
This custom reaches its highest development in the 
zakuska of the Russian, which, consisting of numerous 
delicacies of the kind mentioned, is sometimes to be 
found occupying a table in an anteroom to be passed 
between the drawing-room and dining-room ; or, and 
more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the latter. 
The Russian eats a little from three or four dishes at 
least, and " quahfies " with a glass of strong grain 
spirit (vodka) or of some liqueur before taking his 
place at the table. Among these savoury prehmi- 
naries may often be found caviare in its fresh state, 



io6 Food and Feeding. 

grey, pearly, succulent and delicate, of which most of 
the caviare found in this country is, speaking from 
personal experience of both, but as the shadow to the 
substance. 

I have no hesitation in saying, after much con- 
sideration of the practice of thus commencing a meal, 
that it has no rnisoii d'etre for persons with healthy 
appetite and digestion. For them, both pickled food 
and spirit are undesirable, at any rate on an empty 
stomach. And the hors-d' ceuvre, although attempts 
to transplant them here are often made, happily do 
not, as far as I 'have observed, thrive on our soil. 
They have been introduced here chiefly, I think, be- 
cause their presence, being demanded by foreign gas- 
tronomic taste, is supposed to be therefore necessarily 
correct. But the active exercise and athletic habits 
of the Englishman, his activity of body and mind in 
commercial pursuits, aU. tend to bring him to the 
dinner-table wanting food rather than appetite, and 
in no mind to ask for "whets" to increase it. Among 
idle men, whose heavy lunch, liberally accompanied 
with wine and not followed by exercise, has barely 
disappeared from the stomach at the hour of dinner, 
a piquant prelude as stimulus of appetite is more ap- 
preciated Hence the original invention of hors- 
d'winir ; and their appearance in a very much 
slighter and more delicate form than that which has 
been described, still to be observed in connection with 
the chief repasts of the Latin races. The one plate 
which heralds dinner, indigenous to our country, is 



Hors-d' CEuvres. 107 



also one of its own best products — the oyster. But 
this is scarcely a hors-d' ceuvre. In itself a single 
service of exquisite quality, served with attendant 
graces of mild and delicate vinegar, brown bread and 
butter, and a glass of light chablis for those who take 
it, the half-dozen natives occupying the hollow shells, 
and bathed in their own liquor, hold rank of a very 
different kind to that of the miscellaneous assortment 
of tit-bits alluded to. Oysters are in fact the first 
dish of dinner and not its precursor ; the first chapter, 
and not the advertisement. And this brings us to the 
dinner of invitation. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Dinners of invitation — Two kinds — Small and select — Large — The 
old pretentious style — Scheme of a rational dinner-party — 
Priority in the service of various dishes — The half-hour after 
dinner — Turtle and fish dinners — Curry — Sketch for a, small 



And of this dinner there are two very distinct kinds. 
First, there is the little dinner of six or eight guests, 
carefully selected for their own specific qualities, and 
combined with judgment to obtain an harmonious and 
successful result. The ingredients of a small party, 
like the ingredients of a dish, must be well chosen to 
make it "complete." Such are the first conditions to 
be attained in order to achieve the highest perfection 
in dining. Secondly, there is the dinner of society, 
which is necessarily large ; the number of guests 
varying from twelve to twenty-four. 

The characteristics of the first dinner are — comfort, 
excellence, simplicity, and good taste. Those of the 
second are — the conventional standard of quality, 
some profusion of supply, suitable display in ornament 
and service. 

It must be admitted that, with the large circle of 
acquaintances so commonly regarded as essential to 
existence in modern life, large dinners only enable us 



Routine of an Old-fashioned Dinner. 109 

to repay our dining debts, and exercise the hospitality 
which position demands. With a strong preference, 
then, for the little dinners, it must be admitted that 
the larger banquet is a necessary institution ; and 
therefore we have only to consider now how to make 
the best of it. 

No doubt the large dinner has greatly improved of 
late ; but it has by no means universally arrived at 
perfection. Only a few years ago excellence in quality 
and good taste in cuisine were often sacrificed in the en- 
deavour to make a profuse display. Hence, abundance 
without reason, and combinations without judgment, 
were found co-existing with complete indifference to 
comfort in the matters of draughts, ventilation, tempe- 
rature, and consumption of time. Who among the 
diners-out of middle age has not encountered many a 
time an entertainment with some such programme 
as the following : one of an order which, it is to be 
feared, is not even yet quite extinct ? 

Eighteen or twenty guests enter a room adapted at 
most to a dinner of twelve. It is lighted with gas ; 
the chief available space being occupied by the table, 
surrounding which is a narrow lane, barely sufficing 
for the circulation of the servants. Directly — perhaps 
after oysters — appear turtle soups, thick and clear. 
A consomme is to be had on demand, but so unexpected 
a choice astonishes the servitor, who brings it after 
some delay, and cold : with it punch. Following, 
arrive the fish — salmon and turbot, one or both, 
smothered in thick lobster sauce : sherry. Four 



no Food and Feeding. 

entrees promenade the circuit in single file, whereof 
the first was always oyster patties ; after which came 
mutton or lamb cutlets, a vol-au-Yent, &c. : hock and 
champagne. Three-quarters of an hour at least, 
perhaps an hour, having now elapsed, the saddle or 
haunch of mutton arrives, of which gentlemen who 
have patiently waited get satisfactory slices, and 
currant jelly, with cold vegetables or a heavy flabby 
salad. Then come boiled fowls and tongue, or a turkey 
with solid forcemeat ; a slice of ham and so on, up to 
game, followed by hot substantial pudding, three or 
four other sweets, including an iced pudding ; wines 
in variety, more or less appropriate ; to be followed by 
a licLie de foie gras, more salad, biscuits and cheese. 
Again, two ices, and liqueurs. Then an array of 
decanters, and the first appearance of red wine ; a 
prodigious dessert of all things in and out of season, 
and particularly those which are out of season, 
as being the more costly. General circulation of 
waiters, handing each dish in turn to everybody, 
under a running fire of negatives, a ceremonial of 
ten or fifteen minutes' duration, to say the least. 
Circulation of decanters, general rustle of silks, dis- 
appearance of the ladies ; and first change of seat, 
precisely two hours and a half after originally taking 
it. It may be hoped that a charming companion on 
either side has beguiled and shortened a term which 
otherwise must have been felt a little long. Now the 
general closing up of men to host, and reassembling 
of decanters; age and quality of wine discussed. 



Precedence of Entries or Joints. 1 1 1 

recommendation of vintages. Coffee wliicli is neither 
black nor hot. Joining the ladies ; service of gun- 
powder tea, fatal to the coming night's rest if taken 
in a moment of forgetfulness ; and carriages an- 
nounced. 

Admitted that such an exhibition is impossible 
now in any reasonable English circle, it nevertheless 
corresponds very closely in style with that of the 
public dinner; a state of things without excuse. 
And the large private dinner is still generally too 
long, the menu too pretentious. Let me, however, 
be permitted to record, equally in proof of growing 
taste and as grateful personal duty, how many 
admirable exceptions to the prevailing custom are 
now afforded. Then, of course, it must be understood, 
that while the dinner for six or eight persons is 
designed as an harmonious whole of few, well-chosen 
dishes, all of which are intended to be eaten in their 
order, the menu of the larger party must offer various 
dishes for choice to meet the differing tastes of more 
numerous \ guests, and it must therefore be larger. 
Let us see how this is to be met. First, the soups : 
it is the custom to offer a consomme, which ought to 
be perfect in clearness, colour, and savour, and to be 
served perfectly hot; containing a few vegetables, 
&c., variously treated — doubtless the best commence- 
ment, as it is the key-note of the dinner ; revealing 
also, as it does, nine times out of ten, the caKbre of 
the cook to whose talent the guest is entrusted. But 
there is mostly an alternative of " white soup," and 



112 Food and Feeding. 

this is almost always a mistake. Man}' persons 
refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it gene- 
rally does, a considerable proportion of cream — an 
injudicious beginning, when there is much variety to 
follow ; excellent sometimes as one of three or four 
dishes, but dangerous otherwise to the guest who has 
not an exceptionally powerful digestion. But suppose 
oysters, vinegar, and chahlis have just been swallowed ! 
A brown ^!fr^e, as of game, or one of green vegetable, 
less frequently met with, would be safer. Two fish, 
of course, should always be served ; as, for example, 
a slice of Severn or Christchurch salmon, just arrived 
from the water, for its own sake, and a fillet of white 
fish for the sake of its sauce and garnish, which should 
be therefore perfect. The next dish is, in London, 
a question under discussion ; viz., the question of 
precedence to an entree, or to the 'piece de resistance. 
The custom has been to postpone the appearance of 
the latter until lighter dishes have been despatched or 
declined. If, however, the English joint is required 
at a meal already comprehensive in the matter of 
dishes, and taken at a late hour, it seems more 
reasonable to serve it next to the fish, when those 
who demand a slice of meat may be expected to have 
an appropriate appetite, which will certainly be im- 
paired, equally by accepting the entrees, or fasting 
partially without them. After the joint, two light 
entries may follow, and these must necessarily be 
either in themselves peculiarly tempting morsels, or 
products of culinary skill, offering inducement to the 



Precedence of Entrees or Joints. 1 1 3 

palate rather than to an appetite which is no longer 
keen. Then the best roast possible in season, and a 
salad ; a first-rate vegetable, two choice sweets, one 
of which may be iced ; a light savoury biscuit, a 
herring-roe on toast, or a morsel of fine barely salted 
caviare, which may be procured in one or two places 
at most in town, will complete the dinner. For dessert, 
the finest fruits in season to grace the table and for 
light amusement after ; or simply nuts in variety, and 
dry biscuits ; nothing between the two is tolerable, and 
little more than the latter is really wanted : only for 
decorative purposes fruit equals flowers. Eut it may 
be admitted that the diminished number of sweet 
entremets strengthens the plea for a supply of delicious 
fruits, rendering the dessert useful and agreeable as 
well as ornamental. 

And now that dessert is over, let me say that I do 
not admit the charge sometimes intimated, although 
delicately, by foreigners, of a too obvious proclivity 
to self-indulgence on the part of Englishmen, in 
permitting the ladies to leave the table without 
escort to the drawing-room. The old custom of 
staying half an hour, or even an hour afterwards, to 
drink wine, which is doubtless a remnant of barbarism, 
has long been considered indefensible. Still, the 
separation of the party into two portions for fifteen or 
twenty minutes is useful to both, and leads perhaps 
more completely to a general mixture of elements on 
reunion after than is attained by the return of the 
original pairs together. Whether this bo so or not 



i 1.4 J^ood and Feeding. 

the ladies have a short interval for the interchange 
of hearsays and ideas relative to matters chiefly 
concerning their special interests ; while the men 
enjoy that indispensahle finish to a good dinner, an 
irreproachable cup of cofi'ee and a cigarette, and 
the sooner they arrive the better. With the small 
dinners of men it can scarcely too quickly follow the 
last service. 

But marked by a special character are some dinners, 
which may be either small or large in relation to the 
number of guests, but which are necessarily limited 
as regards the variety of aliments served. I refer to 
dinners at which either turtle or fish predominates. 
In accordance with a principle already enunciated, a 
howl of substantial stock, containing four or five broad 
flakes of the gelatinous product, often miscalled "fat," 
which is the chief representative of the turtle in the 
compound, is not a judicious prelude to a dinner 
arranged according to the orthodox programme, and 
offering the usual variety. A lover of turtle indulges 
freely in the soup, both thick and clear, making it in 
fact an important instalment of his repast ; and he 
desires, with or without some slight interlude, to meet 
the favourite food again in the form of an entrie. 
After so substantial a commencement, the dinner 
should be completed chiefly by poultry, and game if 
in season, and for the most part by dishes which are 
grilled or roasted, in contrast to the succulent morsels 
which have preceded. 

The fish dinner, also an occasional departure from 



Scheme for a Small Dinner Party. 115 

daily routine, is acceptable, and gratifies the taste for 
that delicate and pleasant food in considerable variety. 
But if so indulged, very few dishes ought to appear 
subsequently. It is a curious fact that the traditional 
bacon and beans, which appear towards the close of a 
Greenwich whitebait dinner, should afford another 
illustration of undesigned compliance with the natural 
law referred to at the outset, the bacon furnishing 
complementary fat to supply its notable absence in 
fish. 

The enjoyment of a curry — and when skilfully 
made it is almost universally admitted to bo one of 
the most attractive combinations which can be offered 
to the senses of taste and smell — is only possible at a 
limited repast. "When freely eaten, very little is ac- 
ceptable to the palate afterwards, exhausted as it is 
by the pervading fragrance of the spice and other 
adjuncts. Hence a curry should form the climax of 
a short series of dishes leading up to it : when pre- 
sented, as it sometimes is, among the entrees of a first 
course, it is wholly out of place. 

Here we may appropriately take a rapid glance at 
the characteristics of the feast where the guests are 
few in number. 

The small dinner party should be seated at a round 
or oval table, large enough for personal comfort, small 
enough to admit of conversation in any direction 
without effort. The table should of course be fur- 
nished with taste, but is not to be encumbered with 
ornaments, floral or other capable of obstructing sight 

I 2 



1 1 6 Food and Feeding. 

and sound. A perfect consomme, a choice of two fish, 
a Jilet or a chateaubriand, a gigot or a fricandeau: 
followed by a chaudfroid, a cre;«p fZe volaille garnie, a 
roast and salad, a choice vegetable, and an iced souffle 
or charlotte; and in summer a inacecloine of fresh 
fruits in an old china family bowl, if there is one ; 
and lastly, a savoury biscuit ; accompanying vege- 
tables and appropriate wines ; — may be regarded as 
furnishing a scheme for such a party — or a theme of 
which the variations are endless.* Seven or eight 
guests can thus be brought into close contact ; with a 
larger number the party is apt to form two coteries, 
one on each side of the host. The number is a good 
one also in relation to the commissariat department — 
eight persons being well supplied by an entree in one 
dish ; while two dishes are necessary for ten or twelve 
persons. Moreover, one bottle of wine divides well in 
eight ; if, therefore, the host desire to give with the 
roast one glass of particularly fine ripe Gorton or 
Pomard, a single bottle is equal to the supply ; and 
so with any other choice specimen of which a single 
circulation is required ; and of course the rule holds 
equally if the circuit is to be repeated. 

And this leads us to the question — and an important 
one it is — of the Wine. 

* For an illustration of this, see a series of menus at the end of 
Chapter X. 



CHAPTER IX. 

The question of wine with dinner — Should be pure but not pre- 
tentious — Relation of various kinds with certain dishes^ 
Cigarettes after dinner — Tobacco and coffee — Common water — 
Aerated waters — Foreign mineral waters — Sweet drinks at 
dinner objectionable. 

I HAVE already said that, among all civilised 
nations, wine in some form has for centuries been 
highly appreciated as a gastronomic accompaniment to 
food. I cannot, and do not attempt to deny it this 
position. Whether such employment of it is advan- 
tageous from a dietetic or physiological point of view 
is at this moment altogether another question. I am 
of opinion that the habitual use of wine, beer, or spirits 
is a dietetic error, say, for nineteen persons out of 
twenty. In other words, the great majority of the 
people, at any age or of either sex, will enjoy better 
health, both of body and mind, and will live longer, 
without any alcoholic drinks whatever, than with 
habitual indulgence in their use, even although such 
use be what is popularly understood as moderate. But 
I do not aver that any particular harm results from 
the habit of now and then enjoying a glass of really 
fine pure wine — and, rare as this is, I do not think 



1 1 8 Food and Feeding. 

any other is wortli consuming — ^just as one may occa- 
sionally enjoy a particularly choice dish ; neither the 
one nor the other, perhaps, being sufficiently innocu- 
ous or digestible for frequent, much less for habitual 
use. Then I frankly admit that there are some 
persons — in the aggregate not a few — who may take 
small quantities of genuine light -wine or beer with 
very little if any appreciable injury. For these per- 
sons such drinks may be put in the category of luxu- 
ries permissible within certain limits or conditions, 
and of such luxuries let tobacco-smoking be another 
example. No one probably is any better for tobacco ; 
and some people are undoubtedly injured by it ; while 
others find it absolutely poisonous, and cannot inhale 
even a small quantity of the smoke without instantly 
feeling sick or ill. And some few indulge the mode- 
rate use of tobacco all their lives without any evil 
effects, at aU events, that are perceptible to themselves 
or to others. 

Relative to these matters, every man ought to deal 
carefully and faithfully with himself, watching rigor- 
ously the effects of the smallest license on his mental 
and bodily states, and boldly denying himself the use 
of a luxurious habit if he finds undoubted signs of harm 
arising therefrom. And he must perform the difiicult 
task with a profound conviction that his judgment 
is very prone to bias on the side of indulgence, since 
the luxurious habit is so agreeable, and to refrain there- 
from in relation to himself and to the present opinion 
of society, so difficult. Be it remarked, however, that 



071 the Use and Abuse of Wine at Meals. 1 19 

the opinion of society is notably and rapidly changing 
relative to the point in question. 

Having premised thus much as to what is absolutely 
best, I will now deal, in the spirit of compromise, with 
things as they are ; and let it be understood that it is 
in this sense that I deal with the subject. I have 
only now to say, first, that wine, in relation to dinner 
should be served during the repast ; it should never be 
taken, in any form or under any circumstances, before, 
that is, on an empty stomach, and rarely after the 
meal is finished. Regarded from a gastronomic point 
of view alone, nothing should appear after fruit but 
a small glass of cognac or liqueur, and coffee. The 
post-prandial habit of drinking glass after glass even of 
the finest growths of the Gironde, or of the most 
mature or mellow shipments from Oporto, is doubtless 
a pleasant, but, in the end, for many persons a costly 
indulgence. 

Secondly, whatever wine is given should be the 
most sound and unsophisticated of its kind which 
can be procured. The host had far better produce 
only a bottle or two of sound bourgeois wine from 
Bordeaux — and most excellent wine may be found 
under such a denomination — with no pretence of a 
meretricious title, or other worthless finery about it, 
than an array of fictitious mixtures with pretentious 
labels procured from an advertising cheap wine house. 
I could only speak in terms of contempt and disgust, 
did I not feel pity for the deluded victims, of the 
unscrupulous use of the time-honoured and historical 



I20 Food and Feeding. 

titles which advertisers shamelessly flaunt on bottles 
of worthless compounds by means of showy labels, 
in lists and pamphlets of portentous length, and 
by placards sown broadcast through the country. 
So that one may buy "Lafite" or " Margaux " — 
" Chambertin " or " Nuits " — '47 port, or even '3-4 
— at any village store ! No terms can be too strong 
to characterise such trade. 

If fine wines of unquestionable character and 
vintage are to be produced, there are only two 
ways of possessing them : one, by finding some 
wine-merchant of long standing and reputation, who 
will do an applicant the favour to furnish them, and 
the price must be large for quality and age. We 
may be certain that such an one will never advertise ; 
no man who really has the grancU rins of esteemed 
vintages in his cellar need spend a shilling in ad- 
vertisements, for he confers a favour on his customer 
by parting with such stock. But better and more 
satisfactory is it to obtain from time to time a piece 
or two of wine, of high character and reputed vintage, 
when they are to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay 
them down for years until ripe for xise. Commencing 
thus in early life, a man's cellar becomes in twenty or 
thirty years a possession of interest and value, and he 
can always produce, at his little dinners, for those 
who can appreciate it, something curiously fine, and 
free at all events from the deleterious qualities of new 
and fictitious wines. 

Briefly : the rule, by general gastronomic consent, 



Nahcral ally of Tobacco is Coffee, not Spirit. 1 2 1 

for those who indulge in the luxury of wine, is to 
offer a glass of light pale sherry or dry Sauterne after 
soup ; a delicate Rhine wine, if required, after fish ; 
a glass of Bordeaux with the joint of mutton ; the 
same, or champagne — dry, hut with some true vinous 
character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water 
just now enjoying an evanescent pof)ularity — during 
the entrees ; the hest red wine in the cellar, Bordeaux 
or Burgundy, with the grouse or other roast game ; 
and — but this ought to suffice, even for that excep- 
tional individual who is supposed to be little if at all 
injured by " moderate " potations. With the ice or 
dessert, a glass of full-flavoured but matured cham- 
pagne, or a liqueur, may be served ; but at this point 
dietetic admonitions are out of place, and we have 
already sacrificed to luxury. The .value of a cigarette 
at this moment is that with the first whiff of its 
fragrance the palate ceases to demand either food or 
wine. After smoke the power to appreciate good 
wine is lost, and no judicious host cares to opsn a 
fresh bottle from his best bin for the smoker, nor will 
the former he blamed by any man for a disinclination 
to do so. 

For unquestionably tobacco is an ally of temperance ; 
certainly it is so in the estimation of the gourmet. A 
relationship for him of the most perfect order is that 
which subsists between coffee and fragrant smoke. 
While wine and tobacco are antipathetic, the one 
affecting injuriously all that is grateful in the other, 
the aroma of coffee " marries " perfectly with the per- 



122 Food and Feeding. 

fume of the finest leaf. Among the Mussulmans this 
relationship is recognised to the fullest extent; and 
also throughout the Continent the use of coffee, 
which is almost symbolical of temperate habits, is 
intimately associated with the cigarette or cigar. Only 
by the uncultured classes of Great Britain and of 
other northern nations, who appear to possess the 
most insensitive palates in Europe, have smoke and 
alcoholic drinks been closely associated. By such, 
tobacco and spirit have been sought chiefly as drugs, 
and are taken mainly for their effects on the nervous 
system — the easy but disastrous means of becoming 
stupid, besotted, or drunk. People of cultivated 
tastes, on the other haud, select their tobacco or their 
wines, not for their qualities as drugs, but for those 
subtler attributes of flavour and perfume, which exist 
often in inverse proportion to the injurious narcotic 
ingredients ; which latter are as much as possible 
avoided, or are accepted chiefly for the sake of the 
former. 

Before quitting the subject of dining it must be 
said that, -after all, those who drink water with that 
meal probably enjoy food more than those who drink 
wine. They have generally better appetite and diges- 
tion, and they certainly preserve an appreciative 
palate longer than the wine-drinker. Water is so 
important an element to them, that they are not in- 
diff'erent to its quality and source. As for the large 
class which cannot help itself in this matter, the im- 
portance of an ample supply of uncontaminated water 



Aerated Waters. > 123 

cannot be over-rated. The quality of that furnished 
to the population of London is happily now good, but 
the only mode of storing it possible to many often 
renders it dangerous to health. Disease and intem- 
perance are largely produced by neglect in relation to 
these two matters. It would be invidious, perhaps, to 
say what particular question of home or foreign poli- 
tics could be spared, that Parliament might discuss a 
matter of such pressing urgency as a pure water 
supply ; or to specify what particular part of our 
enormous expenditure, compulsory and voluntary, 
might be better employed than at present, by divert- 
ing a portion to the attainment of that end. But for 
those who can afford to buy water, no purer exists in 
any natural sources than that of our own Mah'ern 
springs, and these are aerated and provided in the 
form of soda and potash waters of unexceptionable 
quality. Pure water, charged with gas, does not keep 
so long as a water to which a little soda or potash is 
added ; but for this purpose six to eight grains in 
each bottle suffice — a larger quantity is undesirable. 
All the great makers of these beverages have now 
their own artesian wells or other equally trustworthy 
sources, so that English aerated waters are unrivalled 
in excellence. On the other hand, the foreign sijjhon, 
made, as it often is, at any chemist's shop, and from 
the water of the nearest source, is a very uncertain 
production. Probably our travelling fellow-country- 
men owe their attacks of fever more to drinking water 
contaminated by sewage matter, than to the malarious 



124 Food and Feeding. 

influences which pervade certain districts of southern 
Europe. The only water safe for the traveller to 
drink is a natural mineral water, and such is now 
always procurable throughout Europe, except in very 
remote or unfrequented places.* In the latter circum- 
stances no admixture of wine or spirit counteracts the 
poison in tainted water, and makes it safe to drink, as 
people often delight to believe ; but the simple process 
of boiling it renders it perfectly harmless ; and this 
result is readily attained in any locality by making 
weak tea to be taken hot or cold ; or in making toast- 
water, barley-water, lemonade, &o. The table waters 
now so largely imported into this country from 
Germany and France, contain a considerable propor- 
tion of mineral matter in solution, and while they are 
wholesome as regards freedom from organic impu- 
rities, are, of course, less perfect for daily use than 
absolutely pure waters, such as those above referred 
to. Vaunted frequently as possessing certain medi- 
cinal properties, this very fact ought to prohibit their 
constant use as dietetic agents for habitual consump- 
tion, inasmuch as we do not require drugs as diet, but 
only as occasional correctives. Among them, the 
natural Selters, Apollinaris, Gieshiibel, and St. Gal- 
mier — but of this latter some of the sources are infe- 

* Throughout France, St. Galmier ; in Germany, Selters ; in Austria 
and Bcleniia, Grieshiibel. are always obtainable, teing the table-water 
of most repute, in eacli case respectively, of the country itself. In all 
chief places in Italy, either Selters or St. Gfalmier, often both, aie 
supplied by the hotels. In Spain these are not at present to be had, 
but the altematifes recommended are easily obtained. 



Sweet Drinks at Dinner objectionable. 125 

rior to others, the best appearing now to be chiefly 
retained for Paris — are perhaps among the most satis- 
factory within our reach. A dash of lemon-juice, 
and a thin cutting of the peel, form sometimes an 
agreeable addition, especially to our well-made soda, 
seltzer or potash waters ; and nothing keeps the 
palate cleaner or in better order for appreciating food. 
I am compelled to say that the sweet compounds and 
fruity juices which have of late been produced, and 
inordinately puffed, as dinner drinks, and apparently 
in competition with wine, are rarely wholesome adjuncts 
to a dinner. Such liquids rapidly develop indigestible 
acid products in the stomachs of many persons ; while 
for all, the sipping of sweet fluids, effervescing or other- 
wise, during a meal tends to diminish appetite, as well 
as the faculty of appreciating good cookery. If wine 
is refused, let the drink which accompanies dinner, be 
of pure water — with a sparkle of gas in it, or a slight 
acid in it if you will — but in obedience both to gastro- 
nomic and dietetic laws let it be free from sugar. No 
doubt there are exceptional circumstances in which 
fruity juices, if not very sweet, can be taken freely. 
Thus I have rarely quaffed more delicious liquor at 
dinner in the warm autumn of southern Europe, 
notably in Spain, than that afforded by ample slices of 
a water-meloD, which fill the mouth with cool fragrant 
liquid ; so slight is the amount of solid matter, that it 
only just serves to contain the abundant delicate juices 
of the fruit grown in those climates. Here the sac- 
charine matter is nevertheless present only in small 
proportion. 



CHAPTER X. 

In order to aiTange a dinner some practical acquaintance with food 
necessary — Also of the season at which it is in perfection — The 
scheme or elementary outline of a dinner — Mciius should be 
written in French — Two menus for each month in the year — 
Numerous dishes not included in the Hst. 

The remark is frequently heard from the domestic 
head of an English family, the lady of the house — 
who, although in easy circumstances and much occu- 
pied in good society, does not care to delegate her 
authority to a skilled professional housekeeper — that 
nothing puzzles her more than the composition of 
menus for the inevitable dinner parties. She feels 
almost as ready, or rather as unready, as she would 
be if called upon to compose a sonnet or a symphony. 
Her husband, ^yhose counsels are so valuable, or at 
all events are so promptly furnished- on almost all 
other topics, utterly fails in his attempt to offer. a 
suggestion now. Heoce she meets her cook on terms 
which preclude exercise of choice or criticism ; and the 
latter becomes mainly the author of the programme. 
But a leading confectioner and dinner purveyor may 
also be consulted, who supplies the suggestion desu-ed, 
sending in a dish or two in consequence ; and a suit- 
able congruity is devoutly hoped for as the result. 



The Art of Constructing a Menu. 127 

At all events it is now certain that the menu will he 
sufficiently comprehensive ; and there is even a pro- 
bahility that it will contain the latest invention — well, 
let us say — in gastronomic nomenclature ; the novelty 
of the imported dish itself beiag perhaps less remark- 
able. 

I venture then to offer a few hints relative to that 
particular form of literary composition which is in- 
volved in the so-called art of menu writing. Were 
it not that the art is really a very simple one, I 
should not risk the responsibility of offering advice. 
But it is necessary at the outset to state, that in order 
to ensure success in this particular department of 
letters, some little knowledge of the subject, namely, 
food, its nature and principal forms, is really necessary. 

First then, the author of a menu must have a toler- 
able acquaintance with the varied materials, which 
form the natural produce of any given season through- 
out the year. Otherwise, we may meet with a pro- 
posal to serve Scotch salmon at Christmas, fine fresh 
tomatoes before Easter, oysters and grouse at Mid- 
summer, asparagus at Michaelmas, and tender peas in 
November. I don't say that it is absolutely impos- 
sible to procure some of these things ; more especially 
as the electric light may ultimately render us, for 
gardening purposes — and who knows for what else ! — 
independent of sun and season. But at present most 
of those delicacies, like many others which might be 
named, are practically unattainable. To be serious, 
it is necessary that a housekeeper should know what 



12 8 Food and Feeding. 

are the best products of the season, both of the 
animal and the vegetable world, in every month of 
the year. A pleasant stroll through Covent Garden 
once a week, and an occasional call on the fishmonger 
and poultryman, with frequent reference to some 
domestic manual of cookery, most of which contain a 
kind of Ahnanacli des Gourmands, will soon furnish a 
competent acquaintance with what is really a very 
interesting branch of knowledge. 

Next, it is necessary to have a simple but clear 
notion of the foundation or outline, the •' archetype " 
pattern — if I may borrow a scientific term of rather 
lofty significance — on which every dinner, however 
great or however small, must be planned, as the 
groundwork of its construction. Certain primary 
elements are essential to the structure of a dinner ; 
shorn of these there may without doubt be a meal, 
and indeed not a bad one of some kind; but there 
can be no dinner. Thus, a man may satisfy his 
hunger with a large plate of meat, piled with supple- 
mentary vegetables, and flanked by the attendant 
bread, and greatly enjoy his meal, but this is not 
dinner in any technical sense of the word, and cannot 
be so regarded ; it is simply a plate of meat and 
vegetables. It offers no change in form, or kind, or 
flavour, and no slight interval of rest for the palate ; 
it is a single movement, not a complete symphonj? — 
an " andante " in common time, but without the bright 
and sparkling " minuet " to follow, which in its turn 
leads to the " grand finale " ; while this in its course 



The Composition of a Dinner. 129 



may present a plaintive minor passage, which gives 
force and splendour to the resumption of the major 
key hefore the close. Thus it is that certain con- 
stituent parts are necessary, one lending force to 
another by help of relief or contrast ; the attainment 
of perfection through variety being as esseniiid to the 
idea of a dinner, as to that of a complete musical com- 
position. Bearing this law in view, and maintaining 
the characters demanded, we may produce a dinner of 
Spartan simplicity, or may swell it to proportions 
which should satisfy a Lucullus ; but the archetype 
pattern is still to be discernible throughout. 

A dinner to be complete within moderate limits 
should contain, in ideal terms, — 

1. An introductory or preliminary dish or 
two. 



2. A substantial dish of meat, or ^iec« dt 

risistance, to satisfy a keen appetite. 

3. A choice dish or two of delicate flavour for 

those who have little appetite for the 
preceding (or No. 2), as well as for those 
who have, but are able also to reserve a 
place for the gratification of taste. 

i. A dish of marked flavour and character 
easily digestible, inviting to the palate ; 
a roast or grill. 

5. A dish of choice vegetables by itself. 

6. A sweet. 



Exchangeable for 
the following 
if desired : 

Not absolutely 
essential ; or may 

take the place 

of the substantial 

dish. 



Not all absolutely 
essential. 



7. A savoury dish. 



I30 



Pood and Feeding. 



Let the foregoing ideas be represented in a concrete 
form, either as simple, and applicable to one or two 
persons ; or with additions of a luxurious kind, for the 
purpose of providing the variety necessary when there 
are several guests. It may be laid down as a self- 
evident axiom, that while two persons agreeing in their 
tastes may dine well on three, four, or at most five 
dishes, a larger number or choice of dishes must be 
provided to meet the differing tastes of six or eight 
persons, not one of whom iadividually will require 
more than the former. Thus : — 



1. 


Inteodttotoet or 


Soup Soup 


Soup 




Peeliminaet 


or and 


and 




Dishes. 


Fish. Fish. 


Choice of Fish. 


2. 


Substantial Dish 


Joint or other portion of meat ; tender 




— relivi or remouc. 


and juicy ; not necessarily roast : to 






be well garnished, 


and attended with 






vegetahles. 




3. 


Choice Dishes; 


An entrie of some 


Two entrees — rare- 




miries. 


kind ; one of fish 


ly more— simple 






may come here if 


or luxurious, ac- 






soup only were 


cording to the 






taken before the 


entertainment de- 






meat. 


sired. 



4. A Dish of Marked 
Flavouk — Ihf Roast, 



The EntreTnets. 

. Vboetable (which 

may sometimes pre- 

eede, but will mostly 

follow, the roast). 



Almost always a bird ; game when 
in season ; attended or followed by a 
salad. 



The best in season carefully cooked, 
and served by itself. 



The essential Dishes of a Dinner. 1 3 1 

6. Sweet. . . . One, or several, according to the guests. 

7. Savoury. . . Ranges from a morsel of cheese to the 

most perfect presentation of delicate 
fillets, &c. ere aspic — " flies in amher " 
— that can be produced ; one or more ; 
or, caviare, dried fish, devilled biscuit. 

Dessert 

The essentials then of a dinner reduced to its lowest 
term are : — 

1. Preliminakt. Soup only : or fish only, if soup disagi-ees, 
or is objected to. Both, if desired. 

2 and 3. The Meat Meat alone ; or fish in its place, if soup 
AND entrie. only has been taken ; or the entrie alone 

if lighter food than meat is preferred. 

4. A EoAST. . A roast bird of some kind. 

5, 6, and 7. Entre- A vegetable ; sweet, or savoury — one of 

TMts. each only, or two only, as preferred. 

In order to illustrate the foregoing remarks, I shall 
now furnish a few examples of small but complete 
dinners ; which are easily reducible, however, to the 
" lowest term," by the omission of a dish or two on the 
principle laid down. In each menu a choice of soups, 
fish, entrees, roast and sweet entremets are given ; 
constituting in fact the menus of two dinners. Such 
a double menu is sketched from the materials most in 
season for each month in the year, making twenty-four 
dinners in all. I have ventured to do so because the 
suggestion has been so frequently made that practical 



Food and Feeding. 



illustration of the principles advocated should be 
appended, and also because it appears possible that a 
few examples may, perhaps, be of some slight service to 
young or inexperienced persons, if any such there be. 
I wholly disclaim any idea of furnishing programmes 
here for elaborate dinners, or "state " occasions; and 
only intend to suggest simple products which any good 
or " thorough good " cook may furnish properly, at all 
events with a little preliminary practice in some in- 
stances. Perhaps the truth is scarcely yet sufficiently 
recognised that the quality or character of a dinner 
does not depend on the number, the complexity, the 
cost, or even on the rarity of the component dishes. 
Let these be few in number, and be simple in compo- 
sition ; but if the material itself is the best of its kind, 
well cooked and tastefully presented, the dinner may 
rank with the best, and is certain to please. 

I have long been forced to the conclusion that menus, 
as a rule, should be written altogether in the French 
language. So many French culinary terms have been 
naturalised ; so many more are almost if not quite un- 
translatable, that the endeavour to write menus in 
English, invariably results in an objectionable mixture 
of the two languages, resembling a mongrel patois. 
As examples, those of the first three months and 
those of the last month shall be written as far as 
possible in English, and the remainder will be given 
in French. 



Menus for January and February. 1 3 3 

JANUARY. 

Soup Brunoise. | Ox-tail. 

Fish Fillets of Sole Ji la I Crimped Cod and Oyster 

Cardinal. | Sauce. 

Relev^ or \ Roast Leg of Jliitton, with puree of Onions and 
Remove / Haricots (a la Brfitonne). 

Entree Sweetbreads ^ la I Braised Ox-tongue and 

Financik'e. | Spinach. 

Roast Pheasant. ] Snipe, or Widgeon. 

En'treiiets. Seakale and Butter Sauce. 

Iced Coffee, or VaniUo I Brown Bread Pudding. 
Souffli$. I 

Canapes of Anchovy. 



FEBRUARY. 

Soup Paysanne. I Puree of White Haricots, 

I or Lentils. 

Fish Fillets of Turhot a la 1 Broiled Herring and 

ravigote. | Mustard Sauce, 

^Rmote^ I Braised Veal and Maoedoino of Vegetahles. 

Entree Croquettes of Oysters, or I Mutton Cutlets i la 

Scalloped Oysters.* | Soubise. 

RaAST Wild Duck. | Hare. 

ExTBEMETS. Stewcd Celery in Gravy. 

Apricots, Peaches, or I Baba with Rum. 
Pears, with Rice. | 

Caviare. 

* Another mollusc, the true "scallop" [Fedai maximus), may 
be substituted for oysters as an entri5e for occasional change in the 
spring season. It was formerly largely consumed, being originally cooked 
in the manner which is now commonly adopted for the oyster, when 
presented as above described. Long after the scallops, oysters came 
to be esteemed, and being cooked in the same way, were therefore 
said to be "scalloped." The original " scallops " laay still be had at 
our fishmongers, and when thinly sliced and so dressed, are by no 
means to be altogether neglected. 



'34 



Food and Feeding. 



MABCH. 

SOTJP Crolite au pot. I Purfe of Turnips, or of 

I articliokes. 

riSH Boiled Salmon, Sauce 1 Red Mullets, baked ; 

hollandaise "with capers. | see p. 87. 

Relev^ or \ Broiled Steak from the fillet, Maltre d'H6tel 
Remove J Sauce. 

Ente^^e Quenelles of Rabbit, I Timbale of Macaroni \ la 

puree of Celery. | Milanaise. 

Roast Guinea Fowl, with Cress I Capon, stuffed with fresh 

or young Salad. | truffles.* 

Entremets. Stewed Mushrooms. Young Salad. 

"Spring Tart." I Charlotte Russe, with 

I pistachios. 

Herring, or Herring Roe, on Toast. 



APRIL. 

PoTAGE Printanier. I Consomme au Riz, k 

I ritalienne. 

Poi^soN Truite grillee Ji la I Eperlans frits. 

Hollandaise. | 

Relevii; Aloyau brais^ h. la I Filet de Pore, 

Nivemaise. | Sauce Robert. 

EnteSe Jambon glac^ aux Epi- I Pleds de Moutou k la 

nards, ou \ la Chicoree. | poulette. 

R6t Poulet et Salade. | Canetons. 

Entremets. Asperges d'ArgenteuO. 

Bavai'oise au Chocolat. | Cr^me au Caramel. 

Petits Souffles au fromage. 

* Fresh French truffles are in perfection in January, to which fruit- 
ful month of all good things this dish might well be relegated ; but 
are still in season through February and March. Fair English truffles 
notably inferior, however, to the French black truffle, may be found in 
Covent Garden a month later.' 



Menus for May and yune. 1 3 5 



MAY. 

PoTAOE Bonne Femme. | Cr^oy. 

PoissoN ... Filets de Maquereau I Sole ^ la Colbert, 
grilles, Maltre d'H6tel. | 

RELBVi; Selle d'Agneau braisde, Macddoine de Legumes. 

Entk:6e Pain de Volaille aux I Tete de Veau en tortue. 

truffes. I 

R6t Cailles. | Levraut. 

Enteemets. Garottes Ji I'AUemande. Petits pois klaFlamande. 

Cr^me frite aux amandes I Croquante d'Orauges. 



am^res. 
CEufs de Pluvier. 



Canapes de Crevettes. 



JUNE. 

PoTAQE Pot-au-feu. I Bisque d'ecrevisses." 

PoissON Saumon de la Severn I Raie an Beurre Noir, ou 

taillad^ Sauce au fenouil. | Sauce aux Capre.s. 

Eeleve Fricandeau de Veau k I'Oseillc. 

]2NTEtE Chaudfroid de Cailles. Poulet k la Marengo. 

K6t Canards aux petits pois. | Pigeons, Salade. 

Enteemets. Asperges froides en I Petits pois k la Fran9uise. 

Salade. | 

Purde de Groseilles [ Nougat i. la Crime, 
glacde. I 

Crodtes au Parmesan. 

* A bisque is understood to be a 'well-flavoured and garnished pu'ric 
of crayfish, as above ; but the same treatment of prawns, of lobster, 
and also of crab, produces excellent bisques. Some apply the term to 
certain puries of game, at the risk, perhaps, of rendering the meaning 
of the word uncertain. 



136 



Food and Feeding. 



POTAQB 

POISSON ... 

Relevi5 

Entree ... 

Rot 

Enteemets. 



JULY. 

Pur4e de Pomraes de terre 
aux poireaux. 

Floiidres Frites, | Aigrefin faroie au four. 

fipaule d'Agneau S, la puree d'Articliauts. 



Purfe de Pois (St. 
Germain). 



I 



Bouch(ies k la Keiiie. 

Chevreuil. 
Salade aux Tomates. 

Gelee au ICirsch, garnie 

de Cerises. | 

Petits Filets de Saumon au Diable. 



Poiilet \ I'Estragon. 

Pluviers. 

Haricots verts, ou pa- 
naches, sautes au beurre. 

Eavaroise aux fraises. 



POTAGE 

PoissoN ... 

KELEVi; 

Entb^ie 

RSt 

Entremets. 



AUGUST. 

Puree de Chioorfte, ou 
d'Epinards. 

Sole Frite, citron ; ou 
Sauce verte. 



Consouiiuii au Macaroni, 
ou au Yermioelle. | 

Barbue, Sauce aux 
Crevettes. 



Poitrine de Mouton a, la Chicorde." 



Filets de Canetou a la 
Bigarade. 

Dindonneau. 

Ffeves de Marais fi la 
Poulette. 



Quenelles de Veau aux 
petits pois. 

Coq de Bruyere. 

Salado de Legumes. 



Mac^doine de Fruits. | Crfeme aux fraraboises,. 
" Dressed Crab." 



* An excellent dish, first braised, then cooled ; finished with bread 
crumbs in the oven, or oti the gridiron, and garnished with a jjarie of 
endive, or of spinach, or with tomatoes. The trimmed neck similarly 
treated makes a more substantial remore. 



Mentis for September and October. 1 3 'j 

SEFTEMBEB.. 

POTAGE Cr^me d'Orge k la I Julienne. 

HoUandaise. * | 

PoiRSON ... Aigreflnt grillee ^la I Sole & la Kormande. 
ravigote. | 

KeleviS Haricot de Chevreuil. I " Beefsteak Pudding " 4 

I • I'Ariglaise. 

Entr£e Filets de Poulet aux I Blanquette de Ris 

Truffes, Sauce Supreme. | d'Agueau 8. la Toulouse. 

Rut Sarcelles. | Perdreaux. 

Entuemets. Chou-fleur au Gratin. 

Charlotte aux pommes. | Omelette SoufflSe. 

Champignons Grilles. 



OCTOBER. 

PoTAGE Puree de Volaille (k la I Puree de Tomates. 

Reine). | 

PoissoN . . Filets de Barbue Frits. | Doree, Sauce aux huitres. 
RsLEvi; , Filet de Bceuf \ la Milanaise. 

EnteSb Civet de Lievre, | Fricassde de Poulet. 

R6t Faisan. | "Black Game. 

Entremets. Artichauts au Beurre. 

Omelette au confiture. | Beignets de pommes, &c. 

Canapfe de Jambon, ou de Homard. 

* The distinctive and agreeable addition, besides the little quenelles 
of fowl, in this soup, is the handful of sorrel leaves, which are still in 
season during this month. 

f "ilerluche "is generally used in this country to denote "haddock,'' 
but the French word merely designates any dried fish. " Aigi-efin " 
or " aiglefin " is the true equivalent for haddock. 



13S Food and Feeding. 



NOVEMBER. 

POTAGE Puree de Gibier. | Soupe aux Choux. 

PoissON ... Sole BouUlie, Sauce aux j Merlan grille. Sauce aux 
huitres. I Cftpres. 

Eelbv:^ Selle de Mouton EStie, "Lavei."* 

ENTBfe Faisan bouilli, ilia pur^e I Salmi de Perdreaux. 

de C^leri. | 

ESt Becasses ou B^cassines. | Oie. 

Entremets. Foie Gras en Aspic, | PommesdeTerreSauWes 
Salade Macddoine. | au Beurre. 

Savariu. | Meringues k la Cr^me. 

Petites Coquilles de Macaroni au Gratin. 



DECEMBER. 

{Christmas Dinners.) 

Soup Consomm^ with Italian I Oyster. 

pastes. I 

Fish Turbot, Hollandaise I Eels and Tartare Sauce. 

Sauce with capers. | 

EELEVji or ) Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts. 

Remove \ Fillet of Beef, Horseradish Sauce. 

Entk]6b Quenelles of Fowl, Sauce I "WestphalianGoose Breast 

Avith TrufSes. | with "Winter Spinach. 

Eo AST Game in Season. 

Entkemets. Spinach in gravy. ] Potato Salad. 

Plum Pudding, Brandy | M'nce Pies. 

Sauce, I Chartreuse of Orauges. 

Welsh Earebit.' | Devilled Biscuit. 

* Laver is in season from October to March ; and consists of two 
native marine plants, Porphyra vulgaris, and Viva latissima. It is 
\inknown in France, and recognised in few of our own cookery books. 
A most excellent adjunct to roast mutton. Let it soak in two fresh 
waters, about an hour in each, to get rid of the salt ; then put it in a 
saucepan with some hot water, and simmer until quite soft and mucila- 
ginous ; dress it as spinach, with butter, or with a little stock, and a 
dash of lemon juice ; serve hot. 



The Order of Dishes in a Dinner. 139 

Ou looking ttrough the foregoing menus, it may be 
observed that the most substantial dish has been 
placed next after the fish, and that it is followed by 
the entree, after which comes the " roast," which in its 
turn is followed by the choice vegetable served apart. 
Those who prefer the entree before the substantial 
dish, can so arrange it ; but whenever the latter 
happens to be roasted, as may sometimes be the case, 
it interferes most undesirably, by juxtaposition with 
the "roast" proper. This error may then be to some 
extent corrected by placing the choice vegetable be- 
tween the two, i.e. before the roast proper instead of 
after it ; and this course should be taken whenever 
the first-named change is made. 

In all cases too, there should be a marked difference 
in the material and culinary treatment of any two con- 
secutive dishes ; thus it is obviously undesirable that 
one white (or brown) preparation should follow another ; 
a quenelle of veal, for example, after a boiled sole ; or 
that a salmi of game should precede a roast pullet. It 
may be observed that white and brown meats and sauces 
mostly alternate, that grills and braises contrast ; that 
a delicate white entree successfully introduces the roast, 
that when the latter is substantial, as a haunch of 
venison, or a saddle of mutton, the preceding entree 
may be less important ; and so on. As a rule, to which 
there are a few exceptions, the procession of dishes after 
the fish is from the substantial to the more delicate, 
then to the contrasts between more piquant flavour 
and sweetness. 



140 Food and Feeding. 

It should also be noted that numerous popular 
dishes have been omitted — and purposely so — from 
these menus, simply for the reason that they are well 
known, and can therefore be adopted at pleasure by 
way of addition or exchange. Thus, none of the 
joints, such as sirloins, rounds, haunches, saddles, 
loins, shoulders, &c., have been named, with perhaps 
a single exception only. Everybody is familiar with 
English joints, which have been on this account ex- 
cluded from a list necessarily so restricted as the 
limits of only twenty- four nmiu& demand. For the 
same reason I have not named turtle in any form, 
nor curries ; nor such special soups as mock-turtle, 
mulligatawny, hodge-podge, split-pea,* giblet, water- 
souchets, and fish soups ; nor whitebait, nor the 
fresh-water fish, carp, tench, dace, pike, &c. ; nor 
among sweets, tarts, ices, sorbets, and the farinaceous 
puddings, custards, &c. ; nor hare I named the preli- 
minary oysters, which may well be added during the 
season as an additional luxury. My object has been 
to suggest a few of the leading smaller dishes of a 
comparatively simple and not expensive kind, and to 
place them in proper juxtaposition in relation to each 
other, so far as this has been possible, with the view 
of suggesting some little diversity in the dietary of 
our better middle-class tables. Almost every one also 

* Our common split-pea soup, wholesome and agreeable in winter, 
with dried mint and tiny crofttons, is wholly unknown in France ; the 
.1 '-'v. I gi-een peas, termed 'pois cassis, only are used for similar purposes 
tlierc. 



Cookery may be refined, yet tiot costly. 141 

is more or less typical in its character, so that given 
the knowledge of preparing it, several minor varieties 
can be produced. At the same time, such dishes 
are unpretentious, and do not demand the skill of a 
rare expert ; yet, when really well executed, they offer 
results not to be surpassed by any, either in relation 
to refined tastes, nor in wholesome and nourishing 
qualities, in relation to the powers of the stomach and 
the wants of the system. To the remark regarding 
an estimate of the expense just made, I admit two 
or, at most, three exceptions, of which the chapon 
truffe is the most obvious example. And it is not 
suggested, moreover, that this should he prepared at 
home, but obtained only during the season of fresh 
truf&es, from France ; stuffed on its native soil with 
native produce, it forms a very important addition to 
a dinner, and stamps it with a rare distinction. There 
is no difficulty in procuring truffled poultry of any size by 
rail direct from Paris, when the indulgence of a little 
extravagance is to be permitted ; but even this trouble 
is not necessary, since a few first-rate London poul- 
terers import fresh truffles, and will furnish a fine 
Dorking fowl properly stuffed, the quantity used 
determining in any case the cost of the dish.* 

* No better names could be mentioned than those of Cheret, of the 
Palais Royal, and Bailey, of Mount Street, Grosvenor Square. 



CHAPTER XI. 

The public dinner — Its undue length — Toasts too numerous — 
Suggestions for shortening the proceedings — Good cookery 
independent of pedantic and complicated receipts — Schools of 
cookery — Better food, in better condition, and in more abun- 
dant supply, a pressing want for London — Conclusion. 

Before concluding, a remark or two may be per- 
mitted in reference to that great British institution, 
the pubHc dinner. Its utility must, I suppose, be 
conceded, since for a vast number of charitable and 
other interests the condition of commanding once a 
year the ear of the British public for an exposition of 
their claims, seems in no other way at present attain- 
able. A royal or noble chairman, a portentous menu, 
an unstinted supply of wine, such as it is, and after- 
dinner speeches in variety, form an ensemble which 
appears to be attractive to the great body of " sup- 
porters." On the other hand, those whose presence is 
enforced by the claim of duty find these banquets too 
numerous and too long. The noise and bustle, the 
badly served although pretentious dinner, the glare 
of gas and the polluted air, the long, desultory and 
unmeaning speeches, interspersed wdth musical per- 
formances — which, however admirable in themselves, 



The Public Dinner. 143 

extend unduly a programme already too comprehen- 
sive — unfit many a man, seriously occupied, for the 
engagements of the morrow. Might it not be worth 
trying the experiment of offering fewer dishes, better 
service, and abolishing half the toasts ? Might it not 
be possible to limit the necessary and essential toasts 
of a public dinner to the number of three or four — 
these to be followed only by a few subordinate toasts 
associated with the the minor interests of the special 
object of the dinner ? With the utmost deference to 
long received usage, and after some little consideration, 
I venture to suggest that the following programme 
would at all events be an improvement on the present 
system, if such it can be called. 

The first toast, or toasts, by which we declare our 
fidelity to the Crown, and our loyalty to the person of 
the Sovereign, as well as to the Royal family, to re- 
main, by universal consent, as before. The next, or 
patriotic toasts, unHke the preceding, are regarded as 
demanding response, often from several persons, and 
here it is that time is generally wasted. These might 
therefore be advantageously compressed into one, 
which need not be limited to the military and naval 
services, although it would of course include them. 
The object might be attained by constituting a single 
comprehensive but truly patriotic toast as second on 
the list, viz., "Our great National Institutions," which 
are easily defined. Supposing them to be regarded as 
seven in number, a response might be made on behalf 
of one, or at most two, according to the speakers pre- 



144 Food and Feeding. 

sent and the nature of the special object. These in- 
stitutions fall naturally into order, as — (1) Parlia- 
ment: its leaders. (2) Justice: the judges. (3) The 
military and naval forces : their of&cers. (4) Educa- 
tion : heads of universities and public schools. (5) 
Religion : its ministers. (6) Science and Art : heads 
of societies, academies, colleges. (7) Literature and 
the Press : distinguished writers. 

The third to be " the toast of the evening : " in 
other words, the particular subject of the dinner. 
After this might follow a fourth, embracing the healths 
of ofBcers connected with the subject, visitors, &c., if 
necessary. 

I confess I see no reason why the military and naval 
forces, however profound our respect and our gratitude 
for their great services to the nation must be — and in 
this matter I yield to no man — should invariably 
occupy a toast and speech, to be responded to by at 
least two, often by three officers, whUe the other great, 
and scarcely less important interests should be left out 
of consideration altogether, or be only occasionally in- 
troduced. The toast of " National Institutions " 
would mostly insure to the chairman and managers of 
the dinner an opportunity of obtaining two good 
speakers from different interests in reply — say, one for 
Justice and the other for Religion ; one for Parlia- 
ment or the Services, and the other for Science or 
Literature, and so forth. Thus all the varied elements 
of our national life would receive in their turn a due 
shai-e of attention from the great mass of public diners. 



Toasts at Public Dinners. 1 4 5 

and better speeches would probably be secured than 
by the present mode. 

I confess this is rather an episode ; but the subject 
of " toasts " is so interwoven with the management of 
the public dinner that I have ventured to introduce 
it. I even dare to think that the proposition may be 
not unlikely to receive the support of " the chair," 
the duties of which, with a long array of toasts, are 
sometimes excessively onerous ; only more so, be 
recollected, in degree than those, of a humbler kind, 
which are entailed on many of the guests who are 
compelled to assist. 

In concluding this imperfect sketch of the very 
large subject indicated by the title employed, I desire 
to express my strong sense of its manifold shortcomings, 
especially by way of omission. Desiring to call atten- 
tion, in the smallest possible compass, to a great 
number of what appear to me to be important con- 
siderations in connection with the arts of selecting, 
preparing, and serving food, I have doubtless often 
failed to be explicit in the effort to be brief. It would 
have been an easier task were time at my disposal 
to illustrate these considerations at greater length, 
and to have exceeded the limits of this small volume ; 
I might thus perhaps also have avoided, in dealing 
with some topics, a tone in statement more positive 
than circumstances may have warranted. Gastronomic 
tastes necessarily differ, as races, habits, digestive force, 
and supplies of food also differ ; and it becomes no 
man to be too dogmatic in treating of these matters. 



'146 Food and Feeding. 

Be gustihus non est dispiitandum is in no instance more 
true than in relation to the tastes of the palate. Still, 
if any rational canons are to be laid down in connection 
with food and feeding, it is absolutely necessary that 
something more than the chemical and physiological 
bearings of the subject should be taken into con- 
sideration. "With these it is unquestionably essential 
for any one who treats of my subject to be familiar ; 
but no less necessary is it to possess some natural 
taste and experience in the cultivation of the gustatory 
sense ; just as a cultivation of the perception of colour 
and a sensibility to the charm of harmoniously com- 
bined tints, are necessary to an intelligent enjoyment 
of the visual sense, and to the understanding of its 
powers. Hence the treatment of the whole subject 
must inevitably be pervaded to some extent by the 
personal idiosyncrasy and predilections of the indi- 
vidual. It is this fact, no doubt, which, operating in 
relation to the numerous writers on cookery, has 
tended to produce some of the complication and 
confusion which often appears in culinary directions 
and receipts. But the gastronomic art is a simpler 
one than the effusions of some of its professors might 
lead the wholly uneducated to believe ; and the 
complicated productions originated by some of its past 
and greatest practitioners are as unnecessary as are 
the long and complicated prescriptions formerly in 
vogue with the leading physicians of past time. Both 
were the natural out-growths of an age when every 
branch of technical education was a "mystery ; " and 



Taste required in treating of Cookery. 147 

■vvhen those who had attained the meaning thereof 
magnified their craft in the eyes of the vulgar by 
obscuring what is simple in a cloud of pedantic terms 
and processes. But that age and its delusions are 
passing away, and it is high time for simplicity in the 
practice of cookery to take the place of some useless 
and extravagant combinations and treatment which 
tradition has handed down. 

The formation of elementary schools of cookery, 
and the encouragement they have received from the 
public, augur well for improvement. No doubt the 
standard of attainment is low, and a certain common- 
place uniformity in product will pervade the country 
as the result. Once make cookery a distinct business 
to which the young may be trained, which it never 
yet has been, and the chance of now and then pro- 
ducing a first-rate cook, who may advance the art, is 
within reach. Hitherto the practice of cookery has 
been merely a resource for wage-getting among igno- 
rant women, who took to it at hazard, and acquired 
such traditions as pertained to the kitchen they have 
happened to enter. Still further, until it is recognised 
in this country as a profession which a man with some 
slight education and natural taste can exercise, we 
must be content to rank below other countries in 
rearing artists of the first order. 

At the present day it appears desirable, before all 
things, to secure the highest quality m all produce of 
the land whether animal or vegetable ; the standard 
of attainment leaving much to be desired in regard 



148 Food and Feeding. 

of the products of the latter kingdom. Great Britain 
has long held, and still maintains, the first place as to 
quality for her beef and mutton ; in no other country 
in Europe — I cannot speak of America — is it pos- 
sible to obtain these meats so tender, juicy, and -well- 
developed. The saddle, the haunch, the sirloin, and 
the round, so admirable on occasions, are only in 
danger of suffering here, like intimate friends, from a 
too great familiarity with their charms. But even 
our standard of quality in meat has been gradually 
lowered, from the closer struggle, year by year, to 
produce a fat animal in a shorter space of time than 
formerly ; a result which is accomplished by com- 
mencing to feed almost exclusively on oil-cake at a 
■\'ery early period of life. The result of this process 
is, that size and weight are attained by a deposit of 
fat, rather than by the construction of muscular fibre, 
which alone is true meat ; while as a necessary con- 
sequence the characteristic flavour and qualities of 
fully developed beef and mutton are greatly wanting 
in modern meat. 

Much more unsatisfactory is the supply of vegetable 
and dairy produce to our great city, particularly of 
the former. It must be confessed that our market at 
Covent Garden, in relation to capabilities for effective 
distribution of fresh vegetables, &c., would disgrace a 
town one-fifth of the size of London. Nineteen- 
twentieths of its inhabitants cannot obtain fresh 
green food on any terms, and those who succeed pay 
an exorbitant price. But their success is only partial, 



More Abundant Supply of Food needed. 149 

as those few who have a country garden of their own, 
and are suppUed by it, well know. And, compara- 
tively speaking, none but those who are so happily 
circumstanced, realize the exceeding luxury of pos- 
sessing well- grown vegetables brought directly from 
the garden to the table. Again, I think I am right in 
saying that a really new-laid egg is a luxury which a 
millionaire aan scarcely insure by purchase ; he may 
keep fowls, and with due care may obtain it, not 
otherwise. The great staple of our bread, com- 
monly called " bakers' bread," is unpalatable and 
indigestible; and I suppose no thoughtful or prudent 
consumer would, unless compelled, eat it habitually — 
used as it nevertheless is by the great majority of the 
inhabitants of this great city — any more than he 
would select a steak from the coarse beef whose proper 
destination is the stock-pot. Let any one compare 
the facilities which exist in most foreign towns for 
obtaining the three important articles of diet just 
named, with the modes of supply afforded by 
London, and the inferiority of the latter will be so 
manifest as to become matter of humiliation to an 
Englishman. I do not raise any question of com- 
parison between our own markets and the Halles 
Centrales of Paris, covering as they do nearly five 
acres of closely utilised space, with enormous vaults 
beneath, in direct communication by tram-road with 
the railways ; nor of the well-stocked Marche St. 
Honore, and others of less note. To many among 
the thousands of tourists who frequent the public 



150 Food and Feeding. 

buildings of Paris, an early morning survey of the 
fish, flesh, dairy produce, vegetables, fruit, and flowers, 
which the Halles Centrales display, and the scarcely 
less remarkable exhibition of Parisian and provincial 
life brought together there, present one of the most 
interesting and truly foreign spectacles which the city 
afi'ords. 

To the long list of needed reforms I have ventured 
to advocate in connection with this subject, I must 
add the want of ample and accessible markets in 
various parts of London, for what is known as country 
produce. I do this not only in the interest of the 
milUons who, like myself, are compelled to seek their 
food within the limits of Cockayne ; but also in the 
interest of our country gardeners and housewives, who 
ought to be able to supply us with poultry, vegetables, 
and eggs, better than the gardeners and housewives 
of France, on whom at present we so largely depend. 
"We may well be grateful to these small cultivators, 
who by their industry and energy supply our de- 
ficiencies; but the fact that they do so does not 
redound to the credit of our countrymen. 

Have I claimed for the consideration of my subject 
too great a share in the thoughts and multifarious 
labours of busy men ? I think not. For myself, 
being not without serious occupations, an attentive 
study of it has agreeably occupied many leisure hours 
at home and abroad ; but it has furthermore performed 
good service in the interest of health. And if I have 
been rightly understood, this imperfect attempt to 



Reforms for Supplying Country Produce. 1 5 1 

popularise a few undoubted truths in relation to the 
selection, the cookery, and the service of food, will be 
regarded as a manifesto, which assuredly it is intended 
to be, on behalf of true temperance. 

In one word let me conclude : — if in professional 
life for some of us, the chief power lies in a skilled 
right hand, and in the temperament which pertains 
thereto, it is no less true that a practical acquaintance 
with the laws of diet and digestion is also a power 
not far inferior to the other in importance. 

My last word, then, no less than my first, shall 
testify to the value for aU men of some knowledge in 
relation to their Food and Feeding. 



APPENDIX. 



PART I. 



ON THE POT-AU-I-'EU. 



Pot-au-feu : Jules GoufK's iiibt ructions for making it^-Directions 
giA'en by Brillat-Savarin — The receipt of Alexandre Dumas. 

Jules Grouffe's instructions for the Pot-au-feu, 
referred to, page 74. 

" The broth {bouillon) of beef is the foundation of 
domestic cookery. 

" It constitutes the most essential and really 
nourishing part of our daily food, that is, good meat 
soup. It is, moreover, the basis of a large number 
of culinary preparations such as ragoilts, sauces 
puries, &c. 

" The chief of all broths is undeniably beef-broth, 
many others, of course, existing, such as those of fowl, 
vegetables, fish, and game. 

" The production of a good pot-au-feu seems to mo 
to be one of those operations, at the same time ele- 
mentary and fundamental, with which it is of the 
highest importance to render e's-eryone familiar, as 
soon as domestic cooking is treated of. 



154 Food and Feeding. 

"I shall not refrain from entering into the most 
minute details, even though it bring a smile to the 
face of those who take no heed of that which forms 
the first step in cooking. What I attach most im- 
portance to is, to enable even a person who approaches 
a range for the first time in his life, to make quite 
sure of succeeding, if my instructions are followed 
precisely. 

" The Pot. 

"Four different kinds of pot are employed in 
domestic cookery: — 

1. A cast-iron pot. 

2. An earthenware pot. 

3. A tinned iron pot. 

4. A copper pot. 

" I object strongly to the first two kinds ; to a cast- 
iron pot, because it is very difficult, if not impossible, to 
remove the grease, which, after a certain time, becomes 
engrained in the pores of the cast-iron. I object 
equally to the earthenware pot, which enjoys a reputa- 
tion among certain housewives so little warranted. 
So far from improving the broth, it spoils it in every 
way. AVhen new it preserves for a long time a taste 
of earth and varnish, of which hot water can never 
altogether deprive it ; when old, it acquires a taste of 
rancid fat, which no amount of washing can destroy. 
On the other hand I specially recommend pots, of 
tinned iron or copper, as they are easily washed, and 



Ingredients for Pot-ati-Feti. 1 5 5 

as it is quite impossible to make a good broth unless 
the vessel is absolutely clean. 

" The Ingredients of the Pot-au-Feu. 

" I make a distinction between the big and the small 
pot-au-fe%i, the latter being for use on ordinary occa- 
sions, the former on extraordinary occasions. The 
sca.aQ. pot-au-feu consists of: — 

1 lb. 10 oz. of meat (750 grammes). 

Nearly 5 oz. of bones (125 grammes), (which is 
about the quantity of bones usually sold with 
the meat). 

7 pints of water (4 litres). 

1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). 

6J oz. of carrots (150 grammes). 

5 J oz. of onions ( „ » )• 

7 oz. of leeks (200 grammes). 

Nearly J oz. of celery (10 grammes). 

1 clove — stuck in an onion. 

5^ oz. of turnips. 

Nearly an ounce of parsnips (25 grammes).* 

" Some people add to the pot-au-fen a little garlic, 
but I do not recommend it — the flavour of garlic,- 
which is always so pronounced, tends to destroy the 
aroma of the broth, and further, it renders it unfit for 
the use of invalids. 

" For the extra pot-au-feu, double the quantity of 

* The quantity of parsnip is curiously small. If wanted, and it 
certainly is a desirable addition, why not treble the weight ? 



1 56 Food and Feeding. 

meat and vegetables, but use only ten and a half pints 
of water in the place of seven. Perhaps it will be 
asked if the small pot-aii-feu (that which I purposely 
call ' small '), will answer the requirements of a small 
household in which the cookery is necessarily reduced 
within narrow limits. I do not for a moment over- 
look the necessities even of the smallest households. 
The small pot-au-feu furnishes a quantity of broth 
for four or five persons. But if the household con- 
sists of only two persons, it may be considered usual 
to make soup enough to last for two days. Besides, it 
is convenient to keep some in reserve as a sauce for a 
made dish. 

" The Meat. 

" The portions of beef adapted for the pot-au-feu are 
the thick portions of the leg and shoulder ; the lower 
parts (knee and below) are inferior, as consisting chiefly 
of bone, skin, and tendon. On the whole, perhaps, 
the leg is superior to the shoulder for the purpose. 
All meat employed should be as fresh as possible, 

"Mode of proGeediiuj for the Pot-ati feu. 

" In the first place care must be taken to have a 
well-made fire which will last without much addition 
of coal, and will supply a constant gentle heat. The 
cover of the pot should be left slightly open, as broth 
becomes cloudy in a closed vessel. 

" Next proceed as follows : — 

" Separate the meat from the bones, tying up the 



Jllodc of Proceeding for the Poi-an-Fcii. 1 5 7 

former to keep it in form, for serving afterwards, and 
chopping the bones into morsels. First put the bones 
in the pot and the meat upon them. Pour in the 
water cold, and place the pot on the fire. Add the 
salt. Make it boil, and as soon as the scum rises, 
pour in a little cold water. Skim with a perforated 
spoon. Let it boil three separate times, and skim 
each time, after which the broth should be sufficiently 
skimmed. "Wipe carefully the edges of the pot. Next 
add the vegetables named above, which will check the 
boiling for a minute ; as soon as it begins again, place 
the pot on the corner of the fire, or hot plate, letting 
it only simmer gently, five hours for the big, and three 
hours for the Biaa}^ pot-au-feu. It is essential that the 
simmering should be quite regular and continuous. 
"When the broth is made, take out the meat and put 
it on a dish; taste the broth and see if it is salt 
enough. If more salt is wanted, it should not be 
added till the broth has been put in the soup-tureen. 
Care should be taken not to salt the broth too highly 
at first, as it always becomes more salt on being warmed 
up the second day, and still more so when reduced to 
a sauce. 

" Another essential point is to free the broth per- 
fectly from grease, after the meat is taken out, the pot 
being still on the fire. 

"Observations on the Vegetables for the Pot-au-feu. 

" The vegetables should be left in the broth only just 
long enough to cook them. By this time they have 



158 Food and Feeding. 

given tlieir flavour to the broth, after which they would 
only rob it of its goodness. 

" It is generally considered, and justly so, that the 
broth should have a golden tint ; the flavour is not 
improved thereby, but the eye is satisfied. Yet care 
must be taken not to alter the flavour ; therefore if 
any colouring matter is used, it should be caramel, 
while fried onion, fried carrot, and similar substances 
should be avoided for the reason given." * 

The same principle is laid down by Brillat-Savarin. 
"By a pot-au-feii we understand a portion of beef 
destined to be treated in boiling water lightly salted 
so as to extract the soluble parts. 

" The bouillon is the liquid which remains when the 
process is completed. 

"The houilli is the flesh deprived of its soluble 
parts. 

" The water dissolves, first, a part of the osmazome ; 
then the albumen, which coagulates by heat, some of 
it forming the scum which is removed ; then more 
osmazome and extractive matter or gravy ; finally, 
some portions of the sheath of the muscular fibres, 
which are detached in boiling. 

" To make good bouillon, the water must boil very 
gently, &c. Some vegetables are to be added to 
heighten the flavour ; and bread or pastes to render it 
more nourishing ; and then it becomes a soup." f 

' J. Qouff^ : Le Livre de la Ouisine. Paris. 1867. Pp. 39-47. 
t Physiologie du Q(M. Brillat-Savarin. Paris, 1843. Pp. 28-9. 



Dumas' s Pot-au-Feu. 159 

Diimas's Receipt. 

By way of presenting a somewhat different view of 
the pot-aii-feu, I subjoin the receipt of Alexandre 
Dumas, from the Dictionnaire de Cuisine, his last 
work, and a posthumous publication. Dumas was an 
amateur cook of great experience, but, beyond a few 
favourite dishes, and one or two with which his name 
is always connected, he depended for his receipts in 
the large volume referred to, on his old friend Vuille- 
mot, up to a comparatively recent date the famous 
proprietor of the pleasant quarters at St. Cloud, well 
known as the Tete Noire. Of this work Dumas 
furnished, and very abundantly, all the literary 
material, a medley of popular scientific jottings with 
plenty of gossip and numerous anecdotes. It will be 
seen that for the pot-au-feu he adheres to the old 
tradition of an earthen pot ; the real reason for which 
is, that at the ordinary fireplace, such a pot, being a 
bad heat conductor, favours slow and very gentle 
simmering better than an iron pot, which, on making 
only a small addition to the fire, is apt to boil briskly 
and so injure the broth. On a cooking-range, such 
as those now in general use, the iron pot is as manage- 
able as one of earth, and is preferable for the reasons 
given by Grouff^. While strictly adhering to the prin- 
ciple that the pot-au-feu must consist of beef broth, and 
of a dish of beef to follow, Dumas admits some odds 
and ends to be added "in a horse-hair bag." Even 
in this receipt, the hand of the amateur is visible ; for 



i6o Food and Feeding:- 



while giving instructions, and most correctly, not to 
put the meat into hoiiing water at first, which would 
harden the surface of flesh, and lock up the albumen 
within, the broth being impoverished in consequence ; 
he omits to state that the mutton and veal, which, he 
orders to be partially roasted before using [really in 
order to communicate the flavour so produced] must 
be subsequently sliced, otherwise their albumen, 
which is completely locked up by roasting, will not 
enter the broth, and 'ikiQ poi-au-feu, will be a failure so 
far as that is concerned. It should be added that 
Dumas admits mutton and veal as ingredients, to be 
adopted only in the south of France, where beef is often 
inferior or not procurable. 

" The basis of a good pof-au-feu is beef .... 

" Choose the freshest and juiciest meat you can find; 
let it be thick ; for if thin, it will be exhausted in the 
cooking ; do not wash it, or you will rob it of a portion 
of its juice. When the meat has been separated from 
the bones, tie it up, so that it may keep its shape, and 
put it in the pot with a pint of water to every pound 
of meat 

" We have advised you to separate the bones from 
the meat, not indeed because we banish them from 
the pot-aii-feu : on the contrary, we reserve for them 
a separate place, only we break them up well with a 
mallet, because the more they are broken, the more 
effectually is the gelatine extracted from them. Then 
we place them in a horsehair bag with any scraps of 
fowl, rabbit, partridge, or roast pigeon, which may be 



Ordinary Braising. 1 6 1 

found in the larder ; in fact, the remains of yesterday's 
dinner. 

"Next, put your pot on the fire ; you are doubtless 
aware that an earthenware pot is preferable to an iron 
pot ; heat it gently ; otherwise, if the meat is attacked 
by too high a temperature, the albumen wiU coagulate 
in the interior, and the osmazome wiU be prevented 
from becoming dissolved, and the broth will be wanting 
in flavour. 

" When the broth has been well skimmed, and has 
begun to boil, put in some salt, and, according to the 
quantity, three or four carrots, three or four turnips, 
a couple of parsnips, a bunch of celery and leeks tied 
together, and lastly three' onions, one of which should 
have a head of garlic stuck in it, the other two 
having a clove each. 

" If, following the bent of your caprice or a long- 
established habit, you like to add a piece of mutton 
or veal to the ingredients we have named, remember 
to roast or grill it first (to deprive it of grease). 
Seven hours of gentle and regular boiling are neces- 
sary to give the broth all the desired quahties." * 

Ordinary Braising. 

Jules Gouff^'s instructions for Boeuf d la Mode, 
referred to, p. 62. 

" Take about 4 lbs. (2 kilos) of thick beef-steak cut 

* Alexandre Dumas, Grand Dictionnairede Cuisine. Paris, 1873, 
pp. 867- art. Potage. 

M 



1 62 Food and Feeding. 

square. Take nearly | lb. (3 teotos) of fat bacon, cut 
off the rind, -wliicli should be put aside to blanch,* and 
then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one- 
third of an inch square, and sprinkle them with 
pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, as for the "pot- 
au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with 
rather less than a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of 
brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water ; two calyes' 
feet already boned and blanched, and the rind of 
the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding 
a little less than 1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). Make 
it boil, and skim it as for a pot-au-feu ; next, having 
skimmed it, add fully 1 lb. (600 grammes) of carrots, 
one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and 
two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the 
comer of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer 
very gently for four hours and-a-half. Try the meat 
with a skewer to ascertain when it is su£G.ciently 
cooked ; then put it on a dish with the carrots and 
the calves' feet, and keep them covered up hot until 
serving. Next, strain the gravy through a fine 
tammy; remove carefully every atom of grease, and 
reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie 
the beef, place it on the dish for serving; add the 
calves' feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the 
carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten 

* To "blanch " is simply plunging, either vegetable or meat,, as the 
case may be, into boiling water for a minute or two, to remove acrid 
matters in the first case, and to aid cleansing in the second. To 
"refresh," is to dip them into cold water immediately afterwards for 
a minute or two. 



Beef a la Mode. 163 

glazed onions. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots and 
onions round the beef ; pour the sauce over the meat, 
keeping the surplus for the next day. Taste it, in 
order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef CL la 
mode should be very relishing ; sometimes a clove of 
garlic is added. I do not mention this as a necessary 
item, but as one which must be decided by the lady of 
the house." 



" Observations on Beef a la Mode. 

" Beef a la mode is so useful and so justly appre- 
ciated in domestic cookery, that I think it will be 
worth while to recapitulate the principal details of 
the process, so that there may be no error in carrying 
it out. 

" The important question, after the choice of the 
meat, is the cooking, which must be done entirely by 
slow simmering ; and this is one of the most essential 
points for success. For when exposed to a hot fire 
the result is a white, watery, insipid gravy, such as is 
too often found in kitchens where cooking is carelessly 
done. The gravy ought to be red in colour, rather 
gelatinous in consistence, and full of the agreeable 
flavour and n-utritive matter of both meat and vege- 
tables, which is the distinctive mark of the dish. To 
obtain this excellent quality, the vegetables should be 
put into the braising'pot at the proper time, so that 
all are cooked together. 

" I advise in regard of all braised meats, whether 

M 2 



164 Food and Feeding 

beef or veal, tliat the portions should be rather too 
large than too small ; a long process of cooking suc- 
ceeds always better with such, than with tiny portions. 
A second excellent dish can always be made cold with 
the addition of jelly. It appears to me better then to 
eat twice following of a good dish thus varied, than to 
cook the small quantity which suffices only for one 
meal." * 



Sou'ps made from Vegetables only. 

I append the following as an example of a good 
consommd made from vegetables only, and therefore 
maigre; if well done it is very fragrant and agree- 
able in warm weather. Eeferred to at p. 78. 

Consommi of Fresh Vegetable Roots. 

Cut in slices 2 J lbs. of carrots and the same weight 
of onions ; put them in a stewpan with some parsley, 
thyme, shalot, and celery, and also 1 lb. 2 oz. of 
butter. 

Fry gently to a red colour, add 8| pints of water ; 
let it boil, and skim it ; 

Kext put into it a pint and three quarters of peas 
and a couple ^of lettuces ; 

Then add :— 

1\ oz. of salt, 

|- oz. of whole pepper, 

* Le Livre de Cuisine. J. Gouff^. Paris, 1867, pp. 126-8. 



Selection and Preparation of Fish. 165 

1 pinch of nutmeg, 

3 cloves, 

If pint of dried peas, 

1| pint of white haricots. 

Let it simmer for three hours at the side of the fire, 
skim off the grease and strain through a cloth ; then 
put aside for use. Ojo. cit. p. 348-9. 

This consomme may form the basis of spring soup, 
jullienite, brunoisc, aux osufs poches, crecij, &o., fresh 
vegetables and other materials being added, after the 
analogy in each case of the 2^otages gras. 



PAET II. 

ON THE SELECTION AND PREPARATION OF FISH ; AND 
ON FISH-SOUPS AND STEWS. 

The list of fish in general demand by the public is 
too restricted. The force of habit and want of interest 
among most English people in the matter of diet, has 
led to a conventional usage, limiting disadvantageously 
the variety of fish which would otherwise arrive at 
the market. Sole, whiting, mackerel, cod, salmon, 
turbot, trout, smelt, and red mullet, form a group to 
which most households in purchasing fresh fish as a 
rule limit their orders. 

Eelative to the list of fish just given, it may be 
remarked that the sole, the whiting, and the smelt 



1 66 Pood and Feeding. 

are the most delicate in flavour, contain the least 
nutritious matter, and are the easiest of digestion ; 
fitting them admirably to the invalid commencing 
after illness to make a trial of solid food ; the two 
former being also susceptible of very varied treatment 
in high class cooking for the production of elegant 
entrees. The turbot, rightly esteemed, is stronger 
food, and agrees well with most persons. The cod 
for some is not quite so readily taken ; but is not only 
more palatable, but is sometimes more easily assimi- 
lated when " crimped." The same may be said of 
the salmon, a leading characteristic of which is the 
presence of fat. This element in fish is more apt to 
disagree with the stomach than fat from other sources ; 
and on this account it is, that many either avoid, or 
eat sparingly of salmon. As the fat is chiefly found 
in the underside of the fish, a slice from the back 
only should be taken by such persons ; and in the 
fresh crimped fish the fat is in a more wholesome 
state than when on the second or third day after 
leaving the water it becomes oily and acquires a slight 
characteristic taste and odour. 

The mackerel is another oily fish, and it disagrees 
with some persons accordingly ; so is the red mullet, 
but the oil is chiefly in the liver, and gives the fish 
its peculiar flavour and value. 

Another list of fish which well deserves attention 
is headed by the Dory, an admirable fish with a 
peculiar firm, short, flakey, and very white flesh, 
belonging to the first rank in all respects, and not 



Selection and Preparation of Fish. 167 

sufficiently appreciated. The brill, the grey mullet, 
the haddock, the fresh herring and the flounder 
follow, all excellent food, and wanting only proper 
treatment in the kitchen to make them very palat- 
able. Then the herring, the pilchard, and smaller 
varieties of the family, by reason of their abundance, 
the facility with which they are preserved, and of the 
fat which they contain, furnish large supplies of 
useful food for the working man. Next in order the 
skate and the plaice, of which the same may be said ; 
while their price also brings them, or should do so, 
within the range of the poor ; in nutritive qualities 
they rank much higher than the sole and whiting. 

But besides all these there are fish, which may be 
placed if not in the first, yet certainly in the second 
rank, many of which are practically unknown to 
ninety-nine out of every hundred London house- 
keepers. First may be named the Wolf-fish, or Cat- 
fish, which, although unlike in appearance to the 
usual occupants of a fishmonger's shop, is a white 
fish, of excellent quality. It lives almost entirely on 
Crustacea, a circumstance, as Yarrell long ago pointed 
out, always associated with excellence in the fish so 
fed. The superiority of the cod caught at the Dogger 
Bank is partly due to the same cause, as their food 
at this spot is largely crustacean. The halibut, from 
the North Sea, closely related to the turbot, is good 
and substantial food, and when large, as it often is, is 
also very cheap. The sea-bream, not unlike a large 
freshwater perch, and the basse, which has been 



1 68 Food and Feeding. 

sometimes styled a wHte salmon, are both useful 
varieties which have never received the attention they 
deserve, and which may be presented simply yet 
effectively at table. The gurnard is much better 
known, and an excellent dish may be made with it. 
Among cheap fish, which might be obtained in any 
quantity and at a very small price, are ^^ ling and 
hake, related closely to the cod, but chiefly used at 
present, as salted fish and exported ; the thornback, of 
the same family as the skate, and equal in quality ; 
the pollack, a substantial whiting, and the coal-fish, 
of the same family, but second in order of quality, are 
both good when in season ; a proviso which, it is to 
be remembered, applies equally to every variety. 

I shall but enumerate the conger — excellent for soup 
and stew making — one of the best materials from which 
to produce stock for turtle soup, often, but inap- 
propriately, made from veal and beef, the turtle fur- 
nishing the garnish and the name (see page 77) ; the 
whole tribe of eels with their abounding fatty con- 
stituents ; and the sturgeon with a flesh approaching 
in quaUty nearer than any other fish to that of meat ; 
besides aU the fresh-water fish, such as pilce, tench, 
perch, &c., of which the supply is, by comparison with 
sea fish, limited ; following on which there is still a 
large number of minor fish which it would be tedious 
to particularise. A practical remark or two may be 
made on the preparation of fish for the table. This 
commences in the hands of the fishmonger, as soon as 
it has become the property of the purctiaser. Eefore 



Selection and Preparation of Fish. 169 

entering into his possession, the fish has to undergo 
the process technically known as " cleaning." This 
differs considerably according to the fish to be dealt 
with, but in aU cases it involves the loss of what is 
often a valuable portion of nutritive matter. The 
giUs, liver, intestines, &c., are first removed, often 
some skin, then portions of the fins, sometimes the 
head also. All these are known as " cuttings," and 
are sold at a low price to the poor, at the close of the 
day, many of whom thoroughly appreciate their value 
and profit thereby. 

To illustrate the result of this process for the 
purchaser, let us see what happens in one instance, as 
an example, no doubt an extreme one, but neverthe- 
less occurring daily in every fishmonger's shop. A 
pair of soles is bought and ordered to be sent home in 
fillets : eight fillets accordingly arrive. The soles 
were first skinned, the internal parts taken out, after 
which a long fillet, consisting of all the flesh on either 
side of the central bone, both front and back, was 
removed, making four from each fish. The whole 
skeleton, with the head, fins and tail, forming au 
entire piece, remains as "cuttings" in the shop. 
Now this piece will be found just equal to the fillets 
in weight, and is in fact one half of the fish ; and it 
will make excellent stock for soup, a form of food 
greatly neglected in this country. For in utilising 
fish, as far as possible, and in circumstances where a 
strict economy must be regarded, the soft parts of 
almost any fish may be cooked apart, so that the 



1 70 Food and Feeding. 

skeleton, head and fins may be utilised for stock, 
these parts being of course useless for that purpose 
"when already cooked, as by boiling, frj-ing, &c. 

Having regard to economy, it may be remarked 
here, that by all these methods, but particularly by 
boiling, some waste of nutritive material occurs. 
Relative to this subject I have made numerous 
experiments, and find that the loss in weight by 
boiling varies with different fish, and also with the 
mode of operating. It is rarely as low as five per 
cent., it is generally much more, and I have known it 
to reach thirty per cent., the water always containing 
more or less solid animal matter. In order to avoid 
waste as much as possible, the fish should be placed 
in a relative quantity of water, which should be 
boiling. The liquor in which the fish has thus been 
cooked, I have evaporated, and have obtained from 
it, in solid deposit, no less than four per cent, of the 
original weight of the fish ; a very startling quantity, 
constituting it in fact a fish broth. There is no 
doubt then that steaming is a more economical process 
than boiling, and ought to be substituted for the 
latter. 

To return to the utilisation of the commoner kinds 
of fish, and of fish trimmings or cuttings, in the 
composition of stock. From such materials may be 
made a soup, or better still a stew of fish, in very 
savoury and nutritious form, for the economical pur- 
chaser; or a delicate and attractive dish may be 
presented, for an experienced palate. I may offer as 



Fish Soups. 171 



an example of the former a receipt from GoufFe, for 
making a good "consomm^" of fish only, without any 
meat, and therefore a soup maigre. 

Put into a large frying-pan, with about three- 
quarter pound of butter, 5 large carrots, 4 onions, 3 
heads of celery, 4 shalots ; all the foregoing to be cut 
in slices. 1 head of garlic, 3 cloves, 2 bay leaves, 1 
sprig of thyme, 12 sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry 
them till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a large 
bottle of white dry Bordeaux, and 8 or 9 pints of 
water; boil, skim, and then add Ih oz. of salt, and 
two pinches of mignonette pepper. Put in the stew- 
pan 6 or 7 lbs. of gurnets cut into pieces ; next add 
the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clari- 
fying. Let it simmer for two hours on the side of 
the fire. When it is finished strain through a cloth. 
Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs ; 
Clarify the consomme of fish with the whites of egg 
and fiRets of whiting. The vegetables must be suffi- 
ciently fried to give the consomme a light tint. Op. 
cit. p. 348. 

To present the above as a soup, make a number 
of small quenelles of whiting, and add to the tureen 
before serving. 

A Simple Receipt. 

The next, a simpler receipt, can be recommended, 
after numerous trials, as an excellent family fish-soup. 
Referred to at p. 78. 



172 Food and Feeding. 

Pat 3 oz. of butter into a stewpau ; add two 
carrots sliced ; one onion and a sbalot, in thin slices ; 
a clove, a little thyme, and some parsley. Fry them 
gently until of a reddish tint; then add 3 pints of 
cold water. Let it boil, skimming occasionally. Then 
add a small fresh haddock, bones and all, cut up into 
pieces, and the head and bones of two whitings, set- 
ting aside the fillets. A cod's head, or that of a 
turbot ; or the fresh bones, head and fins of a sole, 
the fillets of which are required for another dish, 
may take the place of the foregoing. Add some salt 
and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for 
2 hours gently, at the corner of the fire ; take out 
the bones and pass all the rest through a coarse 
strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into 2 or 3 
small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some 
of the stock, add a little fresh green chervil and 
parsley chopped, not too finely, and serve all together 
in a tureen. 

If the soup is preferred somewhat thicker in body 
than this receipt produces, let it be made so by adding 
some farinaceous matter in small quantity ; the proner 
form being a tablespoonful of white " roux " (that is, 
a little flour well mixed with butter in a stewpan 
over the fire and not allowed to brown), and this is 
unquestionably an improvement. 

It is unnecessary to clarify fish soups ; if other 
garnish is desired, quenelles of whiting may be sub- 
stituted for the fillets ; and some of them may have 
a little coral (spawn of the lobster) added to furnish 



A Bouillabaise. 173 

colour. A further cliaiige may be made by adding 
fillets of other fish, or a few shell-fish. 

A Bouillahcme for six 23ersom.* 

Take three or four pounds of fish ; whiting, sole, 
small haddock, red mullet, and, following the Mar- 
sfilles receipt strictly throughout, a very small conger 
eel or a portion of one. All these are to be cleaned, 
cut in slices, and their bones removed ; two dozen of 
mussels to be added. 

Put into a stewpan two onions sliced, two tomatoes 
peeled, a carrot sliced ; then, in a coarse net bag, the 
following : — two bay leaves, two slices of lemon, half 
the zest of a Seville orange, two cloves, a little thyme, 
several sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, two red 
capsicums cut, and a little saffron : add salt and 
pepper, and a little pimento. Place the pieces of fish 
over these, pour in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil; 
add three pints of water, with two or three glasses of 
white French wine ; cover, and let all boil well 
together for half an hour. The whiting, however, 
should be put in only a quarter of an hour before 
finishing. Serve the whole in a soup tureen with 
slices of toasted bread apart ; or place them in the 
tureen before filling. 

* Referred to at p. 79. 



174 Food and Feeding. 



economical dish, or fish stew for working 
man's family. 

Take three or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or 
haddock, and a pound of " cuttings or trimmings," 
which are the best part of the fish for stock making. 
Remove all the fish from the bones, break up or pound 
the latter, and set aside with any portion of head 
there may be, and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan, 
over the fire, 2 ozs. of lard and two or three onions 
sliced, and let them fry until brown ; then add two 
quarts of water and all the pounded bones and trim- 
mings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper and 
salt. Let the whole simmer for three hours. Strain 
out the bones, bits of skin, &c., add the fish in pieces, 
and boil gently ten or fifteen minutes. Thicken with 
sufiicient flour, mixed smoothly with a small portion 
of stock, and added before finishing. In order to make 
the dish complete and substantial, a few small suet 
dumplings should be well boiled, and put into the 
tureen. 



THE END. 



BBADRUBT, AQNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS. 

83315«»121185nr 



