


!)\ccessions 



Shelf No. 




TS^J^ 



?^^, Bereived 



^.Z(^ 



^- 



(Sept., 1886,1 "f^^f^^^ 



BOSTO 

One vol 
card ; to be 1 
and juvenilt 
not to be re 
diiys, who V 
incliidinsJ^ S 
l-iorrower's 


Boston Public Library 

Do not write In this book or mark It with pen or 
pencil. Penalties for so doing are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the Common '^^alth of Massachusetts. 

T/;ix book was issued to the bortower on the date 
last stMKfed helot;^. 


turned at th 
Borrow 








in the dcliv 
*:f,*'So chii 


M JUL 


7 




any notice, 


%r^o 






The recor 


/ / ' 






















1 
. 1 
















V 






























































1 









FORM NO. «0»! >.4.$6i X»01l, 



PRICE, 25 CENTS. 




CLARK W. BRYAN & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS. 
Good Housekeeping Press. 



New York Office, 
239 Broadway, , 



, §pi^iNGFiELD, Mass. 



mARK YOUR I^IT^L i YOVRSHI^F 



WITH 



PAYSON'S 



INDELIBLE 



INK, 



THE OLDEST 



Established over 
^o Years. 



With a Common Pen, without a preparation. 

THE BEST. 

INDISPENSABLE IN EVERY FAMILY. 

A single letter or number 
even, will save time and 
confusion in sorting the 
family linen. 

Don't waste patience and 
money, trying ihe so called 
cheaper inks, or leavp your 
articles to be disfigured and 
injured b> laundrymen. 

Sold by all Book, Drug 
and Fancy Goods stores. 





Of Choicest Fruits and Spices. 

In a Sale of Thousands of Gross. 
Their absolute Purity, Unequaled Strength, and Economy are winning 
friends everywliere, surprising and delighting families and trebling sales for 
dealers. Ask your grocer fnr tlie-ni 



THE FLOEEICE OIL STOVES 




which have been in the market for eleven years, 
are unequaled for Roasting, Boiling, Frying, Steam- 
ing and Laundry work of all kinds. 

As Helen Campbell says of the FLORENCE 
Stoves, "They rob the kitchen of half its terrors." 

Circular and Price List cheerfully furnished 
upon application to 

Florence Machine Co., Florence, Mass. 



If M 

laa. Eottles -^^ritls. -^77-id.e 33Q.o\xtli.s to ad-aao-Lt a. spooaa., 

restores to the flour the strength-giving phosphates that are removed with the 
bran, and which are required by system. No other Baking Powder does 
this. It costs less, and is healthier and stronger than any other powder. 

EXPERT TESTIMONY 

FROM 

JMARION HARIvAND, 

T2a.e -^^^ell Icaa-OT^T-aa. .A.-a.tliorit3r oaa. Coo3cin.g-. 

I cheerfully commend the "Baking Preparations" of Professor Horsford to 
the Housekeepers of America. They deserve as honorable a place in the store- 
room and kitcnen, as does his Acid Phosphate in the family medicine-chest. 

MARION HARLAND. 



FROM 

IVIISS PARIvOA. 

Of tla-e Fa.32Q.o-a.s Bostoaa. CoclElaa-g- Sclxool. 

I have used Horsford's Baking Preparation with perfect success, for Bread, 
Biscuit and Cake. 

M. PARLOA. 



Horsford's Baking Powder is for sale by all Grocers. TRY IT, 

The Horsford Cook Book sent free. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS, - Providence, R. I. 



A KEY TO COOKING 



THAT WILL UNLOCK MANY KITCHEN MYSTERIES. 



too 



^VROUGHT OUT AND MADE READY 
FOR PUBLIC USE. 



y- - / 



^ 



^ 



By CATHERINE OWEN. 



CLARK W. BRYAN & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 
HoLYOKE, Mass. 

NEW YORK OFFICE, 239 BROADWAY. 



Author's Coi'Vright, i8% 
a:.i- rights reserved 



RREKACK. 



Some chapters of this little book appeared in Scribner's. 
Magazine ( 20th volume). The whole is the result of much 
reading, from Grimod de la Reyniere of the last century, 
to the much more instructive and scientific authorities of 
the present generation. It is not, however, simply a stu- 
dent's digest or "boiling down " of all the volumes written 
on the subject. The reading was accompanied by pa- 
tient practice and experiment, (and alas, many failures,) 
with nothing to turn to but books for help, and books which 
were written for those who were already adepts. Helps, 
in case of failure or suggestions of its possibility, there 
were none. Al that time cooking schools, with their per- 
fect mastery of the subject and their demonstration of 
processes, were only beginning to be thought of. 

I believe that if I could have found the rules of the best 
authorities for the different processes of cooking shortly 
stated, instead of having to seek and compare, learning to 
cook scientifically — that is to obtain sure results from a 
given process — might have been a business of a few 
months instead of years. 



4 PREFACE. 

It was these failures and this belief which have induced 
me to republish and enlarge this series of papers, which 
contain the summing up of all there is to be learned of the 
theory and practice of good plain cooking, gathered from 
very many volumes published during the last hundred 
years. 

I do not think anything I shall ever be able to write, 
will be more valuable to the inexperienced cook, than this 
little contribution to the literature of what a French poet 
calls the "dainty art." 

catherinp: owkn. 



INDEX 



Boiling, 11 

Bkead, 47 

Bkead and Pastry, 42 

Broiling, . . . „ 35 

Beown Sauce, 39 

Broavn Thickening ok Boux, 25 

Frying, .32 

Oeneral Principles of Cookery, 7 

Puff Paste, 4(3 

Ragouts, 23 

Boasting, 27 

Sauces, 38 

Soups, Directions for Making, 19 

Stewing, 23 

Warming Over Meats, Etc., 40 

Weights and Measures, 6 

White Sauce, 38 

White Thickening, 26 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



The subjoined table of weights and measures 
is given for use only where approximate quan- 
tities are sufficiently exact. For all fine cook- 
ing accurate proportions are necessary, and 
many dishes should not be attempted without 
a good scale which will weigh half and quarter 
ounces. Exactness in dcUiils is the soul of 
good cooki)ig, and it is the inxeterate habit of 
measuring by cups, that destroNS much well 
meant effort. Use the scales often and w^eigh- 
ine will soon become as easy as measurinc:. 

One pint of granulated sugar is .... one })ouih1. 

One ([uart of Hour is one i)ound. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of ]i((ui(l are .... one gill. 

Four gills arc one i)int. 

One level tablesi)oonful of huttt-r is . . one ounce. 
One full tablespoon of Hour is .... one ounce. 
Four small teaspoonfuls are . one lai-ge tablcs])oonful. 
Two teaspoonfuls are .... one dessertspoonful. 
One teacup averages rather over .... one gill. 
One kitchen cup is half a pint. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 



Chapter I. 

General PrlncijjJes of Cool-ery. 

T is not intended in this Tittle book to give 
general recipes. Such as may be given 
are meant to illustrate general principles 
of cookery, or else to meet such difficulties 
as cookery books often raise ; the inten- 
tion is to aid rather than to supersede 
more formal directions. A good cookery 

ill _j;| book is a useful ally to the most experienc- 

y^'C^ ed cook; to the tyro it is often but a blind 

guide; without a knowledge of the first 
principles of cooking this is inevitable. Who does not 
remember poor Bella in ''Our Mutual Friend,"— her 
elbows on tiie table, her temples in her hands, consult- 
ing with all the eager zeal of a newly-made matron, the 
''Complete British Housewife/' and linding her j^oor 
little brains quite unable to cope with the sibylline 
mysteries therein propounded, exclaiming — 

*' Oh, you ridiculous old thing, what do you mean by 
that ? " 




8 A KEY TO COOKING. 

The few rules, a knowledge of which make successful 
cooking from a book easy, can fortunately be briefly ex- 
plained and easily remembered. The plain boiling, 
roasting, frying, and stewing are what make really good 
cooking ; and it is safe to say that the woman who 
knows how to do these well, need never fear for her 
dinner table. 

The trouble, in these days, is not with tlie cooking 
books — there are several that are all that could be 
desired in the Avay of minute direction. Those who 
write them no longer tell you to ^^take some of this," 
*' a handful of that.'' The women of the present day 
Avlio have written on cooking, have done so from exact 
knowledge, and given directions with such precision 
that if the ndcti for cookiuy are known tliere is little 
chance of mistake. 

But — and in tliis ''but" lies the gist of the matter — 
how few know these rules, how very few think it neces- 
sary to know them — a good recipe seems all that is 
needed. The recipe is really of little avail, unless you 
know how to use it. The recipe for a boiled i)udding 
may be excellent, but unless you know how to boil pud- 
dings in general, the pudding may be spoilt. True, with 
good recipes and that popular kitchen fetich ''luck,'' 
your kitchen opei'ations may tui'n out well — or, they may 

\ 



A KEY TO COOKING. 9 

not. With a knowledge of the principles of cookery, and 
their scrupulous observance, they 7nust turn out well. It 
would be a very difficult matter for any one to work out 
an example in fractions, without knowing the first four 
rules of arithmetic; yet a woman serenely goes to work 
with a cooking book, without any knowledge of the 
iew rules (not lialf so hard to learn as those rules of 
arithmetic) of cooking — which if she did know, would 
make success certain — is naturally worried with uncer- 
tainty from the beginning, and in the end, if the end 
be failure, cannot understand the cause of it; conse- 
quently she learns nothing from her first attempts. 
AVhile to the woman wJ/o Jowws, a failure will be a 
lesson; she can see the cause and avoid it afterwards. 

What she has to know and remember are rules for 
the following processes of cooking: 

BoiliR'j — and the ditference between boiling of meat, of veg- 
etables, of puddintrs. 
Boasthi'j and Baking. 
Broiling. 
Steicing. 
Frying. 

Nevertheless the utility of knowing these rules thor- 
oughly will depend much on whether she will also stop 
to think of them, as ap[)lied to her recipes. Will she 
I'emember that if she can make good clear beef soup she 



10 A KEY TO COOKING. 

can make a dozen varieties of soup — by sini|ily modify- 
ing flavorings, or changing the vermicelli she may use. 
at one time, for rice, or noodles, or shredded vegetables, 
at another? Will she rememl)er that if she knows the 
two " Mother Sauces," as they are ;4)tly called 1)y the 
French — white sauce and brown (Spanisli) — tliat she cjiii 
make a dozen of the costly and higli sounding sauces 
that belong to high class cooking — l)y simply following 
a recipe? While, if the white sauce in its simple form 
is lumpy or i)asty, she can make none i)ro})erly, even 
though she may use all the materials that go to make 
White Sauce into AUetnande, or s\ulette, or llolUind- 
aisc. 

It is the same with roasting meat. The ])rinciple of 
quick browning once understood, and that tlie jiresence 
of steam in the oven i)revents browning, (if the oven is 
too hot it also prevents burning, in which case its pres- 
ence is useful), and there will be an end of pallid joints 
on the table. 

And so with frying, boiling, etc — to do one thing of a 
kind perfccfhj, and know wJiy it is ])erfect, is to hold the 
key to all things of that kind. In short, in cooking, as 
in many other arts, the tirst steps well understood, the- 
seemingly more diflicult achievements become sur})ris- 
ingly clear and easy. 




f, ■ \ v / ^ ^ . j'll'll '■))/) 



Chapter IT. 
Boiling — TI/c Rigltt Way, and the Wrong Way. 

^-^ HE first branch to take iij) is 
^ boiling, because it is the 

branch of which people seem 
to know least. How rare it 
is to find this simple o])era- 
tion well done! How often 
we hear it said of boiled beef 
or ham, for instance, ''Fine 
flavor, but so tough,'" and 
how few people know that 
the toughness proceeds, in 
nine cases out of ten, from 
quick boiling I In the case 
of ham, that most abused 
of all joints, and perhaps 
the easiest of all to cook, your cookery book probably 
tells you to boil it slowly four, five, or six hours, accord- 
ing to size ; and people usually interpret this direction 
into putting the ham into the pot, and letting it boil at 
what is actually a slow gallop for the given time; while- 




^2 A KEY TO COOKING. 

very often, if entrusted to a cook, it boils only at intervals. 
So that it remains on the fire a given number of hours, 
Chloe or Bridget thinks the boiling is done. Ham should 
not boil, it should merely simmer. A fair sized ham put 
on at ten in tlie morning, if properly cooked, shoukl be 
done and tender by four or five in the afternoon. The 
water should be brought to the boiling point, which 
means Jfisi hefjijDnng to hniU indicated by an occasional 
bubble, the pot then be set back on the stove, and the 
water be allowed to simmer. The ham should be turned 
in the water once or twice during the time it is on the 
fire. When sutficiently done it should cool in the 
water, unless reciuired for eating hot, the i-iiid should be 
stripped from it, and the ham well dusted with sifted 
bread crumbs, made by baking slices of bread in a slow 
oven until they are of a fine golden brown all through, 
and dry enough to powder under the rolling pin. Never 
stick your ham with cloves ; it suggests fiies, and spoils 
the flavor for many tastes. A pretty finish is given by 
dusting it well with sugar instead of bread, and then 
passing a hot knife over it until it has melted and 
•coated the ham with a caramel glaze. A much finer 
way is to glaze it with strong meat jelly, or any savory 
jelly you may have, boiled down ra})idly until it is like 
glue, taking great care during this boiling-down process 



A KEY TO COOKING. 1:1: 

to prevent burning. This jelly should be brushed over- 
the ham when cool; it makes a handsome dish of a plain 
one. 

The same rule of boiling holds good with beef. 
Corned beef is generally a hard, salt, dry fare; but, proper- 
ly cooked, it should be more tender than roast meat, and 
almost as juicy. In order that any boiled meat shall bs: 
tender, it is necessary to remember that the boiling must, 
be slow. Different people have given such different in- 
terpretations to the expression, ^^slow boiling,^' that 
it is well to be explicit. Most people think that if' 
the whole surface of the water is in a state of slow 
ebullition, this is slow boiling. For boiling meat, a 
great French authority gives this rule, which I have 
found excellent: The ebullition should only appear in 
one part of the surface of the water, and tliere be only 
just visible. This is, however, distinct from stewing, 
or simmering, which is yet slower, there being in that 
process no ebullition, but merely a sizzling on one side 
of the stew-jian. 

Authorities differ as to whether meat should be put 
into hot or cold water; many books omit all direction 
on this subject. My own rule is to plunge fresh or 
slightly salt meat into boiling water allowing it to boil 
fast five minutes, then to. simmer,, in order to retain tlie 



114 A KEY TO COOKING. 

.juices. For this reason highly salted or soup meat I 
put into cold water, that the salt in the one case, and 
the gravy in the otlicr, may be drawn out. 

What has been said about the boiling of meats docs 
not apply to vegetables. For them, with few excep- 
tions, quick boiling is necessary. It may be taken as a 
Tule that all green vegetables, such as cal)b;ige, Brussels 
.sprouts, string beans, etc., should be, boiled quickly in 
4ibun dance of water. 

Cahh(((je, as usually served, is a coarse, rank vege- 
table, while ])roperly cooked, fresh cabbage is as delicate 
and delicious as caulillower. Cut it into four or six pieces, 
put these into a large saucepan Avith plenty of boiling 
water, and let them be brought (juickly to tlie boiling 
point, and kept rapiilly boiling witli the cover off, for 25 
minutes, pushing the leaves down with a s[)0()n as they 
rise above the water. Let it l)oil thus until (juite tender, 
but no longer, as the vegetal)le tlien loses color and 
flavor, and becomes rank, yellow, and wilted. 

This metliod of allowing abundance of water and 
space, together with quick boihng, does not api)]y to 
peas, spinach, and asparagus. 

Peas require only moderately (piick boiling in suffi- 
'Cient water to cover them, to which has been added a 
spoonful of sugar, not enougli to sweeten, but only to 



A KEY TO COOKING. 15 

replace the sweetness the water has taken away. 
English people always add a small bunch of fresh mint. 

Asparagus requires special care, and after it has been 
scraped and trimmed (cutting an inch or two, if it is 
long, from the root end) it should be tied in bundles 
and put to stand in a deep saucepan, with water just 
reaching to the tops. It should then be boiled with mod- 
crate quickness until (lone,/. ^., for about twenty minutes. 
You will then find that you can take it up without 
losing one of the frail heads, and the flavor is much 
fuller than when these have been soaked by lying down 
in the water. Always have a slice of toast at the bot- 
tom of your vegetable dish for asparagus or cauliflower; 
it drains those delicate vegetables better than you can 
otherwise do without injuring them. 

Sphiacli is another vegetable that is rarely well cooked; 
it is of such a watery nature that it should be put into 
the pot in which it is to be boiled without water; it will 
soon make enough liquid with its own juice; when 
tender, take it out, chop and season it; meanwhile allow 
the juice that remains in the saucepan to boil down; 
then return the spinach to it, and stew until the excess 
of liquid is evaporated. Put less salt to this vegetable 
than to others. It is hardly necessary to say, perhaps, 
that vegetables must always be boiled in salted water. 



16 A KEY ro COOKIXG. 

. To sum up, the rules for boiling then are these: 

Highly Salted or Smoked Meats to he put into cold water and 
allowed to come to the boilino: point voi v slowly. 

Fresh or Lightly Salted Meat and Poultry to go into boiling 
luater. Allowed to boil fast for a minute or two, then ke])t 
just at the boilint; point till done. 

Fish must not be alloiced to boil fast, even at first, or it may- 
break, the violent motion caused by rapid ebullition beinj;^ 
sufficient to cause this in delicate fish. 

Vegetables require 'putting into plenty of salted, fast boilinff 
water, to be rapidly brought back to the fast boiling condition^ 
and kept at it till done. 

On no account must any vegetable be jillowed only to 
simmer, or, as is often done, fo soal' for aii hour or so 
on the range in water below boiling point. They will 
be strong, rank and sodden under such treatment, in 
fact the vegetable as it is served nine times out of ten. 
Nor must they be overdone, cabbngc in winter takes half 
an hour at most, and twenty minutes in summer, in 
spite of the fact that it is usually spoiled by hours of 
boiling. 

The excei)tions to this rapid boiling of vegetables 
are: 

Caulifloweu and Asi'auagi's, because they are liable to 
sutler from the rapid motion of the water and break; but they 
must nevertheless boil stea<lily, but not so fast as to send them 
whirlintj round in the water. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 17 

Peas, because the same rapid motion may burst the skins. 

Potatoes, because quick boiling will cause the outer layers 
of a fine mealy potato to break and dissolve in the water while 
the inside is still hard. For this reason potatoes are best 
poured dry the moment they are tender, and left to steam two or 
three minutes in the saucepan with the cover on. Then give 
the saucepan one or two gentle rolling shakes, and remove the 
cover; the shaking breaks the outer surface of the potato and 
the escaping steam covers it with a floury coat. 

FoK Cabbage and Stking or Green Beans, if the water 
is not very soft, use a salt spoonful of baking soda to each 
gallon. [Be careful never to overdo the quantity.) 

Puddings. Any kind of pudding must be plunged into rapidly 
boiling water, brought back to the same stage as quickly as pos- 
sible, and kept fast boiling every minute of the time it is in the 
water. 

I have used the terms ^* boiling point" and ''fast 
boiling'^ in the general, not the scientific, sense. 
The '"boiling point" is actually some degrees below 
boiling, the rapid boiling is 0)ili/ boiling ; it is im- 
possible without special superheating appliances to 
make water hotter than boiling point, that is 212*^ 
Fall. Therefore, it is the fact that the water is actu- 
ally ''boiling" water, which hardens the albumen in 
meat, rendering it tough, while water at "boiling 
point," i. e., scientifically some degrees Mow it, is 
the right degree for boiling meat, because the albu- 



IS A KEY TO COOKING. 

men does not harden, and the meat, therefore, is tender 
and juicy. 

Some interesting experiments which prove what to 
many may seem mere theory, are given in Mr. Matthieu 
AVilliams's delightfully written and valuable Chemistry 
of Cookiufj, to which I refer every earnest woman who 
wishes to know the why and wherefore of kitchen oper- 
ations. Once having read and digested that book, a 
cooking book would cease to be the doubtful aid it 
now is. 



Chapter III. 




Directions for Making Soups. 

WITTY Frenchman says: '^To 
make good soup, the pot should 
scarcely smile.'' This is as true 
of stewing meat, as of making 
soup. To do either well, the 
whole process must be exceeding- 
ly slow, from beginning to end ; 
the saucepan should only " smile. ^"^ 
To make good soup, the meat should be put on in 
cold water, and slowly brought to the boil, that the 
juices may be drawn out. Before it comes to the boil- 
ing point, the scum will rise freely ; take it off before 
ebullition has broken and scattered it; then when it 
does boil, throw in half a cup of water, and skim again 
— add this water just as it comes to the boil two or 
three times ; it brings all remaining scum rapidly to 
the suface, and when this rises no longer, set aside to 
simmer. It must never go below simmering point after 
this until made. This is the whole secret of clear soup. 
I will here give Jules Gouffe's receipt for Pot-au-feu ; if 



20 A KEY TO COOKING. 

carefully followed, a clear, pale bouillon will be the 
result, and this bouillon is the foundation of most 
soups. Boiled down to one-half its bulk it becomes 
consomme. 

Pot-au-feu requires four pounds of beef without bones, six 
quarts of water, six ounces of carrot, six ounces of turnip, 
same quantity of onions, throe ounces of celery and two 
cloves. After once or twice makin*^ this soup, the cook will be 
able to judge by the size of the vegetables the required (luan- 
tity, but weighing is advisable at first, as much depends on 
perfect proportion. The meat must slowly simmer for three 
hours, then add the vegetables, not before; simmer till done. 
With bone and beef together, four quarts of water to four 
pounds of meat. 

Quick boiling and careless skimming are the causes 
of cloudy bouillon; supposing, as a matter of course, 
that all the vegetables have been perfectly cleansed. 

For soup the rules are few and simple. Cold w<(ter 
must he put on tlw meat in the proportion of one ([uart 
to one pound of ordinan/ souj) tneut and bone. If solid 
meat is used, a quart and a pint may be allowed. This, 
when strained, may be boiled down to any required 
strength, but will be found strong enough as a prelude 
to dinner when clear, fragrant bouillon, rather than 
concentrated nourishment is recjuired. 

The reason for putting meat in cold water for soup is 



A KEY TO COOKING. 21 

because the object is to draw out the juices; for this 
reason it slionld take at least two hours before it reaches 
the l)oiling point. 

Tlie vegetahles should he very carefully proj^ortioned. 
The same rules apply to making soup from bones. 

Hide for thickening White Soups and Fricassees : For thicken- 
ing white soicps the proportion is one tablespoonful {not heaped, nor 
yet quite level,) of flour and one tablespoonful of butter to each quart 
of liquid. If eggs are added it must be after the soup is entirely 
made and ready for table. They shoidd be beaten and mixed with 
a cup of the soup that has slightly cooled, then stirred into the 
whole of it which must on no account be allowed to boil after 
they are added, but must come to the boiling point (or they 
will be raw,) and immediately poured out. The cause of 
^'breaking" or curdling is the fact that they have boiled. 
This same rule applies to fricassee in which eggs are used, 
or anything cooked a la Poulette. 

For thickening brown soups the proportion is also one table- 
spoonful of flour to the quart. 

The "boiling point, '^ which I have said elsewhere is 
only the beginning of boiling, is indicated by an occa- 
sional bubble from the center of the pot, which breaks 
and spreads in hardly perceptible circles on the water — • 
the French ''smile." 

It often happens that soup intended to be brown is 
not sufficiently so even when made very strong, to be in- 



22 A KEY TO COOKING. 

viting without coloring. Caramel is generally used for 
this purpose ; but onions cut in slices and left in a moder- 
ate oven until they are black chips (not charred, how- 
ever,) may be kept bottled for this purpose; a small 
quantity added to a stew or soup improves the flavor ; 
or, they may be fried each time and added with the 
other vegetables. 

For white stock use veal or fowls instead of beef. 



Chapter IY. 

Stewing — and Hoic to Make Stews. 

iL HERE are brown, highly flavored 
stews, which are called ragouts, 
in which the meat is browned 
before stewing, and Avhite ones, 
mildly flavored, which should have 
cream or be thickened with eggs, 
and although technically known 
by a variety of names, according 
to variations in the preparation, 
are commonly classed under the 
term ''fricassees.*' 
For Ragouts, the meat should be wiped dry and quickly 
browned with a little butter or its own fat cut small and first 
fried out. The vegetables also should be dry and browned with 
the meat. In order to thus brown them, the stewpan must be 
first made hot. If the meat be tough or old poultry is used, it 
will be made tender by first being brushed over with vinegar, 
and allowed to remain with the vinegar on it for several hours; 
or, after it is browned, a tablespoonful of vinegar may be put 
to it, and the pot covered closely and set where it will steam, 
not boil, for an hour before the water is added. After it \i 




24 A KEY TO COOKING. 

cooked there will be no more flavor of vinenjar than the pleasant 
dash of acid characteristic of French cookery. The acid pos- 
sesses the property of dissolving the tough fiber. 

No more water should ever be put to the meat than is 
required to serve for gravy. Haifa pint to each pound 
of meat is usually enough. 

In stewing, as the meat is to be eaten, the object is 
not to draw out the juices, hence the cjuick carbonizing 
or browning of the outer surface which helps to retain 
them, as well as enhancing the flavor. Hot water should 
be put on meat for a stew, and if the process is properly 
slow, very little will be lost by evajioration therefore 
very little extra need be allowed. Putting a quantity of 
water and allowing it to boil away, is the i)riniitive man- 
ner of stewing, which produces such poor results. 

Ragged meat from long stewing is not necessarily 
tender; the fibres it is true are so disintegrated, that it 
can be separated with a fork, but each separate fibre may 
be peculiarly tough, this is when the stewing, has l)een 
reall}', f;ist boiling, the length of time only having dis- 
solved the gelatinous tissues. 

The rules for making stews then are these: 

The meat must fiave only enough water to serve as (/ravi/, not to 
form a broth. 

That if any coarse or tough meat is used, it will be made 
tender and more savory by first allowing it to brown quickly 



A KEV TO COOKING. 25 

and then steamin<;" with a httle acid (vinegar or lemon juice) 
before adding water, which must be boihng. 

When tender meat is used, as young birds, this preliminary 
steaming is not necessary. 

The whole 2)rocess must he a gentle simmer. 

To simmer means to cook more slowly than boiling. In slow 
boiling the heat comes from the center of the pot which in- 
dicates a greater degree of heat than simmering, which is only a 
gentle sizzling round the edge of the saucepan — watch for a few 
minutes to find out the part of your range on which this point 
can be best kept up. 

The flavor of a stew depends much on the thickening. 
Use brown thickening or white thickening (see recipes) 
instead of raw flour and butter to ragouts or fricas- 
sees. (Try both methods at once, dividing 3^our meat; it 
will be very little extra trouble, and the experience 
gained will teach more than all my Avriting, and will 
repay you.) 

It was not my intention to give any recipes in this 
little book because it is only intended as an aid to a 
cooking book, but as several otherwise good cooking 
books do not contain recipes for the brown and white 
thickenings, to which I have referred, I have appended 
them. 

Brown Thickening or Ttoux : Put a half pound of butter in a 
small frying-pan, or saucepan, enameled or iron, not tin. Let 



26 A KEY TO COOKING. 

it melt, skim it. then stir into it half a pound of dried and sifted 
flour. Let this cook until it is a bright pale golden hrown, stir- 
ring constantly so that it may not get at all burnt. When done, 
put it away in a pot for use. A spoonful of this stirred into a 
stew, or gravy, or soup to thicken it, gives a rich smoothness, 
very different from that of the usual flour and water thicken- 
ing, hastily stirred in at the last moment; and any one who 
knows what a hindrance those little things done at the last 
moment are, will realize, the convenience of brown thickening, 
although its use by professional cooks does not come from 
convenience, but from its superior flavor. 

White Thickeniuii is half a pound of butter melted and skim- 
med, and half a pound of sifted Hour dredged into it, and 
allowed to bubble together, stirring it till it is (luite cooked 
and no raw flour smell remains, but it must not be allowed to 
color. This also is to be put away in a pot, and used for 
thickening white stews, fricassees, or dressing vegetables as 
will be hereafter directed. 



Chapter V. 

Roasting — Hoir io Do It WeJT.. 

is very common to find things 
that are proverbially easy to do^ 
less well done than those of ac- 
knowledged difficulty, simply be- 
cause it is taken as a foregone 
conclusion that no art at all is re- 
quired. Yet, as Mrs. Gamp says, 
" There's art in sticking in a pin,'' 
and m roasting meat, although 
it will be a new idea to many, 
there is at^ least the art of simplicity, if I may sc 
speak; and Brillat-Savarin says: ^^One may become 
a cook, but must be born a roaster," which implies that 
genius is required to roast well; however, common- 
sense and a persevering attention to rules are not bad 
substitutes. It is the common practice to put a quantity 
of water in the pan with meat to roast, and to make a 
bad thing worse, the joint is thickly dredged with flour. 
On asking a cook, who had thrown a handful of flour 
over a sirloin of beef and then poured a quart of water 




28 A KEY TO COOKING. 

into the pan with it, what was the object of such im- 
mersion, she answered with an air of good-natured 
contempt for our ignorance: 

'^For the gravy, of course, niacin I Where wouhl I get 
my gravy if I didn't do that?'' 

Of course meat so treated comes to table sodden, 
juiceless, tasteless, and unsightly, and accompanied by 
a quart — more or less — of gray, thickish broth, instead 
of the rich brown gravy natural to well-cooked meat. 

In addition to this flour-and-water treatment, the 
abused joint is often put into a lukewarm oven an 
hour or two before it begins to cook, where it slowly 
steams and oozes, until the hour for diniu'r. when, 
whether it is cooked little or much, it is served. 

Roasting, then, as I have hinted, must be very simple. 
Little or no preparation is necessary. The only re- 
quisites are a l)rioht lire and a hot oven; then place the 
joint in the i)an, on an iron tripod if possil)le, as this 
keeps it out of the fat; little flour not over a teaspoonful 
is necessary if the meat has not been washed, and if you 
buy from a good butcher this will be needed only in sum- 
mer if it has been kept an hour or two too long; then 
wash it off with vinegar, dry it carefully, and very 
lightly dust it with flour to absorb any moisture that 
may remain on the surface. While the meat is in the 



A KEY TO COOKING. 29' 

oven, baste it several times, and when about half done, 
turn it — always keeping the thickest part of the meat in 
the hottest part of the oven. 

In cooking a sirloin of beef great care must be taken 
that the fat of the '^undercut," as our English cousins. 
call it, be quite cooked. It is not unusual to see a 
splendid roast come to the table with the fat of the- 
tenderloin not even warm through, and the tender 
meat of that favorite part absolutely purple, while the 
upper and less choice part is sufficiently cooked. 

While the meat is in the oven the fire should be kept 
hot and bright; it should have been so made up as to 
last sufficiently long, but if the joint is very large it may 
require replenishing, this may be done without check- 
ing the heat of the oven, by adding a little fuel from 
time to time, instead of waiting until it requires a great 
deal. 

If the oven has l)een in good condition, the meat will 
be beautifully brown and the bottom of the pan covered 
with a thick glaze. Gently pour off the fat, holding 
the pan steadily as you do it, that the gravy may not go- 
with it; then put the pan on the stove and pour into it 
half a cup of boiling water (more if the joint is very 
large and less if very small) and a little salt. If you have 
soup of nny kind, use it in preference to water; stir it 



30 A KEY TO COOKING. 

with a spoon until the adhering glaze or gravy is en- 
tirely removed from the pan, it will dissolve as it 
mingles with the liquid, and make a rich brown gravy. 

Before the joint is served, sift over it evenh' — not in 
patches — fine salt. This must never be done before it 
is cooked, as it draws out the juice of the meat. 

It must be repeated, that nothing so injures meat as 
to put it into a cool oven, allowing both to get hot 
together. 

Some meats require longer to cook than others. Pork 
and veal much longer than mutton and beef. The former 
meats require to be very well done — the latter, most 
people like under-done; but even when this is tlie case, 
it should be remembered, that the texture should be 
changed all through; the gravy is then released and 
runs red with the knife, while the grain of the meat is 
seen through it, of a bright red instead of the livid 
purple hue so frequently called rare, but which is 
simply raw. 

Poultry may be either cooked with a little butter to 
baste it, or it maybe larded or ^'barded." 

All white-fleshed birds are improved by larding, as are 
veal and sweetbreads. Yet small ones, (juails, for in- 
stance, may have a barde — i. c, a slice of bacon fat — 
tied round them. This may also be done with fowls, 



A KEY TO COOKING. 31 

or veal, where bacon is liked and larding inconvenient. 

Game requires nothing but good butter to baste it. 
Any sort of stuffing is ruinous to the flavor, except in 
the case of pigeons, where a little chopped parsley may 
be mixed with butter, and placed inside. 

Wild duck, if fishy, and the flavor is disliked, should 
be scalded for a few minutes in salt and water before 
roasting. If the flavor is very strong the duck may be 
skinned, as the oil in the skin is the objectionable part. 
After skinning, spread with butter, and thickly dredge 
with flour before putting in a very quick oven. 

Tlie rules for roasting are : 

A hot oven when first the meat goes in, the smaller the joint 
the hotter it should be, if the joint is very small it should be 
hot enough to brown the meat all over in a very short time, so 
as to seal up the juices and prevent it being dry. 

To brown thoroiu/hbj all over, put no water in the pan, hut it 
the oven is likely to burn at the bottom and so destroy the 
gravy and dripping, slip an extra sheet of tin under the pan or 
set your dripping pan in another one. If your oven '' catches" 
and is apt to burn it is a good plan to put a vessel containing 
water in it as the steam will prevent the burning. 

Frequent basting. If the meat is too dry to admit of this, 
put some nice dripping in the pan, taking care not to use 
mutton dripping for the purpose, unless the meat be mutton, 
which however seldom needs it. Poultry and game require a 
very hot oven indeed^ and to be well basted. 



Chapter YI. 
Frying. — Keep the Fat Hot. 

BRILLAT-SAVARIN says, in an aocoimt of a 
conversation with his cook, ^^ You are an 
excellent 'potcujUte, [/. e., soup-makt-r], but 
are weak in tlie matter of frying.*' Tliis 
weakness is common to so many cooks, and his direc- 
tions are so clear and concise, that the (juotation may 
be continued : *^ The chief element of success in fry- 
ing is the snrpn'se'' — a very Frencli and very grai)]HC 
way of stating the fact. "To produce this, the fat 
must be sutiiciently hot." Wlien the meat is browned, 
''draw back the pan, that the cooking may not be too 
quick — that the juices, wliich have ])een sealed up, 
may in the slower process undergo the changes neces- 
sary to blend them and give them flavor." 

Inexperienced cooks are apt to think that as soon as 
fat begins to ])ubble up it is hot enough, and that it 
will burn if left longer over the fire. Burnt fat would 
of course, ruin everything, l»ut the dtinger of burning is 
less than might be supposed. The fat should not only 
bubble but begin to smoke. A degree of heat less than 
this will cause potatoes to wilt, looking brown on one 



A KEY TO COOKING. 33 

side and pallid on the other. Fish will be freckled 
with brown, with a gelatinous skin and greasy flesh. To 
test whether the fat is hot enough, when the ^^ sizzling^' 
has ceased for some time, and the smoke begins to ap- 
pear, drop a small square of bread into it ; if the bread 
crisps and browns at once, put m your fish or cutlets 
immediately. If the bread causes only a qu iet " sizzling,'' 
and does not brown in a few seconds, the fat is not 
hot enough. 

Breaded chops, cutlets, etc., are often thought to be 
unattainable luxuries in families where inexperienced 
cooks are the rule. The result is too often, it is true, a 
greasy, piebald failure. Yet with finely-grated bread 
crumbs, and with due attention to the surprise — that is, 
to having the fat very hot and an abundance of it — 
nothing is easier to do well. The bread-crumbs and 
egg come off, for one of three reasons: The fat is not 
hot enough, or there is not enough of it m the pan, or 
else the bread-crumbs are too coarse or uneven. If 3^ou 
have no bread stale enough to crumble finely, dry out 
some slices in a cool oven or use cracker m^al. Let the 
article to be fried be perfectly dry. 

The rules for perfect frying are: 

Abundance of fat in a deep kettle. 

The fat to be far beyond the " boiling point," or what is 



34 A KEY TO COOKING. 

called so — the appearance of boiling (which only comes from 
the moisture in the fat) being very deceptive and the cause of 
half the bad frying. 

The fat uiust smoke from the center. It will smoke from the 
sides long before it is hot enough. 

Put the fat on the range some time before it is needed: for it 
takes a very much longer time to heat, than is generally sup- 
posed. 

Remember if the fat is hot enough, the cooking is done in one 
quarter the time of frying with a little fat; a chop breaded will 
cook in tii:o minutes and be beautifully brown: oysters in one 
tninute. Then it is more economical, for the two pounds of lard 
if strained (after it has slightly cooled) through cheese cloth, 
will serve many times and reduces very little. It is more health- 
ful for the intense heat closes up all pores — and none of the 
j^ravy escapes, nor does any of the fat enter the articles fried. 
If thev are greasy, then be sure they have been put into the fat 
long before it wns hot enough, and leftin itsomotimeto brown. 
This is not wiiatis meant. The article, even, it n(»t to be 
cjuickly fried. ;is doughnuts or fried cakes, slionhl hr^jiru in- 
afantli/ to keep out tlie grease — then if they need slower cooking 
lohcn tJiey arc hrown. draif them hack a rery little vmij. 

If you try fryin'j in dcpfnt and your ^fish or what not. does not 
hroicn all over hanitindly in leys than tico minutes, your fat loas 
not hot enoiKjh, perhai)s not nearly so. Take this as a rule, and 
don't he afraid of the l»uniing point, for the instant you drop 
in one article it checks that. 

Never try frying in fat that has l>een once used, without it 
has l)een strained, or you will lind your dainty dish disfigured 
by dark i)artiLles. 



Chapter YII. 
Broilmg — .1 Favor lie Metliod of Cookiyig. 

ITH English and Americans, broiling is 
a favorite mode of dressing meat and 
fish. On the continent, where frying 
is so perfectly done as to be healthful, 
it is less popular. To broil well is con- 
I sidered a test of a cook's skill, and is 
undoubtedly a test of her carefulness. 
A bright, hot fire, yet not too hot, a 
smooth, clean gridiron, and attention 
to one or two points, can scarcely fail to give good 
results. Chops or steaks should be neither salted nor 
peppered before they are broiled. If very lean, they 
will be better dipped in a little butter, which has been 
made hot in a plate. Turn the meat very soon after it 
has been put on the fire, and continue to turn fre- 
quently, until done. (The dampers should be always 
first turned back, that the odor may go up the chim- 
ney.) If there is any danger of burning, throw some 
salt on the fire and raise the gridiron. 

Always have ready a hot dish, and a cover, also 




36 A KEY TO COOEiyO. 

heated. For steaks or fish, have a good piece of butter, 
with pepper and salt in the dish. 

Small birds should be strung on a skewer, not too 
closely together, first having been rubbed over with 
butter. They should be served on buttered toast. 

Chickens are difficult to broil well, without either 
burning or leaving the joints raw. To avoid this, first 
break the bones slightly with a rollmg-pin, that they 
may lie flat, and put the chickens in the oven for a 
short time. Then rub them over with butter, and broil 
until crisp and brown. Covering them with a saucepan 
lid will also concentrate the heat and help to cook them 
thoroughly through, without burning; turn them fre- 
quently, and baste with a brush or feather di])})ed in 
warm butter. All broiled dishes should be served very 
hot. 

Fish may be cooked in the same way, rubbing the 
bars of the gridiron with suet or salt, to prevent them 
sticking. A clear fire, quite free from smoke or flame, 
is necessary to broil well, but when the jlame comes from 
the meat fat it is quite different from coal flame, and 
the great mistake is to raise the meat and try to blow 
out that flame — then a dense smoke comes — and this 
hlarkens the meat; the flame browns it. Therefore, 
keep the meat, unless very thick, quite close to the fire, 



A KEY TO COOKING. 37 

immersed in the flame, rather than above it to catch the 
smoke, which if your flues are open will go up the 
chimney. Let the broiler tilt toward the chimney or 
back of range. 

Blackened smoky broiling, as often comes from too 
much care as too little; the cook is afraid of the flame. 

The rules for good broiling are: 

A hot fire. 

A quick draught. 

A hold disregard of the flame, a careful avoidance of smoke. 
(Smoke or flame there will be, unless the meat is very lean.) 

Care not to overcook. 

A well cooked chop or steak is plump ; if it sinks under the 
finger in a flabby way, it is still very rare : if it springs up 
again, it is medium; if it is firm, it is very well or overdone — 
at this stage it will not be plump, but rather shrunken and dry. 

It is well to lay it for one instant on a piece of hot manilla or 
common kitchen paper, so that any dark drippings may be re- 
ceived by that, then transfer it to a hot dish at once and season. 



Chapter VIII. 
Sauces — Whitf S((uce and Broicn Sauce, 



'-'"'JJIaaaISiHE characteristics of fine white or 




>- 



brown sauce (and most others) are 
smoothness, a rich well cooked flavor, 
and a consistency that is neither so 
thick as to be pasty, nor so thin as 
to run off the article covered with 
it. It should coat it with a heavy 
cream-like surface, but not be so tliick that it will not 
run unless helj^ed to do so with a spoon. To secure 
this consistency and smoothness and absence of raw 
taste, the following are the rules : 

Allow one ounce of flour and one ounce of butter to each half 
pint of liquid. (One avera<;e tablespoonful is equivalent to 
an ounce. ) 

Stirjlour and })utttr toiiether in a thick saucepan over the fire, 
and lot it bubble till it no lon.<;er smells of raw Hour — as long in 
fact as you can without burning- it. Have the half pint of milk 
or broth boilinjx hot, and pour it (luickly to the tloui' and butter, 
stirring all the while, just as you would make starch. If the 
liquid is slowly added it will thicken too fast, and may be lumpy. 
The sauce will be thick and smooth; let it boil one minute at 
the back of the stove; if necessary to keep it hot do so in boil- 



A KEY TO COOKING. 39 

ing water. This sauce may have more butter stirred in after it 
has boiled, if wanted very rich, but the quantity of flour must 
never be increased. For all other kinds of white sauce this is 
the foundation, and if you think over many French recipes as 
you read them, you will be surprised to find that it is also the 
foundation for many other thins^s, as fondu, and several dishes 
of cheese, croquettes, confectioner's cream, etc. 

Browx !Sauce. 
The rules are the same as to proportions, but the 
butter and flour are allowed to cook together till they 
are paJc brown, and soup or gravy takes the place of 
milk. Then it is ready to be made into piquante^ 
mushroom, poivrade, matelote or Robert sauce, accord- 
ing to your recipe, or to be used simply as broAvn or 
Spanish sauce. Of course, if you are think'ing on the 
subject, you will see that chopped meat or fish moistened 
with either brown or white sauce becomes the finest 
kind of hash. 




Chapter IX. 
Warming Over Meats, etc. 

OILEAU declares, emphatically, that ^''A 
Avarmed-over dinner is never good for 
anything,'* in which he is entirely wrong. 
There are some things which, warmed 
over, are as acceptable as when first 
cooked. What more delicious than minced veal ? (not 
hashed veal by any means); what more excellent than 
curried chicken ? All curries may be made as well from 
cold meat. Of course, the general idea of hashed and 
stewed meat is justified by tlic wretchedness of it as 
usually served. Father Prout relates, that when young 
Thackeray was married and very ])oor, he asked some 
one piteously: ''Can't you tell my wife how to hash 
mutton, that it may taste of something besides hot water 
and onions?" 

As recipes for warming over meats are abundant, I 
will only say that the first necessity is to have gravy or 
soup to Avarm them in, and to heat tlie meat very slowly. 
The smallest family may liave such gravy always on 
hand, by carefully saving cold gravy, or sou]), and also 



A KEY TO COOKING. 41 

by making stock of all bones, trimmings, and bits of 
cold meat, slowly stewing such fragments (bones must 
be cracked up) for some hours. When rich, strain and 
set by for use. 

The only rules are: 

That themeat or poultry should stay in the gravy or stock (or, if 
it must be, hot water with some sauce or ketchup for flavoring) 
without boiling at all, for some time, but steepinfj on the range, 
if not very tender ah^eady, it may so steep an hour or two. For 
this reason, i. e., that it is never to boil, whatever gravy is to be 
made, if it is only from a fried onion, and flour and butter and 
water, it must be ready before the meat is added. 



Chapter X. 
A Few Bules for Making Bread and Pastry. 

Oil the plainest family crust, as 

for the finest puff paste, the rule 

of light, cool handling holds good. 

For plain pastry, if you want it 

to be flaky, have your butter or 

lard very firm, your water ice cold, 

\ ^\ '^>a/ ^^^^ ^'^^'^P ^^^^ shortening into it, 

^"^^'^-^^" ^ not too fine. If you do not want 

it flaky, but "short," rub the 

shortening in till it is like sand. 

xnd lightly. Just here perliaps some 

have a heavy liaiul, and can't handle 

a mistake. By ''light 




Handle (piickly 
one will say, '' 
it lightly." 



This is generally 



handling" is meant, to handle without pressure or 
squeezing. No woman would take new and delicate silk 
or tulle in her liand roughly: trent the paste as if it 
were some dainty fahric, and you will handle it lightly, 
and no nuitter how light the handling, let there be 
as little of it as })ossible, for the warmth of the hand 
will melt the shortening, which is one fre(juent cause 
of heaviness. 

A cool \\x\m\ is less at your command than a light 
one, — to dip the hiinds flrst in hot, then in cold water, 
will tend to cool them. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 43: 

As regards shortening, I have said that iov flaky paste- 
your lard or butter must be very firm; but the lard sold 
nowadays is hardly firm unless the thermometer is at 
zero — putting on ice does not make it so. Therefore if 
butter is not to be used, it is far better to prepare your 
shortening in the })roportion of one-third lard and two- 
thirds beef suet. Beef lard alone is better than this,. 
Fry out two pounds of suet, mix it with one pound of 
lard, and when about half cold beat them together till 
they are quite cold, working when you can no longer 
beat, just as you would butter, pack it down and use as 
lard for pastry. When you remember that beef fat' is^ 
the most nourishing and wholesome next to butter, and 
lard the most unwholesome, you will see the advantage- 
of using it, independent of the facts that it makes 
lighter paste and is cheaper. 

Beef lard made from the fat of beef (not more than 
one-third of which must be suet or it will be too hard,) 
is as good as butter for every use but puff paste. 

Puff' paste is the most laborious work of the kitchen,, 
but when well done repays the effort. There are several 
ways of making it, all producing the same result in the- 
hands of a skillful cook. 

The French mode, which I prefer, is that in which 
the butter is placed in a lump in the center of the paste- 
and rolled and folded until it lies in thin sheets or 
''leaves^' in the paste. The English (and usual ama^ 
teur) method, is to divide the butter and each time the 
paste is rolled out to put on it a layer of small pieces. 



44 A KEY TO COOKING. 

Both result in excellent puff paste if well used ; both 
will fail if the process is not understood. 

The quantity of butter being e(iual to that of flour, 
the great object is to keep the butter from softening 
Avhile the paste is being made, for if it becomes softer 
than the dough, it will not lay in the thin sheets which in 
the oven produce the leaves characteristic of i)ull:' i)aste; 
it will ^•])reak through"' in rolling, stick to the board 
and rolling pin, and as every break lets air out of the 
paste, its lightness is reduced. To avoid this every 
precaution must be taken. Let the flour be put in a 
cold, dry place, (the reverse of what is wanted for l^read 
which must be dry and wann,) and have ice at hand un- 
less it is winter, when, unless the kitchen is very hot, it 
will not l)e necessary. The butter should be pressed in 
a napkin to get out every drop of water, if very salt it 
should be well worked under water in the napkin. The 
dough should be wetted into a Arm, smooth paste, and 
l^'fore the butter is in it, it may be well worked and 
beaten five minutes with the rolling pin, this helps to 
toughen it so that the butter will less readily break 
through. As I have said, the butter must be firm, but 
it should not be harder than the paste, in very cold 
weather, if it is so, work it till it is about the same 
texture. 

Any good directions for ]niff paste, of which there are 
so many that I do not give them in a little book which 
aims only to supply a missing link between you and 
your favorite authority, will be very minute in its 



A KEY TO COOKING. 45. 

instructions for folding and rolling, and if you wish to^ 
attain success you must follow these directions very 
closely; unimportant as I liave known them to be con- 
sidered, on tlieir exact observance depends perfect 
pastry ; every slovenly fold will tell on it. The leaves of 
pulf pastry are really a matter for mathematical calcu- 
lation. You are told to fold in three so many times and 
roll each time a certain thickness. You can see that 
three folds six times repeated would produce eighteen 
thicknesses with butter between each, but if you fold 
not in exact thirds but say one part la])s only partly 
over, you diminish your leaves as well as let out the 
air. If 'in each of the six ^^ turns," (as the professional 
term is, for such rolling out and folding,) you are 
equally inexact, even the most inexperienced will be 
able to see the difference it would make in the result. 

There is a kind of pastry taught at the South Ken- 
sington school of cookery in London called '' rough i)ulf 
paste'' so eas}^, so ([uickly made, and, with exact attc.'n- 
tion to details, so much better than average pulf paste 
that it seems hardly worth Avhile to undergo the fatigue 
of making the latter except for some special purpose. 

For this valuable pastry I append the South Kensing- 
ton recipe, with the warning, that if you do not pay 
scrupulous attention to the folding and rolling you may 
be disappointed and find you have excellent flaky light 
pastry, but no suggestion of puff paste. Properly made, 
however, there is very little home made puff pastry that 
will excel it,and it will rise from one to two inches. 



46 A KEY TO COOKING. 

But it is not enough to have pastry well made : it may 
be bought from the best pastry cooks ready, but if you 
do not understand usuig it, it will be S})oilt. 

When about to use it, roll it to half an inch thickness 
for patties or pies, one third inch for tartlets. If rolled 
too thin it will not show its lightness, but will look mean 
and poor. Xcver press the paste, unless you are cover- 
ing the hot torn of patty pans, or of pie plates : there, as 
you want to prevent the paste rising you may "deaden" 
it by pressure, you may also press it to make it thinner at 
this part leaving the edges thick and plump. Trim the 
•edges with a clean (juick cut of a slmrp knife so that it 
is not at all dragged, and do not touch the edge or l)order 
with a finger. If the i)astry does not lie smoothly, never 
mind, it will rise into shai)e. To prevent the escai)e of 
juice from pies, lay your finger round, just where the 
fruit ends and the crust begins, forming a groove with 
it, press firmly there, but nut at all at the edge. Above 
all if you want a haiulsome pieand light crust don't turn 
the edge over, as if you were hnnnniKj it. 

South Kensington rough pnif i)aste : 

Take eight ounces of flour and six ovuices of butter and put 
them in a chopping bowl, chop the butter in the flour, not too 
fine, make a hole in the center in which put the yolk of an e^g. 
Sprinkle over it a quarter of a salt spoonful of salt, and half a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, add a tablespoonful of ice water 
and mix jjjradually and llpjhtly with the ends of your flnf]jers, 
addini]f more water // neressari/ until it is formed into a sti,fl' 
paste. Flour the board well, turn out the paste and any bits 
•of butter that have not mixed. Flour hands and rolling pin, 



A KEY TO COOKING. 47 

roll out the paste till it is half an inch thick. Fold it in three, 
turn the rough edges towaid you, roll again and fold in three, 
roll out, again repeat, making three times in all, it is then ready 
for use. This paste is excellent if made without an Gg^ or 
lemon juice. If you can let it lie on the ice an hour it will be 
lighter. 

Bread. 

To make good bread you need fine dry ivarm flour, 
fresh yeast and the right consistency. 

It is impossible to give an exact proportion of water 
and flour for bread, on account of tlie dilference in 
quality of the latter, but as a general rule two pounds 
of flour to a scant pint and half of water will make a 
soft dough. * 

To each pound of flour allow one scant teaspoonful of 
salt, two full ones of sugar (if compressed yeast is 
used). Su^ar may be omitted with slow working yeast. 

The chief rules to remember are to have the dougrh 
just as soft as you can handle. 

To dry and warm the flour, in all but really warm 
weather. 

To dissolve the yeast in water only hlood warm. 

AYater that seems far from scalding will yet be too hot 
for yeast. 

Knead faithfully, using just as little flour as possible, 
it can be worked very soft without sticking, if you only 
just dust your hand for the first few minutes with flour. 

Set to rise in a moderately warm place, — about 95 
degrees, not hotter, — and keep from draught. 

Do not attempt to make bread by any arbitrary rule 



48 A KEY TO COOKING. 

as to time, the only rule is to let it rise till liijlit. If y<»ur 
book says two hours and it needs two'and a half it will be 
spoilt if you obey that direction. Experience will enable 
you to jndge by touch and sight when it is ready for 
the oven — but before that comes, you may notice the 
size of each loaf when you set it to rise, and don't put 
it into the oven till it is double that size even if it takes 
double the time your book directs. You may also tell by 
lifting a corner of the dough, if it looks swelled and is 
very tender to the touch, if it is full of fine little holes 
like a very fine sponge, it is light enough, if these holes 
are larger and coarse it is too light and you must knead it 
down well and let it rise agij,in — but if you do not let it 
rise to more than double the original 1 ulk it will not be 
too light, tlie holes will not be too large. 

With these rules well in mind I think you will not 
fail in following- any good recipe. 

The rules for baking of all kinds are : 

For white bread in small (two pound) loaves a hot oven in 
wliich you can hear your hand while you count 25 seconds. 
Time to bake one hour. 

For lar<ier loaves count thirty — to bake one hour and a half 
to two hours. 

For all kinds of brown bread, count thirty. 

For small pulf i>;isrry the oven must ])e hotter than for bread. 
You shouUl be able to count twenty. Yet put the articles far 
from the fire that they may rise before sccrcliin*;. 

For Pies count twenty-five. 

For Biscuit, rolls, and jelly cakes a very hot oven. 

For cakes made with baking-powder and little butter a hot 
bread oven. 

For cakes with more butter a little cooler oven. 

For Pound cakes, a very moderate oven. 

For Fish and all kinds of meat a hot oven. For small joints 
and Iwrds a nrij hot one. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 49 

CLEVELAND'S 

Superior Baking Powder 

Is made only of strictly pure Grape Cream of 
Tartar, Bicarbonate of Soda, and a small por- 
tion of flour, and does not contain Ammonia, 
Alum, Lime, or Acid Phosphates, and it is ab- 
solutely free from adu Iterations. 

What other manufacturers impart to the 
public a knowledge of ALL the ingredients that 
enter into their baki^zg powder ? 

Consumers have a right to know what they 
are using as food. In these times of extensive 
adulteration the public should demand this in- 
formation, and in all cases where not given 
should refuse to purchase the baking powder. 

CLEVELAND BROTHERS, 

Albany, N. Y. 



Good Housekeeping 

VOLUME FIVE, 
May 14th to November 12th, 1887, Inclusive. 



In the detailed conduct of Good Housekeeping, it has never before had so 
rich a Bill of Fare to lay before its readers as the one prepared for Volume 
Five. A few of the most appetizing items of the different courses, may be 
named without prejudice to the many other attractive and well prepared side 
dishes, always awaiting a place on tlie Table of Contents. 

A NEW SERIAL BY CATHERINE OWEN. 

Catherine Owen, with the initial number of Volume Five, commences a Se- 
rial of practical home life, entitled " Molly Bishop's Family,— from Baby- 
hood TO Men and Women ; a Home Story of Life's \'iscissitudes." 
This Serial takes up the family of Molly Bishop, where it was left at the close 
of that very popular publication, " Ten Dollars Enough,'' and gives much in- 
teresting data and detail regarding the infancy, childhood, manhood and 
womanhood of the Bishop family, with practical lessons for the guidance of 
those who don't know, but would like to know, how the Children of the House- 
hold should enjoy health and long life and a wealth of riches, the value of 
which may not be estimated by the measurement or weight of gold and silver 
standards. 

HOUSEKEEPING IN FOREIGN LANDS. 

1. "Housekeeping IN AN English Rectory,'' a very entertaining 
illustrated paper, is given in volume Five, written for Good Housekeeping 
by a resident of a charming English rectory. 

2. "Housekeeping in Honduras," with illustrations, prepared by an 
American, temporarily residing in Honduras, is another very attractive and ap- 
petizing diet on the Volume Five Bill of Fare. 

3. " Housekeeping in Florence," with an illustration of the kitchen 
of the writer, who writes of her own observations and experiences. 

4. "Swiss Housekeeping," by an experienced housekeeper and, at the 
same time, an entertaining writer. 

COFFEE MAKING AND COFFEE SPOILING. 
"Six Cups of Coffee." prepared in response to an order from Good 
Housekeeping, for consumption in the Homes of the World, by the world's 
best authorities on the subject of Coffee Making,— 



A KEY TO COOKING. 51 

Maria Parloa, Catherine Owen, 

Marion Harland, Juliet Corson, 

Mrs. Helen Campbell, Mrs. D. A. Lincoln, 

is the title of a group of papers niore notable and of greater value to house- 
keepers than anything of the kind ever before published. These papers were 
all prepared for Volume Five. 

MEALS FOR THE MANY OP MODERATE MEANS. 

A valuable and unique Series of papers under the above title for Volume 
Five, from the pen of Juliet Corson, one of the most experienced and 
authoritative writers on Cooking, who has had great success and won much 
fame by her practical writings, which are well represented by the title given 
to this Series of papers. 

It is the purpose of the conductors of Good Housekeeping to make the 
Series valuable to all readers in the Homes of the World wherever found, par- 
ticularly so in homes where there are many mouths to fill and much anxiety 
of mind as to how to fill them comfortably, conveniently and healthfully, 
briefly expressed in the four simple words, " More Mouths than Money." 
TABLE SUPPLIES AND ECONOMIES. 

The valuable department of " Seasonable Table Supplies," so ably 
conducted by Mrs. Fannie A. Benson, for a season, several months ago, was 
permanently introduced in the first number of Volume Five with the addition 
of carefully prepared instructions for marketing economically and well, — giv- 
ing detailed information as to how to buy, what to buy, and when to buy, to 
the best advantage, having in view convenience, comfort, economy and health. 
PORTRAIT AND SKETCH OF CATHERINE OWEN. 

Arrangements have been made for an early number of Volume Five to contain 
a portrait of Catherine Owen, who has had so many interested readers and won 
so many friends by her "Ten Dollars Enough," " Progressive Housekeeping," 
and other practical papers, to be accompanied by a personal sketch, prepared 
by the Editor of Good Housekeeping. 

QUIET HOURS WITH THE QUICK WITTBD. 

A new department for the Children of the Household, and the children of a 
larger growth, as well, under the title of "Quiet Hours with the Quick 
WiTTED," was added to the already well filled Bill of Fare of Volume Five. 
This consists of Acrostics, Anagrams, Games, Puzzles, Riddles, and the Hke, 
and to this department the " Quick Witted " readers of Good Housekeep- 
ing are invited to contribute. A "Query Box" is open at all hours of the 
day or night, for the reception of papers for this department, the only proviso 
in the premises being that everything submitted shall be fresh, bright and 
sparkling. 



52 A KEY TO COOKING. 

THE PEDIGREE AND PURPOSE OF SOAP. 

It has been facetiously said that "While there is life there is"— soap, to 
which might well be added, in all truth and soberness, this, that while and 
where there is soap, well and freely used, there is a life of cleanliness, not only 
next to Godliness, but keeping pace each with the other. From this domestic 
orthodox standpoint, two papers were prepared for Good Housekeeping on 
"The Uses and Abuses of Soap in the Household," by Mrs. Hester 
M. Poole, who has given the subject critical and careful consideration, and 
whose valuable papers are always prepared and written with a view ot doing 
" the greatest good to the greatest number" of those who are looking to and 
laboring for the interests of the Higher Life of the Household. 

ANAGRAMMATICAL ENTERTAINMENTS, 

Our Anagrammatical Entertainments have been found so entertaining and 
popular, that Good Housekeeping's Anagrammatical Feast, and Anagram- 
matical Household Auction are followed in Volume Five, by an "Anagram- 
matical Garden," in which issue Two Hundred and Fifty Cultivated and 
Wild Flowers, and House Plants were put up at Auction, with prizes for those 
who may be the first to name correct solutions that will be worth striving for. 

The first number of \'olume Five is enlivened by contributions in verse 
"appropriate to the occasion,— that charming writer of poesy and song, 
Clinton ScoUard writing of "A Morn in Merry May," and Kate Putman Os- 
good of a " May Blossom," touching a reponsive chord in every loving mother's 
heart ; in addition to other poetic gems of springtime freshness and beauty. 

In addition to this brief mention of choice selections of literary diet, the Bill 
of Fare for Volume Five is far richer and more appetizing than anything 
Good Housekeeping has spread before its readers, the parlor and sitting- 
room center tables, library desk, dining room and kitchen tables, pantry 
shelves and refrigerator, even, being loaded with articles of merit kept in wait- 
ing for a place in the pages of Good Housekeeping, and the Portfolio of 
Sundries has a never ending list of good things from which to draw, of MS. 
food from contributors, for the literary entertainment and sustenance of the 
readers of Good Housekeeping, in the Interest of the Higher Life of the 
Household in the Homes of the World. 

Good Housekeeping gives it readers Two Volumes each year, of Thirteen 
Numbers each— Twenty-six Numbers a year. Subscription price $2.50 a year ; 
single copies Ten Cents, which may be had from the American News Com- 
pany, or its agents throughout the country. Sample Copies, Ten Cents. 

CLARK W. BRYAN & CO., 

""A^B^roacu^y"' SpringficId, Mass. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 



53 



TX^yonr^1^T>qX Jk Probably nothing adds so much to the 
X# X ^ *^ ■ -* . " misery of humanity as a disorganized 

stomach, and one who will give a return of good digestion is really a hu- 
manitarian well deserving of praise. Mr. John H. McAlvin, who for 14 years 
was city treasurer and tax collector in Lowell, Mass., has written a letter 
treating on this horrible malady that is well worth reading. It is entitled 

" DYSPEPSIA, ITS NATURE, CAUSES, PREVENTION and CURE." 

Being the experience of an actual sufferer, and a conscientious study of the 
disease, it is especially valuable for dyspeptics, and those of sedentary or 
studious habits. He will send the treatise to any address free of charge. 



NOTHING ON EARTH LIKE 

SMKISl 

For Easy Washing. 
Costs but lOc- TRY IT. 

ALL GROCERS HAVE IT. 



CEDAR CHESTS 



KEEP MOTHS, 
DUST/DAMP 
FROM CLOTHING 



ASK FOR 
a CIRCULAR 



TERRY SHOW CAS ECO. 

NASHVILLE.TENN. 



54 



A KEY TO COOKING. 



CEDAR CHESTS 

KEEPMOTMS.DUST.AND DAMP 
FR0m1:lOTHING. ASK TOR CIRCULAR 

TERRY SHOWCASCCO. 



THE WORLD'S BEST. 

OII^ STOVE. 

Odorless, non explosive. Has four 8- 
inch boiling: places and extra large 
oven. Will do twice the work of an 
ordinary kerosene stove, and is there- 
fore the CHEAPEST as well as the 
BEST OIL STOVE to buy. 




THE CEI^EBRAXBD 

BAY STATE RANGES. 

First-class in every respect. Come 
and #ee them. Send for circular. 

BARSTOW STOVE CO., 

Providence, K. I., 

50 Union St., Boston, 

230 Water St., New York. 



PERFECTION ATTAINED IN BAKING 

'Y I SIN(; THE PATENT 

CENTENNIAL CAKE AND BAKING PAN. 




Endorsed by all Practical Cooks. 

Side, Bottom, and Tube detachable. The Pan can be 
unhooked and taken from the cake. One 9 inch 
pan of imported iron and the Home Cook Book 
sent charges paid on receipt of 75 c. Agents Wanted. 
THK CLIPPER MFG., CO.. Limited, CINCINNATI, O. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 55 

HYGIENIC 

COOKING! 

The best preparation for 
Housekeeping is a 

WIRE G&UZE DOOR, 

As used exclusively on the 




THE WIRE GAUZE OVEN DOOR. 

is the most important improvement ever placed on a cooking apparatus The 
gauze allows the outside air to be freely adnntted to the oven ; the food thus being 
lurrounded by a pure heated atmosphere during the process of cooking More 
bread and of abetter quahtycan be produced from the same weight ot hour 
than bv any other known process, while meats that are roasted in this oven lose 
sca?celVa7yt°htag in »e;gKt and ietain all their jmces. Meals cooked we 1 don 



rrei^ruie'ashS cooKdV;^^^^^ 



made 

Sr^an^raSle^whire^o^^^^^^^ 
close oven, and keep fresh for a longer time. Brothng- can be done moie per- 
fectly in the oven than over the live coals. 

Astonishing as these statements may seem, their truth is vouched for by 
thousands of housekeepers in all parts of the coimtry 

Three of the New Hub Ranges, with Wire Gauze I^oors, are used by the 
Boston Cooking School for their Demonstration Lessons, detns^ the only 
""sTSaTcluiars describing the remarkable effects of this door on the food 
cooked, together with a full explanation of the chemical changes and scientihc 
facts involved, will be mailed on appUcation. 

52 and 54 Union Street, BOSTON, MASS._, 



56 



A KEY TO COOKING. 



THE 

ADAMS 
WESTLAKE 

G-A.S 

Cooking / Heating 
STOVES. 

The Most Complete, Cleanly, Convenient 

AXD 

Economical Stoves in the World 




MANUFACTURED BY 



THE ADAMS & WESTLAKE MANUFACTURING CO. 

94 State St., 242 Water St., 80 \Vashiiij?toii St., 
CHICAGO. NEW YORK, BOSTON. 




A KEY TO COOKING. 57 

BENT Sz CO.'S 

CELEBKATED 

Hand-MatlG Water Crackers, 

Are used in all the large cities 

IN THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPE. 

For an after-dinner cracker they are unrivalled, and are used at the Grand 
Pacific Hotel, Chicago ; Fifth Avenue Hotel, Hoffman House and Delmoni- 
co's, New York; The Southern. St. Louis; Revere, Tremont and Parker, 
Boston ; by all the prominent Clubs and Hotels generally ; are for sale by 
Jackson & Co., Picadilly, and other leading Houses in London and Liverpool ; 
G. G. Battin & Co., Batavia ; J. Gillon & Co., Leith, Scotland ; Anglo-Ameri- 
can Supply Agency, Florence, Italy ; J. M. Rodocanachi, Smyrna. 

These goods are put up in 2,6, 10 and 12-lb Cans and Kegs, Bbls., Half-Bbls. 
and Boxes. 

BKNT & CO.'S CRACKER MEAL. 

Is one of the most extensively used articles now in the market, and is the only 
article of its kind manufactured from their celebrated hand-made Water 
Crackers, which are the purest and best crackers made, and is warranted not 
to contain any acids, grease, lard or saleratus. It is absolutely pure, and will 
keep for a long time, is used by the best cooks in New York and Boston, and 
very highly endorsed and used by the Boston Cooking School as the only 
article that they have yet found that came up fully to the requirements in 
which to fry clams, oysters, cutlets, etc. 

Bent & Co.'s Cracker Meal is put up in i-lb. cartons, and in every carton is 
enclosed forty receipts, written expressly for Bent & Co., by Mrs Hester M. 
Poole, of New York, who has thoroughly tried every receipt. 



ALL FIRST- CLASS GROCERS SELL IT. 



A KEY TO COOKING. 




"LATEST 
IMPROVED 
WESTERN 



WASHER," 



MANUFACTURED BY 

The Horton Mfg. Co,, 

Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Next to the Science of Cookinf]^ is the "Art of Washinj?,'^ 
for which purpose we offer our Washer as a simple, durable and 
effective labor-saving invention, and it is easily operated. We 
offer it strictly on its merits and will cheerfully refund the 
money to anybody who will frankly 
claim that our Washer is not satis- 
factory after several fair trials. 



Prices are as Follows: 
No. 1, SMALL FAMILY, $8.00 
No. 2, LARGE FAMILY, 9.00 

No. 3, HOTEL SIZE, 10.00 - rC 



Write for descriptive catalogue to 

THE HORTON MFG. CO., 

FORT WAYNE, IND. 




A KEY TO COOKING. 



59 




a 



ANDES" Range 



PROVIDED WITH EITHER DOCK ASH OR DUPLEX GRATE. 

The "ANDES " is a first-class range in every respect and is guaranteed 
equal to any other in every desirable particular or no sale. It can be 'had 
m the various styles, with high or low closet, cabinet base, with or without high 
shelf, with or without reservoir, and with dock ash grate. By a slight change it 
can be used to burn wood. Will keep fire continuously, bakes equally well at any 
time of the day. It is well made and tastefully finished in nickel and tile. Is 
handsome, durable and effective. Every Range fully warranted to do all that 
IS claimed for it. Comparison of quality and price invited. 

Manufactured by 



PHILLIPS & CLARK STOVE CO.. 

Correspondence solicited. 



O-EI^E-^^f^, 2^. "X-- 



60 



A KEV TO COOKING. 




conomical 

Housekeepers 



Cannot afford to use Cheap Soaps that 
are filled with Alkalies and Adulterations, 
which will rot out a Dollar's Worth of 
dry goods with every cent's worth of soap. 

\yelcome Soap 



Is compounded on Scientific Principles 
from the Purest Stock, and is war- 
ranted to do its work with satisfaction^, v" 
and at the same time to be of no injtt.v* 
to the Fabric Washed. 

Made by 

Curtis Davis & Co., 

Boston, Mass. 



'^ALETTER FROM CATHERINE OWEN." 



PlainfieU, N. /., Dec. U, 1886. 

Gerealine Mfg. Co. 

Dear Sirs:— 

I have carefully tested the use of CereaUne-in mahiny 
mad, cake, 'pastry and some articles ^''^ ^^f.f^fj;' 
your hooh, such as Rothe Oruize, etc., and find it a valu- 
able and aqreeable preparation. ,. , ^ ,. 

Bread and rolls wade with one-tUrd Cereahne a,e 
heauti fully white, light and deUcious, the former hnnny 
better keeping qualities than bread made nnfhout ,t. 
Ifind this quality also in calces. 

■ To those made with a small quantity of butter which 
are usually dry after the second day, the addition of 
Cerealine gives a pound cahe-lihe texture, and they are 
as good at the end of a week as they are the day after 

^"pat 'I, in which Cerealine is used, is muck more 
flaky. ««<. lespecicdly value its use for dumplings or 
boiled cru.. of any kind. • 

In addition, I wish to say that Cerealine griddle cakes 
and the mush, both boiled and fried, are the most dehc- 
ious I have ever eaten. 

Yours faithfully, 
^Signed.) CATHERINE OWEN. 



BETTER THAN GOLD. 



That book in many eyes doth show the glory, 

That in gold clasps, locks in the golden story —Shakespeare. 

There is a jewel which no Indian mine can buy, 

No chemic art can counterfeit; 

It makes man rich in greatest poverty. 

Makes water wine, turns wooden cups to gold.— Wilbye. 

That jewel is good housekeeping, a necessary and all 
powerful element in the preparation of a specific for the 
perfection of Home Life, and for the curing^ of tht orst 
ills to which man and womankind are heirs. 

To tell where that jewel may be found, and how it may 
be made bright and kept beautiful is the mission of 
Good Hoisekekimnm;, "Conducted in the Interests of the 
His/her Life of the Household, for the Homes of the World," 
numberin;^ amon^ its lonj? list of practical and distinguish- 
ed contributors, the best and most noted writers of the 
day, on subjects pertaining to housekeeping and home- 
making. 

Good Hovsekeepixg is published every other S.. .rday, 
Twenty-Six numbers a year, quarto form, flnel> ii\. 'aied, 
handsomely printed, a Welcome Guest in every j^vwie into 
which it enters. Subscription price 1^2.50 a yeaY; Single 
Copies 10 cents, which may be had from the American 
News Company, or its agents throughout the country. 

SEND TEN CENTS FOB SAMPLE COPY. 

CLARK W. BRYAN & CO., Publishers, 

"e^Torkomce.^^^^ Springfield, Mass. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 710 8 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



mi 14 



