LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

%{t. I.L.: ©npiirig]^ ]|o. 

UNITED STATES OF AMEEICA. 



AU(i 24 1886 



BRAXTON'S 



PRACTICAL 



COOK BOOK. 



' ...y^^ y* COMPILED BY 

G. F. BRAXTON 



CHEF OF WELLESLEY COLLEGE DURING THE PAST THREE 

YEARS. 



^c'bVYmSJf*^ 




1886. 



Walker, Young & Co., Book and Job Printers, J^' 



I 



43 Kilby Street, Boston. 






(I 



.^ 



TO THE PUBLIC. 



Having had a practical experience as a cook in various hotels 
and institutions, and wishing to give the public a good, substantial 
cook book, both for family and hotel use, I have written this little 
voluftie for their benefit. These recipes have been studied as to 
economy, knowing full well that there are a good many cook books 
on the market that have been a failure in this respect. I do not 
wish to puff this book in the least, but will leave it to the candid 
judgment of those who will use it. 

Hoping that I may add my mite to what is good and economi- 
cal in cooking, I remain, , 

Truly yours, 

GEORGE F. BRAXTON, 

AUTHOR. 



G:0K[a^RK[^"©. 



PAGE. 

Soups, ........ 7-12 

Oysters, ......... 12-15 

Lobsters . . . . . . . . 15-17 

Crabs, Turtles, Clams, ...... 17-18 

Fish, ......... 18-19 

Eggs, ......... 19-22 

Roasts, etc., ........ 22-25 

Boiled and Broiled, ....... 26-27 

Entrees, ........ 27-32 

Corned Meats and Fish, to Souse Tripe, Canned Lobsters, Clams, etc., 32-43 

Miscellaneous Dishes, ...... 35-36 

Gravies and Sauces, ....... 36-39 

Dressings, Colorings, etc., ...... 40-41 

Vegetables, ........ 41-45 

Yeast, Bread, etc., ....... 45-52 

General Remarks about Cake, ..... 53-63 

General Remarks on Pastry, ..... 63-70 

Puddings, etc., ........ 70-79 

Desserts, ........ 80-86 

General Remarks about Catering and Bills of Fare, . . 86-89 

For the Sick, Burns, etc., ...... 90-91 

General Index, ........ 93-96 



BRAXTON'S PRACTICAL COOK BOOK. 



HOW TO PREPARE STOCK FOR SOUPS. 

The stock pot is the making of all good soups; that is to say 
if your kitchen is not provided with a stock pot it is impossible to 
make good soups. To prepare stock, take fresh beef bones, or 
bones of chicken, lamb, or any other fresh meat, crack them, put 
them into the pot, cover with cold water, set on the back of the 
stove and let it simmer all day, and if convenient, all night. The 
next morning strain, set in a cool place and when the grease rises, 
skim very carefully. Turn the stock, without any of the settlings, 
into the dish in which you wish to prepare the soup, and add the 
ingredients of whatever kind of soup you wish to prepare. 

FOR LIGHT SOUPS. 

The stock for light soups, such as Macaroni, Barley, Rice, Sago 
and Tapioca, needs less boiling than for strong ones. Four hours 
is sufficient for light soups. For Consomme and all kinds of 
clarified soups the stock should be prepared the day before and 
the grease and settlings removed. 

It should be clarified with the whites of eggs, usually the 
whites of four eggs to a quart of stock. 

ENGLISH MULLAGATAWNEY. 

One gallon of good, clear stock, one chicken, six carrots, one 
onion, twelve potatoes. Cut the chicken in small, square pieces, 
the carrots lengthwise, mince the onion very fine, and add all to 
the stock ; when nearly done add the potatoes, well sliced, and let 
them boil fifteen minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

FRENCH POTTAGE. 

One gallon of stock, one quart of tomatoes, three carrots, two 
cups of vermicelli, one onion and one pound of ham. Boil the 
stock and after cooking the tomatoes, strain them, cut the carrots 
into dice, chop the onion, then cut the ham into squares and add 
the whole to the stock ; when nearly done add the tomatoes, season 
to taste, and use a little cornstarch or flour for thickening. 



PRINCE ALBERT. 

One and one-half gallons of stock, two cups of flake tapioca, 
two beef kidneys, one onion. Parboil the kidneys in a separate 
dish, then cut it in squares, mince the onion and add both to the 
stock ; after the soup has boiled an hour, add the tapioca. When 
done, season with salt and pepper, flavor with nutmeg or allspice, 
and thicken. If not strong enough add Worcestershire Sauce. 



BEEF SOUP. 

Four and one-half pounds of beef, one onion, two gallons of 
strong stock. Let the stock boil then add the beef, cut into squares, 
and the onion minced fine. When it boils remove all the scum that 
rises. Season to taste and thicken, and add Halford Sauce or St. 
Clair wine. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

The same as Beef Soup with the exception that two cups of 
rice are added. 

BEAN OR SPLIT PEA SOUP No. 1. 

Soak one quart of beans over night, in the morning add suffi- 
cient water to cover them. Let them boil and then rub through a 
collander and then through a fine sieve ; to this add one onion, a 
piece of veal or a knuckle of ham; if necessary thicken. Season 
to taste. If not sufficiently light add two cups of boiling milk. 
Put some crumbs of bread, previously fried, in the tureen, pour 
over with the soup and send to the table. 

MRS. HASKIN'S BEAN OR PEA SOUP. 

Made the same as No. i, only the beans are not put through 
the collander or sieve. 



WELLESLEY COLLEGE. 

Two and one-half gallons of good veal or chicken broth, one 
pound of liver, one dozen potatoes, one bunch of macaroni, one 
pound of butler and one onion. Cut the liver into small pieces, 
mince the onion, break the macaroni into pieces about two inches 
in length, and add to the stock. Remove all the scum that rises 
and add the butter and one teaspoonful of Curry powder. When 
nearly done add the sliced potatoes: season to taste. Very nice. 



NOODLE SOUP. 

One gallon of veal or chicken broth, boil thirty minutes. Make 
a paste of flour, eggs and perhaps a little baking powder; flour the 
paste and roll thin, then set in a cool, dry place to harden; then 
cut it into little strips and add to the soup and let it boil three 
minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Flavor with nut- 
meg and thicken. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP No. 1. 

Two gallons of strongstock, a knuckle of veal or a calf's head, 
one onion, cloves and allspice tied in a bag; let the whole boil 
until done. Remove the bones and cut the meat into little pieces. 
Season with salt and pepper, and add a force meet egg and a force 
meet ball. Thicken. If too light add a teaspoonful of coloring, 
or two pieces of French paste. Slice two lemons into the tureen. 
This gives a rich color. After taking the soup from the stove, add 
not less than one cup of cooking wine. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP No. 2. 

Nearly the same as No. i. Instead of using force meet eggs, 
use six hard boiled ones, cut into little squares. Slice two lemons 
into the tureen and add cooking wine to flavor it and it is ready to 
serve. 

GREEN TURTLE. 

One turtle, remove the head and let it drain twelve hours. 
Dress it, being carefull not to break the eggs. When sufficiently 
cooked, remove all the fat. Cut the meat into small pieces, add 
the eggs, which have previously been boiled, also bouquet of sweet 
herbs to flavor. When done add one cup of cooking wine. 

CONSOMME. 

One and one-half gallons of good strong stock, one onion; 
boil and put in the whites of six eggs to clarify it; season to taste 
and strain through a collander and then through a flannel bag, as 
for jellies; it should be very light. When done add one-half of a 
cup of brandy or cooking wine. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One gallon of clear stock, six carrots, two turnips, six potatoes 
and one onion. Chop the onion fine, cut the turnips and carrots 
into square pieces, add to the soup and boil. Fifteen minutes before 
it is done add the sliced potatoes, Use salt and pepper for season 
ing. 



10 

CHICKEN SOUP No. 1. 

One chicken, one onion and one and one-half gallons of water. 
Chop the onion fine, cover the chicken with water, and when it is 
sufficiently cooked pick from the bones and cut in small pieces. 
Season to taste, flavor and thicken. I use nutmeg for flavoring. 

CHICKEN SOUP No. 2. 

To be made the same as No. i, with the exception that the 
bones are not taken out. The chicken is cut into square pieces 
and boiled. Flavor as in No. i. 

BROWN SOUP. 

One gallon of good strong stock, one onion minced and a little 
bag of fine herbs. Boil, season with salt and pepper to taste, and 
add a cup of cooking wine when it is done. Have ready some 
square pieces of bread fried brown, pour the soup over them and 
send to the table. 

SAGO OR TAPIOCA SOUP. 

One gallon of chicken or veal broth and one cup of sago or 
tapioca. Put the sago to soak, boil the stock, and fifteen minutes 
before it is done add the sago. Season with salt and pepper and 
thicken if needed. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart of oysters and two gallons of chicken broth. After 
the broth is done add the oysters, season with salt and pepper to 
taste, a little butter and thicken. Very nice. 

CLAM SOUP. 

One quart of clams, two gallons of water and one onion. Cut 
the clams, or chop them; mince the onion and boil all ten minutes. 
Add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and season to taste. 
Liquor, if there is any with the clams, is a great improvement. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

One gallon of veal or chicken broth, the meat of six or eight 
large lobsters. Boil and add the lobsters, cut in small pieces, and 
let the whole simmer ten minutes and thicken. This is equal to 
any veal or chicken broth. 



11 

RICE SOUP. 

Two gallons of veal broth, or chicken, one onion and one and 
one-half cups of rice. Allow the rice to soak one hour, or more, 
and when the broth is done, add to it. Season and flavor as you 
wish, thicken and send to the table. 

VEAL BROTH. 

One knuckle of veal, cover with water or stock, and boil till 
tender; pick the meat from the bones and cut in small pieces; add 
one cup of rice, cook and season to taste. Very nice for invalids. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Two quarts of clams, one onion, twelve potatoes and three 
quarts of water. Mince the onion, cut the clams, and when the 
water has boiled put therji with the water. When nearly done add 
the sliced potatoes, milk enough to give it a good color, season to 
taste. Split some crackers in the dish and pour the soup over them 
and it is ready to serve. 

OYSTER STEW. 

One pint of oysters, water to cover. When they come to a 
boil, remove the scum, add butter the size of a walnut, a cup of 
hot milkj salt, pepper and serve. 

EGG SOUP. 

One gallon of veal broth, season to taste with salt, pepper, a 
little spice, and just before it is ready to serve add six hard boiled 
eggs, cut in squares. Very nice. 

FOR CLARIFIED SOUPS. 

Season and boil the stock, then clarify with the whites of eggs 
well beaten. Mix well together, boil five or seven minutes and 
strain through a flannel bag. as for jellies. Allow it to stand till 
the next day, heat and add the ingredients you wish. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One gallon of strong stock, one and one-half gallons of toma- 
toes; mix and add one small onion, mince line, a bunch of fine 
herbs and boil slowly. Strain through a coarse sieve and then a 
fine strainer and boil again. Add pepper, salt and a cup of drawn 
butter, thicken a very little and if need be, add a little sugar. 
Pour this over fried bread crumbs and it is readv for the table. 



12 

MOCK BISQUE. 

One gallon of veal broth, season to taste, fouf eggs, flour 
enough to make a stiff paste, as for noodles, cut them out with a 
small round cutter, and bake. Add them to the soup allowing just 
time enough for them to soften and then serve. 



*ts' 



RABBIT SOUP. 

One rabbit, cut into joints, cover with cold water, boil slowly 
till cooked; strain, season to taste; cut the meat from the bones, 
and add to the liquor. Very nice for invalids. 

BEEF BROTH. 

Beef broth or drippings from a roast of beef will make a very 
nice soup. Strain and season very lightly. Care should be taken 
to remove all the grease that rises. This will be nice for the sick. 

CORN SOUP. 

One quart of chicken or veal broth, season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Add one can of corn, heat and serve. 

A QUICK TOMATO SOUP. 

One pint of veal broth and one pint of tomatoes; boil, add a 
little butter, salt and pepper, thicken lightly and serve. 

CRACKER SOUP. 

One pint of chicken broth, season to taste with salt, pepper 
and a walnut of butter, and thicken with cracker dust, and it will 
be found very nice for invalids. 

ITALIAN CONSOMME. 

Strong stock, well clarified, season as for Mock Turtle, and 
just before serving add some Italian Paste. 



OYSTERS IN ALL STYLES. 



ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put a layer of bread or cracker crumbs into your baking pan, 
next one of oysters, then one of butter, and sprinkle salt and pep- 
per over each layer. Fill the dish in this way, then moisten the 
top with milk or water and bake in a moderate oven. 



13 

FANCY ROAST. 

One pint of oysters stewed in the liquor; add salt, pepper and 
butter the size of a walnut. Pour this over toasted bread, garnish 
with parsley and serve. 

PLAIN ROAST. 

One pint of oysters cooked in the liquor, with salt, pepper and 
butter added. Serve in a deep dish garnished with parsley. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Wipe six large oysters dry, sprinkle cracker crumbs over them, 
lay them on a gridiron and broil till brown. Lay them in a plate 
and pour melted butter over them. 

OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Open as many oysters as you need and leave them on one-half 
of the shell. Serve in a dish with a piece of lemon, salt and pep- 
per. Use vinegar if preferred. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Put six large oysters, in the shell, on the coals, and let them 
remain until they open; then remove the top shell, pour melted 
butter over them and serve on a napkin. 

BOXED OR CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One pint of oysters and one quart of sweet cream or milk; 
boil the milk, and while boih'ng, add the oysters and season to 
taste; thicken with flour or cornstarch. Have some round, well 
baked loaves of bread ready, remove the top and all the crumbs ; 
then take the box or crust of bread, put some hot fat into it and 
fry it brown; place the oysters in this and serve in a platter. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Place some large oysters in a jar; scald sufficient vinegar to 
cover them, allow it to cool, then pour it over them with whole 
cloves and allspice added. Set in a cool place for two or three 
days before using. 



14 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Stew a quart of oysters in a little water and milk enough to 
give a good color, season to tasle and thicken as for a stew, have 
some nice puff paste, cut in pattie shape, and bake quickly. When 
done make a hole in the centre of each, fill with oysters and serve 
on a platter. Very nice. 

BAKED OYSTER PIE. 

Stew one quart of oysters in the liquor and sufficient water to 
cover them, with a little salt, pepper and butter added; thicken, 
put into the dish and cover with a nice puff paste and bake in a 
quick oven. • 

OYSTER POTPIE. 

This may be made the same as baked oyster pie and serve nice 
dumplings with it. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart of oysters, or as many as you will need; cut in 
halves, season with salt, pepper and sweet oil to improve it; cut 
some hard boiled eggs in squares and mix with the oysters; cut 
some fresh lettuce heads fine, put a layer of lettuce, then one of 
oysters, and so on. Have the last layer of lettuce and cover with 
Mayonaise Dressing. 

DRESSING FOR THE ABOVE. 

Six hard boiled eggs; remove the whites, rub the yolks through 
a fine sieve, add one-half teaspoonful of mustard, a little salt and 
cayenne pepper; add the yolk of an egg and a little sweet oil 
from time to time, till you have enough; you should use a wooden 
spoon in making it and make it in a cool place ; add a little vinegar, 
as much as you think you will need, but keep it stiff so that it will 
remain on the top of the salad; if you find it to be hard add the 
juice of one lemon. Keep on ice till ^ou wish to serve. 

BOILED OYSTERS (In shell.) 

Wash six large oysters and put them one by one into boiling 
water and let them remain five minutes ; remove, wipe dry, squeeze 
the juice of one lemon over them and send to the table; have 
some melted butter ready to pour over then. They will be found 
to be delicious indeed. 



15 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, one cup of cracker dust, two eggs, the 
juice of one lemon and some melted butter; wipe the oysters, lay 
on a flat dish, beat the eggs well, add the pepper, cayenne, and lemon 
juice and pour this mixture over the oysters; have ready some hot 
butter and lard mixed, take the oysters from the mixture and dip in 
the cracker dust and fry brown. Serve with German Mustard. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

One pint of good veal or chicken broth, one ounce of ham or 
salt pork, one onion minced fine; boil all together with a little pep- 
per, salt and butter; thicken and set on the back of the stove; then 
add the oysters and a little chopped parsley. The oysters will 
cook on the back of the stove. 

OYSTERS IN BATTER. 

One pint of oysters; mix one egg, one pint of flour and 
perhaps a little baking powder, into a smooth paste, dip the oysters 
into it one by one, and fry in hot fat. 

OYSTER PATES. 

One quart of oysters cut fine with a knife, not a chopping 
knife, one spoonful of butter drawn in one cup of milk, thicken 
with cornstarch or flour; season to taste; drain the liquor from the 
oysters and stir them into the mixture. Have ready some puff 
paste, baked brown, fill with the oysters, set in the oven for a few 
moments, serve at once, 

CREAMED OYSTER PIE. 

Line a pie plate with puff paste; butter some stale bread and 
put in the bottom, then put on the top crust and bake quickly. 
When done, carefully lift the top crust, fill with creamed oysters, 
replace the top crust and heat five minutes. This makes a very 
good side dish. 

LOBSTERS. 

CURRIED LOBSTER. 

Cut the meat of six large lobsters into small pieces, boil the 
veal or chicken broth, season to taste; add one-half teaspoonful of 
Curry powder; the powder should be dissolved in cold water, that 
it may be smooth ; thicken as for any stew ; set on the back of the 
stove, add the lobster allow it to heat, then serve. 



16 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Meat of six lobsters, half teaspoonful of mustard, one gallon 
veal or chicken broth. Boil the stock, add the mixed mustard, 
season to taste and if necessary add one teaspoonful of vinegar; 
thicken and serve on toast. 

LOBSTER IN BATTER. 

The meat of six lobsters cut in strips; mix a smooth batter 
with a little baking powder, dip the lobster in it and fry in hot fat. 
Drain in a collander and serve on napkins. Excellent. 

SMOTHERED LOBSTER. 

The meat of six large lobsters cut in squares ; place in a 
dripping pan, cover with gravy from fricasseed chicken or veal, 
allow it to set in the oven ten minutes ; when done add some sprigs 
of parsley and serve with toast. 

LOBSTER IN CRUMBS. 

Cut the meat of three lobsters and salt them ; beat three eggs 
well, dip the lobster in it, roll in crumbs and fry a golden brown. 
Serve with Tomato sauce. 

FRICASSEED LOBSTER. 

The meat of six lobsters and chicken broth ; cut the lobster, 
cook as for fricasseed chicken, add a little butter, flavor with nut- 
meg, season to taste _, thicken, and if not sufficiently light add one 
cup of hot milk ; serve on toast. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Meat of six large lobsters, veal broth and one minced onion ; 
boil, and add the lobster cut in strips, season to taste, flavor with 
nutmeg, thicken and serve. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Mince the meat of six lobsters, three or four eggs well beaten 
and bread crumbs softened in milk or hot water. Mix, flavor v/ith 
nutmeg, season to taste. Have it very stiff, mould into rolls, dip 
in beaten egg, roll in flour and fry brown, and serve with lobster 
sauce ; garnish with parsley. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Made the same as the above. Wash the shell, fill with the 
mixture and serve. 



17 

LOBSTER SALAD. No. 1. 

The meat of six lobsters cut in squares, seasoned to taste with 
salt, pepper and vinegar. Mix with this, six hard boiled eggs cut 
in pieces ; cut three heads of lettuce and have a layer of lettuce, 
one of lobster and so on. Cover with mayonaise dressing and 
serve. 

LOBSTER SALAD. No. 2. 

Made the same as No. i, only the lettuce is cut fine and mixed 
with the lobster. Serve with mayonaise dressing. 

LOBSTER PUDDING. 

Boil three lobsters, remove the meat and pound in a mortar, 
four eggs well beaten, one pint of milk, mix as for custard, season 
to taste and flavor with cinnamon ; also add a little Worcestershire 
or Halford Sauce, the lobster and a cup of bread or cracker crumbs. 
Line the dish with ham or salt pork, pour in the pudding, cook, and 
serve with Anchovy sauce. 

ESCALLOPED LOBSTERS. No. 1. 

Made the same as escalloped oysters, with a little Anchovy 
added and bake. 

ESCALLOPED LOBSTERS. No. 2. 

The meat of six lobsters, cut fine and mixed with four well 
beaten eggs, some bread crumbs, a little cream and Anchovy sauce. 
Season to taste and add a walnut of butter. Mix well, fill the 
shell, bake in a quick oven and send to the table in the shell. 
Very nice. 

CRABS. ^ 

Crabs may be used in the same way as lobsters, but it requires 
a longer time to cook them. Crabs may be boiled, fricasseed, 
stewed, deviled, curried, fried in crumbs, in batter, escalloped or 
broiled. 

FRIED TURTLE STEAK. 

Cut the steak from the thickest part of the turtle, as thin as 
possible, season to taste and fry brown. Serve with mushroom 
sauce. A very wholesome dish. 

FRICASSEED TURTLE. 

Two pounds of turtle cut in squares ; boil some chicken or 
veal broth and one minced onion. When done add a can of mush- 
rooms, season to taste, sprinkle on a little parsley, flavor with all- 
spice, thicken and serve on toast. Garnish with red be^ts and add 
the juice of one lemon and serve, 



18 



FRIED CLAMS. 



Drain the liquor from one quart of clams, drop into hot fat, 
and they are ready to serve when they are browned. 

CLAMS IN BATTER. 

A quart of clams cut fine. Make a paste with a little baking 
powder added, dip the clams in this, fry brown and serve. 

CURRIED CLAMS. 

Drain one quart of clams. Boil some chicken or veal broth, 
one onion, season to taste, flavor with curry powder and add the 
clams ; cook, thicken and after adding a little butter it will be ready 
to serve. 

DEVILED CLAMS. 

One quart of clams cut, not chopped ; chicken or veal broth, 
one half teaspoonful of mustard; season to taste, thicken, add 
clams and butter, cook and then serve. 

ESCALLOPED CLAMS. 

The same as escalloped oysters. Very nice. 

BAKED CLAM PIE. 

Halve a quart of clams, not chop them ; boil some veal or 
chicken broth, one onion, then pu^ in the clams; season to taste, 
butter, flavor with nutmeg, thicken as for any pie, make a nice crust, 
cover and bake. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Two quarts of clams, one dozen potatoes cut in squares, one 
minced onion, four quarts of water. Let the water boil, then add 
the onion, potatoes and the clams, cut in small pieces ; season to 
taste, add butter and salt pork, and when done add three pints of 
milk and send to the table. 

FISH. 

BROILED FISH. 

To boil fish, either salt or fresh, a bright fire is needed. 
Sprinkle a little flour or Indian meal over it, and after being broiled 
pour drawn butter over it, garnish with parsley and send to the 
table. 



19 



BOILED CODFISH. 



One codfish; boil in a fish kettle with water to cover; season 
to taste and serve with butter or cream sauce. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Boil as for any fish, add a cup of vinegar to make it hold 
together and serve. 

SHIRRED PICKEREL. 

Dress the pickerel and boilwith sufficient water to cover, with 
one minced onion; season to taste, flavor with nutmeg and add to 
this one cup of cream and three-quarters of a pound of pork. 
Thicken, and when ready to serve add some nice sprigs of parsley. 

BAKED STUFFED BLUEFISH. 

Wash, wipe and dress as you would any fish; cut into dice with 
a sharp knife, and bake; add some salt pork, season to taste and 
serve with brown sauce. 

BAKED SHAD. 

The same as bluefish. To smother shad, add one minced 
onion, cover with parsley, a little salt pork, season and bake. 

TO CORN FISH. 

Salt the fish as you would corned beef, according to the num- 
ber of pounds, and it is ready any time when you wish to use it. 
Very convenient to have in case you should be short of fresh fish 
or meats. 

To boil or bake any kind of fish, you should be governed by 
the foregoing recipes. As there are so many ways of frying fish, 
it is not necessary to mention them. 

EGGS. 

Eggs are very nutritious and may be prepared in a variety of 
ways to suit almost any taste. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Break two eggs into a dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, place 
in the oven and when the whites set, serve. 

POACHED EGGS. No. 1. 

Break two eggs into a basin of hot water, allow the whites to 
set, remove with an egg skimmer and serve. 



^0 

POACHED ECGS. No. 2. 

Break two eggs, add a teaspoonful of milk, beat well and cook 
in the frying pan. Serve in an oval dish. 

POACHED EGGS. No. 3. 

Add one-half a cup of vinegar to some water and drop two 
eggs into it; after the whites have set serve on cream toast and lay 
some sprigs of parsley around the dish. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Two well beaten eggs, cooked in a frying pan, stir all the time 
while cooking. Excellent. 

OMELETTE. 

Beat two eggs with a little milk, cook in a spider, roll and serve 
in a hot platter. Cheese or other kinds may be made by mixing 
the cheese with the milk and eggs. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Beat the yolks separately and cook ; then beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, cover the omelette, place in the oven to brown lightly; 
then sprinkle powdered sugar over it and put a little cooking spirits 
around the dish, light, and send to the table. 

EGG CUTLET. 

Cut two hard boiled eggs in slices, dip into a beaten egg, then 
in crumbs. Drop into hot fat, fry brown and serve with drawn 
butter. 

DROPPED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Drop two broken eggs into boiling water, let the whites set and 
serve on buttered toast. 

EGGS.— Sur la Platee. 

Six eggs, one tablespoonful of butter or nice drippings, pepper 
and salt to taste. Melt the butter, break the eggs carefully, into 
this dust with pepper and salt and set in a moderate oven till the 
whites are done and serve in the same dish in which they were 
baked. 



21 



TOAST EGGS. 



Cover the bottom of a dish with rounds of delicate toast or 
what is better, rounds of stale bread dipped in beaten egg and fried 
quickly in butter or nice drippings; place the dish immediately in 
front of a glowing fire and toast over them as many pieces of 
corned pork or ham as there are eggs; hold the meat so that it will 
toast quickly and so that the drippings may fall upon the eggs; 
turn the eggs around so that they may cook evenly; when a crust 
forms they are done. Do not send the meat to the table, but pep- 
per the eggs a little, remove with the egg turner, taking care not to 
break them. 

BAKED EGGS. No. 1. 

Six eggs, four tablespoonfuls of good veal, beef or poultry 
gravy, the latter preferred, one handful of bread crumbs, six rounds 
of fried or toasted bread; put the gravy, bread and eggs into a 
shallow baking dish, add pepper, salt and sprinkle the crumbs over 
them and bake five minutes in a quick oven; remove the eggs care- 
fully and place upon the toasted bread, which has previously been 
put in a hot platter; add a little cream and if you like, some chopped 
parsley and onion to the gravy left in the pan, boil and pour over it. 

BAKED EGGS. No. 2. 

Six eggs, one cup of good gravy, chicken isbest^ one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, one onion chopped fine and one handful of 
crumbs, bread or cracker, pepper and salt to taste; put enough 
gravy into a baking dish to cover the bottom, set in the oven and 
when it bubbles put in the eggs, do not crowd them, and let them 
bake three minutes. While these are cooking, add to the other 
gravy the parsley and onion, heat it; a little pepper and salt and 
some crumbs should be sprinkled over the eggs before they are put 
in the oven. When the eggs have been in the oven three minutes 
pour the rest of the gravy over them, more pepper, salt and crumbs 
and then allow the whites to set and send to the table in the dish in 
which they are baked. A very savory dish. 

FRICASSEED EGGS. 

Pour some nice gravy over six hard boiled eggs cut in pieces, 
then pour this over some toasted bread, send to the table, garnish 
with parsley. 

EGG CUTLET. 

Six hard boiled eggs, sliced, dipped in a beaten egg, and fried 
in hot lard. 



22 



ESCALLOPED EGGS. Raw. 



Six eggs, four or five tablespoons of ground or minced ham, a 
little chopped parsley, very little minced onion, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream and a little melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, one- 
half of a cup of bread crumbs, moistened with milk and a spoonful 
of melted butter; line the bottom of a small, deep dish, well 
buttered, with the soaked bread crumbs, add a layer of chopped 
ham, parsley and onion. Set in the oven, closely covered, until 
smoking hot. Meanwhile beat the eggs to a stiff froth, season with 
pepper and salt, add the cream and melted butter, pour over the 
ham, cover and set in the oven and allow the whites to set. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS. Hard Boiled. 

Six hard boiled eggs cut in thin slices, one cup of bread crumbs 
moistened with a little goodgravy, a little milk or cream, one-half of 
a cup of drawn butter into which has been beaten the yolk of one 
egjr, one cup of minced ham, tongue, poultry, cold halibut, salmon 
or cod, pepper and salt to taste; put a layer of crumbs in the 
boitom of a buttered baking dish, then a layer of sliced egg which 
has been dipped in the butter, then a layer of minced meat and so 
on, until the egg is used; place in the oven, bake and serve. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Six eggs, one teaspoonful of vinegar, one pint of boiling water; 
add the vinegar to the water, dip some slices of bread into a beaten 
egg with a little parsley added, then fry brown; put the eggs into 
the hot vinegar and water, cook, place them on the toast and serve. 
Very nice. 

ROAST MEATS. 

In order to be able to roast different kinds of meats, one must 
be able to regulate the oven correctly, and of course, the oven 
should be just right; not too hot, or the meat will roast too fast or 
burn, then again, you must be sure that it is sufficiently heated. A 
little experience is all that is necessary. One should learn to give 
the meat just time enough to cook thoroughly, and send immediately 
to the table. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Place the rib to be roasted into a dripping pan, season to taste, 
dust a little flour over it, put in the oven; baste with a little stock 
or dish gravy, turn and when sufficiently cooked remove from the 
oven and send to the table together with the gravy made from 
where the meat has roasted. 



23 



ROAST LAMB. 



Crack the joints of a rib or leg of lamb, season with salt, 
dust a little flour over it, place in a pan and cook; remove and 
serve with mint sauce. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Remove the bone from a leg of veal, stuff with some firm bread 
dressing, tie the ends to prevent the dressing from running out, 
cook and serve with brown sauce. 

ROAST PORK. 

Joint a rib of pork, salt and sprinkle a little flour over it, roast 
and carve, serve with apple sauce. 

ROAST HAM. 

Boil a nice sugar cured ham, then brown and serve with cham- 
pagne sauce. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Dress a turkey, stuff it with a nice dressing, tie the neck and 
sew the gash to prevent the dressing from coming out, place in a 
dripping pan and roast. Serve with cranberry sauce. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Dress the chicken nicely, removing the first joint; stuff with a 
nice dressing, tie the wings and legs so that it will lay nicely in the 
pan; sprinkle with salt and pour a little water over it that it may 
not burn; after browning, baste with the gravy that is in the pan, 
turn, that it may cook evenly, then send it to the table when done, 
with the gravy made from the drippings in the pan. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Dress, wash and wipe dry and if very strong, soak over night 
in salt and water to clennse it. When ready to use, make a nice 
dressing of bread, potatoes and one chopped onion, with a little 
sage to flavor, season with salt and pepper. Fill the goose with the 
dressing and roast. Chop the giblets and make a sauce for it. 
Serve with jelly or apple sauce. 

ROAST DUCK. 

The same as for goose, and serve with jelly. 

In roasting game of any kind, the preceding recipes should 
be followed. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Soak over night a piece of salt, rump beef, to remove all the 
sharp taste of salt, roast till done and serve with weed salad. 



24 




Xi^- 



Hind Quarter. 

1 Sirloin. 

2 Rump. 

3 Edgebone. 

4 Buttock. 

5 Veiny Piece. 

6 Thick Flank. 

7 Thin Flank, 

8 Leg. 



Fore Quarter. 

9 Fore Rib — five ribs. 

10 Middle Rib — four ribs. 

11 Chuck — three ribs. 

12 Shoulder. 

13 Brisket. 

14 Clod. 

15 Neck or Sticking Piece. 

16 Shin. 

17 Chuck. 










3 -2. 



^x Aim |l'" .u^^ 



m:m^%mk^m 




mm 






v^ 




1 Leg. 

2 Loin — best end. 

3 Loin — chump end. 



4 Neck — best end. 

5 Neck — scrag end. 

6 Shoulder. 

7 Breast. 



25 









1 Shoulder. 

2 Neck. 

3 Haunch. 



4 Breast. 

5 Scrag. 




1 Leg. 

2 Hind Loin. 

3 Fore Loin. 

4 Spare Rib. 

5 Ham. 

6 Bellj or Spring. 




■ tf^ • 7 



,-/ ; V 



' i±M 









1 Loin — best end. 

2 Loin — chump end. 

3 Fillet. 

4 Hind Knuckle. 

5 Fore Knuckle. 



6 Neck — best end. 

7 Scrag End. 

8 Blade Bone. 

9 Breast — best end. 
JO Breast — brisket end. 



26 



BOILED MUTTON. 



Boil a leg of mutton till most done, add one cup of vinegar to 
keep it firm, and when done serve with caper or piquant sauce. 

BOILED HAM. 

Boil till done and serve either hot or cold. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Wash and boil a piece of corned beef till tender, and serve 
with vegetables as a regular boiled dinner. 

BEEF TONGUES. 

Boil a salt or fresh tongue, and when tender, pour cold water 
over it and peel it; the cold water makes it peel more easily. Slice 
nicely and serve. 

TURKEY. 

Boil till tender and serve with oyster sauce. 

CHICKEN. 

Boil till tender and serve with salt pork or with butter sauce. 

SAUSAGE. A la Duchesse. 

Put the sausage into boiling water and boil till done; this 
makes a very nice dish for breakfast or luncheon. 

BOILED PIGS' FEET. 

Prepare the feet and boil them ; when done allow them to cool, 
souse in vinegar and they will be nice for a luncheon. 

BOILED PIGS' JOLES. 

Boil the head of a pig and when sufficiently cooked serve with 
butter sauce; or, chop fine, flavor and season with pepper and salt 
and make into a cheese. Hogshead cheese is excellent. 



'&' 



BROILED MEATS. 

Broiling, as well as roasting, must be thoroughly understood to 
be well done. Experience will teach one very much, as to which 
kind of meat require quick broiling, and which do not. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

For broiling beefsteak, a bright charcoal fire is excellent; 
season the steak to taste with salt, or salt and pepper, cook it as 
you prefer it, either rare or well done. Just before serving, add 
butter and garnish with parsley. 



27 



BROILED HAM. 



A medium fire is required for broiling ham or bacon, as bacon 
is sometimes very fat and the drippings from it will brighten the fire, 
and you must be careful not to burn it. 

BROILED LIVER. 

Slice the liver, broil and pour butter over it and serve with 
salt pork or bacon. 

BROILED PIGS' FEET. 

Broil some cold boiled feet nicely, pour butter over them and 
send to the table. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

One chicken; split it from the back, flatten the joints so that 
it may lay on the griddle nicely, season with salt and put over a 
bright fire; then place in the oven until thoroughly cooked, pour 
butter over it to make a nice gravy and serve. 

BROILED VEAL CUTLET. 

Have the cutlet steak of medium thickness, broil, season with 
salt, pour butter over it and serve. 

BROILED SALT PORK. 

Cut the pork in thin slices, broil over a medium fire, serve with 



eggs or liver. 



LAMB CHOPS. 



Place some nice chops on a broiler and broil over a slow fire 
after seasoning ; pour melted butter over it and serve. 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Use honeycomb tripe, broil over a quick fire, pour over melted 
butter, garnish with parsley and serve. 

PARTRIDGE OR SNIPE. 

Broil over a quick fire, season, pour over a little melted butter 
and serve on toast. 

ENTREES. 

It is quite an accomplishment for a cook to be able to use the 
remnants of a meal and make a delicate and palatable dish, yet it 
can be done. Such economy is a great help, and should be prac- 
ticed by all. Economy in little things makes a great difference in 
the grocery bill. The author, Mr. Braxton, has always been employed 
by economical people and therefore calls your attention to this. 



28 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Cut the pieces of steak, left from the table, into little squares, 
stew them in water or clear stock; season with salt, pepper, a little 
butter, thicken as for any stew, and put in the dish; make a nice 
crust, cover and bake to a golden brown and serve. 

LAMB PIE. 

Use the remnants of lamb that cannot be used for anything 
else, stew as you would beef steak, add to it one onion minced fine, 
season to taste, add one tablespoonful of butter, thicken, put in a 
baking dish, cover with a nice crust and bake. 

HAMBURG BEEFSTEAK. 

One and one-half pounds of minced beef, one onion, minced ; 
remove all the sinews from the meat ; season with salt and pepper, 
make into cakes ; place them in a pan, pour butter over them to 
keep them moist and bake ; make a nice gravy with what is left in 
the pan and serve. 

BLANQUETTE DE VEAU. 

One and one-half pounds of veal cut in squares, one onion, 
minced ; put in a sauce pan, cover with water and boil till done ; 
season with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of butter, also the 
juice of one lemon, some chopped parsley, one-half a cup of wine 
and Worcestershire sauce or tomato ketchup ; thicken and serve. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Soak three cups of rice over night ; the next morning boil and 
add three eggs ; after it is done sweeten to taste, flavor with lemon 
or vanilla ; after it cools, add three or four tablespoons of flour so 
it will hold together, and make into balls or strips ; dip these in 
beaten egg, then in flour and fry in drippings. Serve on napkins. 

VEAL OR POULTRY CROQUETTES. 

Mix one pound of minced veal, two cups of cooked rice, one 
raw egg; season to taste, flavor; make into shape as for rice cro- 
quettes and make a sauce of veal or chicken and serve with them. 

HAM CROQUETTES. 

Made the same as the above, only add to it a little chopped 
parsley and it will be very satisfactory. Serve with champagne sauce. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

One pint of water, a piece of butter the size of an egg, let it 
come to a boil, thicken with cornstarch, a little salt, sufficient color- 
ing to make it a light brown ; remove from the fire when the corn- 
starch has cooked, color and add some hard cider, or champagne 
cider ; the latter is best if it can be procured. 



29 



BEEF A LA MODE. 



Two and one-half pounds of beef, rump, trimmed nicely; some 
carrots, cut in thin lengthwise pieces; then with a larding needle, 
lard the carrots through and through, as thick as you can; prepare 
some pork, a firm piece, in the same manner as the carrots. Put 
the beef in a sauce pan, cover with water and one-third vinegar, 
add to it one minced onion, cloves, pepper, allspice and salt and let 
it remain until the next day, and cook; remove the beef when done 
and thicken the liquor, add to it some Worcestershire sauce, strain 
and serve with the beef. Carve crosswise so that the carrots may 
be seen. Serve with gravy and garnish with parsley. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Clean and cut in joints one nice chicken, place in a sauce pan, 
cover with water and boil; remove all the scum that rises; add one 
minced onion, season to taste, flavor with nutmeg, thicken with flour 
or cornstarch and when done add one cup of boiling milk and some 
butter, about one tablespoonful; then serve. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. A L'Americain. 

Made the same as the above except that no milk is used. 
Sprinkle chopped parsley over it and serve. 

BROWN FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

The same as the above only color with burnt sugar or flour. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. A la Chevaliere. 

The same as the preceding. Make some nice puff paste, cut 
in diamonds, bake and serve on the fricassee. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Dress and cut in squares, one chicken, cover with water and 
cook. Add one minced onion, season with salt and pepper, one 
tablespoonful of butter, thicken and add a little chopped parsley. 

CHICKEN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Prepare a plain stew, and some flour dumplings to serve with it. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Prepare the same as for a stew, only you should have it thicker 
than for a stew. Pour it into a baking dish, cover with a nice crust 
and bake a golden brown. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Make the same as the above and steam, instead of baking it. 



30 



CHICKEN HASH. 



Cat. some cold chicken or turkey very fine, and as many hard 
boiled eggs as you think you will need, also cut fine; mix these with 
a little moisture of some kind, pepper and salt to taste. Have it 
just warm and serve on toast. 

MINCED CHICKEN. 

Chop some cold chicken, season, add a little wetting, Put in 
a sauce pan, heat, then make a hole in the centre and put in a 
dropped egg and serve. 

PINIONS OF FOWLS. 

Clean the first joints of a chicken's wings, remove all the pin 
feathers and stew; add one minced onion, season to taste, thicken; 
remove from the fire and add one pint of nice oysters, let it set 
three minutes and serve. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Dress and split one chicken as for broiling, just cover with 
water and boil till done. Remove the chicken and add to the broth, 
one pint of oysters, some cloves and chopped parsley, season to 
taste, thicken and serve on toast. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

If you have some cold chicken remove the meat from the bones, 
or, if you prefer, stew a chicken cut in squares, and when done, 
season and add one cup of cooked rice; mix nicely and serve. 

GIBLET STEW. 

Cut the giblets, stew with a little water, season and it will make 
a nice side dish. 

CHICKEN LIVERS. A la Brochette. 

Wash, wipe and cut in two pieces the livers; cut slices of bacon 
about the same size, broil them and when done pour a sauce of 
melted butter, lemon juice and pepper over it. Serve hot. 

BRAISED DUCK. 

Prepare the chicken or duck as for roasting. Line the bottom 
of a pan with strips of salt pork or bacon, put the duck in next 
sprinkle spices and onion juice over it, baste frequently; when done 
remove the duck, thicken and strain the gravy and serve. 



31 

BRAISED STUFFED MUTTON. 

Dress a leg of mutton as you would a leg of veal for roasting; 
place in a pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper add some whole cloves 
and allspice and put a little water in the pan; roast and baste 
frequently. When done, remove and make a nice gravy with what 
is left in the pan, add some salt pork and chopped onion. Then 
strain and serve with the mutton. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

The same as mutton, except that Worcestershire sauce is added. 

RAGOUT OF BEEF. 

Cut some cold roast beef into squares, stew it with a little 
water, one onion, minced, one or two carrots to give it a vegetable 
flavor. Cook and add some Halford sauce or tomato ketchup; 
season to taste, thicken, remove the carrots and send to the table 
around the meat. 

HARICOT MUTTON. 

Cut two pounds of mutton in squares, wash and stew with a 
little wat^r, one minced onion, two carrots and six potatoes cut 
crosswise; stew slowly and remove before the vegetables break. 
Add some Halford or Worcestershire sauce. Thicken, season to 
taste and serve. 

IRISH STEW. 

Cut the cold lamb and beefsteak that was left from breakfast, 
in small pieces. Wash, cover with water and stew with one chopped 
onion and six potatoes. Season to taste, thicken and serve. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

One pint of water, six eggs and two ounces of leaf lard. Have 
the water boiling and add sufficient flour to make a smooth and 
quite stiff dough, then stir in the lard. Fry in nice drippings by 
spoonfuls. They will be hollow and should be served with sweet 
sauce. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One can of corn and one and one half pints of flour. Mix 
the flour with milk and add to the corn, also mix three raw eggs 
with it and a little baking powder to spring it. Add a little sugar 
and fry nicely and serve with lemon sauce. 



82 

SPANISH PUFFS. 

Two eggs and one and one-half pints of flour; mix the flour 
to a smooth paste with milk, add to it the eggs, one-third of a cup 
of sugar also some nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, not enough, 
however, to make it very dark. Mix well together, add a little 
baking powder and fry the same as corn fritters. Dust powdered 
sugar over them and serve. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

One pint of milk and two cups of sugar; boil the milk and 
thicken with cornstarch; flavor with lemon or vanilla, pour into 
a flat, square dish, allows it to cool, then cut into squares, dip in egg, 
then in cracker crumbs and fry brown. To be served with apple 
jelly or wine sauce. 

BLUEBERRY FRITTERS. 

Blueberry or raspberry fritters may be made the same as corn 
fritters. Very nice. Serve with sweet sauce. 

CORNED MEATS. 

It is very necessary to be able to corn and also to pickle. If 
you should have more meat or fish on hand than you could possibly 
use for a few days, it would be absolutely necessary to be able to 
take care of them, as no economical housekeeper or steward would 
wish to lose it. Great care should be taken to save all the little 
things, as they count a good deal in the course of a year. 

TO CORN BEEF. 

For twenty-five pounds of beef, use six quarts of water, two 
pounds of coarse salt, one-half teaspoonful of saltpetre, one-half 
pound of brown sugar or one pint of molasses. Mix all the ingred- 
ients with the water, boil, remove the scum as it rises; take from the 
fire and when cool pour over the beef, which has previously been put 
into a firkin. This will preserve beef the year round. Increase or 
decrease the quantity as you wish. 

To pickle pork or beef for a short time, place the meat in a 
barrel. First a layer of salt then one of beef, and so on till the 
meat is used. Cover closely and let it stand four or five days, then 
remove the scum that has risen, if there be any, and pour cold water 
over it, enough to cover it. If kept in a cool place, meat will, in 
this way, be good for three or four weeks. 

In corning meats care should be taken to soak the meat in 
water a while, otherwise the blood will rise and sour, and that will 
spoil all the meat. 

Let it soak twenty-four hours before pickling, this will prevent 
it souring so quickly. 

Fresh meat will not keep good in the larder with milk, butter and 
other liquids or hot food. Some people have an idea that all of their 



33 

milk and butter can be kept in the larder together with fresh meat. 
But the dampness from the milk will make the meat mould, and the 
strength from the meat will cause the milk to sour. In order to 
keep meat properly, one should use a cold blast refrigerator, having 
hooks on which to hang the meat. It should have a door in the top 
or side to put in the ice, and should be lined with zinc. It will keep 
for a long time in this way. For milk, a one story dairy, built in the 
ground is best, or a patent Vermont house dairy ; provide shelves for 
the milk, around the room and quite near the ground and in this way 
it will keep nicely. One would naturally think it would be expensive 
to have both of these, but you would very soon make it pay for 
itself in the amount it would save. Also butter should be kept in a 
dry place, otherwise it will grow strong in a short time, 

PICKLED PIGS' FEET. 

Boil the feet, allow them to cool, place in a keg, cover with 
scalded vinegar and water, add some whole cloves and spices. Have 
the keg air-tight until ready for use. 

TO SOUSE TRIPE, ETC. 

Boil four quarts of water and vinegar, two-thirds water and 
one-third vinegar; remove all the scum as it rises ; after it has boiled 
allow it to cool then place the tripe, pig's ears or lamb's tongues in 
the keg and pour the vinegar and water over them. Also put in 
about one tablespoonful of cloves and three blades of mace and 
fasten air-tight. This may be eaten cold or fried in batter or in 
crumbs for a side dish. 

CORNED FISH. 

Split in the centre, and if the back bone is very large it should 
be removed. Sprinkle the bottom of the keg with rock salt, then 
a layer of fish and another layer of salt and so on, the fish should 
be placed with the skin down; the last layer should be of salt and 
thicker than the others. Keep in a dry, cool place and it will be 
ready for use in three or five days. When any is wanted for use it 
should be allowed to soak over night in cold water and it will be 
ready to cook for a meal. After the fish are carefully put into the 
keg cover with cold water. 

CORNED MACKEREL. 

The same as the above, fasten air-tight, keep for winter use 
and either boil or broil. 

CORNED ALEVIVES. 

These are so small that it would be useless to split. Otherwise 
prepare the same as mackerel. 



34 



SMOKED SALMON. 



To smoke salmon or halibut, prepare the pickle as for corning 
beef, and allow it to cool. Split the fish in the back and lay it skin 
down, in a dish; pour the pickle over it and let it stand three weeks. 
Then remove the fish, rub salt lightly over it and let it drain well; 
hang it up in a dry, warm room, on a beam, build a hard wood fire 
under it, a corn-cob one would be better, and let it smoke, not blaze, 
for three days. As some do not like it raw, it may be cooked in the 
following way: — cut in slices, pour boiling water over it to take the 
salt taste out, then frizzle with butter or broil. Be sure to pour the 
water over it before undertaking to frizzle it. 

TO CAN FRESH SALMON. 

Boil the salmon until just done, season to taste, place in a deep 
tin dish about the size of the dish in which you are going to can it, 
and cover, then press well; place in the can, be sure that it is air 
tight; serve cold or make salads. 

PICKLED SALMON. 

Boil the salmon till done and pick out the bones; boil some 
vinegar and water, two-thirds water and one-third vinegar, and some 
whole cloves ; let it cool and pour over the salmon. Have the keg 
air-tight and you should use your judgment as to the quantity of 
vinegar and water to use, enough to a little more than cover it. 

CANNED LOBSTER. 

Boil the lobster fifteen minutes, and remove all the meat from 
the shell, remove the little dark string in the back, season with salt, 
place in a can wnth its own liquid and fasten air-tight. Use cold or 
make into salads. 

PICKLED LOBSTER. 

Prepare the pickle the same as for salmon, let it cool and pour 
over the lobster, let it stand five or ten days before using. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Drain all the liquor from a quart of nice oysters ; make a pickle 
of scalded water and vinegar, cool and pour over the oysters ; add 
a half dozen cloves and one blade of mace; let them stand one 
week before using. 

PICKLED CLAMS. 

The same as oysters, only pour the vinegar over them hot. 

CANNED CLAMS. 

Scald the clams in their own liquor, place in a can or jar, seal 
tightly and have on hand to fry or for a chowder. 



35 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES, 



It is necessary that one should know something about the 
scrap bag or miscellaneous dishes, that is, they must know what to 
do with the little pieces of meat or bread, in order to be a good 
housekeeper. Never waste anything, no matter how little it may 
be, if it will do anyone any good it should always be saved. Take 
care of the pennies and the dollars will take care of themselves. 
A wealthy person should know how to take care of his or her property, 
or they will lose it, and by saving a poor person may become rich. 
As the proverb says: "It is a hard road to success and an easy road 
to the door of poverty." When we waste little things we are surely 
throwing away money, only in very small amounts of course. The 
time may come when you would be thankful for something you had 
wasted in years that are past. And it will seem as if all friends had 
deserted you, when you apply to them for help. They will wonder, 
and perhaps say: "Where is that hundred dollars that you had such 
a short time ago?" They cannot see what could have become of it 
in such a short time ; and if you should ask for the loan of a little 
they would not care to let you have it, as they would naturally 
think that you could not take proper care of any amount, however 
small it might be. So we must try and save everything that may 
be of use to us, either at the time or in the future. 

MEAT HASH. 

Pieces of meat left from a meal, may be made into hash. 
Mince the meat, any kind will do, season to taste, add one minced 
onion, if you like it a little chopped parsley and one tablespoonful 
of butter; mix well, and if necessary add a little water, then place 
in the oven and bake brown. 

CORN BEEF HASH. 

One pound of cold corned beef, minced, one dozen cold pota- 
toes, chopped coarse; mix well together and season to taste, then 
add two tablespoofuls of butter and if you like, one minced onion. 
Bake till done. 

PORTABLE HASH. 

Two pounds of cold beef, one and one-half pounds of codfish 
soaked and picked in small pieces, chop the meat, also twelve po- 
tatoes and mix them all together, season to taste, add a little butter 
and bake till sufficiently brown, add a little water to moisten. This 
is very nice. 

FISH HASH. 

Soak and mince one pound of codfish, mash twelve potatoes, 
nicely mix, add four eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, moisten with milk and bake in 
a quick oven till a golden brown. Then serve. 



CODFISH AND CREAM. 

Soak, shred and boil one-half pound of salt codfish ^ boil ons 
quart of milk, add three tablespoonfuls of butter, and when it is hot, 
thicken with cornstarch or flour; have the milk thick enough to 
bear an egg up; then put in the fish, dust a little pepper over it, salt 
and four well beaten eggs added, will improve the color. Very nice 
for breakfast br supper. 

Scraps and trimmings from meat should be saved, either for 
the soap grease pail, to exchange for soap, or saved to make yoUr 
own soap from, as it makes very nice soft soap. Procure a can of 
potash and put it in some hot water, and add it boiling hot to the 
grease. This will be found very nice for cleaning, and easier than 
buying so often; This is another w^ay in which one may save. 

STALE CAKE. 

Pieces of stale cake may be made into a delightful dish in the 
following way: sort and trim the pieces nicely, place in a deep dish, 
make a boiled custard and pour over the cake. Try it. 

BREAD. 

Pieces of bread may be buttered, soaked in hot milk and wdth 
a custard poured over, will make a nice bread pudding. 

SCALDS OR BURNS. 

One teaspoonful of molasses, one of sweet oil and sufficient 
flour to make a smooth paste ; dress it morning and night and 
apply the paste. Excellent. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. 

Mix some essence of anchovy with melted butter and cut 
parsley, dip each slice in this and fry a golden brown. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Dip nicely sliced bread into some beaten eggs and fry in sweet, 
hot lard. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Toast and butter the bread and pour some hot water over it. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 

BROWN GRAVY. 

Made from beef stock or drippings; season with salt and pep- 
per, cook a chopped onion with it, strain and serve with any kind 
of roast meat. 



37 



DISH GRAVY. 



Jbish gravy is the drippings from the roast; it is not necessary 
to thicken it, strain and serve. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

White sauce for boiled meats is made in the following way, 
viz: — one pint of boiling water, two tablespoonfulsof butter, thicken, 
season to taste and add one cup of boiling milk. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

The same as white sauce with the exception that more butter 
and no milk is used. 

CHICKEN OR VEAL GRAVY. 

Made from the drippings in the pan in which the chicken or 
meat was roasted. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Clean, wash and boil the giblets; cut them in small pieces, 
thicken the liquor and season it, then add the giblets, and a little 
chopped parsley. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Prepare the same as for butter sauce, season to taste, thicken 
and add some chopped parsley. This is nice for broiled fish or 
meat. 

EGG SAUCE. 

The same as for butter sauce, thicken, season and add some 
hard boiled eggs cut in small pieces. Serve with boiled fish or 
fowl. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Boil one quart of tomatoes, one minced onion, a walnut of 
butter; one cup of beef stock, seasoning and two tablespoonfuls of 
Halford sauce; strain through a coarse sieve, rub all the tomato 
through, then let it just come to a boil, thicken, run through a fine 
sieve and serve. 

SAUCE ROBERT. 

Six onions, cut as for frying, three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
cover it to keep in the strength, after it begins to boil cover with 
veal broth, season to taste; when the onions are done rub through 
a sieve, add tomato ketchup, a little essence of burnt sugar, to color 
it, let it come to a boil, thicken and it will be nice with roasted 
game. 



38 



VEGETABLE SAUCE. 



Two medium sized carrots, one minced onion, one quart of 
veal broth. Boil the broth and add to it the onion, minced fine, 
and the carrots cut fine, and after the vegetables are done add salt 
and pepper to taste, Worcestershire sauce, and thicken. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Two lemons, or if extract is used, less will be required, as you 
might get too much alcohol, one pint of water sweetened to taste; 
remove the outside of the lemon, the rind, cut the lemon in quarters 
add to the water, also add a walnut of butter, thicken and have it 
real smooth, set on the back part of the stove and when ready to 
serve, strain. This will be good with puddings or fritters. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

One pint of hot water, sweetened to taste, a tablespoon of 
butter, boil and thicken and add two tablespoonfuls of vanilla, add 
a little salt to blend the water. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One pound of nice butter, the same amount, or more of pow- 
dered sugar; mix well together, and work with the hands till it is as 
white as frosting; add sugar till it is as hard as you wish it, flavor 
with vanilla, keep in a cool place till it is wanted. When ready to 
serve, pour over it a cup of burnt French brandy. Serve with 
plum pudding. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

The yolks of six eggs, season as for mayonaise dressing, beat 
well and add the juice of a lemon and a little vinegar; thicken one 
pint of boiling water, add a walnut of butter, remove from the fire 
and add the mixture of eggs to it ; stir as fast as you put it in and if 
not tart enough add more vinegar. Serve with boiled fish. 

PIQUANT SAUCE. 

One pint of hot water, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one minced 
onion, salt and pepper to taste; boil and thicken, cut two or three 
cucumbers and add to it and if not sufficiently tart, add the juice 
of a lemon. Serve with fish or boiled meats. 

A LA TARTARE SAUCE. 

One pint of boiling water, one minced onion, a walnut of 
butter; boil, thicken, remove from the fire and add one-half cup 
of capers, and two cucumber pickles, cut fine; then mix with this 
one cup of mayonaise dressing and the juice of one lemon. Serve 
with boiled salmon. 



39 

CAPER SAUCE. 

One pint of boiling water, two tablespoonsful of butter, salt 
to taste; boil, thicken and add two tablespoonsful of capers. Serve 
with boiled mutton. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One pint of oysters, cover with water, season with salt, pepper 
and one tablespoonful of butter; when done, thicken and add the 
juice of one lemon. Serve with boiled fowl. 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

One pint of water, a walnut of butter, sweeten to taste with 
sugar, boil, thicken, flavor with lemon and add the yolks of four 
eggs to color it. Be careful not to let boil after the eggs are added. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One pint of sweetened milk or cream, boil, add one teaspoon- 
ful of butter, a little nutmeg, thicken and serve. 

WINE SAUCE. 

One package of Cox's Gelatine dissolved in cold water. One 
pint of water, sweetened to taste; half a dozen whole spices, one cup 
of St. Clair wine, or any other cooking wine; have this scalding, 
pour over the gelatine, strain through a flannel bag, keep in a cool 
place till the pudding is ready to serve, and pour the wine sauce 
over it. 

SAUCE A LA ROYAL. 

This is made the same as wine sauce, with the exception that 
the juice of one lemon with the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, is 
used for flavoring. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

One cup of good brandy, one quart of water; mix and heat 
scalding hot but not boiling, add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, 
strain and serve with plum pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE. A la Russe. 

Make a nice lemon sauce; beat the whites of three eggs to a 
stiff froth and spread over the sauce. When ready to serve add 
some to every order you serve. 

SAUCE A LA FLAVOUR. 

One pint of water, sugar and butter. Boil the water, add sugar 
to taste and a walnut of butter; after it boils add the thickening; 
and lemon or vanilla for flavoring. 

These recipes will be found easy, if the directions are closely 
observed and the Author thinks there will be no trouble in making 
them satisfactory. 



40 

DRESSINGS, COLORINGS AND 
EXTRACTS. 

SALAD DRESSING. Plain. 

The yolks of four eggs, juice of one lemon and two tablespoons- 
ful of vinegar. Break the yolks into a deep, earthern dish, beat 
with a wooden spoon, add mustard to taste and a teaspoonful of 
sweet oil, salt to taste, mix these till rather stiff and of a light golden 
color, then add the juice of a lemon and as much vinegar as it will 
bear, without making it too soft. Keep in a cool place till ready 
for use. 

MAYONAISE DRESSING. 

Six hard boiled eggs, two lemons, one bottle of sweet oil, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon of red pepper and one tea- 
spoon of mustard. Mash the yolks of the eggs nicely, add two 
raw yolks, tablespoon of sweet oil, a little salt, dust with pepper, 
squeeze the juice of a lemon in it and mix very nicely and 
smoothly; first a little oil, then the yolk of a raw egg, and so on till 
it is of a light golden color; when it is mixed sufficiently add a little 
vinegar and mix well, then set on ice till ready for use. 

MONTIZ DRESSING. 

Nearly the same as the above; one cold mashed potato is put 
through a collander and added to the mixture, otherwise it is the 
same as mayonaise dressing. 

SALAD CREAM. 

Mix the ingredients the same as for mayonaise dressing and 
add some fresh cream. This will make it thinner and it should be 
placed in a glass jar, sealed and put in a cool place till it is wanted. 
Before using, shake well. 

SUGAR COLORING. 

Colorings may be made from brown sugar, black molasses or 
flour and either in liquid form or in lozenge. The liquid coloring is 
called simidid, by the cooks that come from the West Indies. For 
sugar coloring; one cup of sugar, melt it and let it burn black, stir 
it while it is burning, when it comes to a pulp, add a little salt, pep- 
per, allspice and put it into hot water; stir well and when it comes 
to a boil, cool and bottle it ready for use. Add the least little mite 
to the soup or gravy and it will give a brown color and will flavor 
also. 

MOLASSES COLORING. 

Made the same way as the sugar coloring. 



41 



FLOUR COLORING. 



One cup of flour, toast it black, but not let it blaze, then add 
a pint of water, let it boil, strain through a very fine strainer and 
bottle. Be careful and not get too much in the soup as it will make 
it bitter. 

LOZENGE COLORING. 

Burn the sugar and molasses the same as the above and when 
it begins to thicken, pour it into a buttered pan; it should be done 
as much as molasses candy is, then put in the pan, cut into small 
squares, and after they are sufficiently cool, wrap in fine paper. 
*One of these will color two gallons of soup or gravy, by dropping 
one in, letting it dissolve and then stirring. 

CELERY EXTRACT. 

For celery extract, use one pound of celery seed and one quart 
of water; steep this seventy-two hours, then add one pint of good 
rum, strain and bottle; add a teaspoon of it to the soup. 

SOY EXTRACTS. 

One pound, of salt, two pounds of sugar, cook half an hour 
over a slow fire, add three pints of boiling water, half a pint of 
essence of anchovy, a dozen cloves aud some sweet herbs; boil 
half an hour longer, then bottle. Use but a very little. 

Colorings and extracts are the making of soups and gravies, 
and when they can be prepared at as little expense as the foregoing 
recipes, they should be constantly on hand, especially in restaurants 
and hotels. 

VEGETABLES. 

The vegetables are very important in the bill of fare. Although 
the rest of the meal may be all that any could wish, and this part 
should be poorly cooked or arranged, it will detract a great deal from 
the meal. Care should be taken to have them well cooked (not too 
much, as they will break), seasoned lightly, as they may be seasoned 
more at the table. One should know the time required to boil the 
different kinds; there are some who, should you ask them how long 
potatoes need to boil, would be unable to tell you. Vegetables as 
well as the other parts of the meal should be prepared and served 
in an agreeable manner. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes, put them into the kettle with 
hardly enough water to cover (the water should be cold), and when 
the water boils, add a tablespoon of salt; boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes and they are done ; drain the water off and keep on the back 
of the stove till time to serve them; then peel and send to the table. 
If the potatoes are old they will require ten minutes longer. 



42 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Pare and boil the potatoes till just doue; then mash them, sea- 
son with salt and pepper to taste, and add as much milk or cream 
as is necessary, mix well and heap the vegetable dish high with 
them and serve. Do not pack the potatoes into the dish. 

FRIED POTATOES. Plain. 

Slice some cold boiled potatoes, drop them into hot lard or 
drippings and fry brown. Sprinkle a little salt over them and serve. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare some potatoes and cut them into long, small, three-cor- 
nered pieces; keep them in water until you are ready to cook them; 
drop them into hot lard, fry quickly and brown, drain in acollander 
and serve. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Cut some raw potatoes into wafers and fry crisp in hot fat, 
sprinkle a little salt over them and serve. Do not let them soak in 
the fat. 

GRIDDLED POTATOES. 

Cut some cold, boiled potatoes into slices, broil over a hot fire, 
sprinkle a little salt over them and add a little butter and serve hot. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Cut some raw potatoes into small square pieces, having first 
peeled them, cover with hot water and boil. When they are done, 
drain off the water, cover with hot milk, add salt, pepper and a little 
butter, thicken a little, and to improve the flavor, sprinkle a little 
chopped parsley over the top and serve. 

POTATO TURNIPS. 

Pare, cook and mash six potatoes, asfor mashed potatoes; boil 
an equal amount of turnips, mash and season, then mix the two to- 
gether and it will be an addition to a turkey dinner. 

QUEEN POTATOES. 

Boil the potatoes, have them very firm, then dip them into a 
beaten egg, drop them into a kettle of fat and fry brown. Send to 
the table covered with a napkin. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Season some mashed potatoes to taste; put a layer of this in 
a baking dish, then a layer of slices of hard boiled eggs, and so on. 
Spread butter over the top and bake a golden browm. Serve in the 
same dish. 



43 



POTATO SALAD. 



Cut six potatoes in squares, one minced onion, a little chopped 
parsley or celery, salt and pepper to taste one-half a cup of sweet 
oil and vinegar to taste. Put into a dish and garnish with red 
beets. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

With a sharp knife, remove the stem end of the tomatoes, 
take out the inside of them ; place the shells of tomatoes into a pan 
about one-half an inch apart ; mix the inside part with cracker or 
bread crumbs, about one third crumbs, so it will be quite stiff, salt 
and pepper add a little butter to taste; fill the shells with this, re- 
place the tops and bake in a moderate oven. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

If canned ones are used, season with salt, pepper, butter and 
a little sugar; then stew. 

If fresh ones are used; put them into boiling water in order to 
remove the skins more easily, slice, stew in the juice, season to taste 
with salt, pepper, a little butter and if necessary, add some crumbs. 

SALAD D'TOMATO. 

Slice the tomatoes nicely, lay them in an oval dish, pour vine- 
gar and salt over them and send to the table. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Place some slices of tomatoes in the bottom of a baking pan, 
then a dust of cracker crumbs, a little salt, pepper and butter, and 
so on till you have a sufficient quantity; the last layer should be 
of crumbs, then bake till done. 

BOILED HOMINY. 

One cup of hominy, or as much as you think you will need; 
soak over night; next morning put into a small dish or basin, with 
enough water to cook it, and set this in a larger dish of hot water, 
so that it will not burn. When done add salt and serve with cold 
cream or fresh milk. 

STRING BEANS. 

Remove the strings from the beans, cut or break them into 
small pieces, cover with water and boil; add a piece of saltpork to 
the water, as it improves the flavor. When tender remove the pork, 
add salt, butter to taste, drain off most of the water and serve. 



44 



BAKED BEANS. 



One quart of white beans, one and one-half pounds of salt 
pork. Soak the beans over night in cold water, the water should 
cover them entirely, and more too, then in the morning drain the 
water from them, put the beans into a bean pot; score the pork in 
little squares in the rind, place in the centre of the beans. Put in 
w^ater enough to cover them, a little salt and bake in a moderate 
oven; replace the water as it boils away, bake till done and serve. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

One quart. of beans and two pounds of salt pork; soak the 
beans over night; then drain them, place half of them in the bean 
pot, then put the scored pork in the centre, add the rest of the beans, 
three tablespoonsful of molasses, cover with water and bake in a 
moderate oven, adding water as it boils away. Cook till done and 
serve Sunday morning with Boston plum brown bread. 

LIMA BEANS. 

One quart of fresh shelled Lima beans, wash, cover with water 
and boil ; add a piece of salt pork, when done add salt and pepper 
to taste; remove the pork and serve. 

SPINACH. Southern way. 

One peck of spinach, remove all the dried leaves and the 
roots, boil and add two pounds of salt pork; cook gently, add salt 
and butter to taste and serve. All the water should have been 
previously drained from the spinach. 

SPINACH. Northern way. 

One peck of spinach boiled with two pounds of salt pork; 
boil gently, drain off all the water, and mix with the spinach two 
dozen hard boiled eggs, cut very fine; add salt and butter to taste. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Boil one quart of corn taken from the cob, and also a pint of 
purple shelled beans; when done, drain the water from the beans, 
mix the corn and beans, season to taste with salt and butter and 
serve. 

CORN. 

If green corn is used, remove all the husks and silk from the 
ears, and boil twenty minutes in water lightly salted, and serve. 

If canned corn is used, stew it five minutes, add salt and butter 
to taste and some boiled milk; then serve. 



46 



TURNIPS. 



Pare and wash as many turnips as you wish, boil till tender, 
drain off the water, mash and season as you would potatoes. 

CREAM TURNIPS. 

Pare one quart of turnips, cut them in squares, cover with 
water, boil till done; thicken with cornstarch, season to taste, add 
one cup of cream or sweet milk. Very nice with roast lamb. 

BREAD. 

We should all understand how to make good bread. Any meal 
is not complete without good bread. We do not care to eat bread 
that is not baked sufficiently, or sour, soggy bread. What we 
want is nice white, spongy bread; it should be fine celled too, and 
it is not every one that is able to make such bread. It is indeed 
an accomplishment to be able to make nice bread. A cook will be 
able to obtain a better situation if he is able to make good bread 
as well as being a good meat cook. 

WHITE BREAD. 

One quart of water, one quart of milk, one ounce of com- 
pressed yeast, one ounce of butter and one ounce of salt; add flour 
and mix well together till quite stiff; let it stand five hours and 
knead, using as little flour as possible, let it rise one hour and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. No. 1. 

One quart of warm water, one cup of wheat flour, one cup of 
Indian meal, one cup of yeast, one teaspoonful of molasses and 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, also of saleratus, add sufficient gra- 
ham meal to mix well; rise overnight, mix and rise once more and 
bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. No. 2. 

Two quarts of yeast, one quart of warm water, flour to make 
a sponge. When the sponge has risen enough, add twelve quarts 
of water^ warm, three pints of molasses and four ounces of salt 
dissolved in the water. Mix the sponge well with the molasses 
and water, add equal quantities of graham and white flour and make 
quite stiff. Let it rise three-quarters of an hour, mould into loaves, 
rise again and bake in a medium oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD. No. 3. 

Five quarts of water, two ounces of compressed yeast, dissolved 
in the water, flour to make a sponge. When the sponge is light 
add three quarts of water, six ounces of salt, two quarts of molasses, 
equal quantities of graham and white fiour, make a stiff dough; 
let it rise one-half of an hour, mould, rise twenty minutes and 
bake. 



46 



WHITE BREAD. Baker's Yeast. 



Three quarts of yeast, two quarts of water, flour for a sponge. 
When ready, add three quarts of water, six ounces of salt, one- 
quarter of a pound of butter or lard, one-quarter of a pound of 
sugar, flour to mix quite stiff. Let it rise one-half of an hour, 
mould into loaves or biscuit, rise and bake. The butter should be 
melted. 

WHITE BREAD. Compressed Yeast. 

Five quarts of water, two ounces of compressed yeast, dissolved 
in the water, one-quarter of a pound of butter or lard, three ounces 
of salt, one-quarter of a pound of sugar and flour to mix quite 
stiff Set it to rise for three hours, knead; rise twenty minutes, 
mould into loaves, rise one half of an hour and bake. 

J. GIBSON. 
HOP YEAST. 

Ten quarts of water, four ounces of hops; add the hops to the 
hot water and boil slowly one-half of an hour; then strain and mix 
three-quarters of a pound of flour with a sufficient quantity of the 
water in which the hops were boiled, to mix into a stiff batter; add 
one pint of dry malt to the rest of the liquid and mix with the bat- 
ter. Cool and add one pint of old hop yeast and cover air-tight. 
Let it set thirty-six hours and it is ready for use. Keep in a cool 
place and cover air-tight. 

POTATO YEAST. 

One-half peck of boiled potatoes; mash them and mix with 
them two pounds of flour. To fifteen quarts of cool water add 
three pints of hop yeast; cover tightly and set for twelve hours, 
strain off the top till you have five quarts remaining; add the liquid 
to the potatoes, keep in a cool place ; it should be covered very 
tightly till wanted for use. To the five quarts left in the dish, add 
five quarts of water and keep to set a sponge. Then to this sponge 
add eight quarts of water, one-half pound of salt and one half pound 
of butter or lard, mix well, flour to mix stiff and it will make nice 
bread or biscuits. 

These yeasts are suitable for hotels, restaurants or private 
families. The quantity may be increased or diminished as you 
wish. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two-thirds Indian meal, one-third rye meal; mix together dr3^ 
Six quarts of cool water, three pints of molasses, four ounces of 
salt dissolved in water, two ounces of saleratus and one quart of 
potato yeast; this to be made into a light batter. Whatever quan- 
tity you wish to make let it stand one-half hour after mixing. Put 
into pans and bake in a medium heated oven, or steam. J. G. 



47 



NEW ENGLAND BROWN BREAD. 



Two-thirds Indian meal, one-third rye meal; mix dry. Seven 
quarts of water, three pints of molasses added to the water, the 
water to be cool; four ounces of salt dissolved in the water, two 
ounces of saleratus, two ounces of compressed yeast dissolved into 
a pint of warm water, and strain into the liquid mixture, let it stand 
ten minutes, then put into pans and bake in a moderate oven from 
eight to ten hours. For this quantity add three pounds of raisins. 

J. G. 

CREAM TARTAR BISCUIT. 

Two and one-half ounces cream of tartar mixed with five 
pounds of flour, two quarts of milk, one and one-half ounces of 
saleratus and one and one-half ounces of salt dissolved in a portion 
of the milk, four ounces of butter, melted, and mix into the dough. 
lin working this mixture dust it with flour. Cut out and bake in a 
quick oven. J. GIBSON. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. No. 1. 

Four and one half pounds of flour, two quarts of milk, two 
and one-half ounces of cream of tartar mixed into the dry flour, 
one and one-half ounces of soda, one and one-half ounces of salt 
dissolved in the milk^ six ounces of sugar, four ounces of melted 
butter and five eggs. These ingredients are to be made into a light 
batter, dipped out and put into muffin rings; bake in a quick oven. 

J. GIBSON. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. No. 2. 

Two-thirds white flour, one-third graham, with the equal pro- 
portion of ingredients mentioned in the above recipe, 

J. GIBSON. 

PROFESSOR BRAXTON'S SALLY LUNN. 

One quart of flour, three eggs, milk enough to mix to a smooth 
batter as for griddle cakes. Break the eggs and mix well together, 
add three tablespoonsful of melted butter, half a cup of sugar and 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder; put into shallow pans and 
bake in a medium heated oven; let it rise, then cook to a light 
brown. Serve hot for breakfast. Add salt to taste. Use one and 
one-half inch cake pans for this mixture. 

STOCK YEAST. 

One pail of water, four ounces of hops, one quart of malt and 
one-half pound of flour. Let the water boil, add the hops. Take 
about a quart of the boiling hop water and pour over the flour, 
working the flour through with a stick for that purpose. Boil the 
rest of the hop water about fifteen minutes and strain it on the 
scalded flour, then let it remain one half hour; then add the malt 



48 

and let it stand until the heat of the hop water is about ninety 
degrees; never go above that as it is apt to sour; always use a ther- 
mometer. Take one quart of stock yeast from the last brewing, or 
buy it at the bakers, or make it yourself by taking two quarts of 
water, two ounces of hops, one pint of malt and three ounces of 
flour; make the same as stock yeast. Let it stand in a glass jar, 
for at least thirty-six hours. A thick foam will rise on top before 
it is ready for use. Take a quart of it to stock your stock yeast, 
which must stand thirty hours before it is ready for use. Always 
keep a quart of this yeast to stock the next brewing. 

Ferment is what I make every night, to put into dough. Boil 
about one-fourth of a pail of potatoes and put ihem into a tub, add 
one pound of strong flour and pound them well together Take one 
pail of water and pour over the potatoes and flour, and blend them 
well together. Have the heat about ninety degrees. Add about 
one quart of stock yeast, and stir together. This ferment will be^ 
ready for use in about fourteen hours. 

To make a home made dough, take three fourths of a pail of 
water, three fourths of a pail of ferment, strained, twelve ounces of 
salt, four ounces of sugar and one pound of lard. Mix a fair sized 
dough and let stand about four hours. Beat it down with the hands 
and let stand one-half an hour in dough, then put into pans. 

For sponge or baker's bread, take one-half a pail of ferment, 
and one-fourth a pail of water, ninety degrees in winter, less in 
summer; mix lightly and let it stand about four hours, or until it 
drops on^e-half an inch; then take three-fourths of a pail of water, 
twelve ounces of salt, four ounces of sugar and one pound of lard, 
and mix with flour till stifT enough for bread dough. Let it stand 
one hour, knead, then one-half hour longer, and put into pans. I 
give this recipe just as I work it myself. 

ED. LEWIS, Baker. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of the liquid, that is, when you have everything 
except flour; add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of lard and one 
ounce of compressed yeast. Mix as usual for biscuit; mould, and 
make into rolls as the above mentioned. 

JOHNNY CAKE. No. 1. 

One pint of Indian meal and one-half pint of white flour, mix 
the meal and flour together dry, add a little salt and one-half a cup 
of melted butter; mix with milk to a smooth medium batter; four 
eggs, well mixed, four tablespoonsful of baking powder and a little 
sugar. Bake in a quick oven to a golden brown. 

JOHNNY CAKE. No. 2. 

One pint of Indian meal and four eggs; mix to a batter with 
milk, add three and one-half tablespoonsful of baking powder. 
Have a hot gridiron and cook in butter as you would griddle cakes. 
Serve in a napkin, hot. 



49 



GRAHAM GEMS. 



One-half pint of graham flour, one pint of white flour, four 
eggs, one-half cup of melted butter and salt to season. Mix the 
graham and white flour together, add the eggs and butter and four 
teaspoonsful of baking powder. Have the gem moulds warm and 
well greased with butter, or lard. Bake in a medium hot oven until 
cooked. 

White gems can be made as the above recipe by adding the 
same ingredients without the graham meal. 

Corn cake can be made the same as Johnny cake No. i, by 
adding the same, according to the quantity you want to make. Mix, 
put into muffln rings and bake in a medium hot oven. 

PASTE YEAST. 

Put six ounces of good hops into one pail of boiling water; let 
this boil fifteen minutes, strain; take fourteen pounds of strong 
flour and pour the boiling hop water over it, stirring with a stick, 
until it is smooth and stiff; set it away in a cool place. When you 
want to make your stock, take one and one-half pounds of the paste, 
two quarts of water, one quart of malt and two ounces of compressed 
yeast; set it away at ninety degrees heat. It will be ready in twelve 
hours. When it is ready, set the ferment; that is, boil one-fourth 
of a pail of potatoes, throw them into a tub, and add one and one- 
half pounds of flour, one and one half pails of water and one-half 
of the stock; put in the ferment and it will be ready in about twelve 
or fifteen hours. To the other half of the stock, add one quart of 
water, one quart of malt and three pints of paste; set away as 
usual. When you want to make the stock a little stronger, add a 
little more malt and paste. Make the dough and sponge the same 
as liquid stock yeast. A splendid ferment can be made by boiling 
one-fourth of a pail of potatoes, pounding into it, when boiled, one 
and one-half pounds of flour; add a pail and one-half of water 
and three ounces of compressed yeast. Work the same as the 
other mentioned. 

Mr. ED. LEWIS, Baker. 

A GOOD HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Boil two quarts of water and three ounces of hops. Take 
eight good sized potatoes, peel, and let them remain in the strained 
hop-water until cooked. Take one quart of blended flour, and strain 
the potato hop water on it, mixing it well. Add one cup of sugar and 
one ounce of salt; let it stand until cool enough to add one cake 
of compressed yeast, or one cup of baker's yeast. Be sure to keep 
a cup of your yeast bottled away for the next brewing. House- 
keepers will find this to be a very good way of making yeast. 

^ Mrs. ED, LEWT.-, 



50 



CREAM TARTAR BISCUIT. 



Three pounds of good St. Louis flour, one quart of sweet milk, 
a quarter of a pound of lard, two ounces of salt, one ounce of soda 
and two and one-half ounces of cream tartar. Rub the flour and 
lard together, make a hole in the centre of the flour and put in the 
cream tartar and salt, mix the soda into the milk, and mix the 
doue:h smooth as for bread. Roll out about one and one half inches 
thick, cut out and put into greased pans. Bake in a quick oven. 

ED. LEWIS. 
CORN-MEAL MUSH. 

Eight pounds of corn flour and one pound of salt, scald grad- 
ually with boiling water until like a batter. I use this quantity to 
about two buckets of water. For making a less quantity, judge 
accordingly. This mixture is to put into home-made bread. It is 
generally the rule to add this corn flour mush to the dough, after it 
is mixed according to the quantity you are going to make, to give 
the bread its regular weight. It will be found to be very healthful 
and palatable. Mr. ED. LEWIS, Baker. 

VIENNA BREAD. 

Three ounces of compressed yeast, three ounces of salt, one- 
half gallon of milk, one-half gallon of water and four ounces of 
lard. Mix like a good batter and let it stand till almost dropping, 
say about four hours; then mix flour enough in to make like a roll 
dough, let it stand about one hour, then roll out long and pointed 
at the ends. Place in cloth, with a layer of cloth between each 
loaf. When raised enough, place on pans, and with a sharp knife 
cut three strokes across; wash with a little scalded flour before 
cutting, to give the gloss. Bake until a nice brown. Make a little 
steam in the oven by throwing in a little water, to keep it nice and 

soft. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

Use the same mixture with the addition of about four ounces 
of sugar. Take about one and one-half ounces of dough and 
mould it round, let it stand until soft; then take a wooden rolling 
pin and roll out long. With the palm of your hand fold it in 
towards you. Put into pans a little apart, wash with milk, bake in 
a nice, brisk oven. ED. LEWIS. 

RYE BREAD. 

When the sponge is ready, take, for ten or twelve loaves of 
bread, four pounds of sponge and two quarts of liquid sponge, mix 
in one-half rye flour and one-half white flour; make to about the 
same consistency of biscuit dough. Put into pans dusted with corn 
meal, let it remain in the closet until raised enough, be careful and 
not let it rise too much; when it is about half risen, wash, cut and 
put gently into a hot oven. Before baking the white bread, wash 
with water. ED. LEWIS, Baker, 



51 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



Mix similar to white bread, only use graham flour and a little 
molasses to color brown. ED. LEWIS. 

OAT MEAL BREAD. 

Scald two pounds of oat meal until nice and soft, and add 
about twelve eggs. Biscuit can be made out of this dough if 
wished. ED. LEWIS. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One bushel of Indian meal, one half bushel of rye meal, five 
quarts of molasses, thirty ounces of salt, ten ounces ©f saleratus, 
five pints of ferment yeast or five ounces of compressed yeast, five 
pounds of strong flour and five small pails of water. Bake in a 
cool oven all night,' or it can be steamed, if wished. First, mix the 
flour and meal together and add one of the pails of water, then add 
the salt and another pail of water, molasses next, then saleratus, 
then yeast. With the last the water must be added by degrees, as 
it may not need all of it. Bake in a cool oven (baker's if possible), 
for six or seven hours. If a baker's oven is not convenient, it can 
be steamed the same as plum pudding. This is a regular baker's 
recipe, but it can be reduced down to the smallest quantity that is 
wished to be made. ED. LEWIS. 

SOUTHERN WAY OF MAKING BREAD. 

Persons who have not traveled in the South may think it some- 
what strange how they make their bread so plain, yet so wholesome, 
palatable and digestible. As I am familiar with the way of pre- 
paring the different kinds of bread of the South, I will give a few 
of the leading recipes. 

WHITE INDIAN MEAL CORN CAKE. 

This recipe is made without any rising or soda to make it light. 
Three pints of white corn meal, season with salt, mix it with cold 
water to a smooth dough, put into pans and bake in a hot oven 
until baked. 

In the South this bread is baked in what is called spiders, on 
an open hearth, with hot coals on the top and bottom, and which 
stands on three legs. 

INDIAN MEAL RAISED BREAD. 

Three pints of Indian meal, one and one-half home-made 
yeast cakes dissolved in water and a little salt. Mix the meal in a 
pan or tray, make a hole in the centre and pour in the yeast, mix it 
with sour milk; let it stand in the pan over night, in the morning, 
bake in a medium hot oven. This will be found to be very nice for 
breakfast. 



52 

INDIAN MEAL SWEET BREAD. 

Make the same as the* above recipe, only add sugar in mixing: 

INDIAN MEAL HOE CAKE. 

One pint of Indian meal, a little salt and one egg. Mix with 
milk or luke-warm water to a smooth batter. Cook on a gridiron 
for breakfast. 

SOUTHERN LOAF BREAD. 

One quart of flour and one cup of potato yeast; mix with milk. 
Mix well a little salt and a little melted lard mto the flour before 
adding the yeast; mix to a stifT dough, put into a pan and cover; 
let it stand until morning, then make into small loaves and bake in 
a medium hot oven. This is generally served on a napkin at the 
breakfast table. 

Southern raised biscuit are made in the same way as the loaf 
bread mentioned. 

SOUTHERN RAISIN BREAD OR BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, one and one-half cakes of home-made 
yeast, one large tablespoonful of melted lard mixed well with the 
flour and a little salt. Make a hole in the centre of the flour; dis- 
solve the yeast cake in warm water, and pour into it; mix with cold 
water to a stifif dough; add one cup of stoned raisins, mix and set 
in a warm place; when raised, mould into loaves or biscuits. Bake 
in a medium hot oven. 

BUTTER MILK BISCUITS. 

One quart of flour, two tablespoonsful of cream tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup of milk, one tablespoonful 
of melted lard and salt to season. Mix the cream tartar in the dry 
flour; then mix the flour with fresh butter to a medium dough. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

CRACKLING BREAD OR BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, a little salt, two cups of cracklings or scraps 
of crisp, fresh pork well mixed; add cream tartar and soda as men- 
tioned in the above recipe. Mix with milk and bake in a brisk 
oven for breakfast. 

CRACKLING CORN CAKE. 

Make in the same way as crackling wheat meal biscuit. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of cold milk, two 
cups of unsifted graham flour and one tablespoonful of sugar. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour. 



53 

GENERAL PxEMARKS ABOUT CAKE. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Six eggs, one pound of butter, one and one-half pounds of 
sugar, one pound of flour and one-half pound of currants. Rub 
the butter and sugar together, being careful not to rub them so 
much as to make them greasy; when these are rubbed smooth, add 
the eggs, work very lightly, adding one or two at a time; as you 
work in the eggs add the two cups of milk ; then the flour with 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder added; then work in the cur- 
rants last. Bake to a golden brown in a very moderate oven. 

CURRANT CAKE. No. 2. 

» 
Six eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one cup of 
currants, two pounds of flour and two teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der. Mix the sugar and butter together, then add two cups of milk, 
flour, baking powder and currants last. After the ingredients are 
all carefully mixed together put into pans and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Put almonds into a sauce pan with plenty of cold water and 
heat slowly. When the water is just scalding, turn the almonds 
into a basin, peel, and throw them into cold water; dry them well 
in soft cloth before they are used. If the water is too hot it will 
turn them yellow. 

TO POUND ALMONDS. 

Almonds are more easily pounded and less liable to become 
oily if dried in a gentle degree of heat after they are blanched; left, 
for example, in a warm room for two or three days, lightly spread 
on a large dish or tin. They should be sprinkled during the heat- 
ing with a few drops of cold water, the white of an egg or the juice 
of a lemon and pounded to a smooth paste. This is more easily 
done, we believe, when first roughly chopped, but we prefer to have 
them thrown at once into the mortar. 

TO REDUCE ALMONDS TO A PASTE. 

Chop them a little on a large and very clean trencher, then 
with a paste roller (rolling-pin) roll them well until no small bits 
are perceptible among them. We have found this method admira- 
ble, but as some of the oil is pressed from the almonds by it and 
absorbed by the board, we would recommend a marble slab as pre- 
ferable. Should they be intended for a sweet dish, sugar should 
be strewed under them. When a board or strong trencher is used, 
it should be rather higher in the middle than at the sides. 



54 

TO COLOR ALMONDS FOR CAKE OR PASTRY. 

Blanch, dry and chop them a little, pour a prepared cochineal 
into the hands and roll the almonds between them until they are 
equally colored, then spread them on a sheet of paper and place 
them in a very gentle degree of heat to dry. Use spinach juice for 
coloring green, and a strong infusion of saffron to give them a 
yellow tint. They have a pretty effect when strewed over icing 
tarts, or cakes, especially the rose-colored ones, which should be 
very pale. 

TO PREPARE BUTTER FOR RICH CAKE. 

For all large and very rich cakes the usual directions are, to 
beat the butter to a cream ; but we find they are quite as light, and 
more so, when it is cut small and gently melted with just as much 
heat as will dissolve it, and no more. If it be shaken around in a 
pan, previously warmed, and held near the fire for a short time, it 
will soon be liquified, which is all that is required. It must on no 
account be hot when it is added to the other ingredients, to which 
it must be poured in small portions after they are all mixed, in the 
way which we have minutely described in the recipe for Maderia 
cakes and that of the Sutherland pudding. To cream it, drain the 
water well from it after it is cut; soften it a little before the fire. 
Should it be very hard, beat it with the back of a large wooden 
spoon till it resembles thick cream. When prepared thus, the sugar 
is added to it first and then the other ingredients in succession. 

TO WHISK EGGS FOR LIGHT, RICH CAKE. 

Break them one by one and separate the yolks from the whites; 
this is easily done by pouring the yolk from one-half of the shell 
to the other and letting the whites drop from it into a basin beneath. 
With a small three-pronged fork remove the specks from each egg 
as it is broken, that none may accidently escape notice. Whisk the 
yolks until they appear light, and the whites until they are quite a 
solid froth, while any liquid remains at the bottom of the bowl, they 
are not sufficiently beaten. When a portion of them, taken up with 
the whisk and dropped from it, remain standing in points, they are 
in the proper state for use, and should be mixed in the cake 
directly. 

ORANGE-FLOWER MACAROONS. 

Have ready two pounds of very dry, white sifted sugar; weigh 
two ounces of the petals of freshly gathered orange blossoms, after 
they have been picked from the stems; cut them very small with a 
pair of scissors into the sugar, as they will become discolored if 
not mixed quickly after they are cut. When all are done, add the 
whites of seven eggs and beat the whole well together till it looks 
like snow; then drop the mixture upon paper without delay, and 
send the cakes to a very cool oven. 



55 

Two pounds of pounded sugar, two ounces orange blossoms 
and the whites of seven eggs. Bake twenty minutes or more. 

It is almost impossible to state with accuracy the precise time 
required for these cakes, so much depends on the oven. They 
should be very delicately colored, yet dried through. 

ALMOND MACABOONS. 

Blanch a pound of fresh Jordan almonds, wipe them dry and 
set them in a very cool oven to render them perfectly so; pound 
them to an exceedingly smooth paste with a little white of egg; 
then whisk to a firm, solid froth the whites of seven eggs, or eight, 
if they are small; mix with them one and one-half pounds of the 
finest sugar; add these by degrees to the almonds; whisk the whole 
up well together and drop the mixture upon a wafer paper, which 
may be procured at the confectioners. Bake in a moderate oven to 
a very pale brown. 

It is an improvement to the flavor of these cakes to substitute 
an ounce of bitter almonds for one of the sweet. They are some- 
times made with an equal weight of each ; and another variety of 
them is obtained by gently browning the almonds in a slow oven 
before they are pounded. 

One pound of Jordan almonds, blanched; one and one-half 
pounds of sugar and the whites of seven or eight eggs. Fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

IMPERIALS. 

Work into a pound of sifted flour six ounces of butter, and 
mix well with them half a pound of sifted sugar, six ounces of 
currants, two ounces of candied orange peel, the grated rind of 
one lemon, and four well-beaten eggs. Flour a tin lightly, and with 
a couple of forks place the paste upon it in small, rough heaps, 
about two inches apart. Bake them in a very gentle oven from 
fifteen to twenty minutes or until they are colored a pale brown. 

SMALL RICH CAKES. 

Four eggs, one-half pound of sugar, four ounces of butter, 
four ounces of flour and lemon peel, mace or cinnamon. Bake 
fifteen minutes. 

Beat and mix well together four eggs properly whisked and 
one half pound of powdered sugar. Pour to them by degrees, three- 
fourths of a pound of clarified butter, a little cool, stir lightly in 
with these four ounces of dried, sifted flour. Beat the mixture 
about fifteen minutes, then put into a small buttered patty-pan and 
bake in a medium oven about fifteen minutes. 

They should be flavored with the rasp or the grated peel of a 
small lemon or with pounded mace or cinnamon. 



56 



ROACHED ALMONDS. 



Eight ounces of almonds, six ounces of candied orange peel, 
one ounce of citron, two ounces of flour, three fourths of a pound 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and mace, mixed, and whites 
of three large eggs. Bake in a medium heated oven twenty min- 
utes. 

Chop together very fine eight ounces of almonds, blanched and 
dried; six ounces of candied orange peel, or of orange or lemon 
peel, mixed, and one ounce of citron. Add to them two ounces of 
flour; three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a small teaspoonful of 
cinnamon or mace and the whites of three large eggs. Roll the 
mixture into balls about the size of a large marble. Bake them on 
wafer paper twenty minutes in a medium oven. They should be 
very crisp, but not deeply colored. 

When the flavor is not disliked it will be found an improvement 
to substitute an ounce of the bitter almonds for one of the sweet; 
and we prefer the whole of the almonds and candied peel also, cut 
into spikes instead of being chopped. The ingredients must then 
be made into light paste, and placed in small heaps on the paper. 

BITTER ALMOND BISCUIT. 

Blanch and chop as fine as possible two ounces of bitter al- 
monds and add them to one-half a pound of flour, half a pound of 
sifted sugar and two ounces of butter, well mixed together. Whisk 
the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and beat them lightly with 
the other ingredients. Drop the cakes on a buttered tin or copper 
oven leaf and bake rather slowly from ten to twelve minutes. They 
should be very small. Should the proportion of bitter almonds be 
considered unhealthful, use one-half as many, and substitute sweet 
ones for the remainder. 

One-half a pound of flour, one-half a pound of sugar, two 
ounces of butter, two ounces of bitter almonds and the whites of 
two eggs. 

A NICE ALMOND CAKE. 

Blanch, dry and pound to the finest possible paste, eight ounces 
of fresh, Jordan almonds and one ounce of bitter; moisten with a 
few drops of water or white of an egg to prevent oiling; then mix 
with them, very gradually, twelve fresh eggs, which have been 
whisked until they are exceedingly light; throw in, by degrees, one 
pound of dry sifted sugar, constantly stirring the mixture, as the 
separate ingredients are added, with a large wooden spoon. Mix 
in, by degrees, three-fourths of a pound of dry flour, of the best 
quality; then pour in gently a pound of butter, which has just been 
melted but not allowed to become hot, and beat it very gradually 
and thoroughly into the cake, letting one portion entirely disappear 



57 



before another is thrown in; add the rasp, or the finely grated rind 
of two sound, fresh lemons; fill a thickly buttered mould rather 
more than half full of the mixture. Bake it from one and one half 
to two hours in a well heated oven. Lay a paper over the top when 
sufficiently colored and carefully guard against burning. 

One-half a pound of sweet almonds, one ounce of bitter al- 
monds, twelve eggs, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, one pound of butter and the rind of two lemons. 

DROP CAKE. No. 1. 

One pound of sugar, six ounces of lard or butter, one-half 
ounce of soda, one-half ounce of ammonia or cream tartar, three 
pints of sour milk and four eggs ; flavor with extract of lemon. 

Rub the lard or butter with the sugar in a wooden bowl ; always 
rub less with lard than butter. When lard is used a little salt is 
needed to be added. Blend the soda in the milk and pour on the 
butter; pound the ammonia in an iron pestle; then pour all in, mix 
with flour sufficient to make a batter so as to pass through a bag. 
Drop them about the size of an egg; separate on a greased pan and 
bake in a hot oven. If cream tartar is used, you must use sweet 
milk and sift the cream tartar with the flour. Baking powder can 
be used, if wished, and put into the flour in the same way. 

Mr. ED. LEWIS. 
DROP CAKES. No. 2. 

One-half pound of sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, two eggs, 
one pound of sifted flour, one-fourth ounce of soda, one-half ounce 
of cream tartar or two spoonsful of baking powder, one-half gill of 
sweet milk. Rub the butter and sugar together, add the eggs by 
degrees, then the milk, extract of lemon and the powder mixed with 
the flour. Bake in a quick oven. Drop with a finger bag the same 
as first. Add a few currants if wished. 

DROP CAKES. No. 3. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter and lard, mixed, one gill of eggs; one quart and one gill 
of milk, one-half ounce of saleratus, one ounce of cream tartar or 
same of baking powder, two and three-quarter pounds of flour or 
enough to make into a stiff batter, a little mace and oil of lemon. 
Bake the same as the above. E. L. 

JUMBLES. No. L 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, three pounds of 
eggs, two pounds of flour (strong), one-half teaspoonful of lemon 
and one-fourth ounce of baking powder or ammonia. Place in the 
machine, and flour the board that runs underneath, and the mix- 
ture will run out on the board in three long strings. Take a knife 
and cut the strings about four inches long, put each piece in the 
shape of a circle and press the ends together and put into pans. 
If you have no machine cut with cutters. 



58 



JUMBLES. No. 2, Middling. 



One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, five eggs, one- 
half gill of milk, two pounds of flour, one-fourth ounce of baking 
powder or ammonia, pound it in a mortar and mix in the milk, 
baking powder and flour. Stir, then cut or use the machine. 

JUMBLES. No. 3, Cheap. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, five eggs, one 
gill of milk, one-fourth ounce of baking powder or ammonia, two 
pounds and two ounces of flour and extract of lemon. Bake in a 
good hot oven. E. L, 

VANILLA SNAPS. 

One-half pound of granulated sugar, one-half pound of butter 
and six eggs. Mix the sugar, butter and eggs together, with extract 
of vanilla to flavor; then add enough flour to make a light batter. 
Grease the pans lightly, and with a spoon drop in one-half spoon- 
ful, apart, so as not to touch ; spread with the back of the spoon a 
little, and bake until a golden brown. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One quart of molasses, a pinch of salt, one ounce of ginger, 
two ounces of soda, twelve ounces of lard and one pound of gran- 
ulated sugar. Add the sugar last. Make it stiff enough to roll 
out. Cut with cutters and bake. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

Two and one-half pounds of sugar, eight eggs, two pounds and 
ten ounces of flour, one pound of butter, extract of lemon, one and 
one-fourth teaspoonsful of baking powder, or the same of soda and 
cream tartar — one part soda and two parts cream tartar. Bake 
in a moderate oven. E. L. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. 1. 

One pound of sugar, twelve eggs, one pound of flour and a 
few drops of vanilla. Beat the sugar and eggs well for twenty 
minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. 2. 

The same mixture as No. i. Separate the whites from the 
yolks. Beat the yolks and sugar well together, and the whites till 
stiff enough to cut with a knife. Put the whites and beaten yolks 
together and mix carefully; when well mixed add the flour. Bake 
in a slow oven. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Use the same mixture as for sponge cake only put into a finger 
bag, and drop on papers, fitted into pans; when cooked, turn the 
papers over and wet them with water to remove the cake from the 
paper. 



59 



QUEEN JELLY CAKE. 



Use the same mixture as for sponge cake. Spread in shallow 
pans and bake in a medium oven. Spread the mixture in pans 
about one-half an inch thick. When baked spread jam in the cen- 
tre and frost the top with white frosting; then put chocolate frost- 
ing in a bag and run it up and down over the white frosting; then 
take a fork and spread it crosswise. 

WINE CAKE. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, two 
and one-half pounds of flour, seventeen eggs, one-half a pint of 
milk, one-half ounce of soda and one ounce of cream tartar. Mix 
the butter and sugar well together and add the eggs, by degrees, 
two or three at a time. Dissolve the soda in milk and add to the 
other ingredients; add the flour, well mixed with the cream tartar. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One quart of molasses, one pint of milk, two ounces of soda, 
two ounces of spice, four and one half pounds of flour and three- 
quarters of a pound of lard. Mix the molasses, milk, soda, spice 
and lard together, then add the flour. If for cut cake, bake in hot 
oven; if loaf cake, bake in slow oven. 

LEMON WAFERS. 

Six pounds of flour, four pounds of sugar, two pounds of but- 
ter, two ounces of ammonia and fifteen eggs. Mix the butter and 
sugar together. Pound the ammonia and put the eggs on top; mix 
well and add the other ingredients. Add the flour last. Two 
spoonsful of cream tartar and one of soda can be used instead of 
the ammonia, if preferred. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound and three ounces of sugar, one pound of butter, 
one and one-fourth pounds of flour and twelve eggs. Mix the sugar 
and butter together; and the eggs by degrees; then mix in the flour. 
Flavor with mace. 

HARD GINGER BREAD AND GINGER NUTS. 

One quart of molasses, one pound of lard, one pint of milk, 
two ounces of soda and four and one-half pounds of flour. Put 
the ginger into the molasses, and mix the molasses and lard to- 
gether ; dissolve the soda in the milk, then add the flour. Bake in 
a medium oven. 

Take this same mixture to make New York ginger nuts. 
Mould the mixture into balls, the size of an egg, and flatten them 
with the hand; then with a milk can top dipped into flour, 
flatten them again. Brush over the top with the beaten yolk of egg 
mixed with a little milk. 



GINGER SQUARE^. 

One quart of molasses, one-half pint of milk, one pound of 
sugar, twelve ounces of butter, one ounce of soda and five pounds 
of fiour. Add the ginger to the molasses and mix the butter, mo- 
lasses and sugar together; dissolve the soda in the milk, and add 
the flour last. After it is well mixed, roll out thin and cut with a 
square cutter. Put ou to pans, wash over with the egg and bake in 
a medium oven. 

BRIGHTON CAKE. 

Four and one-half pounds of sugar, three pounds of butter, 
three ounces of ammonia, or two ounces of cream tartar and one 
of soda, three eggs, one pint of milk and ten and one-half pounds 
of flour. Mix the sugar and butter well together and add the eggs 
by degrees. Dissolve the soda in the milk and add to the sugar 
and butter. If ammonia is used, pound it and place it between the 
mixture of butter, sugar and egg; then add the milk, and the flour 
last. If soda and cream tartar is used, mix the cream tartar with 
the flour. This mixture is not perfect without the ammonia. Bake 
in a brisk oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three and one-half pounds of flour, one-half ounce of soda, 
three-fourths of and ounce of cream tartar, four eggs, one quart 
of milk, one pound of sugar and three ounces of butter; flavor 
with nutmeg. Mix the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs, 
nutmeg, milk, soda and flour. Cut with small cutters, and fry in 
hot lard. 

NEW YORK GINGER BREAD. 

Four pounds of sugar, two and one-half pounds of butter, 
three pints of eggs, two quarts of milk, one ounce of saleratus, two 
ounces cream tartar, eight pounds flour and three ounces of yellow 
ginger. Rub the sugar and butter together as for cake, add the 
eggs by degrees, mix the cream tartar with the flour, and the saler- 
atus and ginger into the milk. Put the milk into the butter and 
and eggs, adding the flour last. Put into deep pans and bake in a 
medium hot oven. 

Any of these large recipes can be reduced to as small a quan- 
tity as desired. Mr. ED. LEWIS. 

RICH CAKE. No. 1. 

Four pounds of sugar, four pounds of butter, two quarts of 
eggs, four pounds and eight ounces of flour, two ounces of soda 
and four ounces of cream tartar. Rub the sugar and butter to- 
gether, add the eggs by degress and the flour last. Bake in medium 
oven. 



ei 

RICH CAKE. NO. 2. 

Three pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, three pints of 
eggs, three gills of milk, one-half ounce of soda, one ounce of 
cream tartar and two and one-half pounds of flour. Put together 
as in No. i. 

RICH CAKE. No. 3. 

Three pounds of sugar, one and one-half pounds of butter, 
one quart of eggs, one quart of milk, one-half ounce of soda, one 
ounce of cream tartar and three pounds of flour. Mix as No. i, 
and bake in deep pans. 

MOLASSES SQUARES. 

Two quarts of molasses, one quart of sweet milk, one and one- 
half pounds of .lard, one pound of brown sugar, four ounces of soda 
and eight ounces of cream tartar. Rub the sugar and lard together, 
then add the molasses. Dissolve the soda in the milk and add to 
it. Mix the cream tartar with the dry flour; add enough flour to 
stiffen so that it can be rolled, and put on buttered sheet pans. 
Cut in squares, wash over the top with yolk of egg and cream, and 
bake in a medium hot oven. Mr. ED. LEWIS. 

SUGAR SQUARES. 

Three pounds of sugar, two quarts of milk, one and one-half 
pounds of lard, one ounce of ammonia and one ounce of soda. 
Mix the sugar and lard well together, pound the ammonia very fine 
and add ; mix the soda in the milk and add to the other ingredients ; 
put in flour enough to stiffen, roll, and cut into squares, put into 
pans, and do as for molasses squares. 

MACAROON CAKES. 

One pound of almond paste, one and one-half pounds of sugar, 
the whites of eight or nine eggs. Rub the almond and sugar to- 
gether, work in the whites of the eggs gradually; then drop from 
hand or spoon in small cakes and bake in a medium oven. 

VANILLA CAKES. 

Ten pounds of sugar, six pounds of lard, one quart of eggs, 
five quarts of milk, four ounces of soda, six ounces of cream tar- 
tar, fifteen pounds of flour ; salt and mace. Rub the sugar and larcl 
together, adding the eggs by degrees, dissolve the soda in the milk 
and add, put in the mace also; mix the salt and cream tartar with 
the dry flour. After being well mixed together, drop from the hand 
in small cakes and bake in a medium oven. Flavor with vanilla. 



62 

CREAM SHELLS. For Cream Cakes. 

Two quarts of water, one and one-fourth pounds of lard, two 
and one-fourth pounds of flour, salt; two quarts of eggs and one- 
half ounce of ammonia. Let the water and lard come to a boil; 
while boiling add the flour and salt; remove from the fire and add 
one-half of the eggs and ammonia; then put it back again for about 
three minutes, stirring constantly; then pour out on a large board 
or wide pan and with a knife, cut it across one way and then the 
other; add the rest of the eggs and mix well. When cold enough 
to put the hand in, drop small pieces, about the size of an egg, on 
a greased flat pan, far apart, so as not to touch; bake in a quick 
oven, when baked, fill with cream. 

ROCK CAKE. 

Three pounds of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of lard, one 
quart of sour milk, four eggs, one ounce of soda, one ounce of 
ammonia, salt and lemon. Rub the sugar and lard together, add 
pounded ammonia, then the eggs. Dissolve the soda in the milk 
and add the salt and lemon. Flour to stiffen, drop into greased 
pan and bake in a quick oven. 

DARK FRUIT CAKE. No. L 

One quart of molasses, three pounds of sugar, two pounds of 
butter, one and one-half pints of milk, one pint of eggs, seven 
pounds of currants, four pounds of raisins, one pound of citron, 
seven and one-half pounds of flour, a little oil of lemon and one- 
half ounce of soda. Rub together the butter and sugar, put in the 
eggs by degrees, and a little spice, then add the molasses, soda and 
milk, flour and the fruit last. Be sure you have the fruit dry. Mix 
a little flour with the fruit, but rub it all out through a sieve, then 
add to the other ingredients. 

DARK FRUIT CAKE. No. 2. 

Two pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, three pints of 
milk, three pints of molasses, nine pounds of flour, one quart of 
eggs, one ounce of soda, three pounds of citron, six pounds of 
currants, four pounds of raisins. Mix the same as fruit cake No. i, 
and bake in a medium cold oven. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Three pounds of sugar, three pounds of butter, thirty eggs, 
two ounces of all kinds of spice, one pint of molasses, three 
pounds and two ounces of flour, four pounds of raisins, two pounds 
of citron and a little pinch of soda. Rub the butter and sugar 
well together, add the eggs by degrees, then the molasses, flour and 
fruit and bake in a medium hot oven. 



63 



POUND CAKE. 



One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, twelve eggs, a pinch 
of mace and one pound and two ounces of flour. Rub the butter 
and sugar well together and add the eggs by degrees, then the mace, 
and the flour last, and bake in a slow oven. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

The whites of eleven eggs, nine and one-fourth ounces of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, five and one-fourth ounces of 
flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar sifted with the flour and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 
the sugar, then mix in the flour and vanilla; grease deep pans and 
fit paper ipside, put in the mixture and bake in a slow oven. 

GENERAL REMARKS ON PASTRY. 

GREEN APPLE PIE. No. 1. 

Pare, core and quarter twelve green apples; cover the pie-plate 
with a nice rim paste and place the apples in as level as possible, 
grate a little nutmeg over the top and put in sugar enough to 
sweeten; when cooked cover with another crust, somewhat richer 
than the bottom paste; put it into a medium hot oven and bake 
until the apples are cooked; then, if desired, brush the top of the 
pie with a little sweet cream to give it a golden brown color. 

GREEN APPLE PIE. No. 2. 

Pare, core and cut in squares, twelve apples; put them on the 
stove, with a little water, and cover with brown sugar. Cover the 
plates as mentioned in No. i ; put in the stewed apples, cover and 
bake. 

APPLE PIE. No. 3. 

Stew evaporated apples, and add sugar to sweeten, and the 
juice of one lemon. Cover the pie-plates and put in the stewed 
apples, grate a little nutmeg over the top, cover and bake. 

APPLE PIE. No. 4. 

Put some cooked apples into pie-plates, as in Nos. i and 2 ; 
season with a little mace, nutmeg and the juice of one lemon, 
cover and bake. 

APPLE PIE WITH MERANGUE. 

Pare and core apples and make as in No. i, only have the 
paste very rich. Cover the pie-plate with paste a little thicker than 
ordinary pie-crust; fill with the green apples, season with spice 
and sweeten to taste; put in the oven and bake. Be sure and do 
not put on the top crust. After it is cooked, cover with merangue ; 
put in the oven and brown. Serve when cold. 



64 

BLUEBERRY PIE. 

Make a paste as for apple pies, fill with nice blueberries and 
grate a little cinnamon over them, cover with sugar and sprinkle in 
a little flour to hold them together, cover with pie-crust and bake. 

RASPBERRY PIE. 

Cover pie-plates as for blueberry pie; fill with raspberries, add 
sugar and a little flour to hold them together, cover with pie-crust 
and bake. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Make and season the same as blueberries. 

PEACH PIE. No. 1. 

• 

Cover pie-plates with paste; fill with canned peaches and grate 
a little nutmeg or cinnamon over the top, cover with sugar, put on 
the top crust and bake. 

PEACH PIE. No. 2. 

Cover pie-plate with paste; pare, and remove the stones from 
uncooked peaches, arrange on a plate and grate over them a little 
nutmeg or cinnamon, cover with sugar; cut pie paste in long strips 
and cover across one way and then arrange three or four strips 
across the other; put into the oven and bake. 

APPLE POT-PIE. 

Fourteen apples, peeled, cored and sliced, one and one-half 
pints of flour, one teaspoonful of Royal baking powder, one cup 
of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, one cup of milk and a large 
pinch of salt. Sift the flour, powder and salt together, rub in the 
butter cold and add the milk. Mix into dough as for tea biscuit, 
with it line a shallow stew-pan to within two inches of the bottom, 
pour in the apples, sugar and one and one-half cupsful of water,; 
wet the sides and cover with the rest of the dough, boil twenty 
minutes, then place in the oven to cook the apples; remove from 
the oven_, cut the top crust into four equal parts, dish the apples 
and lay on them pieces of the side crust cut in diamonds, and 
pieces of the top crust. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

One-half cup of sugar, three cups of berries to each pie; line 
the pieplates with paste, put in the berries and sugar, moisten the 
edges, cover and wash with milk; bake in a quick, steady oven 
twenty minutes. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Stew three cups of cranberries with one and one-half cups of 
sugar and strain ; line the pie-plate with paste, fill with the cranberry 
jam; wash the edges, lay three bars across, fasten the edges, then 
place three more, forming diamond shaped spaces, lay rim of paste, 
brush with egg and bake in a quick oven until the paste is cooked. 



65 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of extract of 
lemon; line a well greased pie-plate with paste one fourth of an 
inch thick. Take a ball of paste, flour it well, and with the palm of 
the left hand proceed to press against the edges, pushing the paste 
from the centre into a thick, high rim on the edge of the plate, fill 
while in the oven with the sugar, milk, eggs and extract beaten 
together. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Proceed as for plain custard pie; add one and one-half cups 
of cocoanut, and leave out one-half pint of milk. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Three cups of steamed cherries and one cup of sugar; line 
the pie-plate with paste, wet the edges and add the cherries, cover 
and bake in a steady oven. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Proceed as for custard pie, adding thickly stewed apples. 

PEACH CUSTARD PIE. 

Proceed as for custard pie, laying in the bottom some cooked 
or canned peaches and placing the custard over them. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Stew three cups of ripe currants with one cup of sugar ten 
minutes, strain and make as you would cranberry pie, 

PLUM PIE. 

Two cups of prunes steeped in water over night, one cup of 
sugar and one tablespoonful of extract of lemon. Line the pie-plate 
with paste, wet the edges, add the prunes with the sugar, one-third 
cup of water and the extract; cover, wash with milk and bake in a 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Three cups of gooseberries stewed with one and one-half cups 
of sugar fifteen or twenty minutes, strain and make as you would 
cranberry pie. 



66 



LEMON CREAM PIE. 



One and one-half pints of milk, three tablespoonsful of corn- 
starch, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonsful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of extract of lemon; cloves, cinnamon, the juice of two 
lemons and the yolks of four eggs. Boil the milk and add the 
cornstarch dissolved in a little milk; when this boils beat in the 
yolks, lemon juice, extract and butter and pour at once into the 
pieplate, lined with paste, having a high rim as described for 
cocoanut or custard pie. Bake in a hot oven until the paste is 
cooked. 

LEMON CREAM PIE WITH MERANGUE. 

Having made the lemon cream pie, whip the whites of four 
eggs to a dry froth, slowly adding one cup of sugar; spread over 
the top of the pie and return to the oven to brown slightly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two soda crackers, two lemons, one and one-half cups of coffee 
sugar, two eggs and one and one-half cups of boiling water. Roll 
the crackers fine and pour on the boiling water, cover with a plate, 
and when cold, add the beaten eggs, sugar, the grated rind of one 
and the juice of two lemons; line the pie-plate with paste, add the 
ingredients, wet the edges, cover, wash with milk and bake in a 
quick oven twenty minutes. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Four eggs, two tablespoonsful of butter, one-half pint of cream, 
one cup of sugar, the juice of two oranges and the rind of one. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a light cream, add the beaten eggs 
gradually, with the juice and grated rind last; add the cream 
whipped to a stiff froth. Line the pie-plate with paste, wash the 
edges, put on rims and pour in the mixture; bake in a slow oven 
twenty minutes. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 1. 

Seven pounds of currants, three and one-half pounds of peeled 
and cored apples, three and one-half pounds of beef, three and 
one-half pounds of suet, one half pound each of citron, lemon and 
orange peel, two and one-half pounds of sugar, two pounds of 
raisins, four nutmegs, one ounce of cinnamon, one-half ounce each 
of cloves and mace, one pint brandy and one pint of white wine. 

Wash the currants dry and pick them, stone the raisins, remove 
the skin and sinews from the beef and suet; chop each ingredient 
separate very fine, put them into a large pan as they are finished, 
finally adding the spices, brandy and wine thoroughly mixed 
together; pack into jars and store in a cold, dry place. This mince 
meat will keep from twelve to eighteen months. Fruit should never 
be floured for mince meat. 



Q1 



MINCE MEAT. No. 2. 



Two pounds of currants, five pounds of peeled and cored 
apples, two pounds of lean, boiled beef, one pound of beef suet, 
three-fourths of a pound of citron, two and one-pounds of sugar, 
two pounds of raisins, one pound of seedless raisins, two table- 
sponsful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, one tablespoonful each of 
mace, cloves and allspice and one pint each of Maderia wine and 
brandy. 

Wash the currants dry and pick them, stone the raisins, remove 
the skin and sinews from the beef; chop each ingredient very fine, 
separate; place as soon as done in a large pan and finally add 
spice, wine and brandy; mix thoroughly, pack in jars and keep in 
a cool place. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 3. 

Two pounds of currants, two pounds of beef suet, one pound 
of raisins, one and one-half pounds of sugar, four ounces candied 
orange peel, one-half pint each of red and white wine, very thin 
peel of two lemons and one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg. 

Wash the currants, stone the raisins and free the suet of skin. 
Chop each ingredient separately very fine; as soon as done place 
into pans, finally adding the spices and wines; mix thoroughly, 
pack into jars and store in a cool place. Line the pie-plates with 
paste, wet the edges, put in the mince meat, cover, wash over with 
egg and bake in a quick oven. 

HOW TO DISTRIBUTE RAISINS IN A MINCE PIE. 

When the mince meat is ready for the crust, prepare the 
raisins and put them into a basin on the stove, with sufficient water 
to cover them; cook until tender; after you have filled the crust, 
you can put in the raisins so that about the same number will come 
in each piece, then if you wet the edges of the crust so that the 
juice will not escape, you cannot tell by the taste that the raisins 
were not cooked with the minced meat. 

PLUM PIE. 

Let three cups of plums simmer in water, covered with one and 
one-half cups of sugar, until tender; line the pie-plate with paste, 
wet the edges, cover, wash with egg and bake in a quick oven. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Wash and boil one large sized pumpkin, just as you would 
potatoes with the skins on; when thoroughly cooked pass through 
a sieve, cleaning it free from all lumps, seeds, etc. Take one cup 
of sugar and one cup of molasses mixed well together, thoroughly 
beat four eggs and mix with the pumpkin; then add the molasses 



68 

and sugar, a pinch of salt, four teaspoonsful of ginger, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon and one cup of milk; mix well together. 
This is intended to make from five to six pies. Should the pumpkin 
not be a large one, add less milk. Bake in deep plates lined with 
firm paste. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Make the same as pumpkin pie. 

RICE PIE. 

One-half a cup of rice, one half a pint of milk, one-half a pint 
of cream, three eggs, a pinch of salt and one cup of sugar. Boil 
the rice in one-half a pint of water till very soft, add the milk and 
run through the sieve, then add the cream, beaten egg, salt and 
sugar. Line the plate as for custard pie and pour in the mixture 
and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

One and one-half bunches of rhubarb, one and one-half cups 
of sugar. Cut in small pieces after the skin is removed, cook very 
fast in a shallow pan with the sugar; line the pie-plate with paste, 
wet the rim and add the rhubarb cold. Lay three bars of the paste 
across the top, fastening the ends, lay three more across, forming 
diamond shaped spaces; put on a rim, wash over with egg and 
bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Proceed as directed for Raspberry pie. 

SOUTHERN MINCE PIE. 

Six apples, half the quantity of raisins, one-half a pound of 
suet. Remove the skin from the suet, stone the raisins, chop the 
apples separate from the other ingredients. Mix together and chop 
them very fine, adding two cups of black molasses, the same of 
brown sugar, two nutmegs, the same of cinnamon, a few blades of 
mace and one cup of brandy; cook slowly for one hour; after it is 
cold, line the pie-plates with paste, fill, and bake in a quick oven 
twenty minutes. 

PIE PASTE. Plain. 

< 

One pound of flour, one-half pound of butter; rub the butter 
and dry flour well together, make a hole in the centre and pour in 
cold water, mixing it quite stiff. 

PASTE. No. 2. 

One pound of flour and one-fourth of a pound of butter; rub 
together as for paste No. i. 

MEDIUM RICH PASTE. 

One pound of flour and three-fourths of a pound of butter; 
rub the butter with the dry flour, make a hole in the centre and add 
one half water and one-half milk; mix quite stiff. 



69 



BARBERRIES. 



CRANBERRIES. 




70 

PUFF PASTE. No. 1. 

One pound of flour and three-quarters of a pound of butter; 
take a piece of butter, about the size of an egg, and rub dry with 
the flour, mix with a little cold water very stiff and roll out some- 
what square, thin at the ends and thick in the centre ; have the 
butter well washed, but stiff and hard so that it will not run, make 
into a flat, square cake and put in the centre of the paste, then 
cover by folding the four corners over the top; with a heavy rolling- 
pin flatten it to fasten the ends together, then roll out square; put it 
into a cool place and let it stand fifteen minutes so that the paste 
will get firm; take out and roll out long, letting the ends be square, 
fold half way, then fold the other end over to meet the outside; 
dust with flour and roll the opposite side the same. Be careful and 
not let the paste stick to the pin or table but keep them well dusted 
with flour. This paste should be worked in a cool room so that 
the butter will not melt. 

PUFF PASTE. No. 2. 

One pound of flour and one-half pound of butter ; wash out 
all the salt from the butter in ice water; have it free from the milk 
and water, have it firm and solid, take a small piece of it and rub 
dry with the flour, mix the flour with cold water till quite stiff, roll 
out, then break the butter into small pieces and cover the centre 
allowing the four ends to cover it, roll with a pin and place in a cool 
place for ten minutes; dust with flour, then roll and fold as paste 
No. I, do this three times, then it is ready for use. 

RIM PASTE. Very plain. 

One pound of flour and two ounces of butter; rub the butter 
and flour together, mix with cold water, very stiff, roll out and line 

RICH PASTE FOR MEAT PIES. 

One pound of flour and one pound of butter; mix as other 
pastes mentioned and roll out thick. 

MEDIUM PASTE FOR MEAT PIES. 

One pound of flour, one-half pound of butter and one table- 
spoonful of baking powder; mix the butter and flour together dry, 
add the powder, mix with water and roll out thick. 

PUDDINGS. 

There are many ways of making puddings, both rich and plain. 
Many times we have pieces of bread and cake that would be burnt 
or thrown into the crumb basket, which an economical cook would 
know what to do with. A housekeeper buys many times when it is 
not needed, by not knowing what could be utilized to make a good 
and palatable pudding. 



71 

To be good, expeiicnccd housekeepers and cooks we must use 
everything that can be used in the line of cooking, such as odds 
and ends that are left and that can be prepared again for the din- 
ner table, in another shape and style. So you see what we can do 
by being economical and trying to save. An extravagant house- 
keeper makes an extravagant cook, because she wants everything 
that is in the market and brings it to the cook, and if the cook can- 
not find a use for it, it goes into the waste pails. An economical 
housekeeper will oftentimes make the cook and others about the 
house saving; but when the housekeeper does not care, why should 
the cook.'' because it does not cost him or her anything but the 
trouble to get it out of the way and call iot more. 

GEORGE F. BRAXTON, Chef. 

BREAD PUDDING. Plain. 

Take pieces of bread, left from breakfast or dinner, butter 
one side of each slice, put into a dish; scald milk enough to cover 
the bread, when poured over allow a little more than will cover, 
because the bread will soak it all up; sweeten the milk with brown 
sugar and flavor it with a little nutmeg or cinnamon, when well 
scalded pour over the bread; after the bread has soaked it up pour 
on a little more, just enough to cover it, bake in a medium hot 
oven and serve with plain beaten cream. 

BREAD PUDDING. No. 1. 

Take pieces of bread, break in small pieces, put some in the 
bottom of a dish, then put small pieces of butter on top, then a few 
raisins, put on another layer of bread crumbs, then apply butter 
and raisins as before ; when the dish is nearly full take as much milk 
as will cover the bread; add a few beaten eggs to the milk to form 
a custard, grate in a little nutmeg, mix the eggs and milk well to- 
gether, add sugar to sweeten, run through a hair sieve, pour over 
the bread, put into the oven, bake and serve with beaten sweet 
cream. 

ENGLISH BREAD PUDDING. Very nice. 

Soak pieces of bread in cold milk. Use stoned raisins, chopped, 
and currants; beat six eggs and add to milk, to moisten, grate in 
a little nutmeg and cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and sugar 
to sweeten. Strain the milk and eggs. After the eggs and other 
ingredients are mixed in the milk, pour it on the moistened bread, 
add currants and raisins, mix it well almost as you would cake, put 
in covered tin pans, steam or boil about four hours and serve with 
hard sauce. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Make as bread pudding No. i. After it is cooked, cover with 
raspberry jam or cider jelly, beat whites of eggs to a froth, cover, 
put in the oven and let brown and serve with cream sauce. 



72 



TROY PUDDING. 



Soak pieces of bread in milk. Mix the bread fine to a pulp, 
add a little flour to hold together, add one cupful of molasses, two 
of sugar, put chopped, stoned raisins and currants into milk, mix 
the bread and flour, add twelve eggs, two nutmegs, two cloves, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon and two tablespoonsful of baking powder; 
mix it with a little butter, put the mixture in deep, greased pans, 
cover and steam from three to four hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. No. 1. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound of beef suet, two table- 
spoonsful of lemon extract, four pounds of raisins, four pounds of 
currants, a little allspice, nutmeg and clove to flavor, one gill of 
molasses, one gill of brown sugar, one gill of brandy, sixteen eggs, 
one pound of citron, orange and lemon peel, one cup of milk and 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder into the flour. Chop the suet 
very fine, chop the orange and lemon peel and citron, stone and chop 
the raisins, chop the currants, wash and dry. Put beef suet,cur- 
rants, raisins, citron, lemon and orange peel, spices, milk and 
molasses into a bowl, with the eggs last, carefully mixed together; 
sift the flour with the baking powder and mix with the other 
ingredients, put in deep pans, cover and steam from four to four 
and one-half hours. After it is cooked, turn out on a dish carefully, 
stick almonds around it and serve with hard or brandy sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. No. 2. 

One and one-half cupsful of bread crumbs, suet chopped very 
fine, raisins, seeded currants, washed and picked, coffee sugar, one- 
half cupful each of citron, milk, and orange marmalade; four eggs, 
two cupsful of flour^ one teaspoonful of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of extract of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg; mix these 
ingredients well together in a large bowl; then put in well-buttered 
moulds, set in a sauce-pan of boiling water that will reach half 
way up its sides, steam two and one-half hours, turn out on a dish 
and serve with hard sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. No. 3. 

One and one-half cupsful of finely chopped suet, two cupsful 
of seeded raisins, one cupful of currants, washed and picked, one- 
half a cupful of sugar, one-half a cupful of chopped citron, one 
glass of white wine, two and one-half cupsful of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of 
extract, nutmeg and lemon; place all these ingredients in a bowl 
with beaten eggs, flour sifted with the powder; mix into a firm 
batter, put into well buttered moulds, set in a sauce-pan of boiling 
water, boil two and one-half hours, turn out and serve with hard 
sauce. 



73 
PLUM PUDDING. No. 4. 

Two cupsful each of stoned raisins, currants, washed and 
picked, beef suet chopped fine, granulated sugar, three cupsful of 
grated bread crumbs, eight eggs, one cupful each of citron and 
almonds (blanched by putting water on them until the skins slip 
off easily), lemon peel and a large pinch of salt. Mix all these 
ingredients together in a large bowl; put in well buttered moulds, 
set in a sauce-pan of boiling water and steam about five hours. 
When cooked, turn out carefully and serve with brandy or wine 
sauce. 

FRENCH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound of beef kidney grease, one-half pound of 
raisins (Smyrna and Malaga mixed), one-half pound of fresh bread 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, six ounces of powdered sugar, 
four ounces of orange peel and citron mixed, a little salt, one fourth 
of a grated nutmeg, a pinch of pulverized ginger, a little chopped 
lemon peel, five eggs, two tablespoonsful of good brandy and one- 
half a tablespoonful of sweet cream. This is sufficient for a good 
sized pudding. Wash the raisins in luke-warm water and put them 
in a bowl with the peel already cut in square pieces, and steep in a 
little brandy; now^turn on the beef kidney fat and chop very fine, 
with a spoonful of flour, mix it well with the crumbs of bread, 
brown sugar and eggs, then add the raisins, peel, the rest of the 
brandy, salt, nutmeg, ginger and last of all, and after it is well 
mixed, the cream; spread all this in a large, well buttered napkin, 
fold up the corners and tie to the level of the pudding so as to make 
it round ; then plunge it into a sauce-pan of boiling water and boil 
constantly four hours; take it out and let drain in a seive, cut it 
from the top so as to keep it level, turn it out on a dish and remove 
the napkin carefully so as not to disturb the fine part of the pud- 
ding; sprinkle with a little rum sauce. You may apply a match to 
the pudding when it is on the table. Serve with a little brandy 
sauce separate. This pudding may be cooked in a mould, the 
mould well buttered and the pudding tied in a napkin, also well 
buttered. 

RICE PUDDING. No. 1. 

One-half a cupful of rice, one-half pint of milk, one-half cup 
of sugar, a large pinch of salt and one tablespoonful of lemon rind 
chopped fine. Put rice, washed and picked, sugar, salt and milk 
in a quart pudding dish ; bake in a moderate oven two hours, per- 
mit it to finish cooking with light colored crust, disturbing it no 
more. Eat cold with cream. 



74 



RICE PUDDING. No. 2. 



One cupful of rice, one quart of milk, four eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one cup of sugar and a pinch of salt. Boil the 
rice in one pint of milk until tender, then remove from the fire; 
add eggs, sugar, salt and milk, beaten together; pour into pudding 
dish, break the butter into small pieces on the surface. Bake in 
steady oven ten minutes and serve with brandy sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. No. 3. 

One-half a cupful of rice, one-fourth pint of milk, four apples, 
peeled, cored and stewed, one-third cupful of sugar and four eggs. 
Boil the rice in milk until reduced to pulp, beat well with apple 
sauce and sugar for ten minutes and set aside to cool; then care- 
fully mix in whites of eggs, whipped to a stiff froth, pour the pud- 
ding into buttered moulds, set in a sauce-pan of boiling water 
reaching half-way up the sides; steam slowly about twenty-five 
minutes, permit to stand about three minutes before turning out 
and serve with custard sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cupful of tapioca soaked in three cups of cold water over 
night, one and one-half cups of sugar, one pint of milk and five 
eggs; proceed as for rice pudding No. 2. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, four tablespoonsful of sago boiled in the 
milk until soft; set the dish in a kettle of hot water and let the 
sago swell gradually. Stir four beaten eggs into the cooked 
milk and sago, salt and sweeten to taste, put into the oven and 
bake very lightly. Sauce: — two-thirds of a cupful of butter, beaten 
to a cream, stir in sugar until quite thick, and two cupsful of boil- 
ing water; add cornstarch mixed with cold water until the whole is 
of the consistency of thin starch; mix this with sugar and butter; 
pour one-half over pudding while boiling hot, and the other half 
just before serving, after adding one teaspoonful of extract of 
vanilla or lemon to give it a rich flavor. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Six good sized potatoes grated raw, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of lard, one pint of molasses, three table- 
spoonsful of brown sugar, one-half pint of milk, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, allspice and ginger, two teaspoonsful of 
salt and water to make a soft batter. Stir two or three times while 
baking. Bake slowly two hours. 



75 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

One-half cupful of chopped suet^ one-half cupful of seeded 
raisins, one-half cupful of currants, washed and picked, one and 
one-half cupsful of bread crumbs, one cupful of flour, one table- 
spoonful of baking powder, one-half cupful of brown sugar and 
one pint of milk. Mix all well together, put into a well greased 
mould, set in sauce-pan of boiling water, reaching half-way up the 
sides; steam two hours, turn out on a dish carefully and serve with 
butter and sugar. 

PRINCESS PUDDING. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one large 
cup or flour, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of baking powder 
and a small glass of brandy. Rub butter and sugar to a smooth 
cream, add eggs one at a time, beating a few minutes between; add 
flour, sifted with powder, and brandy. Put into moulds well but- 
tered, set into a sauce-pan of hot water, reaching half-way up the 
sides; steam one and one half hours, turn out on dish carefully 
and serve with lemon sauce. 

PROFESSOR THORNTON'S PUDDING. 

Three cups of bread crumbs, one-half cup of currants, one- 
half cup each of chopped citron, orange peel and lemon peel, one- 
half cup of sugar, three eggs, one pint of milk and one tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Grate the bread into a bowl and pour over the boiling 
milk; cover with a plate twenty minutes, then add the beaten eggs, 
sugar, citron, lemon and orange peel, melted butter and currants, 
well washed and picked; mix and fill six well greased cups. Bake 
in a quick oven twenty-five minutes. When about to serve turn 
out on a platter and pour around it wine sauce. 

CRACKER AND JAM PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one-half cupful of cracker crumbs, one-half cup- 
ful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one cup of milk, the juice 
of one half a lemon with grated peel and three tablespoonsful of 
jam. Heat the milk and crumbs together till scalded, turn out to 
cool. Rub butter and sugar to a cream adding the lemon, stir in 
the beaten yolks of the eggs, the soaked cracker and milk, and put 
the whites in last; put the jam at the bottom, and fill up with the 
mixture. Bake covered one-half an hour, then brown. Eat cold 
with powdered sugar sprinkled over the top, or, if you like, put a 
merangue over the top. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, two cups of cream, two eggs, one pint of 
flour and one and one-half tablespoonsful of baking powder. Beat 
the eggs and sugar together; add cream, flour with baking-powder 
sifted into it and a pinch of salt. Mix into a smooth batter as for 
cup cake, put into long, narrow or oval buttered moulds. Bake in 
a hot oven thirty minutes. 



16 

COTTAGE PUDDING. No. '2. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, a lump of butter 
the size of an egg, one pint of flour, salt and two tablespoonsful of 
baking powder. Bake in a quick oven. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

One and one half pints of milk, four eggs, one cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonsful of extract of vanilla. Beat eggs and sugar to- 
gether, dilute with milk and extract; pour into buttered pudding 
dish, set in the oven in a dripping pan two-thirds full of boiling 
water. Bake in a moderate oven about forty minutes. 

ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, three and one-half tablespoonsful of arrow- 
root, four eggs, one cup of sugar and one tablespoonful of extract 
of nutmeg and cinnamon. Boil the milk, add arrowroot dissolved 
in a little water and sugar. Take it from the fire and beat in the 
eggs, whipped a little, and the extract; pour in a well buttered 
earthern dish and bake in a quick oven one-half hour. A few min- 
utes before taking from the oven sift two tablespoonsful of sugar 
over it and set it back to glaze. Eat cold. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Proceed as for arrow-root pudding. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One pint of scalded cream, one and one-half squares of Baker's 
German chocolate, grated and wet with cold milk; stir this into the 
scalded milk ; when the chocolate is dissolved pour it into a pudding 
dish. Add the yolks of six well beaten eggs and six tablespoonsful 
of sugar; bake about three quarters of an hour; beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, add six tablespoonsful of sugar, spread 
the froth over the top and set in the oven again to brown slightly. 
Eat with sweet cream or milk. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound of good, dried figs, washed, wiped and minced ; 
two cups of fine, dried bread crumbs, three eggs, one-half cup of 
beef suet, powdered; two scant cups of sweet milk, one-half cup 
of white sugar, a little salt and one half teaspoonful of baking 
powder dissolved in hot water and stirred into the milk. Soak the 
crumbs in the milk ; add the eggs, beaten lightly, with sugar, salt, 
suet and figs; beat three minutes, put into buttered moulds with 
tight top, set in boiling water with weight on top and boil three 
hours. Eat hot with hard sauce. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Proceed as for arrow-root pudding. 



77 

GERMAN PUDDING. 

Three large potatoes, a pinch of salt, one cup of suet, one-half 
cup of coffee sugar, one egg, one-half tablespoonful of baking 
powder and one-half cup of cream. Peel, boil and mash the po- 
tatoes very fine; add eggs, cream, sugar and salt; when cold, add 
suet and flour sifted with the powder. Bake in buttered pudding 
dishes thirty minutes in a quick oven. Serve with wine sauce. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

Two-thirds of a cup of hominy, one and one half pints of milk, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of extract 
of rose and one cup of sugar. Boil the hominy in milk one hour, 
then pour it on the eggs, extract and sugar beaten together; add 
butter. Pour in buttered pudding dish and bake twenty minutes in 
a hot oven. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

Three sugar muffins or bread, three tablespoonsful of huckle- 
berries, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful each of extract of cin- 
namon and cloves, one and one-half pints of milk, three eggs and 
a pinch of salt. Grate the muffins and place in a bowl ; pour over 
the boiling milk, cover with a plate and let it stand thirty minutes. 
Add eggs, sugar, salt, extract and berries; mix and put into buttered 
pudding dishes and bake forty-five minutes. Serve with wine sauce. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. No. 1. 

Three corn muffins or bread, one and one-half pints of milk, 
one-half cup of sugar, three eggs, one tablespoonful each of extract 
of ginger and cinnamon and one pinch of salt. Steep the muffins 
in milk; when soaked, squeeze rather dry and place in a bowl; beat 
up with the sugar, salt, eggs and extract; pour the boiling milk over 
them, stirring all the time. Pour in buttered pudding dish and bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. Serve with liquid sauce. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. No. 2. 

One-half cup of flour, one and one-half cups of corn meal, one- 
half cup of syrup, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one quart of milk, 
Mix the flour, corn meal, salt and a cup of milk together, pour the 
rest on it boiling; stir once in a while for thirty minutes. Bake in 
a moderate oven two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Four muffins, or stale bread, the juice of two lemons, one 
tablespoonful of extract of lemon, one cup of sugar, four eggs, one 
tablespoonful of butter and one pint of milk. Grate the muffins, 
and put into a bowl; pour the boiling milk over it, cover with a 
plate and set aside for thirty minutes; then add sugar, butter, beaten 
eggs, extract and lemon juice mixed together. Pour in buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 



78 



LEMON SUET PUDDING. Very nice. 



Four muffins, or stale bread, one cup of suet, one-half cup of 
sugar, four eggs, one tablespoonful of extract of lemon, one and 
one-half pints of milk and a pinch of salt. Chop the suet, freed 
from skin, very fine ; grate the muffins and put them into a bowl ; add 
sugar, beaten eggs, salt and extract, pour over the boiling milk, 
stirring it all the while; let it stand covered thirty minutes. Pour 
into well buttered pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven forty 
minutes. Serve with sweet sauce. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

Two cups of broken Italian macaroni, two and one-half pints 
of milk, two cups of sugar, two large tablespoonsful of butter and two 
teaspoonsful extract of vanilla. Boil the macaroni fifteen minutes 
in well salted water, add the boiling milk and let simmer twenty min- 
utes longer. Remove from the fire and pour in the sugar, eggs and 
butter beaten together; add the extract last. Pour into well but- 
tered pudding dish and bake in a steady oven thirty minutes. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

MERINGUE RICE PUDDING. 

Take two cups of rice to one quart of water. When the rice 
is boiled dry, add one quart of milk, a piece of butter the size of 
two eggs, the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the grated rind of one 
lemon ; mix with the rice. Pour the mixture in a buttered disli and 
bake lightly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a 
cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon. When the pudding is 
nearly done, spread on the frosting. Bake in a slow oven until the 
top is a light brown. 

BRISTOL PUDDING. 

One quart of sifted flour, three pints of milk, two gills of rich 
cream, twelve apples, eight eggs and two salt spoonsful of salt. 
Pare the apples, and core without cutting. Mix the batter very 
smoothly and pour over the apples. Bake one hour. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. No. 1. 

Six apples, peeled, cored and sliced; one cup of sugar. Line 
six well greased cups with the paste, rolled thin; wet the edges, 
fill with apples, put in some of the sugar; cover with more paste. 
Put in shallow stew-pan, large enough to contain them, with boiling 
^ water to reach half way up the sides of the cups. Steam forty 
minutes. Turn out on dish and sprinkle powdered sugar over them. 
Serve with spice or lemon sauce. 



79 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. No. 2. 

Six apples, peeled, cored and sliced; one cup of sugar. Make 
paste and roll thin, almost square; fill the paste with apples and 
sprinkle with sugar. Roll the paste, with the apples inside, turning 
the paste in at the corners to prevent the apples from falling out. 
Put in a clean, white cloth, and sew up the ends. Boil one hour 
in a kettle of boiling water. Serve with wine sauce. 

COMMON BATTER. 

Two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch 
of salt, four eggs and two cups of milk. Sift the flour, salt and 
baking powder together; add the beaten eggs and milk mixed into 
a batter as for griddle cakes. 

HUCKLEBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Make as directed for apple dumplings No. 2. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS. 

Proceed as for apple dumplings No. 2. 

STRAWBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Make as directed for apple dumplings No. 2. 

FARINA DUMPLINGS. 

One quart of milk, ten ounces of farina, three eggs, one and 
one-half tablespoonsful of baking powder, one tablespoonful of 
butter and one-half pound of fine flour. Bring the milk to a boil, stir 
in the farina and boil till well done, stirring constantly. When cool, 
stir in the melted butter, and eggs, previously beaten; and last add 
the sifted flour, baking powder and salt. Drop with tablespoon in- 
to boiling water, well salted. Boil about fifteen minutes. Take 
out with skimmer. Serve with fruit sauce. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. 

Two cups of suet chopped fine, two cups of grated muffins or 
bread, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
cup of sugar, four eggs, one quart of milk and a large pinch of 
salt. Sift together the flour, powder and salt ; add the beaten eggs, 
grated muffins, sugar, suet and milk. Form into a smooth batter 
and drop by tablespoonsful into a quart of boiling milk, three or 
four at a time. When done, dish and pour over them the milk they 
were boiled in. 

CALVES LIVER DUMPLINGS. Very nice. 

A calf's liver w^ell washed, skinned and scraped with a sharp 
knife, taking out all the stringy parts or sinews; add to this the 
same quantity of stale wheat bread, grated fine; pepper and salt to 
taste. Cut onions stewed in a little butter may be added, if liked. 
Mix well and form into balls; put into boiling water and boil about 
fifteen minutes. Take out with skimmer. Serve with any kind of 
meat fricassee. 



80 

DESSERTS AND ICES. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-half package of Cox's gelatine, one pint of cream, one- 
half cup of white wine, four lemons, the whites of five eggs, one 
tablespoonful of vanilla and one pound of powdered sugar. Soak 
the gelatine in cold water or milk, just cover it with water and let 
soak till very soft; then dissolve it on the stove, and strain. Beat 
the cream to a stiff froth, also the whites of the eggs; add the 
juice of the lemons and the sugar. Mix the cream and whites to- 
gether, put the vanilla into the gelatine, and pour the wine and 
gelatine to the other ingredients, stirring slowly till it thickens. 
Line moulds with sponge cake; pour in the mixture, and set in a 
cool place until ready for use. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. 2. 

One-half package of gelatine, one gill of white wine, one pint 
of cream, the whites of three eggs, two lemons, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar and the yolks 
of three eggs. Proceed as for charlotte russe No. i, only beat the 
yolks separate with sugar and add last. Stir in the gelatine until 
stiff. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. 3. 

One cup of cream, four lemons, three-quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar, the whites of four eggs and one-half teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Beat the cream very stiff, and the eggs to a froth; add 
the juice of lemons, and vanilla last; sugar and mix well together. 
Line moulds with cake, pour in the mixture and let stand until 
ready for use. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. 4. 

Two tablespoonsful of gelatine soaked in a little cold milk two 
hours, two cups of rich cream and one teacup of milk. Whip the 
cream stiff in a large bowl and set on the ice. Boil milk and pour 
it over the gelatine until it is dissolved, then strain; when cold add 
whipped cream, a spoonful at a time, sweeten with powdered sugar 
and flavor with vanilla. Line dish with lady fingers or sponge cake, 
pour on the mixture and set in a cool place to harden. 

Custards require to be made carefully, and need not, unless 
occasion demands it, be made expensively. The plain, boiled cus- 
tard, usually served with tarts or puddings, may be cheaply pre- 
pared. Custards may have the delicate flavor of lemon, orange, 
rose, vanilla, nutmeg, etc., communicated to them by flavoring ex- 
tracts. A few drops of rose will answer where a teaspoonful of 
vanilla would be required. By their use the necessity of straining 
the custard is avoided. Flavoring should be used after boiling, 
that the fine aroma need not be lost by the heat. 



81 

BANANA CUSTARD. 

Bake a white custard as follows: — two tablespoonsful of corn 
starch, wet with enough water to dissolve it, one cup of granu- 
lated sugar and one-third cup of butter. Stir together into a pud- 
ding mould or earthern dish and pour in enough water to make a 
thick custard. Beat the whites of three eggs to snow and stir into 
the custard. Bake fifteen minutes in the oven, o;- for the same 
length of time in a pot of boiling water. Set aside until perfectly 
cold, then remove the slight crust that will have formed on top. 
Have ready the dish in which you are to serve your custard, and 
some fresh, ripe bananas, minced finely. Mix with the custard 
and pour into the dish. Add a meringue made of the beaten whites 
of eggs and one-half cup of powdered sugar. 

A fine custard may be made according to the above recipe by 
using peaches instead of bananas, or Bartlett pears. Milk should 
never be used with acid fruits, particularly in warm weather; and 
pure cream in any quantity is a severe tax on a weak stomach. 

The custards for which formulae are given here, can be made 
thus as real cream, and answer the same purposes, and in most 
cases are quite as palatable as the ordinary milk cream, and are 
without the danger of being curdled by the acidity of the fruit. 

Tapioca, arrow-root, etc., may be substituted for corn starch in 
the making of these custards. Pineapples, raspberries and straw- 
berries are delicious served in this way. Custards with an extra 
allowance of butter and a flavoring of vanilla, almond or rose, make 
delicious cream pies. Bake with either one or two crusts of rich 
puff paste. If the former, make a meringue by using the yolks as 
well as the whites of the eggs. 

By using the grated rind and juice of lemons or oranges, oi 
both, delicous orange and lemon pies are made. These should be 
made with only one crust. 

BANANA PIES. 

Make a white custard as above, and mix with the pulp of ripe 
bananas, pressed through a cullender or sieve. Bake in a rich, 
open pastry crust and finish with a meringue. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Pour two tablespoonsful of boiling water over two ounces of 
grated chocolate; let it stand near the fire till perfectly dissolved, 
add a pint of milk mixed with a pint of cream, a pinch of salt and 
three ounces of sugar. Simmer over the fire ten minutes, then add 
the yolks of eight beaten eggs and stir to a froth while it thickens. 
Pour out to cool. 



82 



BOILED CUSTARD. 



One quart of milk, eight eggs, the peel of one large lemon, 
three laurel leaves and one-half pound of sugar. Pour the milk 
into a sauce-pan with the laurel leaves and lemon peel; set on the 
stove twenty minutes and when on the point of boiling, strain into 
a bowl to cool. Stir in the sugar and beaten eggs; again strain 
into a jug, place in a deep sauce-pan of boiling water and stir one 
way until it thickens. Pour into custard cups and serve with cider 
jelly at the bottom. 

VANILLA CUSTARD. 

Boil one pint of cream with four ounces of sugar one-quarter 
of an hour, then strain through muslin. Beat the ydlksof six eggs 
and pour milk over them into a bowl, placing the bowl over a pan 
of boiling water and stirring rapidly till it thickens. Let it cool grad- 
ually ; add one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla, and stir continually. 
When cold, serve in a dish covered with the whipped whites of eggs 
sifted over with sugar. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of milk, one-half box of gelatine soaked in a cup 
of water, four tablespoonsful of grated chocolate rubbed smooth in 
a little milk, three eggs and extract of vanilla. Heat the milk until 
it boils, then add the other ingredients. Boil eight minutes and 
pour into moulds. Serve with cream or custard. 

TARTS. 

Currants, gooseberries, apple or other fruits can be used for 
tarts. Time to bake from twenty minutes to one and one-half hours. 
One quart of gooseberries, rather more than one-half pound of 
paste and sugar to taste. Remove the tops and tails from the 
gooseberries, or pick the currants from their stalks, or pare and 
core the apples; put them into a pie-plate with paste, pour a little 
water over it, put on a cover, ornament the edges in the usual man- 
ner and bake in a brisk oven. 

TARTLETS. 

Bake one-quarter of an hour. Line patty-pans with puff paste, 
fill them with any kind of jam or preserve and bake lightly. 

OPEN JAM TART. 

Bake until the paste loosens from the dish. Line a shallow 
tin dish with puff paste and put in the jam. Roll out some of the 
paste, wet lightly with the yolks of eggs beaten with a little milk 
and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar; cut it in narrow strips and 
place them across the tarts, lay another strip around the edge, trim 
off the outside and bake in a quick oven. 



83 



ICED FRUITS FOR DESSERTS. 



Any desirable fruit may be easily iced by dipping the fruit first 
into the beaten white of an egg, then into finely powdered sugar, 
again in the egg, sugar, and so on until it is of the desired thickness. 
For this purpose oranges or lemons should be carefully pared, and, 
as far as possible, all the inner white skin removed, to prevent a 
bitter taste. If lemons are used, cut in thin slices ; if oranges, quar- 
ter. For cherries, strawberries, currants, etc., choose the largest 
and finest, leaving out the stems. Peaches should be pared and 
cut in halves. Sweet, juicy pears may be treated in the same man- 
ner, or look nicely when pared, leaving on the stems. Iced pine- 
apple should be cut in thin slices and again divided into quarters,. 

LEMON SHERBET OR ICE. Very nice. 

One gallon of water and twelve lemons. Squeeze the lemon 
juice through a fine sieve. When the water nearly boils add the 
lemon juice. Take from the fire and put it into the freezer, freezing 
till hard; be careful and not let it freeze too hard. Have it a nice 
frosty color. Add sugar to sweeten very sweet. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

This may be made like the lemon ice, only cut the pineapple in 
very small pieces. Put in the water and freeze. Add plenty of 
sugar. 

PEACH SHERBET OR ICE. Very delicate. 

Twelve ripe or canned peaches and two quarts of water, 
sweeten to taste ; add the juice of four or five lemons, put in the 
peaches and freeze as you would for lemon sherbet. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICES. 

Proceed as for peach sherbet. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Two cups of raisins, stemmed and stoned ; the same quantity 
of peaches, two quarts of milk, sweeten to taste; add a little extract 
of vanilla. Put in peaches and raisins and one half box of Cox's 
gelatine; add to the milk when ready to freeze. Freeze, take out 
and put into moulds; pack in ice until ready to serve. Water can 
be used instead of milk^but if so, extract of lemon should be added 
in place of vanilla. 

ICE CREAMS. 

There is often great difficulty in making good ice creams, either 
by too little flavoring, or too much freezing. Creams are sometimes 
made from boiled custard, and then again from milk and sweet 
cream, but in so doing corn starch should not be used, because 
when frozen it is liable to be too solid. 



u 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of sweet cream, sugar to sweeten very sweet, flavor 
with vanilla; freeze to a firm, hard cream. Draw off the water and 
repack with coarse salt and ice. Let it stand till ready to serve. 

The writer thinks it necessary to mention the process of freez- 
ing, as some have the idea that all the water must be drawn off 
when freezing; but that is not necessary. When ready to freeze 
crack the ice as fine as possible and put it around the freezer, then 
a layer of salt, then another layer of ice, another layer of salt and 
so on until the freezer is full, not allowing it to reach the top as some 
might fall inside; then begin to freeze. When the ice begins to settle 
as it melts, draw off a little of the water to keep it from overflowing; 
then repack, and so on till done. When the cream is frozen suffi- 
cientl}'', take out the dasher, and pack with salt and ice as at first; 
be sure then to draw off all the water. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. No. 2. 

Put on two quarts of sweet milk to boil; add sugar to sweeten. 
When boiling add six beaten eggs, stirring continually. Remove 
from the fire and strain through a hair sieve. Flavor with vanilla, 
and freeze. 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE AND LEMON ICE CREAM. 

May be made in the same way. Strain in coffee to suit the 
taste, sweeten and freeze. 

Chocolate — Grate the chocolate fine, moisten with water, strain, 
add to the cream and freeze. 

Lemon — Flavor with extract of lemon and sweeten to taste. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of new cream, made very sweet with sugar. Pare 
and cut the oranges in small pieces; then add to the cream and 
freeze. Use eight or ten oranges to flavor nicely. 

GENERAL REMARKS ON JELLIES. 

One package of Cox's gelatine; let it soak in water sufficient 
to cover it when soaked very soft. Let one quart of water come 
to a boil; then add the gelatine, two lemons and one-half pound of 
sugar; let this boil, then add the beaten whites of two eggs, stirring 
constantly till the eggs are cooked. Wet a flannel bag in warm water, 
that the gelatine may run through. Pour in the jelly, letting it run 
through slowly until the contents become clear; then empty the 
bag, wash and run through again. Put in moulds and set in a cool 
place to harden. 



85 

WINE JELLY. 

One package of Cox's gelatine, soak as in the above recipe; 
one pint of water, one cup of white wine, one lemon, one-half pound 
of granulated sugar, one stick of cinnamon and the whites of two 
eggs. Let the water come to a boil ; then add the gelatine, sugar, 
cinnamon and lemon. After it has boiled about twenty minutes, 
add the beaten whites of eggs and cook until the eggs are done ; take 
from the fire and add the wine; mix well, strain through a flannel 
bag twice. Put into moulds and set aside in a cool place to harden. 

JELLY MADE FROM THE STOCK POT. Aspic Jelly. 

Take bones of beef or any fresh meat bones that are prepared 
for the stock pot, wash and trim off all the fat, cover with cold 
water and let it simmer on the back of the range about twenty-four 
hours. When it is boiled down about half, draw it off, put it into 
a porcelain pail and set away to cool ; then skim off all the fat that 
rises on top. Dip out the jellied stock with a spoon so as not to 
get the settlings. Put it into a porcelain pail ; flavor with cinnamon 
and one or two lemons, according to the quantity of stock, sweeten 
with granulated sugar; boil down slowly. Take the whites of two 
or three eggs beaten to a froth, adding them last, stir with a spoon 
until cooked. Take from the fire and strain through a flannel bag. 

The greatest failure in making jellies is to get them clear. 
They should be as clear as crystal. Be sure and not strain before 
the egg is thoroughly cooked, for in so doing the jelly will have a 
milky color. Sweet jellies, can be made from stock as from crystal- 
ized gelatine, by flavoring and sweetening as in the foregoing recipes. 
Also to make from stock, boil it down and let cool, take off all the 
fat that rises on top; flavor with mace, cinnamon and celery. Boil 
about twenty minutes, season with salt and pepper, add the whites 
of eggs and strain through a flannel bag till clear. Serve with 
tongue or boned turkey. Salt and pepper should be used very light. 

RIBBON JELLY. 

Soak one package of gelatine in cold water two or three hours. 
Boil one quart of water and add the juice of three lemons, one-half 
pound of sugar, a little cinnamon and one half gill of white wine 
last; add the gelatine, dissolve and mix well. Takeout about one- 
third of the liquor and put it into another dish; add two sheets of 
red gelatine or cochineal to give the pink color; then take another 
third of the liquor from the plain gelatine, and color purple with 
cochineal. Let the three boil gently abotrt ten minutes, add the 
beaten whites of two eggs to each dish of liquid jelly and let them 
boil two minutes more. Have three separate jelly bags; strain 
and put the plain or wine jelly at the bottom of a quart mould; let 
this harden before adding the other color; when this is hard pom 



86 

on the purple, then the pink after the purple is cold. When ready 
to serve, set the mould in a pan of warm water, that the jelly may 
slip from the mould easily. Turn into a glass dish. This makes a 
very pretty dish when properly made. 

These recipes may look very simple, but when carefully prac- 
ticed, will be found to be very nice, because they have all been 
tried by the writer. 

GENERAL REMARKS ABOUT CATERING. 

To cater for parties or spreads we w^ant to have a plenty, and 
not too much left over to be wasted. In so doing we must know 
the number of persons to be in the party, so as to make no mistake 
in JDuying the quantity of food to supply them. Always be sure to 
have plenty of solids or meat in the first course, so that when 
the desserts and fruits are put on the table they will soon have 
plenty, even though the fruits should fall short. 

For a party of twenty five persons: — two cold boiled tongues, 
sliced thin; one boiled twelve pound ham, cold and sliced thin. 
This tongue and ham will give you all you will want for two medium 
sized platters. Also have three fowls, boiled, picked from the bones 
and chopped fine for chicken sandwiches ; it will make from twenty- 
five to thirty. For lobster salad, take ten lobsters, pick from the 
shell and cut in small pieces. Two quarts of ice cream, three 
loaves of cake, one each of plain, citron and fruit; thirty bananas, 
twenty apples, three pints of cracked nuts and two quarts of strong 
coffee. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Chop the chicken very fine, then season with salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix a tablespoonful of dry mustard into two and one- 
half pounds of butter, then mix in the chicken. If it works stiff, 
add a very little warm water, enough to make a smooth paste that 
can be spread with a palette knife between the slices. Put the 
bread together, trim nicely and arrange on a dish for the table. 
The above bill of fare is suitable for either dinner or supper. 

BILL OF FARE. 

For a party of twenty-five persons. 

Cold Tongue. — Two medium sized. 

Cold Ham. — One twelve pound ham. 

Chicken Safidwiches. — Thirty. 

Lobster Salad. — Ten or twelve lobsters. 

Ice Creafn. — Two quarts. 

Cake. — One loaf each of plain, citron and itfru. 

Nuts. — Mixed, three pints, cracked. 

Coffee. — Two quarts. 



87 



BILL OF FARE. 



For a party of fifty persons. 

Soup. — Tomato, four quarts. 

Fish. — Boiled salmon, sixteen pounds. 

Removes. — Roast ribs of beef, thirty pounds; chicken salad, 
three quarts; mashed potatoes, nine quarts; boiled sweet corn, 
eight cans. 

Dessert. — Vanilla ice cream, eight quarts; bananas, fifty; mixed 
nuts, three quarts; coffee, two gallons. 

This bill of fare, if carefully served,'will be enough with some 
left over. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SETTING A TABLE. 

To set a table in a dining room, plainly furnished without 
pictures on the wall, set the table as near the centre of the room 
as possible. It is customary to have a white linen cloth on the 
table, and there may be a plain red cloth in the centre, on which 
the castor is placed. Arrange the cups and soup in front of the 
lady of the house, while the meat and vegetables are placed before 
the master. Put a plate for each person, and a soup plate, also 
knife, fork and soup spoon. Have the pepper, salt and other 
relishes around the castor, if there is room. After the soup is dis- 
posed of, remove the tureen, soup plates and spoons, and bring in 
the meat and vegetables. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SETTING A TABLE. No. 2. 

This is for twelve persons. You should have an experienced 
waiter or waitress to set the table and to pass the courses in the 
order mentioned. Set the table, fold the napkin for each person in 
a plain style, and put on crackers, water, glasses, pitcher and other 
things to make the table look nice. When it is time for dinner to 
be served, put on the soup. After the soup, bring in small fish 
plates, and serve the fish and potatoes. The meat and vegetables 
follow. Then remove all of the soiled dishes and put on clean 
plates, saucers and spoons for the dessert, with the coffee cups 
wine glasses and wine. 

BILL OF FARE. No. 1. 

Oysters. — On half shell. 
Soup. — Consomme royal. 

Fish. — Boiled salmon, pommes de terre a la hollandaise. 
Boiled. — Mutton, caper sauce. 
Removes. — Roa^t rib of beef, dish gravy. 
Entrees. — Fricassee chicken a la American. 
Cold Dishes. — Boned turkey in jelly. 

Vegetables. — Mashed new potatoes, boiled potatoes, stewed 
tomatoes. 



88 

Pudding. — English plum, brandy sauce. 
Pastry. — Apple and mince pie. 

Dessert. — Vanilla ice cream, assorted cake, fruits, nuts, raisins, 
cheese and crackers. 

Beverages. — Tea and coffee. 

BILL OF FARE. No. 2. 

Soup. — Mock turtle. 

Fish. — Baked white fish, wine sauce, sliced tomatoes. 

Boiled. — Sugar cured tongue, cider jelly. 

Roast. — Rib of beef, yorkshire pudding; turkey, cranberry 
sauce. 

Game. — Woodcock on toast. 

Entrees. — Queen fritter^ rum sauce. 

Cold Dishes. — Corned beef, mutton, 

Vegetables. — Boiled and mashed potatoes, succotash and string 
beans. 

Pudding. — Tapioca in cream. 

Pastry. — Apple custard pie. 

Dessert — Lemon sherbet, sponge and marble cake, cheese, tea, 
coffee and crackers. 

Fruit. — Grapes, raisins, oranges and cracked nuts. 

BILL OF FARE. No. 3. 

Soup. — Scotch broth, beef. 

Fish. — Boiled cusk, egg sauce; smelts in crumbs a la tartar, 
Saratoga potatoes, lettuce and sliced tomatoes. 

Boiled. — Chicken, white sauce ; boiled corned beef and spinach. 

Sherry wine. 

Roast. — Rib of beef, sirloin of beef, dish gravy; spring lamb, 
mint sauce. 

Roman punch. 

Game. — Wild turkey stuffed with chestnuts. 

Entrees. — Baked chicken pie, family style, omelette souffle. 

Punch brandy (cognac.) 

Cold Dishes. — Boned turkey in jelly. 

Puddings. — English plum, wine sauce. 

Pastry. — Apple and squash pies. 

Dessert. — Strawberry ice cream, assorted cake, confectionery, 
cheese and pilot bread. 

Fruit. — Oranges, bananas, apples, grapes and nuts. 

Beverages. — Tea and coffee. 

BILL OF FARE. No. 4. Breakfast. 

Oat meal, hominy. Beef steak, lamb chops, liver and bacon, 
ham and eggs. Fried cod. Ham omelette, onion omelette, boiled, 
scrambled and poached eggs. Parker house rolls, wheat gems, 
corn muffins, buckwheat cakes. Tea, coffee and cocoa in shells. 



89 

BILL OF FARE. Luncheon. 

Oyster stew, small tenderloin steak, cold biscuits and pickled 
lamb's tongues. Tea. 

BILL OF FARE. No. 5. Dinner. 

Soup. — Clam chowder, small oyster patties. 
Boiled. — Fresh pork and cabbage. 

Roast. — Chicken, giblet sauce ; spring lamb, mint sauce. 
Entrees. — Baked macaroni and cheese. 
Fastry. — Squash and dried apple pies. 

Dessert. — Pound cake, fruit cake, frosted blanc mange, Catawba 
grapes, Oolong tea, coffee and mild cheese. 

This bill of fare is suitable for Wednesday's or Friday's dinner. 

BILL OF FARE. No. 6, 

Soup. — Mutton with rice. 

Boiled — Phil a. capon a la creme. 

Roast. — Rib of beef, dish gravy; stuffed chicken, giblet sauce. 

Roman Punch. 

Entrees. — Escalloped oysters, beefsteak smothered in onions. 

Cold Dishes. — Sardines with lemons. 

Vegetables. — Baked sweet potatoes, boiled white potatoes, rice 
and tomatoes. 

Pudding. — Rice with sweet cream. 

Pastry. — Lemon and cocoanut pies. 

Dessert. — Vanilla ice cream, angel cake, lady cake and mild 
cheese. 

Fruit'. — Apples, oranges, mixed nuts and raisins. 

Co7ifectionery. — Conversation lozenges, chocolate candy. 

Beverages. — Acorn coffee. Oolong tea. 

BREAKFAST MENU. No. 7. 

Oat meal, hominy, corn meal and griddle cakes. 

Broils. — Liver and bacon, ham, honeycomb tripe, sirloin steak 
and tenderloin beefsteak. 

Fish. — Broiled schrod, fried cod, fried smelts and salmon steak. 

Ham and eggs, bacon and eggs. 

Eggs. — Boiled, fried, poached, scrambled and dropped. 

Vegetables — French fried potatoes, Saratoga chips, lyonaise and 
stewed potatoes. 

Bread. — White, graham, wheat muffins, breakfast rolls, Vienna 
bread. 

Beverages. — English breakfast tea, mixed tea, chocolate, cocoa 
in shells. Mocha and Java coffee. 

This bill of fare may appear large for a family, but articles 
may be selected from it for a breakfast dish. This is a regular 
hotel bill of fare. 



90 



FOR THE SICK, BURNS, ETC. 



BEEF TEA. 

Wash, and cut off all the fat and rind from one pound of lean 
beef; place in a sauce pan and cover with cold water; let it simmer 
slowly on the back part of the stove for two hours; take off 
and strain, add a very small pinch of salt. Serve hot or cold. 

EGG SOUP. 

Take two cups of chicken or veal broth. Skim off all the fat 
that may rise on top. Beat two raw eggs into it. Strain, and 
serve ; or take one hard boiled egg, cut fine, and add. Season 
with salt and pepper. Sometimes a little mutton broth with rice 
is good, when made nicely. 

BRAXTON A LA CREAME. 

One cup of mutton broth, or chicken ; one-half stalk of celery 
cut in small pieces ; two tablespoonsful of sweet cream ; one half 
ounce of chicken cut fine; the beaten yolk of one egg. When the 
broth is cooked, add the ingredients mentioned, and one and one- 
half tablespoonsful of cooked rice, and one hard boiled egg, chopped 
fine. Season to taste with salt and pepper. You will find this to 
be a very delicate and strengthening dish for the sick. 

FOR CONSUMPTIVE PERSONS. 

Six or seven leaves of mullen, steeped in milk, sweetened, and 
taken before going to bed, is said to be very good, 

FOR BURNS AND SCALDS. 

Apply sweet oil, flour and molasses mixed. 

Oat and Graham Meal Gruels are very good for the sick. 
Cook one-half cup of oat-meal in milk ; strain through a strainer, 
and serve. 

Ginger tea is said to be very good for cramps. Boil two table- 
spoonsful of ginger in milk ; sweeten with sugar. Take hot. 

To be a practical and competent cook, you will need to try 
and learn to do as those tell you who have had many years 
experience. 

Those who desire to learn the art of cooking, to day, will find 
it much easier than I did ; because at the time when I commenced 
there were no cooking schools where I could obtain instruction 
from competent teachers, as many young men and women do now. 

No matter how long you may have been cooking, you may learn 
something new every day in this art, as in any other work. There 
are many dishes gotten up by cooks that have not been published ; 
so you may see, in a new published cook book, something never 
thought of by the reader. 



91 

Some think that because they are not of French or German 
birth it is impossible to become skilful cooks or bakers, but this 
is a great mistake. It makes no difference of what nationality you 
are, if you only put your mind and attention to the art. 

This is probably the first cook book of the kind ever published 
by a colored chef ; but when you have read it carefully, and studied 
the recipes, you will find something as good as foreign cooks could 
make. 

I shall always remember the words of an old cook whom I 
worked under, who said: "the American people did not take suffi- 
cient interest in cooking, but cooking was one of the keys to 
civilization." 

I sincerely hope that the young people of America will learn 
the art and skill of cooking, as the young men and women of 
England and other foreign countries have done. 

GEO. F. BRAXTON, Author. 



GrRKRRi^n JKIDRX. 



SOUPS. 

How to prepare Stock for Soups, 
For Light Soups, 
English Mullagatawney, . 
French Pottage, .... 
Prince Albert, .... 

Beef Soup, 

Mutton Broth, .... 

Bean or Split Pea Soup No. i, . 

Mrs. Haskins' Bean or Pea Soup, 

Wellesley College Soup, . 

Noodle Soup, .... 

Mock Turtle Soup No. i, 

Mock Turtle Soup, No. 2, 

Green Turtle Soup, 

Vegetable Soup, 

Chicken Soup, No. 1, 

Chicken Soup, No. 2, 

Brown Soup, 

Sago or Tapioca Soup, 

Oyster Soup, 

Clam Soup, 

Lobster Soup, 

Rice Soup, 

Veal Broth, 

Clam Chowder, 

Oyster Stew, 

Egg Soup, 

For Clarified Soups, 

Tomato Soup, . 

Mock Bisque, 

Rabbit Soup, 

Beef Broth, 

Corn Soup, 

A Quick Tomato Soup, 

Cracker Soup, 

Italian Consomme, 



9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 



OYSTERS IN ALL STYLES. 



Escalloped Oysters, 

Fancy Roast, 

Plain Roast, 

Broiled Oysters, . 

Oysters on the Half Shell, 

Broiled Oysters, . 

Boxed or Creamed Oysters, 

Pickled Oysters, . 

Oyster Patties, 

Baked Oyster Pie, 

Oyster Potpie, 

Oyster Salad, 

Dressing for the above, . 

Boiled Oysters, (in shell,) 

Deviled Oysters, 

Fricasseed Oysters, 

Oysters in Batter, 

Oyster Pates, 

Creamed Oyster Pie, 



LOBSTERS, CLAMS, Etc 



Curried Lobster, 
Deviled Lobster, 
Lobster in Batter, 



12 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
14 
14 
14 
14 
14 
14 
15 
15 
15 
15 
15 



15 
16 
16 



Smothered Lobster, 
Lobster in Crumbs, 
Fricasseed Lobster, 
Stewed Lobster, 
Lobster Croquettes, 
Lobster Cutlets, . . . 

Lobster Salad, No. 1, 
Lobster Salad, No. 2, 
Lobster Pudding, 
Escalloped Lobster, No. 1, 
Escalloped Lobster, No. 2, 
Crabs, 

Fried Turtle Steak, 
Fricasseed Turtle, 
Fried Clams, 
Clams in Batter, 
Curried Clams, 
Deviled Clams, 
Escalloped Clams, 
Baked Clam Pie, 
Clam Chowder, 

FISH. 

Broiled Fish, 
Boiled Codfish, 
Boiled Salmon, 
Shirred Pickerel, 
Baked Stuffed Bluefish, 
Baked Shad, . 
To Corn Fish, 



EGGS. 

Shirred Eggs, 
Poached Eggs, No. 1, 
Poached Eggs, No. 2, 
Poached Eggs, No. 3, 
Omelette, .... 
Omelette Souffle, 
Egg Cutlet, 

Dropped Eggs on Toast, 
Eggs. — Sur la Platee, . 
Toast Eggs, .... 
Baked Eggs, No. 1, . 
Baked Eggs, No. 2, 
Fricasseed Eggs, 
Egg Cutlet, .... 
Escalloped Eggs, Raw, 
Escalloped Eggs, Hard Boiled, 
Poached Eggs, 



ROAST MEATS. 



Beef, 

Lamb, 

Veal, 

Pork, 

Ham, 

Turkey, 

Chicken, 

Goose, 

Duck, 

Beef, 

Wood Cuts 



22 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
24 to 25 



94 



BOILED MEATS 





Page. 


Mutton, 


. 2(> 


Ham, ...... 


26 


Corned Beef, ..... 


. 26 


Tongue, ..... 


26 


Turkey, ...... 


. 26 


Cliicken, ..... 


26 


Sausage, a la Duchesse, . 


. 26 


Pigs' Feet, 


26 


Pigs' Joles, 


. 26 


BROILED MEATS. 






. 26 


Beef Ham, 


27 


Beef Liver, ..... 


. 27 


Pigs' Feet, 


27 




. 27 


Veal Cutlets, .... 


27 




. 27 


Lamb Chops, .... 


27 




. 27 


Partridge or Snipe, 


27 


ENTREES. 




Beefsteak Pie, .... 


28 


Lamb Pie, 


. 28 


Hamburg Beefsteak, 


28 


Blanquette de Bean, 


. 28 


Rice Croquettes, 


28 


Veal or Poultry, .... 


. 28 


Ham, 


28 


Champagne Sauce, .... 


. 28 


Beef a la mode, .... 


29 


Fricasseed Chicken, 


. 29 


Fricasseed Chicken, a I'Amencain, 


29 




. 29 


Brown Chicken, a la Chevaliere, . 


29 


Stewed Chicken, .... 


. 29 


Stewed Chicken, with Dumplings, 


29 


Chicken Pie, 


. 29 


Chicken Pot-Pie, 


29 


Chicken Hash, .... 


. 30 


Minced Chicken, 


30 


Pinions of Fowls, .... 


. 30 


Smothered Chicken, 


80 


Potted Chicken, .... 


. 30 


Giblet Stew, .... 


30 


Giblet Livers, a la Brochette, . 


. 30 


Braised Duck, .... 


30 




. 31 


Braised Beef, .... 


31 


Ragout of Beef, .... 


. 31 


Haricot Mutton, 


31 


Irish .Stew, ..... 


. 31 


Queen Fritters, 


31 


Corn Fritters, 


. 31 


Spanish Puffs, .... 


32 


Cream Fritters, .... 


. 32 


Blueberry Fritters, 


32 


CORNED MEATS. 




To Corn Beef, .... 


. 32 


Pickled Pigs' Feet, 


33 


To Souse Tripe, .... 


. 33 


Corned Fish, .... 


33 


Corned Mackerel, .... 


. 33 


Corned Alewives, 


38 


Smoked Salmon, .... 


. 34 


To Can Fresh Salmon, 


34 


Pickled Salmon, .... 


. 34 


Canned Lobster, 


34 


Pickled Lobster, .... 


. 34 


Pickled Oysters, .... 


34 


Pickled Clams, .... 


. 34 


Canned Clams, .... 


34 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 





Page. 


Meat Hash, 


. 35 


Corn Beef Hash, 


35 


Portable Hash, 


. 35 


Fish Hash, . 


35 


Codfish and Cream, 


. 36 


Stale Cake, . 


36 


Bread, 


. 36 


Scalds or Burns, . 


36 


Anchovy Toast, 


. 36 


German Toast, 


36 


French Toast, . 


. 36 


GRAVIES and SAUCES. 


Brown Gravy, 


36 


Dish Gravy, 


. 37 


White Sauce, 


37 


Butter Sauce, . 


. 37 


Chicken or Veal Gra 


vy, ... .37 


Giblet Sauce, . ■ 


. 37 


Parsley Sauce, 


37 


Egg Sauce, 


. 37 


Tomato Sauce, 


37 


Sauce Robert, 


. 37 


Vegetable Sauce, 


38 


Lemon Sauce, . 


. 38 


Vanilla Sauce, 


38 


Hard Sauce, 


38 


Hollandaise Sauce, 


38 


Piquant Sauce, 


.... 38 


A La Tartare Sauce 


38 


Caper Sauce, 


. 39 


Oyster Sauce, 


39 


Golden Sauce, . 


. 39 


Cream Sauce, 


39 


Wine Sauce, 


. 39 


Sauce a La Royal, 


39 


Brandy Sauce, 


. 39 


Lemon Sauce, a La ] 


^usse, . . 39 


Sauce, a La Flavour, 


. . 39 


Dressings, Colo 


rings and Extracts. 


Salad Dressing, plain 


40 


Mayonaise Dressing, 


. 40 


Montiz Dressing, 


40 


Salad Cream, . 


. 40 


Sugar Coloring, 


40 


Molasses Coloring, 


. 41 


Flour Coloring, 


41 


Lozenger Coloring, 


41 


Celery Extracts, . 


41 


Soy Extracts, 


41 



VEGETABLES. 



Boiled Potatoes, 
Mashed Potatoes, 
Fried Potatoes, plain, 
French Fried Potatoes, 
Saratoga Potatoes, 
Griddled Potatoes, . 
Stewed Potatoes, 
Potato Turnips, 
Queen Potatoes, . 
Escalloped Potatoes, 
Potato Salad, 
Stuffed Tomatoes, 
Stewed Tomatoes, 
Salad D'Tomato, 
Escalloped Tomato, 
Boiled Hominy, 
Strmg Beans, 
Baked Beans, . 
Boston Baked Beans, 



95 



VEGETABLES. 

Lima Baked Beans, 
Spinach, Southern way, 
Spinach, Northern way, 
Succotash, ..... 

Corn, ...... 

Turnips, ..... 

Cream Turnips, .... 

BREAD and YEAST 



White Bread, .... 

Graham Bread, No. 1, - 

Craham Bread, No. 2, 

Graham Bread, No. -i, . 

White Bread, Bakers' Yeast, 

White Bread, Compressed Yeast, 

Hop Yeast, ..... 

Potato Yeast, .... 

Boston Brown Bread, 

New England Brown Bread, 

Cream Tartar Biscuit, 

Wheat Muffins, No. 1, . 

Graham Muffins, No. 2, 

Prof. Braxton's Sally Lunii, 

Stock Yeast, .... 

Tea Biscuit, 

Johnny Cake, No. 1, 

Johnny Cake, No. 2, 

Graliam Gems, 

Paste Yeast, 

A Good Home made Yeast, 

Cream Tartar Biscuit, 

Corn-meal Mush, 

Vienna Bread, 

Vienna Rolls, 

Rye Bread, 

Graham Bread, 

Oat Meal Bread, 

Boston Brown Bread, 

Southern way of making Bread, 

White Indian Meal Corn Cake, 

Indian Meal Raised I'.read, 

Indian Meal Sweet Bread, 

Indian Meal Hoe Cake, 

Southern Loaf Bread, 

Southern Raised Bread or Biscuit, 

Buttermilk Biscuit, 

Crackling Bread or Biscuit, 

Crackling Corn Cake, 

Graham Gems, 



General Remarks about Cake. 

Currant Cake, .... 

Currant Cake, No. 2, . . . 

To Blanch Almonds, . 

To Pound Almonds, 

To reduce Almonds to a Paste, 

To color Almonds for Cake or Pastry, 

To prepare Butter for Rich Cake, 

To whisk Eggs for light, rich Cake, 

Orange-flower Macaroons, 

Almond Macaroons, 

Imperials, 

Small, Rich Cake, . 

Roached Almonds, 

Bitter Almond Biscuit, 

A Nice Almond Cake, 

Drop Cake, No. 1, 

Drop Cake, No. 2, 

Drop Cake, No. 3, 

Jumbles, No. 1, . 

Jumbles, No. 2, middling. 



Page. 
. 44 

44 
. 44 

44 
. 44 

45 
. 45 



45 
45 
45 
45 
46 
4(5 
40 
4G 
46 
47 
47 
47 
47 
47 
47 
48 
48 
48 
49 
49 
49 
50 
50 
50 
50 
50 
51 
51 
51 
51 
51 
51 
52 
52 
52 
52 
.52 
52 
52 
52 



.53 
53 
53 
53 
53 
54 
.54 
.54 
54 
55 
55 
55 
56 
66 
56 
57 
57 
57 
57 
58 



Q^eneral Remarks abont Cake. 

Jumbles, No. 3, cheap, 

Vanilla Snaps, 

Ginger Snaps, 

Lemon Snaps, . 

Sponge Cake, No. 1, 

Sponge Cake, No. 2, 

Lady Fingers, 

Queen Jelly Cake, . 

Wine Cake, 

Spice Cake, 

Lemon Wafers, 

Pound Cake, 

Hard Ginger Bread and Ginger Nut 

Ginger .Scjuarcs, 

Brighton Cake, 

Doughnuts, 

New York fiingcr Bread, 

Rich Cake, No. 1, 

Rich Cake, No. 2, 

Rich Cake, No. 3, 

Molasses Squares, 

Sugar Squares, 

Macaroon Cakes, 

Vanilla Cake, 

Cream Shells for Cream Cake 

Rock Cake, 

Dark Fruit Cake, No. 1, 

Dark Fruit Cake, No. 2, 

Wedding Cake, 

Pound Cake, 

Angel Cake, 



General Remarks on Pastry. 

Green Apple Pie, No. 1, 

Green Apple Pie, No. 2, 

Green Apple Pie, No. 3, 

Green Apple Pie, No. 4, 

Green Apple Pie, with meran 

Blueberry Pie, 

Ra.spberry Pie, 

Huckleberry Pie, 

Peach Pie, No. 1, . 

Peach Pie, No. 2, 

Apple Pot-Pie, 

Blackberry Pie, 

Cranberry Pie, 

Custard Pie, 

Cocoanut Pie, 

Cherry Pie, 

Apple Custard Pie, 

Peach Custard Pie, 

Currant Pie, 

Plum Pie, 

Gooseberry Pie, 

Lemon Cream Pie, 

Lemon Cream Pie, with mera 

Lemon Pie, 

Orange Pie, 

Minced Meat, No. I, 

Minced Meat, No. 2, 

Minced Meat, No. 3, 

How to distribute Raisins in a Minced Pie, 

Plum Pie, 

Pumpkin Pie, 

Squash Pie, 

Rice Pie, 

Rhubarb Pie, 

Strawberry Pie, . 

Southern Minced Pie, 

Pie Paste, plain. 

Paste No. 2, . 

Medium Rich Paste, 

Barberries, 



96 



Qeneral Remarks on Pastry- 



Cranberries, Strawberries, 
Puff Paste, No. 1, 
Puff Paste, No. 2, . 
Rim Paste, very plain, 
Rich Paste for Meat Pies, 
Medium Paste for Meat Pies, 

PUDDINGS 

Puddings, 

Bread Puddmg, plain. 

Bread Pudding, No. 1, 

Eng. Bread Pudding, very nice. 

Queens Pudding, 

Troy Pudding, 

Plum Pudding, No. 1, 

Plum Pudding, No. 2, 

Plum Pudding, No. 3, 

Plum Pudding, No. 4, 

French Plum Pudding, . 

Rice Pudding, No. 1, 

Rice Pudding, No. 2, 

Rice Pudding, No. 3, 

Tapioca Pudding, 

Sago Pudding, 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 

Poor Man's Pudding, 

Princess Pudding, 

Prof. Thornton's Pudding, 

Cracker and Jam Pudding, 

Cottage Pudding, 

Cottage Pudding, No. 2, 

Custard Pudding, 

Arrow-root Pudding, 

Corn Starch Pudding, 

Chocolate Pudding, 

Fig Pudding, 

Farina Pudding, 

German Pudding, 

Hominy Pudding, 

Huckleberry Pudding, 

Baked Indian Pudding, No. 1 

Baked Indian Pudding, No. 2 

Lemon Pudding, 

Lemon .Suet Pudding, very nice, 

Macaroni Pudding, . 

Merangue Rice Pudding, 

Bristol Pudding, 

Apple Dumpling, 

Apple Dumpling, No. 2, 

Common Batter, , 

Huckleberry Pudding, 

Peach Dumpling, 

Strawberry Dumpling, 

Farina Dumpling, 

Suet Dumpling, 

Calves Liver Dumplings, 



Page. 
69 
70 
70 
70 
70 
70 



70 
71 
71 
7J 
71 
72 
72 
72 
72 
73 
73 
73 
74 
74 
74 
74 
74 
75 
75 
75 
75 
75 
76 
76 
76 
76 
76 
76 
76 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
78 
78 
78 
78 
78 
79 
79 
79 
79 
79 
79 
79 
79 



DESSERTS and ICES. 

Charlotte Russe, .... 
Charlotte Russe, No. 2, . . . 
Charlotte Russe, No. 3, 
Charlotte Russe, No. 4, . . . 
Banana Custard, .... 
Banana Pies, ..... 
Chocolate Custard, . . . . 
Boiled Custard, .... 
Vanilla Custard, 
Chocolate Blanc Mange, . 
Tarts 



^ 



Tartlets, 

Open Jam Tarts, .... 

Iced Fruits and Desserts, 

Lemon .Sherbet or Ice, very nice, 

Pineapple Ice, 

Peach .Sherbet or Ice, very delicate, 

Raspberry and Currant Ices, 

Frozen Pudding, 

Ice Creams, .... 

Vanilla Ice Cream, 

Coffee, Chocolate and Lemon Ice Cream 

Orange Ice Cream, . . . , 

General Remarks on Jellies. 



Page. 
. 80 

80 
. 80 

80 
. 81 

81 

81 
. 82 

82 
. 82 

82 
. 82 

82 
. 83 

83 
. 83 

83 
. 83 

83 
. &3 

84 

84 

84 



Wine Jelly .85 

Jelly made from the stock pot, as pie Jelly, 85 
Ribbon Jelly, 85 

General Remarks about Catering, 



Chicken Sandwiches, 


. 86 


Bill of Fare, .... 


86 


Bill of Fare, . . 


. 86 


Directions for Setting Table, 


87 


Directions for Setting Table, No. 2, 


. 87 


Bill of Fare, No. 1, . . . 


87 


Bill of Fare, No. 2, . . . 


. 88 


Bill of Fare, No. 3, . . . 


88 


Bill of Fare, No. 4, Breakfast, 


. 88 


Bill of Fare, Luncheon, 


89 


Bill of Fare, No. 5, . . . 


. 89 


Bill of Fare, No. G, . 


89 


Breakfast Menu, No. 7, 


. 89 


For the Sick, Burns, Etc. 


90 


Beef Tea, 


. 90 


Egg Soups, .... 


90 


Braxton a la Creame, 


. 90 


For Consumptive Persons, 


90 


For Burns and Scalds, 


. 90 


Illustration, .... 


91 



