
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



UC-NRLF 



$B 343 3D5 



j'llll 



#FOOD MAT&PJALS^ 






'j.f 



^'^ c.u.im 



K .\ I , 






^^^ 



>;rt- *Jf^ 




>:?^ 



**/ 




■ ^ ^p'-.^- 



Digitized 



by Google 



as. 



v7 



7^ 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



HOUSEHOLD MANUALS, Vol. II. 



Food Materials 



AND 

\ 



THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



BY 



ELLEN H. RICHARDS, 

Instkuctor in Sanitary Chemistry in the Massachusetts 

Institute of Technology. 

Author op *' Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning." 



•..•;>:: ••• • •• '• 



• • • !:•••; 



BOSTON: 

ESTES AND LAURIAT. 

1886. 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



Copyright, 1885, 

ESTES AND LACRIAT. 






; ; •; •"; ••••••• • • • 

' • • •• ••! • •••• • •• 



John Wilson and Son, Cambridgb. 






Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



I 



PREFACE. 



THERE IS neither novelty in the information 
which this little volume seeks to convey, nor 
originality in the manner of presenting it ; but when 
its preparation was begun, some years since, the facts 
here considered were for the most part found scat- 
tered through large and costly technical works, written 
for the conditions existing in England and Germany. 
The books claiming to be popular expositions were 
either so old as to be out of date, were sensational, 
or otherwise unsatisfactory. 

One excellent English work has recently appeared 
which is so suitable and admirable in form, as well as in 
material, that at the first glance it seemed superfluous 
to issue the present one. Yet Church's " Food " was 
prepared especially for the visitors to the Bethnal Green 
branch of the South Kensington Museum, London, 



41786G 

Digitized !)y Google 



iv PREFACE, 

while the place which this little volume is intended to 
fill is that of giving useful information in a form availa- 
ble and attractive for schools and for home reading, 
without technicalities or unnecessary details. It has 
been compiled from many sources, and it would be 
impossible to credit each book with the special facts 
derived from it, since the same thing in different forms 
is often found in several works. Quotation marks are 
intended to indicate all passages taken verbatim. The 
names of the books consulted will be found in the list 
at the end of the volume. It is in the hope that 
these works may be more widely known, and the 
subjects of which they treat more earnestly studied, 
that this slight contribution is sent forth. 

The conclusions are a result of ten years* experience 
in laboratory examination of food materials. 

The author is especially indebted to Miss S. Minns 
arid to Miss L. M. Peabody for valuable aid, both in 
the laboratory and in the preparation of the text. 

Boston, December^ 1885. 



Digitized 



by Google 



CONTENTS. 



I. The Relation of General Intelligence to 

THE Quality of the Food Supply ... 7 
II. Water, Tea, Coffee, Cocoa 24 

III. Cereal Foods.— Barley, Rice, Oats, Maize, 

Rye, and Wheat 70 

IV. Milk, Butter, Cheese 88 

V. Sugar. 97 

VI. Canned Fruits and Meats, or Tinned Goods 118 

VII. Condiments 125 

VIII. Perishable Foods, and the Means for Pre- 
serving Them. — Meat, Fruit, etc ... 144 
IX. Other Materials used in Cooking . . . . 151 
X. Principles of Diet 162 



List of Works consulted 177 

Index 181 



Digitized 



by Google 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS 



AND 



THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



I. 



THE RELATION OP GENERAL INTELLIGENCE TO 
THE QUALITY OF THE FOOD SUPPLY. 

THE prosperity of a nation depends upon the 
health and the morals of its citizens ; and the 
health and the morals of a people depend mainly 
upon the food they eat, and the homes they live in. 

Strong men and women cannot be " raised " on in- 
sufficient food. Good-tempered, temperate, highly 
moral men cannot be expected from a race which eats 
badly cooked food, irritating to the digestive organs 
and unsatisfying to the appetite. Wholesome and pal- 
atable food is the first step in good morals, and is 
conducive to ability in business, skill in trade, and 
healthy tone in literature. 



Digitized 



by Google 



8 FOOD MATERIALS 

This being granted, what office is of more impor- 
tance to the State than that of the provider of food 
for the families composing it? Indeed, some of the 
younger States of the Union have recognized the two 
fundamental professions upon which their prosperity 
rests, and have established in their agricultural colleges 
a parallel course of domestic economy to complete the 
education of the girls. 

This is an instance of wisdom, an example which 
our Eastern States might well copy ; for not only in 
the homes on the Western plains, but in all our towns 
and villages, do the housewives need to know some- 
thing of the materials of daily consumption. 

The conditions of life have changed here in New 
England so rapidly and completely, that our young 
housewives find themselves very much at a loss. The 
methods of their mothers and grandmothers will no 
longer answer. They had no trouble with their soap, 
for they superintended its making and knew its prop- 
erties. They knew how colored fabrics should be 
washed, for they had the coloring done under their 
own eyes. We buy everything, and have no idea of 
the processes by which the articles are produced, and 
have no means of knowing beforehand what the quality 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 9 

may be. Relatively, we are in a state of barbarous 
ignorance, as compared with our grandmothers, about 
the common articles of daily use. 

The last fifty years have seen such a marvellous ad- 
vance in applied science, especially in applied chem- 
istry, that it is no wonder that housewives have fallen 
somewhat behind ; but it is high time for them to 
awake to the importance of their profession. Unscru- 
p.ulous manufacturers call in the aid of the chemist's 
art to enable them to deceive the credulous *' lady of 
the house," and the only remedy is for " the lady " 
to acquire knowledge which will enable her to detect 
such palpable frauds as are daily practised. 

Modern invention and modern extravagance have so 
complicated modem housekeeping, that there is little 
wonder that the untrained mistress and the untrained 
servant together often make an abode of ill-temper, of 
constant warfare and change, of discomfort and danger 
to all its inmates, instead of a restful family fireside 
where all the troubles and vexations of the outside 
world should be shut out, and where ruffled tempers 
should sweeten, and the best intellect expand. Our 
housekeeping has become so complicated and labori- 
ous that it cannot go on indefinitely in this way; 



Digitized 



by Google 



lO FOOD MATERIALS 

there must soon come a crash unless some way can be 
devised for a quiet revolution. 

This is an age of progress. We cannot go back to 
any example in the past. Educated women must 
mark out a new plan for themselves. Our girls must 
be taught to recognize the profession of housekeeping 
as one of the highest, although not necessarily the only 
one; but whatever art or accomplishment they may 
acquire besides, let them consider that the manage- 
ment of a household is not to be neglected. The 
properly educated housekeeper is not a drudge : she 
has all the forces of nature at her command, — the light- 
ning harnessed to give her light ; the stored-up energy 
of past ages at her command by the turning of a stop- 
cock ; swift steamships and railways bring to her fruits 
and vegetables from all climes; the vast prairies fur- 
nish meat, game, and flour ; mechanical skill gives her 
all kinds of labor-saving devices; the general pros- 
perity and improving taste of the country admit of 
tasteful decoration of the rooms. Surely, never did 
housekeeping present so many charms. Alas ! the 
winged Pegasus is too strong for his unskilled rider, for 
in his train has come a style of living both extravagant 
and demoralizing. All this delicate machinery and 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, n 

costly luxury are committed by ignorant mistresses to 
still more ignorant servants, — conservative by inherit- 
ance and superstitious by nature, restless with the very 
air of the new, and to them wonderful country, where all 
men are equal, and naturally bewildered by the novel- 
ties of the new life, so different from their simple one. 
What wonder that the complicated machinery comes 
to grief, and the tempers of both mistress and maid are 
spoiled in attempting the impossible ! 

The only remedy is for our girls to learn something 
practical about these forces, and the nature of the 
materials which are scattered about so freely. The 
distinction between an educated cook and an unedu- 
cated one of the same skill is, that the educated one 
can tell some one else just how and why she takes each 
step, while the uneducated one can do the thing, but 
cannot tell any one else how or why she does it. Let 
our school-girls bear this in mind, and so study their 
chemistry and physics that they can tell why this and 
that should, or should not be done. A little actual 
knowledge wonderfully simplifies things, and adds in- 
terest to the commonest deeds. 

Our housekeeping is brought down from its high 
estate by being left to persons bom and reared under 



Digitized 



by Google 



12 FOOD MATERIALS 

such totally different conditions that they cannot under- 
stand the compHcations of our way of living. Too 
much is expected of them, and they are soon spoiled 
and rendered unfit for service, or for caring for homes 
for themselves. A httle care, patience, and instruction 
would save the majority of them, and make a vast 
difference in the homes of the land. 

Within the memory of the present generation there 
has crept into the heads of the great American people 
a most pernicious and insidious idea, — that labor with 
the hands alone is degrading and beneath the dignity 
of a free American citizen. Nowhere has this been 
more noticeable than in the place to which housework 
has been relegated. 

To judge by the opinion of the average school-girl, 
one would think that housekeeping required no more 
thought than the breaking of stones on the highway. 
Such may listen with profit to Ruskin when he says : 
" It is a no less fatal error to despise labor when regu- 
lated by intellect than to value it for its own sake. In 
these days we are always trying to separate the two. 
We want one man to be always thinking, another to be 
always working ; and we call the one a gentleman, and 
the other an operative, whereas the workman ought 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 13 

often to be thinking and the thinker to be working, 
and both should be gentlemen in the best sense. 
Now it is only by labor that thought can be made 
healthy, and only by thought that labor can be made 
happy." 

If this is assented to, then is not the conclusion 
clear, that, if our girls were capable of thinking about 
the many problems of housework, and of investigating 
new and better ways, they would find the work an 
interesting and worthy one ? 

It is only in the undeveloped stages of a mechanical 
invention that it is complicated and runs with fiiction. 
The perfected machine is noiseless in its action, and 
simple in its construction. The machinery of daily life 
should respond to the slightest touch of the house 
engineer, the one who knows all about it. The run- 
ning of a household is a no less responsible task than 
the running of a steamboat or an engine. 

The time has come when the same kind of care 
must be given to the food of the family as the stock- 
raiser gives to that of his animals. The modem stock 
farm has given us most of the scientific knowledge 
we possess on the question of foods. All this be- 
cause it pays to know the composition of the food, 



Digitized 



by Google 



14 . FOOD MATERIALS 

etc. Shall the human animal be considered of less 
consequence ? 

It is a wonder that political economists do not take 
up this subject, for the ultimate welfare of the country 
depends upon securing the maximum of utility for the 
money spent. The money's worth must be obtained 
from both material and labor. The law of utility re- 
quires an adequate return for the value consumed. A 
loaf of bread eaten by a farm-hand returns more than 
its value in the produce of that man's labor; so it 
should be with all labor, whether mechanical or lit- 
erary. A loaf of bread allowed to mould brings no 
return in wheat or in useful thought, and it is there- 
fore wasted, — so much value thrown away. So, too, 
if a family consume at one meal three times as much 
food as is needed to keep them in perfect health, the 
excess is wasted, and sometimes worse, in that it 
causes disease. Not that a family which can afford 
beef should live on corn meal, but that if the food 
is not wisely used for pleasure or nourishment, it is 
wasted. 

The time has come when we must have a science of 
domestic economy, and it must be worked out in the 
homes of our educated women. The conditions of 



Digitized 



by Google 



.4A7? TJIE//? ADULTERATIONS, 15 

life are so peculiar in this country that no plan made 
for another land will suit us, and we must make our 
own. A knowledge of the elements of chemistry and 
physics must be applied to the daily living. 

It is not merely to the heads of large and expensive 
families that the simple knowledge is of use. In the 
address of the President of the American Institute of 
Mining Engineers, in August, 1882, we find the follow- 
ing pertinent remarks : " If technical instruction and 
skill in our workmen be essential to the economical 
development of industry, and the welfare of those en- 
gaged in it, the technical education of their wives is 
not one whit less important. Those who are familiar 
with the expenditures and mode of life of the wage 
classes at our chief mining and metallurgical centres 
cannot fail to be struck by the amount of waste and 
the extravagance of their expenditures. I do not 
mean to have you infer that they live too well, but 
that through ignorance of the actual and compara- 
tive values of different edibles, through ignorance of 
the best ways of preparing palatable food, of house- 
keeping in all its branches, it is not uncommon to 
find a mining family spending more for a wretched 
living and uncomfortable home than is spent in many 



Digitized 



by Google 



1 6 FOOD MATERIALS 

a pleasant and comparatively luxurious one. We are 
all but too familiar with strikes against greater or less 
reductions, or for increase of wages ; but the working 
classes have more to gain in comfort and well-being 
by the better technical education of their wives and 
daughters, by more intelligence and skill in their 
homes, than they could gain should they obtain the 
most extravagant demands for which a strike was ever 
instituted. Scientific housekeeping is neither beneath 
the attention of the refined, nor beyond the reach of 
the uncultured. It is the duty of the rich : it is the 
salvation of the poor." 

A great deal may be done by economy in the prep- 
aration of food, and in the substitution of one kind 
for another, according to the cost at different seasons 
of the year. Here a knowledge of the composition of 
the various articles of diet will enable one to choose, 
and yet to give the family all the constituents needed. 
Tables of the relative value of foods, such as those in 
the "Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning" (pp. 50-54), 
will guide a wise housekeeper in her selection. 

Few people realize the value of corn meal as an 
article of diet. It is given on good authority, that a 
young woman, who was temporarily reduced to the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 17 

closest straits in a pecuniary point of view, in order to 
save most of her small salary for dependent relatives, 
lived on com meal cooked in various ways for a whole 
year, with only a dinner every Sunday at a friend's 
house. She kept well and hearty on a peck of Indian 
meal a month ; so that her whole living cost only about 
ten dollars for the year, as she prepared it herself. 
This young woman knew how to prepare her food 
sa that it was palatable ; and it was much better than 
the tea, slops, and baker's bread, with which so many 
working-women try to sustain life. 

It seems a great waste to spend twenty hours a week 
in making pies, cakes, and puddings for a family of 
five persons, at a cost of five dollars for the raw mate- 
rial, when the raw or cooked firuit for dessert can be 
obtained for three dollars a week, and the time of 
preparation as well as the fuel be saved. Many fami- 
lies who now keep two maids could live just as com- 
fortably with one, if the mistress could plan the work 
in all these labor-saving ways. 

Cooking-schools and classes are doing good work in 
their line, and they should be introduced very much 
more widely ; but instruction must go farther, and in- 
clude sanitary principles and the branches of domestic 



Digitized 



by Google 



l8 FOOD MATERIALS 

economy. We very much need this sort of instruc- 
tion introduced into our schools in such form that the 
practical application will go into the homes. 

One of the most puzzling problems which a modem 
housewife has to solve, is to learn the quality of the 
various food materials which she provides for the use 
of the family, and to know how to apportion them. 
So much has been said on the subject of adulteration 
in the past few years, that the peace of mind of a con- 
scientious woman is quite gone, and she appeals to the 
law-makers to protect her family. 

It has been the history of every harmful adultera- 
tion, that, as soon as the public became aware of the 
nature of it, its manufacture was stopped, and some 
new device substituted. The remedy, then, for this 
sort of fraud, is the education of the general public to 
such an extent that they can, with some degree of 
probability, detect any flagrant case of adulteration or 
substitution. It is the aim of this little work to place 
in the hands of housekeepers such information as will 
enable them to purchase intelligendy, and to know in 
what direction to be suspicious. The nature of the 
adulterations will vary from year to year with the 
advance of knowledge, and with the detection and 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 19 

exposure of the accustomed frauds; so a careful 
watch is needed to keep the dealers and manufac- 
turers in check. 

Dr. Hassall, in his classic work on food and its 
adulterations, says that from 1850 to 1856 he exam- 
ined three thousand samples of the principal articles of 
consumption, and found that few which could be prof- 
itably adulterated were not so ; from that time to 1875 
he found less adulteration, partly due to the exposures 
made, partly to stricter legal enactments, and partly 
because detection is now more certain. It seemed to 
him in 1875 ^ if frauds were again on the increase. 

Demand is the great cause of supply; and if many 
of the reasons for complaint were examined, it would 
be found that the grocers, of whom we so bitterly 
complain, are only supplying the demand of their 
customers. Few dealers are in a position to instruct 
their customers; there are occasional philanthropists 
among them, but most of them must make money, 
and they can do this only by supplying what the 
public want; the superstition yet lingering in the 
minds of people is nowhere shown more clearly 
than in the purchases they make for every-day use. 
The credulity with which the average housekeeper 



Digitized 



by Google 



20 FOOD MATERIALS 

swallows the statements of the unscrupulous adver- 
tiser is worthy of the Middle Ages. Science, and 
especially chemical science, has achieved so many 
marvellous triumphs within the last fifty years, that it 
is looked upon as an occult knowledge, having the 
power which was attributed to the alchemy of the 
Middle Ages; and even intelligent persons, perhaps 
unconsciously, look upon chemical operations as capa- 
ble of transforming substances in as subtle a manner 
as was claimed to be possible by the old-time searcher 
after the philosopher's stone. As a result, the average 
housekeeper is a fit subject for the modem alchemist, — 
the man who can turn sal-soda or whiting into gold by 
a few neatly turned phrases calculated to impress 
the housewife with the profound wisdom of the manu- 
facturer.' 

In considering the probabilities of adulteration, one 
important fact must not be overlooked. When prices 
are low and food is plentiful, there is much less reason 
for admixture of foreign substances ; but when prices 
are high and any article scarce, then is adulteration 
rife. Take, for example, cream of tartar : in ordinary 
years, when money is plentiful and gold at par, it can 
be Ijought at firom thirty-five to forty cents a pound; 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 2 1 

but when gold was two dollars or more, as during the 
war, and when the risk of importation became consid- 
erable, cream of tartar sold for two dollars or so a 
pound. The poor people could not pay fifty cents for 
what they had been accustomed to get for ten; but 
they did not know enough of the principles of cooking 
to get along without it, and so they asked for some- 
thing cheaper. During those years there was very 
little of the genuine article sold under the name, and 
the result was poor bread and injured health. 

A very good example of the law of supply and de- 
mand was given to the writer by a man of strict integ- 
rity, but a man of business, who understood the public 
temper. When quite young he kept a small grocery 
store in one of the suburbs of Boston. Cream of tar- 
tar had just come into use. A woman who had been 
in the habit of purchasing her supplies at a neighbor- 
ing grocery came to him one day for some articles. 
The young man prided himself on the good quality 
of his goods, therefore felt quite sure she would be 
pleased, and give him her custom. What was his 
surprise to have her come back and complain of the 
quality of his cream of tartar. It did not make as 
good bread as that which she had been buying. He 



Digitized 



by Google 



22 FOOD MATERIALS 

ventured to suggest that perhaps it was strong, and 
that she used too much ; but she would not be satis- 
fied, and wanted another kind, so he made up a 
package for her of two thirds Cream of tartar and one 
third rice flour; this satisfied her, and she became his 
customer. 

The same story has been told repeatedly of milk. 
People complained of the yellow, and wished for the 
blue milk, such as they had been using. All this is a 
great temptation ; and we can hardly expect our gro- 
cers to become philanthropists and teachers of the 
people. Their business is to supply the public with 
the articles which it demands, and it is firom education 
of the public that we must look for redress. There is 
great danger to the moral sense of the community from 
this sort of cheating, — this obtaining money under 
false pretences (for it is nothing else) . And the pub- 
lic is content to be cheated; it should be aroused, 
and by a knowledge of food materials a stop may be 
put to most firauds. 

The unanimous testimony of all chemists who have 
carefully investigated the extent to which adulteration 
of food is carried on in the United States is, that, while 
there exists adulteration injurious to health, there is a 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 23 

much greater injury to the morals of the community, 
and loss to the pockets of the people. In other words, 
the point to which public attention should be mainly 
directed is the question of paying a high price for 
an inferior article. In some portions of the country 
ground gypsum — at perhaps a cent a pound — is sold 
for cream of tartar at ten cents a quarter of a pound ; 
now this fraud can be detected by any one who knows 
that cream of tartar is soluble in hot water, while gyp- 
sum is not. A cupful of boiling water poured upon 
half a teaspoonful of good cream of tartar will dissolve 
it almost instantly, giving a nearly transparent liquid. 

Some simple tests will be found in the following 
pages, and it is hoped that some little enlightenment 
may result. A knowledge of the elementary princi- 
ples of chemistry, as much at least as is given in the 
"Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning," is desirable; 
and if a little qualitative practice can be added, the 
explanations will be clearer. For girls in the high 
schools, furnished with laboratories, the tests will be 
very simple. References will be given to works where 
further information may be obtained. 



Digitized 



by Google 



II. 

WATER, TEA, COFFEE, COCOA. 

TN importance to health second only to pure air is 
"*• the quality of the water drunk. It may be even 
considered as a food, for there is at least a probability 
that its office in the system is more than that of a 
regulator of temperature and a diluent of the blood. 
From a sanitary point of view, next in importance to 
the quality ,of the water used is that of the other 
liquids which are more and more frequently substituted 
for it, namely, tea, coffee, and cocoa. Beer and wine 
are neither foods nor necessary beverages in this land 
of good water and cheap coffee, hence they are not 
here considered. 

WATER. 

This section is composed of extracts taken, by per- 
mission, from " Water Supply, Chemical and Sanitary," 
by William Ripley Nichols. 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS. 25 

Drinking Water and Disease. 

With reference to their use for town and household 
supply, we shall roughly divide all natural waters into 
four classes, as follows : — 

1. Rain water; 

2. Surface water, including streams and lakes ; 

3. Ground water, including shallow wells ; 

4. Deep-seated water, including deep wells, artesian 
wells, and springs. 

Under each of these heads we shall study the ad- 
vantages and disadvantages of the particular class of 
water, the liability of pollution, etc. ; but first we will 
consider, in a general way, the connection which exists, 
or is supposed by some to exist, between drinking water 
and disease. 

A water containing a considerable amount of dis- 
solved substances, — one which could properly be de- 
nominated a mineral water, — would not be thought 
of for a public water supply; and would seldom be 
used as a regular beverage except for the sake of real 
or fancied medicinal effect ; a small amount, however, 
of mineral matter is generally considered an advantage. 
The presence of the substances which ordinarily exist 



Digitized 



by Google 



26 FOOD MATERIALS 

in solution in natural waters must not be regarded as 
necessary, because on shipboard experience has shown 
that distilled water, properly aerated, is perfectly whole- 
some. It appears that distilled water, soft surface water, 
and moderately hard spring or well water are all whole- 
some, and may be drunk without inconvenience by per- 
sons accustomed to their use. It is, however, true 
that a person who is in the habit of drinking a soft 
water generally experiences some derangement of the 
digestive organs on beginning to use hard water, and 
vice versa. It is contended by some that the human 
system needs salts of lime, etc., that these compounds 
are furnished in an assimilable form in water, and that, 
consequently, a somewhat hard water is more advan- 
tageous for town supply. Statistics have been brought 
together to support this view by comparing the death 
rate of various towns with the hardness of the water 
supply ; but the death rate depends upon too many 
factors to be used as the chief argument in this con- 
nection. It is, however, the result of general observa- 
tion, that a hard water of which the hardness is due 
to salts of magnesia or to sulphate of lime is not 
well suited for drinking, and is injurious to most 
persons. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 27 

A hard water is, generally speaking, one which con-< 
tains compounds of lime or magnesia in solution. 

Waters, especially surface waters, containing much 
vegetable matter are also, in some cases, unwholesome. 
The water of marshes is sometimes the cause of diar- 
rhoea and other diseases of this character, and is sup- 
posed by some to cause malarial fevers. The mere 
presence of vegetable organic matter, however, is not 
sufficient to produce these effects, because many waters 
which are quite deeply colored by vegetable matter are 
proved by experience to be perfectly wholesome. 

While some waters are thus in their nattiral condi- 
tion unwholesome, and may be the cause of sickness, 
the attention of sanitarians and water experts is directed 
nowadays principally to the effect of water which is 
polluted by the waste materials from manufactories 
and dwellings, or by the sewage of towns and cities ; 
and it is generally held, especially in England and the 
United States, that water thus polluted may be, and 
frequently is, the cause of certain specific diseases. 
Before discussing this question directly, it is important 
to have a general idea of the present prevailing view 
with reference to the so-called zymotic diseases, and 
to understand what is meant by the "germ theory." 



Digitized 



by Google 



28 FOOD MATERIALS 

Many clear liquids containing organic matter of ani- 
mal or vegetable origin, — such, for instance, as in- 
fusions of hay, infusion of turnip, urine, etc., — if 
exposed to the air, gradually become turbid or cloudy ; 
or perhaps a film forms on the surface of the liquid, 
or a deposit upon the walls of the vessel which con- 
tains it. The cause of the turbidity is shown by the 
microscope to be the presence of countless minute 
organized bodies, — some rod-like, others globular, — 
which prove to be capable of self-propagation, and 
which are endowed with motion, at least under certain 
conditions. Similar organisms are found in the " dust *' 
which floats in the air, and which may be collected by 
causing a current of air to impinge upon a surface 
moistened with glycerine ; they occur in rain water, 
particularly in that which falls in the beginning of a 
shower, in surface waters, and elsewhere. They are 
found especially where there is decomposing organic 
matter, and perform an active part in promoting or 
producing the chemical changes which take place. In 
certain diseases of men and of the lower animals, or- 
ganisms which, in their general character, are similar 
to those thus descrij)ed, have been found in the blood 
or in the substance of various organs, and their con- 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 29 

nection with the disease seems to be something more 
than a coincidence; there seems, indeed, to be a 
causal connection. 

The " Germ Theory " of disease is, that many dis- 
eases are due to the presence and propagation in the 
system of th^se minute organisms, which are popularly 
spoken of under the general name Bacteria, under 
which term are included also organisms which, as far 
as known, are harmless. Some of the diseases which 
have, with more or less show of reason, been supposed 
to have their cause in such organisms, are malarial 
(intermittent) fever, relapsing fever, diphtheria, typhus 
and typhoid, cholera, yellow-fever, and tuberculosis. 

Admitting the necessary presence of these minute 
organisms in the bodies of persons sick with certain 
diseases, organisms which, at least in certain stages of 
their development, can exist outside the human body 
and retain their vitality for a long time, the question 
arises how they can find their way into the systems of 
healthy persons to produce disease. The two most 
obvious of the possible carriers of disease are the air 
we breathe and the water we drink. We have no diffi- 
culty in supposing that emanations from sick persons, 
particulate or otherwise, may find their way into the 



Digitized 



by Google 



30 FOOD MATERIALS 

air ; moreover, the dejections of the sick and the water 
in which their clothes or their persons have been 
washed may often reach wells or other sources of 
drinking water. Of these two media the former, that 
is, the air, is a priori the most probable, partly because 
we take very much more air into out* lungs than we 
take water into our stomachs, and also because the 
lungs afford a better chance for the organisms to enter 
the blood ; indeed, some maintain that any organisms 
entering the stomach are rendered harmless by the 
fluids therein, and that the drinking water is not to be 
considered at all as a means of conveying the germs of 
disease. 

Of the diseases which are supposed to be caused by 
these micro-organisms, to be propagated by germs, 
those which have been, with the greatest unanimity, 
ascribed to the use of impure drinking water, are 
typhoid fever and cholera. 

Even the most earnest advocates of the drinking- 
water theory must admit that the theory is by no means 
proved, in the sense in which a mathematical proposi- 
tion may be proved ; and it certainly cannot be as- 
serted that the drinking water is the only means by 
which the zymotic diseases may be propagated j the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 31 

coincidences, however, if coincidences they be, are most 
remarkable, and every year adds to their number. 

There are many instances where the closing of the 
suspected source of supply has at once put a stop to 
the further spread of the disease ; there are also in- 
stances where people have assembled in numbers on 
account of some celebration, and sickness has followed 
in the case of a large proportion of those who have 
used a certain water, while the others have not been 
affected ; latterly there have been cases where sickness 
has broken out among families obtaining their milk 
from the same source, and investigation has shown 
that impure water was used in the dairy. 

As this is a matter which, in the present state of 
science, cannot be absolutely proved or disproved, the 
duty of those who have to advise or to decide in 
matters relating to water supply is perfectly clear: it 
is to err on the side of safety, to admit the hypothesis 
that specific diseases may be 'conveyed by the drinking 
water, and to guard all sources of domestic and public 
supply from the possibility of contamination by the 
dejections of persons sick with zymotic diseases and 
by excremental matter generally. 

Although there are many substances of vegetable 



Digitized 



by Google 



32 FOOD MATERIALS 

origin which are violent poisons, such as the vegetable 
alkaloids, for example, it is generally held that refuse 
of vegetable origin is of much less importance as a 
source of pollution than that coming from animM 
sources. This is probably true in general, but it is 
well known that the vegetable refuse from certain manu- 
facturing operations may be very offensive ; such, for 
instance, is the refuse from starch factories, the water 
in which flax has been retted, etc. That such water 
would be unfit to drink, unless enormously diluted, one 
can hardly doubt. 

However views may differ as to the possible injury 
from this or that particular form of contamination, we 
are safe in accepting the two following principles as 
fundamental guides in the selection of a water for a 
water supply : — 

1. A water suitable for domestic supply must be free 
from all substances which are known to produce an in- 
jurious effect on the human system, or which are 
suspected with good reason or on good authority to 
produce such an effect. 

2. The water should be, as far as practicable, free 
from all substances and from all associations which 
offend the general aesthetic sense of the community. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 33 

and thus affect the system through the imagination, 
even if there is good reason to suppose that it is in 
itself perfectly harmless. 

Again, most persons naturally object to water as 
muddy as that of most of our Western streams, in spite 
of the favorable testimony of those in the habit of 
using it ; but by a short residence in St. Louis, for in- 
stance, most persons soon become accustomed to the 
turbidity. The turbidity is a real objection to the 
water ; but in the case of a water like that of the Mis- 
souri, a town would not be justified in postponing the 
introduction of the water because it was not able at 
the same time to adopt a scheme for its thorough fil- 
tration. In the same way, if the only objection to a 
river or pond water is a yellow or brownish-yellow 
color derived from vegetable, especially peaty matter, 
the water need not be condemned, although most per- 
sons would prefer a colorless water. 

Undoubtedly the best water for drinking is a moder- 
ately soft spring water, in which all possibility of con- 
tamination is out of the question. Unfortunately, 
however, it is comparatively seldom that such water 
is available in quantities sufficient for the supply of 
large towns. Many spring waters are so hard that, 
3 



Digitized 



by Google 



34 POOD MATERIALS 

while not unsuited for drinking, they are unsuited for 
many manufacturing uses, for use in steam boilers, and 
for washing and culinary purposes. 

It is a mistake to claim that the water which is abso- 
lutely best for drinking must be chosen at any expense 
as a town supply ; when a soft surface water free from 
appreciable pollution can be obtained, it entails a very 
serious and constant expense to reject it in favor of a 
hard water, which may, to be sure, be clearer to the 
eye and somewhat more pleasant to the taste. There 
are surface waters and there are surface-water supplies 
which are undoubtedly bad ; but a good surface water, 
such as may be taken directly from many streams, or 
such as may be obtained from deep lakes and from 
proper storage basins, is perfectiy well suited for do- 
mestic use or for town supply. There are some who 
maintain an opinion contrary to that which has been 
expressed. The Vienna Commission, in 1864, rejected 
surface waters from among the waters suitable for 
domestic use, on the ground of then: variable tempera- 
ture and their liability to pollution. The German 
Public Health Association, at the Dantzic meeting in 
1880, by a small majority and after a lively discussion, 
adopted a resolution to the effect that spring water or 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 35 

properly protected ground water was the only admis- 
sible source of supply ; but two years later this dictum 
was modified so as to include filtered river water as 
fulfilling the required conditions, and this conclusion 
is sanctioned by practice and experience. 

The Pollution of Domestic Wells. 

In isolated dwellings and in villages and small towns 
not yet provided with a public water supply, drinking 
water must, as a rule, be obtained either by collecting 
the rain water and storing it in tanks and cisterns, or 
else by sinking wells. On account of the clearness and 
nearly uniform temperature of the ground water, the 
latter method is usually preferred when practicable. 
In the majority of cases the location of the well is 
dictated simply by convenience, and it frequently 
happens that it is in close proximity to a privy, or to 
cesspools, or to a bam or stable. The result is that 
the well is very liable to pollution, and, more often 
than not, it is simply a question of time when the 
water shall become unfit for use. 

The pollution of the well generally takes place grad- 
ually. The ground gradually becomes charged with 



Digitized 



by Google 



36 FOOD MATERIALS 

the soakage from the privies and manure heaps, and 
percolating rain water carries the impure matter into 
the ground water from which the well draws its supply. 
In other cases, actual channels are formed, by which 
the foul liquid trickles or flows into the well itself, or a 
leaky drain, laid near the well, may be the source of 
the trouble. 

Whatever views may be held of the effect upon the 
human system of drinking such water, there is no ques- 
tion whatever as to the pollution itself; and although 
the water may appear clear and bright, and be inoffen- 
sive to the senses, chemical examination may show 
that it is highly charged with the products of de- 
composition. Moreover, there are hundreds of cases 
on record where sickness has been coincident with the 
use of polluted well water, and although the evidence 
is of necessity circumstantial, it is too striking to be 
disregarded. In the present state of knowledge, it 
must be said that the continued use of well water 
proved to be polluted is as unjustifiable as suicide 
generally is. Under what conditions the water may 
become injurious, and when, no one can say. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



Household Filtration. 



37 



In localities where there is a public water supply, it 
is without doubt the duty of the water board or com- 
pany to deliver the water to ^consumers in a condition 
fit for domestic use. If the source which is, on the 
whole, the most available for the water supply is such 
that filtration is absolutely necessary, the water should 
be filtered on the large scale by the authority controlling 
the works. Practically, however, in the case of most 
existing water supplies the water as delivered to the 
consumers may be appreciably improved by filtration ; 
household filtration is also often necessary in country 
residences and in the smaller towns where there is no 
public supply, and where it is necessary to use rain 
water which has been stored in tanks or cisterns. For 
filtration on the household scale, numerous devices have 
been made and patented, and the greatest variety of 
material has been proposed. 

Many sorts of porous stone, sand, powdered glass, 
bricks, iron in turnings ani other forms, vegetable and 
animal charcoal, sponge, wool, flannel, cotton, straw, 
sawdust, excelsior, and wire-gauze, — these are some of 
the substances which are used. A filter suitable for 



Digitized 



by Google 



38 FOOD MATERIALS 

household use must be made of a material which can- 
not communicate any injurious or offensive quality to 
the water which passes through it ; it must remove from 
the water all suspended particles, so as to render the 
water bright and clear ; arid it must either be readily 
cleaned, or the filtering material must be such as to be 
readily renewed. In addition to these requirements, it 
is of great advantage if the filter is able to remove a 
noticeable amount of the dissolved organic matter 
which most waters contain. 

As to the filtering material, the author is satisfied 
that there is nothing, on the whole, better than well- 
burned animal charcoal (bone-coal). This material, 
as is well known, possesses great power in removing 
organic matter from solution, and is used in the arts to 
decolorize colored solutions: on many organic sub- 
stances it acts, not simply by adhesion, but apparently 
by bringing them into contact with oxygen, and thus 
absolutely destroying them. Its power does not last 
indefinitely, and a bone-coal filter, like a filter of any 
other material, requires cleansing and renewal at proper 
intervals. Other materials to be mentioned render 
good service, and in certain sorts of filters, as for 
instance those made for attachment to ordinary 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 39 

cocks or faucets, the bone-coal possesses no essential 
advantage. 



The Softening of Hard Water. 

The hardness of water is generally due to the pres- 
ence of coinpoimds of lime or magnesia. While a 
moderately hard water may be perfectly well suited for 
drinking, for almost all the other purposes of a water 
supply a soft water is preferable, other things being 
equal. If common soap be added to hard water the 
water seems to curdle, but no permanent froth or lather 
is formed until, by the mutual action of the soap and 
the compounds of lime and magnesia on each other, 
the latter are completely converted into a lime or mag- 
nesia soap, — an insoluble substance which forms the 
curd alluded to. After this point is reached, any ad- 
ditional soap becomes available for washing, but the 
curdy water is less efficient as a detergent. Hard water 
is as a rule much less desirable for culinary purposes than 
soft water. Finally, hard water is also objectionable on 
account of the ** scale " which forms in steam boilers 
in which it is used; in manufacturing towns this 
becomes a matter of great importance. 



Digitized 



by Google 



40 FOOD MATERIALS 

Permanent Hardness, 

The permanent hardness is usually caused by the 
presence of the sulphates (or other soluble salts) of 
lime and magnesia, gypsum (sulphate of lime) being 
the most common; the action on soap is the same 
as that of the bicartonates, which cause temporary 
hardness. Water containing sulphate of lime may 
be softened by adding carbonate of soda, and this 
is the method commonly employed in the laundry. 
The chemistry of the process is this : when carbonate 
of soda in solution is mixed with sulphate of lime in 
solution, there are formed carbonate of lime (which 
settles out in the solid form) and sulphate of soda 
(which remains dissolved) ; a similar action takes place 
with other soluble compounds of lime and magnesia. 

The expense of this treatment makes it imprac- 
ticable to soften in this way the entire water supply 
of a town, a large portion of which is used for pur- 
poses where the hardness of the water is a matter 
of indifference. Sulphate of lime becomes insoluble 
in water at high temperatures and contributes to the 
formation of scale in steam boilers ; hence, for techni- 
cal purposes it is desirable to remove the sulphate, and 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 41 

the process just indicated, or some other method, may 
be employed to advantage. 

The most simple manner of treating a water known 
or suspected to be impure is to boil it, although it is 
by no means certain that immunity from harm is thus 
in all cases assured. There is, however, evidence to 
show the value of the treatment. If after the boiling 
the water is iced, it becomes, of course, more palatable. 
It is stated that the Chinese and Japanese drink no 
water that has not been boiled; and when we con- 
sider the unsanitary conditions which exist in those 
countries and the character of the water used, it seems 
as if boiling the water must prevent ills that would 
otherwise befall the people. 

Service Pipes. 

The service pipes for house distribution in connec- 
tion with a public water supply are generally of lead, 
this metal being employed on account of the facility 
with which it may be worked. Lead pipes are also 
sometimes used for conveying well or spring water to 
individual residences. Various waters act very differ- 
ently upon lead, — some corroding it rapidly, others 
only to a very slight extent under similar circumstances. 



Digitized 



by Google 



42 FOOD MATERIALS 

The cause of the corrosion is to be sought in the dissolved 
oxygen, of which all waters contain more or less, and. 
in certain saline substances, the presence of which de- 
termines a more violent action. It is generally felt, for 
instance, that the presence of nitrates, nitrites, and am- 
moniacal salts increases the action of water on lead, 
while carbonates, sulphates, and notably phosphates, 
hinder such action; but while certain general state- 
ments may be truthfully made as the result of labora- 
tory experiment and from the analysis of waters whose 
action on lead has been learned by experience, it is a 
rather hazardous thing for a chemist to predict, a priori ^ 
what will be the effect of a particular water on lead 
pipe under the conditions of ordinary practice. Next 
to no value attaches to experiments made by immers- 
ing strips of sheet lead in open or closed vessels 
containing the water under examination. In actual 
practice, many waters, which would be pronounced 
dangerous on the strength of such experiments, prove 
entirely harmless. The pipes very soon become cov- 
ered with a naturally formed protective coating of diffi- 
cultly soluble compounds of lead; and after a slight 
initial action, corrosion practically ceases if the pipes 
are kept constantly filled. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 43 

It may be said that while with most waters the action 
on the lead practically ceases, it probably never ceases 
absolutely. The water of Lake Cochituate, as supplied 
in Boston, Mass., through lead pipes, always contains 
traces of lead in solution. The amount of lead taken 
up by the water in passing through some 150 feet of 
pipe which had been in use for some years was found 
to be only 0.03 part in ido,ooo, or less than 0.02 grain 
in the U. S. gallon. Water which is allowed to remain 
in the pipe for some time, or is drawn from the hot- 
water faucets, may contain as much as o.i, or even 0.2 
part in 100,000 (from 0.06 to 0.12 grain in the gallon) ; 
and wherever lead distribution pipes are in use, it is 
safer always to run to waste enough water to clear the 
pipes, and never to use for drinking or for cooking 
water which has passed through the pipes while hot. 

A similar precaution should be used in the case of 
new pipes ; the water should be wasted intermittently 
but freely for a number of days. There is great differ- 
ence in the susceptibility of different persons to lead 
poisoning. It is thought that as little as one fortieth 
of a grain to the gallon has caused sickness, but one 
tenth of a grain is usually regarded as an outside limit 
It is doubtful whether there are any well-authenticated 



Digitized 



by Google 



44 FOOD MATERIALS 

cases of lead poisoning from the use of the Cochituate 
water. 

The Croton water supplied to New York City is 
similar to the Boston water in its action on lead, 
although at least one case of poisoning has been re- 
ported, which was supposed to be due to the daily use 
for some time of water which had stood over night in 
the pipes. The practical experience in the use of lead 
pipe in the cities mentioned, and in many others, 
shows that as a rule there is no danger in using 
lead pipes for house distribution in connection with a 
public supply. 

The most unfavorable situation for lead pipe is as 
suction pipes in wells. Here the corrosion is often 
very rapid, and it is rendered more violent by the fact 
that the continual changes of level expose a longer or 
shorter portion of the pipe to the alternate action of 
air and water. There are instances enough of lead 
poisoning from this cause. 

It may be remarked, in this connection, that the lead 
pipe now in use, at least in the eastern part of the 
country, is much inferior in strength and durability, 
and apparently more readily corroded, than that for- 
merly in use. The lead now in the market has been 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 45 

desilverized by the zinc process, and this seems to give 
it a particular and disadvantageous character. 

Other materials than lead are used in the house 
service. To block-tin or to tin-lined lead pipes, if the 
latter are properly made and properly put together, 
there is no objection on sanitary grounds. The corro- 
sion of the tin by ordinary waters would result in the 
formation of insoluble and harmless substances. As to 
the suitability of the brass pipes which have been pro- 
posed, there seems to be no exact information. To 
the various sorts of " enamelled " wrought-iron pipes 
which are in the market there is no sanitary objection. 
The coating or enamel is generally some preparation 
of coal tar, with or without linseed oil, and this sort of 
pipe is particularly adapted for use in wells, where a 
portion of the outer surface is exposed alternately to 
the action of air and water ; unfortunately, the coating 
is not always perfect, and when the original surface of 
the pipe is exposed, rusting begins. Zincked or "gal- 
vanized " iron, as it is called, is fully as bad in respect 
to rusting. The pipes are prepared by dipping the 
iron, previously well cleaned by means of dilute acid, 
into a bath of melted zinc. The zinc adheres firmly to 
the surface of the iron, and penetrates it to a certain 



Digitized 



by Google 



46 FOOD MATERIALS 

extent, so that we do not deal with a simple coating 
such as we have on tinned iron, or on the various forms 
of enamelled pipe. The idea is that the zinc shall 
protect the iron by virtue of a galvanic action between 
the two metals, and it does protect the iron for a time. 
When the pipes are exposed to the action of water, 
corrosion begins at once : at first, the action is on the 
zinc alone, provided the original iron was free firom 
rust, and the treatment with zmc was thorough; but 
after a time the zinc which remains will cease to pro- 
tect the iron, and iron-rust will begin to form. As 
regards this action, it is simply a question of time. 
Water that has passed through zincked pipes will be 
found almost always, if not invariably, to contain zinc 
compounds either in solution or in suspension; the 
amount, however, is generally very small. As to the 
effect of such water on health there is some difference 
of opinion, but it is generally believed that the pipes 
may be safely used. 

One of the best materials for service pipes is wrought- 
iron protected by the Bower-Barflf process, provided 
practical experience justifies the theoretical expecta- 
tions. To such pipes, coupled without the use of red 
or white lead, there can be nothing superior firom a 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 47 

sanitary point of view, and for use in wells and cisterns 
they will supply a very serious want. Ordinary wrought- 
iron pipes, although possessing many advantages, have 
the great disadvantage of rusting very readily : the iron- 
rust is harmless but unsightly in drinking water, and 
may render the water unfit for culinary purposes and 
for use in the laundry. 

Popular Tests. 

The writer has little sympathy with popular tests. 
It is true that the observations on odor and taste and 
color may be made by a person who is not a chemist. 
There are also certain qualitative tests that any intelli- 
gent person can learn to make satisfactorily, and which 
would serve as indications to the chemist. It is in 
general true of popular tests, that they are apt to lead 
either to an unjustified sense of security or to an un- 
necessary feeling of alarm. The following test for 
sewage contamination, proposed by Heisch, and rec- 
ommended by others, has some value. 

Put some of the water (say half a pint) into a clean, 
colorless, glass-stoppered bottle, add a few grains of 
white sugar, shake until the sugar has dissolved, and 
leave the bottle freely exposed to the light in a warm 



Digitized 



by Google 



48 FOOD MATERIALS 

room for a week or ten days. If the water becomes 
turbid, it is open to suspicion of sewage contamination ; 
if it remains clear, it is probably safe. 

Collection of Samples, 

In connection with the chemical examination of 
water, the importance of taking due care in the collec- 
tion of samples may be alluded to. The best vessel 
for collecting water for analysis is a glass-stoppered 
bottle ; a clean demijohn which has never been used 
for any other purpose and which is stopped with a new 
and clean cork answers perfectly well, and is often 
more convenient. Tin cans or stoneware jugs are not 
suitable. 

Considerable care is necessary in order to get a fair 
sample of the water. The demijohn should be rinsed 
several times thoroughly with the water to be collected 
and finally filled not quite to the mouth. The cork 
should be washed with the same water, and the demi- 
john stoppered tightly. The stopper should be tied 
over with a piece of cloth or " bandage gum," and the 
string sealed with sealing-wax, that the water may not 
be tampered with in transit 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 49 

If the water be taken from a pump or from a faucet, 
enough water should be pumped or allowed to run to 
waste to thoroughly clear the pipes. In taking water 
from a pond or river, it will generally be most con- 
venient to use a clean crockery pitcher, which may be 
filled by plunging it beneath the surface (so as to avoid 
any scum or floating material), and then emptied into 
the demijohn ; or a new and clean tin dipper may be 
employed. If a glass bottle is used, it may be plunged 
directly into the water and thus filled. In taking water 
from a river, the middle of the stream should be chosen 
if only one sample is taken. 



TEA. 

The tea plant, Thea Sinensis, an evergreen, and 
closely allied to the genus Camellia, is a native of 
China, Japan, and the north of Eastern India. The 
finest tea of China is grown between the twenty- 
seventh and thirty-first parallels of north latitude. 
But the plant will flourish from the equator to forty 
degrees north latitude. 

Tea has been used as a beverage by the Chinese for 
ages past. Tradition refers to it as early as the third 
4 



Digitized 



by Google 



50 POOD MATERIALS 

century. It first became known to Europeans about 
the end of the sixteenth century. Until the middle of 
the seventeenth, the price was from twenty-five to fifty 
dollars a pound ; and a remarkable feature in its history 
is the reduction which has taken place in its commer- 
cial value, tea now being sold at Canton at firom 
fifteen to twenty cents a pound, and in this country 
at fifty cents to one dollar. Tea is used at present by 
about one third of the human race. The consumption 
per head in Great Britain in 1835 ^^ ^^ss than one 
and a half pounds. In 1877 it was four and a half 
pounds. In the United States in 1876 it was one and 
a half pounds. Among European nations tea is pre- 
eminently an English, Russian, and Dutch drink. 

The quality of tea depends upon its flavor, which 
should be delicate and yet full ; and this is affected by 
the time of gathering, whether or not the first of the 
lour yearly gatherings, by the age of the tree, by the 
country in which it is grown, by the quality of the soil, 
and by the situation of the plantation. The two classes 
of tea, the black and the green, are produced in the 
same region, and often from the same trees. Green 
tea is rolled and dried very quickly, the whole process 
being finished in an hour or two, so that the leaf keeps 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 51 

its color. The idea that green tea is obtained by dry- 
ing the leaves in copper pans is a popular error, which 
has been persisted in for a long time, without a shadow 
of truth for its foundation. For black tea the leaves 
are beaten and exposed to the air for some time, so 
that a sort of fermentation sets in. The production of 
the aromatic flavors is due to the processes of drying, 
since the leaves when freshly plucked have neither the 
odor nor flavor of the dried leaves. Hence difierent 
qualities of tea may be made from the same leaves, 
according to the treatment while drying. This is the 
source of the various kinds found in the market under 
the names Hyson, Oolong, etc. Some teas are scented 
with fragrant leaves. 

Substitutes for tea are found in nearly every country. 
Sage leaves were frequently so used in England, a cen- 
tury ago. Labrador tea was prepared by the native 
American tribes. The leaves of thirty-two plants are 
known to have been thus used. 

The important constituent of tea is*an alkaloid called 
theine. It is present in varying proportions, from one 
to four per cent. The theine is supposed to be in com- 
bination with tannin, which is the most abundant soluble 
substance in tea, usually from sixteen to twenty-seven 



Digitized 



by Google 



52 FOOD MATERIALS 

per cent To the tannin is due the constipating effect 
of tea. The longer the tea leaves are steeped, the more 
tannin the solution contains. Regard for the lining of 
one's stomach would lead one to avoid all steeped teas. 
The infusion should be prepared immediately before 
drinking. 

The odor and flavor of tea are due to an essential 
oil which is present in very small quantity, and which is 
developed during the roasting and drying. For a good 
tea, the volatile oil must not escape. To make a good 
pot of tea, scald out the pot with boiling hot sofl water, 
place the tea in it as soon as possible, pour over it the 
boiling water, and close the pot immediately : allow it 
to stand in a hot place for a few minutes, but do not let 
it boil. Tea as drunk in China is always taken clear, 
without any addition of milk or sugar. The Russians 
add a few drops of lemon. 

Lo-Yu, a learned Chinese who lived somewhere 
about 700 A. D., says of the effect of an infusion of tea, 
that it tempers tRe spirits and harmonizes the mind, 
dispels lassitude and relieves fatigue, awakens thought 
and prevents drowsiness, lightens or refreshes the body, 
and clears the perceptive faculties. Modem writers 
claim that tea excites the brain to increased activity, 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 53 

while it soothes and stills the vascular system, and 
hence its use in inflammatory diseases, and as a cure for 
headache. Taken in excess, it has the effect of a vege- 
table poison. It affects different people differently, and 
when it causes nervous excitement its use should be 
avoided. The infusion is stimulating and not nutritive ; 
hence the use of tea and toast, so common among the 
workingwomen of America, is ver}' poor economy, and 
is an evil, one had almost said, second only to the use 
of alcohol. Indeed, it has been called the tobacco of 
women ; for while the tea does undoubtedly allow one 
to live on less food, it does not supply the place of 
food for any length of time. If the exhausted leaves 
were eaten after the infusion was drunk, as is the case 
in several countries, it would be more economical, since 
they contain about twenty per cent of nitrogenous mat- 
ter, insoluble in water. On the coast of South America 
and on the slopes of the Himalayas the spent leaves are 
handed round among the company, sometimes on a 
silver salver, and much relished. In some places the 
leaves are powdered and mixed with various nutritious 
substances, and eaten without infusion. 

According to the best authorities tea should not be 
drunk as a beverage by persons under middle age, as 



Digitized 



by Google 



54 FOOD MATERIALS 

it is liable to interfere with the development of the 
nervous system. But for elderly and delicate people 
whose stomachs are incapable of digesting much food 
the use of tea is often valuable, as it, like coffee, pre- 
vents the waste of tissue, or, in other words, a person 
requires less food when tea is taken ; but it should not 
be used for this purpose by working people, since it tells 
upon the digestive power of the stomach, and nothing 
can supply day after day the lack of nutritious food. 
Physicians now recognize a tea dyspepsia, and no one 
with a hope for better digestion should drink tea con- 
stantly three times a day. 

Adulterations of Tea. 
When tea was ten dollars a pound there was great 
temptation to mix other leaves with the genuine, or 
even to substitute them entirely; also to add to the 
weight by iron filings, etc., or sand gummed on plum- 
bago and soapstone; the exhausted leaves were also 
used. Since the price has fallen, very much less adul- 
teration is practised. It will not pay to work over the 
tea leaves to any extent, yet they are occasionally 
adulterated, and inferior grades due to carelessness in 
preparation and to less careful cultivation are quite 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 55 

common. In England all tea is sampled and in- 
spected, and in 1879, of five hundred and seventy- 
five specimens examined, only three were found to 
require special disposal, — one damaged by water, one 
consisting of exhausted leaves, and one sanded. 

The addition of mineral matter may be detected by 
burning a weighed quantity — one gram or more — 
in a platinum dish, and weighing the ash. Good tea 
gives from five to seven per cent of ash. If the leaves 
are exhausted, the per cent will be less. To ascertain 
the strength of the tea an infusion is the best test. If 
the decoction is very high-colored, the tea has probably 
been doctored. If there is not much extract, the leaves 
have been exhausted. The surest test of this is the 
specific gravity of the solution ; but even this is a deli- 
cate test, since the specific gravity of a solution of two 
hundred grains of tea in two thousand grains of water 
is from 1.012 to 1.014, while that of exhausted leaves is 
1.003 to 1.0057. Good tea should yield twenty-six per 
cent, and often as much as thirty-six per cent, of its 
weight to boiling water. 

Dr. Farquharson of Iowa reports : " The proper ex- 
amination of tea is a difficult and delicate task, only to 
be undertaken by an expert, who combines the attain- 



Digitized 



by Google 



56 FOOD MATERIALS 

ments of a chemist, a microscopist, and a tea-taster." 
The most frequent coloring-matters or facings now in 
use are Prussian-blue and indigo. Prussian-blue may 
be detected by the addition of a solution of potash. 
This causes the color to disappear, but it can be re- 
stored by an acid. Indigo is not affected by potash in 
the cold, but is decomposed by permanganate of potash. 
The readiest method of detecting the addition of other 
kinds of leaves is by the microscope ; but this of course 
requires training in the use of the instrument, and a 
knowledge of the appearance of tlie real tea leaves. 
The quantity of Prussian-blue mixed with gypsum or 
clay is about one grain to the ounce : probably not 
one third of this is Prussian-blue, so that the dose is 
homoeopathic. 

The Russians are said to have the most delicious tea 
of any nation in Europe. They have an inland trade 
with China, and choice teas are directly imported, with- 
out exposure to the heat and close air of the hold of a 
vessel, so injurious to teas of a delicate flavor. Their 
method of making tea also has much to do with its 
fine flavor, and as samovars are a national feature, and 
now beginning to be imported and used in this country, 
I will endeavor to describe them and their use. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 57 

The samovar is a large brass urn, lined with block 
tin. The um and the stand which raises it from the 
table are all in one piece, in those I have seen. The 
urns hold from four to eight quarts of water, which is 
poured in through a small hole, three quarters of an 
inch in diameter, in the top, and they are emptied by a 
stop-cock or faucet, like any hot-water um. The fire 
for heating the water is arranged in this way. Direcdy 
through the centre of the um, firom top to bottom, runs 
a hollow cylinder, which is closed below by a littie 
grate, the bars of which show below the body of the 
um. These bars are fine enough to prevent any fire 
fi-om falling upon the tray or table on which it stands, 
and the um stands sufficientiy high from the table to 
prevent any danger fi*om heat. The metal of the 
stand is solid below, so there is no danger fi-om fire. 
At the upper end the cylinder rises above the um an 
inch or two, and has a tall chimney of brass, that can 
be taken off by its odd straight handle, as required. 

It is usually one servant's duty in Russia to take 
care of the samovar, to fill it with the fireshest of water, 
to kindle the fire, and to bring it in when all is ready 
for the table. A twist of paper is placed in the bottom 
of the cylinder, with some splinters of kindling wood. 



Digitized 



by Google 



58 FOOD MATERIALS 

Upon this are placed bits of charcoal broken into bits 
the size of walnuts. The Russians themselves often 
have a special charcoal made from cocoa-nuts, the 
hard shells making a very dense, odorless charcoal, 
which gives off an intense heat. The fire is lighted 
from the grate below. The chimney is put on, and the 
fire is allowed to bum until all smoke and smell from 
the wood and paper have passed away, and the charcoal 
is in a glow. Then it is carried in and set upon the 
table. 

As soon as the water sends out a jet of steam from 
the hole at the top, beside the cylinder, the tea is 
made by the hostess. Now notice that the water 
has just reached the boiling point. It has lost none 
of its life or air. It is simply fresh, pure water brought 
to the boiling point. The teapot is made scalding 
hot, and the tea is taken from a caddy upon the 
table. At first only a little water is poured upon it. 
The chimney is taken off and the tea-pot is set upon 
the cylinder over the glowing coals, upon the same 
principle as setting the tea-pot in the top of the 
boiling tea-kettle on the fire, as we often see done 
here in our kitchens. In a few moments, more boil- 
ing water is added, and the tea-pot replaced over the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 59 

coals. The tea is poured into the cups when it has 
steeped sufficientiy long, sugar is added, and instead 
of cream a slice of lemon is slipped into each cup. 
Fresh tea and water are put in the tea-pot, and it 
is again placed over the coals. 

To empty the water from the samovar, it is sufficient 
to let it run out from the faucet. This is first done, 
and then the coal and ashes are shaken out by turning 
the samovar upside down, as it does not take apart. 
But in Russia the samovar is often kept hot the greater 
part of the day, fresh charcoal and water being occasion- 
ally added as required, until the time comes for a fresh 
samovar to be made ready for the table. 

COFFEE. 

One tradition relates that, in antique days, a poor 
dervish, who lived in a valley of Arabia Felix, ob- 
served a strange hilarity in his goats on their retiun 
home every evening. To find out the cause of this, 
he watched them closely one day, and observed that 
they eagerly devoured the blossoms and fruit of a tree 
he had hitherto disregarded. He tried the effect of 
this food upon himself, and was thrown into such a 



Digitized 



by Google 



Co FOOD MATERIALS 

State of exhilaration that his neighbors accused him of 
having drunk of the forbidden wine ; but he revealed 
to them his discovery, and they at once agreed that 
Allah had s^nt the coffee plant to the faithful as a 
substitute for the wine. 

The name of coffee is given to a beverage prepared 
from the seeds of plants, which are roasted, ground, 
and infused in boiling water. The seeds most used are 
those of the Arabian coffee tree (an evergreen, Caffea 
Arabicd)y which belongs to the natural order Cincho- 
nacese, the same order to which belongs the tree from 
which is obtained the Peruvian bark of commerce. It 
is probable that the use of coffee has been known from 
time immemorial in Abyssinia, where the tree is native. 
In Persia it is known to have been in use as early as 
A.D. 875. 

The first allusion to coffee in an English book is 
believed to be in Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy : 
" The Turks have a drink called coffee, (for they use 
no wine,) so named of a berry as black as soot, and 
as bitter, which they sup up as warm as they can 
suffer, because they find by experience that that kind 
of drink, so used, heipeth digestion and produceth 
alacrity." 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTER A 7'IONS, 6l 

While in Mahometan countries its use as an anti- 
soporific in the long devotional exercises rendered 
it obnoxious to the conservative priests, — and while 
some held it to be an intoxicant, and so prohibited 
by the Koran, in England it seems to have been op- 
posed by liquor-dealers, who alleged that the popularity 
of the coffee-houses was so great as to draw away 
their custom. The popularity of the coffee-houses 
also aroused suspicion of disloyalty in the gatherings, 
so that they were made the object of a royal procla- 
mation by Charles II. in 1675. 

Coffee was introduced into England about the same 
time as tea, and its use increased very rapidly, until it 
reached its maximum in 1854, when the import into 
Great Britain was 37,441,373 pounds. Since then the 
consumption has decreased, partly owing to a greater 
use of tea, and partly to the increase of coffee substi- 
tutes. The amount per head used in Great Britain 
was one and a quarter pounds in 1857; in 1875- 
77, only three fourths of a pound. In the United 
States it is about eight pounds ; in Holland and Ger- 
many, about fourteen. 

The introduction of coffee into Europe was bitterly 
opposed, and the use. of it denounced from the pulpit 



Digitized 



by Google 



62 FOOD MATERIALS 

Nevertheless the tree has been cultivated in all tropical 
countries which have been colonized by Europeans. 
Brazil now supplies two thirds of the coffee of the 
world. 

The most valuable constituent of coffee is caffeine^ 
an alkaloid identical with the theine of tea. There is 
present about one per cent of it. Tlie peculiar flavor 
and aroma of coffee are due to one or more oils or 
fats, which become changed to peculiar aromatic com- 
pounds in the roasting. There are some thirteen per 
cent of these, and they probably possess the stimulat- 
ing properties noticed in the infusion. Caffeic acid, an 
astringent somewhat like the tannin of tea, is present, 
but only from three to five per cent. Hence, the ac- 
tion of coffee is not as deleterious to the coatings of 
the stomach as is that of tea. Coffee also contains 
sugar to five or seven per cent, which is all converted 
into caramel in roasting. 

The exhausted berries also contain nutritious nitro- 
genous matter, and some Eastern nations drink grounds 
and all. In Sumatra the leaves are used, and seem 
to have a large proportion of the properties of the 
berry.* 

1 See Chemistry of Common Life, p. 141. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 63 

The effect of coffee on the human system is to 
counteract the tendency to sleep, and it is aknost cer- 
tain that it was this property which originally led to its 
use as a beverage. It also excites the nervous system, 
and when taken in excess produces contractions and 
tremors of the muscles, and a feeling of buoyancy and 
exhilaration somewhat similar to that produced by 
alcohol, but does not end with depression or collapse. 
Professor Johnstone thus describes the properties and 
effects of coffee : ** It exhilarates, arouses, and keeps 
awake ; it counteracts the stupor occasioned by fatigue, 
by disease, or opium ; it allays hunger to a certain ex- 
tent; it gives to the weary increased strength and 
vigor, and imparts a feeling of comfort and repose." 
Its physiological effects upon the system, so far as 
they have been investigated, appear to be, that, while it 
makes the brain more active, it soothes the body gener- 
ally, makes the change and waste of matter slower, and 
the demand for food in consequence less. 

For soldiers and travellers exposed to great hard- 
ships, coffee is the best agent known for restoration of 
the exhausted energies. Its use can be abused, like 
that of any other good thing, but, used understand- 
ingly, coffee is an important addition to one's diet. 



Digitized 



by Google 



64 FOOD MATERIALS 

The adulterations of coffee are mostly seeds, as' 
beans or pease ; or roots, as chiccory, dandelion, and 
carrots. As yet, there has been no seed found which, 
when roasted and ground, corresponds with coffee, 
either in its physiological properties or in the chemical 
composition. 

The detection of the presence of chiccory, caramel, 
and some of the sweet roots, as turnips, carrots, and 
parsnips, is quite easy. If a few grains of the sus- 
pected sample are placed on the surface of water in a 
glass vessel, beaker, or tumbler, each particle of chic- 
cory, etc., will become surrounded by a yellow-brown 
cloud, which rapidly diffuses through the water until 
the whole becomes colored. 

Pure coffee, under the same conditions, gives no 
sensible color to the water until after the lapse of 
about fifteen minutes. Caramel (burnt sugar) of 
course colors the water very deeply. Dandelion-root 
gives a deeper color than coffee, but not as deep as 
chiccory; the same is true. of bread raspings. Both 
these adulterations may be more readily detected by 
the taste, and the bread by its softening. Beans and 
pease give much less color to the water than pure 
coffee; they can be readily detected by the micro- 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 65 

scope, as can roasted figs and dates, or date-stones. 
But as was said under tea, the microscopical examina- 
tion must be made by one who has skill. The use of 
the microscope is not to be learned in one lesson. In 
months of practice one sees more and more each time 
the instrument is used, so that, while it is an invaluable 
aid to those accustomed to its use, it is as unreliable as 
the chemical tests in the hands of the unskilled.^ 

The preparation of good coffee requires only an 
understanding of its properties, and is not as difficult 
or as dependent upon complicated apparatus as is 
often supposed. Raw coffee, when kept dry, improves 
with age. The best Java is said to be some seven or 
eight years old. To prepare the kernel for use, it must 
first be properly roasted by a quick heat, like that used 
for popping com. The kernels should swell and pop 
in much the same way, though not to the same extent 
When the flavor has thus been developed, and the 
berry made brittle, it is to be ground in a mill or 
pounded in a mortar as fine as may be, and then, to 
obtain the full strength, placed in an earthen-ware 
vessel, covered with cold water, allowed to stand for 

1 For illustrations of the appearance of tea leaves, and other 
leaves and berries, see Bell, Ilassall, Blyth, and Konig. 

5 



Digitized 



by Google 



66 FOOD MATERIALS 

some hours, and brought to the boiling heat just before 
use. While this is the most economical treatment, most 
people prepare an infusion made by pouring boiling 
water upon the fine coffee. The vessel should then be 
closed and allowed to stand at a boiling heat for five to 
ten minutes : it should never boil violently, as the deli- 
cate aroma of the coffee is then lost. " Coffee, to be 
good, must be made strong. From one to two ounces 
to a pint of water is recommended ; three times the 
volume of milk may then be added. This is bet- 
ter than to add water. In countries where the best 
coffee is made, there is a concurrence of opinion that 
roasted coffee should not come in contact with any 
metal; but that it should be powdered in a wooden 
mortar, kept in glass or porcelain, and infused in 
porcelain or earthen-ware jugs, or other closed 
vessels." An expensive method of preparation is by 
the percolation of boiling water through the coffee, 
drop by drop. The simplest apparatus for this is 
a flannel bag suspended in the coffee-pot, and which 
carries the coffee. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



COCOA. 



67 



The cocoa of commerce is chiefly prepared from 
the seeds of the plant Theobroma cacao ^ which grows 
in the West Indies, Brazil, and Guiana ; also in some 
parts of Asia and Africa. 

The term theobroma implies food for the gods, and 
the name was given to the plant by Linnaeus, who is 
said to have been very fond of the beverage prepared 
from cocoa. The Mexicans called it cacaoa quahuitl, 
and the beverage chocolatl; and we probably derive 
from these native names our words cocoa and choc- 
olate. It was introduced into Europe by the Spaniards 
in 1520, and appears to have been known to the 
inhabitants of Central America from time immemorial. 
England uses about five ounces per head annually. 

The cocoa bean contains fifty per cent of fat, thir- 
teen per cent of nitrogenous substance, half of which 
is soluble, about seven per cent of a tannin-like prin- 
ciple, four per cent of starch, and about one per cent 
of theobromine, an alkaloid resembling theine. Thus 
it combines in a remarkable way the important sub- 
stances which constitute a perfect food, and it is not 
strange that it holds so high a place in popular favor, 



Digitized 



by Google 



eS FOOD MATERIALS 

yet the large percentage of fat renders it too rich to 
be taken as an addition to an otherwise hearty meal : 
hence the various preparations in which the most of 
the fat is extracted. A cup of cocoa taken with 
milk is in itself a nutritive drink, — almost of the 
nature of soup, since cocoa is not soluble, only held 
in suspension. 

• Cocoa nibs are the cracked beans ; but since some 
time is required to soften them, the prepared forms 
are preferred, with or without the fat, chocolate hav- 
ing more fat than some other preparations. Shells are 
the husks destitute of the fat, but containing more 
astringent substance. 

The chief additions to chocolate and prepared 
cocoa are starch and sugar. Sometimes ferruginous 
earths have been found, and occasionally foreign fats 
are used. 

In making tea we make an infusion. In making 
coffee we make either an infusion or a decoction. 
Now in making cocoa from the nibs or the cracked 
cocoa, we make a decoction ; that is, the cocoa must 
actually boil. If it stands upon the stove or range, 
and steeps without boiling, we have an infusion, and we 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 69 

obtain as a result an intensely bitter drink. But if it 
boils, — and it is an important, curious fact the dif- 
ference a few degrees of heat will make, — we have 
a smooth, oily, nutty beverage, which is most agreeable 
to drink, and very nutritious also, which the bitter 
beverage is not. There is the same difference be- 
tween an infusion and a decoction of coffee, but the 
bitter of coffee is not so unpleasant nor so marked. 
Tea, on the contrary, and also all herb teas, like mint, 
catnip, etc., are harsh and bitter when boiled, losing 
all their fragrance and delicate flavor. Tea is more of 
a mere beverage than coffee, which approaches a liquid 
food, though not as nearly as cocoa does. 



Digitized 



by Google 



III. 

CEREAL FOODS. — BARLEY, RICE, OATS, 
MAIZE, RYE, AND WHEAT. 

'THHE cereals all belong to the family of grasses, 
and some member of the group flourishes in 
every latitude. Barley grows even within the Arctic 
Circle, and thence southward are found, in the follow- 
ing order, oats, rye, wheat, maize, while within the 
tropics rice is found. The seeds of these plants have 
been used for the food of man from time immemo- 
rial. The Egyptians have a tradition that barley was 
the first to be so used. They are the most important 
of all food substances. 

A general description will serve for all the seeds or 
kernels. The shape is from round to oval or oblong, 
with a groove on one side running the length of the 
kernel. This indentation serves to protect the germ 
which it encloses. Outside the germ are usually rec- 
ognized three layers. The outer layer, which serves 
to hold the inner ones compactly together and to keep 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS. 



71 



them dry, is made up chiefly of woody fibre, or cellu- 
lose, and is comparatively worthless for the purpose of 
nutrition. Next, there are in most grains one or more 
layers of cells which contain nitrogenous and phos- 
phatic compounds, while within, forming the body of 
the seed, is found the mass of starch granules, larger 
and smaller, with intermingled cells of the glutinous or 
albuminoid constituents. All these are supported in a 
loose fiamework of cellular tissue. The proportion of 
these constituents varies greatly in the different grains 
and in varieties of the same grain. Rice has the largest 
proportion of starch, and oats contain the most oily and 
phosphatic material. 

The term flour is often used to designate the meal 
or powder obtained by the grinding of any species of 
grain or seed. But the use of the word in the United 
States is for the most part limited to the finely ground 
portion, the more starchy portion ; while by the term 
meal — a Saxon word meaning finely ground, soft to 
the touch — is understood the bran or the product 
of the grinding of the whole grain. Both terms are 
generic, and are qualified by a descriptive adjective ; 
as, wheat flour, com meal, etc. 

Barley and rice are for the most part cooked whole, 



Digitized 



by Google 



72 FOOD MATERIALS 

oats and maize are coarsely crushed, while wheat 
and rye are finely ground and separated into the 
flour or white sifted starch and gluten, and the husk 
or bran which is left after the bolting, as the sifting 
is technically called. 

BARLEY. 

Barley belongs to the genus Hordeum. It is prob- 
ably a native of Northern or Central Asia, but it has a 
remarkable power of adapting itself to a great range 
of temperature, and has a wider distribution than wheat 
or oats. On the Eastern continent its culture extends 
from 70° north latitude to 42° south, and in America 
from 62° north to 20° south. Its use as an article of 
food is coeval with the history of man. It yields a 
greater produce per acre than any other grain except 
rice. It was largely cultivated by the Romans, and 
used chiefly as food for horses. In England, in the 
middle of the seventeenth century, it was commonly 
used as the food of the people, because it grew readily 
in any part of the kingdom. Since improved means 
of transportation have brought all countries within a 
few days of each other, wheat is carried to lands in 
which it will not thrive, and people no longer need 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 73 

to live on the produce of their own soil. Barley has 
less starch, and more cellulose, mineral matter, and fat, 
than rice. It is at present largely used for the manu- 
facture of beer, being better suited for it than the 
other grains. 

RICE. 

" The rice of commerce is the product of the grass 
Oryza sativa, probably a native of the East Indies, but 
cultivated in all portions of tropical and sub-tropical 
regions. It forms the principal food of nearly one 
third of the human race, and enters largely into the 
diet of all civilized nations ; although, on account of 
the excess of starch over the nitrogenous and mineral 
constituents, it has been said that rice can only be the 
substantive article of diet of an indolent and feeble 
people. The outer coat of woody fibre does not ad- 
here closely, and is easily removed, so that, as sent to 
market, the shelled grain is the inner or starch kernel. 
The wild rice of North America belongs to another ge- 
nus, Zinania aquatica. It grows in the north temperate 
regions, and deserves more notice than it has hitherto 
received. Rice flour is now largely used in the adultera- 
tion of many finely ground foods and of condiments. 



Digitized 



by Google 



74 



FOOD MATERIALS 



OATS. 



Oatmeal is prepared from two species, Avena sativa 
and Avena orientalis, which belong to the same natural 
order as wheat. This grain grows best in a cool, moist 
climate. The native country of the grass is not known 
with certainty. There is evidence that the plant was 
known in Britain in 1296, and mention is made of the 
use of oatmeal porridge as an article of food in 1596. 
In 1698 the consumption of oatmeal was second only 
to barley, but wheat has gradually taken its place in 
Southern England. By kiln-drying and removing the 
husk, groats or grits are obtained, which, when ground, 
yield oatmeal. The husk is not as completely removed 
as in the case of rice, and the meal is not as white as 
wheat meal. Although it contains a large proportion 
of nitrogenous matter it is not in the form of the tena- 
cious gluten of wheat : hence it will not make light or 
porous bread. Oatmeal is not as easily digested as 
wheat flour, and as a staple article of diet it is best 
suited to persons who are much in the open air ; but 
a portion of the morning meal may advantageously be 
of this very nutritious grain. Blyth says that in Eng- 
land it is sometimes adulterated with barley meal. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



MAIZE. 



75 



Maize, Zea mays, is remarkable in the order of 
grasses for the large size of its grains, and for the 
heads into which they are collected. It grows wild in 
the neighborhood of Mexico and in tropical America, 
and has now been introduced into every quarter of 
the globe, though it cannot be relied upon as a field 
crop in Great Britain. It has been said, that what wheat 
is in Europe and rice in Asia, maize is in America. 

Maize, or Indian com as it is called in the United 
States, was not much consumed in England until the 
year of the potato famine, in 1846, when hominy was 
imported. Now about 8,000,000 pounds are annually 
imported, chiefly from the Black and Mediterranean 
Sea borders. It is an excellent food, easily digested, 
and very nutritious. It is much used for the prepa- 
ration of starch and for "infant's foods." The starch 
is separated, and used in place of the more costly 
arrowroot. 

MILLET. 

Millet, Panicum miliaceum, also a native of tropical 
countries, is one of the largest fodder grasses, often 



Digitized 



by Google 



76 FOOD MATERIALS 

called Guinea grass or Guinea com. This grain is used 
for human food only in hot countries. It is very 
nutritious, and, so far as composition shows, is quite 
equal to wheat. 

RYE. 

Rye, Secale cerate, is nearly allied to wheat. The 
grains are smaller, and the flour not so white. It is 
very rich in nitrogenous substances. It grows a little 
farther north than wheat flourishes, and it thrives on a 
sandy soil, too poor for any other grain. The bread 
made from rye flour is not so white and light as that 
made from wheat flour, but it is extensively used in 
Europe. The chief objection to its use is, that it is 
liable to be injured by a fungus, which produces an 
appearance like a spur, and which is called ergot. If 
these swelled grains are ground with the others, the 
flour is rendered unwholesome, and even dangerous, 

WHEAT. 

Wheat flour is prepared from the seeds of the genus 
Triticum. The two varieties commonly cultivated are 
Triticum hybernum, and the bearded wheat, Triticum 
cestivum. The cultivation of wheat has superseded that 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 77 

of all other grains in climates where it will thrive, (in 
the temperate zone as far as 60^ north,) but in the 
Middle Ages it was food only for the wealthy classes. 
Its use has been constantly on the increase, until it is 
now food for all classes. 

The reason seems to be, that bread made from it has 
no unpleasant or pronounced taste, so that the most 
fastidious palate does not become weary of it, and 
has a light, spongy or porous character, quite peculiar 
to the wheat loaf. This adapts it for ready digestion, 
and is due to the peculiar nature of gluten, which in 
good flour is very elastic, and, when the moistened 
dough is compressed, causes it to spring back again 
to its place. 

The quality of the prepared flour is dependent upon 
the variety of wheat, the curing of the ripened grain, 
and the process of grinding. 

There are two kinds of wheat, the hard and the 
soft, which are referred to in the description of the 
grinding. 

The curing of wheat is of the utmost importance, 
for if the grain is allowed to become damp and 
mouldy, a disagreeable flavor will be communicated 
to the flour. 



Digitized 



by Google 



78 POOD MATERIALS 

For grinding, two processes are used, which are 
known as high and low milling. In early times the 
kernels were brayed in a mortar, and later they were 
ground between stones. Low milling is a grinding be- 
tween two large, round stones, one or both revolving 
at so small a distance from each other as to crush the 
kernels, which are caught, as it were, by radial grooves 
in the stones. The wheat is often moistened in grind- 
ing, as it is thought to be more readily crushed. The 
heat developed is considerable, so that the tempera- 
ture of the flour as it comes from the stones is about 
120° F. The heating, and the grinding of a portion of 
the husk so fine that it sifts with the body of the grain, 
are the chief objections to this method. The action is 
purely a single crushing, and is better adapted for the 
softer kinds of wheat than high milling, which is a suc- 
cession of crackings, or of slight and partial crushings, 
alternating with sifting and sorting. 

For this process the hard wheats, such as the 
Hungarian, are adapted. In general, the method 
may be described as follows. A series of cylindrical 
rolls is arranged at distances so graded that, when 
the wheat kernel passes between the first set, it is 
merely cracked ; then the fragments drop between the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 



79 



next set, and are again cracked ; and so on. In this 
way the husk is not bruised, only flattened out and 
loosened, so that the dry starch granules drop out 
The flour is not heated, since it is not subjected to 
friction, and since it falls through the cool air between 
each set of rolls. It is thought that the separation of 
the non-nutritious portion is also more complete, and 
hence that the flour is richer in the phosphates and 
nitrogenous substances, which are found in the layer of 
cells next the husk. Since there are no particles of 
bran in the high-milled flour, it is whiter, and since it 
has been ground dry, it has less moisture and will keep 
longer. 

It is thought that the heat developed in low mill- 
ing may change somewhat the character of the gluten, 
rendering it less tenacious, and so the flour less fit 
for the making of light bread. Doubtless this has its 
influence, since it is well known that the same brand 
of flour will differ at different times, without any ap- 
parent reason. 

There is also a mixture of the two processes called 
half high milling. A plan has also been tried, with 
some success, of pulverizing the grains by Motion of 
the kernels upon each other, the wheat being kept in 



Digitized 



by Google 



8o FOOD MATERIALS 

motion by beaters revolving at a high velocity in a 
hollow cylinder. 

The next step in the production of flour is the sift- 
ing and sorting. The sifting is generally done by a 
series of sieves, and finally by bolt cloth, — a fine silk 
cloth. This gives the fine flour, while the coarser 
grades are left by the way. 

Low milling yields about eighty per cent of flours 
of various grades, differing comparatively little firom 
each other. High milling, on the other hand, yields 
only about forty-five per cent of the choicest flour, 
such as the famous Vienna bread is made from, with 
several inferior grades. 

Flour for household use will perhaps average seventy 
per cent of starch and dextrine, about seven per cent 
each of sugar, mineral matter, and cellulose, one per 
cent of fat, and about fifteen per cent of albuminous 
or nitrogenous substances. These constituents are so 
proportioned as to render wheat flour a highly nu- 
tritious food, capable by itself of sustaining life and 
health. 

The following account of a visit to one of the 
large flour mills id Minnesota, in 1884, will be of 
interest : — 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 8l 

"The wheat is poured into the mill from the ele- 
vator, and sent up from the basement to the upper or 
seventh story by steam power, the mill being seven 
stories high. 

" The first process is sorting and cleaning the wheat. 
Any bits of iron, nails, straw, or bits of wood, are 
thrown out as it passes through the cleansing-machines. 
Seeds of weeds, such as cockle {^Lychnis Githago), 
grass seeds, and the shrivelled grains of the wheat 
itself, are all separated or sifted out. The wheat is 
passed between brush rollers, and all dust removed, so 
that a handful of grain examined in this stage shows 
plump, even-sized kernels, which seem almost polished, 
so beautifully clean are they. 

"In the next process, the grain is cracked once 
longitudinally, that is, in a line with the groove ; it is 
then crushed again, and then a third time. This third 
time the husk lies free from the grain, and is a mere 
film of tissue. 

"The method of cracking the grain is comparatively 
new, and is thought to take all the wheat, and leave 
nothing in the husk as a rule. Here and there a husk 
could be picked out with an atom adherent, but rarely. 

"The wheat is now bolted through coarse sieves, 



Digitized 



by Google 



82 POOD MATERIALS 

which take out this husk or bran, and leave the wheat 
like a meal, called * Middlings.* This is very sweet 
when chewed a moment. The bran is run down into 
cars and sold for feeding stock, and the demand is 
always greater than the supply. 

"The middlings are now ground and bolted five 
times, looking very much like flour the last time. 
This flour is now bolted through fine silk sieves, which 
are cylinders revolving on a horizontal axis. On open- 
ing the boxes to look in on these sieves, there comes 
out a warm, sweet smell, with an odor like that of new 

bread. 

^^ Summary of Processes. 

" First of all, the grain is cleaned and sorted. 

1. The grain cracked lengthwise. 

2. The grain crushed. 

3. Husk now loose, with the kernel crushed. 

4. Bolted. The result. Bran, and No. i Middlings. 

5. Middlings No. 2. 

6. Middlings No. 3, finer stiU. 

7. Middlings No. 4, finer still. 

8. Middlings No. 5, finer still. 

9. Middlings are now like flour. 

10. This flour is ground once more and bolted. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, ^^^ 

" To be packed, the flour comes down large cylinders 
into barrels or bags. The packing is all automatic, only 
one man being required at a machine. But there are 
a number of machines in operation in a row, on each 
side of the mill. 

" When filled, the barrel or bag is slipped upon the 
scales and weighed, the workman adding or taking 
away flour, so as to make the weight (196 lbs. to a 
barrel) exact. Flour for shipping abroad is usually 
put into sacks or bags of various sizes, as it is more 
easily handled and better stowed in this form. 

" The flour from summer wheat is considered the 
best for bread, but it requires more kneading. 

" Every improvement is added to insure safety in the 
mill, to lighten the labor, and to increase the amount 
and quality of the flour produced. Attached to the 
machinery are tubes, which, by an exhaust, draw away 
all the ^impalpable dust from around the cylinders, 
and also take it from the air of the room. This fine 
dust becomes inflammable when it is electrical, and 
it becomes electrical in contact with the revolving 
machinery. The great explosion at one of the Wash- 
bum mills is presumed to have been due to this cause, 
and the spark which touched it off a bit of fine iron 



Digitized 



by Google 



34 FOOD MATERIALS 

wire in the wheat, which became red-hot passing 
through the rollers. This is one reason also for the 
extreme care used in cleaning the wheat before grind- 
ing, lest any bit of iron should pass through the 
machinery. 

" The dust drawn from the air, with the sweepings 
from the boxes and shafts, is saved and used in the 
inferior grades of flour." 

The adulteration of flour is probably not practised 
to any great extent in this land of cheap wheat. In 
books relating to the food of foreign countries, refer- 
ence is always made to the admixture of the inferior 
sorts of grain, to mineral additions for increasing the 
weight, such as chalk or gypsum, and to the addition 
of alum or copper sulphate, in order to enable the 
baker to make whiter bread out of an inferior grade 
of flour. It is said that the gluten becomes sofl;er and 
less elastic and tenacious when the flour has been 
over-heated in grinding, or if the heap of grain has 
been heated or fermented before grinding, and the 
like. It is found that a little alum added to the flour 
seems to restore the tenacity of the gluten, and render 
the flour capable of making better and whiter bread. 

Microscopic examination wiU serve to detect the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 85 

first class of adulteration, the amount of ash (which 
should not exceed one per cent) will indicate the 
second, and a careful chemical analysis will show 
the third. It must be remembered, however, that the 
husk of the kernel contains some alumina, so that a 
trace may always be found in the ash. If the flour 
contains any considerable quantity of alum, it will turn 
blue when moistened with a solution of logwood. 

The proportion of gluten is of great importance, if 
the flour is to make up a large portion of the diet of a 
family. The following method of determining it is 
given by Dietzsch (p. 173). A portion of flour weigh- 
ing one hundred grams is made up to a stiff* paste with 
forty to fifty grams of water, allowed to stand half an 
hour, placed in a cloth, and kneaded under a stream 
of running water until the water no longer comes 
through milky. The yellowish elastic residue should 
weigh, when moist, from thirty to thirty-five grams; 
when dry, fifteen to eighteen grams. If the paste 
stands three hours instead of half an hour, the residue 
is said to be some three per cent more. 

The testing of flour in the barrel is, like tea-tasting, 
an acquired art. Only long practice can enable one 
to judge with certainty of the quality of flour by its 



Digitized 



by Google 



S6 FOOD MATERIALS 

shade of yellow, or its mode of caking when pressed, 
etc. The importance of good flour can hardly be 
over-estimated, since upon good bread depends the 
health of the greater part of the human race in all 
temperate climates. 

BUCKWHEAT. 

Buckwheat does not belong to the grasses or ce- 
reals, but to the family Polygonaceae, which includes 
rhubarb and dock. It grows as far north as 72°, 
and thus stands next to barley. It matures very 
quickly, — in one hundred days, — and thrives on 
sandy soil. It is probably a native of Western Asia, 
and is largely grown in temperate countries. The 
seed, when stripped of its indigestible husk, which 
composes about twenty per cent of it, is rich in food 
material. 

STARCHES, ETC. 

The prepared starches are purified, so that they 
contain litde else than pure starch, and thus are not 
capable of sustaining life by themselves. Starch may 
be derived from the cereal grains mentioned above, 
or from tubers or roots, as the potato, arrowroot, and 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 87 

manihot or yucca, which yields farina and tapioca, and 
from the stems of plants, as the sago palm. 

Corn starch is much used in the United States as an 
article of diet. Farina is another name for a prepara- 
tion from the starch of maize or wheat, which now 
takes the place of the farina of manihot. 

Genuine macaroni and vermicelli are made from 
wheat rich in gluten, and hence are exceedingly nutri- 
tious. Imitations are made from flour colored with 
saffron, or other yellow coloring-matter. 

Arrowroot is derived from plants of the genus 
Maranta, of the West India Islands and tropical 
America, the chief species being M, arundinacea. 
The earliest recorded notice of the plant, the knowl- 
edge of which was obtained from South American 
Indians, refers to the supposed virtue possessed by 
its roots as an antidote to poisoned arrows; and 
it probably derives its name from this. Arrowroot 
was introduced into England about the beginning of 
this century ; but its use has been largely superseded 
by that of com starch. 



Digitized 



by Google 



IV. 

MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE. 

MILK. 

'T^HE milk of animals has been used as human food 
■*■ from time immemorial. In early ages it was the 
milk of goats, asses, etc., which was common; now 
however, cow's milk is used all over the world. 

Milk is often called the perfect food, since it con- 
tains all the elements necessary for nutrition, and in 
the right proportions. One of the greatest advances 
in modem medicine, as well as in wholesome Hving, is 
the recognition of milk as an article of diet, especially 
for invalids, young people, and fever patients. Most 
persons can digest it when a little lime water is added, 
if it does not suit them without it. It is essential, how- 
ever, that the milk supplied be of good quality, and 
from healthy, well-fed animals. 

Public attention is now being called to the quality 
of milk purchased, and it is to be hoped that vigi- 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS. 89 

lance will not be relaxed, although the question of 
the purity of milk is one of the most difficult with 
which the analyst has to deal, since genuine milk varies 
widely in composition, owing to the breed of the cows 
and the feeding and care which they receive. The 
two determinations upon which chemists chiefly rely 
are the percentage of fats (butter) and of the solids 
not fats. But the range of these in pure milk is wide ; 
late investigations give the maximum and minimum as 
follows. Solids not fats, from 11.27 per cent down to 
8 per cent ; so that the analyst must require, as a rule, 
over 8.5 per cent. For the butter fats the highest 
amount given is 6.87 per cent, the lowest 1.92 per cent, 
but the requirement for good milk cannot well go above 
2.4 per cent. Accurate analysis demands so much skill 
and practice that expert chemists only are, as a rule, 
competent to give an opinion on the quality of milk. 
The various instruments proposed, such as lactometers 
and lactoscopes, cannot be relied upon, especially in 
inexperienced hands. 

The most frequent adulteration is water ; coloring- 
matters are then added to give the requisite yellow- 
ness. Greater danger to health comes from the use of 
milk from diseased or improperly fed cows, than from 



Digitized 



by Google 



90 POOD MATERIALS 

any substances added to the milk, unless the water 
used is taken from a foul well. The fact that milk is 
so largely used by children and people in delicate 
health renders it indispensable that the quality of the 
milk should be of the very best. The moral sense 
of the community should demand this. Milk is very 
liable to undergo the so-called lactic fermentation, in 
which the sugar is changed to lactic acid ; hence, the 
greatest precautions should be taken as to cleanliness 
of the vessels into which the liquid is poured. 

The composition of milk may be roughly stated as 
follows : water, ^(i per cent ; lactose, or milk sugar, 
5-5 percent; milk fat, 4 per cent; caseine, or curd, 
4 per cent ; saline matter, 5 per cent. The fat is held 
in suspension in the liquid in the form of globules, of 
which it is estimated that there are about three and 
a half millions in every cubic millimeter. 

CONDENSED MILK. 

The extremely unstable character of milk, and the 
consequent difficulty of transportation and preserva- 
tion for any length of time, have led to the adoption of 
various processes for concentrating the valuable con- 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 91 

stituents, which are only about fourteen per cent of the 
weight, into a smaller bulk and more stable condition. 
The usual process consists in simple concentration. 
The milk is evaporated in vacuum pans, and toward 
the end heated to 100° C, in order to destroy any 
germs of mould. It is put up in tin cans, sealed 
hermetically, and may then be kept any length of 
time. Sometimes a Httle sugar is added. In either 
case, the product is sold as condensed milk, which 
often contains about one third as much water as the 
original liquid. 

CREAM. 

When milk is allowed to stand at rest for some 
hours, the fat globules rise to the top, forming a layer 
from one tenth to one fifth of the total thickness. This 
layer, rich in fat, is called cream, and contains from 
twenty to forty per cent of fat. 

BUTTER. 

When cream or milk is agitated for some time 
(churned), the fat globules are collected into a more 
or less compact mass, called butter. 



Digitized 



by Google 



92 FOOD MATERIALS 

Butter is a very important article of diet, especially 
in English-speaking countries. It is of all animal fats 
the favorite, not only on account of its pleasant taste, 
but because it is the most easily digested. 

Herodotus, in his account of the Scythians, makes 
an obscure mention of butter, and this is the earliest 
reference known. Dioscorides is the first to observe 
that, when melted and poured over vegetables, it 
serves the same purpose as oil, and that it can be 
used in pastry. It is not mentioned by Galen, or other 
writers of his time, as food, and indeed to this day it is 
little used in Southern countries, so that it might almost 
be said to be a product of Northern civilization in its 
present uses. There is undoubted evidence that butter 
was well known to the Anglo-Saxons, and used for 
salves and medicines. 

Butter is prepared by separating the fats fi*om the 
water and curd of milk by agitation, which causes the 
lighter particles of fat to rise to the top, which then are 
collected and worked into a homogeneous mass. This 
process seems to be very successfully accomplished at 
present by the centrifugal machine. 

Good butter consists of fats, water, and curd. The 
water varies from eight to sucteen per cent Over six- 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 93 

teen per cent is injurious to the keeping of butter. 
There should not be over one per cent of curd left, 
because it tends to grow rancid and mould, thus 
tainting the butter. 

Butter is very sensitive to unpleasant odors, and 
must be kept with great care, in closed vessels, even a 
few hours' exposure to ordinary air injuring the deli- 
cate flavor. It would be well if all girls could serve 
an apprenticeship in a good dairy for a few weeks, in 
order to learn cleanliness. Most of the best butter is 
now made in large dairies or factories, where, owing to 
the amount of property at stake, the most scrupulous 
cleanliness is enforced. 

The seventy-eight to ninety per cent of butter fats 
are for the most part identical with those in olive and 
palm oils, and in other animal fats ; but the peculiar 
flavor of butter is due to the presence«of five to eight 
per cent of butyric, capronic, caprylic, and caprinic 
acids. These fatty acids are much less stable than 
oleic, palmitic, and stearic acids, which are often called 
the fixed fatty acids. In butter, human fat, and goose 
fat, palmitic acid is the most abundant. It is so named 
from its occurrence in palm oil. Oleic acid is com- 
mon to these fats, and to beef, mutton, and hog fats. 



Digitized 



by Google 



94 FOOD MATERIALS 

Stearic acid is found in small quantities in butter, while 
it is a chief and constant constituent of beef tallow. 

During the Franco-German war, in 1870--71, a 
French chemist, M^ge-Mouries, invented a process 
for obtaining from other animal fats the fatty acids 
common to them and to butter, and making from them 
a very fair artificial butter, for the use of the French 
army. The process has been further perfected by 
working the product with milk, sometimes with the 
addition of a little of the coloring-matter of butter 
and of a little butyric ether, so that neither in con- 
sistency nor in flavor is the artificial to be clearly 
distinguished from the real butter. This product, if 
well made, will keep longer than butter, and for many 
uses, such as cooking, is a valuable addition to the food 
materials of the world j but unfortunately it is not al- 
ways sold unddr its own name, partly because the 
public is slow to accept a new article. People justly 
complain when they get oleomargarine instead of the 
more valuable butter which they pay for. It is a fraud 
upon their pockets, though not injurious to health. 

There is probably no serious cause for alarm as to 
the quality of the fats used in making artificial butter, 
for the financial success of a large manufactory will be 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 95 

secured only by the good quality of the product The 
name oleomargarine is derived from the fatty acids 
present, — oleic and margaric, as the mixture of stearic 
and palmitic acids was formerly called. Rarely has 
there been a fraud so difficult to detect, since not only 
the apparent but the real differences between genuine 
and artificial butter are but slight. Yet careful chem- 
ical analysis will show about eighty-seven per cent of 
fixed fatty acids in butter, and about ninety-five per 
cent in the fats used in making artificial butter. 

Reichert's process of determining the volatile acids 
peculiar to butter answers well in skilled hands. An 
analytical chemist has littie difficulty in deciding upon 
the quality of a suspected sample. The expense at- 
tending such an examination, however, prevents its 
application as often as is desirable. The detection of 
the crystals of the different fats, as proposed by Taylor, 
may be an important aid. Some simple and easily 
applied test is much to be desired, but the public yet 
waits its discovery. 

CHEESE. 

Good cheese is composed of the total solids of milk 
curdled by rennet before the milk sours. Poor cheese 



Digitized 



by Google 



96 FOOD MATERIALS. 

is made from skimmed milk and hence has less fat. 
Cheese is really a condensed milk, and is a valuable 
article of diet, replacing meat to a great extent with 
those whose stomachs it suits. One pound of cheese 
is estimated to contain as much nitrogenous substance 
as a pound or a pound and a half of beef. It has been 
very free from adulteration, but now oleomargarine and 
lard cheeses are reported as coming into market. The 
rind of the cheese may be brushed over with some 
metallic salt to preserve it from the attacks of fungi, 
etc., so that it is well to pare it off before eating. 



Digitized 



by Google 



SUGAR. 

'T'^^E word sugary probably of Sanscrit origin, is 
"*• now used to designate a class of substances 
possessing a sweet taste, and capable of breaking up 
into alcohol and carbon dioxide under the influence 
of ferments, such as yeast. 

Of the various kinds of sugar known to chemists, 
only two or three are of importance in domestic 
economy; namely, cane sugar, and grape sugar, or 
glucose^ as it is often called. 

Common sugar is called cane sugar, because it is 
obtained principally from the sugar cane, a tall grass, 
Saccharum qfficinaruniy a native of Southern Asia. It 
is the sweetest of all the sugars, and is technically called 
sucrose. It has been known from the earliest historic 
times. Some early writers spoke of it as " honey made 
from reeds without bees." 

According to Albertus Agnensis, as stated by Mus- 
pratt, in the time of the Crusades sweet honeyed canes 
7 



Digitized 



by Google 



98 FOOD MATERIALS 

were found in great quantity in the meadows near 
Tripoli in Syria, which reeds were called zucra. The 
plant was cultivated, and when ripe it was bruised in 
mortars, the strained juice set by in vessels " till con- 
creted in the form of snow, or white salt ; this when 
scraped they mix with bread, or rub it in water and 
take it as pottage, and it is to them more wholesome 
and pleasing than the honey of bees." 

In Europe it was used only in medicine until about 
the fifteenth century, and it was not produced in large 
quantities till about 1800. 

The sucrose of commerce is also obtained firom the 
beet, the palm, and the maple tree, and from another 
grass, Sorghum saccharatutn. The process of manu- 
facture is essentially the same in all cases, and only 
that of cane sugar will be referred to. 

The sugar cane contains about eighteen per cent of 
sugar; but since about four per cent remains in the 
refuse from pressing, and some is lost by skimming 
during the boiling, and two or three per cent goes into 
the molasses which is the result of the boiling, there 
remains only firom eight to twelve per cent of sugar 
which is recovered. The canes are crushed and 
passed through powerful presses. The juice is boiled 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 99 

with a little milk of lime, added to neutralize the 
acids which the juice contains : this forms a scum, 
which is taken off. After the boiling in vacuum pans 
has concentrated the juice sufficiently, it is run into 
a large vessel to crystallize. 

The mass of crystals formed is drained from the 
syrup, and is known as raw or muscovado sugar. The 
non-crystallized portion is known as molasses. The old 
West India or New Orleans molasses, which made such 
good gingerbread, was of this type, and was somewhat 
acid, owing to the presence of acetic and formic acids. 
The raw sugar is sent to the refineries to be made 
into the pure white sugar known as loaf, granulated, 
or powdered. The raw sugar is dissolved and boiled 
with the white of tgg^ or with the serum of blood ; 
formerly a small quantity of chemicals, as tin salts, 
was sometimes used, but metallic salts are not now 
employed for this purpose. This boiling separates all 
. the remaining gum, albumen, etc., and, after filtering, 
the juice is clear. The final filtering is through bone- 
black, in order to take out the color. The juice is now 
colorless, and after boiling in vacuum pans is allowed 
to cool and crystallize. Some sugar is rendered non- 
crystallizable by this last boiling, and this is known 



Digitized 



by Google 



lOO FOOD MATERIALS 

as syrup. The golden syrup among others should 
be from this product ; in England the crude syrup is 
called treacle. With the improved processes of boiling 
in vacuum pans the old molasses has almost disap- 
peared, and syrups have become more costly. Much 
of the old time molasses went to the distilleries, to 
be made into rum. The grades of sugar have also 
changed very much. The dark brown sugars have 
almost disappeared from the market. This is owing 
to the improved methods of boiling. The granulated 
is of the same quality as loaf sugar, only the syrup 
is stirred while crystallizing, so that the crystals do riot 
cohere. The light brown sugars are the next product, 
containing some molasses, and therefore they taste 
sweeter, since the flavor is more pronounced in the 
colored portion of the juice. 

If the granulated sugar is not quite freed from the 
syrup, it tastes more decidedly sweet than if it is per- 
fectly pure. That is, it has more the taste which we 
are accustomed to associate with sugar. 

It is often said that powdered sugar must be 
adulterated, because it does not sweeten as much as 
loaf sugar; but such is not the case, and some ex- 
planation must be sought. The reason seems to be 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. loi 

twofold : first, a spoonful of powdered sugar does not 
weigh as much as a spoonful of granulated ; secondly, 
since sweetness is a physical property, the finely di- 
vided condition of the sugar has something to do with 
it. The coarser grains seem to excite in the nerves of 
taste a stronger vibration, so to speak, in dissolving, 
than do the fine particles. To prove this, equal 
weights of loaf, of granulated of different degrees of 
fineness, of powdered, and of coffee-crushed sugar, 
were dissolved in equal volumes of water, and then 
tested by various persons, the tumblers containing the 
solutions being numbered so that the taster was an un- 
biased judge. Some pure honey was added to the list, 
and the results confirmed the previous suspicions that 
the taste was not due to the chemical purity of the 
substance. In every case the coffee sugar was pro- 
nounced the sweetest, and that of the solution of 
honey the least sweet. As to the solutions of the other 
sugars, which were all pure sucrose, judgments varied, 
showing that the sensation of sweetness is not owing 
solely to the presence of a certain amount of sucrose. 
That beet root contained a sugar identical with that 
obtained from the sugar cane was first made known by 
Margraf, in 1747. But the beet was not cultivated for 



Digitized 



by Google 



I02 FOOD MATERIALS 

the purpose to any extent until the middle of this 
century. Under the protection of Napoleon I., the 
industry gradually gained ground. A prize of a million 
francs was offered for the successful manufacture of 
sugar from plants of home growth. As late as i860 
the fate of beet sugar was doubtful, since the disagree- 
able flavor of the molasses still clung to the crystallized 
sugar. But applied science has overcome all the diffi- 
culties, and the purest loaf sugar is now made from 
beets. About one third of the total sugar product is 
beet-root sugar. In 1858, the amount of beet sugar 
produced was estimated at 159,821 tons; in 1878, at 
1,420,800 tons for Europe alone. The culture of the 
beet has spread throughout Germany and Russia. It 
has been tried in England, Ireland, and the Northern 
United States ; and it doubtless will prove a source of 
profit in many latitudes where the sugar cane will not 
thrive. Beets contain up to ten or twelve per cent of 
sugar. In Belgium and France they extract about 
seven per cent, and in Germany eight or nine per cent. 
The process of manufacture differs little from that of 
cane sugar. The molasses from beet sugar is mostly 
sent to the distillery, as there is a very disagreeable 
taste to it. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 103 

In parts of the United States and in Canada sugar 
is made from the sap of the maple, Acer saccharinum^ 
and other allied species. The sugar is cane sugar, or 
sucrose, and the accompanying substances in the sap 
give an agreeable flavor quite peculiar to maple sugar. 
Several million pounds are annually produced. 

The cultivation of the Chinese sugar grass, or sugar 
millet, {Sorghum saccharatum,) has been recently at- 
tempted in the United States, with some success. It 
seems to be suited to a warm temperate zone, and thus 
is intermediate between the Northern maple and beet 
and the tropical sugar cane. 

Grape sugar (so called from its abundance in that 
fruit, some ten to fifteen per cent) is found in a great 
variety of fruits. Apples contain eight per cent, straw- 
berries five or six per cent, cranberries and gooseberries 
seven per cent, blackberries and raspberries four per 
cent, peaches and plums one to two per cent It is 
present in the sacs of flowers and is the source of honey. 
It can be readily obtained from grapes by expressing the 
juice, and, after neutralization of the acids, the syrup may 
be refined and crystallized as in the case of beet sugar, 
but it crjrstallizes with difficulty and is apt to take on 
water and become moist It is accompanied by a non- 



Digitized 



by Google 



I04 FOOD MATERIALS 

crystallizable sugar called levulose. Grape sugar made 
from grapes is too costly for ordinary use. Two pro- 
cesses for its cheap production are employed, but for 
the understanding of these a short statement of the 
changes which cane sugar may undergo will be neces- 
sary. Sucrose (CigHgaO^), when boiled for a length of 
time in contact with air, and especially if acid be pres- 
ent, becomes changed into invert sugar ^ as it is called, 
from its behavior when a beam of polarized light is 
passed through it. This invert sugar can be separated 
into two kinds: dextrose (QH^g^e)* ^ crystallizable 
sugar turning the ray of polarized hght to the right, 
identical with the grape sugar obtained from grapes; 
and a non-crystallizable sugar which turns the ray of 
polarized light to the left, and which from this property 
is called levulose, or fruit sugar (CgHigOg). Thus its 
chemical composition is identical with dextrose. Both 
kinds are often called glucose^ meaning sweet, from the 
Greek glukus. In jellies and preserved fruits, a large 
portion of the cane sugar or sucrose is changed into 
glucose during the heating with the acid juice of the 
fruit, and, as was noticed, molasses is chiefly the in- 
vert sugar caused by boiling the acid juice of the 
sugar <:ane. But not only may sucrose be converted 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 105 

into glucose, but all forms of starch (CgHjoO^) may, by 
the action of two kinds of agents, be changed into glu- 
cose (CgHjaOg). One of these agents is the diastase 
or starch converter, a ferment found in sprouting grain. 
By this means beer, bread, etc. are made. The sugar 
thus formed is called maltose. It is an intermediate 
sugar, having the composition of cane sugar, but it re- 
duces copper sulphate, which cane sugar does not. 
This process is not available for obtaining clean sugar, 
since the various other ingredients of the potato or 
grain used are in the mash ; also a portion of the sugar 
will be lost by the further change into alcohol ; hence, 
for the manufacture of commercial glucose, the starch 
is usually obtained first, and afterward boiled with very 
•dilute sulphuric acid for some hours. An intermediate 
product, dextrine, is first formed, and when this nearly 
disappears the process is finished. The boiling is done 
in iron or wooden pans. The acid is then neutralized 
with lime or baryta in slight excess.* If lime is used, a 
little of the sulphate, being slightly soluble in water, 
will be found in the syrup or sugar. Hence the stories 
of free sulphuric acid in glucose. The concentration 
and refining are then conducted as for cane sugar. 
A bushel of com will give thirty-two pounds of glu- 



Digitized 



by Google 



io6 POOD MATERIALS. 

cose. Twenty establishments in the United States can 
make 609,000,000 pounds annually. 

All woody fibre or cellulose (CeHjoO^) can be acted 
upon by acids so as to form glucose; hence any 
woody substance, as sawdust, cotton, etc., can be con- 
verted, by the addition of molecules of water, into 
glucose ; but this is not done for the purpose of sugar 
manufacture, corn meal being much more available. 
For spirits \\ has probably been done. The proper 
name of glucose should be starch sugar* 

Properties of Glucose, 

Glucose is one and a half times less soluble than 
sucrose, or it requires one and a third times its 
weight of cold water to dissolve it It requires two- 
and a half times more of grape sugar to sweeten the 
same volume of water than it does of cane sugar; 
hence, while it is cheaper, it is not as valuable, pound 
for pound. 

Glucose as it is usually sold contains about twenty 
per cent of water and about twenty per cent of unfer- 
mentable substances, leaving only some sixty per cent 
of sugar, the sugar sometimes runs as high as seventy- 
five per cent. The syrups contain from thirty to forty 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 107 

per cent of sugar. Honey is essentially glucose, or 
dextrose, with perhaps some levulose, and something 
not sugar, to which no name has yet been given. The 
proportion of non-fermentable substances varies accord- 
ing to the source of the honey. Sometimes as much 
as fifteen per cent is found. 

The following is a summary of the report on glucose 
made by the Committee of the National Academy of 
Sciences to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, in 
1884 : — 

" I. Starch sugar as found in commerce is a mixture 
in varying proportions of two sugars called dextrose 
and maltose, and of dextrine or starch gum. Dextrose 
was discovered in grapes by Lowitz in 1792, and was 
first prepared from starch by Kirchhoff in 181 1. In 
1 81 9, Braconnot prepared it from woody fibre. Mal- 
tose was first recognized as a distinct sugar by Dubrem- 
fant in 1847, ^"^ ^^^ product of the action of malt on 
starch. No dextrose is thus produced, according to 
O'SuUivan. 

"2. The process of making starch sugar consists, 
first, in separating the starch from the com by soaking, 
grinding, straining, and settling; and second in con- 
verting the starch into sugar by the action of dilute 



Digitized 



by Google 



I08 FOOD MATERIALS 

sulphuric acid, this acid being subsequently removed 
by the action of chalk. To make the solid 'grape 
sugar* the conversion is carried further than to make 
liquid 'glucose.* After clarifying, the liquid is con- 
centrated in vacuum pans and is decolorized with 
bone-black. 

" 3. The starch sugar industry in the United States 
gives employment to twenty-nine factories, having 
an estimated capital of $5,000,000, consuming about 
40,000 bushels of com per day, and producing grape 
sugar and glucose to the annual value of nearly 
$10,000,000. In Germany in 1881-82 there were 
thirty-nine factories of this sort, consuming over 
70,000 tons of starch, and producing about 40,000 
tons of starch sugar. 

"4. Starch sugar is chiefly used in making table 
syrup, in brewing beer as substitute for malt, and in 
adulterating cane sugar. It is also used to replace 
cane sugar in confectionery, in canning fruits, in mak- 
ing fruit jellies, and in cooking. Artificial honey is 
made with it, and so also is vinegar. 

" 5. Starch sugar represents one distinct class of 
sugar, as cane sugar does the other, the former being 
obtained naturally firom the grape, as the latter is firom 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 109 

the cane and the beet. Starch sugar, which is a term 
chemically synonymous with dextrose and glucose, 
when pure, has about two thirds the sweetening power 
of sugar cane. By the action of the dilute acids both 
cane sugar and starch yield dextrose. In the case 
of starch, however, dextrose constitutes the sole final 
product. 

"6. The commercial samples of starch sugar ob- 
tained by the committee showed a fairly uniform com- 
position on analysis. The liquid form, or 'glucose,' 
contained from 34.3 to 42.8 per cent of dextrose, 
from o to 19.3 per cent of maltose, from 29.8 to 
45.3 per cent of dextrine, and from 14.2 to 22.6 
per cent of water. The solid form/ grape sugar, gave 
from 72 to 73.4 per cent of dextrose, from o to 
36 per cent of maltose, from 4.3 to 9.1 per cent of 
dextrine, and from 14 to 17.6 per cent of water. 
Three specimens of especially prepared * grape sugar' 
contained 87.1, 93.2, and 99.4 per cent of dextrose 
respectively. The last of these was crystalline an- 
hydrous dextrose. 

"7. Of mineral or inorganic constituents, the samples 
of starch sugar examined contained only minute quan- 
tities. The total ash formed in the ' glucose ' was only 



Digitized 



by Google 



no FOOD MATERIALS 

from 0.325 to i.ooo per cent, and in the 'grape sugars ' 
only from 0.335 ^^ ^-75^ P^^- cent. No impurities, 
either organic or inorganic in character, other than 
those mentioned, were detected in any of the samples 
examined. 

" In conclusion, then, the following facts appear as 
the result of the present investigation : — . 

" (i.) That the manufacture of sugar from starch is 
a long-established industry, scientifically valuable and 
commercially important. 

" (2.) That the processes which it employs at the 
present time are unobjectionable in their character, 
and leave the product uncontaminated. 

" (3.) That starch sugar thus made and sent into 
commerce is of exceptional purity and uniformity of 
composition, and contains no injurious substances; 
and, 

" (4.) That, though having at best only about two 
thirds the sweetening power of cane sugar, yet starch 
sugar is in no way inferior to cane sugar in healthful- 
ness, there being no evidence before the committee 
that maize starch sugar, either in its normal condition 
or fermented, has any deleterious effect upon the sys- 
tem, even when taken in large quantities." 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. m 

The report is signed by George F. Barker, Chair- 
man, William H. Brewer, Charles F. Chandler, Wolcott 
Gibbs, and Ira Remsen. 

Uses of Sugar. 

Taking the world as a whole, it might be said that 
sugar was used as a condiment rather than as a food, 
but in the light of recent statistics it seems a ver>' 
important article of diet, and should be so considered. 
Its use seems to be steadily on the increase. . In 
Great Britain in 1700 the total yearly consumption 
was only 10,000 pounds. In 1867 it was 44.15 
pounds per head; while in 1876 it had reached t^ 
pounds, and in 1884, 67 pounds. An estimate from 
the statistics of 1867, reckoned by races, gave the 
consumption of sugar per head as 41.40 pounds for 
the Anglo-Saxon races, 12.34 for the Latin, 7.30 
for the Teutonic, and 3.30 for Russia, Turkey, and 
Greece. In the United States in 1875 it was 44, and 
in 1884, 56 pounds per head. At the present rate of 
increase of population, the United States will in 1895 
consume 5,000,000,000 pounds per year. It would 
seem that in the North it is taking the place of the 
oil of the South as a heat-giving food. The growing 



Digitized 



by Google 



112 FOOD MATERIALS 

opinion seems to be in favor of its moderate use. It 
is true that, if the stomach is not able to digest it at 
once, it is liable to change into lactic acid, instead of 
being absorbed into the system. This only shows that 
sugar is not suitable for that individual at that time. 
The very general craving for sweets is undoubtedly 
founded on a law of demand of the system. Like all 
other foods, sugar may be abused. That it plays a 
part as a heat-giving food is indicated by the fact that 
it is not craved to so great an extent in summer as in 
winter. Hence a moderate use of it by children is not 
to be rashly condemned. 

The changes which sugar undergoes in the system 
are not fully understood, yet it is pretty certain that 
cane sugar, sucrose, is not absorbed as such, but is 
converted into glucose before it is assimilated. With 
this in view, it seems difficult to prove the oft-repeated 
assertion of the opponents of artificial sugar, that it is 
injurious. As we have seen, there are several kinds 
of sugar included under the general term of glucose, 
and just what the physiological properties of each of 
these kinds are we do not yet know ; but the burden 
of proof lies with those who assert the unwholesome- 
ness of glucose. It has never been supposed that the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 113 

sometimes poisonous properties of honey were due to 
the sugar, but to the pollen or other matters obtained 
from the flowers by the bees. 

The adulteration of sugar may be considered under 
three heads. First, the addition of insoluble sub- 
stances, such as marble dust, which is sometimes 
found advertised among the supplies of confectioners. 
It is said that sand used to be added. Second, the 
foreign substances left in from the process of manu- 
facture, such as ultramarine to give the requisite blue 
color. If tin were ever found in sugar, it would be 
in this list. Third, and most frequent at present, 
is the addition of glucose or corn sugar, which is 
much cheaper, but is less sweet, partiy on account 
of its lesser solubility in water. One quart of water 
dissolves three pounds of cane sugar, but only one or 
one and a half pounds of grape sugar. 

Sugar may be so manipulated in refining as to be 
white and crystalline, and yet contain quite a per- 
centage of moisture and syrup. Such sugar cakes 
together on standing. The presence of this moisture 
may be regarded as an adulteration. 

The adulteration of the granulated and powdered 
sugars, at least those sold in the Eastern States, is not 
8 



Digitized 



by Google 



114 FOOD MATERIALS 

as extensive as has been supposed. Of the samples 
examined by the writer, not one of seventy-three sam- 
ples from Massachusetts, not one of five from New- 
York, and only one of twelve from Chicago, was 
adulterated. 

The Report of the New York State Board of Health 
of 1882 gives one hundred and sixteen samples ex- 
amined. In no case was there any intentional addi- 
tion of insoluble mineral matter. Of the thirty-three 
powdered sugars, none were adulterated. Of the sixty- 
seven brown sugars, four were mixed with glucose. 

The tests are not very difficult as to the presence of 
foreign matters, since they are insoluble in water, and 
half a pound of sugar dissolved in a pint of water will 
leave a sediment if marble or sand has been added. 
Tin would be detected best by the battery, a plate of 
copper being used as a cathode, on which tin shows 
very quickly. The use of sulphuretted hydrogen is not 
to be relied upon, since on heating there seems to be 
formed an organic compound of the color of tin sul- 
phide which is very misleading. 

For glucose, the test with Fehling*s solution is the 
one most used. But here care must be taken, for, as 
has been said, sucrose on heating changes to invert 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. nj 

sugar, which reduces the copper of the solution ; so that 
the mere fact of a slight reduction of copper does not 
prove wilful adulteration. For instance, in the case of 
candies, the writer has never yet been able to find 
candy or confectionery which did not reduce Fehling's 
solution ; but it is by no means to be concluded that all 
confectionery is made from glucose, although undoubt- 
edly a large part of it is so made. 

Dietzsch (page 277) gives the following as a qualita- 
tive test. A dilute solution of sugar is colored sky- 
blue with a few drops of Fehling*s solution, and heated 
to the boiling point. If the sugar is all cane sugar, the 
liquid may stand twenty-four hours without showing 
any change ; but if glucose or invert sugar is present, 
the reddish color of the reduced copper oxide will 
appear in a few minutes. 

Fehling's solution may be made as follows : 34.632 
grams of pure dry copper sulphate are dissolved in 
500 cc. of water and put into a bottle with a glass 
stopper. 173 grams of Rochelle salt — tartrate of 
sodium and ammonium— and 125 grams of potassium 
hydrate are dissolved in 500 cc. of water, and put into 
a bottle with a rubber stopper. A glass stopper will 
be liable to become fastened in the bottle contaming 



Digitized 



by Google 



Il6 FOOD MATERIALS 

caustic alkalies. The solution of copper will preserve 
its strength much longer if kept separate from the 
alkaline liquid. For use, mix the two in equal pro- 
portions, measuring the copper accurately. 50 cc. of 
the copper, or 100 of the mixture, are considered to 
reduce .5 gram of grape or of invert sugar. 

The skilled analyst uses the polariscope or saccha- 
rimeter to determine the percentage of pure sugar. 
(See Blyth, page 120.) 

A simple method of detecting starch sugar in the 
presence of cane sugar has been proposed by P. 
Casamajor. The suspected sugar is thoroughly dried, 
then treated with methyl-alcohol which has been 
saturated with starch sugar. 100 cc. of methyl-alcohol 
of 50^ strength dissolves about 57 grams of starch 
sugar, and will not take up any more, but will readily 
dissolve cane sugar, thus taking it out of a mixture, 
leaving the adulterant undissolved. 

The presence of dextrine in syrups may be detected 
by adding an equal volume of strong alcohol to the 
undiluted syrup. The dextrine will be precipitated 
as a white gelatinous mass. 

Syrups are very liable to be not what they seem. 
Dr. Kedzie, of Michigan, in 1879, found only one out 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. ny 

of twenty-one genuine. The black color sometimes 
noticed when syrup is put into tea is due to the pres- 
ence of the salts of iron derived from the pans during 
boiling. 

HONEY. 

It is reported that some 9,000,000 pounds of honey 
were produced in the United States in 1884, largely 
in Califomia. 

It is said, especially by English analysts, that much 
American honey is entirely artificial, the comb being 
made of paraffine and filled with glucose syrup. 
Two simple tests will show whether this is the case. 
Normal honey, being collected by the bees from 
flowers, will contain many pollen grains. The absence 
of these is a suspicious circumstance. Beeswax is 
blackened by warm sulphuric acid, while parafSne is 
not affected. 



Digitized 



by Google 



VI. 



CANNED FRUITS AND MEATS, OR TINNED 
GOODS. 

TF an ordinary tin fruit-can is opened, and its inner 
"^ surface examined, it will be found covered with the 
crystalline figures often produced by the action of di- 
lute acids upon tin, and known as " moir^e mdtallique." 
This apparent corrosion of the metallic surface sug- 
gests the possibility that an acid fruit, if kept for a 
sufficient time in such a can, may take into solution 
an injurious quantity of metallic impurity. Moreover, 
in the making and sealing of cans, a greater or less 
amount of solder finds its way inside, and thus the 
fruit comes in contact with an alloy containing from 
thirty to sixty per cent of lead. All the common fruits 
— the tomato, peach, plum, cherry, apple, pear, cur- 
rant, etc. — owe their acidity to the presence of acid 
malates, malic acid, or other organic acids. 

Considerable excitement is caused every now and 
then by newspaper stories of the presence of tin in 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS. 119 

canned foods, and of the • illnesses thus caused. In 
England, especially, the chemists have paid consider- 
able attention to the subject ; and although there is an 
objection to the calculation of the tin as stannous 
hydrate, the results are interesting. 

Mr. Wynter Blyth tested canned fruits (apricots, to- 
matoes, etc.), and in twenty-three samples the amounts 
found, calculated as stannous hydrate, ranged from 1.9 
to 14.3 grains per pound, the mean amount being 5.2 
grains. The juice and fruit, in some instances, had 
a metallic taste. Several of the tins showed signs of 
corrosion. 

The. Journal of the Society of Arts says: "The 
littie that is known of the action of stannous hy- 
drate may be summed up in a few lines. Doses of 
about .174 gram per kilo, of body weight, cause, 
in guinea-pigs, death, with signs of intestinal urita- 
tion; but with doses smaller than .17 to .2 gram, 
the effects are uncertain, and the animals usually re- 
cover. Hence, supposing a man to be affected in 
the same manner and proportion, he would have to 
consume at a meal ten pounds of the most contami- 
nated of these tinned fruits. But it is not a question 
of immediate deadliness ; it is rather an inquiry as to 



Digitized 



by Google 



I20 FOOD MATERIALS 

the action of small repeated doses continued for a 
long time." 

On the latter point we have the opinions of Pro- 
fessor Attfield, given in an address before the London 
Pharmaceutical Society, in March, 1884. He had re- 
cently examined sixteen samples. He found rather 
less tin than Mr. Blyth. The greatest amount was 
in apricots and tomatoes, namely, .028 grain in a 
pound. The largest quantity which the speaker ever 
found in any food was in some canned soup contain- 
ing a good deal of lemon juice ; this was .03 grain in 
half a pint, as sent to the table. The conclusions of 
Professor Attfield are as follows : — 

" I. I have never been able to satisfy myself that a 
can of ordinary tinned food contains even a useful 
medicinal dose of such a true soluble compound of 
tin as is likely to have any effect on man. 

" 2. As for the metal itself, — that is, the filings or 
actual metallic particles or fragments, — one ounce is 
a common dose as a vermifuge, harmless even in that 
quantity to man, and not always so harmful as could 
be desired to the parasites for whose disestablishment 
it is administered. One ounce might be contained in 
four hundred-weight of food. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 121 

" 3. If a possible harmful quantity of a soluble com- 
pound of tin be placed in a portion of canned food, 
the latter will be so nasty — so metallic, in fact — that 
no sane person will eat it. 

" 4. Unsoundness in meat does not appear to pro- 
mote the corrosion or solution of tin. I have kept 
salmon in cans until it was putrid, testing it occasion- 
ally for tin; no trace was detected. Nevertheless, 
food should not be allowed to remain for a few days, 
or even hours, in sauce-pans, metal baking-pans, or 
opened tin cans ; for in this case it may taste metallic. 

" 5. Unsound food, canned or uncanned, may of 
course injure health ; and where canned food has re- 
ally done harm, the harm has in all probability been 
due to the food, and not to the can. 

" In my opinion, given after well weighing all evi- 
dence hitherto forthcoming, the public have not the 
faintest cause for alarm respecting the occurrence of 
tin, lead, 01 any other metal, in canned foods. If per- 
sons are unwise enough to let the food remain long in 
an opened tin can, they almost deserve to be punished 
by the metallic flavor which may be imparted to the 
food." 

A late investigation by F. P. Hall, in the " Journal 



Digitized 



by Google 



122 FOOD MATERIALS 

of the American Chemical Society " (Vol. IV. p. 440), 
shows that acetic, tartaric, and citric acids corrode tin 
and lead when the metals are pure and when they are 
alloyed, but that this corrosion goes on very much 
more rapidly when air is admitted ; that is, when the 
surface of the metal can become oxidized. The acetic 
acid dissolved about six times as much metal in the 
open air as in closed vessels. Cans which had been 
emptied of their contents were partly filled with the 
above-named acids. At the end of two weeks the cans 
which contained tartaric and citric acids respectively 
had given up all the tinned surface ; the acetic seemed 
not to have acted as readily, but there was probably 
more solder in the other two. 

The fear has been common that tin plate might 
be contaminated with lead. Mr. Hall's investigation 
seems to allay such fears. He says : " The tin plate 
used in this country is entirely imported, most of it 
coming from England. The two principal kinds are 
'bright plate' and 'teme plate.* Bright plate is, or 
should be, tinned only with pure tin. Teme plate, 
often called lead plate, is known to contain large quan- 
tities of lead; it is used chiefly for roofing." He 
examined many samples, both of the plate as imported 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 123 

and of tin cans and tin-plate goods, among them those 
from the five-cent stores, without finding an appre- 
ciable amount of lead. The best of tin may contain 
traces, as it is almost impossible to obtain absolutely 
pure metal by any metallurgical process. The solder 
is then the only objection worth considering, and 
much more care is taken in sealing the cans than 
formerly. Of the tin-foil used to enwrap moist foods 
and yeast, the report is not so good. Of twelve sam- 
ples examined which were obtained from importers, 
only three were pure tin, and three were nearly pure 
lead. Eight samples taken from food and yeast were 
examined. Four were pure tin; the two found on 
yeast were pure tin. This corresponds with the ex- 
perience of the laboratory through a term of years. 
The two found on Neuchatel cheese were both about 
three fourths lead. Of the three on chocolate two 
were good, while an embossed foil on a fashionable 
chocolate consisted of eighty per cent of lead. The 
use of lead-foil on cheese is objectionable. 

The following very good rules for the guidance of 
consumers of canned goods are taken from an article 
in "The Chemical News," of June 5, 1885, by Dr. 
Johnson, of Brooklyn, N. Y. 



Digitized 



by Google 



124 FOOD MATERIALS. 

" Every cap should be examined, and if two holes 
are found in it, send the can at once to the health- 
board, with its contents and the name of the grocer 
who sold it." Only one hole in the cap is needed to 
let out the air before final sealing. Two holes show 
that the can had begun to swell on account of decom- 
position, and had been punctured and resealed. 

" Reject every article of canned food that does not 
show the line of resin around the edge of the solder of 
the cap, the same as is seen on the seam at the side of 
the can." (The chloride of zinc, which is sometimes 
used instead of resin, is an active poison.) 

" Press up the bottom of the can : if decomposition 
is commencing, the tin will rattle, the same as the 
bottom of the oiler of a sewing-machine does. If the 
goods are sound, it will be solid, and there will be no 
rattle to the tin. 

" Reject every can that shows any rust around the 
cap on the inside of the head of the can." 



Digitized 



by Google 



VII. 

CONDIMENTS. 

MUSTARD. 

'T^HE mustard of commerce is the seed of the plant 
•*• SinapiSy of different species, ground into flour. It 
belongs to one of the most useful families of our tem- 
perate zone. This is the Mustard family, Cruciferae. 
It is a hardy plant, and grows very readily in our 
climate. The famous Durham mustard was originally 
made from the wild charlock, Sinapis arvensis, which 
grew abundantly around Durham, and has a pleasant, 
mildly pungent flavor. The name is still retained as 
a trade-mark. The charlock grows as a weed in our 
fields, but has never been here utilized. Along the 
coast of Ireland, the fields, as seen from the passing 
steamer, look yellow with the blossoms of the wild 
charlock, or Charlie, as it is familiarly called. Black 
and white mustard are the two kinds usually found 
in the market, — the seeds of Sinapis nigra and 



Digitized 



by Google 



126 FOOD MATERIALS 

Sinapis alba. Since the whole seeds are to be had, 
the best way to study the condiment is to purchase 
some seeds, and grind them. Several points of dif- 
ference between this undoubtedly pure article, and 
that which is bought ground will be noticed. In the 
first place the ground seeds are very oily. This is not 
the pungent volatile oil which gives the flavor, but a 
bland fixed oil which is always expressed from the seeds 
before they are manufactured into mustard. It finds 
a ready sale as a lubricant, and is said to enter largely 
into the composition of cosmoline, etc., forming the 
basis of these emollients, to which petroleum is then . 
added. 

Next, the color of the pure mustard will attract 
attention. There is no mustard of a bright yellow 
color, the brightest possible color being a dull yel- 
low. The bright yellow of the shops, is either largely 
rape-seed, or artificially colored to suit a popular 
taste. Another noticeable difference is in the pun- 
gent smell and taste of the home-ground article. If 
such mustard is used for a time, that of the shops 
seems very insipid. 

Mustard is one of the most universal and wholesome 
condiments, but its use in medicine is even more im- 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



127 



portant. It is of the utmost consequence to have a 
genuine article, when it is to be used as an active 
remedy in sudden illness. The balance of life and 
death may depend upon the quality of the mustard 
used for the emetic, the plaster, or the bath. Every 
housekeeper should see that her medicine-chest is sup- 
plied with pure mustard, whatever may be the quality 
of that in her spice-box. 

The adulterations are many. Probably two thirds of 
the mustard sold is anything but pure ground seeds. 
The principal ingredients are starch from wheat, rice, 
or com flour, tumeric to color the too white starch, 
rape-seed, old turnip and radish seed unfit for planting, 
linseed, etc. 

Of the thirty samples examined in the laboratory of 
the writer, twenty-one contained more or less starch. 
Hardly any seeds of Cruciferse contain starch ; hence 
its presence is a proof of adulteration. The blue or 
dark-purple color which iodine causes in starch grains, 
and the thickening in boiling water, are the simplest 
tests. In eleven samples tumeric was added. This was 
readily detected by the microscope, as are also the 
other seeds. The per cent of oil may be used to 
determine the relative strengths of a number of sam- 



Digitized 



by Google 



128 FOOD MATERIALS 

pies, since it is upon the volatile, pungent oil that the 
peculiar properties of mustard depend. In 1882, Pro- 
fessor Lattimore found sixty-six per cent of the samples 
examined for the New York State Board of Health 
to be adulterated. The addition of any mineral mat- 
ter, such as terra-alba, yellow ochre, etc., may be 
detected by burning two or three grams, and weigh- 
ing the ash. The genuine mustard gives about four 
per cent of ash. 

PEPPER. 

Pepper-corns are the berries of the plant Piper 
nigrum^ which grows only in tropical climates. Has- 
saJl says that Malabar, Penang, and Sumatra are the 
three kinds most prized. Black and white pepper are 
from the same plant, the only difference being that 
black pepper is the whole berry, while the white has 
been deprived of the husk or outer layer of the berry, 
which is black. White pepper is milder than the 
black, for the husks are quite pungent. The best is 
that from the whole berry. A good way to secure pure 
pepper is to use a little mill on the table, and to grind 
the whole berries as wanted. The mills are now to 
be had, imported from Europe. The active properties 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 129 

of pepper depend upon three substances, — about six- 
teen per cent of acrid resin and piperine, and one to 
two per cent of volatile oil. 

The adulteration of pepper is extensive. Indeed, it 
is the exception, rather than the rule, to find a pure 
article in the market. Wheat flour, ground rice, Indian 
wieal, husks of the London-made white pepper, husks 
. of mustard, and the mysterious " P. D." pepper dust, 
said to be the sweepings of the warehouses, can be 
imported for as many cents a pound as the prepared 
article can be sold for per ounce ; so that there is great 
temptation to use these harmless, but not tempting 
mixtures. Time and trouble are saved by the pur- 
chase of ready-ground condiments, but the price paid 
is too great in proportion. 

Of sixteen samples examined, three were fairly good ; 
nine were made up of pepper and mustard husks, flour, 
and Indian meal. Most of the adulterations can be 
detected by the microscope, afl:er a careful study of 
the structure of the various seeds and husks ; but ex- 
perience has taught the writer, that considerable prac- 
tice is required to become expert at the detection 
of the kind of foreign matters used. The result of 
the examination of pepper, under the direction of 
9 



Digitized 



by Google 



130 FOOD MATERIALS 

the New York State Board of Health in 1882 showed 
that seventy per cent of the commercial article was 
adulterated. 

Cayenne Pepper. 

Red or Cayenne pepper is made from the ground 
pods of various species of Capsicum, a plant of the 
Nightshade family. The cayenne of commerce is de- 
rived from tropical species, but the pods of the red 
peppers which are commonly cultivated for pickles, 
when ground, make a very good cayenne. The pe- 
cuUar pungent taste is due to the presence of about 
four per cent of an acrid resin. The earlier English 
writers state that cayenne is more liable to adulteration * 
than black pepper, and alarming stories are told of the 
presence of red-lead, mercury, etc. But the results of 
examinations made in this country do not show any 
poisonous addition, and the addition of flour, etc., is 
rather less than in black pepper. 



SPICES. 

Those spices, like nutmeg, cloves, stick cinnamon, 
mace, and allspice, which are bought by weight, and 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 131 

in the form in which they are gathered, are not exactly 
capable of adulteration. But there is a certain decep- 
tion to be guarded against. An inferior or cheaper 
quality of the same or of a similar kind of spice may 
be mixed with, or substituted for, better or more 
costly sorts, without any corresponding diminution in 
price. 

For instance, wild nutmegs are mixed with cultivated 
ones, bearing about the same relation to the best quali- 
ties that a cider apple does to a fine Baldwin. It is the 
same with mace and cloves, while cassia is substituted 
for cinnamon only too largely, so that it is almost im- 
possible to find stick cinnamon that is not mixed with 
cassia. To learn to know the genuine species with 
certainty, is our only safeguard. Then, if we choose 
to buy cassia, we shall do it with our eyes open, and 
without paying the price of the delicate and costly 
cinnamon. 

Nutmegs. 

There are three species of Myristica which furnish 
nutmegs. The best are the kernels of the Myristica 
fragrans, and are called queen nutmegs. The tree is a 
native of the East India islands, but is also cultivated 



Digitized 



by Google 



132 FOOD MATERIALS 

in India and Central America. The best nutmegs are 
those from Penang, which are about an inch in length, 
shaped like a damson plum. The kernels are usually- 
pickled in lime-water, to ward off the attacks of insects 
to which they are particularly liable. The weight of 
good nutmegs should be, on an average, one hundred 
to the pound, or nearly seven to the ounce, grocers' 
weight. Very fine ones weigh eighty and one hundred 
to the pound, or five or six to the ounce. If pricked 
with a pin, the oil exudes visibly, and the pin also pene- 
trates readily. Wild nutmegs are small and pointed. 
They are inferior in the amount of oil, and in the 
general fragrance. 

Cinnamon, 

The best cinnamon comes fi*om Ceylon. It is the 
bark of a tree of the Laurel family, which gives us, even 
in this temperate climate, such plants as our sassafras 
and our spice-bush. The trees are topped like osier 
willows, and the cinnamon used is fhe bark from the 
young shoots, which form the bush at the top of the 
tree, and which are cut twice a year. A tract not 
much more than a quarter of a mile square forms the 
great cinnamon orchard of Ceylon. No other country 



Digithzed 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 133 

produces so fine a quality, or so great a quantity, as 
the fertile and siliceous tracts of Ceylon and the 
neighboring islands. 

The most noticeable character of true cinnamon is 
its splintery, fibrous quality. It tears rather than breaks, 
and is in small, thin rolls. The taste is sweet and 
spicy, and it retains its flavor long in the mouth. Cos- 
sia, or Chinese cinnamon^ is used to mix with it, being 
cheap and abundant. It is coarser and in thicker rolls. 
It breaks readily, but does not tear, and if chewed 
is granular and rather mucilaginous. It lacks the 
delicate, sweet taste and smell of cinnamon, having 
a peculiar woody, strong flavor of its own. 

The amount of true cinnamon consumed in the 
United States for the year ending June 30, 1875, was 
valued at 14,013, while the value of cassia was ^279,250, 
or nearly seventy times as much. 

Mace. 

Mace is the aril of the nutmeg, and its quality 
depends very greatly upon the kind of kernel upon 
which it grows, the aril of the queen nutmeg, being 
the best. 



Digitized 



by Google 



134 FOOD MATERIALS 



Cloves, 



Cloves are the unexpanded flower-buds of the 
Caryophyllus aromaticus, a tree of the Myrtle family, 
which is a native of the Moluccas, but which is cul- 
tivated in the East and West Indies, Guiana, and 
Brazil. Like all the spices under consideration, the 
active principle is due to one or more oils, which may 
be, and are, extracted and sold as oil of clove, oil of 
cassia, etc. Whole cloves can hardly be said to be 
adulterated, although the stalks are sometimes in ex- 
cess of the buds, and advantage is taken of the prop- 
erty of imbibing a large portion of moisture to increase 
the weight. 

Pimento, or Allspice. 

Pimento is the berry of the Euginia pimento, a tree 
of the Myrtle family, a native of the Caribbee Islands, 
and also cultivated in the East Indies. The berries 
have a fragrant odor, supposed to resemble a mbcture 
of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmegs : hence the name of 
Allspice. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



135 



Ginger. 
The ginger plant, Zinziber officinale^ belongs to the 
order from which tumeric and East India arrow-root 
are obtained. It is a native of India and China, and 
is cultivated in Tropical America and Africa. The 
ginger of commerce is derived from the fleshy creep- 
ing root-stalks, which are dug up when about a year 
old, and, if scraped and dried, give white or Jamaica 
ginger ; if left coated, or unscraped, black or East 
India ginger. Calcutta exports the principal part of 
the ginger used. Ginger contains, besides the volatile 
oil, an aromatic resin. 

Curry. 

Curry is not very extensively used in America, yet it 
is found so often as to justify a word. It is composed 
of a mixture of spices, and highly colored with tumeric. 
It is liable to variations of strength, as are the spices of 
which it is composed. 

Adulteration of Spices, 
In ground spices, as a rule, we find much reason 
for dissatisfaction. Their only merit now is con- 
venience, not quality. Nutmegs, mace, and cloves 



Digitized 



by Google 



136 FOOD MATERIALS 

are so oily that, to grind them easily, some absorbent 
like sawdust or starch is added, and this becomes a 
part of the ground spice as the first step, whatever 
may be added later. There is, however, but littie 
demand for ground nutmeg, American housekeepers 
having the good sense to prefer the whole nuts. 

Twelve specimens of cinnamon were examined. 
Only three of these contained any cinnamon at all. 
Even these were mixed with cassia and sawdust. The 
other nine were chiefly cassia and sawdust, mahogany 
sawdust being distinctly identified in some of them. 
Two contained a very little cassia and a great deal of 
sawdust ; and the third was nothing but sawdust, there 
being no trace of any spice in it. 

Professor Lattimore, in the New York State Board 
of Health Report for 1883, found that of the samples 
examined seventy per cent of the allspice was adul- 
terated, eighty-two per cent of the cinnamon, fifty-seven 
per cent of the cassia, seventy-six per cent of the cloves ; 
but no poisonous substance was found in any. 

All these spices may be examined under the micro- 
scope for adulterations ; but, as has been said before, 
experience only will give the training of the eye which 
will render an opinion worth anything. Each kind of 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 137 

spice here mentioned has its own peculiarities, and, 
after these are thoroughly studied, the additions may 
be at once determined. The adulterations are much 
the same in all this class, — starch in some form, 
tumeric for color, mustard husks for pungency. Pro- 
fessor Lattimore gives the per cent of adulteration of 
the fifteen gingers which he examined as sixty-six, but 
the samples firom Boston and vicinity seem better. 
Of twenty-eight specimens, only seven (or twenty- 
five per cent) were adulterated. Three of these were 
adulterated with starch and tumeric, one with starch 
and mustard husks, one with tumeric, and two with 
starch only. The remaining twenty-one varied in 
color from a tawny white to brown, but were all fra- 
grant and good, and some excellent. None were at 
all yellow, except the four to which tumeric had been 
added. The difference in color is owing simply to 
the preparation. The bark is scraped off the fleshy 
roots, as in the whole white ginger-root, or the pre- 
served ginger. Then the ground ginger is quite light 
in color. If the bark is left on, the ginger is brown 
when ground. In whole ginger there is often a white 
coating upon the roots. This is only lime, into which 
they have been dipped to protect them from insects. 



Digitized 



by Google 



138 FOOD MATERIALS 

SALAD OIL. 

Some other condiments deserve a passing notice. 
Among these may be classed salad oil, which has 
until recently been olive oil of various grades, but all 
expressed from the fruit of the olive tree. But as the 
demand grew, and as the American refined lard oil 
became cheap, great quantities are said to have been 
shipped to the oil-producing countries of Italy, and 
returned in the shape of pure olive. It has been sup- 
posed that certain grades of refined petroleum oils have 
been used for the same purpose, though the exporta- 
tion was very carefully managed. At present a great 
deal of the salad oil has never crossed the seas, but is 
known to the dealers for what it is, cotton-seed oil 
The oil is pressed out from the cotton seeds by power- 
ful presses, and makes a very clear, sweet oil, just as 
wholesome, for aught any one knows, as the oil pressed 
from the olive, and for home use it is certainly much 
cheaper. The trouble with the sale of it being, like 
that of oleomargarine, that it is sold under false pre- 
tences, and for an exorbitant price. 

The detection of the per cent of cotton-seed oil in 
the presence of olive oil is difficult, and the presence 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 139 

of lard oil is likewise very hard to determine, so that 
it is of little use to give here the various tests which 
have been proposed. The chemistry of the several 
oils is not understood sufficiently to allow of definite 
statements, and since the chemical composition of the 
oils, so far as it is known, shows them to be similar, 
it is a question if it will be possible to separate the 
elements of the seed oils with the same certainty that 
one metallic element is separated from another. 



FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 

These have had, periodically, highly sensational stories 
told about them. In the two or three dozen samples 
examined in the laboratory, no harmful ingredient was 
found. There was a great deal of difference in the 
strength of the different brands. Most of the lemon 
flavor is only dilute alcohol, in which a few drops of 
oil of lemon is dissolved. 



VINEGAR. 

Vinegar, vin aigre, as its name implies, was originally 
made from sour wine, that is, from wine in which the 



Digitized 



by Google 



I40 FOOD MATERIALS 

alcoholic fermentation had given place to that which 
produces acetic acid. The whole of the alcohol may 
be changed into acetic acid by means of the vinegar 
ferment, Mycodermi aceti^ commonly called mother of 
vinegar. A very little of this in the presence of air is 
sufficient to convert a large quantity of alcohol. The 
reaction seems to be as follows : common ethylic alco- 
hol (CgHgO), by the addition of two atoms of oxygen, 
yields acetic acid and water (H2O + C2H4O2). 

In the so-called " quick "or " German " process, the 
oxidation of the weak alcoholic liquor is hastened by 
letting it trickle through shavings already saturated 
with vinegar, the temperature being maintained at 
about 90° F. 

In the United States the alcoholic liquor used is 
chiefly whiskey, diluted with eight or ten times its bulk 
of water. Tall tubs, sometimes twenty or more feet 
high, are filled with clean beech shavings well packed, 
These are first soaked with strong vinegar; then the 
diluted whiskey is poured on the top, a httle at a time, 
and slowly finds its way down to the bottom, where it 
is drawn off as vinegar. The air is let in near the 
bottom by small orifices, and finds its way to the top 
by the draft caused by the heat of the oxidation. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 141 

Whiskey may thus be converted into vinegar in twenty- 
four hours. 

Cider is also used to a considerable extent, in the 
United States, for the manufacture of vinegar. In for- 
mer years, most of it was derived from this source. 
The cider is kft for a longer time (from eight to ten 
months) in half-filled casks, the bungs being left out to 
allow the free entrance of air. The flavor of cider 
vinegar is peculiar, and is much preferred by many 
people. 

Proof vinegar contains about five per cent of acetic 
acid, but that sold in the shops often contains only 
three per cent, or even less* Because of the high price 
of vinegar, it has frequently been adulterated with other 
acids, such as sulphuric, muriatic, and rarely with nitric. 
They may be detected as follows. To one portion of 
the suspected vinegar add a few drops of barium chlo- 
ride. Only a slight cloudiness should appear, but any 
considerable precipitate will show the presence of an 
undue amount of sulphuric acid. Hydrochloric acid 
is shown by the addition of a few drops of silver nitrate 
to a fresh portion of the sample. A white flocculent 
precipitate will appear if there has been an addition of 
hydrochloric acid. For the relative strength of a num- 



Digitized 



by Google 



142 FOOD MATERIALS 

ber of samples, if the apparatus for volumetric analysis 
is at hand, the quantity of soda which the same number 
of cubic centimetres will neutralize, will give an approxi- 
mate test, but not exact, because acetate of sodium has 
itself a slight alkaline reaction. With baryta water 
(barium hydrate) as the alkali, and tumeric as the test 
paper, the method gives very close results. 

For ketchups, sauces, and pickles which are pre- 
pared with vinegar, pure vinegar should be used. In 
the case of pickles, a depraved taste has led to the 
demand for bright green pickles, and this taste has 
sometimes been gratified by boiling the pickles in 
copper kettles with vinegar and a little alum. The 
acetic acid of the vinegar acts upon the copper, forming 
a little acetate of copper, one of the most poisonous of 
all the salts of copper; and this, being absorbed by 
the pickles, colors them green. Cheap pickles are put 
up in adulterated vinegar. The tests are the same as 
those given above. For the presence of copper, im- 
merse a strip of clean bright iron in the liquid, and, if 
copper is present, the iron will become coated with a 
thin fihn of metallic copper. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 143 



SALT. 

Salt is of universal use, and it has been known from 
the earliest times. It is found in a solid rock-like form 
in many countries. Salt springs are not uncommon, 
and on the coast the evaporation of sea-water gives 
sea-salt. Rock-salt is mined in Austria and at North- 
wick, near Liverpool, in England. A mine is now 
worked in Louisiana. Much salt is made in New 
York, Michigan, Ohio, Virginia, and West Virginia, by 
evaporating the water of salt springs. Salt is nearly 
pure sodium chloride, but it almost always contains 
small quantities of chloride of magnesium, which causes 
the salt to become moist in damp air, and which gives 
it the bitter taste often noticed. 

There is a difference of opinion as to the healthful- 
ness of salt when taken with food. Habit, rather than 
common sense, seems to govern the amount used. 



Digitized 



by Google 



VIII. 

PERISHABLE FOODS, AND THE MEANS FOR 
PRESERVING THEM. 

MEAT, FISH, ETC. 

O INCE butcher's meat is not liable to adulteration, 
properly speaking, any extended discussion of its 
character would be out of place in this little volume. 
Yet it cannot be passed by without a word, for it is a 
form of food which requires very little expenditure of 
force for its assimilation, since that work was done by 
the animal when living, and man avails himself of it. 
Rightiy used, it forms a valuable addition to man's 
diet. The consumption of meat has steadily increased, 
in spite of the increase in price. It is said that the cost 
of meat in England has increased thirty-five per cent 
in the past twenty-two years. A large quantity of dried 
and tinned meat is now exported firom Australia and 
South America. 

The amount consumed in different countries varies 
from about one tenth of a pound a day, or one pound 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS. 145 

in ten days, in Russia and Spain, one pound in three 
days in England, one in two days in New York, to a 
pound a day in Buenos Ayres and Uruguay, where 
animals are killed for their hides and horns. Meat 
should be obtained from healthy animals, and kept in 
a clean place, in order that it may form a wholesome 
food. The bad odor of tainted meat should be a suf- 
ficient warning of its character. A very slight taint, 
such as sometimes occurs on the outer edges, may 
be corrected by placing some charcoal in the water 
in which it is boiling. In order to kill all parasites, 
meat should be thoroughly cooked ; and for this, boil- 
ing is safer than roasting. A general average com- 
position may be shown by the following mean of 
many analyses : — 

Water. 
50 per ct 
44 " 

Fish seems to be somewhat less digestible than 
meat, possibly on account of the little blood in the 
tissue. The average composition is : mineral matter, 
one to two per cent; nitrogenous substance, ten to 
twenty ; fat, five to ten ; water, seventy to eighty per 
cent. 

10 





Mineral 
Matter. 


Nitrogenous 
Substance. 


Fat. 


Beef 

Mutton 


5 per ct. 
3-5" 


15 per ct. 
12.5 " 


30 per ct. 
40 " 



Digitized 



by Google 



146 POOD MATERIALS 

Eggs contain all the necessary constituents of food 
in the most concentrated form, — so concentrated as 
to be unsuited for the whole of the daily ration. For 
convalescents they are invaluable when they can be 
obtained fresh. From their very composition they are 
extremely liable to putrefaction. This change may be 
prevented by the exclusion of air, either by coating the 
shell with an impervious layer of oil, gum, or parafiine, 
or by treatment with calcium salts, or by plunging the 
tgg into boiling water for a few seconds. Desiccated 
eggs are now much used. 

The seeds of the Leguminosse, /<f^j, beans, and ien- 
tils, may be called meat substitutes, since they contain 
about twenty-five per cent of nitrogenous substance, 
twelve of water, and fifty of starch. As dried seeds 
they should stand next in importance to the cereals ; 
but since beans and peas especially are eaten green, 
as vegetables, even more than in the dried state, they 
cannot be omitted in this list. This form of food 
is not sufficiently appreciated, especially by working 
people. It should be eaten with starch or fat foods. 
Hence the New England dish of baked pork and 
beans was a perfectly suitable and well-proportioned * 
food for people whose life was spent largely in the 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 147 

open air, in arduous pioneer work. The nutritious 
seeds are less easily digested than the cereals. The 
" ash " contains more lime and less phosphates. Some 
member of this group of plants grows in every land. 



VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

Vegetables are usually understood to include certain 
roots and tubers, as the potato, sweet potato, turnip, 
and beet, with some fruits, as the tomato, squash, and 
cucumber. These are used in the fresh condition, and 
are not subject to adulteration. They are largely com- 
posed of water, seventy-five to ninety five per cent. 
The small nutritive value which they possess is due 
to the starch and sugar, and not to the nitrogenous 
material, which is present in small quantity only. The 
percentage of "ash" is higher than in cereals, and 
contains more potassium salts. This is also the case 
in fruits, so called, — apple, pear, grape, peach, and 
orange. These contain sugar, instead of the starch 
of the vegetable, and also an acid which gives a 
pleasant relish and is a stimulant to the appetite. The 
general composition of fruits may be stated at eighty- 
five per cent water, eight per cent sugar, and one per 



Digitized 



by Google 



148 POOD MATERIALS 

cent acid. When much salted meat is eaten, fruit and 
vegetables are very essential correctives of diet, on 
account of the acid, and possibly on account of the 
potassium salts, which are supposed to replace the 
excess of sodium salts taken with the meat. 

There is littie danger in the use of vegetables and 
fruits as food, if they are fresh, not wilted, and are fully 
grown or ripened. The skin of the potato contains a 
poisonous substance, which is volatilized when the tuber 
is boiled, steamed, or baked. The skin of the cucum- 
ber is indigestible, as is that of the peach. Currants 
should be well washed before being placed upon the 
table, as the bushes are often dusted over with helle- 
bore, or with Paris green, an arsenical preparation, to 
prevent the ravages of worms. 

The same caution is applicable to some of the 
relishes^ as lettuce and cabbage. These green foods 
should be crisp, not wilted. They are important ad- 
juncts to diet on account of the mineral matters, vege- 
table acids, and peculiar flavoring principles. Fruits 
and vegetables add a certain bulk to the meal which 
seems to favor digestion. 

Dried fruits, as raisins, figs, etc., have a nutritive 
value nearly equal to that of bread, containing forty 



Digitized 



by Google 



• AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 149 

to fifty per cent of sugar. Raisins have proved an 
exceUent food for Arctic expeditions, sustaining the 
animal heat under extreme conditions. The impor- 
tance of this food material may be seen from a state- 
ment of the amount prepared in Califomia alone in 
1884, viz.: of prunes, 1,870,000 pounds; of apples, 
1,600,000 ; of peaches, 550,000 ; of sun-dried grapes, 
150,000; and of raisins, 175,000. 

Jellies are a sort of dried fruit-juice. Many fruits 
contain a substance called pectin or pedose^ which 
forms when heated with sugar a gelatinous mass 
which will keep good for a long time if put in a 
cool and dry place. For a detailed account of the 
various substances here referred to, see " Food," by 
A. H. Church. 

Since putrefactive fermentation requires air, moist- 
ure, and warmth for its progress, the decay of food sub- 
stances may be prevented, — 

(i.) By subjecting them to extremes of tempera- 
ture: to freezing, so that the germs cannot grow; 
or to heat equal to or above that of boiling water, 
so that the germs are killed. 

(2.) By the exclusion of air, as in canning or bot- 
tling, or by coating the substance over with a layer 
impervious to air. 



Digitized 



by Google 



150 POOD MATERIALS. 

(3.) By the removal of moisture, as in drying me^ts 
and fruits ; vegetables are now so prepared for soups, 
etc. 

(4.) By cooking in concentrated sugar syrup, as in 
preserves : this combines the removal of moisture with 
an impervious coating. 

There is also the less wholesome, but very common 
method of preservation by the application of anti- 
septics ; such as salt and smoke for meats ; brandy, 
vinegar, etc., for fruits; borax and salicilic acid for 
various substances. These preparations cannot be 
as healthful, even if the antiseptic has no direct in- 
fluence upon the digestive organs, and they should 
be used sparingly. 



Digitized 



by Google 



IX. 

OTHER MATERIALS USED IN^ COOKING. 

OINCE light sweet bread is one of the most im- 
portant articles of diet, and since in the United 
States such bread is largely made in homes, and not in 
bakeries, as is the case in Europe, the substances which 
produce this digestible food deserve consideration. 

YEAST. 

Yeast is a cryptogamous plant, a simple cell which 
grows, by multiplication or budding, in a slightly sweet- 
ened liquid, converting the sugar into carbonic acid 
gas and alcohol, at the same time that it acts upon 
starch, converting it into dextrine, and then into starch 
sugar. The process is technically called alcoholic fer- 
mentation^ and yeast a ferment. Different kinds of 
fermentation are distinguished by the name of the 
principal product to which they give rise; as, alco- 
holic or yeast fermentation, acetic or vinegar fermen- 
tation, lactic, butyric, etc. 



Digitized 



by Google 



152 FOOD MATERIALS 

It is because of the evolution of carbonic acid gas, 
which is held in the sponge in little bubbles by the 
tenacity of the gluten of the wheat, that yeast is used 
in the preparation of bread. Wild yeast germs are 
floating in the ^ir, and the leaven of olden times owed 
its efficiency to the cells which fell into the open 
vessel. The objection to this spontaneous fermenta- 
tion is, that not only the cells of alcoholic fermen- 
tation fall in, but those that produce the other kinds, 
notably the lactic, so that bread-making by leaven is a 
somewhat haphazard process : the result may be fairly 
good, and it may be very bad. The black sour bread 
of Germany and other European countries is made in 
this manner. The addition of hops retards decay of 
the yeast. Modern yeast is brewers' or beer yeast, 
even home-made preparations being mostly started by 
it ; because both for beer and bread the alcoholic fer- 
mentation is desirable, and brewers, by careful study 
and experiment, have learned so to control the process 
as to obtain a yeast consisting of only one kind of 
organisms, Saccharomyces cereznsice. 

When yeast is added to batter, it is like the scatter- 
ing of a multitude of little living cells or seeds, ready 
to grow with extraordinary rapidity in a medium suited 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 153 

to their nutrition. These cells, in well mixed batter, 
are present at every point, and as each cell, in decom- 
posing sugar, gives off tiny bubbles of carbonic acid 
gas, 'these bubbles are in every part of the dough, ren- 
dering it porous or " light." Although wheat flour 
contains only about one per cent of sugar, when fer- 
mentation is once started, the starch is rapidly con- 
verted into sugar, and the sugar so formed into carbonic 
acid gas and alcohol : thus the fermentation of bread 
goes on at the expense of the starch of the flour. 
Cooked starch is acted on more readily than raw, and 
therefore the addition of some boiled potatoes to the 
sponge causes a more rapid rising. 

There are two divisions of beer yeast, high (haute) 
and low (basse). According to Pasteur the high buds 
more rapidly, floats, and is produced by fermentation 
at from fifty to seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit The 
low sinks, the cells are more separate, it buds for a short 
time only, and is produced at a lower temperature, forty 
to fifty degrees, and is of late much used for beer. The 
best yeast for bread is that which floats. It is now 
prepared for the purpose, and when ready for use is 
skimmed off, drained, pressed in sacks, cut up into 
squares, covered with tin-foil, and sold as compressed 



Digitized 



by Google 



1^4 POOD MATERIALS 

yeast. In this condition it is next best to the fresh 
brewers' yeast, with the advantage of small bulk and 
ease of transportation. If kept cool and dry, it will be 
good for days ; and if dried, not in the sun or in the 
oven, but in a current of warm air, it will keep indefi- 
nitely. Packages of dry yeast are composed for the 
most part of yeast mixed with corn or rye meal and 
then dried. Yeast germs are killed by a temperature 
of boiling water, and freezing arrests their growth. The 
best temperature for fermentation of beer yeast is from 
sixty to seventy degrees Fahrenheit. 

Since the sole object of bread fermentation is 
the production of a porous loaf. Miss Corson's rec- 
ommendation of the quick process of raising bread 
in two hours, by the use of two squares of yeast, 
seems to have a reasonable basis, and if the bread 
is, as it should be, well baked, so that the inside 
of the loaf has reached a temperature of boiling 
water, there will remain no yeasty flavor. Many 
loaves do not become heated to this point even 
when burned on the outside, consequently the yeast 
germs are not killed: such slack-baked bread is not 
wholesome. 

Yeast is not often adulterated, but its quality may 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 155 

vary owing to carelessness in preparation, especially if 
it is home-made. There is no doubt that the com- 
pressed or Vienna yeast is the best article now at 
hand for producing the so-called raised bread. The 
color of good yeast is yellow or grayish yellow ; the 
browner its tint, the more dead germs there are. It 
should be only a mass of cells with no fibre or tissue. 
Occasionally a blue line is seen : this is due to the pres- 
ence of MucorSy or moulds. Such yeast makes bread 
which will become mouldy in a very short time. 

The following notes of the microscopic appearances 
of yeast may be useful. Take some yeast on the point 
of a pin, and add carefully a drop of water on the 
slide. Cover and examine with reflected light under a 
power of six hundred diameters. The cells are seen 
not to be round, but rather oval, a little pointed at 
each end : the larger they are, the better the yeast. 
The walls are transparent and delicate, to allow of ready 
osmosis. The contents of new cells are clear, limpid, 
and colorless, somewhat granulated with one or more 
vacuoles. Old cells have darker contents, are more 
coarsely granulated, and destitute of vacuoles, they are 
of irregular form and look withered. Strange ferments 
are almost always encountered as impurities. Saccha- 



Digitized 



by Google 



IS6 FOOD MATERIALS 

romyces exiguus, or minor, is often abundant, if the 
fermentation which produced the yeast was carried 
on at a low temperature. It is about half the size 
of S, cerevisicBy or only three ten-thousandths of an 
inch in diameter, and is always present in leaven. 
Penicillium glaucuTn, Mucor mucedOy or Mould, etc., 
may be readily recognized. There may be present 
micrococci, or round cells, and bacilli, or rod-like cells, 
giving rise to various other fermentations, all of which 
soon pass over into the putrid fermentation : the time 
elapsing varies according to the temperature, etc. 

" On Fermentation,** by Schutzenberger, and " Etudes 
sur la Bi^re," by Pasteur, are books to be consulted. 
Dr. Graham's " Chemistry of Bread-Making" is a valu- 
able addition to the literature of the subject. 

SODA, BAKING-POWDERS, ETC. 

The problem of making porous bread without the 
long process of fermentation, and the consequent loss 
in material which is converted into carbonic acid and 
alcohol, has often occupied the thought of chemists of 
reputation. The results have been : — 

First, aerated bread, made by forcing into the dough, 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 157 

just before baking, carbonic acid gas prepared by chemi- 
cal means in another vessel. 

Secondly, the so-called soda bread of this country, 
in which the carbonic acid gas is liberated from bicar- 
bonate of soda by the use of an acid; as muriatic, 
tartaric, lactic (sour milk), and the acid tartrate of 
potassium (cream of tartar), acid phosphate of cal- 
cium, or acid lactate of calcium. 

Thirdly, baking-powder bread, which is now (1885) 
almost universally used in the United States in place of 
soda bread. The great advantage to the community is, 
that while baking-powders are composed of the same 
materials as those mentioned above, they are care- 
fully mixed, so that neither acid nor alkali shall be 
in excess. 

Soda (bicarbonate, supercarbonate, or cooking soda) 
is chemically a sodium hydrogen carbonate prepared 
by subjecting recrystallized sal soda, or washing soda, 
to an atmosphere of carbonic acid gas. The only im- 
purities likely to be found are some sulphates and 
chlorides remaining from the process of manufacture 
of the sal soda. The substances used to liberate the 
carbonic acid gas are practically reduced to two, cream 
of tartar y and acid phosphate of calcium. The first is 



Digitized 



by Google 



Ijg FOOD MATERIALS 

prepared from imported argols, a substance used by 
calico printers and dyers. It is the crust which is 
formed on wine casks in the process of fermentation. 
In its refined and purified condition it is sold for 
bread-making. One baking-powder manufactory, at 
least, is said to use only that which has been chemi- 
cally prepared The price being from forty to eighty 
cents per pound, and in times of disturbance of foreign 
commerce even twice that, cream of tartar is the most 
liable to be adulterated of all the articles used in 
cooking. 

Terra aiba, sulphate of calcium, or, as it is commonly 
called, gypsum, is the substance most frequently used 
to make up ten to ninety per cent of the weight of 
cream of tartar. It is reported that fine bone-ash 
has been found in some samples from the Western 
States. In Eastern Massachusetts the most frequent 
adulterant is the much cheaper acid phosphate of cal- 
cium ; and since this is itself used as a substitute for 
cream of tartar, the effect on the bread is not as 
much to be feared as if gypsum were used. If it 
shall be proved that a certain amount of potassium 
salts are desirable to counteract the excessive use of 
salt and salted foods, the much discussed cream of 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 159 

tartar bread may find its place as a reeognized article 
of diet. 

Acid phosphate of calcium is prepared fi*om bones 
by treating them with sulphuric acid, setting firee a 
portion of the phosphoric acid. It is supposed to be 
a useful ingredient of bread, since it restores some of 
the phosphate said to be lost in the bran. 

Acid lactate of calcium has lately been used for a 
cream of tartar substitute, and in many respects it 
promises well. It contains the same acid as sour milk, 
and is prepared firom starch by the action of the lactic 
ferment. 

Baking Powders y prepared from soda and cream of 
tartar chiefly, are, when put up in tin cans, with the 
maker's name on the label, much more reliable than 
any other form of bread-raising preparation. About 
eighty per cent are found to be good ; of cream of 
tartar only sixty per cent are genuine. Sometimes a 
very little bicarbonate of ammonia is added, to secure 
a complete neutralization of the acid without leaving 
an excess of soda. If this amount does not exceed 
one per cent, it can do no harm. As they are made in 
large quantities, they are of a more even composition 
than when cooks guess at the proportions by spoon- 



Digitized 



by Google 



l6o FOOD MATERIALS 

fuls. The chief adulterant used is starch or rice flour, 
sometimes to the extent of fifty per cent. There is 
not so much adulteration as has often been supposed, 
if the articles are purchased of the large firms and of 
reliable dealers. Alum is not infrequently found in 
powders sold in bulk. The following simple tests may 
be of use to those who have had a little practice in 
chemistry. 

Good cream of tartar is soluble in eighteen parts of 
boiling water. Good baking powder is also soluble ; 
a small quantity of starch present will give a certain 
opacity to the solution, but if in excess a paste may 
be formed stiff enough for laundry use. If there is in 
either case much residue insoluble in water which dis- 
solves in hydrochloric acid, phosphate or sulphate of 
calcium is to be suspected. 

A few drops of barium chloride added to the hydro- 
chloric acid solution will cause a white precipitate, if 
sulphates are present in the substance under examina- 
tion. If the phosphates are to be tested for, the acid 
to be used for a solution is nitric, and to the solution a 
few cubic centimeters of molybdate of ammonia are 
added. A fine yellow color or precipitate indicates 
phosphates. Ammonia is sometimes found in baking 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. i6i 

powders. If present, a small lump of potassium hydrate 
added to the strong aqueous solution will, on heating, 
cause the ammonia to be given off in the steam, which 
will then turn red litmus-paper blue. 

To test for alum, prepare a fresh decoction of log- 
wood ; add a few drops to the solution or substance, 
and render it acid by acetic acid. A yellow color 
proves the absence of alum ; a purplish red or a bluish 
color, more or less decided, means more or less alum. 
If the substance were not acidified, the test might be 
vitiated by the presence of an alkali, as in the case of a 
baking powder. Caution : use a new solution, or a 
new portion of an old one, for each test. 

To judge of the quantity of any of the substances, 
it is necessary to have a standard article with which 
to compare the suspected one. If the same quan- 
tity of each is taken, and it is subjected to the same 
tests, a very correct judgment of its quality may be 
formed. Acids should be used in glass * or china 
vessels only. 



II 



Digitized 



by Google 



PRINCIPLES OF DIET. 

THE food of savage and semi-civilized man has 
always been of the material most readily ob- 
tained ; either the flesh of animals killed in the chase, 
or wild fruits native to his country, or the products of 
crude agriculture.^ The nations of Northern Europe, 
down to nearly the middle of the present century, ate 
rye and barley bread, as wheat could not be profitably 
grown in that region ; and the Esquimaux to-day live 
upon the product of the seal fishery from necessity, and 
not from choice. 

Now, the food products of the whole world are 
accessible to the people of the United States, through 
the use of improved methods of transportation, — the 
refrigerator car and steamship compartment, — and 
through improved methods of preservation, by cold 
storage, and by the canning process. 

1 For the diet of ancient peoples, see " Food and Dietetics/' 
Pavy, p. 475- 



Digitized 



by Google 



FOOD MATERIALS. 163 

This very abundance brings its own danger ; for the 
appetite is no longer a sufficient guide to the selection 
of food, as it was in the case of the early peoples who 
were not tempted by so great a variety. 

Many diseases of modern civilization are doubtless 
due to errors of diet, which might easily be avoided. 
Many dietaries have been published, but nearly all 
are only of limited local application, so that, when 
applied elsewhere, they have failed, and brought dis- 
credit upon the whole plan. Only certain broad prin- 
ciples can be laid down, and much intelligent study 
must be brought to bear upon the question in each 
community. 

The first general principle is suggested by Dr. Pavy, 
when he calls attention to the fact that the meat-eaters 
among animals, having to hunt for their food, pass long 
intervals without any, and when it is obtained gorge 
themselves with it, and then lie torpid for days. The 
herbivorous animals, having their food always near 
them, eat all the time, and are stupid all the time. 

Man ought not to imitate either class. It is his 
privilege to choose such times of eating and such 
materials for food as will best develop his mental 
power. Many writers seem to forget this, and to plan 



Digitized 



by Google 



1 64 FOOD MATERIALS 

man's food as if he were a mere animal, whereas he is 
or may be very much more. His food should be such 
as to keep the animal mechanism in good order for 
the mind to use. It should not be overfed, so as 
to be sluggish, nor should it be starved, so as to be 
incapable of executing the mind's demands. 

The second general principle is an economical one, 
and is very suggestively stated in an address given at 
Ann Arbor, in August, 1885, by Edward Atkinson, 
chairman of Section I. of the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science. In this address are 
embodied many of the results of Professor Atwater's 
investigations on the values of foods. Others will 
be found in his reports. The following tables, and 
most of the statements concerning them, are taken 
from the address, although they have been somewhat 
condensed. 

In spite of the seeming abundance of the country, 
the average value of our produce, if distributed per 
capita, would be only from 40 to 45 cents per day, 
out of which shelter, food, and clothing must be pro- 
vided. Statistics show that the mere price of food 
constitutes sixty per cent of the cost of living of the 
working people of the United States, and it may well 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 165 

be said that " half the struggle of life is a struggle for 
food for the large majority of people." In view of 
these facts, the following questions were put as the text 
of the address : — 

" I. What is the present daily ration of the working 
men and women, who constitute the vast majority of 
the people of this and of other lands ? 

" 2. What might be the daily ration if the science 
of nutrition could be made a part of the common 
knowledge ? 

" 3. How much could its cost be reduced, and its 
nutritious properties increased?" 

In answer to the first question, the following dietaries 
are given. 

No. I. 

Cents. 

Meat, Poultry, and Fish per day, J to i lb 9.70 

Milk, \ pint. Butter ij to ij oz., Cheese a scrap .... 5.00 

Eggs, one every two days at 12 cents a dozen 50 

Cereals 2 50 

Vegetables 1.98 

Sugar or Syrup i 94 

Tea or Coffee 1.20 

Fruit, green or dry 62 

Salt, Spice, Ice, etc 49 

Total 23.93 



Digitized 



by Google 



l66 FOOD MATERIALS 

No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. 

Cents. Cents. Cents. 

Meat and Fish per day . . . . 952 9.70 6.51 

Milk, Butter, and Cheese . . . 6.50 6.73 2.86 

Eggs 1.40 1.43 -65 

Total Animal Food . . 17.42 17.86 10.02 

Cereals 4.07 3.83 1.73 

Sugar and Syrup 1.90 1.88 1.30 

Vegetables 1.32 3.21 1 46 

Fruit, green and dry 1.17 3.28 .35 

Tea and Coffee 70 1.25 .90 

Sundries 2.14 2.53 40 

Total cents per day . . 28.73 33. 90 16.16 

No. I. Estimated average dietary of the working 
people in the United States, from data derived chiefly 
from the records of food consumed by factory opera- 
tives in the Eastern and Middle States, a large propor- 
tion of them women, during the years 18 80- 1884. 
Two children under ten years of age are computed as 
one adult. 

No. 2. Fourteen adult men and women in Massa- 
chusetts. Nine men engaged in mechanical work, 
three women in mill work, two in care of the house. 
For six months in 1885. (Mostly Irish.) 

No. 3. A well-to-do American family ; father and 
two sons, mechanics ; three adults ; five children under 
ten years old ; Massachusetts. Six months in 1885. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 167 

No. 4. Fifty-six adult females ; factory operatives, 
and the employees in charge of the boarding-house. 
Six months in 1885. Maryland. 

No. 5. A carder in a Russian woollen mill, support- 
ing a wife and two children; equivalent to three 
adults in the family. Per week. 

Breakfast: Coffee, Bread, and Butter $0.47^ 

Lunch : Bread and Butter, and sometimes Meat . . .47M 
Dinner : Soup, Potatoes or other Vegetables, occasion- 
ally Meat 1.66 

Lunch at 4 p. m. : Coffee, Bread and Butter 47K 

Supper at 8 P. M. : Milk, Soup, and Bread 47M 

Personal luxuries including Beer 26 

Food for each adult, 18.18 cents per day. $3.82 

No. 6. A workman in a German shoe factory, with 

wife and three children, equivalent to three and a half 

adults. 

Breakfast : Coffee, Bread and Butter, sometimes Meat for 

himself. 
Dinner : Soup, with Vegetables and Pork. 
Lunch at 4 p. M. : Coffee, Bread, and sometimes Butter. 
Supper at 8 P. M. : Salad, Potatoes, Bacon, Sauce, and some 

I^eat. 
Food and fuel cost 44 cents a day, or 12.57 cents for each adult. 

It is thus shown how meagre is the diet of working 
people, and now it remains to show some means of 
improving it by the application of scientific knowledge 



Digitized 



by Google 



i68 FOOD MATERIALS 

to the composition of food materials. In answer to 
the second and third questions, the following tables 
have been compiled. It must be remembered, how- 
ever, that the chemist is not always a cook, or even a 
physiologist, and that, while a certain combination may 
look to be very nutritious on paper, it may not prove 
satisfactory in practice ; for the important factor of 
palatability is left out, and, however nutritious a food 
may be, if it is repulsive to the individual, the secre- 
tion of the digestive fluids will not follow its ingestion. 
The art of cookery must here come to the rescue ; also 
the relative digestibility of food must be considered. 
Nevertheless, such calculations as the following are 
very useful, and worthy of careful study, as indicating 
a possible economy of the precious food materials. 

The standard daily ration of an adult has been com- 
puted many times ; according to the best authorities, 
it must contain the following proportions and quantities 
in order that health may be maintained : nitrogenous 
matter or proteine, 0.26 lb. ; fats, 0.12 lb. ; starcK, su- 
gar, &c., or the carbohydrates, i.io lb. Since all food 
materials contain water (from 10 to 90 per cent), and 
many contain woody fibre or other indigestible sub- 
stance, a careful calculation of the really nutritious 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 169 

material must be made before deciding upon the 
amounts required. The following selections are given 
from many tables computed with great pains by Pro- 
fessor Atwater and his assistant, Mr. Rockwood, from 
analyses made for the Smithsonian Institution, and on 
the basis of the daily ration given above. 

Rations of Common Food Materials estimated to contain the 
Amounts of Nutritive Ingredients in the standard Daily 
Ration^ with the Cost of each. 

Cents. 

Beef, Neck, J lb 4.00 

Beans, J lb 75 

Potatoes, 2 lb 2.00 

Oatmeal, J lb 1.25 

Rye Flour, Jib 1.25 

Butter, f oz 1.50 

10.75 

Beef, Shin, J lb 3.00 

Potatoes, 3 lb .... 3.00 

Wheat Flour, J lb 2.00 

Beans, i lb 75 

Butter, I oz 2.00 

Sugar, I J oz i.oo 

11.75 

Fresh Mackerel, f lb 4 50 

Potatoes, I lb i.oo 

Cracked Wheat, J lb 3.00 

Corn Meal, Jib 1.50 

Beans, Jib 75 

Butter, I oz 2.00 

12.75 



Digitized 



by Google 



1 70 



FOOD MATERIALS 

Cents. 

Liver, J lb 5.00 

Potatoes, I lb i.oo 

Butter, I oz 2 00 

Corn Meal, i lb 3.00 

Bread, \Vo * . . . 3.00 

14.00 

Beef, Shin, J lb 1.50 

Fresh Cod, J lb 4.00 

Oatmeal, ^ lb 50 

Bread, \Va 3.00 

Potatoes, I lb i.oo 

Milk, i pt 1.50 

Corn Meal, J lb 1.50 

Butter, I oz. 2.00 

Boston Crackers, 2 oz 1.25 

16.25 

Round Steak, J lb 8.00 

Milk \Va 2.00 

Bread, ^ lb 2.50 

Potatoes, li lb 1.50 

Turnips, J lb 50 

Corn Meal, i lb i.oo 

Butter, I oz 2.00 

Cheese, i oz i.oo 

Sugar, li oz i.oo 

19.50 

Soda Crackers, \Vo 2.50 

Potatoes, I lb i.oo 

Bread \Vo 3.00 

Shad i lb 4.00 

Eggs, i lb 4.00 

Oatmeal, i lb 625 

Rice, i lb 1.50 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 



171 



Cents. 

Sugar, i lb 1.25 

Butter, I oz 2.00 

Beans, J lb 1.50 

21.375 

Oyster Crackers, J lb 300 

Oysters, J lb 10.00 

Mutton, Leg, 1 lb 4.00 

Pease, i lb 1.25 

Potatoes, I lb i.oo 

Oatmeal, Jib i.oo 

Rice, i lb 2.50 

Bread, J lb 3.00 

Butter, \\qz 3.00 

Turkey, \Vq 18.00 

Fresh Pork, 2 oz 1.625 

Hominy, J lb. 2.00 

Potatoes, I lb i.oo 

Beans, J lb 1.50 

Rye Bread, J lb 3.00 

Milk, I lb. 3.50 

30.625 

Salmon, J lb 10.00 

Beef, Sirloin, J lb 5.00 

Oysters, J lb 10.00 

Dried Beef, i oz i.oo 

Wheat Bread, ^ lb 3.00 

Oatmeal, 2 oz 625 

Rice, 2 oz 1.50 

Potatoes, ^ lb 50 

Sweet Potatoes, i lb 6.00 

Cabbage, 2 oz 25 



Digitized 



by Google 



172 FOOD MATERIALS 

Turnips, 2 oz 125 

Butter, 2 oz 2.00 

Milk, I lb 3.50 

Sugar, 2 oz 1.50 

4500 

The following table is given simply as an indication 
of the kind of calculation which every cooking class 
should undertake, and which every philanthropist in- 
terested in the better living of the people should study. 
The subject is yet in its infancy, and there is much work 
to be done in this line before the working people can 
be well fed at a low cost. 



Amount of Nutrients furnished for Twenty five Cents in Food 
Materials at ordinary Prices. 



At Prices 
Food Materials. in Cents 

per lb. 

Oysters at 50 cts. per qt 25 

Oysters at 35 cts. per qt 17.5 

Bluefish 10 

Beef Sirloin 25 

Shad 12 

Cod 8 

Mutton, Leg 22 

Mackerel 10 

Beef, Round 18 

Canned Salmon 20 

Mutton, Side 20 

Beef, Round 15 



Twenty-five Containing 
Cents will Nutrients 
pay for lbs. in lbs. 


I. CO 


.12 


1.42 


•17 


2.50 


.27 


I. CO 


.29 


2.08 


.29 


313 


•34 


1. 14 


•34 


2.50 


•35 


1.39 


.40 


I.2S 


.44 


1.25 


.46 


1.67 


.49 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS. 



173 



Salt Mackerel 12.5 2.00 .60 

Butter 30 0.83 .73 

Milk at 8 cts. per qt 4 6.25 .74 

Salt Cod 5 5 00 .82 

Milk at 7 cts. per qt 3.5 7.14 .84 

Cheese, whole milk 15 1.67 1.08 

Smoked Herring 6 4.17 1.21 

Pork, salted, fat 12 2.08 1.65 

Wheat Bread 6 4.17 2.75 

Potatoes at %i per bushel .... 1.7 1324 3.04 

Beans at 10 cts. per qt 5 5.00. 3.96 

Potatoes at 75 cts. per bushel . . 1.25 18.00 4.13 

Wheat Bread 4 6.25 4.15 

Oatmeal 5 5.00 4.48 

Wheat Flour 4 6.25 5.44 

Potatoes, 50 cts. per bushel . . . o 85 26.47 6-o6 

Indian Meal 3 8.33 6.90 

" It is well worth noting that oatmeal is one of the 
cheapest foods that we have : that is, it furnishes more 
nutritive material in proportion to the cost than almost 
any other. Com meal is indeed cheaper, but the oat- 
meal has this great advantage over com meal and wheat 
flour, that it has more proteine. If one wishes to econ- 
omize in his food, oatmeal rightly cooked affords an 
excellent material therefor." 

Another attempt to illustrate the relative cost of food 
materials is given by Dr. Graham, from calculations 
based on Dr. Frankland's experiments. And while 



Digitized 



by Google 



174 ^OOD MATERIALS 

all such statements are only partially true, owing to 
the partial knowledge of the function of food in the 
body, yet they may, rightly understood, serve a useful 
purpose. 

" The most trustworthy of the late investigations on 
the function of the various constituents of food, when 
used up in the body, go to show that the muscle is to 
the human- machine what the piston-rod is to the en- 
gine, the means of converting the heat of the fuel into 
motion, which means work ; only in the human machine 
the agent is itself used up in the process, and requires 
renewal. For this renewal, muscle-making food is 
needed, but for most of the work the starch and fat 
foods are used." The amount may be expressed in 
the usual manner of designating mechanical work ; that 
is, the weight and cost'of food required to raise a weight 
to a certain height. The weight chosen is that of an 
average person, 140 pounds; the height, that of a 
mountain of 10,000 feet, not high enough to disturb 
the natural functions of respiration in the person as- 
cending it. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 175 

Food Materials necessary for the Work done in raising 140 
Pounds 10,000 Feet, 

Weight in lbs. Cost per lb. Total Cost 

required. in Cents. in Cents. 

Potatoes 5.00 2 10 

Flour 1.33 6 8 

Bread 2.33 4 9J 

Oatmeal 1.25 5J 7J 

Rice 1.33 8 II 

Lean of Beef 3.50 24 84 

Beef Fat 50 20 10 

Cheshire Cheese .... 1.20 20 24 



Digitized 



by Google 



Digitized 



by Google 



LIST OF WORKS CONSULTED. 



BOOKS FOR GENERAL READING. 

Food. A. H. Church. London, Chapman and Hall, 1882. 
Foods. Edward Smith- 8th edition. London, Kegan Paul, 

Trench & Co., 1883. 
Food and Dietetics. F. W. Pavy. 2d edition. London, 

Churchill, 1875. 
Food and Feeding. Sir Henry Thompson. 3d edition. 

London, Warne & Co. 
The Chemistry of Cookery. Mathieu Williams. New York, 

Appleton & Co., 1885. 
The Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning. Ellen H. Richards. 

Boston, Estes and Lauriat, 1882. 
Water Supply : Chemical and Sanitary. Wm. Ripley Nichols. 

New York, John Wiley and Sons, 1883. 
International Health Exhibition Handbooks. — On Food and 

Food Adjuncts. Diet in Relation to Health and Work. 

A. Wynter Blyth. — Water, Water Supplies, and Un- 

fermented Beverages. John Attfield. — Principles of 

Cooking. Septimus Berdmore. — * Food and Cooking 

for Infants. Catherine Jane Wood. — English and Exotic 
12 



Digitized 



by Google 



1 78 FOOD MATERIALS 

Fruits. W. T. Thisleton Dyer. — Salt and other Condi- 
ments. J. J. Manley. — London, Wm. Clowes and Sons, 
18S4. One shilling each. 

Familiar Lessons on Food and Kutrition. T. Twining. 
London, David Bogue, 1882. 

The Chemistry of Bread Making. Charles Graham. Cantor 
Lectures, London Society of Arts, 1880. 

Coffee and Tea. G. V. Poore. London, Lewis, 1883. 

What the Grocers sell us. P. H. Felker. New York, Orange 
Judd & Co., 1880. 

Massachusetts State Board of Health Reports, Papers in. 
Boston, 1870 to 1884, especially 1879 and 1880-83. 

New York State Board of Health Reports, Papers in. 1882-83. 

Various Papers by W. O. Atwater. Middletown, Conn. 

The Application of Science to the Production and Consumption 
of Food. Edward Atkinson. Salem, Mass., Press of the 
A. A. A. S. 



BOOKS FOR THE CHEMIST. 

Foods. Their Composition and Analysis. A. Wynter Blyth. 

London, Griffin & Co., 1882. 
Food. Its Adulterations and the Methods for their Detection. 

Arthur Hill Hassall. London, Longmans, Green, & Co., 

1876. 
The Analysis and Adulteration of Foods. Parts I. and 11. 

James Bell. London, Chapman and Hall, i88x. 



Digitized 



by Google 



AND THEIR ADULTERATIONS, 179 

Die menschlichen Nahriings- und Genussmittel. Dr. J. Konig. 
2d edition. Berlin, Julius Springer, 1883. 2 vols. 

Die wichtigsten Nahrungsmittel und Getranke. Oscar Dietzsch. 
4th edition. Zurich, 1884. 

Praxis des Nahrungsmittel Chemikers. F. Eisner. Leipzig, 
1880. 

Studien Uber den chemischen Nachweis fremder Fette in But- 
terfette. Dr. August Hannsen. Erlangen, 1884. Pam- 
phlet 

Butter, its Analysis and Adulteration. Hehncr and Angell. 
London, Churchill, 1877. 

Water Analysis. Dr. E. Frankland. London, 1880. 

Water Analysis. J. Alfred Wanklyn. 6th edition. London, 
Triibner & Co. 

Milk Analysis. J. Alfred Wanklyn. London, Triibner & Co. 

Tea, Coffee, and Coca. J. Alfred Wanklyn. London, Triib- 
ner & Co., 1883. 

Commercial Organic Analysis. A. H. Allen. 2d edition. 
Philadelphia, Lindsay and Blakiston, 1885. 3 vols. 

Sanitary Examination of Water, Air, and Food. Fox. 
London, Churchill, 1878. 

Composition of Foods, &c [Tables of.] E. T. Kensington. 
London, Churchill, 1877. 



Digitized 



by Google 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



INDEX. 



PAGB 

Add Lactate 159 

Phosphate . . . • . X57i 159 

Acids in Fruits 147 

in Vinegar 141 

Adulteration . . . . iS, 30, 22, 73 

of baking powder .... 160 

ofbutter 95 

of cayenne pepper .... 130 

ofcheese 96 

of cocoa 68 

ofcoffee 64 

of cream of tartar • ... 160 

of flour 84 

ofhoney 117 

of milk 89 

of mustard. ...*.. 127 

of pepper 129 

of spices 131 

of sugar 113 

oftea 154 

of vinegar 141 

Aerated Bread 156 

Alchemist, the modem ... ao 

Allspice 134 

Antiseptics 150 

Arrowroot 87 

Bacteria 29 

Baking Powder 157, 159 

Barley 72 

Beans 146 



PAGB 

Beet-root Sugar ....•• loa 
Block-tin Pipes ...••• 45 
Books of Reference .... 177 

Bread 151 

Buckwheat 86 

Butter 891 91 

Caffeine 62 

Canned Fruits and Meats . . 118 
rules for soundness of . . 124 

Cassia 133 

Cayenne Pepper 130 

Cereal Foods 70 

Cheese 95 

Chocolate 67 

Cider 141 

Cinnamon 132 

Cloves 134 

Cocoa 67 

Coffee 59 

Cooks, educated zi, 168 

Com Meal . . . ' . . . 16, 173 

Com Starch 87 

Cost of Daily Ration . 165, 174, 175 

Cream 91 

Cream of Tartar. • 20, ai, 23, 157 

Currants 147 

Curry 135 

Daily Ration ..••*.. 165 
Decay of Food 149 



Digitized 



by Google 



l82 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Diet, articles of x6, 162 

Dietaries 165 

Disease and drinking water . 25, 27, 

311 35 

Dried Fruits 148 

Econon^y, domestic 14, X5» 17, z68 

Ergot 76 

Extracts, Flavoring .... 139 

Farina 87 

Fehling*s Solution 1x5 

Fermentation. ... 90, 140, 151 

putrefactive . . . . 149, 156 

Filtration of water • . . . 35, 37 

Fish 145 

Flour 71, 78, 80 

Fruits 147 

Germs 30* 149, 152 

Germ Theory 29 

Ginger 135 

Glucose . . • . 97» 104, 106, 112 

Gluten 85 

Grape Sugar 103 

Gypsum 23. "58 

Hardness of water .... 26, 40 

Honey 107, 113, 117 

Housekeeping, as a profession . 10 
scientific 16 

Iron Pipes 46 

Jellies Z49 

Lead in canned foods .... 122 

Pipes 41 

Leaven 152 

Lentils 146 

Macaroni 87 

Mace 133 

Maize 75 

Maple Sugar ....... 103 

Meat X44 



PAGB 

Milk 22, 88 

Condensed 90 

disease carried by .... 31 

Millet 75 

Molassess 99, X04 

Mustard 125 

Nutmegs x3x 

Oatmeal 74i X73 

Oats 74 

Oil, salad X38 

Oleomargarine ...... 94 

Peas Z46 

Pepper x28 

Pickles 142 

Pimento 134 

Poisons ; . . 32 

Pollution of Wells 35 

Price of Food .... 164, 172 

Raisins 149 

Relishes X48 

Rice 73 

Rye 76 

Salt X43 

Samovar 57 

Shells, Cocoa 68 

Soda 157 

Soft Water 26 

Softening of hard Water . . . 39 

Spices X30 

Starch 86, X53 

Starch Sugar xo6 

Sugar 97 

Sucrose 97» io4 

Syrup 100, xx6 

Tables of Rations 169 

Tables of Cost of Food . . . X72 

Tannin S'l 62* 67 

Tea 49 



Digitized 



by Google 



INDEX. 



183. 



PAGE 

Terra Alba 158 

Theine 51 

Tin Cans xi8 

in food 119 

Utility, law of 14 

Vegetables • • 147 

Vermicelli 87 



Vinegar 139 

Water 34 

suitable for domestic use . 32 

Wells 35 

Wheat 76 

Wheat Flour, grinding of . . 78 

Yeast 151 

microscopicexaminationof . 155 



r 



UniTeraity Press: John Wilson & Son, Cambridge. 



Digitized 



by Google 



Digitized 



by Google 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OEI .MICS 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



RETURN 
TOi 



CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT 

202 Main Library 



LOAN PERIOD 1 
HOME USE 



ALL BOOKS AAAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

1 -month loans may be renewed by calling 642-3405 

6-nnonth loans may be recharged by bringing books to Circulation Desk 

Renewals and recharges may be made 4 days prior to due date 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 



M — ;~^ 



'■: K 2 !'''>: 



i-C. Clf?.(,j7 28 77 



INTERLIBRARY 



LOAN 



FE8 2 4I B2 



m^fim 



•010 



OCT 3 2 1 



FORM NO. DD 6, 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 



rin'rri~n"«rigw'rirM-i>' -i i ^ii ■ ^ 



(B\ 



