LIBRARY 

ANNEX 



2 




LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




Gift Of 

Mrs J H Tanner and 
Miss Aagasta Williams 



BJ1856.H78™"""""'""'"-"'""^ 



The ladies' handbook and household assis 




3 1924 014 060 101 




The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924014060101 



A SHORT HISTORY 



OF THE 



5 



J 



VENANT*BAND^ 



OF THE 



FIRST+BllPTIST*CHaRCH, 

HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



The Band was organized October lo, 1882, with the following officers 
elected for six months : — 

President, HORACE SOUTHWICK. 
Vice-President, Miss MARY CRANSTON. 
Secretary, GEORGE W. SAMMIS. 
TreasurerT Miss STELLA WHITTAKER. 
Chorister, CHARLES FOLLAND. 
Organist, Miss HELEN SCOTT. 

Ne^v officers have been elected every six months since that time. The 
Band since its formation has held a prayer-meeting every Sunday evening, 
commencing one hour before the preaching service. These meetings have 
been of great help to the church, because the officers have made it a point 
to get all the young converts to join the Band, an'd to get them interested 
in and become leaders of the meetings, thereby giving them confidence in 
themselves, and developing their talents and gifts, so that they are made 



better workers in the church ever afterward. The Band have since the 
new church was built, paid $250 tOA^ard the church fund and bought 118 
chairs and a new organ for the lecture room of the church, besides the 
prayer-meetings, the Band have socials quite often, which are very inter- 
esting affairs and serve to get the members acquainted one with the other, 
and enlarge the social element in the church. Three of the members of 
the Band are now studying for the mvcAiW^ The Band have a Covenant 
which reads as follows: — .^ \ 

COVENANT. 

This organization shall be based upon the Church Covenant, which, in 
its application to this body recognizes and requires the following duties, 
which all members of the Band assume by their covenant with it: — 

First, We covenant to love each other; to bear each other's infirmities ; 
to watch over each other with Christian fidelity and to do all we can to 
promote each other's piety and usefulness: 

Second, And to this end we will endeavor to form personal acquaint- 
ance with each other, carefully avoiding in language or conduct whatever 
would injure the feelings of any, or harm our mutual confidence. 

Third, We will attend all meetings of the Band, whenever the Provi- 
dence of God will permit, and will do our best to make the meetings inter- 
esting and profitable. 

The motto of the Band is, " Hear ye the words of this covenant and 
do them." — Jer. xi:6. j. w. e. 



° "^^^'^^f'^HE^^^^^^" 



THE. 



LADIES' HANDBOOK 

AND "7 

Household Assistant. 



MANUAL OF RELIGIOUS AND TABLE ETIQUETTE; 

A SELECTION OF CHOICE RECIPES FOR 

PLAIN AND FANCY COOKING; 



AND A COMPEND OF 



RULES, TABLES, AND SUGGESTIONS OF 

INFINITE VALUE IN EVERY 

HOUSEHOLD. 




PUBLISHED IN BEHALF OF THE 

COVENANT BAND OF THE FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH, 
HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



^eiissQ ° 



^o 



copyrighted: 

Co-Operative Publishing Co., 

Claremont, N. H., 

APRIL 1ST, 1886. 



-^FREEMAN & 0'NEIL,§^ 

CLARE^NIONT, N. H., 

^MANUFACTURERS « OF8<- 

-^ CHURCH *' PEWS, 8^ 




"Would respectfully infomn all Church organizations that 
they -Will oheerijiiliy submit designs and estimates on an;/ 
Work in their line, either for KeW Churches, or Re-seating 
old ones. They also Manufacture 

-^Stai'r Building Goods and Wood l\/lantels,-iiCII^Z^ 
T ^^' ^ l^ard Wood Veneered Doors, &~ 

and all kinds of first-class Building Trimmings, either in 
Hard or Soft Wodd. 

-»eCOR.RE)SPONDENCE * SOIvICITED.Se- 



Honestly and Scientifical ly prepared from the Finest Quality of Drugs obtainable. 
Becommended by the Best People in New England. 



Helery 

OMPOUN 



DISEASES OF THE 

KIDNEYS, LIVER, 
STOMACH, 
^^ and BOWELS, 




AND ACTS A3 A 



BLOOD PURIFIER 

AND 

TONIC TO THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 



CELERY COMPOTJND cures malarial diseases ; and to all suffering from any 
form of complaint caused by malaria, it is specially recommended, inducing a 
healthy action of the liver, curing biliousuess in all its forms. 

CELERY COMPOUND is a nerve tonic wl^ich never fails ; it strengthens afid 
quiets the nervous system, and promotes regular and quiet sleep. 

CELERY COMPOUND is the best medicine for kidney complaints in the 
market. It contains all of the best remedies for these diseases, and never falls to 
cure. 

CELERY COMPOUND immediately relieves and permanently cures habitual 
constipation, itching piles, sick headache, and all diseases of the stomach and 
bowels, with none of the evils consequent upon the use of powerful cathartics. 

CELERY COMPOUND strengthens the stomach, and is a tonic and stimulant 

to the digestive organs, making it one of the best cures known for dyspepsia, 
indigestion, etc. 

CELERY COMPOUND is never known to fail to relieve and cure rheumatism 
and neuralgia. In severe and obstinate cases of rheiviatism, add one fourth 
ounce of Iodide of potassium to each bottle, then use the medicine faithfully 
according to directions, and it will cure you. 

CELERY COMPOUND is the safest and best remedy in existence for all the 
diseases incident to females, as thousands can testify. 

CELERY COMPOUND is prepared by an apothecary who has had thirty-seven 
years' experience in compounding medici:pes. Its ingredients are purely vege- 
table, consisting of roots, herbs, barks, seeds, and flowers, the names of which are 
given on the label of every bottle. It is the best medicine in the world for aged 
people, quieting, bracing, and toning the nervous system. 

CELERY COMPOUND is sold at fl.OO per bottle, six bottlesfor $5.00, and 
may be obtained of every wholesale and retail druggist In the United States, or of 
the proprietor. M. K. PAINE, Windsor^ Vu 



To introduce THE CELERY COMPOUND in places where Dealers do not have 
it in stock, I will, on receipt of Two Dollars, send two bottles to any address in New 
England, securely packed, and Express Charges paid to your nearest Express Office. 



P K E F A C E. 



The Ladies' Handbook is published in the 
interest of our Church Society. 

The rules of etiquette which it contains are such 
as are especially applicable to the table, to church 
worship, and to church observances. Its recipes 
for cooking have been thoroughly tested by prac- 
tical housekeepers; they are complete in every 
detail, plain in expression, and will be easily under- 
stood. 

The blank pages will be found of value, for the 
purpose of noting down additional recipes or any 
interesting events connected with our society. Be- 
lieving the best interests of the public demand a 
healthy temperance sentiment, we have abstained 
from publishing any recipes which contain spirituous 
liquors, and most earnestly do we ask every Chris- 
tian mother to guard against building up in her 

•3 



4 PREFACE. 

children an appetite for strong drink by the food 
which she places before them. 

It is hoped the publication of this little vol- 
ume will in a small way further the Gospel 
interests of our society, and that each one will con- 
tribute his mite in aiding the ladies in their good 
work. 

To our many friends and to a generous Christian 
public it is respectfully dedicated. 



i 



,1tt 




iTDRE, * Furniture. 



a-B — •♦- 



--s^=>^=^^.^'^-j=z:^=^ 



-* iTvS 



WE FEEL CROWDED. 

Business booms, but for all that we still find ourselves too crowded to be 

comfortable. 

Mmm OUAITITIES OF SPiim dOOBS 

In Stock. We will start them with still further reduc- 
tions on prices already low. 

To capture one of tliose really great bargains such as are seldom offered in 

PARLOR AND CHAMBER 



_s>n> 



FHRQITOKfi 



^<^.y^-'~ 



These Goods are as handsome and reliable as any on earth and 

To such good points as these we now add the inducement of 

PRICES LOWER THAN EVER KNOWN. Who "Takes the Cake?" 

It may as well be you as anyone else. COME IN. COME IN. 





-^M^USllklM & i' 



g CLASSIC STREET, HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



IN"- 



->gJ.*H.*McEACHRON,@^ 

Jewelei^ and UBfeiei 



^^' 




Has at all times a most complete stock of 

OPTICAL GOODS, 



as well as 



eit®Be.s, (Sfoe^s, JeoDefr^, ^ifuer 



ore, 



©. 



And what is of vastly greater' importance is that the 
BEST MEDICAL MEN of the place recommend him 
as competent to correct all visual defects with properly 
selected Eye Glasses or Spectacles. He makes no 
charge for examination and only charges a fair price 
for fine goods. 

You can find him at his new store, 

THE PETERS BLOCK. 



ETIQUETTE. 



The following rules of etiquette are only those 
which apply to the table 'and observances in or in 
behalf of the church. They are classified under 
their appropriate heads. 

ETIQUETTE OP THE DINNER-PARTY. 

Invitations and Answees. — Invitations to a 
dinner-party are usually issued several days before 
the appointed time, the length of time being propor- 
tionate to the grandeur of the occasion, and varying 
from two days to two weeks. 

The number of guests invited should not be 
larger than may be easily accommodated, neither 
should it be too small. From six to twelve persons 
form a very pleasant party. 

X All invitations to dinner are issued in the names 
of the geiitleman and lady of the house. 

6 



THE LADIES HANDBOOK. 



Invitations addressed to persons living in another 
city or town are sent by mail like ordinary letters ; 

Written Invitation to Dinner. 






■an $7V«?^d«z^, ©miM 



in the same city or neighborhood they are delivered 
by private messenger. 

Ceremonial notes of invitation should bear upon 



THE ladies' handbook. ' 

Written Invitation to Dinner given by an unmarried 
gentleman. 



iuH ■m@^i. ©g. @//. W'^M^n 'd ■eo'm4€m'M, a/ 



a/ ■ei^d/ ■» 



their envelopes (the inner onQ, if two are used) only 
the name and title of person invited. In notes 
intended for a married couple, it is generally prefer- 
able to address the envelope to the wife only; 



THE LADIES HANDBOOK. 



always remembering that married ladies should be 
addressed according to the rank of the husband. 







Form of Acceptance. 






@C. 


an/ ©^U. 


IQ. &\ ^ofi/au 


Aa^zie 


'mu^>n ^-uaduU m acxtA/M^ @7^,i. 


an^/ 


©4u. ©^ 


©I9i/^ri 


£m</ m'tH^Mi^n /o4. 


Wis^^ie^au, 


^^//^ 






<g 


"ykuiay, 


©^i/6^, yd'd-o. 





Dinner invitations should be promptly accepted or 
declined, that the entertainer may know for how 
many to provide. Answers should correspond some- 



THE ladies' handbook. 9 

what m style to invitations, and should always be 
wfitten. 

Form of Regret. 



©4i. M Q/f: 9t^on ie^ie/i 


Ma/, 


■ow-eh^a /a a ^iew/xri €'naaa€m<'n/, ne /J ^n- 


^/o^cc,//©ii. al ^. '^./Ai^'i 


Jm</ 


mni^a/eon /oi &ie€4e/a'U ^timmp, //le 


^o// 


■t'ni/a^tt/. 




SU/m ^Cm€, 




l^<e/Me/a^f ©^a^ /^ /<ftfiX 





The answer should be addressed to the person 
named within it, but the answer to a joint note from 
a husband and wife, while it should contain a recog- 



10 THE ladies' handbook. 

nition of both, should be addressed on the envelope 
to the lady alone. When an invitation is declined, 
it is more courteous to state a reason for decli- 
nation ; if a reason be assigned, it is better that it 
be real and specific rather than feigned and general. ^ 
Having accepted an invitation to a dinner-party, a 
person should not absent himself except for the 
strongest reasons ; these should always be stated in 
the note of regret. 

Deess. — A pe rson accepting an invitation to a 
dinner-part y mustattend in full dress. A gentLe- 
iHrtnV^uir'dress consists of black dress-coat, black 
vest, black trousers, white necktie, patent leather 
boots, and white kid gloves. A dinner dress for a 
lady should be of silk or other rich material, of the 
latest make and with long train. A white fan and 
white kid gloves are also among the requisites essen- 
tial for the occasion. For an ordinary dinner a 
demi toilet is all that is required. 

Punctuality. — Be punctual in your attendance 
at dinner. The proper time for the arrival of a 
guest is from ten to fifteen minutes before the 
dinner hour; this will allow proper time for intro- 
.ductions and greetings, and for the assignment of 
escorts to the table. 

Reception of Guests. — The lady who gives a 
dinner-party should be in the drawing-rooin some 
few moments before the guests are expected to 
arrive. The gentleman and daughters of the house 
should also be present. The guests should assemble 
in the drawing-room, the lady of the house advano 



THE ladies' handbook. 11 

ing to receive each as announced. At formal din- 
ners, a gentleman, on arrival, is handed a tray with 
cards, among which he finds one bearing his name 
with that of the lady he is to escort to dinner. 
Another method of designating escorts is to enclose 
the card containing the two names in an envelope 
bearing the address of the gentleman. The gentle- 
man, after greeting the hostess, seeks the lady whose 
escort he is to be, if she is an acquaintance ; if not, 
he asks the host to introduce him to her. Guests 
should request an introduction to any members of 
the family with whom they are not acquainted, and 
to the guest in whose honor the dinner is given. 

Arrangement op Guests at the Table. — 
Guests should be arranged at the table in such a 
manner as to insure the most general conversation 
during the meal. Gentlemen and ladies should be 
intermingled, and gentlemen of the same profession 
should be placed as far apart as possible to guard 
against conversation particularly relating to their 
avocation. Separate husbands and wives, and re- 
move near relatives from one another. 

Proceeding to Dinner. — The servant quietly 
announces dinner by a bow to the host, who at once 
offers his arm to and leads the way with the oldest 
lady, or the lady in whose honor the dinner is given, 
the hostess following last with the most honored 
gentleman. The host places the lady on his right, 
the guests find their designated places, and all re- 
main standing until the hostess is seated. Each 
lady then seats herself at the right of her escort and 



12 THE ladies' HA3JDB00K. 

the gent-emen immediately assume their seats. The 
host and hostess are always seated at opposite ends 
of the table. If a clergyman be present, he is in- 
vited by the host to say grace; if not, the gentle- 
man of the house does so. 

Table Manners. — In taking your place at the 
table, assume an easy position, not too far from or 
too near the table, sit firmly in y our ch air, and avoid 
tipping back, drumming, or any other uncouth, 
action. Unfold your napkin and lay it in your lap ; 
never use it in form of bib. Eat_soup^rom the side, 
never from the end of spoon, holding a piece of 
bread in the left hand. Cut your food with a knife 
but convey it to your mouth with a fork. ^Break 
your bread, do not bite it ; drink from your cup, not 
■Gomyour saucer. When you send your plate away 
from the table, remove your knife and fork and rest 
them upon your piece of bread. ■ When you have 
finished the course place them parallel to each other 
on your plate, the handles toward your right hand. 
, Eat moderately^ and slowly. ' Never cut or break 
breadTnto soup or gravy, and never mix food on 
your plate. Never eat game or chickens with the 
bones held in the fingers. Never cut pastry with a 
knife, but always break and eat with a fork. Never 
put salt upon the tablecloth ; bread is the only arti- 
cle of food which may be laid upon the table. 
Never dip bread into gravy or preserves. NevfiZ- 
talk when the mouth is ful l of food. Never 
mondpolize^the conversation or talk or laugh loudly. 
Never apologize to a waiter for asking for anything. 



THE ladies' handbook. 13 

Never take notice of accidents. Never ask for a 
second dish, but when passed a second tinje you 
may take from it. Never pick the teeth at the table 
or in the presence of ladies after a meal. 

ETIQUETTE OP THE BREAKFAST. 

Formal breakfasts — matters of invitation — are 
ruled like other parties. They may be given at any 
J^our after ten o'clock and sometimes as late as noon. 
Invitations should be given in writing or by en- 
graved card. They are usually sent out five days 
prior to the occasion. The form of invitation is 
similar to that for the dinner-party, but may be much 
more elaborate. The answer to a breakfast invita- 
tion should be made immediately upon its reception. 
The dress for a breakfast should be simple, — 
elaborate costumes are in bad taste. 

The family or home breakfast may be considered 
the most charming meal of the day. Each member 
of the family is expected to be present, no exciise 
for absence being allowable except for the most 
urgent reasons. The meal should be a substantial 
one ; the conversation bright and cheerful ; each 
person contributing in his happiest vein to the 
pleasure of the breakfast hour. 

ETIQUETTE OP THE TEA-PARTY. 

The least formal, most friendly and enjoyable of 

all entertainments given at home, is the tea-party. 

The number of guests invited may vary according to 

the accommodations which the house affords. Two 



14 THE ladies' handbook. 

rooms only are necessary for the company ; one for 
its reception and entertainment, the other for the tea 
and its concomitants. The meal should not be a 
sumptuous one; elegant refreshments may however 
be served on side tables. When the space is limited, 
the refreshments may be handed, around. Ladies 
must always be provided with seats, gentlemen 
should be, if possible. The guests should be of one 
set, or should be introduced in such a manner as to 
remove all constraint. 

One of the chief charms of the tea-party is that 
it may be arranged at two or three days' notice, thus 
affording an opportunity of presenting any new 
comer to your friends in the most informal manner. 
Note, card or oral invitations are in good form. 

ETIQUETTE OF THE CHURCH-FAIR. 

Church-fairs differ from other such gatherings for 
commerce, in the fact that the buyers and sellers are 
jointly interested in some other purpose above the 
purchase and sale of goods. Their object is the 
maintaining and upbuilding of an institution on 
which rests the whole fabric of society; an institu- 
tion on which has depended the past, and on which 
depends not only the present but all that we may 
hope in that which is to come. 

The management of church-fairs usually devolves 
upon the ladies of the society, and it is they who 
have charge of the tables and the sale of the goods. 
As a mark of' respect, gentlemen always remain un- 
covered when dealing with them. Chaffering as to 



THE ladies' handbook. 15 

the price appended to an article is wrong, because 
you can buy or pass without buying. , Any un- 
favorable comment is ungracious to the ladies con- 
cerned in preparing or selling the articles for so 
worthy an object. Urgent entreaties to buy should 
not be indulged in ; people will use their own 
judgment as to purchasing; their presence is an 
evidence that they are willing to assist. The 
disposal of goods by lottery is a part of the machin- 
ery' of some church-fairs. Under no circumstances 
are lotteries commendable, and no lady will lend her 
assistance to this system of money-making. In 
attending the church-fair gentlemen should provide 
themselves with such sums of money as they are 
willing to bestow on the fund, and in all cases their 
purchases are deserving of thanks. 

ETIQUETTE OP CHURCH ATTENDANCE. 

The Church beautifully develops that iiiie spirit of 
reverence which goes to make up all that is best 
in etiquette. Etiquette demands that its soul, or 
Christian feeling, should be kept alive by attend- 
ance at its fount, the Christian Church. Manners 
are minor morals, and nowhere can the soul of eti- 
quette receive higher inspiration than at church. 
No man can be a gentleman who ignores the chari- 
ties of church-worship. 'Tis here that a fine spirit 
of reverence is caught ; 'tis here that the best graces 
which adorn mankind take their rise ; here men 
ascend to higher planes, and acquire those character- 
istics essential to the true lady and the true gentle- 



16 THE ladies' handbook. 

man. Attend church regularly ; be in good season, 
so as not to disturb the congregation in their acts of 
devotion. On arriving at the door of the church, 
gentlemen reverentially remove their hats and enter 
the aisle without haste or noise, unless they are 
strangers, in which case they await the convenience 
of the usher who will allot them seats. The pew is 
private property, upon which it is an intrusion to 
enter uninvited. When a gentleman is escorting a 
lady to his pew, he walks beside her to the entrance, 
then steps aside until she has entered, after which 
he takes his place. The seats nearest the head of 
the pew should be taken first, to avoid moving along 
when others enter. It is not in good taste for per- 
sons to leave the pew to allow others to pass by 
them ; to avoid disturbance they should remain in 
the order in which they are first seated. Conversa- 
tion may be carried on in a low tone before the 
service, but never after the worship commences. 
Whispering, laughing, and loud talking are inexcusa- 
ble. The courtesies of the hour may be exchanged 
before entering the body of the church, or after the 
services, but never during the exercises of devo- 
tion. In your own church, politely offer your seat 
to any stranger who may be unattended by the 
usher, but that duty can be discharged, in silence. 
Whatever act of civility you offer or receive, be 
silent during service. Gloves will be worn in 
church by both ladies and gentlemen, unless they 
are to use holy water or participate in some other 
church rite. Crowding about the church door when 



^LADIES' ^ UNDERWEAR.^ 



(^tloueg, ^0gie:r^, Qorgeig, ¥<SLn(s^ 

Notions Department. Ladies in attendance. 

IL 



GHEMisr* AND « DRaseisX 



CORNER CHURCH AND JOHN STS., 
HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y., >' 

-^.:j:-Proprietbr and Manufacturer of-:j;-8«- 

PETERS' VEGETABLE COUGH SYRUP 

PETEK UIIYEiSAL PILE SUPPOSITORY. 
BLACK GOODS AND SILKS. 

At Special Department of 

DRESS GOODS AND SUITINGS. 
-^GlLLESPIE*BROS.,§i- 

HOOSIOK FALLS, N. Y. 



If You Want Good Reliable 


M^Qoig, f Ross (und ^^bbersJN- 


Of Latest Style and Lowest Prices, 
call at . 


^M ARK STONE'S,^ 


15 CLASSIC STREET, Three doors east of Post Office, 


HOOSICK KALIvS, N. Y. 



STEMM & BICKFORD, 

MMBI^B Al miTE MKS 




J. C, Stemm. 

H. J. BICKFORD. 



ALL KINDS OF 

^sCEMETERY WORKe-B^ 

At Reasonable Prices. 

MOHUMBNTS & HEABSTOMS, 

All Orders and Communications by Mail 
promptly attended to. 

Eldredge's New Building, Railroad 
Avenue, Hoosick Falls, N, Y. 



THE ladies' handbook. 17 

the congregation is entering or leaving is against 
etiquette, and a cause of annoyance. Departure 
from the church should be as, slow and noiseless as 
the act of entering. The church is sacred, and we 
should there walk as in the presence of the Deity. 

ETIQUETTE OF THE 'WEDDING. 

Marriage, the school of the affections, the music of 
two hearts, ever calls for a joyous celebration. Aus- 
picious hour, when holy love to the altar leads two 
willing votaries ; when love, that pitches man in his 
best key, or rather keys him to pitches beyond him- 
self, makes roseate two gay horizons. The nuptial 
day, so calm, so bright, finds its best setting in the 
wish that the trusting - pair may weather all life's 
storms and grow gray iu the kind offices of home. 
Men are bad in the degree in which they are unfit 
for wedded life, that seminary of earth's best virtues. 

The inost fitting place for the performance of the 
marriage ceremony is at the church ; it may take 
place there, or at the home of the bride. 

When the wedding is strictly private, bridesmaids 
and groomsmen are not required, but when the full 
ceremonial of the church is observed they are con- 
sidered necessary. There may be any even number 
of bridesmaids from two to eight, and the same num- 
ber of groomsmen. They should be younger than the 
bride. The bridal dress should be conspicuously 
plain, and the bride should wear but few orna- 
ments ; the bridal costume will, however, be distin- 
guished by the garland and veil. The dresses of 



18 THE ladies' handbook. 

the bridesmaids will be of some light, graceful fab- 
ric, the principal decoration being flowers. The 
bridesmaids will assist in dressing the bride, and 
will receive the company. 

The groomsmen receive the clergyman and pre-' 
sent him to the bridegroom. The "best man" 
among the groomsmen will be made treasurer for 
the occasion by the bridegroom, despatching all the 
business ; will present the white bouquet to the bride, 
and escort the friends desirous of congratulating the 
young couple. The bridegroom presents bouquets to 
the bridesmaids, and pays attention to his young 
wife. A carriage will be provided by the bride- 
groom to bring his family and the clergyman to 
the place appointed for the ceremony. He will, 
also, provide carriages for the bridesmaids and 
groomsmen. The parents of the bride will pro- 
vide carriages for themselves- and daughter. 

When the wedding is solemnized in church, the 
front seats near the altar are usually separated from 
the others by a white ribbon, being reserved for the 
families and invited friends of the young couple. 
Ushers, designated by a white rose, wait on arrivals 
and appoint them to their seats. The ushers in a 
body receive the bridal party at the vestibule of the 
church and attend them up the main aisle until they 
reach the altar rail, Avhen they separate to the right 
and left and take their places in the rear. Upon 
the arrival of the bride the clergyman must be near 
the altar, and the bridegroom and his party should 
be in the vestry. The bridesmaids may accompany 



THE LADIES' HANDBOOK. 19 

the bride to church in carriages following hers, or 
they may await her coming and receive her in the 
vestibule, where the party will form ; the "best man" 
giving escort to the chief bridesmaid, and the others 
similarly accompanied following in order, with the 
bridegroom sustaining the mother of the bride, and 
the father of the bride coming last of all, his daughter 
on his arm. Arrived at the altar, the bride will take 
her place at the left of the bridegroom, they joining 
right hands ; the father, who gives away the bride, 
stands behind the couple, slightly in advance of the 
others, the mother just behind him. The bridesmaids 
are grouped to the left, and the groomsmen to the 
right, of their respective principals. After the cere- 
mony the bridegroom gives his arm to the bride, and 
moves toward the vestry, followed by the bridal 
party. As they move slowly down the aisle arm in 
arm, the " Wedding March" should be played on the 
organ, and as the carriages containing the bridal 
party drive away, the church-bells should ring out 
a joyous peal for two souls made happy. 

Receptions of an hpur are customary at the home 
of the bride, and intimate friends avail themselves of 
the opportunity of congratulating the bridegroom 
and of expressing their desire for the future happi- 
ness of the bride. 

Those who are acquainted only with the bride- 
groom will first address him, and he will introduce 
them to his bride ; those who are not known to the 
bridegroom will address the bride first, as also will 
those who are acquainted with bqth parties. Those 



20 THE ladies' handbook. 

who are not acquainted witli either, will be presented 
by the "best-man." 

The following invitation to a wedding represents 
a very fashionable form : — 



Mr. attJtf fits. 3E. E. I^anson 

i»V!te you to be present at the marriage of 

their daughter 

tliaraltne. 



CDijatles ?3. iLgforU, 

Wednesday Evening, /November tenth, 

at seven tf clock. 

Grace M. E. Church, 

corner Leonard and Church Streets, 

Philadelphia. 



THE ladies' handbook. 21 



ETIQUETTE OP THE FUNERAL. 

The last sad offices we pay our loved ones illus- 
trate in a most touching way the covenants and 
consolations of our holy faith. They bring home to 
each heart our mutual brotherhood, they evoke 
those delicate expressions of etiquette known as 
sympathy, and all the stronger cement those ties 
which the dark shadow of death has broken. Con- 
solations and expressions of sympathy are the 
lessons which faith reads to survivors. The con- 
sciousness that His help is most near and most ready 
to succor, bears up the believing Christian in the 
hour of triall. 

The deep distress of the bereaved family renders 
it desirable that some friend should relieve them of 
the necessity of transacting the business incidental to 
the funeral, and from the many painful interviews 
which at such times are otherwise inevitable. An 
intimate friend can ascertain and execute the wishes 
of the family, calling to his aid, if necessary, some 
professional person, as, for instance, the undertaker 
employed, who will advise on matters touching the 
ceremonial. 

Ostentation and meanness are equally to be 
avoided in the outlay and pomp of the funeral, 
which should be governed by the position and the 
wishes (if any have been expressed) of the de- 
ceased. 

Some lady friend should make the purchases 



22 THE ladies' handbook. 

necessary for the family previous to the funeral. 
The death and the arrangements made for the 
funeral may be announced in the local press. This 
will meet the requirements of distant friends, but 
near and dear friends of the deceased, should be in- 
iormed by note written on mourning paper. 

These notes, unless the distance be too great, 
should be sent by private messenger. The follow- 
ing is a very pretty form of note : — 

Yourself and family are respectfully invited to attend the funeral of 
James P. Harlan, on Wednesday, Sept. 12, 18S0, at two o'clock, P.M., 
from his late residence, 149 Michigan Avenue, to proceed to Graceland 
Cemetery. 

If the service is not at the house, the name of the 
church should be given in the note. 

Very near relations are exempted by their afflic- 
tion from attending the funeral, but all others who 
are notified of the loss should be present. 

The pall-bearers should be personal friends of the 
deceased, and should be notified by letter. 

The friend who has charge of the funeral will 
supervise or send all the invitations, provide the 
necessary carriages, and instruct the undertaker as 
to the positions to be allotted to the friends- and 
guests. 

While the preparations for the funeral are being 
made, friends will not call, except to leave cards, 
make inquiries, and offer services. As soon as the 
death occurs some sign of bereavement should pre- 
vent casual calls; black crape will answer if the 



THE ladies' handbook. 23 

deceased be advanced in years, and white ribbon if 
young and unmarried. 

Guests attending a funeral will present themselves 
at the hour named, not sooner, lest they intrude on 
the grief of the family. The services may be con- 
ducted in the house or in the church; if in the 
house some near relative, but not a member of the 
household, will recieve the guests and attend to their 
comfort. When the services are held in the church, 
guests will go there from the house. At the church, 
the coffin will be placed in front of the chancel. 

Enter the home of the deceased with head un- 
covered, and do not resume your hat until you pass 
into the street. A reverent silence is the best mark 
of respect in the presence of death. 

After the service in the house or church, the 
clergyman will enter a carriage, preceding the hearse. 
Tlie carriage next after the liearse contains the nearest 
relatives, and the others follow in the' order of rela- 
tionship. 

The members of the family in passing from the 
house or church to the carriages, and vice versa, will be 
escorted by the friend who has charge of the funeral. 
At the entrance to the cemetery the mourners and 
guests should dismount ; the pall-bearers should 
remove the coffin from the hearse, and the funeral 
procession should be formed on foot, in the order 
observed at the start, every gentleman with head 
uncovered. The coffin, preceded by the clergyman, 
should be carried to the newly made grave, where 
the mourners and guests will stand on either side, 



24 THE ladies' handbook. 

while the last sad rites are being performed and until 
the earth has been cast upon the coffin. Returning 
from the cemetery each guest will be carried to his 
residence. When flowers are used to decorate the 
coffin or room of the dead, they should be white in 
color. The ornament on the coffin of youth will be 
a wreath, and on that of a married or elderly person, 
a cross. 

In the solemn presence of death the true Christian 
realizes the nearness of God and the power and 
majesty of His mighty liand. Blessed are they that 
die in the Lord. 



5^ 




f 



.m^Biffi^. 




■— ';^-.::^:;: -v;— '- ^:i^^ -"i— 



-sNEW * GOODS8- 

Are being received daily at 

^MRS. /n. E. DIGK'Ss- 

GAFFENEY'S BEOCK,' CLASSIC STREET, HOOSICK FALLS, 

AlvL WORK GUARANTEED. 

Orders Received for Harman's Dye House, 



-OHENRY W. CEDDES,s<- 

PLU MBER, GAS & STESM FITTER, 

ELM STREET, HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



PLUMBING, GAS AND STEAM FITTING 

In a workmanlike manner, on short notice, at fair prices. 
— ■:- -A FULL STOCK OF— *-- 

Water Closets, Bath Tubs and Boilers, Galvanized 
and Plain Fittings, Pipe, etc.. 

Kept Constantly on hand. 






'^t, 



■*'> 



_5>-3 



Dpy Seeds DealeF^ 



'? 7 



Oi^ HOOSICK FALLS, JV. T. 



SAXISF^ACTION GUARANTEED. 



_Si,-j 



^ DBNTISTRY.8^ 



J^ ^^.js profession experience is of importance. 



Has made this business a specialty for many 
years. You may find him at Ms office in 

CHEJSTEY BLOCK, HOOSLCK FALLS, JV. Y. 



— o.^. 



f^-O- 



(Established 1850.) 




^ 




^ 




FOR HOME AND CHAFEI.. 

Manufactory and Home Office, Bratt/eboro, Vt , U. S. A. 



Tie Carpeiiter Organs contain tie Celelratea CaiDsnter Organ Action. 

They are pure in tone, perfect 
in construction, in exadt accord 
with the voice, and full of patented 
improvements. 

More than 50 different styles, 
ranging in price from $20.00 up. 




AN HONEST ORGAN. 

(i?rpm the Youth's CompanimQ 
" The Carpenter Organs have won 
for themselves a high reputation for 
durability and fine musical quali- 
ties. An organ may be fine in ap- 
pearance, but unless it is built 
honestly in every part it will prove 
unsatisfactory. Mr. Carpenter 
makes most emphatically an honest 
organ ; and this 'is, we think, the 
secret of their popularity." 

IMPOETANT NOTICE. 
We have discontinued the sale 
of the "Celebrated Carpenter Ac- 
tions" to other organ manufactu- 
rers, and they can now be obtained 
only in organs of our manufacture. 

WAEEANTED FOE 8 TEAES. 

Each organ containing the Car- 
penter Organ Action is warranted 
to be made in the most skilful manner, of the most perfectly prepared njatenal, 
and to be, according to its size, capacity, and style, the best instrument possible. 
Each puroliaser is given a Written Guaranty for Eight Tears. 
TO CHUECHES AND CLEEGTMEN we give special discounts, and easy terms of 
payment. Correspondence solicited. 

Where we have no Agent, Organs sold direct on easy payments. 

Buy no Organ until you have seen our New Catalogue. 

^f Send for our New Catalogue for 18P6. New styles ! New Patented 
Improvements ! New Prices ! 

E. P. CARPENTER CO., Brattleboro, Vt., U.S.A. 

N B St)eoial Offer for 60 Days-Write for particulars, and state where you saw 
" this advertisement. ' 



Style 90. [Patent.] 



DELICIOUS POOD, HEAITHFUMBSS; AID ECOMY, 




BlIIIQ POWBIl, 

Manufactured by Cleveland Brothers, Albany, N. Y., is the 
PUREST, STRONGEST, MOST HEALTHFUL, and will always be 
found THE MOST RELIABLE AND MOST ECONOMICAL prepa- 
ration ever produced for making most delicious, light, white, sweet, 
and healthful biscuits, cakes, pastry, puddings, etc., and has met with 
unprecedented success wherever introduced during the past fifteen 
years. 

The public have a right to know what they are using as food. 
Anything that so vitally affects the health of the family as the daily 
bread we eat should be free from any suspicion of taint, and house- 
keepers should demand that manufacturers plainly state all the ingre- 
dients of compounds that are used in the preparation of our daily diet. 
Do not use baking powders whose manufacturers wholly or partly 
withhold from the public a knowledge of the ingredients from which 
they are made. CLEVELAND'S SUPERIOR BAKING POWDER is 
made only of purest Grape Cream of 'Tartar, Bicarbonate of Soda, 
and a little wheat flour, — the latter to preserve the strength of the 
powder. Nothing else whatever is used in its manufacture. 

New York, July 11, 1884. 

In analyzing samples of baking powder purchased by myself of a 
number of grocers in New York City, I find that CLEVELAND'S 
SUPERIOR BAKING POWDER contains only pure Grape Cream 
of Tartar, Bicarbonate of Soda, and a small portion of flour. 

R. OGDEN DOREMUS, M. D., LL.D., 
Prof. Chemistry and Toxicology in " Bellevue Hospital Medical College "| 
Prof. Chemistry and Physics in the " College of the City of New York." 



EECIPES FOR COOKING. 



SOUPS. 

Souf-Stock. — The shank is the most economical 
meat for making soup-stock. Have it cut into several 
pieces, and the bone cracked. Wash and put on to 
boil in two gallons of cold water ; add one spoonful 
of salt. When it comes to a boil, take off the scum 
and set the kettle where it will allow the soup to 
simmer for ten hours. Strain and set away to cool. 
When cold, skim off all the fat and turn gently into 
soup kettle, being careful not to turn in any sedi- 
ment. This will make a fine soup-stock. The meat 
may be used for hash. 

Meat Jelly. — A nice meat jelly may be made 
as above, using six quarts of water in place of two 
gallons. 
. Tomato Soup. — Peel and slice tomatoes enough 
to fill a two-quart basin (or one quart of canned 
tomatoes may be used instead) ; add six quarts of 
water and two pounds of beef; boil three hours; 
season with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of butter. 
Strain and serve with toasted bread. 

Tomato Soup, No. 2. — Stew a quart can of 
tomatoes. Put three pints of milk on to boil, set- 

25 



26 THE ladies' handbook. 

ting basin in which the milk is, into another of hot 
■water. When the milk comes to a boil, stir in one 
tablespoonful of flour thoroughly mixed with a 
little cold milk. Let this boil ten minutes ; add 
butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste. 
Add a pinch of saler^jtus to the tomatoes, and strain 
them into the milk. Serve at once. Very nice. 

Vegetable Soup. — Cut into strips two inches 
long, two carrots, two parsnips, one turnip, and a 
small piece of cabbage. Cover these with water and 
boil one hour. Strain them into three quarts of soup- 
stock, and let boil up once. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Bakley Soup. — Boil half a cup of pearl barley 
in one quart of water for three hours. Add this to 
three quarts of soup-stock. Bring to a boil and 
season with pepper and salt. 

Sago Soup. — Same as barley soup, substituting 
sago for pearl barley. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Same as barley soup, substi- 
tuting vermicelli for pearl barle3\ 

Macaroni Soup. — Same as barley soup, substi- 
tuting macaroni for pearl barley. 

Chicken Soup. — S^t the liquor, in which two 
or three chickens have been boiled, away to cool. 
When cold, skim off the fat ; then put liquor in soup- 
kettle with one onion and one half cup of rice. Boil 
two hours ; take out the onion and add some small 
peices of cold chicken. 

Potato Sotn>. — Boil four good-sized potatoes 
with two onions in two quarts of water till soft. 



THE ladies' handbook. 27 

Rub through a colander and return to the fire ; add 
pepper and salt and two ounces of butter. When it 
boils throw in a teacup of tapioca, let it simmer fif- 
teen minutes, stirring to make quite clear, then add 
one and one half pints of milk and let all heat. 

Oyster Soup. — Mix one q "^rt of milk and one 
pint of water, and boil for five minutes ; add the liquor 
of the oysters and boil three minutes longer. Then 
put in one quart of oysters and let boil up once. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt, to sait the 
taste. 

Pea Sotjp. — "Wash one quart of peas and soak 
over niglit. Put them, after soaking, in eight quarts 
of cold water; add one pound of lean salt pork, a 
small piece of celery, a little pepper, and half an 
onion ; boil gently eight hours. When cooked, it 
should be smooth and rather mealy. If too thick, 
add boiling water. If not cooked enough, the thick 
part will settle and the top will look watery. Have 
ready six slices of bread toasted brown and cut into 
pieces an inch square ; thtow about a dozen of these 
pieces into a tureen, and send the rest to the table 
dry. Strain the soup through a sieve, and serve. 

Irish Stew. — Take six good-sized potatoes, two 
carrots, four onions, and two pounds of veal or lamb. 
Slice the potatoes, carrots and onions, and cut the 
meat into medium-sized pieces. Slice one half pound 
of salt pork in very thin slices, and put a layer of it 
into 'the soup-kettle. Put on this a layer of the 
vegetables, then a layer of meat, then a layer of 
pork, and so on until all is ip the kettle. Put in 



28 THE ladies' haiidbook. 

sufficient water to fill the kettle half way to top of 
material, cover closely, and cook slowly for two hours. 
Then add one tablespoonful of flour stirred in one pint 
of milk, and boil half an hour longer. Garnish the 
edge of dish in which the stew is served with boiled 
rice. 

FISH AND OYSTERS. 

Baked Fish. — A fish weighing from four to six 
pounds is a good size to bake. It should be cooked 
whole to look well. Make a dressing cf bread- 
crumbs, butter, salt, and a little salt pork chopped 
fine ; mix this with one egg : fill the body, sew it up, 
and lay it in a large dripper; put across it some 
strips of salt pork to flavor it ; put a pint of water 
and a little salt in the pan ; bake an hour and a half ; 
baste frequently. After taking up the fish, thicken 
the gravy and pour over it. 

Fish Chowder.^ One half pound of salt pork, 
three pounds of fresh fish (haddock is best), eight 
good-sized potatoes pared and sliced, one onion pared 
and sliced, two to three pints of milk, according to 
quantity required, six or eight toasted crackers. 
Fry the pork brown, cut the fish in pieces about 
two inches square, taking out all the bones pos- 
sible. Remove the pieces of pork and place in the 
kettle alternate layers of fish, potatoes, and onions, 
seasoning with salt and pepper. Add water to 
just cover the last layer; cover the kettle closely, 
and cook. Put in the milk, heat up and serve, pour- 
ing into the tureen over the toasted crackers. Salt 



THE ladies' handbook, 29 

codfish may be used for the above chowder, and is 
preferred by some. 

Fish Pudding. — Two pounds of cold boiled 
halibut or fresh cod, picked, not chopped up ; scald 
one pint of milk, thicken with flour, to a paste, take 
from the fire and stir in one half pound of butter, 
one half a grated nutmeg, black and cayenne pepper, 
and salt; whip in the yolks of four eggs, one by one; 
put a layer of this into a buttered pudding dish, 
then a layer of fish, and alternately fill the dish, 
letting the last layer be fish ; put b^ead-crumbs on 
top, and bake slowly one hour. 

Clam Chowder. — For one peck of clams take 
six good-sized potatoes, pared and sliced thin, and 
half an onion, cut into pieced one inch square. 
Fry quarter of a pound of pork to a nice brown ; 
place the pork and gravy, the potatoes and onions, in 
yoiu' kettle. Shake over the whole one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, two of pepper, and half a cup of flour. 
Strain over this four quarts of the water in which 
you scalded the clams. Boil fifteen minutes, then 
add the claihs, and four split crackers. Boil ten 
minutes, and serve. 

Fish-Balls. — Take the fish left from the dinner 
and chop fine. Pare and boil potatoes, twice the 
quantity that you have of the fish. Put them into a 
tray with the fish, mash fine, and make into balls the 
size of an egg. Flour the outside lightly, put into fat 
boiling hot, aiid fry a light brown. The fat should 
be half lard and half salt pork. Have the slices of 
pork a nice brown, and serve with the fish-balls. 



30 THE ladies' handbook. 

Fish HASii. — Prepare the fish as for fish-balls; 
chop fine, cold potatoes, and mix with the fish. Fry 
brown six good slices of salt pork ; take out the 
pork and turn the hash into the frying pan ; add half 
a cup of boiling water, let this heat slowly, stirring 
often, then spread smoothly, and brown. When 
brown, fold it as you would an omelet ; dish, and 
garnish the dish with slices of pork. If pork is ob- 
jectionable, use butter in place. 

Fried Oysters. — Wash the oysters and drain well; 
lay them in cra*cker-crumbs pounded very fine ; have 
ready a spider in which put plenty of butter,' and 
heat until quite hot ; this prevents ' the > oysters 
sticking. Fry until brown, and then turn. The 
butter will salt them quite enough. 

To Scallop Oysters. — Open a pint of oj^sters 
and put them with their own liquor in a stewpan to 
heat for five minutes; then take them out, strain 
liquor, add to it three ounces of butter rolled in 
flour, and put the oysters in it for five minutes more ; 
butter a scallop-shell and strew it with crumbs of 
rolled crackers, with thin slices of butter over them, 
then a layer of oysters, until the dish is filled within 
one inch of the top; cover it with rolled crackers 
and thin slices of butter, and pour liquor over; then 
brown in an oven, and serve. Seasoning may be 
added if preferred, but most , epicures like the 
natural taste of the oyster. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Butter a b.aking-dish, and 
sprinkle a layer of cracker crumbs over the bot- 
tom; wt»rm the oysters very slightly in their own 



1880. 



188T. 



cwTHiM, urn' mmm 

BOOTS AND SHOES. 

Informs the public In general that he has received his full stock of SPRING 
AND SUMMER GOODS, and is now ready for inspection. Prices rang- 
ing from the cheapest to the best, and satisfaction guaranteed. Give him 
an early call. 

I have in this department a very fine assortment of Cloths, consisting 
of FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC GOODS, and only for Custom Work. 
A first-class fit guaranteed every time. 

A call will be thoroughly appreciated. 

°^^. A. ABRAM, „^^^° 

SHERIDAN'S BLOCK, COR. MAIN AND JOHN STS., HOOSICK FALLS. 

-^JOSEPH BUCKLEY,!^ 

5.--JDEALER IN^L^^ 

ERIES, PROVISIONS, 




"O.^ AN D^*«=>— 



f C=0=A=L. 



OFFICE AJVD STORE, OPPOSITE TROY ^ 

BOSTOJy PASSEJVGER DEPOT, 

HOOSICK FALLS. 

Orders received hy Telephone. 



^:^„E. P. MARKHAM,.^^^ 

m\i KM FMCY m\ m%. 

Well Selected Lines of 

Laces, Hamburgs, Gloves, Dress Trinumings, 
Buttons, and all hinds of Kotions. 

COMPLETE*STOCK*0F*GROCERIES, 

CAJVJ^ED GOODS, 

HATS, CAPS, BOOTS, SHOES, 

CROCKERY, &c., &c. 

MT MOTTO: THE BEST GOODS FOR THE LEAST MONET. 

E. P. IVLARKHAM, 

COR. CHURCH AND RIVER STS., HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 

s GO TO 5) 



-§sreNE,*rHE*DRaeeisTj§- 

For everything useful and necessary in the Springtime. 

IK SECT POWDER, CAMPHOR GUM AND 
Carholized Paper for putting away Furs. 

DYE STUFFS. -^^ GARDEN AND FLOWER SEED.^ 

PURE GROUND SPICES, 

CREAM TARTAR, BI-CARBONATE SODA, &c., 

in bulk. 

POTASH Concentrated and by weight, and every- 
thing usually kept in a retail drug store, at prices 
that cannot fail to satisfy all. 

^ HENRY W. STONE,e^ 

8 JOHN STREET, - - - HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



THE ladies' handbook. 31 

liquor, then arrange a single layer of them over 
the crumbs, placing them close together. The juice 
which clings to each oyster will be sufficient to 
moisten the cracker, unless you use the latter too 
liberally. Season with pepper, salt, and a generous 
allowance of butter cut into small bits; put on 
another layer of cracker crumbs, then more oysters 
and seasoning, and continue alternate layers until 
the dish is full. Make the top layer of cracker 
crumbs* thicker than the intermediate ones. Cover, 
and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes; then re- 
move the cover and brown the top. A large dish 
will require longer cooking. A slow oven and too 
long cooking will completely ruin them. 

Beans and Oysters. — Boil beans until ready 
for baking ; season plentifully with pepper, salt, 
butter, and bits of pork if liked ; put a layer of 
beans into a quite deep baking-dish, then a layer of 
raw oysters, and so on until the dish is nearly full ; 
pour over it a teacupful of the oyster liquor, and 
bake one hour. 

Pickled Oysters. — One quart of best cider vin- 
egar, one ounce of allspice, one half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one ounce of cloves and one ounce of mace ; 
scald all together ; when cold put in the oysters ; 
next day scald all together. 

MEATS. 
Eoast Beef. — Use sirloin or rib pieces, removing 
most of the bone ; skewer the meat into the shape of 
a round ; dash a cup of boiling water over it on put- 



32 THE ladies' handbook. 

ting it into the oven ; if there is' much fat upon the 
upper surface, cover it with a paste of flour and 
water until it is nearly cooked ; baste often ; allow 
about a quarter of an hour to a pound of meat; 
longer if you prefer it well done. 

Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding. — 
Place the roast of beef upon sticks across the drip- 
ping pan in the ordinary way. An hour before the 
beef is done, mix the pudding and pour it into the pan, 
the drippings from the beef falling upon the mix- 
ture. When done, cut the pudding, and lay around 
the meat when dished. If there is much fat in the 
pan before the pudding is ready, drain it off, leaving 
just enough to prevent the batter from sticking. 

Yorkshire Potdding. — One pint of milk, four 
eggs beaten separately, two cups of flour and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Be careful and not get the bat- 
ter too stiff. 

Spiced Beep. — Take a piece of beef from the 
forequarter weighing ten pounds. Those who like fat 
should select a fatty piece ; those who prefer lean may 
take the shoulder clod, or upper part of the fore leg. 
Take one pint of salt, one teacupful of molasses or 
brown sugar, one tablespoonful each of ground cloves, 
allspice and pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of pulver- 
ized saltpetre. Place the beef in a deep pan ; rub with 
this mixture. Turn and rub each side twice a day 
for a week. Then wash off the spices ; put in a pot 
of boiling water, and, as often as it boils hard, turn 
in a teacupful of cold water. It must simmer for 
five hours on the back of the stove. When cold, 



THE LADIES HANDBOOK. 33 

press under a heavy weight, and you will never desire 
to buy corned beef of the butcher again. Your 
pickle will do for another ten pounds of beef, first 
rubbing into it a handful of salt. It can be renewed, 
and a piece kept in preparation every day. 

Meat Balls. — Take any bits of cold meat, add 
one onion, and chop fine. Mix with one egg a few 
bread-crumbs and a spoonful of flour ; season with 
pepper and salt, and moisten with a little water or 
cold gravy. Mix it with the meat, make into small 
balls, roll in flour, and fry quite brown. 

Steamed Sausage — foe Tea. — Lay a roll of 
sausage in a deep plate in the steamer ; steam three 
hours ; then remove from the plate, which will be 
filled with fat. When cold, slice thin. 

Veal Cutlets. — Trim the slices of veal; salt; and 
dip into a beaten egg, and then into rolled cracker- 
crumbs, or bread-crumbs rubbed fine. Have in your 
fryingpari a tablespoonful of lard, very hot, into which 
put the cutlet, and let it cook slowly on the back of 
the stove, frequently turning so that the whole will 
be a golden brown when done. Halibut steak can 
be cooked in the same manner. 

Broiled Beefsteak. — Cut the steak about three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Have a clear fire, lay 
the steak on the gridiron, and dredge it lightly with 
flour. Cook the steak ten minutes, if you desire it 
rare; fifteen minutes, if you wish it well done. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt, and serve in a 
hot dish at once. Never pound steak before cook- 
ing. 



34 THE ladies' handbook. 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. — Fry brown 
four slices of salt pork ; take out the pork, and put 
in six onions, sliced thin. Fry about ten minutes, 
stirring all the while ; then take out all except a 
thin layer, and upon this lay a slice of sl^eak, then a 
layer of onions, then steak, and cover thick with 
onions. Dredge each layer with pepper, salt, and 
flour. Pour over this one cupful of boiling water, 
and cover tight. Simmer half an hour. 

Flank Roast, Stufeed. — Prepare a dressing, 
same as for roast turkey. Spread this over flank of 
beef, about three-fourths of an inch thick ; roll, and 
secure with twine. Roast same as beef, and slice 
thin. Cheap and very nice. 

Dbibd Beef. — Cut in very thin slices. Place them 
in a pan and cover well with tepid water ; let it gradu- 
ally boil, then pour off the water. Sprinkle the 
beef with pepper and butter, which let melt and 
boil for a minute. You may add beaten eggs, or 
cream and flour worked well together. It may be 
served on thin slices of toast which has been dipped 
in boiling water with a little salt in it. 

Veal Patties. — Three and a half pounds of veal, 
six small crackers, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one nutmeg, one slice of pork 
chopped with the veal and a piece of butter the size 
of an egg : roll the cracker fine. Mix with the spices 
and meat. Make into a loaf, like bread ; put bits of 
butter and grated bread-crumbs on the top. Put it 
into a pan with a little water. Baste frequently 
while baking ; bake two hours. To be eaten cold. 



THE ladies' handbook. 35 

Hakicot of Mutton. — Take cold mutton (boiled 
or roasted), cut into slices and lay in a deep sauce- 
pan ; then put in, one-fourth of an onion, the same .of 
turnip, two potatoes, and one carrot, all cut in small 
pieces. Dredge with flour, salt, and pepper. Cover 
with cold water and boil for one hour; then add two 
spoonfuls of flour mixed with cold water, and boil 
one hour longer. Have a dish with an edging of 
mashed potatoes, and into the centre turn the 
haricot. 

Veal Cutlets. — Fry brown, eight slices of salt 
pork. Take them up, and to the. fat add two large 
spoonfuls of lard. Have ready thin slices of veal ; 
dip them in a well-beaten egg, then into cracker- 
crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Season the meat be- 
fore dipping with pepper and salt. Serve with the 
salt pork. 

A-la-mode Beep. — Take six pounds of the 
round of beef, cut deep gashes in it, and rub in, a 
handful of salt, a spoonful of cinnamon, half a spoon- 
ful each of clove and allspice, one of mace, one of pep- 
per, and a half-cup of flour. Fill the gashes with a 
dressing made as for turkey, adding a little chopped 
onion. Sew the gashes together, and bind the beef 
with strips of cloth. Lay the beef into a small 
kettle, put in a whole onion, add cold water enough 
to cover, and simmer three hours. Make a thicken- 
ing with four spoonfuls of flour, and stir in. At the 
same time stir in two spoonfuls of mushroom or wal- 
nut catsup, and simmer one hour longer. 

Fbied Liver. — Cut either beef or pork liver 



36 THE ladies' handbook. 

into slices about half an inch thick; pour boiling 
water over them, and let them stand twenty minutes; 
drain and dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Fry- 
six slices of salt pork brown ; take them up, and in 
the fat fry the Kver fifteen minutes. Serve with the 
pork. 

Fried Teipb. — Cut the tripe into handsome 
squares, and dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and 
fry a light brown in either drippings or lard. 

To Roast a Turkey. — When nicely washed 
and drained, fill both breast and body with a dress- 
ing prepared thus : To one-fourth of a pound of salt 
pork chopped fine, add one quart of bread-crumbS. 
Season with salt, pepper and sage ; add one gill of 
milk. Boil the giblets until quite tender, chop fine 
and add about one half to the dressing, reserving the 
remainder for the gravy. Add enough of the water 
in which the giblets are boiled to make the dressing 
quite moist. Sew lip the breast and body, and tie 
the wings and legs close to the body. -Rub over 
with butter and salt. Bake a common sized turkey 
four hours in a slow oven. Baste with drippings 
frequently. 

Roast Turkey, with Oysters. — After draw- 
ing the turkey, rinse with soda. and water, and then 
with clear water. Prepare a dressing of bread- 
crumbs, mixed with butter, pepper, salt, and sage ; 
wet with hot water or milk ; add the yolks of two 
eggs; mince a dozen oysters. and stir into dressing. 
Fill the turkey with this, and sew it up with strong 
thread. Dredge it with flour before roasting, and 



THE ladies' handbook. 37 

baste often, first with butter and water, afterward 
with the gravy in the pan. Serve with cranberry- 
sauce, or fry oysters to lay in the dish around the 
turkey. Or, serve with oyster-sauce made by adding 
to a cupful of liquor in which the turkey was baked 
the same quantity of milk and a dozen oysters well 
seasoned with minced parsley; thicken with flour 
and a tablespoonful of butter. 

Chestnut Dressing eok Tctekey. — Prepare 
dressing tlie same way as given, only leave out the 
oysters and put in a pint of peeled chestnuts chopped 
fine. 

Chicken Jelly. — Joint two chickens, as for fric- 
assee ; leave out the giblets, take off the skin, boil in 
water enough to cover, until all the bones can be 
easily removed. Then strain the liquor, of which 
there must be one quart ; season with salt and pep- 
per and a small piece of butter. To this boiling 
liquor add one box of gelatine dissolved in one pint 
of cold water ; put in the chicken, and after it has 
ali boiled up, turn into moulds to cool. Very nice 
with celery boiled with the chicken. 
. Chicken, a-la-modb. — Put the chicken in just 
enough cold water to cover it, and boil until the 
bones easily leave the flesh ; separate the meat from 
the bones, and boil the gravy to a jelly ; chop the 
meat fine ; mix it with pepper, salt and spice ; boil 
some eggs hard ; slice thin ; line a deep dish with 
them; put in the chicken and gravy; when cold 
turn on to a dish ; to be sliced thin. Nice for tea or 
for lunch. 



38 THE ladies' handbook. 

Fricassee — Young Chickens. — After the 
chickens are cleaned, cut off the wings, and flatten 
with the rolling pin ; do the same with the back and 
breast (cutting each in two pieces, the back cross- 
wise) ; clean the giblets nicely, and, having washed 
all together in cold water slightly salted, put them 
in a stewpan with just enough water to cover them, 
or half milk and half water; add a few pepper-- 
corns, a little mace and a little salt (a head of 
young lettuce is an improvement). , Cover the stew- 
pan, and let the chicken boil until quite tender ; 
strain off half a pint of the liquor into another 
saucepan ; add half a pint of boiling milk, set it on 
the fire, stir into it a tablespoonful of butter rolled 
in flour, and continue to stir until quite smooth; 
add a little nutmeg ; after it is taken off, stir in any 
kind of flavoring. Arrange the chickens in a deep 
dish, pour the gravy over them, and send to the table 
covered. 

SALADS AND EGGS. 

Salad Dressing. — One tablespoonful of mus- 
tard, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one-tenth 
teaspoonf ul of cayenne pepper and the yolks of three 
uncooked eggs. Put this mixture in an earthen dish ; 
set on ice, and stir with a silver or wooden spoon until 
it is well mixed, then add very gradually one bottle of 
table oil. Stir until very light ; then stir in half a 
cup of vinegar. Stir one way all the time. A cup 
of whipped cream stirred in, the last thing, is a great 
addition. 



STOVES, 
ME(JES 

FL'MACES,. 

TIN, 
HOLLOW 
AND 
WOODEN 

WARE, 
FURC. FS, 

SINKS, 







:*'' 



lLEmis^(^-^^^i CHURCH ST.,^ 

sDEALER INt 

IRON and 

LEAD 
PI PK. 

BATH TUBS, 

BOILERS, 
WASH BOWLS 

AND 
WATER 

CLOSETS. 
Also a full line of 

^luraber6' 

gittingd. 




I 






\ • :-'' / T 



Special Attention given to Water Works Plumbing. 



DEAR MADAM: 

Allow me to observe that, to be a good cook, 
you must use everything of the best quality. Now 
just allow me to say, if you want to find a good 
quality of Agate-Ware, Tin-Ware, Glass, or any 
thing in Wooden- Ware, just drop into 

-^Parsons' HouselurnlsMng (ioods Store,^ 

and there you will 'find everything you want to 
keep house with, from a scouring brick to a baby 
wagon. No. 11 Nlaln Street. 

Don't forget the place, whatever you do. 



c-^ 



3^ 




tcteg, * Clocks * and * J 



— ..O.-sJ.t 



^/> 



|.-fc^o<>o. 



From the Best Manufacturers. 

Best Styles and Most Durable Patterns. 

Lowest City Prices. 

P. M. Y0ai2EN, Practical latcMaM, 

MAIN STREET, HEAD OF JOHN STREET, 
HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 

AT 



Can be found a Choice Stock of 



m 



ri 



ifees, Pure Spices, Roiir, 

ProvlsloDS, Ureen, Dried M Canned- Fruits, k, 

At Prices Very Low for Cash. 
Are of Very Choice Quality. 

Church Societies furnished with Fruits or anything in 
stock at cost prices. 

Hoosick Falls, April 7, '87. -IVl 1 JNl Jr!y XX. . 



THE ladies' handbook. 39 

Salad Dressing. — Beat six eggs in a large bowl 
until very stiff. Add two cups of sweet cream with 
a teaspoonful of salt, and beat thoroughly. Now 
add one cup of sharp vinegar, a tablespoonful of mus- 
tard and one-half cup of melted butter, and beat 
again. Mix the mustard in a cup with a little of the 
vinegar to avoid lumps. Set the bowl into a kettle 
of water, and boil until the dressing thickens. This 
will keep for weeks. 

Chicken , Salad. — Boil tender, four good-sized 
chickens ; when cold, cut off the white meat and 
chop rather coarse. Cut off the white part of the 
celery, and chop in the same manner. To two quarts 
and a pint of chicken allow one quart and a pint of 
the celery and a spoonful of salt. Mix well together, 
and then stir in a part of the dressing. Shape the 
salad in a flat dish, and pour over it the remainder 
of the dressing. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs 
(cut in rings), beets, and the tops of tl^e celery. 

LoBSTEE Salad. — Lobster salad is made the 
same as chicken, using lobster in place of chicken, 
and lettuce instead of celery. 

Oyster Salad. — One pint can of cove oysters 
chopped fine, ten crackers rolled fine, three eggs, 
one-half teacup of fresh milk, two-thirds teacup of 
oyster liquid and one half cup of butter. Put all 
on the fire together and let come to a boil, stirring 
it well together. Eemove from the fire, and add one 
teacup of vinegar with one teaspoonful of celery salt 
and one spoonful of mustard stirred into it ; pepper, 
and salt to taste. Serve cold. 



40 THE ladies' handbook. 

Vegetable Salad. ^ Take equal quantities of 
cooked beets, turnips, potatoes, and other vegetables 
if you have them. Cut into small blocks about as 
large as dice. Lay in a dish, and add celery cut 
fine; about one-third celery and two-thirds vegeta- 
bles. Mix with salad dressing. This dish looks very 
nice on the table, and is very easily and cheaply pre- 
pared. 

Stuffed Eggs. — Boil eggs hard; when cool, re- 
move the shells carefully and cut the eggs in half. 
Mash the yolks fine, moisten with vinegar, and,' 
season with a little butter, pepper, salt, and mus- 
tard. Fill the whites with the mixture. Nice for 
tea, or they make a good relish with a cold-meat 
dinner. 

To Bake Eggs. — Put butter, salt and pepper in 
the bottom of your tin, and then break in your eggs. 
Bake till the whites seem done. Very nice. 

Omelet. — Mix four heaping teaspoonfuls of flour 
thoroughly in one and one-half cilps of milk, and add 
it to the well beaten yolks of six eggs. Mix this light- 
ly with the whites which have been beaten stiff. Pour 
into a hot frying-pan well greased with. lard — not 
butter. Cover, and cook rather slowly ten minutes. 
Cut across the centre, and take out one-half on to a 
hot platter. Turn the other half out on the first. 
It is too thick to fold. 

Omelet. — Separate the yolks of six eggs from the 
whites, and beat the yolks thoroughly ; add to them 
one scant tablespoonful of flour mixed smpoth in three 
tahlespoonfuls of cold milk, also two tablespoonf uls of 



THE ladies' handbook. 41 

butter melted in two-thirds cup of scalded milk ; then 
mix with whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and 
pour one-half immediately on a hot griddle ; cook 
from five to eight minutes. Double the omelet on 
the griddle when partly cooked. 

Omelets. — Beat lightly two eggs, and stir in, one 
spoonful of milk and a pinch of salt. Heat the 
omelet-pan hot, then put in a little butter; when 
melted turn in the beaten eggs ; set on the fire, 
shake the pain, and cook until a light brown. Fold 
the omelet, and serve in a' hot dish. Ham, mushroom, 
lobster, chicken, and all kinds of omelets are made 
by chopping the meat and laying it between the 
folds of the omelet. 

Dropped Eggs. — Turn a quart of boiling water 
into a basin with one spoonful of salt. Break the 
eggs, one at a time, into a saucer ; dip one side of 
the saucer into the water, and let the eggs gently 
slide into it. Boil gently until set, and serve on toast. 

PICKliBS. 
Pickled Cucumbers. — Take small cucumbers, 
lay them in a tub, and cover with a boiling brine of 
one gill of salt to one gallon of water. Let this 
stand until cold, then put in kettle and boil again, 
and pour over cucumbers; do this five times, and 
then tjirn off and cover with boiling alum-water 
(one heaping spoonful of alum to one gallon of 
water). "When cold, turn off, boil again, and turn on 
to cucumbers a second time. Now put a few quarts 
of good cider vinegar in a porcelain kettle, and when 



42 THE ladies' handbook. 

it boils, drop in a few cucumbers and let tliem boil 
eight minutes. Pick them out, lay in a stone pot, 
and cover with good cider vinegar. Use spice 
according to taste. 

CucuMBjiES. — A troublesome but sure way is to 
cover them with hot brine (not too strong), scalding 
and pouring it over them for eight successive days. 
Then wipe the cucumbers very carefully, and put 
them in good spiced vinegar. Your work is done 
for a century if need be. 

Sweet Pickles. — Eight pounds of ripe cucum- 
bers, green tomatoes, or watermelon ; three pounds 
brown sugar ; cloves, cinnamon, and allspice, each two 
tablespoonfuls ; one teaspoonful of pepper. Spread 
the fruit with a little salt, and let it stand over night. 
Drain off the liquor in the morning, and boil until 
tender in one quart of vinegar. Turn this off, and 
boil in another quart of vinegar in which are the 
sugar and spices. 

Piccalilli. — Slice one peck of tomatoes and three 
good-sized onions. Cover with cold water, and 
sprinkle over them two cups of salt. Let them 
stand twelve hours. Drain and rinse several times 
in cold water. Chop fine, and boil until tender in 
weak vinegar. Pour off the vinegar, and while hot 
add two tablespoonfuls each of all kinds of spices, 
one small box of ground mustard, two cups of grated 
horse-radish, and six green peppers chopped fine, or 
two tablespoonfuls of ground pepper. Mix well, and 
cover with cold vinegar. 

Tomato Pickles (sour). — One gallon of green 



iW 



Qi. 



CHENEY BLOCK. 



flRS" 



ASS GROCERIES. 



TEAS, COFFES AND SPICES 

Are our specialties, and are PURE and the best 
that can be bought. 

In BOO TS, SHOES & RUBBERS 

We are carrying the LARGEST, the BEST, 

and at the MOST REASOjYABLE 

PRICES of anyone in town. 

d^. — DEALERS IN r^^i 

Men's, Youths', Boys' and Children's Clothing, Hat^ 

and Caps, Gents' Furnishing Goods, Umbrellas, 

Trunks and Valises at reasonable prices. 

BRACKMAN cf LEVY, Cheney Block, Hoosick Falls. 



REMEMBER, JONES, THE COBBLER, 



STILL LIVES 



To greet his old friends and patrons who desire dry feet. He'll be found 
at the corner of FIRST AND CENTER STREETS. 

Re'll do your Repairing both Cheap and JVeat. 
FOR CASH. 
GEO. E. JONES, Hoosick Falls, N. Y. 



Established 1866. Still at the Head in. ISST. 



SUCCESSORS TO CHAS. C^'ELDREDGE, 

^ Wholesale and Retail Dealers in s*- 

Lumber, Wood, Flour, Meal, Feed, 

Grain, Farm and Garden Seeds, 

Barbed Wire, Kalsomine, Paints, Oils, 

Glass, Builders' Hardware and all 

kinds of Building Material. 



-PROPRlETORSi OF?"- 



Tie Hoo^^lci Falls Custom Mills, 



^To Make GOOD BREAD You Must Use s^ 
GOOD FLOUR. 

We keep only only the Best Grades of 

■A P]lTENT+flND*F]lMILY*FLOUR, ^ 

B UCK WHEA T FLO JJR, GRAHAM FL TIB, 
FIJ^E MFAI^, 4-G. 

Come to us for FLO WER SEED and Bird Seed. 

OFFICE, 4 & 5 CENTER ST. GRIST MILL, HOOSIC ST. 



THE ladies' handbook. 43 

tomatoes sliced ; two tablespoonfuls of salt, one table- 
spoonful of ground mustard, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoon- 
ful of black pepper, one tablespoonful of red pepper 
or four green peppers sliced, one half pint of mustard 
seed and two quarts of good vinegar. Boil all to- 
gether fifteen minutes, then pour into' jars and cover 
up. Fit for use in three days. 

Red Cabbage Pickles. — Take good firm red 
cabbage ; quarter, and take out the hard stalk, then 
shred fine, and lay in an earthen or wooden bowl 
with a good sprinkling of salt (about half a teacup 
to a cabbage). Put in a cool place for twenty-four 
hours, stirring occasionally ; after which rinse in cold 
water and drain through a cola,nder. To one quart 
of strong vinegar put, two tablespoonfuls of whole 
black pepper, same allspice, and one teaspoonful of 
cloves tied in a bit of muslin ; bring to a boil, then 
put iu the cabbage. Let boil ten or twelve minutes, 
then set off and allow to cool slowly, with cover 
on. Will be ready for use in two or three days. 

Tomato Ketchup. — Take one peck of ripe 
tomatoes, cut or break them into a large porce- 
lain kettle, and set them on the fire. When they 
have boiled till very soft, pour them into a fine wire 
sieve, and rub them till only the seeds and skins re- 
main in the sieve. Take the liquor, and into it put, 
two quarts of vinegar, six tablespoonfuls of salt, two 
of black pepper, two of mustard, one small teaspoonful 
of red pepper, and a few pieces of horse-radish root. 
Put the .mixture on a' slow fire and let it simmer 



44 



THE LADIES HANDBOOK. 



some three hours. Then remove the horse-radisli, and 
bottle the ketchup while hot. This makes twelve 
bottles of the ordinary size used for ketchup. 

Chili Sauce. — Twelve large ripe tomatoes, four 
red peppers and two large onions chopped fine ; add 
four cups of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil two hours. Bot- 
tle and cork. 

Peach Pickles. — Seven pounds fruit, three and 
one-half pounds brown sugar and one pint of vinegar. 
Put whole spices in vinegar (cinnamon, allspice, 
cloves, etc.), and boil seven minutes. Put in fruit, 
and cook until soft. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. — To seven pounds 
of peaches allow three and three-fourths pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, two ounces of cloves 
and two ounces of stick cinnamon or cassia buds. 
Pare the peaches, and stick one or two cloves into 
each one. Boil the sugar and vinegar with several 
sticks of cinnamon for five minutes, then put in the 
peaches. When cooked till, well done and clear, 
take them out. Boil the syrup, reducing it to 
nearly half, and pour it over the peaches. Pears and 
apples may be prepared in the same way. 

BREAD, BRBAKanAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Yeast. — Put one coffee-cup of hops in a saucepan, 
and upon them pour two quarts of boiling water. 
Break two baked or boiled potatoes with. their jackets 
on, into the boiling hops, and let the whole boil five 
minutes. Then strain the whole upon a quart of 



THE ladies' handbook. 45 

flour, adding a cup-of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
and a teaspoonful of ginger. When milk-warm, add 
one pint of good yeast; leave in a warm place until 
well worked. Pour into a jar, and keep in a cool place. 
Using this yeast, no salt is required in the bread. 

Dkied Yeast. — Ten cups of milk-warm water, 
two cups of fresh butter-milk and two tablespoonfuls 
of yeast ; mix in enough meal to make a thick bat- 
ter ; let it rise in a warm place ; add enough meal 
to make a stiff dough ; roll into thin cakes to dry. 
Use one tablespoonful of dried yeast to one quart 
of flour. Make up with milk-warm water into loaves 
of bread, instead of sponge ; raise and bake. 

Excellent Light Bkead. — Soak two table- 
spoonfuls of dry hop yeast (or half a cake of com- 
pressed yeast) for an hour, in enough warm water 
to cover it. Then, with flour and a little additional 
warm water, make about a quart of batter. Let it 
rise over night ; in the summer set it in a cool place, 
in the winter, near the fire. In the morning sift 
about as much flour as the batter and a pint of 
warm water will mix; add salt, and if desirable a 
little lard ; knead until perfectly smooth. In fifteen 
or twenty minutes knead again diligently. Let it 
rise until quite light, then knead again well ; let it 
stand a few minutes only, then knead again into 
small loaves. Do not grease the pan, but always 
grease each loaf well with sweet lard or butter. 
Bake in a slow oven ; when thoroughly done, take 
out of the oven and grease the top of the loaf with a 
little butter; cover the loaves while cooking with a 



46 THE ladies' handbook. 

piece of t.hiek paper. After remaining in the pan 
fifteen minutes, take the loaves out and let them re- 
main a few minutes, right side up. When perfectly- 
cold put away in a tin box. For light rolls, take 
off a piece of dough after the second kneading, 
add a little more lard, and bake as directed for the 
loaves. , 

White Bkead. — Pour one^int of boiling water 
into your breadpan ; add a , piece of butter or lard 
the size of a walnut, then stir in flour to make a thick 
dough. Let this stand until cool, then add another 
pint of water, this time milk-warm, and one cup of 
yeast; stir in flour sufiicient to knead. Put it on 
the board, knead well, and put back in pan to rise ; 
set in a warm place until it begins to rise, then re- 
move to a cooler one. When it rises to top of pan, 
stir it down, and it wi],l rise again very quickly ; then 
shape into loaves and set to rise again. 

Raised Graham Bread. — To five cups of 
sponge (raised over night for white bread) add one 
cup of molasses, a little salt, one half teaspoonful of 
soda, and three and one half cups of Graham flour 
— or sufiicient to make as stiff as brown bread. 
Raise until as light as white bread. 

Graham Bread. — Two and a half cups of sour 
milk, one cup of molasses, two and a half teaspoon-;, 
fuls of soda and a little salt ; add Graham flour 
enough to make a little thicker than cake. 

Brown Bread, No. 1. — Two and one-half cups of 
corn meal, one and one-half of rye meal, one-half cup 
of flour, one cup of molasses, one cup of hot water. 



A fine A^^ortient of Fancy Gooi^ 

Always oh hand, suitable for Wedding, Birthday and Holiday Presents. 

FUEE" DMll©rS AND MEDICiNlS, 

Cigars and Candies. Pure Cold Soda Water in its season. 

Physicians' Prescriptions Carefully Prepared 
with dispatch. 

Store open on Sunday from 9 to 10 A. M. and 5 to 6 P. M. 

No. 9 Main Street, Hoosick Falls, N. Y. 

DO YOU WANT THEM? 

FINE GROCERIES 

At the Lowest Prices, 

BOOTS, SHOES and RUBBERS, 

ALSO 



IF YOU DO, CALL ON 

J9RN kanTz, The grqger, 

COR. RIVER AND FIRST STS., HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



MRS. A. CORNEAU; 

^ MILIvINBRYe^ 

''^:^M"^^^ faking a gpecialtg.<?^:3"° 
36 Classic Street, - - Hoosick Falls, N. Y. 

Established 1S66. 



JAMES WADDELL 

MERCHANT TAILOR. 

The Largest Stock of Foreign and Domestic Woolens 
north of New York. 

-^* WII2I2IS * E. * HEATeN, *^ 



Attorney and Counselor at Lai, 



13 Cheney Block, _ - - HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 

^E. R. ESTABROOK,^^ 

AND PHOTOQEAPHEH, 

WOOD'S BLOCK, HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 

TTlne Best is ttie Chieapest. 



THE ladies' handbook. 47 

two cups of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, and 
a little salt. Steam three hours ; bake one hour. 

Steamed Beown Bread. — Three teacups of Gra- 
ham floiir, four teacups of corn meal, one cup of 
molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one quart of buttermilk and one tablespoonful of 
brown sugar ; steam six hours. 

Raised Biscuit. — One quart of milk, three- 
fourths cup of lard or butter — half and half is a 
good rule — three-fourths cup of yeast, two table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar, one teaspoonful of salt and 
flour to make a soft dough. Mix over night, warm- 
ing the milk slightly, and melting the lard or butter. 
In the morning, stir well, and let stand one hour ; 
then roll out into sheets three-fourths of an inch 
thick ; cut into round cakes ; set these closely toge- 
ther in a pan ; let them rise for twenty minutes, and 
bake twenty minutes. 

Parker House Rolls. — One quart of cold 
boiled milk, two quarts of flour and one large table- 
spoonful of lard rubbed into the flour ; make a place 
in the middle of the flour, put in one cupful of 
yeast and one-half cup of sugar; then add the milk 
with a little salt ; stir and leave till morning ; then 
knead hard and let it have a cool rising ; knead 
down at noon, then again at four o'clock — rolling 
out for tea. If desired a little shorter, spread but- 
ter on, and roll up again before cutting out for 
tea. 

Breakfast ok Dinnbe, Rolls. — Put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg into a pitcher, and turn 



48 THE ladies' , HANDBOOK. 

on a pint of boiling water ; stir it until the butter is 
melted, then add one pint of cold milk ; turn this into 
the bread pan, add three pints of .flour, stir it up, then 
one-half cake Fleischmann's yeast, two tablespoonftils 
of white sugar and one spoonful of salt ; stir briskly. 
Keep adding flour and beating it till it is of a good 
consistency, smooth and light to the hand'; cover it 
with a cloth. In the morning turn the dough on to 
the bread-board, knead it well with both hands, and 
roll it out about an inch thick ; cut it in equal bits, 
as large as you wish the rolls; take the bits between 
your hands and make them in rolls six inches long 
and two wide ; have the breadpans rubbed with a 
little butter, lay the rolls in and let them rise an 
hour; bake twenty minutes. When done, brush 
them over while hot, with a little butter. The long 
rolls are nice for breakfast. For dinner, cut with a 
common sized biscuit cutter. 

Baking-Powdek Bisctjits. — One quart of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, a little salt, lard 
the size of an egg, and enough sweet milk to mix in- 
to a soft dough. 

Baking-Powder Biscuits, No. 2. — One quart 
of flour sifted two or three times, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, a pinch of salt, and one 
tablespoonful of lard mixed thoroughly through the 
flour. Then pour in one-half pint of cream (or 
cream and water) ; do not knead much, but roll out 
on the board; double the dough and roll again, 
repeating this once or twice. Do not touch the 
hands to it any more than necessary ; cut into bis' 



THE ladies' handbook. 49 

cults ; make them touch each other in the pan. You 
will have delicious biscuits with very little trouble. 

Soda Biscuits. — One quart of flour, one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of lard, nearly one pint of milk, 
one even teaspoonful of soda, and two small tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar ; sift soda and cream tartar 
thoroughly into the flour, then rub in the lard, and 
add a little salt. Pour in enough milk to make a 
soft dough, and mix quickly ; roll out half an inch 
thick, and bake in a quick oven. 

BuNNS. — One quart of flour, one pint of warm 
milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter, and one gill of 
yeast.^ Mix, and set them to rise three or four 
hours. Then add two beaten eggs and one-fourth 
pound of sugar. Mix this into the dough, and set 
it to rise about two hours. When very light, make 
the dough into bunns, and set them close together 
to rise. When all of a sponge, brush the top with a 
little milk and molasses mixed. Set in a quick oven 
and bake flfteen or twenty minutes. 

Waffles. — One pint of sweet milk, a littlfe salt, 
a bit of melted butter the size of a butternut, two 
well-beaten eggs and two tablespoonfuls of yeast ; stir 
in flour enough to make a stiff batter. Rise until 
morning. When baked in rings, this same rule 
makes excellent muffins. 

Raised Muffins. — One and one-half pints of 
warm new milk, one egg, two or three spoonfuls of 
melted butter, and one-half small cup of yeast. Mix 
with flour enough for soft batter, and set to rise over 
night. In the morning, dip out this light sponge into 



50 THE ladies' handbook. 

the muffin rings without stirring, and bake one-half 
hour in a hot oven. 

Breakfast Coen Cake. — To one pint of sifted 
corn meal add sweet milk sufficient to make a stiff 
batter, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, and a little salt ; let 
it stand over night ; before baking add one cup of 
sour milk, soda enough to sweeten the milk, one egg, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little flour, and butter 
half the size of an egg. Bake in a quick oven, and 
you have a very delicious breakfast cake. 

Corn Cake. — One cup of corn meal, one cup 
of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and 
one-half teaspoonful of soda ; mix with sweet milk to 
the consistency of thin batter ; the last thing, add 
two tablespoonfuls of melted shortening. 

Corn Rolls. — One small cup of sugar, two eggs, 
one-half cup of butter, two and one-half coffee-cups 
of sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of- cream 
tartar, three-fourths teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup 
of flour and Indian meal enough to make good bat- 
ter — not very thick. Bake in roll pans or flat 
basin. Have hot oven at first. 

Indian Griddle Cakes. — Take one-half pint of 
Indian meal, one-half pint of flour, one and one-half 
pints of sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, 
and one tablespoonful of sugar. Sift the meal and 
flour and beat into the sour milk. Sift in the soda and 
beat again. In five minutes add the salt and sugar. 
When ready to fry put in the eggs. Graham can be 
used instead of Indian meal if one prefers. 



THE ladies' handbook. 51 

Doughnuts. — One cup of sugar, three-fourths 
cup of sweet milk, one egg, one spoonful of butter, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one- 
half of soda, and flour to roll out quite soft. Turn 
frequently while frying, remaining by each kettleful 
till they are done. 

Doughnuts. — One pint of flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one egg, 
a little salt, a little cinnamon, one tablespoon ful of 
melted lard, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, and two- 
thirds of a cup of sweet milk. 

Thin Fried Cakes. — One' cup of sweet milk, 
one cup of sour cream, soda sufficient to sweeten 
cream, one egg and flour to roll out. Roll thin as a 
knife-blade. Have lard boiling ; throw the cakes 
into the lard, turn them over, and take out imme- 
diately. 

Bebakfast Cakes, No. 2. — Two cups of rye meal, 
two cups of flour, one half cup of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one egg and two cups of milk. Can 
be made equally good with sour milk, omitting the 
cream tartar. 

Flannel Rolls. — One cup of sweet milk, the 
whites of two eggs, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
flour to make a thick batter, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Form 
into rolls, let them rise — then bake. 

Vienna Rolls. — To one quart of flour add two 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, sift thoroughly, add 
a little salt, and rub a tablespoonful of lard or butter 



52 THE ladies' handbook. 

through the flour ; use enough sweet milk to make a 
soft dough; roll out and cut with a round cutter. 
Fold over like a turnover, and wet the edges with 
milk to make them adhere ; wash over with milk to 
give them a gloss. Place in a pan so that they will 
not touch ; bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Vanities. — One egg, a little salt and flour to mix 
very hard ; roll very thin ; cut in fancy forms. Fry 
quick in hot lard. 

Floue Geiddi*b Cakes. — Sift one half pint of 
flour, add the same measure of sour milk and one 
half as much more. Beat it well with the flour. 
Sift in a small teaspoonful of soda and let it work 
five minutes. Add a pinch of salt and tablespoonful 
of sugar, and, just before frying, two eggs. 

Delicate Gkiddle Cakes. — Take buttermilk 
or sour milk, with one third sweet milk, one egg, a 
little salt and one scaut teaspoonful of soda. Make a 
thin batter with flour. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — One quart of warm water, 
one large spoonful of Indian meal, scalded, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, four tablespoonfulS of yeast and one 
large spoonful of molasses ; stir in enough buck- 
wheat flour to make a thin batter. Let it rise over 
night, and in the morning add a pinch of soda. 
They should be as thin as will turn over, and no 
more grease used than will keep them from stick- 
ing. 



THE ladies' handbook. 53 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

Cream Pie. — One cup of sweet cream, one small 
enp of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, and the 
whites of two eggs beaten to a froth; stir all to- 
gether slightly. Prepare a crust as for custard pie, 
iill it with this mixture, and bake. Do not send it 
to the table until it is thoroughly cold. 

Lemon Pie. — Two lemons, two cups of sugar, 
five eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and one 
pint of milk. Grate the lemons, add the juice, and 
stir together. Scald the corn starch with the milk. 
This will make two pies. They should be baked in 
a rich puff paste. 

Puff Paste. — One pound of flour, three-fourths 
of a pound of butter, the yolk of one egg, and ice- 
cold water. Chop one-half of the butter in the 
flour, then add the beaten yolk, and as much water 
as is needed to work all into a dough. Roll out thin, 
and spread on some of the butter ; fold closely, but- 
tered side in, and re-roll ; repeat until the butter is 
all used up. Keep in a cool place until you wish to 
use it. 

Pastry for Pies. — Take one-half as much lard 
as flour, a little salt, and very cold water. Mix the 
lard very thoroughly with the flour, and add suffi- 
cient water to make a stiff batter. 

Peach Pie. — Line a dish or plate with pastry. 
Pare and stone mellow, juicy peaches enough to fill 
it. Cover with a cup of sugar, and bake. When 



54 THE ladies' handbook. 

the pie is cold, cover it with a frosting made from the 
whites of two eggs and one tablespoonful of sugar, 
beaten to a stiff froth. 

CocoANUT Pie. — One quart of new milk, the 
yolks of five eggs, one cup of sugar, the grated rind 
and juice of one lemon, and one good-sized cocoanut, 
grated fine. When the pie is baked, spread over the 
top of it the whites of the eggs, well whipped, with 
sugar added to suit the taste. Brown slightly. 

Pineapple Pie. — A grated pineapple, its weight 
in sugar, one half its weight in butter, one cup of 
cream, and five tggs, beaten separately. Cream the 
butter, sugar, and yolks until very light; then add 
the cream, pineapple, and whites. Bake with one 
crust. Eat cold. 

Apple Custard Pie. — Peel tart apples, and stew 
them until soft and nearly dry. Strain them through 
a colander. For each pie use three beaten eggs and 
one third of a cup each of butter and sugar ; season 
with nutmeg. Cover with frosting, as in cocoanut 
pie, and return for a few minutes to the oven. 

Apple Custard Pie, No. 2. — Stew apples so 
soft that they will run through a sieve. To one 
quart of the stewed apples add two teacups of sugar, 
one pint of milk, half a cup of butter, five eggs, and 
the grated peel of one lemon. Bake in puff paste. 

Lemon Custard Pie. — Three eggs, one and one- 
half pints of milk, one teacup of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and one tablespoonful of extract 
of lemon. Boil the milk ; mix the flour, sugar, and 
yolks with a little milk, and pour into that which is 



b). 




mni}mm. 




'"e5Ks^ 



A Large Stock alway* to be found at D. H. 
W^RIGHT'S, at prices that can't be beat. 
A fine new stock of 

^ BAB Y -^ CARRIAGES g^ 

That are unexcelled for beauty and cheapness, at 

^ WRIGHT'S. 1 



(5,1^ -I- 



'4i*]^^ 



UN® 



A. G. PARS0NS & S0N, 

f^-c. — deal: 
Builders' yardwape^ 

A 

--^ ^f^ous'^ FuFi^isI^inf Seeds. 

NO. 11 MAIN STREET, HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



f^-c. DEALKRS IN- 



-AND- 



56 THE ladies' handbook. 

Delmont Pudding. — Set one quart of milk into 
water, and let it boil. Add to it the yolks of five 
eggs, beaten with four tablespoonfuls of corn starch 
and one cup of sugar. Cook and flavor to taste. 
Beat the whites of the five eggs with one-half cup of 
sugar; flavor, and pour over the top. Set in the 
oven till lightly browned. 

Suet Pudding. — One cup of molasses, one cup of 
sweet milk, one cup of suet chopped fine, three cups 
of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, and one cup of rais- 
ins. Steam three hours. The sauce for same is 
made as follows : One large cup of sugar and nearly 
one-half cup of butter. Cream the butter and sugar, 
and add one egg, whipped lightly. Beat hard, and 
add, a spoonful at a time, three tablespoonfuls of boil- 
ing water. Set the dish of sauce into another of 
boiling water, and heat to nearly boiling. Add the 
juice of one lemon. 

Snow Pudding. — Dissolve half a box of Cox's 
gelatine in a pint of boiling water ; add the juice of 
tliree lemons, sweeten to taste, and let it cool. When 
nearly cold, add the whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff; then pour it into a mould. When ready to 
serve, whip cream, sweeten it a little, and pour it 
over the pudding. 

Cottage Pudding. — One cup of sugar, two eggs, 
beaten very light, three tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one teacup of sweet milk, one pint of flour, 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Flavor. 

Apple and Sago Pudding. — Boil one cup of 
sago with sufficient water to make it clear, but not 



THE ladies' handbook. 67 

too thin. Pare and cut up about eight apples ; mix 
them with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Pour over 
them the sago, and bake one hour. Eat with cream, 
custard, or sauce. 

Snow Pudding, Fo. 2. — Soak three-fourths of 
a paper of Cox's gelatine in enoiigh water to cover it, 
for one hour. Then take one quart of water, two 
cups of sugar, the juice and rind of two lemons, and 
the whites of eight eggs. Heat the water and the 
gelatine ; stir in the sugar, the lemon-juice, and the 
grated lemon-peel ; then strain, and let cool. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, slowly add the 
gelatine, and beat .the whole to a froth. Pour into a 
glass dish, and place on ice. ^erve with whipped 
cream. This pudding makes a very handsome des- 
sert. 

Wedding- Pudding. — Four cups of flour, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
raisins, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of cur- 
rants, one-half cup of citron, spice of all kinds, one 
egg, and one-half teaspoonful of soda. Steam for 
three hours. , A sauce for same is made as follows : 
One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, and one egg. Beat for twenty minutes, and 
steam for five minutes. Then add the juice of one 
lemon. 

Apple Dumpling. — Put a thick layer of tart 
apples, pared and sliced, into a dish, and over them 
sprinkle a pinch of salt, a little sugar, and a little 
water. Make a stiff, rich batter, and spread a thick 
layer of it over the apples ; bake to a nice brown. 



58 THE ladies' handbook. 

Queen of Puddings. — One pint of bread-crumbs 
pounded fine, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, 
the yolks of four eggs, beaten thoroughly, the grated 
rind of one lemon, and a piece of butter the size of 
an egg. Mix, and bake. Spread on the pudding, 
after it is baked, a layer of jelly or sweetmeats, and 
over the whole pour the whites of four eggs whipped 
with one cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon. 
Bake for one minute. 

Feoth Sauce. — One cup of powdered sugar, one- 
third of a cup of butter beaten to a cream, one egg 
beaten to a froth, one cup of boiling water, and the 
juice of one lemon. 

Egg- Sauce. — Beat together for fifteen minutes 
two eggs and two cups of sugar; add one cup of 
whipped cream, and flavor to suit the taste. 

Stkawbeery Sauce. — Two cups of sugar, one 
spoonful of butter, and one quart of strawberries. 
Mix the butter and sugar, mash in the strawberries 
with a spoon, and stir well together, 

CAKE. 

White Cake. — Take the whites of eight eggs, 
two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of 
flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, and one teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

White Sponge Cake. — Whites of eleven eggs, 
one-half tumbler of sifted granulated sugar, one tum- 
bler of sifted flour, one even teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, and one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla. 
Sift the flour four times, add the cream tartar, and 



Fl 



UFer^iaveFini 




yiy^-D^ 



For Cakes, Puddings and Ice Cream, at 

GEO, E, THORPE. DRUGGIST, 

CHURCH STREET, HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 

Proprietor of the "WHOSE-SICK" REMEDIES. 

C e. C.5 for Coughs, Colds, &c. 

K. & B,j for all Kidney and Bladder Diseases. 

B, P. B,, for all Diseases arising from Impure Blood. 

THE "W^HOSE-SICK;" LININIENT. 



^J.-H.*SAVERY,9- 



-..-^.<,.— 



-DEALER IN ^S) 



BEEF, PORK, IUTTON,LAIB,VEA[,SiKEOI[ATS, 

. Poaltiy, Oysters ant VeptaMes of all Ms. 

MARKET— CORNER FIRST AND CENTER STREETS. 



-GO TO 



A FINE ASSORTMENT OF 

Constantly on hand. 

/4/so, Picture Frames of all Styles and Sizes. 

1} y ^" A-/ / . / q/ / / / 

/ // /' / / 

CLASSIC STREET, HOOSICK FALLS. 



^ PETER ^ COUTTS,i^ 

liTCHES, CWCI& JEWELRY MD' SIEYEi lAffl. 

Watches, Clocks and Jewelry Carefully Repaired, 

25 CHURCH STREET, - - HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 

All the Latest Styles in 

--AT-- 
NO. 13 JOHN STREET, - - HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



THE LADIES' HANDBOOK. 59 

sift again. Thoroughly mix the sugar with the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs ; then add the flour, and 
last of all the vanilla. The tumbler used should 
hold two and one-fourth gills. 

EocHESTER Jelly Cake. — Four eggs, one cup 
of milk, two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, and one-half teaspoonful of soda. Bake one- 
half of this in two tins. To the other half add one 
cup of currants, one-fourth cup of citron, one table- 
spoonful of molasses, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one-half a nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoonful of allspice, and a little flour. 
Bake in two tins, and put with the other half, with 
jelly or jam between the layers. 

Pkemitjm White Cake. — The whites of fourteen 
eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half 
teaspoonful of soda. Cream the butter and sugar 
together. Dissolve the soda in the milk. A nice 
marbled cake may be made from this recipe by add- 
ing fruit-coloring to about one-half a cup of this 
batter. A nice gold cake may be made from this 
recipe by using the yolks of the eggs in place of the 
whites, and adding one cup of milk and one-half cup 
of butter. 

Elegant Cake. — Twelve eggs, one pound of 
flour, one pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound 
of butter, one grated cocoanut, one pound of blanched 
almond^, and three-fourths of a pound of citron. 



60 THE ladies' handbook. 

Cheap White Cake. — One-half cup of butter, 
one cup of sugar, one small cup of milk, two teacups 
of flour, the whites of three eggs, and one teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder. 

Jelly Cake- — One cup of sugar, a small piece 
of butter, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, two 
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, and one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar. Bake in layers, and spread jelly 
between them. 

Snow Cake. — One and one-half cups of sugar, 
one cup of flour, the whites of ten eggs, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Feather Cake. — One-half cup of butter, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one egg, and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder. ' 

Oeangb Cake. — Mix well together (without 
beating) the yolks of two eggs and two cups of 
sugar; then add the beaten whites. Next add a 
large spoonful of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three 
cups of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Flavor, and bake in jelly-tins. For a filling : Grate 
the rind of two oranges and one lemon; add the 
juice of the same, one cup of water, one cup of sugar, 
and one tablespoonful of corn starch. Boil and cool 
before using. 

HiCKOKY-NuT Cake. — Two cups of sugar, three- 
fourths of a cup of butter, three cups of flour, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, three-fourths of a cup 
of sweet milk, the whites of six eggs, one pint of 
hickory nuts, and one cup of seeded and chopped 
raisins well floured. 



THE ladies' handbook. 61 

CtJEKANT Cake. — The yolks of eight eggs, two 
cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, four cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder, and one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Add one 
pound of currants with the last- cup of flour. 

Velvet Cake. — Two cups of sugar, threfe cups 
of flour, one-half cup of butter, four eggs, beaten 
separately, one teacup of cold water, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. 

CocoANUT Cake. — Two well-beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two cups of prepared cocoa- 
nut, one cup of sugar, one-half a cup of milk, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda. Soak the (jocoanut in the milk. 

Gold Cake. — Two small cups of flour, the yolks 
of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half a cup of 
butter, one-half a cup of sweet milk, one-half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, and one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar. 

Silver Cake. — Two cups of flour, the whites of 
four eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half a 
teaspoonful of soda. 

Chocolate Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one cup 
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three and one-half 
cups of flour, three eggs and the yolks of two more, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one teaspoonful 
of soda. Frosting for same : The whites of two eggs, 
beaten with sugar quite stiff, three tablespoonfuls of 
grated chocolate, and one teaspoonful of extract of 
vanilla. 



62 THE 1 ladies' handbook. 

Corn-Staech Cake. — The whites of six eggs, 
one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
corn starch, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and two teaspoonfuls of extract of lemon. 

Caeveet Premium Cake. — Nine eggs, fifteen 
ounces of sugar, ten ounces of butter, one pound of 
flour, two-thirds of a teacup of sweet milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one scant teaspoonful of 
soda, and one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla. Put 
the cream tartar in the flour, and sift three times. 
Cream the butter and sugar together, and add to the 
yolks ; then, add to it alternately the whites and the 
flour, and last of all the milk, in which the soda has 
been previously dissolved. Then flavor. 

Fruit Cake. — One and one-half pounds each of 
sugar, butter, flour, raisins, and currants ; one pound 
each of prunes and figs, one-half pound of citron, 
eighteen eggs, one tumbler of sweet cider, two table- 
spoonfuls each of mace, cloves, and cinnamon ; one 
teaspoonful of soda. 

Cheap Sponge Cake. — Three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of flour, into which mix one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in three teaspoonfuls of warm water. The 
last thing, add one dessert-spoonful of vinegar, stir- 
ring briskly. The batter will be very thin. 

Sunshine Cake. — The yolks of eleven eggs, two 
cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda. 



THE ladies' handbook. 63 



FANCY DISHES. 

Ice-Ceeam. — One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of flour, two eggs, one quart of cream, 
and one tablespoonful of any flavoring extract de- 
sired. Let the milk come to a boil. Beat the sugar, 
flour, and eggs together, and stir them into the boil- 
ing milk. Cook twenty minutes, stirring often. 
When cold add another cup of sugar, the flavor, and 
the cream, and then freeze. 

A Dish op Skow. — Pare and core very juicy 
apples, and stew them until soft ; strain them through 
a sieve, and sweeten with powdered sugar. Spread 
this when cold in a deep glass dish. For every apple 
allow the white of one egg, beaten to a stiff froth 
with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar; pour this 
over the apples, and flavor as desired. 

Chaelotte Russe. — One-half pint of thick 
cream whipped to a froth, the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a froth, two spoonfuls of gelatine dissolved 
in one cup of water ; sweeten to taste, and flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. Put a layer of writing paper 
over the bottom of a deep dish. Line the dish with 
one loaf of sponge cake cut into small strips, and 
pour the cream into the middle of the dish. Let it 
remain until hard, then turn out of the dish. 

Ice-Ckeam, No. 2. — One quart of new milk, one 
quart of cream, four eggs, and three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar. Boil the milk, and add the eggs 
and sugar well beaten together. When cold, add the 
cream and. flavoring, and freeze. 



64 THE ladies' handbook. 

Lemon Sheebet. — One gallon of ice water, the 
juice of twenty lemons, and three pints of sugar. 
Strain ' into the freezer, and freeze as you would 
cream. 

Orange Ice. — Take the juice of six oranges and 
the grated rind of three, the juice of two lemons; due 
pint of sugar, and one pint of water. Steep the rind 
of the oranges in the juice of the lemons and oranges 
for half an hour. Strain, mix with the sugar, then 
with the water, and freeze. 

Lemon Ice. — The juice of ^ six lemons and the 
grated rind of three, the juice and grated rind of 
one orange, one pint of water, and one pint^of sugar. 
Prepare and freeze as you would orange ice. 
, Steawbeeey oe Raspberey Ice. — Strain the 
juice of one quart of berries, and to it add one pint 
of sugar, the juice of one lemon, and one-half a pint 
of water. Freeze. 

Orange Jelly. — One-half box of Cox's gelatine, 
the juice of four oranges, the juice of two'lemons, two 
cups of sugar, two cups of boiling water, and one- 
cup of cold water. Soak the gelatine in the cold 
water for one hour, add the boiling water and the 
juice of the • oranges and lemons. Strain, add the 
sugar, pour into moulds, and place on ice to cool. 
A very pretty fancy dish may be made by cutting 
oranges in the shape of baskets, removing the pulp, 
and filling with the jelly. 

Lemon Jelly. — One ounce of gelatine, the juice 
and grated rind of three lemons, one pound of sugar, 
and one and one-half pints of boiling water. Dis- 



THE ladies' handbook. 65 

solve the gelatine in a little cold water. Boil the 
grated rinds and the thick white skin of the lemons 
in the water for a few minutes, then add the gela- 
tine and the lemon juice, and strain. Add the juice, 
and set away to cool. 

Fktjit Hablequin. — One pine-apple pared and 
sliced thin, one quart of strawberries, four oranges 
sliced thin, and six bananas sliced. Put alternate 
layers of each fruit in a sauce-dish, sprinkle each 
layer with sugar, and over the whole squeeze the 
juice of one lemon. Prepare this dish six or eight 
hours before serving. 

Hamburg Ckeam. — Five eggs, two cups of 
sugar, and the grated rind of one lemon. Beat the 
yolks, sugar, and lemon together ; cook in hot water 
about ten minutes ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
and mix all together. 

Whipped Cream. — Dissolve half a box of Cox's 
gelatine in a little hot water, and set it away to cool. 
Sweeten one-half gallon of thick, fresh cream with 
pulverized sugar, flavor it with vanilla, add the gela- 
tine, and whip with an egg-beater until very stiff. 

Chocolate Ice-Cream. — One quart of cream, 
one pint of new milk, two cups of sugar, two eggs 
beaten very light, and five tablespoonfuls of chocolate 
rubbed smooth in a little milk. Heat the milk 
almost to boiling, and slowly add it to the beaten 
egg and sugar. Stir in the chocolate, beat well for 
three minutes, heat until it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly, and set away to cool. When cold, beat in 
the cream. Freeze. 



66 THE ladies' handbook. 

Ambeosia. — Eight oranges peeled and sliced, one- 
lialf of a grated coeoanut, and one-half cnp of pow- 
dered sugar. Put a layer of the orange in a glass 
dish, strew the grated coeoanut over it, and sprinkle 
lightly with sugar. Fill the dish with successive 
layers, and serve at once. 

Feosted Cueeants. — Dip the bunches of cur- 
rants into the frothed white of eggs mixed with a 
little cold water. Drain them until nearly dry, and 
roll in pulverized sugar. Re-roll in the sugar, and 
lay them upon white paper to dry. Plums and 
grapes are very nice frosted in the same way. 



DO YOU EVER LOSE YOUR TEMPER? 

_ If you do, it is when you have to sift the ashes. Isn't that so? Bui 
instead of spoiling your clothes as well as your disposition, you will 
find it much better to buy r , j 

A BLANOHARD ASH SIFTER. 



00 
00 



t 



d 
® 

Oh 




Q 

%■ 

CD 

W 

03 



The BlanchHrd Ash Sifter is a new and most excellent thing-. You have only to lift 
the lid, empty your ashes into the top, shut the cover, and almost before you can set 
your emphf hod down, the ashes will be found in one drawer, and the coal in the other, 
and your disagreeable work done without any trouble. 

It is instantaneous, convenient, simple, cleanly, durable, economical and cheap. It 
has no crank to turn, or rod to shake. It takes up no more room than a barrel. Any 
one can operate it who can empty a hod of ashes. The separating is done automat- 
ically, as the coal and ashes fall by their own gravity, over a series of grates and 
chutes placed diagonally in the interior of the Sifter. 

Coal dealers say that twenty per cent, of coal is wasted by people who don't sift their 
ashes. Can ypu afford to waste nearly a quarter of your coal? This Sifter will pay for 
Itself every winter, and last a lifetime, as it has . no wearing or moving parts. If^you 
burn coal, YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO DO WITHOUT ONE. 

Retail Price for Stove size is $5.00; Furnace size $7.50. Extra 
sizes made to order. S^r\t free anywhere in New England on receipt of 
retail price. 

I^^GUARANTEED TO BE AND DO JUST AS REPRESENTED^ 

Made only by PORTER BLANCHARD'S SONS, Concord, N. H. 

-leACENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE. 80 



TRADEMARK' ^ REGISTERED* 



HOT A DRUG 



1629 Arch Street, Hliilad'a, Fa. 

A WELL TRIED TREATMENT ■ 

FOR CONSUMPTION, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, DYSPEPSIA 
CATARRH, HAY FEVER, HEADACHE, DEBILITY, RHEUMAT 
ISM, NEURALGIA, and all Chronic and Nervous Disorders 



When "Compound Oxygen" i^ inhaled, the heart Has imparted to it 
increased vitality. That organ sends forth .the blood with more force 
and less wear to itself; the vital currents leave on their circuit new depos- 
its of vital force in every cell of tissue over which they pass, and return 
again to the lungs for a new supply. This is a rational explanation of 
the greatest advance medical science has yet made. 

"The Compound Oxygen Treatment," Drs. Starkey & Palen, No. 1529 
Arch Street, Philadelphia, have been using for the last sixteen years, is 
a^ scientific adjustment of the elements of Oxygen and Nitrogen magnet- 
ized, and the compound is so condensed and made portable that it is sent 
all over the world. 



Drs. Starkey & Palen have the liberty to refer (in proof of their 
standing as Physicians) to the following named well-known persons who 
have tried their Treatment: 

HON. WILLIAM D. KELLY, Membsr of Congress, Philadelphia. 

REV. VICTOR L. CONRAD, Editor Lutheran Observer, Philadelphia. 

REV. CHARLES W. CUSHING, Lockport, N. Y. 

HON. WILLIAM PENN NIXON, Editor Inter-Ocean, Chicago, 111. 

JUDGE JOSEPH R. FLANDERS, Temple Court, N. Y. 

MRS. RfARY A. CATOR, Widow of the late Dr. Harvey Cator, Camden, N.J. 

MRS. MARY A. DOUGHTY, Jamaica, Long Island, New York. 

MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE, Melrose, Massachusetts. 

JUDGE R. S. VOORHEES, New York City. 

MR. GEORGE W. EDWARDS, Owner St. George's Hotel, Philadelphia. 

MR. FRANK SIDDALL, Merchant, Philadelphia. 

MR. WILLIAM H. WHITELY, Silk Manufacturer, Darby,'Ph!ladelphia, Pa. 

And many others in every part of the United States. 



"Compound Oxygen — Us Mode of Action and Results" is the title of a 
brochure of nearly two hundred pages, published by Drs. Starkey & Pa- 
len, which gives to all inquirers full information as to this remarkable 
curative agent and a record of surprising, cures in a wide range of chron- 
ic cases — many of them after being abandoned to die by other physicians. 
It will be mailed free to any address on application. 

No. 1529 Arch Street, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



THE ladies' handbook. 67 



68 THE ladies' handbook. 



THE ladies' handbook. 69 



70 THE ladies' handbook. 



THE ladies' handbook. 71 



72 THE ladies' handbook. 



RULES, TABLES, AND SUGGESTIONS. 



CAPACITY OF VARIOUS CHURCHES. 

CnnKCH. CiTT. Capacity. 

fet. Peter's Rome 54,000 

Cathedral . Milan 37,000 

St. Paul's Rome 32,000 

St. Paul's London 31,000 

St. Petronia Bologna 26,000 

Cathedral Florence 24,300 

Cathedral Antwerp 24,000 

St. John's Lateran ... . Rome 23,000 

St. Sophia's Constantinople . . . 23,000 

Notre Dame Paris 21,500 

Cathedral Pisa 13,000 

Cathedral Vienna 11,000 

Mormon Temple Salt Lake City . . . 8,000 

St. Mark's Venice 7,500 

Spurgeon's Tabernacle .... London 6,000 

Talmage's Tabernacle .... Brooklyn 5,000 

St. James' Methodist Church . Montreal 3,000 

Plymouth Church Brooklyn 3,000 

Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Chiu-ch . New York .... 1,600 

St. John's Methodist Church . . Brooklyn 1,500 

St. Paul's Methodist Church . . New York .... 1,400 



When the boiling point of water is reached, a 
comparatively small amount of heat maintains it. 
Water boiling violently is no hotter than that which 
boils moderately. When water reaches the boiling 
point the fire may be at once reduced. Attention to 
this fact would save fuel in many culinary opera* 
tions. 



A. L. JOHNSTON, 



-DEALER IN — fv® 



Dpy (Seeds, SreeeFies, 



BBlTfi,, ilSlS, 



EADY-MADE - 



J 



JJ 



m 



N 



u, 



^HATS AND CAPS,e^ 



iHARDWARE, f 
CROCKERY, 

^« ¥]lLL«PflPER *NOTIONS, * 8^ 



T'Q)teae©c» f> amdl * dj 



ALSO ACENT FOR 



f . llJ. JeiRg' 6gbegt0S Faiats. 



Hyland & Burns, 

— W-DEALERS IN-w— 

Choice Groceries, Provisions, 

-58 « FLOUR OF ALL KINDS, » 8c- 

BOOTS, SHOES & RaBBERS, 

-«FEED AND MEAL.8^ 

Will try to please all. Goods delivered to any 
part of the village. 

'. ^HENRY W. CEDDES,S- 

Plumber, da? and Steam Fitter, 

ELM STREET, HOOSICK FALLS, N. Y. 



PLUMBING, GAS AND STEAM FITTING 

In a workmanlike manner, on short notice and at fair prices. 



«^^« A FULL STOCK OF ^^^ 

^ater glo6et6, ^ath ^uk6 and ^oiler^, galvanized and 
plain pittin96, ^ipe, etc., 

Kept Constantly on ha.n.d. 



THE ladies' handbook. 78 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES FOE HOUSE- 
KEEPERS. 

1 quart of wheat flour = 1 pound. 

1 quart of- Indian meal = 1^ pounds. 

1 quart of soft butter = 1 pound. 

1 quart of broken loaf-sugar = 1 pound. 

1 quart of powdered white sugar ^l^^^ pounds. 

1 quart of best brown sugar = 1^ pounds. 

10 eggs = 1 pound. 

1 common-sized tumbler = ^ pint. 

1 common-sized teacup = J pint. 

1 common-sized wineglass = ^ pint. 

"Washing Fluid. — One box of refined potash, 
one ounce of salts of tartar, and two ounces of water 
of ammonia. Mix and dissolve in one gallon of boil- 
ing water. One teacup of this to be used with one; 
,half bar of soap. 

Cologne Water. — Cologne spirit one pint, oil 
of meroli one-hailf drachm, oil of rosemary one-third 
drachm, oil of orange two-thirds drachm, oil of cedrat 
two-thirds drachm, oil of bergamot one-third drachm. 

Extract of Lemon. — Oil of lemon, one ounce ; 
alcohol, one pint ; granulated sugar, one ounce ; mix 
all together, and add the grated peel of one lemon. 
Let stand twenty-four hours, and filter. 

Liquid Blueing. — Oxalic acid, one-half ounce; 
soluble Prussian blue, one ounce ; water, one quart. 
Mix thoroughly. 

Furniture Polish. — Mix equal parts of boiled 



74 THE ladies' handbook. 

linseed oil and kerosene oil. Apply well with a 
piece of flannel, and rub well with dry flannel. 

Silver Polish. — One ounce of whiting, one-half 
ounce of water of annnonia, two ounces of alcohol, 
and four ounces of water. 

To Brighten a Zinc Bath-Txtb. — Throw into 
the tub a handful of salt wet with vinegar, and rub 
the tub with a flannel cloth. 

Tooth Powder. — Precipitated chalk one ounce, 
powdered orris root one-half ounce, powdered cam- 
phor one-fourth ounce. 

Finger-Nail Powder. — Pure oxide of tin, 
scented with oil of rosemary and tinted with car- 
mine. 

For Burns. — Equal parts of linseed oil and 
lime water will be found an excellent remedy for 
burns. 

Haik Gloss. — Pure glycerine" four ounces, alco- 
hol one ounce, oil of jasmine two drachms. 

One pound of wood charcoal, when burned, will 
raise from the freezing to the boiling point seventy- 
three pounds of water ; one pound of mineral coal, 
sixty pounds ; and one pound of dry wood, thirty- 
five pounds. 

Frozen Plants may be restored by sprinkling 
them with cold water and setting them in the dark 
for twenty-four hours, in a temperature of not more 
than 50°. 

Cut Flowers should first be dipped in hot water 
to wilt, and then pkced in cool water to revive them. 
They will not wilt as soon the second time. 



THE ladies' handbook. 75 

Sleeplessness may be relieved by laying q, wet 
cloth on the back of the neck, with a dry cloth outr 
side. 

The best temperature for a room is from 66° to 68" 
Fahrenheit. 

TO CAN ALL KINDS OP FRUITS. 
All germs of fermentation are destroyed at a tem- 
perature of about 160° Fahrenheit. To can fruits so 
that they will keep perfectly in all temperatures and 
under all conditions, it is essential that every part of 
the can and its contents should be brought to a 
temperature sufficiently high to destroy the germs 
of ferment, and that the can be hermetically sealed 
while at this temperature. Boiling water gives 
us a temperature of 212° Fahrenheit, many de- 
grees higher than that necessary for the destruc- 
tion of the germ. The use of sugar in the canning 
of fruits is entirely unnecessary ; they keep equally 
well without it. It may, however, be used at pleas- 
ure. With some fruits it assists in retaining the 
natural flavor. The following method insures the 
best results. Always use glass cans; use such as 
may be easily, quichly, and securely covered, and have 
them thoroughly clean. Place the empty cans and 
their covers in a vessel of cold water, and heat them 
to the boiling point. Prepare the fruit, put it into 
a porcelain-lined kettle, heat until it boils up once, 
remove any scum which may arise, and instantly dip 
the fruit into the heated cans. Put the filled can, 
with its cover loosely fitted on, into a vessel of boil- 



76 THE ladies' handbook. 

ing water ; the water should come as near to the top 
of the can as it may and not boil in. Let it boil for 
three or four minutes that every fart may be thor- 
oughly heated ; seal immediately, and remove the 
can. 

If the fruit is not suf3Qciently succulent, water may 
be added to it ; if very juicy, some of the juice may 
be removed. This method of canning fruit is much 
less expensive than where sugar is used, and more 
fruit may be put in the same number of cans. 
Where sugar is used, the same method may be em- 
ployed. 



-f i 






%'l 



