Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



v 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



.". WE MAKE A SPECIALTY /. 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 




Gift of Anne Pixley 



'•&• 



REN'S 



^ 



CO., 

potcasb 

[I8HER8, 



482 CONGRESS STREET, 



PORTLAND, >I A I N i:. 



/ 



( 



. .4<#^i-». -^^ft-/^ ,$r<=4.t/vw:f 

Sunburn, 

Rough, Hard or Irritated 

Skin, 

Chapped Hands, Face and 

Lips, 

PIMPLES, 

Scaly Eruptions, 

Chafing, 

Ivy Poison, 

Bee Stings, 

Mosquito 

and other Insect Bites, 

ITCHINQ, 

Inflamed and Irritated 

PILES, 

SALT RHEUM, 

ECZEMA 

uiiu the tliuuBdiid uLticr attcaione of the Skin, nothing has been found 

its equal. 

AP_ ! „ Cl^iri '^" always be ensured, if after exposure 
rair ^Kin to the sun and rough winds, ladies 
win use 

.-. Hinds* Honey and Almond Cream. 

Gentlemenfind that if used after shaving I .,, n _, .,' 

It relieves all irritations of the skin^ \ All Druggists. 

A. S. HINDS, - . - PORTLAND, MAINE. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



LORING. SHORT & HARMON. 

WHOLESALE AND BETAIL 

BOOKSELLERS SND STATIONERS 

AND DEALERS IN 

PAPER HANQINOS, 

Lancaster Building, opp. Preble House. 

474 CONGRESS STREET, : PORTLAND. 

ANDREW tMihmX, 

DEALEB IN 

wir)t^T?0p ^foves, l\cri)0es, IffGrrlor riecrieps, 

WINTHBOP WROUGHT IBON AND HABYABD CAST IBON FUBHACES, 

Refrigerators, Oil Stoves, and Kitchen Furnishing Goods. 

109 Center Street (Between Free and congress), PORTLAND, ME. 

C. K. PERRY, 

. . Wholesale and Retail . . 

Hatter and Furrier, 

A full line of Hats, Caps, Straw Goods, Qloves, Umbrellas, 

Ladies' and Gent's Fine Furs, 

546 CONGRESS STREET, PORTLAND, ME. 



Potter ji ani ilissnan J|im|ai|tSp 

Elegant Ilall, Library, Piano and Vase Lamps, New Designs in Dinner, Tea 
and Toilet Sets, with rich novelties for Wedding Gifts, etc. 

242 Middle Street, - Portland, Maine. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 5 



GHA8. R. CBESSY. GHAS. F. JOITBS. FBANK O. ALLEK. 



— DEALERS IK — 



piapos, Organs, Sl?eet (n^sic, (^asieal /Her^l^apdise. 

PIANOS: 

Decker Broe., Kranlch & Bach, Ivers & Pond, Blasius & Sons, Vose & Sons, 
Jacob Bros. Mason & Risch Vocalion, Self Playing Organs. Mason & Hamlin and 
Packard Organs. 

538 Congress St. (Opp. Rinas Bros.) POJBTLiAND, ME. 



SIMMONS & HAMMOND, 

: Prescription Druggists, > 

575 Congress St,, corner Qreen Street. 



BEARSE, MaRPHY & G0. 

Wholesale Dealers in 

Hofloiis, Clocks, Jewelrg, Spectacles am Eye Classes. 

Violin Strings, Harmonicas, French Briar Pipes and Smokers' Articles, 
Pocket Cutlery, Stationery, Perfumeries, Druggists' Sundries, &c. Agents for 
the Dueber, Hampden Watch Cases and movements. 

225 1-2 Middle Street, (opp. head of Union St.) 

ZsVm^^'ht. ^ PORTLAND, ME. 

Ladies who suffer from severe Headaches, will find instant 
and refreshing relief after using 

As it is applied to the outside surface, you do not have to derange the 
stomach with nauseating drugs. Pbice 25 Cxs. peb Bottle. 



-PREPARED ONLY BY- 



WALTER I. DREW, Pharmacist, 
Pine Street, Cor. Brackett, - - PORTLAND, ME. 



advertiseme: 



Quince 

P\^ is soothing and protect- 

' ^* ing and may be applied 

K 

IPCP. Quince 

^ is capable of 



ing and may be applied 
to the inflamed akin, 
National BigpentiitOTy. 



capable of exerting a 
calming and soothing in- 
fluence upon inflamed 
Burfaces. 
iVoo iP s Materia Medica . 

Frye's 
Amandine 

Contains the soothing and healing qualities ot the Quince, which is 
recommended by the highest medical authority in the land for the care 
of the skin and complexion. 



jrtlstic liairworr 



OP . EVBRY ■ DESCRIITION 



LOVERING'S PARIS HAIR STORE, 

518 Congress Street, : : PORTLAND, ME. 

E. J. Hhrtvton St. Co.. 



€■^3 CONGRESS ST.. POHTL.KND. THIS. 

Roeea, iinki, SmiUx, «<:. for FuDernls, Weddings and Fi>nl«. 
Fopersl Deeigne a Spect&lly. 



SECOND PARISH 



COOK BOOK 



If you in cooking would excels 
Be sure this book to study well. 
But who to highest art attains 
Does always exercise his brains, 

—MRS. J. W. STEVENSON. 



COMMITTEE : 



Mrs. p. a. Brooks, Chairman, 
Mrs. M. C. McDowei,!,, Mrs. N. S. Kei*sey, 

Mrs. M. E. Merrii.1*, Mrs. M. E. Cousens, 

Mrs. H. D. Skillin. 



REVISED EDITION. 

COPYRIGHTED j886. 



PORTLAND, ME.: 

OWEN, STROUT & CO., PRINTERS. 

1893. '' / 



I 4-1, u 
544 



ADVERTISE M£NTS. 



After 



years 

It Is Just as pure and sweet as 
when first made. It never 
grows rancid or sour, or loses 
Its pure white color. That is 
because It is pure, — because it 
contains only the purest ingredl* 
ents — Justifies its name — 
Century Cream. 

All dru^lsts sell it. 



Fitices, 
35c., 50c., $1.00. 



■ HlliHtST ■ AVARO * 



In any of the valuable 
receipts In this book, where 
fruit flavoring is called (or,tlie 
very best results will be ob- 
tained by using 

FOSS' 

Pure . Fliiorlng . Extracts, 

Uned and recommended by 



erybeciuseof their 

PURITY, STRENGTH and FLAVOR. 

Sdilotterbeck & Foss Co. 

PORTLAND, ME. 



CONTEINTS. 



Soups, . . . . . . . .11 

Fish, ........ 16 

Fish and Meat Sauces, . . . . • 22 

Poultry, ....... 25 

Fowl, . . . . . . . .28 

Game, ........ 28 

Meats, ....... 31 

Vegetables, ....... 37 

Salads, ....... 43 

Side Dishes, . . ^ . . . . 47 

Bread, ....... 56 

Breakfast Dishes, ...... 59 

Puddings, ....... 73 

Pudding Sauces. ...... 95 

Frosting, ....... 136 

Jellies and Preserves, . * . . . 140 

Ices and Creams, . . . . . .144 

Pickles, ....... 148 

Beverages, . . . . . . .157 

Dishes for the Sick, . . . . . 159 

Candy, ........ 161 

Candies Without Cooking, .... 164 

Miscellaneous, ...... 165 



lO ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Ma|NISO|S G. LARRQBEE, 

246 ]«IDDIiH STf^HET, 

PORTLAND, MAINE. 




We make a specialty of Black Silks and Black Dress Goods, and are 
daily receiving all the leading novelties in these goods. 




Mr. C. E. MANTOR 

has charge of our Cloak Department, and we shall try to double 
our sales by having all the leading styles of the season and at the 
lowest cash prices. 




Mr. H. C. BRAY 

has charge of our Basement, and it is always filled with bargains 
and specialties in Housekeeping Goods and Washable Dress 
Fabrics. 




It is useless to mention the fact that we are the sole manufacturers of 
the famous Senator and Bonanza gent's white shirts. 

MANSON Q. LARRABEE. 






SOUPS. 



Beef Soup Stock. 

Take a shank of beef and cut the meat into fine pieces ; take 
out the marrow and put into a kettle ; set over the fire and when 
hot, add the meat and cook until brown ; then add the bones 
and sufficient hot water to cover it ; boil four hours ; strain and 
set away to cool. 

Potato Soup. 

Three potatoes, one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of chopped 
onions, on^ teaspoonful of salt, one-half table-spoonful of flour, 
one-half table-spoonful of butter or drippings, one teaspoonful 
of parsley ; prepare as for mashed, heat milk in double boiler, 
add potatoes to milk. Put back in boiler. Blend fat, thick- 
ened with flour. Add soup, parsley, finely chopped. Strain 
into a tureen. "^ 

Brown Soup. 

Lay the bones from a roast of beef and a roast of mutton in 
the soup-kettle. Cut up one onion, one small turnip, one car- 
rot, one parsnip, and lay in the kettle ; then a blade of mace, a 
stick of cinnamon, two whole cloves, a sprig of parsley, a sprig 
of sage, if you have them green, if not, a teaspoonful of each ; 
now dredge in a cup of flour, a table-spoonful of salt, half of 
pepper, then pour on eight quarts of cold water, and boil five 
hours. Skim carefully when it first boils ; then strain through 



12 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

a sieve, and put> back into the kettle with one cup of sago, and 
boil one hour and a half. Serve with toasted bread. Any 
kind of bones will make this, but beef is the best. 

Chicken Soup. 

Set the liquor, in which two or three fowls have been boiled, 
away to cool. Skim off the fat, and then put it into the soup- 
kettle with one whole onion and a half cup of rice ; boil two 
hours. Just before dishing take out the onion, and put in some 
pieces of cold chicken. 

Tomato Soup. 

One quart can of tomatoes, two heaping table-spoonfuls of 
flour, one of butter, one teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, 
one pint hot water. 

Let tomatoes and water come to a boil. Rub flour, butter, 
and table-spoonful of tomatoes together ; stir this into the boil- 
ing mixture, add seasoning ; boil all together fifteen minutes, 
rub through a sieve, and serve with toasted bread. This bread 
should first be cut in thin slices, buttered, cut into small squares 
place in a pan, butter side up, and browned in a hot oven. 

MRS. TARR. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Cover one quart of green peas with hot water and boil with 
an onion until they will mash easily; mash and add one pint of 
stock or water ; cook together two table-spoonfuls of butter and 
one of flour until smooth, but not brown ; add to the peas and 
then add a cupful of cream or milk ; season with pepper and 
let boil up once. Strain and serve. A cupful of whipped 
cream added the last thing is an improvement, mrs. tarr. 



SOUPS. 13 

Pea Soup. 

Two cupfuls of split peas, boil three hours in two quarts 
of water, season with salt and pepper and a small piece of salt 
pork ; if water boils out, add gradually more, enough when 
strained to make two quarts of soup. Serve boiling hot with 
toasted bread. 

Tomato Bisque No. 1. 

One-half can of tomatoes, scant one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
one pint of hot milk, salt and pepper in the tomatoes. Two 
teaspoonfuls of flour and two of butter, as white sauce ; stir the 
tomatoes until soft, then strain and add this to the sauce, then 
hot milk. c. H. m*d. 

Hock Bisque Soup No. 2. 

One can (large size) tomatoes and one quart of milk; put 
into separate kettles to cook, and while the milk is coming to a 
bo I, season the tomatoes with pepper, salt and a little butter. 
Then strain, put in a pinch of soda to remove the acidity, then 
pour boiling milk into the tomatoes, stirring vigorously till 
mixed. Serve with toasted br^ad. 

MRS. PETFENGILL. 

Mrs. D.'s Fricasseed Oysters. 

Put one quart of oysters on the fire in their own liquor. . The 
moment it begins to boil turn into a hot dish through a 
colander, leaving the oysters in the colander. 

Put into the sauce pan a table-spoonful of butter and when it 
bubbles (don't let it burn) sprinkle in a table-spoonful of flour. 
Let it cook a minute, stirring constantly, then add, mixing well, 
the oyster liquor. Take from the fire and mix in the yolks of 



14 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

two eggs, a little salt and pepper, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, one grating of nutmeg. Beat it well and return to the 
fire for a few minutes, not allowing it to boil. Put toasted 
crackers (or milk biscuit) in bottom of dish, put oysters in the 
same and turn over crackers. 

Lobster Soup. 

One large lobster, chopped fine, one quart milk, one pint 
water, and when boiling add the lobster. Nearly one-half 
pound butter, salt and pepper to taste and one table-spoonful 
flour. Boil ten minutes. mrs. webster. 

Lobster Chowder. 

One quart of milk scalded, three lobsters, two crackers, 
powdered, one-third of a cup of butter. Stir the crackers, 
butter and soft part of the lobster into the boiling milk, 
season with pepper and salt, and cook about three minutes. 
Chop the remainder of the lobster and add to it, cooking 
the whole three minutes more. Serve with toasted cracker. 

Tomato Soup. 

Fry half a small onion in a large sauce pan, with a piece of 
butter half as large as an egg. When the onion is thoroughly 
brown, add a quart of stewed or canned tomatoes, and cook 
fifteen minutes, strain, return the liquid to the fire and add a 
pint of rich soup stock. Melt a piece of butter nearly as large 
as an egg, and stir into it four table-spoonfuls of flour until 
smooth. Add this gradually to the soup. Sprinkle a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of soda in the tureen before the soup is 
served. mrs. sargent. 



SOUPS. 15 

Clam Chowder. 

One-half dozen slices of pork fried brown; one-half dozen 
potatoes pared and sliced ; two onions pared and sliced. Put 
in a kettle, using a layer of each, adding salt and pepper and 
cover with boiling water ; boil about one-half hour. 

Prepare one quart of clams by cutting off the black heads, 
separate the necks and bodies, chop the neck. Remove the 
black part from the bodies ; stir into the potatoes ; cook about 
five minutes. Soak one dozen crackers in one pint of milk 
ten minutes. Put into the chowder and let it come to a boil; 
add a small piece of butter. mrs. hunter. 

Tomato Fish Chowder. 

Fry two slices of pork cut fine •, then one-half can tomatoes 
and cook slow an hour with the pork. Then put in fish a'nd 
potatoes in layers ; shake a little pepper and flour with each 
layer. When the potatoes are nearly done add a quart of 
milk and one dozen crackers split; take the crackers up 
separately. If the pork does not relish add a little salt. This 
requires four pounds of fish and a quart bowl of potatoes. 

MRS. M. R. WOODBURY. 

Soup. 

Take two pounds of veal, and a piece of salt pork, enough 
to season it, cover with water and boil until done ; this is for 
the soup part. 

Nudels for soup. — Two or three eggs should be beaten with 
a little salt ; stir the eggs into flour until you make as stiff a 
paste as you can roll out. Divide the dough into two or three 



1 6 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

parts, and roll each out as thin as possible, the thinner the 
better; flour your rolling pin to make it roll smooth. After roll- 
ing out one crust, leave that upon your board to dry, while you 
prepare another, letting them stand half an hour at least, one 
hour if you have the time, for the drying is important. After 
this, fold each crust in one long roll, and cut off shreds as thin 
as possible. Shake these apart, and let them dry a little, it 
will make them lighter, and prevent them sticking in the soup. 
Cook about twenty minutes. aunt penn woodbury. 



FISH. 



Fish when fresh are hard when pressed by the finger. If the 
flesh is flabby and eyes sunken, the fish is stale. 

Before broiling fish rub the gridiron with a piece of fat to 
prevent its sticking. Lay the skin side down first. 

In boiling, put into cold water, to which add a little salt and 
vinegar, and allow eight minutes to the pound. Serve always 
with a sauce. 

To Fry. 

Dredge with flour or meal, and fry in hot pork fat. Serve 
with sliced lemon. 



FISH. 17 

Baked Fish. 

Stuff the fish with plain bread and butter dressing ; put in a 
pan with a little water, salt, pepper and butter. Baste while 
baking. A fish weighing four pounds will bake in an hour. 
Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and parsley, and serve with 
drawn butter or egg sauce. 

Baked Mackerel. 

Clean the fish, split it down the back. Make a dressing of 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and butter. Moisten 
with hot water ; put this inside the fish, first rubbing with a 
little salt and pepper. Tie a cord around the fish to keep the 
dressing in ; dredge the outside with flour ; stick bits of butter 
over it ; salt and pepper. Place some muffin rings in a 
dripping pan, and lay the fish on to bake. mrs. e. l. 

Brook Trout. 

If small, fry with salt pork ; if large, broil and serve with 
drawn butter. 

2. Wash, drain and split, roll in flour, seasoned with salt; 
have some thin slices of salt pork in a pan, and when very hot 
put in the fish and fry a nice brown. 

Cream Baked Trout. 

Clean the trout, put in pepper and salt, and close them. 
IMace the fish in the pan, with just cream enough to cover the 
fins, and bake fifteen minutes. 



« 



1 8 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Take slices of salmon, and half an hour before cooking, 
sprinkle over them, a little cayenne pepper, salt lemon juice and 
salad oil. Grease the gridiron with a piece of pork, wrap the 
fish in buttered paper to prevent burning. Serve with any fish 
sauce preferred. 

Fish Balls No. 1. 

Take a cupful of salt fish, picked fine, and two eupfuls of 
potatoes, peeled and cut fine ; boil together. When the pota- 
toes are done, mash and add one egg, a little piece of butter ; 
then make into balls. e. j. barbour. 

Fish Balls No. 2. 

One cup of fish, soaked over night ; then add two cups of hot 
boiled potatoes, chopped fine ; make into flat balls and 
dredge on flour, and put into hot fat and brown. m*d. 

Croquettes of Fish. 

Take cold fish of any kind, separate from the bone, mince 
fine ; add a little seasoning, an egg, a very little milk and a 
teaspoonful of flour ; brush with egg, roll with bread crumbs, 
and fry brown in hot lard. 

Frog, Fried. 

Skin well and cook for five minutes in salted water, the hind 
legs only, then throw into cold water to cool and drain ; fry in 
hot fat and serve, garnish with parsley. 



FISH. 19 

Batter for Fried Clams. 

Two eggs well beaten ; two table-spoonfuls of railk ; little 
salt ; one cup of flour ; one table-spoonful of juice of lemon. 

MRS. PETTENGILL. 

Turbot, a la Creme. 

Boil a nice fresh fish, pick out the bones and season with 
pepper and salt ; mix one-quarter pound of flour with one quart 
of milk ; put in four small onions, small bunch of parsley and a 
sprig or two of thyme, salt and one-half a teaspoonful of white 
pepper. Put over the fire and stir till it forms a paste ; take 
off and add one-half pound of butter and yolks of two eggs. 
Mix thoroughly and pass through a sieve, pour some of the 
sauce into a baking dish and add a layer of fish and sauce 
alternately until all is used. Have sauce on top, to which add 
bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake half an hour. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Dry large oysters with a napkin ; season with pepper, salt, and 
broil on a fine wire broiler. Turn frequently, or dip each oyster 
in butter and roll in bread crumbs before broiling. Serve in 
a hot dish with butter on them. 

Oyster Pie. 

Line a dish with puff paste and dredge well with flour ; drain 
one quart of oysters, season with pepper, salt and butter, and 
pour into the dish. Add some of the liquor, dredge with flour, 
and cover with a top crust, leaving a small opening in the centre. 
Bake from three-fourths to an hour. 



20 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Fish Souffle. 

Two cups of white sauce — see white sauce; one cup of 
boiled halibut ; four eggs. Beat the yolks and add to the fish, 
then the sauce ; cool and cut in the whites. Bake in shells or 
a shallow dish twenty minutes. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Take two quarts of oysters, put in a sauce pan and if they 
are fresh, a little salt ; simmer but not boil them. Take out the 
oysters and add to the liquor in the pan a pint of vinegar, a 
small handful of whole cloves, one-fourth of an ounce of mace, 
two dozen pepper corns. Let it come to a boil and when the 
oysters are cold in the jar, pour the hot liquid over them and 
set away in a cool place. 

Halibut a la Poulet. 

Three pounds of halibut steak cut as for boiling, carefully 
remove the bones and skin, sprinkle the fillets with salt, pepper 
and the juice of a lemon ; place on each piece a thin slice of 
onion, cover closely and set away for one-half an hour ; then 
melt two-thirds of a cup of butter in a soup plate, remove the 
onions from the fish and dip each piece into the melted butter, 
roll it up and fasten with toothpicks ; place them each in a 
shallow pan, dredge thickly with flour and bake in a very hot 
oven twenty minutes, until a nice brown. Have ready a rich 
churn butter, or cream sauce, and three hard-boiled eggs ; cut 
the whites into rings, rub the yolks through a strainer over the 
fish. When it is on the platter, then pour gently over all the 



FISH. 21 

cream sauce; serve hot. Flavor the sauce with the juice of 
one-half of a lemon. This makes a very nice dish and very 
easily prepared in less than one hour. mrs. l. 

Clam Pie. 

Clams enough to fill dish ; line dish with crust. Put in one- 
half of the claras, then butter, pepper and a little celery salt ; 
cover with cracker, then remainder of clams, butter, pepper and 
celery salt, cover with a rich crust. Bake one hour. When 
done, put in one cup of hot water through the crust. 

• 

Lobster Cutlets. 

One large lobster, chopped fine. Put two ounces of butter in 
a sauce pan, and let it get hot, stir in one Azr^^teaspoonful 
of corn starch, one pint of milk ; let it boil and cool, then 
add yolks of two eggs, nutmeg, cayenne pepper, salt, little 
mustard and minced onion. Set on the fire and add lobster. 
Stir well together, allowing it to cook for a few minutes. Turn 
into a buttered platter ; spread one-half inch thick and set 
away to cool. Fry in bread crumbs and egg, like croquettes, 
first cutting into chops ; stick a claw into each chop, and serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Boil tomatoes an hour, season with a little thyme. Two bay 
leaves, cayenne pepper, little celery and onion. Then strain 
tomatoes. Put butter into sauce pan, add table-spoonful of 
flour, cup of cream and the strained tomatoes. 



22 ^ SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES 



White Sauce for Fish. 

One table-spoonful of butter, one table-spoonful of flour, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half salt-spoonful of pepper. 
Butter heated until it bubbles, stir in flour, add hot milk by 
thirds, stirring constantly. It should be smooth and glossy. 

Pickle Sauce. 

Add to half a pint of drawn butter sauce, three table-spoonfuls 
of pickled cucumbers, minced fine. 

Melted or Drawn Butter. 

Cut two large spoonfuls of butter into small pieces and put 
into saucepan with a large spoonful of flour, and ten of new 
milk. When thoroughly mixed, add six large spoonfuls of 
water. Shake it over a fire until it begins to simmer, shaking 
always the same way; then let it stand and boil up. It should 
he of the consistency of rich cream and not thicken. 

Fish Sauce. 

Yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and cream ihem with sweet oil, 
mustard, walnut, Worcestershire sauce. Salt, pepper and 
vinegar to taste. Pickles chopped fine is an improvement. 

* MRS. L. 



FISH AND GAME SAUCES. 23 

Tartare Sauce, 

The yolks of two eggs, half a cup of oil, three table-spoonfuls 
of ^vinegar, one of mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar, one-quarier 
of pepper, one of salt, one of onion juice, one table-spoonful of 
chopped capers, one of chopped pickles. Make same as 
mayonaise dressing, adding the chopped ingredients the last 
thing. This sauce can be used with meats and fish both." 

MRS. E. LITTLE 

Hint Sauce. 

Pick, wash and chop fine some green spearmint, and to two 
table-spoonfuls of the chopped mint, add eight table-spoonfuls 
of vinegar, also a little brown sugar. Serve cold with roast 
lamb. 

Drawn Butter. 

Beat one cup of butter and two spoonfuls of flour to a cream, 
pour over this one pint of boiling water; set it on the fire 
and let it come to a boil, cut in two hard-boiled eggs. Serve 

hot. MRS. BRIG(;S. 

Celery Sauce. 

Chop fine two heads of celery and boil one hour ; at the end 
of that time have about a pint and a half of water with it, and 
stir in two spoonfuls of flour wet with cold water. Boil this 
ten minutes and stir in two spoonfuls of butter ; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve. 

Caper Sauce. 

Into a pint of drawn butter stir three spoonfuls of capers. 



24 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Hint Sauce. 

Chop fine half a cupful of mint, and add to it a cup of 
vinegar and a spoonful of sugar. 

Bread Sauce. 

Half a pint of grated bread crumbs, one pint of milk and 
one onion. Boil this until the sauce is smooth, then take out 
the onion and siir in two spoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper. 
Boil up once and serve. 

Oyster Sauce. 

One pint of oysters cut small, boiled for five minutes in their 
own liquor, a cup of milk, a table-spoonful of butter rubbed 
smooth into a table-spoonful of flour, salt and pepper ; boil. 
Serve with boiled turkey. 

Piquant Sauce. 

One small onion chopped fine and fried with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when nearly done add a table-spoonful of 
flour, and cook a minute, then add one cup of stock ; seasoning, 
chopped cucumber, parsley and a little mustard ; boil ten 
minutes and when done add a teaspoonful of vinegar. l. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Stew one-half dozen tomatoes with a little chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper to taste ; strain, and when it commences to boil, 
add a spoonful of flour stirred smooth with a table-spoonful of 
butter. When it boils take it up. 



POULTRY. 25 



POULTRY 



Boiled Turkey. 

Stuff the turkey as for roasting. Baste a thin cloth around 
the turkey, the inside of which has been dredged with flour, and 
put it to boil in cold water with a teaspopnful of salt in it. If a 
large turkey, it will take three hours. Serve with oyster sauce, 
made by adding a cupful of the liquor the turkey was boiled in, 
the same quantity of milk, eight oysters chopped fine ; season 
with minced parsley ; stir in a spoonful of flour wet with cold 
milk, one table-spoonful of butter. Boil up once and turn into 
gravey tureen. 

Potato Stuffing. 

Take two-thirds bread and one-third potatoes, grated, butter, 
size of an egg, pepper, salt, one egg, little sage, and mix all 
thoroughly ; for goose or duck. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

Boil the chestnuts, shell and blanch them, and boil until they 
are soft. Mash flne and mix with a little sweet cream, bread 
crumbs, pepper and salt. For turkey. 

Roast Goose. 

Two ounces of onions, half as much green sage, chopped fine 
one coflFee cup of bread crumbs, a little pepper and salt, the yolks 
of two eggs. Do not fill the goose too much, but leave room to 
swell. Roast from one hour and a half to two hours. Serve 
with gravy and apple sauce. 



26 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Spring Chicken. 

Cut into pieces, season, roll in flour and fry in hot lard, cover- 
ing closely. When done, remove from the pan, pour out nearly 
all the fat and add a cup of cream ; thicken with a little flour, 
season with a little pepper and salt, and pour over the chicken. 

Stewed Giblets. 

Put the giblets in a pan with butter and fry a light brown ; 
add parsley or onion, a little thyme, and thicken with flour ; 
then cover with stock. Boil nearly two hours, then take up the 
giblets. Let the gravy boil a little longer and strain over the 
meat. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Boil until tender ; remove the meat from the bones, keeping 
the white and dark meat separate, and chop fine ; boil the 
liquid until it will jell. Butter a deep dish and place in it a 
layer of the dark meat ; season, and cover with liquid ; then 
a layer of the white, and so on until all is used ; press until 
cold. Hard-boiled eggs sliced thin and placed at bottom, sides 
and top may be used. mrs. hunter. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible, until the meat 
falls from the bones. Chop rather fine, season with pepper and 
salt ; put into a mould a layer of chopped meat, and then a layer 
of hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. Then layers of meat and 
egg alternately until the mould is nearly full. Boil down the 



POULTRY. 27 

liquor left in the pot one-half ; while warm add one-quarter 
of an ounce of gelatine, and when dissolved pour over the meat. 
Set in a cool place over night to jelly. 



Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 

Cut two chickens or old fowl into handsome pieces and 
parboil them in just enough water to cover them ; when they 
are tender take them up and drain them dry. 

Cut a pound of salt pork into slices and fry them brown ; 
take up the pork, dredge the chicken \\ith salt, pepper and 
fiour, and fry a dark brown in the pork fat. When the chicken 
is all fried, stir into the remaining pork fat half a cup of dry 
flour; stir this until a dark brown, then pour over it one quart 
of the liquor in which the chicken was boiled. This liquor 
must be boiling ; season with pepper and salt to taste. Lay 
the chicken in this gravy, and simmer twenty minutes. Garnish 
the dish with boiled rice. mrs. briggs. 



/ 






2S SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 



FOWL. 



After cleaning and singeing the fowl, cut up, breaking everj 
joint; wash the pieces in cold water, then in boiling water. 
Put in a kettle with six thin slices of nice fat pork ; cook with 
water enough to keep from burning, till tender. Chickens 
require about one and a half hours to cook, older fowl an hour 
for each year. Fifteen minutes before sending to the table 
make a dumpling by sifting one pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda and a little salt together. 
Mix quite stiff. Knead slightly and roll not too thin, cut in 
strips and put over the chicken, . stirring the chicken before 
putting in the dumpling. Be careful that the crust does not 
soak in the water ; if it does it will be soggy. Do not lift the 
cover till nearly done. After taking up the dumpling and 
chicken, make a gravy by stirring one heaping spoonful of 
flour mixed in cold water till smooth into the chicken liquid. 
Season with butter, pepper and salt. mrs. s. c. hunter. 



GAME. 



Broiling is the favorite way for cooking game ; lime about 
forty minutes ; butter well and serve on hot dishes. For 
roasting allow thirty minutes. Serve with jelly, garnish with 
slices of lemon, Saratoga potatoes, or water cresses. 



GAME. 29 

Broiled Quail. 

Dress carefully and soak a little while in salt and water; 
split down the back, dry with a cloth and rub them over with 
butter and place on the gridiron over a clear fire, turn often 
and dip in melted butter, season with salt ; prepare a slice of 
thin toast buttered, laid in a hot dish for each bird and lay a 
bird breast upon each slice ; garnish with currant jelly. 

Roast Quail. 

Dress carefully, wipe dry ; tie a piece of salt pork over the 
breast of each bird and put into a steamer over- boiling water. 
Steam twenty minutes, then take them out and remove the 
pork. Put them into the oven to brown, basting often with 
butter. Serve with jelly. 

Roast Wild Duek. 

After dressing, soak them over night in salt and water to 
take out the fishy taste. In the morning put them into fresh 
water, changing several times before roasting. Stuff or not, as 
you like. Serve with currant jelly. 

Stewed Rabbit. 

Skin and clean the rabbit, cut in pieces. Put one-fourth of 
a pound of butter into a stew pan, turn the pieces of rabbit 
about in it until they are nicely browned. Take out the meat, 
add one pint of boiling water to the butter, one table-spoonful 
of flour, one table-spoonful of salt, a little onion if liked ; add 
the meat and stew slowly until it is tender. Serve hot. 



30 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Broiled Venison. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire; when done, pour over two 
table-spoonfuls of currant jelly melted with a piece of butter, 
pepper and salt to season. Eat while hot, on hot plates. 

Potted Pigeons. 

Clean and wash one dozen pigeons; boil and mash eight 
medium sized potatoes, mix with four table-spoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper, a quarter of a teaspoonful of currie 
powder, same of marjoram, half of a small onion chopped 
fine ; add one beaten egg, mix well together and wet with 
water in which celery has been boiled. Stuff each pigeon and 
stand around a pot with one quart of the celery water. Cover 
tightly and steam until a fork can be easily passed into each 
one. Fry six slices of salt pork, take two spiders and divide 
the fat, then lay the pigeons in and turn constantly until a 
delicate brown. Thicken the gravy left in the pot wi^h a half 
table-spoonful of flour. Serve on toast, pouring the gravy over 
each bird. Serve as a course with green peas, currant jelly 
and rice croquettes. 



J 



MEATS. 31 



MEATS 



Rules for Boilingf Meat. 

All fresh meat should be put to cook in boiling water; 
for making soup always put on in cold water. In boiling 
meats, it is important to keep the water constantly boiling, 
otherwise the meat will absorb the water. Be careful to add 
boiling water if more is needed, and remove the scum when it 
first begins to boil. Allow twenty minutes for boiling for each 
pound of meat. The more gently it boils, the more tender the 
meat will be. 

In roasting, put into a hot oven and baste often. 

In roasting beef, it is necessary to have a brisk fire, baste 
often. Twelve minutes is required to every pound of beef. 
Season when nearly done. 

Meats and their Accompaniments. 

With roast beef, horse radish. Boiled turkey, cranberry sauce 
Roast Pork, apple sauce. Roast goose, apple sauce. 
Roast mutton, currant jelly. Wild ducks, black currant jelly- 
Boiled mutton, caper sauce. Fresh salmon, green peas and 
Boiled chicken, bread sauce. cream sauce. 
Roast lamb, mint sauce. 

Beef Stew. 

Cut cold beef into small pieces and put into cold water ; add 
one tomato, a little onion chopped fine, salt and pepper. Cook 
slowly, thicken with flour, and pour over toasted bread. 



32 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

V 

Beef a la Mode. 

Take a round of beef, remove the bone from the middle, also 
all the gristle and tough parts about the edges. Have ready 
half a pound of salt pork cut in strips as thick and long as 
your finger. Prepare a nice dressing as for turkey. With a 
thin, sharp knife, make perpendicular incisions in the meat 
about half an inch apart. Put into them the pork, and work in 
with them some of the dressing. Proceed thus until the meat 
is thoroughly plugged. Put into a baking pan with a little 
water in the bottom, cover tightly and bake slowly four hours ; 
then uncover and spread the rest of the dressing over the top 
and bake until a nice brown. After taking up, thicken the 
gravy and pour over the meat. It should be sliced horizontally. 
It is good either hot or cold. mrs. pettengill. 

Spiced Lamb. 

Boil a leg of lamb, adding to the water a handful of cloves 
and two or three sticks of cinnamon, broken up. Boil four 
hours. To be eaten when' cold. 

New York Stew. 

Take about two pounds of mutton, cut in pieces and put 
into a kettle, cover with water ; when it boils, skim well, add a 
small turnip cut in slices and a couple of onions. About an 
hour before it is done, add two or three tomatoes, also sweet 
and Irish potatoes pared and cut in two. Season with salt, 
pepper and currie powder ; when done, thicken the stew with a 
little flour and serve. Very nice. mrs. little. 



MEATS. 33 

Baked Ham. 

A ham of sixteen pounds to be boiled three hours. Then 
skin and rub in half a pound of brown sugar, cover with bread 
crumbs and bake two hours. 

Boiled Flank of Beef. 

This is a part of the beef that many persons think almost 
useless ; but by being properly prepared it makes an elegant 
dish. Wash the flank, make a dressing as for turkey and 
spread over it, first having salted and peppered it well, then 
roll up and tie. Wind the twine around it several times to 
keep it in place, then sew it in a cloth. Put a small plate in a 
pot and put in the meat ; then potr on about six quarts of 
boiling water and boil gently six hours. When done remove 
the cl6th but not the twine until stone cold ; then cut in slices 
and you will have alternate layers of meat and dressing, •^''his 
is a very nice dish for breakfast or tea. ^^ 

MRS. J. M. S. HUNTER. 

Yorkshire Puddingf. 

One pint of milk, one and a half cups of flour, salt, two eggs. 
Pour off some of the drippings from roasting beef into a pan, 
pour in the mixture and bake in a quick oven. 

Boiled Leg: of Mutton. 

Put on in boiling water with a little salt, boil two and a 
half hours. Make a sauce of melted butter. A piece of 
butter the size of an eggy stir with a table-spoonful of flour, 
then stir into it a pint of boiling water with a table-spoonful of 



34 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

capers. Put into a sauce tureen and garnish the mutton with 
parsley. 

Pot Pie. 

Cut veal, beef or chicken into pieces, put into boiling water 
enough to cover ; boil an hour and season to taste. Make a 
batter of two well beaten eggs, two cups of milk, a teaspoonful 
of baking powder and flour to make a batter. Drop in separate 
spoonfuls while boiling and cook five minutes longer. Serve 
at once. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Cut in nice pieces, season, dip in egg, then in bread crumbs, 
with a little lemon and parsley chopped fine. Have plenty of 
grease in your pan, fry brown on one side, then turn. Make a 
rich, brown gravy in another vessel and serve. Garnish with 
parsley and lemon. mrs. merrill. 

»^ Frizzled Beef. 

Sifcave beef very fine, put into a frying pan when good and 
hot : shake and stir until heated through, season with pepper, 
and just before serving, beat one egg light and stir in. 

Mock Duck. 

Take a round steak ; make a stuffing as for turkey, spread 
the dressing on the steak, roll it up and tie it. Roast from 
half to three-quarters of an hour. 

Minced Liver. 

Cut liver into small pieces and fry with salt pork ; then cut 
both into small bits, nearly cover with water, add pepper and a 
little lemon juice. Thicken the gravy with fine bread crumbs 
and serve. 



MEATS. 35 

Calf's Liver Stewed. 

Cut the liver into small pieces. Into your sauce pan, put 
two onions, sliced fine, a table-spoonful of sage, one of summer 
savory, a little pepper and salt ; then add your liver, cover 
with water and stew for two hours. Just before you serve, 
dredge in a little flour and a piece of butter. 

Fried Chicken. 

Cut the chicken into six or eight pieces and season well with 
salt and pepper. Dip into beaten egg and then into fine 
bread crumbs, in which there is a teaspoonfol of chopped 
parsley for every cupful of crumbs. Dip once more in the egg 
and crumbs, and fry ten minutes in boiling fat. mrs. l. 

Veal Hash. 

Put a teacupful of boiling water in a sauce pan. Stir into it 
an even teaspoonful of flour, wet in a table-spoonful of water ; 
let it boil five minutes, add one-half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
as much salt, two table-spoonfuls of butter and let it keep hot, 
but not boil. Chop the veal fine and mix with half as much 
bread crumbs. Put this into a pan, pour gravy over, simmer 
ten minutes. Serve on buttered toast. mrs. b. 

Sweet Breads. 

Pare, boil and then slice, and broil in butter. 

Veal on Toast. 

Chop the veal as for mutton. Mince and season in the same 
manner. Use a little more water, and boil fifteen minutes; 
dish on toast and garnish with thin slices of lemon. This is a 
nice dish for either dinner or breakfast. 



36 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Tobogsring. 

Take either rump or veal steak and fry with a little butter, 
then put into a dish and set where it will keep hot. Put into 
your pan two or three onions, fry brown, add four or five 
tomatoes, more butter, currie powder, salt, pepper and a little 
sugar. Cook until the tomatoes are done ; make a thickening 
of flour and stir into it; cook one minute longer; turn over 
the hot meat. Serve with boiled rice. mrs. little. 

Mutton Pie. 

Cover the bottom of a dish with bread crumbs ; then a layer 
of cold mutton cut in very thin slices, a layer of tomatoes 
sliced thin, season with salt, pepper and small bits of butter, 
and so on until the dish is full, or you have sufficient, having 
tomatoes and bread crumbs on top ; cover and bake about forty 
minutes. Serve hot. mrs. pettengill. 

Beef Heart. 

Wash it carefully and stuff it nicely with dressing as for 
turkey, roast it about one hour and a half, and serve with the 
gravy thickened and seasoned well. It is very nice hashed. 

Tripe. 

For two pounds of tripe use three eggs, beaten with two 
table-spoonfuls of milk. Cut tripe in pieces to serve, and dip 
in batter, fry in hot pork fat a delicate brown. 



VEGETABLES. 37 



VEGETABLES. 



Vegetables should be put to cook in boiling water ; never let 
them stand after coming off the fire ; put them in a colander 
over a pot of boiling water, if you have to keep them back 
from dinner. 

Peas, beans and asparagus, if young, will cook in thirty 
minutes. Should be boiled in well salted water. 

Cauliflowers should be wrapped in a cloth when boiled, and 
served with drawn butter. 

Lima Beans. 

Shell, wash and put into boiling water with a little salt. 
When tender, drain and season them, and dress with butter or 
cream, and simmer a few minutes. 

Stewed Celery. 

Take off the coarse green outer leaves ; cut in small pieces 
and stew in a Uttle broth. When tender, add rich cream, a 
little flour and butter, enough to thicken the cream. Season 
with salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg if liked. 

Succotash. 

Boil lima beans and sweet corn in separate kettles. When 
done, cut the corn from the cob, allowing twice as much corn 
as beans. Put them together and let them boil. Just before 
serving, add a little butter, pepper and salt. 



38 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK, 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Cut tomatoes (not too ripe) into slices ; put a layer of them 
in an earthern baking dish, then a layer of bread crumbs over 
them. Salt and pepper, and plenty of butter, another layer of 
tomatoes, and so on until dish is full. Bake one hour. 

Scalloped Tomatoes, 

Butter an earthern dish, then put in a layer of fresh tomatoes, 
sliced and peeled and a few rinds of onion (one large onion for 
the whole dish) ; then cover with a layer of bread crumbs, a 
little butter, salt and pepper. Repeat this until the dish is full. 
Bake in quite a hot oven. 

Potato Puflf. 

Take two large cups of cold mashed potatoes, and stir into it 
two table-spoonfuls of melted butter, beaten to a cream before 
adding anything else. Add two eggs, beaten very light, and a 
teacupful of cream or milk. Salt to taste. Beat all well ; pour 
into a deep dish and bake in a quick oven till nicely browned. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Boil macaroni till tender, butter the bottom of a dish, put in 
a layer of macaroni, then a layer of grated cheese, season with 
butter, pepper and salt ; another layer of macaroni, and so on, 
finishing with a layer of cheese. Cover with milk and bake 
forty minutes. 

Asparagus. 

Cook only the tenc' r, green stalks; wash and tie with twine; 
cut them equal lengths and boil with a little salt until tender. 
While the asparagus is cooking, bind in a bundle, prepare 



VEGETABLES. 39 

some nicely toasted bread, lay the asparagus on the bread and 
season with butter, salt, a little pepper, and pour over it a little 
cream previously scalded. 

Cooked Celery. 

Wash the roots thoroughly, boil twenty minutes ; drain and 
when cool enough to handle, peel and cut into pieces of equal 
length; put into a small baking dish and add just enough warm 
milk to prevent drying up while cooking; season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Cover the top with grated bread or cracker, 
on which, put pieces of butter; then bake until a delicate 
brown. If you prefer, mix grated cheese with bread crumbs. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

One pint green corn ; cut grains open and scrape the corn 
from the cob. One large teacup of cream or milk, one heaping 
table-spoonful of flour, one table- spoonful of butter, four well 
beaten eggs, salt to taste. Bake in an earthern dish half an 
hour. Serve hot at dinner with the meats, mrs. e. little. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Boil until tender, cut in small pieces; half a table-spoonful of 
flour, a little salt and butter, chopped parsley and one cup of 
milk ; put all together in a sauce-pan and stew about twenty 
minutes. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Boil them until half done, then peel and split them once, 
take a tin dish and lay them in, sprinkl^hhick with sugar and 
a little pepper, plenty of butter ; place in the oven and finish 
cooking. 



40 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Peel and cut in slices, pack in a pudding dish in alternate 
layers with force meat, made of bread crumbs, butter, salt, 
pepper and a little white sugar ; spread thickly on each layer 
of tomatoes and when the dish is nearly full, put tomatoes last 
with a good lump of butter on each slice. Dust with pepper 
and a little sugar, strew with dry bread crumbs and bake 
covered half an hour, then remove the cover and bake brown. 

Corn Oysters. 

One-half can sweet corn, one egg, well beaten, three 
table-spoonfuls of cream, one-third cup of flour, one teaspoonful 
salt ; fry on hot griddle well buttered. mrs. tarr. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over them and peel ; have ready an 
earthern dish, into which lay a layer of tomatoes (whole), then 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and cracker crumbs, then another 
layer of tomatoes and sprinkle again with salt and pepper. Cut 
a spoonful of butter into small pieces and lay on the tomatoes 
and cover with cracker crumbs ; bake thirty minutes. 

MRS. briggs. 

Macaroni, Boiled. 

Break up and wash a pint bowl full of macaroni and put in 
a shallow basin and cover with cold water ; set this basin into 
another of warm water and place on the fire ; after fifteen 
minutes, add a pine of milk and a teaspoonful of salt; let it 
cook ten minutes longer, then add a spoonful of butter and 
cook five minutes longer, then dish. Be careful not to break 
the macaroni in dishing. mrs. merrill. 



VEGETABLES. 4I 

Macaroni in Cream. 

Wash a pint of macaroni and put into a basin with cold 
milk ; set this in another basin with some water and let it stand 
on the fire twenty minutes ; take off and when it gets cold, 
stir in one teaspoonful of salt and three well-beaten eggs ; turn 
this into a deep dish and bake twenty minutes. 

Macaroni with Cheese. 

Break one-quarter of a pound of macaroni in three-inch 
pieces, and put into three pints of water with a little salt. 
Boil twenty minutes, or until soft. Drain in a colander, and 
pour cold water through it to cleanse and keep it from sticking. 
Put in a shallow baking dish with grated cheese, and fill up 
with hot milk, and add a piece of butter. mrs. brooks. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Slice either raw or cold boiled potatoes very thin, put one 
quart of them in a baking dish in layers, with even teaspoonful 
of salt, two-thirds of a teaspoonful of pepper and two and 
one-half ounces of butter; pour half a pint of cream or milk 
over the whole; (if milk is used, more butter is required.) 
Cover the potato with grated bread, a little salt and pepper, 
and small bits of butter; bake until brown. mrs. kelsev. 

Succotash. 

One-half pound salt pork, put into three quarts of water to 
boil ; twelve ears of corn, one quart of shelled beans ; cut the 
corn from the cob, put the cobs into the water while the pork 
is boiling and boil about half an hour; take them out and put 
in the shelled beans and boil about an hour; then add the 



42 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

corn, boil fifteen or twenty minutes longer, add one-quarter 
pound of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 

GRANDMA BLISS. 

Scalloped Onions. 

Take quarter of a peck of onions after the skin has been 
removed, parboil them and when they are sufficiently cool to 
handle, slice them into a deep baking-pan with fine bread 
crunibs; butter, pepper and salt to taste, using half a pint of 
bread, and quarter of a pound of butter, and put alternate 
lajers of bread, butter and seasoning with layers of onions 
until the pan is full, then pour over it half a pint of vinegar, 
and bake for two hours in a moderately heated oven. 

MRS. THOMPSON. 

Vlrg^inia Style of Cookingf Cabbagfe. 

Take a medium size head of cabbage and cut out the whole 
heart, making a space large enough to insert a dressing of 
about a pint, which is made of five hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine and mixed with a large cup of fine bread crumbs, two 
table-spoonfuls of butter, a little pepper and salt. Tie the 
head up securely by placing two or three large cabbage leaves 
over the place where it is filled and put around the whole of it 
a cheese cloth or any thin material, and boil for an hour, or 
until perfectly soft. Have a sauce of drawn butter such as is 
made for boiled lamb, and slice the cabbage at the table^ using 
the sauce over each slice. Of course the cabbage is soaked in 
cold water first. mrs. t. 



SALADS. 43 



SALADS. 



Mayonnaise Dressingf. 

One medium sized hot baked potato, two yolks of eggs, one 
teaspoonful of mustard, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter 
teaspoonful cayenne, one pint oil, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 
two teaspoonfuls lemon juice. c. h. m*d. 

Chicken Salad Dressing^. 

Take two hard-boiled eggs, put the yolks into a small bowl 
and mash fine, adding the yolks of two raw eggs, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one large table-spoonful of dry mustard, a very little 
cayenne pepper; stir this well, always one way. When well 
mixed add a very little sweet oil, stirring all the time. After 
this is mixed put in more oil, drop by drop, until you have used 
a third of a bottle ; then add a large spoonful of vinegar or 
lemon juice, then more oil as before, using in all two-thirds of a 
bottle, then another spoonful of vinegar. When well mixed it 
must be very light and a nice color. Set on the ice two or 
three hours, and not more than twenty minutes before using the 
salad mix it and prepare for the table by putting with the meat 
about half the dressing ; stir it up well, and then pour over the 
meat one wine-glass of best vinegar ; stir this well ; it will turn 
the chicken very white. If it requires more salt add it now. 
Place the chicken in the centre of a fiat dish ; lay the lettuce 
or celery around the meat, then with a spoon put the rest of 
the dressing on the lettuce. mrs. l. 



44 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Chicken Salad Dressing. 

Four table-spoonfuls of butter, one of flour, one of salt, one 
of sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of mustard, a speck of 
cayenne, one cupful of milk, half a cupful of vinegar, three 
eggs. Let the butter get hot in a saucepan, add the flour and 
stir until smooth, being careful not to brown ; add the milk 
and boil up. Place the saucepan in another one of boiling 
water ; beat the eggs, salt, pepper, sugar and mustard together 
and add the vinegar; stir this into the boiling mixture, and 
stir until it thickens like soft custard, which will be in about 
five minutes. Set away to cool, and when cold, place in the ice 
chest. This will keep two weeks. mrs. brooks. 

Chicken Salad, No. 2. 

Boil tender four good sized chickens; when cold cut off the 
white meat, and chop rather coarse. Cut off the white part of 
the celery and chop in the same manner. To two quarts and 
a pint of the chicken allow one quart and a pint of the celery 
and a spoonful of salt. Mix well together, and then stir in 
part of the dressing. Shape the salad in a flat dish, and pour 
over the remainder of the dressing. Garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs, beets, and" the tops of the celery. 

Boiled Salad Dressing for Lobster. 

Two table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, one of sugar, one of 
mustard, one of salt, one-quarter table-spoonful of cayenne, 
one teacupful of milk or cream and one-half cupful of vinegar. 
Mix the oil, salt, sugar, mustard and cayenne very smooth ; add 
three eggs well beaten ; add vinegar and milk. Cook in 
boiling water until it thickens like custard. Very nice. 

H. P. MERRILL. 



SALADS. 45 

Dressing for Lobster Salad. 

Take four eggs, one teaspoonful of pepper, one of salt, two 
of mustard, and five table-spoonfuls of butter ; beat together. 
Chop the lobsters and sprinkle them with dry mustard and 
pepper, and add a piece of butter the size of an egg\ then pour 
over the lobsters the sauce scalding hot. 

Lobster Salad. 

Chop finely six small lobsters, two bunches of celery, two 
cggSj one teaspoonful of sugar, one of black pepper, a very 
little red pepper, one teaspoonful of currie powder, one 
teaspoonful of mustard, three-quarters of a cup of vinegar, half 
a cup of milk, one lemon (grate and squeeze), butter size of an 
^SS' ^^^^ ^^^ together, then pour over the lobsters and stir it 
well ; put on a platter, and garnish with the green tops of the 
celery and the legs and fans of the lobsters, mrs. webster. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Boil two bunches of asparagus, with one quart of water and 
one table-spoonful of salt, twenty minutes. Take up and drain 
on a sieve. When cold cut off the tender points and arrange 
them on a dish. Pour on the cream salad dressing. 

MRS. TARR. 

Tomato Salad. 

Pare ripe tomatoes (which should be very cold) and cut them 
in slices. Arrange them on a flat dish. Put a teaspoonful of 
Mayonnaise dressing in the centre of each slice. Place delicate 
pieces of parsley around the dish, and a sprig here and there 
between the slices of tomatoes. mrs. tarr. 



46 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil potatoes, peel and cut them in thin slices, and when 
cold mix with fiqe olive oil. After standing for a little while 
add salt, pepper, and chopped onion, and mix all by shaking 
it up, as using a spoon would break the potatoes. Add good 
vinegar. Parsley chopped is an addition. 

Salmon Salad. 

For a pound of salmon garnished with lettuce, make a 
dressing of one teacupful of vinegar, butter half the size of an 
^gg^ one teaspoonful of dry mustard, one-half a teaspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, two eggs. When cold add one-half a cup of cream, 
and pour all over the salmon. 

Tomato Salad. 

Peel a medium sized tomato, and serve on a lettuce leaf, 
cover with mayonnaise dressing. 

Chopped Salad. 

One small cabbage, chopped fine ; take half a cup of vinegar, 
half a cup of water, butter size of an English walnut, one-third 
of a cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of mustard wet with water, 
half a teaspoonful of pepper, salt to taste. Scald all these 
together in a dish placed in hot water. When hot add a beaten 
^gg' Do not boil. When just at the boiling point pour it over 
the cold chopped cabbage. Keep in a cold place. 

MRS. COLE. 



SALADS. 47 

Freneh Mustard. 

One small onion sliced, cover with vinegar, let it stand two 
days, pour off the vinegar, and add one teaspoonful each of 
cayenne and salt, one table-spoonful of sugar, and mustard 
enough to thicken. Mix thoroughly and let it come to a boil. 

Lobster Salad. 

To one large lobster take one egg, butter size of a walnut, 
vinegar enough to moisten mustard, pepper and ^alt to taste. 
Beat raw egg, mustard, pepper, salt and vinegar together and 
put on the stove and let it thicken ; then mix thoroughly with 
the lobster. mrs. t. 



SIDE DISHES. 



A Hint for the Table. 

Sew a coarse flannel over the bowl of a broken goblet. Wet 
the flannel, and sprinkle as much flax seed, or canary seed over 
it as will stick. Set this in a glass dish of water in a warm 
room; as the water soaks into the flannel add more. In two 
weeks you will have^a beautiful ornament for the table. 



48 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Philadelphia Croquettes. 

The formula for their preparation is for a large pair of fowls, 
weighing twelve pounds, or two pair weighing seven pounds 
the pair. Select those having the largest amount of breast meat. 

Boil a sweetbread for three minutes, put it into cold water, 
and after an hour take it out and drain. 

Boil a calf's brain for five minutes and set aside to cool. 

Boil half a pint of cream with the same measure of bread 
crumbs, sifted clean of crusts and lumps. 

Boil the chickens till tender in just enough water to cover 
them ; when the broth Is cold skim off all the grease, then boil 
it down to half a pint. 

Remove from the chicken the skin, fat and tendons; cut off 
all the brown meat and reserve it for family use the following 
day, either to fricassete; stew with giblets or to mix with an 
equal amount of roast veal and make into breakfast croquettes, 
to be eaten hot. Chop the white meat with the sweetbread 
and brain, quite fine, first adding a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, the lightly grated outer yellow rind, and the juice of a 
large lemon, one heaped teaspoonful of salt and half a 
teaspoonful each of powdered mustard, mace and white pepper. 

Cut fine two shallots or one small onion, fry with four ounces 
of butter, add a table-spoonful of Rour and stir until smooth ; 
put it quickly into a saucepan, add the chopped meat, the 
broth jelly and the soaked bread crumbs ; stir briskly, and as 
soon as hot add the yolks of four eggs, stir a little and take off 
the fire. 

When cool enough to handle, mix and chop it lightly, spread 
on a platter and set into the ice box to stiffen. After an hour 
or two, mix and mould as follows : 



SIDE DISHES. 49 

Sprinkle a moulding-board with sifted cracker-dust ; take a 
heaping table-spoonful of the meat paste and form the 
croquettes in the shape either of a roll or a small sugar loaf; 
the latter being generally preferred. For this use a deep, 
pointed wine-glass, lightly buttered. There are, also, tin 
moulds made expressly for this use. 

When all are done dip them, one by one, into well-beaten 
eggs and roll in finely sifted bread-crumbs ; after an hour, dip 
and roll again and set into the ice-box till wanted. 

Lastly, in enough hot lard to float them, fry to a rich» 
golden-brown color, turning them with great care, while 
cooking, to keep them shapely. A convenient thing for this 
purpose is the flat frying-basket of tinned wire. Serve on a 
napkin and garnish with sprays of parsley and water-cress. 

The above will make about one and a half dozen croquettes. 

MRS* D» 

Devilled Eggs. 

Five hard-boiled eggs, butter the size of an English walnut, 
one-half pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, heaping 
table-spoonful of grated cheese, small spoonful of dry mustard, 
one spoonful of olive oil, salt, red and black pepper, and as 
much Chili Colorado as you can take up on the end of a knife. 
Mix the yolk, mustard, oil and condiments together in a bowl, 
with the back of a silver spoon. Put into a chafing-dish, the 
milk and butter with which the corn starch has been mixed, the 
white of the eggs cut up very fine, a little salt, stir constantly, 
until boiling hot. In the meantime let someone spread thick, 
over slices of butter toast, the paste; over that scatter the 
cheese, over this pour the hot white sauce and serve. 



50 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Devilled Lobsters. 

Extract the meat from the lobster and mince it fine ; reserve 
the coral. Season highly with mustard, cayenne, salt and 
pungent sauce. Stir until it is well mixed. Put in a porcelain 
saucepan covered with hot water, just enough to keep it from 
burning. Rub the coral smooth, moistening with vinegar until 
it is thin enough to pour easily, then stir into contents of 
saucepan. Boil up once before the coral and vinegar are 
added. Next stir in a heaping table-spoonful of butter. When 
it boils again remove immediately. mrs. pettengill. 

Curried Lobster. 

Prepare the lobster as for stew ; when it comes to a boil add 
a mixture of a heaping teaspoonful of flour, and half a 
teaspoonful of Indian curry, mixed with cold water. Let this 
boil eight minutes, then serve. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw veal, chopped fine ; one-quarter of a 
pound of salt pork, chopped fine ; one cup of powdered cracker, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of pepper, three of salt, one 
table-spoonful of sugar ; mix well, press into a dish and bake 
two hours. Very nice sliced cold for tea. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

One pound of cheese cut in small bits, a small piece of 
butter, a very little salt and pepper, one egg; stir into the egg 
a large teaspoonful of made mustard. Melt the cheese and 
butter in a pan, stirring while it melts ; add the egg, give it 
one stir and pour it over hot toast. Have the dish it is put in 
very hot. mrs. e. l. 



SIDE DISHES. 51 

Vermicellied Eggs. 

Boil eggs fifteen minutes ; separate whites and yolks. Cut 
whites fine, warm with cream or milk, butter, salt and pepper, 
and spread over toasted slices of bread ; press yolks through 
a fine strainer over the top. An egg to a person and one over. 

Baked Eggs. 

Beat whites to a stiff froth, spread in a shallow dish or platter, 
drop yolks gently on the top. Bake until the white becomes 
slightly brown ; season with a little butter, pepper and salt 
when ready to serve. mrs. daniels. 

Coddled Eggs. 

One-quarter of a cup of milk scalded, one egg, one teaspoonful 
of butter, a speck of pepper. Stir until it becomes of the 
consistency of cream. Spread on hot toast and serve at once. 
One egg for a person. 

Mystery. 

Take corned beef, boil until tender, set it away to cool in the 

liquor; squeeze out all the juice you can and chop not very 

fine ; boil one or two eggs hard, put the meat in a bread pan 

with the eggs between and press ; slice. 

MRS. prince. 

Ham Paste. 

Two cups of chopped boiled ham, four hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped; add a little vinegar, one teaspoonful of mustard, 
a small piece of butter. mrs. prince. 



52 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Devilled Ham. 

One pint boiled ham, chopped fine, with a good proportion of 
fat, one teaspoonful of dry mustard, one table-spoonful flour, 
half a cup of boiling water. Press, and when cold cut in slices. 

ROSE ABBOTT. 

Omelet Souffle. 

Beat together the yolks of four eggs and two spoonfuls of 
sugar ; then beat to a froth the whites of eight eggs, and stir in 
the yolks and sugar. Flavor with half a teaspoonful of bitter 
almond. Turn into a buttered dish and bake twelve minutes. 
Serve instantly. 

Broiled Sardines on Toast. 

Broil good sized sardines on a toaster, and lay them on slices 
of toasted bread; butter and salt. Serve hot. A dainty dish 
for luncheon or tea. MRS. daniels. 

Creamed Lobsters. 

Four small lobsters (chopped not very fine), heat one pint of 
milk, melt two table-spoonfuls of butter, add two 
table-spoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of black pepper and a bit of red pepper. Mix this 
smoothly, and pour into the scalded milk and stir until it 
thickens like a cream. When it is cool add the juice of one 
lemon, stir in the lobster. Put in a hot oven and brown. 
Serve hot. 

Little Pigs in Blankets. 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper. Cut fat bacon in 
very thin slices, wrap an oyster in each slice and fasten with 



SIDE DISHES. 53 

little wooden skewers. Heat the frying pan and put each 
oyster in separately. Cook fast, long enough to crisp the 
bacon — about two minutes. This is a nice relish for lunch or 
tea. The pan must be very hot before the pigs are put in, and 
then care must be taken that they do not burn. 

MRS. WATERHOUSE. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Mince veal fine. Mix one-half cup of milk with one 
teaspoonful of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg ; cook 
until it thickens, stir into the meat, roll into balls, dip in egg with 
a little milk stirred in, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Chop the lobster very fine ; mix with pepper, salt, bread 
crumbs and a little parsley. Moisten with cream and a small 
piece of butter. Shape with your hands, dip in egg^ roll in 
bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. MRS. webster. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Cook the chicken in hot water, with an onion, four cloves 
and chopped parsley. Cut the meat very fine and season with 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of celery salt, 
cayenne and white pepper. Take one pint of meat, 
one-half pint of cream, one spoonful of butter, two of flour, one 
of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter of 
nutmeg, a few drops of lemon, one-half an onion. Celery and 
pepper to taste. Scald cream with onions, add salt, nutmeg 
and pepper to flour, melt butter ; when bubbling add flour and 
strain in cream, by thirds, beat well till glossy, then add the 



54 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

meat. Sprinkle a tin with crumbs, and lay on one spoonful to 
a croquette. Wet the hands in cold water and keep them 
moist ; roll into balls and set away, cream slightly ; then roll in 
eggs mixture, one egg, two spoonfuls of milk and one of water ; 
then in crumbs. Always use bread crumbs for frying. 

Potato Omelet. 

Put into a stew pan with enough boiling water to cover them, 
four pounds of potatoes of good size, and cool for half an hour. 
Drain off all the water and mash the potatoes until smooth and 
light. Now add a teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful 
of pepper, one teaspoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley, a few drops of onion juice, and one-half 
gill of hot water. Put one teaspoonful of butter in a frying 
pan on the fire. When the pan is hot and butter melted, press 
the prepared potatoes through a colander into the pan and 
smooth the service over lightly. Cover the pan and cook 
until omelet is brown, which will be in about twenty minutes, 
fold over and turn on a hot dish. 

Ham Omelet. 

Take a plain omelet, and just before turning one half over 
the other, sprinkle over it some finely chopped ham. Garnish 
with small slices of ham. 

Omelet. 

One egg to a person, beat them separately ; to the yolks add 
one spoonful of milk for an egg, a little salt and pepper. Put 
the whites into the yolks just before putting into a buttered 
spider, shake while cooking; when the bottom gets brown, set 
it in the oven to lightly brown, then double like a turnover. 
Put on a hot platter and serve immediately. MRS. m'dowell. 



SIDE DISHES. 55 

Omelet. 

Allow one egg to each person , stir together the yolks, half a 
powdered cracker, two table-spoonfuls of milk, a little salt and 
pepper. Stir these ingredients quickly into the whites, which 
have been beaten to a froth, and turn into a hot buttered 
spider. Shake while cooking. When brown, fold, put on a hot 
dish and serve immediately. Bits of cold steak or ham may be 
added to the omelet and fry in small cakes. 

Baked Eggs. 

Butter a deep dish, break in six eggs, sprinkle on salt, 
pepper, bits of butter, and bake. mrs. frye. 

Escalloped Corn. 

Prepare same as oysters, using either green or canned corn, 
and cracker crumbs. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Butter a deep dish; put in a layer of cracker crumbs, butter, 
salt and pepper, then a layer of oysters; add cracker crumbs, 
butter, salt, pepper, one-quarter teaspoonful mace and oysters 
alternately until the dish is nearly full, having the last layer of 
the crumbs. Fill the dish with milk and bake about an hour 
and a quarier. mrs. s. b. kelsey. 

Salmon Thimbles. 

One can salmon, picked over and minced fine, one cup of 
stale bread crumbs, one-quarter cup of cream, three eggs. 
Season with salt, cayenne, chopped parsley and lemon juice, 
(one teaspoonful). Mix and pack in a mould or cups. Steam 
or bake thirty minutes, or until firm, turn from the moulds and 
serve hot. Serve with a white sauce. See sauces. 



56 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 



BREAD. 



Three things are indispensable to success in good bread 
making : Good flour, good yeast, and watchful care. 

Bread should be put in rather a hot oven. An hour is the 
usual time allowed for baking. 

A loaf should rise one hour in the pans before putting in the 
oven. 

Yeast. 

Take two good sized potatoes, pare and grate them raw, add 
one-half a teacupful of white sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a 
little ginger ; pour over this one-half a pint of boiling water, in 
which one table-spoonful of hops has been boiled. When cool 
add one-half cup of yeast. Save a little each time to begin 
anew. 

Biscuit. 

Into one quart of sifted flour put three heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and a pinch of salt; mix together while dry, 
then rub into it a little piece of lard a little larger than an egg. 
Mix with cold sweet milk or water, roll thin, cut with tin cutter, 
bake quickly. Send to the table as soon as done. 

Bread. 

Dissolve half of a yeast cake in two quarts of warm water ; 
add one large teaspoonful of salt ; mix with flour to make a 
thick batter, and let it rise over night. In the morning add 



BREAD. 57 

one-half a cup of lard and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, knead 
in flour until very smooth, put it back in the bread-pan and let 
it rise again, cut into loaves and put into the baking-pans, 
let it rise a short time before baking, mrs. b. p. laughlin. 

Graham Bread. 

One-third flour, two-thirds graham meal, a little sugar and 
salt, mix with warm water or part milk, one-quarter of a yeast 
cake to a loaf of bread ; do not mix very stiff. Knead or cut 
with a knife in the morning, put into baking pans, let it rise 
again and bake. mrs. c. 

Graham Biscuit. 

One pint of flour, one pint of graham, one-half yeast cake, 
quarter of a cup of molasses, a little salt, a table-spoonful lard, 
warm water to make a stiff batter. In the morning roll and 
cut into biscuits; rise three-quarters of an hour before baking. 

KATIE. 

French Biscuit. 

One-half a cup of yeast, or half a compressed yeast cake, 
one cup of milk, and mix in sufficient flour to make a stiff 
batter. After rising a few hours add one egg, one table spoonful 
of sugar, one-third cup of butter. Knead these altogether, let 
it rise again, then cut into rolls, and after rising a third time, 
or until they are quite light, bake. These are very nice. 

MRS. COLE. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups of Indian meal, one cup of rye meal, one-half cup 
of flour, two cups of sweet milk, one cup of sour milk, one-half 
cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda. Boil three hours. 

MRS. R. 



58 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Parker House Rolls. 

One quart of flour, one pint of milk (boiled). When cool add 
half a yeast cake, and butter size of an egg. Let it rise over 
night; in the morning knead ten minutes; let it rise until 
afternoon ; then knead again and cut out ready to bake. Butter 
each one and fold over. Let it rise again, and bake twenty 
minutes. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

Two cups of Indian meal, one cup of flour, two cups of sweet 
milk, one cup of sour milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one 
teaspoonful saleratus and a little salt. Steam about four hours. 

MRS. WEBSTER. 

Brown Bread. 

One and a half cups of corn meal, one and a half cups of 
graham flour, one and a half cups sour milk, one and a half cups 
warm . water, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of soda and a little salt. Steam three hours ; 
serve at table hot. carrie. 

Lewiston Brown Bread. 

Three cups of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two cups of graham, two cups of Indian 
meal, half a cup of molasses. Steam three hours. 

Toffus Bread. 

Two cups sweet milk, one cup of sour, two cups Indian meal, 
one cup of flour, one-half cup of molasses, a little salt, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus. Steam three or four hours. 

MRS. s. B, K, 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 59 



BREAKFAST DISHES 



Entire Wheat Muffins. 

One pint of milk, one table-spoonful of melted butter, one 
table-spoonful sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one scant quart of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder (heaped) sifted through 
flour. Butter pans and heat hot ; put in the dough and bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. mrs. wm. d. little. 

Indian Drop Cakes. 

Three cups of meal, one cup flour, four cups of milk, two eggs, 
two table-spoonfuls molasses, and two teaspoonfuls of soda. 

MRS. B. 

Home Breakfast Cakes. 

One cup of sweet milk, one table-spoonful of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one of soda, two and a 
half cups of flour. Bake in a quick oven. mrs. briggs. 

Corn Cakes. 

One cup of Indian meal, one cup of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, small piece of butter (melted), one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one table-spoonful of sugar, 
and a little salt. k. d. c. 

Graham Rolls. 

Two cups of graham flour, one cup of white flour, two cups 
of milk, or milk and water, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, one-half cup of molasses, small 
piece of butter (melted), and a little salt. k. d. c. 



6o SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Raised HufBns. 

One pint of sweet milk (warmed), small piece of butter, 
one-half cup of yeast, a little salt ; mix soft with flour ; in the 
morning add one-half cup of sugar, one egg, saleratus if 
needed. mrs. breen. 

Muffins. 

Two eggs, three cups of sweet milk, four cups of flour, 
one-half cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda. mrs. breen. 

Augusta's Indian Cake. 

One large cup of milk, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, two 
eggs, butter one-talf the size of an egg, one cup of Indian 
meal, one and a half cups of flour, two small teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one of soda, and a little salt. Beat well; bake 
quickly. Very nice. mrs. l. 

Graham Gems. 

One pint of sour milk, one eggy one spoonful of sugar, beat 
well ; one teaspoonful of soda, good fresh graham flour to make 
a stiff batter ; bake in gem pans with a very quick oven. 

German Toast. 

Beat two eggs with a little salt, thoroughly ; add one cup of 
milk, soak stale bread in this mixture- and fry brown on both 
sides in a hot buttered spider. mrs. hunter. 

Corn Rolls. 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one cup of milk, one cup of corn 
meal, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of soda and two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 6l 

Corn Cake- 
Two cups of white corn meal, one cup of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, a small piece of butter, one 
pint of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one egg. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Cream Waffles. 

One pint of sour cream, with one teaspoonful of soda in it ; 
add flour to make rather a stiff batter. To be split and 
buttered hot. 

Waffles. 

One pint of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, thrfce eggs, one and one-quarter cups of 
milk, one table-spoonful of butter, melted. Mix in the order 
given ; add the beaten yolks of the eggs with the milk, the 
melted butter and the whites last. Serve with butter, syrup or 
caramel sauce. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Two coff"ee cups of sour milk, or butter-milk, one teaspoonful 
of soda, dissolved in a little hot water, and flour enough to 
pour. Grease the griddle with a piece of fat salt pork, and fry 
the cakes a light brown. 

Rice Cakes- 
Make with sour milk, as directed above, and add two well- 
beaten eggs, one cup of boiled lice, and one teaspoonful of salt. 
They require a longer time to fry than the plain do, but are 
very nice. 



62 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Morning Gems. 

Two eggs beaten a little, three table-spoonfuls of baking 
powder, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, two cups of milk, butter 
the size of an egg, salt, flour to make a thin batter. Bake in 
hot gem pans twenty minutes. Delia. 

Corn Fritters. 

Two eggs, one cup of flour, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one cup of 
can corn, a little salt. Fry. mrs. c. 

Graham Muffins. 

Four cups of graham flour, two eggs, one table-spoonful of 
sugar, two table-spoonfuls of cream of tartar and one of soda, 
with enough milk to make it about like fritter dough. To be 
baked in gem pans, first heated quite hot before the gems are 

put in. MRS. COLE, 

Indian Meal Muffins. 

One cup of yellow corn meal, one cup of flour, one-half cup 
of sugar, one eggy butter the size of an egg, a little salt; 
dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in a cup of sour milk ; stir 
briskly and drop into muffin pans, already heated. 

A Breakfast Relish. 

Take a teacupful of cheese, cut up into small bits, and put 
it into a frying pan with a cupful of milk ; when it boils well 
and the cheese is nearly melted, add a little pepper, mustard 
(only a small pinch), and salt to taste. Roll three Boston 
crackers to a powder, and add them, with a piece of butter half 
the size of an egg ; stir quickly for a few minutes, turn out 
upon a platter well heated. MRS. i«. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 63 

Pop Overs. 

Two cups of milk, two cups of flour, two eggs, bake in 
muffin pans. mrs. kensell. 

Southern Corn Bread. 

One pint of cooked grits, two cups of corn meal, two eggs, 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one-half pint of milk, two 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

MRS. BROOKS. 

German Puffs. 

Two cups of milk, two cups of flour, three eggs and a little 
salt. Bake quickly, in gem pans. 

Graham Biscuit. 

One pint of sweet milk, one-half a cup of butter, one-half a 
cup of sugar, two eggs, flour enough to make stiff, and a 
spoonful of baking powder. 

White Muffins. 

One teacupful of milk, three cups of flour, one-half cup of 
sugar, two eggs, butter size of an egg and three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

Muffins. 

One egg, one-half cup of sugar, one and a half cups of milk, 
piece of butter half the size of an egg^ two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and flour to stiffen. Bake in gem pans. 

Corn Gems- 
Two cups of corn meal (white), two cups of flour, two cups 
of sweet milk, two eggs, three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar. Bake 
in gem pans. Carrie. 



64 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Pop Ovftps. 

One cup of flour, one cup of milk, one egg. The secret of 
their success is in baking them in a moderate oven. 

MRS. COLE. 

Muffins. 

One quart of milk, one egg, one spoonful of butter, two 
spoonfuls of lard, one cup of yeast, and flour enough to make a 
batter a little thicker than griddle cakes. Put to rise over night. 

Sallie Lund Gems. 

One egg, two table-spoonfuls of melted butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, two cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake fifteen minutes. mrs. russell. 

California Biscuit. 

One-half cup of sugar, two cups of milk, two eggs, butter the 
size of an egg, one quart of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
of cream of tartar ; bake in muffin rings. 

Buns. 

One cup of yeast, one cup of sugar, three of milk, and stir it 
to a thick batter. When raised, add one cup of butter, one of 
sugar, teaspoonful of soda, nutmeg and currants. Mix as for 
biscuit, stand until light ; let it rise again until after making 
into biscuit. mrs. h. p. Merrill. 

French Toast. 

Three eggs, beat well and add one-half teacupful of milk. 
Dip into this mixture, slices of bread and fry them in butter 
until slightly brown. Use baker's bread. Serve very hot. 

MRS. J. L, 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 65 

Sally Lunn. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg, three table-spoonfuls of 
sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, salt ; bake very slowly. Instead 
of two cups of flour use one of flour and one of corn meal for 
corn cakes. santa Barbara, cal. 

Virginia Waffles. 

Take one pint of warm^ thinly made corn meal mush ; stir 
into it a quarter of a pound of butter, one-half pound of flour, 
the beaten yolks of five eggs, one-half pint of cream or good 
rich milk, and one-half teaspoonful of salt; have the waffle 
irons very hot, grease them plentifully with lard, and when 
ready to bake, put in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder that 
is thoroughly mixed with a table-spoonful of flour, and stir in 
lastly the beaten whites of the eggs, that must be whipped to a 
stiff froth before it is needed. Only half fill the irons, leaving 
room for the waffles to rise. Bake very quickly, and butter 
them while hot, before going to the table. Very fine white 
corn meal is always the best for such cakes, mrs. Thompson. 

Rye Cakes. 

Two cups rye meal, one cup flour, two cups sour milk, one 
cgg» one table-spoonful molasses, one teaspoonful soda. 

Miss. C. M. PATTEN. 

Muffins. 

One tumbler of milk, two tumblers of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one egg, two 
great-spoonfuls of sugar; dissolve the saleratus in a little 
boiling water, with a small piece of butter, miss c. m. patten. 



66 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Journey Cake. 

Two cups of white corn meal thoroughly scalded with boiling 
water, salt ; add milk to make as thick as muffin dough. Fry 
in cakes on fritter pan slowly. Serve hot ; split and butter. 
Very nice when cold, toasted and covered with boiling milk. 



PIES. 



Summer Mince Pies. 

One cup of raisins chopped fine, one nutmeg, two cups of 
water, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, two cups of sugar, butter 
size of an ^gg^ one-half a cup of vinegar, eight crackers rolled 
fine. Cook well together before baking. 

Lemon Pie. 

Take one lemon, one cup of sugar, three fresh eggs, one-half 
cup of milk, one large teaspoonful of butter and one of flour. 
Save the whites of two of the eggs and two table-spoonfuls of 
the sugar for frosting. Rub the sugar, flour and butter 
together, squeeze in the juice of the lemon, beat the eggs and 
add them ; then put in milk. Bake in a slow oven. Have the 
frosting ready to put on as soon as the pie is cooked. Put 
back into the oven until the frosting browns. 

MRS. B. p. LAUGHLIN. 



PIES. 67 

Mince Heat. 

Two pounds of beef boiled ; when cold, chop fine, one pound 
of suet, minced fine, five pounds of juicy apples, pared and 
chopped ; two pounds of raisins stoned ; two pounds oi sultana, 
two pounds of currants, one-half pound of citron, three 
table-spoonfuls of cinnamon, two of mace, one of cloves, one of 
fine salt, one nutmeg (grated), three pounds of brown sugar, 
one-half gallon of sweet cider. Mix all together well. 

Apple Pie. 

Make a syrup of one cup of white sugar and a little water. 
Put into it quartered apples enough for a pie, and cook until 
soft, but not broken. Put the apples and syrup into the plate 
with some little pieces of butter, flavor with nutmeg, and bake 
in a quick oven until the crust is a light brown. k. d. c. 

Date Pie. 

One-half pound of dates, stew and sift fine ; one pint of milk, 
two eggs, and sugar if needed. Bake in an under crust. 

MRS. T. 

Pastry for Tarts. 

Three cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, two-thirds cup of 
sweet milk, heaping teaspoonful of Royal Baking Powder, a 

little salt. E. H. BONNEY. 

Lemon Pie. 

Two lemons chopped fine, without the rind, four eggs (reserve 
the whites for frosting), two cups of sugar, one table-spoonful 
of corn starch, scant two cups of sweet milk ; mix all together. 



68 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Use the whites of the eggs, with two table-spoonfuls of white 
sugar, for frosting ; put this over the pie after it is baked, and 
set in the oven to brown a little. 

Mock Mince Pie. 

Four crackers, one cup and a half of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, the juice of two lemons, one cup of water, one cup 
of chopped raisins, two-thirds of a cup of butter, two eggs, well 
beaten and stirred in the last thing. Spice to taste. 

To Chop Suet. 

Sprinkle flour over it while chopping, which will prevent the 
pieces from adhering. 

Minced Meat. 

One bowl meat, two bowls of apples, one-half bowl of raisins, 
one-half bowl molasses, one pound brown sugar, butter the size 
of an eggy one nutmeg, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, one 
table-spoonful of cloves, heaping table- spoonful salt, vinegar, if 
the apples are not tart. mrs. webster. 

Cocoanut Pies. 

One scant cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, yolks of five 
eggs, whites of two eggs, one heaping cup flour, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little 
hot water. (Making two pies to be split open.) Cocoanut 
filling : one grated cocoanut, to one-half this, add whites three 
eggs, well beaten, and one cup powdered sugar, and put 
between the layers. To the other half, add four table-spoonfuls 
powdered sugar and put on top. The cocoanut milk added to 
the mixture between the layers is very nice. 



PIES. 69 

Tart Crust. 

One cup lard, one table-spoonful sugar, three table-spoonfuls 
water, white of one egg ; beat the egg, sugar, lard and water 
together, add flour enough to make a paste. 

MRS. CHAS. WALKER. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

One cup chopped rhubarb, one cup sugar, one egg, a little 
salt; makes one pie. Pour hot water over the rhubarb and 
drain, before chopping. 

Lemon ,Pie. 

One teacupful of sugar, one egg, one table-spoonful of melted 
butter, juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of boiling 
water, one table-spoon of corn starch, dissolved in a little water. 
Stir corn starch in boiling water. Makes one pie. 

Lemon Pie- 
Juice and rind of two lemons, two apples grated, two crackers 
powdered fine, two cups of sugar, yolks of six eggs ; all well 
mixed, and bake in a rich under crust. When done, frost with 
the whites of the six eggs and one cup of sugar; put in oven to 
brown. Makes two pies. mrs. e. little. 

Orange Pie. 

Two oranges, four eggs, eight table-spoonfuls of sugar, 
two-thirds of a tumbler of milk ; beat yolks and sugar, add juice 
and milk ; bake in under crust. Frost with whites of the eggs 
and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Brown slightly. 



70 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Abby's Lemon Pie- 
One lemon, one cracker, one cup of sugar, one egg ; squeeze 
juice from lemon and chop the rest ; pound the cracker and 
mix with the lemon ; beat the egg, and mix all together, with a 
little melted butter, table-spoonful of water and a little salt. 
Bake between two crusts. mrs. e. 

Orange Pie. 

Grate two oranges, the peel of one ; one cup of sugar, one 
cup of water, a little salt, four eggs (the yolks of three and one 
whole one), two table-spoonfuls of corn starch ; the corn starch 
and sugar to be mixed together. mrs. l. day. 

Cream Pie. 

One cup of sugar, one-quarter cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, one and a half cups of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

Cream for the same — One large cup of milk, one-third 
cup of sugar, one-fourth cup flour, one egg ; beat together and 
boil until it thickens, and flavor to taste. mrs. trott. 

Lemon Pie, No. 1. 

Grate the rind of one lemon, press out the juice, yolks of 
three eggs, one cup sugar, two table-spoonfuls of corn starch, 
two-thirds of a cup of cold water, and salt to taste. 

Frosting. — Whites of three eggs and two table-spoonfuls of 
sugar. 



PIES. 7 1 

Lemon Pie, No. 2. 

Grate the rind of one lemon, press out the juice, one .cup of 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, one table-spoonful of corn starch, 
scalded in one cup of milk. Frosting same as No. i. 

Lemon Pie. 

Two large table-spoonfuls of corn starch mixed with cold 
water. Pour t)n this three cups of boiling water, butter the 
size of a small egg, two cups of sugar. Three eggs, after 
cooling, a little salt, juice of two large lemons, rind grated, add 
one-half cup of cold water, five eggs, when frosted, with one-half 
cup of sugar added makes two pies. mrs. latham. 

Cream Pie. 

Three eggs, one pint of milk, two- thirds cup of flour, one cup 
of sugar. Flavor to taste. (Bake between two crusts.) 

MRS. L. DAY. 

Puff Paste for Pies. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of butter and one-half cup of 
lard ; cut the butter and lard into the flour ; mix soft with ice 
water. mrs. h. p. merrill. 

Lemon Pie. 

Three eggs, juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of boiling 
water, one cup of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of corn starch, small 
piece of butter. Pour the boiling water over the grated rind 
and juice of the lemon, then wet the corn starch with a little cold 
water and stir into the boiling water. Let it boil up a few 



72 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

minutes, then add the sugar and a small piece of butter. After 
it cools, add one whole egg and the yolks of two. 

Frosting. — Whites of two eggs and sugar to taste. 

Flavoring. mrs. s. colesworthy. 

Squash Pie- 
Take winter squash, boil soft, and strain it through 
A sieve or colander, and add thereto, 
For every pint of squash, of milk the same ; 
Or what is better still, a pint of cream. 
Beat four eggs well ; add cinnamon for spice — 
Nutmeg is very good, though not as nice. 

Strain through a sieve, and thus remove 

Whatever there may be 
To ofifend the eye or palate 

Of yourself or company. 

A crust then prepare in a deep plate or dish. 

Bake well, and when cold, 'twill be all you can wish. 

AUNT PENN WOODBURY. 



PUDDINGS. 73 



PUDDINGS. 



steamed Puddingy. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of milk, flour 
to make a batter, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spices; steam 
four hours. If two or three eggs are used, steam three hours. 

MRS. m'dowell. 

Apple SsLgo. 

Six peeled apples, one cup of sago, fill the dish with water, 
add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of cinnamon and bake two hours 
in a moderate oven. If it dries up, add a little water. Serve 
with sugar and cream. mrs. m'dowell. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

One large cupful of tapioca, three pints of water, one cupful 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon 
extract, three pints of pared and quartered apples. Soak the 
tapioca over night ; put in a double boiler and cook until it is 
clear. Then add sugar, salt and lemon, and then the apples. 
Turn into a buttered dish and bake one hour. Serve with 
cream and sugar. mrs. t. 

Mock Indian Pudding. 

A pint basin full of either bread or cake, soaked until soft in 
a little milk ; one cup of molasses, one-half teaspoonful each of 



74 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

nutmeg, cloves, cassia and mace; cut up two apples, and cover 
the whole with one quart of milk, a piece of butter the size of 
^^ egg- Bake three hours in a moderate oven. mrs. cole. 

Orange Pudding:. 

Four oranges cut up fine; put one and a half cups of sugar 
over them, three table-spoonfuls of corn starch, four eggs, one 
quart of milk ; scald the eggs and corn starch together, and add 
a little salt. When cool pour over the oranges and stir. Take 
the whites of three of the eggs, beat them^ and add two 
table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. e. j. barber. 

Katie's Pudding:. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, eight table-spoonfuls of white 
sugar, flavor with vanilla, one-half box of Cox*s gelatine. 
Have the yolks beaten up well with the sugar. Then take your 
quart of milk, and after putting in the gelatine, place in a tin 
dish and set it in a pot of boiling water. Continue to stir until 
the gelatine is dissolved and the milk looks as if it would boil. 
Then stir in briskly the sugar and beaten yolks, flavor with 
vanilla. When it is somewhat thick, take the dish out of the 
water and commence putting in the whites, which have been 
previously beaten to a froth. Don't stir them in, but dip your 
spoon up and down. As soon as thoroughly mixed, pour into 
the mould, cool a little and place on ice. mrs. j. little. 

Judgfe Peters' Pudding:* 

Three-quariers of a box of gelatine, two oranges, two lemons, 
six figs, nine dates, two bananas, ten nuts of any kind ; dissolve 
the gelatine in one half pint of cold water one hour ; add then 



PUDDINGS. 75 

one-half pint of boiling water, the juice of two lemons and two 
cups of sugar ; strain and let it stand until it commences to 
thicken. Stir into this all the fruit cut into small pieces, and 
let it harden. Pour into a mould. carrie. 

Apple Snow. 

Eight large apples made into sauce, strain through a wire 
sieve ; add then the beaten whites of two eggs, two cups of 
sugar, and beat to a light cream ; to be eaten with a custard 
made from the yolks of the two eggs and one pint of milk. 

MRS. COLE. 

Royal Cream. 

One quart of milk, one-third of a box of gelatine, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, three eggs, vanilla ; put the gelatine into the 
milk and let it stand half an hour. Beat the volks well with 
the sugar and stir into the milk, set the kettle into a pan of hot 
water and stir until it thickens like soft custard. 

Cream Pudding: Sauce. 

One cup of powdered sugar, one ^gg^ one-third of a cup of 
cream or milk, Beat the white of an ^gg to a stiff froth, then 
add the yolk and the sugar, and beat well. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon, and add the cream the last thing. This 
sauce is nice for light puddings. mrs. b. 

Roman Cream. 

Boil one box of Cox's gelatine in a quart of milk, beat yolks 
of six eggs with one cup of sugar and a little salt, and add to 
milk. After straining, cook like soft custard. Let it stand 
while beating the whites to a stiff froth ; add the whites and 
cool in moulds. Serve with sugar and cream, mrs. cousens. 



7 6 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Snow Puddingr. 

Half a package of gelatine, whites of three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, juice of three lemons; soak the gelatine in one cup of 
cold water one hour, then add one and a half cups of boiling 
water, then the sugar ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, pour all 
together, turn into a mould and let cool. Make a custard of 
the yolks of the eggs and one pint of milk ; sugar to taste. 
Pour on the pudding. c. moulton. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One-half of a box of gelatine soaked in a very little water 
twenty minutes ; add three-quarters of a cup of pulverized sugar, 
one table-spoonful of vanilla, pour boiling water to make a 
cupful, and strain. Stir into whipped cream. Pour into a dish 
lined with sponge cake. MRS. hunter. 

Delmonieo Pudding. 

One pint of milk put on to scald, three eggs, beat yolks ; 
dissolve three table-spoonfuls of corn starch and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar in a little milk. Stir all in scalded milk. 
After it thickens pour into a dish, beat the whites, put on the 
top and set in the oven to brown. Use one teaspoonful vanilla 
to flavor. ^,„^ 

MRS. RUSSELL. 

Banana Pudding. 

Cut the bananas in slices, and add a rich, soft custard. 



. PUDDING3. 77 

A Dish of Snow. 

Select juicy apples, pare and core them, stew in clear water 
until soft, strain through a sieve, sweeten to taste with 
powdered sugar, and spread, when cold, in a deep glass dish. 
To every apple allow the white of one egg; beat the whites to 
a stiff froth, allowing one table-spoonful of powdered sugar to 
each eggy and pour over the apples. Any flavoring may be 

used. MISS JOSSELYN. 

Choeolate Whips. 

One quart of milk, one ounce square of Baker's chocolote, 
one generous half cupful of sugar, six eggs, and a little salt. 
Scrape the chocolate fine and put it in a small frying pan, with 
two table-spoonfuls of sugar and one of boiling water. When 
dissolved, add it to a pint and a half of the milk, which should 
be hot in the double boiler. Beat the eggs and the remainder 
of the sugar together; add the cold milk, and stir^ into the 
boiling milk ; stir constantly until it begins to thicken, add the 
salt and set away to cool. Season one pint of cream with 
two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and one-half teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Whip to a stiff froth. When the custard is cool, half 
fill the glasses with it, and heap the whipped cream upon it, or 
serve in one large dish with whipped cream on top. 

MRS. TARR. 

Italian Cream. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, soaked until soft in a little 
cold water ; pour on one pint of boiling water ; the juice and 
grated rind of either an orange or lemon, as the taste prefers ; 
place it in a cool place until hard. Make a soft custard of three 



78 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

yolks of eggs, a pint of milk, lemon or vanilla flavoring. Make 
frosting of the whites of the eggs and half a cup of powdered 
sugar. Take the gelatine and cut it into little one-half inch 
squares. Place these pieces in a clear glass dish, cover them 
with the custard, and over all place the frosting. If you wish 
a more fancy looking dish, color part of the frosting with 
chocolate, placing a spoonful of the white and brown side by 
side. Little pieces of deep red jelly here and there also adds 
to the beauty. It is a very nice and ornamental dish for the 
table. ...■■' MRS. COLE. 

Tapioca Cream. 

After soaking three heaping table-spoonfuls of tapioca in one 
cup of cold water, for one hour ; put it in a quart of hot milk, 
boil ten minutes, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, one-half 
cup of sugar, and boil five minutes longer; take it from the fire, 
flavor with lemon, then stir the whites briskly in, after first 
beating them to a stiff froth. mrs. cole. 

Amber Pudding:. 

Soak half a box of gelatine in one-half pint of cider for 
twenty minutes; add another one-half pint of cider and cook 
until dissolved. Add another one-half pint of cider and 
sweeten to taste ; put upon ice until the consistency of liver, 
then cut in the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Put into the mould, and again place upon ice. 

Custard for Puddings. 

Use the yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk and one cup of 
sugar, and make a soft custard, flavored with vanilla. 

MRS. J. M, S, HUNTER. 



I. 



PUDDINGS. 79 

Orange Jelly. 

Put two-thirds of a box of gelatine into one cup of cold 
water. Let it stand three-quarters of an hour, and add one 
cupful of boiling water. Peel the yellow off from one-dozen of 
oranges, squeeze and add two cups of sugar to the juice. 
Turn over this the gelatine, and strain. Mould, mrs. f. d. 

Roman Cream. 

One-half of a box of gelatine dissolved in a little water, one 
cupful of sugar, two eggs, one quart of milk, salt and flour. 
Cook like custard. Eat without sauce. mrs. e. l. 

Indian Pudding:. 

r 

Into four cups of scalding milk stir two-thirds of a cup of 
meal, with one table-spoonful of rye meal ; then add one cup 
of chopped suet, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, salt, cinnamon 
and ginger to taste ; pour into pudding dish, and pour two cups 
of cold milk on top. Bake three hours, very slowly at first. 

MRS. PETFENGILL. 

Grandpa's Indian Pudding. 

. One quart of milk, one egg, three teaspoonfuls of Indian 
meal, molasses, spice, salt to taste, butter size of an egg, 

MRS. DANIELS. 

A Simple Berry Pudding:. 

In a buttered baking dish lay small slices of bread (baker^s 
bread preferable), then a layer of berries (huckle, blue or 
strawberries), little butter and sugar. Add another layer of 



8o SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

bread, then berries, and so on until the dish is filled, berries 
coining on the top. If they are canned berries, there may be 
juice enough ; if fresh, use water for moisture. Eat with or 
without a sauce. mrs. d. 

Dandy Pudding. 

Make a custard of oAe quart of milk, yolks of four eggs, 
two table-spoonfuls of corn starch, one-half cupful of sugar ; 
pour into a dish to cool, flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites 
of the four eggs to a stiff froth, with two teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
Spread on top the custard, and brown in the oven. 

Gelatine Dessert. 

One ounce of gelatine, one quart of milk ; soak the gelatine 
in the milk half an hour, then put it over the fire, stirring 
gently until it boils. Beat the yolks of three eggs with seven 
table-spoonfuls of white sugar, and stir into the boiling milk. 
When cooked take from the fire and add the whites of the eggs, 
well beaten. Flavor with vanilla. 

Prince Albert's Pudding. 

Beat to a cream one-half pound of butter, and mix with an 
equal weight of fine white sugar. Add to these, first, the yolks, 
then the whites of five eggs, which have been thoroughly beaten 
separately ; throw in lightly one-half pound of flour, and one- 
half pound stoned raisins. Put these ingredients, well mixed, 
into a buttered mould, or floured cloth, and boil three hours. 
Serve with sweet sauce. mrs. haggett- 



PUDDINGS. 8 1 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Make a good biscuit crust, and roll out about one-quarter of 
an inch thick, and cut into two cakes, the same size and shape ; 
spread one over lightly with melted butter, and lay the other 
over it. Bake in a hot oven. When done they will fall apart. 
Butter them well. Mix the berries with plenty of sugar, and 
set in a warm place until needed. Spread the berries and cake 
in alternate layers, having berries on top, and over all spread 
whipped cream, or charlotte russe. The juice that has run from 
the berries can be sent to the table in a tureen, and served as 
cut. 

» Ambrosia. 

Grate a cocoanut, peel a pineapple, and cut into small pieces, 
put a layer of cocoanut into your dish, then a little sugar, a layer 
of pineapple, and sugar over that, and so on till the dish is full. 
It must be prepared several hours before wanted for the table. 
Oranges and bananas can be substituted, or all used together. 
An icing made of the whites of eggs and a little sugar makes 
it a very pretty dish. mrs. l. 

Coffee Jelly. 

One-half of a box of gelatine soaked in about a cupful of 
cold water for one hour ; add a pint of strong hot coflfee ; add 
one cupful of sugar. When dissolved, strain and put into the 
moulds and put upon ice. Serve with whipped cream. Very 
nice. MRS. hunter*. 

Roman Cream. 

One quart of milk, boiled in a double kettle, with one-half a 
box of gelatine. Then beat the yolks of six eggs with one 



82 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

cupful of sugar, and stir into the boiling milk as for soft custard. 
Set into cold water and stir a few minutes to cool it. Leave it 
in the water while you beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth. Stir this into the custard, flavor with vanilla and mould. 

K. D. CLARKE. 

Pineapple Pudding:. 

Yolks of five eggs beaten, and one-half pound of grated 
pineapple and a good cupful of sugar, a little salt, and nearly a 
cupful of boiled cream. Set this into a kettle of boiling water 
and stir until it begins to thicken ; set into an ice cream freezer, 
and when cold add one-half pint of whipped cream ; put into a 
mould until cold, and serve with cream. • 

Whips- 
One quart of cream, one pint of milk, two lemons, the peel 
of one grated, vanilla to taste, sugar ; whip until stiff, and fill 
glasses. MRS. m. 

Frosted Rice Puddlngr. 

One teacupful of rice, boiled very soft in a quart of milk ; 
add a piece of butter, salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, three 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated peel of one lemon ; 
pour into a pudding dish, beat the whites of the eggs with eight 
table-spoonfuls of sugar ; add the juice of the lemon, brown in 
oven and eat cold. mrs. m. 

Poverty Puddingy. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup 
of sugar, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one cup 
of raisins, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spices, flour to make 
as stiff as cake. Steam three hours. mrs. l. 



PUDDINGS. 83 

Apple Merangue. 

One dozen good sized apples, cut in quarters, with two cups 
of sugar, a lemon cut into small pieces ; stew them on the back 
side of the stove for two or three hours, taking care not to 
break the apples. A very little water is required. When done 
it will be a deep rich color. Set it away to stiffen. Make a 
custard of the yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, a little 
lemon; a frosting of the whites of three eggs, with ten tea- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. When the apples are quite cold, 
pour on the custard putting the frosting on top. 

MRS. COLE. 

Harvard Puddingy. 

One pint of flour, one-half cup of butter, one half cup of 
sugar, one cup of milk, yolks of two eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, and one of cream of tartar, and the grated rind of one 
lemon. 

SAUCE FOR THE ABOVE PUDDING. 

Whites of two eggs, with the juice of one lemon, and one 
and a half cups of powdered sugar. mrs. cole. 

Cherry Puddingy. 

Two eggs, one cup of milk, flour to make a stiff batter, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and as many cherries as can be 
stirred in. Serve with cherry sauce. 

Rhubarb Pudding. 

Made in same way as berry pudding, with stewed rhubarb. 
A delicious and simple dessert in the spring and summer. 

MRS. D. 



84 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Steamed Fruit Puddingy. 

One cup of suet, chopped fine, one cup of chopped raisins, a 
little citron, one cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cin- 
namon and cloves. Steam three hours good. 

SAUCE FOR THE ABOVE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, and beat to a 
cream ; one table-spoonful of flour, mixed with one pint of 
water, boil and pour on the butter and sugar while hot, and 
mix all together. Flavor to taste. mrs. p. s. nickerson. 

Frozen Puddingr* 

One large pint of milk, one cup of silgar, one-half cup of 
flour (scant), two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of gelatine and one 
quart of cream, one small cup of granulated sugar, (extra). 
Beat the eggs, sugar and flour together, and stir into the boiling 
milk. Cook twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the 
gelatine while boiling. When cold add the small cup of sugar 
and cream ; freeze ten minutes, then add one pound of candied 
fruits, cut into small pieces. mrs. trott. 

Honeycomb Puddingr* 

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg (melted), the yolks of eight eggs, one cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, spice to taste, flour enough to 
make a thin batter; bake an hour or more, then beat the 
whites of the eggs to a froth, and spread on top ; return 
to the oven to brown. Eat with lemon sauce. mrs. e. 



PUDDINGS. * 85 

Spanish Cream. 

Make a soft custard of one quart of milk and six eggs. Dis- 
solve one-half of a box of gelatine in one-half pint of milk, and 
add to the custard while hot ; pour into a mould, and set in a 
cool place. To be eaten with sugar and cream. mrs. e. 

Berry Pudding. 

One cup of sweet milk, one-third of a cup of molasses, one 
egg, one scant teaspoonful of soda, three and one-half cups of 
flour, one quart of berries. Steam three hours. To be eaten 
with a sweet sauce. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Two cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, one egg, one- 
half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar. Wet with milk until as thick as cake. Steam three 
hours. Be sure and keep covered all the time, or it will not be 
light. 

Taylor Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one of sweet milk, one of chopped 
suet, one of chopped raisins, four and one-half of flour," one 
teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, and all kinds of 
spice. Steam four or five hours. 

Sauce. — One-half spoonful of flour, piece of butter as large 
as the bowl of the spoon, one cup of sugar; mix all well 
together, and pour on two-thirds of a pint of boiling water. 

MRS. S. H. COLESWORTHY. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

• Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in as much water as will 
cover it, four ounces of grated chocolate in one quart of milk, 



86 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

and sugar enough to sweeten it ; then boil the milk, chocolate 
and sugar together for five minutes ; add the gelatine and boil 
five minutes longer. Stir constantly until it boils. When 
boiled, flavor with vanilla, and pour into a mould to cool. 

Sauce. — Yolks of three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, 
and flavor with lemon. Cook it over the steam of the tea 
kettle, and stir often. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, 
and drop over the top. mrs. fickett. 

Garfield Pudding:. 

Boil one pint of milk, add two even teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch, dissolved in a little milk; sugar to taste. Beat the 
whites of two eggs and stir in while hot. Make a custard of 
the yolks and a pint of milk ; pour over the pudding when 
cool ; little salt and vanilla. mrs. m. 

English Puddingr* 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
one cup or chopped raisins, three and a half cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of different kinds of spice. 
Steam three hours. 

Cocoanut Puddingy. 

Soak one cup of cocoanut in one pint of milk, then boil. As 
soon as it boils, add one pint of cold milk, thickened with one 
powdered cracker, a little butter, salt, three beaten eggs, lemon 
and sugar to taste. Frost the top with the whites of the eggs 
and one cup of powdered sugar. Bake the pudding until firm 
in the centre. When done frost and put in the oven to brown. 

MRS. FICKETT. 



PUDDINGS. 87 

Snow Pyramids. 

Beat to a stiff foam the whites of one-half dozen eggs, add a 
small teacupful of currant jelly, and whip all together again. 
Fill as many saucers as you have guests half full of cream, 
dropping in the centre of each saucer one table^spoonful of the 
beaten eggs and jelly in the shape of a pyramid, mrs. tarr. 

Snow Pudding. 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in a pint of boiling water, 
add the juice of one lemon and two cups of sugar; when nearly 
cold, strain and add the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Beat the whole together well and put in a glass dish. 
Take the yolks of three eggs and one pint of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of corn-starch, flavor with vanilla and cook as for soft custard. 
This is to be put on ice for three hours until it jellies, then pour 
soft custard around and serve separately. mrs. hunter. 

Tapioca Pudding:. 

Pare and core eight large apples, put them into a well buttered 
pudding dish, fill where the core was taken out with sugar, 
cover them with one cup of pearl tapioca, soaked over night in 
cold water ; put one-half cup sugar over the tapioca and fill the 
dish with cold water. Bake two hours. Sweet sauce. 

MRS. HAGGETT. 

Pancakes. 

Beat three eggs very light, add one-half pint of milk, one 
table-spoonful of melted butter, one cup of sugar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda and oneteaspoonful of cream of tartar, mixed 
with flour enough to make a batter. Flavor with nutmeg or 
vanilla and serve hot with the following sauce: One cup 



88 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

powdered sugar beaten into one-half cup of butter until white 
and creamy. Then add three table-spoonfuls of cream or milk. 
Beat well, pile on a saucer and put where it will harden. Flavor 
while soft, with vanilla or lemon. mrs. k. d. clarke. 

Blueberry Puddingf. 

Two cups of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, two eggs well 
beaten, a tablespoonful of butter, four cups of flour with a tea- 
spoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar sifted through it ; 
stir in a pint of berries and steam one hour. Serve with any 
kind of sauce. mrs. m. h. b. 

Black Pudding:. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one cup of suet, one- 
half teaspoonful of saleratus, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful of allspice and one pound of raisins, add 
three cups of flour. Steam three hours. mrs. day. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Juice of three lemons, rind of two, one pound of sugar, two 
quarts of lukewarm water to one box of gelatine. Let the 
gelatine dissolve, then add the sugar and lemon. Boil and 
strain. 

Chocolate Pudding:. 

Boil one pint of milk and four table-spoonfuls of chocolate, 
add one-half cup of butter and one cup sugar. Stir well and 
pour over three slices of stale bread, soaked in a little cold 
water ; when cool, add the yolks of three eggs well beaten. 
Bake half an hour ; when done, put the whites of the eggs 
beaten with three large spoonfuls of sugar, on top and brown. 



PUDDINGS. 89 

John's Deligrht. 

Two cups of bread crumbs, one-half a cup of suet, one-half a 
cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one eggy one cup of stoned 
raisins and one-half a teaspoonful of soda. Boil two hours. 

CARRIE. 

Snow Pudding. 

Soak one-half of a box of Cox's gelatine in one-half a cup of 
cold water, for two hours ; pour on this nearly a pint of boiling 
water, stir until the gelatine is dissolved, and then add two cups 
of sugar and the juice of two lemons ; stir a few moments, then 
add the whites of six eggs. Now set the dish into ice-water, 
being careful not to let the water touch the pudding. Beat 
until it is white and stiff, and keep it on ice until served. 

MRS. M. H. B. 

Steamed Apple Dumpling. 

One egg, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, o;ie teaspoonful of soda, little salt; 
butter four or five cups, drop some batter in each cup, then 
your apples or berries, and cover with batter. Steam for twenty 
minutes. 

Orange Pudding, 

Slice six oranges in a pudding dish, sprinkle with sugar ; 
make a soft custard with one quart of milk, yolks of seven 
eggs and sugar. When cool pour over the oranges, beat the 
whites of seven eggs, with seven spoonfuls of sugar, and spread 
over the top ; set in the oven a minute to brown slightly. 

MRS. LATHAM. 



90 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Batter Pudding:. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, ten table-spoonfuls of flour; 
bake in deep pie plates for fifteen minutes. Sweet sauce to be 
eaten with it. 

Bread Pudding:. 

One large loaf of baker's bread, four eggs, two quarts of 
milk, one cup of sugar, one pound of raisins, cinnamon and 
nutmeg ; bake eight hours in a slow oven. Serve cold with the 
following sauce : 

Sauce. — One cup of sugar, one-third of a cup of butter, one 
egg ; beat twenty minutes, then add one cup of boiling water. 
Let it stand over the steam of a kettle five minutes. Flavor to 

taste. MRS. PETTENGILL. 

Fruit Charlotte. 

Line a dish with sponge cake, place upon the bottom in the 
center of the dish grated pineapple, and cover with whipped 
cream. Keep back a little of the cream to pour over the top 
after it is poured out of the mould. mrs. m. l. sweetsir. 

Graham Pudding. 

One cup of milk, two cups of flour, (graham), one cup of 
molasses, one teaspoonful of soda and one cup of chopped 
raisins. Pour over the raisins, one cup of molasses, then the 
milk, soda, flour. Steam from four to five hours. Eat with 
sauce. MRS. daniels. 

Judgre Hunter's Pudding. 

One-half box of gelatine soaked twenty minutes in a little 
cold water; add one-half pint of bQJHng water, cook until 



PUDDINGS. 9 I 

dissolved. Strain, add two cups of sugar, two oranges cut in 
thin slices, juice of two lemons and two bananas cut in thin 
slices. Walnuts can be added if desired. 

MRS. J. M. S. HUNTER. 

Angel Food. 

One pint of milk, one-fourth box of gelatine, one-half cup of 
sugar, two eggs. Put the gelatine into the milk cold and let it 
set three-fourths of an hour. Beat the yolks of the eggs very 
light, add the sugar, stir into the milk and cook about ten 
minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and turn the 
boiling milk upon them. Add a little salt and flavor to taste. 
Turn into a mould and set upon ice. mrs. hunter. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak one-half cup of tapioca all night in cold water. Scald 
three table-spoonfuls of meal in one and a half pints of milk. 
One-half cup of molasses, one egg, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
salt. Beat well together, pour into a buttered dish, add one 
pint of cold milk ; bake two hours. mrs. haggett. 

Rice Pudding. 

One cup of rice; boil in a quart of milk; after it is boiled, 
add a small piece of butter, a little salt, one cup of sugar, three 
eggs, separated. Beat the yolks with the sugar and stir in the 
pudding when hot. 

Frosting for Pudding. — Beat the whites of three eggs to a 
stiff froth, add one cup of sugar and brown in the oven. Flavor 
with vanilla. mrs. kelsey. 



92 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Mountain Dew Pudding. 

One pint of milk, yolks of three eggs, four table-spoonfuls of 
rolled cracker crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Bake one- 
half hour. 

Frosting. — Be^t the whites of three eggs and one cup of 
sugar, add juice and rind of one lemon. Spread apple jelly 
over the pudding, then put the frosting on. Put in the oven to 
brown. mrs. dennison. 

Pineapple Jelly. 

Take a pineapple or one can of pineapple, cut it very fine, 
boil ten minutes in one pint of water in which half a box of 
gelatine has been dissolved, add the juice of one lemon and 
sweeten to taste. Pour into a mould and cool on ice. Eat 
with cream. mrs. chandler. 

Floating Island. 

Beat the whites of four eggs with eight table-spoonfuls of 
sugar; when stiff, add eight table-spoonfuls of strawberry juice 
and a little lemon juice ; beat until stiff. Serve with cream. 

MRS. chandler. 

A Good Substitute for Cream. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, strain them into a pint of new 
milk, add a little white sugar Put on the fire and stir until 
thick as common cream. 

Apple Snow Pudding. 

Eight tart apples, half a pound of sugar, juice of one lemon, 
whites of three eggs. Bake the apples, scrape the pulp out, 
add to the sugar, egg and lemon ; beat until very light and drop 
into cold custard or lemon jelly. mrs, mski^^ll. 



PUDDINGS. 93 

^ Apple Herangue. 

Make a syrup of one and a half pints of water, two cups of 
sugar, one-half a lemon. Let this boil while you are paring and 
quartering ten apples; boil in the syrup without stirring, until 
the syrup has boiled away. Lay in a dish that will hold a 
quart. Make a boiled custard of one pint of milk, yolks of 
three eggs, one-half cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch, rubbed smooth in a very little cold milk, flavor with 
lemon. Let apple and custard stand until cold, then pour cus- 
tard over the apple. Beit the whites of three eggs with two 
spoonfuls of sugar and flavor. Spread over the custard and 
brown in the oven. Eat cold. 

Salem Pudding- 
One cup suet, one cup milk, one cup molasses, three cups 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of saleratus, one 
cup of chopped raisins or currants. Salt; steam three hours. 

Sauce. — Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-quarter cup of 
milk ; flavor to suit. MRS. corbett. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Five crackers, one quart of milk, one cup sugar, yolks of 
four eggs, small piece of butter, grated rind of one large or 
two small lemons. 

Frosting. — Whites of four eggs, sugar to taste, and juice of 
lemons. mrs. s. colesworthy. 

Rice Pudding. 

One cup of rice, one cup of sugar, ten cups of milk, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful salt. Bake in a moderate 
oven, between four and five hours. miss. c. m. patten. 



94 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

English Pudding:. 

Pound twenty crackers, pour over them iwo quarts of boil- 
ing milk; one-half pound beef suet chopped very fine, two 
teacups of fine sugar, twelve eggs, one leaspoonful each of 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice. The last thing put in a 
quart bowl full of raisins, stone them, flour them a little to 
prevent them settling, and a bowl of currants ; if it is too stiff, 
add a little milk. Citron is an improvement. Bake in a very 
slow oven from three to four hours. mrs. m'dowell. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

One quart of rich boiled custard, flavored with vanilla; two 
ounces of raisins, two ounces of candied peaches, cut small, 
two ounces of candied cherries, one ounce of currants. Butter 
a plain mould and put a round of paper at the b ttom, then 
a layer of the mixed fruit a quarter of an inch deep, on this a 
layer of ladies' fingers or sliced sponge cake; continue this 
until the mould is two-thirds full, then pour in the hot custard 
slowly; cover the mould, let it stand a few minutes and then 
steam it from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn the pudding 
out of the mould and serve hot with a nice sauce. This quan- 
tity will fill two and a half pint moulds. mrs. a. 

Batter Pudding. 

Two cups of flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful soda, one pint of fruit, milk to make a stiff batter. 
Steam one hour. mrs. corbett. 

Snowball Custard. 

Cover three table-spoonfuls of tapioca with cold water over 
night; in the morning, add one cofTee cup of sugar. Scald one 



PUDDINGS. 95 

pint of milk and pour over it; a little salt. While cooking beat 
yolks of four eggs, add, with salt and flavoring, when the milk 
gets cool, then stir until it thickens, then pour over the pudding. 
When dished, beat the whites to a stiff froth and put on in 
balls. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Cream Sauce. 



One-half cup of butter, one cup of powdered sugar ; cream 
the butter and stir the sugar in gradually. When creamed 
together, put in one and a half cups of milk (one-half cream); 
and flavor it as you like. Then put on the stove in a dish of 
boiling water, stir until it is smooth and creamy; then use. 

CARRIE. 

Strawberry Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, and one-half cup of butter (creamed), 
beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and add one cup of 
strawberries, thoroughly mashed. 

Hard Sauce. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, and beat very hard, 
flavor with lemon juice, and smooth into shape with a knife 
dipped into cold water. 



96 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Whites of two eggs, one cup of sugar, juice of one lemon. 
Beat until stiff. 

Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of boiling water; mix a spoonful 
of corn starch in a little cold water and add to the sugar, piece 
of butter the size of an egg ; boil until clear. Beat one egg 
very light and gradually turn the boiling sugar upon it, stirring 
all the time. Flavor to taste. mrs. hunter. 

Pudding: Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two-thirds of a cup 
of corn starch. mrs. russell. 

Foam Sauce. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of butter ; 
beat all together well ; one-half cup of boiling water. Flavor. 

No 2. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, beat very light, salt and flavor ; 
add one-half cup of hot milk just before sending to the table. 

Sauce. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs. Beat all 
together until creamy, flavor and heat well over a tea kettle. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Put one cupful of sugar into a small frying pan and stir on 
the fire until a dark brown, if you like a strong caramel flavor, 
or light brown if you like a delicate flavor; add a cupful of 
boiling water and simmer fifteen minutes. Set away to cool. 

MRS. TARR. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 97 

Fairy Butter. 

Four ounces of butter, five ounces of powdered sugar, the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon ; cream the butter well and 
add the sugar gradually, beating hard and fast, until very light; 
add the lemon and beat three minutes more. To be served 
piUd as it falls from the spoon, not smoothed. Nice on baked 
pudding. MRS. acres. 

Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one ^%%^ beaten very light, one even 
teaspoonful of corn starch, wet with a little cold milk ; pour on 
half a pint of boiling milk, boil a few minutes, stirring 
constantly. Flavor to taste. mrs. brown. 



CAKE. 



Use only the best materials if you wish to have good cake; 
and have everything ready before you commence mixing. 
Always sift the Hour before measuring, and add the cream of 
tartar or baking powder to the flour, and the soda in a little of 
the milk or water, which ever is used. If fruit is used, flour it 
well and add the last thing. The heat of the oven should be 
even and regular. To tell when the cake is done, pass a clean 
straw into it, and if nothing adheres to it the cake is done. 



98 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Frosting. 

One-half a teacupful of water, three cups of sugar, boiled 
until very thick and waxy. Beat the whites of two eggs to a 
stiff froth and pour the syrup over them, beating all until cool. 
Then add one-half pound of almonds, blanched and chopped 
fine, one small half teacupful of raisins, chopped, and a little 
citron sliced thin. Very nice for sponge cake. 

MRS. PETTINGILL. 

Hickory Nut Frosting. 

One cup of sugar to the white of one egg ; beat well and add 
the hickory nuts, chopped fine. 

Wedding Cake. 

Nine eggs, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, 
one pound of citron, spices to taste, and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of soda. Line the pan with paper and bake four hours. 

MRS. J. M. S. HUNTER. 

English Plum Cake. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of 
currants, one pound of blanched almonds, five pounds of stoned 
raisins, two and a half pounds of candied lemon, orange and 
citron, sixteen eggs, three teaspoonfuls of spice mixed, two 
pounds of butter, beaten to a cream. Add the sugar by degrees, 
then the yolks, then the whites of the eggs, the flour, spices, 
then six table-spoonfuls of molasses and the fruit. 

MRS. J. H. LITTLE. 



CAKE. 99 

Spice Cake. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, two eggs, five cups of 
flour, one cup of milk, one pound of raisins, one lemon chopped, 
one pound of currants, one nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, 
two of cinnamon. Rub fruit in some of the flour, after stoning 
and chopping the raisins. mrs. l. 

Wedding: Cake. 

Two pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of butter, 
one and a half pounds of sugar, two pounds of currants, one 
pound of raisins, one and a half pounds of citron, ten eggs, 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of mace, two teaspoonfuls of nut- 
meg, two cups of molasses, and one teaspoonful of soda. 

MRS. L. DAY. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
raisins, one pound of currants, one-half pound of citron, seven 
eggs, four cups of flour, one cup of molasses, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of all kinds of spice. Bake three hours. Two 
loaves. MRS. kingsburv. 

White Cake. 

Whiles of six eggs, scant three-quarters of a cup of butter, 
one and a quarter cups of pulverized sugar, two cups of flour, 
juice of half a lemon, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda. Beat 
the butter to a cream, add the flour and stir in gradually with 
the tips of the fingers until it is a smooth paste ; beat whites to 



lOO SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

a Stiff froth, and mix the sugar with them. Stir the eggs and 
sugar gradually into the butter and flour, adding lemon juice. 
Mix smoothly together, put in the oven immediately, and bake 
in a slow oven. mrs. kingsbury. 

Gold and Silver Cake. 

Beat to a cream, a cupful of butter, and two of sugar, add a 
cupful of milk, in which has been dissolved a. teaspoonful of 
soda. Divide the above equally and add the whites of four 
eggs well beaten to one-half, the beaten yolks to the other. 
Flavor differently. Add to each two cupfuls of flour and a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Frost the yellow part with 
whites of eggs and confectioner's sugar ; place the white cake 
upon this, and frost with yolks of eggs and sugar. 

MRS. SARGENT. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one cup of milk, 
two and a half cups of flour, the whites of seven eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one pound of raisins, one 
pound of figs, one of dates and blanched almonds, one-quarter 
of a pound of citron ; cut all fine ; flour well. Bake slowly. 

MRS. J. LITTLE. 

Delicate Cake. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
and a half cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of 
corn starch, the whites of six eggs, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Flavor to taste. 

MRS* E« La 



CAKE. lOI 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound of citron, two pounds cf currants, two pounds of 
raisins, one pound of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, ten eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of 
molasses, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spice. 

Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, three 
cup of flour, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, scant 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Cream the butter and sugar 
together, add the beaten yolks, then the beaten whites. Dis- 
solve the soda in the milk, rub cream of tartar in the flour and 
add the last thing. mrs. r. 

Six Months' Cake. 

Four eggs, five cups of flour, one pound of raisins, two cups 
of sugar, one cup of molasses, one and a half cups of butter, 
one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda ; spice to taste. A 
nice loaf of cake which can be kept for six months or longer. 

MISS KINGSBURY. 

Clieap Fruit Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, three-quarters cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of milk, less than one-half cup of 
molasses, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda in the 
molasses to foam, one cup of raisins ; and spice to taste. 

ELLA BARBOUR. 

Silver Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two-thirds cup of 
milk, whites of three eggs, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful 



I02 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, flavor with 
almond. 

Frosting. — One teaspoonful of gelatine, two teaspoonfuls of 
boiling water, one cup of powdered sugar. miss bailey. 

Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, three cups of 
flour, four egg^ one cup of citron, one cup of raisins, one cup of 
currants, one-half cup of molasses, spice to taste. 

Angel Cake. 

Whites of eleven egg, one and a half cups of sugar, one cup 
flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, then add sugar, flour 
and flavoring. The sugar must be sifted once before using, and 
the flour, four times, adding the cream of tartar before sifting 
the last time. Powdered sugar must be used. Bake in a very 
slow oven, without buttering the pans. When done, turn the 
pan upside down, resting the corners on something, so the air 
can rench it while cooling. mrs. kingsbury. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cup of sugar, 
add one-half a cup of butter, creamed, one-half a cup of cold 
water, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
one-half a teaspoonful of soda, flavor with lemon. Bake in a 
^hin sheet. 

Frosting. — Two and a half cups of granulated sugar, om- 
half a cup of boiling water ; boil until stringy. Have prepared 
the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and pour the 



CAKE. 103 

boiling sugar upon the eggs and beat until cool enough to 
spread. Flavor with vanilla. Cut the cake into two parts, 
putting the frosting between and on top the cake. Dip a silver 
knife into boiling water to make the frosting smooth. 

MRS. J. M. S. HUNTER. 

Bride's Cake. 

Whites of seven egg, beat stiff ; two cups of sugar, one cup 
of butter, two-thirds cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus, three cups of flour and 
one-half pound of citron. mrs. l. day. 

Imperial Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of granulated sugar, one 
pound of flour (scant), eight eggs, one nutmeg, one pound of 
stoned raisins, one pound of citron, one pound blanched and 
cut almonds. carrie trott. 

Birthday Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and a half cups 
of flour, one-half cup of milk, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, 
flavoring to taste, three eggs, one cup of raisins. Beat the but- 
ter to a cream, then beat in the sugar, a little at a time, add the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, stir in the flour until you have it half 
beaten in, then add milk and soda, remainder of flour and 
flavoring, and last, the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. When cooked, frost, using the whites of two eggs. 

CARRIE trott. 



I04 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Jelly Roll. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one table-spoonful of cold 
water. Spread with jelly while warm, and roll. 

MRS. JOHN EVANS. 

Aunt Alice's Good Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, two table-spoonfuls of 
butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two cups of raisins, 
flour to make a stiff batter. mrs. merrill. 

Marble Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, three cups of flour. Take one-third of this mixture and 
add three table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, and flavor with 
vanilla. mrs. latham. 

Fig Fillingr for Cake. 

One pound of figs chopped fine, whites of five eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, one and a half cups of sugar. Mix together 
and boil fifteen minutes. mrs. e. larrabee. 

Ice Cream Filling:. 

Two table-spoonfuls of gelatine, pour over this six table- 
spoonfuls of boiling vater, stir until dissolved. Take twenty- 
eight table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar on a platter, pour over 
it the gelatine, beat one-half an hour, flavor with vanilla. Bake 
the cake in two parts. Take the same pan and put in your 
beaten gelatine, spread in pan after first buttering, and leave 
all night. Then put between the cakes, with a little frosting or 
white of an egg. 



CAKE. 105 

Ellen's Stlr-up Cake. 

Break two eggs into a coffee cup, fill the cup with milk. 
Then take one cup of sugar, one cup of raisins, teaspoonful of 
all kinds of spice, two teaspoonfuis of cream of tartar, one of 
soda, in two cups of flour, add milk and eggs and beat all 
together until very light. Soften two table-spoonfuls of butter 
and beat in the last thing. Bake in small round tins. 

MRS. E. 

Tumbler Cake. 

One tumbler of butter, one tumbler of sugar, one tumbler of 
molasses, one tumbler of milk, five tumblers of fiour, four eggs, 
one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound of 
citron, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuis of cream of 
tartar, all kinds of spice. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, one of cream of tartar. Bake in three tins. For filling, 
stir into a half pint of boiling hot milk one egg, beaten with 
one-half cup of sugar and one and a half table-spoonfuls of 
corn starch, dissolved in a little milk, until it thickens. 
Flavor with vanilla and cocoanut to taste, s. a. robinson. 

Bethel Cake. 

One and a half cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, four eggs, one cup of milk, five cups of flour, two 
cups of raisins, two of currants, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, all kinds of spice, and one nutmeg, one- 
quarter pound of citron. mrs. e. little. 



Io6 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Choeolate Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, rub to cream ; five 
eggs (leaving out the whites of two for the frosting), one cup 
of milk, three and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus. 

Frosting. — Whites of two eggs, one and a half cups of pul- 
verized sugar, six table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate ; spread 
on the cake while warm. mrs. s. b. kelsey. 

Dove Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, one and a tialf cups of sugar, one- 
half cup of milk, two and a half cups of flour, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

E. J. BARBOUR. 

Nut Cake. 

One cup of butter, three eggs, one cup of milk, three and a 
half cups of flour, one cup of raisins, one cup of nuts, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

E. J. B. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
four eggs (the yolks and one white), three-quarters cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda. This makes three cakes. Frost each and sprinkle over 
grated cocoanut. mrs. a. trott. 

Blueberry Cake. 

Three table-spoonfuls of white sugar, butter size of an egg, 
one egg, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, and one of soda, a little salt, three cups of flour, one 



CAKE. 107 

pint of berries. This makes one sheet. This cake baked in 
Washington pie tins, with layers of crushed, sweetened straw-' 
berries, make a delicious strawberry short-cake. 

Cheap Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, into which 
mix one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and one-half of soda, 
dissolved in three teaspoonfuls of warm water. The last thing 
add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, stirring briskly. Bake about 
twenty-five minute's in a moderate oven. mrs. fickett. 

Velvet Cake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one cup of 
butter, four eggs, one cup of water, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half spoonful of soda, flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Beat sugar and butter together until creamy, dissolve soda in 
the water, and sift the cream of tartar in flour. Add to the 
butter and sugar the flour and water, and beat well. Beat the 
yolks and whites of the eggs separately, then beat both together 
for a minute, and stir into the cake. Beat the cake well for 
three minutes, and bake an hour. mrs. everett. 

Pearl Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, rubbed to a cream ; one 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, the 
whites of five eggs beaten to a froth. If you wish to make a 
rich cake, bake in layers, putting cooked frosting between each 
layer, sprinkling chopped, blanched almonds, and seeded and 
chopped raisins on the frosting ; on the top layer, put whole 
almonds over the frosting. Blanch the almonds by pouring hot 
water over them. It will take off the skins, mrs. g. w. tenant. 



108 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Almond Cream Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, a quarter of a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, three cups of flour, the whites of four eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, half a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla. Bake in layers. 

Cream for filling. — Whip one cup of cream to a froth and 
stir gradually into it, half a cup of powdered sugar, four drops 
of vanilla and one pound of blanched almonds, chopped fine. 
Spread thickly between the layers of cake, 'and frost top and 

sides. MRS. M. H. BRIGGS. 

Spice Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one cup of 
milk, four cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one teaspoonful of all kinds of spice, two cups of raisins. 

MRS. EVANS. 

Orange Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of cold water, two cups of sugar, 
four cups of flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Bake in layers. Take the juice of two large, or three 
small oranges, and a coffee cup of powdered sugar, one egg^ 
mix the yolk of the egg, sugar and juice together, beat white of 
egg to a stiff froth, stir in and spread between layers. 

MRS. J. EVANS. 

Rose Drops. 

One pound of flour, ten ounces of sugar, eight ounces of 
butter, five eggs, three table-spoonfuls of cream, one teaspoonful 
of soda, rose water enough to flavor. Drop on heated pans 
one-half spoonful, and put a pinch of pulverized sugar on each 
one as you put them into the oven. mrs. waterhouse. 



CAKE. 109 

Spong^e Cake. 

Three eggs, beat two minutes; one and a half cups of sugar, 
beat two minutes ; one cup of flour, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, beat two minutes ; one-half cup of cold water, one cup 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one lemon, beat two 
minutes ; add a little salt. miss Kingsbury. 

Rose Leaf Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one of milk, 
three and a half of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, 
two of cream of tartar, two table-spoonfuls of rose leaves, 
previously gathered and cut fine, with powdered sugar enough 
to cover them^ and thoroughly mixed. mrs. Merrill. 

Nut Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, beat to a cream ; 
one-half cup of milk, two eggs, coffee cup of chopped almonds, 
or chopped English walnuts, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in a moderate oven thirtyr 
five minutes. 

Crompers. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one of butter, one of currants, 
three eggs, one dessert-spoonful of cinnamon, and the same of 
cloves, one teaspoonful of soda. Roll thin and bake quick. 



MRS. MERRILL.** 



Cup Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four cups of flour, one- 
half cup of milk, five eggs, and a little soda. mrs. latham. 



no SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two-thirds of a cup of grated chocolate, one-half cup of 
butter melted with the chocolate, two eggs, one cup of sugar, 
two cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon ful of cream 
of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, flavor with vanilla. 

Durell Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, four eggs, two-thirds of a cup of milk 
with one-half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, scant three 
cups of flour, four table-spoonfuls of melted butter beaten in 
the last thing. mrs. everett. 

Hannah's Cake. 

One cup of milk, (sour is best), one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of molasses, one-half cup of sugar, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, spice to taste. Make as stiff as pound cake. 

MRS. E. G, WOOPFORD. 

Drop Cake. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one 
cup of molasses, one heaping teaspoonful of saleratus, turn on 
a little water to dissolve it, then fill the cup up with cold water; 
one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, five cups of flour, one-half 
a teaspoonful of ginger, and allspice if you like, a pinch of salt. 
Have a good hot oven, drop on the pan and bake. 

MRS. L. PRINCE. 

Snow Cake. 

One and one-half tumblers of sugar, whites of ten eggs well 
beaten, add the sugar and stir thoroughly, one tumbler of sifted 
flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, no soda. mrs. latham. 



CAKE. Ill 

Tea Cake. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup of butter, two of flour, 
one-half cup milk, one scant teaspoonful cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda. Add fruit if you like. 

MRS. E. G. WOODFORD, 

Polka Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, five and one-half 
cups flour, one and one-half cups of milk, five eggs, one 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins, one 
pound currants, one-half pound citron. This makes three 
loaves. 

Delicious Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one cup of butter, three 
cups of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one 
half teaspoonful soda. This makes two small loaves and it is 
well to put fruit and spices in one. mrs. m'donald. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound of butter, one cup of milk, 
three cups flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, four eggs, nutmeg. mrs. m'donald. 

Pound Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups sugar, seven eggs, three cups of 
flour, teaspoonful Royal Baking Powder, one teaspoonful of 
any kind of extract you prefer ; rub the butter and sugar to a 
white, light cream, add three of the eggs, one at a time, and 
the rest two at a time, beating five minutes between each one ; 



112 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

add the flour, sifted with powder, and then the extract ; mix 
into a smooth batter, and bake in a steady oven fifty minutes. 

MRS. M. H. BRIGGS. 

Pound Cake. 

One and one-half cups of butter, three cups of sugar, four 
cups flour, ten eggs, beat the whites separately and add the last 
thing; nutmeg. MRS. f. d. 

Delicate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, whites of six eggs, three-quarters of a 
cup of milk, scant three cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful soda ; flavor 
with lemon. mrs. l. 

Park Street Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
four cups of flour, four egg, one cup of currants, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, and flavor to 

taste. MRS. WEBSTER. 

Jelly RoU. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one table-spoonful of milk, one 
cup of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half a 
teaspoonful of soda. Beat a good deal and add one dessert- 
spoonful of flour just before putting into the oven. Put jelly 
on the bottom of the cake while hot and roll quickly. Pin in a 
napkin to keep it in place. mrs. h. 

Cold Water Pound Cake. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
cold water, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda; lemon. mrs. kensel. 



pAKE. 113 

Blueberry Cake. 

One cup of milk, one cup of sugar, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one pint of blueberries, two teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of SK)da; bake in a long tin. 

MISS M. p. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One cup sugar, one cup of dessicated cocoanut, two eggs, 
one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

Miss p. 

Cream Spongfe. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in eight of hot water. Bake in jelly tins and split the. cakes, 
fill with cream made of one pint of milk, one egg^ one-half cup 
of sugar, one-quarter cup of corn starch; flavor to taste. It 
makes two cakes, and is very nice with chocolate frosting. 

MRS. MERRILL. 

Angfel Cake. 

One and a half cups of powdered sugar, one cup of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar mixed with the flour and 
sifted several times, whites of eleven eggs ; no soda. 

MRS. MERRILL. 

Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of 
molasses, three cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of citron, one 
cup of currants, one cup of raisins ; spices to taste. 



114 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Caramel Cake. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
a cup of milk, one and a half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half a teaspoonful of soda. Bake in two 
tins. 

Filling. — One cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of milk, 
small piece of butter. Boil fifteen minutes. Cool and beat 
well, put between the two cakes and on the top. e. j. barbour. 

Huckleberry Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, two and a half 
cups of flour, one table-spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream of tartar, one quart of berries, salt. Bake 
half an hour. e. j. b. 

Gingerbread. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one- 
half a cup ^ of butter or lard, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
table-spoonful of vinegar, one-half a teaspoonful of ginger, small 
teaspoonful cinnamon, mixed soft, roll thin. mrs. latham. 

Currant Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, three-quarters cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, one and a half cups of currants, four 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda. 

MRS. denison. 

White Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, two cups of flour, whites of three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Frosting an 
improvement. mrs. denison. 



CAKE. 115 

Chocolate Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two 
and one-half cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, whites of 
four eggs, one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-quarter 
teaspoonful of soda. After beating these ingredients together, 
divide it and put about one-third of a cup of grated chocolate 
into one part ; flavor with vanilla. miss kingsbury. 

Yellow Frosting. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with seventeen teaspoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. 

Dolly Varden Cake. 

One and one-quarter cups of sugar, one table-spoonful butter, 
three eggs, leaving out the white of one, beat all together, then 
add two cups of flour ; one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda in two-thirds of a cup of milk ; 
take two-thirds of this mixture and bake in two tins, and to the 
remaining third add one table-spoonful of molasses, one cup of 
chopped raisins, one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and cinna- 
mon ; bake, and while hot spread with jelly, dark cake between 
and frost the top. s. a. robinson. 

Sugar Gingerbread. 

Two pounds of flour, one and one-quarter pounds of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, five eggs, ginger, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda. Roll thin in tin sheets, and bake in a 
quick oven. miss b. 



Il6 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Rice Flour Cake. 

One-half pound of rice flour, one cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups of sugar, five eggs, leaving out one of the whites ; 
flavor with letnon ; let it get quite cool before turning out ; use 
the one white with one cup of powdered sugar for frosting. 

MRS. COLE. 

Dolly Varden Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, beaten to a cream, 
whites of three eggs, to a stiff froth, one-half cup of milk, two 
cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar. Frost with yolks of three eggs well beaten, 
and one cup of sugar. mrs. c. 

Cream Pie. 

One and a half cups of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of butter, 
two eggs, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful 
of saleratus, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

Cream for Filling. — One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, a 
little piece of butter, one-fourth of a cup of corn^ starch and the 
same of flour, two eggs, save the white of one for frosting. 
Mix all together and stir into the milk until it thickens. 

MRS. S. B. KELSEY. 

Cream Pie. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, two cups flour, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
one-half cup of water, a little salt. 

Filling. — One pint of milk scalded, two eggs, well beaten, 
one cup of flour, mixed in a little cold milk, stir into the 
scalded milk ; one cup of sugar. Flavor to taste. 

AUNT BECK. 



CAKE. 117 

Mountain Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half leaspoonful 
of saleratus, two eggs, two cups of flour; flavor, frost with 
cream frosting. mrs. russell. 

Down East Cake. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, four 
eggs, the whites beaten separately, two-thirds of a cup of milk, 
three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of 
soda, Bake this in two sheets. 

Filling for the Cake. — Put one cup of powdered sugar 
into a sauce-pan with one-quarter of a cup of water. Let it 
simmer gently until the sugar is entirely dissolved and stiff; add 
to it the white of one egg, beaten stiff. Take one-half a cup of 
chopped raisins, one-half a cup of chopped walnuts^ and two 
teaspoonfuls of cocoanut, a few drops of vanilla. Then put 
spoonful of the egg and sugar (after they are well beaten), to 
this mixture, put it between the two sheets of cake and frost 
the top with the remainder of the white frosting. 

MRS. L. DAY. 

White Sponge Cake. 

Whites of five eggs, one large cup of sugar, one table-spoon- 
ful of butter, one and one-third cups of flour, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one-third cup of milk. mrs. orr. 

Imperial Cake. 

One cup of sugar, whites of four eggs, one-quarter pound of 
butter, one and one-half cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of 



Il8 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

cream of tartar, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, one-third cup 
of milk. 

Frosting for same. — Two whites of eggs, two cups of 
pulverized sugar, four table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Whites of four eggs, one-half a cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, three cups of flour, essence of 
lemon. 

One-quarter of a cup of cocoanut, whites of two eggs, one- 
half cup of sugar. Put in tin dish and cook until sugar is 
dissolved, then spread between cake. mrs. kensel.. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Two cups of molasses, two even teaspoonfuls of ginger. Let 
this boil, take it off, add a heaping teaspoonful of soda; beat 
quickly, then add a cup of lard and butter, flour enough to 
handle. Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. mrs. russell. 

Mary H.'s Sponge Cake. 

Take three eggs, beat them till light, add two scant cups of 
sugar, one cup of cold water with a teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in it; add three cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar. Stir until smooth, and then bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Spice Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sour milk, with a teaspoonful of soda, 
yolks of eight eggs and the white of one, three cups of flour. 



CAKE. 119 

Com Starch Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter worked to a cream, one 
cup of milk, in which dissolve one teaspoonful saleratus, beat 
the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth, mix thoroughly 
together one cup of corn starch and three cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; mix all together and beat. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Caramel Cake. 

One cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, one-half 
cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in it, 
one and three-quarters cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar. 

Frosting for the same. — One cup of sugar, one-quarter 
of a cup of milk, butter the size of an English walnut; grate 
one large table-spoonful of chocolate, put all together and boil 
five minutes; flavor with vanilla; beat until cool enough to 

spread ; leave out the chocolate and it makes cream frosting. 

* 

MRS. COLE. 

Nut Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one cup of chopped walnuts. 

WUte Lily Cake. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of cold water, one cup of 
flour^ one-half cup corn starch, one-half teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-quarter teaspoonful soda; flavor with lemon. 

MRS. HUNTER. 



I20 SfeCONt) PARISH COOK BOOlt. 

Spongfe Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, three tea- 
spoonfuls warm water ; the last thing add one dessert-spoonful 
of vinegar. Bake in a slow oven. mrs. h. 

Cream Cakes. 

One large cup of boiling water, one-half cup of butter, scant 
cup of flour. Put butter into the boiling water, in an earthen 
dish on the stove. Stir flour into water while boiling, beat to a 
smooth paste, cool, and when nearly cold, stir in three eggs well 
beaten, a pinch of soda. Drop a spoonful at a time in the pan, 
quite away apart, and bake in a quick oven. Do not open 
the oven door until you think they are done. When cool, fill 
with cream, made of one cup of milk, one-half a cup of sugar, 
one-third of a cup of flour, one egg, vanilla, mrs. e. little. 

Sponge Cake. 

Four eggs beaten very light, yolks and whites together, then 
add one tumbler of fine granulated sugar, and beat well, stir 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, and two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar into one tumbler of flour, and add to the eggs and sugar. 
When well mixed, add one table-spoonful of cold water ; have 
the oven rather cool at first and increase the heat. Bake half 
an hour. mrs. k. d, clark. 

Cookies. 

Five cups of flour, one cup of butter, rub together, two cups 
of sugar, rub with the butter and flour, one egg, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar and one of soda, milk enough to knead 
it without adding any more flour. 



CAKE. I2l 

Hermits. 

A cupful of raisins stoned and chopped, one cup of butter, 
two of sugar, a teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, half 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little milk, one nutmeg, 
three eggs, flour enough to roll out. Bake about twelve 
minutes in a quick oven. E. B. a. 

Lady's Fingers. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
one egg, one-quarter of a cup of milk, one pint of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 'teaspoonful of soda, 
one and one-quarter teaspoonfuls of vanilla, ella barbour. 

Marble Cake. 

WHITE PART. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

DARK PART. 

Yolks of four eggs, one cup of brown sugar, two cups of 
flour, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, and all kinds of spice. 

ELLA BARBOUR. 

Sponge Cake. 

One cup of powdered sugar, three eggs ; separate them, beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, one large spoonful of hot water, one 
cupful of flour, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar sifted with the flour, one teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Flavor with lemon. mrs. h. 



122 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Bridal Cake. 

Beat the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth, two cups of 
pulverized sugar, one cup of butter, two-thirds of a cup of milk, 
three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of saleratus, one-half pound of citron. 

White Face Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, whites of three 
eggs, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half of soda, two cups of flour. 

Frosting. — Yolks of three eggs and powdered sugar ; vanilla. 

MRS. WEBSTER. 

One Egg Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, one-half teaspoonful lemon, three or four drops of 
almond. mrs. webster. 

Mrs. B.'s Cake. 

One cup of butter with two cups of sugar, beaten to a cream, 
one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder mixed with it ; add the well-beaten whites of 
five eggs. This is also delicious baked in a loaf with a large 
cup of chopped raisins. Put them in last, reserving a little 
flour to sprinkle over them. mrs. m'donald. 

Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one cup of milk, one 



CAKE. 123 

pound of currants, one cup of stoned raisins, nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, cloves and citron ; more raisins added is an improvement. 

MRS. D. 

Rotation Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sour milk, three cups of sugari 
four cups of flour, five eggs, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. mrs. denison. 

Jumbles. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three table-spoonfuls 
of sweet milk ; vanilla flavoring. s. robinson. 

Newark Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, one-half pint of milk, four eggs, one small teaspoonful 
of soda, two small teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

MRS. WM. D. LITTLE. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one and one- 
quarter cups of milk, four eggs, four cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Bake in three 
sheets, two sheets plain. For the third sheet, add two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of 
currants, one-quarter of a pound of citron, all kinds of spices. 
Put the sheets together while warm, with jelly. 

MRS. p. S. NICKERSON. 



124 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Orangre Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-half cup of water, 
juice of one and one-half oranges, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful of saleratus, yolks of five eggs, whites 
of three eggs. 

Frosting. — Whites of two eggs, juice of one-half of an 
orange, rind of one orange, one teaspoonful corn starch ; sugar 
to make stiff. mrs. kensel. 

Spongre Cake. 

Six eggs well-beaten, three cups of sugar, one cup of flour, 
one cup of water, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of 
soda ; then add the whole three cups of flour, beat well, add a 
little salt and flavor with lemon. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
three cups of flour, two eggs, all kinds of spices, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one cup of cold, strong coffee. mrs. cole. 

French Cake. 

Two cups of sugar^ one cup of milk, one-half a cup of butter, 
four eggs, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two of 
cream of tartar, flavor with lemotl. mrs. a. c. 

Glacie Cake. 

Make rich cup cakes and bake in sheets ; when nearly cold, 
frost with the following : Wet with cold water a small pinch of 
Cox's gelatine. When ready to frost the cake, dissolve this in 
about one-fourth of a wine glass of boiling water, and then 
thicken with powdered sugar ; flavor with lemon and spread on 
the cake. 



CAKE. 125 

Annie's Cream Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in one table-spoonful of milk, little salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, mixed with one and one-half cups of 
flour. 

Cream Filling for the Same. — One-half pint of milk, one 
cup of sugar, two eggs, two-thirds of a cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 

Wafers. 

One cup of brown sugar, (or heaping white), one cup of flour, 
either graham or white, mixed thoroughly with sugar, one-half 
cup butter, one-half teaspoonful soda, dissolved in one-third of 
a tumbler of cold water ; salt. mrs. dan i els. 

Mrs. P.'s Sugrar Gingerbread. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of 
butter, three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
table-spoonful of water, a little cinnamon and essence of lemon, 
nearly flour enough to roll out ; spread very thinly into pans 
with the hand or knife ; cut in squares as soon as taken from 
the oven. 

Delicate Cake. 

Whites of three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half a cup of but- 
ter, one-half a cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tarter, one of soda. 

Josie's Cake. 

One cup of milk, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four 
cups of flour, six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one 

of soda. MRS. MERRILL. 



126 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Walnut Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, rub to a cream ; 
one-half cup of milk, two cups of pastry flour, two whole eggs, 
or if you wish to make the cake white, use the whites of three 
eggs, beat to a stiff froth ; one cup of chopped English walnuts, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half a teaspoonful of 
soda. Bake in rather a deep sheet in a moderate oven, thirty- 
five minutes. Frost if you please. mrs. m. h. briggs. 

Nut Cake. 

Rub together two cupful s of sugar and one of butter, add the 
whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth, a cupful of milk in which 
has been dissolved a teaspoonful of soda, and flour enough to 
make, rather stiff. Two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar should 
be thoroughly sifted into the flour. Flavor with orange ; divide 
equally and bake in two large tins. 

Filling. — Make a boiled frosting of one cupful of sugar and 
five table-spoonfuls of water. Boil till the syrup strings from 
the spoon. Have ready the white of one egg well-beaten, and 
beat this rapidly into the syrup as soon as it is cool enough not 
to cook the egg. Flavor with orange and stir in half a pound 
of chopped walnuts. Spread this between the sheets of cake, 
and make a frosting for the top as before, omitting the chopped 
walnuts. Before this cools arrange half walnuts closely 
together on the top. mrs. s argent. 

Mode Cake. 

Two cups of butter, three cups of sugar, four cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, six eggs, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. mrs. g. w. dennett. 



CAKE. 1 27 

Blueberry Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, two and one-quarter table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one and one-half cups of milk, three eggs, 
three and three-quarters cups flour, one pint and a half of blue- 
berries, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
soda ; put a little of the flour on the berries, mrs. j. little. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

One cupful of corn starch, two of flour, one of butter, two of 
sugar, one of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half a teaspoonful of soda, yolks of six eggs. Split the cake 
after it is cold, take the whites of the eggs with sufficient sugar 
to sweeten, spread on layer, then put on grated cocoanut. 

Cocoanut Jumbles. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, two eggs, one 
cocoanut, chopped fine. Drop in pans and bake. mrs. e. 

Harlequin Cake. 

Break two eggs into a cup and fill with sweet cream, one cup 
of sugar, two cups of flour, a little salt, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda ; divide into three 
parts, color one pink, leave one white, color one with chocolate, 
use one square of chocolate for the dark cake. Put together 
with filling — chocolate layer first, then white, then pink. Frost 
the top with common white frosting. For filling, use one cup 
of sugar, one cup of cold water, one egg, two table-spoonfuls 
of flour, juice and rind of one lemon. Boil till the consistency 
of thick cream. mrs. chas, walker. 



128 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Silver Cake. 

Whites of five eggs beaten to a froth, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, creamed ; one cup of cold water, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, four cups of flour. 
Flavor to taste. Two sheets. mrs. hunter. 

Gold Cake. 

Yolks of five eggs beaten light, two cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, creamed ; one cup of cold water, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, four cups of flour. 
Flavor to taste. Two sheets. mrs. h. 

The above receipts make excellent marble cake, by adding 
one-half cup of chopped raisins, one-half cup of currants, one 
teaspoonful each of cloves, cassia, allspice, ginger and nutmeg, 
to the gold part and mixed with the white. 

Ada Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, whites of three eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; flavor with nutmeg. 

MRS. MUNSON. 

Golden Spong:e Cake. 

Yolks of six eggs, three cups of sugar, four cups of flour, 
one cup of cold water, three teaspoonfuls baking powder , flavor 

to taste. MRS. MUNSON. 

Imperial Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, one pound of raisins, one pound of blanched 
almonds, three-quarters of a pound of citron, one-half ounce of 



CAKE. . 129 

mace, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, ten 
eggs ; split and cut the almonds in four parts, put one-half of 
the fruit in flour, measure the flour after it is sifted. 

MRS. DAY. 

Harrison Cake. 

One cup of sugar, two of molasses, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, one cup of butter, four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, five 
cups of flour, four cups of raisins. mrs. breen. 

Cream Pie. 

One cup of white sugar, one and one-half cups of flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half of saleratus 
dissolved in three large spoonfuls of cold water, little salt. 

The Cream. — Two eggs, one-half cup of flour, two-thirds of 
a cup of sugar, one pint of milk. mrs. breen. 

Mrs. Little's Doughnuts. 

Two cups of sugar, butter the size of an egg^ one and one- 
third cups of milk, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonful of saleratus, nutmeg, flour just enough 
to roll lightly. 

Washington Pie. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half of saleratus, one-half cup of milk. 

Filling. — Reserve the white of one egg, and chop very fine 
one cup of nice raisins, one cup of sugar, boil until it ropes, 
then add. the white of an egg and the raisins, beat all together, 
fill the three cakes and cover the top. mrs. waterhouse. 



130 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Jumbles. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of coffee, cup sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

Doughnuts. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda ; salt. 

MRS. HUNTER. 

Gingerbread. 

One eggf one cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, one 
heaping teaspoonful of soda, two and one-half cups of flour, 
one heaping table-spoonful of lard, or lard and butter. Beat 
hard and bake in a quick oven. mrs. hunter. 

Swiss Cake. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one cup cold water, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. 

MRS. H. 

Doughnuts. 

Beat one egg very light, in a dish large enough to contain all 
the other ingredients; a quart bowl will do. Then add one cup 
of sugar, one cup of sour milk, in which you have dissolved a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, two teaspoonfuls of melted butter, two 
table-spoonfuls molasses, half a nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla and a little salt. Beat all together very thoroughly, roll 
not too thin and fry. K. d. clarke. 



CAKE. 131 

Pancakes. 

One large cup of sour milk, one-half cup of sugar, one cup of 
rye meal, one cup of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, salt 
and cinnamon to taste. Fry in hot lard. mrs. m, 

Dougrhnuts. 

Take one cup of sugar, one cup of rich milk (if not rich, add 
a small piece of butter), two eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
two of cream of tartar, sail and spice to taste ; roll out soft. 

MRS. B. p. LAUGHLIN. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of a nutmeg, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda, cassia to taste, one cup of sour milk ; mix 
quite soft. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, two cups of 
boiling water, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of yeast, or one 
yeast cake, cinnamon and clove for spice, flour enough to roll. 
Rise twelve hours or more. mrs. p. s. nickerson. 

Lemon Snaps. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two eggs, one-half 
cup of hot water, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with 
lemon ; flour enough to knead, roll very thin. 

MRS. p. S. NICKERSON. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One cup of butter, one-half teaspoonful soda, two cups of 
sugar, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, two- 
thirds of a cup of milk, four eggs. 



132 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, three eggs, the whites beaten sepa- 
rate, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Flavor with lemon. mrs. d. 

Harrison Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, three-quarters of a 
cup of butter, four eggs, one-half cup of milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, cloves and nutmeg, three-quarters of a pound of chopped 
raisins, one cup of currants, a little citron. 

MRS. p. S. NICKERSON. 

Lemon Cookies. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in one-third cup of cold water, one 
teaspoonful of lemon, flour to roll. Roll thin, sprinkle with 
granulated sugar and cut with a fancy cutter and bake in a 
quick oven. mrs. hunter. 

Tea Cake. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
a cup of cold water, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, flavor to taste. 

MRS. H. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two-thirds of a cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, whites of three eggs ; flavor 
with vanilla. Bake in round tin plates. 



CAKE. 133 

Filling — Yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, two table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil in double boiler until thick and 

smooth. E. H. BONNEY. 

Sugar Gingerbread. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, two 
eggs, soda and cream of tartar, flour to roll ; sprinkle sugar 
over top and crease with roller. 

Molasses Gingerbread. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of 
butter, one egg, one cup of milk or water, one large spoonful 
of soda, flour to roll. mrs. cousens. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread. 

One cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sour milk, (water will do as well), two 
eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of soda, ginger and 
spice to taste. Beat well. mrs. l. 

Cookies. 

Thred cups of sugar, three eggs, one-half a cup of milk, one 
cup of butter, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, flour enough to roll 

thin. MRS. WM. D. LITTLE. 

Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, 
one eggy one tea«poonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda. 



134 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One and one-half cups of molasses, good one-half cup of 
butter, put on the stove and let it boil, put in rounding tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon. 

MRS. ELLEN H. FICKETT. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Take one and one-half cups of molasses, one-half cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of lard, one even table-spoonful of saleratus, 
dissolved in half a cup of boiling water; salt and spice to taste. 
Roll out soft and bake in a hot oven. mrs. b. p. laughlin. 

Soft Molasses Cookies. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of water 
(cold), five cups of flour, one-half cup of lard, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda, spice to suit taste. Drop in the pan with 
a spoon and bake quickly. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One egg, one large teaspoonful of butter, one teaspoonful 
and one-half of saleratus, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
ginger, a little nutmeg, if you like, as much salt as you like, 
one-half cup of cold water ; beat the butter, sugar and molasses 
together, and foam. 

Molasses Drop Cakes. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of cold 
water, one-half cup of butter or lard, one egg, one table-spoon- 
ful of soda, one table-spoonful of ginger, one table-spoonful of 



CAKE. 135 

cinnamon, about five cups of flour. Drop teaspoonfuls at long 
distances from each other in a buttered pan, and bake in a 
quick oven. k. d. clarke. 

Berwick Spong^e Cake. 

Beat six eggs, yolks, and whites together, two minutes, add 
three cups of sugar, and beat five minutes ; two cups of flour 
with two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and beat two minutes ; 
one cup of cold water with one teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved 
in it and beat one minute ; the grated rind and half the juice of 
a lemon, a little salt and two more cups of flour and beat 
another minute. Observe the time exactly and bake in a deep 
pan. MRS. L. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One cup of molasses, good one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of sugar, one egg, rounding teaspoonful of soda, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of ginger. Put molasses 
and butter on the stove and let it scald, then put in the soda ; 
beat the sugar and egg together, and turn the hot mixture on 
the beaten egg. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Three cups of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of Royal baking 
powder, half a cup of butter and lard mixed, a little salt, mix 
with milk. Roll and bake in one large or two small pans, in a 
quick oven. Mash and sweeten to taste three pints of straw- 
berries. Split the cake, butter both sides, and put the strawber- 
ries between. Cream can be added to the berries if preferred. 

MRS. S. B. KKLSEY. 



136 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Gingrerbread. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of boiling water, into it a 
piece of butter size of an egg, one spoonful of ginger, one 
spoonful of soda, three cups of flour. mrs. frye. 

Spoi^e Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, three eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar sifted 
in the flour, three teaspoonfuls of warm water, dessert-spoonful 
of vinegar. miss c. m. patten. 



FROSTING. 



Cream Frostiiig. 



Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half cup of cream or milk. 
Boil just five minutes, stir until stiff ; spread on cake ; have a 
dish of melted chocolate, spread over the cream. 

MRS. RUSSELL. 



FROSTING. 137 

Cream Frosting. 

Take the white of one eg^ and add to it an equal measure of 
cold water, stir into this three X powdered or confectioner's 
sugar until the right consistency to spread upon the cake. 
This is the easiest manner to make frosting" and it is unsur- 
passed. It will remain soft and creamy, cutting without break- 
ing for several days. Flavor with vanilla, rose or almond. A 
few drops of cochineal syrup will color this a beautiful rose 
color and is very effective. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Make the cream frosting and mix with it as much grated 
chocolate as you wish. Flavor with vanilla, mrs. brooks. 

Coeoanut Frosting. 

Make the cream frosting and mix with it some fresh grated 
coeoanut, (dessicated may be used). After it is spread upon 
the cake scatter more coeoanut over it. The effect is very 
pretty to color the frosting pink, or brown with grated choco- 
late and then sprinkle the white grated coeoanut over it. 

Caramel Frosting. 

One cup of brown sugar, and one square of Baker's chocolate, 
scraped fine, one table-spoonful of water. Simmer gently, 
(bfeing careful not to let it burn) twenty minutes. Spread on 
the cake while hot. 

Gelatine Frosting. 

Two table-spoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in three of cold 
water and one of boiling water ; stir in powdered sugar till stiff 



138 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

as common frosting; flavor. If the boiling water does not 
dissolve the gelatine, put it on the stove till it does. To make 
pink frosting use about half a sheet of pink gelatine instead of 
the white. 

Golden Frosting. 

Mix with the yolks an equal measure of cold water and stir 
in confectioner's sugar until it will spread nicely upon the cake. 

Orange Frosting. 

Grate half the rind of one orange and squeeze the juice, 
remove the seeds, add a little tartaric acid to taste, stir into 
the juice and rind confectioner's sugar until thick enough to 
spread nicely on the cake. This is very nice to spread between 
the layers for orange cake, using less sugar than for the top 
frosting. 

Caramel Frosting. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of milk, butter the 
size of a walnut. Boil five minutes ; flavor to taste and beat 
till cool enough to spread. mrs. hunter. 

Nut Frosting. 

Make cream frosting and mix into it nuts chopped fine in 
quantities desired. Hickory nuts, English walnuts or almonds 
are the best for this purpose. Some prefer to place half nuts 
upon the top of the frosting rather than to mix them. 

MRS. BROOKS. 



FROSTING. 139 

Pink Frosting^. 

Put one-half a sheet of pink gelatine in a bowl, add three 
table-spoonfuls of cold water ; let it stand twenty minutes, then 
add a large spoonful of boiling water. When all dissolved, add 
powdered sugar until consistency of ordinary frosting. Flavor 
and spread on cake. l. 

Icing: for Cake. 

One tumbler of sugar, one table-spoonful of vinegar, one of 
water ; let it boil ; add the whites of two eggs, 

MRS. DANIELS. 

Cream Frosting. 

One cup sugar, three table-spoonfuls of boiling water ; boil 
seven minutes, or when it hairs by dropping from a straw, 
pour on to the beaten white of one egg, stir quickly so it will 
not harden, spread at once on the cake ; flavor with vanilla. 

Frosting:. 

White of one egg, one heaping cup of sugar, a little pulver- 
ized ofum arable. miss kingsbury. 



I40 



SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 



A flannel bag is the best for straining jelly| 
porcelain kettle. For every pint of juice a 
sugar ; granulated sugar is the best. It is the 
the juice a few minutes before adding the sug 
sugar heated before adding to the juice. Bo 
covering ; jellies and jams must not be cover 
until cold. In making jams, boil the fruit fifte 
adding the sugar. Mash the fruit before coo 

Currant Jelly. 

One pint of currants, one pint of sugar. B 
ten minutes, sugar heated, and boil twenty 
currants cold. 

Grape Jelly. 

Stem the grapes and slightly cook them ; 
one pint of juice to a pound of sugar. 

Watermelon Preserves. 

Pare the rind, soak in salt water over ni^ff^ then in clear 
water till all of the salt is extracted, then scald in alum water 
with grape leaves, a lump of alum the size of a hickory nut. 




JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 14I 

Next throw into cold water, then boil in strong ginger water, 
make a syrup, allowing a pound of sugar to a pint of water. 
When the syrup boils, put in the fruit and cook till it is tender 
and transparent. Then take out the fruit and boil syrup until 
thick. The above is for ten pounds of fruit, and is very nice. 

Preserved Plums. 

Ine pound of plums, one-half pound of sugar. Wash the 
IS and prick with a large needle; put in jars and set in 
water till they come to a boil. Boil forty minutes ; make 

rrup of the sugar and fill the jars full. Seal. 

MRS. M. R. WOODBURY. 

Preserved Grapes. 

^eigh the grapes and sugar, pound for pound, press the pulp 
the skins, boil the skins by themselves, then boil the pulp 

press through a fine hair sieve until the seeds are removed. 

this to the skins, also the sugar, and cook sufficient to 

The grapes need not be entirely ripe. e. l. 

Currant Jelly. 

o a pint of juice, a pound of sugar ; stem and squeeze the 
•ants and boil fifteen minutes, then put the sugar in and 
fifteen minutes more ; take the scum off from the juice 
►re you put the sugar in. mrs. lang. 

Apple Jelly. 

'o thirteen good sized apples, put one quart of water and 
one lemon ; boil until soft and strain. To one pint of juice, 
add one pound of sugar and boil twenty minutes. 



142 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Apple Jelly. 

A very nice, firm, rich jelly may be made from the parings of 
apples and the cores. Cover them with water and let them 
boil until the water has wasted a little and the apple skins are 
very soft ; then strain them, and add an equal quantity of 
sugar as there is liquid. A little lemon juice, a few cloves, and 
some ginger improves the jelly. mrs. s. b. kelsey. 

Pineapple Jam. 

Pare and grate fine on a grater. To one pound of pineapple, 
allow one pound of sugar. Boil twenty minutes, put in jars, 
cover with paper dipped in white of an egg. 

To Can Berries. 

Put the berries in a tin pan and set over a boiler of boiling 
water, and to a gallon of berries allow one cup of boiling water; 
heat the berries to a boiling point (cover them and stir occa- 
sionally, and they will heat much sooner); heat self-sealing jars 
by putting them in a pan of cold water, set on the stove and 
let the water boil ; now fill the jars to the top, and put on the 
covers, and set up as the glass is expanded by the heat. They 
cannot be set tight now, but after they become cool they can be 
set up very tight. Set away in a cool, dry place. Always use 
the fruit as soon as opened. If these directions are followed 
you may put up any kind of fruit and keep it for years. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Pour hot water over the tomatoes to remove the skins, and 
then slice ; put into a porcelain kettle and cook a few minutes ; 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 1 43 

have the can filled with hot water on the hearth. When the 
tomatoes are cooked enough, empty the cans and fill them with 
the tomatoes. Seal at once. 

Preparing Fruits for Canning^. 

Boil tomatoes twenty minutes, add a little salt ; can hot. 

Boil ripe currants six minutes ; amount of sugar to a quart, 
eight ounces. 

Boil Siberians, or crab-apples, whole, twenty-five minutes ; 
eight ounces of sugar to a quart. 

Boil peaches, whole, fifteen minutes, using six ounces of 
sugar to a quart. 

Boil pears from twenty to thirty minutes — twenty for halves 
and thirty for whole pears — using six ounces of sugar to a 
quart can of fruit. 

Boil whortleberries five minutes ; the amount of sugar to a 
quart jar should be four ounces. 

Boil plums ten minutes ; eight ounces of sugar to a quart is 
needed. 

Boil blackberries six minutes with six ounces of sugar to the 
quart. 

Raspberries six minutes, with four ounces of sugar to the 
quart. 

Boil cherries five minutes ; the amount of sugar to a quart is 
six ounces. 

Fruit cans ought to be tightened both before and after the 
fruit cools. Never use poor rubbers if you want your fruit to 
keep well. The best cans have porcelain tops. Keep canned 
fruit in a dark, cool place in the cellar. A plain board cup- 
board (in the cellar) with doors is just the thing to keep fruit in. 



144 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Swing shelves in the cellar is no place for fruit. Fruit gets too 
much light and sometimes takes a fall, and, great the fall there- 
of, as well as great waste of fruit and time. Avoid all such 
calamities. Have a cupboard for your fruit. Any man or boy 
that is handy with tools can make one good enough to put in a 
dark corner of your cellar. I can assure you it will pay well 
for the trouble. Fruit kept in the dark retains it flavor better. 
Try it and judge for yourself. 



ICES AND CREAMS. 



Orange Ice. 

Boil a cup and a half of sugar in a quart of water ; when cold 
add the juice of a half dozen oranges ; steep the rinds in a 
little water, and strain into the rest ; add the rind and juice of 
one lemon, strain all into a freezer, and freeze like ice cream. 

Tutti Frutti. 

One quart of cream, one and one-half ounces of sweet 
almonds, blanched and chopped. One-half pound of sugar ; 
freeze, and when sufficiently congealed, add one-half pound of 
preserved fruits, with a few chopped raisins and finely sliced 
citron ; cut the fruit small and mix well with the cream. Freeze 
like ice cream ; keep on ice until served. mrs. e. little. 



ICES AND CREAMS. 145 

Ice Cream. 

Make a custard with the yolks of two eggs, one and a half 
cups of sugar and one quart of sweet milk ; while beating the 
yolks and sugar, add a table-spoonful of flour to thicken the 
custard. Just befere freezing, add the whites of six eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and one quart of sweetened cream. 
Flavor to taste. mrs. j. little. 

Pineapple Souffle. 

Yolks of three eggs, one-half pint of pineapple, one-half 
lemon, one-half pound of sugar, one-quarter box of Nelson's 
gelatine. Soak the gelatine in a quarter of cup cold water, add 
a little hot water to dissolve it. Grate or chop the apple, add 
lemon juice and sugar ; stir until dissolved, then add yolks of 
eggs, which have been beaten until creamy ; mix them carefully 
and strain the gelatine into the mixture ; turn into a basin and 
set it in a dish of cracked ice ; stir till it thickens, then add 
one pint of cream, whipped, hastily putting into moulds. 
Bind the seams with piece of muslin, dipped in melted suet. 
Pack and let stand two hours. 

Sherbet. 

Heaping table-spoonful of gelatine, one quart of boiling 
water ; strain, then add one pint of sugar, one pint of fruit juice 
(canned pineapple very nice). Freeze as ice cream. 

MRS. WEBSTER. 

Sherbet. 

Juice of two oranges, juice of one lemon, two coffee cups of 
sugar, one quart of milk ; dissolve the sugar in the milk, for 
two hours. Put into the freezer, then add the fruit juice, and 
freeze at once. This is light and creamy. mrs. brown. 



146 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Juice of five lemons, one pint of sugar, one quart of water, 
one table-spoonful of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in a little of 
the water. Boil one cupful of water and dissolve the gelatine ; 
mix together the sugar, water, gelatine and lemon juice ; turn 
into the can and freeze. This is light and creamy. 

MRS. TARR. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

Two cans of pineapples ; cut off the dark spots from the 
slices, chop very fine and pour over it two quarts of boiling 
water ; strain into this the juice, also the juice of four lemons ; 
five teacups of white sugar, and just before freezing beat in 
the whites of six eggs, which have been whipped to a stiff froth. 

/ MRS. J. L. 

Frozen Apricots. 

One can of apricots, one pint of sugar, one quart of water, 
one pint of whipped cream, measured after it is whipped ; cut 
the apricots in small pieces ; add sugar and water and freeze. 
When nearly frozen add the cream. mrs. tarr. 

Frozen Apricots. 

One quart can apricots, two table-spoonfuls of gelatine, one 
cup of sugar, one pint of cream. Drain the apricots, cut with 
silver spoon, and remove the stones. Add sugar to syrup and 
sufficient water to make one and one-half pints. Cover gela- 
tine with cold water and soak one-half hour. Boil the water, 
syrup and sugar for five minutes. Skim carefully, strain through 
a cloth and add the gelatine ; stir until dissolved, add apricots 



ICES AND CREAMS. 1 47 

and stand aside to cool. Then put in freezer, when frozen add 
one pint of cream, whipped. Remove the dasher cover and let 
stand two hours. 

Ice Cream. 

Take one gallon of milk, two quarts of cream and six cups of 
sugar ; stir all together, then strain through a fine strainer, so 
as to get all the lumps out from the cream ; flavor to taste, then 
freeze. This will make about three gallons after freezing. 

MRS. M. H. BRIGGS. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

One quart of milk, one pint of sugar, juice of three lemons. 
Mix the milk and sugar and put into the freezer, then very 
quickly stir in the lemon juice and freeze at once. 

MRS. DANIELS. 

Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, one cup of milk, two cups of sugar, one 
table-spoonful of vanilla, with or without beaten whites of two 
eggs. Freeze without cooking. mrs. l. m, cousens. 



148 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 



PICKLES. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Wipe carefully the cucumbers ; one pint of bait to one 
hundred cucumbers, cover with boiling water, shut up close and 
let stand twenty-four hours, then take out and wipe, throwing 
away salt water. Place the cucumbers in jars, and to each 
thick layer (or say one hundred), put one table-spoonful each of 
cinnamon, pepper, cloves, allspice, and white mustard seed ; use 
whole spice always. Place on top some alum (say two ouncse 
to about five hundred pickles), and then fill the jars with boiling 
vinegar, putting some horse-radish root in the vinegar while 
boiling ; put horse-radish leaves on top of pickles. Small 
cucumbers are preferable. mrs. wm. d. little. 

Crosse & Blackwell's Chow Chow. 

Cauliflower, two heads ; celery, six bunches ; cucumbers, two 
dozen ; belpeppers, six ; onions, one quart ; small green toma- 
toes, one-half peck ; vinegar, two gallons ; one-half peck of 
small string beans, one-half pound mustard seed, four ounces of 
tumeric, one of ground allspice, ground pepper, ground cloves. 
Cut these all into small pieces, cover with salt. Let them 
stand twenty-four hours and then drain. Put the vinegar and 
spices into a kettle and heat them to the boiling point, add the 
vegetables ; let them scald until they become tender and yellow. 
This recipe makes a very large quantity. I generally use only 
half of' it. I have used it for years, and found it always nice, 
and keeps well. mrs. cole. 



PICKLES. 149 

Chilian Sauee. 

Twenty-four good-sized ripe tomatoes, two green peppers, one 
onion, all chopped very fine ; one table-spoonful each of ginger, 
cloves, allspice, cassia, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
salt, one quart good cider vinegar. Simmer two hours and 

bottle. MRS. HUNTER. 

Bordeaux Sauce. 

One gallon green tomatoes cut in thin slices, one gallon cab- 
bage, sliced, six onions, six small red peppers, one-half ounce of 
tumeric, same of whole cloves, celery seed, afllspice, whole 
pepper and ground ginger, one-quarter of a pound of white 
mustard seed, one-quarter of a pound of sugar. Put all 
together, cover with vinegar and boil till tender. Cut cabbage 
and tomatoes fine, salt them, let them stand over night and 
press out the water well before putting in spices, mrs. f. d. 

To Keep Tomatoes. 

The excellence of the following receipt for keeping tomatoes 
is vouched for by two good women who have proved its virtues 
for many years : Choose perfectly sound, ripe tomatoes, the 
skin must be unbroken, and the tomatoes must not be soft, but 
should be taken from the vines at the stage when they have just 
turned red, put them into a jar, and pour over them vinegar 
and water in the proportion of two quarts of water to one of 
vinegar ; turn a plate over them, and put a weight upon it so 
that the tomatoes will all be kept well under, then tie a cloth over 
the jar, put the cover on and set it in a cool cellar or closet. 
Tomatoes preserved in this way have been known to keep for 



150 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

months. It is essential that the tomatoes shall be kept covered 
with vinegar and water, for if one even is not, it will decay, and 
the ferment occasioned by it will spoil all the others. 

Sliced Cucumber Pickles. 

Pare and slice tender cucumbers, rather thin, put in salt and 
water ten or twelve hours ; drain, add sharp vinegar to cover 
well and put in whole spices with a little alum. 

Grated Cucumber Pickles. 

Peel and grate one dozen good sized cucumbers, add a large 

pepper, chopped fine, and one onion, also chopped ; drain over 

night. In the morning add salt and strong vinegar to cover, 

and put up. mrs. h. bridgton. 

« 

Chili Sauce. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, one onion and three green peppers, 
chopped fine ; two and a half cups of vinegar, one cup of sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spices. 
Cook slowly for two or three hours. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, six peppers, four 
table-spoonfuls of salt, eight table-spoonfuls of sugar, four tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, four teaspoonfuls of cloves, eight 
teacups of vinegar ; boil slowly two or three hours ; peel and 
stew the tomatoes, chop the onions and peppers fine. Do not 
strain. mrs. carrie trott. 



PICKLES. 151 

Mustard Plekle. 

One quart of small cucumbers, one quart of small onions, one 
quart of green tomatoes, sliced, one cauliflower, cut up, three 
red peppers, chopped fine ; scald in salt and water three or four 
hours. Drain, pour hot vinegar over them and let stand twenty- 
four hours. Then take one quart of vinegar, one large cup of 
mustardjOne and one-half cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of 
flour. Let the vinegar come to a scald and add the other 
ingredients, mixed with cold vinegar. Let it all boil up and 
pour over the pickles. mrs. e. larrabee. 

French Pickles. 

One colander of sliced green tomatoes, one quart of sliced 
onions, one colander of cucumbers ; pared and sliced, two 
handfuls of salt. Let all stand twenty-four hours, then drain 
through a sieve, one-half ounce of celery seed, one-half ounce 
of allspice, one teacupful black pepper, one table-spoonful of 
tumeric, one pound of brown sugar, two table-spoonfuls of 
mustard, one gallon of vinegar. 

Spiced Plums. 

One peck of plums, seven pounds of sugar ; spice to taste ; 
let it boil down thick. Before taking from the fire add one 
pint of vinegar. mrs. p. 

Sweet Currant Pickle. 

Five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of cloves, same of cinnamon, one pint of vinegar. 
Add these together and boil twenty minutes. Skim out the 
currants and boil the syrup from two to three hours. 



152 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Chopped Piekle. 

Two quarts of tomatoes, one of onions, one of peppers. 
Chop all fine, add one cup of salt and let it stand thirty-six 
hours. Rinse well, pour off the liquor, add one pint of mustard 
seed, and cloves if you like. Cover with vinegar. 

MRS, L. COUSENS. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

One peck of green tomatoes, six large onions, chopped or 
sliced ; sprinkle through them a cupful of salt, let them stand 
over night, drain off, and boil in one quart of vinegar and two 
quarts of water for fifteen minutes. Drain carefully. To three 
quarts of vinegar, add two pounds of sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
each of ground mustard, cinnamon and ginger, two table-spoon- 
fuls each of cloves and cayenne. Bring all to a boil, put in the 
mixed tomatoes and onions, boil fifteen minutes, pour into a jar 
and keep cool. mrs. lang. 

Sweet Pickle for Pears, Peaches, Etc. 

Seven pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, two ounces of 
cinnamon, one quart of vinegar. Boil the syrup before putting 
in fruit. 

Sweet Pickle. 

Six pounds of ripe cucumbers. Prepare the cucumbers over 
night and cover with salted water; drain well in the morning. 
Make a syrup ; one pound of brown sugar, one teaspoonful 
of all kinds of spices, one pint of vinegar. 

Piccalilli. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced ; sprinkle one cup of salt 
over them, let them stand over night, draw off the water in the 



• PICKLES. 1 53 

morning. Put tomatoes to boil in vinegar enough to cover 
them, six peppers, four onions, chopped, three-quarters of a cup 
of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of cloves, two of allspice, two of 
cinnamon. Boil twenty minutes ; if not tender, boil longer. 

MISS M. E. TOBEY. 

Cucumbers. 

Take one hundred cucumbers, pint of salt, put them in a jar ; 
a layer of cucumbers, then of salt. Cover with boiling water, 
cover them tight. Let them stand twenty-four hours ; take them 
out, wipe and put back in the jar. Scald the vinegar and spices, 
pour on cucumbers, then ready for use. miss m. e. tobey. 

Piekled Cucumbers. 

Take two hundred small cucumbers, green ; make a brine of 
one pint of salt, and scald it up three mornings, and turn over 
the cucumbers each morning ; the fourth morning rinse and 
wipe dry. Take a stone jar and put a layer of cucumbers and 
of spices until all are used. For spices use whole cloves, whole 
allspice, whole mustard, stick of cinnamon, and whole pepper, 
horse-radish, cut up, and one cup of sugar. When all are in, 
scald vinegar enough to cover them, with small bit of alum ; 
turn over them, and cover with grape leaves. 

Green Tomato Pickles. 

To one gallon of chopped tomatoes, add a teacup of salt; 
let them stand twenty-four hours, then drain very dry. Take 
three teaspoonfuls of ground pepper, two of mustard, two of 
cinnamon, two of allspice, two of cloves, one gill of white mus- 
tard seed, four green peppers sliced, two onions; add two quarts 
of strong vinegar, boil fifteen minutes. Cover tightly for three 
days. It is then fit for use. 



154 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Spiced Currants. 

Five pounds of currants, four of brown sugar, two table-spoon- 
fuls of ground cloves, two of cinnamon, one pint of vinegar. 
Boil two hours or more, until thick. mrs. everett. 

Ketchup. 

To eleven pounds of tomatoes add one pint of vinegar ; 
simmer four hours ; strain through a sieve, then add four table- 
spoonfuls of salt, three and one-half of mustard, four of black 
pepper, one-half table-spoonful of cloves, one-half of allspice, 
one-half of cayenne. Cook until thick enough. 

MRS. PRINCE. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

• Peel the peaches ; to six pounds of peaches put four pounds 
of white sugar ; place in a kettle with a teaspoon ful of mace, 
one of allspice, one of cloves and one of cinnamon ; add enough 
vinegar to barely cover them (as the peaches make a quantity 
of syrup). Let them simmer until you can pass a straw through 
them. Put in jars and cover tightly. I remove the peaches 
when I think they have cooked sufficiently, and boil the syrup 
down quite thick, and pour hot over the peaches. 

MRS. LITTLE. 

Pickled Peaches. 

One-half a peck of peaches, two pounds of brown sugar, one 
ounce of stick cinnamon aud one pint of vinegar. Boil your 
sugar and vinegar together twenty minutes. Put your peaches 
in hot water for a minute, then take them out and rub the fur 
off with a coarse towel. Stick four cloves in each peach, then 
put them in the syrup and boil until tender. 

MRS. M. H. BRIGGS. 



PICKLES. 155 

Sweet Pickled Grapes. 

Wash and then pulp five pounds of grapes ; boil the pulps 
slowly, long enough to separate the seeds, which will rise to the 
top, then strain and throw the seeds away ; put the pulps back 
with the skins, add three pints of sugar, one pint of vinegar, 
one table-spoonful (not heaping), of allspice, cinnamon and 
cloves. Mix the spice with a little of the vinegar, or it will be 
lumpy. Boil until the skins seem tender enough to eat. 

E. J. BARBOUR. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of raisins, one quart of onions, three and one-half table-spoon- 
fuls of cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, two ounces of white 
mustard seed, two quarts of vinegar. Put to drain over night 
with a cup of salt. Boil until soft. 

MRS. S. H. COLESWORTHY. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Four quarts of grapes, four pounds of sugar, one-half a pint 
of vinegar, one-half a table-spoonful of whole cloves. Squeeze 
the pulp from the skin. Put the pulp in a kettle with water 
enough to keep from scorching, and boil not over ten minutes, 
then rub through a sieve. Then put juice, pulp, skins and other 
ingredients together and boil fifteen minutes. Serve with 
meats. mrs. w. h. m'donald. 

Spiced Cucumber Pickles. 

Take one hundred small cucumbers, place them in salt for 
three days, then remove them. Put one gallon of perfectly boil- 
ing vinegar over them. Fill little bags with whole cloves, cin- 



156 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

nanion, peppers, mustard and allspice, one ounce each. Scatter 
these in through the cucumbers before the boiling vinegar is 
put on. Cover them tightly for a week, then they are fit for use. 

MRS. COLE. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Seven pounds of peaches, three pounds of sugar, one quart 
of cider vinegar, one ounce of cinnamon and cloves. Put the 
peaches in hot water for an instant, and on taking them out rub 
the fur off with a coarse towel. Stick four cloves in each 
peach, then put them in the syrup and boil until tender. 

MRS. RUSSELL. 

Pickled Onions. 

Select as many small silver onions as a quart of water will 
cover. Boil in the water for a short time one-half cup of salt 
and pour over the onions. Let them remain twenty-four hours 
closely covered, then place them between dry cloths. Then 
put them into a stone jar and pour enough hot vinegar to 
cover. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

One peck of green tomatoes, five peppers, one pound of 
onions, one ounce each of whole cloves, cassia, allspice and 
white mustard seed, two quarts vinegar, one pound sugar. 
Slice and drain over night with a cup of salt. Boil until soft. 

MRS. p. 

Ketchup. 

One peck of tomatoes, four table-spoonfuls of salt, three of 
mustard, one of black pepper, one of cloves, one of allspice, 
one quart of sharp vinegar, eight peppers and eight onions, 
chopped. Simmer three or four hours. Strain. 



PICKLES. 157 

Pickled Peaches. 

One pint of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one cup stick cin- 
namon, one teaspoonful of cloves and one teaspoonful, allspice. 
Boil together and while boiling drop in the peaches and let 
them remain until they are heated through. As many as the 
liquid will cover. Wipe the down off the fruit before putting 
them in. MRS. m'dowell. 



BEVERAGES. 



Coffee. 

Allow one spoonful of finely ground coffee to one cup of 
boiling water, for each person. Put the coffee in a bag or 
strainer, pour the boiling water over it, do not let it boil. 
Serve with hot milk. 

Chocolate. 

One quart of milk boiled, two squares of Baker's chocolate, 
cut in and stirred until dissolved. Add one pint of water; the 
longer it boils the better. 

Cocoa. 

One quart of milk, boiled, three heaping teaspoonfuls of 
Hyler's cocoa, dissolved in cold milk. Add to the milk and 
boil again. 



J 



158 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Shells. 

Steep one cup of shells in one quart of boiling water, three 
or four hours, adding more hot water as it boils away. Strain 
and serve with hot milk or cream and sugar. 

Russian Tea. 

Allow one teaspoonful of tea for eight people, have water 
boiling in a kettle with alcohol lamp. Serve in after dinner 
cups, with lemon cut in small curves and block sugar. 

Iced or Russian Tea. 

Make the tea by the first receipt, strain it from the grounds, 
and keep it cool. When ready to serve put in a punch bowl, 
with a large piece of ice. Sweeten and add lemons, oranges 
and bananas. 

Orangreade. 

Rind of one orange, and place in a pitcher ; prepare three 
oranges as for invalids, one heaping teaspoonful of sugar or 
honey, one quart of boiling water. Let it stand and strain 
when cool. 

Fruit Punch. 

Juice of one dozen oranges, one-half dozen lemons, one can 
grated pineapple, strained. Sugar to taste, add water and ice. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 1 59 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 



Beef Tea. 



Cut half a pound of lean beef into very small pieces ; do not 
have a grain of fat on it, and put into a bottle that has a large 
opening (an olive or horse radish bottle will be nice) ; put in 
half a cup of cold water and cork tight. Set this in a basin of 
cold water and place on the fire where it will come to a boiling 
point, but not boil. Keep at this temperature for two hours, 
then strain and season with salt. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Into one quart of boiling water, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls 
of oatmeal ; let this boil forty minutes, season with salt, strain 
and serve. If sugar, milk or cream is wished, it may be added. 

Cream Toast. 

Heat half a cup of cream and season with salt Toast two 
slices of bread a light brown and pour the cream over it. Serve 
immediately. 

A Good Drink for the Lungs- 
Wash clean a few pieces of Irish moss, put in a pitcher and 
pour over it two cups of boiling water ; set where it will keep 
at the boiling point, but not boil, for two hours. Strain and 
squeeze into it the juice of one lemon ; sweeten to taste. If 
the patient cannot take lemon, flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 



l6o SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Toast Water. 

Toast stale bread until brown, but do not burn it ; put it into 
a large bowl, and pour over it boiling water ; let it stand for an 
hour or so ; strain, and put in a piece of ice before drinking. 

Mulled Jelly. 

Take one-tablespoonful of currant or grape jelly, beat with 
it the white of one egg and a little loaf sugar, pour on it one- 
half pint of boiling water, and break in a slice of dry toast, or 
two crackers. 

Beef Tea. 

Cut raw beef into small pieces, cover with cold water, set on 
the back of the stove, where it will not boil, until all the juice 
is extracted from the beef. When wanted for use, skim off all 
the fat, strain, season, and let it come to a boil. One pint of 
water to one pound of beef. 

Mutton B^oth. 

To each pound of meat add one quart of cold water ; boil 
gently, skim well and add a little salt, simmer about three 
hours. A little rice may be boiled with the meat. When cold, 
skim off all the fat, then heat as needed. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Put two large spoonfuls of oat meal, wet in cold water, into 
one pint of boiling water ; boil gently one-half hour, skim, and 
add a little salt, sugar and nutmeg. 

Appleade. 

Cut two large apples in slices, and pour over them one pint 
of boiling water; strain well and sweeten. Ice it before 
drinking. 



CANDY. l6l 



CANDY. 



Chocolate Cream Drops. 

Take two cups of sugar, one-half cup of water ; boil three 
minutes ; take from the fire and cool in a pan of water, stirring 
constantly till it creams, or till cold enough to roll into small 
balls. Place them on buttered tins to harden a little, before 
dipping into chocolate. Take one-half bar of unsweetened 
chocolate and break into small pieces, and place in a plate over 
the teakettle. When this is melted, drop the creams into the 
melted chocolate (two or three at a time), and lift them out 
with two forks, placing them on a buttered dish to harden. 
Flavor the cream and chocolate with vanilla. 

MRS. p. S. NICKERSON. 

Cream Waluuts. 

White of one egg ; stir into it enough powdered sugar to roll 
into balls; flavor as you please ; dip the walnuts into a syrup 
made of two table-spoonfuls of sugar and one of water ; boil 
three or four minutes, then place one-half of an English walnut 
on either side of each ball, and press together. Dates or 
Malaga grapes may be used. To make chocolate cream wal- 
nuts, stir two table-spoonfuls of melted chocolate into the 
cream. mrs. p. s. n. 

Everton Taffy. 

Take one cup of sugar, one of molasses, three-fourths of a 
cup of butter. Boil not quite so long as molasses candy and 
pour on buttered dishes. 



l62 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Taffy. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, four table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, two table-spoonfuls of water, and two of 
vinegar. Boil fifteen minutes. mrs. lang. 

Ice Cream Candy. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, scant cup of water ; add one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, dissolved in water, 
as soon as it boils. Don't stir it after it begins to boil. When 
done, it will be brittle if dropped in cold water. Add butter the 
size of a walnut just before taking off the stove. Pour into a 
buttered dish to cool, and pull as hot as possible until white. 
Flavor while pulling, with vanilla or any extract to suit your 

taste. MRS. p. S. NICKERSON. 

Caramels. 

One cup of molasses, two cups of sugar. Boil ten minutes ; 
add one large spoonful of flour, butter the size of an eggy one- 
half pound of chocolate. Boil twenty minutes, mrs. lang. 

Peppermints. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of water, boil five minutes. 
Flavor to taste, with peppermint ; stir until thick and drop on 
white paper, well buttered. 

Fig Candy. 

One cup of sugar, one-third of a cup of water, one-quarter of 
a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Do not stir while boiling. 
Boil to amber color, stir in the cream of tartar just before 
taking from the fire. Wash the figs, open and lay in a tin pan 
and pour the candy over them. mrs. c. n. lang. 



CANDY. 163 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One pound of cocoanut, one pound of powdered sugar, small 
quarter of a pound of flour, whites of six eggs. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

Caramels. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of cream or 
milk, piece of butter size of an tggy one cup of grated chocolate. 
Cook until it ropes. Pour on buttered tins and cut in squares 
just before it cools. mrs. p. s. n. 

Peanut Candy. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half a cup of water ; let it boil, then 
add one-half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, dissolved in a 
little cold water. Cook until, when dropped in cold water, it is 
brittle ; then add a small piece of butter the size of an English 
walnut ; cook a few minutes longer, pour over the shelled nuts, 
already spread in a buttered tin, and set away to cool. 

Cream Walnuts. 

White of one egg ; stir into it sufficient powdered sugar to 
make it stiff enough to handle ; flavor with vanilla ; dip the 
walnuts into a syrup made of two table-spoonfuls of sugar and 
one of water, boiled three or four minutes ; mould the cream 
with your fingers and place between the two halves of a walnut. 
To make chocolate cream walnuts, stir two table-spoonfuls of 
melted chocolate into the cream. mrs. lang. 



164 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 



CANDIES, WITHOUT COOKING 



French Vanilla Cream. 

Break into a bowl the white of one or more eggs, as the 
quantity you wish to make will require, add to it an equal quan- 
tity of cold water, then stir in XXX powdered or confectioners' 
sugar until you have it stiff enough to mould into shape with the 
fingers. Flavor with vanilla to taste. After it is formed into 
balls, cubes or lozenge shapes, lay them upon plates or waxed 
paper and set them aside to dry. This cream is the foundation 
of all the French creams. 

Chocolate Caramel. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk 
(small), a piece of butter as large as an egg, two teaspoonfuls 
of flour, three table-spoonfuls of chocolate ; cook twenty 
minuted. 

English Walnut Cream. 

Make French cream as previously directed. Have ready 
some English walnuts, using care not to break the meats. 
Make a ball of the cream about the size of walnut, and place 
a half nut upon either side of the ball, pressing it into the 
cream. Lay them away for a few hours to dry. 



CANDIES, WITHOUT COOKING. 1 65 

Cream Dates. ^ 

Select perfect dates, and with a knife remove the pit. Take 
a piece of French cream, make an oblong shape, and wrap the 
date around the cream. Nuts used instead of cream is very 
nice. 

Cream Candy. 

Three cups of sugar, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, thoroughly mixed in the sugar, one-half cup of water. 
Let the sugar dissolve in the water, before setting where it will 
boil ; then boil slowly. Drop a little in cold water to try when 
it is done ; it usually takes about twenty minutes ; if it boils too 
long it will be dry and sugary when cool and you cannot work 
it, or pull it. It is best to flavor it as you pull it, pouring on 
the candy, the extract, or the juice of the lemon, as you prefer. 

MRS. H. w. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Pan for Baking^ Angel Cake. 

The pan is a tubed pudding pan, eleven inches in diameter 
on top, eight and one-quarter inches on bottom ; height, four 
and one-quarter inches. Three legs equal distance apart, to 
project one and one-half inches above the top of the pan and 
riveted to the outside ; tube five and one-eighth inches long. 
Use this dish for no other purpose. mrs. briggs. 



1 66 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

Baltimore Beer. 

Four pounds of brown sugar, one ounce of cream of tartar, 
one ounce of Race's ginger, cracked fine ; pour on to this, four- 
teen quarts of boiling water ; let it stand until cool, then add 
one-half pint of hop yeast. After twenty-four hours, skim the 
top, and bottle, straining through a piece of muslin into the 
bottle. Be sure and cork tightly. Do not fill the neck, as it is 
apt to burst. Good for use in four or five days. 

MRS. E. LITTLE. 

Cream Beer. 

Two ounces of tartaric acid, two pounds of white sugar, the 
juice of half a lemon, three pints of water ; boil together five 
minutes. When nearly cold, add the whites of three eggs, well 
beaten, with one-half a cup of flour and half an ounce of winter- 
green. Bottle and keep in a cool place. Take two table-spoon- 
fuls of this syrup for a tumbler of water and add one-quarter of 
a spoonful of carbonate soda. Makes a very nice effervescing 
drink on a warm day. mrs. l. 

Cleaning Cream. 

Four ounces of white castile soap, four ounces of ammonia, 
one ounce of ether, one ounce of glycerine, one ounce of spirits 
of wine. Shave the soap fine and dissolve in one quart of hot 
water, then add four quarts of cold water and the other ingre- 
dients. Put into a jug or bottles and cork tightly. Before 
using, shake well ; very nice for cleaning all woolen clothes ; 
use a sponge or woolen cloth. mrs. e. l. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 1 67 

Soft Soap. 

Allow sixteen pounds each of grease and potash for a barrel 
of soap ; cut the grease in small pieces, put it with the potash 
in a tight barrel, then pour in two pails of water ; add a pailful 
of water every day until the barrel is half full, and stir well 
each day ; add no more water for a week or ten days, but con- 
tinue to stir well daily ; after that time add a pailful a day until 
the barrel is full. mrs. d. 

To Mend Crockery. 

Powder a small quantity of lime and mix with the white of an 
egg to a paste. Apply quickly to the edges to be mended, place 
firmly together. It will soon become set. 

Camphor Gum. 

Camphor gum, placed on shelves or drawers, will drive away 
mice. 

Gargle for Sore Throat. 

One teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, one-half pint of boiling water ; 
mix and let it stand until cold, then strain and use as often as 
needed. 

To Take Out Scorch. 

If a shirt bosom or any other article, has been scorched in 
ironing, lay it where bright sun will fall directly on it. It will 
take it entirely out. 



l68 SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

" Mrs. John B./' should you ever burn your fingers while get- 
ting up a dinner, wet them with cold water and hold as near the 
fire as you can without burning the other fingers ; it will smart, 
but grin and bear it ; the pain will leave as quick as it came, 
before you can count fifty ; it will leave no blister and you'll 
need no bandage, it fact you w^on*t know which finger it was 
that got burned. I was given this recipe by a blacksmith, a 
poor, old life-time convict, and have never found it to fail. 

Cleaning an Oven. 

To clean an oven, follow these directions : After the fire is 
out, and the oven is slightly warm, take a large basin of water 
as hot as you can bear it, and in which an ounce of soda has 
been dissolved ; with a clean flannel thoroughly wash it out. 
Thus you will remove the burnt fat that gives to dishes an 
unpleasant taste. Do this twice a week. It is not only essen- 
tial to see that an oven is well heated, but that it is also kept 
quite clean. l. 

Ink. 

To take out ink from cotton, silk and woolen goods, saturate 
the spots with spirits of turpentine, and let it remain several 
hours, then rub between the hands. It will crumble away 
without injuring either the texture or color of the articles. 

To Clean Zinc. 

Rub with kerosene and whiting. 

To Clean Smoky Marble. 

Brush a paste of chloride of lime and water over the entire 
surface ; grease spots can be removed from marble by applying 
a paste of crude potash and whiting in this manner. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 169 

Weights and Measures. 

One cup of medium size, equals one-half pint or one-half 
pound. 

One pint of sifted flour weighs one pound. 

Butter, when soft, one quart, weighs one pound. 

Sixteen large table-spoonfuls of liquid equal one-half pint. 

Eight large table-spoonfuls equal one gill. 

One pint of liquid (sixteen ounces) equals one pound. 

East India Recipe for Pot Pourri. 

Use a jar with a close fitting cover. Gather roses in the mid- 
dle of the day when no rain or dew is upon them, and carefully 
remove all the leaves. Place a layer of salt in the bottom of 
the jar, just covering it ; on this, put a layer of rose leaves about 
an inch thick, then another layer of salt, then roses and so on 
until the jar is full ; have the salt on top. Cover closely and 
put in a cool place, carefully stirring and working with the hand 
twice a day for five days. It should be well worked up to avoid 
all lumpiness or melting together of the compound. Pound in 
a mortar (a little at a time so as to break, but not powder), three 
ounces of best allspice and one of stick cinnamon ; add this to 
the salt and leaves, mixing well together and stirring thoroughly 
every day for a week. This forms the stock and at the end of 
that time, it is all to be put in the permanent jar and the other 
ingredients added. Put in the bottom of the jar one ounce of 
allspice slightly broken, then a layer of the stock ; alternate 
this, adding between every two layers, a layer of the following 
mixture : Half a pound of freshly dried lavender flowers, one- 
half an ounce of bruised cloves, one-half a stick of cinnamon, 



I JO SECOND PARISH COOK BOOK. 

and anise seed, one nutmeg, coarsely powdered, one-half a 
teacupful of ginger root, thinly sliced, and one ounce of orris 
root, powdered ; all these ingredients should be well mixed 
before adding to the jar. When the jar is half full, add part of 
a pint bottle of Florida water and one-half ounce each of the 
following essential oils : rose geranium, jassamine, lavender, 
lemon verbena, musk, rosemary, bergamot and violet. On 
this, put eight grains of the best Cantoii musk, and fill up the 
jar with the stock, adding the remainder of the Florida water 
at the last. This fills two pint jars. It takes about three 
dollars worth of essences and spice for the whole quantity. 
Shake the jar and stir well twice a week, opening after the 
rooms have been aired. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



171 



B 



AKER'S 

NON-ALCOHOLIC GINGER. 
A Warming Stimulant. 
Breaks Up Colds. 
Aids Digestion. 



For Loving 
Wives . . 

"Tired nature's sweet restorer" is not always 
** balmy sleep." A man, tired with the cares of 
business, needs first a good dinner. If his soup 
and gravies are well seasoned, and the desserts 
dainty, as each and every article can by using 

PAKER^S 

JSlEWPR0CESSk>lO27/FLAY0RING 




then, and not till then, is he in a condition to enjoy 
a night's rest. 

It is only in this brand that you will find the 
pure natural flavor of the fruit fully obtained. 
Their process of manufacture is the perfection of 
all past discoveries in this line. Remember, they are 

Double the Strength of Ordinary Extracts. 
A Single Trial Proves Their Worth. 
SOIiD EVERYWHERE. 



172 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Ijl ^^ IM/AIIII iir\f 131. I[«il1 






Cff 



-IMPORTEBS AND DBALEBS IN- 



Carpetings, 



Window Shades and Draperies, 

190 and 192 Middle Street, : Portland, Me. 

JOHN WILLIAMSON, 

>^ PHAl^jVIACIST i^ 

Junction Congress and Kree Streets, 
PORTI-7=tlN[D, TwmiNE. 

I^ieh . Df ess . Goods 

... as well as a Fine Assortment of . . . 

TABLE . LINBNS 

. . . can always be found at . . . 

T. F. HOMSTED'S, 

451 COKGRESS STREET. 



I 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 173 



SPEAKING OF LINENS .... 

DO you know about the really superb stock of high 
class Irish table linens that this store is showing? 
Nothing approaching it at any other store. There isn't a 
choicer line anywhere — and all at such reasonable prices, 
too. " Shamrock," " Clover Leaf," *' Flax Wheel," ** Old 
Bleach," "Fleur De Lis," and other famous brands; a 
full and complete assortment of each, in pattern cloths, 
napkins, doylies and damasks by the yard. 

Three times a day you sit at the dining room table. 
Three times a day you are confronted with linen that is 
either a satisfaction to yourself and a delight to your 
guests, or otherwise. You can afford to be more extrava- 
gant in the purchase of the table linen than in almost 
anything else. It is false economy to buy poor table 
linens. " Let the napery of your board be as fine and 
as costly as your purse can buy." 

Owen, Moore & Co. 



esTABUSHED teat. 



Byron Qreenough & Co., 

Manufacturing Furriers. 



FINE SEAL GARMENTS, 

EVERYTHiNG IN SMALL FURS, 

CAPs7gLC)VES AND ROBES, 



An Experience of Seventy- two Years and the employment of only 

skilful workmen has given our firm a reputation excelled 

by no house in the country. 

P.' c.' zoning. 234 Middle Street. 

H. M. MalinK. PORTIiA]SD, MAINE. 



174 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



ii 



NOTICE TO COOKS." 



April Ist, 1893. 
We shall, on the above date, open to the public our spacious new 
store, 124 Exchange Street, fourth door from Congress Street, with 
one of the finest lines of Wall Papers, Window Shades, Room Mould- 
ings, Stationery and Fringes ever shown in New England. 

C. H. BATCHELDER. 
P. S. — Window Shades fitted to any size a specialty. 

t^AHDAIiIl & IVIcAIiLilSTEt?, 

Anthracite f^J^ ITT \nia^!L . 

AND 



mm 



n.. • m ^m m m ^ m m m Carloads 

Bituminous.^^ V-£. J 1 I^I^- yj^jaity. 

«««»•=!;$ i;3.«^S1^. i PORTLAND. ME. '^'t^^^' 

H. X. SABOENT. O. L. LOBD. B. J. 8KILLIN. 

SARGENT, LORD & SKILLIN, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Stilp ChLandlery and Groceries, 

Fishermen's Outfits and Fishing Supplies, Importers of the 

Celebrated Scotch Hooks. 
10 & 12 Commercial Wharf, - - - Portland, Maine. 

NELSON TENNEY & CO., 

MAI^UTACTUBERS AND DEALBB8 IN 

Stoves, (Ranges & pa^naees. 

Pieced, Stamped, and Japanned Ware : : 

: : : Agate Ware and Kitchen Furnishing Qoods, 

No. 100 EXCHANGE STREET. 

JOSE BLOCK, PORTLAND, ME. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 175 



FARRINGTON & BICKFORD, 

542 CONGRESS STREET. 

PORTLAND, 
<?lotl7ii>^ ai)d Q^pt's purpljl^tp^s. MAINE. 

PETER S. NIOKERSON, 

(Successor to J. NICKERSON & 50N,) 

Ship Broker and Coininission Merchant, 

203 Commercial Street, PORTLAND, MAINE. 

Vessels Bought and Sold on Commission. Also, Marine Insurance 
effected at the lowest rates. 

P. O. Box 1476. NOTARY PUBLIC. 

CARTER BROTHERS, 

Sterling Silver & Best Plated Ware. 

WATCHES AND JEWELRY CAREFULLY REPAIRED, 

A. CARTBK. 521 Congress gt., cor. Gasco. j. w. d. carter. 

RELIABILIT Y AND E XPERIENCE. 

Little's . Insurance • Agency, 

19 EXCHANGE ST., over Merchants Exchangre. 



Fire Insurance in strong Ameri- 
can and Foreign Companies by 

WM. F. LITTIiE, Agent. 

ASSETS, $a5,ooo,ooo. 



Security Bonds furnished to per- 
sons in positions of trust by 

W. D. lilTTLE, Agent. 

AMERICAN SURETY CO. OF N. Y. 
Assets, $3,000,000. 



176 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



CHAS. : T. : EVANS : & : CO., 

SucceBBors to Millett, Evans 8c Co., 

Dress Goods, Silks, Velvets, 

Gloves, Hosiery, Underwear, 

Laces and Notions, 

517 Congress and 7 Casco Streets, Portland, Maine. 



^E^^3[jr! 



Dealers in .*. 



CHOICK GROCERIES, 

MAaiNB BARDWil^BB, KA^V^AK STORBa, Bio. 

130 and 13a Commercial Street, 



BLANK BOOKS TO ORDER A SPECIALTY. 



•^hsll l. disvis,^ 
Bookseller, Stationer, 

snd'dehler in phper hhngings, 

49 Exchange Street. 

This is still the only place in Maine where 
Spectacle Lenses are made. We make Spec- 
tacles and Eye Glasses to suit every 

defect of vision. .*. .*. Artificial Eyes inserted. .*. Ornamental 

Glass for Doors, Churches, Etc. 

C. H. FARLEY, - - 4 EXCHANGE STREET. 




ADVERTISEMENTS. 177 




A. M. WENTWORTH, 

648 1-2 Congress Street, 

PORTLAND, NIE. 

SPECIALTY— Fitting of " Spectacles" and " Eye Glasses" for all 
defects of vision. Hours, 8.30 to 12.00 a.m., 1.30 to 5.00 p.m. 

UJILLIAM A. LOUJE, 

R Q RTin Q f i Dealer in all kinds 

nnU 1 iUjlU ^j,^ Qf piumbingr Materials. 





LUniBBR. ^ ^""Slb'JlJr" *" 

NO. 16 F=REE STREET. 



O. 7V^. St D. iA£. NKSH, 

.*. DERI^ERS IN .*. 

Stoves, Ranges and Hot Air Furnaces, 

Steam, Hot Water and Combination Heaters, 
Tin Plate, Sheet Iron, Zinc and Wire, 

Kitchen and Galley Furnishing Goods. 
General Jobbing. 

NO. 6 EXCHANGE STREET. 

In your cooking use the very best Extracts. 

McMonagle & Rogers liCmon and Vanilla are unrivalled 
for purity, unequalled for strength. 

If you once try them you will use no other. 

WHITNEY, the GROCER, has them, 291 Congress 
Street, Portland, Me. Also the best Spices, Teas and 
Coffees always in stock. [Sole agent for Arabian Coffee.] 



178 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



UPHOUSTeRV. DRAPBRIBS. 

K. P. TIBBETTS & CO., 

Manufacturers, Wholesalers and Retailers of 

PMSHIONMBUE • F^URNITURE. 

Qurtaip3, fl\attres8e8 ai>d Beddii>$. 

4 & 6 FREE STREET, - - PORTLAND, ME. 

i 

WB SELL .-. 

TEAS, ARABIAN COFFEE, 

And all other grades of Coffee and Fine 
Groceries generally. 

MARRINER & CO/nPANY, 

222 Middle St. {.Under Falmouth Hotel.) PORTLAND, HE. 

GEO. E. SKirt£YER, 

309 to 323 Congress Street. 

niHNUFBGTURER OF ICE GREHin. 

TELEPHONE 5330. b ^^® Cream for evening parties y 

delivered in tbe afternoon. 



JWIf^S. F. C. CHASE, 



^ Pacl2ionalDle )K /AillineF, ^ 



495 CONQRESS ST. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 179 



Meb r y's 



for your Stylish Hats. 

for your Outing Shirts and 
Ties. 

Laundry will not break your 
Collars, Cuffs or Shirts. 



237 & 239 MIDDLE STREET. 



REMOVAL. 

H. E. MURDOCK, 

ffi OPTICIAN, ffi 

Has removed to the 

Maine Eye and Ear Infirmary Buildino, 

798 CONGRESS ST., PORTLAND, ME. 

WILLI/IM SENTER & CO., 

. DEALERS IN 

JEWELRY, 

^aatical, Optical and l^athematical Instruments. 

NO. 51 EXCHANGE STREET. 

mhH • IBEAL* TA/nibY • rLQfdRm 

Makes a 

Larger, 

Whiter and 

Richer 

Loaf 

Than can be made from any other flour. Costs 25c. bbl. more. Worth 
a dollar more than any other brand on the market. 

CEO. C. SHAW & CO., Sole Agents. 



180 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



THE SUCCESSFUL 
COOK AND PHYSICIAN 

Both will tell you that Palatable and Healthful Food are 
the desired results of your cooking, and that Pure Cream 
of Tartar and Soda are essential to these results. That 
which we have in stock is of known quality, as it has been 
tested and found free from all injurious properties and 
adulterations. 




'9 

APOTHECARY, .4. 589 CONGRESS STREET, 

===== ^ IK>RTLAND, MC. 



9 

Wholesale and Retail, and Dealers in all kinds of 

FRESH FISH, OYSTERS, LOBSTERS, CLAMS, ETC., 

No. 590 Congress Street, 147 Free Street, 252 Brackett Street. 

C. W. LOMBARD. -> TELEPHONE 304-3. 

JOHN LOVEITT & CO., 

WHOLESALB AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 

Fresb Fisb, Finnan Haddies, Lobsters, Glams, Oysters, 

SHRIMPS, SCALLOPS and all kinds of DRY and 5MOKED PISH. 

Wholesale Store, - - End Commercial Wharf. 

Retail Store, - - - 528 Congress Street. 

JOHN LOVEITT. PORTLAND, ME. 6. p. LOVKITT. 

Trade Mark. "DIRIGO." Our Motto. "PUiUTY." 

GOUDV St KENT, 

(INCORPORATED.) 

Bayers and manufactuimg GoafBctloqeis. 

l^^ijt's Superior pilot Br^ad a JPROia'ty- 

Salesrooms and Factory : Pearl Street, - Portlaad, Me. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 181 



H. H. RICKER & CO., 

MANUFACTUBERS AND DEALBB8 IN 




Which are recommended for recipes in this book. 



[ AGENTS FOR POLAND MINERAL WATER. 



THE BEST SPRING MEDICINE IS OLD 

DR. STEPHEN CUMMINGS" 



) 



A sure cure for all diseases of the Blood and Stomach. Dr. Cummings, who 
originated this preparation in 1830, practiced medicine in this city tor nearly 
fifty years, and had testimonials to its efficacy from Drs. John T. Oilman, Gil- 
man Daveis, Chas. W. Thomas, S. C. Weston, S. L. Larrabee, W. C. Kobinson, 
Wm. W. Sweat, S. H. Tewksbury. 



D. S. iAZ:KRREN St CO.. 

CO AT s * Carloads a Specialty. 

244 COMMERCIAL. ST., Head Union Wharf, 

PORTLAND, IVIE. 
C. M. Warren. Telephone 316-3. 



You cannot make any mistake if you try a 



Barrel of our 



White Crescent Flour,* 

» for Bread and Pastry. 

W. L. WILSON & CO., The Grocers. 



182 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



The Question is often asked : — 

*' Have you a Tooth Powder you know will not hurt 
my teeth. ^^ 

We have just that in . . . 

WAY'S . TOOTH . POWDER, 

SOLD IN BOTTLES AND BULK. 

C. WAY & CO,, Proprietors, Portland, He. 



H^D. ^A^. HESELTINE <& CO.,4- 



3^|iotltecaries^ 



Cor, CONGRESS and MYRTLE STS,, PORTLAND, ME. 

PURE DRUGS AND MEDICINES A SPECIALTY. 

Agents for the Underwood Spring Water. 




PORTLAND, 
J. C. WHITE. HAINE. 

FRANK H. MOBBILL. TELEPHONE 315-3. CHAS. H. BOSS. 

A\ORRIl2l2 & ROSS, 



@S®§@S|g§ 



DEALERS IN 





m 

671 Congress St. (State St. Sq.), PORTLAND, ME. 

Goods delivered in any part of the city. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 183 



J. R. LIBBY, 

DRY GOODS, 

488 & 490 Congress Street, 
PORTLAND, ME. 



SARGENT, DENNISON & CO., 



Wholesale Dealers in 



Office, No. 174 Commercial St., PORTLAND, ME. 

Shakef Hofse f^adish. 

■ lltllllltlllillMlllllllMtlltlltlltlllllt IMBIIBtlBllBriBllBIIBIIBIIBIIBllBl IIIBMBKaiiailBllBliadBMBIiailllllliailBII 

STIMULATES DIGESTION .'. 

ENRICHES THE BLOOD 

TONES THE APPETITE 

USE NO OTHER 
Packed only by : : ; 

E. D. Pettengill Company. 



: Sold by all First Class Orocers. 



184 ADVERTISEMENTS. 



STEVENS & ELWELL, 

H'T^h© @ Up-ToWn @ ©rocer^,^ 

Eye and Ear Infirmary Building, 

794 AND 796 CoNOBKSs Street, - PORTLAND, ME. 

ALVIN A. LANE, 

.*. DEALER nV .'. 





!§. Sl§@i ^ Ml!L%%iS 



9 

No. 381 Congress Street, PORTLAKD, ME. 

4^KepairiDg of all kinds neatly and promptly done. 

^hPlW«5 24 HOUR .-. 

DiiavYO . QOUGH CURE. 

A sure, quick and perfectly safe remedy for Coughs, Colds, Iloariieness, Sore 
Throat, Croup, Asthma, Bronchitis, bleeding and soreness of the Lungs, Whooping 
Cough, and all diseases leading to Consumption. PRICE, lo CENTS. 

Prepared only by 



9 
PORTLAND, MAINE, 



The Palmer Shoe Store. 




.•. .*. For Fine Shoes go to the Palmer Shoe Store. .•..♦. 
541 Conffress Street. NELSON St. SARGENT, Proprietors. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 185 



Union . Mutual 
Life . Insurance . Company, 

PORTLAND, MAINE. 



INCORPORATEID 18-4-8. 



JOHN B. DeWITT, President. JOSIAH H. DRUMMOND, Counsel. 

ARTHUR L. BATES, Secretary. T. A. POSTER, M. D., Med. Director. 



Taken as a whole the business of the Union Mutual 
Life Insurance Company for the year 1892 was among 
the best in the Company's history. 

Its increase in some departments of its business was 
larger than for many years past. 

Popular policy plans ; the best of Non-Forfeiture 
Laws; a business experience extending over forty-three 
years ; ample assets ; a constantly growing annual income ; 
prompt and liberal discharge of all financial obligations ; 
coupled with energetic, but nevertheless conservative 
management, all combine to make your Home Company — 
the Union Mutual — worthy of your confidence and 
patronage. 

The new Tontine Trust Policy as now issued by the 
Union Mutual is probably the best all-round insurance 
contract in the market. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



'^ig^SS^^SiiS^gS^S^^gK^SiiS^SK-' 



C^c|Ui5itc Fcp|\]nr^es 



C. H. GUPPY COMPANY, 

463 CONGRESS STREET. 



I of ihB Line, ■■TREMONT" or "PORTLAND" 
■blM lQC>ctoberl9t.al7.(»r.M. Oolflber IM lo 
ILn Wharf, ronLand. lhtou«hout the year al 7.00 



r J. P. LISCOMB, 



idvance bv null 
COMB, deaeral A 



4 



f _ 



