GIFT OF 

THOMA* RlTUiF.RFORD BACON 




HOW TO COOK WELL 



BY 

J. ROSALIE BENTON 



With baked and boiled, and stewed and toasted. 
And fried and broiled, and smoked and roasted, 
We treat the town/* 

SALMAGUNDI. 



BOSTON 
D. LOTHROP AND COMPANY 

FRANKLIN AND HAWLEY STREETS 



. 



Copyright, 1886, 

by 
D. LOTHROP & COMPANY. 



TO 
MY LITTLK DAUGHTER 

MARGARET 



THIS BOOK 18 LOVINGLY 
DEDICATED 



267912 



PREFACE. 



IN the following collection of receipts some are entirely 
original ; many are contributed by friends ; others are well- 
known favorites which have stood the test of time ; and 
the rest are similar to those found in trustworthy cook 
books, but altered after trial, according to taste. To those 
who have generously given their choice receipts to add 
to the attractions of "I low to Cook Well," public ac- 
knowledgment and thanks are here rendered. 

The writer of this book has aimed not merely to give a 
collection of receipts, but to teach cooking, and also, by 
arranging departments for Breakfast, Luncheon, Dinner 
and Tea, to present suggestions to those housekeepers who 
find themselves taxed to make variety in the different 
meals. The style of cooking here given is for the most 
part suited to people of moderate means, and especial 
attention has been paid to showing how to use in a tempt- 
ing manner remnants from a former meal. The order of 
mixing and the time for cooking has been given with 
nearly every receipt, and after many of them the size of 
the family for which they are intended is stated. If the 
directions given in the book are carefully followed, the 
author has no fears for those who learn to cook by its aid, 
provided they have brains ! 

J^ 3 Study the General Directions, and read carefully 
the "Remarks" at the head of whatever you undertake to 
cook. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Explanatory Notes . 
General Directions . 



PAGB. 

7 
9 



BREAKFAST .... 15 

Cereals 16 

Eggs 18 

Meats for Breakfast . . 27 

Fish " " . . 35 

Miscellaneous Dishes . . 37 

Vegetables for Breakfast 30 

Breakfast and Tea Cakes . 45 

Griddle Cakes, etc. . . . 56 

LUNCHEON 64 

Vegetables for Luncheon . 6G 

Miscellaneous Dishes . . 72 

Pressed Meats .... 78 

Croquettes, Meat Balls, etc. 82 

Pates 91 

Fritters 93 

DINNER 100 

Soup 100 

Fish . . ^' . , t . . 117 

Shell Fish 131 

Salads . 141 



PAGE. 

Stuffing, Gravy, Sauces, 

etc 147 

Poultry, Game, etc. . . . 157 

Meats 171 

Stews 183 

Meat Pies 188 

Vegetables 190 

DESSERTS 209 

Pies 209 

Puddings 226 

Pudding Sauces .... 248 

Delicacies for Dessert . 252 

Ice Cream, etc 278 

Candy 281 

TEA 290 

Bread 291 

Yeast 313 

Cake 316 

Drinks ....*.. 348 

Stewed and Baked Fruits, 355 

Preserves and Jellies . . 359 

Catsups and Pickles . . 375 

For the Sick 383 

Miscellaneous . . , 396 



EXPLANATORY NOTES. 



THE measurements given in this book fire exact^ no 
deviation from them being allowed for. When the 
expression, one cupful or one teaspoon ful, is used, it means 
that the cup or spoon is to be filled even full. This is 
particularly to be remembered in connection with soda, 
for if the spoon is at all hea]>ed the rank taste and smell 
of the soda will be sure to spoil what otherwise might have 
been very good. In measuring soda the lumps should 
first be powdered ; then take up a heaping spoonful, and 
with the finger laid across the spoon in such a way as to 
touch both sides, carefully remove all that is superfluous, 
leaving a smooth, even teaspoonful. Soda must always, 
unless otherwise specified, be dissolved in a little wann 
water before mixing it with other compounds. 

Cream of tartar, on the contrary, should be put in dry 
and mixed with the flour. I have therefore put it next 
to flour in the lists of ingredients, and connected the two 
by a parenthesis to show that they go together. Where 
the quantity of flour is not mentioned definitely, mix the 
cream of tartar with a few spoonfuls of flour. Baking 
powder should be mixed in the same way. That used in 
this book is the Koyal. 

The only exception to the rule of exact measurements 
is in the case of butter. A cupful of butter should not be 
packed, but the butter should be put in loosely, in pieces. 

The cup used for measuring is always "the ordinary- 
sized kitchen coffee-cup, holding just half a pint. 

vii 



viii Explanatory Notes. 

Where a parenthesis occurs in a list, it shows that the 
ingredients connected by it are to be mixed together be- 
fore adding anything else. 

Where no directions are given for the order of mixing, 
no special order is necessary. In some places the direc- 
tions may seem needlessly minute, but they are not really 
so. It is only by attending carefully to apparent trifles 
that one can become a good cook. 

Wherever quotations-marks are used about a receipt or 
process in cooking, the reader should refer to the direc- 
tions for same as contained in this book. 

TABLE OF APPROXIMATE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



1 qt. sifted flour, about . . . . 1 Ib. 
1 qt. pulverized sugar . . 1 Ib. 7 oz. 
1 qt. granulated sugar . . 1 Ib. 9 oz. 
1 pt. closely packed butter 1 Ib. 



1 tablespoonf ul butter, about . 1 oz. 

10 eggs 1 Ib. 

1 quart cornmeal . . . . 1 Ib. 2 oz. 
4 cups sifted flour 1 Ib. 



RISING POWDER PROPORTIONS. 

1 quart flour needs 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 quart flour needs 1 teaspoonful soda and 2 of cream tartar 

1 cup sour milk needs i teaspoonful soda. 

TABLES OP WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Avoirdupois Weight. 

16 ounces make one pound. I 4 quarters make one hundredweight. 

25 pounds make one quarter. | 20 hundredweight make one ton. 

Liquid Measure. 
4 gills make 1 pint. 2 pints make 1 quart. 4 quarts make 1 gallon. 

Dry Measure. 

2 pints make 1 quart. 8 quarts make 1 peck. 4 pecks make 1 bushel. 
6 quarts dry measure are nearly equal to 7 quarts liquid. 
1 coffee-cup equals J pint, 
i a coffee-cup equals 1 gill. 
10 flat tablespoon fuls equal 1 cupful. 
4 teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



How to Boil. 

ALLOW plenty of water, unless the directions for some 
exceptional thing are given to the contrary. Do not al- 
low the water to boil down enough to expose to the air 
what you are cooking. If it should, fill up the j>ot grad- 
ually (so as not to check the boiling) with boiling water 
from the tea-kettle. Almost everything is better for be- 
ing boiled slowly (meat must be, to be tender), and the 
pot should be kept covered. Boiling must be continuous ; 
many things are ruined if the process stops even for a few 
minutes. This is especially the case with meat and pud- 
dings. 

How to Parboil. 

This is to boil anything till only half done. 

How to Boil in Lard. 

(The word fry is often applied to this process, but 
to fry is something quite different, as will be seen later.) 

Put into a rather deep kettle two or three pounds of 
lard. There should be enough to completely cover the 
article to be cooked. This ought not to be put in till the 
heat of the lard has been tested. Let it simmer (not boil 
fast), then throw in a bit of bread. If it browns directly, 
the fat is hot enough. If it burns, set the kettle on the 
back of the stove where the contents will cool down. If 
there is any danger of burning what you are cooking, throw 
into the fat a slice of raw potato. 



Cook Well. 



It is a good plan to have ready a large piece of soft, 
thick paper on which to lay for a moment the potatoes, 
or whatever you have cooked, as soon as taken out of the 
lard ; it will absorb any superfluous grease though if one 
takes pains to have the lard hot enough, the articles 
cooked in it will not be very greasy. 

This is a favorite way of cooking, and it is not extrava- 
gant if properly attended to. When you have finished 
using it, let the lard stand a few minutes, without boiling, 
to settle ; then strain it while still hot into a clean jar. 
When cold, cover tight, and set in a cold place. It can 
be used several times over for the same thing, and in 
fact other things may be cooked in it, unless it has been 
used for fish, or it has a strong, decided flavor from what 
has been boiled in it before. 

Beef suet tried out (see page 11) and salted, is as good 
as lard for this purpose, and cheaper. 

How to Pry. 

This is a process but little understood, though used ex- 
tensively by those who know least about cooking. The 
most necessary point is the one they will not attend to, 
and that is, to have the frying-pan and the grease hot 
when the thing to be fried is put in. Then, it will not be 
greasy. Use only enough fat to keep from burning what- 
ever is cooked in it. 

Butter, beef-dripping, lard and salt pork are all used 
for frying. The former does not give so rich a brown as 
the others, and is, beside, too costly for ordinary use. 
Beef-dripping is cheaper than lard, and just as good, if 
not better. Salt pork should be cut in rather thin slices, 
and taken out when the grease is extracted from it, before 
putting in what you wish to fry. Salt Pork is cheap, and 
gives a delicious flavor, peculiarly suitable to certain 
things, such as fish-balls. When you fry in it, do not use 
much salt in seasoning. 



General Directions. 11 

How to Try out Fat or Suet. 

Save all the fat from beef, raw or cooked. Cut it in 
small pieces. Put it in a frying-pan with but just enough 
water to keep it from burning. Put it over a slow fire ; 
stir occasionally and let it all melt. Then simmer about 
five minutes. Throw in two or three slices of raw potato 
to clear it, and leave it five minutes more. Set it off the 
fire to settle ; then strain it into jars. When cold, cover 
tight, and set in a cold place. It will keep a long time if 
covered again every time you dip from it. 

ISeef suet chopped and freed from fibre, may be prepared 
in the same way. Some persons buy it for the purpose. 

It is both cheaper and more wholesome than lard. 

To Chop Suet. 

Cut it apart ; free it from strings, and scatter flour over 
it. Then chop very fine. The flour will prevent the 
pieces from adhering together. 

To Thicken with Flour. 

Rub a little flour to a smooth paste with enough cold 
water (or milk) to cover it. Pour it when smooth into 
the soup, or whatever you wish to thicken, when that is 
boiling. If these rules are not attended to the flour will 
lump. 

Corn starch should be treated in the same way. 

A little flour may be dredged into boiling liquor, with- 
out lumping, if sprinkled in slowly while stirring fast. 

If butter is to be added with the flour, it need not be 
moistened. Simply rub the flour and butter together 
and stir in. A better way, though more troublesome, is 

To Make a Roux. 

Put some butter in a pan. When it bubbles, sprinkle 
in dry flour. Stir briskly and constantly till the flour is 



12 How to Cook Well. 

cooked, but do not let it brown (unless you want to color 
what you are cooking). Pour a little of the hot sauce 
on it, and mix well before stirring in to the whole. 

How to Egg-and-Crumb. 

Croquettes and other things' to be boiled in lard, or fried, 
are often prepared thus : 

Roll fine stale crackers or bread-crumbs. Then sift 
them on to a large plate. In another large plate have 
one or two eggs, beaten slightly and seasoned with a little 
pepper and salt (unless they are to be used for sweet- 
dishes) ; some persons add also one tablespoonful of cream 
or milk to each egg. 

Dip each croquette when ready, first into the crumbs, 
and roll it in them till every side is covered. Then roll it 
in the eggs, and then in the crumbs again. 

N. B. If you have yolks or whites of eggs left from 
making cake, use them for egg-and-crumbing. They will 
do just as well as whole eggs. 

KJ 

How to Broil. 

Heat and grease a gridiron. Never cook anything on a 
cold gridiron. Lay on the steak (or whatever it is) and 
cover with an inverted pan to keep in the heat and flavor. 
Turn often while cooking, but do not stick a fork into 
meat, or the juices will escape. Bo not add seasoning till 
you dish it. 

Fish and spring chicken should be dredged with flour 
before being placed on the gridiron. Put them with the 
inside toward the fire, first. 

Small things require to be cooked quickly over a clear, 
hot fire. Large thick things (unless you wish them rare 
inside, like beefsteak) should have a moderate heat at 
first, and the heat should be increased towards the last. 



General Directions. 13 

If you cannot manage this, put the gridiron at first a good 
distance from the fire, and afterwards move it nearer. 

To Blanch Almonds. 

Shell the nuts, pour boiling water over them and let 
them stand a few minutes. Then remove the skins, 
which will slip off easily. Dry them in a towel. 

To Wash Currants. 

Zante currants are very dirty things. Put them in a 
pan, and pour scalding water over them. Shake them 
about and drain at once. Then pour on cold water. 
Rub hard between the hands and drain again. Then 
spread the currants on a towel laid open on a table. 
With another towel rub them dry. Pick over and spread 
on platters in the heater till perfectly dry. Then put into 
glass jars till wanted. Scatter flour over them before 
putting them in cake, to make sure of their not sinking 
to the bottom. 

To Stone Raisins. 

Pour boiling water over them and let them stand five 
or ten minutes. Drain and rub each raisin between the 
thumb and finger till the seeds come out clean. Dry the 
raisins before using, and rub them in flour before putting 
into cake, to prevent their sinking to the bottom. If 
chopped, flour should be scattered over them to prevent 
their adhering together. 

To Make a Meringue. 

Take the whites of as many eggs as you like; four 
will be enough to cover a large dish. Allow one half 
tablespoonful of sugar (pulverized is best) to each egg (if 
you use much sugar the meringue will be less light) ; and 
after beating them stiff, add the sugar. Beat only just 






14- How to Cook Well 

enough to mix it in. Spread the meringue over a pudding 
or whatever you like, and set on the top shelf of the 
oven, which should be very hot. Watch it closely, for it 
will brown in a moment, and if not removed at once will 
burn. It should be only a yellow-brown, not a dark color. 
It is best served as soon as it is perfectly cold. 



BREAKFAST. 



REMARKS ON BREAKFAST. 

BREAKFAST ought to be made a very pleasant meal, be- 
ginning the day, as it does, after the family have been sep- 
arated for the night. Yet in how many families is it the 
custom to send off the master of the house to his daily 
round of business with an unsatisfied feeling after partak- 
ing of a hurried, uncomfortable meal, composed mainly 
of the remains of yesterday's dinner, warmed over in any 
way most easy to the cook, without seasoning, and alto- 
gether unpalatable. 

I am not finding fault with the materials for the break- 
fast, but with the manner of preparing and serving. By 
all means use at breakfast what is left from dinner of the 
day before, but cook it carefully, season it appetizingly, 
serve it prettily, and have it hot smoking hot, not 
merely warm. Give your cook to understand that she 
must be down in the morning in time to get ready the 
breakfast with as much care as she bestows upon the din- 
ner. Be down yourself at the moment of dishing it, to 
see to its being served temptingly. 

If summer, and your home is in the country, have al- 
ways a few flowers on the breakfast table, no matter what 
you do at other meals. Even a few daisies or clover blos- 
soms, with the dew still on them, lend a grace that is 
pleasing. If winter, have highly-colored fruit, if possible, 
such as oranges. If your purse cannot afford this, see 

15 



16 How to Cook Well 

that at least the silver is shining, the coffee-pot bright, 
and the table has an air of warmth and comfort. An aid 
to this is a red tablecloth in winter ; but be sure that it 
is clean and spotless. Do not allow it to be left on the 
table between meals, but substitute a different one for 
this purpose. 



DRINKS. 

(For Coffee, Tea, Cocoa, and Chocolate, see page 348.) 

CEREALS. 
Boiled Oatmeal. 

1 cup oatmeaL 

14 quarts cold water. 

li teaspoonfuls salt. 

Do not wash oatmeal. Put it on, with the water and 
salt, in a double-boiler and let it boil hard till all the water 
is absorbed. Stir only once, when it first begins to boil. 
It should boil as long as two hours, and it is therefore a 
good plan to cook it the afternoon before it is to be served. 
It can then easily be made hot for breakfast, adding a 
very little water. Oatmeal cooked in a hurry, with the 
kernels only half-swelled, is not fit for any human stomach. 
Eat hot with cream and sugar. For a family of five. 

What is left from breakfast may be used for " Oatmeal 
Griddle Cakes," or may be fried for tea. 

Boiled Hominy (fine). 

1 cup hominy. 

li quarts boiling water. 

2 even teaspoonfuls salt. 

Boil hard in a double boiler till the water is all absorbed. 
It may be one and one half hours, probably less. Serve 
hot, with cream, or butter and sugar. 



Breakfast. 17 



What is left over, use for muffins, griddle cakes, hom- 
iny bread; or fry it as croquettes. Never throw away 
even a half-cupful of fine hominy, for the ways to use it 
are innumerable. 

Boiled Samp or Hominy (coarse). 

4 cup hominy. 

2 quarts boiling water. 

1 toaspoonful Halt. 

Soak for two hours in cold water enough to cover it. 
Then add the boiling water and salt, and boil about three 
hours or until tender. Drain off the water when done and 
save it for a very delicate and delicious thickening for 
soup. (It is so rich that it will jelly when cold.) 

Serve the hominy hot, with cream and sugar. 

What is left, use for "Baked Hominy," for luncheon or 
tea. 

Corn Meal Hasty Pudding. 

Mix one pint corn meal with a little cold water and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir it into five quarts of water, boiling 
hard in a large iron pot. Let it boil about half an hour. 
Then stir in one cup more of meal (dry). From time to 
time, throw in a little more meal, taking care that it docs 
not get too thick. Taste it, to be sure that it is salt 
enough, and stir often to prevent burning. Boil fully one 
hour, and be sure that it is thoroughly done. 

Serve hot with butter and molasses, or milk and sugar. 

Use what is left for "Corn Bread" (using the h:isty 
pudding for part of the corn meal), or for "Fried Hasty 
Pudding." 

By adding eggs, a bit of butter, spice, molasses and 
milk you can make a good baked pudding. 

Graham Hasty Pudding. 
M.ike like Corn Meal Hasty Pudding, and serve hot 

with butter an-1 sugar, or milk. 



18 How to Cook Well. 



Fried Hasty Pudding, Hominy and Oatmeal. 

These should be boiled the day before, and set away in 
a wet pan to stiffen. A deep, square pan is the best. 
Cut in half-inch slices and fry in lard or beef dripping 
until brown. The corn meal will take fully half an hour 
to brown. Serve hot with syrup or molasses. 



EGGS. 
Boiled Eggs. 

Have ready a kettle of boiling water. Wash, and put 
each egg into the water with a tablespoon so as not to 
crack the shell. Be sure that the water more than covers 
the eggs and is not boiling too violently. Boil for three 
minutes if you like them soft ; twelve if hard. 

Another way of boiling eggs soft is to put them in an 
egg-dish or deep covered bowl. Pour over them water 
which you are quite sure is boiling (not simply hot), to 
take the chill off. Drain off this, and cover a second time 
with boiling water. Cover tight; set on the breakfast 
table and leave in the water about ten minutes. 

Boiled Eggs (French Style). 

Wash the eggs, and put them in a sauce-pan full of boil- 
ing water. Set the sauce-pan at once on a part of the stove 
where the water will keep as hot as possible^ without boil- 
ing. Leave the eggs in just ten minutes. This is the 
nicest way to boil them. 

Eggs left from breakfast may afterwards be boiled hard 
and used for various things, such as Convent Eggs, Baked 
Eggs a la Creme, Escalloped Eggs and Meat, Pressed 
Veal, and Egg Sauce ; or slice them for Spinach or Soup 
or to garnish a dish of fish. 



Rredkfast. 19 



Poached or Dropped Eggs. 

Make sure your frying-pan is perfectly clean, as the 
least impurity will spoil the whiteness of the eggs. Pour 
into it boiling water. Hreak the eggs earefully into a 
plate, taking care that they do not run together, and that 
the yolks do not break. Take the frying-pan oft the stove 
and carefully slip the eggs from the plate upon the sur- 
face of the water. Put the frying-pan back on the stove 
and boil gently for three minutes, dipping the water oc- 
casionally over the top of the eggs. Have ready slices of 
buttered toast, on a hot platter. Take out the eggs with 
a perforated skimmer, and lay upon the toast. Sprinkle 
the yolks with pepper and salt. 

If only one or two eggs are to be poached, it is a good 
plan to put muffin-rings in the water, and break the eggs 
each into a ring. This will keep them nicely in shape. 

Poached Eggs with Sauce. 

4 tablespoon fuls veal gravy. 

4 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

1 or 2 teaspoon fills good viiiegar. 

A little pepper and -alt . 

4 ftfffs (yolks only). 

Some poached eggs. 

Put the first four ingredients into a stew-pan on the fire. 
While it is heating beat yolks of the eggs and " Poach " 
some eggs. When the mixture begins to boil, pour it 
upon the beaten yolks, stirring fast. Return it to the fire 
for a moment to thicken. Stir it every minute and do 
not leave it long enough to boil. Have ready the poached 
eggs in a platter. Pour the hot sauce over and garnish 
the dish with parsley. 

A Cheaper Sauce for Poached Eggs. 

Put half a nip of tailing water in a sauce-pan, with two 
or three large spoonfuls of nice, strained gravy of any 



20 



How to Cook 'Well. 



kind, a little pepper and one quarter teaspoon ful of salt. 
When it boils stir in a heaping teaspoonful of flour, wet 
smoothly with a little cold water. Stir and boil one min- 
ute, then add a tablespoonful of butter. Stir steadily two 
minutes longer, till thick as cream, and add, if you like, a 
little minced parsley, or chopped pickle. 

Eggs Poached in OIL 

{A New Orleans Receipt.) 



Olive oiL 
Eggs- 
Mushrooms, cooked and 
chopped. 



Onions, sliced fine. 

Capers. 

Parsley. 

Beef stock, or mushroom water. 



Put just enough olive oil in a skillet to cook the eggs 
one by one by tipping the pan. Drop each egg in whole. 
Cook till the white is " set." Then lay on a hot platter. 
When all are done, put into the oil a very little onion and 
fry brown. Add three mushrooms for each egg, a few 
capers, and a little parsley chopped very fine. Dredge in 
a sprinkling of flour, and add a little beefstock, or water 
from the mushroom can. Pepper and salt to tnste. 
Cook a moment, stirring constantly, and pour over the 
eggs. 

Pried Eggs. 

Put in a frying-pan one half tablespoonful of ham fat, 
lard or butter (the first is best). Drop the eggs one at a 
time, breaking them carefully so as not to let the yolk and 
white run together. Let them fry about three minutes. 
Take up and put on a hot platter, draining off all the 
grease you can. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Cut two thin slices of ham, either raw or boiled, and take 
off the rind, but leave on some of the fat. If the ham is 
very salt, pour hot water over it, but do not leave it to 



Breakfast. 21 



soak. Wipe the slices dry, and put into a hot frying-pan 
(not greased). Move these occasionally in the pan so 
that they will not burn, and turn them in about two 
minutes. Lay on a hot platter when thoroughly done, 
and keep hot while you drop four eggs (broken carefully) 
into the fat which remains in the frying-pan. Leave them 
about two minutes to fry, then put them on the ham ; 
two eggs to each slice of ham. 

Baked Eggs. 

Butter an earthen plate. Into it drop carefully one egg 
at a time (keeping the yolk whole) till the plate is full ; 
the eggs being side by side, as for poached eggs. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and put a bit of butter on each. Set 
in a very hot oven, and bake about three minutes, until 
they are " set." 



Baked Eggs a la Crime. 



12 eggs boiled hard. 
A cup fresh bread crumbs, 
f 1 pound butter. 
1 1 large tablespoon ful flour. 



Chopped parsley (may be 

omitted). 

1 cup cream (milk will do). 
Pepper and salt. 



i of a small ouion, chopped. 

Butter a deep pudding-dish and sprinkle with a few of 
the crumbs. Then slice each egg into six pieces. Put a 
layer of these, then of crumbs, etc., till the dish is filled. 
Rub the butter and flour together till smooth. Put them 
in a sauce-pan and add the other things. Give them one 
hard boil, stirring well, and pour over the eggs. Cover 
the top of the dish with crumbs, and set in a very hot 
oven to brown quickly. Serve in the same dish. This 
makes a large dishful ; enough for eight persons or more. 

Escaloped Eggs and Meat. 

Wet bread or cracker crumbs thoroughly with milk. 
Put a layer of them in a deep buttered dish. Then put 



22 How to Cook Well 

a layer of cold hard-boiled eggs, cut in thick slices, and 
spread with butter ; pepper and salt. Then have a layer 
of chicken, veal, or ham (finely minced). Repeat. Have 
crumbs on top. Dot with butter and pour over all half 
a cupful of milk. Bake in a hot oven till well heated 
through, no longer. This is an economical and tempting 
dish. It is nice for breakfast, luncheon or tea. 

Another with Raw Eggs. 



i cup soaked crumbs. 

Any kind cold meat, minced. 

A little minced parsley. 



3 tablespoonfuls cream. 

1 tablcspoonf ul butter, melted. 

Pepper, and a pinch of salt. 



6 eggs, well beaten. 

Butter a small, deep pudding-dish. Line the bottom 
and sides with the crumbs, which should be quite moist. 
Then put in the meat, moistened with water, and mixed 
with the parsley (this may be omitted). Set in a very 
hot oven, covered tight, till smoking hot. Do not leave 
it in long, or it will get dry. While it is heating beat the 
eggs light and stir the cream and butter into them. Sea- 
son and pour the mixture upon the hot meat. Put the 
dish back in the oven, uncovered, and leave it a few min- 
utes until the eggs are " set." Serve immediately. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Break the eggs into a dish. Do not beat them. Put 
a piece of butter- in a pan, and when it is hot pour the 
eggs in. Stir with a fork, without stopping, about three 
minutes, having the pan over the hottest part of the fire. 
As soon as the eggs are cooked set the pan back ; add 
pepper and salt, and dish at once, either on "Dipped 
Toast " or in a covered dish. 

Another Way. 

1 egg, yolk and white separate. I h saltspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonf ul milk. I Butter in frying-pan. 

Allow this amount for each person. Put the butter in* 
a frying-pan to heat, having the amount regulated by the 



Breakfast. 23 



number of eggs you mean to use. Beat the yolks and 
add the milk and salt. Pour these in with the butter 
when hot. As soon as they begin to thicken, j>our in the 
whites (not beaten at all). Do not stir them till they 
begin to look "set," then mix gently with the yolks, using 
a fork. Do not allow them to remain an instant after 
this, or they will be sj>oiled. Serve hot on buttered toast, 
moistened slightly. 

Fried Omelet (No. 1). 

To each person allow two eggs ; and to each egg allow 
one tablespoonful of milk, a pinch of pepper and half a 
saltspoonful of salt. Beat yolks and whites separately, 
adding the milk and seasoning to the yolks. Put a tablc- 
s] MM .11 ful of butter into a frying-pan. Watch it; it must 
not burn, but simply become hot. When this is the case, 
quickly and lightly add the stiff whites to the l>eaten yolks 
(not before), and pour all together into the frying-pan. 
Do not let this be too hot. This is the great danger in 
making omelets. An omelet should cook gently for ten 
minutes, to be tender and delicately browned. Do not 
stir it at all, but keep slipping a knife carefully under the 
batter to prevent its sticking. Also shake the pan con- 
stantly and gently. As it thickens on the edges begin to 
roll it up (carefully) in the pan, letting the liquid batter 
from the top run over to the further side of the pan, where 
it will stiffen in time to be rolled up in its turn. Heal 
dexterity is required to do this handsomely, which can 
only be attained by practice. 

A beginner had better first try making small omelets, 
which require to be folded over, simply. Serve an omelet 
hot, and eat before it falls. 

Fried Omelet (No. 2). 

If you have not as many eggs as you wish, allow half a 
tablespoonful of powdered cracker-crumbs to each egg. 
It is, in any <-n.sc, a pleasant addition, and makes the 
omelet very light. 



24 How to Cook Well. 



Cream Omelet. 



3 eggs. 



tablespoonfuls corn starch. 



cup milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 



1 teaspoon! ul salt. 

Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add them to the 
yolks, previously well beaten with the corn starch and 
salt. Beat all together thoroughly and add the milk. 
Put the butter in the frying-pan, and when melted pour 
in the mixture. Cover and place where it will brown, 
but not burn. Cook about seven minutes. Fold, turn 
on a hot dish and pour " Cream Sauce " around it. 

Enough for five persons. 

Ham Omelet. 

Make like either of the "Fried Omelets," mixing 
through the yolks and milk, a little minced boiled ham. 
Or, pour part of the batter into the frying-pan, then put 
in a layer of the ham and cover with the batter. Beef 
may be used instead of ham, though it is not so nice. 



Tomato Omelet. 



6 eggs, beaten light. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



4 tomatoes, chopped fine. 
Pepper and salt. 



I i tablespoonf ul butter. 

To the beaten eggs add the flour, previously rubbed 
with the butter. Then beat in the tomatoes, season and 
fry like " Fried Omelet." 

French Omelet. 



1 cup boiling milk. 
Butter the size of an egg. 
1 scant cupful bread-crumbs, 
fine and soft. 



6 eggs, yolks and whites sepa- 



rate. 



Pepper and salt. 



Pour the boiling milk over the butter and crumbs. 
When cool add the yolks of the eggs, beaten light. Beat 
well. Just before frying, mix in lightly the beaten whites 



Breakfast. 25 



and add seasoning. Fry in butter. See "Fried Omelet." 
This will make two large omelets, each sufficient for five 
persons. 

Baked Omelet. 



1 pint of hot milk, or less. 
$ table-spoonful melted butter. 



1 teaspoon ful salt 

2 teaspoon fills flour. 



3 eggs, beaten light 

To the hot milk add the butter. To the eggs add the 
salt and the flour (rubbed to a paste with a spoonful of 
cold milk). Pour the hot milk ujxm this mixture, stirring 
quickly. Pour into a buttered pudding-d'sh (which should 
be slightly warmed) and bake in a quick oven fifteen min- 
utes. Serve before it falls. 



Convent Eggs. 



4 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 onion, sliced flue. 



2 teaspoon fills flour, wet to a 

paste. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 cup milk. 

Shell the eggs, cut into six slices each. Put the butter 
into the frying-pan, and when it melts and is very hot 
add the onion and fry till tender, but not until it browns. 
Mix in the milk. When it boils add the flour, stirring 
until it forms a sauce. Season with salt and pepper. Put 
in the eggs, and when they are thoroughly heated serve 
at once on hot toast. 

Stirred Eggs with Gravy. 

1 dessert-spoonful butter. I 4 cupful gravy. 

eggs, not beaten. | Pepper and salt 

Melt the butter in a pan, over a very hot fire. Then 
break in the eggs. Add gravy and seasoning and stir 
quickly and constantly from the bottom. It should cook 
only one or two minutes. Have ready a platter covered 
with slices of hot toast. Pour the mixture on the toast 
and serve at once. Poultry gravy is best, though any 



26 How to Cook Well. 

kind will do. A little grated cheese stirred in just before 
serving is an improvement, as is also a little anchovy paste 
spread on the toast. 

Curried Eggs and Toast. 



1 dessertspoonful butter. 
A pinch of salt. 

i teaspoon ful curry paste, or 
powder. 



A pinch of cayenne pepper. 

1 dessertspoonful milk. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



Melt the butter in the frying-pan. Add the salt and 
pepper, the curry and milk. Stir well. Mash fine the 
contents of the eggs, and add them. Simmer very gently 
until it thickens. Stir constantly, that it may not curdle. 
Do not let it get too thick. Serve on buttered toast. 

N. B. If curry-powder is used, put in a little more but- 
ter and milk, or it will be too dry. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Remove the shells from cold, hard-boiled eggs. Cut in 
halves, and pare a small slice off the bottom, so that each 
half will stand alone. Take out the yolks. Rub them to 
a paste with a little melted butter and a few drops of 
vinegar. Season with a pinch of cayenne-pepper, salt and 
mustard. Fill the whites with the paste. Cover a plate 
with young lettuce leaves or parsley, and serve the eggs 
on it, for a hot summer morning's breakfast. These are 
very nice for picnics, or for a luncheon or supper table. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil the eggs hard; cut them in two lengthwise, and 
remove the yolks, which mash well, adding a little finely 
minced onion, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Mash 
also double the quantity of bread, previously soaked in 
cream. Mix the yolks, bread, onion, parsley, and season- 
ing together, and stir into them the raw yolk of an egg. 
Taste, to see if they are properly seasoned. Stuff the 



Breakfast. 27 



whites with this mixture, so that each half-egg lias the 
appearance of containing a whole yolk. Smooth the re- 
mainder of the mixture on the bottom of a pie-dish. 
Arrange the halves symmetrically in this bed and brown 
slightly in a very hot oven. 



MEATS FOR BREAKFAST. 

REMARKS. 

In warming over cold meat and bringing it to the table 
under various attractive forms a real art is hidden. Hut 
do not despise learning it. You will be repaid by the 
absence of the greasy, unappetizing preparations which 
too often appear on otherwise well-appointed tables. 

All kinds of meat can lie wanned over. Even the little 
boiled on a soujvlnme should not l>c thrown away. Meat 
which has been already cooked should be made merely 
hot, not re-cooked until all the goodness is gone out of it. 
In preparing hash, etc., be careful to remove all gristle 
and fat. Pay great attention to seasoning nicely, and 
make as much variety as jM>ssible. 

Apropos of this (for I know how hard it is to use up a 
large roast of meat, when the family consists of only two 
persons, perhaps) here is a list of 

Ways to Use up a Roast of Meat. 



Plain hash (with potato). 

St. Patrick's pie. 

Breakfast dish of cabbage. 

A summer medley. 

An appetizing breakfast dish. 

Casserole rice and meat. 

Mousaka. 

Dolmath6s. 

Breakfast turnovers. 

It will be seen that any of the first five dishes can be 
used a second time, for any that follow. 



Meat warmed in slices. 
Mlroton. 
Cold meat stew. 
Minced, hashed. 
A ring of meat 
Ham omelet (using beef). 
Escallo}>ed eggs and meat. 
Meat balls, or croquettes, 
hash. 



28 now to Cook Well. 

Hash. 

Hash can be varied in a number of ways. Remove all 
fat and gristle from cold meat, and chop it very fine if to 
be used without potato, coarser, if with. Chop the pota- 
toes separately, using rather more potato than meat. 
Have ready in a hot frying-pan a little gravy, milk, or 
water and butter. Put in the hash, with salt and pepper. 
Stir and toss every moment till of a good consistency and 
smoking hot. Then serve at once. All hash should be 
cooked over a very hot fire. 

Browned Hash 

Is prepared as above, using mutton, corned beef or ham, 
and mashed potato if you like. Instead of warming it in 
gravy, put a lump of beef-dripping (or other fat) in the 
pan and brown on the under side without stirring. When 
crisp and brown, serve bottom side up on a hot platter. 
If corned beef is used, a little chopped red pepper may be 
added ; with ham, a little mustard. 

Minced Hash. 

This is fine hash, without potato. Stir while heating 
it, and serve on dipped toast. This should be seasoned 
with especial care. A little catsup, " Claret Syrup " or 
"Stewed Tomato" is a pleasant addition. If veal is used 
add mace, sage and a little chopped celery. If beef a 
little marjoram. 

Poultry Hash 

Is made like minced hash. Mix with it the stuffing, and 
add, if you have any, the remains of oysters cooked in any 
way, and chopped, or a little " Boiled Rice " may be used. 
Vary it by adding curry powder. 

Baked Hash. 

Mince fine any kind of cold meat, and season it well. 
Put in a buttered pudding-dish, in layers with crumbs of 
bread or cracker, having the layers of meat about twice as 



Breakfast. 29 



thick as the crumbs. Pour half a cupful of gravy, milk, or 
water (or more if the dish is large) over all. Cover with 
dots of butter, and bake in a very hot oven till brown. 
Put layers of tomato or rice (cooked) in place of crumbs, 
for a change. If you use tomato a little ground cloves is 
a good addition. Veal treated thus is excellent. 

Baked Hash With Eggs. 

Mince fine any kind of cold meat. Season well. Put 
it in a shallow buttered pudding-dish, grate stale bread 
crumbs on top, and moisten the whole by pouring over it 
a little cold gravy, or milk (water will do). Set the dish 
in a very hot oven, and as soon as it is warm, break sev- 
eral eggs (whole) over the top in such a way as not to 
break the yolks. Sprinkle with salt and pepj>er, and leave 
in the oven till the eggs are "set," f. e., keep their shape. 
Another way is to make a mixture as for fried omelet. 
Pour it over the meat and set in a hot oven till just cooked 
through. This should IKJ eaten before it falls. These arc 
good ways to "help out" a small amount of meat. 

An Appetizing Breakfast Dish. 

Butter a pudding-dish and till with the following mixt- 
ure: Rare meat, minced very fine, enough to fill the 
dish half-full ; half as much boiled rice, and one half as 
much tomato, cooked in any way. Mix all together, add 
a bit of butter, melted, and season highly with salt, pepper, 
sweet marjoram, and ground cloves. Taste a little to be 
sure of the seasoning Fill the pudding-dish, pour one 
cupful of gravy, or water, over all, and bake in a very hot 
oven till brown. This is of course as economical as deli- 
cious, all the requisite ingredients being " left over." What 
is left of this mix into soup. The same mixture is delicious 
baked in patty-pans, or it may be fried like meat balls. 
This is much improved by adding a slice or two of cooked 
i -hint, chopped. Beans, too, make a good addition. 



30 How to Cook Well. 

In fact the greater number of vegetables you have (all 
chopped) the more delicious the dish, as the flavor of all 
is blended together. 

Beef Roll. 



2 or 3 cupf uls cold roast beef. 

1 egg (well beaten). 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered 

cracker. 

l teaspoonfuls salt. 
i saltspoonf ul pepper. 



1 tablespoonf ul thyme, 
i tablespoonf ul sage. 

1 table spoonful summer savory. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
i cupful cold gravy. 



Mince the beef very fine. Mix in the egg and cracker, 
and then season. With floured hands shape like a round 
loaf. Put it in a pan. Wet the entire top with the 
melted butter. Pour the gravy around it. (If you have 
not enough gravy, add water.) Bake three quarters of 
an hour, basting it often with the gravy. When done, 
put on a hot platter, and pour the gravy around. If the 
gravy is too thin, set the pan on top of the stove. When 
it boils, dredge in a little flour, stirring well. Serve hot. 
Cut in slices at the table. 

St. Patrick's Pie. 

Butter a dish. Fill it two thirds full of minced meat 
of any kind. Pour a little gravy over it to moisten. Fill 
up the dish with mashed potato. Put lumps of butter 
over the top, dredge with flour, and set in a quick oven 
for about fifteen minutes to brown. 

A Ring of Meat. 
(A Swiss Dish.) 

Butter a pudding-dish. Invert a cup in the centre. 
Make a ring around it of cold meat, minced and seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and powdered herbs. Pour over it 
enough gravy or stock to moisten it well. Cover, and 
bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. Then uncover, 



Breakfast. 31 



in<l brown quickly. Remove the cup, and servo in the 
same dish. There will be a pool of gravy in the centre, 
with a ring of meat around. 

Hidden Hash; 

Make same as "Meat Balls," but when dished, cover 
each one with a layer of hot apple sauce or cranberry 
sauce one inch thick. 

Breakfast Turnovers. 

Boil and mash six or eight potatoes. While hot, season, 
add one or two eggs (beaten) and just flour enough to 
enable you to roll the potato out on a breadboard about 
half an inch thick. Cut into rounds with a saucer. Spread 
each one with melted butter. Cover half of each with a 
layer of any kind of cold meat minced fine and seasoned 
nicely. Fold over the potato nearly one half so as to 
cover the meat. Fry to a light brown in good beef drip- 
ping, or bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

Toast Sandwiches. 

Cut a thick slice of bread for each person. Cut into 
rounds with a large biscuit cutter. Toast them nicely; 
butter while hot. On each round put a layer of hot 
minced meat (beef, mutton, or veal) seasoned well. On 
this lay a " Poached Egg." Serve on a platter. 

Both for this and the last receipt but little meat is re- 
quired. 

Tough Beefsteak 

Can be made palatable in this way : Mince it fine, and 
put it in a sauce-pan with enough water to cover it. Sim- 
mer gently for half an hour; then stir in a lump of but- 
ter, and dredge in a little flour and a sprinkling of pepper 
and salt. Add also tomato catsup, or stewed tomato if 
you like it. Serve in a covered dish. (See also JJ- t' 
Stew.) 



32 How to Cook Well 

Breakfast Bacon. 

Cut in rather thin slices, and pare off the skin. Lay in 
a hot frying-pan, not greased, and fry till nicely browned 
on both sides. Serve on a hot platter with mashed potato 
balls or rice balls laid around the edges. Save the fat 
that remains in the pan to fry potatoes. 

Fried Ham. 

(See " Ham and Eggs.") 

When thoroughly done lay on a hot platter and serve 
in the gravy. This goes well with rice balls or mashed 
potato balls. 

Sliced Ham, Dressed. 

Cut raw ham into slices ; soak in scalding water a quar- 
ter of an hour. Then drain and squeeze dry. Lay the 
slices in a frying-pan. Pepper each and spread with a 
little made mustard. Pour into the frying-pan half a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar to each slice. Fry over a very hot 
fire, turning often. When tender lay the slices on a hot 
platter. Add to the gravy a wineglassful of wine (may 
be omitted) and one teaspoonful of sugar. Boil up once 
and pour over the ham and serve. 
Sausages. 

If the sausages are in skins prick each one with a fork. 
Lay them in a dry frying-pan, as they are too fat to re- 
quire any grease to brown them. Cover the pan and let 
it heat gradually. If they cook too fast they will not be 
done in the middle. Turn them often and brown every 
side. Three quarters of an hour will be none too long to 
cook them. Be careful that they do not burn. If you 
choose, fry slices of bread in the fat which remains after 
taking up the sausages. Serve on the platter with them. 
Always serve apple sauce with sausages. Save the fat 
from frying sausages. It is very nice to fry potatoes in, 
and also can be used for gingerbread instead of lard. 



Breakfast. 33 



Baked Sausages. 

Put in the oven in a baking-tin, turning when necessary, 
just as if you were frying them. Brown them well ; they 
are less greasy than if fried, and are more delicate in every 
way. Apples in some form are always a good accompani- 



ment to sausages. 



Stewed Kidneys. 

Soak in cold water half an hour. Skin them, and stew 
slowly in just enough cold water to cover them. When 
done, thicken the gravy with flour, add salt and pepper, 
and dish. Wine is an improvement, added at the last. 
Kidneys should be used at once ; they do not keep well. 

Boiled Lambs' Tongues. 

These are easily obtained in the country, and are a del- 
icacy that ought to be better known, lie sure to order 
enough, for lambs' tongues are very small. Wash, and 
boil them slowly in cold water, salted, for nearly two hours, 
skimming the water when necessary. Boil with them a 
spoonful of minced carrot, if you like the flavor. When 
tender, skin them, and lay them on a hot platter. Thicken 
a pint of the liquor that remains in the pot, with half a 
cupful of flour. Sprinkle in pepper, and pour over the 
tongue. Garnish with slices of hard boiled egg and lemon. 
These are nice simply boiled and served cold for tea. 

Lambs' Hearts. 

In buying, allow one heart to every two persons. Be 
sure to get the hearts fresh, and use them as soon as pos- 
sible, for they do not keep long. Never soak them, as 
some do. Wash well and boil slowly in enough warm 
water to cover them, for about one hour, till tender. 
I'r-MMvd as with lambs' tongues, but add to the sauce a 
little tomato catsup, stewed tomato, or lemon-juice, as an 
improvement. This is a cheap and good breakfast di>h. 



34 How to Cook Well. 

Cold Meat Stew. 

Cut cold roast beef or mutton into quite small pieces. 
Put on to stew with enough cold water and gravy to 
cover it. Do not let it boil fast. When well heated 
through add a few tablespoonfuls of catsup, or a little 
Worcestershire sauce, or a few whole cloves, and salt and 
pepper. Take out the meat and keep it hot while you 
thicken the broth if necessary by dredging in a little flour. 
Pour over the meat and serve hot. If the meat has a 
bone in it boil that with the stew till the entire substance 
is extracted. Then take it out. Add a minced onion if 
you like, or sliced cold potatoes. 

Meat Warmed in Slices. 

Put cold gravy into a shallow pan. Set on the stove. 
When it comes to the boil add boiling water and season 
nicely with spices, burnt sugar, catsup, or anything you 
like. Lay in pieces of meat cut in rather thick slices. 
Do not boil them, but simply heat very hot. Serve in a 
platter, the gravy poured over. Or, warm the meat in 
gravy without any special seasoning, and lay "Baked To- 
matoes " around the edge of the dish, or " Baked Onions." 

Miroton, 

Put into a frying-pan a large lump of butter. Fry in 
it six onions sliced. When tender add thin slices of cold 
roast beef. When these are hot add a little broth or 
gravy, pepper and salt. Boil up once and serve. 

Warmed-over Chicken or Turkey. 

Cut all the meat from the bones of cold chickens. Put 
the bones on to stew in a little water. Have the sauce- 
pan covered. Take out the bones when the goodness is 
all extracted (in half an hour). Add the cold gravy ; put 
in the chicken, cut into small pieces ; add the stuffing, 
and a little cold "Boiled Rice" (if you have it). Chop 



Breakfast. 35 



a little celery and add that with a little salt. Let all 
stew gently for ten minutes. In the meantime toast a 
few thick slices of bread. Lay them in a platter. Spread 
each one thickly with cranberry sauce or simply moisten 
with gravy from the chicken. Pour the chicken over the 
toast and serve hot. (The rice, celery and sauce may be 
omitted.) 

Frizzled Beef. 

Shave very thin slices of dried beef ; put them into a 
sauce-pan, with one cup of milk. Boil gently a few min- 
utes, then add a teaspoonful of butter and one egg beaten 
with two teagpoonfulfi of flour. Stir well. (Add nioro 
milk if needed.) 

Veal aux Pommes. 

Butter the bottom and sides of a sauce-pan. Cut cold 
(or raw) veal in thin slices. Pare and core some apples, 
and quarter them. Have about one third apple to two 
thirds meat; Put together into the sauce-pan, with pepper 
and salt. Cover tight, and stew till tender (about half an 
hour). If the apples are very dry, add a very little water. 
Beef may be used instead of veal. In that case add also 
a little minced onion. Serve covered. 



FISH. 

Canned Salmon on Toast. 

Take off the top of the can. Set it in a kettle of boil- 
ing water to become very hot. Have ready slices of hot 
toast on a platter. Pick the fish into shreds. Lay it over 
the toast (previously moistened), and sprinkle with a few 
drops of lemon or vinegar. Arrange tastefully with 
parsley if you have it. A more elaborate dish is to pour 
plenty of drawn butter over the fish on toast, and if in 
season garnish the dish with lettuce leaves all around the 



How to Cook Well. 



edges. Have the stems covered by the toast, and help to 
each person with the toast. What fish is left will make 
good sandwiches. 

Pince of Canned Salmon, 



i can of salmon. 
1 quart of milk. 
1 tablespoonf ul of butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
1 teaspoonf ul of salt. 
1 saltspoonf ul of pepper. 



Remove the oil, skin and bones from the salmon. Boil 
the milk. Rub the butter into the flour, and stir into the 
boiling milk. Season with the salt and pepper, and add 
the salmon broken into bits. When heated it is ready to 
serve. 

Canned Salmon Baked. 



1 can of salmon. 
i cupful of fine, soft bread- 
crumbs. 



1 tablespoonf ul of melted but- 
ter. 
Pepper and salt. 



3 or 4 eggs, beaten light. 

Pick the salmon fine, and mix it with the bread- 
crumbs ; add the eggs, melted butter and seasoning ; put 
into a buttered pudding dish or into gem pans ; set in a 
pan of hot water and bake twenty minutes at longest in a 
hot oven. Serve hot, with or without "Lobster" or 
" Oyster Sauce." If baked in gem-pans, turn them out 
on a platter, and pour the sauce over. 

Codfish Puff. 

Make a mixture as for " Codfish Balls." Put into a but- 
tered earthen plate, and smooth over the top. Cover with 
bits of butter, and bake in a very hot oven till brown 
(about ten minutes). Serve in the same dish. 

Stewed Codfish (salt). 

Put to soak one pound salt cod at about six in the af- 
ternoon in cold water. In about three hours pour off this 
water, and cover with warm. Leave it on the stove over 



Breakfast. 37 



night, where it will keep hot, but not boil. In the morn- 
ing change the water for that which is boiling. Boil very 
slowly for half an hour (if it boils fast it will get tough 
and hard, and smell disagreeably). Take out the fish ; 
with a knife and fork, pick it into shreds, removing all 
the bones. Then make the sauce. Take one cup of the 
water in which the fish was boiled ; add to it one and a 
half cupfuls of milk; let this come to a boil ; add a pinch 
of salt, and half a cupful of flour, rubbed to a paste with a 
little cold milk. Stir until thick, and add a beaten egg, 
stirring fast, so as not to curdle. (This may be omitted.) 
Put the fish into the sauce and let it get hot, not boil, stir- 
ing all the time to prevent the egg from curdling. Pour 
into a platter, and garnish it with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs. What is left over may be used for codfish balls 
with the addition of mashed potato. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel. 

Put to soak in cold water more than twenty-four hours 
beforehand ; change the water a great many times. Wipe 
the fish dry ; dredge with flour, and lay on a hot buttered 
gridiron with the inside down. Broil ovet hot coals for 
ten minutes ; then turn, and broil the other side. When 
tender lay on a hot platter. Serve with or without 
"Drawn Butter" or "Sauce Piquant" poured over. 

Boiled Salt Mrckerel. 

Soak as above. Boil in a cloth or fish-kettle, and serve 
with sauce as above. 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 
Fried Apples. 

Peel and slice five or six sour apples, not very thin. 
Have- ready in a frying-pan several thin pieces of salt pork 
fried to a crisp. Put in the apples and fry over a slow 



38 How to Cook Well. 

fire, stirring occasionally, and taking care not to let them 
become mushy by too hot a fire or too frequent stirring. 
Serve hot, with meat; or eat with cream and sugar. 
Apples that are too dry for anything else are good pre- 
pared in this way. 

Baked Apples. 

See page 356. Early apples, baked, make a refreshing 
addition to a breakfast on the hot mornings we sometimes 
have in early autumn. And in winter, they are exceed- 
ingly wholesome, served hot, with brown sugar. 

Baked Beans. 

Wash one pint of pea or navy beans, and put to soak 
over night in one quart of cold water. In the morning, 
drain off the water; pour boiling water over them, and let 
them stand covered, until the water is cold. Drain again, 
and put in a bean-pot, or pudding-dish. Then add two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, and half 
a saltspoonful of soda (dissolved). The soda is to prevent 
any evil effects from eating them. Stir all together gently 
and fill up the pot with boiling water. (There should be 
enough to much more than cover the beans, which should 
not be allowed to dry up enough to need stirring, as that 
would spoil their shape.) Put a quarter of a pound of 
salt pork in the middle of the beans, pressing it down a 
little. Cover the pot, and leave it in a slow oven for 
several hours, until the water is all absorbed, and the 
beans are tender. It is the custom in Boston to leave 
them in the oven all night, and to have them on the break- 
fast table every Sunday morning, with "Boston Brown 
Bread." Enough for a family of seven. What is left 
of baked beans use for " Tomato and Bean Soup." An- 
other way, but not so good, is to parboil the beans (after 
soaking them) with the salt pork. Then bake them. 



Breakfast. 39 



Macaroni with Oysters. 

Put in a buttered pudding-dish, layers of boiled mac- 
aroni and oysters. Put bits of butter and pepper and 
salt on each layer of oysters. Pour over all one cupful of 
cream or milk and bake in a hot oven, with grated bread- 
crumbs on top, for fifteen minutes. 

Ham and Macaroni. 

Put into a buttered pudding-dish cold or hot boiled mac- 
aroni, in layers, with minced ham. Put on each layer of 
macaroni bits of butter and grated cheese. Season the 
ham with a little mustard or finely chopped onion. Beat 
one egg, and mix with one cupful of milk. Pour over all, 
and bake in a very quick oven for ten minutes. 



VEGETABLES. 
Baked Potatoes. 

Wash large, smooth potatoes of about the same size. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven for alx>ut one hour. Turn 
them three or four times, so that they will be evenly done. 
Eat at once. Cold baked potatoes may be warmed over 
by plunging into cold water, and then laying them for ten 
minutes in a very hot oven. The only other way to use 
them over successfully is for ** Potato Rechauffee." 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Clioose potatoes of a uniform size, and wash them. Put 
into a dripping-pan with half a cupful of cold water, allow- 
ing fully one hour to bake. Bake in a moderate oven till 
soft, turning frequently. Do not add more water. Boiled 
sxvcet potatoes are not fit to eat, but they may be par- 
boiled and then baked. Grate what are left for " Sweet 
P..i:ito 1 'lidding or Pie." 



40 How to Cook Well. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake Irish potatoes as above. When just done cut off 
one end of each, and carefully scoop out the inside in such 
a way as not to break the skins. Mash the potato through 
a sieve ; add salt, butter, a little milk and grated cheese 
(be sure to put in enough cheese to give a decided flavor). 
Fill the potato skins with this mixture. Heap them full, 
and do not put on the covers. Put back into the oven, 
which should be very hot, until thoroughly heated. 

N. B. These are improved by adding to the mixture 
the beaten yolk or white of an egg, and using cream 
instead of milk. The cheese may be omitted if it is not 

liked. 

Pried Potatoes. 

Put into a frying pan a large tablespoonful of lard, beef 
dripping or ham-fat (that from sausages is very good). 
Have ready cold boiled potatoes cut into small slices or 
chopped coarsely. When the grease in the pan is very 
hot, put in the potatoes and brown quickly, or they will 
be greasy. Stir occasionally, adding more grease if they 
are likely to burn. A few minutes before serving add 
plenty of salt and pepper. Be careful not to use too much 
grease, and not to put in the potatoes till it is hot^ for a 
dish of greasy fried potatoes is revolting. 

Another Way is as follows : Slice cold boiled pota- 
toes lengthwise into even, thick slices, and fry in any kind 
of fat but butter, as that will not brown them well. When 
the fat is very hot, dredge the slices with flour, and lay 
them in side by side. As each one browns on one side 
turn it on the other. Do not stir them together. Pepper 
and salt plentifully, and dish neatly. A pretty way is to 
lay them around minced hash on a platter. 
Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Put into a frying-pan a large tablespoonful of butter. 
When very hot, add half a small onion (minced very fine). 



Breakfast. 41 



Do not put in more than this, there should be only a 
suspicion of onion. Cut into dice six cold boiled potatoes. 
Add them to the frying onion, after a moment, and fry to 
a delicate brown. Season shortly before serving with 
chopped parsley (this is essential), pepper and salt. 

Fry quickly, so that they will not be greasy, and serve as 
soon as done, so that they will not dry out. 
Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Slice cold parboiled potatoes lengthwise, into slices a 
quarter of an inch thick, and fry to a delicate brown in 
dripping, lard or butter. 

Cold baked sweet potatoes should be chopped coarsely 
and fried quickly in plenty of butter. 
Broiled Potatoes. 

Use either cold boiled or parboiled potatoes. Cut them 
in slices half an inch thick, put them in a wire gridiron and 
broil over hot coals till well browned on both sides. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, lay in a hot platter, and put a Ml 
of butter on each slice. 

Stewed Potatoes with Gravy. 

Cut into cubes cold boiled potatoes. Put into a sauce- 
pan with cold gravy of any kind. Season with salt and 
pepper. Stew gently for ten minutes. Do not stir much 
for fear of spoiling the shape of the potatoes. 

Stewed Potatoes with Milk. 

Pare raw potatoes. Cut into thick slices. Soak in cold 
water half an hour. Stew in enough cold water to cover 
them, till tender (about fifteen minutes). Do not let them 
boil fast enough to break. Drain off all the water. Pour 
on milk enough to nearly cover them ; add salt and when 
it boils again a large lump of butter (rubbed with an equal 
quantity of flour), and a little pepper. Let it boil till it 
thickens. Serve in a covered dish. 



42 How to Cook WeU. 

Potato Bechauffee. 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes in small cubes. Have 
ready in a sauce-pan as much milk as you think will nearly 
cover them. To each pint of milk take half a cupful of 
flour. Rub the flour smooth in a little cold milk, and 
when that in the sauce-pan boils, pour it in. Stir while it 
thickens ; add salt and pepper, and a large lump of but- 
ter. Then put in the potatoes. When they all come to 
a boil pour into a covered dish, and serve. 

Potatoes and Cream. 

Mince cold boiled or baked potatoes. Put them into a 
hot frying-pan. Season with pepper and salt and pour 
over them enough cream to nearly cover tEem. Let them 
come to a boil, and serve hot in a covered dish. 

Potato Snow. 

While hot, rub "Mashed Potatoes" through a colander 
into the dish in which they are to be served. Serve very 
hot. 

This is a pretty dish. 

Potato Puff. 

Moisten with hot milk cold ' Mashed Potato." Beat it 
till smooth. Butter an earthen plate or platter. Put the 
potato into it, mounding it up high. Cover the entire top 
with melted butter, and dredge it with flour. With a 
knife mark the top off into diamonds, and set into the 
oven, which should be very hot. When brown (in ten 
minutes or so) serve in the same dish. It is an improve- 
ment to add to the potato two eggs beaten light. 

Cucumbers (raw). 

Keep the cucumbers on ice till wanted. Peel them, 
and slice thin, beginning at the blossom end, or else they 



Breakfast. 43 



will be bitter. Pour over them a little vinegar, with a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper and set on ice till the last 
moment before serving. Some slice with them a raw 

onion. 

Fried Onions with Eggs. 

Peel and quarter eight onions, and soak in cold water 
for awhile. Then put them in a frying-pan with a little 
water and one cupful of pork gravy (or a little lard). 
Scatter one tablespoonful of salt over all. Cover, and 
cook till tender. Then uncover, and cook fast till brown. 
Beat six eggs, and stir them in. Serve hot in a covered 
dish. 

(A North Carolina dish.) 

Fried Cabbage. 

Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan. When very hot, 
stir in some cold, boiled cabbage, well seasoned with but- 
ter, pepper and salt, and moistened with a little cream or 
milk. 

Stir till the whole is hot, then leave it to brown a few 
moments. Serve hot in a platter, the brown side up|>cr- 
most. A beaten egg stirred in with the cabbage is an im- 
provement. 

Fried Cucumbers. 

Take large cucumbers just ripe, but not old. Pare 
them, cut into thick slices (half an inch). Scrape out 
the seeds if large. Lay them in ice-water for half an 
hour. Then wipe each piece dry. Dredge with flour, 
and lay in a hot frying-pan in which is a large tablespoon- 
ful of beef-dripping or lard. Fry slowly at first, so that 
they will be done through. At the end of half an hour, 
]c]jer and salt them and turn them. Increase the heat, 
prpper and salt the other side, and fry fifteen minutes 
I'Mi-w, till tender enough to pierce with a straw. If there 
is danger of burning add more grease while cooking. 



44 How to Cook Well 

Tomatoes (raw). 

With a sharp knife cut tomatoes into thick slices with- 
out removing the skin. Lay them in a glass dish. Put 
bits of ice on them, and set them in a cold place till the 
last moment before serving. Be careful to do this, for a 
flabby piece of tomato is not inviting. Cover with vinegar 
at the last moment, pepper and salt bountifully and serve. 

If you choose serve instead with tomato salad dressing. 

If served without vinegar or dressing save what toma- 
toes are left for " Fried Tomatoes." 

Fried Tomatoes (No. 1). 



1 egg, beaten light with 



1 cupful cold milk. 



1 2 tablespoonf uls flour. Salt and pepper. 

Beat hard. Into this dip thick slices of raw tomato with 
the skin on. Put in a hot frying-pan with a large lump of 
butter or beef-dripping. Fry slowly till tender and brown. 

Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Butter a deep pudding-dish. Put in a layer of cracker- 
crumbs or stale bread-crumbs. Then a layer of tomatoes 
(thickly sliced) with pepper and salt ; and a layer of crumbs 
with bits of butter. Repeat in this order till the dish is 
full, having the top layer of the crumbs. Moisten with a 
few tablespoonfuls of water. Bake in a rather hot oven 
half an hour. 



Other Dishes for Breakfast. 

(See Index.) 



Beefsteak. 

Mutton and Lamb Chops. 
Veal Cutlets. 
Stews (of all kinds) 
Mutton a la Venison. 
Croquettes, Meat Balls, etc. 
Baked Potatoes. 
German Potatoes. 



Mashed Potato Balls. 
Baked Tomatoes. 
Fried Tomatoes (No. 2). 
Devilled Tomatoes. 
A Summer Medley. 
Pea Fritters. 
Corn Oysters. 
Fresh Fish (all kinds). 



Breakfast. 45 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

REMARKS. 

Before you begin to mix the cakes grease the pans, and 
leave them to heat. They should be very hot before pour- 
ing in the mixture, which should not be allowed to stand 
after it is ready. The oven, too, must be hot, as all these 
things need to be baked quickly, as well as beaten hard. 
Have ready, always, a hot plate to put them on, so that 
they will not fall by a too sudden change of temperature. 
The sooner such things are eaten after baking, the better, 
especially those which do not contain much flour. Warm 
the knife before cutting any kind of tea cake. It will be 
even lighter if broken apart. 

Remember, then, three rules : Mix quickly, bake quickly, 
and eat soon. 

(For short-cake use pastry-flour, if you have it, as it 
makes a more flaky cake than the other.) 

Plain Muffins. 



4 teaspoonful soda (dis- 
solved). 

f 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 
j Flour to make a thick batter 
I (about 3 cupfuls). 



1 egg beaten light. 
1A cupfuls milk. 

2 table spoonful! butter 

(melted). 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix in this order. Beat hard ; have the muflin rings 
hot, fill them half full ; and bake in a hot oven nearly half 
an hour. Makes one dozen. 

Raised Muffins. 



1 quart warm milk. 
1 cupful melted buttei (less will 
do). 



3 eggs, beaten light. 

2 full tablespoon fuls yeast 

Flour to make a thick batter. 



1 teaspoon fill salt. 

Mix in this order. Cover, and set to rise over night, if 
you want them for breakfast. If for tea, set them four or 
five hours before. When light pour gently into hot rings 



46 How to Cook Well. 

(half-full) and bake at once in a quick oven about twenty 
minutes. Makes one dozen. 

Sweet Muffins. 



2 h e a p i n g table spoonfuls 

sugar. 

cupful butter, 
i teaspoonful salt. 
4 eggs, beaten light. 



! : 



quart flour (more or less). 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar. 

1 teaspoonful soda (dis- 
solved). 



1 pint milk. 

Mix in this order. Beat hsrd, pour into hot muffin- 
rings, fill them half-full, and bake in a quick oven about 
twenty minutes. (If you choose use three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, mixed through the flour; and omit the 
cream of tartar and soda.) Makes one and one half dozen. 

English Muffins. (No Butter or Milk.} 



1 quart flour. 

1 pint tepid water (more or 
less). 



li teaspoonfuls salt. 
2 tablespoonfuls yeast. 
1 egg (white only). 



Add the water to the flour, a little at a time, till you 
have enough for a very soft dough. Add the salt and 
yeast. Cover, and set to rise in a warm place. When 
light, beat up the white of the egg, and mix it in, with a 
spoon, beating hard. Put into hot rings, fill them half- 
full, and let them rise about ten minutes. Then bake at 
once in a very quick oven about fifteen minutes. If you 
Want the muffins for breakfast, set them at night ; if for tea, 
about nine o'clock in the morning. 

Makes one dozen. Improved by using more eggs, or 
a small piece of butter. 

Buttermilk Muffins. 



1 pint sour or buttermilk. 

1 pint flour. 

1 table spoonful sugar. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls butter melted. 
1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 



Mix in order. Beat hard, and fill hot rings. Bake in 
a very hot oven about fifteen minutes. Eat before they 



Breakfast. 47 



fall. The success of these depends upon hard beating and 
quick baking. Makes one dozen. 

Bice or Hominy Muffins. 



1 cupful boiled rice or hominy. 

1 pint flour. 

1 teaspoon ful salt. 



2 or 3 eggs, beaten light. 

1 pint milk. 

Butter, size of an egg (melted). 



Mix. Beat hard. Fill hot muffin-rings to the top and 
bake in a very hot oven, about half an hour. Makes one 
dozen. 

Alleghany Corn Muffins. 



1 pt corn mcaL 
1 pt. white flour. 
3 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 
der. 



4 capful sugar. 

1 pt. milk or water. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 

i cupful butter (melted). 



1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

Mix and beat hard. Bake in hot, greased muffin-rings, 
about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. (Less butter will 
do.) 

North Carolina Corn Muffins. 



1 quart corn meal. 
1 teaspoon ful salt. 



Hot water. 

8 eggs, beaten light. 



1 tablespoonful shortening. 

Mix together, using enough water to make a thick bat- 
ter. Beat for ten minutes. Bake in muffin-rings, filled 
full, fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

Quick Graham Biscuit. 



1 pint graham flour. 
1 pint wheat flour. 
1 A teaspoonf uls salt. 
3 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 
der. 



1 heaping tablespoonful butter 

or lard. 

2 tablespoon f uls molasses. 

li cupful* milk or water (more 
or less.) 



I )> not sift the Graham flour. Mix like "Baking Pow- 
<lrr Biscuit," putting in the molasses and milk last of all. 



48 How to CooJc Well. 

Add more milk if the dough is too stiff to roll out. Roll 
out about three quarters of an inch thick. Bake three 
quarters of an hour in a moderately hot oven. Makes a 
dripping-pan full. 

Graham Gems. 



2 eggs, well beaten. 
1 table spoonful sugar. 



2 cupf uls milk. 

2 cupfuls Graham flour. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix in order. Beat hard. Heat gem-pans very hot. 
Pour in the mixture, and bake in a pretty hot oven for 
half an hour. 

Makes one dozen. 

Sour Milk Graham Gems. (Without Egg.} 



2 cupfuls Graham flour. 

1 cupful wheat flour. 

li teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 tablespoonful brown 



2 cupfuls sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 
1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



sugar. 

Beat hard. Fill hot gem-pans nearly full, and bake 
three quarters of an hour in a moderately hot oven. 
Makes one dozen. 

Raised Graham Gems. (No Milk or Eggs.} 



1 pint Graham flour. 
1 cupful wheat flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonf uls molasses. 



1 tablespoonful butter or lard 

melted. 

2 tablespoonfuls yeast. 
If cupfuls tepid water. 



Mix well together, and set in a pretty warm place, cov- 
ered, to rise over night. In the morning, dip into hot 
gem-pans (disturbing the batter as little as possible). Fill 
pans full. Bake in a hot oven for half an hour. Makes 
one dozen. 

N". B. If the mixture seems sour in the morning, as it 
very likely will, dissolve one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
soda (or more) and mix into the batter. 



Breakfast. 



49 



Corn Bread. 



2 cupf uls sour milk (or butter- 
milk). 

2 tablespoon f uls sugar. 
2 tablespoon fuls flour. 
1 egg beaten light. 



1 teaspoonf ul soda dissolved. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 
Corn meal to make a thick bat- 
ter. 



Be sure not to put in too much corn mc.il. Only 
experience will teach how much to use. Bake in a shallow 
loaf about twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

What is left should be dried in the heater, then rolled 
fine, and used for " Slapjacks " or " Corn Meal Pudding," 
or for frying fish. 



Cream Corn Bread. 



1 pint corn meal. 
1 teaspoon ful salt. 
1 pint cream. 



1 egg, beaten light. 
1 cup (nearly) flour. 



Boil the corn meal as for "Hasty Pudding" fully five 
minutes. Leave it to get quite cold. Then add the other 
ingredients, omitting the egg if you choose. Mix well to- 
gether, pour into a hot pan, and bake about half an hour in 
a quick oven. 

Rich Corn Bread. 



1 quart corn meal. 

2 tablespoonf uls flour. 

1 teaspoon ful salt. [der. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 



1 pint milk or water. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 

1 scant cup butter (melted). 



Mix all the dry ingredients together first, taking care to 
have the baking-powder well incorporated with the rest. 
Add the other things in order. Pour into hot pans, and 
bake in a hot oven for about thirty-five minutes. 



50 How to Cook Well. 

Rice Corn Bread. 

(An old Virginia Receipt.) 



1 pint boiled rice. 

1 quart skim milk (very hot). 

2 teaspoonf uls salt. 

1 table spoonful melted lard. 



2 or 3 eggs (beaten separately). 
Corn meal for a medium batter. 
2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 



Pour the milk over the rice. When cool, add the other 
ingredients, using the fine white meal. Scatter in the 
baking-powder dry at the last. Bake three quarters of an 
hour in an earthen dish in a moderate oven ; or a shorter 
time, in muffin-rings, in a hot oven. 

Makes two dozen muffins, or two medium-sized loaves. 

Corn Bread (other ways). 

See " Corn Meal Muffins." The receipts there given 
may be baked in loaves. 

St. Charles Pone; 



1 pint fine white Indian meal. 

1 pint milk (sweet or sour). 

2 eggs beaten light. 



1 teaspoonf ul butter (melted). 

i teaspoonf ul salt. 

i teaspoonf ul soda (dissolved). 



Mix and beat well, adding one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar if the milk is sweet. Bake nearly half an hour in 
a quick oven. Makes a small loaf. (One egg will do.) 

Johnny Cake. 



(1 quart Indian meal. 
1 quart sour milk, or butter- 
milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 



2 or 3 eggs, beaten light. 

1 tablespoonful lard (melted). 

1 teaspoonful salt. 



Mix, beat well, and bake in a thin loaf about fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 
Serve with maple syrup. 



Breakfast. 51 



Hominy Bread. 



2 cupfuls small hominy (boiled). 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful butter (melted). 



4 eggs, beaten light. 
1 pint corn meal. 
1 pint milk. 



Mix in this order. Beat hard. Have two pans hot, fill 
them half full and bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Eat hot. This is particularly delicate and delicious. The 
loaves should be shallow. Enough for a family of six. 

Pop Overs. 



2 eggs (separated). 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful melted butter. 



1 pint milk (sour). 
1 teaspoonful soda (dis- 
solved). 



1 pint flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs. Add salt, butter and milk, 
with the soda. Lastly, the flour, put in alternately with 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Beat very light. The bat- 
ter is so thin that it is a good plan to use a Dover Egg- 
beater to mix it instead of a spoon. Heat earthen cups or 
round gem-pans very hot. Butter them, and fill half full 
with the batter. Bake twenty minutes in a very hot oven, 
taking care not to open the oven door during the first ten 
minutes, and not to jar the pans, as they fall very easily. 
Eat at once. Makes one dozen. Use sweet milk if you 
like and omit the soda. 

Sally Lunn. 



2 eggs beaten light 
4 teaspoonful salt. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

2 tcaspoonfuls cream tartar. 



1 cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 
3 flat tablespoonfuls butter, 
melted. 



Put in the flour and milk alternately, rubbing the cream 
of tartar through the flour before adding it. Have the 
pan hot ; fill it half-full, and bake in a rather hot oven, 
about half an hour, increasing the heat towards the last. 

(Add siiornr, if you like. Less butter may be used if 
more milk is added, say two tablespoonfuls butter to one 



52 How to Cook Well. 

and one half cups of milk.) One and one half cups of 
huckleberries may be added. 

Sally Limn (raised). 



1 pint light bread-dough. 
6 tablespoonf uls sugar. 

2 heaping tablespoonf uls butter, 



cupful milk, sweet or sour. 
teaspoonf ul cinnamon. 
cupful flour, more or less. 



melted. 

The flour should be enough for a rather stiff batter. 
Beat hard. Pour into a buttered baking pan, and set to 
rise in a warm place till light (about four hours). Bake 
at once in the same pan, in a rather hot oven, for about 
half an hour. 

If you like crust, dip the batter carefully into hot gem- 
pans and bake. This will fill one and one half dozen gem- 
pans. (Improved by one egg added when you set it.) 

Lottie's Cream Tea Cake. 



2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



1 cupful sour cream. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 eggs beaten light. 



Stir the flour, sugar and salt together ; then stir the 
soda into the cream dissolving it very thoroughly and stir 
it at once into the flour, etc. (If it is left standing it will 
foam and run over the cup.) Add the eggs, and beat all 
together rapidly. Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven three 
quarters of an hour filling the pan only half-full. Increase 
the heat towards the last. Have ready a hot plate to serve 
it on, and warm the knife before cutting the cake. 

Huckleberry Tea Cake. 

teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



^ cupful butter. 

li cupfuls sugar. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 

cupful sour or buttermilk. 



cupfuls flour. 

pint huckleberries or blue- 
berries. 



Rub butter and sugar to a cream, add the other ingre- 
dients in the order given. Bake in a loaf in a moderate 
oven about half an hour; increase the heat toward the last. 



Breakfast. 53 



Plain Huckleberry Tea Cake. 

(See " Sally Lunn.") 
Plain Breakfast Cake. 



1 quart flour (scant). 

4 teaspoon fuls cream tartar. 

1 teaspoouf ul salt. 

4 cup sugar (or less). 



1 pint milk. 

2 teaspoon fuls soda dissolved. 
2 eggs (beaten light). 



Mix thoroughly, beat hard. (If you choose omit the 
sugar and one egg.) Put into a warm, buttered square 
pan, and bake in a pretty hot oven about half an hour, 
taking care to keep the heat steady. Put on the table 
whole, on a hot plate. Cut it in squares, previously warm- 
ing the knife, and eat hot. 

Enough for seven persons. This mixture is good baked 
in hot gem-pans ; it will make twenty gems. 

General Washington's Breakfast Cake. 



:1 quart milk. 9 

1 tablespoon ful butter. 
2 pounds flour. 



2 teaspoon fuls salt 
1 cupful yeast. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 



Mix about nine in the evening as follows : 

Warm the milk and butter together. When lukewarm 
stir in the flour. Add salt, yeast and eggs. Beat all well 
together. Grease two deep, large pans. Pour in the bat- 
ter, filling pans only half-full, and set it to rise over night 
in a warm place. In the morning bake it in the same 
pans, without disturbing the batter. The oven should be 
hot, and it should bake three quarters of an hour, with 
sU'.-idy heat. 

This was always on General Washington's breakfast 
table the last few years of his life. 

For a family of ten. 



54 How to Cook Well. 



Short Cake. 



1 quart flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. [der. 



1 cupful butter (or half lard). 
1 cupful hot milk (full). 



1 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

Mix as directed for " Baking Powder Biscuit." 
Roll out lightly on the bread-board (adding no more 
flour) about one inch thick. With a knife, cut into square 
cakes, and bake in a dripping-pan ; or butter three tin pie- 
plates, and with a pan of the same size, cut the dough 
into three circular loaves to fit them. Bake in a hot oven, 
about fifteen minutes, taking care not to let the crust 
harden on top. If there is danger of this, cover with a 
thick paper, or set a pan of cold water on the oven-shelf 
above. Serve hot, with butter. 
Makes three loaves. 

Sour Milk Short Cake. 



2 cupf uls sour milk (or butter- 
milk). 

| cupful butter or lard 
(melted). 



1 teaspoonful soda (dis- 
solved). 

l teaspoonfuls salt. 
Flour to make a soft dough. 



Put the milk into the mixing-bowl. Add the butter. 
Then stir in the soda rapidly. Add the salt and flour. 
Put the dough on the bread-board, and roll out about one 
inch thick, handling it no more than is necessary. With 
a deep round pan, just the size of the pie-plates you mean 
to bake it in, cut out into large rounds, by turning the pan 
upside down. Lay in the pie-plates, and bake in a very 
quick oven, about fifteen minutes. 

Serve hot with butter. This makes two loaves. It is a 
particularly nice short cake. 

Millville Short Cake. 



cupfuls flour. [der. 

teaspoonfuls baking pow- 



large tablespoonf ul butter, 
cupful milk. 



| teaspoonful salt. 

Mix as directed for " Baking Powder Biscuit." 



Breakfast. 55 



When mixed turn on bread-board, and with as little 
handling as possible, roll out into one thick sheet, shaping 
it as you go, to fit a small pie-plate. Put it into that, and 
by shaking, bring into still better shape. Hake in a very 
hot oven ten or fifteen minutes. Serve hot, to be eaten 
with butter. 

Makes one small loaf. 

Fruit Short Cake. 

Mix and bake any of the preceding short cakes. As 
soon as done, split by pulling apart with the fingers (on no 
account use a knife or it will be heavy). Butter the inside 
of both halves while hot. Spread the under one thickly 
with one and one half quarts berries (or fruit of any kind) 
which have been standing sugared for half an hour. Put 
the juice over the berries. Put back the top half of the 
short cake, and leave to get cold. 

Before serving, sift powdered sugar over the top. Some 
persons heap more berries on top. 

Eat cold with cream and sugar, the same day it is 
baked. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Fruit Short Cake.) 



Currant Short Cake. 

This refreshing short cake for breakfast on a hot morn- 
ing is made according to directions for " Fruit Short 
Cake," as above. 

Raspberry Short Cake. 

This is by many preferred to Strawberry Short Cake. 
See ' Fruit Short Cake," as above. 

Apple Short Cake. 

Make a short cake by any receipt given above. Butter 
while hot, and fill with a stiff apple sauce made very sweet, 
and seasoned while hot with butter and nutmeg. Serve 



56 How to Cook Well. 

cold with sugar and cream. This is quickly and easily 
made, and furnishes something nice when other fruit is 
out of season. 

Peach Short Cake. 

Peel, slice, and sugar ripe peaches, and let them stand 
for half an hour. Then proceed as with " Fruit Short 
Cake." 

Canned peaches may be used. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, ETC. 

KEMAKKS. 

If possible, procure a soapstone griddle. It needs no 
greasing, and therefore makes no disagreeable smell 
through the house. If you have only an ordinary griddle 
and must use grease, do it with a rag tied on the end of a 
stick, and put on as little as possible only enough to 
keep the cakes from sticking, not enough to make them 
greasy. Have the griddle hot before beginning to fry the 
cakes. It is well to try a very little of the batter first, 
both to make sure that the consistency of the batter is 
right, and that the griddle is of the right temperature. 
Allow a tablespoonf ul of batter to each cake ; except Buck- 
wheat Cakes, which should be larger; this can be attained 
by pouring from a cup. When the edges of each cake 
look dry, it is time to turn it. Do this with a tin spatula, 
not a knife. When done on the other side, put at once on 
a hot plate, in a pile, not scattered about, as that causes 
them to cool. When the griddle is emptied, grease again, 
and pour on a fresh supply of batter. If the cakes are 
doughy inside, the griddle is too hot ; if dry and tough, it 
is not hot enough. 

Serve Buckwheat Cakes with maple syrup or molasses ; 
more delicate cakes with sugar, or sugar and cinnamon 



Breakfast. 57 



previously mixed together, and put into a sifter, such as is 
used for salt. 

N. B. If any batter is left, after frying griddle cakes, 
bake it at once in gem-pans, first adding a little flour. If 
kept, to be used for cakes next morning, add two or three 
eggs to the batter, otherwise it will not be light. 

Unequalled Buckwheat Cakes. 

quart buckwheat flour. 

tablespoonfuls wheat flour. 

teaspoon ful salt. 

cupfuls yeast. 
f 1 pint fresh milk (warm). 
I 4 pint warm water. 

Set them at nine o'clock in the evening, for breakfast. 
Mix well together the first four ingredients, in order. 
Then add the milk and water, previously mixed together. 
Beat all together very hard. Cover and leave to rise. In 
the morning the top will IHJ covered with bubbles. The 
cakes must be light, thick and spongy. If too thick add 
a little warm water. Do not have the griddle too hot, 
as, being thick, they will not then cook in the middle. 
Hake them the size of a HID all saucer. 

(If sour in the morning add half a teaspoonful or more 
soda, dissolved in boiling water.) 

N. B. Buckwheat Cakes, in my opinion, should be set 
fresh every time to be sure of their not being sour. Yet 
in many families it is customary to reserve a cupful of the 
batter every time to set the next with. In this case mix 
as usual, simply substituting the batter for the yeast. 

Buckwheat Cakes with Water. 



1 quart buckwheat flour. 
I taiiU'spoonfuls corn meal. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



4 tablespoon fuls yeast. 
1 pint tepid water (more or 
less). 



3 tablespoonf uls molasses. 

Mix as early as six o'clock in the evening. Use enough 



58 How to Cook Well 

water to make a thick batter (if too thin it will not rise). 
Beat well, and set to rise in a warm place, covered. 

In the morning, if sour (as it is almost invariably) stir 
in one teaspoonf ul of soda, dissolved in a little warm water. 
If it still smells sour, add more. The batter will be thinner 
now than it was when first set, but it should still be a 
thick batter. If too thin, add a little wheat flour, if too 
thick, add tepid water. 

For a family of five. 

Buck-eye Buckwheat Cakes. 



:2 quarts boiling water. 
1 cupful corn meal. 
1 cupful wheat flour. 



3 pints buckwheat flour. 

1 cupful yeast (shaken). 

2 teaspoonf uls salt. 



At noon of the day before you wish to use the cakes, 
stir the corn meal (wet with a little cold water) into the 
boiling water on the stove. Boil till it forms a thin 
gruel. Let it cool, but not become cold ; then add the 
other ingredients. Beat well, cover, and set to rise in a 
warm place. 

In the evening, beat well again, cover, and set to rise in 
a cool place till morning. 

Before breakfast, add one teaspoonful of soda (dissolved 
in warm water) if it seems sour. If too thick add warm 
water, but do not make a thin batter of it. Do not have 
the griddle too hot. 

Oatmeal Griddle Cakes. (No Eygs or Milk.) 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 
der. 



2 cups cold boiled oatmeal. 
2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 
2i cups water (more or less). 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

The three first ingredients must be mixed together 
thoroughly before adding anything else. In putting in 
the water, which must come last, be sure you do not get 
in too much (the batter should be thick). Try a little of 



Breakfast. 59 



the batter before making the cakes. If too thick, add 
water; if too thin, add flour. Do not have the griddle 
too hot. For a family of six. 

Graham Griddle Cakes. (No Eyys or Milk.) 



/- 44 cups Graham flour. 
j 14 cups wheat flour. 
1 4 teaspoon ful salt. 



1 tablespoon ful molasses. 

1 quart tepid water. 

4 cupful yeast (shaken). 



Set to rise over night. Before breakfast add half a 
tcnspoonful soda (dissolved in a little warm water). 
For a family of six. 

Bread Griddle Cakes. 

Pour over stale pieces of bread boiling water enough to 
rather more than cover them. Cover close and soak 
about one hour. When soft, drain off every drop of wa- 
ter, squeeze dry, and mash through a colander. (If still 
very moist, set in the heater awhile.) 

Then take 



3 cupfuls soaked crumbs. 

4 teaspoonful salt. 
1 egg beaten light. 



1 cupful milk. 

1 heaping cupful flour. 

4 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



Beat well together and fry. If you find you cannot 
turn the cakes without breaking them, add a little more 
flour. (Another egg is an improvement.) One tablespoon- 
ful molasses may be added. It makes the cakes brown 
nicely. 

Buttermilk Griddle Cakes. 



1 quart buttermilk (or sour 
milk). 



Flour to make a medium batter. 
2 teas poo nf uls soda, dissolved. 



2 teaspoonfuls salt, nearly. 

Mix in order, beat hard, and do not put in the soda till 
just before frying the cakes. Improved by the addition 
of one eg;:. 

For a family of six. 



60 How to Cook Well. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes. 

Make like Buttermilk Griddle Cakes, with the addition 
of one cupful cold boiled hominy (finest kind). Use a little 
less flour. 

Another with Eggs. 



1 pint boiled hominy (fine kind) . 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

2 or 3 eggs beaten light. 
2 cups flour. 



l cupfuls milk (more or less). 
1 dessert spoonful melted but- 
ter, 
i teaspoonful soda dissolved. 



The hominy must not be hot when the eggs are put in. 
Use milk enough to make a batter just stiff enough to 
support a drop. The butter may be omitted if you use 
three eggs. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 

Like the last receipt, substituting rice for hominy. 
Another without Eggs. 



1 cupful cold boiled rice. 
1 quart sweet or sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



i cupful melted butter. 

1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 



Soak the rice in the milk a little while. Mix in order. 
Beat hard. Test the batter before frying the cakes. If 
they break add more flour. 

Very delicate and nice. 

Slapjacks. 

Pour over four cupfuls corn meal sufficient boiling 
water to make it very damp. Mix well. Add 



1 or 2 eggs beaten light. 

2 cupfuls milk. 

2i teaspoonfuls salt. 



1 tablespoonful molasses. 

1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



Mix and beat well. If they break in turning add more 
flour. Cold Corn Bread crumbs (dried and rolled fine) 
may be used instead of the meal, in which case use more 
of them, or put less milk. 



Breakfast. 61 



What batter is left over, bake at once as Cora Bread, 
which can be steamed for breakfast next day. 
For a family of six. 



Pancakes. 



11 pint flour. 

i teaspoon ful salt. 



1 quart milk. 

3 eggs, beaten very light. 



v \ tcaspooiif ul baking-powder. 

Mix the dry things thoroughly together. Then add the 
milk, stirring it in till the batter is perfectly smooth ; 
lastly, beat in the eggs. (A few spoonfuls of freshly 
fallen snow make pancakes very light. It should be 
added the hist thing before frying.) Have the frying- 
pan very hot, and grease it well with lard. Pour in 
enough batter to cover the bottom of the pan. Turn the 
cake when half done. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon 
or spread with jelly ; roll up as you would a sheet of 
paper ; and lay on a hot plate. Serve when a plateful is 
ready. 

Pancakes should not be allowed to stand at all after be- 
ing mixed, before they are fried. 

English Pancakes. 

Like the last receipt, but omit the baking powder and 
use four eggs. Add at the last a little grated nutmeg and 
one tablespoonful brandy. 

Flannel Cakes. 

1 quart milk. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

3 tablcspoonf uls yeast. 

Flour to make a rather thick batter. 

Piece butter size of an egg. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

Beat hard together the first four ingredients at night, if 
you want them for breakfast ; early in the day, if for tea. 



62 How to Cook Well. 

Set them to rise, covered. When light (i. e. bubbly) add 
the butter (melted) and the eggs ; and fry at once like 
other griddle-cakes. 



Waffles. 



1 pint sour or buttermilk. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

3 teaspoonf uls melted butter. 



3 eggs (separated). 

Flour to make a thick batter. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda (dissolved). 



Beat all together, adding the soda just before cooking. 
Grease the waffle-iron thoroughly. (Or, use sweet milk 
and two teaspoonf uls baking-powder in place of the soda.) 

Risen Waffles. 



1| quart flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 quart milk. 

1 cupful yeast. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 
Butter size of egg (melted). 

Set at night for breakfast, or early in the day for tea. 
Beat together the first four ingredients. Let them stand 
till light. Then add the eggs and butter. Beat hard, and 
bake. 



Rich Waffles. 



1 quart milk. 

| teaspoonf ul salt. 

| cupful butter (melted). 

4 eggs (beaten light). 



f 3 teaspoonf uls baking pow- 



der. 
Flour to make a thick batter. 



Beat all together, previously mixing the baking-powder 
through a part of the flour. Then bake. 

N. B. Sour milk may be used by substituting for the 
baking powder two teaspoonf uls of soda. 



Jireakfast. 63 



Rice Waffles. 



li cupfuls boiled rice. 
1 pint milk, hot. 
1 pint milk, cold. 



1 teaspoon ful salt. 
4 eggs, well-beaten. 
Flour. 



Mix the rice and hot milk very smoothly togethei ; then 
stir in the cold milk. Add the salt and the eggs, mixing 
thoroughly. Lastly stir in gradually enough flour to make 
a stiff batter. Proceed aa with other wafflea. 



LUNCHEON. 



REMARKS. 

IN many families it is the custom for the ladies to have 
lunch in the middle of the day, and to reserve the more 
hearty meal of dinner till the gentlemen have returned 
from business and can share it with them at the close of 
the day. 

A home lunch is, therefore, an informal affair, usually 
arranged with but one course, everything being placed on 
the table at once. The lunch-parties which fashionable 
ladies give to their lady friends are quite different. For 
these, preparations are made as elaborate as suit the taste 
of the hostess. 

I have not undertaken to arrange this department of my 
book with a view to these fashionable gatherings, but have 
merely made a collection of dishes suitable to a family- 
lunch ; at the same time trying to give a somewhat wide 
range to choose from ; so that both those who live simply 
and those who require a more hearty meal will be suited. 

Sandwiches. 

Butter bread (a day old) on the loaf. Spread with a lit- 
tle made mustard or " Salad Dressing," if you have any. 
Cut the bread very thin. When two slices are ready, lay 
them together, with thin shavings of ham or tongue be- 
tween. With a sharp knife, cut each sandwich in half. 

Another Way is to chop fine, ham, chicken, or tongue, 
season it highly, and spread on the bread. If you use 
ham, use a little of the fat with the lean. 

64 



Luncheon. 65 



Delicious sandwiches and cheaper ones can be made by 
mincing fine, raw beefsteak. Season only with pepper and 
salt. These are excellent for invalids. 

Rolled Sandwiches. 

Chop very fine equal quantities of cold chicken and 
tongue. Add two thirds of teaspoonful of celery salt, a 
pinch of cayenne pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of "May- 
onnaise Dressing." This is enough to season the breast 
of a large chicken and as much tongue. Spread on very 
thin slices of bread and butter, from which the crust has 
been cut off. Roll them up as you would a piece of paper 
and pile in a plate. 

Any sandwiches of chopped meat can bo rolled, if the 
bread Is cut sufficiently thin and the crust trimmed off. 

Anchovy Toast. 

Pass a few anchovies through a sieve. Mix with them 
a little melted butter and red pepper. Spread the mixture 
on both sides of a piece of toast. Lay a " Poached Egg " 
on each piece of toast aud serve hot. 

Savory Toast. 

Mince a cupful of cold ham, fowl, or veal, and season 
with salt and pepper. If you use ham, omit the salt and 
add a little mustard ; if fowl or veal, add celery salt. 
Mix one beaten egg with the meat ; spread between thin 
slices of bread and toast slightly. 

(Oysters may be parboiled, chopped and mixed with 
"Cream Sauce," and spread when cold between thin 
slices of bread and toasted in the same way.) 

Butter the top of each and serve hot. 



66 How to Cook Well. 



Ramakin Toast. 



1 tablespoonful cheese, grated. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 egg, yolk only. 



\ teaspoonful mustard. 
| teaspoonful red pepper. 
A little salt. 



Mix all together ; spread the mixture thickly on a sl'.ce 
of toast, and brown before the fire. 

Welsh. Rarebit. 



Cheese, the size of teacup. 
1 large cupful of milk. 
Butter size of an egg. 



A pinch of mustard, dry. 

A little red pepper. 

2 large crackers, rolled fine. 



1 egg well beaten. 

Cut the cheese in small, thin slices. Put it in the fry- 
ing-pan with the milk. Add the butter, egg, mustard and 
spices. Stir in the crackers gradually. When all is 
thoroughly mixed, turn the mixture out, and serve in a 
covered dish. Eat with dry toast. Or serve spread on 

toast. 

Cheese Fondue. 

Weight of 2 eggs in cheese. | 4 eggs beaten separately. 
Weight of 2 eggs in butter. I Salt and pepper to taste. 

Grate the cheese. Beat it thoroughly into the butter 
and yolks. Season. Last stir in the whites. Bake in a 
quick oven twenty minutes, and serve immediately on tak- 
ing out in the same dish. 



VEGETABLES. 
Saratoga Potatoes. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin. Put them into very cold 
water for half an hour or on the ice to chill them. Then 
drain and dry them thoroughly between two towels. 
Have ready a pound of lard at the boiling point in a deep 
kettle. Drop in a few pieces of potato, and keep them 
separated from each other, as well as you can, while they 



Luncheon. 67 



fry. When delicately browned take them out with a 
skimmer, and drain on a sieve, at the same time sprink- 
ling them with salt. 

The browning will be hastened if the potatoes are taken 
from the kettle when partly cooked and exposed to the 
air for an instant, before you finish frying them. Two or 
three large potatoes will make a dishful. Serve cold or 
hot. A pretty way to serve them is to spread them over 
a platter, and lay chicken or veal croquettes at intervals, 
with sprigs of parsley around each croquette. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potato. 



f Cold boiled potatoes. 

I 4 cupful milk. 

( 3 table-spoonfuls butter. 



Pepper and salt. 
Chop|>ed parsley. 
4 lemon (juice only). 



Put the milk and butter into a sauce-pan already hot, 
with the potatoes, sliced rather thick. After a moment, 
add the seasoning and parsley. Heat all together quickly, 
stirring constantly. As you are about to dish it, stir in 
quickly the lemon juice. Serve in a covered dish. 

Potatoes with Giblets. 



Cold boiled potatoes. 
1 cupful milk. 

1 cupful broth from boiled 
chicken. 



Giblets from 2 chickens. 
1 tabk-spoonful tlotir. 
1 tablcspoonful butter. 
Salt and pepper. 



Cut the potatoes into pieces the size and shape of small 
dice, while the milk and chicken-broth are heating on the 
stove. When they begin to boil add the giblets (chopped 
fine). If raw let them stew for ten minutes; if cooked, 
less time will do. Thicken, when done, with the flour 
(previously wet with cold water), and add butter and sea- 
soning. Put in the potatoes, and let them get thoroughly 
hot, taking care not to break them by too much stirring. 

If you have no broth, "Giblet Gravy " can be substituted 
for that and the raw giblets. 



68 How to Cook Well. 

German Potatoes. 

Choose large smooth potatoes, and bake them. When 
all but done, scoop out the inside from a small hole at 
the top. Season and mash the potato, and mix with it 
some sausage meat (cooked). Put back in the skins, and 
replace in the oven till very hot and tender. 

Kentucky or Escaloped Potatoes. 

Cut into thin slices either cold boiled, or raw potatoes. 

Butter a baking-dish, and put in the potatoes in layers, 
with salt, pepper, and bits of butter. Moisten with milk 
or cream enough to cover the potatoes. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven a full hour if the potatoes are raw, less time in 
a quick oven if already boiled. 

For those who like onion it gives a pleasant flavor to 
run the knife through a raw onion several times while slic- 
ing the potatoes. 

Fried Tomatoes (No. 2). 

Cut raw tomatoes into thick slices, leaving the skin on. 
Lay them on a platter, and dredge thickly with flour. 
Lay them, then, with the floured side down, in a hot fry- 
ing-pan, containing a large lump of butter, lard, or beef- 
dripping, boiling hot. Fry slowly till brown. Dredge 
the upper side with flour. Turn, and brown the other 
side. Sprinkle the upper side now, with pepper and salt. 
When tender and browned, lay the slices of tomato on a 
clean hot platter. Add cream or milk to the grease in 
the pan, and dredge in flour. Let it come to a boil. Pour 
over the tomatoes and serve hot. 

Devilled Tomatoes. 



1 hard-boiled egg, yolk only. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 

4 teaspoonful salt. 



| teaspoonful dry mustard. 
l tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
1 raw egg (beaten light). 
1 pint tomatoes. 



A little pepper. 

Rub the yolk of the boiled egg till fine, like powder. 



Luncheon. 69 



Mix in the butter, sugar, salt, pepper and mustard. Be 
sure these are well mingled. Then add the vinegar. Set 
on the stove, within a pan of boiling water. Heat almost 
to a boil. Add the beaten egg, stirring quickly, so as not 
to curdle. Set on the back part of the stove to keep hot, 
while you slice the tomatoes (thick) and broil them over 
hot coals. 

Lay the tomatoes in a platter and pour the hot sauco 
over. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Butter a deep dish. Skin the tomatoes (or not), lay 
them in whole. Sprinkle over them salt and fine crumbs 
of bread or cracker. Put small bits of butter plentifully 
over the top and between the tomatoes. Bake nearly 
three quarters of an hour. If they look too dry on top 
before they are done, dip a very little boiling water over 
the tops, and lay on more butter. 

Serve in the same dish. (Easily cooked, and excellent.) 

Stuffed Baked Tomatoes. 

Choose large, firm tomatoes, of a good round shape. 
Cut out a round place in the top. With a small sharp 
knife, take out all the inside, leaving enough around the 
inner side of the skin to keep the shape. 

Chop what you have taken out, and mix with it stale 
bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, a little melted butter, and a 
very little finely minced onion or green corn. Mix well 
together, and with a teaspoon fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture. 

Put them in a deep dish, thickly buttered. Bake in a 
slow oven nearly three quarters of an hour. When half- 
done lay bits of butter on top of each tomato. 

Serve in the same dish. 



70 How to Cook Well. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 
(A Turkish Dish.} 

Scoop out the inside of tomatoes, as above. Chop fine, 
and mix with part of it a little rare beef, minced fine and 
seasoned highly with cloves and marjoram, pepper and 
salt. Add one third as much raw rice, well washed and 
soaked. Fill the tomatoes, and lay them in the bottom 
of a large round skillet. Cover, and stew very slowly till 
tender (about three quarters of an hour) without adding 
water. 

Corn Pudding. 



12 ears of corn, grated. 

1 pint milk. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 



1 teaspoonf ul melted butter. 

2 tablespoonf uls pounded crack- 

er or flour. 



2 or 3 eggs. 

Mix all together (adding a dredging more of flour if 
the corn is very young). Put in a buttered pudding dish 
and bake in a moderate hot oven about one hour, covered 
until the last ten minutes. Then brown quickly. (Old 
corn may be used for this.) Serve as a vegetable. 

Baked Hominy. 

Large. Butter a pudding-dish. Fill it with boiled 
hominy, with bits of butter at intervals. Pour over all a 
little milk and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Fine. Same as above, but beat into the hominy two 
or three yolks of eggs ; the more there are the better the 
dish will be. 

Baked Bice. 



1 pint boiled rice. 

1 pint milk, very hot. 

i tablespoonf ul melted butter. 



| teaspoonful salt. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 

4 cupful flour. 



Pour the milk over the rice. When cool beat in the 
other ingredients. Beat all thoroughly, taking care to 



Luncheon. 71 



leave no lumps of rice. Pour into a buttered pudding 
dish, and bake in a hot oven about half an hour. Serve 
at once as a vegetable. 

To Vary it, omit eggs, and add a little grated cheese 
arid red pepper. Put bits of butter over the top and 
bake, covered at first. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Put boiled macaroni (hot or cold) into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish in layers with bits of butter and jdenty of thickly 
grated cheese. Fill the dish more than half full of milk, 
and put a layer of fine, grated bread-crumbs on top. Cover 
this with bits of butter. Bake in a very quick oven about 
ten minutes, till nicely browned on top. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 

Butter a deep, large dish. Put a layer of macaroni 
(boiled) in it, then a layer of "Tomato Sauce," etc., till 
the dish is full. Have sauce on top. Brown in a very 
hot oven for five minutes. What is left, use for soup. 

Stuffed Egg-plant. 

1 large purple egg-plant. 
f 1 cupful milk 
\ 1 cupful breadcrumbs. 
I Pepper and salt. 

Cut the top off the egg-plant. Scrape or cutout all the 
inside, and boil this till thoroughly done in cold water. 
Mix into it while hot the milk, bread-crumbs, pepper and 
salt. Fill the shell with the stuffing, and bake a quarter 
of an hour in a very hot oven, basting it once or twice 
with butter. 

The stuffing may be made richer by adding a little 
minced salt pork, onion, and parsley. Use what is left 
for " An Appetizing Breakfast Dish." 



72 How to Cook Well. 

Cold Slaw or Cabbage Salad. 

Crisp a firm head of cabbage by laying it in cold water 
for half an hour. Then shave it fine, and pour over it vine- 
gar with pepper and salt, or the following dressing when 
cold. 



f Butter size of a walnut. 

-I i teaspoonful mustard (dry). 

1 1 tablespoonf ul flour. 



1 egg yolk only. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 
A little salt and pepper. 



2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Rub butter, mustard and flour together, and add vine- 
gar. Boil a minute. Then pour it on the beaten egg, 
add cream, and salt and pepper. Return to the fire (set 
in a pan of hot water) and stir a moment. Set away at 
once to get cold. 

Serve the Cold Slaw cold. 

Hot Slaw. 



1 cupful of milk. 
A little flour. 
J cupful vinegar. 



i teaspoonful mustard, dry. 
A teaspoonful of butter, soft. 
1 egg, beaten light. 



Mix the flour smooth in the milk till you have put in 
enough to make it the consistency of cream. Add the 
other ingredients and cook as in " Cold Slaw." When it 
has boiled up once pour it while hot over cabbage, previ- 
ously shredded. Keep in a pan of hot water a few minutes, 
then serve. This is particularly nice. 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 
Lambs' Tongues with Sauce Piquante. 

Parboil fresh tongues in salted water. Remove the 
skin. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Put in a 
sauce-pan, and half cover with water or stock. Add a 
small onion, chopped fine, and one teaspoonful of herbs 
(any kind you like). Stew till tender about two hours. 
Serve on a platter, with " Sauce Piquante " poured over 
them. 



Luncfieon. 78 



Pickled Lambs' Tongues. 

Boil the tongues till tender. Skin them, but do not cut 
off the roots. Drop them into cold vinegar with pepper 
and a few whole cloves, also a little allspice. Let them 
lie in this at least twelve hours before serving. 

Slice the tongues if you prefer. 

Calf's or Beefs Heart. 

Do not soak, but wash it thoroughly. Then sprinkle 
with pepper and salt. Fill it with a stuffing. Butter a 
paper and tie over the top, to keep in the stuffing. Bake 
in a very slow oven, nearly two hours, having poured one 
cupful of boiling water in the bottom of the pan. Baste 
it about once in ten minutes. When tender, take off the 
paper and lay the heart on a dish. Set the pan on top of 
the stove and make a gravy to pour over it. Add minced 
onion to the gravy, if you like, or "Tomato Catsup." 
An agreeable addition is to lay "Baked Tomatoes" 
around the dish. 

Dolmathes. 
(A Turkish Dish.) 

Rare roast beef, or any cold meat. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 

Ground cinnamon. 

Ground cloves. 

Rice, raw and well washed. 

Tender grape-leaves. 

Mince the meat and season as above. Mix it well with 
the rice, in proportion one third meat to two thirds rice. 
Scald the grape leaves, and wrap a little of the mixture in 
each, to about the size of half an egg. Pin with a locust, 
or other thorn, if to be had. If not, tie with a thread, 
and lay them in a skillet. Cover well with boiling water, 
and simmer one hour. Dish carefully. 



74 How to Cook Well. 



Sauce for Dolmathes. 



A little flour. 

Liquor from the skillet. 



2 eggs well beaten. 

1 or 2 lemons, juice only. 



Mix the flour smooth with a little cold water, and stir 
into the boiling liquor. Then put in the eggs, stirring 
without ceasing a moment, until cooked and smooth. Add 
the juice of one or two lemons, according to the quantity, 
for it must be quite acid, and pour over the dish. 

Dolmathes (varied). 

Make as above, but use narrow squashes in place of 
grape-leaves. Cut off one end of the squash, and remove 
part of the centre. This is even nicer than the grape- 
leaves, as they are in this country usually too tough to eat ; 
still, they give a fine flavor. In Turkey a large, tender 
sorrel-leaf was often used. 

Frogs. 

Use only the hind-quarters. Scald them in boiling 
water; then rub them with lemon juice and boil three 
minutes. Wipe them ; then "egg and crumb" them, and 
fry till brown, in hot lard and butter mixed. 

Mousaka. 
(A Turkish Dish). 

1 egg-plant. 

Cold meat (beef preferred). 

Salt and pepper. 

Cinnamon and cloves. 

1 small onion, minced 
(may be omitted). 

1 egg, beaten light. 

6 tomatoes. 

Gravy. 

Slice the egg-plant without peeling, sprinkle with salt, 
and pile one slice on another. Let them stand one hour 
to take out the bitter. 



Luncheon. 75 



Then fry brown to give flavor (no matter whether eooked 
through). 

Chop the meat fine (it should be rare), and season it 
highly. Add the onion and egg. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes. Fill a buttered pudding- 
dish with layers of meat, tomatoes, and egg-plant, the hist 
layer on top being of meat. Add all the cold gravy you 
can get in. If you have not enough to fill the dish, put 
in water. Then bake, covered, two hours, slowly at first ; 
then uncover and brown quickly. 

Egg-plant left from a former dinner may be used for 
this. 

(A rich and delicious dish). 

Imitation Paid de Foie Gras. 

Wash and clean a calf s liver. Let it lie in salt and 
water for fifteen minutes. Boil till tender. Beat it 
through a coarse wire sieve. Add one tablespoon ful 
melted butter. Season with a little thyme, marjoram, 
salt and pepper. Pack tight in pots. Cover with lard, 
and keep in a cool place. It will keep for several days. 

To really imitate a Pate" de Foie Gras, this should have 
bits of tongue mixed through it, but it is just' as good 
without. 

Devilled Ham or Chicken. 



f Cold boiled ham. 

Dry mustard. 

v Cayenne and black pepper. 



Butter size of an egg. 
1 cupful milk or cream. 
1 tablcspoonful flour. 



Chop the ham very fine, and season with a little mustard 
and pepper. While doing this, have the frying-pan on 
the fire to get hot. When ready put the butter in the 
pan. When hot, put in the ham. Add the milk, and let 
it cook one or two minutes, stirring all the time. Then 
stir in the flour, previously rubbed to a paste in a very 
little milk. When it thickens, remove from the fire. 

This will keep for several days in a cold place. 



76 



How to CooJc Well. 



Mutton a la Venison, 



4 slices cold roast mutton. 

1 cupful cold mutton-gravy. 

2 tablespoonfuls currant jelly. 
1 teaspoonf ul made mustard. 



Pepper and salt. 
2 tablespoonfuls Madeira or cur- 
rant wine. 



Cut the slices of mutton pretty thick. Put them in a 
frying-pan, already heated. Pour over them the gravy. 
When smoking hot, add the jelly. Stir till melted. Then 
put in the other things, adding the wine at the last min- 
ute before serving. 

This makes a good imitation of venison, if not allowed 
to stand after it is cooked. 



Casserole Bice and Meat; 

(With Tomato Sauce.) 

' 3 cupf uls hot boiled rice, 
i pound cold meat (chopped fine). 
1 teaspoonf ul onion (chopped fine}. 
1 teaspoonf ul parsley (chopped fine). 
1 saltspoonf ul thyme. 
1 saltspoonf ul marjoram. 
1 saltspoonf ul celery salt. 

1 saltspoonf ul pepper. 
A little salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls fine crumbs. 
A little hot water or stock. 



Butter a small mould. Line the sides and bottom half 
an inch deep with the soft rice reserving a little. Have 
ready the meat, well mixed with the spices. To this add 
the crumbs (bread or cracker), previously moistened suffi- 
ciently to bind it. Stir all well together, and then pack 
closely in the mould. Cover the meat with the rest of 
the rice, and steam three quarters of an hour. 

Invert on a hot dish, and pour around it "Tomato 
Sauce." 



Luncheon. 77 



Wild Birds, Rechauffee. 

Cut meat off of wild birds of any kind, left from dinner, 
scraping the bones well ; mince tine. 

Put the bones in a sauce-pan with enough cold water to 
cover them. Cover, and boil fast, ten minutes. Strain, 
and return to the sauce-pan, with the meat, a few bits of 
butter, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, 
and one third cupful of port wine, if you have it. Simmer 
gently a few minutes, keeping the sauce-pan covered. 
When it boils up well, stir in a tcaspoonf ul of browned flour, 
rubbed to a paste in cold water. 

Serve at once on a platter lined with slices of buttered 
toast. 

To increase the quantity, and yet have an appetizing 
dish, add to the meat the remains of roast duck, or even 
chicken and turkey. This can easily bo done in winter, 
when meat can be saved from day to day. 

Chicken and Corn Pudding. 



2 stewed chickens. 

1 quart grated green corn. 

3 eggs (yolks only). 
A little salt 



A little cayenne pepper. 
2 tablespooiif uls melted butter. 
1 cupful strained tomato juice. 
A little chicken broth or gravy. 



While the chickens are stewing, prepare the corn, and 
mix all the other things with it, except the chicken-broth. 

Line a buttered baking-dish with part of the mixture. 
Joint the chickens, and put them in with a little broth or 
gravy, then cover them with what remains of the corn 
batter. Bake in a moderate oven until well done. 

The remains of any cold chicken may be used for this. 

Chicken Baked in Rice. 

Cut a chicken into joints as for fricassee. Season -with 
pepper and salt. Lay in a deep dish lined with slices of 
ham or bacon. Add one pint veal gravy ; one onion finely 



78 How to Cook WeU. 

minced, and mixed through it. Fill up the dish with 
" Boiled Rice " piled high as the dish will hold. Cover 
with a paste of flour and water. Bake one hour. Before 
serving, remove the paste. 

A Tempting Dish for Luncheon. 

Shred cold chicken (cooked in any way) into mouthfuls, 
and mince the liver. Cut nearly an equal amount of celery 
into short pieces ; barely cover them with water, and stew 
till tender. Then add the chicken, with pepper and salt. 
When it boils add bits of butter, thickly rolled in flour, 
and one half cupful of milk into which flour has been stirred 
to make it the consistency of cream. 

Boil till it thickens well. Served covered. 



PRESSED MEATS. 
Beef Loaf. 



1 pound raw beef (from the 

round). 

1 egg beaten light. 
4 tablespoonfuls powdered 

crackers. 



l\ teaspoonfuls salt. 

A little pepper. 

1 dessert spoonful summer 

savory. 
1 dessert spoonful thyme. 



Chop the meat fine. Mix all well together. Do not 
add water, though it may seem dry, for the juices of the 
meat will provide moistening enough. Butter a small 
deep pan. Press the meat down hard in it. Cover the 
top with melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven 
about an hour. 

When cold, turn out on a platter, and cut into thin 
slices at the table. For a family of six. 

N". B. If you have no pan small enough for it, shape 
it with floured hands into a round loaf. Put on a greased 
pie-plate and bake. But it will Hot slice quite so nicely 
as if treated the other way. 



Luncheon. 79 



Spiced Beef. 

Buy a shin of beef. Have the bone well cracked and 
the shin cut in two. Save that with the least meat on it 
for soup. Put on the other half to boil in four quarts of 
cold water with one tablespoon ful of salt. Keep it covered ; 
when it beyins to boil, skim it. Let it boil slowly nearly 
all day, i. e. till the meat separates from the bone, and is 
done to shreds, and the liquor has nearly boiled away. 
If there is danger of the meat burning while boiling, add 
a little boiling water not otherwise. 

When done, take the meat out in a pan. Remove all 
bone and gristle. Chop it coarse. Season with pepper, 
allspice, sweet marjoram and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
cloves. Put it back in the pot. Let it simmer half an 
hour. Stir it up well, but do not add more water. Put 
it in a deep bowl or pretty mould, previously wet, and 
press it down hard. Set in a cold place. When cold turn 
out, and cut in slices. 

Pressed Corned Beef. 

Boil the corned beef slowly (or else it will be tough) in 
cold water, more than enough to cover it. Let it boil fur 
several hours covered. Fill it up occasionally with boil- 
ing water, keeping the beef always covered with water. 
When the bone slips from the meat, it is done ; be sure 
not to take it up till then, or till it can be easily pierced 
with a fork. Put the meat into a deep pan, tearing up 
the lean, and mixing the fat through it in such a way as 
to give it a marbled look when cut. Heap the dish. Mois- 
ten it a little with the water in which it was boiled. Put 
a tin cover on top, in such a way as to press the meat, set 
two flat-irons on that, and leave it to harden over night. 
When cold turn out, and serve with mustard for a relish. 

(The brisket is a good piece to cook in this way.) 

If not too salt, the liquor left in the pot will make good 
soup, with the addition of tomatoes and spice. 



80 How to Cook Well. 

Head Cheese. 

Wash and scrape four hogs' heads, and cut off the end 
of the snouts. Scrape and clean the skins which have 
come off the fat of the backbones and chines. Use the feet 
also if you like. Put all these into a large pot of cold 
water, and boil them till so tender that the bones can be 
easily slipped out from the meat. Chop the meat, and 
season it with salt, pepper, and spices to your taste ; sage, 
mace, cinnamon and nutmeg are best. When well mixed, 
tie the meat up securely in a clean, strong cloth. Put it 
into a tray, with a heavy weight upon it, so as to flatten 
it into a good shape. Leave it till the next day. Then 
slice thin for breakfast or luncheon. Serve vinegar with it. 

Veal and Ham Loaf. 

Chop equal quantities of cold boiled ham and cold veal 
fine and separately. Boil six eggs hard, and chop them 
also. Butter a pudding-dish. Put in it first a layer of 
veal, sprinkle pepper over it, and moisten it with water or 
a little Worcestershire Sauce. Then put a layer of 
ham, and then of eggs, with pepper and salt over them. 
Keep on in this way till the dish is full. If the ham has 
some fat with it you will not need to add butter ; but if 
not, put a few lumps of butter on the top. Cover the 
dish and bake slowly for four hours. Then set in a cool 
place, with a heavy weight upon it. 

Next day, turn it out, and cut in thin slices at the table. 
Serve olives with it. 

Jellied Veal. 

Wash a knuckle of veal, and cut it into three pieces, 
the bones being well cracked. Boil slowly in cold water 
till the bones are ready to slip out. Take the meat from 
the liquor, remove all the bones, and chop the meat very 
fine. Season with salt, pepper, a little mace and thyme, 



Luncheon. 81 



or sage. Add two shallots chopped as fine as possible. 
Put all back into the liquor and boil until it is almost dry, 
and can be stirred with difficulty. Turn into a mould till 
next day ; then turn out on a platter, and garnish with 
parsley, or slices of pickled beets. 

The juice of a lemon stirred in just before taking it from 
the fire is an improvement. 

A more Economical Way is, to take the veal from the 
liquor when that is reduced one half (saving it for stock 
for soup). Add bread or cracker-crumbs (nearly half the 
quantity you have of veal) and one or two chopj>ed hard- 
boiled eggs (also a little cold rice, if you like). Season 
to taste, with herbs, and mix well. Moisten with the 
stock, and pack down hard in a wet mould. This is very 
good. 

Veal Loaf. 

(For Twenty Persons.) 



4 pounds raw veal steak. 

1 slice salt pork. 

3 pounded Boston crackers. 

2 eggs (beaten slightly). 



1 tablespoonful sage (or 1 nut- 
meg). 

1 tablespoonful pepper. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 



Butter size of egg (melted). 

Chop the steak and pork very fine. Add the other 
things, and mix all well together. Butter a deep square 
pan. Pack the mixture down hard into it. Put bits 
of butter over the top. Grate over that one piece of 
stale bread. Bake two hours in a slow oven, basting 
often with water. When cold turn out, and cut in thin 
slices. 

This is nice for picnics, cold collations, etc. If served 
already sliced, a pretty garnish for the platter is "Red 
Cabbage Pickle," in little heaps. 

Pressed Chicken. 

A pair of old fowls may be utilized in this way. Cut 
them up, after cleaning and washing, and put into a deep 



82 How to Cook Well 

kettle with four quarts of cold water. Cover tightly so 
as to keep in the steam. Boil slowly till the meat sepa- 
rates from the bones and the liquor is nearly boiled away. 
Take it out, put into a pan, and discard all the bones, 
gristle and skin. Chop coarse ; season with pepper, salt, 
butter and a little mace. Put it into a wet mould. Pour 
over it the hot liquor left in the pot, and press it down 
hard. It will jelly when cold. 

Another Way is, to take the chicken from the pot 
when there is still about one pint of liquor left. After 
seasoning it, press it like " Pressed Corned Beef." Sea- 
son the hot liquor, and pour it into wet egg-cups. When 
the chicken is turned out in form, surround it by the little 
mounds of chicken-jelly, and help one to each person. 

This chicken jelly is very nourishing as well as appe- 
tizing to invalids. 

A pretty way to serve the chicken is to decorate the 
bottom and sides of the mould with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs; also thin slices of tongue or ham cut into fancy 
shapes. Then pack in the meat, and set a weight upon 
it. When ready to serve dip the mould in warm water 
and turn out carefully. 



CROQUETTES, MEAT BALLS, etc. 

REMARKS. 

IF these are made of meat, it should be previously 
cooked. In boiling chickens (or other meat) for cro- 
quettes, save the water used for cooking them, to make 
soup. Fairly good croquettes can be made from the meat 
on a soup-bone, provided it be not boiled till all the good- 
ness is extracted. 

Croquettes are boiled in deep lard, like fritters, but the 
lard need not be as deep. If you lay them in a wire 



Luncheon. 83 



basket to cook they arc much more easily managed. It 
takes about ten minutes to brown them well. When done, 
lay them for a moment on soft, thick paper to absorb any 
grease. The great beauty of croquettes lies in this to 
have them crisp and brown, yet not greasy. They will bo 
right if the directions for "Boiling in Lard" are carefully 
attended to. Serve hot or cold. 

Croquettes may be made the day before intended for 
use. This is often convenient, and besides it prevents the 
smell of grease through the house, which is objectionable 
at all times, but especially at meal times. When wanted 
for serving, heat the croquettes in a very hot oven, having 
laid them on a thick, soft paper on a pan. It is, in my 
opinion, a real improvement to treat them thus. 

All of these croquette mixtures may be fried, as well as 
boiled in deep lard. Made into flat cakes, and browned 
nicely on both sides, they are called "Meat Balls, Rice 
Balls " etc. 

Either as Croquettes or under the latter name they form 
pleasing side-dishes at any meal. 

A French Receipt for Croquettes. 

Cold turkey, veal, or chicken. 

Vegetables and spices, 
f Butter size of a walnut 
1 3 dessert spoons flour. 

2 e ggs (yolks only). 

Boil the bones of the turkey with a few vegetables (any 
kinds you choose) and spices. Use only enough water to 
cover them, and have the sauce pan covered. While they 
are boiling cut (not chop) the meat very fine in small 
squares. Run the knife through an onion several times to 
give a delicate flavor to the meat ; and add a little chopped 
ham if you like it. 

Rub the butter and flour to a smooth paste. When the 



84 How to Cook Well. 

goodness is extracted from the bones and vegetables, 
strain them boiling hot, upon the paste and stir well. 

While hot, but not boiling, break into the paste the yolks 
of the eggs beaten well, and stir quickly. Add the meat. 

Form the croquettes with the hand into pear-shapes. 
Then "egg and crumb" them. Do this twice. Boil in 
lard deep enough to cover them well. When done lay on 
soft paper to absorb the grease. Then stick a sprig of 
parsley in the small end of each, and serve. 

Veal or Chicken Croquettes. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

4 of an onion (minced very 

fine). 

1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 cup veal or chicken broth (or 

gravy). 



1 pound cold veal or chicken 

(chopped fine). 
| teaspoonf ul salt. 
Pinch black or cayenne pepper. 

2 eggs (reserving white of one). 
1 cup powdered crumbs. 



Melt the butter in a pan. When hot, add the onion, 
and let it fry till yellow and tender. Put in the flour, 
previously rubbed to a smooth paste with a little cold 
water. Stir a few minutes. Then add the broth or gravy, 
and when that is smoking hot, put in the veal, with the 
seasoning. Stir and toss till it begins to boil (adding 
more broth if needed). Remove from the fire, put it on a 
cold dish and beat in the eggs beaten light. 

When perfectly cold, form into long, narrow rolls, not 
too large. Then "egg-and-crumb" them, using the re- 
served white of the egg. When the lard is ready, drop in 
the croquettes gently, a few at a time, and brown them 
nicely. Remove with a perforated ladle, and serve hot. 

Veal Croquettes (simpler). 

Chop cold veal very fine. Add salt and pepper and a 
little ground mace or sage. (Also, a minced onion, if you 
like it.) Moisten slightly with gravy. With floured 
hands, make into prettily shaped balls. " Egg-and-crumb " 
them, then boil in deep lard. 



Luncheon. 85 



Simple Chicken Croquettes. 

Mince cold chicken. Add a little minced celery and 
parsley (chopped oysters, too, if you like) season with pep- 
per, salt, and a little mustard. Moisten with a little gravy 
or milk. Add one or two beaten eggs. Mix well to- 
gether, and make into long balls. Boil in deep lard. 

Philadelphia Chicken Croquettes. 



1 pair fowls. 

2 unions. 
2 carrots. 

Parsley and thyme (a small 

bunch). 
. A few cloves. 
1 pound butter. 



cupful chicken broth. 

U cupfuls rich cream. 

Salt and pepper. 

A a nutmeg (grated). 

Sweet marjoram. 

gg (yolks only). 

Stale bread-crumbs (fine). 



1 tablespoon! ul flour. 

Buy a pair of fowls weighing not less than six pounds 
the pair. Choose those having the largest amount of 
breast-meat. Boil the fowls in water enough to cover 
them, with the onions, carrots, thyme and parsley, and 
cloves. When tender (in about one and one half hours) 
take out the fowls, and let them get cold. Then chop 
very fine. 

Put the butter into a double-boiler with the flour. Cook 
together, stirring constantly. Add the broth and cream. 
Boil eight or ten minutes, still stirring. Remove it from 
the fire, and mix in the seasoning. Then add the chopped 
chicken. When well mixed, stir in the beaten yolks of 
four of the eggs. Set the mixture on the stove for a few 
minutes to evaporate, stirring briskly all the time. Spread 
on a platter to cool, and then make into pear-shaped balls. 
When all are ready dip each into the yolks of the two re- 
maining eggs, beaten with a little cream. Then roll in 
bread-crumbs so fine as to have been passed through a 
sieve. 

" Boil in lard " like other croquettes. These are the 
Philadelphia croquettes, so famous everywhere. 



86 How to Cook Well. 



Meat and Rice Croquettes. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 chickens, or two pounds lean 

beef or veal, chopped fine. 



1 tablespoouful chopped onion. 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

i nutmeg. 

Salt. 

Pepper, red and black. 



2 cups, hot, boiled rice. 

Put the butter into a skillet on the fire. When it bub- 
bles stir in the flour, then the milk, and stir until like por- 
ridge. Have ready mixed the chopped meat and rice 
with the various seasonings. Stir it into the flour and 
butter, and cook a few minutes (not too long). Pour the 
mixture into a shallow dish, and when quite cold, divide 
and shape into croquettes. Roll first in fine cracker- 
crumbs, then in egg, and again in cracker, and " boil in lard." 

Venison or Mutton Croquettes. 



A pinch of cloves. 

A little grated lemon peel. 

1 egg, beaten light. 



Cold venison or mutton. 
Bread or cracker crumbs. 
Currant jelly. 
A little hot gravy or stock. 

Chop the meat, and add about one fifth as much of 
crumbs. Stir enough jelly into the hot gravy to give a 
decided flavor. Moisten well the meat. Add seasoning, 
and egg. Form into croquettes, and " egg-and-crumb " 
them. Then boil in deep lard. 

Lamb Croquettes. 



4 cupfuls cold chopped lamb. 

1 cupful suet, chopped. 

1 tablespoonful onion, chopped. 



A little salt and pepper. 

1 lemon. 

A little cream. 



A little parsley, chopped. 

Mix all well together, using both juice and grated rind 
of the lemon, and enough cream to bind all together. 
Shape prettily with floured hands. "Egg-and-crumb" 
them ; then boil in deep lard. 

A little rice may be added if liked or bread crumbs. 



Luncheon. 87 



Beef Croquettes. 

Chop together cold beef (already cooked) and one 
quarter of an onion. (The latter may be omitted.) Sea- 
son with salt, popper, sweet marjoram, and thyme. Mois- 
ten with a little gravy and form into balls. Have ready 
a beaten egg. Dip each ball into this, then into line 
crumbs or flour, and boil in deep lard. 

Hap-Hazard Croquettes. 
(Chicken, Beef, Mutton, Veal, or FLsh.) 

Mince fine the meat. Add one quarter as much of bread 
or cracker-crumbs with chicken, mutton, or veal (one 
quarter as much potato with beef or fish) ; moisten with 
gravy or drawn butter, and mix in a beaten egg. Season 
with pepper and salt; if beef, add marjoram; if chicken, 
the chopped yolk of a hard boiled egg; if mutton, "Claret 
Syrup;" if fish, catsup. Form into balls, "egg-and- 
crumb" them, and boil in deep lard. 

Meat Balls. 

These may be made of any kind of cold meat, chopped 
fine, seasoned highly, and moistened with a little gravy 
or one egg (yolk only) beaten light. With floured hands 
form into balls, flatten the top and bottom of each, and 
dredge on a little flour. Have ready a hot frying-pan, in 
which a large tablespoonf ul beef-dripping has been melted. 
Lay in the meat balls, and when brown on one aide, turn 
on the other. Have them over a hot fire, so that they 
will not dry out. Serve at once, before they lose their 
crispness. 

If you have not much meat add a little cold chopped or 
mashed potato. Even bread or cracker-crumbs (a feic) 
may be used, if well seasoned. Chopped herbs are an 
agreeable addition. 



88 How to Cook Well. 



Lobster, or Crab Croquettes. 



1 lobster or 6 crabs, boiled. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 eggs, boiled hard. 

1 teaspoonf ul anchovy sauce. 



A little salt. 

A little cayenne pepper. 

A pinch of mace. 

A pinch of lemon peel, grated. 



1 teaspoonf ul lemon juice. 

Mince the meat. Melt the butter. When a little cool 
rub it into the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs. Mix this 
with the meat, then add the other things in order. With 
floured hands, make into oblong balls, and " boil in lard " 
like other croquettes. 

Serve slices of lemon with them, as a garnish for the 
dish and an additional relish. 

Fish Croquettes. 

Pound in a mortar, any kind of cold, boiled fish ; mix 
with it a hard boiled egg, chopped fine. Make a batter, in 
the proportion of one tablespoonful of milk, two of flour, 
and one egg beaten light, with a little salt and a dash of 
red pepper. Stir in the fish, make into balls, dredge them 
with flour, and boil in deep lard. 

Oyster Croquettes. 



50 medium-sized oysters. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
i cupful cream. 



1 dessertspoonful parsley 

(chopped) . 

A small piece onion (chopped). 
Pepper and salt. 



A little grated nutmeg. 

Scald the oysters five minutes and drain dry. Then 
chop them into rough pieces. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan. When it bubbles, stir 
in the flour. Add the cream by degrees. When it boils 
add the nutmeg. Take from the fire, and mix with the 
oysters. Then stir in the other things. When the mixt- 
ure is cold, roll into shapes on a floured board. "Egg-and 
crumb" them, then boil quickly in deep lard. 



Luncheon. 89 



Codfish Balls. 

Soak the codfish over night, and let it simmer till tender. 
(See Stewed Codfish.) Tick the fish into shreds, freeing 
it from all bits of bone. To one part fish, put two parts 
hot boiled potatoes. Mash both together with a potato- 
masher till the pulp is thoroughly blended. Add while 
hot, a large lump of butter, and milk or cream to make it 
very smooth and soft. Put in a very little salt and pep- 
per. 

With floured hands, form into flattened balls. Have 
ready in the frying-pan three or four slices of salt pork, 
fried till crisp. Take them out ; and into the hot fat, lay 
the balls. Let them brown nicely on one side, keeping 
the pan over the hottest part of the fire ; then turn, and 
brown the other. 

These Codfish Balls are warranted perfect, if made ac- 
cording to direction. Never content yourself with chop- 
ping either fish or potato. If you cannot mix in the 
potato hot, use cold mashed potato, left from yesterday's 
dinner. Frying them in salt pork gives them a good rich 
flavor ; but if you prefer, they may be boiled in deep lard. 
In this case, form the balls perfectly round. 



Fish Balls. 

Take half cold or hot mashed potato and half fresh fish 
(any kind, cooked). Chop the fish into the potato, and 
mix well. Season to taste. Moisten with milk (or "Fish 
Sauce," or "Drawn Butter," if you have any on hand). 
Form into balls, flour, and fry them, or boil them in deep 
lard. Excellent fish balls may be made of cold salmon 
or mackerel, or blue fish ; and in this way, even a small 
quantity of fish left from dinner may be saved. Canned 
fish does very well for this purpose. 



90 How to Cook Well. 

Potato Balls. 

Take cold, ftiashed potato left from dinner. With 
floured hands, form into flattened balls. Have ready in a 
hot frying-pan, one tablespoonful of ham or beef drippings, 
or lard. Put in the potato balls, and fry over a very hot 
fire, so that they will have a tender crust. It is an im- 
provement to moisten the potato with milk and butter. 
The ham drippings give a good flavor. 

Potato Croquettes. 

2 cupf uls mashed potato. 

A little milk or cream. 

A little melted butter. 

1 egg (yolk only). 

i of a nutmeg, nearly (may be omitted). 

A large pinch cayenne pepper. 

A little salt. 

A little parsley, chopped (may be omitted). 

Moisten the potato with the milk, butter and egg 
(beaten) and add the seasoning. Beat all together. Make 
into long rolls. Dip first in beaten egg, then in fine 
crumbs or flour, and boil in deep lard. 

These break so easily that it is well to put them into a 
wire basket, which can be plunged into the lard, and the 
whole of the croquettes taken out at once. Drain well, 
and dish at once. 

Potato Pears. 

Made like " Potato Croquettes," only shape them like 
pears, and stick a clove at the small end for a stem, and 
put a tiny bit of parsley at the blossom end. 

Rice Croquettes. 



1 pint cold boiled rice. 

4 tablespoonf uls boiling hot 



4 tablespoonful melted butter. 
1 or -2 eggs, beaten. 



milk. 

Soak the rice a few minutes in the milk. Mix in the 
butter and eggs (or the yolks or whites alone), and with 



Luncheon. 91 



floured bands form into long rolls. " Egg-and-crumb " them 
and boil in deep lard, in a wire basket, if you have one. 
It is an improvement to add a few fine cracker-crumbs. 
Hominy (line) may be substituted for the rice, or may be 
mixed with it. 

To vary them, add, after the eggs, the juice and half 
the grated rind of a lemon or orange. 



Bice Balls. 



1 pint cold boiled rice. 
A littlr salt. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 egg (may be omitted). 



1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Mix together, having beaten the egg. Make into 
floured balls, flatten them, and fry in a hot frying-pan, in 
which has been melted a large table-spoonful of lard. 
Fry quickly and serve at once, while crisp. 



PATES. 

Make a good " Puff Paste." Set it in a cold place, for 
at least half an hour, to become crisp. Roll it out quickly 
about one quarter of an inch thick, cut with a biscuit-cut- 
ter into rounds. With a smaller cutter cut the centre 
from two rounds, and place the circles left, on one which 
is whole. This will make a little hollow dish of crust. 
Lay them all, when prepared, in a floured baking-tin. 
Bake them in a quick oven. When lightly browned, 
glaze them, by brushing each over with white of egg, and 
return to the oven for a minute. 

Pate's are filled with various mixtures, and are served 
hot. They are favorites for luncheon, and are not ex- 
travagant, 88 the remains of almost any kind of meat, 
game, fish, or oysters, can be served up temptingly in this 
way by a skilful housewife. 

To vary them bake also the rounds cut from the centre 



92 How to Cook Well. 

of the pates, and use them for covers when the pates are 
served. 

Or the crust may be baked in little tins, called patty 
pans. For filling, use any of the following receipts, or 
those for croquettes. Set back in the oven till the filling 

is hot. 

Bread Pat6s. 

Cut slices of stale bread one inch thick. Cut into 
rounds with a biscuit-cutter. With a smaller cutter mark 
a circle within and remove the bread to the depth of half 
an inch. Dip these into beaten egg. Sift powdered 
cracker over them and boil in deep lard, delicately brown. 
Lay them on brown paper to absorb the grease, then 
arrange upon a hot platter, and fill them with any kind 
of nicely-seasoned hot minced meat, moistened slightly. 
Chicken or turkey is best. Serve hot. 

These are much more quickly and easily made than 
ordinary pates, and it is a good way to use up stale bread. 
The bread that is scooped out should be put into the 
bread-crumb box. 

Oyster Pates. (No. 1.) 

With a sharp knife cut oysters into pieces. Heat them 
in a little of their own liquor, just enough to cover them. 
Make a "Drawn Butter" sauce, and stir the minced 
oysters into it while on the fire. Stew about five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Fill "Pates" with the mixture. 
Set them in the oven till hot. Serve hot. 

No. 2. Scald the oysters in their own liquor ; then dip 
them out with a perforated skimmer. Leave only enough 
juice in the pan to cover the oysters. Skim well. Rub 
together two tablespoonfuls of flour, and two of butter, and 
stir them into the boiling liquor. This should make it as 
rich as thick cream. If not, use more butter and flour. 
Season with salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. When 
it has boiled a few minutes remove, and pour it over the 



Luncheon. 93 



yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs, stirring fast. Add 
the oysters and return the whole to the tire, for a mo- 
ment, but do not boil. Have ready the " Pates." Fill 
them at once. Sprinkle with cracker-crumbs, and brown 
quickly on the top shelf of the oven. 

If you have oysters left over, put them in a dish, and 
pass around, so that each person can have a second helping. 

Pish Pates. 

Take the remains of baked, boiled, or canned fish of any 
kind. Prepare as for " Fish Balls ; " moisten with melted 
butter, or egg, or " White Sauce ; " season highly with 
Worcestershire Sauce or any thing you prefer. Fill the 
" Pates " ; set in the oven to get hot, and serve hot. 

Squeeze a few drops of lemon over the fish at table from 
slices of lemon, which should be served with the p&tes. 

Chicken, or Veal Pates. 

Prepare the chicken as for " Croquettes". Fill " Pete's," 
and heat through in a hot oven. 

These are good cold as well as hot, and are an accept- 
able addition to a picnic basket. 



FRITTERS. 

REMARKS. 

Do not attempt to make fritters unless you have plenty 
of time. It will take half an hour to fry enough for a 
small family, and they must be watched carefully if you 
aim at success. 

Before making fritters read over "How to Boil in 
Lard." 

Use one or two pounds of fresh lard. It should be at 
least two inches deep; a greater depth will be necessary 
if you are going to make a large quantity of fritters. 



94 



How to Cook Well. 



Test the lard by trying one spoonful of batter before put- 
ting in more. If hot enough, the batter will rise to the 
surface quickly, dancing about and browning soon. If it 
is slow in rising wait to put in the fritters till you have 
increased the heat of the lard. There is such a thing as 
haivng it too hot, however. In this case the fritters will 
brown before swelling to their full size, and will be doughy 
inside. 

Put in only a few fritters at a time, dropping them in 
from a spoon. Turn when brown on one side. They 
will be done in about eight minutes. 

When ready pile on a hot platter. If for dessert, sift 
sugar over them while hot. 

Plain Fritters. 



1 pint flour (or enough for a 
rather thick batter). 



3 eggs, beaten light. 
i teaspoonful salt. 
1 pint milk. 

Beat all well together. Drop into hot lard at once, 
and boil according to directions. 

Serve hot for dessert, with syrup, or sugar and cider ; 
or for breakfast. 

Two eggs only will do, if you add to a part of the flour 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. 



Snow Fritters. 



1 pint milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
Flour to make a rather 



thick 



batter. 
1 cupful rceto-fallen light snow. 



Have the lard heating, when you begin to mix the frit- 
ters. Beat hard before putting in the snow. ' Get that at 
the last moment, and the instant it is mixed in, drop the 
batter by spoonfuls into the hot lard. 

Serve for dessert, or tea with sugar sifted over. If 
quickly and properly made, these are the lightest and 
nicest of all fritters. 



Luncheon. 95 



Bell Fritters. 

1 pint water, boiling. 1 1 pint flour. 

Butter, size of an egg. I 6 eggs. 

Boil the -butter with the water. Remove from the fire, 
pour instantly over the flour and mix smooth. While 
still hot, add the eggs, one at a time, beating each egg 
alone. Stir fast, so they will not curdle. Beat hard and 
boil iii deep lard. Serve with sugar, or pudding sauce. 

Bannocks. 



( 1 pint corn meal. 
I Boiling water. 
A little salt. 



1 egg (beaten light). 
1 tablespoonful cream or melted 
butter. 



Pour over the corn meal enough boiling water to thor- 
oughly moisten it. Let it stand a few minutes. Then 
add the other things. With floured hands make into balls, 
and boil in deep lard. Serve hot, with syrup, for break- 
fast, tea, or a plain dessert. 

Bread Fritters. 

Cut stale bread into slices one inch thick. Cut the soft 
part into any pretty shape. A good way is to cut into 
rings, by using biscuit-cutters of two sizes. You can then 
use the small circle, as well as the ring. Soak each piece 
a few minutes in milk or custard. (Save the crusts for the 
stale-crumb box.) Then drop into deep lard, and boil 
delicately. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Dough Fritters. 

Roll out and cut into cubes or fancy figures, light bread- 
dough. Boil at once in deep lard, and sprinkle with 
sugar. 



Mock Doughnuts. 



A few stale rolls. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



4 tcaspoonfnl cinnamon. 

3 eggs (yolks only). 

1 cupful powdered crackers. 



teaspoonful nutmeg. 
Cut off the crust, and trim the rolls into round balls. 



96 How to Cook Well. 

Mix the milk, sugar and spices in a deep pan. Lay the 
rolls in, and wet them thoroughly on all sides. Let them 
soak in the milk a few minutes. Then " Egg-and-crumb " 
them. Boil in deep lard. Drain, and serve hot with 
sauce for dessert. 

Apple Fritters. 



( lh cupfuls flour. 

I teaspoonf ul cream tartar. 
1 cupful sour milk. 
i teaspoonf ul soda (dissolved). 



1 egg, beaten light. 

A pinch of salt. 

24 cups chopped apple. 



Mix the cream of tartar through the flour. Put in the 
other ingredients, and beat hard. Boil in deep lard at 
once. 

Serve for dessert or lunch with " Molasses Sauce." 
Another Way. See the following receipt. 

Apple, Orange or Banana Fritters. 

Core tart apples, and cut them in slices one third of an 
inch thick. Peel and divide oranges into sections. Peel 
and slice bananas. Make a batter as for "Plain Frit- 
ters." Have the lard ready, and just before boiling the 
fritters stir in the fruit lightly. Dip up one piece of 
fruit in each spoonful of batter you drop into the lard. 
Sift sugar over the fritters as soon as done, and serve at 
once, with sugar. 

Potato Fritters. 



4 cupfuls mashed potato. 

I teaspoonf ul salt. 

* pound butter (melted). 



1 pint milk. 

1 cupful flour. 

2 eggs (well beaten). 



Beat to a stiff batter. Boil in deep lard, dropping in 
the spoonfuls of batter with great care, so as not to break 
the fritters. 



LuncJwon. 97 



Rice Fritters. 



1 cupful boiled rice. 

1 cupful milk. 

i teaspoonf ul soda (dissolved). 



1 cupful flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls butter (melted). 

3 eggs (well beaten). 



Mix, and boil in deep lard, beating up the batter every 
time before dropping in more fritters. 

To Vary them, add half a lemon-peel, grated ; a little 
grated nutmeg, and one third of a cupful of Zante cur- 
rants, rubbed through the flour, with four tablespoon fills 
of sugar. 

Squash or Pea Fritters. 

1 egg, beaten light. 
teaspoonf ul salt. 

{1 A cupfuls milk. 
I teaspoonf ul soda (dissolved). 
Flour to make a thick batter, 
li cups peas or winder squash (boiled). 

Mix together, and beat well. Boil in deep lard. The 
peas or squash should be mashed smooth. The peas will 
mash more easily if wet gradually with zfew spoonfuls of 
hot milk. 

These are delicious. A good way to use squash or peas 
"leftover." 

Corn Oysters. 

1 pint grated sweet corn. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 
( 1 cupful flour. 

I A teaspoonf ul baking powder. 
| cupful butter melted (less will do). 
1 cupful milk. 
1 teaspoonful salt 
\ teaspoonful pepper. 

Mix well (one egg will do if you use the full amount 
of butter), and drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard. Each 
should be the size of an oyster. 

It will take about twelve ears of corn to make a pint 



98 How to Cook Well 

grated. This is a good way to use up corn which is no 
longer young. These fritters are favorites everywhere. 
They may be fried like griddle-cakes, if you choose, with 
but a little lard ; in this case use only about two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. 

Corn Fritters. 
6 ears corn. f 2 tablespoonf uls flour. 



A little salt and pepper. 



teaspoonf ul baking powder. 



1 egg (beaten light). 

Slit each row of grains with a sharp knife, then scrape 
from the cob. Add the seasoning and egg. Mix the 
baking-powder with the flour, and stir it thoroughly 
through the corn. Drop by spoonfuls into boiling butter 
and lard mixed, just deep enough to cover the fritters. 

Boiled corn may be used for these, though it is not so 
good. In this case use a little milk. 

Oyster Fritters. (No. 1.) 

Make a batter as for " Plain Fritters," using the liquor 
from the oysters in place of half the milk, and omitting 
salt. Dip each oyster in the batter, and boil in deep lard. 
Serve, with squares of lemon, on a small dish, to accom- 
pany them. 

No. 2, The same as above, but make the batter thin- 
ner, and chop the oysters, which are then mixed through 
the batter. Use one half a tablespoonful of the batter to 
each fritter. Boil and serve as above. 

Clam Fritters. 



1 cupful clams (chopped). 
1 cupful milk. 
Salt and pepper. 



1 egg (beaten well). 

Flour. 

teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



(Measure the clams after they are taken from the shell.) 
Add the liquor from the clams to the milk. Add the egg, 
with salt and pepper, and flour enough for a rather thick 
batter. Then mix in the clams ; and just before frying, 



Luncheon. 



99 



bent in the soda. Use half a tablespoonful of batter to 
each fritter. 

N. B. If you cannot get the clams already opened, see 
" To Open Clams. " 

Other Dishes for Luncheon. 
(See Index.) 



Bouillon, etc. 

Stick bread. 

Fresh fish (all kinds). 

Canned salmon (various ways). 

Oysters and clams (various 
ways). 

Chicken, lamb or veal Curry. 

Game and poultry. 

Meat pies. 

Steak, chops, cutlets. 

Beefsteak with baked toma- 
toes. 

Stuffed beefsteak. 

Mock duck. 

Broiled chicken. 

Fried chicken. 

Fried chicken with cream gravy. 

Fried chicken with mush cakes. 

Smothered chicken. 



Stewed potatoes. 

Stewed potatoes with gravy. 

Potatoes and cream. 

Baked potatoes (Irish and 

sweet). 

Stuffed potatoes. 
Lyonnaise potatoes. 
Raw tomatoes. 
Escaloped tomatoes. 
Macaroni with oysters. 
Macaroni and ham. 
Egg-plant (fried). 
Salads of all kinds. 
Baked and stewed fruits. 
Gingerbread, and cake. 
Blanc-mange, custards and 

other delicacies. 
Tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate. 



DINNER. 



SOUP. 

REMARKS. 

THE best housekeepers consider no dinner well ordered 
which is not begun by soup ; but even where this practice 
does not prevail, for the sake of economy soup should ap- 
pear on the table once or twice a week, at least in cold 
weather. Many remnants left from dinner can be used in 
this way, and made into excellent soup, if proper attention 
is paid to seasoning. Even in a rich soup this is most im- 
portant. Success in this line can only be assured in one 
way, and that is, by tasting ; for if you merely guess at 
the amount of salt, pepper and spice which will be re- 
quired you run the risk of ruining the soup by putting in 
too much, on the one hand, and of leaving it insipid, on the 
other. 

Soup meat should, in every case, be boiled the day be- 
fore the soup is to be served, so as to give time for the 
liquor to become perfectly cold. The fat will then rise to 
the top in a hard mass, and can be entirely removed ; 
whereas no amount of "skimming" can take off all the 
grease while it is hot. A greasy soup should never find 
place on the table of any careful housekeeper, or one who 
regards the health of her family. 

In buying meat for soup choose a shank of mutton, shin 
of beef, or knuckle of veal. Have the butcher crack the 
bones in every part. The bones are as valuable as the 
meat itself, owing to the gelatine in them, which imparts 
a peculiar richness. You can often get odds and ends of 

100 



Dirtoito*. 



meat, which the butchers call " trimmings, " to put with 
these. Do not mix mutton with other kinds of meat, but 
beef, veal, and poultry all go well together. 

Remember, however, that one can make very good soup 
without buying anything for it. Always boil what is left 
from a roast of beef or mutton. This is worth while even 
when the bone is almost bare if you put with it the re- 
mains of any hash or stew you may have. These, boiled 
with a ham-bone or the ragged ends and bones of a beef- 
steak, will make a stock not to be despised. The bones of 
poultry and game make a delicious soup. To boil meat 
for soup see " Stock. " 

By " Stock " is meant the basis of soup. It is obtained 
by extracting the juices of meat and bones by long boil- 
ing. If strong, it will form a jelly when cold. When 
wanted for soup, heat it and it will return to a liquid 
state. Unless you want a very rich soup, add water to it; 
that in which vegetables have been boiled is best (even if 
vegetables are to be added), for it often contains much 
richness and good flavor. 

N. B. The meat on a soup-bone should be chopped 
and used for hash or croquettes, unless all the goodness 
has gone out of it. 



SEASONINGS, THICKENINGS, AND ACCOM- 
PANIMENTS TO SOUP. 

Spices, etc. 

Sweet marjoram and cloves are suited to any dark- 
colored soup ; summer savory and sage to that which is 
light-colored. Mace particularly suits chicken and oyster 
soups. Never put nutmeg or cinnamon in soup. 

Miscellaneous Seasoning. 

" Burnt sugar " gives a good color to soup. So also does 
" Claret Syrup," and it tastes well. Wine is good in soup, 



lt)2T : ^ow W ^Cook Well. 

especially brown sherry ; it should not be put in till the 
soup is in the tureen, or it may cause it to curdle. The 
spiced vinegar from Sweet Pickle or Chow-chow is good ; 
or a spoonful of piccalily may be put in. Capers and nas- 
turtiums are favorites with some. 



Claret Syrup. 



1 quart claret. 

2 pounds white sugar. 



1 teaspoonful whole mace. 
1 teaspoonful allspice. 



1 teaspoonful whole cloves. 

Put all together in a sauce-pan, and boil half an hour. 
Let it become cold. Bottle it and cork. Use a few 
spoonfuls at a time, to mix with soup, hash, stews, etc. 

Burnt Sugar. 
1 pound brown sugar. | 1 pint cold water. 

Put the dry sugar into a sauce-pan. Let it melt and 
become brown. Then add the water. Let it boil, stir- 
ring it, for ten minutes. Pour it off into a bottle, and 
keep it corked tight. Use a few spoonfuls at a time. 

Thickenings for Soup. 

Soup may be thickened very delicately by using the 
water from boiled hominy (large). One may judge how 
rich this is by the fact that it will jelly when cold. 
Mashed potato, either hot or cold, wet to a paste with a 
little of the hot soup before adding it, is also delicate. 
The pulp of boiled peas and beans makes a variety in 
thickening, and so does stewed tomato. 

But the commonest way is, to rub smooth a little flour 
in a little cold water, and stir it in while the soup is boil- 
ing fast. Be careful not to use too much. It will be 
found useful chiefly when the soup is not very rich. In 
rich soups no such thickening is required. 

Cracker and bread-crumbs, rice, vermicelli, macaroni 
and tapioca, barley and sago are all used in soup. 



Dinner. 103 



Force-Meat Balls. 

Cliop fine the meat used to make the soup or any cold 
meat. Season it with pepper, salt, minced onion (fried), 
and sweet marjoram, a little lemon juice, and grated peel. 
Mix in the beaten yolk of one egg, and a sprinkling of flour. 
Form the mixture into balls the size of a large marble. 
Fry them in a little butter and drop into the soup after it 
is in the tureen. 

Omit the onion and lemon if you like. 

Croutons. 

Cut stale bread into pieces the size of small dice. Put in a 
frying-pan, containing a tablespoonful of very hot butter. 
Turn them on all sides, to fry crisp. 

Another way is, to put the bread, after cutting it into 
dice, in a pan, in a slow oven. Let it become crisp and 
brown. 

Squares of Toast 

arc nice in any kind of broth, especially chicken. Or, in- 
stead of serving the dice in the broth, have them in a veg- 
etable dish, and let each one help himself, with a spoon. 

Batter Balls. 

f 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 2 tablespoonf uls milk. 

1 egg, beaten light. 

Rub the flour and milk to a paste. Beat in the egg. 
When the soup is boiling hard, drop in the batter, a tea- 
spoonful at a time. Boil three minutes. 

Sliced Hard-Boiled Egg. 

Thick slices of egg may be dropped in when the soup 
is served. These may be accompanied by slices of lemon, 
or the lemon may be used without the egg. 



104 How to Cook Well. 

Stock for Soup. 

"Remarks on Soup" will tell what meat is best to buy. 
Have the bones well cracked. Weigh them and the meat 
together. To each pound, put one and one half quarts of 
cold water, and allow for the boiling an hour to each 
pound. Throw in a tablespoonful of salt, the more thor- 
oughly to extract the juices. Cover the pot, and put it 
on the fire. Boil very slowly, skimming occasionally. 

When the bones separate from the meat, and the meat 
looks tough and dry, it is time to set the pot off. Strain 
the liquor into a clean crock, and set away in a cold 
place, covered only by a cloth. (If covered tight it will 
ferment.) The next day skim off all the fat from the top, 
and you have left a rich jellied mass to dip from every 
time you want to make soup. When warmed, it will re- 
turn to a liquid state. 

For a family of six, two quarts of this Stock will be 
required. Add vegetables, or vary the seasoning each 
day. 

Bouillon. 

This is simply a rich " Stock " made from beef alone, 
seasoned only with salt and pepper ; without vegetables 
or any other addition. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 



1 onion sliced. 

h dozen cloves. 

A bunch of herbs. 

A little pepper and salt. 



1 calf's head. 
5 quarts cold water. 
1 tablespoonf ul salt. 
1 carrot sliced. 
1 turnip sliced. 

Soak the calf's head in cold water enough to cover it, 
for one hour. Wash clean and take out the brains. Then 
boil the head slowly in the five quarts of water, till very 
tender, and the meat will fall easily from the bones (three 
or four hours). 



Dinner. 105 



Add the salt as soon as it begins to boil, and skim thor- 
oughly. Tie the brains in a piece of rauslin and boil with 
the hea8; the last twenty minutes. Strain the liquor and 
set aside till next day in a cold place. 

Remove the fat and put the liquor on to boil with the 
vegetables and seasoning. Boil slowly two hours. Strain 
and return it to the soup kettle, adding a little beef stock 
if more soup is needed. Have ready some pieces of meat 
taken from the top of the head and cheeks, when cold, 
and cut into small squares. Put these into the liquor. 
Have ready also force-meat balls made as follows : 



A pinch of salt. 
A little sweet marjoram. 
A little powdered clove. 
2 eggs (beaten). 



Some of the meat and brains. 
An equal quantity fine bread- 
crumbs. 

1 onion (minced). 
A dash cayenne pepper. 

Chop the meat fine, and mix well with the other things. 
With floured hands make into balls the size of a large 
marble. Drop into a frying-pan, containing enough boil- 
ing butter to brown them well. When done and the soup 
is boiling well, drop them in, pouring in also the melted 
butter in which they were fried. Add one tablespoonful 
browned flour, rubbed to a paste in cold water, and boil 
about three minutes. Stir in the juice of a lemon, if you 
like, just before serving. 

Beef Soup. 

Buy a shin of beef. Have the butcher crack the bones. 
The day before you mean to have the soup, boil the shin, 
allowing one and one half quarts of cold water to each 
pound of beef. (For boiling see "Stock for Soup.") 
After removing the fat the next day, put two quarts of 
the liquor (stock) on the fire to boil. Heat slowly. Let 
it begin to boil about fifteen minutes before dinner. Salt 
and pepper it judiciously, then ; and add a few blades of 



106 How to Cook Well. 

mace, a few whole cloves, a pinch of allspice, and sweet 
marjoram. Be careful not to season too highly. Taste 
it, before putting in all the spices. If too strong of these, 
omit the remaining ones. 

When seasoned, pour in two tablespoonfuls of vermi- 
celli or macaroni with the water in which it has been boil- 
ing for fifteen minutes. Let all simmer together till din- 
ner time. After the soup is in the tureen, stir in one 
tablespoonful Worcestershire Sauce and a tablespoonful 
"Burnt Sugar" (these are not essential). If you have it, 
add at the last moment a glass of brown sherry. 

Veal Soup. 

( A knuckle of veal (weighing about 3 pounds). 
1 4 quarts cold water. 
J cup tapioca, soaked. 

Boil the veal with the water about three hours, and set 
it away. When cold, skim it. Bring it to a boil about 
twenty minutes before dinner, when add the tapioca, pre- 
viously boiled for ten minutes. Simmer till this is tender, 
season and serve. 

Noodle Soup. 

Boil two pounds veal, or one chicken till the meat slips 
from the bones, skimming well. Strain and season. 
Have ready the following : 

Noodles. 

Beat up one egg, and add a little salt and flour enough 
to make a stiff dough. Roll out into a very thin sheet. 
Dry one hour. Then cut into two-inch squares. Cut 
these with scissors into shavings about one eighth of an 
inch wide. Dredge with flour, to keep them from adher- 
ing together, and drop into the soup while it is boiling fast. 
Boil ten minutes without stopping. Enough for five. 
Noodles will keep a long time. 



Dinner. 107 



Mutton or Lamb Broth. 

{4 pounds mutton or lamb. 
A tablcspoonful salt. 
quarts water. 
4 tablespoon! uls raw rice. 

Boil the meat in the water, with the salt, for about 
five hours, not allowing it to boil fast. Strain and set 
aside to become cold. Remove every bit of grease (this 
is especially important if the broth is intended for an in- 
valid). Set back on the stove, and when the broth begins 
to boil add the rice, with the water in which it has been 
soaking for about twenty minutes. Boil all together 
twenty minutes. 

Good mutton-broth is also made of the water in which 
a leg of mutton has been boiled. Allow to each quart and 
a half, one tablespoonfui raw rice (soaked). Add season- 
ing, and boil. 

If not intended for an invalid, capers may be added. 

Chicken Broth. 

Buy an old fowl. It makes better broth than a young 
one, if not too old. Weigh it, and cut it into small pieces, 
removing the skin and cracking the bones well. Proceed 
as with " Stock." Next day, or when thoroughly cold, 
take off the fat, and to each one and one half quarts of 
stock allow one tablespoonfui raw rice. Proceed as with 
" Mutton Broth." Add a little parsley if you like. 

Chicken or Turksy Soup. 

Make this of the water in which chickens have been 
boiled ; or of the bones, stuffing and gravy of roast chick- 
ens or turkey. Thicken with a little rice or cracker- 
crumbs, and season with minced celery, and a few blades 



108 How to Cook Well. 

of mace, if you like. Serve with or without "Croutons." 
If you wish it richer, add a slice of salt pork while boil- 
ing, and cream before serving. 

Chicken or Turkey Soup with Oysters. 

Make a good broth by the preceding receipt. When it 
boils up, omit the rice, but put in a short time before serv- 
ing, the liquor from three pints of oysters. Add the oys- 
ters at the last moment, as they should not be allowed to 
boil till tough. 

Put in a pinch of cayenne pepper and a very little pow- 
dered mace. 

For this soup, the remains of a dish of " Escalloped Oys- 
ters," or of " Stewed Oysters " may be used being sure 
not to let the oysters boil. 

A good addition is, a little celery, cut into fine bits, and 
boiled with the soup. 

t 
White Soup, 



c 1 quart chicken broth ( or any 
\ clear stock). 
I li cupfuls cream or milk. 
1 egg (yolk only) or 



li tablespoonfuls mashed po- 
tato. 

Pepper and salt. 
Croutons (may be omitted). 



Heat together the broth and cream. As soon as it boils, 
pour it over the egg (beaten light) in the tureen^ stirring 
fast to prevent curdling. Season, and serve with or with- 
out " Croutons," or squares of toast. 

If you do not use the egg, stir in the potato (previously 
rubbed to a paste with a little of the broth) while the broth 
is boiling. Add if you like a few neatly-cut squares of 
chicken. This makes but a small quantity ; for a family 
of four. 

Very delicate and delicious ; it is much relished by in- 
valids. It is nicest with the egg. 



Dinner. 



109 



Fotage & la Heine. 



3 c.^gs hard boiled, (yolks only). 
cupful bread or cracker- 
crumbs. 
A little milk. 

White meat of a boiled chicken. 
1 pint hot cream. 



Liquor from chicken, hot. 
Salt. 
Pepper. 
Celery salt. 

A little chopped onion, if de- 
sired. 



Mash fine the yolks of the eggs ; soak the bread-crumbs 
in the milk and mix with the eggs. Chop the white meat 
of the chicken until fine like meal, and stir it into the egg 
and bread paste. Add the hot cream slowly, and then nib 
all into the well-seasoned hot liquor, using one quart or 
more. Boil five minutes. Add more salt if needed ; and if 
too thick, add a little milk ; or if not thick enough, add 
more cracker-crumbs. 

This is said to be a favorite with Queen Victoria. 



Save-all Soup. 

Save up beef-bones from roast beef and steak, using also 
any scraps of underdone meat (even hash, if not cooked 
too long). In cold weather they will keep for nearly a 
week, in a cold place, covered. In the meantime collect 
what is left in the vegetable dishes from day to day, using 
rice, macaroni, tomatoes, peas or beans (the latter should 
be mashed smooth). If you have not these, a little mashed 
potato will be useful. The day before you mean to have 
the soup boil the bones slowly for two hours. Strain and 
set aside. Next day skim, and set on the fire half an 
hour before dinner, with any cold gravy you may have. 
When it boils, add the cold vegetables, according to judg- 
ment. Season with salt, pepper, summer savory and 
thyme, also a little Worcestershire Sauce, if you like, or 
catsup. 



110 How to Cook Well 

N. B. Do not tell the family what it is made of, and 
they will eat it with a good relish, if seasoned properly ! 

Another way is to use mutton bones, adding the re- 
mains of chops and cutlets if you have them. Use to- 
mato (cooked and strained) for thickening ; it " goes well " 
with mutton. Add rice, too, if you like, or a little 
mashed potato. Capers or chopped pickle are a pleasant 
addition. 

Asparagus Soup. 

2 quarts " Stock" (veal is best), 
f 2 bunches asparagus. 
1 2 small slices salt pork. 

A little pepper. 

Cut off the tender tips of asparagus, and lay aside 
while the rest (cut into pieces) is boiling in as little water 
as possible, with the pork. When tender, strain the water 
through a colander into the stock, and pulp the asparagus 
into it, but leave out the pork. Add the asparagus tips 
and the pepper and boil gently twenty minutes. Serve. 



Vegetable Soup. 



2 potatoes. 

1 a small turnip. 

2 medium-sized carrots. 
1 large onion (minced). 



1 stick celery (minced). 

1 quart water. 

2 quarts rich " Stock." 
Pepper and salt. 



Grate fine the potatoes, turnip and carrots. Put them 
with the onion and celery in the water, and boil slowly for 
one hour from the time they begin to boil. Then add 
stock and seasoning, and boil all together about twenty 
minutes. Serve without straining out the vegetables. 

Or, the vegetables may be sliced, and all boiled to- 
gether with the stock for one and one half hours. Strain 
and serve. 



Dinner. Ill 



Okra or Gumbo Soup. 



1 handful parsley (chopped). 
Plenty of okra (sliced thiii). 
Boiling water. 
Salt and pepper (cayenne). 



2 tablespoonfuls lard. 
2 teaspoonfuls flour. 
1 good fat chicken. 
1 thick slice ham. 
1 onion (chopped fine). 

Put the lard into the soup-pot. When very hot, stir 
into it the flour. Have ready the chicken, cut into pieces, 
and the ham, cut small. Put them into the boiling lard, 
and fry them to a light brown. While they are frying add 
the onion and parsley. 

Put in the okra when the chicken is partly done, and 
fry with the rest till it is dissolved. Then add the water ; 
the quantity depending upon the quantity of okra used. 
Season well. Stew gently for three hours. 

To vary the Soup, add tomatoes sometimes ; or oysters 
(as many as you like) with their liquor, or three or four 
crabs, broken in pieces. 

Black Bean Soup. 



1 cup black kidney beans. 
3 pints cold water. 
1 quart stock. 



\ teaspoonful cloves, ground. 
1 hard-boiled egg. 
1 lemon. 



Salt and pepper. 

Soak the beans over night ; then put them in the water, 
and boil slowly until perfectly tender. Strain through a 
colander. Add stock and seasoning ; return to the kettle, 
and simmer a few minutes. Rub the yolk of the egg to a 
paste, with a little of the hot liquor, and add it to the soup, 
with the white of the egg cut into dice. Have ready the 
lemon, sliced very thin, in the bottom of the tureen. Pour 
the hot soup over it and serve. 

If you wish the soup very nice, add two or three table- 
spoonfuls of sherry wine. 

The red kidney beans make a good soup in the same 
way. 



112 How to Cook Well. 

Bean Soup. (Navy Beans.) 

Soak one quart navy beans over night. In the morn- 
ing boil them in two quarts cold water. When tender 
rub them through a sieve, mashing to a soft pulp. Put 
them in the soup-pot, with the water in which they were 
boiled. Add water in which roast beef bones have been 
boiled, and season with pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, 
thyme and four or five cloves. Boil fifteen minutes or 
longer, and serve. 

If too thick, add water. 

Another way is, to boil with the beans a quarter of a 
pound of salt pork, also one carrot and three onions 
sliced. Pulp all together through a colander. Season, 
add a few cloves ; heat again and serve, without the ad- 
dition of stock. Good bean soup can be made of cold 
"Baked Beans." Use what is left for " Bean and Tomato 
Soup." 

Bean and Tomato Soup. 

Add stewed tomatoes (previously passed through a 
colander) to "Bean Soup" or "Baked Beans"; the latter 
are best. If you use "Baked Beans," boil them in a little 
water, and pulp them also through a colander; season, 
and add as much boiling water as is necessary. 

Spiced Tomato Soup. 

2 quarts " Stock." 

1 table spoonfuls raw rice (washed). 

1 pint " Stewed Tomatoes" (or canned). 

Pepper and salt. 

A few whole cloves. 

Put the Stock on to boil, or use water in which roast 
meat bones have been boiled. When boiling throw in 
the rice and tomatoes. Season with pepper, salt, and 
cloves, and boil for half an hour. 



Dinner. 113 



Or you can use what is left from dinner of rice and 
tomatoes. 

What soup is left, use to moisten hash. It makes a good 
seasoning. 

Tomato Soup. (No. 1.) 

2i quarts beef "stock." 
2 onions, sliced. 
1 carrot sliced. 

1 turnip sliced. 

2 quarts stewed tomatoes (or canned). 

{I pound butter. 
3 tablespoonf uls flour. 
4 teaspoonfuls sugar. 
Salt and pepper. 

Put on the stock to boil with the vegetables, and boil 
all together three quarters of an hour. Then strain. 
Wash the soup-pot and dry it. Then put the butter in it ; 
when it is hot, add the flour. Mix it well. Pour the 
soup over it. Then season. Boil up once. Skim it, and 
pour into the tureen. 

Makes four quarts of soup. 

SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT. 
Tomato Soup. (No. 2.) 



1 quart sliced tomatoes. 
1 quart boiling water. 
1 teaspoonf ul soda, dry. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 
Salt, and red pepper. 
Fine cracker-crumbs. 



1 quart milk. 

Boil the tomatoes in the water until perfectly tender 
(about one hour) and strain. Then add the soda. When 
the effervescence subsides, add the milk and butter. Sea- 
son to taste, putting in enough red pepper to make it de- 
cidedly hot. Lastly add cracker-crumbs enough to thicken 
very slightly. Boil up well, and it is ready for the table. 

(Canned tomatoes may be used.) A little chopped 
parsley is a pleasant addition. 



114 How to Cook Well. 



Mock Bisque Soup. 



can tomatoes (or 1 pint raw 

tomatoes). 
1 quart milk. 



1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

i saltspoonf ul white pepper. 



J cup butter. 

Stew the tomatoes soft enough to strain easily. Boil 
the milk in a double boiler. Cook a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and cornstarch together in a small sauce-pan, adding 
enough of the hot milk to make it pour easily. Stir it 
carefully into the boiling milk and boil ten minutes. Add 
the remaining butter in small pieces and stew till well 
mixed. Add salt and pepper, and the strained tomatoes. 

If the tomatoes are very acid, add half a saltspoonful 
of soda before straining. Serve very hot. 

More tomatoes can be used, but it is more delicate as 
above. 

Potato, or Lenten Soup. 



12 large potatoes pared. 
i cupful butter, nearly. 
1 medium-sized onion. 



1 pint potato-water, 
li tablespoonfuls salt. 
A sprinkling of pepper. 



1 quart new milk. 

One and one half hours before dinner put on the pota- 
toes to boil. 

One half hour before dinner put the butter into the 
soup-pot on the stove. When hot add the onion, sliced 
very thin, and fry it till of a delicate orange color (about 
fifteen minutes). While the onion is frying, drain the 
water from the boiled potatoes. Save it, and mash the 
potatoes. When the slices of onion are done, pour on them 
the milk, and one pint of the potato-water. Let all come 
to a boil. Mix two full cupfuls of the hot mashed potatoes 
till smooth in the boiling soup. Boil all together for a 
few minutes, stirring constantly ; season and dish. 

Cold mashed potato (left over) may be used, but it is 
harder to work smooth. 



Dinner. 115 



Let the name of this good soup deter no one from try- 
ing it. It is easily and quickly made (which cannot be 
said of all soups), and will soon become a favorite with 
housekeepers, especially in cases of emergency. Enough 
for a family of six or seven. 



Another. 



5 or 6 potatoes pared. 

3 or 4 large sticks celery. 

4 inches square salt pork. 



Milk. 

Parsley (may be omitted). 

Croutons. 



1 large tablespooiif ul butter. 

An hour before dinner put to boil the potatoes, celery, 
and salt pork, all together. When tender, pass through 
a colander, with the water. Add, while hot, a large table- 
spoonful of butter, and milk enough to make it the consist- 
ency of cream. Return all to the stove, and boil five 
minutes. Put " Croutons " in the tureen, and pour the hot 
soup over. 

Green Pea Soup. 

f l quarts shelled peas. i f 1 tablespoonful butter. 

\ 3 quarts cold water. \ 1 teaspoouf ul flour. 

Pepper and salt. 

Take old peas, which though not fit to serve as a vege- 
table, make the best kind of soup. Boil them in the 
water, slowly, for a long time perhaps four hours 
until the peas are tender. Then mash them through a 
colander, also pouring the water through. By pouring 
the water a little at a time the pulp of the peas will pass 
through more readily. Leave nothing behind but the 
skins. 

Return the now creamy broth to the fire. When it be- 
gins to boil, season. Rub the butter in the flour till 
smooth. Add it to the soup, which is now ready to serve. 
(If you have it, boil a ham-bone with the peas.) If you 
choose omit the butter, and instead boil with the peas one 
fourth of a pound of salt pork. 



116 How to Cook Well. 



Corn Soup. 



12 ears of corn. 
3 quarts water. 
1 pint milk (or chicken broth.) 



{\ 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

teaspoonful flour. 
Pepper and salt. 



Cut the corn from half the cobs, and grate it from the 
rest. Boil the cobs in the water till the water is reduced 
about one half ; then strain, and return to the fire. Add 
the corn and milk. When it boils, put in the butter 
(rolled in the flour) and season. Boil all together twenty- 
five minutes, longer if the corn is old. 



Oyster Soup. 



1 quart oysters. 
1 cupful water. 
1 quart milk. 



2 tablespoonf uls butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
Salt, cayenne pepper and mace. 



Strain the liquor from the oysters, and add the water. 
Put them in a do.uble-boiler. When it begins to boil, add 
the milk. When this boils put in the butter (previously 
rubbed in the flour), then the oysters. As soon as they 
begin to look ruffled around the edges, set the kettle 
back on the stove till you can dish the soup. If it contin- 
ues to boil) the oysters will become tough and hard. From 
three to five minutes will be long enough. Season just 
before serving, using very little salt. 

Put one half a cup of oyster crackers in the tureen be- 
fore pouring on the hot soup. 

Clam Soup. 



1 quart clams (chopped fine). 
1 quart milk and water (mixed). 
1 cupful sliced raw potatoes. 
of an onion (minced). 



J cupful butter. ^ , 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
Pepper and salt. 
Allspice (if you like). 



Boil together till tender the clams, milk, and vegeta- 
bles (about three quarters of an hour), using also the clam 
liquor. Cut the butter in pieces, roll them in the flour, 



Dinner. 117 



and add with the seasoning when the clams are tender. 
Serve with a few oyster crackers in the tureen, or mix in 
rolled cracker crumbs if you like. The soup is good with- 
out either. Add milk if too thick. 

Salt pork (one fourth of a pound) may be used instead 
of butter. In this case fry the onion in it in the soup-pot; 
then add the other things. When sufficiently boiled, 
thicken with the Hour, season and serve. 



PISH. 

REMARKS. 

FISH is not fit to eat unless fresh, or frozen. If frozen 
it may be kept for weeks in winter, but be sure not to let 
it thaw till immediately before cooking it. Then lay it in 
cold water for an hour or so to thaw. Do not buy fish 
unless the eyes are prominent and bright, the gills bright 
red, and the body firm ; the absence of these signs shows 
that the fish is not fresh. Fish bought in market are 
usually ready cleaned, but for the convenience of those 
who enjoy the luxury of fishing themselves I will give di- 
rections for this. 

Fish should be scaled and cleaned as soon as possible 
after being caught. In doing this use as little water as 
possible, though enough must be used to wash them thor- 
oughly afterwards. Begin by scraping off every one of the 
scales. Then, if the fish is smalt or intended for broiling 
or frying, split it down the back, and remove all the en- 
trails. If large, or intended for baking or boiling whole, 
open it as little as possible ; cut it in front from the gills 
downward about two inches, put in your finger and draw 
the entrails up, taking care not to break the gall-bag, or 
the whole fish will taste bitter. The blood must all be 



118 How to Cook Well. 

scraped and washed out. Pond fish and flounders should 
be soaked for an hour in strong salt and water, to take 
away the earthy taste. 

Keep a fish in the coldest place you can find, until 
ready to cook it. If it is to be kept over night, rub it well 
with salt on every side, and scatter salt thickly over the 
inside ; it will easily wash off in the morning. 

The largest fish, such as Salmon and Halibut are bought 
in market already cut into pieces for boiling or steaks for 
broiling or frying. 

Cod is often boiled, but other fish of the same size, such 
as Blue Fish, are usually baked, with the exception of 
Shad, which is best broiled. Mackerel should be broiled 
or fried. Smelts are always fried ; and so are most small 
fish, commonly called Pan-fish. 

I cannot give rules for cooking every kind of fish, they 
are too numerous. Suffice it to say that the directions for 
cooking one will apply to any other of the same size. 

To Boil Pish. 

Wash and wipe the fish. Rub a little salt along the 
bone and on the thick part. Lay the fish in a clean cloth, 
previously dipped into hot water and dredged with flour 
to prevent sticking. Draw it together to fit the shape of the 
fish, and sew it, having but one thickness of cloth around 
the fish. (Some persons use a fish-kettle ; then sewing in 
a cloth is needless. But any one who will take the trouble 
to use the cloth will find that the fish, though it requires 
a little dexterity to turn it out, will have a far finer flavor 
than that which is boiled in a fish-kettle.) Put it into 
cold water enough to cover it, with a tablespoonf ul of salt 
and a tablespoonf ul of vinegar. (If you put it into boiling 
water the inside will have a raw taste.) Notice when it be- 
gins to boil, and counting from that time allow it to boil 
about fifteen minutes for each pound, though different 



Dinner. 119 



kinds of fish require a longer or shorter time to boil. It 
should boil rather font. Take off any scum that may rise. 

When done (which can be ascertained by opening a 
corner of the cloth and piercing with a fork) take the fish 
out. Lay it on a platter while you cut the threads, and 
fold back the cloth. Invert another platter on it, and 
very quickly and dexterously turn the fish out on it. 
Take off the cloth, wipe the edges of the platter if at all 
smeared, and pour " Drawn Butter " over and around the 
fish. Serve more in a gravy boat. 

Lay slices of hard-boiled egg over the fish and around 
the platter ; also parsley, if you can get it, and add a few 
capers. Or use " Egg-sauce." 

If you use a fish-kettle allow only ten minutes or less to 
the pound, for boiling. 

Boiled Cod. 
(See To Boil Fish.) 

A cod-fish is so much thicker at one end than the other, 
that it is impossible to have all parts evenly cooked in 
boiling. So it is a good plan to cut the fish in half, boil- 
ing the head and shoulders (the thickest part) for dinner, 
and reserving the thin end to boil for breakfast next day. 
It will keep if sprinkled thickly with salt on the inside. 

To use what is left of Boiled Cod see Boiled Halibut. 

Boiled Halibut. 

Buy a thick piece to boil. Boil like other fish (see "To 
Boil Fish"), but without a cloth, if you choose, as the 
texture of this fish is so firm as not to be in danger of 
breaking, if boiled slowly. Boil five or ten minutes to the 
pound, from the time it begins to boil. 

Cold Halibut can be made use of in a great variety of 
ways. Use what is left for Fish Salad, Escaloped Fish, 
Fish Hash or Fish Balls, Pat6s, or Croquettes. 



120 How to CooJc Well. 

Boiled Salmon. 

(See " To Boil Fish.") Salmon requires more con- 
stant skimming than other fish, and also takes longer to 
boil. Allow twenty minutes to each pound from the time 
it begins to boil. Use warm water, or it will lose its 
color. Serve with " Cream Sauce." 

Mix what is left over with the sauce, and warm for 
breakfast. Or make into " Fish Balls." 

Fish Au Court Bouillon. 

3 pounds fish of any kind. 
/ 14 tablespoonfuls butter. 
I i pint chopped onions. 

2 tablespoonfuls Browned Flour. " 

1 pint chopped tomatoes. 

1 pint water. 

pint claret wine. 

1 tablespoonful parsley (chopped). 

1 teaspoonftil powdered thyme. 

teaspoonf ul powdered cloves. 

teaspoonful powdered allspice. 

Pepper and salt. 

Fry the onions in the butter in a deep kettle. Add the 
flour, and stir well. Put in the tomatoes ; water, wine, 
parsley, spices, and seasoning. Let it all come to a boil. 
Then add the fish, previously sliced. Let it simmer forty 
minutes. 

Baked Fish (of the size of Cod, Blackfish or Shad). 

Make a stuffing by either of the following rules, and fill 
the fish, previously washed and wiped dry. Or butter 
thin slices of bread, sprinkle them with salt, pepper and a 
few drops of water. Stuff the fish, and sew it up with a 
needle and thread. Skewer the head and tail together, or 
tie with twine. Lay it on an earthen platter, in which it 
should be served, as it is difficult to remove a baked fish 



Dinner. 121 



without breaking. Flour it well. Put a few thin slices of 
salt pork on top of the fish, with skewers, and sprinkle salt 
over it. Baste it about once in every ten minutes with the 
liquor which cooks out of it. Add a little water if there 
is not enough. 

Allow fifteen minutes to the pound for baking fish. 
The oven should be moderately hot ; if very hot it will not 
cook well in the middle. Brown it well. When it can be 
easily pierced by a fork, take it from the oven, remove 
the skewers, pork and thread, and serve. Garnish, if you 
like, with sprigs of parsley and slices of lemon. Or lay 
"Fried Oysters" around the dish. If you choose, scatter 
over the fish drops of Madeira wine or lemon-juice. 

Or, serve simply with catsup or Worcestershire sauce. 

For another way to bake fish see Baked Blue Fish. 

Stuffing for Baked Fish. 
(See page 147.) 

Two tablespoonfuls chopped ham fat may be used in- 
stead of butter. It is economical, and gives a pleasant 
flavor. 

Mashed Potato makes a good stuffing for fish. 

Onion Stuffing for Fish. 



8 large onions (chopped). 
4 cupful bread-crumbs. 
Butter size of an egg. 



A little pepper. 

Anchovy sauce enough to give a 

red color to the stuffing. 



Mix all well together. Tomatoes may be used in place 
of Anchovy Sauce. In that case use salt pork (chopped) 
instead of butter. 

Mississippi River Steamboat Stuffing for Fish. 

Cut raw corn from the cob, add to it one third as much 
raw tomatoes (chopped coarse). Dredge well with flour, 
and add a beaten egg, having mixed them well together. 



122 ttow to Cook Well. 

Season with salt and pepper and one teaspoonful melted 
butter, and stuff the fish. Bake as usual. 

Fish served in this way is popular on the Mississippi 
River steamboats. 

Baked Blue Fish. 

y. 

Wash the fish. Do not remove the head or tail. Stuff 
it with "Stuffing for Baked Fish" (see page 121), and 
sew it up. Put into a dripping-pan a slice of salt pork, 
cut into strips. Fry on top of the stove till crisp, then 
add to it half a cupful of boiling water. Lay in the 
fish. Sprinkle the top with hot water; dredge thickly 
with flour, and lay bits of butter over the entire top. 

Bake one hour, in a moderate oven, basting it often 
with the water in the pan, so that it will not become dry. 
If the water wastes away in the pan, add more (boiling). 
When done, take out the string with which it was sewed. 
Put on a hot platter, while you make the gravy. 

Set the dripping-pan on top of the stove. When the 
gravy boils, dredge in more flour (stirring fast), and add 
butter, pepper and salt. Pour over the fish, and lay slices 
of lemon on top. 

(Grated horse-radish may be substituted for the lemon.) 

This is the nicest way to cook Blue Fish, as it is more 
sure of being cooked through than by any of the other 
ways, and the delicious flavor is well drawn out. 

Halibut (baked). 

Buy either a thick slice as for boiling, or thinner ones as 
for frying. In the latter case, pile them up with lumps of 
butter between the slices. 

Put several lumps of butter in the bottom of a tin pan. 
Lay in the fish, sprinkled with pepper and salt, and set it 
in the oven which should not be very hot. In about fifteen 
minutes pour over it one pint boiling water (or enough for 



Dinner. 123 



gravy), flour it, and leave it till it is tender when pierced 
by a fork. Then put the fish in a platter, with a little but- 
ter, and keep it hot while you make the gravy. Set the 
pan on top of the stove, let the gravy boil, and thicken it 
by dredging in flour. Stir while it thickens, and then pour 
over the fish. 

One pound will bake in half an hour. An improvement 
is to add catsup to the gravy, or dot the fish with spoon- 
fuls of currant jelly. 

Fried Fish. 

Wash the fish and wipe dry. Lay them in a towel long 
enough to absorb the moisture, then rub them with salt, 
and dredge with flour, or roll in corn-meal. Have ready 
five or six slices of salt pork fried to a crisp. Take them 
out and lay the fish whole if very small, split if larger, in 
the boiling fat in the frying-pan. Be sure to have plenty 
of fat, enough to half cover the fish. Fry over a very hot 
fire ; turn when half done, and when brown on both sides 
serve at once, having the head of one to the tail of the 
next in the platter. 

It is an improvement to dip the fish into beaten egg b 
fore dredging them. Lard may be used in place of salt 
pork, but it does not give so good a flavor. 

Fish Steaks (fried). 

Buy steaks of halibut, salmon, or any very large fish. 
Have them cut about one inch thick. Wash and wipe dry. 
Dip each into a beaten egg, on a plate, then into fine 
crumbs or better still, corn meal, and lay in a frying-pan, 
containing enough boiling lard to half cover the fish. Or 
four or five slices of salt pork may be used instead of lard. 
When half done, turn and brown the other side, and 



124 How to Cook Well 

sprinkle with salt and pepper. The fish should fry in ten 
minutes. 

Lay the steaks neatly on a hot platter ; and garnish, if 
you choose, with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. 

To Broil Fish. 

"Wash and wipe the fish and dredge it with flour. But- 
ter a toaster ; lay the fish on it, open flat, with the inside 
toward the coals. If the fish is heavy, lay the toaster on 
a gridiron. If large and thick, let it heat through gradu- 
ally, and cook it slowly a long time to ensure its being 
done in the inside. Keep it covered with a pan, and oc- 
casionally wet the top with melted butter, to prevent its 
getting dry. Turn the toaster when half done. This is a 
better way than to use a knife and fork in turning the fish. 
Increase the heat towards the last, or put the fish nearer 
the coals. Some large fish take an hour to broil. Those 
should be watched carefully, as it is a difficult operation 
to cook one successfully. 

If the fish is small it can be cooked more quickly, over 
a hotter fire. Season broiled fish just before dishing; 
after dishing put bits of butter over the top. 

Broiled Shad. 

(See " To Broil Fish.") 

It will take twenty minutes to broil shad ; longer if the 
fish is large. Increase the heat towards the last, so that the 
fish will be done through. 

Delicate Shad. 

Wash the shad, and wipe it dry. With a sharp pocket- 
knife remove all the bones. Butter a gridiron. Place the 
shad on it, flat, over hot coals, and broil for five minutes, 
with the inside down. Transfer carefully to a flat tin 
sheet buttered. Dredge it with flour. Scatter on a little 



Dinner. 125 



salt and a very little cayenne pepper. Then pour over 
the entire surface a tablespoonful of melted butter. Set it 
in the oven, which should be moderately hot, and bake it 
twenty minutes. 

Serve on a platter, with bits of butter laid on. Servo 
with it in a gravy-boat, "Asparagus Sauce," or pour it 
over the fish. 

Pried Shad. 

Get a roe-shad, if possible, for this. Wash, wipe, and 
cut the shad into eight pieces, removing fins and tail. 
Lay them in a cloth to absorb the moisture. When ready 
to cook dredge with flour and lay the fish with the roe 
(also floured) in a hot frying-pan, in which there is enough 
boiling lard to half cover the fish. At the end of five min- 
utes, salt and pepper the fish and turn it. Salt and pepper 
the other side. When brown and tender lay the fish on a 
hot platter, with the roe. 

As most persons have no frying-pan large enough to 
hold a whole shad at once, a good way is, to fry half first, 
and place it on the table with half the roe ; and after- 
wards bring in a second supply hot. 

Smelts. 

Soak smelts in warm water for fifteen minutes ; then 
scrape them. Remove the long dark vein that runs 
through the body, by gently putting off the head, first 
loosening it slightly with a knife. After this, rinse them, 
and lay them in a cloth to dry. Then roll each in a plate 
of corn meal. Fry them delicately in deep lard (or enough 
to half cover them), boiling hot when they are put in, and 
kept so till the fish are brown. Sprinkle them with salt 
when you dish them ; if put on when you begin to cook 
them they will not brown. 

Serve tastefully with parsley. 



126 How to Cook Well. 

Perch. 

Dress and fry whole like smelts. They take longer to 
fry. They can be hastened, and also made to look pretty 
by cutting them half through at intervals on each side be- 
fore frying. 

Mackerel. 
(See Broiled Fish.} 

It takes fifteen minutes to broil. Or, it may be fried. 
(See Fried Fish.} 

Allow nearly half an hour to fry it, if large and thick. 
Do not have the fire too hot at first. 

Salmon a Plndienne. 

Broil a salmon steak. While it is broiling make the fol- 
lowing sauce : 

Put a small piece of butter in a sauce-pan. When 
melted, dredge in a little curry powder, and a little flour. 
Stir it until smooth, and thick as cream. Add a little 
gravy. Boil five minutes ; then stir in a spoonful of chow- 
chow, made with mustard, and chopped coarse. Boil five 
minutes more. 

Have ready a hot platter, with some hot mashed potato 
in the centre, flattened on top. Lay the fish on the potato, 
and pour the sauce around it. Serve very hot. 

Escaloped Fish. 

Boil about two pounds of any kind of fish ; or use fish 
left from dinner. Pick it to shreds with a knife and fork, 
while you prepare the following sauce : 



1 quart milk. 

1 onion. 

1 bunch parsley. 



Butter size of an egg. 

teaspoonful salt. 

A pinch red or black pepper. 



3 tablespoonf uls flour. 

Boil the milk with the onion and parsley. When the 

flavor is extracted from these, strain them out, and thicken 



Dinner. 127 



the milk while boiling, by stirring in the flour, previously 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Add the butter and 
seasoning. 

Moisten the fish with some of the sauce. Then put fish 
and sauce in layers in a buttered pudding-dish, having 
sauce on top. Cover with crumbs and bits of butter. 
Bake in a quick oven nearly half an hour. 

A wineglass of wine poured over all, just before serving, 
is an improvement. A little chopped celery may be sub- 
stituted for the parsley if preferred. 

No. 2. Make as above, but add a layer of cold boiled 
potatoes (sliced) over each layer of fish. 



No. 3, 1 pint milk. 

f Butter size of an egg. 

1 2 tablespoonf uls flour. 

8 eggs, well-beaten. 

Boil the milk ; rub the butter and flour together and add 
them. Let it boil a minute ; then pour over the eggs, stir- 
ring fast. Sprinkle salt, pepper and grated nutmeg on 
the shredded fish, and place alternate layers of it and the 
sauce in a dish until filled. Cover the top with bread- 
crumbs and bake twenty minutes. 

A delicious dish. 



Casserole of Fish. 



1 cupful cold fish. 

A little milk. 

A lump of butter. 



1 cupful mashed potato. 

2 hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 
Salt and pepper. 



Flake the fish and moisten it with the milk and butter. 
Butter a small mould, and put in alternate layers of po- 
tato, fish and slices of egg, with sprinklings of salt and 
pepper. Stearn twenty minutes ; turn out in a hot platter 
and garnish with parsley. 



128 How to Cook Well. 



Spiced Fish (for Luncheon or Tea). 



6 cloves. 

6 allspice kernels. 

6 pepper corns. 

1 tablespoonf ul brown sugar. 



1 cupful sharp vinegar. 
1 pint cold flaked fish (any 
kind). 



Steep the spices in the vinegar for ten minutes, and 
pour over the fish. Serve cold. 

To Pickle Fish. 

Any fish may be pickled in this way. Wash and cut 
the fish into pieces about six inches square. Boil them till 
very tender and bloodless. Take out the pieces carefully, 
so as not to break them. Lay them in a stone jar ; and 
pour over them, while hot, the following pickle, which 
should be prepared while the fish is boiling. 

2 quarts vinegar. 1 dozen blades of mace. 



1 pint of the water in which the 

fish is boiled. 
1 onion (sliced fine). 



2 teaspoonf uls made mustard, 
i dozen whole cloves. 
A little pepper and salt. 



There is no need to boil the vinegar. When ready the 
pickled fish should be kept tightly covered, and in a cold 
place. 

Use it within a few days, as it will not keep long. 

Nice for lunch or tea in summer. 

Potted Fish. 

Any kind of large fish will do. Take out the backbone, 
and let it lie in cold water salted for two hours. Cut it in 
slices and put in a stone jar, sprinkling each layer with 
salt, red pepper, allspice and cloves, or cinnamon, also put 
in little bits of butter, and a dredging of flour. Pour over 
all enough vinegar to cover the fish. Tie a cloth close 
over the top of the jar, and cover with a plate as close as 
possible. Bake in a very steady oven, for six hours if the 



Dinner. 129 



quantity is large ; or set it in a pot of cold water, and boil 
from three to five hours, according to quantity. 

Leave it in the jar all night. 

Turn out and cut in thin slices. 

To every two pounds of fish, allow one tablespoonf ul of 
allspice and cloves or cinnamon mixed. More would be 
too much. 

Stewed Fish. 

Cut any kind of fish into squares, and put them in a 
saucepan. Cover with cold water. Boil gently till ten- 
der. Then rub a large lump of butter with about half as 
much flour till smooth. Moisten with a little of the boil- 
ing water from the fish, and add it to the contents of the 
saucepan. Add pepper and salt, and a cupful of cream or 
milk. Let it boil up once, and serve hot. 

N. B. If you have but a small amount of fish, or if you 
like, add sliced potatoes and onion or chopped celery 
when you put the fish on. 

A nice dish for breakfast or tea. 

Pish & Pltalienne. 



1 quart stewed tomatoes. 
4 pounds fish, any kind. 



2 onions (sliced thin). 
Salt and pepper. 



cupful sweet oil. 

The tomatoes must be stewed till tender. While they 
are cooking, cut the fish (previously washed) into square 
pieces. Have the oil in a deep kettle on the fire. When 
hot, put in the onions, and fry them. Then add the fish. 
Strain the tomatoes (mashing them well) through a colan- 
der. Pour them on the fish in the kettle. Add salt and 
pepper. Cover the kettle close, and stew for one hour, 
taking care that it does not burn. When done, the fish 
will be tender, and will look red. 

This may well be described as " a Pretty Kettle of Fish ! " 



130 How to CooJe Well 



Fish. Chowder. 



5 pounds codfish or sea-bass. 
1 pound salt pork (chopped). 
4 or 5 onions (sliced). 
3 large potatoes (sliced). 



A few pounded crackers. 
A few whole crackers. 
Milk or water. 
Pepper and salt. 



Cut the fish into pieces three or four inches long. Put 
in the bottom of a deep kettle a layer of the pork, then 
one of fish, one of potatoes, one of onions, and one of 
pounded crackers. Season with a very little pepper and 
salt. Repeat the layers in this order. Make a layer on 
top of all of whole crackers, buttered. Pour over all 
enough milk or water to cover it well. Cover the pot. 

Stew slowly for an hour. Transfer to the tureen care- 
fully, so as not to break the pieces of fish. 

If you choose, omit the pounded crackers, and dredge 
the fish and potatoes with flour. 

Cape Cod Chowder. 

1 codfish (very fresh). 

3 or 4 slices salt pork. 

1 dozen hard crackers (soaked slightly) . 

4 or 5 onions (sliced). 
Pepper and salt. 

Put the salt pork in the bottom of a deep kettle. Fry 
it brown, then take it out, and put into the fat half the 
crackers and onions, then the fish (cut into pieces about 
four inches long), then the rest of the crackers and 
onions. Season with pepper and salt. Pour over all 
enough boiling water to cover it well. Cover the kettle, 
and stew slowly for one hour. 

N. B. Allow one pound of salt pork to four pounds of 
fish. Dish carefully, so as not to break the pieces. 

A Rich Chowder. 

Like either of the above, with the addition of spices, 
butter rubbed in flour, parsley, mushrooms, and wine. 



Dinner. 131 



Stewed Eels. 

Skin and clean, removing all the fat from the inside ; 
cut into pieces less than two inches long ; stew slowly in 
cold salted water enough to cover them, for one hour. 
Add then one tablespoonful of butter, a little pepper, one 
tablespoon ful of flour, rubbed smooth in cold water. Stir 
till it thickens well. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

Fried Eels. 

Prepare as for stewing. Roll in flour or corn meal, and 
fry in hot lard or beef drippings, until brown. 



Ways to Use Cold Fish. 



Escalloped Fish. 
Casserole of Fish. 
Spiced Fish. 
Fish Salad. 



Fish Balls. 
Fish Pates. 
Fish Croquettes. 
Fish Hash. 



SHELL FISH. 
To Open Clams. 

Wash them clean. Then put them in a deep kettle, 
with a very little water in the bottom. Cover close and 
set on the fire. When the water boils and the steam rises 
the shells will open, and the clams can easily be taken out. 

This is a better way than to pour a quantity of boiling 
water over them, for the liquor is all saved, without being 
much weakened by water. 

N. B. If any of the clams have already opened, those 
must be rejected as not good. 



Clam Chowder. 



2 slices fat pork. 

3 large potatoes (sliced). 
2 quarts hot water. 

4 ship-biscuit (broken). 



1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 pint clams (measured after 
being taken from the shell). 
Salt and pepper. 



1 cupful milk. 
Put the pork in the soup-pot. When browned add the 



132 How to Cook Well. 

potatoes and the water. Boil till the potatoes are nearly 
done. Then put in the ship-biscuit, milk and butter. Let 
these come to a boil. Then add the clams with their 
liquor. Boil ten minutes, and serve. 

Clam Pie. 

Butter a pudding-dish. Put a cup upside down in the 
centre, to keep the crust from falling in, and to prevent 
the liquor from boiling over. Season the clams with pep- 
per, salt, and butter (melted). Fill the dish, and cover 
with a " Puff Paste," rolled nearly one inch thick. Cut a 
slit in the centre, and bake in a moderately slow oven, 
about three quarters of an hour. 

Clam Broth. 

Wash the clams perfectly clean. Put them in a kettle, 
and nearly cover them with boiling water. Boil till the 
shells open. Then take out the clams, separate them from 
the shells, and put them back in the water. Boil them 
only a few minutes. Add a lump of butter, and thicken 
slightly with a little flour (previously rubbed to a paste). 
Have ready three or four toasted crackers. Lay them in 
the bottom of a tureen, and pour the broth over. (Ex- 
cellent for invalids, as it is nutritious and easily digested.) 

Escaloped Clams. 

Chop clams very fine. Season with pepper and salt, also 
a dash of curry powder if you like it. Have ready bread or 
cracker crumbs, moistened with a little milk. Put layers 
of these and clams in a deep buttered dish. Bake in a 
moderate oven for about one hour (covered the first half 
hour) . 

Raw Oysters. 

"Wash the shells thoroughly, and wipe dry. Open them, 
remove the upper shell, but leave the other, with the oys- 
ter in it. Place them on a platter, with two lemons cut in 



Dinner. 133 



quarters. Serve pepper and salt with them, and let each 
person squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over the oys- 
ters, or use vinegar if preferred. 

Stewed Oysters (plain). 

Boil oysters for three minutes. Then dredge with flour, 
sprinkle with pepper, add a bit of butter, and pour into a 
dish lined with slices of toast, buttered. 

Stewed Oysters with Milk. 

JJoil one pint milk. Add one teaspoonful flour rubbed 
smooth in a little cold water. Then put in the liquor from 
one quart oysters. When it boils up again, add one tea- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper and mace. Put in the oysters, and boil about 
three minutes, t. e. till the oysters begin to look ruffled 
around the edges. Serve at once, or they will be tough. 

Pass around with them a plate of oyster crackers. 

Stewed Oysters with Celery. 
(James Parkinson, Philadelphia.} 

1 pint strong beef -broth. 

1 pint cream. 

4 ounces butter. 
3 teaspoonf uls salt. 

2 teaspoonf uls white pepper. 
2 teaspoonf uls ground mace. 

1 bunch celery (or 1 teaspoonful celery salt). 
A little powdered cracker. 
A little corn starch. 
60 fresh large oysters. 

Put the first seven ingredients into a saucepan, the but- 
ter being cut into small pieces, and the celery chopped 
fine. Let it boil till the celery is tender. Then dredge in 
(a very little at a time) the powdered cracker and corn 
starch until slightly thickened. 



134 How to Cook Well. 

Have ready the oysters, parboiled in their own juice 
(without adding water) ; put them in a hot tureen, and 
pour over them the sauce made as above. Serve with the 
stew a plate of Cornstarch crackers. 

Few persons can get cream enough for this receipt ; 
milk may be substituted by using a larger quantity of but- 
ter. 

Stewed Oysters in the French Style. 



1 quart oysters. 
Cold water. 
Pepper and salt. 
Butter, size of a walnut. 



2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Onion, size of a chestnut. 

A little parsley, or celery tops. 



Drain the oysters. Put the liquor in a kettle by itself. 
Add water enough for soup required for the number of 
people at dinner. Season with salt and pepper ; let this 
boil, skimming the entire time. Rub the butter and flour 
together, and the onion, minced fine. Brown well in a 
pan. Add this to the oyster liquor; put in the oysters, 
and boil about three minutes. 

Mince the parsley, or young celery leaves. Put them in 
a soup tureen and pour in the oysters. 

This preparation of oysters may be served for tea, on a 
platter, by using only half a cupful of water. In this case, 
add the parsley, after the oysters are dished. 

Pried Oysters. 

Select large, firm oysters to fry. Drain the liquor from 
them and lay in a cloth for a few minutes, to absorb the 
moisture. " Egg-and-crumb " them. Lay them carefully 
in a frying-pan containing boiling hot butter deep enough 
to cover them, or use butter and lard mixed. Brown deli- 
cately, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, and serve at 
once. 



Dinner. 135 



Oysters Fried in Oil. 

Select large oysters, firm-fleshed and highly flavored. 
Drain and thoroughly dry them on a towel. Beat up an 
equal bulk of eggs and cream, and a little salt. Dip the 
oysters very carefully into this mixture, one by one. 
Have ready some fine bread-crumbs, passed through a 
sieve. As you take each oyster out of the egg-and-crearn 
mixture, roll it carefully in the bread-crumbs, till every 
part is covered. Lay aside the oysters in a cool place for 
half an hour. 

Then fry in hot olive oil. Do not let them cook too 
long. As soon as they assume a rich golden tint, remove 
them with a skimmer. Drain and serve on a napkin with 
sprigs of parsley, and bits of lemon. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Procure as large oysters as possible. Grease well 
with butter a double gridiron, made of wire. Place the 
oysters on it, and carefully fold down the other half of the 
gridiron on them. Broil over a perfectly clear fire, very 
quickly. When half done, turn the gridiron over and 
cook the other side. Turn only once. Do not let the 
oysters burn or cook too long, which makes them tough. 

Have ready several slices of toast, delicately browned. 
Moisten slightly in cream or milk and spread evenly with 
butter, previously melted, into which has been sprinkled a 
little salt, and a dash of cayenne pepper, and a little 
lemon juice added. Cut the toast into quarter slices. On 
each of these small squares place an oyster, with a little of 
the melted butter on top. 

Steamed Oysters. 

Wash oysters in the shell, and put them in a steamer, 
with the deepest side down, so that the liquor will not be 
lost. Steam until they open, about twenty minutes ; serve 



136 How to Cook Well 

in the half shell, with vinegar, salt and pepper. They 
should not be allowed to stand a moment more than nec- 
essary, before being eaten. They should not be served 
until after the guests are seated. 

Roast Oysters. 

Wash the shells and lay them (the deepest side down), 
upon hot coals, or in a very hot oven. When they begin 
to open they are done. Remove the upper shell, by means 
of a knife. Season the oysters with pepper, salt and but- 
ter, and serve in the half-shell, or upon buttered toast. 

Another Way is to remove the upper shell before cook- 
ing. Sprinkle the oysters with pepper and salt, and lay a 
bit of butter on each. Lay in a dripping-pan, and bake 
about eight minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. This 
is the best way if eaten at table ; if at a picnic cook on 
coals in the shells, without opening. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

Cover the bottom and sides of a buttered pudding-dish 
with a thick layer of fine cracker or bread crumbs. Then put 
in a layer of oysters ; sprinkle with a pinch of red pepper, 
and the same of mace (be sure not to have too much of 
either) ; also a very little salt. Cover with dots of butter, 
and put another layer of crumbs. Repeat until the dish 
is full. Have the top layer of crumbs. Put bits of butter 
over it, and pour over the whole a little of the oyster 
liquor, or milk. Do not use too much liquor ; half a cup- 
ful to a quart of oysters is enough, as oysters give out a 
good deal of moisture in cooking, and if the mixture is 
very wet, it is not so good. 

Bake a quart of oysters half an hour ; a larger dish will 
take longer. The oven should be moderately hot, and the 
dish kept covered until the last ten minutes. Then brown 
quickly on the top shelf of the oven. Omit red pepper 
and mace, if preferred. 



Dinner. 137 



Pickled Oysters. 



100 oysters (fresh). 

1 pint best white wine vinegar. 

1 medium-sized onion ^chopped 



1 ounce whole black peppers. 
4 ounce whole allspice. 
4 teaspoouful salt. 



tine). 

Scald the oysters in their liquor, adding a little hot 
water if they are in danger of burning. At the end of 
three minutes, strain off the liquor, and spread the oysters 
on platters to cool. Add the vinegar, onion and season- 
ing to the oyster liquor, and boil for five minutes, closely 
covered. When cold, strain and pour over the oysters. 
Put into jars, cover close, and keep in a cool, dark place. 

These will keep a month, perhaps longer. 

Oysters a la Creme. 



1 pint cream, or milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



1 quart oysters. 
Pepper and salt. 



1 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Boil the cream ; rub the flour and butter, and stir in. 
When well-thickened pour in the oysters with their liquor, 
and stir till well-mixed ; add pepper and salt, and boil until 
the oysters ruffle, about three minutes. Have ready a 
platter, lined with slices of hot toast. Pour the oysters 
over and serve hot. If milk is used, one egg (beaten) 
should be added at the last, pouring the hot mixture on 
the egg, so as not to curdle it. 

Fricasseed Oysters. 
(A New Orleans Receipt.) 



i cupful butter. 
1 quart oysters. 
\ cupful cream. 
1 teaspoonful flour, or corn- 



1 egg well beaten. 
Salt and pepper. 
Chopped parsley (may be omit- 
ted). 



starch. 

Melt the butter in a pan ; when very hot, add the 
oysters, well drained. Let all boil up a moment. Then 



138 How to Cook Well. 

add the cream, with the flour or cornstarch stirred into 
it. The moment the oysters ruffle, dip out a little of the hot 
cream and stir with the egg. Pour it in with the oysters ; 
stir well, and take from the fire at once, as the egg should 
not cook but a moment. Add salt and pepper ; also 
parsley, if you like. Serve on toasted bread, in a platter. 
For one gallon of oysters, use a cupful of butter, but not 
so much cream, as that would be too much liquid. 



Oyster Boulette. 



1 quart oysters. 
Butter size of an egg. 
1 tablespoonf ul flour. 



cupful hot milk. 
2 eggs, yolks only. 
Salt and pepper. 



& cupful broth, or boiling water. 

Blanch the oysters ; melt the butter in a pan, then stir 
in the flour. Add the broth and milk, and boil for a few 
minutes. Strain the oysters, and add them to the sauce. 
Boil three minutes, then add the eggs, well-beaten, and 
mixed with a little of the hot sauce ; season, and pour the 
mixture at once over slices of hot toast, on a platter. 

Devilled Oysters. 

Choose large oysters. Let them lie for fifteen minutes 
in a mixture of lemon juice, and melted butter, seasoned 
with a dash of cayenne pepper. Then roll them in pow- 
dered crumbs of bread or cracker; dip in beaten egg, 
and fry. 

Curried Oysters. 

1 quart oysters. 
f Butter, size of an egg. 
-I 1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 1 teaspoonful curry powder. 

1 lemon, juice only (may be omitted). 

A little salt. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters, and if there is not 
much add a little hot water. When this boils, stir in the 



Dinner. 139 



butter, previously rubbed with the flour and curry pow- 
der. Mix smooth and add the lemon juice. Boil a mo- 
ment, then add the oysters. Boil until they ruffle, about 
three minutes ; sprinkle with salt and serve at once, in a 
covered dish. Pass rice around with them. 

Oysters & la Royale. 

Bake a few oysters in a pan, in the oven, for a few mo- 
ments, till they ruffle ; no longer. Have ready slices of 
hot toast, spread on both sides with butter, into which a 
little curry powder has been rubbed. Spread the toast on 
a platter, and lay the oysters on the toast. Sprinkle each 
one with salt and pepper, and lay on a little butter. 

Smothered Oysters. 

Put one tablespoonful of butter in a covered sauce-pan, 
with half a saltspoonf ul of white pepper, one teaspoonf ul of 
salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. When hot add 
one pint oysters, drained from the liquor. Cover closely 
and shake the pan to keep the oysters from sticking. Cook 
two or three minutes, or until plump. Serve on toasted 
crackers. To use the liquor see page 156. 

Panned Oysters. 

Strain the liquor from the oysters. Put them into a hot 
pan over the fire without water ; as soon as they begin to 
curl, add butter, pepper, salt. Serve on hot toast, wet 
with some of the oyster liquor (made hot for the purpose) 
and buttered. 

"Pigs in Blankets." 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper. Wrap each 
oyster in a very thin slice of fat bacon, and fasten with a 
wooden skewer. Cook in a hot omelet pan, just long 
enough to crisp the bacon. Serve on small pieces of deli- 
cate toast. 

Very nice for luncheon. 



140 How to Cook Well. 

Oyster Pie. 

Make " Puff Paste." Line a pudding dish with a part 
of it rolled thin. Roll the rest half an inch thick, and cut 
out exactly the size of the top of the dish. (You can use 
an inverted pan for this.) Bake it on a tin sheet ; bake 
also that in the pudding dish. Then make " Stewed 
Oysters with Milk," adding flour enough to the stew while 
boiling to make it quite thick. Pour this into the pud- 
ding-dish, cover with the thick crust, and serve at once, 
as hot as possible. 

If oysters and crust are baked together the former are 
apt to be overdone. 

To Open Lobsters. 

The best time of the year for lobster; is when oysters 
are out of season ; that is, late in spring, and through the 
summer. Buy a lobster already boiled, and as fresh as 
possible. The heaviest are best. If the tail springs back 
after pulling it, the lobster is good. To open a lobster, 
cut the body the entire length on the under side, with a 
sharp knife. Throw away the head, which contains a 
poisonous matter, and carefully extract the poisonous vein 
which passes from it through the body, carefully examin- 
ing the green fat to see that there is none of the poisonous 
vein left in it. Remove also the hairy appendages at the 
side. The rest of the lobster is all good. If the lobster 
shell is not to be used, the quickest way to extract the 
meat is to crack it with a hammer, using the claws as well 
as the large shell. 

A Simple Way to Serve Lobster. 

Put the meat from the body in the centre of a platter, 
and that from the large claws at each end of the dish. Ar- 
range the small claws in the shell, around the edge. Gar- 
nish with parsley or lettuce leaves, and pass lettuce around 



Dinner. 141 



with it. Serve with a " Salad Dressing" poured over it, or 
passed around with it. Or serve simply with vinegar, salt 
and pepper. 

Devilled Lobster or Crab. 

After taking the meat out of the shells chop it fine, and 
mix with it a little salt and red pepper, and plenty of but- 
ter. Scrub the shells, fill them firmly with the mixture, 
sprinkle the top with fine bread or cracker crumbs, and 
bake in a hot oven till nicely browned. Serve hot, in the 
shells. 

Another way is to add to the meat before seasoning, 
one third as much of fine crumbs as you have meat. Add 
one egg, beaten a little ; and chopped parsley if you like. 

Stewed Terrapins. 

Boil the terrapins (in boiling water) till the shell can be 
easily taken off. Dissect them, removing the sand-bags 
and head (all the rest is good), taking great care to re- 
move the gall, which is found in the centre. The liver is 
most delicate and delicious. Stew the meat in cold water 
enough to cover it. When done, just before dishing, add 
a large lump of butter, rubbed in flour, a little salt, and 
red and black pepper. Flavor well with good wine, and 
serve in a covered dish. 

This dish requires to be rich in butter, and enough flour 
should be used to make the sauce quite thick, for the wine 
thins it. 



SALADS. 

EEMAEKS. 



Keep the lettuce or celery to be used for salads in a 
cool place, and do not add it till shortly before it is to be 
served, or it will be wilted. 



142 How to Cook Well. 

Never attempt to make salad dressing in a hurry, for it 
cannot be hurried without spoiling it, but it will be facili- 
tated if the ingredients, bowl and fork are very cold, and 
it is mixed in a cool place. 

Use none but the best olive oil. In mixing put in the 
dry things first, then the oil, and lastly the vinegar. The 
oil must be added very slowly, a drop at a time, and it 
will work in more smoothly and be less likely to curdle 
if a few drops of vinegar are alternated with the oil after 
the first few drops of oil are mixed in. Beat all very 
smooth before adding the vinegar. 

N. B. If the oil should curdle from putting it in too fast, 
stop at once. Beat the yolk of an egg in a clean bowl, 
and add to it very gradually the curdled Mayonnaise. 

A salad for tea is very appetizing, and this is a good 
way to use up what is left of roast turkey, veal, and many 
kinds of vegetables. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. (No. 1.) . 



1 egg (yolk only). 

2 saltspoonfuls salt. 
A pinch black pepper. 

teaspoonf ul dry mustard. 
A dash cayenne pepper. 



h cupful salad oil. 

A few drops lemon juice (or 

vinegar) . 
li teaspoonsfuls vinegar. 



Beat the egg well with a fork ; add the dry things, and 
mix well. Then work in the oil, drop by drop, or it will 
curdle, alternating at first with a few drops of vinegar to 
give smoothness. When thick as jelly alternate again 
with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. When the oil 
is all used stir in the vinegar. 

This will keep a week, if not longer, if put into a bottle 
with a glass stopper and kept in a cold place. 

Make it when you have yolks left, after making White 
Cake, etc. 



Dinner. 143 



Mayonnaise Dressing. (No. 2.) 
(Philadelphia Cooking School.) 



3 eggs, yolks only. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt, 

1 teaspoonf ul mustard, dry. 

1 teaspoonf ul sugar. 

Mix like the former. 



A dash of cayenne pepper. 

1 cupful olive oil. 

1 tablespooiif ul vinegar. 



Boiled Salad Dressing. 

(Without Oil.) 



6 eggs, beaten light. 

1 pint vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls pepper. 

2 small teaspoonfuls mustard. 

12 tablespoonfuls cream. 



Mix all together in order ; put it in a pitcher, or bowl, 
set into boiling water on the stove; stir constantly, so that 
it will not curdle. When as thick as custard, remove at 
once and pour it into a cold vessel until ready to use. It 
should be perfectly cold before mixing with the salad. 

Enough for two chickens. 

If there is no celery in the salad add nearly a bottleful 
of celery salt to the dressing. For a family of five, use 
one third of everything, as this makes a large quantity. 

Sidney Smith's Salad Dressing. 



1 /iard-boiled egg, yolk only, 

cold. 

.i tablespoonful dry mustard, 
i saltspoonful red pepper. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 
4 teaspoonf ul sugar. 



1 medium-sized boiled potato, 

hot. 

3 drops vinegar. 
6 tablespoonfuls good oil. 
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



Rub the egg very smooth with the mustard, pepper, 
salt and sugar. Then rub in the potato, using the flat of 
the spoon, till no lumps are left. Stir in three drops vine- 
gar ; then very slowly the oil ; lastly add the vinegar. 

This makes enough for five persons. If you want a 



144 How to Cook Well. 

smaller quantity, put less mustard, oil, and vinegar. It is 
best to make it an hour before needed. 

This salad dressing is good for any kind of salad, par- 
ticularly lettuce. Sidney Smith's original rule was writ- 
ten in rhyme, but I think it more explicit given in this 
way. 

Salad Dressing to Keep a Week. 



6 tablespoonfuls hot mashed 

potato. 

2 tablespoonfuls dry mustard. 
teaspoonf ul salt. 



teaspoonful cayenne pepper. 
4 eggs (beaten light) . 
3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



Add the dry things to the potato while hot. Then stir 
in the eggs. Add the oil drop by drop, stirring well, and 
mixing in a few drops vinegar after putting in a few drops 
of the oil (to make it work in more smoothly). Lastly, 
stir in the vinegar. Then put in a wide-mouthed bottle 
and cork till wanted. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil the chickens and let them get cold. They need 
not be young ones. Remove skin, bones, gristle, and fat, 
and cut the meat into small pieces (chopping makes it too 
fine). Cut celery stalks into very short pieces, and mix 
with the chicken shortly before serving. Have ready a 
" Salad Dressing," and mix it in thoroughly. Serve be- 
fore the celery wilts, garnishing the dish with the pretty 
tops of the celery stalks. 

Allow one large bunch of celery to each chicken, and 
four chickens to twenty-five people. 

If celery is out of season substitute lettuce. If you can- 
not procure either, use chopped cabbage, and season the 
dressing with celery salt. 

The white meat of roast chicken or turkey may be used. 



Dinner. 145 



Veal Salad or Mock Chicken Salad. 

This is a good substitute for chicken when that is out of 
season, and is much cheaper. Chop cold cooked veal, and 
mix with it nearly an equal quantity of chopped cabbage. 
Stir into it a good " Salad Dressing," made with celery 
salt. 

Lettuce may be used instead of cabbage. 



Ham Salad. 

Chop fine cold boiled ham. Pour a " Salad Dressing " 
over it, and serve in a dish lined and ornamented with 
lettuce leaves. 

Another Way is to season the chopped ham with pep- 
per and mustard. Then mix it with the following dress- 
ing while it is hot. When all is cold, serve with a border 
of lettuce leaves, sprinkled with vinegar. 

1 pint tomato-juice. I Butter size of a nutmeg. 

1 tablespoouful cornstarch. 

Boil the tomato-juice, and thicken with the cornstarch. 
Then stir in the butter till dissolved. 

Salmon Salad. 

Boil a piece of salmon. When cold, remove skin and 
bones, and cut into pieces two inches square. Season each 
one with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, a few drops of 
oil, and plenty of vinegar. Cover them, and let them 
stand two hours or rtiore. Line a salad-bowl with lettuce 
leaves ; put in the salmon, interspersed with lettuce leaves, 
and pour over all a " Mayonnaise Dressing." 

Sprinkle capers over the top, or garnish with slices of 
lemon, cut in quarters. Serve before the lettuce wilts. 

Fish Salad. 

Just like "Salmon Salad," or the fish may be flaked. 
This is a good way to use remnants of fish. If you cook 



146 How to Cook Well. 

fish expressly for salad, cut it into cubes before boiling. 
Place them in a wire basket to boil, as thus they will keep 
their shape better. Put the basket into cold water with 
a teaspoonful of vinegar, and salt added, and boil about 
ten minutes from the time it begins. 

Lobster Salad. 

Get a hen-lobster, so as to have coral for garnishing. 
See To Prepare Lobster. Cut the meat very small, mix with 
it a good " Salad Dressing," and arrange in a salad-bowl, 
with lettuce leaves lining the dish, the crisp inside ones 
being mixed with the lobster. Garnish with the coral cut 
fine, and the small claws, and add the whites of hard- 
boiled eggs cut into rings. (Use the yolks for "Veal 
Stew.") Serve as soon as possible. 

If canned lobster is used, drain it thoroughly before*^ 
using. 

Shrimp Salad. 

This is made of canned shrimps, with dressing arranged 
prettily with lettuce, like Lobster Salad. 

Potato Salad. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, and shave two or three raw 
onions. Mix gently (by tossing with a fork) with any 
rich " Salad Dressing," and arrange on a platter with capers 
dotted over the top, or rings of lemon peel. Garnish with 
parsley if you can get it. 

A few cold boiled beets or carrots mixed with the po- 
tato vary this pretty salad agreeably Some add a little 
curry powder to the dressing. 

Summer Salad. 

Cold peas, string beans and beets or young turnips 
(previously boiled) make a good salad, and form an eco- 



Dinner. 147 



noraical dish for tea if you use what is left from dinner. 
This is a favorite salad with the French. Pour any good 
" Salad Dressing " over the vegetables, and arrange taste- 
fully on a platter. It is a great improvement to mix with 
them a little ham, chopped. 

Tomato Salad. 

Skin fresh tomatoes without scalding them. Cut in 
thick slices and pour a rich " Salad Dressing " over them 
Set on ice a few minutes, and serve. 

Or serve round tomatoes whole (but peeled) and allow 
each person to help himself to dressing from a glass bowl. 
This is very pretty. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Break a head of lettuce from the stem, and wash thor- 
ony/dy as the leaves are apt to be infested by insects. 
Then break the larger leaves in two or three pieces (on no 
account chop them), and mix in a salad-bowl with a nice 
" Salad Dressing." Do not prepare it till just before din- 
ner, or it will wilt. Indeed the best way to serve lettuce 
is to arrange the leaves (whole) like a big bouquet, and 
serve the dressing separately. This ensures the lettuce 
being crisp, besides making a pretty looking dish. 

If you want it still prettier, ornament the dish with nas- 
turiium-blossoms, which may also be eaten. 



STUFFING, GRAVY, SAUCES, ETC. 

Stuffing. 
(For Turkey, Chicken, Veal, Lamb, or Fish.) 

. Soak in boiling water, and squeeze pieces of stale bread 
or dried crumbs. Then mix together thoroughly the fol- 



148 How to Cook Well. 



lowing, putting in the butter while the bread is still hot : 



f 1 pint soaked bread. 
I Butter size of an egg. 
1| tablespoonfuls summer sa- 
vory. 



tablespoonful sweet marjo- 



ram. 



2 teaspoonf uls salt. 
1 teaspoonf ul pepper. 



1 tablespoonful thyme. 

Taste to make sure that the seasoning is right, as herbs 
vary in strength. Add a beaten egg if you like. This 
amount will fill one turkey. 

No 2. Chop fine, bread a day old. Moisten with milk 
or water, season as above, and add the yolk of one egg, 
beaten light. (May be omitted.) 

Chopped celery or parsley is an improvement to either 
of these ; and a little minced salt pork may be substituted 
for butter. 

Stuffing is best when it crumbles readily. Use a tea- 
spoon in filling the fowl, so as not to smear the outside. 

Cracker Stuffing. 

(For Poultry. ) 

Make like the above ; but use instead of bread one cup- 
ful powdered cracker (it swells more than bread). It 
must be moistened with milk, and an egg is necessary. 

Oyster Stuffing. 
(For Turkey and Chicken.) 

Make "Stuffing" with chopped bread. Moisten with 
oyster liquor, and add about one dozen oysters, chopped. 
" Stewed or Escaloped Oysters " " left over " may be 
added to ordinary stuffing. 

A delicate flavor of oysters (a soup$on) can be given by 
wetting the bread with oyster liquor, which is sometimes 
not needed when cooking oysters. Of course this would 
not be called Oyster Stuffing, for there are no oysters 
in it, but it is very nice. 



Dinner. 149 



Chestnut Stuffing. 
(For Turkey and Chickens.} 

Put one pint chestnuts in a pan on the stove. When 
the skins burst, shell them, and boil in salted water. Add 
them to ordinary stuffing, reserving a few to put in the 
gravy. 

Stuffing for Ducks or Geese. 

Make "Stuffing," but substitute sage for the thyme 
and sweet marjoram, and add one small onion, minced. 
Two grated apples may also be added, for a change. 

Apple and Potato Stuffing. 
(For Ducks or Geese.) 



i pound stewed apples. 
i an onion, minced. 
A little salt. 



A dash cayenne pepper. 
A little sage. 
Mashed potato. 



Do not use sweetened apples, but the pulp of baked 
apples will do. Mix all together, using enough potato to 
give it a good consistency. 

Good stuffing can be made like this with bread crumbs 
instead of potato. 

Browned Flour. 
(For Gravy.) 

Put one quart flour into a pan in the oven (not very 
hot), and stir it often till the whole is a delicate brown. 
Keep it in a wide-mouthed glass bottle and shake it every 
few days to prevent lumping. Do not bottle it till cold. 

To Make Gravy. 

To make gravy free from grease is one of the most im- 
portant branches of cookery, as well as the most trouble- 
some to beginners. 

Keep on hand a little " stock," or water in which meat 
has been boiled ; even the ragged edges and bones of 
steak or chops boiled and strained make a foundation for 



150 now to CooJc Well 

gravy. Having skimmed off the fat when cold, heat 
to boiling. Season and " Thicken " with " Browned 
Flour." Then strain; this is always important. 

Gravy for Roast Meat. 

Half an hour before dinner pour all the drippings out of 
the pan in which the meat is roasting, and set it within 
a pan of cold water in a very cold place, for the fat to 
rise. Pour into the dripping-pan half a cupful of boiling 
water. When the meat is dished, skim the reserved 
gravy, and pour it into the pan with the water. Set it on 
top of the stove, and when it boils season and " Thicken " 
as above with " Browned Flour." Do not fail to strain 
it into the gravy-boat. 

Giblet Gravy. 

Boil giblets and neck of one turkey or one pair of fowls 
for one and one half hours in one pint of cold water. Skim 
occasionally. Take them out, chop the giblets fine, and re- 
turn to the water. Set this aside till the turkey is roasted 
and dished. Add to it the gravy from the dripping-pan, 
having skimmed off as much fat as possible. Let it begin 
to boil. Add salt and pepper, and "Thicken" with 
" Browned Flour," rubbed smooth in cold water. 

Gravy for Broiled Chickens or Partridges. 

Melt a spoonful of butter in a saucepan, and dredge in 
a spoonful of flour. Let it brown in the oven, stirring 
well. Add a little boiling water, with pepper, salt (and 
chopped, hard-boiled egg, if you like). When this has 
boiled, pour it over the chickens already in the dish. 

Drawn Butter. 
(For boiled Fish, Poultry, or Mutton.} 



3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 tablespoonf ul flour. 



1 cupful water, or milk. 
Salt and pepper. 



Put two tablespoonfuls of the butter in a saucepan. 



Dinner. 151 



When it bubbles, sprinkle in the flour, and let it cook 
thoroughly, but not discolor. Stir constantly ; the best 
way is to use an egg-beater. Add the water and season- 
ing, stirring well. Let it boil up once ; then strain, and 
add the rest of the butter, cut in small pieces. 

Drawn butter should be made with great care. It is the 
chief of sauces, and comes constantly into use. If you 
choose, add a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar just be- 
fore serving. 

Egg Sauce. 

(Used like Drawn Butter.) 

Make " Drawn Butter." When ready to serve, stir in 
three or four hard-boiled eggs chopped coarse. 

Caper or Pickle Sauce. 

(Used like Drawn Butter.} 

Make "Drawn Butter." Just before serving, stir in 
three tablespoonfuls of capers. 

A good sauce can be made by substituting chopped 
pickles for the capers. 

Currant Jelly Sauce. 

( For Roast Mutton and Game.) 



& cupful boiling water. 
A pinch of cinnamon. 
A pinch of cloves. 



1 tablespoonful brown sugar. 
4 lemon (grated peel only). 
4 cupful currant jelly. 



Mix all together except the jelly. Half an hour before 
serving set it o*n the fire where it will become very hot, 
but not boil. A few minutes before serving, dissolve the 
jelly in it. 

Let it all become very hot. 

If you like, substitute wine for the water. 



152 



How to Cook Well. 



Tomato Sauce. 
(For Chops, Beefsteak, Cutlets or Fish.} 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

A little black pepper. 

A speck of cayenne pepper. 
( 1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 
\ 1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

2 table spoonfuls flour. 



\ can tomatoes. 

1 cupful water (or stock). 

2 cloves 

1 teaspoonful herbs, mixed. 
1 sprig parsley, minced (may 
be omitted). 

Boil together all but the last three ingredients, and 
strain. Fry the onion in the butter till yellow, and add 
the flour mixed to a cream with cold water. 

When all is well mixed, pour into the frying-pan grad- 
ually the strained tomato. Cook all together five minutes, 
and strain again. Pour it while hot over the chops, cut- 
lets, or whatever you choose. 

Tomato Sauce (simpler). 



1 teaspoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
Red pepper. 



{1 can tomatoes. 
1 small onion. 
2 sprigs parsley. 

Put the tomatoes over the fire, with the onion and pars- 
ley ; when they have boiled some twenty minutes, strain 
them through a sieve. Put the butter into a sauce-pan, 
and when it bubbles sprinkle in the flour, which let cook, 
stirring well. Then pour in the tomato pulp ; season highly 
with red pepper ; if lumpy, strain. 

Excellent Tomato Sauce can be made by pulping 
what may be left of " Fried Tomatoes," and heating it 
without any additions. 

Tomato Sauce With White Sauce. 



peck tomatoes. 
2 small carrots, cut fine. 

1 onion, cut fine. 

2 ounces salt pork, cut fine. 
2 ounces raw ham, cut fine. 
4 ounces butter. 

Wash the tomatoes, bruise, and put them in a sauce-pan 



2 ounces flour. 

1 quart "White Sauce.' 

Pepper and salt. 

1 bunch of parsley. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 



Dinner. 153 



over a slow fire to dissolve. Put into another sauce-pan, 
the vegetables, salt pork and ham, with half the butter ; 
stir over the fire until the butter turns clear. Then add 
the flour, sprinkling it in gradually. Cook a little longer, 
and add the tomato (strained), and the White Sauce. 
Mix well and season. Put in the parsley. Cover and 
boil slowly forty minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain 
through a sieve. Boil again a few minutes, adding the 
rest of the butter. 

Curry Sauce. 
(For Egg, Chicken, Fish, etc.) 

/ 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 

1 1 tablespoonful butter. 

f 1 teaspoonful Curry Powder. 

1 2 tablespoonf uls flour. 
A pinch salt. 

1 pint milk, hot. 

Fry the onion in the butter (when hot) for five min- 
utes, and be very careful it does not burn. Mix the curry 
and flour, and stir it into the butter. Add salt and hot 
milk gradually and stir vigorously till perfectly smooth. 

Bread Sauce. 
(For Roast Poultry and Game.) 



1 pint milk. 

1 onion, minced. 

1 cupful bread-crumbs. 



Pepper and salt to taste. 

A pinch of mace. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Simmer the onion in the milk until tender. Have the 
bread-crumbs in a sauce-pan ; pour over them the milk, 
cover, and soak half an hour. Then beat very smooth, 
and add seasoning and butter. Stir well, boil up once, and 
serve. If too thick, add boiling water and more but- 
ter. 



154 How to Cook Well. 



1 pint milk. 



Cream Sauce, or White Sauce. 
(For Tongue, Fish, etc.} 

tcaspoonf ul salt. 



Butter the size of a large egg. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



Chopped parsley (may be omit- 
ted). 



Boil the milk. Put the butter in a sauce-pan, and stir 
over the fire till it bubbles. Then add to it the flour, 
rubbed to a cream in a little cold water. Stir all together 
quickly till smooth. Pour on the milk gradually, stirring 
constantly, and season. Lastly, add the parsley. If for 
tongue, stir in one tablespoonf ul capers or chopped pickle ; 
if for fish, use more flour, and add half a cupful of the 
water in which the fish was boiled. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Butter size of a walnut. 

1 table spoonful flour, 
f 1 cupful strong hot veal " stock." 
1 1 bunch herbs. 

1 cupful boiling cream. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

Put the butter in a sauce-pan. When it bubbles stir in 
the flour. Do not let it brown. Then add the other 
things (the herbs being previously boiled with the stock 
and strained out). Stir well, simmer a few minutes and 

strain. 

Sauce Hollandaise. 

(For Boiled Fish or Asparagus.} 



/ Butter size of a nutmeg. 
1 1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 cupful boiling water or veal 
" stock." 



4 eggs (yolks only), 
i a lemon (juice only). 
Butter size of a walnut. 



Put the smaller lump of butter into a sauce-pan. When 
it bubbles, stir in the flour, and cook thoroughly. Then 
stir in the water or stock. When boiling, remove, and 



Dinner. 155 



pour it over the eggs (beaten light). Return to the fire 
long enough to cook the eggs, but do not let it boil. Take 
it off, and stir in the lemon-juice. Then add the rest of 
the butter, cut into small bits. Stir all together well. 

Mint Sauce. 
(For Roast Lamb.} 

4 tablcspoonfuls chopped mint. I i cupful vinegar. 
2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar, j 

Mix and let it stand in the gravy-boat about two hours 
before serving. 

Sauce Piquante. 
(For Meat.) 



2 tablcspoonfuls butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls browned 

flour. 

1 pint "stock." 
i cupful vinegar. 



Salt and pepper. 
1 tablespoouful chopped pars- 
ley. 

1 tablospoonf ul chopped onions. 
1 tablespoonf ul capers. 



Melt the butter. Add the flour and stir till smooth, 
then put in the other things. 

Let it just come to a boil ; then pour it over hot tongue, 
or any kind of meat. 

Lobster Sauce. (No 1.) 
(For Boiled Fish or Poultry.) 

Buy a boiled lobster. Pick out all the spawn and red 
coral. Pound these in a mortar. Moisten them with a 
spoonful of hot water, and one of melted butter. Pass 
the mixture through a hair sieve. Add to this all the 
meat of the lobster, cut into small pieces, and mix in one 
quarter of a pound more of melted butter. Place the 
whole in a porcelain sauce-pan, with a very little cream 
and cayenne pepper. Cover it and let it stew slowly. Tt 
must not boil. This would deprive it of its fine coral 
color. 

To be served hot. 



156 How to Cook Well. 

No. 2. Put all the small bones and scraps of meat with 
a pint of cold water to cook. When the lobster flavor is 
well extracted, strain off the liquor, or stock. Make a 
sauce as follows : 



\ cupful butter. 
2 tablespoonf uls flour, 
i teaspoon ful salt. 
i saltspoonful pepper. 
A speck of cayenne. 



Lobster stock, hot. 
cupful butter, cut fine. 
2 tablespoonfuls lemon-juice. 
1 cupful lobster meat, cut in 
dice. 



Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; add the flour and 
seasoning. Stir till smooth, then put in the other things 
and stew slowly. Serve hot. Use the coral to garnish 
the dish with which the sauce is served. A good way is 
to break up the coral and put it in a slow oven for half an 
hour. Then pound it in a mortar, and sprinkle it over 
the boiled fish. 

Very good Lobster Sauce can be made from the tail 
and claws alone. 

Oyster Sauce. 

(For Boiled Fish or Poultry.} 



1 dozen oysters. 
| cupful butter. 
| cupful flour. 



A little salt. 

A pinch cayenne pepper. 

| cupful cream. 



Scald the oysters in their liquor adding a little water if 
there is not much liquor. Dip them out, and add to the 
boiling liquor the butter and flour rubbed together, the 
seasoning'and cream. While it thickens, chop the oysters 
very fine, and then add them. Boil up a moment, and 
serve at once, either in a gravy-boat, or poured over boiled 
fish or chicken. 

This may be made of the juice only of oysters which 
have been used for something else. 



Dinner. 157 



Cranberry Sauce. 



1 quart cranberries. 



1 pint sugar. 



1 1 cupful water. 

Wash and pick over the berries, add the water and stew 
for twenty minutes if they are the dark kind the bright 
red take longer to cook. Mash them often against the 
sides of the sauce-pan with a wooden spoon. Take from 
the fire, and stir in the sugar till dissolved. (If cooked 
with them it will spoil the color of the sauce.) Pour into 
wet moulds, to form, pulping through a colander if the 
tough-skinned, bright red berries have been used. 

If the sauce is preferred soft, use more water in cooking. 

Prepared Mustard. 



2 tablespoonf uls dry mustard. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
. J cupful water. 



1 teaspoonful sugar (may be 

omitted). 
| cupful good vinegar. 



Mix the mustard and flour together and stir to a paste 
with the water. Add the vinegar and boil till thick, stir- 
ring well. Remove and mix in the sugar. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

(For Beefsteak, Boiled Meat, or Fish.) 



Butter, size of an egg. 
i lemon, juice only. 



A little parsley, chopped line. 
Pepper and salt. 



Mix all together ; spread over broiled meat or fish when 
hot, and put in the oven for a few minutes that the but- 
ter may penetrate the meat. 



MEATS. 

POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 
To Select Poultry. 

Old turkeys and fowls have hard, scaly feet and legs. 
To be sure of getting young ones, choose those that have 
smooth legs and moist feet. (Yellow-legged chickens are 



158 How to Cook Well. 

considered the best.) The skin should be thin and tender, 
and the breast bone can be bent when pressed by the 
finger. 

The best ducks have thick, firm breasts. If young, the 
web of the feet will be transparent, and they will feel t 
tender under the wing. An old duck or goose is utterly 
worthless. 

Young geese have a delicate skin. The breast should 
be plump, the bills and feet yellow. Green Geese (that 
is, geese about four months old) are best. 

To Prepare Poultry. 

Clean it the moment it comes into your possession after 
being killed. If the entrails lie long in poultry they im- 
part an unpleasant, sour taste to the whole inside, and the 
giblets of fowls bought in market are often unfit for use 
from this cause. 

To Clean or Draw Fowls. Lay the chicken on its 
back, and make a long incision from the end of the breast- 
bone to the tail. Keeping the tail toward the right hand, 
run the hand into the body, keeping it dose to the flesh 
on the left side of the chicken. With a firm grasp close 
the fingers tight around the entrails, and draw them out 
without loosening the hold, as that might break the gall- 
bag. If a particle of gall (which can be known by its 
green color) escapes within the chicken, it will be ruined 
by the bitter taste which will impregnate the whole. Even 
a drop of it on the knife used in preparing the chicken will 
spoil whatever it touches. Lay on one side the heart 
and liver, cutting off any part that looks green. Then 
cut open the gizzard ; scrape out the inside, and throw it 
into hot water for a moment, after which the thick outer 
skin can easily be removed. 

Next, make an incision along the backbone just below 
the neck, and draw out the crop, and the large cord at the 
neck. 



Dinner. 159 



Pick out the pin-feathers carefully, and singe off the 
hairs by holding the fowl by the feet over a blazing paper 
laid on top of the stove, and turning it on all sides. 

Cut off the legs at the first joint, and cut off the neck, 
leaving the skin, and lay it with the giblets for gravy. 

To Wash Poultry. Fill the inside with cold water, 
holding it over a pan. Keeping the hands over the open- 
ings, shake hard. Rinse it in this way in several waters. 

In next to the last, it is well to dissolve one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, if there is any sourness. 

To Stuff and Truss Poultry. Make a " stuffing." Fill 
the inside, using a teaspoon, and sew it up, doubling back- 
wards the skin at the neck, and sewing it. Cross the ends 
of the legs, and tie them to the tail. Double the wings, 
and fasten them close to the body, with a string. Poultry 
never looks well when dished, unless proper attention is 
paid to trussing. It is well to stuff and truss the fowl the 
day before it is to be cooked. The flavor of the stuffing 
then permeates the whole, and it is, besides, a conven- 
ience to a busy housekeeper. 

To Keep Poultry, it should be put in a cold place, but 
not where it will freeze, as that destroys the flavor. Wrap 
it in a cloth, to keep it moist. Hang it, or place it breast 
downwards on a shelf. If there is danger of its spoiling, 
or if the weather is warm, parboil it, after cleaning it. 
Poultry is tenderer and better for being kept several days 
after being killed. 

Boast Turkey. 

(See " To Prepare Poultry."") 

Put it in the dripping-pan ; pour one cupful boiling 
water over the top ; dredge with flour, and put it in the 
oven, with a slow fire, allowing twenty minutes to the 
pound (or about three hours for a large turkey). Let it 
heat through, gradually ; for if the fire is hot at first, the 



160 How to Cook Well. 

turkey will be raw inside, and nothing can remedy this 
afterwards. Have the pan as far as possible from the fire, 
and after half an hour, draw it nearer. Baste very often, 
with the drippings in the pan, and occasionally with but- 
ter (unless the turkey is very fat), and dredge it every 
time after basting. Turn the pan often. When half 
done dredge with salt and pepper. Be sure not to take 
it out until thoroughly tender when pierced by a fork 
through the thickest part. 

Just before taking it out, baste with melted butter and 
sprinkle with flour. 

Before serving remove strings and thread. Serve with 
" Giblet Gravy," and " Cranberry Sauce," or any tart 



If you use " Chestnut Stuffing," add boiled chestnuts to 
the gravy, and reserve the giblets for "Potatoes with 
Giblets." 

Boiled Turkey. 

A hen tarkey is best. Stuff it or not, as you choose. 
The nicest way is to use an " Oyster Stuffing." Truss it 
carefully. (See " To Prepare Poultry.") Flour a cloth 
and pin around the turkey, to preserve its whiteness. 
Plunge into a large pot of boiling water, salted. Cover 
close, and boil slowly, for two hours, without stopping. 
Then take off the cloth. 

The prettiest way to serve it is on a bed of boiled rice. 
Serve " Drawn Butter " with it, or if oysters are used in 
the stuffing, make a gravy of one pint of the liquor in the 
pot, and add a few chopped oysters with their liquor. Save 
the pot liquor for soup, and the giblets for " Potatoes 
with Giblets." 

If convenient, the turkey may be set on the back of the 
stove the last half-hour. If covered close, the steam will 
finish cooking it. 



Dinner. 161 



Roast Chickens. 

Just like "Roast Turkey." Roast nearly one hour and a 
half. This is better than to hurry them in a hot oven, as 
chickens should be well done inside. 

Boiled Chickens. 

Just like " Boiled Turkey." This is a good way to cook 
chickens that are not young, as the long, slow boiling will 
make them tender. Boil one hour at least. If old, a 
longer time will be necessary. 

Stewed Fowl with Oysters. 
(A Canadian Receipt.) 

Choose a young fowl. Fill the inside with oysters. 
Put it in a jar or tin pail without water and cover tight. 
Put the jar in a large pot of boiling water, and boil 
steadily for an hour and a half. Then lay the fowl on a 
hot platter. Make a white sauce of the juice which re- 
mains from the chicken and oysters, by adding to it while 
boiling a little cream or milk, in which one tablespoon fill 
of flour has been rubbed smooth. Season with salt and 
pepper, and add a few whole oysters. When these 
" ruffle " pour the sauce over the chicken. 

This is very delicious, the meat being white and tender, 
and all the flavor preserved. 

Fricasseed Chicken (white). 

Clean, wash and cut a chicken in pieces. Put into boil- 
ing water, with half a pound of salt pork, cut into strips. 
Boil sloicly, skimming occasionally, for an hour. Then 
lay the chicken on a hot platter, lined with slices of 
toast. 

Strain the liquor, and put one pint of it in a sauce-pan, 
with a little chopped celery, if you have it. Rub smooth 
one fourth of a cupful of flour in one cupful of milk, and 



162 How to Cook Well. 

pour in when the liquor boils. When smooth, pour it 
upon one or two eggs (beaten light). * Return to the fire 
for a moment, but do not curdle the egg. Pour this 
sauce over the chicken. 

No. 2. Make as above, but omit the salt pork, and add 
salt to the water. When making the gravy, boil the milk 
with the liquor ; then make a " roux" and pour the hot 
liquor on it. Pour the gravy over the chicken. This is 
more delicate, but perhaps more troublesome, than the 
other way. Old fowls will do for this. 

Fricasseed Chicken (brown). 

Cut into pieces, a young chicken, and fry it in lard, with 
a little minced onion. When brown, add one tablespoon- 
f ul flour ; cook a moment, stirring constantly. Add three 
cupfuls boiling water, salt and pepper (also allspice and 
cloves, if you like). Boil slowly till the chicken is very 
tender. Dish on toast, as above. Thicken the gravy with 
" Browned Flour," and add one tablespoonful Worcester- 
shire Sauce or Walnut Catsup. Pour this over the 
chicken. 

Pried Chicken. 

Jojnt a young chicken. "Egg-and-crumb " the pieces, 
or dredge with flour. Fry in plenty of hot lard over a 
moderate fire, or they will not be done through. Turn 
the pieces when half done, and season. Fry nearly one 
hour, being careful not to let them burn. Lay on a hot 
platter and dress with parsley. 

Pried Chicken with Cream Gravy. 

Joint two tender spring chickens. Sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, and dredge with flour. Have ready in a frying- 
pan half a pound of salt pork, cut into slices. When it be- 
gins to brown take it out, and lay the pieces of chicken in 
the fat which remains. Fry them slowly, and turn them 



Dinner. 163 



often. It will be nearly an hour before they are done. 
When tender, lay the chickens on a hot platter. Pour 
into the frying-pan one and one half cupfuls of cream. 
Boil up a minute. Then add one tablespoonful of flour, 
rubbed into one tablespoonful of butter. Stir while the 
gravy thickens, and then pour over and around the 
chicken. 

Fried Chicken with Mush Cakes. 

(An Old Maryland Receipt.} 

For the mush cakes make " Corn Meal Hasty Pudding," 
rather stiffer than usual. 

Pour it into a flat dish about half an inch thick and 
set aside to become cold. When ready to fry for dinner 
cut it in squares or round cakes, and fry in hot lard. 

Serve around the chicken, with Cream Gravy poured 
over it. See " Fried Chicken with Cream Gravy." 

Smothered Chicken. 
(An Old Virginia Receipt.) 

Clean and wash small chickens. Split them down the 
back as for broiling. Lay them flat in a dripping-pan, 
and pour one cupful of boiling water over them. Set them 
in a moderate oven, covered tight with an inverted pan ; 
roast with a steady heat, basting often with butter, and 
with the water in the pan. The chickens must be left cov- 
ered each time they are basted. In three quarters of an 
hour they should begin to brown. Increase the heat, and 
in a few minutes dish them, first testing their tenderness 
with a fork. When done, they should be of a mellow, 
brown hue on top. Sprinkle over them salt and pepper. 
Thicken the gravy left in the pan, with a little " Browned 
Flour," and add a little hot water, if necessary. Season 
with salt, pepper and parsley, and serve in a gravy-boat. 



164 How to Cook Wett. 

Curried Chicken. 

Slice an onion, and fry it in butter till brown. Scatter 
in one tablespoonful of curry powder. Cover, and cook a 
few minutes. Add more butter, and put in the chicken 
cut in pieces, and dredged with flour. Fry till tender. 
Serve in a bed of rice, if you like ; but it is very good with- 
out. Veal cut in pieces is very good cooked thus, and is 
cheaper than chicken. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Choose a tender spring chicken for this purpose. Cut 
it open down the length of the back. Clean it, wash, and 
wipe dry. Dip each half into melted butter. Lay on a 
hot, buttered gridiron over a fire not too hot at first. (It 
is a good plan to begin to broil it before the coal, freshly 
put on over a very hot fire, has kindled very much.) Put 
the inside toward the coals first. Lay a pan or tin cover 
over the chicken, with a weight on it, to keep the pieces 
flat. Turn them over in ten minutes. 

Broil half an hour. Season with pepper and salt just be- 
fore dishing, and lay on bits of butter just after. 

Roast Ducks. 

See "To Prepare Poultry." If they are not young, 
parboil them. Roast like chickens, allowing one hour, if 
you like them well done ; though if young they will cook 
in less time. 

Serve with "Giblet Gravy" or "Bread Sauce" and 
"Apple Sauce," "Cranberry Sauce," Currant or Grape 
Jelly. 

Stewed Duck. 

This is the only way to render an old duck fit to eat. 
Cut it up, having cleaned and washed it. Put in a pot 
with cold water enough to just cover it. Cover, and heat 
gradually. Then stew slowly for two hours, with a few 



Dinner. 1G5 



slices of ham, and the giblets, also a minced onion, and a 
little minced parsley if you have it, and sage. When ten- 
der, lay the duck on a platter. Thicken the gravy with 
a little " Browned Flour," and add, if you like, the juice of 
half a lemon and one wineglassful of wine. Pour over 
the duck and serve. Line the platter with slices of toast 
if you choose. 

Boast Goose. 

Parboil for half an hour to remove the oil. Then stuff, 
and roast like a chicken, and for the same length of time. 
Serve like *' Roast Ducks." 

Boast Pigeons. 

The birds must be young and tender for this purpose. 
Clean them and put a little piece of butter in them, stuff 
and truss them. Tie thin slices of bacon over the breast. 
Lay them in rows, in a dripping-pan, with a little hot 
water. Set in a hot oven and baste often. 

Serve with "Gravy." 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Clean, wash, stuff and tie them in shape. Lay them in 
a sauce-pan, close together, on their backs. Cover them 
with boiling water. Lay a few slices of bacon over the 
tops of the pigeons. Stew gently until tender about one 
hour. Then season with pepper, salt, butter, and a little 
summer savory, also minced parsley, if you like. Dish 
the pigeons, thicken the gravy with a little flour, boil up 
once, and pour over the birds. 

The bacon may be omitted. Some add a little minced 
carrot and onion. Line the platter with buttered toast, 
if jou like, or serve the pigeons on a bed of rice. 

This is the best way to cook pigeons which are not 
very young. 



166 How to Cook Well 

GAME. 
Wild Turkey (roasted). 

Clean at once, and wash the inside very carefully. 
Then wipe it inside. Make a " Stuffing " and add to it a 
little chopped salt pork. Fill the bird and sew up. Pro- 
ceed as with ordinary turkey, but baste very often, and 
either cover the top with slices of salt pork, skewered on, 
or add, by degrees, half a cupful of butter to the gravy, 
as you baste, for the meat of wild turkey is very dry. 
Serve with " Gravy " and " Cranberry Sauce," or Currant 
Jelly. 

Wild Ducks (roasted). 

Clean at once and wash well. Lay an onion in each 
and parboil them for ten minutes. This will take away 
the strong, disagreeable flavor. Throw away the onion 
and stuff the ducks. Roast like chicken, adding a lump 
of butter to the water in the pan, the first time you baste 
them. Have the oven hot, and cook them for half an hour. 
Serve with " Giblet Gravy," and " Cranberry Sauce," or 
Currant Jelly. 

Another Way is to omit the parboiling, and put them 
in a pan, with an onion and hot water ; baste often for 
fifteen minutes. Then take out and proceed to roast in 
another pan. 

Wild Duck (stewed). 

Parboil as in the last receipt. Throw away the onion, 
and cut up the duck. Then proceed as with " Stewed 
Duck." 

Prairie Chickens or Grouse Roasted. 

Prepare and roast like chickens, but rub the inside of 
each with melted butter, and put butter in the stuffing. 
Add butter to the water in the pan when you baste them. 



Dinner. 1G7 



Just before serving them, dredge with flour, and baste 
with butter to froth them. 

Roast grouse three quarters of an hour. It is an im- 
provement to lay a slice of salt pork in the pan, and use 
the drippings to baste with. 

Prairie Chickens. 
{Another Way.) 

Prepare like chickens for roasting. Put them in a 
steamer (or a colander with a tight cover), over hot water, 
and steam until nearly done. Then put them in a pan, 
spread them with butter, set in a hot oven and baste often 
with melted butter, till nicely browned (about fifteen 
minutes). Then baste again and dredge on Hour to froth 
them. Serve with parsley, and Currant Jelly. 

Another way is to tie a thin slice of bacon over the 
breast of each bird. Put them in a dripping-pan, with a 
cup of boiling water ; cover and set it on top of the stove 
for ten or fifteen minutes. Uncover, take off the pork, 
and dredge with flour. Set the pan in the oven, and pro- 
ceed to roast them. 

Prairie Chickens (broiled). 

Dip in melted butter, when you have split them open 
down the back. Proceed as with broiled chickens. Serve 
with Currant Jelly, or " Cranberry Sauce." 

It is a good plan, before broiling a prairie chicken, to cut 
out the breast, and lay it aside while you joint and par- 
boil the rest, which is tough. Then rub all with butter, 
and broil. 

Potted Partridges. 

Stuff and truss partridges as you do fowls, and flour 
them. Melt a spoonful of butter in a small pot, and then 
dredge in a spoonful of flour. When it is browned, lay 
in the partridges. Cover them with a cup of cold water, 



168 How to Cook Well 

and put the lid on the pot. When the birds begin to 
brown shake the pot frequently and gently, turning the 
birds from side to side till browned all over. When 
done, they can be easily pierced by a fork. Then place 
them side by side neatly on a platter, and pour the gravy 
over them. 

Quail on Toast. 

Clean and cut the quail down the back. Salt, pepper 
and dredge them with flour. Break the breast and back 
bones, so that they will lie flat. Then place them in a 
pan, with a very little water and butter. Cover tight, and 
set in a very hot oven, till nearly done. Have ready some 
hot butter in a frying-pan. Fry the quail a few minutes 
until brown. Line a platter with buttered toast. Put 
the quail on the toast. Make a sauce to pour over it, as 
follows : 

Put the dripping pan on top of the stove. When the 
gravy boils, season it, and thicken with " Browned Flour." 

Broiled Quail. 

Split them down the back, and proceed as with " Broiled 
Chicken." Serve on slices of buttered toast. Put spoon- 
fuls of Currant Jelly on the edges of the toast as a gar- 
nish. It may be served without toast. 

Wild Pigeon (stewed). 

As wild pigeons are often tough, this is the best way to 
cook them. See " Stewed Pigeons." 

To Cook Small Birds (any kind). 

Roast or broil with a very hot fire. Roll the birds in 
melted butter before cooking, and baste with butter. See 
also "Prairie Chickens, Another Way." Serve with 
"Tomato Sauce" or Currant Jelly. Or lay each one 
on a slice of toast, and surround it with boiled peas or rice. 



Dinner. 1G9 



Partridges, quail, snipe and woodcock require to be in the 
oven about twenty-five minutes to suit the taste of most 
persons, though some prefer them underdone ; in this case 
fifteen minutes will suffice. " Bread Sauce " is nice with 
them. 

Venison Steak (broiled). 

Heat a gridiron and butter it. Lay the steaks on it, over 
a clear, hot fire. Turn them often (without piercing them 
with a fork, so as not to lose the juice) and do not let 
them dry out. Cook about fifteen minutes. Lay in a hot 
dish ; sprinkle at once with pepper and salt, and put fine 
shavings of butter over the top. Pour over all " Currant 
.Telly Sauce " or a little melted Currant Jelly. Add to the 
latter one or two tablespoonfuls of wine, if you have it, 
but this is not necessary. Some omit even the jelly, using 
slices of lemon instead. 

Another way is, to mix together the jelly, butter and 
wine, and heat them. Pour them into a hot platter, and 
lay in the steak when done. Turn it several times, till all 
is absorbed, then serve on a clean, hot platter. 

Baked Haunch of Venison. 

Wash thoroughly, and wipe dry. Then rub the whole 
surface with melted butter. Lay it in a dripping-pan, con- 
taining a little beef "stock," or water in which you have 
boiled the ragged ends of venison, which you have trimmed 
off one end to give a better shape to the haunch. Dredge 
thickly with flour, and cover with a buttered paper. Then 
put it in the oven, which should be pretty hot, and kept 
steady. Baste it every fifteen minutes, the whole time it 
is cooking, lifting the paper to do it. When it has been 
in one hour, increase the heat, and take off the paper. 
Flour it thickly, and cover the top with thin slices of salt 
pork held in place by skewers. One half an hour before 
serving add a large lump of butter to the gravy ; remove 



170 How to Cook Well. 

the pork, baste the meat, and sprinkle the top with pep- 
per and salt. Dredge with'flour, and after this baste about 
once in eight minutes. The length of time required for 
cooking depends upon the size. A good rule is fifteen or 
twenty minutes to the pound. Serve it with a frill of 
fringed paper twisted around the knuckle. 

Have ready a " Gravy." Put this into a gravy-boat, 
and serve Currant Jelly also with the haunch. 

Some persons cover the haunch with a paste of flour 
and water when first put into the oven. If this is done, 
remove it half an hour before serving, and baste often w r ith 
melted butter after this. It should not be taken from 
the oven till the thickest part can be easily pierced by a 
skewer. 

Neck or Shoulder of Venison. 

Cook like the Haunch, allowing one quarter of an hour to 
a pound. 

Saddle of Venison. 

Make deep incisions, following the grain of the meat 
from the top. Insert in these long and narrow pieces of 
pork. Lay the meat in a dripping-pan, and proceed as 
with beef ; but baste oftener, and have the oven hotter. 
Allow about fifteen minutes to a pound. Serve Currant 
Jelly with it. 

Boast Rabbit. 

As soon as possible skin, clean and hang it over night. 
When ready to cook, wash and stuff as you would poul- 
try. Then sew it up. Lay it in a dripping-pan ; pour a 
cupful of hot water into the bottom of the pan, and skewer 
two thin slices of salt pork or bacon, on the top of the rab- 
bit. Cover it tight with an inverted pan and set in a 
moderate oven. In half an hour, take off the cover. Re- 
move the salt pork, add a little butter to the gravy, and 



Dinner. 171 



baste it. Then dredge with flour, and let it brown, bast- 
ing it often. It should be ready to serve in an hour from 
the time it was put in the oven, though the time will de- 
pend upon the size. Lay it on a platter, and keep hot 
while you make the " Gravy." Add to the gravy a little 
lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of minced onion, fried in a 
teaspoon ful of butter. 

Fricasseed Rabbit. 

Do not cook the head or neck. See "Fricasseed 
Chicken." 

Fried Rabbit. 

Only a very tender rabbit is good cooked in this way. 
Cut into joints, wash and stew slowly for fifteen or twenty 
minutes in just enough water to cover them. Take out, 
and dip the pieces of rabbit first into beaten egg, then 
in crumbs of bread, or cracker. Have ready a frying-pan, 
containing several pieces of salt pork ; fry them crisp. 
Remove them and lay in the rabbit. Fry until brown on 
every side. When nearly done, add pepper and salt. 

It may be fried without parboiling, but should then 
be cooked a much longer time, and over a more moderate 
fire. 

Squirrels. 

Cooked like Rabbits. 

See also " Brunswick Stew." 



MEATS. 

EEMARKS. 



Beef is best in winter and early spring, though it is good 
all the year round. Mutton is best in spring, veal and 
lamb in summer, and pork in early winter. 

In choosing meat, never buy that in which the fat is 
very yellow ; it shows that the animal was diseased. The 



172 How to Cook Well. 

fat should be white, and the lean of beef and mutton, a 
clear bright red color. Veal should look white and be 
fat. That meat is most juicy and tender which has fine 
streaks of fat intermingled with the lean. It is always 
cheaper to buy a large piece of meat, and have the butcher 
cut steaks from that for you, than to buy a roast and steak 
on two successive days. But of course it is only in winter 
that meat should be bought by the quantity. An eco- 
nomical piece of beef is the back part of the rump. It is a 
long piece, without much fat or bone, and weighs about 
ten pounds. Have the thickest end cut into steaks, and 
cut off the thin end with the bone, for soup. Roast what 
is left. 

In winter, keep meat as long as possible before cooking ; 
it makes it more tender. Keep it in a cold place, but do 
not let it freeze, if it can be helped, for it partly destroys 
the flavor. If frozen, it must be thoroughly thawed before 
cooking. Do this by soaking it in cold water for two or 
three hours before using. In summer, keep meat on ice, 
and do not buy much at a time. Meat which has been 
cooked and set in the refrigerator will often gather moisture. 
If so it should be set in the oven for a few minutes, even 
if it is to be served cold. If you have no refrigerator, set 
the meat on the cellar floor, covered tight to prevent flies 
from getting at it. 

N. B. Always have the butcher send home any bones 
and trimmings belonging to the meat you purchased. 
These will often weigh as much as one pound, and are ex- 
cellent to use for stock for soup. 

To Roast Meat. 

Roasting before an open fire is out of date in most fam- 
ilies. The term is applied now to cooking in an oven. 

In roasting meat the oven should be of a moderate heat 
at first, so that it will be cooked on the inside ; increase 



Dinner. 173 



the heat afterwards. Wash the meat, unless freshly cut, 
put it in a dripping-pan, and pour one cupful of boiling 
water over the top. This will cook the surface, and keep 
the juices in. Dredge the top of the meat with flour, and 
set in the oven. Do not pepper and salt it till half-done, 
but baste it often (f. e. wet the top by pouring over it the 
juice from the pan or a little water and melted butter), 
while it is cooking. Dredge it again, with flour, after 
basting it the first time after you have seasoned it. 

Meat that is to be rare should have the oven hot at first. 
Small pieces also require to be cooked in a hotter oven 
than large ones, or they will be dried up. 

To Boil Meat. 

All meat should be boiled very slowly, this will make it 
tender; if boiled fast even a tender piece will become hard 
and tough. Keep the pot covered, and as the water boils 
down fill up gradually from the tea-kettle which should be 
kept boiling in readiness. The meat should boil contin- 
uously till done. If the piece is a very tough one, about 
one tablespoonful of vinegar added to the water will 
make it tender, and will not affect the taste. 

Roast Beef. 

The best pieces for roasting are the tenderloin (an ex- 
pensive piece), the sirloin, and rib-pieces. The latter are 
usually chosen for a small family, and are very good, the 
sixth, seventh and eighth ribs being the best. If you 
get a rib piece, have the butcher take out the bone, and 
roll and tie the meat in shape. (Be sure to have the bones 
and trimmings sent home.) 

If there is much fat on the surface, cover the roast with 
a paste of flour and water. It should be removed half an 
hour before the meat is done. (This paste is not neces- 
sary, but an improvement.) Have the oven rather hot, if 



174 How to Cook Well. 

you like beef rare, and allow twelve minutes to the pound. 
If preferred well-done, have the oven moderate, and cook 
a longer time. Serve with " Gravy." 

Beefsteak. 

The best pieces are cut from the rump, or through the 
sirloin. However, different butchers serve different pieces 
under the same name ; so that the best way to do, is to learn 
by experience. A good steak for a cheap one is a chuck 
steak, cut from near the chuck rib. Have the steak cut 
two thirds of an inch thick, if tender; if doubtful, not so 
thick. Never wash a steak unless it absolutely needs it ; 
but wipe off any bits of bone there may be, with a clean 
cloth. Washing destroys the flavor and makes it tough. 

Broil over clear, hot coals to ensure its being rare. Turn 
it, in a minute, and turn repeatedly afterwards. In doing 
this do not stick a fork into it, if possible, as that allows 
the juice to escape, which should all be kept inside. If a 
fork must be used, stick it in at the edge, in that part 
which looks driest. Keep it covered, while broiling, with 
a tin plate, and watch it all the time. If the fat drips into 
the fire and blazes up, put out the blaze by sprinkling salt 
on it. 

Ten minutes will be long enough to cook it. Then lay 
in a hot platter. Season it, and add a very little butter. 
Let it stand covered a few moments before serving, and 
take pains to serve it very hot. 

An excellent addition is " Maitre d'Hotel Sauce," or it 
may be served with " Tomato Sauce." 

For those who like gravy in the dish, pour over the 
meat when dished, coffee left from breakfast, or hot water, 
which will draw out the juice. 

Beefsteak and Onions. 

Broil a steak as above. Have ready three or four 
chopped onions, fried in butter till delicately browned. 



Dinner. 175 



Lay them thickly over the top of the steak when dished. 
Let it stand covered a few minutes before serving. 

Beefsteak with Baked Tomatoes. 

Broil a tender beefsteak. Take care not to let it burn, 
and cook it rare. Lay it on a hot platter, as directed. 
Dot with butter ; pepper and salt it. Have ready some 
"Baked Tomatoes." With care lift the tomatoes from 
the pan, and lay them in rather close rows over the sur- 
face of the steak. 

When served, the steak should be cut in strips between 
the tomatoes, and each person helped to a square piece of 
steak with a tomato on it. 

Or, you may lay the tomatoes around the edges of the 
platter. 

Stuffed Beefsteak. 



2 pounds rump steak. 
1 cupful " Stuffing." 



1 cupful " Stock " or water. 
4 cupful catsup. 



1 or 2 slices salt pork. 

Have the steak cut evenly. Make a stuffing as for 
turkey, adding a little ground cloves. Spread this over 
the steak, leaving the edges bare. Koll it up tight, and 
tie firmly in three or four places. Have ready a deep 
kettle with the salt pork frying in the bottom. When 
crisp, take it out, and lay in the steak. Turn it often, so 
that it will brown on every side. Then add the stock or 
water. Cover, and stew slowly an hour and a half, adding 
just enough water to keep it from burning if it becomes 
dry. When tender lay the meat in a platter ; add catsup 
to the gravy, and thicken it with a little flour if necessary. 
Pour over the meat, having removed the strings carefully. 

For a family of five. 

Mock Duck. 

Buy a steak from the round, weighing not more than 
two pounds (or it will be too large to imitate a duck), and 



176 How to Cook Well 

free from fat or bone. Rub both sides with salt and pep- 
per. Prepare one cup or more of "Stuffing" made as for 
a roast duck. Add to it a little minced salt pork if you 
have it ; it is better than butter. Spread the stuffing over 
the meat not quite to the edges. Roll it up very tight, 
and tie firmly in four places. Tie a buttered paper around 
it. Bake (without water) in a moderately hot oven for 
fully one hour. When more than half done, pour a little 
boiling water over the top. When done remove paper 
and strings. Serve hot, with " Bread Sauce," in a gravy- 
boat. " Cranberry Sauce " should also accompany it. 
Carve across the stuffing. For a family of four. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Buy six or eight pounds from the thickest part of the 
round. Have the bone removed (save it for stock) and 
trim off the coarse outside fat. Make deep incisions in 
every part, not more than half an inch apart. Into half 
of them push salt pork cut into little narrow strips about 
two inches long. Fill the rest of the incisions, and the 
place where the bone was, with the following stuffing: 



1 pint bread-crumbs. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

A pinch of red pepper. 

1 saltspoonf ul ground cloves. 

1 saltspoonf ul allspice. 



1 small nutmeg (grated). 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped salt 

pork. 

1 teaspoonf ul melted butter. 
1 egg, beaten. 



Stick whole cloves into the meat here and there. Then 
tie it securely into a good round shape. Put scraps of 
salt pork in a deep pot. When fried crisp, take them out 
and lay in the meat. When brown in one spot turn it, 
so that every part in turn will be browned. Allow about 
half an hour for this. Then dredge in about two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and brown it.- Slip a plate under the 
meat to prevent its burning, and pour in enough boiling 
water to barely cover the meat. Cover tight to keep in 



Dinner. 177 



the steam (it is well to tie an old towel over the top of 
the pot), and simmer for about five hours. Watch it 
carefully, and fill up with boiling water if necessary, add- 
ing only a little at a time. 

Serve with the gravy poured over it. It is excellent 
cold for luncheon or tea. What is left over should be 
used thus. Some add carrots, turnips and onions (sliced) 
when the pot is filled up with water ; a few are then laid 
around the meat, and the rest strained out of the gravy. 
They give an agreeable flavor. 

Corned Beef. 

If it has been long corned, soak the beef for one hour 
in cold water. Then put it into a large pot of cold water, 
and boil very slowly, covered, allowing half an hour or 
more to a pound. Skim often. 

Many persons like cabbage cut into quarters, or carrots 
sliced, boiled in the pot with the beef, and served with it, 
the meat being placed in the centre of the vegetables. 
The cabbage should be put in to cook one hour, and the 
carrots three quarters of an hour, before the meat is ready 
for serving. Press and chop the cabbage before serving. 
See also Pressed Corned Beef; 

Boiled Tongue. 

Wash, and soak over night, if it is smoked, or has been 
long corned. Bend the tip of the tongue towards the 
roots and tie firmly, to give it a good shape. Put it into 
a large pot of cold water. Let it come gradually to a boil ; 
skim well. Boil slowly, keeping the pot covered. Do not 
let the water boil down. In three hours prick with a fork ; 
if it feels tender, it is done. But a very large tongue re- 
quires five hours. When done, set the pot off, but do not 
take the tongue out of the water until it is cool. This 
will make it more tender. When cold remove skin and 



178 How to Cook 'Well. 

roots ; or take them off while hot, if the tongue is to be 
served hot. In this case, serve with it " White Sauce," 
or the following 

Sauce. 

1 pint tongue broth. 

2 table spoonfuls flour. 
1 small onion, minced. 
1 small carrot, minced. 

A little parsley, minced (may be omitted). 

Salt and pepper. 

1 quart tomatoes, stewed, or canned. 

Bring the broth to a boil. Then thicken with the flour ; 
add the other ingredients, having strained the tomatoes. 
Boil fifteen minutes. Strain or not, as you prefer. 

Roast Veal. 

The best pieces to roast are the loin and fillet. The 
breast also is roasted. That and the fillet should be pre- 
pared like " Beef a la Mode," with incisions filled with 
stuffing, made with chopped pork. Veal should be well 
done, and requires a slow oven and a long time to cook. 
Heat gradually and allow twenty minutes to a pound. It 
is a great improvement to lay slices of pork over any 
kind of veal while cooking. 

Serve roast veal with "Gravy." Spinach is the proper 
accompaniment to veal. 

Stewed Breast of Veal. 

Cut the meat into pieces of a size to help one to each 
person. In a deep pot fry several slices of salt pork. 
When crisp, remove them, and lay in the meat. Fry 
about half an hour, till all sides are brown. Then add the 
rind of a lemon, cut thin, a little sweet marjoram, and 
boiling water enough to barely cover the meat. Cover 
tight, and stew gently two hours. Dish the meat, and 
pour over it about one pint of the gravy, thickened with 
"Browned Flour." 



Dinner. 179 



Veal Cutlets or Chops (fried). 

Fry slices of salt pork till crisp. Take out, and lay into 
the hot fat the cutlets egged-and-crumbed. Fry slowly 
(about half an hour) and take care that they do not burn. 
(Have plenty of fat.) When delicately browned, add 
salt and pepper, and dish. Do not spoil them by the 
addition of gravy. They should be crisp. Never wash 
meat for frying ; it makes it tough. All it needs is to be 
wiped off with a cloth. 

Veal Cutlets or Chops (broiled). 

Trim the rib cutlets neatly, scraping the bone smooth. 
Broil slowly, as veal should be well done. Have slices of 
salt pork laid over the veal while cooking, or baste often 
with melted butter. Season as you serve them. Serve 
with " Tomato Sauce," if you like. 

To Prepare Sweet-breads. 

Veal sweet-breads are best. They will not keep long. 
Soak them at once in cold water, for about one hour; 
then parboil them (about fifteen minutes) in salted, boil- 
ing water, after which put them into cold water again for 
a few minutes. This will make them firm and white. 
Remove the skin and little pipes, and put them in a very 
cool place until ready to cook them again. 

Sweet-breads (broiled). 

Prepare as above. 

When cold and dry, cut them in two. Rub them in 
melted butter, and lay on a hot buttered gridiron over 
clear hot coals. Wet them frequently with melted but- 
ter, and turn them often to prevent their getting hard and 
dry. When nicely browned, season them, and serve hot. 

Sweet-breads (fried). 

When ready to cook, wipe dry and cut them in two. 
Lay a few slices of salt pork in a frying-pan. When crisp 



180 How to Cook Well. 

lay in the sweet-breads, previously egged-and-crumbed. 
Do not have the pan over too hot a fire, or they will not 
be cooked through. Turn them often till tender and 
brown. 

Calf's Liver (broiled). 

Cut the liver into slices half an inch thick, and soak half 
an hour in cold salt water ; broil over hot coals turning it 
often. When done, add salt and pepper. Lay it on a hot 
platter, with several bits of butter on top. 

Calf's Liver (fried). 

Cut the liver into thick slices, and soak half an hour in 
cold salt water. Wipe it dry. Have ready in a frying-pan 
two or three large slices of salt pork fried crisp. Lay the 
liver in the pan, keeping it over the hottest part of the 
fire ; and when brown on one side, turn it on the other. 
Cut into cubes while browning on the under side, and stir 
till every side is brown. When done add a very little 
salt and pepper. Put the liver on a hot platter, and add 
to the gravy in the frying-pan a cupful of boiling water, 
and the juice of a lemon (this may be omitted). - Dredge 
flour into the boiling gravy, and stir while it thickens. 
Pour it over the liver, and serve. 

Boast Mutton or Lamb. 

The parts to roast are the saddle and shoulder ; and 
the leg, if not very large. Allow twelve or fifteen min- 
utes to the pound, and as mutton is preferred well done 
by most persons, do not have the oven very hot at first. 
Serve with " Gravy," and Currant Jelly. 

Serve lamb with "Mint Sauce." Greens are suitable 
with it. 

Boiled Mutton. 

The leg is the part to boil. Have the butcher cut off 
the shank bone, so that it will fit well into the pot. Put 



Dinner. 181 



into salted, boiling water, taking care to have water 
enough to cover the meat well, and keep it covered all 
the time, adding boiling water as that in the pot boils 
down. Allow fifteen minutes to a pound. Boil slowly, 
without ceasing, till tender when pierced by a fork in the 
thickest part. Skim the liquor frequently, and save it 
for broth. Serve with the mutton "Caper Sauce," or 
" Drawn Butter." 

Mutton Cutlets. 

Trim them well and broil or fry like " Veal Cutlets." 
Serve with or without " Tomato Sauce." 

Mutton or Lamb Chops. 

These may be broiled or fried. If fried, be sure and 
not wash them, or they will be tough. Trim neatly and 
scrape the bone. Dredge the chops with flour, and fry 
them slowly with a few slices of salt pork. Move them 
about often in the pan to prevent their sticking. In 
about five minutes turn them and season with pepper and 
a very little salt. When the thickest part can be easily 
pierced with a fork they are done. Lay them on a hot 
platter. Pour half a cupful of boiling water into the fry- 
ing-pan, and dredge in flour slowly, till thick enough for 
gravy, and pour over ; or serve with " Tomato Sauce." 
" Egg-and-crumb " them, if you like, before frying, and in- 
stead of serving with gravy, stack them around a high 
mound of mashed potato. 

Roast Pork. 

The pieces to roast are the shoulder, spare-rib, leg, loin 
and chine. Pork requires a moderate oven and very 
thorough cooking. Allow full twenty minutes to a pound, 
and let it heat through gradually. Then watch it care- 
fully, as pork burns easily, which ruins it. The spare-rib, 
or the chine (which is more wholesome and has less fat 



182 How to Cook Well. 

than the spare-rib), should be prepared for roasting by 
removing most of the fat. Save this to be tried out for 
lard. The shoulder and the leg should be prepared thus : 
with a sharp knife score the skin deeply in parallel lines 
about one inch apart, and make deep incisions in the thick 
part of the meat. Fill the lines and the incisions with 
"Stuffing for Duck," moistened with a little vinegar. 
Sprinkle the entire top with a little powdered sage. A 
buttered paper should be laid over the top of any piece 
for roasting. Put it in a dripping-pan, with a very little 
water in the bottom. Baste often and flour it, removing 
the paper while you do this. Leave the paper off the 
last half-hour. Serve with "Apple Sauce" and pickles. 

Pork Steaks, or Chops. 

Cut slices from the loin or neck and trim neatly. Lay 
them in a frying-pan. Turn them often while frying. 
In fifteen minutes pour off the fat, if there is much of it. 
Dip the steaks in bread-crumbs, mixed with a little sage. 
Put back and fry fifteen minutes longer. 

Serve without gravy. 

Boiled Ham. 

Soak in cold water over night, changing the water 
once or twice. Then wash, rubbing very hard. Put into 
a large pot of cold water. Cover and simmer slowly, 
taking care to keep the meat covered with water. Allow 
for cooking about twenty minutes to the pound. A ham 
should be very thoroughly done, yet should not be boiled 
so long as to separate the meat from the bone\ Skim 
carefully while boiling. When a fork will pierce easily 
through the thickest part, it is done. Let it remain in 
the pot until cool. Then skin it. Cover with spots of 
pepper at uniform distances, and twist a fringed paper 
around the bone. 



Dinner. 183 



Glazed Ham. 

Boil a ham as above and remove the skin. Wash the 
surface with a beaten egg. Moisten one cup powdered 
crackers thoroughly with milk. Add one teaspoonful of 
melted butter, and work the whole to a paste. Spread 
this evenly and thickly over the ham. Brown delicately 
in a slow oven. 

Best Way to Cook a Ham. 

Boil as above, but take it out when half-done, or at the 
end of three hours, and remove the skin. Cover the fat 
side with powdered cracker, which will adhere better if 
the surface is first rubbed with egg. Then put it in a 
dripping-pan in a moderate oven for the rest of the time. 
The baking roasts out a great deal of the fat, and leaves 
the meat much more delicate. Do not bake it so long as 
to make it dry, or cause it to separate from the bone. 

Save the fat in the pan for frying potatoes. The ham 
bone should be saved to boil with soup. Chop the meat 
left on the bone for sandwiches. 

Other Ways of Cooking Meats. 
(See Index.) 



STEWS. 
Veal Stew. 



2 pounds veal steak. 

1 small potato sliced. 

2 hard-boiled eggs (may be 



1 cupful milk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 table spoonfuls of flour. 



omitted). 

Cut the veal into lumps. Put it into a skillet with but 
just enough cold water to cover the meat. Put in the 
potato. Cover the skillet and stew gently nearly half an 
hour, taking care that the water does not boil away. 
When the meat is tender take it out, and add the milk to 



184 How to Cook Well. 

the broth. Rub the flour smooth in a little cold. milk. 
Pour into the broth when the latter is boiling again. 
Season with butter, salt and pepper. Slice the eggs nnd 
put into the broth, let all boil up once, then pour over the 
meat and serve hot. 

Veal Stew with Dumplings. 

2 pounds veal. 

{1 quart flour. 
3 teaspoonf uls baking powder, 
i teaspoonf ul salt. 

Cut the veal in pieces, put it on to stew in cold water, 
enough to more than cover it. Do not let it boil fast. 
When actually boiling, drop in with a spoon a spoonful 
at a time, a mixture made as follows : stir into the flour the 
baking powder and salt, with enough cold water to make 
a stiff dough. The water should be put into the batter 
gradually, stirring all the lumps out as you proceed. 
Boil twenty-five minutes after the dumplings are put in, 
without stopping, and without removing the lid from the 
kettle. Eat at once, as the dumplings become heavy by 
standing long. 

Knuckle of Veal Stew. 



2 small knuckles veal. 
4 quarts water. 

4 or 5 eggs, boiled hard, yolks 
only (may be omitted) . 



J cupful butter, or less. 
" Browned Flour." 
Cloves and mace. 
Salt and pepper. 



Boil the veal very gently in the water. When it be- 
gins to boil, skim it well. When thoroughly cooked, take 
from the plot, and cut it from the bones in small pieces. 
Rub the yolks smooth with the butter and several spoon- 
fuls of " Browned Flour," and add it to the water in which 
the veal was boiled. When cooked enough, put in the 
meat with the seasoning. Boil up once and serve. 



Dinner. 185 



Pilau. 

(A Turkish Dish.") 



pounds lamb, veal, or 
chicken. 



li cupf uls raw rice (washed). 
Pepper and salt. 



v2 quarts cold water. 

Buy pieces from the neck, shank, rib, or any odd cheap 
pieces. Each piece should be cut of a size to help to one 
person without cutting at the table. Put the meat on to 
boil without removing either bones or fat. Boil slowly, 
covered. Do not fill up the pot as the water boils down. 

When it has boiled for one and a half hours, add pepper 
and salt, and put in the rice soaked for half an hour. Let 
all boil together till the rice has absorbed all the broth, 
probably for half an hour. Boil more and more slowly 
toward the last, and stir often to prevent its burning. 
Add a little hot water, if the broth is absorbed, before the 
rice is done. When ready to serve, remove any ill-look- 
ing bones, and lay the pieces of meat on a hot platter, with 
the rice laid over and around them. 

A cheap and delicious dish, for breakfast, luncheon, or 
a plain dinner. 

Calcutta Curry. 



2 chickens (boiled and jointed). 

3 or 4 slices salt pork. 
Butter size of an egg. 
3 onions (sliced fine). 



A dredging of flour. 

Salt. 

Boiling water (about 1 quart). 

Slices of lemon. 



1 tablespoonf ul curry powder. 

Have the chicken cold and dry. Fry the salt pork in 
a deep flat-bottomed kettle, adding the butter when it be- 
gins to brown. Then put in the- onions, and fry a light 
brown. Remove them and the pork, and put in the 
pieces of chicken. Let them fry gently in the fat. While 
frying, dredge the chicken with the curry powder and a 
little flour and salt. Turn it, so as to brown all sides. 
Add boiling water, only enough to make a little gravy. 



186 How to Cook Well. 

Stew slowly for fifteen minutes. Dish the chicken, and 
pour the gravy over, without further thickening. Garnish 
with slices of lemon, and serve " Boiled Rice " with it. 
Veal or lamb may be used for Curry. 

Curried Pilau. 

Make " Pilau," and shortly before serving, sprinkle into 
the rice half a teaspoonful curry powder, or more, if you 
like it. This will be enough for most American palates. 
Stir well and dish. 

A more economical way (which yet furnishes a good 
dish) is to use meat and rice already cooked. Joint or 
cut it into large pieces, and boil with it whatever bones 
you may have. They can be removed at the last, and 
they furnish a good deal of richness to the broth. 

Mutton Stew. 

Buy rib, neck, or any inferior pieces. Have the bones 
cracked, and take off most of the fat. Cut the meat into 
pieces of a good size for helping. Throw into a pot and 
cover with cold water. Heat gradually and simmer for 
over an hour, seasoning it when half done. Then dish the 
meat and thicken the gravy with one or two tablespoon- 
f uls of flour. Add a little chopped pickle, or " Tomato 
Catsup," or " Stewed Tomato," and pour over the meat. 
The addition of sweet marjoram or cloves is liked by 
many. The tomato is particularly nice with mutton. 

Beef Stew. 

Get the middle cut of the shin, or meat from the top of 
the round, or back of the rump ; but any part that has 
bone and fat as well as lean is good for stew. As this 
mode of cooking meat renders it more tender, the tough, 
cheap parts are just as good as any, and the bone gives 
richness. Even the thin end of a sirloin or rib roast may 
be used. 



Dinner. 187 



Cut your meat into small pieces, and if it has not been 
previously cooked, dredge it with salt, pepper and flour, 
and brown it in salt pork or drippings. Put it into the 
stew-pan with what bones you may have. Cut two 
onions, one small white turnip, and half a small carrot, 
into half-inch dice. Cook them slightly in the drippings, 
and add to the stew. Add boiling water enough to cover, 
and simmer two or three hours. Remove the bones and 
skim off the fat. Have ready pared six or eight small 
potatoes, soaking in cold water. When the meat is nearly 
done, slice and add them to the stew. Then salt and 
pepper to taste. "Dumplings" may be added to the 
stew when the potatoes are nearly done. Cover closely 
to keep in the steam, and cook ten minutes without lift- 
ing the cover. Put the meat and potatoes in the centre of 
a hot platter, and the dumplings around. If the broth is 
not thick enough, thicken with a little flour. Add, if you 
like, a cupful of strained tomato, and one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley. Pour it over the meat and serve. 

Irish Stew. 



2 pounds beef, from the round. 

3 quarts cold water. 

1 large turnip, sliced. 

2 carrots, sliced. 
6 potatoes, sliced. 



4 onions, sliced. 

1 heaping tablespoonful salt. 

A little pepper. 

1 cupful flour. 



Buy from the cheap end of the round. Three hours 
before dinner, cut the meat into pieces about two inches 
square. Put it in a pot with the water, add the turnip 
and carrots. Let all boil very slowly together, keeping 
the pot closely covered. One hour before dinner add the 
potatoes and onions, with the salt and pepper, and boil 
slowly again. Just before dishing stir in quickly the 
flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold water. 

Serve hot on a platter. 



188 How to CooJc Well. 

This makes a very large quantity, enough for fifteen 
persona. 

Irish stew makes a hearty and excellent dinner, as well 
as an economical one. 



Brunswick Stew. 



1 gallon water, boiling. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

pound bacon. 

1 onion (sliced). 

li quarts tomatoes (peeled). 

1 pint lima beans. 



4 Irish potatoes (sliced). 

6 ears sweet corn (cut from the 

cob). 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 teaspoonful cayenne pepper. 

2 or 3 squirrels or chickens. 



Four hours before dinner joint the squirrels and put 
them to soak in cold salted water, to draw out the blood. 
Put on the water, salt, bacon and onion. Let these boil 
fifteen minutes, while you prepare the vegetables. Then 
add them with the pepper. As soon as these begin to 
boil, put in the squirrels or chickens, and let all stew to- 
gether slowly (stirring often) till the meat will drop from 
the bones. Then serve in a soup tureen, to be eaten 
from soup-plates. 

Some add a little butter rolled in flour, just before dish- 
ing ; others thicken it with bread-crumbs. 



MEAT PIES, 
Meat Pie. 

Any kind of meat will do, either that which has been 
already cooked, or raw meat, the cheaper cuts of veal or 
beef being preferred. Cut them into slices of convenient 
size for helping, and if raw parboil them. Put them into 
a deep pudding dish, with water enough to nearly half 
cover them, and gravy, if you have it. Dredge in a little 
flour and lay on a few bits of butter. Add sliced potato 
if you like, or hard-boiled eggs sliced. 

Make either a "Crust for Meat Pies" or a "Potato 



Dinner. 189 



Crust." Roll it out about one inch thick and lay it on 
top of the pie. Make a deep slit in the middle to allow 
the steam to escape. Bake in a rather hot oven for about 
three quarters of an hour. 

A few raw tomatoes are an improvement. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

This is a good way to use a tougli steak. Cut the meat 
in large squares, crack the bone, and parboil in cold water 
for about twenty minutes. (If allowed to boil fast the 
meat will be more tough, rather than less so.) Proceed 
as with " Meat Pie," using the water in which the beef 
was boiled. 

Chicken Pie. 

Boil two chickens in hot water (barely enough to cover 
them) forty minutes. Skim occasionally, take them out 
of the water and joint them as for " Fricasseed Chicken." 
Put them in a deep pudding dish. Sprinkle thickly with 
flour, salt and pepper and lay on bits of butter rolled in 
flour. Pour in enough of the water in which the chickens 
were boiled, to cover them. Lay on a " Crust for Meat 
Pies," rolled an inch thick. Cut a deep slit in the middle. 
Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

Babbit Pie. 

Cut a pair of rabbits into pieces of a convenient size. 
Parboil in cold water enough to cover them. Skim well. 
Then proceed as with " Chicken Pie," adding bits of salt 
pork. 

Quail or Pigeon Pie. 

Make like " Chicken Pie," but boil them, only ten min- 
utes. Cut each pigeon into four pieces, but use quails 
"whole. Bake three quarters of an hour in a rather hot 
oven. 

If you like, lay a tender beefsteak in the bottom of the 
dish. 



190 How to Cook Well. 

Mock Squab Pie. 

Slice a few apples, and lay them in layers with mutton 
chops in a deep dish. Shred onion and sprinkle a little 
sugar over each layer of chops. Add half a cupful of 
water or gravy. Lay a " Crust for Meat Pies " over the 
top, cut a slit in the middle, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour. 

Chicken or Veal Pot Pie. 

Cut up and garboil a large chicken, or two pounds of veal. 
Butter very thoroughly a pot and line sides and bottom 
with paste (see "Crust for Meat Pies"), cutting out 
pieces on the sides of the pot in such a way as to prevent 
thick folds. Put in a layer of chicken ; flour, salt and 
pepper it, and add a little butter. Do this until you have 
used all the chicken, or the pot is full. Pour in enough 
liquor in which the chicken was boiled to half fill the pot. 

Cover with a thick layer of pastry, making a slit in the 
middle for the escape of the steam. Heat slowly and boil 
one and a half hours, watching that it does not burn. If 
more liquor is necessary pour it in through the slit. When 
done, invert the pot into a large dish, so that the lower 
crust will be on top. 

It may be made without the lower crust, which some 
persons consider unwholesome. 

Bits of salt pork may be used instead of butter ; they 
will give an excellent flavor. 



VEGETABLES. 
Boiled Potatoes. 

Choose potatoes of a uniform size and wash them. 
Peel them as thin as possible, both because it is wasteful 
to do otherwise, and because the richest part of the 
potato lies next the skin. Then leave to soak in cold 
water, for an hour, or longer if the potatoes are very old. 



Dinner. 191 



Boil them in salted cold or hot water, according to the 
kind of potato. If you find that boiling in cold water 
prevents their being mealy, try hot. It is impossible to 
give an unvarying rule for potatoes in this respect. If 
you use cold water, put them on to cook three quarters of 
an hour before dinner ; if hot, half an hour will do. (Of 
course very small potatoes do not take so long.) Boil 
till tender when pierced by a fork. Drain off all the 
water at once, as they will become soggy if left soaking 
when done. Then take the pot to an open window, and 
with the lid on, shake them up and down once or twice ; 
after which, remove the lid, expose the potatoes to the 
cold air for a moment, and set the pot on the back part of 
the stove, uncovered, for five minutes, to dry out thor- 
oughly, while you are dishing the rest of the dinner. 

Serve uncovered, unless by a napkin, which will not pre- 
vent the escape of steam. 

Old Potatoes, such as one sometimes has in the months 
of April or May, can be rendered less watery by a very 
simple process. When about to dish them, take one at a 
time in a coarse towel, and squeeze it as hard as possible. 
Then lay it carefully in the dish. 

New Potatoes should always be boiled in hot water, 
and with the skins on. These may be removed at the 
moment of dishing; sprinkle on salt as you lay them in 
the dish. Same persons scrape the skins off before boil- 
ing, but on no account should they be peeled. 

Flaked Potato. 

Prepare like " Boiled Potatoes." Just before dishing, 
break into small pieces with a fork. Heap lightly in a 
dish, and sprinkle with salt. 

Mashed Potato. 

Boil potatoes till well cooked. Drain and dry them. 
With a potato-masher mash and beat until light, in the 



192 How to Cook Well. 

same pot they were boiled in, keeping it at one side of 
the stove, so that the potato will not burn, yet will keep 
hot. The longer you beat them the whiter and creamier 
the potato will be, so it is well to allow ten minutes for 
this when you put the potatoes on to boil. Scatter in 
salt, and add a little milk (previously heated so as not to 
cool the potato), with a piece of butter melted in it. 
Work all together well. Then dish, and smooth the top 
nicely with a warm knife. 

Mashed Potato is the basis of so many dishes and is so 
popular that it should be prepared with especial care. 

Browned Potatoes. 
(To serve with Roast Beef.) 

Wash and peel large potatoes. Dredge with flour. 
Have a piece of beef roasting. One hour before dinner 
skim the fat from the gravy, and lay in the potatoes 
around the meat. Baste frequently with the juice of the 
meat after they brown. When half-done turn them; 
dredge, and when brown, baste again. Sprinkle with salt 
before serving, laid around the platter in which the beef 
is served. 

Potatoes in Other Ways. 

(See Index.) 
Sweet Potatoes. 

See Sweet Potatoes Baked. 

If any one chooses to boil sweet potatoes, she must 
experiment for herself, as I never yet tasted a boiled sweet 
potato that was a success. They should always be baked 
to keep their flavor. 

Turnips. 

Old Turnips. Wash, peel, and lay in cold water for 
an hour. Then put into cold salted water over the fire 



Dinner. 193 



two and a half hours before dinner. When tender, drain 
well, and mash with a potato-masher, adding a little but- 
ter. Smooth the top when dished, and put dots of pepper 
over the surface. 

Old turnips have so rank a taste that it is a vast im- 
provement to this dish to mix with it half as much mashed 
potato. What is left over, fry, like " Potato Balls." 

Young Turnips. Scrape and lay in cold water half 
an hour. Then boil three quarters of an hour in salted 
boiling water. When tender, drain off the water, and 
pour on enough milk to cover them. When it boils up 
add a little flour, rubbed smooth in cold milk, and a large 
lump of butter. 

Turnips will not give out a disagreeable odor while 
cooking if boiled slowly and a lump of charcoal is boiled 
with them, or a small piece of a ripe red pepper. 

Boiled Beets. 

Wash the beets, but do not peel or cut them, for the 
juice escapes very easily. Boil in cold salted water, two 
or three hours, in winter, one hour in summer. When 
tender, take them out of the water on a fork, and peel. 
Slice while hot, into a dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
and put dots of butter among the slices. Serve covered. 

Those left from dinner may be heated over by steaming 
them ; or they may be pickled, by pouring over them cold 
vinegar, in which they should stand several hours before 
being served. 

Boiled Parsnips. 

Wash and boil in cold salted water from three quarters 
to one hour. When tender, skin them, split in half, and 
lay them in a dish, buttering plentifully. Serve covered. 

On no account leave them in the water after they are 
done; it makes them soggy and destroys their flavor. 
Use what are left over to fry for another meal. 



194 How to Cook Well. 

Buttered Parsnips. 

Boil as above ; skin and cut into round, thick slices. 
Have ready in a sauce-pan, one tablespoonful of butter 
and one teaspoonful of flour, previously rubbed together, 
and two tablespoonfuls of milk. When it boils up, put 
in the parsnips, and shake over the fire till smoking hot. 
Serve hot in a covered dish. 

Fried Parsnips. 

Boil parsnips as above. When perfectly cold, cut them 
lengthwise into thick slices, and dredge them with flour. 
Have ready a hot frying-pan. Put in enough beef drip- 
ping, ham fat, or lard to cover the bottom, and when 
boiling hot, lay in the parsnips. Brown them well on 
both sides. It will take only a few minutes. 

Parsnip Cakes (fried). 

Boil parsnips as above. Mash while hot with a potato- 
masher, removing all the tough fibre. Add one third as 
much mashed potato, with a little butter and milk or 
cream; season with salt and pepper. With floured 
hands make into balls and flatten them. Fry like 
"Potato Balls." A beaten egg mixed in is an improve- 
ment. 

Parsnips with Boast Beef. 

Wash and scrape, and proceed as with " Browned Pota- 
toes." 

Baked Onions. 

Bermuda onions are best, because of their mild flavor. 
Choose all of one size. Leave the skins on. Bake in the 
oven till tender. Remove the skins, and dress with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt. 

Boiled Onions. 

Choose those of uniform size. Boil twenty minutes, 
in hot salted water. Drain the water off entirely ; add 



Dinner. 195 



equal parts of fresh, boiling water and milk, and boil 
twenty minutes more. When tender, lay them in a dish, 
and season, with butter, salt and pepper. Thicken a little 
of the milk, if you choose, with flour rubbed in cold water, 
and boil till of the consistency of custard. Pour over 
and serve covered. Never cook onions in an iron pot. 

Fried Onions. 

Peel, slice, and fry in hot lard or butter, about forty 
minutes, till delicately brown. Season with pepper and 
salt and serve hot, covered. 

Winter Squash. 

Cut it up, throw away the inside, and pare the pieces. 
The best way to cook it is in a steamer, or colander, set 
over a kettle of boiling water, so as not to touch the water. 
Cover tight, and steam one hour. Or, boil slowly in only 
just enough water to keep it from burning. When ten- 
der, which should be in three quarters of an hour, drain 
off all the water; press it, and mash with a potato- 
masher, stirring in a large lump of butter, and a sprink- 
ling of salt. When dished, smooth the top, and dot it with 
pepper. Serve uncovered. Use what remains for " Squash 
Pie, or Pudding," or for " Squash Fritters." 

Or, it may be made into cakes, and fried like " Potato 
Balls." 

Summer Squash (boiled). 

Wash and pare them thinly, unless the rind is extremely 
tender. Put them whole into boiling water ; as little as 
possible. Boil three quarters of an hour, till tender. 
Drain thoroughly, and press the water out with a plate. 
Stir in a large lump of butter, and a little pepper and 
salt. Mash and mix well with a wooden spoon. Serve 
hot, uncovered. If the squash is an old one, with large 
seeds, run it through a colander, to remove these, before 
seasoning. 



196 How to Cook Well 

Fried Squash. 

Wash and cut in round slices a quarter of an inch thick, 
crook-necked, summer squashes. Pare and remove the 
seeds if large. Sprinkle with salt, and let them stand a 
few moments. Then dip into beaten egg ; afterwards 
into fine bread-crumbs, and lay in a hot frying-pan, con- 
taining a lump of butter, boiling hot. There should be 
only enough to cover the bottom of the pan, as squashes 
absorb grease. Brown the squash on both sides until 
tender enough to be pierced by a straw. Serve hot. 

You can dredge them with flour, instead of using egg 
and bread-crumbs. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Remove the outer leaves ; quarter and examine care- 
fully, as cabbage is liable to be infested by insects. Soak 
for one hour in cold water. Put into boiling water, salted, 
an hour before dinner; boil fifteen minutes, skimming 
well. Drain off the water, and fill up with that which is 
fresh and boiling. When tender, drain well, press with a 
plate, chop and stir in a lump of butter, pepper and salt. 

If very large, boil one and one half hours. 

It is a great improvement to omit salt in the water, 
and boil with it a large piece of salt pork or bacon. This 
should be removed before chopping the cabbage. A cup 
of cream poured over it, after being dished, is an improve- 
ment. What is left may be used for "Escaloped Cab- 
bage." 

The odor from boiling cabbage can be avoided if it is 
boiled slowly and a lump of charcoal is put in the water, or 
a tiny bit of a ripe red pepper, or a pinch of ammonia. 

North Carolina Boiled Cabbage. 
Pick over, wash and quarter a large cabbage. Let it 
stand in cold water for an hour. Have ready boiling a 
ham, or a smoked side ; skim well. An hour before din- 



Dinner. 197 



ner, put into the boiling liquor, with the ham, the cabbage. 
Boil fast ; when tender, chop fine. Skim off the grease, 
and pour some of the liquor over the cabbage. It may be 
served on the platter containing the ham. 

Those who do not like ham, can substitute corned beef. 

Boiled Cauliflower. 

Remove the outside leaves and soak for an hour in cold 
salted water. If very large, cut in half ; otherwise cook 
it whole. Put into salted boiling water, and boil slowly, 
so that it will not break, about half an hour. When half 
done, pour off the water, and cover with equal parts of 
fresh boiling water and milk, or milk alone. When ten- 
der, lay the cauliflower in a hot dish and sprinkle with 
salt. Serve at once, covered, as it darkens with standing. 

If you like, serve " Drawn Butter " with it. Use what 
is left, also the milk, for soup, to which it is a pleasant 
addition. 

Stewed Cauliflower. 

Cut into small clusters, throwing away the outer leaves 
and stem. Lay for one hour into cold salted water. 
Then put into boiling water. Boil slowly twenty min- 
utes. Take out the cauliflowers and lay them in a dish. 
Then pour off all but about half a cupful of the water. 
While this is boiling stir in half a cupful of milk, in which 
you have rubbed one tablespoonful of flour. When this 
boils up add a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
sprinkle with salt. Pour the sauce over the cauliflower, 
and serve at once, covered. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Wash, scrape, and lay in cold water for one hour. 
Then cut around in thick slices. Put into boiling water, 
salted, and boil slowly from one to one and one half hours. 
When half done, pour off the water and add fresh boiling 
water, with salt. When tender, drain off the water and 



198 How to Cook Well. 

cover them with milk. When this boils up, dish the car- 
rots, and thicken the milk by adding to it, while boiling, 
one tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in cold water. 
Stir in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and a pinch 
of salt. Pour the hot sauce over the carrots and serve 
covered. 

After draining off the first water they may be stewed 
in gravy not too thick. In this case no sauce is needed. 

No. 2. Wash, scrape, and cut into round, thick slices. 
Melt a lump of butter in a sauce-pan. Put in the carrots, 
with a few slices of onion, and a little pepper and salt. 
Brown nicely, then pour in some " Stock," and simmer till 
the carrots are tender, full half an hour. Dish, nnd thicken 
the stock by stirring in, while boiling, one tablespoonful 
of flour, rubbed smooth in cold water. Pour over the 
carrots, cover and serve hot. 

Stewed Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

Wash, but do not scrape it, as that will cause it to turn 
black and to lose much of its flavor. Put it into boiling 
water salted. Boil slowly till tender, about three quarters 
of an hour. Then take out the salsify and rub off the 
skin ; cut into pieces an inch long, and return to the sauce- 
pan, having previously poured off all the water but half a 
cupful, and added half a cupful of milk. When this boils 
thicken with one teaspoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in 
cold water. Add salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of 
butter. Boil up once and serve in a covered dish. 

If you are making soup, the water which was poured 
off can be added to that, and it will impart a pleasant 
flavor of oysters. Do not cook salsify in an iron pot, as 
it .blackens it. 

Salsify Fritters, or Mock Oysters, 

Boil whole as above, till tender. Take it out and skin 
it. When perfectly cold, mash with a potato masher, 



Dinner. 199 



taking care to pick out all the fibres. Moisten with a lit- 
tle milk and melted butter. Add a pinch of salt and work 
to a smooth paste. Beat some eggs, allowing one and 
one half to each cupful of salsify. Work them in, and 
form the whole into balls, with floured hands. Flatten 
them, dredge with flour, and brown on both sides in a 
frying-pan containing boiling beef-dripping or lard enough 
to keep them from sticking. 

Fried Salsify. 

Wash and parboil it. Cut it into lengthwise slices. 
" Egg-and-Crumb " them, and fry brown on both sides. 

Stuffed Peppers. 



8 green peppers. 
' 2 ounces butter. 

2 table spoonfuls olive oil. 

2 chopped onions. 

1 pint mushrooms. 
' A little salt and white pepper. 

A dash of red pepper. 



A dash of nutmeg. 
"Tomato Sauce." 

3 handf uls fresh bread-crumbs. 

4 eggs (yolks only). 

1 tablespoonful chopped pars- 
ley. 



Cut off one end of the peppers (with stem). Neatly 
remove seed and inside, which are not used. Place in 
salt water and soak all night. 

Next day prepare stuffing as follows : Put in a sauce^ 
pan the butter, oil, onions, and mushrooms. Stir and fry 
about ten minutes to evaporate moisture. Season and add 
four tablespoonfuls of the tomato sauce. Boil a little, 
Then add the bread-crumbs, egg-yolks well beaten, and 
parsley. Mix well, stir, and cook three minutes longer. 
When cool fill the peppers and replace ends. Put into a 
pan with a little water and a lump of butter. Bake three 
quarters of an hour, basting frequently, Place when done 
on a platter and pour the rest of the tomato sauce around, 
already made hot. Serve hot. 



200 How to Cook Well 

Stewed Celery. 

Cut the white part of the celery into pieces one inch 
long. Drop into boiling water. Boil half an hour. Then 
pour off the water, and cover with milk. Boil until the 
celery is tender, perhaps half an hour. Just before serv- 
ing, add pepper and salt, and several bits of butter rolled 
in flour. After, boiling a moment, serve in a covered 
dish. 

Do not use an iron kettle, for fear of discoloring the 
celery. The greener portion of the celery can be used in 
the same way ; but the taste is not so delicate, and it will 
not make as handsome a dish. 

Boiled Spinach. 

As spinach shrinks very much in cooking be sure to 
buy plenty. A peck is not too much for a family of 
seven. Wash well, and pick it over carefully, as it is lia- 
ble to be gritty. Put it into boiling salted water, enough 
to fill the pot ; for unless a great deal of water is used, 
the spinach will be bitter. Boil half an hour. When 
tender, drain thoroughly, pressing with a plate. Chop it 
fine, adding a piece of butter. Dish and smooth the top. 
Lay on the top, two hard-boiled eggs, cut in thick slices. 
Serve vinegar with it. 

Spinach a la Creme. 

Boil as above, and rub through a colander, after press- 
ing the water off. Season with pepper and salt. Put 
into a sauce-pan with a small piece of butter, and a little 
cream. Boil up well, stirring all the time, and dish. Gar- 
nish with sliced hard-boiled eggs, if you like. 

Greens (various kinds). 

The roots and tops of young beets, young cabbages, 
turnips, or mustard-tops, dandelions and lettuce make 
good greens. Prepare and boil like "Boiled Spinach," 



Dinner. 201 



taking care to use plenty of water, and serve in the same 
way. Many persons like to boil a piece of bacon or salt 
pork with greens ; in case you do this, omit the salt in 
the water. 

Cabbages and dandelions require to be boiled one hour, 
beet-tops will be done in three quarters of an hour, and 
turnip-tops in twenty minutes. Serve with vinegar. 

Greens will not give out a disagreeable odor while boil- 
ing if boiled slowly, and a piece of bread pinned in a 
cloth is boiled with them. 

Boiled Asparagus. 

Wash and cut the stalks of equal length, trimming off 
the woody ends. Tie them in a bunch, with a strip of 
muslin. Put into plenty of boiling water, salted. Boil 
very gently one hour, longer if old. Have ready three 
or four slices of toasted bread ; dip them in the asparagus 
water ; butter them and lay on a hot platter. When the 
asparagus is tender, take it out carefully, so as not to 
break it. Lay it in the middle of the dish, remove the 
string, and arrange the asparagus over the toast. Cover 
with thin shavings of butter. 

Another way is to pour over all a sauce made as fol- 
lows : Pour off all but about half a cupful of the aspara- 
gus liquor. Add half a cupful of milk, and thicken it 
while boiling, with one tablespoonful of flour, rubbed 
smooth in another half cupful of milk. Add butter size 
of an egg, and let it boil till smooth and thick as custard. 
The yolk of an egg added at the last is an improvement. 

Asparagus liquor should always be saved for soup, if 
you are making it. 

Peas. 

Shell, but do not wash them. Soak for half an hour in 
just enough water to cover them. Put them on to boil 
in the same water, without adding any more. Cover and 



202 How to Cook Well. 

boil slowly (counting from the time they begin) from half 
an hour to one hour, according to their age. When ten- 
der, and the skins look shrivelled, they are done. Drain 
off most of the liquor, add pepper and salt, dredge in a 
little flour and stir in a lump of butter. Serve hot, cov- 
ered. Some persons prefer them dry; others pour into 
the boiling liquor, half a cupful of cream, or milk in 
which one tablespoonful of flour has been rubbed. Let 
it boil until the sauce thickens. Use what may be left, 
for "Pea Fritters." 

Old peas should have a pinch of soda thrown into the 
water a few minutes before serving them. 

French, String or Snap Beans. 

String carefully, breaking off each end. Cut each bean 
into two or three pieces. Then cook like peas, only at 
least half an hour longer. 

Another way is to boil a piece of salt pork with them, 
omitting butter and salt. The pork should not be served 
with the beans, but may be used for a second cooking. 

Use what beans are left for salad ; or warm over with 
peas left from a former dinner. Together they make a 
very good dish. 

Shelled, Lima or Butter Beans. 

Soak in cold water just enough to cover them for half 
an hour. Then boil in the same water, without adding 
more, and keep them covered. Do not salt them until 
nearly done, as that makes them hard. Some beans 
require to boil longer than others. The usual time is one 
hour. When tender, dip them out with a skimmer, and 
dish with plenty of butter. Boil with them a piece of 
salt pork, or bacon, if you like, and omit the salt. 

Serve what are left for "Succotash." They are also 
good warmed over with tomatoes. 



Dinner. 203 



Dried Beans. 

Soak one cupful of beans over night in one quart of 
cold water. Three hours before dinner drain this off, and 
pour over the beans two quarts of warm water. Boil 
slowly, stirring occasionally. When half-done, add one 
tablespoonful of salt. When tender, drain well, and dish 
with plenty of butter, and a little pepper. Use the water 
for soup. 

Winter Succotash. 

This can be made of dried lima beans, and canned com, 
which may be left from former dinners. Warm them 
over together with a little milk and butter, and thicken 
the milk with a little flour. 

Boiled Corn. 

Take off all the green leaves, except one layer, and pull 
off the dark part of silk ; put into boiling salted water, 
and boil from twenty minutes to an hour, according to 
the age. 

Do not let it continue to boil when it is tender, though 
it may stand in the hot water without injury till dinner is 
ready, if the pot is set back. Too long boiling makes it 
tough. When ready to dish, remove the leaves and serve 
in a napkin. 

Corn cooked in this way has a much finer flavor than 
when boiled without the leaves. 

What is left may be cut from the cob, and warmed in 
milk, or used for " Corn Fritters." 

Stewed Corn. 

Cut from the cob, and put into boiling water, only just 
enough to cover it, and stew fifteen minutes. 

Drain off the water, cover with milk, and stew till ten- 
der, dredging in a little flour from time to time. Just 
before serving, add pepper and salt, and a lump of butter. 



204 How to Cook Well. 

Succotash. 

Cut the corn from the cobs, and measure it. Shell lima 
or butter beans, and allow of vthem about two thirds as 
much as you have corn. Put the cobs into hot water and 
boil them half an hour. Take them out about an hour 
before dinner and add the beans to the water. Boil slowly, 
half an hour, then add the corn. Just before dinner, 
drain off the water, and proceed as with " Stewed Corn." 
It is not necessary to boil the cobs first ; but this heightens 
the flavor of the corn. 

Corn in Other "Ways. 

(See Index.} 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Pour scalding water over the tomatoes. Let them 
stand a minute. Then skin them. Quarter them, and 
extract the cores. Put them in a sauce-pan (not a tin 
one). Cover and stew slowly without the addition of 
water. Mash them once in a while, with a wooden spoon. 
At the end of three quarters of an hour, add salt and pep- 
per, a few fine bread-crumbs, and a large lump of butter. 
Stir until smooth and serve covered. 

Never throw away even a spoonful of tomato. Tomato 
left over can be used in as great a variety of ways as 
potato. (See " Ways to Use Tomato.") 

A Summer Medley. 

Stew together, tomatoes and lima beans. When they 
have cooked three quarters of an hour, add corn cut from 
the cob. In twenty minutes, add salt and pepper and a 
lump of butter. 

What is left may be baked for breakfast, with the addi- 
tion of a pint of bread-crumbs, seasoned and moistened, 
using a buttered pudding-dish. Meat may also be added, 
chopped fine, if you like. 



Dinner. 205 



This dish may be made of the remains of a former din- 
ner, and is very good with either beans or corn, as well as 
with the two. 

Tomatoes in Other Ways. 
(See Index.) 

Stewed Cucumbers. 

Prepare as for " Raw Cucumbers," but slice thick. Take 
out the seeds ; put into enough boiling water to cover 
them, and stew fifteen minutes. Then drain off the water. 
Add enough fresh boiling water to keep them from burn- 
ing. 

When this boils, add a cupful of milk, in which one 
teaspoonful of flour has been dissolved. Sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and add a lump of butter. Stir as it 
boils up. If not thick enough, dredge in more flour. 
Serve in a covered dish. 

It is said that stewed cucumbers will hurt no one. 

Cucumbers in Other Ways. 

(See Index.) 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Slice one half inch thick and pare. Lay in cold salted 
water for an hour. Wipe dry. Dip each slice into beaten 
egg ; then in corn meal, or fine bread or cracker-crumbs, 
and fry in enough lard, or beef-drippings, to brown them. 
Cook until tender enough to be pierced by a straw. 

What is left over may be used for " Mousaka." 

Stuffed Egg Plant. 
(See Page 71.) 

Okra. 

Cut the pods into round, thick slices. Put them into 
boiling salted water, only enough to cover them. Simmer 



206 How to Cook Well. 

slowly three quarters of an hour. When tender add salt, 
pepper, and a lump of butter. Serve in a covered dish. 

A few green grapes stewed with the okra gives it an 
agreeable flavor. 

What is left may be used for soup. 

Okra and Tomatoes. 

Cook like the above, but mix with the okra half as much 
tomato, and use no water, as the tomatoes are sufficiently 
juicy. For this, the okra should be cut into thin slices. 

Use what is left for soup, or to bake. 

Baked Okra and Tomatoes. 

Stew fifteen minutes, prepared as above. When sea- 
soned, put into a buttered pudding-dish, lined with bread, 
or cracker-crumbs. Put crumbs on top and bake half an 
hour in a hot oven. 

Boiled Eice. 

Wash a cupful of rice. Rub it hard between the hands 
and use several waters, till there is no milkiness. Put the 
rice into a double boiler, pour over it one quart of boiling 
water and add two teaspoonfuls of salt. Allow one hour 
for it to boil. In ten minutes stir gently with a fork. 
After that do not touch it. Fifteen minutes before din- 
ner, drain off all the water. Uncover and let it dry out. 
Put on the cover, once in a while, and shake it violently 
up and down. Heap lightly in a dish, and serve uncov- 
ered. Rice cooked in this way will make a beautiful 
looking dish, every kernel standing separate and dry. 

It may be cooked in an ordinary sauce-pan, but is more 
liable to burn. In this case boil hard and fast for twenty 
minutes, shaking the sauce-pan frequently, not sideways, 
but up and down. 

Leave it uncovered to dry after draining, only about 
five minutes. 

To use what is left, see " Ways to use Cold Rice." 



Dinner. 207 



Rice in Other Ways. 

(See Index.) 

/ ; 

Boiled Macaroni. 

To a quarter of a pound of macaroni allow one dessert- 
spoonful of salt. Put it in a deep sauce-pan, having 
broken it into convenient lengths. Pour over it as much 
boiling water as the sauce-pan will hold. Macaroni needs 
a great quantity, as it soaks up much water, and is not 
good unless kept well under water during the whole pro- 
cess of boiling. Boil slowly (so as not to break it) for 
two hours, stirring occasionally from the bottom with a 
fork. When done, pour it into a colander, and drain off 
all the water. Then dish, with generous lumps of butter 
laid among the pieces. Serve covered. 

Another way is to pour off the water when done, and 
cover it with milk. When this boils, dredge in a little 
flour and add a piece of butter. 

Some kinds of macaroni will boil in a shorter time ; 
but it should be very thoroughly cooked. 

i 
Milan Macaroni. 

li quarts of beef or mutton 1 1 pound macaroni, 
broth. I & tablespoonf ul salt. 

Put the broth on the fire fully two hours before dinner. 
When it boils, put in the macaroni and salt. Boil very 
slowly until the macaroni is tender. Drain through a 
colander, saving the broth for soup. Dish with a little 
butter. 

Macaroni in Other Ways. 
(See Index.) 



208 



How to Cook Well. 



Ways to use Cold Potatoes. 

Boiled Potatoes. 



Fried Potatoes. 

In Hash. 

In Stew. 

Potatoes with Giblets. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potato. 

Kentucky or Escalopecl Potato. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 



Broiled Potatoes. 

Potatoes and Cream. 

Stewed Potatoes, with Gravy. 

Potato Rechauffee. 

Potato Salad. 

Potato au Gratin 



Mashed Potato. 



Potato Balls. 

Potato Croquettes. 

In Fish Balls. 

St. Patrick's Pie. 

Potato Puff. 

Breakfast Turnovers. 

Stuffing for Fish or Poultry. 



To thicken Soup. 
Casserole of Fish. 
Escaloped Fish. 
In Codfish Puff. 
With Mashed Turnips. 
In Parsnip Cakes. 
Salmon a P Indienne. 



Ways to use Cold Bice. 

In Soup. 

Rice and Tomatoes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Dolmathes. 

Casserole Rice and Meat. 

Chicken baked in Rice. 

Baked Rice. 

An Appetizing Breakfast Dish. 

Pilau. 

Rice and Meat Croquettes. 

Ways to use. Cooked Tomato. 

In Soup. 
Tomato Sauce. 
In Hash. 
In Stews. 



Rice Croquettes. 
Rice Balls. 
Rice Waffles. 
Rice Corn Bread. 
Rice Muffins. 
Rice Griddle Cakes. 
Rice Pudding. 
Snow Balls. 
Hidden Apples. 
Anglo-Francais Pie. 



An Appetizing Breakfast Dish. 
Rice and Tomatoes. 
A Summer Medley. 
Okra and Tomatoes. 



DESSERTS. 

PIES; 

REMARKS. 

Pies should be light, flaky and tender, and the bottom 
crust, in particular, should be well-baked. A pie made 
thus is a very different thing from the leathery sodden 
things that go by the name in so many families. 

Use only good shortening for pies, and have it as cold 
and firm as possible. Have the water also cold, and stand 
in a cold place while mixing and rolling out the pastry. 
As to flour, some kinds will never make good pastry, 
though the very best for bread. It is well to buy what is 
known as pastry flour. It is not only better for pies, but 
cheaper than other kinds. 

Directions for mixing pie crust are given in each 
receipt. Use only enough water to make it adhere, 
otherwise it will be tough. Use a knife to mix with, not 
the fingers. In rolling out, handle as little as possible 
(this is one secret of success) and be quick in your motions. 
Roll always from the centre toward the edges, and roll as 
little as possible only just enough to make it smooth 
and evenly thin, after the shortening is all in. Experi- 
enced pastry-makers pass the rolling-pin only once over 
the paste, pressing carefully and evenly as they go. It 
makes pastry more crisp and flaky to be left for awhile in 
a very cold place when ready to roll out for the pie-plates, 
and have it cold, when put in the oven. 

Tin pie-plates are better than earthen ones. The pies 



210 How to CooJc Well 

bake better on the bottom. When done, they can be 
easily removed from the tin to a clean china plate before 
serving. Pie-plates need not be greased. Having rolled 
a part of the paste thin and evenly, and as nearly circular 
as possible, lay it over the plate, letting it drop gradually 
from one side, so that no air-bubbles will be left in. Press 
it down evenly, and if there are air-bubbles, prick with a 
fork. Take the plate on the palm of the left hand, and 
with a knife held aslant in the right, trim the edges, but 
not too close, as the entire edge of the pan must be left 
covered. (The scraps can be collected and rolled out 
afterwards for a rim to put around the edge of the upper 
crust.) 

Fill with whatever you like, but not until you are ready 
to bake, for if the filling is at all moist, it will make the 
crust soggy. Wet the entire edge of the crust. Roll out 
the top crust, and with a knife cut slits in the centre in a 
pretty pattern. Lay this over the pie, trim the edges as 
before, and press it with a fork all around, so as to unite 
it with the bottom crust. Or, cut a long strip of paste, 
wet one edge, and roll it over, and lay the roll around the 
edge of the pie, having pressed the top and bottom crusts 
together with the finger-tips. 

While baking, keep the heat as great at the bottom as 
at the top, but if you have any doubt about the bottom 
crust being well done, set the tin on top of the stove for 
a minute. When done the pie will shrink from the 
edge of the tin, and will not stick to the bottom when 
taken out. 

Puff Paste. 

Wo. 1. Allow one large cupful of flour to each pie. 

When you have measured out flour for as many pies as 
you mean to make, weigh it. Then weigh an equal quan- 
tity of butter. Have it as cold as possible. Salt the flour 
slightly. Chop into it half the butter. When as fine as 



Desserts. 211 



coarse sand, add ice-cold water, only just enough to hold 
the dough together. Put it on a bread-board, on which 
you have sprinkled flour. Roll out thin, handling and 
rolling as little as possible, and taking care to roll from 
the centre towards the edges, not back and forth. Lay 
on thin shavings of butter (using what you have reserved) 
in close rows all over the surface of the dough. Sprinkle 
with flour. Roll up, and roll out again. Do this till all 
the butter is gone. It should be put on thick enough to 
be used up in three rollings. Roll out very evenly the 
last time, and put it on the pie. Bake in a quick oven, 
to make it puff up well. 

A plainer crust may be used for the bottom of the pie. 

No. 2. / 1 pound flour. 



2.ri 
u 



A little salt. i cupful ice-water. 

| pound butter. 

Sprinkle the salt through the flour, then chop half the 
butter into it. Beat the yolk of the egg, and stir it into 
the water. Pour this into the flour, use a knife, and stir 
it only just enough to make the flour adhere. Put it on 
a floured bread-board, roll it out thin, and proceed as with 
"Puff Paste" No. 1. 

After baking, wash over the top while hot with the 
white of the egg, beaten a little, to give it a glaze. 

This is the best paste to use for Pates. 

Eich Pie Crust. 

(For One Pie.) 



1 heaping cupful flour. 
A small pinch salt. 

2 even tablespoonf uls lard. 



4 cupful very cold water. 
2 even tablespoonf uls butter. 



Stir the salt into the flour. Put in the lard, and chop 
till very fine. Mix in the water with a knife. 

Put the dough on a floured bread-board and roll out, 
handling as little as possible. 



212 How to CooTc Well 

Always roll from the centre towards the edges. When 
very thin, stick bits of butter in close rows all over the 
surface, using a knife ; sprinkle with flour and roll up as 
you would a sheet of paper. Roll out as before till the 
butter is all used, which ought to be in three rollings. 
Lay the paste in a cold place for half an hour to make it 
flaky and firm ; then roll out for the pie. 

Plain Pie Crust. 

f 1 heaping cupful flour. I 2 even tablespoonfuls lard. 

1 A pinch salt. I i cupful very cold water. 

Mix the flour and salt, chop in the lard until fine, stir 
in the water, and set it in a cold place to become flaky. 
Then roll out thin. 
Makes one pie. 

This makes a very flaky pie crust, though it is not a 
handsome one. Its advantage over other crusts is, that it 
is more quickly made. 

Bridget's Pie Crust, 
(For Two Pies.) 

2 heaping cupf uls flour. 

i teaspoonf ul salt. 

| teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 

i as much soda as cream of tartar. 

1 large tablespoonful lard. 

A little water or milk. 

Sift the salt, cream of tartar and soda with the flour. 

Chop the lard into it. With a knife stir in only just 
enough water or milk (very cold) to make a stiff dough. 

Roll out as lightly and quickly as possible, taking care 
to roll it thin. 

This is a very wholesome crust, though a plain one. 

Bread-Dough Pie Crust. 

For one pie take one heaping cupful of light bread 
dough, knead it and roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. 



Desserts. 213 



Lay bits of butter all over it, about half an inch apart. 
Sprinkle slightly with flour, and fold it over and over. Roll 
out again and distribute the butter and flour as before. 
Fold and press it down with the rolling-pin. Roll it out 
extremely thin, remembering that it will rise thicker. Use 
like any pie crust. 

For a beginner in pastry-making, T recommend this. It 
is easier to make than any other kind, as it does not have 
to be handled so carefully. Be particular to use plenty 
of butter, roll thin, and you cannot have a more whole- 
some crust than this. 

Mrs. Gen. Lee's Boiled Pastry. 

Take any amount of flour you wish to use. Add a lit- 
tle salt. Pour on this, directly from the tea-kettle, water 
which is actually boiling at the time. Use enough to mix 
into a moderately stiff dough. Roll out the paste on a 
floured bread-board, and use for any kind of dumplings. 

This is very delicate, and will hurt no one, aa no shorten- 
ing is used for it. 

Potato Crust (for Dumplings and Meat Pies). 



8 large potatoes, boiled and 

mashed. 
1 large table spoonful lard. 



A little salt. 

Flour enough to make a soft 
dough. 



1 pint milk or water. 

Rub the lard through the potatoes while hot ; stir in 
the milk and salt ; then the flour. Mix very thoroughly. 
Work well on a floured bread-board, and roll out, thin, 
for dumplings; one inch thick for meat pies. For the 
latter, it is an improvement to add from one to three eggs, 
beaten well. 

Crust for Meat Pies. 

Make like " Baking Powder Biscuit," using rather wore 
lard. Roll it about three quarters of an inch thick, and lay 



214 How to Cook Well 

over the top of the pie. An under crust is not often 
used for meat pies ; it is not considered wholesome. 

To Glaze Pie Crust. 

Beat one egg, or the white alone, and rub it over the 
top of the pie. 

To Prevent a Soggy Under Crust. 

If the bottom crust of fruit pies, or any other juicy 
kind, is rubbed over with a beaten egg, it will be a sure 
preventive of its being soggy. 

A Cream to Serve with Fruit Pies. 



1 table spoonful corn starch or 
arrowroot. 



{1 pint milk. 
A pinch salt. 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Scald the milk, with the salt and sugar ; reserving a lit- 
tle of the milk in which to rub the cornstarch. Add this 
to the milk when boiling and stir till thick as cream. 
Serve in a pitcher when cold, as a substitute for cream 
for those who like this accompaniment. 

Mince Pies, 

For mince-meat, see the following receipts. They are 
baked with both an under and an upper crust. A pretty 
way to make one for Christmas is with letters for the 
word " Christmas " cut out of the paste and laid on the 
top crust before the pie goes in the oven. 

As mince pies are usually heated before serving and as 
that always freshens pie-crust, it is a good plan for busy 
housekeepers to bake several at a time. It is convenient 
to have them in the house in case of unexpected com- 
pany, besides being less trouble than to bake them con- 
stantly. 



Desserts. 



215 



Mince Meat. No. 1. 



2 pounds beef (from the round). 

1 pound suet (chopped). 

4 pounds apples (chopped). 

2 pounds raisins (chopped). 

1 pound raisins, stoned, but 

whole. 
1 pound currants, well washed. 



pound citron, sliced fine. 



2 tablespoon fills cinnamon. 

tablespoonf ul cloves. 

table spoonful salt. 

nutmeg. 

pint brandy. 

pint wine. 

Boil the beef, and chop it fine. Add the other things, 
taking pains to mix all together very thoroughly. Put 
into a stone jar, and tie a cloth over the top. When you 
want to make pies, dip out enough, sweeten it to taste, 
and cover what is left in the jar. 

No. 2. 

1 teaspoonf ul allspice. 

2 nutmegs, grated. 

G lemons, juice only. 

1 quart brandy. 

1 quart wine. 

1 pound chopped apples. 



1 tablcspoonful salt. 



1 tongue, boiled and minced. 

2 pounds suet, chopped. 
2 pounds raisins. 

4 pounds currants. 

1 pound citron, chopped. 

2 pounds sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

Mix well together a week before using. 

Whenever you make pies, add fresh chopped apples. 
Instead of brandy, good cider boiled down to half its 
quantity will do, and for wine, currant wine may be used. 

If you choose, cut from the tongue a few thin slices for 
the table before mincing it, and substitute, for the meat 
thus removed, a little ordinary beef, boiled. 

No. 3. 4 pounds beef from the round. 

Boil slowly till tender. Remove all gristle, and when 
cold chop- very fine. Measure it, and to every pint, put 



2 pints raisins. 
1 pint currants. 
1 pint suet. 
1 pint molasses. 

1 pint quince jelly or marma- 
lade. 

1 pint any kind fruit syrup. 
\ pound citron. 



2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 table spoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 grated nutmeg. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 

1 pint wine. 

1 pint brandy. 



216 How to CooJc Wett. 

Mix these ingredients well together with the meat, at 
least a week before using it. When needed take out as 
much meat as required, and to every pint add nearly two 
pints of chopped apple. 

Mince meat made in this way without apple is sure 
to keep, and adding the apple fresh gives it a very fine 
flavor. 

Mock Mince Meat. 



12 butter crackers or 5 soda 

crackers. 

1 pint boiling water. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful molasses. 



k pound raisins. 

pound currants. 

2 nutmegs, grated. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful allspice. 

h tablespoouful cloves. 



1 cupful vinegar. 

Roll the crackers (not very fine). Then mix all the 
ingredients together, and make into pies at once, as it is 
not meant to keep. Beef suet, chopped fine, may be 
used instead of butter. 



Sweet Potato Pie. 



1 pound sweet potatoes. 
/ 2 eggs. 
\ i cup sugar. 



1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

A little nutmeg. 

1 cupful milk or cream. 



Boil or bake the potatoes. Mash while hot, or grate 
when cold. Add the eggs beaten with the sugar, and 
mix in the spice. Thin the mixture with milk or cream, 
to the consistency of thin custard. 

Line the pie-plates with pie crust. Pour in the mixture. 
Bake, without a top crust, in a quick oven. 

Makes two deep pies. 

This is nice baked as a pudding in a deep, buttered 
pudding-dish. 

Cranberry Pie. 

Stew cranberries, and sweeten. Put into a bottom 
crust, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. Put 
bars of paste over the top if you like. 



Desserts. 217 



Confederate Pies. 



1 cupful fine, white cornmeal 

mush, hot. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful cream, 



4 eggs, well beaten. 

3 tablespoouf uls butter, melted. 

1 glass wine. 

A little cinnamon. 



Beat all well together. Have ready a nice crust in two 
pie plates. Cover each with apple jelly. Pour the mix- 
ture on this, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Pumpkin Pie. 



2 cupfuls pumpkin, boiled and 

strained. 
A pinch of salt. 
I cupful brown sugar. 
1 teaspoonf ul ginger. 



3 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 cupful milk. 
Butter size of an egg. 

2 eggs well beaten. 



To the pumpkin add the salt, sugar and spices. Make 
the milk boiling hot, and stir into it the butter. Pour 
half the milk on the pumpkin ; mix thoroughly till smooth 
and add the rest ; then stir in the eggs. Line two pie- 
plates with crust and half bake them ; pour in the mixture, 
and bake without a top crust about half an hour in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Pumpkin pies should be deep, and the mixture should 
not be allowed to stand in the crust before baking, or it 
will be soggy. Keep the heat steady, or they will bake 
in streaks. 

Makes two large pies. 

This makes a good pudding baked in a deep dish, espe- 
cially if raisins are added. 

Squash Pie. 

Make like "Pumpkin Pie." The Hubbard squash is 
the best for pies. 



218 How to Cools Well. 



Squash Pie without Eggs. 



l pints stewed and strained 

squash. 

li cupfuls brown sugar. 
1 teaspoonf ul ginger. 
1 teaspoonf ul cinnamon. 



1 cupful milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch or 

cracker crumbs. 
Butter size of a walnut. 
lemon, juice and grated rind. 



A pinch of salt. 

To the squash add the sugar, spice and salt. 

Boil the milk, reserving enough to wet the cornstarch 
smooth. Stir this into the milk, when boiling. Boil a 
minute, till it thickens. Melt the butter in it, and pour 
it hot on the squash ; add the lemon. Mix thoroughly 
until no lumps remain. 

Pour into two bottom crusts and put instantly into a 
pretty hot oven. Keep the heat steady, and bake till firm. 
Makes two large deep pies. 

Dried Peach Pie. 

Make like " Dried Apple Pie," omitting the spice and 
ginger. Or make like " Marlborough Pie," using more 
peach than apple, and omitting the cinnamon, and one 



Dried Apple Pie. 

Soak the apples over night. Then stew them in the 
same water till tender. Let them boil down till most of 
the water is absorbed. Then sweeten, add a little grated 
nutmeg or cinnamon ; and sliced lemon or root ginger if 
you like. Bake between two crusts, about fifteen minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve cold, with sugar sifted over the top. 

Apple Pie. 

Make a nice " Apple Sauce." Bake it in a bottom crust 
with bars of pastry laid across the top, or with two crusts. 

Old-fashioned Apple Pie. 

Line a plate or dish, with thin paste ; slice sour apples 
very thin and heap high on the paste. Pour in a very 



Desserts. 219 



little water or molasses. Add cinnamon or nutmeg and 
scatter brown sugar thickly amongst the apple. Put 
bits of butter plentifully over the top. Then cover with 
the crust ; cut a slit in the middle and bake in a moderate 
oven, about one hour. 

To tell when it is done, run a clean broom straw 
through the slit. If the apple inside feels tender, the 
pie is done. 

Eat cold, with sugar sifted over the top. 

Apple Custard Pie. 



1 cupful strained, stewed apple. 
1 cupful sugar. 



A little grated nutmeg. 
1 cupful cream. 



1 egg, well-beaten. 

Mix all together in order. Pour into a bottom crust 
and bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 
Makes one pie. 

Marlborough Pie. 

Mix like " Marlborough Pudding," saving the whites 
of the eggs for a " Meringue," and bake in a bottom crust. 



3 eggs, yolks only. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



Custard Pie. 



1 pint milk. 
Flavoring. 



Beat the eggs with the sugar. Mix in the cold milk 
and flavoring. Pour into a bottom crust previously baked 
a little, taking care to press the dough down firmly and 
evenly before baking, to prevent its puffing up. Have 
the oven very hot ; in a few minutes the custard will be- 
come set or firm. Take it out instantly or it will curdle. 

If you like, grate nutmeg over the top. 

For Another Way to make custard for custard pie, 
see page 274. 



220 How to Cook Well. 



Cornstarch Pie. 



1 pint milk, 
cupful sugar. 



2 eggs (yolks only). 
4 teaspoonful vanilla. 



1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Mix like " Cornstarch Custard." 

Bake like " Custard Pie," but in a moderate oven, as in 
this the milk is hot. 

Sweet Potato Custard Pie. 



( 2 cupfuls sweet potato, boiled. 
\ i cupful butter (less will do) 

1 quart milk. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 



A pinch of salt. 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla, or other 
extract. 



6 eggs, beaten light. 

Pass the potato through a sieve while hot and add the 
butter before it cools. Put the milk on to boil, reserving 
one quarter of a cupful. In this dissolve the salt and 
cornstarch, and stir into the milk while boiling. Add the 
eggs, beaten with the sugar, stirring fast till it thickens. 
Remove from the fire ; add the vanilla, and pour it over 
the potato. 

Mix smooth ; pour into a bottom crust ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven, until firm (about twenty minutes). 

This makes four pies. Or it may be baked in a deep 
dish, as a pudding. 

Potatoes left from dinner will do if great care is taken 
to work them smooth by pouring the hot custard over 
them gradually. 

Cream Pie. No. 1, 

1 pint cream. I 3 eggs, whites only. 

cupful pulverized sugar. 1 A little grated nutmeg. 

Sweeten the cream, add the eggs, beaten stiff; pour 
into a bottom crust, and grate the nutmeg over the top. 
Bake in a hot oven. Or, bake four thin round sheets of 



A 

Desserts. 221 



pie crust, and when cold fill each two with the mixture, as 
soon as mixed, and serve at once without baking. 
Makes two pies. 

No. 2. f 1 egg. A pinch of salt, 

ll 



cupful pulverized 
sugar. 



A little flour. 

A little nutmeg or lemon rind. 



1 cupful cream. 

Beat the egg with the sugar ; add the cream and salt ; 
pour into a bottom crust ; dredge a little flour over it, and 
grate on a little nutmeg, or lemon rind. 

Bake in a hot oven until firm, or prepare like " Cream 
Pie, No. 1." 

Makes one small pie. 

Lemon Pie. 



1 table spoonffel starch (not corn 

starch) . 
1 cupful boiling water. 



Butter size of a nutmeg. 

1 lemon. 

2 eggs. 



1 cupful sugar. 

Wet the starch smooth with cold water, and stir it into 
the cup of boiling water on the stove. Boil up a minute, 
and pour upon the butter and sugar. Stir well. When 
cool, add the juice and grated rind of the lemon. Beat 
the eggs, reserving the white of one, and mix them in. 
Pour into a deep pie-plate lined with crust. 

Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. When 
cool, spread with a " Meringue," and brown delicately. 

Makes one large pie. 

Rich Lemon Pie. 



2 eggs (beaten separately). 
1 cupful sugar. 



i cupful water. 

1 large or 2 small lemons. 



3 powdered soda-crackers. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, and add to 
them the other things in order, using both juice and 
grated rind of the lemons. 



222 How to Cook Well. 

Bake in a bottom crust, in a rather hot oven about fif- 
teen minutes. When cool, spread with a " Meringue " and 
brown delicately. 

Makes one pie. 

If you make cocoanut pie the same day, save the white 
of one egg for that. The two pies look pretty served side 
by side, as gold and silver pies. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

1 egg, white only. 1 1 cupful white sugar. 

1 cupful grated cocoanut. | A few drops rose essence. 

Beat the egg stiff ; add the cocoanut, sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Put into a bottom crust and bake in a quick oven. 

Dessicated cocoanut may be used ; in this case add two 
teaspoon fuls milk. 

Makes one pie. 

Rhubarb Pie. No. 1. 

Cut rhubarb stalks into half-inch pieces. Pile high on 
a bottom crust, with thick layers of brown sugar. Add a 
few seedless raisins, if you like. Cover with crust. Cut a 
slit in the middle, and bake in a slow oven forty minutes. 
Test like apple pie. 

N. B. As rhubarb is very juicy, be careful to pinch the 
edges of the crust carefully together, or the juice will run 
over the top. 

No. 2. Stew rhubarb and drain off the superfluous 
juice. Sweeten and bake as above, but in a quick oven. 

No. 3. Prepare like No. 2, but add to each pint 

1 pint sugar. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

4 tablespoonfuls fine cracker-crumbs. 

2 eggs (yolks only). 

The eggs must be beaten light before adding them. 



Desserts. 223 



Then work the whole to a smooth pulp. Bake without a 
top crust, and when done cover with a " Meringue." 

Cherry Pie. 

The common, sour red cherry makes the best pies. 
Line a deep pudding-dish with a plain crust ; fill with cher- 
ries, carefully looked over, and layers of sugar. Heap 
the dish, and cover with a rich crust. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven for one hour. Serve cold, with sifted sugar over 
the top. Put bits of paste among the berries if you like. 
If you have not many cherries, bake in a pie-plate. 

Green Currant Pie. 

Fill a bottom crust with green currants and sugar in 
layers. Use at least two thirds as much sugar as fruit. 
Pile the fruit high, as it will sink when cooked. 

Cover with a top crust ; cut a slit in the middle and 
bake in a slow oven, about half an hour. 

Ripe Currant Pie. 



1 cupful ripe red currants. 

2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful flour, 
i cupful water. 



1 cupful sugar. 

Crush the currants. Beat the yolks of the eggs, sugar 
and flour together. Mix with the currants. Add the 
water, and beat all together. Put into a bottom crust 
and bake in a pretty hot oven. When baked, make a 
" Meringue " of the whites. Spread it over the top, and 
brown slightly in a hot oven. 

Makes one pie. 

A plainer pie may be made like " Green Currant Pie," 
using less sugar. 

Green Gooseberry Pie. 

Top and tail the berries. Stew them in a porcelain sauce- 
pan, with only enough water to keep them from burning. 
When they break, remove and sweeten them lavishly. 



224 How to Cook Well. 

When cold put into a bottom crust, cover with a crust, 
and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

Berry Pies (any kind). 

Pick over the berries, and pile them high in a bottom 
crust, with layers of sugar between, and a sprinkling of 
flour. 

Cover with a top crust, taking care to close the edges 
well, that the juice may not run out. Cut a slit in the 
middle to let the steam escape, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Be sure to bake berry-pies well on the bottom. If 
there is any doubt about this set them on the top of the 
stove for a moment, after taking them from the oven. 

Serve cold, with sugar sifted over the top. 

Kich Blackberry Pie. 

Line a deep pudding-dish with pastry ; put in a layer of 
blackberries and sprinkle thickly with sugar; roll some 
pastry into thin strips, and put them in. Place successive 
layers of berries, sugar and pastry, until the dish is full. 
Pour over all a pint of milk ; or less if the dish is small. 
Cover the top with a sheet of pastry, cut a slit in the mid- 
dle and bake in a slow oven for three hours if the dish is 
very large. 

Anglo-Francais Pie. 

Line the edge of a deep dish with " Puff Paste." Pick 
over and stone ripe, juicy cherries (sour cherries are 
best) ; put a layer in the bottom of the dish, sprinkle 
with sugar ; then put a layer of cold boiled rice, sprinkle 
sugar and grated nutmeg on it. Repeat these layers till 
the dish is filled. Add a little wine if you like, or brandy ; 
cover with puff paste. Bake in a moderate oven one and 
a half hours, if the dish is large. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Make some plain "Pie Crust," or "Baking Powder 
Biscuit" dough. Roll it thin as pie crust. Cut into 



Desserts. 225 



squares, and lay in each a tart, juicy apple, pared and cored. 
Bring the edges of the paste together, trim off what is 
superfluous, and pineh them together with wet fingers to 
make them adhere. Put them bottom side up in a drip- 
ping-pan, and bake in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. 

Serve hot with sauce. 

Cinnamon Fingers. 

Make " Bread-dough Pie Crust." Roll it thin, and cut 
into oblongs about five inches by three. 

Have ready a little cinnamon, and twice as much sugar 
mixed. Put a teaspoonful in the centre of the paste; 
sprinkle with a few drops of water, and fold the dough 
over, pasting the edges together all around with a little 
water, and making long and narrow shapes. 

Lay them in rows in a baking-pan, and bake in a very 
quick oven about eight minutes. Serve hot or cold for a 
plain dessert. In any case eat fresh. 

These are easily made while making out bread, and 
are favorites with children for lunch. I use the name 
my own children gave them. 

Turn-Overs. 

Cut out pie crust, as for " Cinnamon Fingers." Spread 
the surface with jelly or jam, and proceed as in the last 
receipt. The various " Fillings for Cake " are nice for 
these ; so is nice " Cranberry " or " Apple Sauce." 

A good way to use various things left from tea. 

Tarts. 

Make them like " Pates " only smaller, and when cold, 
fill with "Lemon Filling" or jelly, or any "Lemon Pie" 
mixture, cooked. 



226 How to Cook Well. 

PUDDINGS. 
Apple Tapioca Pudding (or other fruit). 



i cupful tapioca. 

1 quart water. 

saltspoonf ul salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
( 6 or 8 juicy apples. 
\ Nutmeg and cinnamon. 



Soak the tapioca in the water for two hours, stirring 
occasionally. When swelled, add the salt and sugar. 
Have ready in a buttered pudding-dish, the apples, pared 
and cored, and sprinkled with grated nutmeg and cinna- 
mon. Pour the tapioca over. Cover, and bake in a slow 
oven about one hour, removing the cover, and browning 
quickly during the last ten minutes. (If the apples are 
not juicy, add a little water. Some prefer to slice the 
apples.) 

Serve warm, not hot, with cream and sugar. 

Or the tapioca may be put in layers with sliced oranges 
or lemons (the seeds being carefully removed, or the bit- 
ter taste will spoil the whole pudding), or peaches, canned 
or fresh, or berries of any kind. The latter makes a sim- 
ple but very delicious dessert, especially if raspberries are 
used, and the top is spread with " Raspberry Trifle." 

Tapioca Pudding. 

r 4 heaping tablespoonfuls tapioca, 
\ 1 cupful cold water. 

1 quart milk. 

3 or 4 eggs (beaten separately). 

1 lemon, or orange. 

cupful sugar. 

A little salt. 

Butter size of an egg (melted). 

Soak the tapioca two hours. Then add milk and yolks 
of the eggs (beaten light), grated lemon peel, sugar, salt 
and butter. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish, and when 
cool, spread with a " Meringue," adding to it the lemon- 
juice. 



Desserts. 227 



A "Swell" Pudding. 

r IJ tablespoonfuls rice (washed). 
\ 1| tablespoonfuls tapioca. 

{14 quarts milk (fresh). 
1 tablespoonf ul brown sugar, 
i teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 
A little nutmeg. 

Three hours before dinner put into a large buttered 
pudding-dish the rice and the tapioca. Stir the sugar and 
salt into the milk, and pour over it. Let these soak for 
two hours in a very warm place. Stir them up from the 
bottom frequently. When well swelled put bits of butter 
over the top, with a little grated nutmeg, and set in a slow 
oven. 

Bake slowly for one hour, stirring often during the first 
fifteen minutes. Eat warm, if you choose, though it is 
even better cold. 

Rice or tapioca alone may be used, but the quantity of 
either must be doubled. 

A Plain Rice Pudding or Poor Man's Pudding. 



i cupful raw rice (washed). 
1 quart milk. 
A pinch of salt. 
'i cupful sugar. 



Butter size of an egg. 

Flavoring. 

k cupful raisins ; or 

A little orange peel. 



Add the rice to the milk in which the salt and 
have been dissolved. Add the butter and flavoring, dredge 
the raisins with flour, and put them in last ; or, omit the 
raisins, and substitute fivsh orange peel cut into narrow 
strips. In this case, no other flavoring is needed. Pour 
into a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake in a slow oven 
about two hours, stirring occasionally the first few minutes. 
Serve cold. 



228 How to Cook Well 



Rice Pudding. 



f k cupful rice, well washed. 
I 1 saltspoonf ul salt. 
I J cupful raisins. 
L 1 quart milk. 



3 eggs, yolks and whites sepa- 
rate. 

1 cupful sugar. 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



Boil together in a double boiler for one and one half 
hours, the rice, salt, raisins and milk ; stir occasionally. 
Then stir in the yolks beaten light, and the sugar and flav- 
oring. Stir well and pour into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake in a slow oven till firm. 

When cold spread with a "Meringue." Brown deli- 
cately in a hot oven. Serve cold. 

Rice Custard Pudding. 



3 cupfuls milk. 

1 cupful boiled rice. 

A pinch of salt. 



3 eggs, beaten light. 

1 cupful sugar. 

A little nutmeg grated. 



i teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

If the rice is cold, soak it a few minutes in the milk ; 
add the other ingredients, except nutmeg, pour into a but- 
tered pudding-dish, grate nutmeg over the top, and bake 
in a hot oven, about half an hour ; till firm. 

Serve cold. The success of this depends upon careful 
baking. Take instantly from the oven when done, or it 
will curdle. 

If you like, use only the yolks of the eggs in the pud- 
ding, and make a " Meringue," with lemon-juice added. 

Hidden Apples or Rice Rock. 

Pile on a platter whole apples stewed or baked without 
cores or skins. Cover them roughly with boiled rice. 
Make a " Meringue," and spread over the top as irregularly 
as possible, to imitate a rock. Brown delicately in a very 
hot oven and serve warm with cream and sugar, or a 
boiled custard. 

A good way to use apples and rice " left over." Pre- 
served fruit may be substituted for apples. 



Desserts. 229 



Bird's Rest Pudding. 

Pare and core apples, and lay them in the bottom of a 
buttered pudding-dish. Pour over them a batter (see 
" Batter Pudding ") and bake in a moderate oven three 
quarters of an hour. Serve at once with sauce. 

Scotch Pudding. 

Butter a large deep pudding-dish, and fill with sour ap- 
ples, choppe'd coarse. Make the following mixture : 



2 cupfuls flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda. 



i teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 pint milk. 

l tablespoonfuls lard. 



Sift all the dry ingredients together, add the milk, and 
stir in enough more flour to make a very stiff batter. 
Melt the lard, and beat it in. With a knife, spread the 
batter over the apples. Bake in a pretty hot oven, for 
about one hour. Then turn out on a dinner plate, having 
the apples uppermost. Serve hot with sugar and butter, 
or with pudding sauce. 

Apple Cottage Pudding. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

cupful sugar. 

1 egg, beaten light. 



( I cupful flour. 

1 1 teaspoonf ul baking powder. 
4 or 5 tart apples, sliced. 



i cupful milk. 

Rub the sugar into the butter, add the other ingredients. 
Have ready the apples in the bottom of a buttered pud- 
ding-dish. Pour the mixture over ; bake in a quick oven 
about half an hour and eat warm with sauce. 

Peaches or any other fruit can be used. 

Pan Dowdy (a New England dish). 

This is best made in the fall, of the early sour apples, 
the skin of which is thin and contains much richness. 
Quarter and core the apples. Fill a large buttered pud- 
ding-dish with them, and cover them with a dough made 



230 How to Cook Well 

like " Baking Powder Biscuit," rolled as thick as for bis- 
cuit. (Bread-dough will do.) Butter the edge of the 
dish lavishly, to prevent the dough from sticking to it. 
Cut a slit in the middle, and set it in a slow oven. Bake 
for nearly two hours if the dish is very large. Then take 
it out, lift off the crust, and mix in a little molasses, brown 
sugar, and cinnamon, and a lump of butter. Stir up thor- 
oughly from the bottom. Break the crust into large 
pieces, and put it into the apple. If the apple is very 
moist, leave the dish uncovered in the oven for awhile, 
but if sufficiently dry, cover with a plate and leave it to 
stand several hours before eating it. 

Serve cold with cream and sugar, for dessert or tea. 

Maryborough Pudding. 

1 pint stewed apple (strained). 

2 tablespoonf uls butter, 
f 3 or 4 eggs. 

1 1 pint sugar. 
4 soda crackers (pounded). 
1 lemon. 

Add the butter to the apple while hot. "When cool, 
add the eggs and sugar (beaten together), then the 
crackers, and the juice and grated rind of the lemon. 
( Or omit these and use a little nutmeg and cinna- 
mon. ) Have ready a buttered pudding-dish, thickly 
strewn with crumbs, so as to adhere to the bottom and 
sides. Pour in the mixture, and bake about twenty min- 
utes in a hot oven. Serve cold, with sugar sprinkled over 
the top. 

Apple Meringue. 

Make like " Marlborough Pudding," reserving the whites 
of the eggs. With them make a " Meringue " for the top. 

A simpler way is to cover with a meringue a smooth, 
thick apple-sauce, nicely seasoned. 



Desserts. 231 



Brown Betty. 

Cover the bottom and sides of a well-buttered pudding' 
dish with bread-crumbs. Fill the dish with layers of 
chopped apple and crumbs, sprinkling each layer with cin- 
namon, sugar and lumps of butter. Heap the dish high, 
for the apples will sink. Moisten with a little cold water ; 
cover with a buttered plate and bake three quarters of an 
hour, if the dish is large. 

Take off the cover, and brown quickly. Serve warm 
with " Hard Sauce," or sugar. 

Rhubarb or Apple Charlotte. 

Cut the rhubarb into inch-long pieces ; or, pare, core 
and slice the apples. Have ready a buttered pudding- 
dish, lined with thin slices of bread and butter. Put in 
the fruit sprinkled with sugar, and alternate buttered 
bread and fruit till the dish is full. Cover with a layer of 
crumbs, with dots of butter. Cover and bake until done, 
then uncover and brown quickly. Serve hot with sugar, 
or " Hard Sauce." 

Berry or Peach Charlotte. 

Make like " Rhubarb or Apple Charlotte." 
Another Way is, to substitute for slices of bread, 
bread-crumbs moistened with milk. Lay bits of butter 
over each layer. Serve cold with cream. Stewed berries 
or fruit may be used, and if prepared over night, and left 
standing with a weight on top, no cooking is necessary. 

Cherry Pudding. 



1 pint broken bread or crack- 



ers. 



I quart boiling milk. 
Butter size of an egg. 



14 cupfuls sugar. 
3 eggs, beaten light. 
A little cinnamon. 
1 quart stoned cherries. 



| teaspoonful salt. 

Soak the bread or crackers in the boiling milk ; while hot 

add the butter, salt and sugar. When cool, stir in the 



232 How to Cook 'Well. 

eggs, cinnamon and cherries. Pour into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish, and bake in a quick oven about three quarters of 
an hour. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

Butter a deep dish, put in alternate layers of broken 
sponge cake, and thin sliced pineapple, sugared. Have 
cake on top, moistened slightly with water, and sprinkled 
with sugar. 

Cover with a buttered plate, and bake slowly one and 
three quarters hours, removing the cover, and browning 
quickly the last ten minutes. Canned pineapple may be 
used. 

Lemon Pudding. 



3 cupfuls water (boiling). 
1 small potato, grated. 
5 tablespoonfuls flour. 



Ik cupfuls sugar. 

2 lemons. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 



\ J cupful cold water. 

Add the potato to the water, and boil fifteen minutes. 
Then add the flour rubbed smooth, stir well, and boil five 
minutes longer. Set it off, and dissolve the sugar in it. 
When cool add the grated rind and juice of the lemons, 
,and the yolks of the eggs beaten light. Pour into a but- 
tered pudding dish, and bake in a moderate oven till 
firm. 

When cold spread with a " Meringue," and brown deli- 
cately. For six persons. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 



1 pound butter. 

1 pound sugar. 

2 pounds sweet potato 

(cooked). 



1 wineglass wine. 

1 table spoonful brandy. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
1 cupful cream. 



5 eggs (beaten light). 

Butter a deep pudding-dish. Rub together the butter 
and sugar till they look creamy. Add the potatoes, and 



Desserts. - 233 



beat till well mingled. Then mix in the other ingredients. 
Pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a hot oven till 
nicely browned. 

Serve cold, with cream. (See also page 216.) 

Pumpkin Pudding. 

See Pumpkin Pie. 
Serve cold with cream. 

A Very Delicate Cracker Pudding. 

Butter a pudding-dish, and half-fill it with crackers 
(Boston crackers are best) split in two and buttered. 
Sprinkle them lightly with salt ; wore than cover with 
milk, and soak three hours. Beat two or three eggs with 
three tablespoonfuls sugar ; add to them as much milk as 
you think will fill the dish ; also a little wine or flavoring. 
Pour over the crackers, and add more milk, if the dish is 
not full. Bake in a rather hot oven. Serve warm with 
sauce, or cold with cream. 

Cracker milk-toast, left from tea, may be used for this. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Butter thin slices of bread, and lay in a buttered pud- 
ding-dish, with currants scattered between each layer. 
Have ready the following mixture : 

Ik pints hot milk. I A little grated nutmeg. 

J cupful sugar. | 2 to 4 eggs beaten light. 

Pour this over all. Cover and bake sloicly three quar- 
ters of an hour. Then uncover and brown delicately. 
Serve cold with cream and sugar, or hot with sauce. 

This good pudding is still better if the slices of bread 
and butter are also spread with jelly or jam. You may 
omit the currants, if you like. 



234 How to Cook Well. 

Plain Bread Pudding. 

{1 quart milk. 
A pinch of salt. 
b cupful sugar. 
A teaspoonf ul butter. 
10 tablespooni'uls dry bread-crumbs. 
1 egg beaten light. 

1 heaping cupful raisins (may be omitted). 
Flavoring. 

Boil the milk, with the salt and sugar ; while hot, add 
the butter and bread-crumbs. Cover and soak for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add the egg, beat 
well ; stir in the raisins (dredged with flour), and flavoring, 
and bake in a buttered pudding-dish about one hour, in a 
slow oven. Serve hot with sauce, or cold with cream, or 



Stale pieces of bread may be used for this ; but do not 
get in too many. 

Spiced Bread Pudding. 

Make like "Plain Bread Pudding," adding two teaspoon- 
fuls of cinnamon, half a teaspoonf ul of cloves, and a little 
nutmeg grated. 

Serve cold with cream, or jelly. 

Squash left from dinner, or a little apple-sauce, mixed 
with this, makes a pleasant variety. 

Francatelli Pudding. 



2 cupfuls soft bread-crumbs. 

1 quart milk. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 



4 eggs. 

1 lemon. 

Butter size of an egg. 



1 cupful sugar. 

Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk a few minutes ; 
add the salt, half the sugar, and the beaten yolks of the 
eggs. Grate the rind of the lemon, and add that with the 
butter melted. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake 



Desserts. 235 



in a hot oven about half an hour. As soon as done remove 
it, before it becomes watery. Squeeze the lemon, and 
strain it into the remaining sugar. Stir this into the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Spread over the pudding 
a thick layer of jelly, or fresh berries ; then pour on the 
meringue, and brown in a very hot oven. 

Serve cold with cream. 

Particularly nice with raspberries. 

Pudding of Cold Corn Bread. 

Cold corn bread, left from breakfast, may be used as 

follows : 



1 quart milk. 
A pinch salt. 
8 tablespoonf uls corn bread. 



5 teaspoon ful ginger. 

1 egg, beaten light. 

i cupful raisins or currants. 



6 tablespoonf uls molasses. 

Boil the milk a few minutes with the salt and corn- 
bread crumbled fine. Then remove. Add the molasses 
and ginger, and when cool, the egg and raisins (dredged 
with flour). Bake in a slow oven. 

Serve hot, with sauce (lemon or some tart kind is best), 
or butter. 

Indian Pudding. 



1 quart milk. 

4 table spoonfuls corn-meal. 



1 cupful molasses. 
A little salt. 



Boil one pint of the milk. Sift the meal into it gradu- 
ally and boil a few minutes. Take it off the fire, and add 
the molasses and salt. Stir well. Add the rest of the 
milk, and do not stir the mixture after that is put in. 
Bake 4n a buttered pudding-dish two and one half hours 
in a slow oven. 

Serve hot, with or without sauce. 



236 How to Cook Well 

PUDDINGS WITH FLOUR. 
Cream Batter Pudding. 

f 1 cupful sour cream. 
1 1 cupful flour. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

| teaspoonful soda dissolved. 

3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 

A pinch of salt. 

Mix in order, beating the eggs light ; bake in a quick 
oven, for twenty minutes, without opening the oven door. 
Serve as soon as done, with sauce. 

Batter or Love Pudding. 

1 pint milk. I 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 cupful flour. I 2 eggs, beaten light. 

Beat all well together. Pour into a hot buttered dish, 
and bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. Serve 
with sauce as soon as done, or it will fall. 

For four persons. 

Cream Puffs. 

c pint boiling water. I ^ pound flour. 

\ % pound butter. I 4 eggs, beaten separately. 

Boil the butter and water together a few minutes. 
Then pour it boiling hot upon the flour. Stir fast until 
smooth. 

When cool add the eggs. Drop with a spoon, several 
inches apart, upon buttered papers. Bake in a quick oven 
twenty minutes, without opening the oven door. Do not 
jar the pan. When cold split and fill with custard. 
(See Cream Pie, below.) 

Dessert Puffs or Vanities. 

1 quart milk. I A little salt. 

1| quarts flour. I 4 eggs. 

Mix the flour with the milk till no lumps are left. Add 
salt. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately 



Desserts. 237 



and add them in turn. Beat the batter very light, using 
a Dover egg-beater if you have one. Pour into hot 
gem-pans, fill half-full, and bake in a very hot oven 
about fifteen minutes. Eat as soon as done, with hot 
sauce. 

These are favorites with gentlemen. 

Makes two dozen Puffs. 



German Puffs. 



2 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful milk. 



3 cupf uls flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

of a nutmeg (grated). 



Beat eggs and sugar together. Add the milk, then the 
flour, with the baking-powder rubbed through the last 
cupful, before mixing with the rest. Put in the nutmeg, 
and beat hard. 

Butter deep earthen cups or round gem-pans. Fill 
half full, and bake in a rather quick oven, about twenty- 
five minutes. 

Eat very hot, with liquid sauce. 

N. B. Sour milk may be substituted for sweet, in 
which case omit the baking-powder and use one teaspoon- 
ful of soda. 

Makes one dozen. 



Bice Puffs, 



i cupful cold boiled rice. 
1 cupful milk. 
i pint flour. 



i teaspoonful salt. 

i tablespoonful butter (melted). 

1 egg, beaten light. 



Mix and beat hard. Fill hot gem-pans full, and bake 
in a hot oven about half an hour. Serve hot with liquid 
sauce. 

Makes one dozen. 



238 How to Cook Well 

Cream Pie. 

Bake either "Quick" or "Cheap Sponge Cake," or 
" Feather Cake " in jelly cake tins. When cold, spread 
thickly with the following cream : 

1 quart milk. 

{2 to 4 eggs. 
2 cupfuls sugar (less will do). 
1 cupful flour, or cornstarch. 
Flavoring. 

Scald the milk ; beat the eggs, sugar and flour together 
and stir into the milk while boiling, until it thickens so as 
not to run. When cool, flavor. 

Enough cream for four pies. 

Washington Pie. 

Mix "Washington Cake," or "Jelly Cake Without 
Eggs," and bake in pie-plates, in a rather hot oven, about 
fifteen minutes. When done, lay one loaf bottom side up 
on a warm plate ; spread it with jam, jelly, or any " Fill- 
ing " that you choose, and lay the other loaf on top, bot- 
tom side down. When cold, sift powdered sugar over the 
top. Serve fresh for dessert. 

This is the regulation Sunday dessert in most New Eng- 
land families. 



Caramel Loaf. 



3 eggs, beaten separately. 
1 cupful sugar, 
li cupfuls flour. 



f 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 
\ i teaspoonf ul soda. 



Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar. To the 
beaten whites, add one cup of the flour, a little at a time, 
beating well. Add this to the yolks and beat in the rest 



Desserts. 239 



of the flour, lightly. Dissolve the cream of tartar and 
soda in a little hot water and stir in. Bake in a rather 
quick oven in one round loaf. 

When perfectly cold, split the cake, so as to make three 
layers, and spread thickly with the following mixture, also 
cold : 

f 1 pint milk. 
\ 1 table spoonful sugar, 
f li tahlespoonfuls cornstarch. 
I 4 cupful cold milk. 
Flavoring. 

Scald the milk with the sugar ; rub the cornstarch in 
the cold milk, and stir it into that which is boiling. 

Let it boil till thick enough not to run. When cool, 
flavor. After spreading upon the cake pile up the layers, 
and frost the top with the following mixture, boiled, until 
it will harden when thrown into cold water : 

i cupful grated chocolate. 1 1 tablespoonf ul cold water. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 

Cottage Pudding. 

j 1 cupful sugar. 
\ 2 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 
1 egg, beaten light. 

)1 cupful milk. 
h teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved, 
f 2 teaspoonf uls cream of tartar. 
1 2 cupf uls flour. 

Mix in order, and bake in a moderate oven about half 
an hour. Serve hot with sauce. Makes one loaf. 

Sour milk may be used by omitting the cream of tartar. 

Currants may be added. It is still a good pudding if 
only half a cupful of sugar and one tablespoonful of but- 
ter are used. 



240 How to CooTc Well. 



Cottage Pudding Richer, or Gold Pudding. 



1 cupful sugar. 
. cupful butter. 
3 eggs, yolks only. 
1 cupful milk. 
i teaspoonf ul soda. 



1 teaspoonf ul cream of tar- 

tar. 

2 cupf uls flour. 
Flavoring. 



Cream the butter and sugar ; mix in the other ingredi- 
ents ; beat well and bake in a moderate oven about half an 
hour. 

Serve hot with sauce. 

For a family of seven. (This is convenient for a small 
family, as what is left makes a nice cake, which if frosted 
will not be recognized as the remains of pudding.) 

Prince of Wales Pudding, 

f 3 tablespoonf uls butter. 
1 4 tablespoonf uls sugar. 
4 eggs. 

{6 table spoonfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda, dry. 
2 teaspoonf uls cream of tartar. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat the yolks and 
whites separately, and add them ; then the flour with the 
soda and cream of tartar sifted in it ; put into a buttered 
pndding-dish, and bake about half an hour in a quick 
oven. 

Serve with sauce. 



Gingerbread Pudding. 

cupful bu 

cupful boiling water. 



f 2 cupf uls molasses. f h cupful butter. 

1 1 teaspoonf uls soda. i 1 



1 tablespoonf ul ginger. 



2 cupfuls flour. 



In the molasses dissolve the soda ; add the other ingre- 
dients in order. Beat hard and bake in a moderate oven. 

Serve hot with "Sour Cream Sauce," or "Lemon 
Sauce." 



Desserts. 241 



Honeycomb Pudding. 



1 cupful molasses. 

cupful brown sugar. 
f Butter size of a walnut, 
j -i cupful milk. 



3 eggs, beaten separately. 
k cupful flour. 
A little mace and cloves. 
A pinch of salt. 



1 1 teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 

Mix well the molasses and sugar. Melt the butter and 
mix that and the baking-powder with the milk. Then 
pour it into the molasses. Add the yolks of the eggs, 
flour, spice and salt. Lastly stir in the whites. Beat 
well. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot with sauce. 

Virginia Pudding. 
c 1 cupful sugar. 
\ I cupful butter. 
4 eggs, beaten light. 
1 cupful molasses. 
( 2 cupf uls flour. 
\ 2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 

Mix in order, and bake in a moderate oven about one 
hour. 

Serve hot with " Hard Sauce." 

Baked Graham Pudding. 
' 1 cupful wheat flour. 
1 cupful Graham flour, 
i teaspoonf ul salt, 
i cupful raisins (seeded). 

1 cupful molasses. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 
/ li cupful sour milk. 

1 1 teaspoonf ul soda (dissolved). 
Butter size of an egg (melted). 
1 lemon, juice and rind. 

Mix in this order, adding a little ginger if you like. 
Beat hard. Pour into a scalloped cake-pan, and bake half 
an hour in a moderate oven. Turn out on a large plate, 
and eat hot with Lemon or Vinegar Sauce. 



242 How to Cook Well. *.. 

BOILED PUDDINGS. 
To Boil Puddings. 

When you are going to prepare a pudding, have a ket- 
tle full of boiling water ready to put it in at once ; also a 
tea-kettle of boiling water to replenish with. Wring the 
pudding-cloth out of water as hot as you can bear it ; flour 
it well ; pour the pudding into it, and tie tightly with a 
piece of twine, leaving room for the pudding to swell if it 
is one which will rise. Open the ends of the bag, and flour 
all the opening, so that the bag will be sealed, and the 
water will not penetrate the pudding. 

Have a plate in the bottom of the kettle, so that the 
pudding will not come too close to the fire. During the 
first half-hour turn the pudding every five minutes to pre- 
vent the fruit from settling in one place. The water must 
not stop boiling for one instant. 

Replenish the fire, if it should be necessary, with a few 
pieces of coal at a time, so as not to cool it for a moment. 
The success of the pudding depends greatly upon contin- 
uous boiling. 

N. B. Before boiling a pudding try to secure a fire that 
will last several hours. 

If a pudding-boiler or mould is used, butter both it and 
the cover well, and have the water in the kettle come only 
about two thirds to the top. The water should not boil 
hard, and for all boiled puddings keep the pot covered 
close, to keep in the steam. 

You can boil a pudding in either a cloth, a mould, or a 
bowl, whichever is preferred. 

When the pudding is done, take it from the pot and 
plunge instantly into cold water, then turn it out upon the 
dish, which should be made hot. 

Be particular to warm the knife before cutting the pud- 
ding. 



Desserts. 243 



To Warm a Boiled Pudding. 

Plunge it into cold water for a moment. Then set in a 
hot oven for about twenty minutes. Or put it in a col- 
ander without wetting, cover tight, and set it over the 
steam of the tea-kettle for half an hour. 

Hasting's or Suet Pudding. 



1 cupful suet, chopped fine. 
1 cupful raisins, stoned. 
3 cupfuls bread-crumbs. 

1 cupful flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls cream of tar- 

tar. 
teaspoonf ul mace. 



4 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
3 teaspoonfuls powdered 

cloves. 

i teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 cupful molasses. 

cupful milk. 

teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



Mix in order. Put into a buttered pudding-boiler, leav- 
ing room to swell. Cover tight, and boil three hours with- 
out stopping. If you make half the quantity boil two 
hours only. Serve hot with " Wine Sauce." 

This pudding is preferred by many to Plum Pudding. 
It keeps well for a long time, and it is a good way to use 
up bread-crumbs. It can be made without crumbs by us- 
ing four cupfuls flour. 

Plum Pudding. 



1 pound bread-crumbs 

(grated}. 

1 pound minced suet. 
1 pound brown sugar. 
1 pound currants (washed and 
dried). 



2 pounds raisins, stoned. 

1 nutmeg, grated. 

A little salt. 

1 pint milk. 

i cupful brandy. 

8 eggs, beaten separately. 



Mix in order. Do not add the eggs till ready to boil 
the pudding. Wet a muslin cloth in hot water, and flour 
it well. Tie the pudding in it very tight, making no 
allowance for swelling. Plunge into boiling water, and 
boil eight hours without stopping. 

Serve hot with " Wine Sauce." 



244 



How to Cook Well. . 



English Plum Pudding. 



pounds fine bread-crumbs. 

pound minced suet. 

pound raisins, stoned and 

chopped. 
pound currants, washed and 

dried. 

pound brown sugar. 
teaspoonf ul salt. 



2 teaspoonfuls grated nutmeg. 
1 teaspoonf ul cloves. 
8 eggs, beaten light. 

1 cupful brandy. 
cupful wine. 

2 oz. citron (if you like) , sliced 

thin. 



Mix all together, and boil seven or eight hours in a close 
tin pudding-boiler buttered. It is well to mix it the day 
before, omitting the eggs, which should not be put in until 
ready to boil it. Keep it in a close covered vessel over 
night. Serve hot, with Brandy or Wine Sauce. 

Paradise Pudding. 

i pound bread-crumbs. 3 apples (minced). 

A little salt. h. a lemon. 

A little grated nutmeg. 1 cupful currants. 
3 eggs (beaten light). 

Mix all together, using both the juice and grated rind of 
the lemon, and having the currants dredged with a little 
flour. Boil one and one half hours. Serve hot with 

sauce. 

Amber Pudding. 



2 eggs, well beaten. 
4 table spoonfuls orange marma- 
lade. 



^ pound bread-crumbs. 
| pound sugar. 

3 oz. butter, melted. 

Stir all together ; boil in a buttered mould two hours. 

Victoria Pudding. 

Butter, the weight of the eggs. 1 teaspoonful soda, dry. 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. Flour, the weight of the eggs. 

4 eggs, beaten light. 4 tablespoonf ills jam, any kind. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and add the eggs ; sift the 
soda through the flour; add the jam, and steam in a but- 
tered mould two hours. Serve with hot sauce. 



Desserts. 245 



Boiled Indian Pudding. 



1 pint molasses (warm). 
1 pint milk. 
4 eggs (beaten light). 
1 pound suet (minced). 



Corn meal enough to make a 

thick batter. 

1 teaspoon ful cinnamon. 
4 teaspoonf ul nutmeg, grated. 



Mix together, and beat well. Pour into a buttered pud- 
ding-boiler, fill not more than two thirds full. Boil three 
hours. Serve hot with Vinegar or Sour Cream Sauce. 

One cupful dried currants, dredged with flour and 
stirred in last, is an improvement. 

Dundee Pudding. 

f 1 cupful sugar. 
I i cupful butter. 

2 eggs, beaten light, 
f 1 cupful milk. 
I i teaspoonf ul soda, 
f 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
1 2 cupf uls flour. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Mix in order and boil 
three hours, leaving room to swell. Then turn out and 
serve hot with sauce. Sour milk may be used, and the 
cream of tartar omitted. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 



( 1 cupful sugar, 
t i cupful butter. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 
( 1 pint milk. 
\ 1 teaspoonful soda. 



r 2 teaspoonf uls cream of tar- 



tar. 

Flour to make a stiff batter. 
A little salt. 
1 pint huckleberries. 



Mix in order ; put into a buttered pudding-boiler, leav- 
ing room for it to swell, and boil two hours. 
Serve hot with sauce. 



246 How to Cook Well. 



Fig Pudding. 



cupfuls flour and bread- 
crumbs, mixed, 
nutmeg grated, 
cupful dried figs, chopped. 



1 cupful suet. 

1 cupful molasses. 
c 1 cupful milk. 
\ 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 



Mix in order, and steam two hours. Serve hot with 
"Wine Sauce." 

Manchester Pudding. 



1 pint milk (very hot). 
6 oz. sugar. 

2 oz. butter. 



3 eggs, well-beaten. 

Flavoring. 

2 cupfuls jam. 



| pound bread-crumbs. 

To the milk add sugar and butter, and pour it on the 
bread-crumbs. When a little cool, stir in the eggs and 
flavoring. Put the jam into the bottom of a buttered 
mould. (Raspberry jam is nicest, though any kind will 
do.) Pour in the batter, steam two hours and serve hot 
with sauce. 

Boiled Graham Pudding. 



2 cupfuls Graham flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupful raisins (chopped) . 



1 cupful molasses. 

1 egg (beaten light). 

1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 



1 cupful milk. 

Mix all together, and do not add more flour, though the 
batter may look thin. Put into the pudding-pail, leaving 
room for it to rise. Boil three hours without stopping. 

Serve hot, with sauce. 

Boiled Pudding, 

Take one quart light bread-dough. Roll it out nearly 
half an inch thick. Spread with apple, cranberry or 
peach sauce. Roll it up. Lay it in a pudding-bag wet 
and floured. Tie it tight, but leave room inside for the 
pudding to swell. Boil two hours without stopping. 

Serve hot, with sauce. 

Or make a " Potato Crust " ; spread it an inch thick with 



Desserts. 247 



" Cranberry Sauce," or any kind of stewed fruit which is 
not very juicy. Roll it in a floured cloth, previously wet, 
and tie it close at the ends as it will not rise. Boil for 
two hours without stopping. 
Serve hot, with pudding sauce. 

Apple Dumpling. 

Make " Potato Crust," roll it out one third of an inch 
thick in the middle, but roll the edges thin, to avoid thick 
folds of paste. Wring a thick square cloth in hot water; 
sprinkle it with flour and lay it in a deep dish. Put in it 
the crust and fill it with sliced apples. Draw the paste 
together and tie the cloth tightly round it with a strong 
string. Allow no room for it to swell, and draw the string 
tight enough to prevent the water from soaking in. Boil 
a dumpling holding three pints of apple two hours. Then 
plunge it for a moment into cold water ; untie and turn 
it out on a platter. 

Serve hot with sauce. 

Light Dough Dumplings. 

Make very light bread-dough into small balls the size of 
eggs. Have ready a pot of water, boiling fast. Drop in 
the dumplings, taking care to have the water more than 
cover them. Cover the pot, and boil for twenty minutes 
steadily, without lifting the cover. If it stops boiling for 
a moment, the dumplings will be heavy. 

Serve hot with butter and sugar, for dessert. 

Dumplings for Meat. 

Made like the above, except that you boil the dumplings 
in the pot with boiling beef. 

Serve them around the edge of the platter in which you 
dish the meat. 



248 How to Cook Well . 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Hard Sauce. 

1 cupful sugar. I Nutmeg. 

cupful butter. 

Rub the butter and sugar till creamy. Put into a glass 
dish, smooth the top with a knife, grate over it a little 
nutmeg, and set on ice. 

This can be varied in several ways. You may cover 
it with grated lemon or orange peel ; in this case put 
the juice of the lemon or orange through the sauce, adding 
more sugar. Or, divide the sauce into halves, coloring 
one by beating through it a large lump of bright-colored 
jelly. Arrange the white as a mound in the centre, 
making a circle of the pink around it ; and help some of 
each to each person. You can color sauce yellow by mix- 
ing through it the juice of an orange which has been 
squeezed with the peel through a cloth. 
Brandy Sauce. 

Make like " Hard Sauce," and after rubbing the butter 
and sugar to a cream, "mix in nearly a wineglassfull of 
brandy. One quarter of a cupful of wine may be substi- 
tuted for the brandy. 

Liquid Sauce (plain). 



cupful butter, 
cupful sugar. 



li pints boiling water. 
Flavoring. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 

Put all together (except the water) in a bowl, set into a 
kettle of boiling water. When the butter softens, rub 
into it the flour and sugar. Add the water and flavoring 
just before serving. 

Creamy Sauce. 



h cupful butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 



^ cupful cream (or milk). 
4 tablespoonf uls wine. 



Put all together in a bowl, set in a pan of boiling water, 
over the fire. Stir till it thickens and is frothy. 



Desserts. 249 



Rich Pudding Sauce. 



1 cupful fine sugar. 

i cupful butter (cscant). 

1 egg (white only). 



Grated rind of J of a lemon. 
A little nutmeg (grated). 
A pinch of salt. 



1 wineglassf ul wine. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the egg, 
beaten light. Put in the other things and mix all to- 
gether. 

Set the bowl over the steam of the tea-kettle till boiling 
hot. Leave it for a few minutes, stirring it most of the 
time. If too thick put in a tablespoonf ul of boiling water. 



Lemon Sauce. 



2 cupfuls boiling water. 
1 cupful sugar. 



1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 
1 email tablcspoonful butter. 



U tablespoonf uls cornstarch. 

Have the water on the stove. Boil the sugar in the 
water five minutes. Rub the cornstarch smooth in a very 
little cold water. Add that, and boil all together for ten 
minutes. Then put in the lemon and butter. Stir till the 
butter is melted, and serve at once. 



Aglaia Sauce. 



4 table spoonfuls sugar. 
2 tablespoonf uls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



1 egg (white only), 
i cupful boiling water. 
Flavoring. 



Beat the sugar, butter and flour to a cream. Add the 
white of the egg (well beaten), and the boiling water. 
Flavor. Set within a kettle of boiling water to keep hot 
till time to serve. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Boil one cupful of molasses with a large tablespoon ful 
of butter, and one tablespoonf ul of mixed spices; serve hot. 
To be used for Apple Fritters, Dumplings, etc. 



250 How to Cook Well- 



1 pint milk. 
h cupful sugar. 



Custard Sauce. 



2 eggs. 



teaspoonful vanilla. 



Put the milk to boil in a pail set within one of boiling 
water. Beat eggs, sugar, and vanilla together. When 
the milk boils, pour it over the mixture. Return all to 
the fire, and boil a moment. 



Jelly Sauce. 



| cupful boiling water. 
3 teaspoonfuls cornstarch. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 
h cupful jelly. 



Into the boiling water, stir the cornstarch (previously 
wet to a paste with a very little cold water). When it 
thickens add the butter. Remove from the fire. When 
a little cooled, beat in slowly the jelly. (Currant, cran- 
berry, or barberry are best.) Return to the fire to be- 
come very hot, but not boil. 

Wine Sauce. (No. 1.) 

1 cupful sugar. I f cupful boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful butter. I cupful currant wine. 

Put the butter and sugar into a sauce-pan to melt. 
Pour over them the boiling water. When ready to serve, 
beat up, and add the wine. Serve hot. 

No. 2. f h pound butter. 1 egg (yolk only). 



pound sugar 
(brown). 



h cupful wine. 
A little nutmeg. 



Rub the butter and sugar together. Add the yolk of 
the egg, beaten. Stir over the fire (setting the bowl within 
boiling water) till it thickens. Before serving, add the 
wine and grate in a little nutmeg. 

A very rich sauce. 



Desserts. 251 



Vanilla Sauce. 

f 1 pint milk. I i table spoonful cornstarch. 

1 3 tablespoonf uls sugar. | i teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

Put the milk and sugar to boil. Add the cornstarch 
(rubbed to a paste in a little cold milk) when boiling 
well. Stir till it thickens. Add the vanilla and serve. 

(Good with Apple Puddings.) 

Sally's Vinegar Sauce. 
U cupfuls brown sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls butter. 



tablespoonf uls vinegar 

(nearly), 
teaspoon ful salt. 



i teaspoonf ul lemon extract. 

1 cupful flour (more or less). 

2 cupfuls boiling water. 



Put all together except the water in a bowl, and set in 
a kettle of boiling water. Mix all together till smooth ; 
when ready to serve add the water, and if not thick 
enough mix in a little more flour, previously rubbed to a 
pnste in cold water. Let all boil together for a moment. 

N. B. If the vinegar is very strong use part water. 
Nice for Gingerbread Pudding. 

Syrup Sauce. 

Take any syrup left from preserves or canned fruit. 
Bring it to a boil, and thicken it a little by stirring in a 
tablespoonful cornstarch (rubbed to a paste in cold water), 
to each one and one half cupfuls of juice. Boil up a mo- 
ment till of the consistency of cream. 

A delicious sauce for almost anything. (The cores and 
parings of rich tart apples boiled down and strained, with 
sugar and cornstarch afterwards added, makes a very fair 
Syrup Sauce.) 

Yellow Sauce. 

f 2 eggs. 1 1 orange, or a glass of wine. 

1 2i cupfuls white sugar. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together, till very light. Add 
the juice of the orange (or the wine), and half the rind, 
grated. Serve cold. 

For Cottage Pudding, etc. 



252 How to CooJc Well: 



German Sauce. 



2 eggs (whites only). 



1 lemon (juice only). 



Sugar. 

Beat the eggs light. Then add a little sugar and the 
lemon-juice. Thicken with sugar, enough only to make it 
a little stiff. 

Pour over and around Baked or Coddled Apples, 
Quinces or Pears ; or serve with Berry Puddings. 

Sour Cream Sauce. 

This is simply rich sour cream, beaten and thickened 
with a great deal of white sugar. 

Good with Corn-meal Puddings ; and still better with 
Gingerbread Pudding, the contrast in color adding to its 
attractiveness. 

N. B. The cream must not be old, or it will be bitter. 



DELICACIES FOR DESSERT. 

EEMAEKS. 

In making custard or anything for which boiled milk is 
necessary, use a double-boiler, so as not to scorch the milk. 
If you have none, set the sauce-pan within a pan of boiling 
water. Anything containing lemon-juice or vinegar should 
be cooked in a bowl or in granite ware, as tin has an un- 
pleasant effect upon acids. In adding eggs to boiling 
milk or water, pour a good deal (if not all) of the hot 
milk on them, stirring fast, before putting all together 
over the fire. If you put the cold egg into the hot milk, 
without first equalizing the temperature, it will be almost 
sure to curdle. Leave the mixture on the stove only a 
moment after the egg is in, and stir all the time. If these 
directions are followed, and on taking it from the fire 
a custard is poured at once into a cold vessel, it will be 



Desserts. 253 



impossible to meet with failure. Do not flavor till you 
have taken the custard from the fire. 

Blanc Mange is improved by being set on ice. At all 
events, keep it in the coldest place you can find till ready to 
serve it. Then wring out a cloth in hot water and hold 
around the outside of the mould for a moment; it will 
then turn out easily and in good shape. 

When gelatine is used, soak it (unless otherwise di- 
rected), in a warm place for two hours, allowing half a 
cupful cold water to each half box of gelatine ; then pour 
on it a half-cupful of boiling water, arid dissolve it. 

The best way to strain jellies, etc., is through a coarse 
napkin laid over a sieve. 

FLAVORINGS FOR CUSTARDS, ETC. 

Zest. 

Rub lumps of white sugar over the peel of a lemon, 
and melt them in custard. This is a most delicate way of 
getting the flavor of lemon-peel. 

Burnt Sugar Flavoring. 

Put one tablespoonful brown sugar into a pan ; stir it till 
it becomes dark as taffy. Add,one cupful of boiling water ; 
let it stand a minute. Use enough of it to give a good flavor 
and bottle the rest for use another time. 

Syrup Flavoring. 

The syrup of quince, peach and other preserves, makes 
delicious flavoring for custard. A little jelly dissolved in 
custard also gives an agreeable flavor. 
"Wine Jelly. 



j i box Cox's gelatine. 
\ 1 cupful cold water. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

I pint Sicily Madeira wine. 



1 large lemon, sliced, 
li cupfuls sugar. 
3 inches stick cinnamon, 
broken fine. 



Soak and dissolve the gelatine. Have ready in a por- 
celain sauce-pan the other ingredients, the seeds being re- 



254 How to Cook Well. 

moved from the lemon. Pour the gelatine upon them, 
and set it on the fire. Do not let it boil, but when it be- 
gins to bubble slightly on the edges, take it off, and strain. 
Pour into a deep dish, with a flat square bottom, if possi- 
ble. When cold and firm, cut into large squares or blocks, 
and pile in a glass dish. 

These directions, if carefully and exactly followed, will 
make a handsome, clear jelly, very delicate and well-fla- 
vored. 

" The best I ever tried," said the friend who gave it to 
me. 

Wine Jelly, Without Boiling. 



1 package Cox's gelatine. 
1 pint cold water. 
3 lemons. 



1 quart boiling water. 
1 pint wine. 
l pounds sugar. 



Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours, with the 
juice of the lemons, and the rinds pared very thin. Then 
strain out the lemon rind, mix with the boiling water, and 
add the wine and sugar. When the sugar is dissolved 
strain, and pour it into wet blanc-mange moulds, and set 
it away to harden. 

Claret Jelly. 



box Cox's gelatine, 
cupful cold water, 
cupful boiling water. 



1 lemon (juice only). 
1 pint claret. 
1 cupful sugar. 



Soak and dissolve the gelatine. When slightly cooled, 
add the lemon-juice, claret and sugar. Stir till the latter 
is dissolved. Strain, and pour into wet moulds to stiffen. 

Nice for invalids. 

Cider Jelly. 



1 box Cox's gelatine. 
1 pint cold water. 
1 pint boiling water. 



2 pounds sugar. 

3 lemons (juice only). 

1 pint champagne cider. 



Soak and dissolve the gelatine. Then add the sugar 
and dissolve it. Let it cool a little. Then stir in the 



Desserts. 255 



lemon-juice and cider. Strain, and pour into wet moulds. 
This is a delicious jelly, and is much relished by inva- 
lids who cannot take wine. 

Wine and Orange Jelly. 



box Cox's gelatine, 
cupful cold water, 
cupful boiling water. 



1 lejnon (juice only). 

1 large wineglass Sherry wine. 

1 heaping cupful sugar. 



2 oranges (juice only). 

Soak and dissolve the gelatine. When slightly cool add 
the orange and lemon-juice and the wine. Put in the 
sugar, and stir till dissolved. Pour into wet moulds, and 
leave it to stiffen. 

A pretty way to serve it is to break it into pieces, and 
spread them over a glass platter. This makes a very 
sparkling dish. 

Orange Jelly. 



1 oz. isinglass. 
1 cupful water. 



1 lemon. 
Sugar to taste. 



8 sweet oranges. 

Soak the isinglass in the water till it is dissolved. Rub 
the peel of four oranges on several lumps of sugar. Dis- 
solve these in the juice of the eight oranges and the lemon. 
Mix this with the isinglass, and sweeten to taste. Strain, 
and pour the mixture into wet moulds. 

Orange Baskets, with Jelly. 



i box gelatine, 
i cupful cold water. 
1 cupful boiling water. 
1 pint orange- juice. 



1 large lemon. 
1 cupful sugar. 

"Whipped Cream" (may be 
omitted). 



Before you cut the oranges (eight usually make one pint 
of juice) mark with a pen-knife two lines, over one half, 
for a handle ; then mark on each side, a line between the 
two ends of the handle. Remove the peel between these 
marks. This will leave the peel shaped like a basket. 



256 How to Cootc Well. 

Take out the pulp carefully. Put it into a bag with the 
cut-off rind and the lemon sliced. Squeeze, adding more 
oranges if necessary to make a pint of juice. Dissolve 
the sugar in the juice. Do all this while the gelatine is 
soaking on the stove where it will not boil. It may be 
left for half or three quarters of an hour. Then dissolve it 
in the boiling water. Pour it upon the juice and sugar. 
Strain it, and pour it into wet dishes to stiffen. When 
firm, and just before serving, break it into rough pieces 
and fill the baskets high. 

If you wish to make them look very attractive, heap 
" Whipped Cream " on the jelly. In either case, set the 
baskets on a platter covered with leaves or flowers; or 
prettier still, bunches of grapes. 

Beautiful for a company supper-table. 



Lemon Jelly. 



k box Cox's gelatine, 
i cupful cold water. 



2 large lemons (juice only). 
1 large cupful sugar. 



I cupful boiling water. 1 1 pint cold water. 

Soak and dissolve the gelatine. When a little cool, add 
the juice of the lemons, sugar and the pint of cold water. 
Stir till the sugar is dissolved. Strain it and pour into 
wet moulds. 

Lemon Jelly of Sea Moss. 

/ cupful sea moss. 1 1 large lemon (juice only). 

I 1 quart water (nearly). I Sugar to taste. 

Soak the sea moss in the water for half an hour. Then 
put it on to boil for twenty minutes, without adding more 
water. (Notice the time when it begins to boil.) Strain 
it through a cloth laid over a sieve, without squeezing it 
at all. Add the lemon-juice, sweeten it, and pour into wet 
moulds. It will become stiff as soon as cold. 

Very delicate, and much relished by invalids. 



Desserts. 257 



Snow Pudding. 



k box Cox's gelatine. 
1 cupful cold water. 
1 cupful boiling water. 



1 large lemon (juice only). 

14 cupfuls sugar. 

4 eggs (whites only). 



Soak and dissolve the gelatine. Add the lemon-juice 
and the sugar. Strain into a large dish and set in a cold 
place. Leave it till it beyins to set, but not till very stiff 
(it will probably take an hour). Have ready the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. Beat them well into the jelly a 
spoonful at a time ; fifteen or twenty minutes will not be 
too long to beat it. Put it in wet moulds tillstiff. Then 
turn out on a platter, and pour over it the following cus- 
tard, when cold. Or serve the moulds by themselves, and 
serve the custard in a glass pitcher. 

(Makes two moulds.) 

Custard. 

I quart boiling milk, 
f 4 eggs (yolks only). 
\ J cupful sugar. 

Flavoring. 

Make like " Boiled Custard." 
A very ornamental dish. 



Orange Snow. 



1 box Cox's gelatine. 

2 rinds of oranges. 
1 cupful cold water. 

1 cupful boiling water. 



4 oranges (juice only). 
2 cupfuls white sugar. 
4 eggs (whites only). 



Cut the rinds into thin slips and soak with the gelatine. 
Then dissolve in the boiling water, and strain. Stir in the 
juice of the oranges with the sugar until dissolved. Add 
the whites of the eggs (beaten very stiff). Beat all well 
together till it looks like snow, and is stiff. 

While the gelatine is soaking, make the following cus- 



258 How to Cook Well. 

tard. Pour it into a glass dish, and when cold heap the 

beaten snow on top. 

Custard. 

1 pint milk. I cupful sugar. 

4 eggs (yolks only). | 

It is an improvement to soak thin slices of sponge-cake 
in wine, and put them in the bottom of the dish, pouring 
the custard over. 

Fruit Jelly. 
(An Ornamental Dish to Serve with Meats.) 

Make " Lemon Jelly." Put a little in a wet mould, and 
set the rest in a pan of hot water to keep it liquid. When 
that in the mould begins to stiffen lay in a few strawber- 
ries with the hulls on, a few cherries in bunches with the 
stems, and anything else you like. Pour in more jelly, and 
proceed as before. Set away to become firm. 

Jelly with Bananas. 

Make "Lemon or Wine Jelly," and proceed as above, 
using only bananas cut around in slices. Serve for dessert. 



Coffee Jelly. 



{ 



box Cox's gelatine, 
cupful cold water. 



1 quart strong, clear coffee. 
Sugar to taste. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Make a quart of 
strong coffee, and strain it. Make it very sweet. Set it 
on the fire, to become boiling hot ; then pour it at once on 
the gelatine. Put it into wet moulds to stiffen, and then 
turn out. 

Another way is, to pour it into a square pan, and when 
stiff, cut it into cubes an inch square, and heap in a glass 
dish. This is a very pretty way to serve it with ice-cream, 
and makes a dainty dessert, served with cream alone. 

If for an invalid, do not make the coffee very strong. 



Desserts. 259 



Coffee Cream. 



oz. Cox's gelatine, 
cupful cold water. 



cupful sugar. 

cupful cream (milk will do). 



4 cupful strong, hot coffee. 

Soak the gelatine ; then pour over it the coffee (well 
cleared), and dissolve the sugar in it. When a little cool, 
stir in the cream. Strain, and pour into wet moulds. It 
will take twelve hours to stiffen. Makes one large mould. 

Mont Blanc. 



box Cox's gelatine. 
1 quart milk. 



1 teaspoonful vanilla (or a few 
drops rose extract). 



1 cupful sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in half a cupful of the milk for fifteen 
minutes. Put the rest on the stove in a double boiler ; 
and when scalding hot, dissolve the gelatine and the sugar 
in it. Remove from the fire, and when partly cool, stir in 
the flavoring. Pour into wet moulds. When firm turn 
out, and serve with cream. 

Banana Blanc Mange (or other Fruit). 



box Cox's gelatine, 
cupful water. 



J cupful sugar. 

3 bananas (or other fruit). 



li pints milk. 

Soak the gelatine in the water for half an hour. Boil 
the milk and sugar together. Then pour a little of the 
hot milk on the gelatine and dissolve it. 

Pour into the hot milk and boil all together ten minutes. 
Remove, and when beginning to stiffen, stir in the bananas, 
previously broken with a fork. Put into wet moulds. 

Serve with cream. Eat the day it is made: 
Velvet Cream. 



4 box Cox's gelatine. 
4 cupful cold water. 
4 cupful boiling water. 



1 pint cream. 

| cupful sugar. 

i cupful Sherry wine. 



Soak and dissolve the gelatine. Add the cream with 
the sugar dissolved in it. Then put in the wine. Stir 



260 How to Cook Well. 

fast so that it will not lump. Strain and pour into wet 
moulds to stiffen. 
Fills two moulds. 

Mille Fruit Cream. 

| oz. gelatine. 

{1 cupful milk. 
1 cupful cream, 
i cupful sugar. 
Preserved fruit. 
Syrup of the preserves. 

Put the gelatine to soak in enough cold water to cover 
it. Leave it in a warm place. In the meantime butter 
slightly the inside of a mould, and select handsome pieces 
of preserved fruit of several kinds wherewith to garnish 
it. Use ginger, watermelon rind, cherries, plums, and 
anything else that is firm and of a rich color and pretty 
shape. Lay these around the edges of the mould. 

Mix the milk, cream and sugar together, and whip to a 
froth. When light and thick, beat in the syrup of the 
different fruits (a little of each), and mix in gently more 
of the fruit such as you used in garnishing. 

Then dissolve the gelatine, adding a very little boiling 
water to it if necessary. Strain it into the whipped 
cream, stirring all the time quickly, but lightly, with your 
whisk. Let it stand a few moments until it settles. Put 
it into the mould carefully, a little at a time, so as not to 
displace the fruit in the mould. 

Put in a cold place for three or four hours, when it will 
be stiff enough to turn out. 

N. B. Do not use more than one cupful of preserve 
juice in all. 

A beautiful dish for a company supper table. 



Desserts. 261 



Bavarian Cream With Eggs. 



i box Cox's gelatine. 
i cupful warm water. 
1 quart cream. 



4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
4 eggs (yolks ouly). 
1 teaspoouf ul vanilla. 



Soak the gelatine in the warm water for two hours. 
Put one pint of the cream in a double-boiler, and heat to 
a boiling point, but do not boll it. Dissolve the gelatine 
and sugar in this, and remove from the fire. When it 
is a little cool, beat the eggs and stir them in. Leave it 
till thick as mush, but not firm. Then beat in lightly a 
spoonful at a time the remaining pint of cream, whipped 
light. Then pour into wet moulds, to form. 

Bavarian Cream Without Eggs. 



i box Cox's gelatine. 
| cupf uls cold water. 
J cupful boiling water. 



1 cupful sugar. 
1 wineglass wine. 
1 pint cream. 



Soak and dissolve the gelatine. Add the sugar and wine ; 
set it on the stove and stir till it begins to thicken. Then 
remove and beat in the cream, previously whipped. Pour 
into the mould to stiffen. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream. 

Make like the above, but add more sugar, and omit the 
wine, and substitute four tablespoonfuls of chocolate, pre- 
viously wet to a smooth paste with a little boiling water. 

Bavarian Cream With Berries. 

f h box Cox's gelatine. 
1 4 cupful warm water. 

2i pounds strawberries or raspberries. 

Sugar, to make very sweet. 

1 pint cream, whipped. 

Soak the gelatine in the warm water, for one hour, on the 
back of the stove where it will not boil. While it is soak- 
ing, squeeze the berries through a bag, or pulp them 
through a colander. In the juice, dissolve the sugar. 



262 How to Cook Well 

Then stir in the soaked gelatine. Leave it until it begins 
to stiffen, and then beat in the whipped cream. 

Put into wet moulds. If you choose, serve fresh berries 
around the Cream when it is turned out of the mould. 

Spanish Cream. 
| box Cox's gelatine. 
1 quart milk. 
l small cupfuls sugar. 
3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 
1 gill wine (or, teaspoonful flavoring). 
1 lemon. 

Soak the gelatine in one cupful of the milk, cold, for 
twenty minutes. Boil the rest of the milk in a double- 
boiler. Pour it upon the gelatine and dissolve it. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs and the wine with the sugar, reserv- 
ing half a cupful of the latter. Add the dissolved gel- 
atine. Stir all well together. Pour into the dish in which 
it is to be served. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; then stir in 
the reserved half cupful of sugar and the juice of the lemon. 
Spread a part of this frosting with a knife around the rim 
of the dish containing the custard. Then cover the whole 
top either smoothly or roughly with the remainder. 

Set it in a very hot oven, just long enough to brown 
delicately. When cool set it on ice to stiffen. This will 
keep three or four days in a cold place, and is best made 
the day before it is to be used. 

Italian Cream. 
r \ box Cox's gelatine. 
\ 2| cupfuls milk. 

3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 

5 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Flavoring. 

Put the gelatine and the milk together in a double 
boiler. When the milk is scalded, stir the gelatine to dis- 
solve it. Remove from the fire, and pour the mixture 



Desserts. 263 



upon the yolks of the eggs, previously beaten with the 
sugar. Stir fast to avoid curdling. Put back on the 
stove and boil a minute as you would custard. Do not 
leave it too long or it will curdle. 

Take it off, and when a little cool, add the flavoring, and 
slowly and gradually stir in the whites beaten stiff. Beat 
all five minutes, then pour into wet moulds, and set away 
to harden. 

This makes a rich and beautiful looking dish, clear on 
top, yellow in the middle and like Charlotte Russe below. 

Ribbon Blanc Mange. 



1 box Cox's gelatine. 
1 pint cold water. 
3 cupfuls milk. 
2| cupfuls sugar. 



2 eggs, yolks only. 

2 tablespoonfuls chocolate 

grated. 
A little red syrup. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours. 
Put the sugar and milk in a double boiler ; when it begins 
to boil, add the gelatine and stir it till dissolved. Remove 
and strain it ; and divide it into four parts. Have ready 
a scalloped tin cake-mould, with a tube in the centre. 
Wet it, pour in one part of the blanc mange, and set it in 
a cold place. 

Into the second part stir the beaten yolks. Into the 
third, mix any kind of bright-colored pivserve-syrup, jelly, 
or prepared cochineal. Into the fourth, stir the chocolate, 
previously dissolved in a little of the hot milk. Set the 
vessels containing the different portions into one of hot 
water. When the white mixture begins to stiffen, pour in 
the yellow, which should be boiled a minute to cook the 
eggs. When that is a little stiff, add the pink; and when 
that is ready, the chocolate. 

When firm, turn out, and put a large, bright-colored 
flower in the centre, if you want the dish very pretty. 
This or a plain conical mould shows the colors to better 
advantage than a fancy shape. 



264 How to Cook Well 



Chocolate Gelatine Blanc Mange. 



1 quart milk. 
1 oz. Cooper's gelatine. 
3 eggs (yolks and whites sepa- 
rate). 



5 tablespooufuls grated choco- 
late. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla, if you 
like. 



| cupful sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in one cupful of the milk for fifteen 
minutes. Put the rest in a double-boiler, and heat to the 
boiling-point Dissolve the chocolate in a few spoonfuls 
of the hot milk. Have ready the yolks of the eggs beaten 
with the sugar. Mix these with the chocolate thoroughly. 
Pour the hot milk over the mixture, stirring fast, to pre- 
vent curdling. Return to the fire and boil a minute, stir- 
ring all the time. Remove, and when partly cool stir in 
lightly the beaten whites of the eggs and the vanilla. 
Pour into wet moulds, and set in a cold place. It will 
take twelve hours to harden. 

Makes two large moulds. 

A pretty way to serve this is to put it in a tin cake- 
mould with a tube in the middle. When stiff, turn it out, 
and heap u Whipped Cream " in the hole in the middle 
and around the base. 

Imitation Hen's Nest. 

For several days before you make this, save the shells 
of the eggs used for cooking ; pour the contents through 
a small hole at one end, thus keeping the shells as whole 
as possible. Rinse them out with cold water. 

Make Blanc Mange by the receipt for Mont Blanc. 
While liquid, fill the egg-shells (wet), and set them in a pan 
of flour till the next day. 

Then cut into narrow strips the fresh rinds of four or- 
anges. Stew them till tender in enough water to cover 
them. Add one cupful sugar, and cook fifteen minutes 
longer in the syrup. Spread them, then, on a platter to 
cool, taking care not to break them. 



Desserts. 265 



When cool, arrange them in the shape of a nest (hollow 
in the middle) in a low, round glass dish. Carefully break 
the shells from the Blanc Mange, and lay the artificial 
eggs prettily in the middle, with a few pieces of the imi- 
tation straw scattered about. Serve with cream. 

This is a very ornamental and inexpensive dessert, and 
is much more easily prepared than many which are not so 
pretty. I have had it for dessert on Easter, before I 
heard of Marion Ilarland's still prettier dish of " Easter 
Eggs," which are made like these, but of different colors. 

If you choose, put a layer of "Lemon" or "Cider 
Jelly " under the " nest," not allowing it to show. The 
flavor is pleasant. 

Junket. 

1 quart new milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonf ul vanilla or a few drops rose extract. 
1 tablespoonf ul prepared rennet. 

Mix all together about one and one half hours before it is 
to be eaten, in the dish in which it is to be served. Set 
in a warm place, till just firm. Then keep on ice till 
wanted, and serve with sugar and cream. 

In cool weather, it will be necessary to prepare it fully 
two hours before serving. It should not be allowed to 
stand long after it becomes firm, or the whey will separate. 

A good Sunday dessert in hot weather, because it re- 
quires no cooking. 

Serve with cream and sugar, or fruit syrup. 

Almond Blanc Mange. 

1 1 oz. isinglass. 
\ 1 quart new milk (warm). 
j 2 oz. "blanched almonds." 
\ A little rose-water. 
I cupful sugar. 

Soak and dissolve the isinglass in the milk. Pound the 
almonds in a marble mortar, working them to a smooth 



266 How to Cook Well 

paste with the rose-water. Add them to the milk while 
warm, sweeten, and pour the whole into wet moulds. 
When stiff, turn out, and serve with cream and sugar. 

Rice Blanc Mange. 
f 1 cupful raw rice (washed). 



3 pints water (cold). 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 lemon (grated rind only). 



A little cinnamon. 
cupful cream. 

cupful preserve- juice or jelly 
(may be omitted). 



A little salt. 

Boil the rice in the water till every grain is dissolved 
and the water displaced by a thick paste of rice. 

Stir into it the sugar and lemon rind, salt and cinnamon. 

Beat the cream to a stiff froth and stir into the rice. 
Then mix in the preserve juice or jelly, which should be 
of a bright color. 

Pack the blanc mange in wet moulds. When stiff, 
turn out and serve with custard or cream. 

Snow Balls (a Simple Dessert). 

Boil rice in salted boiling water till very tender. Wet 
small cups, and while the rice is still hot, pack it in the 
cups till half filled. Set in a cold place for about three 
hours. Just before dinner, scoop out the centre of each 
(saving the rice for muffins) and fill with bright-colored 
jelly, or a piece of any kind of preserves. ^ 

Turn out the moulds on a platter, and pour soft custard 
around the base, taking care to let none of the custard 
fall on the tops of the Snow Balls. 

Or, serve simply with cream and sugar. 

An easy Sunday dessert for hot weather. 

Tapioca or Sago Blanc Mange. 



i cupful tapioca or sago. 
1 pint cold water. 



i cupful sugar. 

1 lemon (juice only). 



Soak the tapioca in the water for two hours. Then 
put in a double-boiler, and boil slowly till soft. Add the 



Desserts. 267 



sugar and lemon-juice, and boil till transparent. Pour 
into wet moulds, and eat with cream and sugar when stiff 
enough to turn out. 

To vary this omit the lemon, and mix in apple sauce, 
preserved or canned fruit left from tea (cut fine), using 
also the juice. 

Substitute milk for water, and omit the lemon if you 

choose. 

Rouge Mange. 

(A Danish fieceipt.) 

Boil cranberries, cherries or red currants in enough 
water to cover them. Crush them with a wooden spoon 
while boiling. When soft, squeeze through a bag. To 
two quarts of juice put half of a pound of sugar. Put this 
on the stove. When it begins to boil throw in a scant 
quarter of a pound of sago, soaked for one hour in just 
enough water to cover it. 

Boil till the sago is transparent, stirring often. Do not 
let it scorch. Pour into wet moulds. When stiff, turn 
out and serve with cream and sugar. 

Simple Cornstarch Blanc Mange. 



1 quart milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

A pinch of salt. 



5 even tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch. 
1 teaspoonf ul flavoring. 



Put" the milk in a double-boiler with the sugar and salt, 
and set it on the stove, reserving one cupful. Rub the 
cornstarch to a paste with this, and add to the hot milk 
when boiling fast. Stir well, and let it boil about five 
minutes, till thick. Take from the fire. Flavor, and 
pour into wet moulds. 

Rich Cornstarch Blanc Mange. 



1 quart milk. 

i saltspoonful salt. 

1 cupful sugar. 



4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
3 eggs (yolks only). 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



Make like " Simple Cornstarch Blanc Mange." Pour 



268 How to Cook Well. 

a little over the beaten yolks of the eggs, stirring fast. 
Return to the kettle, and boil a moment, stirring con- 
stantly. Remove, flavor, and pour into wet moulds. 

Chocolate Cornstarch Blanc Mange. 

(No eggs.} 
( 1" cupful milk. 
1 1 heaping tablespoonful sugar. 

1 heaping tablespoonful cornstarch. 

1 heaping tablespoonful grated chocolate. 

Allow this quantity to every two persons, and increase 
it according to the size of your family. 

Make like " Simple Cornstarch Blanc Mange," but 
mix the chocolate (wet to a paste with a few spoonfuls of 
hot milk) with the cornstarch before adding it. 

German Blanc Mange. 



1 quart milk. 

4 table spoonfuls sugar. 

i saltspoonf ul salt. 



5 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

3 eggs (whites only). 

A few drops rose-extract. 



Make like " Simple Cornstarch Blanc Mange." When 
you take it from the fire, stir in lightly with a fork the 
whites of the eggs (beaten stiff}, and flavor. Pour into 
wet moulds. When firm, turn out on a platter, and pour 
around it the following 

Soft Custard. 

1 pint milk. I 3 eggs (yolks only). 

2^ tablespoonfuls sugar. 

To make it, see Boiled Custard. 

A very delicate and simple dessert. 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange. 



1 pint milk. 

1J tablespoonfuls Bermuda 
arrowroot. 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

A pinch of salt. 

A few drops rose-extract. 



cupful cold water. 
Scald the milk. Rub the arrowroot to a paste with the 
water. Stir this into the milk while boiling. Add the 



Desserts. 269 



sugar and salt, and boil till it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the fire, flavor and pour into wet moulds 
to stiffen. (Water may be used instead of milk.) 
Excellent for invalids. 

Sea Moss Blanc Mange. 

4 cupful sea moss. I i cupful sugar. 

1 quart milk. 

Wash the moss and soak half an hour in enough cold 
water to cover it. Then put it and the water in which it 
was soaked in a double-boiler with the milk. Set on the 
stove. Notice when it begins to boil ; and boil gently for 
twenty minutes. Then strain through a cloth, sweeten, 
and pour it into wet moulds. It will not have percepti- 
bly thickened at all, but do not boil it any longer. It 
will stiffen as soon as cold. On no account spoil the 
natural flavor of the moss by adding any kind of essence. 

If the moss is old it will be necessary to use more than 
if fresh. 

Whipped Cream or Syllabub. 

Sweeten and flavor the cream. Then beat in a deep 
bowl with a Dover egg-beater. As the froth rises take it 
off, and put it on a sieve. What drains off can be col- 
lected and beaten or whipped again. Heap it in glasses 
and serve soon. Serve fancy crackers with it, or " Sponge 
Cake." 

A tiny bit of soda stirred into the cream before whip- 
ping it, will prevent its turning to butter in hot weather. 

Charlotte Russe. 



4 oz. Cox's gelatine. 
4 cupful hot milk. 
1 pint cream. 



2 eggs (whites only). 

4 tablespoonfuls wine (or a 

little vanilla), 
cupful sugar (pulverized). 

Soak and dissolve the gelatine in the milk. Sweeten 
the cream. Beat it a little. Then add to it the whites 



270 How to Cootc Well 

of the eggs (previously beaten stiff) and the wine. Beat 
all together with a Dover egg-beater. Add the gelatine 
and beat all till it thickens well. 

Have ready a square mould, lined with thin slices of 
sponge cake, with the crust cut off, or with lady-fingers. 
Fill at once with the mixture. Lay a few slices of the 
cake over the top, and set it away to stiffen. When firm, 
turn it out on a pretty dish. 

Fills a large mould. 

Simple Charlotte Busse. 

( 1 pint rich cream. 

J 1 wineglassful wine (or half a teaspoonful vanilla). 
[ i pound pulverized sugar. 
2 eggs (whites only). 

Flavor and sweeten the cream. Then whip it. Beat 
the eggs light, add the cream and beat all together thor- 
oughly. Proceed as with the last receipt for " Charlotte 
Russe." It is best made the day before it is to be eaten. 

Christmas Charlotte Russe. 



1 tablespoonf ul Cox's gela- 
tine. 

1 tablespoonf ul cold water. 
1 cupful milk. 
3 eggs (yolks and whites sepa- 



k cupful sugar. 

| teaspoonful vanilla (or a lit- 
tle wine). 
1 pint rich cream. 
Sponge cake. 



rate). 

Soak the gelatine in the water fifteen minutes. Heat 
the rnilk in a double-boiler. When it begins to boil, add 
the gelatine, and stir till dissolved. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs with the sugar. Pour the boiling milk on them, and 
return to the fire. Boil a minute (stirring all the time), 
till it thickens well. Take it off. When partly cool add 
the vanilla. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Pour the 
cream on them, and whip them together as light as possi- 
ble. As soon as the custard is perfectly cold add it to the 



Desserts. 271 



whipped cream. Mix well. Proceed to fill moulds as in 
the two previous receipts. 

Charlotte Russe Pudding. 



pints milk. 

teaspoon ful cornstarch. 

cupful white sugar. 



4 eggs (beaten separately). 
3 teaspoonful flavoring. 
Sponge cake. 



Make like " Cornstarch Custard," reserving the whites 
of the eggs. Have ready in a deep dish some slices of 
sponge cake. Pour the hot custard on them. When 
cool, cover with a " Meringue " and brown delicately. 

Serve cold. 

Boiled Custard. 

1 quart milk, 
f 5 eggs (yolks only). 
1 5 tahlespoonf uls sugar. 

Flavoring ("Zest" is best). 

Put the milk into a double-boiler on the stove. Beat 
the eggs and sugar together, and when the milk boils pour 
it over them (if you add the eggs to the milk there is 
danger of curdling), stirring briskly as you do so. Re- 
turn to the fire for a moment, to cook the eggs. Stir att 
the time. Remove, and when cool, mix in the flavoring. 
Pour into a custard-dish and grate a little nutmeg over 
the top, if you like. 

If you make half the quantity, use three eggs (yolks 
only). 

Maple sugar gives a delicate and agreeable flavor to 
custards. It is much used in the White Mountains. 

Cornstarch Custard (boiled). 



1 quart milk. 



f i quart miiK. r 4 tal 

\ A pinch of salt. j 3 e g 



4 table spoonfuls sugar. 



;gs (yolks only). 



Flavoring. 



2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

Put the salt with the milk in a double-boiler on the 
stove, reserving a little of the milk in which to rub the 



272 How to Cook Well. 

cornstarch. When the milk boils, add the latter, and let 
it boil a few minutes. Then pour it over the sugar and 
eggs (beaten together), stir fast and return to the fire. 
Boil a moment, stirring all the time. Take it off, and 
when cool mix in the flavoring or a little wine. 

If you wish, use one egg less, and one spoonful more 
of cornstarch. Or use less cornstarch if you like it thin. 

Floating Island. 

Make either of the two custards given above. Substi- 
tute flour for the cornstarch if you prefer, using a little 
less. When cool, and shortly before serving, beat the 
whites of the eggs, add pulverized sugar, and drop it in 
large spoonfuls on top of the custard. Then dot each 
"Island " with bright-colored tart jelly. 

Raspberry Floating Island is made as above, but 
to make the islands, see " Raspberry Trifle." 

Apple Floating Island. Make the islands like " Ap- 
ple Snow." 

Jelly Floating Island. Beat a little red jelly with 
the whites of the eggs. 

Chocolate Floating Island. To the beaten whites 
of the eggs add two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 

Floating Island, without Cooking. 

Put a pint of cream into a glass dish ; beat the whites 
of the eggs stiff; add a little pulverized sugar and currant 
jelly ; beat all to a stiff froth, and pile in spoonfuls on 
the surface of the cream. 

Serve soon with fancy crackers. 

Or arrange it in cups, and put a macaroon in each. 

Apple Custard. 

If you have custard left from dinner, it will serve a 
second time by filling the bottom of the dish with apple- 



Desserts. 273 



sauce and pouring the custard over. A very nice des- 
sert. Serve nice crackers with it. 

Berries, sliced peaches, or pears are nice served thus. 

Orange Custard. 

2 oranges. 
( 5 eggs. 
1 2 cupf uls sugar. 

2 cupfuls milk. 

To the rind of one orange, grated, add the juice of both. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together, and add them. Mix 
all with the milk. Pour into custard-cups, set in a pan of 
hot water, and bake half an hour, till firm. 



Lemon Custard. 



2 lemons. 



1 large cupf ul sugar. 



5 eggs. 

Put into a porcelain sauce-pan, or pitcher, the juice of 
the lemons and the rind of one grated. Add the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten with the sugar. Set the sauce-pan 
into a pan of boiling water, on the stove ; stir constantly 
until it bubbles, to prevent curdling. Have ready the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Take the custard off the 
stove, and lightly beat them in. Pour into a glass dish 
or custard-cups. Serve cold. 

Tipsy Parson. 

Moisten slices of stale cake with wine, and lay them in 
the bottom of a custard-dish. Have ready a "Boiled Cus- 
tard " ; pour it while hot on the cake. Do not serve it for 
two hours. 

This is a good way to use up stale cake or gingerbread, 
though the latter is not so nice. 

A richer dish may be made by spreading the cake with 
jelly, after moistening it, and by beating the whites of the 
eggs, afterwards sweetened, with which to cover the top. 



274 How to CooJc Well. 

Cup Custard. 

1 quart milk. I 4 tablespoonf uls sugar. 

3 eggs. I 1 teaspoonf ul flavoring. 

Scald the milk and pour it upon the eggs and sugar, 
previously beaten together, stirring to avoid curdling. 
Flavor, and pour while hot, into small cups. Set them in 
a dripping-pan, and fill that with hot water deep enough 
to reach two thirds up the cups. Set them in a moderate 
oven for about ten minutes ; until firm. Take them out 
as soon as done, or they will curdle, and serve when cold. 

Richer custards may be made by using six eggs, yolks 
only. 

Grated nutmeg, lemon peel, chocolate or cocoanut, 
may be scattered over the top. 



Baked Custard. 



/ 4 eggs. 



cupful of sugar. 



1 teaspoonful flavoring. 
1 quart of milk. 



A pinch of salt. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together ; add salt, flavoring 
and milk (cold). Pour into a buttered pudding-dish; set 
this into a pan of hot water, and put it in a very hot 
oven. It should not cook more than half an hour. 

It is a good plan to keep it covered the first ten min- 
utes ; as soon as firm, take it out before it curdles. 

This may be baked in cups if preferred. 

Delmonico Pudding. 



1 quart milk. 

A pinch of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 



4 eggs, beaten separately. 
A little flavoring. 
| cupful jelly. 



cupful sugar. 

Mix like " Cornstarch Custard." After adding the fla- 
voring, pour it into a pudding-dish, and spread jelly over 
the top. Cover this with a " Meringue," and brown deli- 
cately in a very hot oven. Serve very cold. 



Desserts. 275 



Another way is, to add more sugar than usual to the 
"Meringue," and stir in grated cocoanut. Instead of 
browning it, scatter cocoanut over the top, to give the 
appearance of snow-flakes. 

Caramel Custard. 

Make " Boiled Custard," and use both yolks and whites 
of the five eggs. Do not flavor it. Put five tablespoon- 
f uls of light brown sugar into a pan, and set it on the stove 
to burn, stirring till it becomes a dark brown. While the 
custard is boiling hot, pour it on the burnt sugar and stir 
it until it is dissolved. Have ready a pudding-dish, but- 
tered and hot ; pour in the custard ; set it in a pan of hot 
water, and proceed as for " Baked Custard." 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Make " Cornstarch Blanc Mange " by either of the re- 
ceipts given. On removing from the fire stir in one cup 
of grated cocoanut. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and when cold spread with a "Meringue." When baked 
sprinkle cocoanut on top. 

Serve cold with cream or " Boiled Custard." 

Cocoanut Custard Pudding. 



1 quart milk. 

1 pint grated cocoanut. 



i cupful sugar. 

1 soda cracker, rolled fine. 



4 eggs, beaten light. 

Scald the milk, remove and add the cocoanut. When 
cold, add the eggs and sugar ; stir in the cracker, and 
pour into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake in a rather hot 
oven, nearly half an hour ; until firm. Serve cold. 
Chocolate Custard Pudding. 



1 quart milk. 

3 ounces grated chocolate. 



i cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



6 eggs, reserving whites of 3. 

Boil the milk, first dipping out a little with which to 
stir the chocolate to a paste ; add it to the boiling milk. 



276 How to Cook Well 

When it has boiled a few minutes remove, and let it cool 
fifteen minutes ; then stir in the eggs, beaten light. Add 
the sugar and vanilla. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish 
in a very hot oven, having the dish set in a pan of boiling 
water. When firm, which should be in half an hour, re- 
move and cover with a " Meringue," using the reserved 
whites of eggs. 
Serve cold. 



Orange Pudding. 



4 oranges. 



to sweeten. 



Cornstarch Custard.' 



3 or 2 eggs (whites only). 
3 tablespoonf uls pulverized 
sugar. 



Peel, slice and sugar the oranges. Pour the custard 
(while hot) over them, and mix well. When cool cover 
with a " Meringue." Brown delicately in a very hot oven, 
the dish being set in a pan of hot water. Serve cold. 

Berries or preserves may be substituted for the 



Orange Fool. 



2 large oranges, juice only. 
Sugar to sweeten. 



2 or 3 eggs, well beaten. 
| pint cream. 



Mix all together, in a pitcher; set this into a pan of 
hot water, and stir it over a slow fire until it becomes as 
thick as melted butter, but do not let it boil. 

Pour into a glass dish and serve cold with nice crackers. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

1 quart ripe gooseberries. I f 1 cupful sugar. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. I 1 3 or 4 eggs, yolks only. 

Put the gooseberries into cold water on the fire, and 
when they come to a boil, throw it off, and pour in just 
enough hot water to cover them, and stew till tender. 
Then put through a sieve to remove the skins. 



Desserts. 277 



While hot, stir in the butter, sugar and eggs, beaten. 
Serve cold in a glass dish, with nice crackers. 

This can be improved by making a " Meringue " for 
the top. 

Nonsense. 

1 egg, white only. 

3 table spoonfuls strawberry or raspberry jam. 

2 tablespooufuls currant jelly. 

Beat the white stiff and add it by degrees to the jam 
and jelly. Beat till stiff enough for the spoon to stand 
upright. Serve in glasses with nice crackers. 

A good way to use preserves left from tea. 

Raspberry Trifle. 

1 pint fresh raspberries. I 4 eggs, whites only. 

1 cupful sugar. | h cupful pulverized sugar. 

Crush the raspberries, and pass them through a sieve to 
avoid seeds; stir in the sugar; beat the eggs stiff, and 
add to them the pulverized sugar. By degrees, beat in 
the sweetened raspberries, until stiff enough to stand in 
peaks. 

Apple Snow. 

2 cupfuls stewed apples, or 8 I 2 eggs, whites only. 

baked apples (pulped). 1 1 cupful white sugar. 

Strain the apple. Beat the eggs light ; then add the 
sugar gradually. Mix the egg and sugar with the apple 
while hot, in a deep dish, and beat with the egg-beater 
three quarters of an hour, or until it will stand alone. 

Serve before it falls. 

This makes a very large dish full. 

Imperial Cream. 

1 pint cream. | Sugar to sweeten. 

1 large lemon. 

Boil the cream in a pitcher set within hot water. Dis- 
solve in it a few lumps of sugar rubbed on the lemon skin 



278 How to Cook Well. 

till yellow. Remove from the fire and stir till nearly 
cold. Have ready in a custard-dish, the juice of the 
lemon (strained), with as much sugar as will sweeten the 
cream. Pour the cream into the dish from a pitcher 
holding it high and moving it about, so as to mix thor- 
oughly with the juice. 

Make it at least six hours before serving ; better if the 
day before. 



ICE CREAM, ETC. 
Frozen Custard. 

Make " Boiled or Cornstarch Custard," but use as much 
as one half pound of sugar. Freeze it as directed, on 
freezer. 

A Rich Ice Cream. 

5 cupfuls cream. [ 14 teaspoonfuls vanilla, 

li cupfuls sugar. 

Mix all together and freeze. 

Good Ice Cream may be made by substituting milk 
for half the cream. Boil. "Thicken" with one table- 
spoonful of arrowroot, and add one or two eggs. 

For six persons. 

Banana Ice Cream. 

Make like the above, and mix in, when half frozen, 
one large banana, mashed with a fork. 

Or, stir the banana into the following mixture : 

r 1 quart hot milk. I h pound sugar. 

\ 2 tablespoonf uls gelatine. | 2 eggs, beaten light. 

Mix well together and freeze. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Make like "Banana Ice Cream," using one quart peaches, 
pared, stoned and mashed. 

Canned peaches, or apricots may be used for this. 



Desserts. 279 



Pine-Apple Ice Cream. 

1 quart cream. I 2 pounds sugar. 

1 quart milk. | 2 pine-apples, chopped. 

Sweeten the cream and milk ; freeze, and when nearly 
frozen add the pine-apples with the juice. (If this is put 
in before freezing it will curdle the milk.) Beat all to- 
gether, and finish freezing. 

Two cans of pine-apple may be substituted for the fresh. 

Berry Ice Cream. 

Mash strawberries or raspberries, sweeten and make 
like " Banana Ice Cream." 

One quart of berries to one quart of cream is a good 
proportion. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 



1 quart milk. 

4 tablespoonf uls Baker's choc- 
olate grated. 
A little boiling water. 



4 tablespoonf ul cornstarch. 
1 egg, beaten light, 
li tcaspoonfuls vanilla. 
1 pint cream. 



li cupfuls sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double-boiler, reserving a little. 
Rub the chocolate smooth in the boiling water, and add 
to the milk with the sugar. Rub the cornstarch in the 
reserved milk and stir it with the egg ; add this to the 
milk after it has boiled a few minutes. Stir it for a 
moment, and remove before it thickens much. When 
perfectly cold, stir in the vanilla and cream. Freeze. 
Enough for eight persons. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 



2 quarts milk. 

1 pint strong, clear, hot coffee. 



1$ pounds sugar. 
1 quart rich cream. 



Mix all together, adding the cream when the mixture 
is cold, and freeze. 

Enough for sixteen persons. 



280 How to Cook Well. 



Caramel Ice Cream. 



pound brown sugar. 
A little hot water. 



3 or 4 eggs, well beaten. 
Lemon flavoring, if you like. 



1 pint milk. 

Burn one half the sugar in a pan on top of the stove, 
stirring constantly till soft and dark ; pour in enough of 
the water to make it liquid. Add the rest of the sugar, 
mixed with the milk and beaten eggs. Flavor and stir 
all together. Then freeze. For three persons. 



Bisque Ice Cream. 



3 ounces macaroons. 
1 pint cream. 



1 glass sherry wine. 
Sugar to taste. 



1 lemon, juice only. 

Roll or crush fine the macaroons, and beat them into 
the cream. Then stir in the other ingredients. Whip 
all together and freeze. To substitute any kind of stale 
cake for the macaroons makes a good ice cream, but not 
Bisque ! For three persons. 



Orange or Lemon Ice. 



1 pint water 
1 pint sugar. 



6 oranges and 2 lemons, or, 
6 lemons and 2 oranges. 



Mix all together, using the juice of all, and the grated 
rind of three of the oranges or lemons. Freeze. It is an 
improvement to add when partly frozen, the whites of 
three or four eggs, beaten stiff. 

Fruit Ices. 



2 quarts water. 

3 pounds sugar. 



1 quart fruit juice. 
Brandy, if you like. 



Sweeten the water, strain any kind of fruit juice ; add 
it and freeze. This requires a longer time to freeze than 
other ices. It is an improvement to stir in, when the 
ice is half frozen, the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff. 
The juice of currants, cherries and raspberries is delicious 
for this. 



Desserts. 281 



A Pretty Way to Serve Orange Ice. 

Cut a round top off the oranges; remove the inside 
without breaking the skin. Squeeze out the juice. 
Sweeten and strain. Add a little rurn, one pint of water 
and two lemons to every half-dozen oranges. Freeze. Fill 
the skins just before serving. Put the lids on, and serve 
on plates with napkins under, and ornament the base with 
geranium leaves. 

Or serve in orange baskets. (See page 255.) 

Arrowroot Ice. 



2 dessert spoonfuls arrow- 

root. 
| cupful cold water. 



1 quart boiling water. 

4 lemons. 

1 pound sugar. 



Dissolve the arrowroot in the cold water, pour on it 
slowly the boiling water; add the juice of the lemons, 
and the grated peel of one. Sweeten and freeze. 



Peach Ice. 



12 peaches. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 



1 pint water. 

3 eggs, whites only. 



Break the peaches with a fork, and stir all the ingredi- 
ents together, except the eggs, which should be beaten 
stiff and added when the mixture is half frozen. 

One can of peaches may be substituted for the fresh 
fruit. 



CANDY. 
Cream Chocolates. 

Grate part of a cake of Baker's chocolate, and melt it 
over the fire, without the addition of water. Mix together 
confectioner's or pulverized sugar and a little cream, 
till it is of a thick consistency. Then form it into small 
balls, rolling each ball when made in fine sugar, and dip it 
into the chocolate (lukewarm), to form a neat coating on 



282 How to Cook Well. 

the outside. This can be done most easily by sticking 
the cream-ball on the end of a new wooden toothpick, or 
any equally tiny stick. 

Chocolate Caramels (sugar). 

3 pounds sugar. 

1 cake Baker's chocolate, grated. 

% pound butter. 

1 cupful cream. 

Set on the stove. Boil from fifteen to twenty minutes 
from the time it begins to boil. Stir constantly. Have 
ready buttered pans. Fill them at the fire, or the cara- 
mel will harden before you can pour it out. Cut into 
squares. 

Another, 



i pound chocolate (grated). 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



{1 pint milk. 
3 pounds sugar, 
i pound butter. 

Put the milk, sugar and butter on to boil. When it 
begins to boil, pour a little of the mixture on the choco- 
late. Rub to a paste, and then pour it into the sauce-pan. 
Stir it without stopping, after this, and do not let it stop 
boiling once. When thick, add the vanilla and proceed 
as above. 

Chocolate Caramels (molasses). 

Boil one quart of good New Orleans molasses until it 
hardens by dropping a little of it in water. Just before 
removing from the fire, add four ounces of chocolate, 
finely and uniformly grated. 

Pour a thin layer into shallow pans slightly greased, 
and when the surface of the candy has become hardened 
a little, mark it, with a knife, into squares. The caramels 
may be flavored with vanilla if you like. 



Desserts. 283 



Another, 

1 cake Baker's chocolate, 

grated. 
cupful milk. 

2 cupf uls bx'own sugar. 



1 cupful molasses. 
Butter size of a walnut, 
i teaspoonf ul vanilla (may be 
omitted) . 



Boil all except the vanilla over a slow fire for about 
thirty minutes, till it hardens when tested as above. Stir 
constantly. Add the vanilla just before pouring it into 
the pans. 

Maple-Sugar Caramels. 
2 pounds maple sugar. | 1 quart rich new milk. 

Break the sugar into small bits, and put it into a large 
pan, to allow for boiling over. Add the milk, and set it 
on the fire ; stir without ceasing with a wooden spoon, in 
order to prevent its burning. To test whether it is done, 
drop a little into cold water. When it cracks apart, and 
seems brittle, it is done. Pour into shallow pans, pre- 
viously buttered, and mark it in squares with a knife 
before it becomes quite cold. 

The success of these favorite caramels depends upon 
their being boiled to exactly the right point, for which 
it is difficult to give a rule. The best I can give is, that 
when a spoonful dripped slowly will string and break 
apart in dropping it is done. 

Jelly Drops. 

Crab-apple or any very firm jelly may be cut into small 
cubes, rolled thickly in granulated sugar, and laid in a 
cool, dry place for two or three days. The drops will 
then be ready to mix with other candies in a box ; they 
are delicious and look pretty. 

Stiff marmalade of any kind may be used in the same 
way. 



284 How to Cook Well 

French Candies (without cooking). 

1 egg (white only). 

Cold water. 

1 pound confectioner's sugar (more or less). 

Flavoring. 

Break the white of the egg into a cup, and measure 
about the same bulk of water. Then put the egg into a 
large earthen bowl, and beat it light. Stir in the water. 
Then add the sugar till the mixture is stiff enough to 
handle. (If you get in too much sugar you cannot form 
the candy well.) Pour in a little vanilla and a few drops 
each of rose, bitter almond, and lemon extract. Mix well. 

Dip your hands into pulverized sugar, and form some 
of the candy into balls the size of a marble. Roll them 
in granulated sugar, and lay on platters sprinkled with 
granulated sugar. The balls may be varied by placing an 
almond in the centre of each, shaping the ball like the 
almond. Or, flatten the balls, and place the half of an 
English walnut on both outer sides. 

Sugared Dates and Raisins may be made by stoning 
them (cutting open one side only), and filling them with 
the mixture. 

Chopped Figs, Dates and Raisins (or any one alone) 
may be mixed through a part, and made into balls ; or 
the mixture may be spread in a sugared shallow pan, and 
marked into small diamonds or squares. 

Pounded Hickory-Nut Meat mixed with it varies the 
mixture again. 

A freshly grated Cocoanut may be stirred into a part, 
and Chocolate into another. Still another part may be 
colored a Pretty Pink by the addition of a spoonful of 
red preserve syrup, or a little cranberry juice ; the cran- 
berries being stewed, with very little water, and strained. 

To color yellow, see page 319. 



Desserts. 285 



Both the pink and yellow balls look pretty rolled in 
cocoanut. 

Hodge Podge is made by spreading in a shallow, 
sugared pan a layer of the brown, then the white, and the 
pink on top. When cut in squares it looks very pretty. 

An almost endless variety of candies may be made from 
this receipt. It should be eaten fresh, but must have 
time to harden, so it is best to make it two days before 
it is to be used. 

Fruit Candy. (No. 1.) 

/ 2 pounds sugar. I Raisins and figs (chopped). 

1 2 lemons (juice only). 

Boil the sugar with the lemon-juice (slowly and with- 
out stirring) till it ropes when poured from the spoon. 
Then stir in the fruit enough to thicken the syrup 
well. Pour into buttered shallow pans, and when partly 
cold, mark it with a knife into pieces one inch square. 

Another way is to use, instead of the raisins and figs, 
any or several kinds of preserved fruits, chopped coarse. 
Use a little more lemon juice in this case. 

Cream Candy. 

1 cupful rich cream. I 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla or rose. 

3 pounds sugar. 

Boil the cream and sugar together, slowly, without stir- 
ring, till it candies when dropped into cold water. Then 
stir in the vanilla, and pour into buttered pans. As soon 
as it is cool, pull strips of it with your hands until very 
white. The hands should be washed in cold water often, 
and thoroughly dried afterwards. This keeps the hands 
from becoming warm and moist, and the candy is much 
nicer for the extra trouble taken. On no account butter 
the hands. 

N. B. It is not necessary to pull the candy at all, but 
it is much better to do so. 



286 How to Cook Well 



Burnt Almonds. 

1 pound almonds. 
I pound sugar. 
. 1 cupful water. 
A few drops vanilla or rose. 



Put the sugar and water on to boil. While they are 
heating shell the almonds, but do not pull off the skins. 
Warm them slightly. 

When the surface of the syrup is covered with large 
globules stir in the vanilla and the almonds. Use a 
wooden spoon. Stir gently in such a way as to detach 
the sugar from the bottom and sides of the sauce-pan, and 
to keep the almonds from sticking. They should be 
thoroughly turned over and over, so that each one may 
be well coated with sugar. As soon as they give out a 
crackling noise the sauce-pan should be removed from the 
fire, and still gently stirred until the sugar appears to be 
in grains almost like sand. Then the entire contents of 
the sauce-pan should be turned out on a wire sieve, and 
covered with paper for five minutes. 

At the end of that time the almonds should be picked 
out, the grained sugar which remains being returned to 
the sauce-pan with only just enough water to dissolve 
it. 

Proceed from this point exactly as at the beginning, 
going all over it again, being careful to wait till the sugar 
has the same bubbly appearance as before, before putting 
in the almonds. Give them a second coating of sugar, 
being sure to keep them separated. If the operation is 
entirely repeated even three or four times, of course the 
almonds will have a much thicker coating of sugar. They 
should, when done, have a rough, uneven surface. 

Wrap them in fancy papers if you choose. 



Desserts. 287 



Molasses Candy. 

f 1 pint molasses, 
j 1 cupful brown sugar. 
] Butter size of walnut. 
[ 1 dessertspoonful vinegar. 
| teaspoonful soda (dry). 

Boil the first four ingredients, stirring constantly, in a 
large kettle. At the end of half an hour test it. If it 
hardens when dropped into cold water, stir in the soda and 
pour it into greased pans. When cool, pull it without 
buttering the hands. The length of time for boiling 
depends upon the kind of molasses. Some kinds take as 
long as one and one half hours. The common dark-col- 
ored molasses boils more quickly, and makes better candy 
than the nicer kinds. 

Taffy. 

Make as above, but do not pull. Mark it off into 
squares before it hardens. 

Peanut Candy. 

Make as above. Have ready the peanuts (two quarts 
unshelled). When ready to take up the molasses, stir in 
the peanuts ; pour into shallow pans, and smooth the top 
with a wet knife. When cool, mark into strips with the 
knife. 

Sugar Taffy with Nuts. 

1 cupful granulated sugar. I teaspoonful lemon flavoring. 
1 cupful peanuts. 

Put the sugar in a clean frying-pan. Set it on the fire 
and stir without stopping for about five minutes. As 
soon as melted remove the sugar from the fire, and stir in 
the flavoring and nuts. Pour instantly into a greased 
pan. When cool, mark into strips. If left too long over 
the fire the syrup will return to sugar. Chop the nuts if 
you prefer. Any kind of nuts or flavor will do. 

This is more quickly made than any other candy. 



288 How to Cook Well 



Sugar Candy. 



3J pounds white sugar. 
3 cupfuls water. 



1 table spoonful vinegar. 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



Mix all together except the vanilla. Boil slowly with- 
out stirring. When the bubbles become large, test it as 
you do "Cream Candy." When ropy take from the fire, 
add the vanilla, and proceed as with " Cream Candy." The 
more it is pulled the better it is. 



Vinegar Candy. 
2 cupfuls sugar. | 1 cupful vinegar. 

Boil until it candies, then proceed as with "Cream 
Candy." 

Barley Sugar. 

(An English Receipt.} 



r Ik pounds fine loaf sugar. 
\ 1 pint water. 



1 lemon (juice only). 

6 drops essence of lemon. 



Break the sugar into fine lumps. Put it in a sauce-pan 
with the water to boil. Skim it carefully, till it looks 
like glue. When it becomes brittle on being dropped 
into cold water, and will snap, add the lemon-juice and 
essence. Boil up once, remove from the fire, and set the 
sauce-pan into a pan of cold water, to cool it quickly. 
When the first heat has subsided, pour the contents upon 
a platter (previously buttered). Keep it from spreading 
out much by pushing it together with a knife. When 
cool enough to handle, cut off pieces about the size of an 
egg. Roll them out long with your hands till evenly 
round like sticks, and twist them slightly. Lay them on 
buttered platters till cold. Then sift sugar over them. 



Desserts. 



289 



Desserts Prepared Quickly. 



Whipped Cream in glasses with 

Cake. 

Baked Apples. 
Baked Apples with "Whipped 

Cream, or an uncooked M e- 

ringuc poured over the tops. 
Batter Pudding. 
Vanities. 
German Puffs. 
Rice Puffs. 
Boiled Rice, with raisins, 

served hot with Sauce. 
Hidden Apples. 
Boiled Custard. 
Floating Island (all kinds). 
Nonsense. 

Stewed Fruit with Cake. 
Fruit of all kinds. 
Nuts and Raisins. 
Dates and Figs with Crackers. 



Junket. 

Berry or Fruit Charlotte. 

Snow Balls. 

Tipsy Parson. 

Apple Meringue (Simple). 

Sea Moss Blanc Mange. 

Lemon Jelly of Sea Moss. 

Preserves and Cake or Crack- 
ers. 

Queen's Toast. 

Fritters (various kinds). 

Mock Doughnuts. 

Fruit Short Cake. 

Bread boiled in Molasses. 

Cake, cut in squares, with Ger- 
man Sauce poured over, and 
Lemonade served with it. 

Pancakes. 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

Ambrosia. 



Desserts Without Milk. 



Brown Betty. 

Fruit and Berry Charlotte. 

Pies (many kinds). 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Apple Snow. 

Tapioca, Kice and Sago Blanc 

Mange. 
Lemon Jelly. 

Lemon Jelly of Sea Moss. 
Wine Jelly. 
Cider Jelly. 
Claret Jelly. 



Gingerbread Pudding. 
Sponge Cake. 

Corn Bread with Hot Sauce. 
Apple or Berry and Tapioca 

Pudding. 

Marlborough Pudding. 
Nonsense. 
Pound Cake. 
Coffee Cake. 
Gingerbread. 
Ginger Snaps. 
Raspberry Trifle. 



TEA. 



Suggestions for Tea. 



Toast of all kinds. 
Savory Toast. 
Anchovy Toast. 
Kamakin Toast. 
Cracker and Milk Toast. 
Bread and Milk, (boiled). 
Bread boiled in Molasses. 
Tea Cakes, Muffins, etc. 
Fritters of all kinds. 
Waffles. 
Welsh Rarebit. 
Cheese Fondue. 
Cottage Cheese. 
Cold Meat, sliced thin. 
Cold Tongue. 
Smoked Beef (shaved). 
Cold Grated Ham. 
Devilled Ham or Chicken. 
Pressed Meats (all kinds). 
Stewed Kidneys. 
Poultry Hash. 
Sweet-Breads. 
Croquettes (all kinds') . 
Sandwiches and Rolled Sand- 
wiches. 
Fried Chicken. 
Quail on Toast. 
Wild Birds on Toast. 



Eggs in various ways. 

Smoked Halibut. 

Smoked Herrings. 

Sardines. 

Canned Salmon (various ways). 

Stewed Codfish. 

Codfish Puff. 

Fresh Fish. 

Oysters. 

Salads of various kinds. 

Corn Pudding. 

Baked Rice. 

Potatoes, Baked. 

" Stuffed. 

" Fried. 

" Saratoga. 

" Mattre d'hoteL 

" RechauffSe. 

" Lyonnaise. 
. " With Giblets. 

" With Gravy. 

" Stewed. 

" Escaloped. 
Radishes. 
Tomatoes, Raw. 
" Baked. 
Stuffed. 
Spiced Fish. 



290 



Bread. 291 



BREAD. 

BEMARKS. 

Use none but good yeast and flour for making bread. 

The new brands of flour vary very much ; and some, 
though equally good, require more wetting than others. 
Notice the first baking; if too stiff, put in a little more 
water the next time, and remember exactly how much 
you used. 

The flour should be sifted, and put in a warm, dry 
place several hours before mixing. This is particularly 
important in cold weather, as the bread will rise much 
better for having the chill taken off the flour. 

To mix bread, put in all the dry things first, then the 
shortening, then the yeast (which must be shaken hard 
before it is taken from the bottle or jar). Lastly, add the 
water. This should be strictly tepid; for if cold, the bread 
will not rise well, and if hot, there will be danger of scald- 
ing the yeast, which spoils its efficacy. 

When intending to set bread, be sure that the kettle 
is boiling, so that you can have the water of any tempera- 
ture desired. The best time to mix bread is about 
seven o'clock in the evening, in cold weather ; and ten 
o'clock in hot weather. It rises faster then than in win- 
ter, and if left standing too long, it will sour. When the 
ingredients are thoroughly mixed, either beat hard with a 
strong, long-handled spoon, or, if you find this too hard 
work, knead, in the pan, with floured hands. The ob- 
jection to the latter is, that one is apt to work in too 
much flour. The softer the dough, the better. 

Remove the spoon, and cover the pan, which must of 
course be a large one, to give room for the dough to rise. 
Set it in a pretty warm place, and where no draught will 
strike it; not on a chair, as many- do, but nearer the ceil- 
ing ; for instance, on top of a closet, or the heater of the 
range, for the upper part of a room is less liable to sudden 



292 How to Cook Well 

changes of temperature in the night. Let it rise till 
morning. 

The first thing in the morning, see whether it is light. 
If it is, and you cannot attend to it, check the further 
rising, by setting it in a cool place, to wait until you can 
do so. If not light enough, set it in a warmer place to 
rise more rapidly. 

To judge whether the dough is light, tip the pan. 
If it looks bubbly or spongy all through, it is light ; and 
the bread should be made out into loaves as soon as possi- 
ble. If it rises too long, it will become sour or tough. If 
it is sour, mix in half a teaspoonful of soda (dissolved) 
before taking it from the pan. 

When you are going to make out the bread, have 
everything ready before you put your hands in the dough. 
Place the bread-board on the table, with a pan of flour 
and a knife. Grease the baking-pans, which should be 
deep and square. Scatter flour thickly on the board, and 
then turn the dough upon it. With the knife, well-floured, 
chop rapidly the entire surface of the dough, having pre- 
viously scattered flour thickly over the top. 

With floured hands turn and double over the edges of 
the dough, repeating the chopping. Do this until the en- 
tire mass has been thoroughly chopped. You will have 
to put more flour on the board to prevent the dough from 
sticking, but the less flour used the better. Experience 
will soon teach how to handle the dough rapidly, without 
using much flour. 

Then knead all the dough a few times, working it and 
turning it thoroughly. Strength and dexterity are the 
chief requisites for good kneading. Every part of the 
dough must be thoroughly manipulated. Thrust your 
fists, first one and then the other, quickly and with force 
into the dough, directing your strokes towards the centre 
of the mass. As it flattens out, fold it again and again. 



Bread. 293 



Repeat the striking and the folding for twenty min- 
utes, until every part has been beaten and worked. 
Thorough kneading shows itself in the fineness and even- 
ness of the grain of the bread. Careless kneading will 
produce boles and an uneven texture. 

A good rule for telling when the dough has been 
kneaded enough, is to give it a hard blow with the 
knuckles ; if it returns to its place, and is elastic like a 
hollow rubber ball, it has been worked enough, and may 
be cut into portions, and made into loaves. 

N. B. Many persons omit the chopping, and simply 
knead longer. But this is both fatiguing and tedious. 

To make the loaves, simply shape the dough as nearly 
as you can to fit the pans. Fill them less than two thirds 
full if the dough is soft; half-full if stiff, for there is 
then more body to rise. Press it well into the corners of 
the pans. Cover with a cloth, and set in a warm place to 
rise. This may take an hour. 

(N. B. If the dough is soft, as it should be, it will rise 
more quickly than if a great deal of flour has been worked 
in in the kneading. In the latter case it may take more 
than an hour to rise.) 

When light, it will be nearly up to the top of the pan, 
and will look spongy at the sides. It should then be put 
into the oven at once, or it will become sour by rising too 
long, and will also be in danger of running over the top 
of the pans when in the oven. Prick the top of each 
loaf with a fork, and wet the surface with your hand dip- 
ped in cold water, to make it brown well, and to prevent 
the crust becoming hard. 

When baked take it out at once ; stand it up on end 
against the wall in such a way that the bread will rest 
on an edge, not on one of its flat surfaces, which would 
make it soggy. Lay a wet cloth over it, with a dry one 
outside to soften the crust. 



294 How to Cook Well 

To Bake Bread- 
Arrange the oven as for roasting meat. If too hot at 
first, the loaves will burn on the outside and be doughy 
inside. At the end of fifteen minutes the bread should 
have risen up and begun to brown. Turn the pans occa- 
sionally, so that it will bake evenly, and watch it closely to 
avoid burning. If the top is in danger of burning, lay a 
thick paper over it, or set a pan of cold water in the oven. 
Turn the pans often. If the loaves are small they will 
bake in one hour. When done, the sides of the loaves 
will shrink from the pans. Take out of the pans at once, 
and if pale on the bottom, put instantly back in the oven. 
Take care to keep the heat steady while baking. Put 
on plenty of coal to last till the baking is done, before the 
bread goes into the oven ; never put it on while baking, 
as it will check the heat, and make heavy streaks in the 
bread. For small loaves a hotter oven is required than 
for large ones. 

Bread made with a " Sponge." 



4 quarts flour. 
" Sponge." 
A little salt. 



| teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 

cupful lard. 

Warm milk, or water. 



For four medium-sized loaves use the whole of the 
" sponge " made according to directions. At seven 
o'clock at night in summer, and at ten in winter, put 
four quarts of flour in your bread-pan. Make a hole in 
the middle and pour in the sponge. Stir into it a part of 
the flour and let it rise till morning, when it should be 
light. Then put in the salt, soda and lard, stirring them 
in with enough warm milk, or water, to enable you to 
knead it. Knead thoroughly, and set to rise. When 
light, knead again for ten or fifteen minutes. If you re- 
peat this, it improves the bread. Then put into pans, set 
to rise again, and when light, bake as above. 

This will make four large loaves. 



Bread. 295 



Bread made with Potatoes, 



3 medium-sized potatoes. 
2 teaspoonf uls salt. 



2 cupfuls flour. 

1 corn meal yeast-cake. 



Boil the potatoe^ about one o'clock p. M., and mash 
while hot, saving the water in which they were boiled. 
Add the salt and flour. When well mixed, stir in enough 
of the potato water to make a pretty thick batter. If too 
thin it will not rise. Let it cool, and when it is lukewarm 
(not cold) add the yeast-cake, dissolved in half a cupful of 
lukewarm water. 

(N. B. One yeast-cake will be sufficient in summer, 
but in winter use one and a half. If the yeast-cakes are 
not fresh use more in each case.) 

Beat all together hard, and set to rise (covered) for 
about five hours in a warm place. By night it will be 
light and spongy; then stir in enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Beat well again till it ceases to stick to the spoon, 
and leave it to rise over night. In the morning knead in 
the pan. Do not get it stiff. Let it rise again for four 
or five hours. When light, mix in half a teaspoonful of 
soda (dissolved in one tablespoon ful hot water). Then 
knead on the board, and make into loaves. Let them rise 
about one hour till light. Then bake as above. 
Makes five large loaves. 

N. B. In warm weather do not set the first rising or 
" sponge " till four o'clock P. M. Then the second rising 
will not begin till nine or ten o'clock, and the bread will 
not be likely to sour over night. 

Bread (with Compressed Yeast). 

3 quarts flour. 

li tablespoonfuls salt. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful lard or butter (softened). 

li quarts warm water. 

4 cake compressed yeast. 

Dissolve the yeast in half a cupful of the water. Stir 



296 How to Cook Well. 

together the ingredients in the order given, with a strong 
spoon, and a strong arm. Beat hard and long, until the 
dough ceases to stick to the spoon. Cover the pan, and 
set to rise over night. Early in the morning, stir it down 
with a spoon. Take out at once, on the bread-board, and 
with a little flour make it into loaves. Let it stand in the 
pans in a warm place until light, then bake about one 
hour, according to the size of the loaf. 

This will make four loaves, and is very light, spongy 
bread. It rises faster than other kinds. If set at ten in the 
morning, it will be ready to bake by five in the afternoon. 

Bread with Potato Yeast, or Baker's Yeast. 

{8 cupf uls flour. 
1 tablespoonf ul salt. 
2 tablespoonf uls sugar (may be omitted). 
1 tablespoonful shortening. 
3 cupfuls tepid water. 
1 cupful "Kaw Potato Yeast" (shaken). 

Mix, and make like the above. Makes two loaves. 

Bread Made Quickly. 

(Miss Carson's Method, Condensed.) 



1 cake compressed yeast. 

2 cupfuls water, warm. 



4 cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 



The yeast-cake should be about half an inch thick, 
and two inches long by one wide. Dissolve it in one cup- 
ful of water at a temperature of about ninety-eight degrees 
Fahrenheit. Put into a bread-pan with one cupful of the 
flour, or enough to make a batter which will hold a drop 
let fall from the spoon. 

Beat until quite smooth, then cover, and place where a 
moderate degree of heat will strike it equally. To effect 
this, turn the pan frequently, and never allow it to get so 
hot that the hand cannot be borne upon the outside of 
the bowl with perfect comfort. 



Bread. 297 



Strict attention must be paid to this point, to ensure 
success. If the heat is too great, it will scald the sponge, 
and prevent fermentation. In about half an hour, it will 
be like a thick foam, full of air-bubbles. 

Then mix with it the salt, dissolved in a second cupful 
of the lukewarm water, and add about three cupfuls more 
of flour, or enough to make a soft dough. Put it on a 
floured board, and knead for about five minutes, or until 
it no longer sticks to the board or hands, and looks smooth. 
Divide the dough into two parts, and put into two but- 
tered Russia-iron bread-pans. Cover with a folded towel, 
and place the pans where the same gentle heat will strike 
them, turning them often to ensure an even rising, and 
taking care not to have them too hot. When the dough 
has risen to twice its original volume, brush over with 
melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Plain Graham Bread. 



2 cupfuls " sponge." 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 



Graham flour to make a soft 
dough. 



Mix together. Beat hard and set to rise, proceeding as 
with white bread. Immediately before putting it in the 
oven, wash over the top of each loaf with water. Bake in 
a moderate oven about one hour. 

Makes three loaves. 

Superior Graham Bread. 



I quart Graham flour (not 
sifted). 

1 pint white flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 



1 tablespoonful butter or lard 
(softened) . 

1 cupful molasses. 

2 cupfuls tepid water. 

1 cupful yeast (shaken). 



Mix and make like other bread. Makes two small 
loaves. 



298 



How to Cook Well. 



Boston Brown Bread. 



4 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 pint milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 



1 cupful corn meal. 

2 cupfuls rye or Graham flour 

(or better still, one of each). 
1 teaspoonful salt. I 

Mix in this order. With a spoon beat hard. Butter a 
large tin pail or pudding-boiler. Put in the mixture, 
filling the pail only half-full. Tie down the cover and 
set the pail into a pot of boiling water. Do not let the 
water reach to the top of the pail, as no water must be 
allowed to get inside. Boil steadily for three hours. See 
" To Boil Puddings." At the end of three hours uncover 
the pail, and set it in a warm oven for half an hour to dry. 
To warm over, see "Boiled Puddings." This is the 
boasted brown bread of Boston, which is expected on 
Sundays with baked beans. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 



2 cupfuls Graham flour. 

1 cupful corn meal. 

i cupful sugar. 

i cupful molasses. 

i cupful butter (melted) . 

Mix and beat hard. 
Brown Bread." 



2 eggs (beaten light). 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1| cupfuls sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 



Steam three hours, as in " Boston 



Stick Bread. 
(For Luncheon or Dinner.} 

| cupful yeast (shaken). 



f i tablespoonful butter. 
1 1 cupful milk (scalded). 



1 quart flour. 

li tablespoonfuls sugar. 

4 tablespoonful salt. 

Mix together the flour, sugar, salt, and yeast. Add the 
milk (with the butter melted in it) when cooled till tepid. 
Knead well in the pan, adding no more flour than is nec- 
essary. The dough will seem very stiff, but do not add 
more wetting. Cover, and rise over night in a warm 
place. 



Bread. 299 



Tn the morning, when very light, put it on the board. 
Cut off a piece of dough rather larger than an egg. With 
the palms of both hands roll it on the board till one foot 
long and evenly round, having the hands buttered in- 
stead of floured. Lay the rolls in a greased dripping-pan 
about one inch apart. Let them rise till light. Then 
wash the entire surface with melted butter, and bake in a 
hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

This is the proper size for Stick Bread, but I think it 
is easier to manage, both in making and serving, if each 
stick is (before rising) about as large around as your mid- 
dle finger, and twice the length. Then, each one can be 
rolled in a plate of melted butter before putting it in the 
pan, w r hich makes the crust very crisp and delicate. 

Eat fresh, laying one at each person's place at dinner, 
or on a plate at luncheon. 

Braid of Bread. 

Make like Stick Bread, but form larger and longer 
rolls. Lay three of them side by side. Pinch the top ends 
together and braid. Lay in a pan, and rise to tw r ice its origi- 
nal bulk. Bake in a hot oven about twenty-five minutes. 

REMARKS ON ROLLS, ETC. 

If you use milk for rolls which are set with yeast, it 
must be sweet (new if possible). As the long rising is 
liable to sour the milk, it is a good plan always to scald 
it, allowing it afterwards to cool down to the right tem- 
perature before mixing with the yeast. 

Rolls, even more than bread, should be of a soft consist- 
ency. If you get in too much flour, they will not be 
light. When they are light, flour your hands, and knead 
the dough in the pan a little. Then either flour or but- 
ter your fingers (the latter is best), and take out a piece 
of dough the size of a small egg. Work it a few times, 
doubling the edges into the middle ; shape it nicely, and 
put it in a deep pan, well greased. Continue in this way 



300 How to Cook Well. 

till the dough is all used up. Leave room in the pan for 
the rolls to rise to twice their original height, unless set far 
apart, in which case they will spread sideways. Set them 
to rise in a warm place till light. If set close together, 
they will crack apart when light. If far apart, tear a 
little place at the side ; if spongy inside, they are light. 

Rolls must be baked in a quick oven. The sudden 
heat when first put in will cause them to rise well, and 
they will be more tender than if baked slowly. They 
should be done in half an hour, or less. Take out in- 
stantly when done, so that the crust will not harden. If 
there is danger of the top crust becoming hard before the 
bottom is done, cover with a thick piece of paper. If 
this is not sufficient, put a pan of cold water on the oven 
shelf just over the rolls. 

Bolls (of Bread-Dough). 

1 quart light bread-dough. 1 1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 

Butter or lard (size of an egg). | 

When you are making the bread into loaves set apart 
about one quart of the dough for rolls for tea. Knead it 
and work in the shortening and sugar. Let it rise till 
light (about five hours), then set in a cold place till about 
three hours before tea. Then make out into small rolls 
(about the size of an egg), and let them rise in the pan 
till twice their original height. It will probably take two 
hours. (If you prefer, cut with a biscuit-cutter.) 

Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. These are 
quickly and easily made, and are quite as good as more 
elaborate rolls. 

Parker House Rolls. 



1 quart flour. 

1 tablespoonful lard or but- 
ter. 



\ cupful yeast, shaken. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

2 teaspoonf uls salt. 



1 cupful boiled milk (cooled). 

Rub the shortening into the flour. Make a hole in the 



Bread. 301 



middle of the flour, into which put all the other ingredi- 
ents, previously mixed together, taking care to have the 
milk tepid. Do not stir these into the flour, but let them 
stand over night just so. In the morning stir all the in- 
gredients well together, and knead thoroughly in the pan, 
adding a little more milk (about half a cupful), and work- 
ing in only just enough flour to keep the dough from 
sticking to your hands. Let it rise again till about one 
o'clock, then knead again on the bread-board, and roll it 
out about half an inch thick. Spread the surface of the 
whole with melted butter, then sprinkle with flour. Cut 
out in large rounds (as large as a coffee-cup) and fold each 
one over nearly in half. In putting them in the pan do 
not crowd them. Leave them to rise about half an hour. 
Bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Take 
them out the instant they are done. This makes a drip- 
ping-pan full. 

Concord Tea Rolls. 



1 pint new milk. 

1 large table spoonful butter. 

2 quarts flour. 



2 teaspoon fuls salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 cupful yeast, shaken. 



Heat slightly the first two ingredients in the bread-pan, 
add the other things in order. Knead in the pan after 
mixing, taking care not to get the dough too stiff. Cover 
the pan, and leave it to rise for about five hours ; till very 
spongy all through. Then mould with buttered hands 
into nicely shaped long rolls, using a piece of dough the 
size of a small egg for each one. Set close together with- 
out crowding, cover the pan with paper and let them 
rise in a warm place from fifteen to thirty minutes. Wet 
the tops with milk and sugar just before putting in the 
oven. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a hot oven, 
taking care not to let them harden on top. Makes a 
dripping-pan full. 



302 How to Cook Well. 



Potato Biscuit. 



4 large potatoes. 
1 quart hot water. 
A little salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Flour. 

1 cupful potato yeast (scant) . 



Pare and boil the potatoes in the water, and when 
tender, mash them in it. While hot, add the salt and 
butter, and flour enough to make a very stiff batter, put- 
ting in the flour gradually. Add the yeast, when 
the batter is nearly cold (it should be tepid), and 
beat very hard. Cover and set to rise. When light, 
add flour to make a soft dough ; only just stiff enough to 
roll out on the board. Knead it slightly ; roll out and 
cut into biscuit half an inch thick. Put them in the pan, 
without touching each other, and set to rise in a warm 
place. They will rise fast, and be very light. 

Bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

If you wish them for tea, set them about noon ; if for 
breakfast, the night before. 

N. B. Improved by the addition of three eggs, beaten 
light, and stirred in just after the yeast. 

Swedish Rolls. 



4 cupf uls light bread-dough, 
i cupful butter. 
i cupful sugar. 



2 eggs (whites only). 
1 teaspoonf ul cinnamon, 
i cupful sugar. 



Knead together the dough, butter and sugar. Let it 
stand and rise till very light (probably five hours). Then 
take out on the bread-board. Cut off a bit of dough as 
large as an egg. With the palms of the hands roll it out 
long and thin, and evenly round. It should be about as 
large around as your finger, and of about two fingers' 
length. Take hold at both ends, and twist the strip a lit- 
tle. Lay it out long on the board. Lay a bit of butter 
on the middle of the strip or roll. Fold over one of the 
ends (from right to left) on to it, forming a circle ; fold 
the other end to meet that, turning it from left to right. 



Bread. 303 



You will then have a figure like a printed eight. Do not 
make them too large, for they will rise larger in baking. 
Join the ends neatly. 

Have ready the whites of the eggs (beaten a little) in 
one plate ; and the cinnamon and sugar (mixed together) 
in another. As each roll is formed, dip it (on the neat 
under side) first into the egg, then into the cinnamon and 
sugar. Put at once into a greased dripping-pan, the 
sugared side up. Do not lay them very close together ; 
four to each row will be close enough. Let them rise in 
the pan till very light (about one hour). Bake in a very 
hot oven about twenty minutes. 

This makes thirty-two rolls ; or two dripping-pans full. 
These rolls are as delicious as they are dainty and pretty. 

Graham Biscuit. 



1 cupful Graham flour. 
1 cupful white flour, 
li teaspoonfuls salt. 



table spoonful melted butter, 
cupful sweet milk, 
cupful yeast. 



i cupful brown sugar. 

Mix in this order, warming the milk and butter 
slightly. After beating hard, set to rise, over night. 
The next morning add half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in a little hot water. Turn the dough out on the bread- 
board ; roll it out (adding more flour if necessary) one inch 
thick, and cut with a biscuit cutter. Set them a little 
apart in the pan, and put in a warm place (covered with 
a paper) to rise for one hour. Then bake in a rather 
quick oven about twenty minutes. 

Buns, 



1 pint milk. 

1 table spoonful butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

1 quart flour (more or less) . 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
i cupful Zante currants. 



Mix the buns in the evening. Warm the milk and 
butter till tepid. Add the yeast (well shaken), flour and 



304 How to Cook Well 

salt, using only enough flour to make a thick batter. 
Beat hard, and set to rise (covered) in a warm place. In 
the morning it should be light ; i. e., bubbly all through. 
Add, then, the eggs, sugar, currants (washed, dried, and 
rubbed in flour) and flour enough to enable you to knead 
the dough in the pan, not on the board. About three 
cupfuls of flour will be enough. Let it stand till light again 
(about five hours). Then make into buns with floured 
hands, using a piece of dough the size of a small egg, for 
each one. Crowd close together in a deep pan, which 
will allow them to rise three times their original height. 
They should rise in the pan for about four hours more, 
which will bring it nearly to tea-time. When they begin 
to crack apart from each other, they are ready to bake. 
Wet the tops with molasses and water, and put at once 
into a hot oven. Bake about fifteen minutes, covering 
the top of the pan with a thick paper when half-done. 
Makes thirty buns. Omit the currants if you choose. 

Nonpareil Rusk. 



1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoouful salt. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful milk (warmed). 

1 cupful potato yeast. 



i cupful butter (warmed). 

3 eggs, reserving the white of 



one. 



cupful sugar. 

teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 



Mix the rusk in the evening. Beat well together the 
first five ingredients. Set to rise, covered, in a warm 
place over night. In the morning add the butter, eggs, 
(beaten light), the rest of the sugar, and lastly the soda. 
After that is mixed in, notice whether the dough smells 
sour. If so, add a little more soda. Add flour enough to 
make a decidedly stiff batter. Beat hard, and set to rise 
again for about four hours ; till light. It will then look 
spongy all through. 

Turn out on to the bread-board, and roll into a sheet 
about one inch thick. Add only just enough flour to be 



Tea. 305 

able to handle the dough. Cut into small circles. Set 
close together in a large deep pan, and leave to rise again 
with the pan covered with paper. It will probably be as 
long as two hours before they are light. When they are 
ready to be baked they will crack apart and look spongy 
at the sides. Do not let them wait after this; but at 
once beat the reserved white of the egg slightly, add to it 
one tablespoonful of sugar, and with this wash over the top 
of the rusk. Put into a hot oven, and bake a delicate 
brown, in about fifteen minutes. When half-done cover 
the top of the pan with paper, so that the crust will not 
be hard. 

Baking-Powder Biscuit. 

{1 quart flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
3 teaspoonf uls baking powder. 
2 tablespoonfuls shortening. 
2 cupfuls milk. 

Measure very accurately. Have the mixing-bowl and 
ingredients as cold as possible. Sift all the dry things 
together before putting in the shortening (butter and 
lard mixed are best^ Take a knife in each hand and 
chop till the shortening has almost disappeared in the 
flour, which looks like coarse sand. (This process seems 
troublesome, but you will soon learn to do it quickly, and 
the superior lightness and flakiness of the biscuit will be 
an ample reward.) Lastly stir in the milk. With some 
brands of flour more or less milk may be needed than is 
given in the receipt. You ought to make the dough as 
soft as possible to handle. 

Turn out on a bread-board and roll out as quickly and 
lightly as possible, barely touching with your hands. 
Just as soon as the dough will hold together, cut into 
rounds one inch thick ; put into a warm buttered pan and 
bake at once in a hot oven, not more than ten or fifteen 



306 How to Cook Well 

minutes. Eat while hot; but they are also very good 
cold. 

N. B. If you have pastry flour, use that in preference 
to any other for these biscuit. One teaspoonful of soda and 
two of cream of tartar may be substituted for baking-pow- 
der. 

Makes a dripping-pan two thirds full. 

Currant Biscuit. 

1 quart flour. 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 table spoonfuls sugar. 
A little nutmeg. 

Butter size of a large egg. 

cupful Zante currants. 

Milk to make a soft dough (about one pint.) 

Mix like " Baking-Powder Biscuit," reserving a little of 
the flour in which to rub the currants. These should be 
put in just before the milk. 

Cut out with an oval cutter if you have one, and bake 
in a quick oven about twenty minutes. 

Maryland Biscuit. 



2 quarts flour. 

4 teaspoonfuls salt. 

4 flat tablespoonf uls lard. 



Water only just enough to make 
a very stiff dough. 



Chop the shortening into the salted flour ; stir in the 
water gradually so as not to get in too much. Knead 
the dough hard for half an hour ; until it is pliable. Then 
beat it with the rolling-pin till the dough cracks loudly, 
when a piece is suddenly pulled off. It will take about 
one hour. Then form with the hand into round balls and 
pat them down till about half an inch thick. Prick the 
tops with a fork, and bake at once in a very hot oven for 



Bread. 307 



twenty minutes. On no account shorten the process of 
kneading and pounding, as the success of the biscuit 
depends upon this. 

Wafers or Unleavened Biscuit. 

Dry in a warm place two quarts of flour for one hour 
before you use it. Add then about one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls salt, and water enough to form a stiff dough. 
Roll it out very thin, hardly thicker than letter-paper. 
Cut into large rounds with a saucer; lay them a little 
apart in a cookey-pan, prick with a fork, and bake five 
minutes in a very hot oven. 

Much relished by invalids, and nice to serve with oysters. 

Crackers. 

2 pounds light bread-dough. I i pound flour. 
6 ounces butter (softened). | 

Work the butter and flour into the dough till perfectly 
smooth. Roll out on a bread-board ; pound for a long 
time with a rolling-pin, rolling it out several times. Roll 
out finally rather thin (about as thick as for cookies), and 
cut into crackers with a biscuit-cutter or something 
smaller. Prick the top of the crackers and set them to 
rise in a shallow baking-pan till light. 

Bake in a very hot oven. 

When done break them apart, and put them in the top 
oven or heater to dry. 

USES FOR PIECES OF BREAD AND CRUMBS. 

REMARKS. 

I will preface these remarks by saying that by a little 
judicious management there is no need to have an accu- 
mulation of broken bread. In the first place, fresh bread 
should not be baked till the old is very nearly gone. 
(Always reserve a little of the old for the sake of the 



308 How to Cook Well. 

children, who should not be allowed to eat that which is 
freshly baked.) Then, in cutting bread for the table, 
do not cut more than will probably be eaten. A good 
way to do in a small family is to have but one plate of 
sliced bread on the table, and to have the loaf on also, 
on one of the pretty wooden plates which come for the 
purpose ; then more can be cut as it is needed. 

But when pieces are left over, on no account allow 
them to be wasted. If you cannot use them while fresh, 
put them at once into a pail kept always standing in the 
heater of your stove (or some other dry warm place) for 
this purpose. Throw also into the bread-crumb-pail any 
crumbs you may have, or clean broken bread left from 
table. (Do not think these things too trifling to be 
attended to. After slicing bread for tea, there will often 
be as much as half a cupful of crumbs left on the board, 
and it is as easy to scrape them into a pail as into the 
fire.) Let all dry out together, and once a week or 
oftener, roll them with a rolling-pin as fine as flour, or 
nearly so. Put them away in a tin box, covered, and 
keep them always ready for anything requiring bread- 
crumbs. Remember, that for anything that needs wetting, 
such as a bread pudding, more is required to soak these 
dried crumbs than fresh ones. 

Pieces of bread dried at once in the way above de- 
scribed will never become mouldy, however long they 
may be kept. 

Beyond will be found a list of things to choose from, 
when there is a quantity of bread to be used up. The 
above remarks on economy refer only to bread which 
is good. Heavy, Slack-baked or Sour Bread requires 
a different treatment. The first is hopeless. Slack-baked 
bread too is unwholesome ; but if only slightly so, it can 
be improved by cutting it into thick slices, and spreading 
it out on tins in a moderate oven for several hours. Turn 



Bread. 309 



it, and when broWn on both sides treat like "Dipped- 
Toast," or serve dry with butter. 

Sour bread is simply horrible. Do not on any account 
practise economy in this case. Lavishly waste the whole 
baking, unless you have a chance to dispose of it on a 
beggar whose palate may not be as sensitive as your own. 
If obliged to eat it, however, you can try to improve it, 
by making it into Dipped and Milk Toast, and dissolving 
a little soda in the water or milk. Use part of it for a 
bread pudding, and add soda. 

To Freshen Stale Bread. 

Dip the loaf (or slices of bread or rolls) into cold water. 
Do not let it soak, but simply become wet. Lay it on a 
pan in a hot oven till the moisture is absorbed, and the 
bread is hot. Eat at once, for it will not keep after 
being treated in this way. 

Stale corn-bread, gems, muffins and cake may be suc- 
cessfully freshened in the same way. 

Bread Boiled in Molasses. 

Cut thin slices of stale bread, and butter them. Lay 
them in a frying-pan and pour over them enough molasses 
to cover well. When the molasses has boiled a few min- 
utes, serve very hot. This is wholesome for children in 
winter, and furnishes a simple dessert for them. 

A List of Uses for Pieces of Bread. 

Toast (of all kinds). 



Toast Sandwiches. 
Toast under Hash. [Chicken. 
Toast under Warmed-over 
Toast under Eggs. 

" " Welsh Rarebit. 

" " Oysters. 

" " Canned Salmon. 
Croutons for Soup. 
Bread with Sausages. 
Bread Panada. 



Bread and Milk. 

Bread Boiled in Molasses. 

Bread Fritters. 

Bread Pudding. 

Apple or Berry Charlotte. 

Pan Dowdy. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Queen's Toast. 

Spanish Toast. 

Lemon Toast. 

Bread Pates. 



310 



How to Cook Well. 



A List of Uses 
Bread Pudding. 
Spiced Bread Pudding. 
Francateili Pudding. 
Hasting' s Pudding. 
Canned Salmon, Baked. 
Plum Pudding. 
Brown Betty. 
Bread Griddle Cakes. 
Bread Sauce. 
Stuffing for Poultry. 

*' " Beef a la mode. 

" " Veal. 

" " Mock Duck. 

" " Stuffed Beefsteak. 

" " Fish. 



for Bread-Crumbs. 

Stuffing for Egg-plant. 

" " Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Fried Mutton Chops. 
Fried Oysters. 
Croquettes. 

Devilled Lobster or Crab. 
Escaloped Oysters. 
Escaloped Clams. 
Escaloped Tomatoes. 
To Thicken Tomatoes. 
Escaloped Eggs and Meat. 
Baked Eggs a la Creme. 
French Omelet. 
Chicken Panada. 
Jellied Veal. 



TOAST, 

REMARKS. 

Dry Toast is the foundation for every other kind, 
therefore read over the directions for that before trying 
any other. Many persons think that nothing is easier 
than to make a good slice of toast, but a piece of bread 
cut anyhow, merely warmed, over any kind of a fire, and 
brought to a sick person on a cold plate, will hardly 
tempt his appetite. 

Dry Toast. 

Use bread at least a day old. Cut the slices evenly, 
and rather thick. Put a plate into the heater to warm. 
See that there are good hot coals on the top of your fire. 
If not, rake off the dull ones from the top. Have the 
bread all ready in a toaster or on the end of a fork. Hold 
it as close to the coals as possible without its burning. 
As soon as delicately browned on one side, turn on the 
other. Put it instantly on a hot plate, cover with a nap- 
kin and eat at once. If it stands long, covered, it will 



Bread. 311 



become steamed. Therefore, do not make the toast for 
tea till everything else is ready. If it is for a sick person, 
do not try to save trouble by putting the butter on one 
side of the same plate with the toast. Either butter the 
slice delicately before covering, or take the butter on a 
cold butter-plate. In making toast for tea it is best not 
to begin to make it till the family are assembled, for it is 
an entirely erroneous idea that toast eaten cold is more 
wholesome than that which is hot. 

Boston Brown-Bread when stale, makes good toast, 
and is delicious served with oysters. 

Dipped Toast. 

Have the tea-kettle boiling. Make toast as above. 
Quickly dip each slice into a pan of boiling water. Do 
not let it soak, but remove as soon as every part is wet. 
Sprinkle on a little salt, and butter judiciously / not lay- 
ing lamps of butter in the middle of the slices and leav- 
ing the crusts dry. Pile on a hot plate, cover and eat hot. 

Some persons merely pour hot water over the bread, 
but this is apt to leave the crusts hard while the centre 
is soggy. 



Milk Toast. 



1 quart milk. 

2 tablespoonf uls butter. 



3 tablespoonf uls flour or corn- 
starch. 



1 tcaspoonful salt. 

Put the milk to boil in a double-boiler (to prevent it from 
scorching). When it begins to boil, stir in the butter cut 
into small pieces ; do not stop stirring till all is melted. 
Add the salt, and the flour (previously rubbed smooth in 
a little cold milk). Stir again while it thickens. Then 
set it back on the stove to keep hot, but not boil, till the 
toast is ready. (See Dry Toast.) Lay the slices of toast 
in a deep dish, taking care to soften the crusts first with 
boiling water. Pour over each slice plenty of the thick- 
ened milk. Serve covered. 



312 How to Cook Well. 

What is left over will make a good bread-pudding by 
adding milk, eggs, sugar and seasoning. 

Cracker Milk Toast. 

Exactly like " Milk Toast," substituting crackers for 
bread. The crackers should stand soaking in salted boil- 
ing water for a few minutes after being toasted. 

This is a very appetizing dish and convenient if the 
supply of bread is short. The best crackers to use are 
Boston or Water crackers. Serve covered. Use what is 
left over for a pudding, as above. 

Cream Toast. 

This is particularly delicious. Heat cream to the boil- 
ing point, setting it within a kettle of boiling water to 
prevent its curdling or scorching. Add a sprinkling 
of salt. Make "Dry Toast." Put the slices in a deep 
dish, pouring plenty of the cream over each one, and 
serve covered. (Nice for an invalid.) 

Queen's Toast. 

Cut rather thick slices of bread (not fresh). Have 
ready a tablespoonful of hot lard in a frying-pan. Fry the 
bread quickly by putting the pan over the coals. Dip 
each slice as soon as done, into a pan of boiling water 
(to take out the grease), remove jnstantly, and pile on a 
hot plate. Serve at once, either for tea or dessert, with 
hot " Wine Sauce " poured over, or simply with butter and 
cinnamon and sugar. 

Spanish Toast. 

Cut thick slices of bread (not fresh). Then prepare the 
following mixture, 

1 pint milk. I 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 eggs, beaten. I teaspoonful salt (nearly). 

Dip the slices in this for a moment. Then lay them in 
a frying-pan containing a tablespoonful of hot lard. Fry 



Yeast. 813 

quickly over the coals. Pile on a hot plate and serve for 
tea or dessert, with "Wine Sauce," or with butter and 
cinnamon and sugar. 

Lemon Toast. 

Make " Spanish Toast." Put into a deep dish, wetting 
each slice with the following sauce, and pouring the rest 

over the whole. 

Sauce. 

3 eggs (whites only). I 1 lemon (juice only), 

i cupful white sugar. I 1 cupful boiling water. 

Beat the eggs stiff, add sugar, lemon-juice and boiling 
water. 

Serve hot for tea or dessert, letting each person sprinkle 
the toast with sugar. 



YEAST. 

REMARKS. 

No directions are here given for making new yeast 
without old yeast as an ingredient. Therefore in making 
it be sure that you have good lively yeast to raise it with. 
Borrow from a reliable neighbor if possible, the first time ; 
and afterwards always save over a cupful of your own to 
raise the next, as baker's yeast is very apt to be sour. 

Do not make more yeast at one time than is given in 
the receipts, for it will sour if kept too long. It is well 
to make it fresh every six weeks. Care should be taken 
to have the mixture of exactly the right temperature 
when the old yeast is put into that which you are making. 
It must not be either hot or cold, but between the two. 
Never stir yeast with anything but a wooden or silver 
spoon, for an iron one will turn it dark-colored. Set it to 
rise, covered over, in a decidedly warm place where there 
is no draught. It should rise rather fast, and on that 
account it is best to make it in the morning, as the house 



314 How to Cook Well 

is usually warmer through the day-time than at night, 
If it does not rise sufficiently during the time given in 
the receipts, stir it up once or twice from the bottom. 
When it is light enough to bottle, it will have a thick 
foam on top, and will be bubbly all through. Be sure 
that the bottles (or jars) are perfectly sweet. They 
should be scalded while the yeast is rising, and set together 
in a large pan or waiter, so that if any runs over the top 
of the bottles (as it may a few hours after, if you get 
them too full, or if very light) it will not make a mess on 
the cellar shelf. (Preserve jars or bottles of the size of 
whiskey bottles are preferable to a jug for keeping yeast, 
as but one bottle at a time need be uncorked, whereas, 
with a jug, the whole quantity of yeast is exposed to the 
air every time any is drawn off.) Stir the yeast rapidly 
before pouring through a funnel into the bottles, which 
should only be filled two thirds full. Cork tightly, with 
perfectly clean corks, and set at once in a cold place. 

Every time you want yeast for setting bread, carry 
your cup or whatever it is to be measured in, to the cel- 
lar, and pour out the yeast there, first shaking it hard, 
till it froths. This is a better plan than to take the yeast 
to the warm kitchen, where it may sour, if left but so 
short a time as half an hour. Always stir up the yeast 
the moment before you put it into the bread. A novice 
will often be puzzled to tell whether yeast is good or not, 
on account of the peculiar odor which accompanies any 
fermentation. It will perhaps seem sour when it is in 
reality perfectly good. If, however, sour bread is the 
result, throw away all the remaining yeast, and make fresh ; 
using fresh yeast to set it with. Do not, as some will 
advise, attempt to make it right by the use of soda. It 
is too doubtful an experiment, and it is less wasteful to 
throw away a gallon of yeast than a whole " baking " of 
bread. 



Yeast. 315 



Raw Potato Yeast. 



3 large potatoes. 

3 pints boiling water. 



cupful white sugar. 



1 cupful yeast well shaken. 
1 large tablespoonful salt. 

Peel the potatoes, and put them to soak in cold water 
till the kettle boils. Then grate one potato, in a large 
earthen dish, pour over it at once one pint boiling water 
(to cook the potato) ; grate the next, and pour on the 
next pint of water ; do the same with the third. (If you 
grate them all, before pouring on the water, they may 
turn dark.) Stir quickly with a wooden or silver spoon. 
Mix in thoroughly the salt and sugar. Leave it to be- 
come lukewarm (not cold). Then put in the yeast, stir 
it well, and leave to rise in a warm place four or five 
hours. When light and ready to bottle, it will be covered 
with a thick foam. Stir it up and bottle it. This is the 
most quickly and easily made of any kind of yeast and 
makes delicious bread. 

Yeast with Hops. 



4 pounds potatoes (pared and 

cut up). 
4 quarts water. 
1 handful fresh hops. 



1 cupful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

yeast-cakes. 

tablespoonfuls tepid water. 



u 



1 cupful salt. 

Boil the potatoes in three quarts of the water, and pass 
them through the colander with the water. Boil the hops 
ten minutes in one quart of water, and strain the water 
on the potatoes. Add the salt, sugar and ginger. The 
whole quantity should measure five quarts; if lacking, 
add tepid water. When lukewarm, add the yeast-cakes, 
mixed smooth in the four tablespoonfuls water. Keep in 
a warm place for a day and a night. When light it will be 
foamy on top. Then bottle, cork, and keep in a cool, 
dry cellar. It will keep for a number of weeks. 

After having made it once, save a cupful to raise the 
next with, instead of yeast-ca&es. 



316 now to CooJc Well 



" Sponge." 



a corn meal yeast cake. 



Flour to make a thick batter. 



1 quart tepid water. 

In winter, mix the sponge at one or two o'clock ; in 
summer, at four o'clock. In winter, use two thirds (or 
more) of a yeast cake. 

Soak the yeast cake for one hour in a little warm 
water, enough to cover it. Then add the quart of water, 
and beat in flour, until, when the batter is poured from 
the spoon into that which is in the bowl, it will not mix 
with it, but will lie in drops on the top. 

Set in a warm place, covered, to rise for about five 
hours. It will then be ready to use to set bread. If not 
wanted at once, it will keep a day or two in a cold place, 
if covered tight. 

This will raise four medium-sized loaves of bread. 



CAKE. 

REMARKS ON CAKE. 

Before you begin to mix cake, grease the tins, measure 
out all the necessary ingredients, and see that you have a 
good fire ; for cake should not be allowed to stand either 
during the process of mixing or when ready for the oven. 
Cake is less liable to stick to the pans if they are greased with 
lard (of course very little should be used), but some pre- 
fer to use butter. Several thicknesses of paper (greased) 
should be laid in the bottom of pans for fruit cake, as this 
is more liable to burn than other kinds. 

To Mix Cake, the usual rule is, first rub the butter and 
sugar together with a wooden spoon or potato-masher till 
they look soft and creamy and are several shades lighter 
in color than when you began. This process is facilitated 
by having the mixing-bowl slightly warm ; but on no 
account melt the butter. Upon this faithful " creaming " 



Cake. 317 

of the butter and sugar, depends chiefly the success of 
the cake. 

To the butter and sugar add the eggs, which will beat 
light much more quickly if they are cold. Break each 
into a cup by itself before adding it to the rest, for one 
bad egg would spoil all. If necessary to separate the 
yolks from the whites, be careful in doing it ; for the least 
particle of yolk would prevent the whites from being 
beaten stiff. Beat them in a platter with long strokes 
from a silver fork. Do not stop beating until they are 
stiff ; if you do they will liquify, and cannot afterward be 
beaten light. Yolks should be beaten till frothy. 

Next, put in the milk. Never use fresh and stale milk 
in the same cake ; it would make it heavy. 

Measure the soda and cream of tartar carefully. (A little 
too much soda would affect the whole cake disagreeably.) 
Dissolve the former in a teaspoonful or so of warm water 
and mix with the milk before adding it to the cake. The 
cream of tartar should be stirred through the flour(or a part 
of it) and this beaten in last. Of course the flour must 
be sifted before it is measured. Beat all well together. 
Then pour into the pans, which should be filled only two 
thirds full, leaving room for the cake to rise. 

To Bake Cake. Most cake requires a moderately hot 
oven to make it rise up well. Fruit cake, however, 
should be put into a slow oven, as it needs longer baking 
and is apt to burn. For all cake the heat should be well 
kept up ; if allowed to decrease the loaves will be doughy 
inside, or at least, heavy. Sponge cake, in particular, 
needs a steady heat. Jelly-cake and all layer-cakes need 
a hot oven, and are easier for a novice to bake than any 
other kind. They bake quickly; therefore watch care, 
fully, to see that they do not burn around the edges. 
Except with layer-cakes, do not open the oven door till 
the end of ten minutes; it might chill the cake while 



318 How to CooTc Well 

rising, which is the most critical time. When you do 
look in the oven, take care that no cold draught of air 
from an open window or door strikes in, and do not slam 
the oven door when you shut it, or jar the pans by mov- 
ing them unnecessarily. 

To tell when Cake is done, run a clean broom straw 
quickly down into the thickest part of the cake; if it 
comes up moist the cake is not yet done, but if dry, it is 
time to take it out. Do this carefully, putting the pan 
down gently in a place where no draught will strike it. 
Take it out of the pan while warm, not hot, 

What to do in case of failure. If the cake is heavy, 
nothing can be done. If burned on the bottom and the 
rest is good, frost on the bottom. If the whole outside is 
burned, cut out the good parts to use for " Tipsy Par- 
son," or if you can cut into good slices do so, and frost 
each slice, laying a bit of candied orange (or other fruit) 
or half an English walnut in the centre. 

Old-Fashioned Frosting. 

To the white of each egg allow one scant cupful of pul- 
verized sugar. Have the eggs as cold as possible, in a large 
platter. Do not beat them alone, but begin by beating 
half the sugar with them, adding the rest by degrees. 
Beat about half an hour in a cold place, or till the 
mixture becomes stiff. Then stir in a little extract or 
lemon-juice; the latter is nicest. As soon as stiff, spread 
over the cake, which should be previously dredged with a 
little flour to prevent the butter in the cake from discolor- 
ing the frosting. Put a large spoonful of frosting in the 
centre of the cake, and spread it smoothly with a knife 
dipped in hot water to prevent its sticking. When all is 
done set the cake in a cool place for half an hour to harden. 

N. B. If the top is not a good shape, frost the bottom 
of the cake. 

Allow the whites of two eggs to frost one large loaf. 



Cake. 319 

Boiled Frosting. 

f 1 cupful granulated sugar. 

\ 10 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 

1 egg, white only. 

Boil the sugar and water together, without stirring, till 
it hardens when dropped in cold water (try it as soon as 
the bubbles become large). Have ready the white of the 
egg, well beaten. Pour the hot sugar on it, and beat till 
stiff enough to ice the cake. 

Enough for one large loaf. 

Isinglass Frosting. (No Egg.) 

{1 sheet Russia Isinglass. 
1 small cupful boiling water. 

2 pounds pulverized sugar. 

Dissolve the isinglass in the water, then stir in the sugar. 
Beat well and pour over the cake. 

Gelatine Frosting. (No Egg.) 

f 1 tablespoonful Cox's gelatine. 
I i cupful boiling water (nearly). 

4 cupful* pulverized sugar (nearly). 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar (dry). 

Soak and dissolve the gelatine. Beat in sugar till stiff. 
Add the cream of tartar. Then pour over the cake. 
Enough for two very large loaves. This is a very smooth, 
pretty frosting. It can be made in a few minutes, and 
hardens immediately on the cake. 

To Color Frosting. 

Pink. A little red jelly or preserve-juice, cranberry 
syrup or cochineal, stirred into ordinary frosting, colors 
a pretty pink. 

Yellow. Cut an orange in halves, and soak the yellow 
part of the rind in the juice. Put in a thin muslin 
bag and squeeze it through the muslin. The juice will 
be colored by the rind. Stir it into ordinary frosting. 



320 How to Cook Well 

The whitest icing is made by adding lemon juice to the 
egg and sugar. 

Chocolate Frosting. 
6 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

1 cupful line sugar. 

2 eggs, whites only. 

Beat the ingredients together, and spread the frosting 
on when the cake is hot. 

If you like, you can add one teaspoonf ul vanilla extract 

to the above. 

Fancy Frosting, 

Chopped figs, raisins, or citron (sliced) beaten in with 
ordinary frosting makes a pleasant variety. Almonds or 
English walnuts broken in pieces are nice, too ; or break 
neatly in halves, and lay on the top. Plain frosting 
sprinkled with red sugar is pretty. If for a child's birth- 
day-cake, sprinkle with tiny red seed-candies. 

Orange Frosting, 
2 eggs, whites only. 
4 pound or 2 cupf uls pulverized sugar. 
1 large orange, juice only. 

Beat the whites of the eggs with the sugar, adding it 
by degrees, and beat until stiff; then stir in the orange- 
juice. 

Cocoanut Frosting, 

1 egg, white only. I 3 tablespoonfuls grated cocoa- 

1 cupful sugar. nut. 

Proceed as with " Orange Frosting." 
Enough for one loaf. 

FILLING FOR CAKE. 
Lemon Filling (No. 1). 



( 3 eggs. 

t 2 cupf uls sugar. 



2 lemons. 

Butter size of an egg. 



Beat eggs and sugar together, add grated peel and 
juice of the lemons. Put in the butter and stir it over a 



Cake. 321 

slow fire (the pan being set into another of boiling water), 
until the mixture thickens. Spread between cakes. 

No. 2. 

i cupful butter. I 3 eggs, yolks only. 

1 cupful sugar. I 2 lemons. 

Put all together over the fire, using both grated rind and 
juice of the lemons. Set the pan containing it within 
another of boiling water, and stir till it thickens. 

When perfectly cold, spread between layers of cake 
slightly warm. This is nice with "White Cake." 

This is enough for six layers. 

No. 3. 

1 cupful boiling water. 1 cupful sugar. 

( 4 teaspoonfuls cornstarch. 



2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 



1 lemon. 

2 eggs. 



Rub the cornstarch smooth in the cold water, and stir 
it into the boiling water, on the stove. Boil till it begins 
to thicken. Add the sugar, the juice and rind of the 
lemon, and the eggs, well-beaten. Stir every minute till 
quite thick. When cold, spread between layers of cake. 

Orange Filling. 



1 orange. 

2 tablespoonfuls. flour. 



1 cupful boiling water. 
1 egg (beaten light). 



1 cupful sugar. 

Grate half the rind of the orange. Squeeze the juice. 
Rub the flour smooth in this. Add the, sugar and water. 
Put all together over the fire within a pan of boiling 
water. Boil till the flour is cooked. Then add the 
egg, stirring constantly for a few minutes. Then remove 
and cool it before spreading over layers of cake. 

Apple Filling (no Egg). 

2 apples, grated. 1 lemon. 
1 cupful sugar. 

Put all together in a small sauce-pan, using both 
rind and juice of the lemon, and set on the stove. 



322 How to Cook Well. 

When it begins to boil, stir occasionally. When it 
thickens, which it should do in about ten minutes, remove 
from the fire. When cold, spread on layers of cake. 
This is only enough for one thick layer. 

Cocoanut Filling. 



f l&cupfuls sugar. 
I cupful water. 



2 eggs, whites only. 

1 cupful grated cocoanut. 



Boil sugar and water without stirring, until thick. 
Remove, and pour into a large dish. Add gradually the 
eggs, beaten stiff. Beat all together until cold, then mix 
in the cocoanut. Spread this between layers of cake, 
and on the top ; then sprinkle some dry cocoanut on top 

of all. 

Plain Jelly-Cake. 

Mix like "Feather Cake." Fill jelly-cake tins only 
half-full and bake in a very hot oven about ten minutes 
taking care not to let the edges harden. 

When cold, spread each layer thickly with jelly. Pile 
neatly on a plate, and sift pulverized sugar over the top. 
Eat fresh. Makes one loaf of five layers. 

Jelly Cake Without Eggs. 



f 1 cupful sugar. 

v cupful butter (scant). 

f 4 cupful milk. 

I i teaspoonf ul soda, dissolved. 



\ cupful cold water. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 

Flavor to taste. 



Mix in order, and bake about ten minutes in jelly-cake 
tins in a very hot oven. 

Makes one large loaf of five 'layers. Eat fresh. 

This is nice with lemon or apple filling. A useful 
receipt when eggs are scarce. 

Gold and Silver Jelly-Cake. 

Make " Gold " and " Silver " Cake. Bake and proceed 
as with "Plain Jelly-Cake." Pile the layers in alterna- 
ting colors. 

Makes a very handsome cake. 



Cake. 323 



Tip-Top Jelly-Cake. 



3 eggs (yolks and whites sep- 

arate). 
14 cupfuls sugar. 

4 cupful butter (softened). 



f 4 cupful milk. 

I 4 teaspoonf ul soda, dissolved. 
f 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 
1 2 cupfuls flour. 



Beat yolks of the eggs and the sugar together. Then 
add butter, milk and soda. Beat the whites stiff, and 
mix them in alternately with the flour (with the cream 
of tartar mixed through it). Beat all together and pro- 
ceed as with "Plain Jelly-Cake." 

Makes two jelly-cakes, of four layers each. 

White Mountain Cake. 

f 1 cupful butter. 

1 2 cupfuls sugar. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 

( 1 cupful milk. 

( 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 

( 2 teaspoonf uls of cream of tartar. 

( 34 cupfuls flour. 

Mix in this order. Beat hard. Bake in jelly-cake 
tins, for ten minutes in a hot oven. Before it becomes 
entirely cold, spread each layer with frosting (" Isinglass 
Frosting" is nicest for this), and cover the top with frost- 
ing. Eat fresh. 

Makes two loaves, of four layers each. 

To vary this, use two kinds of " Fancy Frosting " ; 
one with nuts, and one with chopped raisins. 

Chocolate Cake. (No. 1.) 

f 1 cupful butter. 

I 2 cupfuls sugar. 

5 eggs (leaving out whites of three). 

f 1 cupful milk. 

I 4 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 

f 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 
1 34 cupfuls flour. 

Mix in order, first beating the eggs light. Bake like 



324 How to Cook Well. 



" Plain Jelly-Cake," in seven or eight layers. When cool 
spread with the following 

Filling for Four Layers. 
f 3 eggs (whites only) . 
I li cupfuls sugar. 

6 tablespoonf uls grated chocolate. 

1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

Beat eggs and sugar together till stiff ; then add the 
chocolate and vanilla. 

You can make two different kinds of cake from this 
receipt, by filling the four remaining layers with " Apple 
Filling" (or any other kind). Or if you wish a thicker 
chocolate cake, make twice the quantity of filling, as 
above ; this is better than baking thicker layers. 

No. 2. 

2 cupfuls sugar. f 3 cupfuls flour. 



2 large tablespoonf uls butter. 

3 eggs (whites only). 
1 cupful milk. 



3 teaspoonf uls baking-pow- 
der, 
cupful grated chocolate. 



Mix in order, first beating the eggs light and reserving 
the chocolate. Put half of the batter in two pans. To the 
remaining half add the chocolate, and put this in two pans. 
Bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. When done, 
spread each layer with chocolate icing or anything you 
may prefer. Pile up the layers, dark and light alternately. 

A nice filling for this is plain cornstarch blanc mange, 
made soft, and flavored with vanilla. 

Orange Cake (No 1). 

Make " Old-Fashioned Sponge Cake," substituting 
oranges for the lemons. 

Bake in jelly-cake tins about ten minutes in a very hot 
oven; and when cool spread each layer with "Orange 
Frosting." Pile up and frost the top. 

Another Way is to peel and slice oranges and remove 
the seeds. Cut into small bits and lay on each layer of 
cake just before you frost it. 



Cake. 325 



No. 2. 

5 eggs, reserving whites of 3. 
2 cupfuls sugar. 
2 cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspooonf ul cream of tar- 
tar. 



cupful cold water. 

A little salt. 

1 orange, juice and grated rind. 

i teaspoonf ul soda, dissolved. 



Beat stiff the whites of the eggs ; add the sugar. 
When thoroughly mixed, put in the yolks beaten light. 
Then add the flour, with the cream of tartar mixed 
through it; and the other ingredients in order. Bake 
about ten minutes in a hot oven in jelly-cake tins. 
While still warm, spread each layer with " Orange Frost- 
ing." 

This makes one large loaf of five layers. 

Lemon Layer Cake. 

Make like " Orange Cake No. 2," substituting a lemon 
for the orange, and using "Lemon Filling." Or bake 
like "White Cake," split into three sheets when cold, 
and fill with "Lemon Filling No. 2." The latter makes 
a very pretty looking cake. 



Cocoanut Cake. 



f 2 cupfuls sugar. 
I i cupful butter. 
2 eggs (beaten light). 



3 cupfuls flour. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 
der. 



1 cupful milk. 

Mix in order. Bake like " Plain Jelly-Cake." Spread 
each layer with " Cocoanut Filling." 

Variety Cake. 

Make White or Snow Cake. Bake in layers as for 
jelly-cake ; spread the layers with pink frosting. Or 
color part of the batter pink, with a little red preserve- 
syrup, and pile the pink and white layers alternately, 
putting plain frosting between and on top. 



326 How to Cook Well. 

Charlotte Russe Cake. 

Make " Quick Sponge Cake." Bake it as Jelly-Cake, 
and spread each layer when cold with the following 

Filling. 

1 cupful rich cream. I cupful pulverized sugar, 

i teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

Beat all together till smooth. Sift powdered sugar 
over the top of the cake. Eat fresh. Makes three layers. 

Marble Layer Cake. 



2 cupfuls sugar. 
cupful butter. 

3 eggs. 



3 cupfuls flour, 
li teaspoonf uls baking-pow- 
der. 



1 cupful milk. 

Mix in order. Bake half the mixture in two jelly-cake 
pans. To the remainder add 



1 cupful raisins (chopped). 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 



1 teaspoonful cloves. 
A little grated nutmeg. 
1 tablespoonful molasses. 



Bake this in two pans. Spread the layers with frost- 
ing (or jelly) and pile up alternately. 

Rolled Jelly-Cake. 

Make " Cheap Sponge Cake," but beat it after the flour 
is in, to make it tough. When ready to bake, put into a 
large, square shallow pan (a dripping-pan w T ill do) which 
must be very thickly buttered. This is to prevent any 
difficulty in turning it out of the pan without breaking. 
Be sure to have the mixture evenly spread in the pan, but 
very thinly. Put at once into a very hot oven and bake 
evenly, taking care not to let it harden around the edges. 
This can be prevented by laying a thick paper over the 
top. Have the paper large enough to be supported by 
the sides of the pan, so that it will not touch the batter. 

Do not open the oven door until it has been in five 
minutes. Spread on a table a clean cloth, and when the 



Cake. 



327 



cake is done, which should be in ten minutes, slip it out 
of the pan, bottom side up, on to the cloth. Spread it 
qaickly while still hot with nearly one cupful of jelly, or 
raspberry jam ; beginning at the narrow end, roll it up 
into a compact round roll. All this must be done very 
rapidly or the cake will cool too much to roll. 

This is very quickly made. Caramel frosting (see " Car- 
amel Loaf") may be used instead of jelly. 



(3 cupfuls flour. 
3 teaspoonf uls baking-pow- 
der. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



Lincoln Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar, 
i cupful butter. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 
1 cupful milk. 

Mix in order, and beat a long time. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven about three quarters of an hour. Two large 

loaves. 

1, 2, 3, 4 Cake. 

2 teaspoonf uls cream of tar- 

tar. 

3 cupfuls flour. 



/ 1 cupful butter. 
\ 2 cupfuls sugar. 

4 eggs, beaten light, 
f 1 cupful milk. 
\ 1 teaspoonful soda. 



lemon, juice only (may be 
omitted). 



Mix in order, substituting any flavoring you wish for 
the lemon. Bake in a moderately hot oven about twenty- 
five minutes. Makes two medium-sized loaves. (To 
make it rich, leave out part of the milk.) 

Cup Cake. 

f 2 teaspoonf uls cream of tar- 
\ tar. 
6 cupfuls flour. 



f l 
1 1 



3 cupfuls sugar, 
li cupfuls butter. 
3 eggs, beaten light, 
li cupfuls milk, 
teaspoonful soda. 



A little nutmeg. 

1 wineglassf ul wine or brandy. 

Mix in order, beat hard, and bake in a moderately hot 
oven. 

Makes three loaves. 



328 How to Cook Well 

Feather Cake. 

f 1 cupful sugar. 

\ 2 tablespoonf uls butter, melted. 

1 egg, beaten light, 
f i cupful milk. 
I teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

lemon, juice only (may be omitted or any extract used in 
place) . 

Mix in order. Beat hard, and bake in one loaf in a 
moderate oven. Eat fresh. This plain cake may be 
improved by adding spices to a part of the mixture, and 
baking like Marble Cake." 

White Cake. 
f 1 cupful butter. 
1 2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 eggs, whites only, beaten well, 
f 1 cupful milk. 
X I teaspoouf ul soda, 
f li teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 3i cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful almond extract. 

Mix in the above order, beat hard, and bake in two 
loaves in a moderate oven. 

The yolks of the eggs may be used for " Salad Dress- 
ing," or for " Cornstarch Custard." Makes two loaves. 

Snow Cake. 
/ 2 cupfuls sugar. 
1 1 cupful butter. 
6 eggs (whites only). 
1 cupful milk. 

f2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
1 2 cupfuls flour. 
cupful cornstarch (dry). 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mix in order. Beat hard, put in two pans, and bake 
carefully in a moderately hot oven. 



Cake. 329 



Delicate Cake. 



cupfuls sugar, 
cupful butter, 
eggs (whites only), 
cupful milk, 
teaspoonful soda. 



i; 



teaspoonful cream of tar- 

tar. 

cupful cornstarch. 
cupfuls flour. 



Flavoring to taste. 



Mix in order. Beat hard, and bake in a moderate oven, 
keeping the heat steady. 

This is nice with "Chocolate Frosting." (The yolks 
of the eggs may be used for custard.) 

Cream Cake. 
(" Choice Receipts") 

f 1 cupful rich cream. 
1 1 cupful sugar. 

1 egg. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

i teaspoonful soda. 

i teaspoonful salt. 

i teaspoonful bitter almond flavoring. 

Stir the cream and sugar well together, then beat in 
the egg. Put the cream of tartar, dry soda and salt into 
the flour, mix in well, and stir into the cream, sugar and 
egg. Add flavoring. Bake in one loaf. To be eaten 
when fresh. 



Spice Cake. 



1 cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 
1 cupful sour milk, 
i teaspoonful soda. 



3 cupfuls flour, 
li cupfuls raisins. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

2 teaspoonf uls cinnamon. 
Mace and allspice if you like. 



Mix in order, dredging a little of the flour over the 
raisins, before adding them. Beat well, and bake in a 
slow oven for one hour. 

Makes one large loaf. 



330 How to CooJc Well. 



Pound Cake. 



1 pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
6 eggs, beaten light. 



1 pound flour. 

1 wineglassf til brandy or wine. 

A little rose water. 



Cream the butter and sugar very thoroughly. Bent 
the yolks and whites separately, and add the yolks. Stir 
in the flour alternately with the whites of the eggs, and 
add the brandy and rose water. 

The success of this cake depends upon thorough mix- 
ing before the flour is put in. 

Bake in a moderate oven, keeping the heat steady. 

Sandusky Cake. 

(Mrs. Cornelius.) 
f 1 cupful butter. 
1 2 cupf uls sugar. 
f 1 cupful milk. 
1 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 

4 eggs, yolks and whites separate, 
f 2 teaspoonf uls cream of tartar. 
1 3i cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful flavoring. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and add the milk and 
soda. Beat the yolks of the eggs (one at a time), and 
add them. Then beat the whites stiff, and stir them in 
alternately with the flour, through which the cream of 
tartar has been mixed. Flavor, and beat a long time. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven. Makes two loaves. 

This resembles Pound Cake. 

Grandpa's Cake. 

/ 3 cupfuls sugar. 
\ 1 cupful butter. 

4 eggs (yolks and whites separate). 
1 small nutmeg, grated. 

( li cupfuls sour milk. 

( 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 

5 cupfuls flour. 

1 heaping cupful raisins or currants. 



Cake. 331 

Rub butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the eggs light, 
leaving out, if you choose, the whites of two for Frosting. 
Add the eggs, nutmeg, milk and soda. Stir in four cup- 
fuls of the flour. Rub the raisins in the remaining flour 
and put them in. 

Beat well. Bake about one hour in a moderate oven. 
Makes two large loaves and a small one. Use sweet 
milk, if you choose. In this case add two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar. Chopped figs may be used instead of 
raisins. 

Marble Cake. 
Light. 

f cupful butter. 

1 Ik cupfuls white sugar. 

4 eggs, (whites only). 

4 cupful milk. 

4 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 
( 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
1 24 cupfuls flour. 



Dark. 



{4 cupful butter. 
4 cupful molasses. 
1 cupful brown sugar. 
4 eggs (yolks only.) 
j 4 cupful milk. 



1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
3 cupfuls flour (nearly). 
1 teaspoonful allspice. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 



< 4 teaspoouf ul soda, dissolved. 4 teaspoonful cloves. 

Mix each kind in order, beating the eggs light. First 
put a layer of light cake, then of dark, and so on. Bake 
in a moderate oven, taking care that it does not burn. 

Makes two large loaves. 

Huckleberry Cake. 

Make like " Lincoln Cake." The last thing before 
baking, dredge one pint of huckleberries with one cupful 
of flour and stir them in. 



332 How to CooJc Well. 



Gold Cake. 

1 cupful sugar. 

| cupful butter. 

8 eggs, yolks only. 

cupful milk. 

h teaspoonf ul soda, dissolved. 

1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

Mix in order. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 
Make "Silver Cake" the same day, or see "To Use 
the Whites of Eggs." 

Silver Cake. 

f 2 cupfuls white sugar. 

1 4 cupful butter. 

8 eggs (whites only). 
( 2i cupfuls flour. 

1 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 

{I cupful milk. 

teaspoonf ul soda. 

A little rose water. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and mix in order. Bake 
in a moderately hot oven. 

Make " Gold Cake " the same day, or, see " To Use the 
Yolks of Eggs." x 

Washington Cake. 

( 1 cupful butter. 
( 3 cupfuls sugar. 

5 eggs (yolks and whites separate). 
( 1 cupful milk. 
i 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

Mix in order, beating the eggs light, and reserving the 



Cake. 333 

whites to mix in alternately with the flour, which should 
be stirred in as lightly as possible. 

(Use sour milk if you choose, and omit the lemon 
juice.) 

Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Makes two loaves. 

Citron Cake. 



1 cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 
1 cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda, dissolved. 



2 teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar. 

44 cupfuls flour. 
1 small nutmeg, grated. 
4 ounces citron, sliced thin. 



Mix in order, rubbing the citron through a part of the 
flour before adding it. Bake at once in a rather hot 
oven. 



Makes two large loaves. 



Lemon Loaf Cake. 



I cupful butter. 
2 cupfuls of white sugar. 
3 eggs (yolks and whites 
separate). 



1 cupful milk. 

14 teaspoonfuls soda. 
4 cupfuls flour. 

2 lemons. 



Mix in order. Beat eggs light. Use both juice and 
rind of lemons. Bake in a rather hot oven. 
Makes two loaves. 

Almond Cake (No. 1). 
( 1 cupful butter. 
( 14 cupfuls sugar. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 
' 4 cupful milk. 
(3 cupfuls flour (about), 
i 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
| teaspoouful almond extract. 
1 pound almonds. 

Mix in order everything but the rJmonds. "Blanch " 
these. Lay aside enough to cover, when split in halves, 
the top of the cake. Chop the rest, and beat well into 



334 How to Cook Well 

the cake-batter. Pour this into a deep pan, and lay the split 
almonds lightly on top. They will rise and brown as the 
cake bakes. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

No. 2. f 2 cupfuls sugar. 

\ 4 cupful butter. 

6 eggs (whites only). 
( \ cupful milk. 
< 4 teaspoon ful soda. 
{ 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 
( 3 cupfuls flour. 

Mix in order. Bake in a rather quick oven in two flat 
tins. When cold, spread one loaf with the following 

Cream. 



1 pint boiling milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 eggs. 



4 cupful sugar. 

4 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

4 pound almonds. 



Stir the flour into the boiling milk, having first rubbed 
it smooth in a little cold milk. Have ready the eggs and 
sugar beaten together; add them to the hot milk and 
flour, and stir every minute to prevent their curdling. 
When it thickens, remove from the stove and stir in the 
.vanilla. Have ready half a pound almonds ^ blanched" 
and halved. Mix about two thirds of them into the cream. 

When you have spread it on the cake, place the 
other loaf on top and frost it. Put the remainder of the 
almonds in even rows on the frosting, leaving spaces to cut 
the cake into slices. 

Fruit or Wedding Cake. 



1 pound butter (scant). 
1 pound brown sugar. 
| tablespoonful grated nut- 
meg. 

14 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
4 tablespoonful cloves. 
4 tablespoonful mace. 



1 cupful N. O. molasses. 

1 pound flour. 

4 pounds raisins (stoned). 

2 pounds currants (washed). 
4 pound citron (sliced). 

1 small cupful brandy. 



Cream the butter and sugar. Add the spice and yolks 



Cake. 



335 



of the eggs (beaten light) and the molasses. Reserve a 
little of the flour in which to rub the fruit, and stir in the 
rest alternately with the beaten whites. Just before 
adding the fruit and brandy, dip out a little of the batter 
to spread over the top of the cake, when in the pan, ready 
to bake. This will give a smooth surface for frosting. 

Line the pan with several thicknesses of paper buttered, 
and put paper over the top when it begins to brown. 
Bake in a slow oven two or three hours, keeping the heat 
steady. Watch it closely. When cold, frost it hand- 
somely. It will keep a long time. 



Chodwell Cake. 



1 cupful butter. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 

5 eggs (beaten light). 

1 cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

1 pound raisins, stoned. 



1 pound currants (washed and 

dried). 
4 pound citron, cut in slips. 

1 teaspoouf ul cloves. 

4 teaspooiiful nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonf uls cinnamon. 



Mix in order, reserving a part of the flour to scatter 
over the fruit before stirring it in. Bake slowly in a 
moderate oven, watching it carefully. 

Makes two large loaves. 

Coffee Cake, 



1 cupful brown sugar. 

1 full cupful butter. 

1 egg (beaten light). 

1 cupful molasses. 

1 teaspoonful soda (dry). 

1 cupful strong cofl'ee (cold) . 

44 light cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful raisins stoned. 



cupful currants, 
teaspoonful cloves, 
teaspoonful cinnamon, 
teaspoonful mace, 
teaspoonful allspice, 
teaspoonful ginger. 
A very little nutmeg. 



Mix in order, dissolving the soda in the molasses before 
adding it, and reserving one cupful of flour in which to 
rub the raisins and currants before putting in. Beat well, 



336 How to CooJc Well. 

and bake at once in a moderate oven about one hour, 
taking care not to let it burn. 

Makes two large loaves. If frosted, it will keep fresh 
a long time. 

Quick Sponge Cake. 



4 eggs (yolks and whites sep- 
arate). 



1 cupful flour. 
A pinch of salt. 



1 cupful pulverized sugar. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar; add the 
whites, and beat in the flour and the salt very lightly, 
and only just enough to mix it through, for longer beat- 
ing makes it tough. Bake it in one loaf in a moderate 
oven, keeping the heat steady. 

This is the most quickly and easily made of all sponge 
cake. 

The General's Sponge Cake. 



| pound sugar. 

8 tablespoonfuls cold water. 



i pound flour, twice sifted. 
A pinch of salt. 



7 eggs (beaten light) . 

Put the sugar and water together, and boil briskly with- 
out stirring, and while warm (not hot} pour it slowly over 
the eggs, stirring them so that they will not curdle. 
Beat twenty or twenty-five minutes. Then stir in lightly 
the flour and salt ; and bake at once in a quick oven, keep- 
ing the heat steady. 

Old-fashioned Sponge Cake. 



12 eggs, whites and yolks sep- 
arate. 
Sugar. 



Flour. 

2 lemons. 

A pinch of salt. 



Weigh the eggs before you break them. Take their 
weight in sugar, and half their weight in flour. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs with the sugar ; then stir in lightly the 
whites, beaten stiff. Add the rind of one lemon grated, 
and the juice of both. Lastly, the flour and salt, beating 



Cake, 



337 



only just enough to mix it through, and taking care not 
to touch the bottom of the bowl with the spoon. This 
makes it much lighter. Bake in a moderate oven, keep- 
ing the heat steady. 
Makes two loaves. 

Cheap Sponge Cake. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
( i teaspoonfnl soda (dissolved in 
< 1 tablespoonful warm water). 

Mix in this order. Beat hard before the flour goes in. 
Stir this in lightly. The whole mixing must be done 
rapidly, and the mixture not allowed to stand before 
baking. Bake in a quick oven, keeping the heat steady. 
Eat fresh. 

Makes one loaf. 

Angel Cake. 



1 scant cupful flour. 

I teaspoonful cream of tar- 

tar. 

II eggs (whites only). 



1 4 cupf uls fl n e s t granulated 

sugar. 
2 teaspoon f uls vanilla. 



Pastry flour is the best to use. Put the cream of 
tartar with the flour, and sift it ten times. Beat the 
whites of the eggs in a large bowl till you can turn the 
bowl upside down without spilling them. Then beat in 
lightly the sugar, vanilla and sifted flour. Pour into an 
ungreased pan, without paper. Bake in a quick oven. 
When the cake is done, turn the pan upside down, and 
leave it resting on the edges supported by sticks until the 
cake partly cools. If you leave it too long it will be 
spoiled. Turn it out and ice the bottom with "Boiled 
Frosting." 



338 



How to Cook Well 



GINGERBREAD. 
Rye Beach Gingerbread. 



1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 

i cupful lard and butter, 

mixed. 
2-i tablespoonfuls ginger. 



3-i or 4 cupf uls flour. 
1 cupful sour milk. 
3 eggs (even 1 will do). 

1 teaspoon ful salt. 

2 teaspoonf uls soda, dissolved. 



Put the molasses, sugar and shortening over the fire. 
As soon as they begin to boil, remove them and stir in at 
once the ginger. Have ready the flour in the mixing- 
bowl, and pour the hot molasses on it. Stir it briskly, 
then add the milk, and when cool enough not to curdle 
the eggs, add them, well-beaten, and the salt. Last, put 
in the soda. Beat hard, and bake carefully in a moderate 
oven. Makes two large loaves. 

This gingerbread is unequalled, even when but one egg 
is used. 

Spiced Gingerbread (no Eggs). 



1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful soda (nearly). 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 



i nutmeg, grated. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
1 teaspoonf ul allspice. 
Flour to make a thick batter. 

Mix in order ; beat hard, and bake in two loaves in a 
moderate oven, about half an hour. 
This is nice baked in patty-pans. 

Sponge Gingerbread (no Eggs). 

2i teaspoonfuls ginger. 
3 cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful cloves (may be 
omitted). 

Warm the milk, molasses and butter together. Add 
the soda, and mix with the flour and spice. Beat hard 
and bake carefully in two biscuit-pans about half an hour, 
taking care not to have the oven too hot. 



{1 cupful milk, 
li cupfuls molasses. 
Butter size of an egg. 
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



Cake. 339 

La Fayette Gingerbread. 
4 pound butter, full weiglit. 

4 pound brown sugar. 

5 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 
1 pint molasses. 

4 pint milk. 

(14 pounds flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

4 teaspoonful soda (dry). 

1 tablcspoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

\ pound raisins (may be omitted). 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, then 
the whites beaten stiff, the molasses and the milk. Sift 
the cream of tartar and the soda with the flour, and stir 
that in ; then mix in the spices and raisins, previously 
stoned and rubbed in a very little flour. Beat hard, and 
bake at once in a moderately hot oven. 

White or Sugar Gingerbread. 
J 2 cupfuls white sugar. 
\ 1 cupful butter. 

5 eggs, beaten light. 
( 1 cupful milk. 

I 4 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 

( 2 cupfuls flour. 

i 4 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

2 tablespoonfuls white ginger. 

Mix in order and beat hard. Spread it with a knife, 
thinly and evenly, in a large shallow pan, and just before 
you put it in the oven, sprinkle the top with white sugar. 

When cold, cut into squares or diamonds. 

Canadian Gingerbread (no Eggs). 



4 pound butter. 

1 pound flour. 

4 pound sugar (white). 

14 tablespoonfuls ginger. 



1 nutmeg (grated). 

1 lemon. 

4 cupful milk (warm). 

4 teaspoonful soda, dissolved. 



Rub the butter into the flour. Add the sugar and the 



340 How to Cook Well. 

spice, and mix them all well together. Chop the pulp of 
the lemon very tine, and grate the rind. Then stir in the 
milk and the soda. Work the whole into a smooth paste ; 
put it into a shallow pan, and spread smooth and thin 
with a knife. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. When cold, cut into three-inch squares, and 
eat fresh. 

COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 
REMARKS. 

In mixing cookies, etc., care should be taken not to put 
in too much flour, as this makes them hard. The only 
remedy for it afterwards is to work into the dough a lit- 
tle melted butter or milk. Work the flour in smoothly, 
leaving no lumps. Press evenly in rolling out the dough, 
so that it will not be thicker in one part than another, or 
the cookies will bake unevenly. Of course the rolling-pin 
and bread-board should both be floured, to prevent stick- 
ing, and so should the cutter. Out them into rounds with 
this, or into squares with a knife. Place them a little 
apart in the pan, so that they will keep their shape in 
baking. 

Bake cookies in a large shallow pan or on a piece of 
sheet-iron, either of which one can easily have made to 
order, just the size of the oven. This facilitates the pro- 
cess of cookey-making very much. 

The size of the cookey-pan I have in view in giving the 
amount which each receipt will make, is eighteen inches 
square. The pan should be turned when the cookies are 
half-done. 

The oven should be hot. They will rise more quickly 
and be more tender for being baked quickly. Ten min- 
utes is long enough to bnke them, unless rolled very thick. 
Jumbles require about fifteen minutes. 



Cake. 341 



Seed Cakes (no Eggs). 

2 cupf uls sugar. 

2 cupfuls butter. 
( 1 cupful milk. 
( 2 teaspoonf uls caraway seeds. 

1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 

1 small nutmeg, grated. 

Flour enough for a soft dough. 

Mix in order, having soaked the seeds in the milk about 
half an hour. Put in the flour gradually. Roll out on a 
bread-board, not quite one quarter of an inch thick, and 
cut with a biscuit-cutter. Bake in a quick oven about ten 
minutes. 

Cinnamon Cookies. 

f 1 heaping cupful butter. 
I li cupfuls brown sugar. 

One egg, beaten light (maybe omitted), 
f 1 cupful sour milk. 
< 1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 
( 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
( Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Mix in order, stirring the cinnamon into a part of the 
flour before putting it in. Bake ten minutes in a very hot 
oven. 

Fills cookey-pan once, and makes a few cookies over. 

Sour Cream Cookies. 



f 1 cupful thick sour cream. 
^ 1| cupfuls brown sugar. 

1 egg, beaten light. 

1 teaspoonful soda (dis- 
solved). 

Stir cream and sugar together. Mix in order. Bake 
ten minutes in a very hot oven. These are quickly made. 
Fills cookey-pan three quarters full. 



1 dessertspoonful melted but- 
ter. 

A few drops extract of rose. 
Flour to make a soft dough. 



342 How to Cook Well. 



Soft Cookies. 



1 heaping cupful butter, 
li cupf uls brown sugar. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 

3 tablespoonfuls sour or 



1 teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
As little flour as will roll them 
out. 



buttermilk. 

Mix in order, and roll out as evenly as possible. 
Sprinkle granulated sugar over the entire surface. Press 
it in slightly with the rolling-pin. Cut into rounds, with 
a sharp tin cutter previously dipped into dry flour. Bake 
ten or twelve minutes in a hot oven. 

Plainer cookies may be made from this receipt by 
omitting part of the butter and one of the eggs. 

Fills cookey-pan two thirds full. 

Nutmeg Cookies. 



1 heaping cupful butter. 

2 cupf uls white sugar. 
2 eggs (beaten light) . 
i a nutmeg, grated. 



1 teaspoonful soda (dis- 
solved) . 

( 4 cupf uls flour. 
I 2 teaspoonf uls cream tartar. 



1 cupful milk. 

Mix in order. Proceed as with " Soft Cookies," tak- 
ing care to work in when on the bread-board only enough 
flour to enable you to roll them out. 

These cookies should be eaten fresh. 

Graham Cookies. 



1 heaping cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

2 eggs (beaten light). 

\ cupful sour milk or cream. 



Graham flour for a soft dough. 
A pinch of salt. 

1 orange or lemon, the juice 
only (may by omited). 



( if teaspoonful soda. 

Mix in order. 

Turn out on the bread-board which should be thinly 
covered with white flour. Use white flour also on the 
rolling-pin, as Graham flour is too sticky to roll out the 
cookies with. Roll the dough out evenly, not more than 



Cake. 343 

a quarter of an inch thick. Cut out with a floured tin 
cutter of generous size. Bake about fifteen minutes in a 
hot oven. 

It fills a cookey-pan once ami a half. 

These are very nice for children, and without the orange 
or lemon are sometimes mistaken for cocoanut. 

Children's Cookies (very plain). 

( 1 cupful sugar. 

i 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 egg (beaten light). 
f i cupful milk. 
1 i teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 

1 tablespoonful ginger or cinnamon. 

Flour for a soft dough. 

Mix in order. Roll very thin. Bake ten minutes in a 
hot oven. Fills cookey-pan three quarters full. 

Spice Cookies (no Eggs). 



1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupfuls molasses. 

1 cupful shortening (melted.) 
jf cupful boiling water. 
1 tablespoonful soda. 



1 table spoonful ginger. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
4 tablespoonful cloves. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
Flour enough to roll out. 



Mix all together, mixing the spice with part of the 
flour before adding it. Roll thin, and bake ten minutes, 
taking care that they do not burn. Anything containing 
molasses is liable to burn. 

Ginger Snaps. 



1 pint molasses. 

1 cupful butter, or half lard. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 



1 teaspoonful soda. 
A little salt. 

Flour enough to make a stiff 
doujrh. 



Put all the ingredients excepting the flour into a large 
pan. Set this on the fire and let it come to a boil ; then 
stir till well mixed. Remove from the fire, and when 



344 How to CooJc Well 

nearly cool, add flour enough to make a stiff dough. (If 
you use too small a pan it will foam over.) 

Roll out as thin as paper and cut out. Bake in a hot 
oven about three minutes. They burn easily. These are 
very dainty and brittle. Add more ginger if you like. 

Fills cookey-pan twice. 

Ohio Cakes. 



k pound butter. 
1 pint molasses. 



i pound flour. 
Ginger to taste. 



i pound brown sugar. 

Boil the butter and molasses together for one minute. 
Stir in the sugar while hot. Then pour it over one half 
of the flour. Stir in the rest a little at a time with the 
ginger. 

Drop from a teaspoon on a buttered pan a little distance 
apart, and bake about twenty-five minutes in a rather slow 

oven. 

Jumbles. 



1 heaping cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls white sugar. 

3 eggs (beaten light). 
cupful milk. 



4 teaspoon ful soda. 
Flavoring to your fancy. 
Flour as little as will roll them 
out. 



Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add eggs, milk, 
soda and flavoring. Stir in the flour and turn out on a 
floured bread-board. Roll nearly half an inch thick, 
sprinkle with sugar, and press it in slightly. Cut into 
rounds with a large tin cutter ; with a small cutter remove 
the centre of each, leaving rings to be baked. (The 
pieces that are cut out can be collected and rolled out 
again to cut more jumbles.) 

Bake about twelve minutes in a hot oven, keeping the 
heat steady. 

Another way to make them is to make a roll of the 
douo-h about as thick as your finder, twist it around and 
dip into sugar before laying it in the baking-pan. 



CaJce. 345 



Shrewsbury Cakes. 



i pound butter. 
] pound sugar. 
4 eggs (beaten light). 



teaspoonfuls mace or cinna- 



mon. 



pounds flour* 



Mix in order. Beat very thoroughly before the flour 
goes in. Drop in spoonfuls on buttered tins. Sift sugar 
over them, and bake in a rather hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. 

These are very fine. 

Walnut Wafers. 



1 cupful flour. 

i pound English walnuts. 



j \ cupful butter. 
I 1 cupful sugar. 
1 egg (beaten light). 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the egg and flour. 
Chop the nuts very fine and stir them into the mixture. 
Drop the mixture from a spoon on to buttered tin sheets, 
and flatten with a wet stamp. Bake in a moderate oven. 

This will make about two dozen. 

If preferred, put in more flour and roll them out ; but 
the first way is the best. 

New Year's Cakes (without eggs). 



( 2^ pounds sugar. 

( 1^ pounds butter. 

5 pounds flour. 



i cupful brandy. 
2table spoonfuls corian- 
der seed. 



i cupful cold water. 

Rub butter and sugar to a cream. Add the flour, then 
the water and brandy, in which the seed has been soaking 
for half an hour. Knead well. 

Roll out the dough half an inch thick, and cut out 
square cakes. Stamp them with fanciful figures. Bake 
about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, a very light 
color. If they brown too much before they are done, 
cover them with a thick paper. 

These are delicious, and will keep for six months. A 
large quantity. 



346 How to Cook Well 



Kissos or Meringues. 



4 eggs (whites only). 

2i cupfuls pulverized sugar. 



teaspoonf ul cream of tartar, 
dry. 



i tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Beat eggs and sugar together till very stiff. It may 
take half an hour. Then mix in the other things. Drop 
from a fork in little heaps on a sugared paper laid in a 
pan, twirling the fork to give a good shape. Take care 
to put them so as not to touch each other. They wiH 
not run together if beaten long enough. Bake in a very 
slow oven for about an hour. Watch them carefully. 
They should be a delicate yellow. Take them off the 
paper while warm. Makes two dozen. 

Cream Meringues. Bake the above mixture in a 
very hot oven about three minutes. Scoop out part of 
the inside, fill with "Whipped Cream" and stick them 
together two and two. 

Dimples. 

Make " Kisses." Have ready a quarter of a pound of 
almonds. "Blanch" them and crush like coarse sand. 
Just before putting the cakes in the oven, scatter the 
almonds over the surface of each. Bake in a hot oven 
not more than three minutes, watching them carefully. 
Makes two dozen. 

Cocoanut Drop Cakes. 

1 cupful grated cocoanut. I 1 tablespoonful flour. 

cupful sugar (pulverized). I 2 eggs, whites only. 

Beat all well together. Drop from a teaspoon on to a 
sugared paper, leaving a space between. Bake in a quick 
oven about fifteen minutes. They will spread in the pan. 
Do not let them brown. 

Macaroons. 



1 pound almonds " blanched." 
A little rose water. 



1 pound sugar pulverized. 
7 eggs, whites only. 



It is best to prepare the almonds the day before, as it 



Cake. 347 

is a tedious process. Put them in a mortar and pound 
fine, adding the rose-water by degrees. When worked 
to a smooth paste, stir in the sugar. When ready to 
make the cakes, beat the eggs stiff ; then add to them the 
almond paste. Drop by spoonfuls on a delicately but- 
tered or sugared paper, laid over a pan. Leave a good 
space between them. Sprinkle sugar over the cakes, or 
brush them over with the white of an egg to make them 
smooth. Bake delicately in a slow oven about twenty 
minutes, watching them carefully. 



Doughnuts. 



ii 



a nutmeg grated, 
quart flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 
der. 



( 1 pint sugar. 
1 2 eggs. 

1 pint boiling water. 

i cupful melted butter and 
lard mixed. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together. Add the water and 
shortening. Then stir in the nutmeg and the flour with 
the baking powder in it. Add more flour to enable you 
to roll out a soft dough about three quarters of an inch 
thick. Cut with a biscuit-cutter, removing a round piece 
from the centre of each. "Boil in Lard" both pieces, 
having the lard boiling hot. (See " Fritters.") 

While hot, sift sugar over them. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

1 pint milk. I teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupful yeast. I 5 cupf uls flour more or less. 

Mix these at night, about nine o'clock, using enough 
flour to make a thick batter. Cover and set to rise. 
In the morning stir in the following: 



2 cupf uls white sugar. 
1 small cupful butter and lard 
mixed. 



3 eggs (beaten light). 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

\ teaspoonful soda (dissolved). 



Beat well together, and stir in more flour till the 



348 How to Cook Well. 

spoon will almost stand alone. (It should be as stiff as 
soft bread-dough.) Cover the pan, and set to rise until 
light ; about three hours longer. Then roll out about one 
half an inch thick, on a floured bread-board, and cut out. 
Let the dough rise about fifteen minutes on the board 
after cutting out. Them boil them like " Fritters " in a 
deep kettle of lard. While hot, sprinkle with sugar. 

Crullers (No. 1). 

( 1 cupful sugar. I 4 eggs. 

( | cupful butter. I Flour enough to roll out. 

Mix in order. Roll out half an inch thick. Cut and 
braid, or make into any fancy shapes you choose. 

Boil in deep lard like " Fritters." Sift sugar over them 
while hot. 

No. 2. 



1 teaspoonful soda dissolved. 
1 tablespoonf ul vinegar. 
Flour enough to roll out. 
Flavor to taste. 



( 1 cupful sugar. 
< 1 egg. 

1 cupful milk. 

2tablespoonfuls melted 
butter. 

Beat the sugar and egg together. Add milk and butter. 
Dissolve the soda in the vinegar, and mix it in after a 
little of the flour has been put in; also the flavoring. 
Proceed as above. 



DRINKS. 
Tea. 

Fill the teapot with hot water, then pour it out. After 
thus heating the teapot, throw into it one even teaspoon- 
ful of tea allowed for each person, and one for the teapot. 
Cover with boiling water, and set on the front part of the 
stove long enough to count thirty. Then fill up with 
boiling water, allowing one cupful water to each teaspoon- 
ful tea. Set the pot where it will keep as hot as possible 



Drinks. 349 



but not boil. Serve at the end of fifteen minutes. If 
steeped longer it will be too strong. Tea made in this 
way is perfection ; it should never boil. After making 
tea once, neither it nor the water need be measured, if 
you notice how much was used ; but to insure having 
always equally good tea, the proportion must be kept the 
same. 

Make ten fresh every time ; or if there is tea left to be 
used over, pour it off at once into a clean pitcher (never 
tin) till time to heat it ; if left standing on the leaves it 
will become rank. 

Save the tea-leaves to scatter over a carpet on sweep- 
ing-day ; they brighten the colors. They also make ex- 
cellent poultices for weak eyes or chilblains. 

Tea a la Busse. 

Slice thin one or two lemons. Lay a slice in the bot- 
tom of each cup. Pour the hot tea over, and sugar to 
taste. No cream is used. This is refreshing in hot 

weather. 

Iced Tea. 

Make tea several hours before it is to be served. Pour 
it into a clean pitcher, and when cool, set on ice. Serve 
with a lump of ice in the bottom of each cup. 

Another way is, to put into a pitcher, six hours 
before serving, the usual amount of tea and water (one 
teaspoonful tea to each cupful of water), but use cold 
water. 

Serve as above. As this requires no cooking it is con- 
venient in hot weather ; you can then let the fire go out 
when you please. 

Coffee (No. 1). 

Every one has her own pet way of making coffee. 
Here are two rules, Loth good, though differing widely. 
Heat the coffee-pot. Throw into it one tablespoonful 



350 How to Cook Well. 

of coffee allowed to each person, and one for the coffee-pot. 
Put in the shells of an egg, and pour on one cupful of 
boiling water for each tablespoonf ul of coffee. Hoil hard, 
eight or ten minutes. Then pour a little cold water down 
the spout, arid set the pot where it will keep hot, but not 
boil, for three minutes. Serve at once, as it spoils by 
standing. 

No. 2. Mix the coffee smooth in cold water, with a 
little white of an egg. Add one cupful cold water to 
each tablespoonful coffee, and set the coffee-pot on the 
stove, stopping up the spout with a cork. This will pre- 
serve all the aroma. Let it just come to a boil, but not 
boil. 

Coffee to be in perfection should be freshly browned 
and ground, but this cannot always be attained. Mocha 
and Java, mixed in the proportion of one of Mocha to two 
of Java, are usually considered best. Java alone ranks 
next. Water both for coffee and tea should be freshly 
boiled, never use that which has stood in the tea-kettle 
over night. The directions given above are for coffee 
made in an ordinary coffee-pot. This must be washed 
every time it is used and put away dry, or you will never 
have good coffee. The least particle of stale coffee- 
grounds burnt on the sides, will give a bitter flavor. 

Cafe au Lait. 

Make coffee by either of the ways given above, but 
make it a trifle stronger than usual. Clear it well, and 
pour it off the grounds at once. Add an equal quantity 
of hot boiled milk, and set it on the fire for a moment to 
ensure its being very hot when served. 

One third the quantity of cream may be used instead of 
milk. 

Harmless Coffee. 

This is an excellent substitute for coffee, for those 



DrinJts. 351 



whose nerves do not allow them to drink the real article. 
14 pints molasses. ll pound best ground coffee, 

i peck coarse wheat bran. 

Rub the molasses through the bran thoroughly. It can 
be done best with the hands. Then put it in the oven, stir- 
ring often until perfectly dry ; it may take all day. Or you 
may put it in the oven, with the door open over night, 
and it will not take so long. Then separate it into thirds 
(so that your dripping-pan will not be too full at one time) 
and bum it on the top of a moderate fire, stirring con- 
tinually until the whole is of a very dark brown. When 
all is done, and while still hot, mix through it one pound 
of the best ground coffee. When perfectly cold, put it 
into a tightly-closed tin box, or into glass jars, and use 

like real coffee. 

Chocolate. 

Allow one dessert-spoonful of grated chocolate to each 
cup. Allow a half cupful each of milk and water to each 
person (or use milk alone). Put the milk and water on 
to boil in a double boiler. When boiling fast, dip out a 
very little on the chocolate, and rub till smooth. Then 
pour the chocolate into the hot milk. Boil for five min- 
utes ; and then for every four cupfuls, mix in one egg well 
beaten, and previously mixed with a little of the boiling 
chocolate. As soon as thoroughly mixed, pour into a 
pitcher, or the egg will curdle. 

Be careful to boil the chocolate, and for fully five min- 
utes ; and you will never complain of chocolate made in 
this way being muddy. 

Sweeten in the cups, not while boiling. 

The egg may be omitted, if it is preferred to have it 
not so rich, or the yolk or white alone may be used. 

Chocolate with "Whipped Cream." 
Make chocolate as above, and lay a spoonful of 
" Whipped Cream " on the top of each cupful after it is 



352 How to Cook Well. 

poured out. If you want the chocolate very rich, mix the 
beaten white of one egg through each cupful. 

Cocoa. 

Make like chocolate (without the egg), allowing one tea- 
spoonful to each cup of milk and water. 

Blackberry Wine. 

Mash well the berries, which should not be over-ripe. 
Strain the juice and pulp through a thin cloth, squeezing 
the pulp thoroughly. Set the juice away to settle until 
next day. Then skim, and strain through a thicker, 
closer cloth. 

To each gallon of juice add two and one half or two and 
three fourths pounds of granulated sugar. Stir until the 
sugar is dissolved. Put the juice into wide-mouthed 
jugs, or into jars, reserving a small quantity. Tie a 
cloth loosely over the mouth of the jugs. As fermenta- 
tion proceeds, skim off daily, and fill up with the reserved 
juice. Fermentation ceases in about ten days. Decant 
and cork lightly until November. Then draw off from 
the lees, and bottle and cork tight. Some add one gallon 
of boiling water to each bushel of berries, before mashing, 
but it is better not to do so, as this is apt to make the 
wine sour. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Mash and boil as many berries as you please. Strain, 
and to each gallon of juice add 



pounds white sugar. 



ounce ground allspice. 



4 ounce ground cloves. 

Boil again till the juice thickens. When cool, add one 
half cupful of good brandy to each quart of juice. Bottle 
tight, and keep in a cool place. Fit for use at once. 

Excellent for diarrhoea. 



Drinks. 353 



Cherry Bounce. 



1 peck wild cherries (black). 
5 quarts rum, brandy or whis- 



2 quarts water. 

li pounds white sugar. 



key. 

Pound the cherries sufficiently to crack the stones. 
Put them into a deep stone jar with the spirit, and stir 
well. Pour oft' into a demijohn, cover tight, and let it 
stand two or three months, shaking it very often. At 
the end of that time, squeeze through a bag and add the 
water and sugar. 

Ready to use in one week, but improves the longer it 
is kept. It will keep for years. This makes a very large 
quantity. As it is troublesome to make, it is best to 
make enough to last several years. This is to be used in 
sickness, not more than a tablespoonful at a time. An 
excellent tonic. 

.Currant Wine. 



4 (crowded) quarts currants on 
the stem. 



4 quarts best brown sugar 
(white if preferred). 



4 quarts water. 

Crush and bruise thoroughly the currants. Add the 
water ; mix well, and strain through a flannel bag. To 
each four quarts of juice add four pounds of sugar. 
Leave it in an open vessel until the sugar is well dissolved, 
and then put in a keg or stone jug, and put in the cellar. 

Cork loosely until the wine has worked sufficiently. If 
in a keg, the wine can remain in it; but if in jugs, it should 
be drawn and bottled about April or May. 

Grape Wine. 
Make like " Blackberry Wine." 

Raspberry Vinegar. 
4 quarts red raspberries. I Sugar. 

1 quart vinegar. 

To two quarts of the raspberries add the vinegar, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours. Then strain through a 



354 How to Cook Well. 

flannel bag, and pour it over the other two quarts of 
berries. Let it stand as before and strain again. Allow 
three fourths of a pound of white sugar to one pint of 
juice. Stir well. Place it in a stone jar, in a kettle of 
water, and let it boil until the sugar dissolves. Bottle and 
seal. 

A tablespoonful or two to a glass of water makes a 
nice drink in hot weather, and it is especially grateful to 
fever patients. 

Spruce Beer. 
Checkerberry leaves (a large 



handful). 
Black cherry-tree bark (very 

little). 
Winter-green (a little). 



Sassafras root. 
Horse-radish (very little) . 
Dandelion root (very little). 
Spruce, three or four twigs 
(leaves and all). 



Put all in a kettle and cover with water. Let it steep 
three or four hours, but not boil. Then let it cool. 
Strain and add 

1 cupful molasses. I 2 quarts cold water. 

^ cupful potato yeast. 

Put it in a jug. Cover the jug (uncorked) with a net- 
ting, and leave it to ferment (about one and a half days). 
When ready, cork it tight. 

The second time you make it, use no yeast ; but pour 
the new beer on the dregs of the old. 



Cream Beer. 



ounces tartaric acid. 



1 ounce cream of tartar. 

2 quarts water. 



2 pounds white sugar. 

2 eggs, whites, well beaten with 

2 tablespoonf uls flour. 



Put all together. Scald. When cool, add a little of any 
kind of flavoring. Bottle, and keep in a cool place. 

To use it, put two tablespoonfuls of syrup to a glassful 
of cold water ; add half a teaspoonf ul of soda ; beat it 
and drink at once while foaming. 

A delicious, cool drink on a hot day, and an excellent 
substitute for soda water when that cannot be had. 



Fruits. 355 



STEWED AND BAKED FRUITS. 

Apple Sauce. 

Peel and core tart, juicy apples, and cut them into even 
slices. Stew with water enough to barely cover them, 
crushing them often with a wooden spoon. When half 
done, add sugar. Then boil down to a smooth, pulpy 
mass. Serve with nutmeg grated over the top. Never 
throw away a spoonful of apple sauce. It can be used for 
custard, and an endless variety of things. 

Dried Peaches or Apples Stewed. 

Soak for two hours in cold water enough to more than 
cover them, having washed them well. Then stew slowly 
in the same water till tender enough to be pierced by a 
straw. Add a little sugar shortly before taking them off 
the fire. 

The dried peaches one gets nowadays are almost equal 
to those which are canned for sale, and are far cheaper. 

Stewed Rhubarb. 

Cut the stalks into inch-long pieces, with or without 
peeling the latter makes a richer dish. Put it into a 
porcelain sauce-pan, and pour boiling water over it. Let 
it stand a moment, then drain. (This will remove the 
intense acidity, and less sugar will be required.) Set it 
on the fire, with very little water, let it stew till tender 
(about eight minutes), then sweeten plentifully, and re- 
move. 

Vary it by adding a few raisins ; they impart an 
agreeable flavor. 

Clarified Apples. 

Peel and core large, firm apples enough to cover the 
bottom of a preserving kettle, or a deep tin pan. Nearly 
cover them with cold water. Cover the kettle, and boil 
slowly (or they will lose their shape) until tender. Then 



356 How to CooJc Well 

take them out carefully. Allow one cupful of sugar to 
every three apples. Boil this with the water ten minutes. 

Return the apples to the syrup, and boil slowly again, 
until clear. Lay them carefully into the dish they are to 
be served in and pour the syrup over. 

If the apples are sweet, boil thin slices of lemon with 
the syrup. 

Apples Stewed Whole. 

A less expensive dish than that above. Prepare the 
fruit and proceed in the same way, but allow one cupful 
of sugar to one dozen apples. Put it in with the apples as 
soon as they are tender, then cook ten minutes longer all 

together. 

Jellied Apples. 

Fill a quart pudding-dish with alternate layers of thinly 
sliced sour apples, brown sugar and cinnamon. Pour 
over all one half a cupful of water ; cover with a plate, 
buttered, to prevent its sticking. Bake very slowly for 
three hours; then let it stand until cold. When it is 
turned out, there will be a solid mass of clear red slices 
imbedded in firm jelly. 

Serve with cream and nice crackers. This is a simple 
and delicious dish, nice enough for a Sunday dessert. 
There should be a great deal of sugar used to ensure its 
turning out in good shape. Other spices may be added 
if you like. 

Baked Apples. 

Wash, and prick the skins with a fork to prevent their 
bursting. Lay them in a pan with a very little water in 
the bottom. Bake in a moderate oven, one hour if sour, 
longer if sweet. Dip -the juice over the tops once or 
twice while cooking. Just before they are done, sprinkle 
sugar and cinnamon over the tops, and when you take 
them out of the oven, let them stand covered till cold, to 
have them in perfection. 



Fruits. 357 



Delicate Baked Apples. 

Pare and core the apples. Lay them in an earthen 
dish, with a very little water in the bottom. Fill the 
centre of each apple with sugar and a lump of butter, or 
a slice of lemon. Cover, and bake slowly for three quar- 
ters of an hour. 

These are delicious, especially if served with " Whipped 
Cream." They then make a good dessert. 

Sweet crackers should be served with them. 

Apples Baked in a Jar. 

Put the fruit, without paring, in a stone jar, with 
layers of sugar, and fill the jar with cold water. Cover 
tight, and bake in a slow oven for three hours. If sweet 
apples are used, no water or sugar should be added. 
They will themselves form a rich syrup. 

Baked Fears. 

Just like " Baked Apples," but add one half as much 
molasses as you have water in the pan, and omit sugar. 
Hard winter pears can never be baked so as to be tender. 

Pears Baked in a Jar. 

Put twelve large pears in a sauce-pan. Add the rind 
of one lemon, cut thin, and the juice; a small stick of 
cinnamon, and a little allspice. Cover with water and 
allow one pound of sugar to each one and one half pints 
of water. Cover close, and bake six hours in a slow oven. 
They will be tender and of a bright color. If you choose 
add a little red wine, or cloves, when you cook them. 

Baked Quinces. 

The easiest way is to rub them hard, to remove the 
fuzz; bake like apples (but longer), and serve cold with 
cream and sugar. 

A Nicer Way is, to peel, core and quarter them. 



358 How to Cook Well 

Lay them in a dee]) dish ; allow half a cupful of sugar to 
every eight quinces, and dissolve it in warm water enough 
to more than cover them. Pour over the fruit, cover 
close, and bake in a slow oven till tender enough to be 
pierced by a straw. Serve cold with cream. 
Save cores and skins to make a 4 ' Syrup Sauce." 

* Stewed Pears. 

Juicy pears are delicious done in this way. Peel them, 
but leave the stems on. Proceed as with "Apples 
Stewed Whole," but when you put in the sugar, add a 
little ginger and a few thin slices of lemon. 

Hard pears should be boiled for one and a half hours, 
very slowly, in equal parts of molasses and water. No 
sugar is needed, but the ginger and lemon are necessary 
to flavor them. These will keep for two weeks if kept 
covered ; and if sealed while hot they will keep till spring. 

Stewed Berries, Cherries or Grapes. 

Stew with not enough water to cover them, as a great 
deal of juice will be drawn out of the fruit. Heat grad- 
ually, and sweeten to taste when half-done. Cherries 
need not be stoned, but look them over carefully as they 
are apt to be wormy. Grapes should be strained when 
done, to remove the seeds. 

Berries which are not ripe enough to eat raw with 
safety, or which are so ripe that you fear they will not 
keep, are utilized by stewing. (Any stewed berries that 
are left over may be used for " Berry Charlotte.") If the 
stewed berries are very juicy, it is an improvement to 
thicken the juice with a little cornstarch. 
Stewed Prunes. 

Wash, cover with cold water and stew slowly for about 
an hour ; do not take them from the fire till tender enough 
to be pierced by a straw, and the skins look nearly 
smooth. Sweeten just before taking them up. 



Preserves and Jellies. 359 



Stewed Raisins. 

Cover with cold water, and stew till tender; adding very 
little sugar, and one or two slices of lemon, shortly before 
serving ; or cinnamon and cloves may be substituted for 
the lemon. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

BEMAKKS. 

A porcelain-lined kettle is the best for preserving. 
Stir preserves with a wooden spoon. Use white sugar 
unless brown is specified. The fruit should be fresh. 
That which is not too ripe is best. Be careful to put in 
none which is decayed. It should be boiled slowly, other- 
wise it will not keep its shape. Too long boiling spoils 
the color, and makes some kinds tough and hard. 

A jelly-bag may be made of flannel, but crash is better. 
It should have large loops of tape sewed at each top 
corner, through which a large stick or broom-handle can 
be passed. Rest each end of the stick on the back of a 
chair and hang the bag between, with a large earthen 
vessel underneath to catch the juice. Wet the bag in 
hot water, then wring dry. Have a second person hold 
the bag open while you pour the fruit in. Do not squeeze 
the bag, but let the juice drip through during several 
hours. (This will insure its being clear.) Once in a 
while the pulp may be gently stirred with a wooden spoon. 

Both jellies and preserves should boil without ceasing. 
Do not cover them when done, till cold, though they 
should be put at once into glasses or jars. Fill them as 
fall as possible, so as not to leave room for the air. Keep 
them in a dark cool place, where they will not freeze. If 
your house is damp, cover with brandied paper. 



360 How to CooJc Well 



Syrup for Preserves. 



2 pounds granulated sugar. 



1 egg (white only). 



< 1 pint clear cold water. 

Put the sugar and water into a porcelain-lined kettle. 
Set it on the fire. Before the syrup becomes hot, beat the 
egg slightly and mix thoroughly into it. When it begins 
to boil, skim it. Do not let it boil over, but let it boil 
until no more scum rises. The object of the egg is to 
clarify the syrup. It can be made without. 

To Make Bich Preserves. 

Any kind of fruit can be preserved in syrup in this way. 
Weigh the fruit after stoning and paring, and allow one 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Make of this a 
syrup as above. Then put in the fruit, and boil slowly till 
clear. Fill jars two thirds full of fruit ; boil the syrup 
almost to a jelly, and pour hot over the fruit. 

Candied Fruits, 

Peel and stone plums, peaches, or cherries. Have 
ready a thick syrup, made by boiling together one pound 
of sugar to one cup of water. (This is the proportion^ 
Put in the fruit, and boil very slowly till tender. Do 
not leave it on the stove after this, it would spoil the 
shape of the fruit. Set away the preserving-kettle, just 
as it is, in a cool place. Leave the fruit in the syrup for 
two days, to absorb it. Take out the pieces then, and 
drain them. Sprinkle each one thickly with granulated 
sugar, covering every side. Lay them on clean paper, 
and set in the air (but not in the sun) to dry. Turn them 
often. 

Pack in pasteboard boxes, v ith paper laid between the 
layers. Keep in a cool place. 

Candied fruit is easily made, and is useful in a house 
subject to the sudden arrival of company, as a variety of 
pretty desserts can quickly be made with it. 



Preserves and Jellies. 361 

Tutti-Frutti Preserve (without boiling). 

Begin to make this preserve with the first fruit that 
comes, and put in some of every kind in its season, until 
fall, being sure to use one pound of black cherries, for 
they improve the color of the preserve. 

Do not wash berries. Prepare other fruit as for pre- 
serving, removing peels, cores and stones. Quarter the 
large fruits. Use as much or as little of any kind of 
fruit as you like. The idea is to blend the flavor of all. 
The fruit must be sound and ripe, and perfectly dry. 
Weigh what you put in each time, and allow to one pound 
of fruit three quarters of a pound of granulated sugar. 
Use a two gallon stone jar with a cover. Put in it one 
quart of white brandy, or Arrac do Batavia. Keep the jar 
in a cool, dry place, taking care to* cover it every time 
after putting in the fruit. The fruit is not to be cooked, 
but merely dropped into the brandy with the sugar, and 
stirred well with a wooden spoon. 

The whole must be stirred thoroughly every day to dis- 
solve the sugar, and ensure the success of the preserve. 

Ready for use within a week after the last fruit is put 
in. It will keep a year, and is very rich and delicious. 

Brandy Peaches (No. 1). 

Weigh the peaches, and weigh an equal number of 
pounds of sugar. Pour boiling water over the peaches, a 
few at a time, then the skins can be easily removed with- 
out waste, or injury to the fruit. 

Have ready a large stone jar, and put each peach in it 
as soon as skinned, until you have a layer of peach. 
Sprinkle thickly with sugar. Fill up the jar with layers 
of peaches and sugar till all are used. The heat of the 
peach melts the sugar, and thus a syrup is made. For 
one basket of peaches allow three quarters of a gallon of 
white brandy. 



362 How to CooJc Well. 

Cover the jar, and leave them Several days. Then put 
into glass jars and seal. 

If any of the sugar should remain undissolved in the 
bottom of the stone jar, when you remove the fruit, stir 
it well in the jar before pouring over the peaches. 

Although this receipt is called Brandy Peaches, one can 
just as well use the spirits of white whiskey, or, as it is 
sometimes styled, French spirits. It is only one quarter 
the price of the genuine article, which is very scarce, and 
rarely imported. A dishonest dealer will sell the spirits 
for it, anyway. 

No. 2. 

Pare the peaches, and drop each one, at once, into cold 
water. 

Make a very rich " Syrup," and boil a few at a time in 
it, until they are tender enough to run a straw to the pit. 
Then lay them separately on dishes till they are quite cold. 

Make a new syrup, as rich as possible, using only enough 
water to moisten the sugar. Put the peaches in the jars, 
until about two thirds full. To every cupful of syrup put 
a cupful of white brandy, and fill up the jars. Lastly, 
throw in each jar two or three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and seal them. 

These will keep a number of years. 

For directions about brandy, see last receipt. 

Preserved Peaches. 

Pare, stone, and weigh the fruit. The skins may be 
removed by scalding, like tomatoes ; there is then less waste 
than if a knife is used. Allow one pound of sugar to 
each pound of peaches. Put half the sugar at the bottom 
of the kettle, then the fruit and the rest of the sugar, 
with half a cupful of water to every four pounds. Heat 
slowly, and boil steadily and gently until the fruit is clear 
and tender (about an hour and a half). Take out the 



Preserves and Jellies. 363 

pieces with a skimmer, and spread on platters to cool. 
Boil the syrup fifteen minutes longer fast / stir it and 
take off the scum. Fill the jars two thirds full of peaches. 
Pour on the boiling syrup, and when cold, seal. (Three 
and three fourths pounds peaches fill two quart jars.) If 
any syrup is left add one cupful sugar to a quart, and boil 
down to a jelly. 

Preserved Citron. 

Peel the citron, and cut into thin slices. To each pound 
of citron put one pound of sugar. Put alternate layers 
of citron and sugar in a deep bowl, and let it stand over 
night. In the morning the bowl will be full of syrup. 
Put the syrup on the stove. When boiling hot, add the 
citron and let it boil gently half a day, or until it is trans- 
parent. Add a few slices of lemon, and seal in jars. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind. 

' Pare off thin the green outside, and cut away the white 
soft part inside. Then cut into various shapes, and soak in 
salt and water over night. Line your kettle with grape 
leaves. Boil in .clear water three times, putting a piece 
of alum into the second water, and keeping the rind 
covered closely with grape-leaves all the time. After each 
boiling, throw it immediately into cold water, in which let 
it remain until it becomes cool. When it can be pierced 
with a straw it is sufficiently done. 

To every pound of rind (weighed before boiling) allow 
one and a quarter pounds of sugar and two cupfuls of 
water. Have a syrup prepared of the sugar and water. 
Drain the rind after the last boiling through a colander, 
and throw it into the syrup with lemon peel cut into thin 
strips, using also the juice. Let it boil slowly (two hours, 
or more probably) until transparent. A few pieces of 
root ginger boiled with it is an improvement. 

The rind of one medium-sized melon fills two quart jars. 



364 How to Cook Well 

Transparent Preserves. 

and Lemon.') 



Use fair, sweet, firm apples. Pare them, and cut them 
across the core in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Remove 
seeds, but not the core. Weigh them. Boil very gently 
in a little water, till tender; then lift carefully on to 
platters. 

Use half the number of lemons that you have of 
apples. Weigh them. Cut them across the core like the 
apples. Remove the seeds and lay the slices on platters. 
Take the weight of apples and lemons in sugar. 

Sprinkle half of it over the lemon slices ; let it stand 
several hours, until enough liquid has formed to cook them 
in. Drain it off. Put it in a porcelain kettle with the 
rest of the sugar. When it boils, drop in the lemon and 
apple slices, and boil gently until the fruit is clear. 

Those who dislike the taste of lemon peel, can use the 
lemon juice only. 

Preserved Tomatoes. 

(Small, round, yellow Ones.) 

Scald and peel ripe tomatoes. To each pound put one 
pound of sugar. Scatter it over the fruit and let it stand 
over night. In the morning, drain off the syrup which 
will have formed, and boil it about ten minutes, re- 
moving the scum. Put in then the tomatoes, and boil 
gently fifteen minutes. (Tomatoes lose their shape and 
become mushy if boiled fast.) Then skim them out, 
and spread on platters to cool. Boil the syrup till it 
thickens (about fifteen minutes longer). Put the fruit 
in jars with a few slices of lemon in each jar, and pour 
the syrup over them. 

Seal when cold. 

Any frufc may be preserved in this way. 



Preserves and Jellies. 365 

Green Tomato Preserves. 

This is a good way to use green tomatoes left on the 
vines late in the season, after making piccalily. Take 
inside slices of smooth green tomatoes. To eight pounds 
of fruit allow four pounds of sugar. Make like " Preserved 
Tomatoes" (yellow) ; but add to the syrup, after taking out 
the fruit, six lemons (sliced) to every eight pounds. 

Preserved Pine-apple. 

Remove skin and eyes. Grate the pine-apple, or prepare 
thus: holding the pine-apple in the left hand, with a 
silver fork tear out small bits, beginning at the stem end. 
Throw away the core which is left. To each pound of 
pine-apple thus prepared allow three fourths of a pound of 
sugar. Put the sugar on the fire with one cupful of cold 
water to every two pounds of sugar. Heat slowly and let 
it just begin to boil before adding the fruit, which should 
be made very hot first by being set in a sauce-pan put 
into boiling water at the back of the stove. (Heating 
the fruit in this way before adding to the syrup prevents 
that hardness which is often so disagreeable in preserved 
pine-apple.) Boil all together slowly for fifteen minutes. 
Then put into jars, and seal when cold. 

Four medium-sized pine-apples will fill two quart-jars 
and one pint. 

Another (without boiling). Take pine-apples which are 
fully ripe, yet not soft. Pare them and pick out the eyes. 
Cut into round slices half an inch thick. Allow one 
and one quarter pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit 
thus prepared. Put layers of fruit and sugar in a jar, 
putting in the sugar tldckly, or some will be left over 
after the fruit is all in. Seal, and keep in a cold place. 
This keeps perfectly, is quickly prepared without the 
heat of a fire, and is as good as freshly sugared pine-apple 
a year afterwards. 



3G6 How to Cook WeU. 

Preserved Apples. 

Peel, qunrter, and core firm, sour apples (ISTewtown 
pippins are best). To each pound of fruit thus prepared 
allow one pound of sugar (brown will do). Put the 
latter on the fire with one pint of water for every 
three pounds of sugar. Boil till it thickens well. Then 
skim and put in the fruit, with one lemon (sliced) for 
each pound of fruit, and a few pieces of whole white 
ginger (may be omitted). Boil very slowly, as apples 
easily lose their shape, till clear and they begin to fall. 
Then fill the jars. Boil the syrup a few minutes longer, 
skim, and pour over the fruit. Seal when cold. Make 
jelly of the skins and cores. (See Quince Jelly.) 

Preserved Pears, 

Peel, but leave the stems on. To every six pounds of 
pears thus prepared allow four pounds of sugar and two 
cupfuls of water, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of 
one and one fourth of a cupful of whole white ginger. Put 
all together except the pears, and boil twenty minutes. 
Skim, and put in the pears. Boil slowly till tender 
(about one hour). Take them out and boil the syrup till 
very thick. Then skim it. Return the fruit and boil 
slowly for two or three minutes. Then put into jars, and 
seal while hot. (A little prepared cochineal should be 
added to give them a good color, if you wish them to 
look handsome.) The hard winter pear should be used 
for this. 

Preserved Plums. 

Green Gages and Egg-plums should be scalded for a 
moment to remove the skins, as with tomatoes. Damsons 
and small plums are preserved with the skins on ; prick 
them with a needle to try to prevent their bursting, though 
it is impossible wholly to avoid this. If you prefer, the 
large plums may be preserved with the skins on, also 



Preserves and Jellies. 367 

pricking them in the same way. Allow one pound of 
sugar to each pound of fruit. Put them in layers in a 
preserving-kettle, with sugar at top and bottom. Add 
one pint of water to every six pounds. Heat gradually 
to draw out the juice. As soon as it comes to a boil take 
out the plums carefully with a skimmer and spread upon 
platters in the sun. Boil the syrup till thick, skimming 
well. Put back the plums and boil ten minutes. Spread 
on platters again, but in a cool place. When cold and 
firm, fill jars two thirds full. Pour the hot syrup over, 
and seal at once. 

Preserved Quinces. 

The yellow, orange quince is the best for preserving; 
the other is too hard. Pare, quarter, and core (saving 
skins, seeds and cores for jelly, as there is much richness 
in them). Cover the quinces with plenty of water and 
simmer till tender. Take out carefully and spread upon 
platters to cool. Measure the liquor, and to every pint 
allow nearly one pound of sugar. Boil up once and skim. 
Then add the fruit and boil slowly for three quarters of 
an hour. Then put into jars. 

An Economical way to make Quince Preserves, is to 
prepare sweet apples in the same manner as the quinces, 
and allow one third apple to two thirds quince by weight, 
but do not allow any sugar for the apple. When the 
quinces are clear, take them out and put the apples into 
the syrup ; boil till they look as red as the quinces (about 
two hours). Then put the apple and quince alternately 
in the jars, and pour the syrup over. Seal when cold. 

When eaten, the apple and quince cannot be distin- 
guished from one another. 

One half a peck of quinces will fill four quart jars. If 
apples are used of course it will increase the quantity. If 
any syrup is left over, save it for flavoring custards, etc. 



368 How to Cook Well 

(it will keep several weeks), or to put with the juice from 
the skins and cores when you make jelly of them. 

Preserved Currants. 

Weigh equal quantities of sugar and fruit stripped 
from the stalks. Boil the fruit, allowing half a cupful 
of water to each pound of fruit, for ten minutes. Stir, 
and crush with a wooden spoon. Add the sugar (brown 
will do), having heated it as for jelly. Boil ten minutes 
longer exactly. Then put into jars and seal. (Two pounds 
of currants will fill three pint jars. One pound of cur- 
rants equals one heaping pint.) 

Preserved Blackberries. 

The " high " blackberries are not good preserved. To 
one pound of the " low " blackberries allow one pound of 
sugar. Put in layers in the kettle with sugar on top, and 
fruit on the bottom. The fruit is so juicy that no water 
is necessary. Heat gradually, boil gently one hour, stir- 
ring often. Then put in jars and seal hot. 

Preserved Oranges. 

(Marion Harland's Receipt.) 

(This is the very best way to make Orange Preserves.) 
Allow pound for pound. Pare half of the oranges 
and cut the rind into shreds. Boil in three waters until 
tender, and set aside. Grate the rind of the remaining 
oranges, and take off and throw away every bit of the thick, 
white, inner skin; quarter all the oranges, and take out 
the seeds. Chop or cut them into small pieces ; drain all 
the juice that will come away, without pressing them, 
over the sugar. Heat this, stirring until the sugar is dis- 
solved, adding a very little water, unless the oranges are 
very juicy. Boil and skim five or six minutes; put in the 
boiled shreds and cook ten minutes ; then the chopped 



Preserves and Jellies. 369 

fruit and grated peel, and boil twenty minutes longer. 
Put into jars, and when cold seal. 

Two dozen oranges fill three quart-jars and one pint-jar. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Peel the fruit. Put the peels on to boil. Let them boil 
a long time, changing the water several times. Cut the 
oranges across the grain, so as to remove the seeds. Take 
off all the thick, white skin. Put the peel through 
the colander ; then weigh peel, pulp and juice, all to- 
gether. Allow a little more than three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Put it on the 
fire, and notice when it begins to boil. After that let it 
boil twenty minutes, stirring all the time to prevent burn- 
ing. Put into bowls; and when cold, paste paper over 
them. 

Three dozen oranges will fill nine pint-jars. 

Grape Jam. 

"Wash the grapes, and while wet, separate the skin from 
the pulp, keeping them in two different dishes. Put the 
pulp into the preserving-kettle. When thoroughly heated, 
pass it through a strainer to separate the seeds ; then 
put with it the skins, and weigh. To one pound allow 
three quarters of a pound of sugar. If necessary, add a 
very little water to keep from burning ; but, in general, 
grapes are juicy enough of themselves. 

Boil slowly three quarters of an hour. 

This is a delicious jam. 

The skins are separated from .the pulp, so that the lat- 
ter will pass more readily through the strainer. Never 
put grapes, even for a moment, into tin, for the tin will 
discolor them. 

The wild grape is much the best for this purpose. 



370 How to Cook Well. 

Quince and Pear Marmalade. 

Wash and quarter the fruit, without paring or coring 
it. Then boil it in enough water to cover it. When 
rather soft take it out, cut out the cores and pare off the 
skin, and cut it into thin slices. 

Weigh the fruit and allow half a pound of sugar 
to one pound of fruit. Put the sugar into the water in 
which the fruit was boiled, and boil to a syrup. Stew 
the fruit gently in this until the syrup is absorbed, stir- 
ring almost constantly. Then put it away in jars ; to be 
covered when cold, with paper pasted over it. 

If you like, flavor this with lemon or cinnamon just 
before removing from the fire. 

Tomato Marmalade. 

Use either green or ripe tomatoes, or both together. 
Scald and skin them. 

To each pound of tomatoes add, 
pound brown sugar. 1 1 teaspoonful cloves, 

i tablespoonful cinnamon. 

Stew alt together, without the addition of water. Stir 
constantly as they thicken. When reduced to a thick 
pulp, remove from the fire; put into jars, and when cold 
paste paper over them. 

This is a pleasant accompaniment to cold meat. 

Rhubarb Marmalade. 



2 pounds rhubarb, cut into 
pieces. 



pounds sugar, 
lemon, rind only. 



Put all together into a deep dish, cutting the rind of 
the lemon fine. Let it stand till the next day. Then 
pour off the juice into a porcelain preserving-kettle, and 
boil nearly three quarters of an hour. Add the fruit and 
boil ten minutes. Put into jars, and seal when cold. 



3 pounds peaches. 
3 pounds quinces. 



Preserves and Jellies. 371 



Medley Marmalade. 

1 pound apples. 
4 lemons. 



2 pounds pears. 

Pare, stone, and core the fruit. Weigh it and slice 
thin or chop coarse. To every pound of fruit allow 
half a pound of sugar. Put the fruit and sugar in 
alternate layers, and leave until next day. Then put all 
together into the preserving-kettle, with the pulp of the 
lemon, and the rind cut into very thin strips. Boil a long 
time, stirring frequently almost constantly after it 
begins to thicken. When it looks clear and is almost as 
thick as jelly, dip it into bowls, and when cold, paste 
paper over the top. This can be made into jam, by put- 
ting it into jars before it thickens much. 

It is very delicious either way. If you cannot get all 
these fruits, any two or three alone are good. Save cores 
and peel to make a delicious jelly. (See Quince Jelly.) 

Jam (any Kind of Fruit). 

Pare, core, and quarter the fruit. (Use sour or sweet 
apples, pears, quinces, peaches, etc., or berries of any kind.) 
Boil (gently at first) in enough water to cover them, until 
quite soft. Then add a few pieces of root ginger, and the 
rind and juice of a lemon, with three quarters of a pound 
of sugar to one pound of fruit. Boll (stirring constantly) 
until thick. Put into jars, and when cold seal. 
To Can Fruit. 

Any kind of fruit can be canned in this way. Simply 
boil it till tender, adding, when half done, sugar to 
taste. It is not necessary to have more thai* one table- 
spoonful to each quart, for it is not the amount of suc/ar 
that ensures the "keeping" of the fruit, but its being 
sealed while boiling hot. The less sugar used, the better, 
for then you get the flavor of the fresh fruit, which is 
so desirable in canned things. As soon as the fruit is 



372 How to Cook Well 

thoroughly tender, and the sugar is entirely dissolved, 
put into jars in this way ; set the jars in a large pan of 
warm water at the side of the stove, having rolled them, 
with the tops off, in a pan of very hot water. (Be sure 
to see that the jars, with the rubbers and tops, are all in 
order, before you put the fruit to cook.) Do not have 
the rubbers on. With a ladle dip the hot fruit into the 
hot jars, putting one ladleful into each in turn, to heat 
them all gradually, and prevent their cracking. Then, 
without taking from the stove, wipe off carefully around 
the tops, where any of the fruit or juice has been spilled, 
and slip on the rubbers. With a cloth wrapped around 
the jar to prevent burning your fingers, hold the jar firm, 
while you screw on the top. When all are screwed down, 
begin at the first and screw more tightly ; you will find as 
the day goes on that this will have to be repeated several 
times, for as the jars cool they will shrink, thus leaving 
the tops loose. In this repeated tightening of the tops, 
lies one great secret of success in canning. If these 
directions are carried out, and the jars kept in a cool 
dark place, the fruit will keep for a year or more without 
any trouble ; i. e. if care is taken to use only fruit which 
is in prime condition (ripe, but not over ripe), and no 
decayed pieces are put in. Some say it is well to put a 
silver fork in the jars while filling them to prevent their 
cracking. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Get the Trophy tomato if possible, early in Septem- 
ber. Scald and take off the skins. Cut in small pieces, 
taking care not to put in a particle of green, for that 
would cause them to ferment. Add no water. Heat and 
boil fast. If you heat slowly too much juice is drawn 
out. Add a little salt. Boil ten minutes. Then pour 
boiling hot .into glass jars, and seal at once. 

One half bushel fills eight quart-jars. 



Preserves and Jellies. 373 

String Beans Canned, 
Just like " Canned Tomatoes." These keep well. 

TO MAKE JELLY. 

All fruit can be made into jelly by the same rule, 
though some kinds require less water than others in boil- 
ing, on account of their juciness, and less sugar is required 
for quinces than for other fruit. Tart fruits make the 
firmest jelly. Before making jelly read over directions 
on page 359. Boil the fruit (which should not be over 
ripe) in just enough water to cover it. Then strain in 
a bag ; without squeezing, if you want a very clear jelly. 
A good plan is to make jelly of the juice obtained with- 
out squeezing, in one kettle ; then squeeze the pulp that 
is left, and make an inferior jelly (suitable for jelly-cake, 
etc.), in a separate kettle. 

Measure the juice, and to each pint of juice allow one 
pint (or one pound) of white sugar. Put the juice on the 
fire, and spread the sugar on platters in the oven, so that 
it and the juice will be hot by the same time. Leave the 
oven door open, and stir the sugar often to prevent burn- 
ing. If it docs burn, it will not be spoiled, for the lumps 
can be taken out after it is added to the juice. Notice 
when the juice begins to boil, and boil it exactly twenty 
minutes from the time it begins. Then add the sugar, 
and stir quickly, till well dissolved ; no longer. Let it boil 
up a moment without touching it, and then fill the glasses 
(prepared as for canning) without delay, before the jelly 
stiffens. Do not cover till cold. No jelly should be 
boiled for any length of time ; it darkens it and spoils the 
flavor. 

Grape Jelly. 

Boil the grapes without the addition of water, but 
mash them well. Proceed as above. Allow one pint 



374 How to Cook Well 

of sugar to one pint of juice for ripe grapes. The green 
wild grapes should have one and a quarter pints sugar to 
one pint juice. 

Barberry Jelly. 

Proceed as with other jelly, but this will need to boil 
ten minutes after the sugar is added. 

Apple or Crab-apple Jelly. 

Cut the fruit in quarters without paring, and boil in 
enough water to cover it. There is much richness in the 
seeds and skins. 

See To Make Jelly. 

Quince Jelly. 

Proceed as with "Apple Jelly," but allow only three 
quarters of a pint of sugar to one pint juice, as the juice 
is very rich. A good jelly can be made from the skins 
and cores alone, left from preserving quinces. Boil them 
with three or four whole quinces, for a long time, till the 
liquor has a strong flavor. Then proceed as with other 
jelly, allowing one pint of sugar. 

Currant Jelly. 

(Condensed from Scribnefs Monthly.') 

Use the currants as soon as fully ripe. Do not wash 
them, but pick them over. Weigh them, without taking 
off the stems. Allow half a pound of granulated sugar to 
every pound of fruit. Put a few currants into a porce- 
lain-lined kettle, and press out the juice to prevent burn- 
ing ; then add the remainder of the fruit, and boil freely 
for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burn- 
ing. Take out and strain through a three-cornered bag, 
into earthen vessels, never in tin. When strained, return 
it to the kettle, without measuring. Let it boil thoroughly 
for a moment or so. Then add the sugar. The moment 



Catsups and Pickles. 375 

the sugar is entirely dissolved, it is done, and must be im- 
mediately put into glasses. 

This receipt never fails, and it is the easiest way to 
make jelly. 

Other Jellies 

are all made alike. See, To Make Jelly. 



CATSUPS AND PICKLES. 
"Walnut Catsup. 

Gather walnuts while tender enough to run a needle 
through them. Pound in a marble mortar. Put them in 

O 

a preserving-kettle. Cover them with water and let them 
simmer for two hours. Strain out the liquor, and to 
every pint add one tcaspoonful each, garlic, mace and 
cloves. Boil it down to less than half the quantity. Fill 
bottles half-full, and fill up with strong vinegar. Cork 
tight. It is ready for use at once. 

Cucumber Catsup (without Cooking). 



1 dozen large, ripe cucumbers. 
3 onions, minced. 



1 tablespoonful salt. 
1 quart best vinegar. 



3 red peppers, minced. 

Pare the cucumbers, and grate them, taking out all the 
seeds. Put this pulp into a bag of thin muslin, or cheese- 
cloth, and hang it up to drain over night. In the morn- 
ing throw away the liquid which has dripped out. To 
what is left in the bag add the ingredients given above. 
Stir well after putting in the vinegar, and bottle and cork 
tightly. 

This will keep well all winter, and is an extremely good 
relish for fish. 

Tomato Catsup (No. 1). 

Take small, red, ripe tomatoes ; wash, but do not skin 



376 



How to CooJc Well. 



them. Boil in a porcelain kettle for one hour from the 
time they begin to boil. Then rub them through a hair 
sieve. To each quart of juice add 



1 table spoon ful cinnamon. 
tablespoonful black pepper. 
\ tablespoonful cayenne pepper. 



i a nutmeg, grated. 

1 tablespoonful good mustard. 

i cupful salt. 



Taste it after stirring well together, and add more salt, 
if necessary. Boil all together for three hours. Then 
measure again, and to each quart of juice add one pint 
of good cider vinegar. 

Boil half an hour longer. Bottle hot, and seal hot. 

This will keep for years, and will not require to be 
shaken before using. 

No. 2. 

1 gallon tomatoes. 

1 pint vinegar. 

9 tablespoonfuls salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 



3 tablespoonfuls mustard seed. 
1 teaspoonful cayenne. 
k teaspoonful cloves. 
teaspoonful allspice. 



Peel, boil and strain the tomatoes ; then add the other 
ingredients, and boil until reduced one half. Bottle and 
seal while hot. 

Cold Catsup (no Cooking). 



j J peck ripe tomatoes. 
I Salt. 

2 roots horse-radish (grated). 

cupful salt. 

cupful white mustard seed. 

i cupful black mustard seed. 

1 cupful fine chopped onion. 

1 cupful sugar. 



1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 red peppers cut fine (without 

seed). 
6 heads celery chopped fine. 

1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls ground cinna- 

mon. 
l pints vinegar. 



Slice the tomatoes fine. Sprinkle salt lightly over 
them and let them stand two hours. Measure out the 
other ingredients and mix them together. Then drain 
the tomatoes well, put them in the mixture, and stir all 
thoroughly together. Seal in jars. 



Catsups and Pickles. 377 



English Chertney. 



4 pounds tomatoes. 

3 pounds raisins. 

G large onions (grated). 



1 pound salt. 

1 ounce cayenne pepper. 

1 quart vinegar. 



2 pounds brown sugar. 

" Bake " the tomatoes. " Stone " and chop the raisins. 
Mix all together, mashing the tomatoes fine. Stir occa- 
sionally for a day or two, then bottle. No more cooking 
is necessary. 

Chili Sauce. 
(^1 Nice JSelish for Cold Meat.) 



1 bushel ripe tomatoes, peeled. 

2 dozen onions. 

1C large red peppers. 



1 pint salt. 

18 tablespoonfuls brown 
sugar. 



2i quarts vinegar. 

Chop the tomatoes, onions and peppers. Boil all to- 
gether for a long time. Seal while hot. 

Spiced Currants. 
(To eat with Meats.) 



5 pounds ripe currants, 

stemmed. 
4 pounds sugar. 



1 pint vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 



Boil all together half an hour. Put into jars and seaJ 
when cold. 

This will keep for years. 

Pickled Blackberries. 

3 quarts blackberries. I 1 quart brown sugar. 

1 quart vinegar. 

Boil all together for ten minutes and seal hot. 

Nasturtium Seed (without boiling). 

Gather the seed, while green, and drop them as you 
collect them, into a bottle of cold vinegar. Ready for use in 
six months. They are an excellent substitute for capers. 



378 How to Cook Well. 

Sliced Cucumbers. 

Slice one dozen ordinary-sized cucumbers and on* 1 dozen 
lemons. Sprinkle with salt, and let stand for two hours. 
Drain well, and have ready on the stove boiling vinegar 
with pepper. Drop in the cucumbers and let them come 
to a boil. Then put into glass jars and seal. Use spices, 
if you like. These are like a dish of fresh cucumbers. 
Pickled Apples. 



1 quart good vinegar. 
G cupfuls brown sugar. 



1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Apples sweet or sour, but firm. 



1 teaspoonful cloves. 

Bring the vinegar and sugar to a boil. Remove the 
scum and put in the spices. 

Pare, core and quarter the apples, and put them into 
the syrup. Let them boil very slowly until they can be 
easily pierced with a broom straw. 

Pickled Pears. 
1 peck hard pears. 



1 ounce cinnamon. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce white mustard seed. 



2 quarts vinegar. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

While the vinegar and sugar and spices are heating, 
peel the pears, but do not core them. Leave the stems 
on. (If you choose you need not even peel them.) Lay in 
the pears, and boil slowly, having the kettle covered. 
When tender take them out, put them in a stone jar, and 
pour the liquor (boiling hot) over them. When cold, 
tie a cloth over the top of the jar. 

Sweet Pickle. 
(Pmrs, Peaches or Cherries.} 

Pare peaches and pears. Stone peaches and cherries. 
To seven pounds of fruit, allow 



3i pounds good brown sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 



1 ounce mace. 
1 ounce cloves. 



1 ounce cinnamon. 
Put the fruit in a jar. Boil the vinegar and spice (tied 



Catsups and PicJdes. 379 

in a bag) together, and pour while hot over the fruit. Let 
it stand two days. Then pour off the vinegar. Bring it to 
a boil and put in the fruit. Boil all together until clear. 
Put into a jar, and when cold tie a cloth over. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles, or Water-Melon Rind. 



12 ripe cucumbers. 
2 quarts vinegar. 
2 pounds sugar. 



1 ounce cloves (whole). 
1 ounce cinnamon (stick). 
Salt. 



Pare and quarter the cucumbers, and scrape out the 
seeds and inside, leaving only the rind. Sprinkle them 
with salt and let them stand over night, to draw out the 
bitterness. 

In the morning rinse off the salt, and put them in a 
porcelain kettle, with the vinegar, sugar and spices, in a 
bag. Boil all together slowly twenty minutes. Take out 
the cucumbers when tender and boil the liquor for half 
an hour longer. Pour it over the cucumbers while hot. 
Put them in a stone jar with the bag of spices. 

It will keep a year even if unsealed. 

Water-melon rind, pared, may be pickled in the same 
way. If you wish you may leave the cloves out of the 
bag, and stick them into the rind. 

It ensures their keeping, if after a few days the liquor 
is drained off, boiled over again, and poured over the 
pickles once more. 

Pickled Cabbage. 



1 large firm head of cabbage. 

i dozen onions. 

Salt. 

1 pint vinegar. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful ground mustard. 



1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful turmeric. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
1 teaspoonful allspice. 
1 teaspoonful celery seed. 



Remove the outside leaves of the cabbage and shave 
fine ; chop the onions. Put them in layers with the salt, 
and leave for twenty-four hours. Then scald the vinegar ; 



380 How to Cook Well 

add the sugar and spices, and boil for a few minutes. 
Add the cabbage and onions drained ; simmer for half an 
hour, and put into jars. 

Red cabbage may be mixed with the white. 

Pickled Cabbage (without boiling). 

Shave a head of cabbage, and pack firmly in a jar, with 
layers of salt, pepper and two tablespoonfuls white mus- 
tard seed (also two red peppers, and two heads celery, 
chopped, if you like). Pour cold vinegar over all. 
Sprinkle the top with powdered cloves. Cover with a 
small plate, with a weight on it (a stone will do) to keep 
the cabbage under the vinegar. Cover the jar. This 
will be ready to use in about a week and will keep sev- 
eral months. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

Take small cucumbers. Wash them carefully and 
place in stone jars. Make a weak brine (a handful of 
salt to one and a half gallons of water). When scalding 
hot, turn over the cucumbers and cover. Repeat this 
three mornings in succession, taking care to skim thor- 
oughly. On the fourth day put a piece of alum, the size 
of a walnut, into a porcelain kettle of vinegar. Make it 
scalding hot and then put in as many cucumbers as the 
vinegar will cover. Do not let them boil, but take them 
out as soon as scalded through, and replace with others, 
adding each time a small piece of alum. (The alum is to 
make the pickles crisp.) When this process is through, 
throw out the vinegar; and replace with good cider or 
white wine vinegar and spices in the following proportion : 



1 gallon vinegar. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 or three red peppers (or 

green). 



14 dozen allspice, whole. 
1 dozen blades mace. 
3 tablespoonfuls white mus- 
tard seed. 



3 dozen cloves, whole. 

While this is heating, sort the pickles, and place in 



Catsups and Pickles. 381 

stone, or glass jars. When the spiced vinegar is scalding 
hot, pour it over the pickles. Seal, and put away the jars 
not needed for immediate use. 

Pickles thus prepared are still fine and crisp at the 
end of a year. 

Dutch Cucumbers. 

Boil and skim three gallons of water, and two pounds 
of coarse salt. Select cucumbers from six to eight inches 
long. Wash and wipe them carefully ; then put a layer 
of them in a big stone jar; one that will hold at least four 
gallons. Then put in a layer of grape leaves and a bunch 
of dill seed on the stalk. Go on in 'this way till the jar 
is full, topping it with plenty of cabbage leaves. On the 
very top put a large stone. Fill up with the brine, and 
let it stand. Quiet fermentation takes place. In about 
two or three weeks your cucumbers are done, and ought 
to be transparent, like amber, with a sub-acid flavor. 

Mustard Pickle. 



1 quart onions. 
1 quart tomatoes. 
1 quart cucumbers. 

1 quart cauliflower. 

2 quarts vinegar. 



J cupful flour. 
\ pound ground mustard. 
J teaspoonful cayenne pep- 
per. 
J ounce curcuma. 



cupful sugar. 

Chop the onions and tomatoes, slice the cucumbers, 
pick up the cauliflower, and put them to soak over night 
in a weak brine (i. e., cold water slightly salted). In the 
morning, drain, and boil them fifteen or twenty minutes 
in the vinegar and sugar, reserving a part with which to 
moisten the flour, mustard, pepper and curcuma. Add 
these and boil ten minutes longer. 

The curcuma is to give it a handsome color, and is ob- 
tained at a drug store. 

You can omit soaking the night before; in that case 
add salt while boiling. 



382 How to Cook Well. 



Picalily (No. 1). 



\ bushel green tomatoes. 
1 dozen onions (large). 
1 dozen green peppers. 

1 pint salt. 
Vinegar. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
1 tablespoonful allspice. 
1 tablespoonful cloves. 
1 tablespoonf ul pepper, 
i cupful mixed mustard. 
1 pint grated horse-radish. 



Chop rather fine the tomatoes, onions and peppers. 
Mix well together, and drain off the juice. Put in a jar 
with layers of salt over night. In the morning drain off all 
the juice, squeezing as dry as possible. Cover with vine- 
gar, and boil slowly for one hour in a porcelain kettle. 
Drain off the vinegar and pack in jars. Put into a kettle 
the sugar and spices, the mustard and horse-radish, with 
enough fresh vinegar to cover the pickles. Let it come 
to a boil. Then pour, boiling hot, over the pickles. 

When cold, cover closely. 



No. 2. 

1 gallon green tomatoes, 
chopped line. 



1 quart onions, chopped fine. 
pint salt. 



Mix and leave it to stand over night. In the morning 
drain well, and add 



4 green peppers, chopped fine. 
4 teaspoonfuls mustard seed. 
2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 
2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 



2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

4 teaspoonfuls celery-seed. 
1 cupful sugar. 

3 pints cider vinegar. 



Boil all for about fifteen minutes. A little ginger and 
cinnamon may also be added, if liked. 

Pickles Without Boiling. 

4 quarts green tomatoes. I Salt. 

5 large onions. 

Chop coarsely, or slice the tomatoes and onions. Put 



For the Sick. 383 



them in layers with salt between and let them stand 
twenty-four hours. Then drain and mix in 

2 ounces white mustard seed. 

li tablespoonfuls cloves (ground). 

l tablespoon fuls ginger (ground). 

li tablespoonfuls allspice. 

li tablespoonfuls pepper. 

i cupful mustard (dry). 

Cover with cold vinegar ; mix well before putting into 
jars, and seal it up. Excellent and very easily made. 
Heady for use in one month. Keeps only one year. 



FOR THE SICK. 

REMARKS. 

Never consult the sick about what they shall eat, but 
notice for yourself what they do and do not like. If you 
find something that has suited their taste, do not over- 
whelm them with too constant a repetition of it. Make con- 
stant variety. Serve daintily, with the prettiest dishes 
you have, and remove the tray from the sick-room as 
soon as the meal is over. If a little blanc mange or 
pudding is made for an invalid, have it in a little mould 
by itself. This is much more appetizing than a piece cut 
from a large pudding. 

Menu for Convalescents. 



Mutton Broth. 

Chicken Broth. 

White Soup. 

Clam Broth. 

Raw Oysters. 

Stewed Oysters. 

Poultry Hash (use dark meat 

only). 
Boiled Chicken. 



Raw Tomatoes. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Panada. 

Water Crackers with Jelly. 

Toasted Crackers. 

Milk Toast. 

Dipped Toast. 

Milk Cracker Toast. 



384 



How to Coo7t Well. 



Menu for Convalescents. (Continued.) 



Quail on Toast. 
Broiled Birds. 
Beef Sandwiches. 
Panned Oysters. 
Scrambled Eggs. 
Poached Eggs. 
Boiled Eggs. 
Baked Omelet. 
Sweet-Breads. 
Frogs' Legs. 
Boiled Rice. 
Boiled Macaroni. 
Milan Macaroni. 
Cereals of all kinds (see Break- 
fast). 
Stewed Celery. 



Poor Man's Pudding. 

Fruit. 

Baked Apples. 

Apples Stewed Whole. 

Clarified Apples. 

Stewed Berries, etc. 

Ices and Ice Creams. 

Iced Tea. 

Lemonade, Orangeade. 

Cocoa. 

Cream Puffs. 

Cream Pie. 

Custards. 

Blanc Mange. 

" Delicacies for Dessert." 



Beef for the Sick. 

The juiciest meat lies on the top of the round, in the 
large round muscle. Never use fat meat for an invalid. 

O 

The following ways of preparing beef are contributed by 
a trained nurse of much experience, at one time head of 
the Massachusetts Training School for Nurses. 

Beef Juice. 

Lay one pound lean beef cut in thick strips on a grid- 
iron, and hold it over a clear fire for a moment to draw 
the juice to the surface. Then squeeze the strips in a 
lemon-squeezer. Add a little salt and give cold, a spoon- 
ful or two at a time, in cases of extreme illness. Even 
infants may take it when they are much reduced. It is 
very easily assimilated, and much to be preferred to beef 
tea in serious illnesses. One pound of meat yields about 
three tablespoonfuls of juice. If preferred hot, heat by 
setting the cup containing the juice in another of hot 
water; otherwise it will curdle. This of course is much 
stronger than beef tea. 



For the Sick. 385 



Beef Tea. 

Cut lean beef into small pieces. Pour cold water over 
it, a little more than to cover it. Let it stand for two 
hours. Then put into a sauce-pan all together, adding a 
very little water, cover and simmer very slowly till the 
juice is all extracted, and the meat like leather. Then 
salt it slightly and strain. 

Beef Tea for Convalescents. 



1 ounce butter, hot. 

1 small onion (minced). 



1 saltspoonful salt. 



pints cold water. 
1 pound lean beef. 

Fry the onion in the butter till delicately browned. 
Add the beef, cut into small pieces, and stir till like thin 
gravy. Add then the salt and water, and simmer gently 
for three quarters of an hour. Skim off every particle of 
fat, if there is any, and serve hot with small squares of 
toast. 

Beef in Various Ways. 



1 pound lean beef. 

2 wineglasses sherry. 
1 tablespooiifnl sugar. 



Lemon-juice to taste. 
1 heaping tablespoonful gela- 
tine. 



Cut up the beef ; put it in a bottle ; cork tightly ; plunge 
it into boiling water, and boil until the juice is extracted 
(about two hours). To this juice add the sherry and 
other ingredients, and pour it into little moulds to cool. 
This cannot be distinguished from ordinary jelly, and is 
much more nourishing. 

Another. Chop fine o.ne pound lean beef. Add one 
and one half pints cold water, eight drops muriatic acid, 
and one pinch of salt. Let it stand one hour; drain off 
the liquid without pressure, and add half a pint of cold 
water. Strain and give iced as a drink. It will not keep 
long in warm weather. 

Another. To one pint chopped beef add one pint 
water; place it in a covered vessel, and cook very slowly, 



386 How to Cook Well 

until the beef is hard. Strain off the juice, which should 
be a clear liquid like water. Freeze it and give in lumps 
like cracked ice. 



A little celery salt, or 
A few bits of celery. 



Another. 

1 pound beef. 

1 tumbler milk. 

1 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Extract the juice of the beef in a bottle (as in the first 
method). Boil the milk ; thicken it with the cornstarch 
and add it to the juice. Flavor with the celery salt, or 
with the bits of celery. If you use the last, boil them in 
the milk and take them out before serving. 

Hints on Giving Milk. 

When milk cannot be retained, add four tablespoonfuls 
lime-water to one pint of milk, and give in small quanti- 
ties, beginning with one teaspoonful at short intervals. 
The quantity may be increased when more can be taken. 
Milk made lukewarm, or milk made very hot, but not 
boiled, can sometimes be retained when cold milk is re- 
jected. The latter is excellent to induce sleep, taken 
after getting into bed. 

Boiled milk, given cold, is the best form for use when 
there is diarrhoea. 

Milk in the form of " Junket " makes a soft and di- 
gestible blanc mange. 

Cream and water can often be digested when milk 
cannot. 

Albuminized Milk. 

Break the whites of two eggs into one pint of milk. 
Shake well in a bottle or self-sealing jar, until they are 
thoroughly incorporated. This is a valuable food in fever 
or cases of debility. It may be flavored with rose water 
or extract of vanilla for convalescents. 



For the Sick. 387 



Albuminized Lemonade. 

Put into a self-sealing jar one pint of water, the juice 
of two lemons, the whites of two eggs, and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Shake the jar until the contents are 
thoroughly mixed. More sugar may be added if required. 

Koumiss. 

1 quart milk. | l tablespoonfuls liquid yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Use morning's milk before the cream rises. Dissolve 
the sugar in as little water as possible, and add that and the 
yeast to the milk. Mix well. Let it stand in an earthen 
dish near the fire for four or five hours, as you would 
yeast till the surface is covered with bubbles. Then put 
into two champagne bottles, each holding a quart (i. e. 
put one and one half pints koumiss in each bottle, for the 
bottles should not be filled to the top). Cork tight and 
tie securely. Leave the bottles upright for three, four 
or five days, in a temperature of from fifty degrees to sixty- 
five degrees. When ready for use, there will be a leakage 
around the corks. Set on ice before drinking. It should 
be used within a week at farthest. It is well to draw it 
off by a syphon, as it will not keep after being uncorked. 

This is very delicate and is easily retained by a weak 
stomach, when ordinary milk cannot be taken. 

Graham Gruel. 



f i cupful Graham flour. I f 1 quart boiling water. 

\ i cupful cold water. | \ 2 teaspoonf uls salt. 

Stir the flour smooth in the cold water. Pour it 
into the salted boiling water, over the fire, stirring smooth 
as you put it in. Cover, and leave it to boil for an hour. 
(N. B. It is best to boil it in a double-boiler, as it will not 
then scorch.) Serve as it is, or with the addition of a 
little milk, if the patient can take it. 



388 now to Cook Well. 

Oatmeal Gruel, 
i cupful oatmeal. | 1 quart milk or water. 

Boil slowly together until the oatmeal is well cooked. 
Then pass through a sieve, adding salt or sugar to taste. 

Another (more delicate). 
1 cupful oatmeal. | 1 quart water. 

Mix together and let it stand over night. In the morn- 
ing drain off the water, add one saltspoonful of salt, and 
boil till it thickens. This can be given in cases of severe 

illness. 

Oatmeal Cordial. 
1 quart water. 

tahlespoonfuls oatmeal. 

pinches mace. 

pinches grated nutmeg. 
l.| teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon. 
1 lemon, juice only. 
8 tablespoonfuls tine sugar. 
1 pint wine. 

Boil the water. Mix the oatmeal and spices in a 
cupful of cold water and stir into the boiling water. Boil 
ten minutes. Put in the lemon juice and sugar, and 
stir gently and constantly. Then add the wine. Boil 
all for a few minutes, and strain. 

Use Robertson's Prepared Oatmeal. 

A Very Delicate Egg Gruel. 

Beat one egg in a bowl. Add salt, a little parsley (may 
be omitted) and a teacupful of boiling water. Stir fast 
as you pour it in. Cut into small pieces a slice of toasted 
bread, and pour the gruel over it. 

This makes just enough for one person. 

Another. Beat the yolk of one egg with one table- 
spoonful of sugar. On this pour two thirds of a cupful 
boiling water. Beat the white of the egg stiff, with one 
teaspoonful of tine sugar, flavor to taste, and put on top. 
A little wine for flavor, or tart jelly, is excellent.. 



For the Sick. 389 



A Hearty Egg Gruel. 

( Very Nourishing.} 

Boil eggs two hours. Mash the yolks fine. Boil new 
milk and stir gradually upon the mashed yolks, until of 
the consistency of cream, or thinner. Add a little salt. 

Excellent in case of nausea. 



Barley Water. 



pound pearl barley. 



A little salt. 



2 quarts cold water. 

Wash thoroughly in one water. Pour this off, and 
soak till morning in the two quarts of water. Then boil 
in the same water till reduced one half. Skim while boil- 
ing ; strain when done and salt it to taste. If allowed, a 
little lemon juice may be added. The barley that re- 
mains in the strainer is very good to eat like oatmeal, 
with cream and sugar, if salted first. 

Another. (3/ore quickly made.) 
2 ounces pearl barley. I 2 quarts hot water. 

1 cupful cold water. | A little salt. 

Wash in one water only. Drain, then pour over it the 
cupful of cold water and boil fifteen minutes. Throw 
away this water, and pour over the barley the two quarts 
hot water. Add salt. Boil until reduced one half (about 
one and one half hours). Then strain. Use in fever 
cases. 

Compound Barley Water. 



2 pints barley water. 
2 ounces figs (sliced). 



24 ounces raisins (seeded). 
1 pint soft water. 



5 drachms licorice root (sliced). 

For barley water (see above). 

Boil all together until you have two pints of liquid. 
Then strain. 

Omit the licorice if the patient dislikes it. Good in 
cases of soreness, and good for a cold on the lungs. 



390 How to Cook Well. 

Flour Gruel or Thickened Milk. 

{1 cupful boiling water. 
1 cupful boiling milk. 
J teaspoonf ul salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls flour. 

Boil the water, milk and salt together. Rub the flour 
very smooth in enough cold water to cover it, and add to 
that which is boiling. Stir well, and boil half an hour. 
Then serve hot. It may be made of milk alone, but is 
then too hearty for many sick persons. Good for diarrhea, 
especially if made with part water. 

Arrowroot Gruel. 

Rub two teaspoonfuls Bermuda arrowroot to a smooth 
paste, in enough cold water to cover it. Pour on it one 
cupful boiling water, stirring fast. Add salt, and boil for 
a minute. Serve hot with lemon juice and sugar, if 
allowed. Or, it may be made with milk instead of water. 
This is used in cases of diarrhoea, and is easily digested. 



Corn Meal Gruel. 



1 quart boiling water. 



cupful corn meal. 



teaspoonful salt. 
Make like Flour Gruel, but boil one full hour. 



Raisin Gruel. 



i cupful raisins. 
1 pint water. 
1 pint milk. 



A pinch of salt. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

li tablespoonfuls flour. 



Boil the raisins in the water until it is reduced one 
half. Then pour into a bag and squeeze. When cold 
stir the juice thus obtained into the milk. Boil with the 
salt and sugar. Thicken with the flour, and boil all 
together half an hour. Serve hot. 

If the raisins are stoned, cut in halves and served in 
the gruel, it is called Plum Porridge. 



For the Sick. 391 



Caudle. 
2 cnpfuls "Rice Water." 

!1 egg (yolk only). 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
1 winegiassful wine. 
A little grated nutmeg. 

Pour the rice water boiling hot upon the egg, beaten 
with the sugar and wine, stirring it in gradually, so as not 
to curdle. Then add the nutmeg. 
Rice Water. 

Boil very little rice in plenty of water, salted slightly. 
When the water becomes a little thick and tastes strongly 
of the rice, strain it off and serve hot or cold. 

For diarrhoea or feeble digestion. 

Pood for a Delicate Infant. 

(Dr. 3fe.igs, Philadelphia.) 
/ 17| drachms pure " milk-sugar." 
X 1 pint hot water. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water. Mix together 

3 tablespoonf uls of this liquid. I 1 tablespoonful milk. 

2 tablespoonf uls cream. | 2 tablespoonf uls lime water. 

Warm the mixture, and the food is ready. The cream 
should not be very rich. If the child cannot digest milk, 
substitute " Whey." When the child is older, double the 
quantity without changing the proportion. If less is re- 
quired, measure with a teaspoon. 

The "milk-sugar" can be obtained at a druggist's. 
The seventeen and three quarters drachms are of " Apoth- 
ecary's Weight." It keeps well, when dry, for an indefi- 
nite time ; but when dissolved it sours in a day or two. 
The whey will keep for a day or two. This is excellent. 

Whey. 
1 quart milk. | 1 tablespoonful prepared rennet. 

Mix and leave to stand half an hour in a warm place. 
Then cut it in all directions with a knife ; half an hour 



392 How to CooJc Well 

later, pour off the whey. Leave the curd undisturbed 
and more whey will be formed. Nothing can be better 
than this in cases of inflammation of the stomach. Give 
a teaspoonful at a time, very often. This will often 
enable the stomach to retain other nourishment. Excel- 
lent for feeble infants. 

Wine Whey 

1 cupful boiling milk. I Sugar. 

2 table spoonfuls sherry wine. I 

When the milk just reaches the boiling point, add the 
wine, but do not stir it. Boil a moment. Take it from 
the fire gently and let it cool in the same vessel, without 
any stirring after the wine is put in. When the curd 
forms, strain off the whey. Sweeten, and serve hot or 

cold. 

Flaxseed Tea. 



>2 tablespoonfuls whole flax 
seed. 



1 lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



1 1 pint boiling water. 

Boil the flaxseed and water fifteen minutes. Slice the 
lemon into a pitcher, and add the sugar. Strain the hot 
flaxseed tea upon it and stir. 

Good for a cough or sore throat. Take a drink often. 
Take it hot al night. Rock-candy is the best sweetening. 

Chicken Tea. 

Pour one pint cold water over a leg and thigh of a 
chicken. (Use the rest for fricassee.) Let it come to a 
boil. Add salt, and skim well. Strain. 

Irish Moss Lemonade. 

2 quarts boiling water. I 2 lemons, sliced. 

1 handful sea-moss. I h cupful sugar. 

Put all together in a pitcher, having washed the moss 
well. Stir, to dissolve the sugar. Let it stand two hours. 
Take it occasionally for a bad cold, or hoarseness. 



For tlie SicJc. 393 



Dried Flour Gruel. 

Tie one cupful of white flour tightly in a thick cloth. 
Plunge it into boiling water, and boil steadily six hours. 
Then take it out of the cloth, and let the lump become 
perfectly dry. Then pare off the outer rind. To use it, 
scrape off one dessertspoonful, rub it smooth in cold 
water, and stir into one cupful boiling milk (salted). 
This is for diarrhoea, or for teething children. 

Egg-Nogg. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with one teaspoonful sugar, in 
a tumbler. Add half a cupful of milk. Add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of wine, whiskey, or rum, and stir in lightly 
the white of the egg (beaten stiff). Cover with grated 
nutmeg. If the patient cannot take milk, prepare the 
egg without it, or as below. 

Egg Lemonade. 

Beat the yolk and white of one egg separately. Then 
beat them well together. Make half a tumblerful of 
strong lemonade, well sweetened, and stir thoroughly into 
the beaten egg. 

Mulled Jelly. 

Beat one tablespoonful red or black currant-jelly with 
the white of an egg and a little sugar. Pour over it a 
small cupful of boiling water. Break a cracker in it, or 
a thin slice of toasted bread. 

Ice-cold water (if allowed) may be poured over beaten 
jelly and egg, instead of boiling water. 

Coffee with Egg. 

If a person likes coffee, the yolk of an egg may be 
stirred into a cupful of very strong coffee, which is then 
to be diluted with boiling milk to the proper strength for 
drinking. The egg increases the nourishment, and its 



394 How to Cook Well. 

presence is not perceptible. This is a good way to get a 
fanciful invalid to take nourishment. The same thing 
can be done with cocoa. 

Egg Poached in Broth. 

Put in a pan enough broth or stock to cover an egg. 
Proceed as with " Poached Eggs," but moisten the toast 
thoroughly with the broth, before laying the egg on it. 
Be sure to season it well. 

Steamed Egg. 

Beat one egg very light; season with a little pepper, 
salt, and a tiny lump of butter; pour it over a slice of 
dry, buttered toast. Set the plate containing the toast in 
the steamer, and let it steam for two or three minutes. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

Boil an egg four hours. Then mash the yolk, season with 
salt and pepper (and add a little lemon juice if allowed, 
and celery salt) and spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. Egg cooked in this way is good for dyspeptics. 

Sherry Toast. 

Make a nice piece of toast, and moisten it with sherry. 
Scatter sugar plentifully over the top. Orange or lemon- 
juice may be used in the same way. It is a grateful 
change to any one tired of plain toast. 
Haw Beef Cakes. 

Mix two thirds of raw beefsteak, grated, with one 
third of browned cracker, rolled fine. (Be sure to leave 
in no coarse fibres of meat.) Season with salt and a little 
cayenne pepper. Make into little round, flat cakes, and 
cover the outside thick with browned cracker. 

Besides being nutritious, these beef cakes are quite 
palatable, and one would never suspect them of being 
made of uncooked meat. 

Parched corn, ground in a coffee-mill, may be used 
instead of the crackers, and is quite an improvement. 



For tlie Sick. 305 



Meat Paste. 

(To be given frequently in cases of extreme exhaustion 
from diarrhoea or other causes.) 

Shred as fine as possible a small piece of raw moat 
(lecf, mutton or chicken). Then rub it through a sieve, 
so as to form a smooth paste. Mix a piece the size of a 
pea with a little cream and sugar. Or it may bt given 
as a sandwich, between thin slices of bread and butter. 
(By an eminent London physician.) 

Chicken Panada. 

Take the dark meat of a chicken which has l>een either 
roasted or boiled ; free it from the skin, and cut into very 
small pieces. Bruise these in a mortar, with an equal 
quantity of stale bread, and a little salt, adding by de- 
grees, either the water in which the chicken was boiled, or 
some beef tea, until the whole forms a paste. 

Put it into a pan, and boil for ten minutes, stirring all 
the time. Serve very hot. 

Oranum Gruel. 
1 cupful rich chicken broth. 
1 cupful milk. 

3 tahlcspoonfuls Imperial Granum. 
A little salt. 

Heat the broth with half of the milk. Stir the granum 
smoothly into the other half of the milk. When the broth 
is ready to boil, stir in the moistened granum. Add a 
little salt, and boil a few minutes. This is delicious. It 
may be made thinner if preferred. 

Cherries for a Cold. 

Fill a bottle loosely with wild black cherries crush- 
ing about a dozen of them, stones, and all. Fill up the 
bottle with New Orleans molasses. Tie mosquito netting 
over the top, and leave it to ferment. Fill up once a^ain. 
When it has stopped ferment ing, cork up tight. Fit for 
use at once. Dose, a teaspoonful three times a day. 



396 How to Cook Well. 

To Make a Saucerful of Ice Cream in Fifteen 
Minutes. 

Mix a small quantity of any of the "Ice Creams" given. 
Put it into a covered pint can, and put the can in a half- 
gallon pail of pounded ice or snow, with a large proportion 
of coarse salt mixed in. Shake the can gently until the 
cream begins to freeze, then leave it to set. It ought to 
freeze in about ten or fifteen minutes. Do not let the 
salt water get into the can. This is very easily made, 
with very little trouble, as it needs no " freezer." 

Cracker Panada. 

Just like Bread Panada (below) but do not toast the 
crackers, which should be split. Merely set the bowl in 
the heater for an hour, no boiling being necessary. 

Bread Panada. 

Pare off the crusts from thin slices of bread. Toast 
them delicately. Fill a deep bowl with them, sprinkling 
sugar and salt (or salt alone) between the layers. Pour 
into the bowl enough boiling water to cover the toast. 
Cover with a saucer. Set the bowl into a kettle of boil- 
ing water, and boil gently till the toast is like jelly. 

Eat warm with sugar and nutmeg. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 
To Preserve Eggs for Winter Use. 

(Use an old jar, for a nice one will be stained by the 
lime.) 

To three gallons of water put one pint of salt and one 
pound of quick-lime. Stir all together, and let it stand 
ten days, before putting in the eggs. Put them in a few 
at a time, as you get them, fresh. If they rise to the top, 
when put in, the lime-water is too strong, and the eggs 
will be cooked. In that case add water until they sink. 

Eggs put up in this way will keep a year. 



Jfiscetlaneoiis. 397 



Another Way. 

Pack the eggs in layers, in bran, the small end clown- 
wards. This should be done in a l>ox, and the box kept 
in a cool, dry place. Corn meal or sawdust may be used ; 
but the bran is less likely to gather moisture. 

Another. Wrap each egg carefully in newspaper, and 
pack them, small end downward, in boxes or jars. 

To Bottle Cider. 

Put into every quart-bottle you use, two raisins and 
one tablespoonful sugar. Fill nearly to the top with 
sweet cider. Put in the corks and tie down firmly. 
Keady for use in six weeks, but improved by being kept 
for six months, when it will be like champagne. Very 
good for nausea. 

Japanese Cream. 

(For washing paint, glass and marble, and cleansing boys' clothes, 
spots on carjtets, etc.) 

5 quarts soft water. 



4 ounces white rastile soap. 
4 ounces ammonia. 



2 ounces ether. 
2 ounces alcohol. 
1 ounce glycerine. 



Cut the soap fine and dissolve it in one quart of the 
water over the fire. Add then the rest of the water with 
the other ingredients. Mix all together well and put 
away in bottles. To use it, wet a soft flannel with it, and 
rub the spots. Then sponge off with clean hot water and 
rub dry with a clean cloth. 

Soft Soap. 

Try out carefully all scraps of grease and fat. The fat 
of beef, mutton, and poultry, can all be used ; but it 
should not be allowed to accumulate for as long as a week 
before trying out. Each day try out what has been left 
from the meals of the day before, and then the fat will 
be clean and fresh. The result should l>e firm, hard 
, < K ;u and unstruakcd, quite equal in appearance 



398 How to Cook Well. 

to the best lard. When you have six pounds of the 
grease, put it in a large iron pot. Add to it fourteen 
quarts warm water, and one and one third cans Babbitt's 
concentrated potash. This is white, like salt, and very 
strong indeed. Let it come gradually to a boil, but do 
not let it boil. Set it on the back of the stove, or range, 
and let it simmer there all day. Let it remain there all 
night. Melt it out in the morning, and when it is quite 
melted pour it into whatever vessel you intend to keep 
the soap in. This quantity will make a full half-barrel. 
After pouring it in add two pailfuls of boiling water, and 
stir briskly for some minutes with a stick, or a heavy 
clothes-paddle, if you have one; ten or fifteen minutes if 
you can. By evening you can add another pailful and 
stir it up again. The next morning it may need the same 
treatment, for the mixture may be quite stiff and hard. 
It may need five or six pailfuls before it is of the right 
consistency ; i. e., a soft and ropy jelly. It will improve 
by keeping. 

If properly made, it will be of an ivory white, and will 
not make the hands smart. It is as good to use for silver 
as for clothes. 

Pickle to Cure Hams. 



8 pounds ground alum salt. 

1 quart molasses. 

2 ounces salt petre. 



ounces of potash or saler- 

atus. 
gallons water. 



Allow the above to every one hundred pounds of meat. 
Boil the mixture, skim well, and when cold pour it over 

the hams. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Heat sour milk, or clabber (or both mixed) over the 
fire, till the- whey separates from the curd. Drain and 
put the curd in a thin bag to drip for five or six hours. 
Then take out the curd and work in a little salt and 
cream, or butter. Then form into small balls, and serve 



Miscellaneous. 399 



in a few hours. It will not keep longer than two or three 
days. 

This is a good way to use up an accumulation of sour 
milk in summer. It takes a great deal of milk to make 
ljut a small amount of cheese. 

To Raise Cream Quickly. 

Set the milk in shallow pans and keep them in a tem- 
perature not less than sixty-two degrees. People often 
wonder why they can get no cream from milk in winter ; 
it is because the milk is often left in too cold a place. 

Boiled Chestnuts. 

Put the chestnuts into tepid water. Notice when they 
begin to boil. Then boil/tof for fifteen minutes. Pour 
them into a colander to drain. Stir in, then, a small 
piece of butter, while the chestnuts are hot. Mix well 
till they look glossy and dry. 

Chocolate Frosting (No. 2) or Caramels. 

1 cupful -rratrt I chocolate. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

2 eggs (yolks only). 
| cupful milk. 

Mix all together, having beaten the eggs. Set on the 
stove, and boil (without stirring) for about fifteen min- 
utes from the time it begins to boil ; i. e., till it will al- 
most candy when dripped from a spoon. Then set it in 
a pan of hot water while you spread it on the cake, with 
a knife dipped in hot water. This will cover six large 
layers of cake, just enough for " Chocolate Cake No. 2," 
with which it is nice; the chocolnte in the cake-batter 
being omitted. By boiling this mixture a little longer 
you can make caramels, if you pour it into a buttered 
shallow pan, and mark it into squares. 



400 



How to Coo7c Well 



Things Made 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

Corn Bread Without Eggs. 

Junket. 

Tapioca and Sago Blanc Mange. 

Apple and Berry Tapioca Pud- 
ding. 

Blanc Mange (many kinds) . 

Jelly Cake without eggs. 

Lemon, Wine, Cider and Other 
Jellies. 



Without Eggs. 

Buttermilk Griddle-Cakes. 

Brown Betty. 

Fruit and Berry Charlotte. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Pies. 

Whipped Syllabubs. 

Cinnamon Cookies. 

Cornmeal Pudding. 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

Squash Pudding. 



To Use Whites of Eggs. 



Frosting for Cake. 

White Cake. 

Snow Cake. 

Kisses or Meringues. [Pie. 

Cocoanut Cake, Pudding and 

Cream Beer. 

Apple Snow. 

Raspberry Trifle. 

Nonsense. 

Meringues for Puddings. 

Filling for Charlotte llusse. 



To Clear Coffee. 

To Egg and Crumb. 

Silver Cake. 

English Muffins. 

German Sauce. 

Rich Pudding Sauce. 

Aglaia Sauce. 

Lemon, Orange or Peach Ice. 

Chocolate. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2. 

French Candies. 



To Use 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 
To Egg and Crumb. 
Boiled Custards. 
Gold Cake. 

Lemon Filling for Cake. 
Cottage or Gold Pudding. 
Cocoa or Chocolate. 
White Soup. 



Yolks of Eggs. 

Oyster Boulette. 

Sauce Hollandaise. 

Wine Sauce No. 2. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

Ribbon Blanc Mange. 

Rich Cornstarch Blanc Mange. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Chocolate Frosting or Caramels. 



To Use Milk. 



Milk Toast. 

Cracker Milk Toast. 

Bread and Milk. 

Popovers. 

Potato or Lenten Soup. 

Tomato Soup (No. 2). 



Indian and Bread Puddings. 

Griddle Cakes and Waffles. 

Muffins. 

Junket. 

Ice Cream. 

Spanish Fritters. 



Miscellaneous. 



401 



To Use Milk. (Continued.) 



Stewed Oysters (or Soup). 

Clam Soup. 

Chowder. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Cocoa or Chocolate. 

Cafe au lait. 

Mont Blanc. 

Custards and Blanc Manges. 

Tapioca and Rice Puddings. 

Delmonico Pudding. 



Corn Pudding. 
In Cooking Vegetables. 
Omelet (Baked and Fried). 
Cream to serve with Fruit Pies. 
Fritters. 
Succotash. 

Pies. (Sweet Potato, Custard, 
Cornstarch and Pumpkin.) 
Macaroni (boiled or baked). 
Thickened Milk. 



To Use Sour Milk. 



Corn Bread. 

Sour Milk Graham Gems. 

Griddle Cakes (various). 

Shortcake. 

Grandpa's Cake. 

Huckleberry Cake. 

Graham Pudding. 



Popovers. 
Apple Fritters. 
Hasting's Pudding. 
Doughnuts. 
Cottage Cheese. 
Cinnamon Cookies. 
Cottage Pudding. 



To Use Apples. 



Baked Apples. 
Apple Sauce. 
Clarified Apples. 
Apples Stewed Whole. 
Apple Jelly. 
Preserved Apples. 
Transparent Preserve. 
Pickled Apples. 
Apple Snow. 
Fried Apples. 
Apple Pie. 
In Mince Pies. 
Brown Betty. 
Apple Cottage Pudding. 
Apple Short Cake. 



Apple and Tapioca Pudding. 

Scotch Pudding. 

Pan Dowdy. 

Jellied Apples. 

Marlborough Pudding. 

Veal aux Pommes. 

Apple Custard. 

Hidden Hash. 

Hidden Apples. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Apple Meringue. 

Apple Filling for Cake. 

Apple Fritters. 

Birds' Nest Pudding. 



402 Afterthoughts. 



AFTERTHOUGHTS. 



Two or three remarks are here made, which were overlooked 
in their proper connection. 

Under TEA, attention should have been called to the fact that 
almost every receipt given under Breakfast and Luncheon is 
also suited to Tea. 

Under COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES, the statement should 
have been made that any receipt given for Cookies may be used 
for Drop-Cakes, by simply putting in less flour (there should be 
just enough for a spoon to stand alone in the dough) and drop- 
ping from a teaspoon in heaps a little apart in a buttered pan. 
This is, of course, much more quickly done than the rolling out 
of cookies. 

Under TO BAKE CAKE, it should have been mentioned that 
if cake is liable to burn, a thick paper should be laid over the 
top, or a pan of cold water set above it in the oven. 

Under PUDDINGS, the reader should have been told how to 
judge whether a pudding is done. When done, it will look dry 
around the edges, and there will no longer be a sunken spot in 
the middle. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



is important to study the " General Directions" and to 
read carefully the "Remarks" at the beginning of every division 
before trying these receipts. 



A Cream to serve with 
Fruit Pies .... 

A French Receipt for Cro- 
quettes 

A hearty Egg Gruel . 

A list of uses for Bread- 
Crumbs 

A list of uses for Pieces 
of Bread .... 

A plain Rice Pudding . 

A pretty way to serve 
Orange Ice . . . 

A Rich Chowder . . . 

A Rich Ice Cream . . 

A simple way to serve 
Lobster 

A Summer Medley . . 

A " Swell" Pudding . . 

A tempting dish for Lun- 
cheon 

A very delicate Cracker 
Pudding .... 

A very delicate Egg Gruel 

An appetizing Breakfast- 
Dish 

Aglaia Sauce .... 

Albuminized Lemonade . 

Albuminized Milk 



PACK. 
214 

83 
389 

310 

3Q9 
227 

281 
130 
278 

140 
204 
227 

78 

233 

388 

29 
249 
387 
380 



PAGE. 

Alleghany Corn Muffins . 47 

Almond Blanc-mange . . 265 
Almond Cake . . . 333,334 

Almonds to Blanch . . 13 

Amber Pudding . . . 244 

Anchovy Toast .... 65 

Angel Cake 337 

Anglo-Fran^ais Pie . . 224 
Apple and Lemon Pre- 
serve 364 

Apple and Potato Stuffing 149 

" Charlotte . . . 231 

" Cottage Pudding . 229 

" Custard .... 272 

" Custard Pie . - . 219 

" Dumplings . . 224, 247 

" Filling for Cake . 321 

" Floating Island . 272 

" Fritters .... 96 

" Jelly 374 

" Meringue .... 230 

" Pie 218 

" Sauce . . . . . 355 

" Shortcake .... 55 

" Snow 277 

" Tapioca Pudding, 

(or other fruit) . . 226 

Apples Baked . . . 356, 357 



403 



404 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Apples Clarified .... 355 

" Fried 37 

Pickled .... 378 

" Preserved . . . 366 

" Stewed .... 355 

" Stewed Whole . 356 

" Ways to Use . . 401 
Approximate Weights and 

Measures, Table of . 8 

Arrowroot Blanc-mange 268 

Gruel ... 390 

Ice . . . . 281 

Asparagus, Boiled . . . 201 

" Soup ... 110 

Avoirdupois Weight ... 8 

B. 
Baked and Stewed Fruits 

355 to 359 

Baked Apple Dumplings . 224 

" Apples . . . 356, 357 

" Beans .... 38 

" Blue Fish ... 122 

" Custard .... 274 

" Eggs 21 

" " alacreme. . 21 

" Fish 120 

" Graham Pudding . 241 

" Halibut .... 122 

" Hash 28 

" " with Eggs . 29 

" Haunch of Tension 169 

" Hominy .... 70 

" Macaroni .... 71 

" Okra and Tomatoes 39 

" Omelet 25 

" Onions 194 

41 Pears 357 

" Potatoes .... 39 

" Quinces .... 357 

" Rice 7.0 



Baked Sausages ... 

" Sweet Potatoes . 

" Tomatoes. .. 
Baking Powder Biscuit 



PAGE. 
33 
39 
69 

305 



Banana Blanc-mange (or 

other fruit) .... 259 

Banana Ice Cream . . . 278 

" Fritters. ... 96 

Bannocks ...... 95 

Barberry Jelly .... 374 

Barley Sugar ..... 288 

Barley Water ..... 389 

Batter Balls (for Soup) . 103 

Batter Pudding .... 236 

Bavarian Cream (various 

kinds) ..... 261 

Bean and Tomato Soup . 112 

Bean Soup (Navy Beans) 112 
Beans (all kinds) . 202, 203 

Bechamel Sauce .... 154 

Beef a la mode .... 176 

" Croquettes ... 87 

" For the Sick ... 384 
" In Various Ways 

(For the Sick) . 385, 386 

" Juice ..... 384 

Loaf ..... 78 

" Roast ..... 30 

" Roll. ..... 173 

Beef's Heart ..... 73 

Beefsteak ...... 174 

" and Onions . 174 

" Pie .... 189 

" Stuffed ... 175 
" with Baked To- 

matoes ..... 175 

Beef Soup ..... 105 

" Stew ..... 186 

" Tea ...... 385 

" Tea for Convalescents 385 



Alphabetical Index. 



405 



PAGE. 

Beets 193 

Bell Fritters 95 

Berry Charlotte .... 231 

Berry Ice Cream .... 279 

Pie ...... 224 

Best Way to Cook a Ham 183 

Bird's Nest Pudding . . 229 

Biscuit, Graham .... 303 

" Maryland ... 306 

" Unleavened . . 307 

Bisque Ice Cream . . . 280 

Black Bean Soup . . . Ill 

Blackberries, Pickled . . 377 

Blackberries, Preserved . 368 

Blackberry Cordial ... 352 

Blackberry Pie .... 224 

Blackberry Wine ... 352 

Blanched Almonds ... 13 
Blanc-Manges . . 253 to 269 

Blue Fish, Baked ... 124 

Boil, How to .... 

Boil in Lard, How to . . 9 

Boiled Asparagus . . . 201 

" Beets 183 

44 Cabbage .... 196 

" Cauliflower ... 197 

" Chestnuts ... 399 

" Chickens. ... 161 

" Cod 119 

" Corn 203 

" Custard .... 271 

" Eggs 18 

" Fish 118 

" Frosting .... 319 

Graham Pudding . 246 

" Halibut .... 119 

" Ham 182 

" Hominy ... 16, 17 

" Indian Pudding . 245 

" Lambs' Tongues . 33 



Boiled Macaroni . 

44 Mutton . 

" Oatmeal . 

" Onions . 

" Parsnips . 

" Pastry 

" Potatoes . 

" Puddings . 



PAGE. 
207 
180 
16 
194 
193 
213 
190 
242 



" to Warm 243 

" Rice 206 

" Salad Dressing 

(Without Oil) ... 143 

Boiled Salmon .... 120 

" Salt Mackerel . . 37 
44 Samp or Hominy 

(coarse) 17 

Boiled Spinach .... 200 

" Tongue .... 177 

44 Turkey .... 160 

" Turnips .... 192 

Boston Brown Bread . . 296 

Boston Brown Bread 

Toasted 311 

Bouillon 104 

Braid of Bread .... 299 
Brandy Peaches . . 361, 362 

Brandy Sauce .... 248 

Bread 291 

44 to Bake .... 294 
44 and Butter Pud- 
ding 233 

44 Boiled in Molasses 309 
44 Crumbs, List of 

uses for 307 

44 Dough Pie Crust . 212 

44 Fritters 95 

44 Griddle Cakes . . 59 
44 made with Com- 
pressed Yeast . . . 295 
Bread made with Potatoes 295 



406 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 
Bread made with Potato 

or Baker's Yeast . . 296 
Bread made with a 

"Sponge" .... 294 
Bread made Quickly (Miss 

Corson's method) . . 296 

Bread Panada .... 396 

" Pate's 92 

" Puddings . . 233, 234 

" Sauce 153 

Breakfast 15 

" and Tea Cakes 

45 to 56 

" Bacon ... 32 

Cake .... 53 

" Turnovers . . 31 

Breast of Veal, Stewed . 178 

Bridget's Pie-crust . . 212 

Broil, How to .... 12 

Broiled Chicken ... 164 

Fish 124 

" Oysters .... 135 

" Potatoes ... 41 

Quail .... 168 

Salt Mackerel . 37 

Shad 124 

Broiled Sweet-breads . 179 

Brown Betty 231 

" Bread 298 

Browned Flour .... 149 

Hash .... 28 

" Potatoes ... 192 

Brunswick Stew ... 188 

Buckeye Buckwheat Cakes 58 

Buckwheat Cakes with 

water 67 

Buckwheat Cakes, Un- 
equalled 57 

Buns 303 

Burnt Almonds .... 286 



PAGE. 

Burnt Sugar (for soup) . 102 
Burnt Sugar Flavoring . 253 

Butter Beans 202 

Buttered Parsnips . . . 194 
Buttermilk Griddle Cakes 59 
" Muffins . . 46 
C. 

Cabbage 43, 196 

Pickled . . . 379, 380 
Salad .... 72 

CafeauLait 350 

Cake 316 to 348 

" Almond . . 333, 334 
" Angel .... 337 
" Charlotte Russe . 326 
" Chocolate . 323, 324 
" Chodwell ... 335 
" Citron .... 333 
" Cocoanut ... 325 

" Coffee 335 

" Cream .... 329 

" Cup 327 

" Delicate .... 329 
" Feather .... 328 
" Fruit or Wedding 334 

" Gold 332 

" Grandpa's ... 330 
" Huckleberry . . 331 
" Jelly . 322, 323, 326 
" Layer . . 322 to 326 
*' Lemon Layer . . 325 
" Lemon Loaf . . 333 
" Lincoln .... 327 

" Marble 331 

" Marble Layer . . 326 
" 1, 2, 3, 4 .... 327 
" Orange . . 324, 325 
" Pound .... 330 
" Sandusky ... 330 
" Silver . 332 



Alphabetical Index. 



407 



PAGE. 

Cake, Snow 328 

" Spice 329 

" Sponge . . 336 to 337 

" Variety .... 325 

" Washington. . . 332 

" White 328 

Cake, White Mountain . 323 

Calcutta Curry .... 185 

Calf's Liver 180 

Calf's or Beef's Heart . . 73 

Can, To 371 

Canadian Gingerbread . . 339 

Candied Fruits .... 360 

Candy 281 to 288 

" Barley sugar . . 288 

" Burnt Almonds . 286 
" Caramels, Choco- 
late . 282, 283, 399 
" Caramels, Maple 

Sugar 283 

Candy Cream 285 

" " Chocolate . 281 
" French (without 

boiling) 284 

Candy Fruit 285 

" Jelly Drops ... 283 

" Molasses .... 287 

" Peanut 287 

" Sugar 288 

" " Taffy with 

nuts 287 

Candy Taffy 287 

" Vinegar .... 288 

Canned Salmon, Baked . 36 

" " on Toast 35 

" " Pincfi of 36 

Canned String Beans . . 373 

* Tomatoes . . . 372 

Cape Cod Chowder. . . 130 

Caper or Pickle Sauce . . 151 



PAGE. 

Caramel Custard .... 275 
Caramel Ice Cream . . . 280 

Caramel Loaf 238 

Caramels . . . 282, 283, 399 

Carrots Stewed .... 197 

Casserole of Fish ... 127 

Rice and Meat . 76 

Catsups 375 

Caudle 391 

Cauliflower 197 

Celery, Stewed .... 200 

Cereals 16 

Charlotte Russe . . 269, 270 

" Cake . . 326 

" " Pudding 271 

Cheap Sponge Cake . . 337 

Cheaper Sauce for Poached 

Eggs 19 

Cheese Fondue .... 66 
Cherries for a Cold ... 395 
Cherry Bounce .... 353 

Cherry Pie 223 

Cherry Pudding .... 231 
Chestnut Stuffing ... 149 
Chestnuts, Boiled ... 399 
Chicken-a n d-C o r n P u d- 

ing . . .. ,. ;. . . 77 

Chicken Baked in Rice . 77 

Boiled .... 161 

" Broiled .... 164 

" Broth .... 107 

" Croquettes . . 84, 85 

Devilled ... 75 

" Fricasseed . . 161, 162 

" Fried . . . 162, 163 

" Panada .... 395 

" Pat6s (or Veal) . 93 

Pie 189 

Pot-pie (or Veal) 190 
" Pressed . 81 



408 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Chicken Roast . ' . . 1(51 
Salad .... 144 
" Smothered. . . 163 
" Soup (or Turkey) 

107, 108 

" Tea 392 

" Warmed-over (or 

Turkey) 34 

Children's Cookies ... 343 

Chili Sauce 377 

Chocolate ...... 351 

with Whipped 

Cream 351 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream 261 
Cake . . . 323, 324 
" Caramels 282, 

283, 399 

" Cornstarch 

Blanc-mange . . . 268 

Chocolate Custard Pudding 275 

Floating Island 272 

" Frosting . 320, 399 

Gelatine Blanc- 
mange 264 

Chocolate Ice Cream . . 279 
ChodwellCake .... 335 

Chowder 130, 131 

Christmas Charlotte Russe 270 

Cider Jelly 254 

" To Bottle .... 397 

Cinnamon Cookies . . . 341 

" Fingers ... 225 

Citron Cake 333 

" Preserves .... 363 

Clam Broth 132 

" Chowder .... 131 
" Fritters . . , . 98 

" Pie 132 

" Soup 116 

Clams . . . . 98, 131, 132 



PAGE. 

Clams, To Open . .V , . 131 

Claret Jelly 254 

Claret Syrups .... 102 

Clarified Apples .... 355 

Cocoa 352 

Cocoanut Cake .... 325 

Custard Pudding 275 

" Drop Cakes . . 346 

" Filling for Cake 322 

" Frosting ... 320 

" Pie 222 

Pudding ... 275 

Cod, Boiled 119 

Codfish Balls 89 

Puff 36 

Coffee 349,350 

" with Egg .... 393 

" Cake 335 

" Cream 259 

" Harmless .... 350 

" Ice Cream. . . . 279 

" Jelly ..... 258 

Cold Catsup 376 

" Fish Ways to Use . 131 

" Meat Stew .... 34 

" Potatoes, To Use . . 208 

" Rice, " . . 208 

" Slaw 72 

" Tomatoes, To Use . 208 

Compound Barley Water . 389 

Concord Tea Rolls . . . 301 

Confederate Pies . . . 217 

Convent Eggs .... 25 

Cooked Tomatoes, To Use 208 
Cookies and Small Cakes 

340 to 348 

Corn Boiled 203 

" Bread . . . . 49 to 50 

" Fritters 98 

" Muffins . 47 



Alphabetical Index. 



409 



PAGE. 

Corn Oysters 97 

" Pudding 70 

" Soup 110 

" Stewed 203 

Corned Beef 177 

" Pressed . . 79 

Cornmeal Gruel .... 390 

" Hasty Pudding . 17 

Constarch Blanc-mange . 267 

Custard, Boiled 271 

" Pie 220 

Cottage Cheese .... 398 
Cottage Puddings . .239, 240 

Crabapple Jelly .... 374 

Crab, Devilled .... 141 

Crab Croquettes . . . 88 

Crackers 307 

Cracker Milk Toast. . . 312 

Cracker Panada .... 396 

" Pudding ... 233 

" Stuffing .... 148 

Cranberry Pie .... 216 

Sauce. ... 157 

Cream Batter Pudding . 236 

" Beer ..... 354 

" Cake 829 

" Candy 285 

" Chocolates . . . 281 

" Corn Bread ... 49 

41 Meringues . . . 346 

" Omelet 24 

" Pie 220, 221 

" (in a Loaf) . . 238 

" Puffs 236 

" Sauce (for Meats) . 154 

" Tea Cake .... 52 

" Toast 312 

" To Raise Quickly . 399 
" To Serve with Fruit 

Pies 214 



PAGE. 

Creamy Sauce .... 248 
Croquettes, Meat Balls, 

etc 82 to 91 

Croquettes, Beef .... 87 
Chicken . 84, 85 

" Phila- 
delphia 85 

Croquettes, Fish .... 88 
" French Receipt 

for 83 

Croquettes, Hap-hazard . 87 
Lamb ... 86 
Lobster or Crab 88 
Oyster ... 88 
Potato ... 90 
" Rice .... 90 
Veal .... 84 
" Tension or Mut- 
ton. ... 86 

Croutons 103 

Crullers 348 

Crust for Meat Pies - . . 213 

Cucumber Catsups . . . 375 

Cucumbers, Fried ... 43 
Pickled 378, 

379, 380, 381 

" Raw ... 42 

Stewed . . 205 

Cup Cake 327 

Cup Custard 274 

Currant Biscuit .... 306 

Jelly 374 

" Sauce . . 151 

" Preserves . . . 308 

" Shortcake ... 65 

To Wash ... 13 

Currant Wine 353 

Curried Chicken .... 164 

" Eggs-and-Toast . 26 

" Oysters .... 138 



410 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Curried Pilau 186 

Curry Sauce 153 

Custards . . . . 271 to 275 

Custard Pie 219 

" Sauce .... 250 

D. 

Delicacies for Dessert . . 252 

Delicate Baked Apples . . 357 

Cake 329 

Shad 124 

Delmonico Pudding . . 274, 275 

Dessert Puffs or Vanities . 236 

Desserts 209 

" Prepared Quickly 289 

Without Milk. . 289 

Devilled Chicken ... 75 

Crab .... 141 

Eggs .... 26 

Ham 75 

" Lobster or Crab . 141 

Oysters ... 138 

" Tomatoes ... 68 

Dimples. 346 

Dinner 100 

Dipped Toast 311 

Dolmathes 73, 74 

Dough Dumplings . . . 247 

" Fritters .... 95 

Doughnuts 347 

Drawn Butter .... 150 

Dried Apple Pie . . . . 218 

" Apples Stewed . . 355 

" Beans 203 

" Flour Gruel ... 393 

" Peaches, Stewed . 355 

" Peach Pie . . . . 218 

Drinks 348 

Dropped Eggs .... 19 



PAGE. 

Dry Measure 8 

Dry Toast 310 

Ducks 164 

Dumplings for Meat . . 247 

Dundee Pudding. . . . 245 

Dutch Cucumbers . . . 381 

B. 

Eels 131 

Egg-and-Crumb, How to . 12 
" Gruel .... 388, 389 
" Lemonade . . . .393 

" Nogg 393 

" Plant .... 71, 205 
" Poached in,Broth . . 394 
" Sandwiches .... 394 
" Sauce 151 

Eggs 18 

" Baked 21 

" A la creme .... 21 

" Boiled .... V. . 18 

" Convent . .... . 25 

" Curried Eggs and 

Toast 26 

" Devilled 26 

" Escaloped Eggs and 

Meat . . . . 21, 22 

" Fried 20 

" Ham and Eggs ... 20 
" Omelet, Baked ... 25 
IC " Cream. . . 24 
" " French . . 24 
" " Fried ... 23 
Ham ... 23 
" " Tomato . . 24 
" Poached or Dropped . 19 

" In Oil 20 

" With Sauce .... 19 
" Scrambled ... 22 



Alphabetical Index. 



411 



PAGE. 

.... 394 
" Stirred Eggs with 

Gravy ...... 25 

" Stuffed 26 

" To Preserve for 

Winter use ... 396, 397 

English Chestney ... 377 

" Muffins 46 

11 Pancakes .... 61 

" Plum Pudding . . 244 

Escaloped Claras . . . 132 

" Eggs and Meat 21, 22 

Fish . . . 126, 127 

" Oysters . . . 136 

" Potatoes ... 68 

" Tomatoes . . 44 

Explanatory Notes ... 7 

P. 

Fancy Frosting .... 320 

Fat or Suet, to try out . . 11 

Feather Cake 328 

Fig Pudding 24G 

Filling for Cake . . 320 to 322 

Fish 35, 117 

" a 1'Italicnne . . . 129 

" Au Court Bouillon . 120 

" Baked 120 

" Balls 89 

" Chowder .... 130 

" Croquettes .... 88 

" Escaloped .... 126 

" Fried 123 

" Pat6s 93 

" Potted 128 

" Salad 145 

" Spiced 128 

" Steaks Fried ... 123 

' Stewed . 129 



PAGE. 

Fish, to Boil 118 

" To Broil .... 124 

" To Pickle. ... 128 

" To use Cold Fish 131 

Flaked Potato .... 191 

Flannel Cakes .... 61 

Flavorings for Custards, etc. 

253 

FlaxseedTea 892 

Floating Island . ... 272 

Flour Gruel 390 

14 To Thicken With . . 11 
Food for a Delicate Infant 391 
For the Sick . . . 383 to 396 
Force-meat Balls for Soup 103 
Francatelli Pudding . . 234 
French Candies, without boiling 
284 

" Omelet 24 

" Receipt for Croquettes 83 
Fricasseed Chicken . . 161, 162 

" Oysters 137 

" Rabbits 171 

Fried Apples* 37 

" Cabbage .... 43 
" Chickens . . . 162, 163 
" Cucumbers ... 43 

" Eels 131 

" Egg-plant .... 205 

" Eggs 18 

" Fish 123 

" Ham ..... . . 32 

" Hasty Pudding or 

Mush- 18 

" Hominy 18 

" Oatmeal 18 

" Omelet 23 

" Onions .... 43, 195 
" Oysters .... 134, 135 
" Parsnips .... 194 



412 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Fried Potatoes .... 40 

" llabbit 171 

" Salsify 199 

Shad 125 

" Squash 196 

" Sweet-breads . . . 179 

" Sweet Potatoes . . 41 

" Tomatoes ... 44, 68 

Fritters, . . . . . 93 to 98 

" Apple .... 96 

" Apple, Orange or 

Banana 96 

Fritters, Bell 95 

" Bread .... 95 

" Clam .... 98 

Corn .... 98 

" Dough .... 95 

" Oyster .... 98 

" Plain .... 94 

Potato .... 96 

Rice ..... 97 

" Salsify. ... 198 

" Snow .... 94 

11 Squash or Pea . 97 

Frizzled Beef 35 

Frogs 74 

Frosting . . . . 318 to 320 

To Color ... 319 

Frozen Custard .... 278 

Fruit Cake (or Wedding) 334 

" Candy 285 

" Tees 280 

-" Jelly 258 

" Shortcake .... 55 

Fry, How to 10 



G. 

Game and Poultry 
Gelatine Frosting 



157 
319 



PAGE. 

General Directions ... 9 
Gen. Washington's Break- 
fast Cake 53 

German Blanc-mange . . 268 

" Potatoes ... 68 

Puflfs 237 

" Sauce .... 252 

Giblet Gravy 150 

Gingerbread . . . .338, 339 

Pudding . . 240 

Ginger Snaps 343 

Glazed Ham 183 

Gold Cake 332 

Gold-and-Silver Jelly Cake 322 

Gold Pudding 240 

Gooseberry Fool .... 276 

Goose, Roast 1G5 

Graham Biscuit ... 47, 303 

" Bread .... 297 

" Cookies. ... 342 

Gems .... 48 

" Griddle Cakes . 59 

' Gruel .... 387 

" Hasty Pudding . 17 

Pudding . .241,246 

Grandpa's Cake .... 330 

Granuin Gruel .... 395 

Grape Jam 369 

" Jelly 373 

" Wine 353 

Gravy for Broiled Chickens 

orPatridges. . . . 150 

Gravy for Roast Meat . . 150 

" To Make .... 149 

Green Currant Pie . . . 223 

" Gooseberry Pie . . 223 

" Pea Soup .... 115 

" Tomato Preserves . 365 

Greens (Various Kinds) . 200 

Griddle Cakes, etc. . 56 to 60 



Alphabetical Index. 



413 



PAGE. 

Grouse 166, 167 

Gruels 387 to 31)3 

Gumbo Soup Ill 

H. 

Halibut 119, 122 

Hani and Eggs .... 20 

" and Macaroni ... 39 

" Best Way to Cook . 183 

" Boiled 182 

" Devilled 75 

" Fried 32 

" Glazed 183 

" Omelet 24 

" Salad 145 

Hap-Hazard Croquettes . 87 

Hard Sauce 248 

Harmless Coffee .... 350 

Hash 28, 29, 31 

Hash, Baked with Eggs . 29 

Hasting's Pudding ... 243 
Hasty Pudding or Mush 17, 18 

Haunch of Vension, Baked 169 

Head Cheese 80 

Hcirt, Calf's or Beef's . 73 

Hidden Apples .... 228 

Hidden Hash 31 

Hints on Giving Milk . . 386 

Hominy 16, 17, 18 

Hominy Bread .... 61 

Hominy Griddle Cakes. . 60 

" Muffins .... 47 

Honeycomb Pudding . . 241 

Hot Slaw 72 

How to Boil 9 

" " " in Lard . . 9 

" " Broil 12 

i Egg-and-Crumb . 12 

" " Fry 10 



PAGE. 

How to Parboil .... 9 

" " Try out Fat or Suet 11 

Huckleberry Cake . . . 331 

" Pudding . . 245 

Tea Cake. 62 



I. 



Ice Cream and Ices 228 to 281 

Iced Tea 349 

Imitation Hen's Nest . . 264 
Pate de Voie Gras 75 
Imperial Cream .... 277 
Indian Pudding . . . 235, 245 
Irish Moss Lemonade . . 392 

Irish Stew 187 

Isinglass Frosting . . . 319 
Italian Cream 262 

J. 

Jam (any Kind of Fruit) . 371 

Jam, Grape 369 

Japanese Cream .... 397 

Jellied Apples 356 

" Veal 80 

Jelly Cake . . . 322, 323, 326 

" " Without Eggs . 322 

" Drops 283 

" Floating Island . . 272 

" Sauce 250 

" To Make . . . 373,375 

" with Bananas ... 258 

Johnny Cake 50 

Jumbles 344 

Junket 265 



Kentucky Potatoes ... 68 
Kidneys, Stewed ... 33 



414 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Kisses or Meringues . . 346 
Knuckle of Veal Stew . . 184 
Koumiss 387 

L. 

Lafayette Gingerbread . 339 
Lamb Broth ..... 107 

" Chops 181 

" Croquettes ... 86 

" Roast 180 

" Stuffing for . . 147, 148 

Lamb's Hearts .... 33 

" Tongues. . 33,72,73 

Layer Cakes . . .322 to 326 

Lemonade . . . 387, 392, 393 

Lemon Custard .... 273 

" Filling for Cake 320, 321 

" Ice 280 

" Jelly 256 

" Layer Cake . . . 325 
" Loaf Cake ... 333 

" Pie 221 

" Pudding .... 232 

" Sauce 249 

" Toast 313 

Lenten Soup . . . .114, 115 

Lettuce Salad 147 

Light Dough Dumplings . 247 

Lima Beans 202 

Lincoln Cake 327 

Liquid Measure .... 8 

" Sauce 248 

List of uses for Bread 

Crumbs 310 

List of uses for Pieces of 

Bread 309 

Liver 180 

Lobster, A Simple Way . 140 
Lobster, Devilled . . . 141 



PAGE. 

Lobster or Crab Cro- 
quettes .... 88 
" Salad .... 146 
Sauce . . 155, 156 
Lobsters, to open . . . 140 
Lottie's Cream Tea Cake . 52 

Love Pudding 236 

Luncheon 64 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. . . 40 

M. 

Macaroons 346 

Macaroni, Baked ... 71 

Boiled ... 207 

Milan .... 207 

" with Ham . . 39 

" Oysters . 39 

" " Tomato 

Sauce 71 

Mackerel 126 

Maitre d'Hotel Potato . . 67 

" " " Sauce . . 157 

Manchester Pudding . . 246 

Maple Sugar Caramels. . 283 

Marble Cake 331 

" Layer Cake ... 326 

Marlboro' Pie 219 

" Pudding ... 230 
Marmalade . . 369, 370, 371 

Maryland Biscuit. ... 306 

Mashed Potato .... 191 
Mayonnaise Dressing 142, 143 

Meat and Kice Croquettes. 86 

" Balls 87 

" Paste 395 

" Pies 188 

" To Boil 173 

" To Roast .... 172 

Meat Warmed in Slices . 34: 



Alphabetical Index,. 



415 



PAGE. 

Meats .... 27, 72, 78, 171 

Medley Marmalade . . . 371 
Menu for Convalescents, 

383, 384 

Meringue, To make a . . 13 

Meringues or Kisses . . 34G 

Milan Macaroni .... 207 

Milk, Thickened .... 390 

" Toast 311 

" To Use . . . 400, 401 

Mille Fruit Cream . . . 2GO 

Millville Shortcake ... 54 

Mince Meat 215 

" Pies 214 

Minced Hash 28 

Mint Sauce 155 

Miroton 34 

Miscellaneous .... 39G 

Dishes for 

Breakfast . . 37 
Miscellaneous Dishes for 

Luncheon .... 72 

Mississippi Kiver Steam- 
boat stuffing for Fish 121 
Mock Bisque Soup . . . Ill 
" Chicken Salad . . 145 
" Doughnuts ... 95 
" Duck ...... 175 

" Mince Meat . . . 21G 

" Oysters .... 198 

" Squab Pie . . . . 190 

" Turtle Soup ... 104 

Molasses Candy .... 287 

44 or Spice Cookies 343 

'* Sauce .... 249 

Mont Blanc 259 

Mousaka ...... 74 

Mrs. Gen. Lee's Boiled 

Pastry 213 

Muffins . 45 to 47 



PAGE. 

Mulled Jelly 393 

Mush 17 

Mustard Pickle .... 381 

" Prepared ... 157 

Mutton a la Venison. . . 76 

Boiled .... 180 

" Broth (or Lamb). 107 

" Chops (or Lamb). 181 

" Croquettes ... 86 

Cutlets .... 181 

" Roast 180 

Stew 1C6 

N. 

Nasturtium Seed, Pickled. 377 
Neck or Shoulder of Veni- 
son 170 

New Year's Cakes ... 345 

Nonpariel Rusk .... 304 

Nonsense 277 

Noodle Soup 106 

North Carolina Boiled Cab- 
bage ...... 196 

North Carolina Corn Muf- 
fins 47 

Nutmeg Cookies .... 342 

o. 

Oatmeal Cordial .... 388 

" Griddle Cakes . . 58 

Gruel . ....<. 388 

Ohio Cakes 344 

Okra 205 

14 and Tomatoes. . . 206 

" or Gumbo Soup . . Ill 

Old-fashioned Apple Pic . 218 

" Frosting . 818 

44 Sponge Cake 336 



416 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 
Omelets .... 23 to 25 

1, 2, 3, 4 Cake 327 

Onion Stuffing for Fish . 121 

Orange Baskets with Jelly 255 

" Cake .... 324, 325 

" Custard .... 273 

" Filling for Cake . 321 

" Tool 276 

" Fritters .... 96 
" Frosting .... 320 
" Ice (or Lemon) 280, 281 

" Jelly 255 

" Marmalade . . . 369 

" Pie 221 

" Preserve ... 368 
" Pudding .... 276 

" Snow 257 

Oyster Boulette .... 138 
" Croquettes ... 88 
" Fritters .... 98 

" Pates 92 

Pie 140 

" Plant . . . 198, 199 

" Sauce 156 

" Soup 116 

" Stuffing .... 148 

Oysters 132 to 140 

" alapreme ... 137 
" a la Royale ... 139 
" Broiled . . . . 135 
" Escaloped . . . 136 
" Fricasseed . . . 137 
" Fried . . . 134, 135 
" Panned .... 139 
" Pickled .... 137 
" Raw . ". . . . 132 

" Roast 136 

" Smothered ... 139 
" Steamed .... 135 
" Stewed . . . 133, 134 



PAGE. 



P. 



Pancakes 61 

Pan Dowdy 229 

Panned Oysters .... 139 

Paradise Pudding . . . 244 

Parboil, how to .... 9 

Parker House Rolls . . 300 

Parsnip Cakes Fried . . 194 

Parsnips .... 193, 194 

Partridges .... 167, 168 

Pate's 91 

Peach Charlotte .... 231 

" Ice 281 

" Ice Cream. . . . 278 

" Preserves. . . . 362 

" ShortCake ... 56 

Peanut Candy 287 

Pea Fritters 97 

Pear and Quince Marma- 
lade 370 

Pears Preserved .... 366 

" Baked 357 

" Pickled 378 

" Stewed 358 

Peas 201 

Peppers, Stuffed .... 199 

Perch 126 

Philadelphia Chicken Cro- 
quettes 85 

Picalily 382 

Pickle Sauce 151 

" to cure Hams . . 398 

Pickled Apples .... 378 

" Blackberries . . 377 

" Cabbage . . 379, 380 

" Cucumbers . 378 to 381 

" Fish 128 

" Lambs' Tongues . 73 

" Nasturtium Seed , 377 



Alphabetical Index. 



417 



PAGE. 
Pickled Oysters .... 137 

" Pears 378 

" Watermelon Kind. 379 

Piekles 377 to 382 

" without Boiling . 382 

Pie Crust . . . . 209 to 214 

44 " to Glaze ... 214 

Pies 209 to 225 

" Anglo Francais. . . 224 

44 Apple 218 

" Apple Custard . . . 219 

" Berry 224 

" Blackberry .... 224 

44 Cherry 223 

" Cocoanut .... 222 
4 Confederate . . . 217 
" Cornstarch .... 220 
" Cranberry . . . . 21G 
44 Cream . . . 220, 221 

14 Currant 223 

44 Custard 219 

44 Dried Apple or Peach 218 
' 4 Green Gooseberry. . 223 
" Lemon or Orange . . 221 
44 Maryborough . . . 219 

44 Mince 214 

44 Pumpkin 217 

44 Squash . ." . . 217,218 
44 Sweet Potato Custard 220 
44 Sweet Potato ... 216 

Pigeon Pie 189 

Pigeons .... 1G5, 1G8, 189 
Pigs in Blankets .... 139 

Pilau 185 

Pinc6 of Canned Salmon . 36 

Pineapple Ice Cream . . 279 

44 Preserves . . 365 

44 Pudding ... 232 

Plain Bread Pudding . . 234 

44 Breakfast Cake . 63 



PAGE. 

Plain Fritters 94 

4 Graham Bread . . 297 

4 Huckleberry Tea Cake 53 

4 Jelly Cake .... 322 

4 Muffins 45 

4 Pie Crust .... 212 

14 Ilice Pudding ... 227 

Plum Preserves .... 366 
Plum Pudding . . . 243, 244 
Poached Eggs ... 19, 20 

Poor Man's Pudding . . 227 

Popovers 51 

Pork 181, 182 

Pork Steaks or Chops . . 182 

Potage a la Keine . . . 109 

Potato Balls 90 

" Biscuit .... 302 

44 Croquettes ... 90 

44 Crust 213 

44 Flaked .... 191 

44 Fritters .... 96 

44 Mattre d'Hotel . . 67 

44 Mashed .... 191 

44 Pears 90 

44 Puff 42 

44 Rechaufle ... 42 

44 Salad 146 

44 Snow 42 

44 Soup (or Lenten) 114, 115 

44 Yeast (Raw) . . 315 

Potatoes and Cream . . 42 

Baked .... 39 

Boiled .... 190 

Broiled. ... 41 

44 Browned . . . 192 

Cold, To Use. . 208 

Fried .... 40 

" German . . 68 

44 Kentucky or Es- 

caloped 68 



418 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise . . 40 

" Saratoga ... 66 

" Stewed with Gravy 41 

" Milk 41 

" Stuffed .... 40 
" with Giblets . . 67 

Potted Fish 128 

Potted Patridges ... 167 

Poultry, etc 157 

" To Clean or Draw 158 

" To Keep ... 159 

To Prepare . . 158 

To Select ... 157 

" To Stuff and Truss 159 

" To Wash ... 159 

Hash .... 28 

Pound Cake 330 

Prairie Chicken . . . 166, 167 

Prepared Mustard . . . 157 

Preserved Apples ... 366 

" Blackberries . 368 

" Citron ... 363 

" Currants. . . 368 

' Oranges . . . 368 

Peaches . . .362 

" Pears .... 366 

" Pineapple . . 365 

" Plums ... 366 

" Quinces . . . 367 

" Tomatoes . 364, 365 

" Watermelon 

Hind 363 

Preserves 359 

Pressed Chicken .... 81 

" Corned Beef . . 79 

Meats . . .78 to 82 

Prince of Wales' Pudding 240 

Prunes, Stewed .... 358 

Puddings .... 226 to 247 

Pudding, Amber .... 244 



PAGE. 

Pudding, Apple Cottage . 229 
" ** Meringue 230 

" " Tapioca, 

(or other Fruit) . . 226 
" Batter or Love . 236 
" Berry or Peach 

Charlotte .... 231 
" Bird's Nest . . 229 
" Bread and Butter 233 

Bread 233, 234, 235 
" Brown Betty . 231 
" Charlotte Russe 271 
". Cherry. ... 231 
* ' Chocolate Custard 275 
" Cocoanut . . . 275 
" Cocoanut Custard 275 
" Cold Corn Bread 240 
" Cottage . .239,240 
" Cracker ... 233 
" Cream Batter . 236 
" Delmonico . . 274 

Dundee ... 245 

" Fig 246 

" Francatelli . . 234 
" Gingerbread. . 240 
" Graham . . 241, 246 
" Hastings or Suet 243 
" Hidden Apples or 

Rice Rock .... 228 
" Honeycomb . .241 

Huckleberry. . 245 
" Indian . . . 235, 245 
" Lemon. . . . 232 
" Manchester . . 246 
" Marlborough . 230 
" Orange . . . 276 
" Pan Dowdy . . 229 

Paradise ... 244 
" Pineapple . . 232 

Plum . . .243,244 



Alphabetical Index. 



419 



PACK 
Pudding, Prince of Wales 240 
" Pumpkin . . . 233 


Raised Waffles . . . . 
Raisin Gruel 


PACK. 
62 
390 


" Rhubarb or Apple 
Charlotte . .231 
Rice . . . 227, 228 
Rice Custard . 228 
Rolled .... 246 
Scotch. ... 229 
" Sweet Potato . 232 
Swell .... 227 
" Tapioca or Sago 226 
" Victoria ... 244 


Raisius, Stewed ... . 
" To Stone . . . 
Rarnakin Toast .... 
Raspberry Floating Island 
" Shortcake . . 
Trifle. . . . 
" Vinegar . . . 
Raw Beef Cakes .... 
" Cucumbers .... 


359 
13 
66 
272 
55 
277 
353 
394 
42 
132 


Virginia ... 240 
" Pudding Sauces 
248 to 252 
Puddings to Boil .... 242 
" With Flour . . 236 


" Potato Yeast . . . 
" Tomatoes . . . . 
Rhubarb Charlotte . . . 
11 Marmalade . . 
pie 


315 
44 
231 
370 
222 


Puff Paste 210 


" Stewed 


355 


Pumpkin Pie . . , ; . . 217 


Ribbon Blanc-mange . . 


263 


" Pudding ... 233 


Rice Balls 


91 


Q- 

Quail 168 


" Blanc-mange . . . 
" Cold, To Use ... 
" Corn Bread. . . . 
" Croflucttcs 


266 

208 
50 

on 


Quail Pio 189 


" Custard Puddingx 


228 


Queen's Toast . . . . 312 


" Fritters 


97 


Quick Graham Biscuit . . 47 
" Sponge Cake . . 336 
Quince and Pear Marmalade 
370 


" Griddle Cakes . . . 
" or Hominy Muffins . 
" Pudding 
" Puffs 


60 
47 
228 
237 


" Jelly 374 


" Rock . ... 


28 


" Preserves . . . 367 


" Waffles 


63 


R. 
Rabbit Pie 189 


" Water 
Rich Blackberry Pie . . 
" Chowder 
" Corn Bread 


391 
224 
130 
49 


Rabbits .... 170, 171, 189 
Raised Doughnuts ... 347 


" Corn starch Blanc- 


267 


" Graham Gems . . 48 
" Muffins .... 45 


ich Ice Cream .... 
" Lemon Pie .... 


278 
221 



420 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Rich Pie Crust . . . . 211 
" Preserves, to make . 3GO 
" Pudding Sauce. . . 249 

" Waffles G2 

Ring of Meat 30 

Ripe Currant Pie. ... 223 

Risen Waffles 62 

Rising Powder Proportions 8 

Roast Beef 173 

" Chickens . . . . 1G1 

" Ducks 104 

" Goose 1G5 

" Mutton or Lamb. . 180 
" Oysters .... 136 
" Pigeons .... 165 

" Pork 181 

" Rabbit 170 

" Turkey 159 

" Veal 178 

Rolled Jelly Cake ... 326 
" Pudding .... 246 
" Sandwiches ... 65 

Rolls, etc 299 to 307 

Rolls (of Bread Dough) . 300 

Rouge Mange 267 

Roux, to make a .... 11 

Rusk 304 

Rye Beach Gingerbread . 338 
Saddle of Venison . . . 170 
Sago Blanc-mange . . . 266 

" Pudding 226 

Salad Dressing . . 142 to 144 
" " to keep a week 144 

Salads 141 to 147 

Sally Lunn 51,52 

Sally's Vinegar Sauce . . 25 1 

Salmon 120, 126 

" & 1'Indienne. . . 126 

" Salad 145 

Salsify 198, 199 



PAGE. 

Salsify Fritters .... 198 

Salt Codfish Stewed. . . 36 

" Mackerel. . . . ' . 37 

Sandusky Cake .... 330 

Sandwiches . . . . 64, 65 

Saratoga Potatoes ... 66 

Sauce for Poached Eggs . 19 

" Hollandaise ... 154 

" Piquante .... 155 

Sauces for Meat, etc. 150 to 157 

" Puddings 248 to 252 

Sausages 32, 33 

Save-all Soup 109 

Savoury Toast .... 65 
Scotch Pudding .... 229 
Scrambled Eggs .... 22 
Sea Moss Blanc-mange. . 269 
" Lemon Jelly. . 256 
Seasonings, Thickenings, 
and Accompaniments 

to Soup 101 

Seed Cakes 341 

Shad 124, 125 

Shelled Beans 202 

Shell Fish 131 

Sherry Toast 394 

Short Cake . . . . 54 to 56 
Shrewsbury Cakes . . . 345 

Shrimp Salad 146 

Silver Cake 332 

Simple Charlotte Russe . 270 
" Cornstarch Blanc- 
mange 267 

Slack-baked Bread, what 

to do with .... 308 

Slapjacks 60 

Sliced Cucumber Pickled . 378 
" Ham Dressed . . 32 
Small Birds, any kind, to 

Cook 168 



Alphabetical Index. 



421 



PACK. 

Small Cakes 340 

Smelts 125 

Smothered Chicken. *. . 103 

" Oysters . . . 139 

Snap Beans 202 

Snow Balls 26G 

" Cake 328 

" Fritters .... 94 

" Pudding .... 257 

Soft Cookies 342 

Soft Soap 397 

Soggy under crust, to pre- 
vent 214 

Soup 100 to 117 

Asparagus . . . . 110 

" Bean and Tomato . 112 

" Bean (Navy Beans) . 112 

" Black Bean. . . . Ill 

" Beef . . .... 105 

" Bouillon * * . . 104 

" Chicken Broth. . . 108 
" " or Turkey 

107, 108 

" Clam 116 

" Cora 116 

" Green Pea . . k . 115 

" Mock Bisque . . . 114 

" Turtle ... 104 

" Mutton or Lamb Broth 107 

44 Noodle 106 

" Okra or Gumbo . . Ill 

" Oyster 116 

" Pottage a la Reine . 109 

" Potato or Lenten . 114 

44 Save-all 109 

" Spiced Tomato . . 112 

" Tomato 113 

" Veal 106 

" Vegetables. . . . 110 

" White 108 



PAGE. 

Soups without Meat. 113 to 117 
Sour Bread, what to do 

with 308 

Sour Cream Cookies . . 341 

Sour Cream Sauce . . . 252 

" Milk Graham Gems . 48 

" " Short Cake . . 54 

" to use ... 401 

Spanish Cream .... 262 

Toast .... 312 

Spice Cake 329 

44 Cookies .... 343 

Spiced Beef 79 

" Bread Pudding . . 234 

" Currants .... 377 

" Fish 128 

" Gingerbread . . 838 

44 Tomato Soup . . 112 

Spices, etc., for Soup . . 101 

Spinach 200 

44 Sponge " (for Bread) . 316 

Sponge Cake . . . 336 to 337 

Gingerbread . . 338 

Spruce Beer 354 

Squash 195, 196 

44 Fritters .... 97 

Pie ... 217, 218 

Squirrels 171 

Stale Bread, to freshen . 309 

St. Charles' Pone ... 50 

St. Patrick's Pie ... 30 

Steamed Brown Bread . 298 

Eggs .... 385 

44 Oysters ... 135 

Stewed and Baked Fruits 355 

44 Apples . . 355, 356 

14 Berries, Cherries, 

or Grapes . . 358 

44 Breast of Veal . 178 

44 Carrots . 197 



422 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Stewed Cauliflower . . . 197 

Celery .... 200 

Codfish (salt) . . 36 

" Corn 203 

" Cucumbers ... 205 

" Ducks .... 164 

" Eels 131 

" Fish 129 

" Fowl with Oysters 161 

" Kidneys .... 33 

" Oysters . . 133, 134 

" Pears 358 

" Pigeons .... 165 

" Potatoes. ... 41 

" Prunes .... 358 

Kaisins .... 359 

" Rhubarb .... 325 
" Salsify or Oyster 

Plant .... 198 

" Terrapins . . . 141 

" Tomatoes . . . 204 

Stews 183 to 188 

Stick Bread 298 

Stirred Eggs with Gravy . 25 

Stock for Soup .... 104 
Strawberry Shortcake ... 55 

String Beans 202 

" " Canned . . 373 

Stuffed Baked Tomatoes . 69 

" Beefsteak . . . 175 

" Egg-plant ... 71 

" Eggs 26 

" Peppers . . . . 199 

" Potatoes .... 40 

" Tomatoes ... 70 
Stuffing, Gravy, Sauces, 

etc. ... 147 

for Baked Fish . 121 
" " Ducks or 

Geese ... 149 



PAGE. 

Stuffing for Turkey, 
Chicken, Veal, Lamb 
or Fish . . . 147, 148 
Succotash .... 203, 204 

Suet Pudding 243 

" or Fat, how to try out 11 

" to Chop 11 

Sugar Candy 288 

" Gingerbread ... 339 

" Taffy, with Nuts . 287 

Suggestions for Tea . . 290 

Summer Medley .... 204 

" Salad .... 146 

Squash. . . 195, 196 

Superior Graham Bread . 297 

Swedish Rolls .... 302 

Sweet-breads 179 

" Cucumber Pickles . 379 
" Muffins .... 46 
" Pickles (Pears. 

Peaches or Cherries) . 378 

Sweet Potato Custard Pie 220 

" " Pie ... 216 

" Pudding . 232 

" Potatoes ... 39, 41 

Swell Pudding .... 227 

Sydney Smith's Salad 

Dressing 143 

Syllabub 269 

Syrup Flavoring .... 253 
" for Preserves . . 360 
" Sauce 251 

T. 

Table of Approximate 

Weights and Measures 8 

Table of "Weights and 

Measures 8 

Taffy 287 



Alphabetical Index. 



423 



PAGE. 

Tapioca or Sago Blanc- 
mange 266 

Pudding ... 226 

Tarts 225 

Tea 290, 348 

" alaRusse .... 341) 

Tea-Cakes 45, 46 

Terrapins, Stewed . . . 141 
Tempting Dish for Luncheon 78 
The General's Sponge Cake 336 
Thickened Milk .... 390 
Thickenings for Soup . . 102 
Things Made Without Eggs 400 

Tipsy Parson 273 

Tip-Top Jelly Cake . . . 323 

Toast 310 to 313 

" Sandwiches ... 31 

To Bake Bread .... 294 

" " Cake .... 317 

" Blanch Almonds . . 13 

" Boll . . 9 

" " Fish 118 

" " in Lard .... 9 

" Meat .... 173 

" " Pudding ... 24 

" Bottle Cider .... 897 

" Broil 12 

" " Fish 124 

" Can Fruit 371 

" Chop Suet 11 

" Clean or Draw Fowls . 158 
" Color Frosting . . . 319 
" Cook Small birds (any 

kind) 168 

" Egg-and-Crumb ... 12 
' ' Freshen Stale Bread, etc. 309 

"Fry 10 

" Glaze Pie-Crust . . . 214 
" Judge whether Bread- 
dough is Light ... 292 



PAGE. 

To Keep Poultry ... 159 
" Make a Meringue . . 13 
" " a lit >u\. ... 11 
" " a Saucerf ul of Ice 
Cream in Fifteen Min- 
utes 396 

" Make Gravy .... 149 
" " Jelly .... 373 
" " Rich Preserves . 360 

" Mix Bread 291 

" " Cake 316 

" Open Clams .... 131 
11 " Lobsters ... 140 

" Parboil 9 

" Pickle Fish .... 128 
" Prepare Poultry ... 158 
" " Sweet-breads 178 
" Preserve Eggs for Win- 
ter Use 396 

" Prevent a soggy Under- 

crust 214 

" Raise Cream quickly . 399 
" Roast Meat .... 172 
" Select Poultry ... 157 
" Stone Raisins ... 13 
" Stuff and Truss Poultry 159 
" Tell when Cake is done 318 
" Thicken with Flour . 11 
" Try out Fat or Suet . 11 
" Use Apples .... 401 
" " a Roast of Meat . 27 
" " Milk .... 400,401 
" " Sour Milk ... 401 
" " Whites of Eggs . 400 
" " Yolks of Eggs. . 400 
" Warm a Boiled Pudding 243 
" Wash Currants ... 13 
" Poultry . . . 159 
Tomato Catsup . . . 375, 376 
" Marmalade. 370 



424 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGE. 

Tomato Omelet .... 24 
Preserve . . 364, 365 

" Salad 147 

" Sauce .... 152 
" Sauce with White 

Sauce 152 

" Soup 113 

Tomatoes, Baked ... 69 

Canned ... 372 

" Devilled. . . 68 

" Escaloped . . 44 

" Fried ... 44, 68 

" Raw .... 44 

" Stewed ... 204 

" Stuffed ... 70 

" " Baked . 69 

" Ways To Use . 208 

Tough Beefsteak, To Use 31 

Transparent Preserves . 364 

Turkey 159, 160 

" Soup . . . 107, 108 
" " Warmed Over 34 

Turnips 192 

Turnovers 225 

Tutti-Frutti Preserve . . 361 

TJ. 

Unequalled Buckwheat Cakes 57 
Unleavened Biscuit ... 307 
Uses for Bread Crumbs, A 

List of 310 

Uses for Pieces of Bread 

and Crumbs .... 307 
Uses for Pieces of Bread, 

List of 309 

v. 

Vanities 236 

Vanilla Sauce. 251 



PAGE. 

Variety Cake 325 

Veal aux Pommes ... 35 

" and Ham Loaf. . . 80 

" Croquettes .... 84 

" Cutlets or Chops . . 179 

" Loaf 81 

" Pates 93 

" Pot Pie 190 

" Salad 145 

" Soup 106 

" Stew .... 183, 184 

Vegetables . . . .39, 66, 190 

Vegetable Soup .... 110 

Velvet Cream 259 

Venison .... 86, 169, 170 

" Croquettes ... 86 

" Steaks .... 109 

Victoria Pudding ... 244 

Vinegar Candy .... 288 

" Sauce .... 251 

Virginia Pudding ... 241 

W. 

Wafers 307 

Waffles 62, 63 

Walnut Catsup .... 375 

Wafers .... 345 
Warmed-over Chicken or 

Turkey 34 

Washington Cake . . . 332 

Pie .... 238 X 

Watermelon Rind, Pickled 379 
" " Preserved 363 

Ways to use Cold Fish . 131 

" " " " Potatoes 208 

" " " " Rice . 208 

44 " " Tomato 208 
" " " up a Roast of 

Meat . . 27 

Wedding Cake .... 334 



Alphabetical Index. 



425 



PAGE. 
Weights and Measures, 

Table of 8 

Welsh Rarebit .... 6G 

Whey 391 

Whipped Cream . . . . 2C9 

White Cake 328 

" Gingerbread ... 339 

" Mountain Cake . . 323 

" Sauce 154 

" Soup 108 

Whites of Eggs, to use . 400 

Wild Birds, Rechauff6. . 77 

" Ducks 166 

" Pigeons .... 168 

" Turkey 166 

Wine and Orange Jelly . 255 
Wine Jelly. , . . 253,254 



Wine Sauce 250 

" Whey 392 

Winter Squash .... 195 

Succotash ... 203 

T. 

Yeast 313 to 316 

" Raw Potato ... 315 

" With Hops ... 815 

Yellow Sauce 251 

Yolks of Eggs, To Use . 400 



Z. 



Zest 



253 



7 DAY USE 

' '-M 



