
Sk Sxit^^ 



t i Ji. 



TX 
715 

E9391 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



^- \5 






UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



I 



Ho! all ye poor sinners, in search of good dinners. 
You'll surely be winners if our plan you will try. 
Only just take a look in this wise little book. 
And 'twill teach you to cook in the blink of an eye. 

Bread, biscuit and paste, to be made up in haste, 
Yet most pleasant to taste, of wheat, rye or corn ; 
If you happen to meet 'em, whenever you eat 'em, 
\'ou'll vow naught can beat "em assure as you're born. 

Here are jellies and ices, of rarest devices, 
And cakes of the nicest, if such you prefer. 
And queer little dishes of dear little fishes. 
With our very best wishes, we gladly confer. 

Now, we are waiting, so don't stand debating, 

'Tis no use hesitating o'er a trifle so small, 

'Tis cash that we need, and if we succeed, 

While on dainties you feed, we'll say thank you for all. 



A PKACTTCAL 



COOK BOOK 



co.Mriij':D 



FROM THK CHOICEST RECIPES 



OF 



MANY GOOD HOUSEWIYES. 

_. "All have been tried and found true."^^ X - tt 

^X? FOR 

ST. ALOYSIUS' CHURCH FAIR. 



MAY, 1887. ( MAY 7 IR87' 

Hupus 11. D.Irp.y, Printeu and Publish ek. 



avashington 
Pro 

188^ 



3v 



ENTEREn ACCORDING TO ACT OF CONGRESS, IN THE YEAR lS,S7, 

By MRS. VIRGINIA EWING, 

IN THE OKFICR OF THE LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS, AT WASHINGTON. 



/Ky 



RECEIPT FOR R PLEfiSfiNT DINNER PARTY. 



" A round table holding eight, 
A hearty welcome and little state ; 
One dish set on at a time, 
As plain as you please, but always prime ; 
Beer for asking, and in pewter ; 
vServants who don't require a tutor ; 
Talking guests and dumb waiters, 
Warm plates and hot potatoes/' 

There is a Greek proverb that the persons at a social repast should 
not be less in number than the Graces, nor more than the Muses. 



REMEMBER 



To one quart of Hour use ihiee teaspooiifiils of baking powder, 
or to one quart of flour use one Icaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar. 

Use sweet milk .with soda and cream of tartar; use S(Hn- milk with 
saleratus. 

Always put cream of tartar in tlour, and soda in milk. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



SOLIDS. 

One quart of Hour or meal, ... e([uals one pound. 

Two cupfuls of butter, " " 

One generous pint of li(juid, - . . . " << 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, - - - " . " 

Two heaping cupfuls of powdered sugar, - - " " 

One pint of finely chopped meat packed solidly " " 

Ten eggs, _.-_-.-" '< 

LIQUIDS. 

Four tablespoonfuls, - - - - equal one-half gill. 

Four gills, ----- (IK pint. 

Two pints, ----- an (juart. 

Four quarts, - - - - - - " '« gallon. 

Sixty Drops, -...."" teaspoonful. 

Four tablespoonfuls, - . - . " " wineglassful. 

Twelve tablespoonfuls, - . . " " teacupful. 



CONTEXTS 



Page. 

Bread ...... 9 

Breakfast and Tea Cakes - - - - 12 

Soup 10 

Meats and Fish - - - - - 20 

Salads and Sauces .... B2 

Pies - - - - - - - 86 

Puddings ....-- BS 

Desserts - - - - - - - 4» 

Cakes ...... 46 

Drinks - - - - - - - 54 

Pickles ...... 57 



BREAD. 

" Ne'er speak ill o' them who's bread ye eat." 



Bread. — Sift three pounds of flour into a dish; put 
in two teaspoon fuls of salt, two teaspoonfuls of fine 
white sugar ; heat one pint of milk and melt therein two 
tablespoonfuls of lard. Make a hole in the center of the 
flour, and stir in the hot milk. Put in four tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water; stir the mixture in the center, and, 
when lukewarm, add a pint of yeast ; stir all well to- 
gether and knead the mass for fifteen minutes. Cover 
it and set it away for the night. In the morning, an 
hour before baking, put your loaves or rolls into a pan, 
and bake them for about one half an hour, according 
to size. . — An Old Housekeeper. 

Commence about 2 P. M. 

Take a tablespoon ful of mashed potatoes, one cup of 
flour and a little hot water to make it thin, add a 
l)iece of butter (size of a walnut), let it cool ; then put 
in your yeast, and let it stand in the kitchen until bed- 
time; then take full quart of quite hot water and stir 
iu flour until thick as griddle-cakes; then stir in yeast 
mixture and beat well. Let it stand in warm room 
until morning ; then add salt, and mix in flour slowly, 
and mould a long time. Do not make too stiff with 
flour ; then let it rise. When light, make into loaves 
and rise again, and then bake. Do not make loaves 
large and there will be enough for rolls and two loaves 
of bread. Large loaves do not look or bake as well. 



10 



INIiLK Erkad. — It is now rccoinmended that milk 
shall be used in making bread. A pint of it in the ordi- 
nary loaf, instead of water, adds some solid nutriment 
to the meal, and is a great improvement. Milk bread 
does not keep fresh as long as water bread, but it is 
delicious when fresh, and perhaps all the more whole- 
some for drying quickly. 

To Make Stale Bread Fresh. — Put a stale loaf 
into a closely-covered tin; expose it for half an hour or 
longer to a heat not stronger than that of boiling water; 
then remove the tin and allow it to cool ; the loaf will 
thus be restored to the appearance and properties of 
new bread. 

Dame Eleanor's Yeast. — One gallon of water, one 
dozen of large potatoes, one handful of hops, one cup 
of sugar, half a cup of salt. Boil the hops in water 
three-quarters of an hour. Boil the potatoes by them- 
selves until soft ; then mash through a fine colander; add 
to the potatoes the salt and sugar and pour over all the 
hop water while very hot. When nearly cold put in a 
large cup of yeast, the same kind. When bubbling i't 
is ready for use, or to bottle or jar. 

Yeast No. 2. — Pare and grate three large potatoes raw, 
on one-half cup of hops pour one pint boiling water, 
and let it stand half an hour. To one-half cup of sugar 
and one-half cup of salt add one quart of boiling water. 
Strain hop water into that, then boil the whole (potatoes 
and all) five minutes. Let it stand until cool ; then 
start with compressed yeast. When it rises, stir it down, 
put in a cool place. When nearly gone, commence 
again and start it with some of the same. For two 
loaves ot bread take one-half cup of yeast. 



11 



Boston Brown Bread. — Two cups of corn meal, one " 
cup of rye or graham flour, one pint of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one cup of molasses. Fill a tin pail 
or mould three-quarters full ; boil three hours and bake 
one hour. — Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Graham Bread. — Set a sponge over night of about 
a cpiart of lukewarm water and enough graham flour to 
make a thick batter, a little salt, half a cup of yeast. In 
the morning, when it is (piite light, add to this a lare^e 
cu[) of molasses, into which has been stirred, until dis- 
solved, a teasj)oonful of soda, then more graham flour 
till ([uite stiff so that it can be poured into pans without 
kneading. Set it to rise again and when very light 
bake. This makes two loaves. 

— Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

RvE Bread. — Three pintsof rye flour, one ])int of wheat 
flour sifted together twice; put into bread-pan; add four 
teaspoonfuls of salt, half a cupful of molasses with water, 
in all about one quart of water; in half a cupful of tepid 
water soak half a cake of Fleischman's yeast. Stir all 
slowly with hand, beat it well, then leave it to rise till 
morning ; when light, place it in pans without further 
stirring. — Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Bedford Corn Bread. — One-quarter pound of but- 
ter, one-quarter pound of sugar (light weight), cream 
together; add a pound of corn meal, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar mixed with it, and one half pound wheat 
flour; stir these in alternately with a quart of milk and 
four eggs beaten light; stir very thoroughly, and just 
before putting in the pans add a teaspoon ful of soda. 
Bake in small cups or in a round pan. 

— Miss Shriver. 



12 

Staff. -.—Four cupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one-fourth of a cup of butter, one cup of boiled 
milk, the white of an egg, one-fourth of a cake of com- 
pressed yeast, one scant teaspoonful of salt; dissolve the 
butter in the milk, which have blood warm; beat the 
white of the egg to a stiff froth ; dissolve the yeast in 
three tablespoon fuls of cold water. Add all the other 
ingredients to the flour and knead well. Let the dough 
rise over night, and in the morning make into balls 
about the size of a large English walnut. Roll each of 
these balls into a stick about a foot long. Use the 
moulding board. Place the sticks 'about two inches 
apart in long pans; let them rise half an hour in a cool 
place, and bake in a moderate oven. The sticks should 
be dry and crisp; they can not be if baked rapidly. 
Serve with soup. — Miss Farloa. 

The '' Flat Bread " of the Norwegians is a cake made 
of water and either rye or oatmeal stirred together, well 
kneaded and baked on a griddle. 

" Better is oaten bread to-dax than cakes to-morrow .' ' 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Murray Hill Breakfast Rolls. — Into one pound of 
flour rub two ounces of butter, and the whites of three 
eggs well beaten ; add a tablespoonful of good yeast, a 
little salt and milk to make a stiff dough ; cover and set 
in a warm place till light, which will be an hour or more, 
according to the strength of the yeast ; cut into rolls, 
dip the edges into melted butter, to keep them from 
sticking together, and bake in a quick oven. 



13 

French Rolls. — Set a sponge at ten o'clock in the 
morning with one pint of warm milk and one cup of 
melted butter in the milk, the yolks of four eggs, one 
cup of sugar, all well beaten together ; then add the 
whites beaten to a froth and a pint of yeast ; let it rise 
until one o'clock, then make into a loaf with flour 
enough to make a soft dough ; let it rise then until four 
o'clock. Cut in squares and roll, brush over with melted 
butter, put en tins, not close together ; spread another 
layer of melted butter ; let it stand till light ; bake 
twenty minutes. — Mrs. Katherine Smith. 

Parker House Rolls.' — Four pints sifted flour, one 
pint boiled milk, three spoonfuls of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, lump of butter size of a walnut, and 
the same amount of lard, one and one-half teacupfuls of 
potato yeast. To mix the above take out one pint of 
flour, rub together the sugar, butter, lard and salt in the 
three pints of flour. Pour into the three pints yeast 
and milk tepid; set it to rise; let it get very light; stiffen 
the mixture with the one pint of flour left; let it stand 
to rise again; roll it out in a sheet and spread butter 
thinly over it ; roll it over two or three times; cut into 
rolls and bake in a x^uick oven ; let it rise after being 
cut into rolls. — An Old Honsekeepe?-. 

Laplanders, or Pop Overs. — One quart of milk, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one quart of flour, small lump of 
butter, two eggs. Heat the pans before jnitting in the 
butter, and bake in the oven. 

ALLECiHENY RoLLS. — One pint bread sponge, quarter 
of a pound of butter, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
^%g, flour sufficient to roll out, cut and rub melted but- 



14 

ter on half, lapping the other half over. Let them rise 
until very light ; bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Tea Rusks (very cood). — Set to rise in the morn- 
ing a sponge of three eggs, one cup of yeast, one cup 
of mashed potatoes, small cup of granulated sugar. 
When light add one-half cup of butter, enough flour to 
make a soft dough ; let rise before making into cakes 
and again before putting into pans. 

— Afrs. Ellen Bayne. 

Thin Wafer Biscuit. — Pound of flour, one tgg^ 
lard the size of an ^gg. Mix with milk and roll very 
thin. Water may be used instead of milk, and the tgg 
is not indispensable. -An Old Housekeeper. 

Delicious Tea Biscuit. — Boil one quart of milk three 
minutes; letitcool; then add half a cup of yeast, (dissolve 
the yeast in a little warm water first; and stiain it so 
that the meal will not give a bitter taste to the dough); 
melt a piece of butter the size of a large walnut; stir this 
in with flour enough to make a stiff sponge ; let it rise 
three hours, then roll and cut out the biscuit. Make 
them thinner than for ordinary biscuits ; spread them 
evenly with butter; double together; draw out to make 
good shape; let them rise from fifteen minutes to half an 
hour, then bake in a quick oven. 

— Mrs. H. M. Sanders, 

Waffles. — Stir half a pound of butter to a cream; 
stir half a pound of flour gradually into halfapintof 
milk till perfectly smooth; beat the yolks of five eggs 
thoroughly, then stir into the flour; beat the whites to a 
stiff foam, then beat them into the butter till the whole 
is white and creamy; then mix all together and bake. 



15 

G RAH AIM Gems. — Three pounds of flour, one cup of 
molasses, half a cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of lard, . 
two eggs. To each pound of flour allow one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder; mix with milk, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Muffins. — One pint of sweet milk, one egg, a little 
salt, piece of butter, size of small egg; stir in flour until 
thicker than ordinary griddle cakes, three-quarters cake 
of yeast ; set this at night; stir it well and bake in rings 
on the griddle. 

Corn Muffins. — Two heaping cups of Indian meal, 
one cup of flour, three eggs, two and-a-half cups of milk, 
one tablespoonful of melted lard, two tablespoon fuls 
white sugar, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, one of 
salt ; beat thoroughly, white and yolks separately. Bake 
quickly in gem pans. — M/ss M. Irvine. 

CxREEN Corn Cakes. — To one dozen and a half ears 
of corn add four eggs, tablespoonful of butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, one cup of flour, a teaspoonful of salt. 

Griddle Cakes. — To one pint of sour milk add one 
small teaspoonful of soda, beating it till it foams, enough 
flour to make a batter, one ^gg, beaten separately, stir- 
ring in yolk first, a little salt, whites beaten light last. 
If preferred use sweet milk, two eggs, and teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Indian meal may be used in place of 
flour. 

BucKw^HEAT Cakes. — About ten large spoonfuls of 
buckwheat-flour, two spoonfuls of Indian meal, half a 
teacupful of yeast. Beat the batter at least fifteen minutes 
at night; mix with warm water, and add some salt. 

Old-Fasiiioned Corn Dodgers. — To a light quart of 



ineal,anix well one teaspoonful of soda, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one pint of fresh buttermilk. Bake 
in a moderate oven. —Miss Mitchell. 

''Always taking out of a meal-tub and never putting 
in, soon brings you 'to the bottom." 

Scotch Oat Cake. — One quart oatmeal (ground fine), 
a teaspoonful of salt, cold water, just enough to mix it 
into a thick paste, thick enough to be formed in cakes 
with the hand, about one-eighth of an inch thick. Bake 
on a griddle very slowly until crisp. 

— " Bonnie Lass.'' 



SOUP. 



Beef is the best and most nutritious meat for making 
soup. It should always be put on in cold water and al- 
lowed to sifnmer four or five hours. It should never be 
allowed to boil hard ; if water must be added it should 
be boiling. It is an excellent plan to boil meat for soup 
the day previous to using it. When the meat is thor- 
oughly done, strain off the liquor and set it aside until 
the following morning, when the fat can be easily re- 
moved. 

Clear Soup. — Four pounds of beef, a knuckle of veal, 
one chicken, one carrot, one onion, one-half dozen 
cloves stuck into the onion. Let it simmer ail day, 
strain through a cloth and let it stand over night; chop 
a little parsle) and put in while heating; strain before 
sending to the table. 

— Mrs. Ellen Ewing SJiei-man. 

Celery Cream Soup. — Boil one small cup of rice in 



17 

three pints of milk until it will piss through a sieve : 
grate the white i)arts of two heads of celery, (three if 
small) on a bread giater ; add to this the rice after it 
has been strained ; put to it one quart of strong white 
stock, let it boil until the celery is perfectly tender ; 
season with salt, cayenne and serve. It is improved by 
using one pint of cream in place of milk. 

— Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Black Bean Soup. — One quart black beans, soaked 
over night, three poinds beef, one-half pound pork, one 
head celery, two grated carrots; boil all for five hours, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, wine, two hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine, one sliced lemon, onetablespoonful tomato 
catsup, one walnut and toasted bread. Strain soup 
through a colander; serve hot. 

— Mfs. R. J. Hemmiik. 

Tomato Soup — One can of tomatoes, one large onion, 
one teaspoonful of soda, cayenne pepper, salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls of stock, one quart of boiled milk, thickened 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half pint of cream. 
If the soup is made without stock, use a pint of cream. 
Stir the tomato and onion together, put in the soda, 
salt, and cayenne ; strain through a fine sieve.; add the 
stock, if used. Boil one quart of milt, thickened with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour; stir the milk and tomatoes 
together very carefully over the fire just before serving, 
and add salt and cayenne if needed. Pour through a 
strainer into the tureen — stir in the cream after the soup 
is in the tureen. Do not let the milk and tomatoes 
stand over the fire after they have been put together, as 
there is danger of. curdling. Place small squares of 
bread fried m butter in the tureen, before pouring in 
the soup. — An Old Housekeepet. 



15^ 



A Delicious Soup for Friday. — Take six potatoes, 
four onions, four ounces of crushed ta[)iota, one and 
one-half pints of milk, butter, pepper, and salt. This 
makes two quarts of soup. Cut up potatoes and onions, 
put them in two quarts of boiling water ; boil three- 
quarters of an hour ; rub the vegetables through a 
sieve, put back the smooth potato paste into the water 
again, add the butter, salt, and pepper to taste. Boil 
the four ounces of tapioca for fifteen minutes in the 
soup, then add the milk, and when fully heated through 
serve. A little marjoram or nutmeg improves it. 

—Mrs. A. M. Tliackeia. 

Corn Soup. — Twelve large ears of corn, cut off the 
grain, and scrape the cob with the back of the knife 
until you get all the substance. Put two quarts of milk 
in a saucepan and let it come to a boil. In another 
saucepan put two quarts of water with the cobs, let them 
simmer ten minutes, then take the cobs out and put :he 
corn in; as soon as the water boils, put the milk in and 
boil fifteen minutes; add salt, pei)per, and a little mace, 
butter the size of an egg, and tablespoonful of flour. 

Black Bean Soup. — One and one-half pints of black 
beans (sometimes called turtle-soup beans), about three 
quarts of water, one onion, and one carrot. The soup 
should be put on the fire six or seven hours before din- 
ner. Boil till the beans are sufficiently soft to pass 
through a sieve, put back in saucepan with six grains of 
allspice, six cloves, a little mace, and bunch of thyme, 
all tied in a bag. A short time before serving add a 
spoonful of flour, which should be well mixed with but- 
ter, of the latter, a piece about the size of a large walnut; 
let this boil up once. Have in tureen slices of lemon, 



19 

being careful to take out the seeds ; the yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs (one for each person), one gill of sherry or 
madeira, a teaspoonful of mushroom catsup, if you like 
the flavor of the catsup. Pour the soup in the tureen 
and serve. — An Old Housekeeper. 

Puree de Saumon. — One pound can of salmon, one 
quart of milk, one heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt ; add pepper and mace and nearly a cup of hot 
water. Boil the milk ; mix butter, flour and seasoning 
and add to it. Pour off every drop of oil from the 
salmon ; pick out the bones and skin and stir salmon in 
the milk; then strain through puree sieve. 

— Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Oyster Soup. — To two quarts of new milk add one 
pint of boiling water, the liquor from one quart of oys- 
ters, and salt and pepper to taste. I>et it come to a 
boil, add one quart of oysters ; boil one minute. Have 
the soup tureen ready with two dozen powdered oyster 
crackers and a tablespoonful of butter in it ; pour the 
soup into it and serve immediately. Putter boiled in 
soup curdles it. 

Lobster Soup. — Boil four good-sized lobsters ; sever 
the meat from the body, claws and tail ; cut it all up 
into dice, or cliop very fine, and set aside ready for use. 
Bruise the shell, small claws and fins in a marble mor- 
tar and put them into two quarts of fish stock ; add to 
this the well-toasted crust of a French roll ; peel and 
cut up fine one onion, part of the peel of a small lemon, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, and half a teaspoonful of cay- 
enne pepper. Let these simmer an hour. AVhile this 
is cooking make force-meat of the pounded coral of the 



20 

lobster, part of the meat, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
the same of bread crumbs, and bind all together with a 
well-beaten egg. Roll the forcemeat into balls the size 
of an olive and fry in boiling hot butter, shaking them 
all the time so that they may be browned equally. Put 
them in the tureen and keep hot. When soup is nearly 
done strain to clear from shell ; put back into soup ket- 
tle and add remainder of lobster meat. Let it boil a 
minute ; then pour over balls in tureen. Serve hot. 

— Mrs. Beecher. 

Chicken Broth. — To each pound of chicken add 
one quart of cold water; crack the bones well ; let it 
cook unsalted, covered closely until it falls to pieces. 
Strain it through fine colander, then through two pieces 
of flannel. Let the liquid simmer half an hour; add 
two teaspoonfuls of cooked rice, from one to four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, salt, pepper, and a little chopped 
parsley. Serve with cream crackers. 

The same as above for Mutton Broth. 



MEATS AND FISH. 



Rules for Boiling Meats. — All fresh meat should be 
put on to cook in boiling water ; then the outer part 
contracts, and the internal juices are prevented from 
running out in the water and thus wasted. This is the 
point to be attained in making soup — to have all the 
juices extracted; but where the meat is to be eaten, it is 
desirable that all of its goodness be retained. If the 
meat were put over the fire in cold water and then slow- 
ly came to a boil, the juices would be extracted, and it 



21 

would remain dry and tasteless. On the contrary, all 
salt meat should be put into cold water, in order that, 
by its slow cooking, the salt may be extracted. 

Boiled Ham. — Soak the ham in fresh water for twelve 
hours, changing the water twice ; simmer it about an 
hour for each pound-weight : never allow the water to 
boil. Put into the water while it is simmering one pint of 
champagne or other dry wine, half^ a ])int of vinegar 
and a wisp of hay as large as your wrist. Allow the ham 
to stand twelve hours in the water in which it was boiled 
with the jacket on. Take the jacket off, trim the ham 
smooth, rub thoroughly with brown sugar, stick with 
cloves, bake slowly until browned on the outside, bast- 
ing with wine or champagne. Put immediately on ice 
and cool rapidly as possible. 

— L iciit. - Com . Perry • . 

Louisiana Daube. — Six or eight pounds of round of 
beef, the second cut is generally the best. Scrape it 
nicely, than make a dozen slits in the beef, and into 
each slit put a strip of bacon ah inch long and a quarter 
of an inch thick (if liked, carrot may be put in also), 
and a couple of cloves, slice a large onion and sprinkle 
it over the roast; also one tablespoon ful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of allspice, and one of pepper; dredge the 
whole with flour; put in the pan a tablespoonful of lard 
and half gill of water ; bake it slowly for two or three 
hours, and just before sending it to the table pour over 
the whole a glass of sherry. 

— Mrs. J. E. Morse. 



fe' 



Curry a la China. — Disjoint a tender, fat chicken, 
as if for fricassee. Slice one medium-sized onion. Chop 
fine one medium-sized onion. Mix smoothly two table- 



oo 



spoonfuls of sifted flour in a half cup of water, grate fine 
one-half of fresh cocoanut. Add all of the milk of the 
cocoanut and a half cup of water ; let it stand until 
ready for use ; strain all through a fine sieve. In a 
porcelain kettle put a heaping tablespoon ful of lard, fry 
in it the sliced onion; as soon as the onion is thoroughly 
brown take it out, put the chicken in the hot lard to fry 
a half hour, then add to it a pint of boiling water; then 
in a few minutes add tlie chopped omow and the browned 
onion (previously taken out), gradually stir in the flour 
thickening, add the strained cocoanut juice, and one 
tablespoon ful of curry powder, one tablespoonful of 
ground ginger, one-quarter teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per, and salt to taste. Take about two hours to cook 
the chicken thoroughly. When done the curry sauce 
should be of a rich brown color and about as thick as 
good beef gravy. Serve with delicately-cooked rice, 
also with fried eggs and small strips of breakfast bacon. 

— Miss Lizzie Sherman. 

Beefsteak. — After boiling a beefsteak place it in a 
pan on the back of the range with a little butter, pepper 
and salt, cover it and leave it fifteen or twenty minutes. 

—Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

Veal Cutlets. — Score the round bone in the center 
of the cut, but trim from it carefully all fat and gristle, 
and any stringy substance which may be in or through 
the meat. Season well with pepper and salt, then dip 
the meat in raw egg, and then in rolled cracker crumbs, 
fry in butter gently for an hour, having the skillet on 
the back of the stove. When it is a delicate brown on 
one side turn the meat on the other ; just before it is 
ready to take up, add a few thin flakes of breakfast 
bacon which cook in a few moments, and dish with the 



23 



veal and whatever dressing may remain in the skillet. 
Never make any additional dressing or gravy for 
veal. — Mrs. Mcvrie Eiving Steele. 

Okra Stew. — Take thick, juicy sirloin steak and cut 
into pieces about the size of the palm of your hand. 
Put a layer of these pieces into a saucepan, cover them 
with a thick layer of sliced tomatoes, then a very thick 
layer of sliced okra, some bits of onion cut very fine, 
salt, pepper, and butter rolled in flour ; also dredge a 
little flour over the top; then put another layer of meat 
and vegetables as before, repeating until you have the 
quantity required by the size of your family ; pour over 
the whole a very little water, just enough to keep the meat 
from the bottom of the pan. Cook very slowly till the 
meat is done through. 

Another good stew is made of a fresh tongue. Put 
it into strong salt water and let it stand over night. The 
next day stew slowly, in a small quantity of water, with 
carrots, a little turnips and onion. When done through, 
take the tongue out, also the vegetables, which may be 
laid around the dish; strain the water and make a gravy 
by adding salt, pepper, butter, spice, currant jelly, and 
wine; thicken a little with browned flour, 

—Mrs. Whelan. 

EscALLoPED Turkey. — Make a white sauce as for 
oral/ farcies ; cut cold turkey (or chicken) in dice and 
put into a deep baking-dish, buttered, adding any stuf- 
fing which may be left and a can of mushrooms ; pour 
over the sauce, cover with crumbs, and butter and bake. 

— Miss Hudson. 

Codfish and Cream. — Soak over night a cupful of 
desiccated codfish. In the morning drain all the water 



24 

off, i)ut it on the stove, add a teacupful of cream and a 
large piece of butter (the size of a Maderia nut). Do 
not allow it to boil much, as it burns quickly. Stir it 
with a fork. When you take it off the stove pour one 
beaten egf>^ over it, and put it into the oven a few min- 
utes to brown. Serve hot. A splendid breakfast dish. 

—Afrs. E. T. Wright. 

Crab Farcies. — Eighteen crabs (if heavy) for twelve 
persons. Boil till thoroughly done; remove the upper 
shell and clean it carefully; pick out the crab meat, 
keeping it as whole as possible, and being careful to al- 
low no bits of shell to be in it. Simmer a pint of cream 
with one onion and a bunch of parsley till well flavored, 
add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, a little salt and cayenne pep- 
per, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour. It must 
boil so that the flour will not taste raw, and must be 
perfectly smooth. Add the crab meat to this sauce and 
fill the shells full, but not pack down. Cover with 
bread crumbs, put small bits of butter on top, and bake 
till a golden brown, in a quick oven. 

— Miss Hudson. 

EscALLOPED Clams. — Twenty-five clams, shells 
opened ; chop them into mince meat ; add four hard- 
boiled eggs, one-quarter of a loaf of bread (soft part) 
well soaked in milk, parsley, butter, salt and pepper, and 
one onion, boiled. Put back into the half shells, cover 
with rolled crackers, and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

—Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

To Boil Crabs. — Boil one dozen large crabs — if fat 
you may add about one quart of milk after they are 
picked — from one-quarter to one-half pound of butter. 



25 



l)epper and salt, tarragon vinegar, if you like, and about 
one-half dozen pounded crackers. Bake in shells. 

— An Old Housekeeper. 



HNTKHKS AND DAINTY DISHES. 



Beef and Macaroni. (An Italian dish). — A piece 
of fieshy beef, of five or six pounds — the shoulder, with 
a little fat, to avoid using butter; one l^love of garlic, 
chopped fine ; add pepper, salt and ground allspice, to 
form a paste, with which rub the beef thoroughly. 
After rubbing with the spices, let the beef be nicely 
skewered and tied; put it in a covered vessel, with 
about three pints of water, six hours before dinner, and 
let it simmer slowly ; three-fourths of an hour before 
dinner pour off most of the gravy, and put into it from 
three-fourths of a pound to one pound of macaroni, 
shaking the vessel occasionally ; about ten minutes be- 
fore serving add to the macaroni a good handful of 
ordinary cheese, grated (or less quantity of Parmesan, if 
you prefer the latter) ; serve the macaroni and gravy in 
one dish ; about twenty minutes before serving cut a 
small quantity of potatoes the size of a walnut, and let 
them cook in the saucepan with the beef; serve the beef 
in a dish, garnished with the potatoes. 

— An Old Housekeeper. 

Chicken Tufts. ^ — Take the raw meat of chicken and 
mash it in a bowl with a potato masher. To each tea- 
spoonful of this crushed meat put a teaspoonful of dry 
bread (not crumbed) and work into a paste, moisten 
with cream, adding pepper, salt, and chopped parsley to 



26 

taste ; roll into forms like croquettes and steam in a 
steaming vessel; serve with drawn butter and cream 
dressing. — Mrs. A. M. Thackcra. 

Sweet Bread Scollops. — Boil and chop the sweet- 
breads; make a dressing of two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one of butler, one teaspoonful of salt, some pepper, one 
cup of stock, just enough scraped onion to flavor; boil 
until it thickens; add a cup of cream and a little fine 
parsley ; flavor with sherry or madeira wine ; mix the 
dressing with the sweet-breads; put into shells, cover 
with bread crumbs, and put in a hot oven long enough 
to color a pretty brown. 

— Mrs. J. S. Brown. 

Liver a la Terrapin. — Three-quarters of a pound of 
calfs liver cut in thin slices; fry in a little butter; brown 
together with water (or beef stock), make sufficient gravy; 
season with pepper, salt, a little onion; boil all this, or 
stew it well, then dish it. Beat up two yolks of eggs in 
a vvine-gUss of sherry and pour over the dish and serve. 

—Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

Stuffed Eggs. — Boil hard, cut lengthwise, take yolks 
and mash fine, add chopped parsley, onions, pepper, 
salt, a little very fine bread crumbs, moisten with milk, 
roll in balls to fit whites, brown them in oven, serve hot 
with milk, butter, and egg sauce. 

— Miss. IJzzie Sherman. 

Eggs. — Boil the eggs hard, halve them and take out 
the yolk, stir them into a paste, season with salt and 
pepper, and add a little cream and butter, and fill the 
whites, place them in an earthen dish. Take one pint of 
cream, thicken with one tablespoonfui of corn starch, a 



27 

small piece of butter and a little grated onion. Boil all 
together for fifteen minutes, pour it on the eggs, and 
grate a little cheese on top. Bake till brown, about five 
mmutes. Use a dish sufficiently large to place the eggs 
side by side. — An Old Housekeeper. 

Baked Omelet. — Boil one pint of milk, add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, butter half the size of an egg, stir this 
into six eggs, beaten separately, and turn all into a deep 
dish, bake ten minutes in (piick oven; serve hot. 

Try this for Breakfast. — Beat the whites of six 
eggs to a stiff froth, seasoning as for omelette, and pour 
into a buttered baking pan ; pour on to the froth, at 
equal distances, six tablespoonfuls of cream, and drop 
into each depression, made by the cream, a yolk of an 
Qgg whole. Bake in a quick oven and serve hot. 

— Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Egg Toast. — Boil six eggs soft, drop the yolks into 
boiling water and let them harden. Toast thin squares 
of bread and spread the soft whites of the eggs upon 
the hot toast, butter slightly, crumble the yolks when 
dry and spread over the top, seasoning last with red 
pepper and salt. This is a good dish for supper and 
lunch. — Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

Serve with Lettuce. — Thin fine crackers sprinkled 
with Parmesan cheese and a littl'e red pepper, put in the 
oven until hot. Serve hot. 

—Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

Anchovied Toast (with Egg Sauce.) — Spread rounds 
of buttered, crustless toast with anchovy paste and lay 
it in a heated platter. Have ready a cup of drawn 
butter boiling hot, in a farina kettle ; beat four eggs 



28 

light and stir them into the drawn butter. Season with 
pepper (anchovy should supjily most of the salt), cook 
and stir until you have a thick, smooth sauce. It should 
not clot or harden. Four minutes should cook it suffi- 
ciently. Pour upon the toast. — The Press. 

Cheese Straws.— Break into one-fourth pound of 
flour two ounces of butter, and rub with the hands till 
a smooth paste. Add to it two ounces of good, grated 
cheese, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one well 
beaten; season with cayenne pepper and salt to suit 
taste; mix all thoroughly and roll out a quarter of an 
inch thick, and put on a well-buttered tin ; then cut in 
very narrow strips four or five inches long. Bake in a 
moderate oven five minutes, or till alight golden brown, 
and serve hot. They must be removed from the tin 
with care, to prevent breaking. 

Sandwiches. — Chop cold chicken, tongue, and ham 
very fine ; melt half a cup of butter ; add a dessert- 
spoonful of good mustard, a little pepper, and stir it, 
with the beaten yolk of one egg, into the meat, and 
spread on thin slices of bread neatly trimmed and but- 
tered. Or chop fine such parts of a well-boiled or baked 
ham as can not be cut in neat slices for the table ; add 
four tablespoonfiils melted butter, mustard and pepper ; 
chop up two or three hard-boiled eggs, and the well- 
beaten yolk of one to bind the whole together, and stir 
up the whole with the ham till well mixed, and spread on 
nicely cut slices of bread well buttered. 

—Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Apple Saute. — Six good sized apples, peel and 
quarter, put into pan with an inch of melted butter, 



29 



season with pepper and salt ; shake a little, to prevent 
burning. When tender all through, take out. 

— Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Apple S.\it(,k. — Put one (:ui)iul of granulated sugar 
and half a cupful of water on to boil, season with stick 
cinnamon or lemon. When it has boiled twenty 
minutes add the apples, they having been pared and 
cored, cook tlieui till soft but not to break; grate a little 
nutmeg over. — Mrs. J. K. Miller. 

Steamed Rhubarb.— Wash and do not peel, but 
cut with a sharp knife the rhubarb into half-inch pieces, 
put it into a dish and steam it until soft, then add one 
cup sugar to one pint fruit. Do not stir it. The es- 
-sence of the plant is in the peel. 

— An Eng/ish Cook. 

Corn Meal Fritters. — To one cup of yellow meal, 
add water to make a mush, then beat together with an 
tgg and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and add 
flour to make a batter, and drop a tablespoonful at a 
time into hot lard and fry brown. 

— Mrs. Jose M. Macias. 

Corn Fritters. — The corn must be very young. 
Crate or cut corn from six ears, one half pint of milk, 
the yolks of two eggs, two or three tablespoon fuls of 
flour, stir together thoroughly, and add the beaten 
whites last. Drop, by the tablespoonful, into boiling 
hot butter and lard. 

Apple Fritters. — Pare and core the apples, and cut 
in slices about one-third of an inch thick, sprinkle with 
sugar and a little nutmeg, and let stand half an hour, 
then dip into a batter and fry six minutes in boiling 
lard, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 



30 



Fritter Batter. — One pint of flour, half pint of 
milk, one tablespoonful of salad oil or butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two eggs; beat the eggs light, and add 
the milk and salt to them. Pour half of this mixture 
on the flour, and when beaten light and smooth, add 
the remainder and the oil, and fry in boiling fat; sprinkle 
with sugar and serve on a hot dish. This batter is nice 
for all kinds of fritters. — M/ss Parloa. 

Fruit Frii ters. — Peaches, pears, pineai)[)les, ba- 
nanas, etc. ; either fresh or canned are used for fritters. If 
you choose, when making fruit fritters, you can add two 
tablesi)oonfuls of sugar to the batter. — Miss Parloa. 

Cream Potaioes. — Cut boiled potatoes into small 
blocks and put into a frying-pan, making a hole in the 
middle. Take a lump of butter and work flour with it, 
put this into the hole with some cream, season the pota- 
toes, and later stir them in the pan. — Mrs. Duffy. 

EscALLOPED Potatoes. — Slice the potatoes and let 
lie in cold water one-half an hour, then in alternate 
layers with pepper, salt, and butter. Cover the whole 
with milk and bake an hour. 

EscALLOPED Onions. — Take eight or ten good-sized 
onions, slice and boil tender, then lay in a baking-dish. 
Put in bread crumbs, small lumps of butter, pepper and 
salt between each layer until the dish is full, finishing 
with bread crumbs; add milk or cream until the dish is 
quite full. Bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. 

Tomatoes. — Stew a can of tomatoes slowly for an 
hour, then add fine dry bread crumbs, butter, salt, and 



31 

pepper. Mix well and allow to simmer slowly until 
thick and firm ; put into a baking-dish and let it brown 
slightly in the oven. — Mi^s. A. M. Thackcra. 

Arroz Amarillo (Yellow Rice). — Put your skillet 
on the stove with two tablespoon fuls of lard, joint one 
chicken and fry in the lard, then add half an onion 
(sliced), cover and let brown on a slow fire about twenty 
minutes, then add about one cupful canned tomatoes or 
half-dozen fresh tomatoes sliced, then let boil ten minutes 
longer, add one quart of water; after chicken is tender 
add three teacupfuls of rice after being washed ; let it 
cook slowly, adding water until the rice is thoroughly 
done ; season with salt to taste. 

— Mrs. Jose M. Afacias. 

Black Beans. — Soak one and a Iralf teacupfuls of 
black Mexican beans over night. Put in enough water 
to cover beans and let boil for three hours, adding water 
as it dries, until done. When done add one-half onion 
sliced and a piece of garlic, having been fried in a table- 
spoonful of lard until brown. Season with pepper and 
salt to taste. — Mrs. Jose M. Macias. 

Green Corn PuuDiNii. — Eight ears of corn,- one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teacup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of flour, salt and black pepper to taste, three 

Directions. — First grate the corn, then with a knife 
scrape the cob to get out all of the milk ; beat the eggs 
light and stir in ; cream the butter and flour ; mix with 
the milk, then add the corn ; season to the taste, and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 

■ — Mrs. Eleanor FitcJi, 



32 

Dixie. — One cup of hominy, one pint of milk, two 
eggs, butter the size of an egg. Boil the hominy the 
day before using it, as it must be cold; add to it the pint 
of milk, and then the eggs, which must be well beaten 
before being put it, then the butter and a little salt. 
When well mixed, put in a baking dish and serve like 
baked custard, and you will have a delicious dish. Bake 
thirty minutes. This will be ample for a family of six. 

— A/rs. D II a in Dii Barry. 

DRESSIN(; FOR VEGEIABLES. 
(asparagus, beans, rOTATOES, ETC.) 

One egg, one cup of milk, one spoonful of flour ; 
mix and put on the fire to boil, then add a tablespoon - 
ful of butter ; remove from fire ; add a cup of cream 
and season all well. — Sarah. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



Sweetbread Salad. — Boil sweetbreads until they 
are soft, white and mealy; break them with a silver 
fork into little pieces, and put on lettuce leaves in a 
salad bowl ; add to the mayonnaise dressing the whites 
of a couple of eggs, beaten light, and pour over the 
sweetbreads. Chopped celery may be added. 

— Mrs. Ellen Ewing Sherman. 

PoTAio AND Onion Salad. — Mix one teaspoonful 
of salt, half teaspoonful of pepper, two tablespoonfuls 
of finely-cut parsley, two grated onions, a gill of vinegar. 
Slice cold boiled potatoes in pieces an inch across and 
not too thin, pour the dressing over them and let them 



33 

stand an hour before serving. This quantity of dress- 
ing is sufficient for two quarts of sliced potatoes. 

—Mrs. A. M. Thackcm. 

Tomato Salad. — Slice one quart ripe tomatoes; beat 
one egg very light; add a very little cayenne pepper, 
two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one of salt ; chop very fine 
two small onions, add two tablespoon fuls of vinegar, 
sour orange or lemon juice, as best suits the taste, and two 
tablespoonfuls oil or melted butter ; garnish with two 
hard boiled eggs cut in slices. 

—Mrs, H. M. Sanders. 

Chicken Salad Dressing. — One raw yolk of an egg, 
one-half bottle of olive oil, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a pinch of red pepper, one-half tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Stir the oil in the egg with a silver fork, it will get thick 
like paste; then add a few drops of the vinegar at a time 
until the half bottle is used up; add the salt and pepper. 
The secret is in stirring it one way as fast as possible, 
and having the plate and oil as cold as ice. This is for 
one large chicken and four heads of celery, or for two 
small chickens with the same amount of celery. 

— 3frs. Bartley. 

Salade de OiuFS Farcies. — Four olives, one dozen 
capers, one gherkin, one small teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste, twelve eggs boiled hard, cut carefully in half 
lengthwise, olive oil and vinegar ; take the yolks and mash 
them very fine with a little oil and vinegar; seascn with 
salt and cayenne pepper ; chop the olives, capers and 
gherkin very fine, and mix with the anchovy paste. 
When thoroughly mixed, add and mix the mashed yolks 
of eggs ; fill the whites of the cut eggs with the mixture; 



34 

lay these carefully together on naiad leaves, and cover 
the whole with a mayonnaise dressing. Reserve four 
yolks for dressing. — Mrs. Daniel Donovan. 

Hot Slaw. — Cut slaw very fine; sprinkle lightly 
Avith flour, pepper and salt, put in a skillet and stir in 
half pint of sweet cream (or milk with yolks of three 
eggs beaten in), stir in one cup of weak- vinegar, and 
let it cook a few minutes. 

Mrs. A. M. Thackcra. 

Mayonnaise Dressinc^ — Mash the yolks of four liard 
boiled eggs, then mix the yolks of two raw eggs, add a 
large teaspoon ful of mustard; mix these thoroughly, then 
add a little cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Drop very 
gradually a small cup of olive oil, stirring it all the time. 
x\fter this is well mixed add a small quantity of vinegar, 
and best add a few drops of lemon to suit the taste. Mix 
each article separately. — Mrs. Daniel Donovan. 

Mayonnaise Salad Dressinc;. — One teaspoonful dry 
mustard, two teaspoonfuls salt, smaM pinch cayenne pep- 
per, half a' gill and one and one-half teaspoonfuls o/ 
vinegar, half pint sweet oil, one raw egg. Mix the mus- 
tard, salt and pepper with vinegar, add the egg and beat 
well. —Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

Governor's Sauce. — One peck green tomatoes, one 
cup of common salt, one cup of brown sugar, one^cup 
of scraped horseradish, six red peppers, four large onions, 
one tablespoon ful of whole cloves, one tablespoon ful of 
allspice, one teaspoonful ground black pepper, one tea- 
spoonful cayenne pepper. Slice tomatoes with salt over 
night. Pour off licpiid and }jut in kettle with vinegar 
enough to cover them. Then add all ingredients. 



35 



Onions and peppers must be chopped very fine. Let 
all simmer slowly till soft or reduced one-half. 

— Mrs. F. L. K. Laidlaiu. 

ChIli Sauce — One dozen large tomatoes, six table- 
si)Oonfuls of brown sugar, four teacupfuls of vinegar, 
two teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls 
of ground ginger, one teaspoon ful of ground cloves, one 
tablesi)oonful of mixed mustard, one red-pepper pod, 
four large white onions, salt to the taste. Peel and 
slice the tomatoes; chop the onions very fine; [)ut in 
the other ingredients and boil slowly for two hours. 
Rub through a sieve and seal in bottles or glass jars. 
Keep in a cool place in the summer but not too cold a 
place in the winter. This is delicious on cold meats 
or fried oysters. — Mrs. T. W. FitcJi. 

Cream Sauce. — One cupful of milk, a teaspoonful of 
flour, and a tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. 
Put the butter in a small frying-pan, and when hot, but 
not brown, add the flour. Stir until smooth ; then grad- 
ually add the milk. Let it boil up once. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper and serve. 

Hard Sauce. — In a quart bucket put a piece of but- 
ter the size of an ^gg. Soften the butter and beat until 
very light ; add gradually two cupfuls of pulverized 
sugar and half a cup of cream, wine-glass of sherry. If 
not smooth, hold in boiling water for an instant. Beat 
well all the time. —Miss Duffy. 

Pudding Sauce. — Two cups of sugar, two cups of 
butter, well beaten together. Pour over one and a half 
wineglass of sherry, heated. Stir thoroughly and then 
add the whipped white of one egg and serve. 

—Mrs, F. L. K. Laidlaw, 



36 . 

Pudding Sauce. — Three teacups of white sugar, one- 
(juarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream with the 
yolk of an egg. Then put the pan in a kettle of. hot 
water to boil. After it boils well, bsat the white of the 
eggs and stir in. Flavor with wine. 

" — Mrs. John Sherman. 



■ PIES. . 

"Gknnfes" Pies. — -To make four take two pounds 
of flour^ three-quarters of a pound of butter, a pinch of 
salt. Cut the butter into little pieces, work through the 
flour, wet it with almost a pint of ice-water, into which 
has been put the yolk of an tgg. Roll it several times, 
then divide into four parts and roll as thin as you like 
the crust of pies. — Mrs. R. J. Hemniick. 

Pastry. — One pound of sifted flour, half a pound of 
butter and half a pound of lard. Cut all the lard and 
half of the butter into very thin pieces and drop into 
the flour, add a little ice-water and make a rough mix- 
ture with the knife. Then roll it, mix in the rest of 
the butter cut in little pieces and floured. Place all on 
the ice a while before using. — M. Sparks. 

Mince Meat.— Three pounds of fresh tongue, boiled 
and chopped, three pounds of suet, four pounds of cur- 
rants, one pound of raisins, one pound of citron, four 
pounds of sugar, four large pippins chopped, one quart 
of sherry, half pint of brandy, one ounce ground mace, 
one of nutmeg, half ounce ground cloves, and a little 
salt. —M}s. T. R. Butler. 



87 



Boston Cream Pies. — Take tour eggs l)ecUen sepa- 
rately, one cup of sugar, one and one-half cups of flour,, 
one spare teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Ba-ke in 
four pie ' plates.' 

Custard. — One pint o( milk, two eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of flour, and a pinch of salt. 
When done add a lump of butter and flavor. This 
quantity makes two pies with the custard in between. 

— .1//"^-. Ellen Bayuc. 

Pumpkin Pie. — One pint of pumpkin stewed dry, two 
cups of suga'r, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls molasses, a little salt, a pinch of ginger, three 
eggs, two cups of milk, a little melted butter. Put in 
this order. — Mrs. H. Jf. Sanders. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Stew and mash a cpiarter of a small 
pumpkin, add a tablespoon ful of butter, a c:up of milk 
and the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, a little nutmeg, 
and half a teacup of brandy, then the whites of four 
eggs well beaten. ■ — Mrs. T. M. Bayne. 

CocoANUT Pie. — One cup of powdered sugar, half a 
cup of butter with sugar, four well-beaten eggs, one cup 
of grated cocoanut, one quart of milk. Put the cocoa- 
nut into the butter and sugar before adding the milk. 
This makes two delicious pie?;. 

— Mrs. J. Edwards. 

Lemon Pie. — Grate three lemons, being careful to 
remove the seed, three teacupfuls of sugar, the yolks of 
six eggs, five tablespoonfuls of flour, a piece of butt.er 
the size of a walnut, one pint of milk. This makes two 



38 

large pies. Bake, then beat the whites of the eggs, add- 
ing one cup of sugar ; put into the oven and brown 
slightly. — Mrs. /. Chancey. 

Chopped Lemon Pie. — Four lemons, the rind of two 
pared off thin, all the thick white skin taken off; chop 
the pulp after the juice has been squeezed out, two scant 
cups of molasses, one heaping cup of sugar, two eggs. 
This is enough for three small pies with upper and under 
crusts. — M. Sparks. 

Cherry Fie. — Lay the cherries in a deep baking-dish, 
with plenty of sugar and a tablespoonful of flour. Place 
an inverted cup in the middle of the dish and cover the 
whole with a crust. The cup prevents the crust from 
soaking into the juice of the fruit. 

Ripe Plum and Peach Pies may be made after the 
above rule. 

" Can she make a Cherry Pic, Charlie boy ?" 



PUDDINGS 



''The proof of the pudding is in the eating." 
Plum Pudding. — One pound of chopped suet, one 
pound of stoned and chopped raisins, one pound of cur- 
rants washed and dried, one pound of citron, one pound 
of stale bread crumbs grated fine, one pound of brown 
sugar; mix the whole in a basin with six eggs; half a 
teaspoon ful each of ginger, cinnamon, and cloves; a pinch 
of salt, and half a gill of rum or brandy. Butter pudding 
mould, nil it with the mixture, and tie a cloth over the 
top. Place a plate at the bottom of a kettle, which is 



81) 

three-parts full of boiling water ; put the pudding in and 
boil for six hours. Turn out the pudding on a hot dish, 
sprinkle over it sugar. Pour over half a pint of warm 
rum or brandy, and light it just before serving. 

— Campbelle. 

English Pi.um Puddinc; (from Canada). — One and a 
half pounds of Muscatel raisins, one pound of Sultana 
raisins, one and three-fourths pounds of currants, two 
pounds of brown sugar, two pounds very light bread 
crumbs, sixteen eggs, rind of two lemons, two pounds 
of finely chopped suet, six ounces mixed candied peel, 
one ounce of ground nutmeg, one ounce of ground cin- 
namon, one-half ounce of pounded bitter almonds or 
two large spoonfuls bitter almond extract, and one-fourth 
pint of brandy. Stone and cut raisins, wash and dry 
currants, cut candied peel in slices ; mix all of the dry 
ingredients well together, and add the eggs well beaten; 
stir in the brandy. Flour a stout pudding cloth. Tie 
tightly and closely. One half this (quantity for eighteen or 
twenty persons. Boil from six to eight hours. 

— Mrs. F. L. K. Laidlaw. 

" Plum puddiug and roast beef are proverbially the 
national dishes of England, and from the latter the 
Englishman boasts that he derives much of his strength 
and power of endurance. The mince pie has always 
been a favorite, and, as well as the beef and plum pud- 
ding, has had its praises rehearsed both in prose and 
poetry." 

Steadied Puddinc;. — One cup of molasses, one and 
one-half cups of stoned raisins, one-half cup of currants, 
one cup of suet, one cup of sugar, three cups of bread 
crumbs, three eggs beaten light, one teaspoonful of 



40 

yeast powder, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoon ful 
of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful of allspice. Steamed 
for about four hours. 

— A?i Old Housekeeper. 

vSuET Pudding. — One cup of suet, one cup of raisins, 
one cup of milk, one cup of molasses, three good cups 
of flour, cloves, cinnamon and allspice to taste, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. Boil in a mould four hours. 

— M7's. John Shei'man. 

Eve's Pudding. — Six large apples chopped, six ounces 
of bread crumbs, six ounces of sugar, six ounces of raisins 
or currants, six ounces of butter cut in small pieces, or 
beef suet chopped very fine, one tablespoonful of flour, 
six eggs, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoon- 
ful of ground cloves. Flour the fruit. Mix eggs and 
sugar together, and the suet and apples; then mix all, 
adding the beaten whites of the eggs the last thing. 
Boil it in a form or bag three hours, or bake it two hours. 
Serve with brandy sauce. 

—M.F. Blair. 

Sago Pudding. — One quart of milk, wineglassful of 
sherry, teacupful of sago, teaspoonful vanilla extract. 
Soak the sago in a teacupful of milk for one hour. Boil 
the sago in the remaining pint and a half of milk, and 
sweeten to taste; while hot beat in it the sherry and vanilla 
extract. Pour it into a mould and let it cool in a pan 
of water before putting on ice. Stir some currant jelly 
till sufficiently liquid, and pour over the pudding when 
ready to serve. — An Old Hoiisekeepe) . 

Fig Pudding.— Six ounces of suet, six ounces of 
bread-crumbs, six ounces of sugar, one-half pound ot 



41 

figs, three eggs, one cup of milk, one-half glass of brandy, 
one nutmeg, two teasi)oonfuls of baking ])owder; steam 
three hours. — Miss Eustace. 

Prune Pudding. — Wash one pound of prunes, put 
them into a porcelain kettle with boiling water enough 
to cover them, boil them until tender, remove the stones, 
then add one-half cup of sugar, and boil a few moments 
longer; when cool add the whites of nine eggs, put the 
mixture into your pudding dish and bake ten minutes ; 
serve with cream and sugar. — Mrs. Clapp. 

Snow Puddin(;. — Pour one pint of boiling water on 
half a pound of gelatine ; when melted add the juice of 
one lemon, one and a half cups of sugar, whites of three 
eggs, one cup of sherry. Beat well and pour into mould. 
When served the white part should be on top with sauce 
around it made of yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, 
half-cup of sugar, vanilla ; cook as soft custard. 

—Mrs. H. M. Sanders. 

Pudding a la Dane. — One quart of cream in a por- 
celain kettle, add a small part of a vanilla bean (essence 
will do), beat ten eggs with two tablespoon fuls of pow- 
dered sugar. Have on the stove in a skillet a half 
pound of brown sugar dissolved in a small quantity of 
water, which let boil until it scorches. The cream hav- 
ing boiled is stirred slowly into the beaten eggs. Have 
ready a mould in a pan of hot water. Turn first the 
burned sugar into it, and then add the custard ; bake 
about half an hour, until it appears stiff. When cold 
turn out on a dish and pour over it a pint of whipped 
cream. (This makes enough for ten or twelve persons.) 

— Mrs. Von Sch oder. 



42 

Indian Pi'dding. — Oneiiiiart of milk, teaspoonfiil of 
suet meal enough to make a 'nice mush, pretty thick, 
lioil up well, take off and let cool; five eggs well beaten, 
four tablespoonfiils of melted butter, two or three table- 
spoonfuls of ground ginger, one tablespoonful of ground 
cinnamon. Mix all these ingredients well with the 
mush (when cool), together with a great deal of molasses 
(that is, enough to make it sweet), rich, thick molasses. 
Bake gradually about two hours. 

— An Old Housekeeper. 

Cheese Souffle. — One tablespoonful of butter, one 
large tablespoonful of flour, one-half cup of milk, three 
eggs, one cup of grated cheese, a little cayenne pepper 
a little black pepper, sirall spoonful of salt. Heat the 
butter in a pan, add the flour and stir until smooth; 
then add gradually the milk, stir until it boils, then add 
the cheese and the yolks of the eggs one at a time; add 
the salt and pepper; last, the whites beaten very light; 
turn into a buttered dish and bake half an hour. Should 
be eaten at once. — Mrs. ]V. F. Buck. 

Pineapple PrDDiN(;. — One pineapple grated, one 
half pound of sugar, ten eggs well beaten, two ounces 
of stale bread grated. Bake in puff paste. 

— R. M. K. H. 

Apple Mekinol'E. — f'ill a pudding-dish with alternate 
layers of tart apples sliced, and bread sliced and lightly 
buttered. It is best if steamed, but may be baked. 
After it is done cover the top with the whites of the eggs 
beaten with sugar — one white to two small tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar — place in a moderate oven for three to 
five minutes; serve with butter and sugar whipped to a 
cream and flavored with nutmeg. 

— Mrs. JoJui Sherman. 



40 

Conscience Meringue. — One quart of boiling milk 
poured over a pint of grated bread; cover closely and 
let stand until cold. Add two ounces of butter, one 
teacup of white sugar and the yolks of four eggs 
beaten light. Mix thoroughly and pour into a but- 
tered dish; bake half an hour. Whisk the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and then stir in gradually three 
tablespoon fuls of sugar and the juice of a lemon. To 
have the meringue of proper thickness it must be beaten 
long and hard after the sugar and lemon are added to 
the eggs. When the pudding is nearly cold spread over 
it the meringue, return it to the oven, and let it brown 
lightly. —F. M. ,M K. 

Apple Dumplings. — Boil three large potatoes, mash 
and work in a lump of butter the size of an tgg, one cup 
of milk, stir in with a spoon flour enough to work up 
with the hand, cut in pieces and wrap around the apples. 
Tie in cloths and boil hard for an hour. 

— Mrs. T. M. Bayne, 

"An apple that ripens late keeps long." 



DESSERTS. 



Fruit Dessert. — Place a fork firmly in the firm 
])ortion of an orange ; with a very sharp knife cut the 
skin downwards in strips, taking all of the white in- 
ner skin off, then cut each little section out of the 
orange into a deep dish, letting all the juice drip into 
the dish. Peel a banana and scrape the sides, gently 
removing the white coating; slice this in the dish with 
the orange and pour over all a little nice brandy. To 



44 



each person allow half a banana and half an orange, 
unless for gentlemen, then allow a banana and an orange 
to each. Use only good brandy or rum, as inferior 
liquor would spoil a delicate dish. This is not as 
troublesome as it seems. 

—Mrs. A. J/. Thackera. 

Yankee Dessert. — Slice bread a day old into me- 
dium slices, cutting off all the crust; butter on both 
sides, and fry in New Orleans molasses. Serve hot. 

—•'Homer 

Apple Snow. — Two dozen nice apples made into 
apple sauce, the whites of two eggs flavored with va- 
nilla; beaten very light and well mixed. 

— Maggie. 

Easter-tide. — Into a pint of water stir four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; let it come to aboil; dissolve three 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in cold water, and stir into 
the boiling water until sufficiently cooked; then take it 
off the fire, but while still boiling stir in the whites of 
three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Save .the tgg shells as nearly whole as possi- 
ble, and fill them with the blanc-mange With the 
yolks of the eggs make a custard and pour around the 
eggs after they are taken' from the shells. 

— Mrs. M. Coyle. 

Raspberry Blanc-Mang. — One quart boilins: water, 
one large cup of sugar, four tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
Boil five minutes. When partly cool stir in one pint of 
raspberries and mould. Serve with cream and sugar, to 
which a few crushed berries may be added. Other fruit 
may be substituted for raspberries. 

— Mrs. F. L. K. Laidlaw. 



Bi,\NC-MANf;E. — One quart of cream, tliree ounces of 
sweet' almonds, one-halt" dozen peach kernels, or bitter 
almonds, one-half ounce of isinglass; sugar to taste. 
Boil ten minutes and pour in moulds to cool. 

— A?i Old Housekeeper. 

Cold Custard. — Two quarts of milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls of liquid rennet. Season with vanilla. Make it two 
hours before using, and do not disturb it after the ren- 
net is mixed in well. — Mrs. Brent. 

Russian Cream. — Boil one quart of milk, beat the 
yolks of four, eggs and half a pound of sugar;' stir in 
half box of gelatine, dissolved. Mix tlie whole with the 
milk just before it boils, and leave on the stove until it 
begins to thicken. Remove it and mix in tlie whites of 
four eggs, with one teaspoonful of vanilla; put in moulds 
to cool. ■ -^iVi/ia Morse. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. — Five strips of chocolate, or 
nearly one-half a pound, two and one-half quarts of 
cream, one pint of sugar. Grate the chocolate and dis- 
solve it on the stove in a little milk. Strain and pour 
into the cream and freeze. — An Old Housekeeper. 

Le.mqn Ice. — Four lemons, two and one-half pints of 
water, one and one-lialf pints of sugar. Mix well and 
strain before freezing. 

Water Ice. — Make a rich lemonade of three quarts, 
soak one-half box of gelatine. When dissolved mix 
with the lemonad'e, churn and freeze like ice cream. 
Serve in wineglasses, and pour over the ice rum, brandy 
or wine. Rum is the bestliquor to use with ices of any 
kind. — Mrs. Ellen Bayne. 



46 

WiNR Jrf-i.v. — Soak two ounces of gelatine in a quart 
of cold water for one hour. Then pour one quart of 
boiling water on it, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. 
Then break up two or three sticks of cinnamon and the 
juice of three 'arge lemons or four small ones, one and 
three-quarter pounds of white sugar and the peel of two 
or three lemons. Then put over the fire and let it come 
to a boil. Let it stand a few moments after taking off; 
then add one-half pint of Madeira wine. Strain through 
a linen bag. — Mrs. Kafherine SuiitJi. 



CAKES 



Ice Cream Cake. — One-half cup of butter, one 
cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one-half cup of corn 
starch, one teaspoonful of yeast powder, one half a cup 
of milk, the whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Cream the butter, then add the sugar, milk 
and eggs, well beaten, then flour and yeast powder, and 
last vanilla. Icing: One and one-half cups of granu- 
lated sugar, add enough boiling water to moisten, boil 
without stirring until it will drop like taffy in water; 
whites of two small eggs well beaten: into this pour the 
sugar, stirring until cool, teaspoonful of vanilla. Cut 
the cake open and spread the icing on it: to the rest add 
a piece of citric the size of a pea, dissolved in a half 
teaspoonful of hot water, spread smoothly on the top. 
Do not make the icing until the cake is cold. 

— Mrs. Stanley Matthews. 

Almond Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, three cups of flour and the whites of eight eggs. 



47 

half a cup of milk, baking powder in the flour. Twenty- 
four blanched almonds cut fine (pound them in a rag) 
and roll in the flour. Make the frosting as usual and 
flavor with bitter almonds. Bake in corn-bread pans, 
marking off the frosting in bars. 

—Mrs. T. Ewi?ig Miller. 

Delicate Cake. — One pound of sugar (light weight), 
one pound of flour (light weight), a little more than 
half a pound of butter, whites of sixteen eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth ; beat butter and sugar to a cream, and add 
the flour and eggs alternately until all are used. Flavor 
with peach or lemon. Bake in a moderately quick oven. 
No baking powder. 

— Mrs. JoJui Sherman. 

Lemon Jellv Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups 
of sugar, four eggs, three cups of flour, and three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. For the cream: One-half 
cup of butter, one cup of sugar, yolks of two eggs, and 
grated rind and juice of two lemons. Stir this con- 
stantly to prevent it from burning. 

— An Old Housekeeper. 

Jelly Cake. — One half cup (large size) of butter, one 
and one half cups of sugar, two cups of flour, one half 
cup of cold water, three ^ggi, two teaspoonfuls of yeast 
powder, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Cream the 
butter and add the yolks, sugar and vanilla; beat all well 
together ; then add the whites beaten light ; mix in half 
the flour, yeast powder, and water thoroughly, and then 
add the rest. This makes one cake of three layers. 
When cold spread some smooth jelly. It is improved 
by mixing with a little wine. Icing for top the same 
as for ice cream cake. To use lemon or orange instead 



48 



of jelly: Use two small lemons or oranges, the whites of 
two small eggs, sugar to sweeten as for flv^at; grate the 
rind and squeeze the juice, to which add about two 
tablespoon fuls of sugar; beat the eggs very light: and 
the lemon cook over steam. When cool spread on the 
cake. — M?s. Stanley Mafthew^. 

Mount Vernon Cake. — To one cup of butter add 
two cups of white sugar, three cups. of flour, the whites 
of ten eggs beaten very light, half a cup of milk, a light 
teaspoon ful of soda and two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar ; flavor with vanilla. Icing — One teaspoonful of 
gelatine dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water 
and sufficient pulverized sugar to make it spread easily ; 
stir till smooth and white; flavor with vanilla ; before it 
becomes at all stiff ice the cake. 

—Mrs. /. K. Miller. 

Spice Cake (Excellent.) — Oae and one-half cups 
of brown sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoonful of nutmeg, three eggs, one tea'^poonful 
of soda, raisins and citron, both to taste. 

— Miss M. Irvin. 

Coffee Cake. — One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of molasses, four cups of flour ; mix well with 
one cup of coffee, three eggs, one pound of raisins, one 
pound of currants, one half pound of citron, four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, spice to taste. 

— Mrs. Nellie Stevens. 

Sponge Cake. — One pound of sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound of flour, whites of twelve eggs and yolks of 



49 

ten eggs. Beat tl)e yolks in a bowl first, add the sugar 
gradually, and beat until nearly dissolved, then add 
flour and the whites of the eggs alternately. One table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and flavoring to the taste ; no 
baking powder or soda or cream of tartar. 

— ^frs. John Shen)iau. 

Black Cake. — One pound of butter, one and one 
quarter pounds of sugar, one pound of flour, ten eggs, 
two nutmegs and small pinch of ground mace, two wine- 
glassfuls of wine, and two of brandy, two and one half 
pounds of raisins, two and one half pounds of currants, 
one pound of citron. Beat the yolks, sugar, and spices 
together, cream the butter and add next ; whip the 
whites very light, and add them alternately with the 
flour ; then the brandy and wine, and last the fruit. 
Bake in a moderately slow oven. 

— Mrs. Stanley Matthews. 

An Excellent and Inexpensive Fruit Cake. — 
Four eggs, one cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
molasses, one and one-half cups of brown sugar, three 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cloves, one teaspoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of 
mace, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
nutmeg, one-half pound of citron, one and one-half 
pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, one gill of 
brandy. Bake four hours. 

— Mrs. M. I?'7'in. 

Taylor Cake. — One pint of cooking molasses, one 
cup of butter and lard, one cup of brown sugar; mix 
Avell three eggs, one cup of sour milk, one tablespoon - 
ful of soda dissolved in the milk, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful 



50 



of ginger, sifted iiour sufrtcient to make them drop well 
from a teaspoon. 

—Mrs. U\ P. Buck. 

Shrewsburn' Cakes. — Two cups of sugar, three quar- 
ters of a cup of butter, three cups of flour, three eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, stirred in before the 
whites of eggs and flour. Drop on shallow })ans in lit- 
tle cakes ; bake quickly ; flavor to taste. 

* —Mrs. E. White. 

KoKOSiNG Cookies. — Five eggs beaten light, four 
tablespoonfuls of cream, one-half pound of butter, two 
cups of white sugar, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. When rolled out, sprinkle with sugar, and roll 
again. Use just enough flour to allow you to roll out. 

— Mrs. WJiitcsidcs. 

Sand Tarts. — Six eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one pound of white sugar, one lemon, rind and 
juice, one pint of butter, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Flour to stiffen well, roll thin, sprinkle with granulated 
sugar and roll again. 

— Mrs. J! liitesiihs. 

Bridget's Bread Cake. — Three cups of dough, very 
light; three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, 
a nutmeg and raisins; one teaspoonful of pearlash dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Rub the butter and sugar 
together ; add the eggs and spice, and mix all thor- 
oughly with the dough ; beat it well and pour into the 
])ans. It is improved by standing to rise before baking. 

—Mis. H. M. Sandeis. 

Sally Lunn. — One pound of flour, two ounces of 
butter, three eggs, well beaten; one pint of warm milk, 



51 

two tablespuontuls of yeast, a little salt. Put in the 
pans you intend to bake it in, and let it rise six or eight 
h o u rs . — A7t Old Housekeeper. 

Quaker Cake. — One pint of flour, one egg, one cup 
of milk, one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, flour to taste ; bake 
in twenty minutes. To be eaten hot. 

Doughnuts. — One quart of flour, three tablespoon- 
fuls of yeast powder, mix in dry with the flour," butter 
the size of a small egg ; rub through flour as for pies. 
One cup sweet milk, one cup whitejpowdered sugar, one 
nutmeg, two eggs; mix through the flour with a fork, 
and do not use a rolling-pin. Put in a little extra flour 
in rolling them. Fry in hot lard. 

—Mrs. H. M Sanders. 

Crullers. — Beat eight eggs to a froth, add a teacup- 
ful of fine white sugar and half of a grated nutmeg. 
Put into a wooden bowl a full quart of flour, a quarter 
of a pound of butter; rub these together, then add the 
eggs gradually, and make a stiff dough, like bread dough, 
with the eggs, and knead it as you would bread. Roll 
it out on the paste board, and cut out the crullers with a 
jagger iron. Have a pot of lard boiling hot, and put m 
as soon as cut out. Take them out carefully with a 
skimmer and sift fine sugar over them. 

—Mrs. E. T. Wright. 

Olikoeks (Harry's Favorite.)— Take out the bread 
dough (which is mixed for bread), enough for one loaf. 
Let it rise, and when light add a quarter of a pound of 
butter and a small teacup of milk, six eggs, well beaten, 
one pound of sugar; make into balls, pressing into the 



center ot'each, raisins and citron, with a little powdered 

cinn 

lard. 



cinnamon ; let it rise again, and tlien boil in boiling hot 



Hermits. — Two cupfuls of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of raisins (stoned and chopped), three eggs, 
half a tablespoon ful of soda dissolved in three table 
spoonfuls of milk, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful each of 
cloves and cinnamon, six cups of flDur; roll about one- 
fourth of an inch thick, and cut with a cake cutter. 
Bake in a rather ([uick oven about twelve minutes. 

Molasses Cup-Cake. — One cup of butter, two cups 
of molasses, one cup of milk, a little salt, four eggs, 
five cups of flour, two tablespoon fuls of ginger, one 
and a half tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful of soda; beat the butter and 
sugar together to a cream; add the yolks of the eggs, 
then the molasses, next the milk and spices; whip the 
whites of the eggs, put in alternately with the flour; 
scald the soda with boiling water; cool, put it in last ; 
bake in square tins three-quarters of an hour m a mod- 
erate oven. This quantity makes three cakes. 

— Mrs. R. J. Hammick. 

West End Ginoer Cake. — One half pound of but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of mo- 
lasses, five cups of flour, two tablespoonfuls of yeast 
powder sifted with the flour, six eggs, beaten with one 
cup of mik, juice of one lemon, and rind of two grated 
in; two tablespoonfuls of ginger put in last. 

Ginoer-Snaps. — Two cups of New Orleans molasses, 
two cups of- white sugar, one and one-half cups of butter, 



53 

three nutmegs, two tablespoon fills of ginger, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of allspice, two 
teaspoonfuls of :loves, three teaipoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, and fljur enough to stiffen. Roll thin and bake in 
ijuick oven. 

— Mrs. Whitesides. 

Rosv's (iiNCKR Bkem). — Ouc cup of molasses, one 
half cu}) of butter, one half cup of lard, two cups of 
sugar, one cuj) of sour milk (or cream), four eggs, three 
cups flour, one tcaspoonful soda in a little milk; put in 
last ginger to taste. 

Thin Ginoerhread. — Four pounds of flour, four 
eggs, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pint of molasses, one large coffee cup of ginger, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus. Roll thin on tin sheets, and 
bake a light brown. Half the receipt is enough for one 
baking. Add a little cinnamon if you like. 

— An Old Housekeeper. 

How TO Beat Cake. — Beat from the bottom of the 
mixing-bowl with a wooden spoon, bringing it up full 
and high with each stroke, and as soon as the ingredi- 
ents are fairly and smoothly mixed stop b;:ating, or 
your cake will be tough. 

How TO Bake Cake. — Great care is necessary in 
baking cake ; the heat must be steady, the oven hot. 
Cakes must not be- jarred or shaken, or a draught ad- 
mitted while baking. 



54 



DRINKS. 



Coffee. — (The old Method.) — Allow a tablespoon - 
fill of ground coffee, one-third Mocha and two-thirds 
Java, for each cup needed, and " one for the pot." 
Mix with cold water and the white and shell of an egg. 
Allow a large cup of boiling water for each tablespoon- 
ful of coffee and boil ten minutes. Then pour in a cup 
of cold water and let it stand a few moments to settle. 
It is best served in the pot it is made in, as much of the 
aroma is lost in pouring from one pot to another. Serve 
hot and with cream. 

Cafe au Lait. — This is simply one pint of filtered 
coffee added to a pint of milk that has just come to the 
boiling point. 

Tea — In making tea the pot should be earthen, 
rinsed with boiling water and left to stand a few mo- 
ments to dry. Put in the tea leaves and let the pot 
stand a few moments longer ; pour on boiling water. 
For moderate strength use one teaspoonful of tea to half 
a pint of water. — Miss Farloa. 

Iced Tea. — Make a pot of strong tea. Pour into a 
cooler and put into the ice-box When needed, shake 
it well to make a foam, and in each glass put a slice of 
lemon and sugar. 

Lemonade. — To half a pint of lemon juice (extracted 
with a squeezer and strained) add three pints of water 
and a pint of sugrir and chopped ice, 



55 

Almond Milk. — (An excellent drink in maladies 
of the lungs.) One-half teacupful blanched almonds 
l)ounded in a mortar to paste. Put them in a bowl, and 
pour on them about a tumbler full of cold water Stir 
well with a spoon and strain through a cloth, not too 
thick, but that will bear squeezing, so that only the dry 
particles remain in the cloth. — An Old Housekeeper. 

" Drink with moderation, for inebriety neither kcei)S 
a secret nor performs a promise." — Spanish Proverb. 

Regent's Punch, — Juice of six lemons, one pound 
of loaf sugar, one pound of currant jelly, half a gallon 
of strong green tea Jiot (dissolve the jelly in the hot tea), 
one quart of Jamaica rum, one jug of Curacao, two 
bottles of brandy. When it is served add plenty of 
ice, two oranges sliced very thin, and one quart of 
champagne for each half gallon of punch. 

— As used by Surgeon- Genera/ Barnes. 

Champagne Punch. — One pound of loaf sugar, or 
more if desired, one pint of strong black tea, half a 
pint of brandy, juice of four oranges and six lemons, 
two bottles of champagne. 

Claret Punch. — Take the thin rind of three lemons 
and put with three pounds of sugar, add one tablespoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon, one-half tablespoonful giound 
clovcs and two grated nutmegs. Pour over all two 
quarts of boiling water, and let stand one hour until 
thoroughly mixed ; just before serving add one-half pint 
of rum and three bottles of claret (this actually makes 
a little over one gallon of punch); slice three or four 
oranges and place in your punch bowl. 'I'he spices 
sliould be ])ut in a small bag. 

— 1\1 rs. Ellfn 7v7iii;io Sbernian, 



Cabinet Punch. — Pour three quarts of bulling water 
over three pounds of sugar ; add one pint of lemon juice, 
one pint of brandy or two pints of Jamaica rum. Mix 
well together, and before using stir in one-half pint of 
peach brandy or cordial. This quantity makes one and 
three-quarter gallons of punch, very nice. 

—Mrs. Rickcth. 

Canadian Milk Punch. — Four (juarls of i)ale Jamaica 
rum, three quarts of water, five i)ints of milk, three 
])ounds of loaf sugar, twenty-four lemons, two nutmegs. 
Cut off the thin yellow skin of the lemons ; grate the 
nutmegs and infuse in one (juart of the rum in a warm 
place for twenty-four hours ; then strain and add the 
juice of the lemons (carefully removing the seeds), water, 
sugar, and remainder of rum. When the sugar is dis- 
solved put the mixture into a large vessel and stir into 
it the milk boiling; cover and let it stand one hour to 
cool ; then filter till clear ar.d bright as crystal through 
a canton flannel bag, with a ]jiece of filtering paper in- 
side. Bottle, cork well, and keep standing. May be 
used at once, but reaches perfection in two years. 

Champagne Cup. — One quart of champagne, two 
bottles of soda water, one" wineglas: of curacoa, one 
wineglass of sherry, one wineglass of brandy, one 
lemon. Flavor with a very little nutmeg, add sugar 
and ice. 

Clarei Cup. — One cpiart of claret, two bottles of 
soda water, sugar to taste, slices of cucumbers ; ice. 

^Mrs. F. L. K. Laldlaw. 

There are only two secrets a man can not keep- 
One when he's in love, t'other when he's drunk deep; 
For these facts are so proved hy bis tong-ue or his eyes, 

That we see it more plainly the more lie denies." 

—Old Foci. 



57 

Apple Toddy.— To large bowl put twelve rather acid 
apples, which must be baked; when nearly done, put some 
brown sugar over them; when done, mash and add to 
them, while hot, equal portions of Jamaica rum and 
French brandy; place in a covered vessel, and next day 
add the water and sweeten with loaf sugar; taste and see 
that it is sweet and strong enough. Be sparing of the 
water, add some arrack or peach brandy, if you like. 

— An 0/d Housekeeper. 

Peach Brandy. — Take skin-broken peaches and pits, 
boil in water, taking care to remember the quantity of 
water used, strain carefully ; to every three gallons of 
the liquid add one and one-half gallons of water, two 
gallons of old whisky, two pounds of sugar to each gal- 
lon of the mixture. The sugar and whisky put in when 
cold; cork loosely for two or three days, then seal. 

— Mabiir, 



PICKLES. 



" Here are the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked." 
Pickled Peppers. — Get large bell peppers, cut around 
the stem, remove it, and take out all the seed. For the 
stuffing use two quarts of chopped cabbage, a cupful of 
white mustard seed, three tablespoon fuls of celery seed, 
two tablespoon fuls of salt, and half a cupful of grated 
horseradish. Fill each pepper with part of this mixture, 
and into each one put a small onion and a little cucum- 
ber. Tie the stem on again, put the peppers in ajar, 
and cover with cold vinegar. — Miss Parloa. 

Cucumber Pickles.— Sprinkle six hundred cucumbers 



58 

with a pint of salt, cover them with boiling water, let 
them stand twenty-four hours, and then wipe them. 
Scald your last year's vinegar, pour it over them, and 
let them remain twenty-four hours, then turn that off. 
Take fresh vinegar, one quart of brown sugar, two large 
green peppers, half a pint of white mustard seed, six 
cents worth of green ginger root; cinnamon, allspice, 
cloves, celery seed a tablespoonful of each, a piece of 
alum the size of a walnut, powdered fine; scald all this 
together and pour on while boiling hot. 

— Airs. J. E (hoards. 

The term vinegar comes from 'Win aigre" (sour wine), 
which indicates the source from which it was first pro- 
duced. 

To Pickle Small Cucumbers. — Take one hundred 
small cucumbers in September, place in a deep stone 
jar, sprinkle with a pint of salt, pour in boiling water, 
and cover tight that no steam evaporate. Let them 
stand twenty-four hours. Wipe each one dry with a 
cloth. Place in a jar and cover with boiling vinegar, 
spiced with cloves, whole pepper, mustard seed, horse- 
radish cut in pieces, and small red i)eppers. They will 
be ready for use at the end of two weeks. Use similar 
proportions for any number. 

—Mrs. T. JJ: Fitch. 

Chow Chow. — One-half peck of onions, one-half 
peck medium sized cucumbers, one-half peck cauliflower 
or cabbage, one-half peck green tomotoes, one-half 
dozen red peppers. Chop all, not too fine, salt and 
mix and scald in three ])ints of vinegar and three pints 
of water. When well scalded, drain from the vinegar, 
pour over the following mixture six pints of vinegar, two 



59 

and one-half cups of sugar, three quarters pound ground 
mustard, one ounce turmeric, one-half pint oil, three- 
quarters cup of flour. Mix the mustard, flour, oil and 
turmeric together with one pint of cold vinegar, and stir 
into the six pints of vinegar, having previously added 
the sugar and all kinds of spices; add celery seed. 

— Mrs. John Sherman. 

Pickled Damsons. — To five pounds of fruit add three 
l)ounds of brown sugar and one quart of vinegar, two 
ounces of cloves, once ounce of cinnamon, one-quarter 
of an ounce of mace. Boil the sugar and spices in the 
vinegar, and pour it boiling on the fruit; when cold 
pour it off, boil it again and scald the damsons. 

— An Ohi Hoiisckcepc? . 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. — Put a handful of slacked 
lime in a common wooden pail half full of water, fill it 
up with green tomatoes carefully peeled [only the skin 
pared off very finely,] let the tomatoes stay in lime 
w^ater twenty four hours. For seven pounds of fruit boil 
together four and a half pounds of sugar, one quart of 
vinegar, one ounce of stick cinna.uon, one ounce of 
whole cloves, ; then atler the mixture has boiled pour the 
syrup over the fruit, let it stand twenty-four hours, then 
boil all together, fruit and syrup, and tie up in jars. 

— Miss Marie Patterson. 

Spiced Gooseberries. — To five pounds of fruit add 
four pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, two table- 
spoonfuls of ground cloves, two tablespoon fuls of cin- 
namon. Let it simmer three hours. More spices may 
be used if })referred. Serve with cold fowl or meats. 

— Mrs. Laid law. 



60 

Spiced Fruits. — Prepare fruit or mellon (ifniellon 
pare and cut in two-inch ])ieces), and then steam them 
until a little soft. Take equal parts of cider vinegar, 
and sugar enough to cover the fruit, and let it all come 
to a scald. Then take out the fruit and put into a jar. 
Between each layer of fruit put a layer cf spices, cloves, 
cinnamon and mace, and have the spices pounded, not 
ground). Now boil down your vinegar and sugar nearly 
or quite one-half — ^just enough to cover the fruit — ifrid 
pour on hot; cover tight, and repeat again when cold, 
and then seal up the jar, and you will have something 
very nice. 

Salted Almonds. — Bleach the almonds in boiling 
water ; put them in a skillet over a moderate fire ; si)r in- 
kle salt ; put a very small piece of butter with them. 
Stir constantly until they are a delicate brown. Tut 
them in the oven for just a moment, then add as much 
salt as they will hold, using the finest table salt. Fil- 
berts may be done in the same way, omitting the butter. 
They are newer and very delicate, but more difficult to 
bleach or skin. — Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

Praulines. — Crack and shell carefully English wal- 
nuts, pecans or filberts. Put for one pound of kernels 
a cup of brown sugar in a flat skillet. Dampen it with 
cold water and put it on the stove. When this becomes a 
thick syrup put in the nuts and stir constantly until the 
sugar dries about them, when they are done. Praulines 
take the place of expensive bon-bons. 

—Mrs. A. M. Thackera. 

French Honey. — One pound of white sugar, six eggs, 
juice of four lemons, c[uarterof a pound of butter. Stir 
over a slow fire until it become as thick as honey. 

—Mrs. 1. R. Butler. 



61 

Vine(;ar Candv. — Two cui)s^of sugar, a halt" cup ol" 
vinegar, same of water, one teaspoon ful of butter, one 
of soda. Boil an hour without stirring. Drop in a 
little vanilla to flavor. 

Cream Tafkv. — Two cups and a half of sugar, one 
cup of vinegar, or enough to wet the sugar thoroughly, 
one cup of water. Boil quickly ; try it by dropping 
into cold water. When nearly done flavor with half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Turn out on buttered plates, 
and when nearly cold pull till white. 

— Louise S. Massey, 

Orange Peel for Flavorinc;. — Cut the peel in long 
strips ; steam in water until all bitterness is extracted ; 
throw away the water and steam again for half an hour 
in a thick syrup made of one pound of sugar and one 
pint of wate.r The amount of syrup is sufficient to pre- 
serve one pound of peel. When used in pies and pud- 
dings the peel must be chopped very fine. 

This is excellent. — ^^ American.'''' 

How' TO Wash Woolens. — One bar of rosin soap 
scraped, one gill ammonia, one tablespoonful washing 
soda, three ounces lump borax, two gallons of water 
boiled down half or until it becomes thick enough to 
form a cake ; make a suds of this to wash blankets. 

— Mrs. Hemmick. 

Soft Soap. — Three pounds of clean grease, one box 
of lye, one bucket of cold water. Put the water in the 
boiler or kettle with the lye and grease, and let it boil 
until it ropes on a stick ; if it boils down too much add 
more water. — An Old Housekeeper. 



THE t E^eYJih t KI3g, 

AN ENGLISH DENTIFRICE. 

If used daily, it will preserve the teeth, harden the 
s:ums, and sweeten the breath. 



FOR SALE AT 

(^01 PENNSYU^ANIA AJENUE, 



''I can recommend it as an excellent dentifrice."— 
Mrs.Ewing. 

{lou?B->of^-tli8->(|ood->^hepIiei'(i, 

No. 1017 Ninth Street N. W., 

Washington, D. C. 



The Ladies of this Community offer their services to 
do all kinds of 



plain and g'rnamcntal 'Jecdlc\Vork, 

which they promise to execute with neatness and dis- 
patch, on reasonable terms. They have under their 
charge a number of poor girls who derive their support 
from their handiwork. 



m 



WOODWARD & LOTHROP, 



AND 



Cor. nth and F Sts., WASHINGTON, D. C. 



{WM, H, McKNEW. Successor,) 

IMPORTER OF 

MENS AND LADIES' FURNISHINGS, 

LADIES', MISSES' AND CHILDREN'S 

CLOAKS and SUITS, HOSIERY and GLOVES 

933 PENNA. AVE. 



mn DAIRIES im 



n 

FRANK K. WARD, Proprietor. 

bttaqe &eeAC ^) Hre^^h Puttermilk 

Padc from §g§jpp, a f pccialty. 



RESIDENCE, 

OFFICE. j NOS. 

MAIN DEPOT, I 

CHEESE FACTORY, 

CREAMERY, [) ST. N. W. 

^£/V'A CITY HEADQUARTERS, 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



929 and (j^i 



TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS 

WITH DAIRY FARM and - 

SALESROOMS: 

622 E STREET N. W., 

414 THIRD STREET N. W., 

527 FIFTEENTH STREET N. W., 

520 NINTH STREET N. W., 

And throug hold the entire City. 
WESTERN UNION WIRE IN OFFICE. 



1)5 

' D. A. BROSNAN, 
S'Ooki, SiaUomptj, 4't., 

612 NINTH STREET N. W. 

gandlcA and Oil for ghurch gurpoACA, BoAarieA, 
Crucifix-CA, ^edab, ^z. 



EUROPEAN PASSAGE AGENT. 

. » . - — 

G. G. CORNWELL. S. G. CORNWELL- 

ESTABLISHED 1865. 

G. G. CoRNWELL & Son, 

IMPORTERS, 

TABLE LUXURIES. FANCY GRO^ 
CER/ES, WINES and LIQUORS, 

NOS. 141 2 AND 1414 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, 
VVASHINGTOxN, D. C. 



-USE- 



! T 



Tryphena Dentifrice is Pleasant, Safe and Effectual. 
PRICE, 25 GTS. FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS. 

PREPARED BY 

S. EDGAR MAHAN, Pharmacist, 

4th Street and Massachusetts Ave. N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 



(U\ 



Coi. i4tli St. and New York Ave. 



FRANK J, TIB BETS. Prop. 

H. B. COOLWGE, Manaocr, 



DEALER IN 

PHILADELPHIA CAPONS, 

CHICKENS AND BUTTER. 

FISH, SELECT OYSTERS, 

AND (lAME. 

SOUTH-DOWN MUTTON, 

CHOICE BEEF AND LAMB. 



ALL KINDS OF 

FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 

IN SEASON. 



ORDERS FOR DINNERS A SPECIALTY, 



(W 



KNABC 

GRAND, SQUARE AND UPRIGHT 

PIANO-FORTES, 

These Instruments have been before the PubUc for fifty 
years, and upon their excellence alone have attained an 

UNPURCHASED PPvE-EMINENCE 

Which establishes them as unequaled in 

TONE, 

TOUCH, 

WORKMANSHIP, 

AND 

DURABILITY. 

Every Piano Fully Warranted for Five Years. 

Second-Hand Pianos. 

A large stock at all prices constantly on hand, com- 
prising some of our own make, but slightly used. 

WM. KNABE <Sc CO., 

New Nos.: 22 and 24 E. Baltimore Street, Baltimore. 

112 Fifth Avenue, New York. 

817 MARKET SPACE, WASHINGTON, D. C. 



08 

HARRIS&SCHAFER 

JEWELERS, 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



Wedding and Birthday Presents a Specialty. 

Wmfd^l^TH •:• § •:• EDM6N3T6N, 

120^ Pennsylvania Ave, N, 14^., 

IMPORTERS OF 

CHINA AND GLASSWARE 

AND DEALERS IN 

COOKING UTENSILS OF EVERY 
DESCRIPTION. 

Also, WOODEN WARE. Etc. 



BEST GOODS. LOWEST PRICES. 



69 
C. B. CHURCH, Prcs't. W. H. YERKES, Supt. 

IJ^DEPEJ^lDEJ^l' ICE CO., 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 



A Constant Supply Guaranteed Throughout the Season. 

Prices as Low as any Responsible Comj)any 
in the District. 

Be Sure and Patronize the YELLOW WAGONS. 



OFFICE: Cor. Twelfth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, 

Depo IS • ^ N"^th Street Wharf, 
I 3108 Water Street, 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 




H. 




\ 



DEALER IN 



-FINE ■> GROCERIES,!* 

Wines and Liqnors, 

1417 New York Ave., 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



70 



COLOIjME! COLOIjNE! 

pioWers of Italy Cologne, 

An excjuisite impregnation of Blossoms of Orange, 
Rosemary, Balm, Violet and Rose. 

MADE BY 

NAIRN & OGRAM, 

FlFrEP:NTH SIREET AND NEW YORK AVE., 
Washington, D. C. 



Rufus H. Darby, 
Book and Job Printer, 

I S08 PENNA. AVE, 



