5,000 Gems for the Household. 



A Book That Teaclies Everything a Lady 
Would Like to ICno^sv. ^ 

^> 

A COMPiCT KANUil OF RELIABLE INFOEMATION, 



It tells you how to mah- paper, ivool, feather, hair and tri^seJ Jfowers; hoir 

to paint on satin, silk and velvet; full list of characters for masque 

hall; a chapter on bead atid embroidery work; a list of 

oiier three hundred nevi names for children. ^ ^ , , 

— ^ W/&3/ 

OVER 3,000 RECEIPTS FOR COOKING, 



-AND- 



1,000 Useful Receipts for Anyone and Everyone. 



x> 






^-aA 



COPYRIGHT, 1887 

BY 

M. S. FOX. 



C. W. WATTS, PRINTER, 
Albamt, Oregon. 



?^ 



PREFACE. 



The design (^^ the author, iu the preparatiou of this wuik, has been to 
furnish a book in which information for the ladies upon almost anj' subject 
can be found. Usually, this subject of ladies work or fancy work has 
bf en treated in such away as to form the contents of a dozen or more 
separate volumes; the paper flowers, hair flowers, feather flowers, 
etc., are combined in this volume. 

Attention is especially 'called to the manner in which the miscella- 
neous FANCV work department is conducted, as all the latest novelties in 
the decorating line are introduced, alona; with the most explicit directions 
for forndng them. Also to the painting; all the different branches of 
painting being explained, the colors to be used, the brushe?, how to mix 
paiiits and how to apply them. The reatier will appreciate the patterns 
herein described in the crochet department, but still more appreciate 
those in the knitting department vvhereby instructions for skirts, dresses 
caps, lecrgins, mittens, jackets, shawls, lace and insertions of the latest 
designs are given, tliat a child who knows how to lake the first siirtple 
stich in knittin;,' and crochetin4 cannot fail to bring about the desired re- 
sult by close observance of the directions given. 

Then to the ladies who do not exactly take to fancy work, we have eu.- 
deavored to put forth a few valuable receipts in the cooking and bak- 
ing line, and we can truthfully say that the receipts are all genuine and 
good, havifig tried most of them ourselves before placing them before the 
public. Then again, so nothing will go to waste, we have added some 
coloring receipts which have l)een tried with the utmost success. 

Great pains have also 1 een taken to make this work superior to all 
others in its typographical arrangement and finish, and in the general 
tastefulness of its mechanical execution. 

The author takes great pleasure in acknowledging her indebtedness for 
many valuable sug<:estions received from teachers of experience and others 
interested in woman's work. 

How nearly the author has accomplished her purpose to give to the 
public, in one volume, a clear, scientific and complete treatise on this 
subject, combining and systematizing many real improvements of practi- 
cal value and importance to women and young girls, the intelligent and 
skilled worker must decide. 

M. S. FOX. 
Albany, Oregon, May 20, 1887. 



ffr • 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Papek Flovvkks 6-9 



Wool Flowers. 
Hair Flowers. 



10- 12 
13 14 



Feather Flowers 14-15 

Ti.NSEL Flowers 15-16 

Chutst.mas Tree Okx am enis 15-16 

Feather Work 1 7-18 

Bead Work 19-23 

KvixriNu Department 24-62 

Crochet Department 33-86 

Stamping 87-88 

Pakntisg 89-61 

Miscellaneous DepartmexST 92-101 

Home Department 102-145 

Cooking and Baker's Department 146-204 

Coloring Department 205-213 

Miscellaneous Cooking and Baking Recipes 214-232 

Anything And Everything 233-279 



PAPER FLOWERS. 



There can be nothing more beautiful to the eye that loves 
nature, than are (within their own limits) these paper flowers. 
How many n^thers and daughters would gladly like to fix 
up their parlors and sitting rooms, like some of their friends 
do, if the}* only knew how to make anything. 

These paper flowers are so easily and quickly made, and 
material so cheap, that no house should be without them. 
The directions given within this book are so explicit and sim- 
ple that a child can make the flowers by close observance of 
the directions. By practice all kinds of flowers can be made 
with but little patience and trouble. Any room, no matter 
if the furniture be not of the finest quality, can be made to 
look tasteful! and cozy by nimble fingers. Lamp-shades, 
toilet sets, wreaths, boquets, fans and numberless other things, 
which ingenious minds will think of, can be made and deco- 
rated with paper flowers, which are one of the simplest kind 
of fancy work, and undoubtedl}' one of the most fascinating, 
the peculiar facination about it being unlimited variety. 

We have endeavored to represent in these pages a consid- 
erate number of the most popular and ornamental flowers 
now used by ladies who have excelled in this direction. We 
will commence by giving the little field daisy which is per- 
haps the simplest and quickest made. It requires no rub- 
ber tubing or extra stems. 



6 PAPER FLOWERS 

Materials: Dead wbite r)aper'(it mif^flit now be said that 
the paper is not the common tissue paper, but heavy and 
tough tissue paper) medium yellow paper, a piece of wire 
three inches long, and a pair of scissors. Have a field daisy 
at hand, take it apart carefully, draw an exact copy off of the 
lower part of the daisy, out of the white paper cut two pieces'' 
like the pattern, hold them in the finger and with the scissors 
curl each prong, taking care not to curl too much as the 
prong will turn clear under; take a pin and punish two holes, 
one on each side of the center of these two pieces; next cut a 
pattern from the upper part of the daisy, and cut of the yel- 
low paper 20 or 30 pieces the same size; punch two holes in 
these pieces the same as in the white paper, turn down one- 
half an inch of the wire, put both ends of the wire through 
the holes made in the yellow paper, take the scissors and clip 
all around the edge as near the centre as possible, uiuss it 
with the fingers to make it round on the top so the wire will 
not show in the centre; now put the ends of the wire through 
the holes in the white )).Lper, draw them together tightly and 
twist the wires, and the field daisy is finished. For just the 
common little daisy make just as you did the upper p.irt of 
the field daisy, taking pink, red, etc. 

Water Lily. 

For this, two shades of green, one yellow and one of white 
paper are required. If a water Lly is at hand take it a part 
and take patterns off of its various parts; from the p;.ttern 
taken from the bottom part of the lily, cut two of the darker 
shade of green and one of the lighter shade, also one of the 
white; curl each prong of each paper separately by laying the 
paper on the open hand and taking a large hat pin (with a 



PAPER FLOWERS. 7 

round button on the end of it) and rubbin,Q^ the head of the 
hat pin over each pronp^; the hand being soft and the press- 
ure of the pin will cause each prong to curl up just like the 
natural flower. After all are curled in a like manner, set one 
in the other, putting the dark green on the bottom, the light 
green next and the white on top; make a yellow center like 
the one needed for the field daisy; set this in the lower part 
of the lily and fasten same as field daisy. For water lily buds, 
take a small piece of cotton and fasten it on to a piece of wire, 
cut four common leaves of green paper and tie around the 
cotton and gum here and there and you have the bud. 

Any one with nimble fingers who has succeeded in the easy 
task of making the duisy or water lily, will have no difficulty 
in making the tulip. 

Tulip. 
Take a pattern from a tulip, make seven of them any shade 
to suit imiividual tastp. To give it the appearance of reality, 
curl the leaves with the fingers slightly, turning the curled 
side toward the center. The petals are easily constructed 
over tiny wads of cotton covered with paper and fastened on 
very fine wires, and these wires fastened on to the main stem. 
To fasten the leaves on to the stem, take a peice of thread 
and wrap the leaves to the stem, one at a time, fastening the 
petals on first. To wrap, the stem, either zephyr or green 
paper will do. 

KosE. 
By close observance one will find that there are five sizes of 
leaves in the rose. Take a pattern from each size; numbering 
them 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, calling the smallest size 1, etc. From size 



8 PAPER FLOWERS. 

1 make 14 leaves, size 2 make 10 leaves, size 3 make 12, size 
4 also 12 and size 5 fourteen leaves. Curl them by pressing 
the scissor slightly on the under side, always curling two to- 
gether; then from size lyou will only have 7 after they are 
curled, etc. Twist the lower ends slightly with the fingers; 
take 3 of size 1, and turning two of them together, that is, 
turn them face upward together, fasten them to the wire stem 
by wrapping them with thread. Wrap all on in this manner 
turning on edge in between the preceeding ones, using the 
smaller sizes first; the stem may be wrapped if desired. 

Poppy. 

After taking a pattern from the poppy, cut one of the tis- 
sue paper any shade. The petals are made first, as described 
in the tulip, fasten them to the stem; take the leaf cut out of 
the tissue paper and crease it with the finger, the more un- 
equal the creases the more natural is the effect; run the stem 
the petals are fastened on to, through the leaf and wrap, the 
stem. The buds for the poppy are made similar to the water 
lily buds. 

Fuchsia. 

Take the fuchsia apart and take the patterns off of the 
parts; great care should be taken in cutting the calyx exactly 
like the flower; with a piece of cotton or wool wrap the wire 
tightly around the stem for a distance of three-fourths of an 
inch. Gum the small leaf form of the fuchsia on to the top of 
the wire, then gum the calyx on; with the scissors curl the 
four prongs of the calyx; make the petals as described, or 
they can be purchased of any dealer in such articles . . 



PAPER FLOWERS. 9 

PiNF. 

There will be but little difficulty in making the pink, for 
although there are mar}' leaves they are all of one shape, and 
it is only necessary to cut them of difierent sizes. The num- 
ber of leaves depend, of course with the size of the pink. The 
first thing to be done after the cutting of the leaves is to 
make a firm ball of wool or cotton and fasten in on to the 
wire for a center, and gum the smallest leaf on to it, then, 
one by one gum the larger cues on to this central foundation, 
keeping of course, the largest ones for the outside and not 
gumming so closely as the work proceeds. The bud is made 
by taking a piece of green paper and notching the ends and 
twisting and gumming it around a piece of cotton that is fast- 
ened to the stem. 

Plaques. 
Beautiful and tasteful plaques can be made by making a 
rose, pink, a few daisies and a tulip and fastening on to the 
plaque, which is covered with crushed or rustic paper. To 
make crushed paper take a sheet or half a sheet of the tissue 
paper and crumple it all in the hand, then straighten it out 
and crumple it again; cover a plaque with this which as- 
sumes the appearance of silk. To make rustic paper, instead 
of crushing, plait the paper in fine knife plaits, press them 
between the fingers while in plaits, open out and be careful 
not to tear while pressing. This presents a beautiful and 
marked contrast to the crushed paper. 

Petunias . 
These pretty little flowers are very simple. Here any 
shade or color may be used, shaded petunias being esj^ecially 



10 PAPER FLOWERS. 

beautiful. The little cup is easily made, arid this is the foun- 
dation of the flower. Carefully \\±. -p the wire with cotton or 
wool for a distance of one-half xncli, fasten on the calyx by 
gumming. A little coaxing is necessary in Uie settling of the 
leaves, and the careful touch can only be given in accordance 
with individual taste and judgment. After having arranged 
the leaves as may be considered most desirable, place the lit- 
tle cup around the wadded stem and gum securely to it. The 
most appropriate shade for this little nip is green. To make 
the buds the only difference from the full bloom flower being, 
that the center wadding round instead of long, and in work- 
ing it the leaves are pinched a little upward una inward. 

BUTTEKCUP. 

This flower is very r^'ce for beginners to work on, as the 
leaf form is simplicity itself, the only trouble being in m<,k- 
ing the petals, and as the structure of the petal has already 
been described it is unnecessary to mention it again. After 
gumming the petals on to the stem, gum the leaf form on. 

Dahlia. 
M^ke 30 leaves varying in sizes, say six sizes; wrap a bunch 
of yellow zephyr on the wire, then either tie or gum the 
leaves on in graduated sizes, commencing with the smallest 
size. The size of the dahlia must, of course, depend upon 
the number of leaves used in its construction. 



WOOL FLO^^^ERS. 

Materials: Brass wire, zepher, two lead pencils, white shell 
beads, smalJ glass beads, knitting needles and a heavy fine 



PAPER FLOWERS. 11 

comb. To make a green leaf, use a piece of wire one-half 
yard long, a piece of zephja' ]one and one-half yards long. 
Place the two lead pencils together between the thumb and 
forefinger'of the left hand, bring tlie middle of the wire around 
the pencils, and cross it under the thumb; divide the zephyr 
in 3 equal parts, place the ends over the crossed wire under 
the thumb; cross the wire again, this time over the zeiDhyr, 
and not around the pencils; wrap the zephyr around the pen- 
cils, and cross the wire over it again; proceed in this manner 
until the zephyr is all used up; then pull the pencils out and 
twist the wire securely to prevent the work from coming un- 
done; with the scissors cut the zephyr, comb until it looks 
like a flake of cotton, trim to give the appearance of reality 
Wrap the stem with split zephyr, tie up close to the leaf. A 
very pretty way of fixing leaves under a rose is putting them 
in singlo and in tige (i. e. 8 leaves on a stem). 

Tiger Lily. 
It would be lovely to make a tiger lily of pure white, the 
innermost heart being of 3'ellow. Here there is a great op- 
portunity for the display of individual taste, for although 
everyone would say a tiger lily was yellow or white, a kneen 
observer knows that those colors Jnclude shades and grada- 
tions of every variety, and in able hands the lily will become 
a marvel of delicate work, for zephyr can be obtained in every 
conceivable shade. 

Make six leaves the same as the green leaf was made; for 
petals, wrap wire with split zephyr and pinch a tiny of yellow 
zephyr on the end or, wrap wire closely around a knitting 
needle, slip it ofif, and string either large or small beads on. 
With the remaining lengths of wire twist together, placing 



12 PAPER FLOWERS. 

the petals in the center. The leaves should be bent down- 
ward with the fingers and the flower can be left open or closed, 
as may be considered most desirable. 

E-OSE . 

The leaves are made the same as the green leaf, only not so 
Lt'\op; the small leaves for the innermost part of the rose 
should be made with but one pencil. The little center of the 
rose is easily made and the flower naturally rises from it. 
This can be made of fluffed out wool or zephyr fastened on to 
the main stem. The central leaves are very small, and are 5 
in number, the next size 5, next 6, and largest size 7. These 
are fastened together the same as the leaves of the paper rose; 
for buds, make a small jDonpon, the same as for any kind of 
fancy work; comb it, thoroughly; place f-'ur or five strands 
of green z^^^hyr around the ponpon, and comb it also; insert 
a piece of wire into the center of the ponpon for a stem; wrap 
the stem. Dampen the fingers slightly, bring the green 
zephyr around the ponpon sj^aringly, twist together at the 
top, to give it the apperance of reality. 

To make pansies and other flowers, the Ip'^ves are all made 
the same way, using one or two pencils according to the width 
of the leaf; for the length one must use judgment. 

A very pretty way to make a few choice flowers is to weave 
them, as the variety is limited. 

A "Woven Eose, 

Take a long piece of wire, wrap it around a knitting needle 

very closely, leaving enough at each end for stems; slip this 

off the needle, fasten both the plain ends together, this forms 

a leaf; tie a piece of split zephyr on where the ends are 



HAIR FLOWERS. ^ 13 

fastened together, la}' it across the center of the frame of the 
leaf, brin^^' it down to ^he next division of the sj^iral frame 
next the stem, then up at the top a^am, down the bottom, 
and so continue until the frame is entirely filled. The num- 
ber of leaves (usually 12) to make a rose varies in accordance 
to the size wanted; after the leaves are made they are put to- 
gether the same as paper rose. These flowers are very dainty 
and a])propriate for forming the center piece of a wreath made 
of the combed zephyr flowers. 



HAIR FJLOWERS 

Certainly nothing could be more lasting and beautiful than 
HAIR FLOWERS. Pcrhaps not as elegant as the paper or wool 
flowers, but nevertheless they have a certain charm about 
them that cannot be explained unless it is that we hold dear 
the material from which they are made. If we have a lock of 
hair of some friend, either livinc: or dead, it is likely to be 
lost or destroyed by being placed here and there, but if 
woven into a flower and the flower placed in a wreath, it will 
will last for ages, and may be handed down from one genera- 
tion to the other. 

Materials: Hair, knitting needle, brass or steel. Take a 
small quantity of hair (which must be of the same length) 
and weave it just the same as the combed zephyr flowers using 
a knitting needle, instead of pencils; slip ,,it off of the nee- 
dle, but do not cut as the zephyr was out; bring the two 
ends together and twist securely, wrap with brown thread 
No. 16. This forms one of the leaves for the rose. For the 



14 FEATHER FLOWERS. 

outside row u^e more hair than for the inside row. For the 
centre wf^rive yellow hair, and after it is woven coil in a 
round coil, leav'no^ enough of the ends to be wtapped in 
with the stems. To make the center of another flower, take a 
bunch of hair about one-half the thickness of the little finger 
and about two inches in length, fasten to a piece of wire that 
has previously been doubled four times, tying it on securely, 
spread the hair out over the wire, this will gi it a spherical 
appearance. The vari rv of hair flowers is very limited, but 
any one with taste can arrange in different forms so as to am- 
ply repay the time expended on them. In case the leaf to be 
made should be a wide one, use two knitting needles. 



Ah ! Now we have something that it is not everybody that 
knows hoAv to make. 

Materials: Goose feathers, wire, green tissue paper and 
wax (that is made by using 3 parts resin and 1 part beeswax). 
Trim the down all off of the quill, turn about ^ of an inch of 
the wire stem, place a small piece of wax on this, put the 
feathers on by sticking the ends into the wax. When there 
are a sufficient number waxed on, wrap the stem with green 
tissue paper. The feathers can" be cut in various shapes, and 
patterns can be taken from natural flowers. The flowers may 
be constructed on the same principle as the paper flowers. 
Of course there can be but one shade of feathers, but every 
conceivable shade can be made by mixing. Take paints 
turpentine and apply it to the feathers with a brush. This 
should be done before putting the flower together. To make 



TINSEL FLOWERS. 15 

a CRYSTAL flower, put a quantity of resin in a tin pan, place it 
on the stove; when it is h )t clip tlie feathers quickly through. 
To iiiah.e any color, put mixed paint in wjth the resin, or buy 
the colored sealm-j wax 



TINSEL FLOWKRS. 

Flowers can be made of tinsel foil just the same ^as of 
PAPER, using the same patterns and the same mode of con- 
struction. Tinsel f«>il can I. e obtained mall shades, and if 
not, can be painted by using the paints just as they come out 
of the tubes. 



CHRISTMAS TliEE ORNAMENTS- 

First a few paper flowers will be needed for the tips of the 
branches, then a few sheets of tinsel foil of various shades, 
and cut in long narrow strips. Strew it about the tree to 
give it a brilliant appearance. Of course among the decora- 
tions a strand of popcorn is always acceptable. Hangings 
made of i tiff pape i^f different colors making a chain, which 
takes a grat^eful form in falling is particularly effective, and 
when the skilled worker adds a few paper flowers it is impos- 
sible to exaggerate the pleasing effect j^roduced. The whole 
room is lighted up by it. Another very pretty ornament is 
the little fan. This is made by taking a piece of writing paper 
and covering it with tissue paper on both sides; plait it in 
five knife plaits, sew one end and let the other go loose. Paste 
paper fringe all the way around the fan. The fringe is made 



16 CHRISTMAS TREE ORNAMENTS. 

by cutting a sheet of paper lengthwise in two-four plaits, 
23ulled through the hands until it becomes finally creased, cut 
the paper crosswise very fine. Tinsel cornicojoias fringed 
around the top and filled with candy and nuts give a world of 
pleasure to the litUe folks. Tiny sipper ca^esare very beau- 
tiful; also tiny baskets knit of bright colored paper and lined 
with something bright and having a few flowers tacked on 
the side. Another one that will amply repay time expended 
on it, is the tiny window. This is made by taking a piece of 
paste board 5 or 6 inches long and gathering white colored 
Swiss on at one end; paste some pretty card on the center of 
the "card board, make tapestry of the swiss and draw back 
and fasten with a piece of red paper; this will give the ap- 
pearance of a dainty little window . 

Still another ornament is a small quantity covered with tin- 
sel foil or tissue paper and some green leaves placed behind 
this so as to represent fruit. As these bunches of fruit are 
very light they may be fastened on to the end of a sprajr which 
will look like a tree bearing fruit . 

Plaques of tinsel may also be made to look very attractive. 
Paper dolls, peanut Chinamen, little Santa Claus, pajDcr par- 
asols and feather balls are all very popular ornaments. Fea- 
ther balls are made by taking a ball of cotton, and dying some 
feathers, all colors, stick them onto the cotton with prepared 
carriage glue. This makes something that cannot be sur- 
passed in beauty and attractiveness. There is endless oj^por- 
tunity for the exercise of taste and literally no limit to the 
variatians which the fancy and ingenious mind may suggest 
and carry out as the most charming method of beautifying the 
Christmas tree. 



FEATHER WORK. 17 

FEATHER \VORK. 

What a pity that so many feathers are thrown away or 
burned every year, when an endless variety of beautiful, orna- 
mental and useful things can be made from them. 

Now, my dear readers, do not suppose a moment, that you 
ar^ compelled to buy prepared feathers, nor do 3'ou need to 
slaughter the beautiful bird of the forest; merely save what 
heretofore you have thrown out in the alley. 

First, we will take the chicken feathers and see what can 
be made from them. The wings can be taken just as they 
come from the foul, and dyed any color your taste may sug- 
gest. After taking them from the dye, have a board at hand 
that you may tack them on to dry; next, sprinkle the bone 
with powdered alum, copperas and salt petre; then stand it 
in the sun or behind the stove to dry. When this has been 
dr3'ing for a week or ten days, remove from the board and 
fasten them together, the points joining. Now, some loose 
feathers which have previously been dyed, vnll be needed to 
cover vacant places; a small bow of ribbon with long ends 
may be used at the base where the two wings join, and all is 
complete. This beautiful feather ornament is pretty. and 
becoming if used to decorate the tops of bureaus or bedroom 
walls. 

Another ornament has successfully been fashioned from 
them, which will always delight the heart of the artist, viz. 
a plaque. Take a piece of velvet or other material, cut it in 
any shape desired, stamp a large bird or foul on the cloth, 
dye feathers the ))roper colors and stick them on with pre- 
pared glue; use black beads for eyes, Wlien finished you 



18 FEATHER WORK. 

have. something that cannot be surpassed for brightness, grace 
and beaat3^ Then again, there is still a simpler thing to be 
made from chicken feathers. Nothing prettier or more effec- 
tive can be imagined than a picture frame covered with fea- 
thers; of course they must always be dyed and put on in such 
a way as to represent something. 

Not long since a young lady wishing to appear as a young 
Irish huntress at a masque ball, was claver enough to take 
green calico for a shirt, trimming it around the bottom with 
feathers, leaving them tlieir natural color, which gave it the 
appearance of fur; hue uiso trii. med licr leggins, belt and cap 
with the same. 

Still another marvel of benntv to b<^ made with feafher^ is 
is the landscape scenery which will show you the wonderful 
adaptability of them for ornamental purposes. 

Turkey feathers should 1^^ saved by all mean=!; the wings 
are always useful for dusting purposes around the hearth. 
The tail feathers may be made into a wall duster; and on one 
turkey there are enough downy feathers to make four yards 
of beautiful trimming three inches wiue. 



BEAD WORK. 

Bead work has been somewhat neglected of late years in 
the rage of embroidery and painting, although beaded dress 
fronts are fast becoming popular. 

Course net with beads sewed on in some pretty design, or 
sewed on in every other hole is very effective and lovely, and 
almost indistinguishable from the most expensive gauze or 



BEAD WORK. ly 

crape if nicely made. A most elaborate costume may be 
made this way by usinc^ a very delicate shade of pink beads. 
Of course one would think this tedious, but when we consider 
some of the si^ecimeus of men's work, which they spend 
months and even years to accomplish, and which are marvels 
of spider-web delicacy, bead work is comparatively speedy. 

Beaded embroidery for children's dresses is now taking the 
place of silk embroidery; to do this, si.ainp the design to be 
worked, on the cloth, take linen or silk thread, sew the beads 
on just the same as arsene, filloselle or chenille work is done, 
using different colored beads for shading, etc. 

Beaded work will in time become a most fascinating employ- 
ment, as the result of labor expended is more marvelous than 
silk embroidery, and beads like silk can be obtained in almost 
every shade and gradation of variety. It is also much more 
inexpensive and durable than silk embroidery. 

Gentlemens' and ladies' dressing slippers, and above all 
the tiny baby shoe can be beaded. This art has been learned 
from the Indian women who are professionals in this line of 
work, it being the height of their ambition to bead the moc- 
casin for their lord. Nor must it be omitted to mention the 
delicate bead ball that ornaments the parlor chandalier; this 
is made by taking a small quantity of cotton, covering it 
with cheese-cloth and sewing beads all over it; if this is care- 
fully done the success of brilliancy it will give when the room 
is lighted, will amply repay the time expended on it. The 
operator who has worked in ])ea(i work any length of time 
will find the most charming method of beautifying the house- 
hold and adding to the attractiveness and the aesthetic influ- 
ence of the home and fireside. 



20 BEAD WORK. 

Recently, while visiting a friend from Illinois, my atten- 
tion was called to a very attractive parlor ornament, which 
proved to be a bird cage, and on close examination I found it 
to be made from beads and even the bird itself was made of 
beads; in the bird's mouth was a spray of wheat also made of 
beads. The bird cage is made of brass wire, with beads 
strung on it, which is as easily done as stringing beads on 
thread. By looking at any bird cage the beaded wires can be 
fashioned into the same shape; there can be no difficulty what- 
ever in the actual construction of the cage; all that is needed 
is patience, and of course some skill is -required in fitting the 
wires tastefully at the top of the cage. The bird is some- 
what more difficult and requires more skill in the making, 
although the body is in reality simple. A small quantity of 
cotton with a little coaxing may be wrapped with thread, and 
made to assume the appearance of a bird, with a few delicate 
caresses to be given in accordance with individual talant* 
Next, sew beads all over the bird, using black beads for eyes 
and beeswax for a beak; if desired the tail and wing feathers 
may be made of darker beads. 

Beaded Lamp Screen. 

Lamp screens r>ve fast taking the place of hand shades. A 
vfry majestic one may be made by stamping on a piece of 
linen a small buoch of flowers and working it with beads; on 
another piece of linen stamp a large star or half moon and 
work it with beads, making the background of black beads; 
when both are beaded sew together and add a border of gilt 
beads, or if a beveled edge is desired sew on alternately large 
and small beads; balls of beads may be fastened on the cor- 



BEAD WORK. 21 

ners and a wide chain of beads be used to fasten the screen 
on to the screen stand (i. e. if it be a banner screen). The 
result is as pretty a combination as one could wish to see. It 
is especially liandsome a)id artistic in the brightly lit parlor, 
when the beads will sliine like so many diamonds. 

Beaded Purse. 

The beads are sewed on fine canvas and the ground work is 
of d.:;rk blue beads; work a design of j^ellow beads in the 
form of w]-eath. Both sides maybe worked alike, or, if pre- 
ferred, the monogram of the cover may be worked in yellow 
beads on the opposite. To join the two sides place them 
together, and wiHi a crochet hook and silk, work double 
stitches through both nearly all around, leaving a space for 
the opening; then work four rows of double stitches. 

For the opening, work on each side separately; first row, 
one double into each stitch of canvas; second to fifth rows; 
pass over the two first and two last stitches. A steel clasp is 
sewed to each side of the opening. For the fringe, thread 
yellow beads on linen thread and sew them in loops at equal 
distances to the last row of double stitches. 

Beaded Fischu. 

These bended fischus are a very great success. They can 
be either beaded only on the border, or the entire body and 
border can be made of beads, and clever fingers have not 
only fashioned beaded fischus, but reticules, bonbonmieres, 
mats and tidies as well, with a wonderfully happy effect. 
To make the fischu take a piece of bobonet a yard square; on 
each crossing of the net sew a bead; do the entire piece this 



■22 BEAD WORK. 

way; for the border scallop a piece of net and with t'le beads 
button-hole stitch the edge, then sew onto the main body. A 
heavy couching of large beads covers the same; this makes 
a plain fischu. For the more elaborote ones, flowers and 
figures may be sewed on top of the other beads or make a 
back ground of small beads and for the design use larger beads 
or different shade of beads used for the back ground, which 
produces an admirable effect. A little neatness in beading, a 
little taste in the selection of colors, will make the fischu a 
manuel of prettiness. Another recommendation for beads 
would be the comparatively trifling expense, and in addition 
to this there is scarcely a, combination which cannot be pro- 
duced in bead^ themselves. Fringes, laces, trimmings of 
every kind can be made with them, and in this aesthetic age 
there is no material that will convey at the same time the same 
idea of lightness, grace and beauty. In fact, it is very diffi- 
cult to say what there is thai cannot be made with beads. 
And as using beads for ornamenting as well as for dress wear, 
we must not forget tliat they are used for medical purposes, 
and have been known to cure cases of goitre of long stand- 
ino-. Of course the common littlj bead will not do this; it 
requires the amber beads. These can be purchased of almost 
any jeweler for a nominal sum. The way to tell if you have 
the true amber bead is to take a pen knife and try to clip a 
piece off and burn it; if it will clip or burn it is good. They 
should be worn as tight as is comfortable over the goitre, on 
the neck and not on the dress. 

Beaded Watch Case, 

Cut a piece of perforated card board in the shape of a slip- 
per the desired size; then cut off the same kind of board a 



BEAD WORK. 23 

smaller piece for the pocket: line it on the inside with pale 
blue satin, and fasten it to the larger piece; (having the blue 
side face the larger piece); line the large piece also with blue. 
On the outside work in cross stitch white beads, using blue 
silk thread to sew ihem on with. The edge is finished with a 
leaf niche of blue ribbon or chenille. A brass ring button 
hole stitched round is fastened at the top to fasten it by. 

We cannot close our brief chapter on bead work without 
alluding to the use of them in the nursery. Toys carefully 
made and covered with beads give a world of pleasure to the 
little folks. Doll dresses beaded, and soldier's clothes beaded 
will produce such an "millennium" in the nursery world that 
no one who has tried them will consent be without them. 

A beaded vii'g for a very young chill is always admirable; 
and who is it that does not love to see the string of liny beads 
around the infant's neck? and while it looks pretty it prevents 
the neck from getting sore as the beads are always cooling to 
the nesn. 



KNTTTINO- DEPARTMENT. 

Abbreviations: K, knit plain; n, narrow; p, purlor seam; 
t, twice; tog, together; tto, throw thread over; s, slip; s and 
b, ^lip and bind; st, stich. 

There are st'M other abbreviations, such as m, make or 
widen; 1, loop; o, over. 

The following patterns have been purchased from or con- 
tributed by reliable parties. 



24 KNITTING riEPAIlT.NjENT. 

PRETTY INSERTION. 

No. 1. Cast on twenty-two stitches. 

1st row: K 2, o 2, p 2 tog, k 6, 1 4, o 2, k 2, o 2, k 2. o 2 
p 2 tog, k 2. 

2nd row: K 2, o2, p 2 tog, k 2, k 1, p 1, k 2, k 1, p 1, k 6; 
o 2, p 2 tog, k 2, 

3rd row: k 2, o 2, p 2 tog, k 14, o 2, p 2 tog, k 2. 

4th row: k 2, o 2, p 2 tog, k 6, lof 4, o "2, k 2, o 2, k 2, o 
2, p 2 tog, k 2. 

5th row: k 2, o 2, p 2 tog, k 2, k 1, p 1, k 2, k 1, p 1, k 6, 
o 2, p 2 tog, k 2. 

6th row: k 2, o 2, p 2 tog, k 14, o 2, p 2 tog, k 2. 

There will be 22 stitches at the end of every row. 

Tidy Lace. 

No. 2. Cast on twelve stiches and knit across plain, 

1st row: k 3, n, o, n, o, k 3, o, k 2. 

2nd row: k 2, p 1, k 3, p 1, k 1, p 1, k 4. 

3d row: k 2, n, o, n, o, k5, o, k 2. 

4th row: k 2, p 1, k 5, p 1, k 1, p 1, k 3. 

5th row: k4, o, n, o, n, k 1, n, o, n, k 1. 

6th row: k 2, pi, k 3, p 1, k 1, p 1, k 4. 

7th row: k 5, o, n, o, s 1, n, pull slipped stitch over, then 
o, n, k 1. 

8th row: k 2, p 1, k 1, p 1, k 1, p 1, k 5. 

There will be 13 stitches on the needle at the end of each 
row except the last two which will have 12. 

Basket Lace . 

No. 3. Cast on 23 stitches and knit across plain. 



KN1TT1N(J DEPAUT.MKNT. Jf. 

1st row: Slip 1, k 2, o, u, o, n, k 1(5. 

'2nd row: k 1, o3, (*) k 1, o 3, repeat from (*) until you 
have odIv T stitches; these you knit i^lain. 

3rd row: s 1, k 2, o, n, o, ii. Now with the li^ht hand 
needle slip off from the !eft hand needle eacli knitted stitch 
and drop the loops. After slippin^^ the first knitted stitch to 
the light hand needle drop three loops; slip the next knitted 
stitch and drop 3 loops; do this all across and you will have 
16 long stitches on the needle and 7 stiches as a heading. 
Pull up the long stitches to an equal length and put the Itl 
long stitches back on the left needle. Then take the 5th 
long stitch and cast it over the 1 preceding long stitches so 
that it Can be kiiir, and thus transferred to the right hand 
need! ■. Cast or sli]* o nioie succeet^ing long stitches over 
the samel: stitches and knit thom, then knit the 1 stitches 
plain; you have now 8 more long stitches on the left needle; 
knit them in the same manner by slipping the 5th stitch over 
the k,h and knitting it, then the JL.i, all and 8th, and there 
will be 23 stitches on the needle. 

4th row: Knit plain. 

Lace Six Inches Wide. 

No. 1. Cast on 37 stitches and knit across ])lain. 

1st row: Purl first stitch, k 1, 1 1 t o, p 2 tog, k I. t t o. k 
2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, k t), t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 
2 tog, k (), t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1 , 

2 ad row: K 3, m 1, tnitofi' all tlie stitches until last four t 
t to, p 2 tog, k 2. 

3rd rc»w: Puil 1, k 1, t I 1 o. p 2 tog, k 2. t t o, k 2 tog. 



•26 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

4th row: T t o, k t tog, t t o, k 2 to^f, k 6, t t o, k 2 toor, 

I I o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, k 6, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 
t t o, k 2 tog, k 1, 

5th row: K 3, m 1, knit off all the stitches until last four, 

I I I o, p 2 tog, k 2. 

6th row: PI, k 1, 1 1 t o, p 2 tog, k 3, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o. 
k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 t, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 

7th row: K 3, m 1, knit off all the stitches until last four. 
1 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k 2. 

8th row: P 1, k 1, t 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, t t o, 
k;,2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 

9th row; K 3, m 1, knit across until last four 1 1 1 o, p 2 
tog, k2. 

10th row: P 1, k 1, 1 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k 5 ,t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 fog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, i t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 
o, k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 ^og, t i o, k 2, ti g, 
1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 

11th row: Same as 9th. 

12th row: P 1, k 1, 1 1 t o, p 2 \cg, k 6, t t o. i- 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1 . 

13th row: K 3, m 1, knit across until last four, t t 2 o, p 2 
tog, k 2. 

14th row: P 1, k 1, 1 1 t o, p 2 tog, k 7, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 27 

15th -ow: K 3, m 1, knit across nntil last four, t t t o, p 2 
tog, k 2. 

16th row: P 1, k 1, 1 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k 8, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, 
k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, k 6, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 

17th row: K 3, iii 1, knit across until last four, 1 1 1 o, k 2 
tog, k 2. 

18th row: P 1, k 1, 1 1 t o, p 2 tog, k 9. t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, 
k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 6, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k 2 tog, k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 

19th row: Knit across plain until last f mv stitches, t 1 1 o, 
p 2 tog, k 2. 

20th row: PI, kl,ttto, p2 tog, knit plain across* Now 
reverse the pattern narrowing where you widen for twenty 
rows. 

Beal> Lace. 

No. 5. Cast on nineteen stitches. 

1st row: K 3, o, n, k 2, o, n, k 1, n, o, k 2, o 2, n, o 2, n. 

2nd row: K 2, p 1. k 2, p 1, n, k 1, o, s 1, n, pass slipped 
stitch over, o, k 8, o, n, n, o, n, k 1. 

3rd row: K 3, o, n, o, n, k 1, n, o, k 1, o, k 1, n, k 6. 

4th row: Cast off two stitches, k 5, o, k 3, o, s 1, n, pass 
slipped stitch over o, k3, o,n, kl. 

Bead Insertion. 
No 6. Cast on 21 stitches and knit across plain. 
1st row: K 3, o, n, k 2, o, k 1, o, n, k 1, n, o, k 1, o, k 4, o. 



•i8 KNITTING DEPAKTMKNT. 

n, k 1. 

2iid row: K 3, o, n, n, o, k 3, o, s 1, n; pass slipped stitch 
over, o, k 3, o, n, k 2, u, ii, k i. 

3rd row: K 3, o, k 3, tog, o, n, k 1, ii, o, kl , o, n, k 1, u, 
o, 11, k 1, o, n, k ], 

4th row: K 3, o, u, k 1, o, s 1, n, pass slipped stitch over, 

0, k 3, o, s 1, n, pass slipped stitch over, o, k 3, o, n, k 1. 

Gentlemens' Knit Slippers, 

No. 7. Knit with two colors of zepher, sav scarlet and 
brown. These are very pretty shoes, re very comfortable, 
nerviceable and warm. It requires 1^ oz. of scarlet and 6 oz. 
of brow^n zepher. Ca^t on 26 stiches and knit across with 
brown zepher. 

1st row: L 2 with browni wool, k 2 with scarlet wool, con- 
tinue in like manner until all the stitches are used but the 
last two; leave them on the needle. 

2nd row: Turn p 2 with scarlet wool, 1 2 with brown wool, 
repeat the same until last 2, leave them. 

3rd rowt Turn (*) k 2 with scarlet, 1 2 with brown, repeat 
from I*) until last 2, leave them. 

4th row: Turn (*) p 2 with scarlet, 1 2 brown (*; repeat 
that enclosed in star until last 2, ]oop last 2. 

5th row: (*) n 1, p 1, k 2, p 2, repeat from star until last 

1, in 1, 

6 th rov : Knit across plain. 

7th row: M 1, p clviar across until la^t stitch, ml. 

8th row : Same as 6 th row. 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 29 

Continue io knit like the above until your slipper is large 
enough at the toe. Now cast off all the stitches but one- 
third, and knit as before until the strip is long enough to go 
around thf- hetl and fasten on the opposite side. Trim the 
top with knitted astrican. Finish with bow of ribbon on 
the front. 

Oregon Lace. 

No, 8. Cast on twenty stitches and knit across. 

1st row: K 13, n, o, k 3, o, k 2. 

•2nd rcw: K 2, o, k 5, o, n, k 3, o. n, o, n, k 2, o, n, k 1. 

3d row: K 11, n, o, k 1, n, o, k 1, o, n, k 1, o, k 2. 

4th row: K 2, o, k 1, n, o, k 3, o, n, k 1, o, n, k 2, o, n o, 
n, k 1, o, n, k 1. 

5th row: K 9, n, o, k 1, n, o, k 5. o, n, k 1, o, k 2. 

6th row: K 2, o, k 1, n, o, k3, o, n, k 2, o, n, k 1, o, n, k 
2, o, n, k 1. o, n, o, n, o, n, k 1. 

7t,h r.,w: ii 1 o, o, u, k 1, o, n, k 3, n, o, k 1, n, o, k 1, n 

8th row: Cast off one, k 1, o, n, kl, o, n, k 1, n, o, k 1, 
m, o, k H, o, n, k 1. 

9th row: X 5, o, n, o, n, k 8, o, n, k 1, o, si, m, pass 
slipped stitch over, over, k 1, n, k 1, n. 

10th row: K 2, o, n, k 3, n, o, k 10, o, n, k 1, 
11th row: K 6, o, n, o, n, k 4, o, n, k 1, n, o, k 3. 
12th row: Cast off 2, k 1, o, k 3 tog, o, k 12, o, n, k 1. 

Infant's Lace, 1. 
No, ?. ( 'ast on three stitches and knit across plain. 



JO KNITTING BEFAKTMKNT. 

1st row: K 2, t tto, k 2. 

2d iow: K 2, k 1 1, p t, 1, k 1. 

3d row: K5. 

4th row: Bind off 2, k 2. 

Infant's Lace, 2. 
No. 10. Cast on five stitches and knit across plain, 
1st row: K 1, t t o, k 2 tog, 1 1 1 o, k 2. 
2nd row: K 2, k 1 1, p 1 1, k 3. 
3d row: K 1, 1 1 o, k 2 tog% k 4 
4th row: Bind off 2, k 4. 

Baby Laoe, 1 In3h Wide. 
No. 11. Cast on riine stfcches and knit across plain, 
1st row: S 1, k 2, 1 1 Q, k 2 tog, k 1, 1 1 t o, n, k 1. 
2nd row; K 2, k 1 1, p 1 1, k 3, 1 1 o, n, k 1 . 
3d row: 1, k 2, 1 1 o, n, k 5. 
4th row: K 7, t to r, k I. 

5th row: S I, k 2, 1 1 o, n, k 1, 1 1 t o, n, t t t o, n. 
6th row: K 1, k U, p 11, k 1, k 1 1, p 1 1^ k 3, t t o, u, k 1 
7th row; S 1, k 2, t t o, n, k 7. 
8th row: -K 1, bind off 3, k 5, t t o, n, k 1. 

Fern Lace. 
No. 12. Cast on twelve stitches and knit across plain. 
1st row: K 2, 1 1 1 o, n, k 6, t 1 1 o, p tog. 
2nd row; T t o, p 2 tog, k 7, k 1 1, p 1 1, k 2. 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT. IW 

3d rov ; K 1 1, t t t o, p 2 tog, 

4th ro\r: Tt o, p 2 tor, k H- 

5th row: K 2, t t o, n, t t t o, n, k r, t 1 1 o, p 2 tog. 

6th row: T t o, p 2 tog, k 6, k 1 I, p U, k I, k 1 1, 

7th row: K 13, t t t o, p 2 tog 

8th row: 'i t c, p 2 tog, k 13. 

V)th row: K 2, t 1 1 o, n, t t t o, n, 1 1 1 -o, u, k k t t t o, p 
2 tog, 

10th row: T t o, p 2 tog, k 6, k 1 I, p 1 1, k I, k I 1, p 11, k 2. 

11th row; H 11, take 11 back on left-haod needle and 
slip six stitches over that stitch, t tto, p 2 tog, 

I2th row: T t o, p 2 tog, k 10. 



Louis Lacf. 

No. 13. Cast on 12 stitches and knit across plain twice, 

1st row: S 1, k I, t to, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, k 6. 

2nd row; Second and every alternate row knit plain, 

3d row: S 1, k 1, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, k 5, 

oth row: S 1, k 1, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, k 6, 

7th row: S 1, k 1, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, k 8, 

S)throw; SI, k 1, 1 1 o, n, t to, n, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o,k 8. 

ilth row: S 1, k 1, tto, n, tt o, n, t t o, n, t t o, k 9. 

13th row: S 1, k 1, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t u, n, 1 1 o, k 10, 

15th row: All plain. 

I7th row: S 1, n, t to, n, tt o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, k 8. 

19th row: SI, n, 1 1 o, n, tt o, n, t to, n. tt o, n, k 7. 

21st row: SI, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, k 6. 



32 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

23d row: S 1, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o/ii, k 5. 
25th row; S 1, n, t t o, n, t t o, «, t t o, n, t t o, n, k 4. 

Clyde Lace. 
No. 14. Cast on 7 stitches and knit across plain. 
1st row: S 1, k 1, t t o, p2 tog, k 1, o, k 2. 
2nd row: K 2, p 1, k 1, t t o, p 2 tog, k 2. 
3d row: S 1, k 1, t t o, p 2 tog, k 2, o, k 2. 
4th row: K 2, p 1, k 2, t t o, p 2 tog, k 2. 
5th row; S 1, k 1, t t o, p 2 tog, knit the rest jjlain. 
6th row: Cast off 2 stitches, k 2, t t o, p 2 tog, k 2. 

Plaything foi: the Baby. 
No. 15. This is a charming little pla3^thingfor a baby, and 
very easily made. Set up 24 stitches with single zephyr (blue) 
and knit across plain 22 times. Then bind off, and leave an 
end long enough to sew up the sides. Take a needle with 
strong thread and run through each stitch on one end, and 
draw up firmly and fasten; then stuff with cotton; before it 
is quite filled, put in a twisted cord of blue and gold zephyr a 
little more than a quarter of a yard in length; then fill up and 
fasten as you did the iirst end. Make two more pieces, one 
of red and one of orange, stuffed as the first, and fasten to 
twisted cord; sew a little round bell on the end of each and 
attach the cord to a rubber ring. The cords should be an 
eighth of a yard long when finished, 

Babie's Knitted Shirt. 
No. 16. Long sleeves and high neck. 



KNITTINU DEPARTMKNT. :^ 

Materials : Two skeins of three-threaded cream white Star 
Light Saxony yarn. Two fine bone needles. 

Back. 
1st row: Cast on 78 stitches; knit across plain once. 
2nd row: All seamed or purled. 
3d row: Knit plain. 

4th row: K 1, * n, k 3, m 1, k 1, m 1, k 3, n, *; repeat 
from star to star till last stitch which is knitted plain. 

5th row: All seamed or p. 

6th row: Same as 4th. 

7th row: All seamed. 

8th row: Same as 4th. 

9th row: All plain. 
10th row; All seamed. 
1 1th row • All plain • 
12th row: Same as 4th. 
13th row: Same as 5th. 
14th row: Same as 4th. 
15th row: Same as 5th. 
16th row: Same as 4th. 

And so on repeating until there are 4 finished pattern rows, 
that is, 4 times 3 rows of eyelets with the ribbing between, 
and ribbed rows. In going across last row of border, narrow 
3 stitches on each end of needle, leaving 72. Now knit 4(i 
times across of 2 plain, seam 2. Now to shape the shoulder, 
n 1 at each end of needle everv time across until there are 



U KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

44 stitches left on needle, bind off loosely This forms the 
back. 

Front. 

After you have made a border to match that of back, k 2. 
p 2, 36 times across. Take off one-half the stitches on 
another needle, and knit 10 times across still preserving the 
ribbing. Then narrow on outside of needle every time across 
until there are 28 stitches on needle. In inner end of needle 
(or middle of front) bind off 3 stitches every other time across 
(this is to hollow the neck) continuing the narrowing for 
shoulder as before until all are bound off, leaving yarn long 
enough to sew shoulder seam. Knit up the other half of front 
in same mannei; sew up shoulder and sides on wrong side 
leaving space for sleeves. 

Sleeves. 

Take medium-sized steel needles, k 2, p 2, alternately, till 
you have done 30 rows. In the 30th row widen 12 stitches, 
by picking them up at equal distances, making 52. Now 
put in the bone needles and knit 2, p 2, alternately for 40 
rows. For gussets widen one stitch at each end of needle 
every other time across until there are six additional on each 
end, or 64 in all. Bind off, sew up and insert in body. 

Now around the neck crochet a row of holes to put narrow 
ribbon in, then on this a little shell edge continuing it down 
the front of shirt; sew on front two little buttons; put on 
edge round cuff of sleeves and turn it up. 

No. 17. Cast on twenty stitches. 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 35 

1st row: Knit across plain. 

2nd row; K 14, t t t o, n, k 1, t t t o, k 3. 

3d row; K 10, 1 1 1 o, n, k 1, t t t o, n, k 6. 

4th row: Like 2nd, also the sixth and eight. 

5th row: K 12, 1 1 t o, u, k 1, t t o, n, k 5. 

7th row: K 14, 1 1 t o, n, k I, 1 1 t o, n, k 4. 

9th row: K 16, t 1 1 o, n, k 1 , t t t o, n, k 3. 
10th row: Knit across plain. 

nth row: S 1, n, k 1, t t t o, n, k I, t t t o, n, k 15. 
12th row: K 5, t 1 1 o, n, k 1 , 1 1 t o, n, k 13 
I3th row: Like 11th. 

U\h row: K6, ttt o, k,l, 1 1 1 o, u, k 11. 
15th row: Like 11th. 

16th row: K 7, 1 1 t o, n, k 1, t t t o, u, k 9. 
17th row: Like 1 1th. 

18th row: K 8, 1 1 to, n, k 1, t t t o, n, k 7. 
Whenever the thread is thrown over twice, knit the first 
loop and drop the second T t t o, meaning throw thread 
twice over. 

Another Edging. 

No, 18. Cast on seven stitches and knit across plain. 

1st row: K 2, 1 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k 1, t t t o, k 2. 

2nd row: K 2, k 1 1, p 1 I, k I , t 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k 2. 

3rd row: K 2, t 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k 5. , 

4th row: Knit and bind off 2. k 2. t t to, }> 2 tog. k J. 



Sa KNITTDO DEPARTMENT. 

Knitted Tidy. 

No. 19. Cast on eighty-nine stilches and knit across alter- 
nately eleven times plain and pur — plain when the smooth 
side is nearest the knitter and purl when the rough side is 
nearest. 

1st row: K 12, n, * 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, o, k 1, o, k 
2, s 1, k 1, throw the slipped stich ovti or bind, k 4, s and b, 
k 2, repeat from star twice, o, k 12. 

2nd row: Purl, all even rows the same. 

3rd row; K 11, n, * 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, k 3, 
1 1 o, k 2, s and b, k 2, s and b, k 2, repeat fi\j.a r twice-, 
1 1 o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, o, k 13. 

5th row: K 10, n, * over and narrow three timo , o, k 5, o, 
k 2, s and b twice, k 9, repeat from star iwice then over and 
narrow 3 times, o, k 14 

7th row: K 12, * over and^'narrow 3 times, over, k 2, s 
and b, k 4, s and b, k 2, o, k 1, repeat from star twice then 
over and narrow 4 times, k 12. 

9th row: K 13, * over and narrow three times, o, k 2, s 
and b, k 2, s and b, o, k 3, repeal from star twice then over 
and narrow four times, k 11. 

11th row: K 14; * over and narrow three times, o, k 1, s 
and b twice, k 2, o, k 5, repeat from star twice, then over and 
narrow four times, k 10. Repeat from first row as many 
times as required then knit across eleven times alternately 
plain and purl. Add fringe or lace at the ends. 

Twining Leaf Pattern. 
No, 20. Cast on twenty stitches and knit across once. 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 37 

1st row. K 2, o, D, o, k 1, o, n, p 1, n, p 1, s 1, k 1. and 
^>ass slip stitch over, p I , s I , k I, pass slip stitch, o, k 1, o. 
n, o, k 1 . 

2nd row : Pu \ knittin^r, except the stitches purled in the 
last row, which are now to be knitted. 

8rd row: K 2, o, n, o, k 3, o, k 3 tog, p I, s I, k 2 tog, and 
pass over the slipped stitch, o, k 3, o, n, o, k 1, 

4th row: Same as second, 

5th row; K 2, o, n, o, k 5, o, s I , k 2 tog, and pass slipped 
stitch over, m I, k 5, o, n, o, k I, 

6th row: All purl, 

7th row: K 2, o, n, o, k 1, n, p 1, n, k 3, n, p 1, s 1, k Ij 
and pass slipped stitch over k 1, over, n, o, k 1. 

8th row: Like second. 

New Pattern. 

No. 2i. Cast on 18 stitches for each pattern. 

1' t row: P 1, s I, k 1, and pass slipped stitch over, k 3, 
o, n, o, k 3, o, s 1, k 1 , and pass slipped .stitch over, m 1, k 
3, n. 

2nd row: P 17, k 1. 

3rd row; P 1, s 1, k 1, pass slipped stitch over, k 2, o, k 2. 
o, k 1 , 8 1, k 2 tog, pass slipped stitch over, k 1, o, k 2, o, k 1, n 

4th row: Like second. 

5th row: P 1, s 1, k 1, pass slipped stitch over, k 1, o, k 3, 
o, k I, n. 

6th row: Like second. 

7th row: P 1, s 1, k 1, pass slipped stitch over, m 1 , k 2, 



;JS KNITTING DrEPART.VlEM;. 

li, o, k 1, o, 8 1, k 2 too", pass slipped stitch over, m 1, k I, 
c, si, k 1, pass slipped stitch over, k 2, o, n. 
8th row. liil^e second. 

KNrrrED Astrvkan. 

No 22. Cast on as many stitches as deemed necessary^ 
For astrakan 3 inches wide put on 19 stitches and knit across 
plain three times. 

1st row: * K 1, place needle in next stitch aud while thus 
iiolding wrap the zephyr around the needle of the right hand 
•ind the fore-linger of the left hand seven times, then draw 
the thread around and knit through the same stitch, k 1. 

2nd row: Knit all plain. 

8rd row; Knit all plain . 

Repeat from star. 

Rose Leaf Laoe. 

No. 28. Cast on twenty-eight stitches, knit across plain. 

1st row: K 3, o, n, o, k 3, o. n, p 1, n, p 1, n, p 1, n. o, k 
:^, o, k 2, o, n, * o twice, k 2. 

2nd row: S 1, k 2, p 1, * k 2, o, n, p 6, k 1, p 1, k 1, p 1, 
k 1, p 6, k 2, o, n, p 1. 

3rd row: K 3, o, n, o, k 5, o, s 1, n, pass slipped stitch 
over, n, o, k 5, o, k 2, o, n, * k 4. 

1th row: S 1, k 1, * over, n, p 8, k 1, p 8, k 2, u, n, p 1. 

5th ro-w: K 8, o, n, t 1 1 o, k 1, n, p 1, n, p 1, o, s 1, n, 
pass slipped stitch over, n, o, k 1, n, p l,n, k 1, 1 1 1 o, k 2. 
o, * n, o twice, n, 1 1 1 o, n. 



KNfniNt^ DEI'ARTMENT. Hi' 

Hth row: 8 1, k 1, p 1, k 2, p 1, l< 2, * o, u, k 1, (the tirs; 
of the over twice), p 8, k 1, p 7, k 1, p 3, k 3, o, o, p 1. 

7th row: K 3, o, n, o, k 1, o, k 1, n, p 1, u, k 3. n, p 1, n. 
k I, o, k 1. o, k 2, o, n, * k 6. 

8th row: S 1, k:,7, * o, n, p 5, k 1, p 5, k 5, o, ii, p 1. 

9th row. Scime as first row to star, 1 1 t o, n, o, twice, n. 

t t t O. 11. 

10th row: SI, k I, p 1, k 2, p 1, k 2, p 1, then like second 
;it*tev star. 

1 1th row: Same as third row to star, k 9. 

12th row: 81. k 10, then like the second after star. Theii 
same as 5th to star: Then narrow three together, over twice, 
u, over twice, n, over twice, u, over twice, n. 

13th row: Same as 5th to star, then narrow three too^ether. 
over twice, n, t t t o, n, o twice, n, o twice, n. 

14th row: S 1, k 1, p 1, k 2, p 1. k 2, p 1, k 2, p I, k 2. 
Then like 6th row after star. 

15th row: Same as 7th row to star, then k 12. 

inth row Bind off 10, k 3, then like 7th after star. 

Nice Knitted Edginct. 

No. 24. (Jast ou ei^lit stitches and knit across plain. 
1st row: Yarn around the needle and purl two tog, k 2, o 
twice, n, k 2. 

2nd row: K 4, p 1, k 2, o twice, purl 2 tog. 
3rd row: Yarn around the needle, p 2 tog, k 7. 
4th row: K 7, o twice^ p 2 tog 



40 KNITTING DEPAKTM KM', 

5th row: Yarn around the needle, p 2 tog, k 2, o twicre, 
n, o twice, n, k 1. 

6th row: K 3, p 1, k 2, p 1, k 2, o twice, p 2 tog\. 
7th row: Yarn around needle, p 2 tog, k 9. 
8th row; B off three stitches, k 5, o t, p 2 tog^. 

Knitter Mats. 

No. 25. These mats are knit in three sizes; for the largest 
size cast on thirty-six stitches, and the smallest twenty-four. 

1st row : K 3, turn and k the same 3 stitches over again. 

2nd row: E 6, turn and k the same six stitches. 

3rd row: K 9, turn and k the same nine stitches. 

4th row; K 12, turn and k the same twelve stitches. 

5th row; K 15, turn and k the same fifteen stitches. 

Continue knitting the rest of the stitches in the same \ffij 
only knitting three more stitches each time, and after knitting 
to the end of the needle, turn and seam back to the beginning; 
this forms a gore, and it takes 20 gores to form a mat; after 
knitting the last gore do not seam back to the beginning, 
but bind off the stitches and then sew the mtit together. 

A border may then be crocheted in colored worsted. 

Ladies' Knitted Scarf. 

No. 26. Take a half-pound of double-scarlet zephyr, and 
4 oz. of black-split zephyr and two large wooden needles. 
Cast on one hundred stitches. 

1st row: Knit across 15 times with the black. Bind off, tie 
on the scarlet, knit across twice: continue knitting ten rows 



KNITTIxa DEPARTiMENT. * 41 

of ' lork and two of scarlet until the scarf is lonjj enoup^b, 
and knit 15 inne^ acr s .. ...rrespond wi'li tli^ be,i>innin^^'. 
G;iti,er up the ends and place a ribbon bow '• them, of 
black or scarlet, to barjnonize with the color of the zephyr. 

Old liADiEs' Shoulder Suawt, 

No. 27. U-^e No. wood knittini^ needles. Cast on three 
hundred stitches and knit across plain. To shape, the shawl 
decrease <y knittiti.iif two to^^^ther atthj i.i.i o. every row. 
The above is knit of whole black zephyr. 

2d to Oth row. Kiiit with whole scarlet zephyr. 

10 h row. Knit with l)lack. T > f -r ii the diamond-shaped 
pattern, when laiittino the first and second stitch pick up 
a>l k lit the correspondiii^' stiiche; nf the 1 i-<t rt)w of the 
black wi 'i thcii', knit rt switches, then pick up and knit the 
correspondin,i> stitches of the first row, and so on, 

11th row. Knit with black. Rf-peat from the second row, 
rever.siu'^'' the pattern forujed in the tenth r(>w by i)ickin^ up 
the stitches between those ])icked up in the tenth row. The 
ed«,^e is tini.shed by crocheting a scolloped boraer of black. 

< 'LiLDs' Lkgginp. 

No. 'j8. These lef>-gi')s are knit len/:>-thwise and then 
joined to;ifether. Knitting rneni in rhis wiy they keep their 
shape much better than w leti woikd rMini(\ Cast on 24 
stitches for the first row, wliich will ba at the back seam when 
finished. This numbei' must be increased to 70 stitches in 
18 rows. The increase is made in thin way; after knitting 
the second row cast on six more stitches at the end, making 



42 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

the increase "n tliis wny at the end of every second row. 
This will make the added stitches all on the lower end, the 
top being left strai^i^ht, and will form the shape for the leg. 
At the end of the 20: h row cast on 30 more stitches, which 
wil 111. ke the length of the leg-gins ICO stitches. Knit 15 
rows, then I'i more rows may by \<uit, with home contrasting 
shade to form the side stripe ; after knitting 12 rows in this 
way knit 15 more rows of the foundation color, then east off 
the first eight stitches of the Kiih row, leaving the remainder 
of tJie stitches on the needle for the present The gore at 
the lower edge is now mjide by fastening the \arn to thefiist 
of the cast O'l stitches by which tht^ first, stitch is made; at 
the end of every forward row cast on two extra stitches, and 
in every backward row catch in one of the cast off stitches, 
which will all be taken up in 15 rows. In the 14th row cast 
on 1-1 stitches instead of 2 to form the part overitig the in- 
s'e\ ; knir i n - n- xt 4 J rows the whole lei j^tli of tli3 leggin; 
cast ot^' twelve stitches m the 4()th row, and knit IG stitches 
for the opposite gore; this will have 17 stitches on the 
needle. Decrease the gore by decreasing one stitch at the 
end of each row and casting off the last stitch. Now collect 
the eigbt stitches and knit 40 rows the whole length for tbe 
inside <'f the leggin; cast olY tliv- ^ stitche-; from r,ii - next row 
and reduce the remaining 76 stitches to 24 in the next 19 rows 
a id cast ofi*. This finishes the foundation. To form holes 
for lacing, the first row of stithes on either side of the trim- 
ming stripe may be taken up and lhre3 or four rows knit, «he 
holes bein >: 1* rmed in next to last row by df^creasing and in- 
creasing alter every fifth stitch. >'o\v seam 'he leggins to- 
gether at the ba k, and take up the stitches at the top and 



KNITTING DEPABTMEXT. 43 

knit- 18 rows of two plain and two purl and cast off. Crocheted 
scollops at "n :in I 1)«) t • M .1'- • verv prett3^ These directions 
are for the ris^ht leggin, the 1 rt sho li.l be kuit opposite in 
order u I ring^ thj o.n^jc on the oat side. 

Ladies' Knit Wristlet. 
No. 28. Knit with number 1 5 needles. If usin^]^ Saxony 
yarn cast on 65 stitches using 4 needles. Knit two at the 
back and purl two alternately till 30 rows are knir, then 
jourl tluee rows, increasing ona stitch each in second and 
third rows. Thisfitiish^; i^ uincv top. For the plain i)art 
of the wristlet knit at the back and purl alternately tillfi\e 
rows are ^nit, then reverse (knitting the stitch that was pureed 
and purling the stitch that was knit) and knit live rows: This 
ma'-es two divisions of the pattern. The increase for the 
thumb is now begun; this is done by mailing a stitch between 
the 4th and 5tli stitches from the end of a pin. This extra 
stitch is made after a purled stitch so as to bring the stitches 
knitted at the back beside each other Knit out the four 
remaining stitches on the needle and four from the next 
needle, then increase or ma-e another stitch for the other 
side of the gore. This increase is repeated in knitting every 
fresh division of five rows o' the pattern, the second time the 
new stitch is made after a stich taken at the bacK, that is 
between the 5th and Gth stitches from the end, this will bring 
the made stitch directly under the one in the last row, and 
will leave five more stitches on the needle to be knit or ten 
stitches between the two increased stitches. Continue alter- 
nately these two methods of increasing, making the new 
stitches under cash other which will increase the number of 



44 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

stitches between the sides of the (^ove by two in each division. 
A'ter increasing twelvf- Tim*-s the top of the gore is reached, 
wlien the widening part consists of 32 stitclies; knit two more 
divisions without widening before commencing the thumb. 
The thum ) is k ut winn .i . stitci^-; th > .'r-'ve mti 13 addi- 
tionrd St .tell"-! r. ken fro:n tlie other needles and caught to- 
gether in a ring, the 45 stitches ot the thumb are taken off at 
the beginniug iiid <■;..■ of the rows of ne\. two divisions, 
tlien three more divisions or 1' rows more are to be i< nit with 
the 32 stitches, then three pml rows, tlu^)i ^n^(^ whole row and 
three more purl rows, the thuiub is then cast off. To com- 
plete the hand the 13 g"ie siitchesare u<jn\n picked up and 
knit with the other stitches of the hnnd; six of these 13 gore 
stitches, three on each side, are, however, decreased while 
knitting the next division; five moie divisions are knit and 
then finished off like the thunjb. These are finished with a 
CJochet edge a...Li a oo.» of ri. hou. 

KNrr E^( ing. 
No. 29. Cast on 14 stitches and I- nit across plain 
1st low: t t o, t, ]) 2 \L<:, t t t o, p 3 tog, k 3, t t t o, n, k 
8, t t t (., n. 

2nd roM': Knit plain to the last four sticher, t t t o, p 2 
tog, r, 1, I < , ]) L io_'. 

3rd rnv : t t to, p 2 tog, 1 1 t o, p 2 tcf, k 4, t t t o, n, k 3. 
t tt o, k 1. 

4tti row: 6th, 8th andlGth rows lil^e 2nl. 
5th rovs : t 1 1 c, p 2 tog, t t t o, p 2 tog, k 5, t t t o, n, k 3, 
t t t u, k 1. 



KNITTING DEPAUTMKNT. 45 

7<1 ro^- t tt o, i 2 to:^, < t t o, } 2 \ig, k G, 1 1 to, r,k 3, 
t t t o, k L. 

9th row: t 1 1 <% ]^ 2 tog, t t t o, p 2 tog, knit the rest plain. 
11 ;i iu\v: n, <• l t «, i , k Ij, t t t (^, n, k 4, 1 1 1 o, p 2 tog, 

11th row: 13th and 15th rows like 9th. 
11th lov : II, t t ! o, u, k u, c t L o n, k 2, t t t o, p 2 tog, 
tt .u, ) 2 tog. 

Another Knit Edging. 
No. 3'\ Cast on nine stitches and knit across pla'n. 
]s low: k ;*, ii, t r f , 1), t : , k 1, t t o, k 1. 
2nd n.w: k 1 , p i , k 1, i» 1, k 1 . p 1, k 4. 
3rd row: k 2, n, t t o, n, t t o, k 3, t to, k 1. 
4th row: k 1, p 1, k 3, p 1, k 1, p 1, k 3. 
5th row: k 1, n, t t o, n, 1 t o, k 5, t t o, k 1. 
Gth row: k 1, p 1, k 5, p 1, << 1, p 1, k 2. 
7th row: k 3, t t o, n, t t o, n, k 1, n, t t o, n. 
8th row: k 1, ]) ], k 3, p 1 , k 1, p 1, k 3. 
9th i\'\ : k 4, t t(>, t , t t o. k :\ tog, t t o, n. 
]Oth rnv: k 1. p 1, k \ p 1, k 1, pi, k4. 
11th ro ^ : k 5, t t o, k 3 tog, t t o, n. 
12th row; k 1, p 1, k 1 , p 1, k 5. 

Knitted Tidy, 

No. r.l. Cast on any number of stitches divisible by 5 with 
3 Lxau t\.r ed 'e. 



43 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

1st row; k 4, * slip the ihird stitch over the last, i. !» s 1< 
k 1. s 1, thieil ovBi- ihrt^' times, k 3, i-epeut from *. At the 
end the fe are only two stitcha-' lu I- at ufcei- jnittliig the 
thread over. 

2nd row: * k 3, p 1, loop, k 1 1, i^ 3, repeat from *. 

8i'd and 4tii rjw.s kait ^-1 aa. 

5th row: L^k 3 tlietirst. 

Ladies' Knitted Mitten. 

No. 32. Cast on 64 stitches and I nit six rounds plain. 

7th round k 2 toif, t '. (\ re mat, to the end of roand. 

8th rounJ: t t o, k G, k 2 tog, repeat. 

9th round: k 1, t t o, k 5, k'2 tog, repeat. 

10th round: k 2, 1 1 o, i- 4, k 2 tog, repeat. 

11th round: k 3,t t o, k 3, k 2 tog, repeat, 

12t;h rou id: k 4, 1 1 o, k 2, k 2 tog. repeat. 

1 >th 10 ui'^; k 5, t to, k 1, k 2 to-r. repr^;i\ 

14th round: k 6, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, repeat. Repeat from 8th 
to 14th rounds six times, which completer the fancy top; the 
rest of the mitten is plain knitting. Ta'e the first two and 
the last two stitches of the last round for a basis -for a thumb, 
purlin '• njie sti ch each ^^ide of the three, and in the next 
round and in everv tcMvith round thereafter inake two stitches 
for increase of width of thumb, an the sm-mo time continuing 
in every round the two purled stripes which outline the same, 
until you have 23 stitches in thumb exclusive of purled 
stripes. The increase should 1)3 niade the next stitch •'. be 
purled stripes. ^Vhen you have 23 s itches in thumb, knit 



KNiTTixo depaj;tmknt. -:7 

three roundf? pl.iin, iiov slip the 27 tlnimb stitches on n piece 
of twine autl ueKecurel; , uiiu with the remaining: stitches con- 
tinue the hand, kititliio all pliiiti and narrowin^j^ as thon^^ht 
best to sliape ♦Ic ]i.n>?1, mul continue Uns until the hand has 
reached a sufficient length. To narrow and finish off the 
hand, commence at the end, stitch off one of the needles. 
Knit 7, and narrow by knittin^? two together, repeat until the 
stitches on a 1 the needles are reduced so as lo be devisible by 
nine. Next round knit pi.iin, then knit 7, narrow and repeat 
to the end of the round, unit 7 rounds plain, then knit 6, nar- 
row, repeat i.i.u knit Grounds plain, then knit 5, narrow, 
repeat and kin't 5 rounds plain; then knit 4, narrow, repeat 
and knit 4 rounds plain; now narrow once on each needle 
in every round nntil ronr stitches are left on each needle, 
then narrow twice on each needle and cast off. 

To finish th'^ tl umb, i.lncf the 24 s'itches on the 3 needles 
and pick up three stitches fr<'m the base of the g^ore found 
between tl.t hand and thumb, then knit around once and nar- 
row once or iwice in the next two or three rounds; knit to 
suffioient len«^tlj and linish off by narrowing once on each 
needle tJl all the stitches are disposed of. 

Knitted Lace. 

No. 33. Knit to and fro 23 stitches as follows: 
1st rov : Slip one, knit 1, 4 times alternately, cotton for- 
ward, decrease 2, twice cotton forward, decrease 1, Knit 2 
together, cotton forward, decrease 1, l>nit 1. 

2m<1 row: All rows with even numbers, knitted, knit 1, 
purl 1 in the double made stitches. 



48 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

3d row: Slip 1, knit 2. ! times alt'^rhately coitoa forward, 
decrease 1, tlien k ar, .0. cotto i forward, Kuit i. 

5tb row: Slip ' , k lit 1, H time ; alternately cotton forward, 
decrease 1, kuil 2 together, iwic? cotto i forward, decrease 
1, knits, knit 2 together, w^ioj rottoii forward, decrea >e 1, 
knit, cotton toiward. i<u.i 2 

7th row: SHp 1, kn'r 'J, twice nl'ernately cotton forward, 
decrease I, then knit T, twi :f' ;dternit^lv cotton forward, 
decrease 1, then knit 5, cotton forward, knit 2. 

9th row; Slip 1, knit 1, twice alternately co'ton forward, 
decreas^^ 1, then knin t, o^toi r'orw i'', decrease 1, knit 3, 
cotton forward, decrease 1, k-iit 2 together, twice cotton for- 



ward, decrease 1, kior l,cotto'i lorwini, Iciii. 1*. 

11th row: Sip 1, knr. 2, twice alternately cotton forwnrd, 
decrease 1, il en 1 nit T, cctton forward, decrease 2, cotton for- 
' ward, knit 5, knit 2 together, c« tto.i ior.v,a(', decrea -e 1, 
knit ]. 

13th rowr Slip 1, knit 1, 3 times alternately cotton for- 
Svard, decrease 1, then knit 2 together, twice cotton forward, 
'decrease 1, knit 3, knit 2 toge'-ber, cot'.on forward, decrease 1, 
knit 1. 

15th row: Slip 1, knit 2, 3 times alternately cotton for- 
ward, decrease 1, then knit 9, knit 2 together, cotton forward, 
decrease 1, knit 1. 

After the IGth row repent the 1st to the IGth row as often 
•:as necessary, 

, CiiiLDs' KNiTTiiD Skirt. 

No. 31. This skirt is knit with two knitting needles, the 



KNITTING DEPAKTMEN \ • 49 

Upper part ma''e with fine ueedles, and the border v''- ^ Mirse 
this makes the skirt hang iml t at the bottom. vJ^.m leuv.-a 
with the border. Cast on 200 stitches. 

-strow: Knit plain iw red wool. 

"nd row: Change to blue and purl. 

8id row :KniLplaii\ 

4th row: Knit 1, make 1, knit three to^^^ether, knit, knit 2, 
make 1 . Repeat from the beginning of the row. 

Fifth, seventh and ninth rows are jiurled; the ,ixth, e'ghtb 
and tenth are knit like the fourth row: 

The tenth row finishes one row of the scallops of the borr 
der; to make the other rows of scallops repeat from tlio fir.^^t 
to the tenth row three times more. The plain part of the 
skirt is very easily done, and is worked by purling three and 
>• nitting three alternately, observing that the stitches that are 
purled in one row must be knitted when knitting back in the 
next row, and those that are knitted must be purled. 

When about half the length of the skirt has been knitted, 
change the needles and take the smaller ones. 

When the proper length has been reached, cast the stitches 
off and sew the sides together to wl lin abo lo ^ mc^^o of 
the top, then sew the top to a linen band. 

Ladies' Knitted Jacket. 

No. 35. Materials: 12 ounces single wool. It is begun at 
the waist 

Cast on 108 stitcnes, and k lit the fir ,t two rows backward 
and forward. 

3rd row: Slip the first stitch, * then the wool forward, 
knit 2 together; repeat from* to the end of row. Coming 
back knit 1 row plain, then 9 rows, alternately, 1 stitch plain 



50 KNITTING D::PARTMENT. 

and 1 purled, so as to form narrow ribs, work another plain 
row, then repeat the 3rd row, and coming back knit 1 row 
plain. Over this wasteband continue to knit in the following 
manner: knit odly the first 3 stitches of the last row, increas- 
ing 1 stitch between the 2iid and 3rd, then in returning knit 
pl.-iin. Be^in again and knit 5 stitchrs, increasing between 
the 4th and. 5th, and in return in plain knitting; in coming 
back \- nit 7 stitches, increasing between the 6th and 7th. 
Now begin the increasing for the chest- bv making 2 stitches 
in the 4th stitch; repeat this, increasing in every 4th row, put 
1 stitch further each time, so as to form a slanting line, the 
same as a dress plait. To prevent repetition we shall no 
longer mention this increase. In the next row knit 10 stitches 
wording the 10th into the 3rd hole of the 3rd row of the waist- 
band; in the next row *^nit 12 stitches, the 12th in the same 
3rd hole of the open row, and come back. Increase once 
more in the 4th hole of the open row, then work 1 row all 
around the waist- band, and from a similar pointed piece or 
gore on the opposite side, coming as far as the 4th hole in 
the open row of the waistband. Go on with the jacket in 
plain knitting always increasing slanting. After having thus 
knitted 4 plain rows, begin the increasing for the back. For 
this count 23 stitches on each side, beginning for the center, 
and increasing on each side of these 46 stitches in every 2nd 
row, placing the increasings each time 2 stitches each sid^; in 
the 56 row the armhole will be reached; to form this armhole 
count 47 stitches on each side for the front, and 74 in the 
middle for the bic'<; cast off the stitches between the back and 
the fronts; first work the fron's, knit.ting 64 rows plain, then 
knit on the sides of the shoulders the two stitches together 



IvNITTlNii DEPAUTVIENT. 51 

before the last, in every 2nd I'ow at the same time on the 
side near the necl<; knit 7 times, once in every row, and af- 
terward in every 2nd row, two stitches before the last to 
gether, until no stitches are left. As the shoulders form a 
point by increasing 15 stitches from the selvage, begin at the 
armhole with the 2nd stitch of the selvage, just under the 
decreasing for the shoulders. Over these 15 stitches knit 
plain along the armhole, but knitting together the 2 stitches 
before the last at the other end of each row. until the pointed 
piece is finished. When the 2 points are completed work 44 
plain rows in the back; in the next 32 rows decrease 2 stiiches 
at the end of each row, then sew or Unit the piece together at 
the shoulders. After this* beginning at the waist and going 
up to the neck, along the front, work first one plain row, and 
then 1 row of open knitting (like that at the waist,) then 2 more 
plain rows, and cast ofit' the stitches The sleeves are also 
knitted plain. They are begun at the top, cast on 32 stitches 
and increase 1 stitch in every r )W until you have GS; knit 9 
rows phiin; in the 10th row knit two last stitches together and 
repeat this, decreasing 9 times, »■ nitting 9 plain rows between 
each decreasing; then work 2 plain rows, then 9 rows, alter- 
nately 2 plain stitches and 2 purled, so as to form ribs; work 
one ])lain row, one jow ot open knitting then 3 more rows, 
and cast off stitches, sew up the sleeves, and sew it into the 
armhole; finish the jacket by sewing on buttons and making 
loops. 

KifiTTED Lace. 

No. 3G. Cast on eight stitches and knit across plain. 

Ist row; Yarn around the needle, puil two together, knit 



52 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

2, over twice, d arrow, knit 2. 

2ncl row: Knit 4, purl 1, knit 2, over twice, p 2 tog. 

3rd row: Wool around the needle, p 2 tog, k 7. 

4th row: K 7, over twice, p 2 tog. 

5th row: Yarn around the needle, p 2 tog, k 2, over twice, 
n, over twice, n, k 1. 

6rh row: K 3, p 1, k 2, p 1, k 2, over twice, p 2 tog. 

7th row: Yarn around needle, p 2 tog, k 9. 

8th row: Bind off three stitches, k 5, over twice, p 2 tog. 
Repeat until the required length is reached. 

Ti FANTs' Sleeveless Shir- (knitte^). 

No. 37. Cast on 100 stitches, knit two rows clear across, 
plain; then purl two rows and knit two rows plain; then knit 
40 stitches, and leave the remaining 60 stitches on the needles 
until you have knit 22 rows with the 40 stifches; this will form 
the front; leave these on the need e, now cast off twenty 
stitches, by passing one. stitch over the other; this will form 
the shoulder; now knit 22 rows with the remaining forty 
stitches, knitting two and purling two, as before; this will 
form the bac k. :m.v kini anotl tr icWjCicl at lie md cast en 
20 new sfitches, and then knit the forty stitches left on the 
needle from the front, you will now have 100 stitches again 
on your needle, which should be continued five rows more 
and cast off. The shirt is then sewed up, leaving the arm 
holes open. An edging is then crocheted ur«. und the neck 
and sleeves. 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT oH 

Knit Lace. 

TV "'^>. PiQ* Q^ twentj' stitches. 

Ist row: Knit 4, 1 1 o, n, * knit plain to last 2 st, t t t o, p 
2 to. 

2nd row: Put thread over needle, p 2 tog-, knit the rest 
plain. 

3rd row. Knit 8, 1 1 t o. n, repeat 1st row from * 

4th row: 4:h, 7th, lOth, 13tii and 16th rows like the 2d 
row. 

5th row: 5th, 8th, 11th and 14th rows like 1st row. 

Cth row: Knit 8, t t t o, n, t 1 1 o, n, repeat 1st row from =*' 

9th row; Knit 8, t t t o, n, t t t o, n, t t t o, n, repeat the 
tirst row ironj * 

12th row: Knit 8, 1 1 t o, n, t t t o, n, 1 1 t o, n, t t t o, n, 
repeat the first row from * 

15th row; Knit 8, t t t o, n, 1 1 1 o, n, 1 1 t o, n, t t t o, n. 
t t t o, u, knit 1, and slip it on to the left needle and pull all 
the -nrn e over it but one, put t t to and p 2 to^f. On the 
first scollop there are 20 stitches as the beginning and 25 at 
the end. 

KnF TED ImSERTION. 

No.3f>. Cas^ on 12 stitches. 

1st row; Knit 2, make 1, knit 2 tog, t, t t t o, knit 2 tog, 
knit 2, make 1, knit 2 tog. 

2nd row: Knit 2, m 1, k 2 tog, k 2, p 1, k 3, m 1, k 2 tog 



54 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

Brd row: Knit 2, m 1, k 2 tog, k 6, m 1, k 2 tog, 
4th row: Same as third row. Repeat from 1st tow- 
Knit Edge. 
No. 40. Cast on 15 stitches and knit across plain. 

1st row: Slip 1, k 2, t t o, k 2 tog,, t t o. k 2 og, k 3, t t 

0, k ^ tog, t t o 3 times, k 2 tog, k 1. 

2nd row: Slip l,k 1, k 1st i jop, p 2 1 loop, k 3d loop, k 2, 
1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 5, t t o, k 2 tjg, k 1. 

3rd row Slip 1, k 2, t t o. i^ ^ tog, k ' , <-, t o, k 2 tog, k 2. 
t t o, k 2 .og, k 5. 

4th row: Klip 1, k '>, k 2 tog, k ">, t t u, •: 2 tog, k 1 , . 

5th row: Slip 1. k 2, t t o, k 2 tog, k 2, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, k 1. 
t t o, k 2 tog, k 5. 

. 6rh row: Slip and bind 2, k 4, t t o. k 2 tog, k 5, t t o, k 
2 tog, k 1. Repeat from 1st row. 

Rose L .af L ge- 
No. 41. C ist on 10 stitches 

1st row: Slip 1, k 1, tt o, n, t t o, n, t to 3 tiniest, n, t 
t t o, p 2 tog. 

2d row: T t t o, p 2 "^og, k \ p 1, in nex loop k 1 a ^d p 

1, ( hat is after drawing thre d tljrou ^'i in knitting,) and 
fjefore slipping off stitch, bring thread fowa d and purl 
stitch in sj,.>ie loop. k i, p i., k 1, ^ 1, k 2. 

3d row: Slip 1. k 1, t t o, n, k 1, t t <\ n, k 4, t t t o, p 2 
toof. 



KM1TING DEPARTMENT. 55 

4tl> row: T tt o, p 2 tog, k 5, p 1, k 2, p ', k 2. 

5th row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, n, k 2, t t o, n, k 3, t t t u, p 
2 to--. 

6th row: T 1 1 o, p 2 tog, k^ : , p 1, k 3, p I, k 2. 

7th row: I Lj 1, k 1, t t v), n, k 3, t t o, n, k 2, t t t o, p 2 
tog. 

8th row: T t t ( , p 2 tog, k 2, p \ k 4, p 1, k 2. 

9th row: S:ip 1, k i, 1 1 o, u, k 4, t t o, n, k 1, t t t o, p 
2 tog. 

10th row: T t o, p 2 bv- k 2, p I, k 5 p I, k 2. 

11th row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, n, k 5, tt o, n, t t t o, p2 
tog. 

12th row: Bind oft' 3, thea take the stitch on right hand 
needle fuui pi.t it on the i«£u han.i, t t t o, p 2 tog, k 5, p 1, 
k 2. Repeat from 1st row. 

Knit Insebsion. 
No. 42. Cast on G stitches. 
1st row: Knit 1, n, 1 1 t o, n, k 1. 
2d row: K 3, p 1, k 2. liepeat. 

Knit Lace. 
No. 43. Cast on G stitches, knit across plain, 
1st row: Knit 2, t t o, n, 1 1 o, k 2. 
2nd, 4th, aud Gth rows knit jjlain. 
3d row: Knit 3, t to, n, 1 1 o, k 2. 



5(3 KNITTING DEPARTMENT^ 

5th row: Knit 4, t t o, u, 1 1 o, k 2. 
7tb row: Knit 9. 
8th row: Bind off 3, Knit 5. 
Repeal fron 1st row. 

ZiG ZvG Lace. 
No. 44. Cast on 12 stitcher, knit across and back nini'% 
1st row: Slip, 1, k 1, t to, v, t t o. n, t t o, n, t t o, k 5. 
'2nd and every alternate row knit p'ain. 
:>rd row Slip 1, k 1, t t c, n. t t o, n, t t o, n, t t o, k 4. 
5th row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, t t o, k 6, 
7th row; Slip 1, k 1, t t (^, n, t t, o,ji, t t o, ii, t t o, k 7. 
9th row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, t t o, k 8. 
nth row: Slip 1, k 1, tt o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, k 9, 
13th row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, r, t t o, u, t t o, n, t t o, k 10. 
15th row: This row all plain. 

17th row: Slip 1 , n, t 1 o, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, k 8. 
19th row: Slip 1, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, k 7. 
21st row: Slip 1, n, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n. t t o, n, k 6. 
23rd row: Slip 1, n, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, n, k 5. 
25th row: Slip 1, n, t t o, n, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, t t o, n. k 4„ 
Repeat from 1 st row. 

Saw Tooth Edge. 
No. 45. Cast on 7 stitches and knit across plain. 
ist row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, n, 1 1 o, n, 1 1 o, k 1 , 



KXITTIXa DEPARTMENT. 57 

2n(1, 4tli, '^■^s St'i ;iti i 9tli rows kni'. plain. 
3rci row: Slip 1, k 2, 1 1 o, n, i t o. n, t t o, k 1. 
5th luw: SJij) ], k o, t t o, II, t T o, 11. t t u, k 1. 
7th row: Slip 1, k 4. t t o, n, t t o, n, k 1. 
lOlh row: Cast oil' until there but 8ix Htitclies on left hand 
and *juu uu Liic n^^iii. Uepeat from 1st row. 

Knit Curtain Strap. 

No. 4G. Be,2^in by croclieting a loop 1 )ose]y with 18 chain 
and (»ne slip stitch. Then jjlace the stitch on the knitting 
needle, and knit to and fro as fijiluws: 

1st row: Twice alternatciy cotton forw.ird, and clecrease 1 
(that is, slip 1 a.s for ]>urling. k 1, and pass the slipped stitch 
ov r the knitted one.) 

2iid row: Twice altern itel}' cotfon lorwanl, decrease 1: re- 
l^eat the 2n<l row as often as necessary, cast ull', crochet a loop 
of 1.6 chain as auuve. 

KnittI'D Lace. 
No. 47. Cast on U stitches. 
Isl row: Knit jdain. 

2nd row: Slip 1, k 2, t t t o, n, bring the thread forward, 
n, k 2. 

3rd row: Bring thread forward, k 2, p 1, k 2, p ], k 3, 
thread forwartl, k 2. 

4th row: Slip 1, k 2, bring thread forward, n, knit plain to 
end. 



58 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

5th row; Cast off 3, k 7, bring thread forward, n, k 2, re- 
peal from 2nd row. 

Knit Lace. 

No. 48. Cast on 12 stitches and knit across plain. 

1st row: T t o, k 2, t t o, k 2 toir, k 8. 

2nd row: Slip 1, k 1, t t o, k 3 tog, t t o, k 2, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, 
k4. 

3rd row: T t o, k 5, t t o, k 2 tog, k 6. 

4th row: S 1 , k 1, 1 1 o, k 3 t<fr, t t o, k 2 teg, t i o, k 7. 

5th row: S 1, k 4, k 2 tog, t t o, k 1. 

6th row: S 1 , k 1, t t o, k 3 tog, t t o, k 3, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 
k 2, k 2 tog. 

7th row: S 1, k 1, k 2 tog, t t o, k 9. 

8th row: S 1, k 1, 1 1 o, k 3 tog, t t o, k 5, 1 1 o, k 3 tog. 
Repeat. 

German Lace . 
No. 49. Cast on 7 stitches and knit across plain. 
1st row: SI, k 1, t to, k 2 tog, t t o, k 1, t t o, k 2. 
2nd row: T t o, k 2 tog, p 4, k 1, t t o, k 2 tog. 
3rd row: S 1, k 1, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 3 tog, 1 1 o, k 2. 
4th row: T t o, k 2 tog, p 6, k 1, 1 1 o, k 2 tog. 
5th row: S 1, k 1, 1 1 o, k 2 tog, 1 1 o, k 1, 1 1 o, si, k 2 
tog, pass s over, 1 1 o, k 1, 1 1 o, k 2. 

6th row: T t o, k 2 tog, p 8, k 1, t t o, k 2 u^r. 

7th row: S 1, k 1, t t o, k 2 tog, t t o, k 3, 1 1 o, k 1, 1 1 o, 



KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 59 

k 3. t t o. k 2. 

8th row: T t o, k 2 tog, p 12, k 1, t t o, k 2 tog. 
9th row: Sl,kl,tto, si, k2 tog, pass s over, t t o, k 2 
tog, k 1, 

10th row: T t o, k 2 tog, p 10, k 1, 1 1 o. k 2 tog. 

11th row; Sl,kl,tto, sl,k2 tog, pass s over, k 2 tog, 
t t o, s 1, k 2 tog, pass s over, t t o, s 1, k 2 tog, pass s over, 
k 2 tog. 

13th row: S 1, k 1, 1 1 o, s 1, k 3 tog, passs over, t t o, s 1, 
k 2 tog, pass s over, k 1. 

14th row: t t o, k 2 tog, p 2, k 1, t t o, k 2 tog. Repeat. 

Knitted Twilight. 

No. 50. Cast on 150 stitches for the width of the twilight. 

Knit 2 plain rows. 

3rd row: Slip 1, make 1, k 4, * k 3 tog, k 4, make 1, k 1, 
make 1, k 4, repeat from *. 

4th row: Knit plain quite round. 

5th row: Same as the 3r<l; repeat these two rows three 
more times, then repeat again, working each stitch in each 
row, with the wool twice around the needle; in the following 
row work in the same manner; this will give it the appear- 
ance of a fine thick stripe and a very open one, without 
changing thd uceale. 

Knitted Breakfast Cape. 

No. 51. Cast on three stitches, at the end of every row 
make a stitch until you Lave 150 stitches on the needle. 



60 KNITTING DEPARTMENT. 

Then be^q-in to decrease a^ain to a point by knitting two to- 
gether ai the end of each row until there are only three 
stitches left on the needle. These are cast off together, The 
pattern of the shawl is made by every fo^r rows being- worked 
thus: 

1st vo^^ : Knit plaii'. 

2nd row: Piiri. 

3rd row: Kni' 2 together throughout the row. 

4th row: Kiiit, 1, iii,ik<' ;i stitch by knitting 1 mji the thread 
between the last stitch taken off and the next one ou the left 
needle, k 1. 

Begin again at the 1st row nnd gooji repeating these four 
rows unUi the sljawl irs nijishe<l Add a fringe. 

Knitted Shawl Pattern. 

Ko. 52. Cast on any number of even stitches and knit a 
row plain. 

1st row: Plain knitting. 

2nd row: Slip 1, k 1 *, wool forward, k 3 tog, repeat from 
* to end of row, k 1. 

3rd row: Knit 2, * in the over stitch k 1, pi, k 1, repeat 
from *. 

4th row: Knit plain. 

5th row: Knit plain. 

Gth row: Knit plain, repeat from 2nd row. 

Knitted Carriage Kobe. 
^"'-^ H3. Materials: Largest size steel knitting needles, a 



KXITTIXG DEPARTMENT. 61 

ball -'^ green carpet wrap, and some cl an anpfora ^v^f 1; pro- 
cure the wool from sotne wool dealer and wash it tborouglily, 
dip it in blue or red dye, dry it and Uien it is ready for use. 
Set on li> sti'cbes and after knitting' a row or two to make a 
firm be^innin;]^, .t^o oil as if you were n)akii)g a garter, but 
with every other stitch lay a smill Imijcli of wool ncross tlie 
needles; after knitting the sitch take the end of the wool, 
which sIkuvs on the wrong side, and turn it toward the ri^^ht 
side, knitting a switch above to secure it; then put in another 
thread of wooi and repeat the process, using altern te colors 
of the wool. The back of the strips should have something 
the appearance of body bru^sels carpet, while the front should 
be like a sort of thick, long wrapped plush. 

AVhen ^h<' sMi[)s are all finished they must be sewed to- 
gether at the bac'<; it is oidy for convenience that ttiey are 
knitted in strips, the robe as a whole, "would be very cumber- 
some to liaiidie. 

Knitted Uug. 

Procure remnnnts of tape-<try brussels, ravel out and cut in 
lengths of 18 inches. V\ith Ci>lored carpet wrap knit the old 
fashioned garter stitch with 15 stitches. After set ling up the 
stitches turn, knit the first stitch, lay a raveling between the 
stit.che-!, having it the same length on both sides; knit the 
second stitch, then ta'<e the end which is back of the work 
and bring it over on the same side with the other end; now 
lay another raveling and treat the same as the first cne. Do 
this with every stitch. V\ hen '-nitting back on o]>posite side 
knit first stitch, then put your needle under the raveling 
which forms a loop on wrong side, pull it up over the needle 



62 KNITTING DEPARTMSNTT 

ixiid knit it with the stitch the same as one stitch; this holds 
it in place. Knit five rows across plain, sixth row treat as the 
first, five more rows, sixth row like the first, etc Make this 
row us long as you wish the rug; bind off and make a second, 
and so on until your rug is ;i-i \*'i.i" t^ y"i wish. i^\nii- rows 
make a nice width. Sew the rows together over and over on 
the wrong side, line with some dark material and finish with 
fringe. 



CROCHET DKPARTAIKNT. 

A.bbreviations in crochet; — Ch, chainstitch. This is the 
foundation of all crochet, and is simply a straight series of 
loops, each drawn through the preceeding one. 

Single crochet, or S C: Put the needle in a stitch of the 
work, bring the thread through in a loop and also through 
the loop on the needle at the same time. 

Double crochet, or D C: Put the needle in a stitch of the 
work, bring the thread through, then take it up and bring it 
through the two loops on the hook. 

Treble crochet or T C: Turn a thread round the needle put 
it in a stitch, bring the thread through then take it up and 
bring it through two loops twice. 

Long treble or long; Put the thread twice around the hook 
and work like treble crochet, bringing the thread through 
two loops three times. 

Extra long: Put the thread three times round the needle 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 63 

and work like treble crochet, bringing the thread through 
two l)Oi)s four times. 

Picot: Make a certain number of chain loops, then put the 
hook through tlie tirst of the loops, cntch the thread and draw 
it through both first and last loops at once. 

Croohet Sacque for Baby. 

No. 1. Material: Five ounces of four- ply saxony and a 
long bone hook. 

This very pretty sicqne is done in variety of Afghan stitch 
and is made to open in the back after the fashion of our Ger- 
man fneiids. 

Make a chain of 40 stitches. 

1st row: Put hook through foundation chain, raise a loop 
from second chain; you have now three loops on hook; draw 
wool through two loops (a) put hook through loop made from 
second stitch, and through next foundation chain draw wool 
through two loops on hook, repeat from (a) to end of row; 
finish oft' as in plain Afghan stitch. 

2nd row: One chain, put ho >k in this chainstitch and 
through next loop as iu plain Afghan stitch; raise a loop 
from Afghan stitch, draw wool through two loops on hook 
(b) put hook in loop raised from Afghan stitch, and through 
next Afghan loop, draw wool through two loops on hook; 
repeat from (b) to end of row and finish oft' in tho usual way. 

3rd row to 8th row like 2nd. 

9th and 10th rows widen I stitch on the end of the row. 



64 CEOCHF.T DEPARTMENT. 

lltli and 12tiirows, wicleii tAvo stitches on the end of the 
row. 

Next six without -wiJening. 

li)th row: Bd'ore y()U begin th"^ row mnlo with the other 
end of tlie \\r,o] ;i ciini^i oi ^1 stitches, break off and oo-itinue 
the pattern on 20 stibhes, leavin^^ the his": 20 stitches un- 
worked; take tlie 21 chain .ind work tlie ])attera on them, this 
forms the arm hole; there should be 46 stitches on the row. 

Next six without wiclenin.i^-. 

'JTth and 2Sth rows, narrow two stitches on the end of each 
row. 

29th and 3"th rows, narrow one stitch on end of each row. 

Next 16 rows, without narrowing. 

liepeat the directions from the 9th row once, crochet the 
shoulders together, and work one pattern row on the nec^ 
and two on the bottom. For the looped edge on the front 
and bottom worl< as follows- 

One single crochet in first two Afghan stitches, seven 
chain, two single crochets in next two Afghan stitches; repeat 
this all the round For sleeves make a chain of 40 stitches, 
13 rows all straight without widening or decreasing. 

14th row: In finishing off the rows crochet the 20th and 
21st loo])s together. 

Next two rows without narrowing 

17th row: Narrow one stitch like 14th. 

Next two rows without narrowing. 

2:3rd row like 17th. 

Next two straight. 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 65 

Finiph with lace to match the bod}', crochet the sleeves 
tog^ether and sew in body. 

Silk Watch Chain. 

No. 2. Take button-hole twist, make n'ne chain and join* 
in^' in a ring. Put the needle through the first chain and 
draw the thread through both the chain and the loop on the 
needle, and work the remaining chain stitches tlie s<fcme way 
round at d round until you have the desired length; always 
take one-half of the chain next to you. 

Crochi^t Edgino. 

No. 3. 1st row: INIake sixteen chain stitches and turn 
work. 

2nd row: In the sixth chain from the needle make a double 
crochet, two chain, skip oue chain and make a double cro- 
chet in next, skip one ar'd make Ihree double crochet in 
next, two ch.nin, three more ^louMe crocliet in sa'me chain, six 
chain, fasten in first chain stitch of the work, turn. 

3rd row: * Opp chain, twelve double crochet in loop 
formed by six chain, three double crochet in next hole. formed 
by two chain, then two chain, and thr e more double 
cri chet in same hole, and double crochet in next hole, two 
chain, one double in next hole, two chain, oue double in 
next hole, then turn work. 

4th row: Four chain, one double crochet in first hole of 
last row; two chain, one double in next hole, three double in 
next hole formed by two chain, then two chain and three 
more double in same hole, one double crochet in beginning 



iJt) CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

of 12 double crochet, two chain, one double crochet between 
second and third double crochet of precedin^f scollop, two 
chain, one double crochet between fourth and fifth, and so 
on all around the scollop, then there will be six holes. Turn 
your work. 

5t.h row: One single crochpt and double crochet in each 
of the six holes, three double in next hole formed l)y two 
chain, then two chain and three more double crochet in same 
hole, one tlouble crochet in next hole, two chain, one double 
crochet in next hole, turn. 

(itii row: Make four chain, one double crochet in first hole, 
two chain, one double crochet in next hole, three double cro- 
chet in next hole formed by two chain; then two chain, three 
more double crochet in same hole, one double crochet at 
each of the three double crochets ui last row, six chain, and 
fasten between the first M))d secojid of the little scollops with 
a single cro^-het. Elepeat from star. 

Okochlt Sofa Pillow. 

No. 4. This is an excellent way to utilize short bits of dif- 
ferent colored zephyrs that accumulate. Sofa spreads may 
be made in the same way to harmonize with the ])ir!OW, and 
are light and bright as well as comfortable. 

Take green zephyr or ya, n, make a chain of six stitches and 
join in a ring. 

tst round: Under the ring work four groups of three trebles 
each, separate by two chair, after making the last chain join 
the first trel)le of the first group with a d c, break off. 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 67 

2n<l roiinf': Take re,l, *i trebles, 2 ch, 3 trebles all under 
the loop of l ch that separate the lirst and second groups of 
the previous round(*) - ch, 3 trebles, 2 ch, 3 trebles under 
the loop of 2 ch that divides the next two groups, repeat from 
star twice, 2 ch, join with a d c to the first treble of the first 
group; break ofl*. 

3rd round" Take light green and proceed as in the second 
round. 

4th round: Take black and work as in the previous round. 
This completes one square. Make as many as are preferred. 
In working the last round always use black wool but, the 
rest may be off different colors. 

Ckocuet Scarf. 

No. 5. T.ike f mr sk 'in of Saxo ly yarn. Crochet (in 
crazv) the scarf 14 inches wide, in length as preferred. Fin- 
ish the end with suitable crochet lace and bead it according 
to fancy, using for the beads as heavy silk thread as your 
needle will carry. The sides of the scarf are to be ornamented 
also with crochet beaded lace. 



Crochet Lamp Mat. 

No. G. Take an ounce and a half of olive green, half an 
ounce ruby sepbjT and oiiH sk 'in of ruby embroidery silk. 
The iii.it is roil id and 'is divid mI in'o sections. Sew the sec- 
tions together and with ruby embroidery silk work each in 
star or orodd stitch as preferred. 



€8 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

With olive green and medium sized s:eel hoo'< ^make a 
chain of 25 stitches. 

1st row: Raise the work back 12 loops in Afghan stitch (13 
loops on needle) raise tlje lii]('(is of ilje previous row and 
two more of the 25 chain, work back; continue in this manner 
in each of the following rows, until ail the loops of the 25 
chain are taken up; this will torm one-half of section; go on 
and for the other half decrease Uv taking up all the L)ops ex- 
cept the last one in each row u)itii you have decreased to one 
stitch, break off; this finishes one section. Make 7 more in 
the same way and then w.th the ruby wool work one d c in 
each of the points made by the unwor ed stitches, one of each 
section, and in each of the 25 chains at the beginning. Next 
sew these sections together and place them over a circle of 
card-board which must be lined with black silesia or silk. 
For the fringe tie suitable lengths of wool of both colors in 
the edge stitches around the mat, and for the second row 
divide the strands and knot them again together, thus form- 
ing a diamond shaped heading. 

CiiocHET Trimming. 

No. 7. Take thrend, either cotton or linen, No. 24 or 30 

and a fine steel hook and make a chain the length required- 

1st row: Miss 4, 1 treble in the 5th, (*) 2 ch, miss 2 loops, 

1 treble in the next; repeat from star to end of row. 

2nd row: 2 ch, 1 treble in first loop of 2 ch, (a) 2 ch, miss 

2 stitches, 1 treble in first loop of next 2 ch.repeat from (a) to 
end of row. 

3rd row: 2 ch, 1 treble in each loop of 2 ch of the previous 



.CROCHET DEPART MEET. 69 

row (b)l ch,l treble in each loop of next 2 cb, repeat from (I) 

4th row: 2 ch for first treble, 1 treble on first treble 3 ch, 2 
treble in the loop of I ch (c) 7 ch, miss 9 stitches, 1 d c in 
next stitch, 7 ch, miss 9 stitches, 2 trebles in next stitch, 3 ch. 
2 trebles in loop of 1 ch; repeat from (c). 

5th row: 5 ch, (d) 7 trebles under 3 ch, 5 ch, 2 lon^ trebles 
separated by 1 ch in d c of the previous row; repeat from (d). 

6th row: 4 ch, (e) 1 treple on first treble of th^ 7 trebles, 1 
treble between the first and second trebles. 1 treble on each 
of the next 5 trebles, 1 treble between the 5th and Gth tre- 
bles, 1 treble on last treble, (nine trebles) 4 ch, one d c in 
the one chain that divides the lou^ trebles, 4 ch, repe it fro:n 
(e). 

7th row: 7 ch, (f) 1 d c on first of the nine trebles, 5 ( h, 1 
d c in fourth of 5 ch, (this form^ a picot) 1 ch, I d c between 
the second and third trebles, 3 ch, 1 d c in fourth of 5 ch, 
(second picot); 1 d c between the third and fourth trebles (<^) 
a picot betwaen the next two trebles, repeat from (g) three 
times, six picots in all, 7 ch, repeat from (f). 

This finishes the pattern. 

Gents' Leisure Cap. 

No. 8. Crochet a ghain of four and join; maVc two single 
crochet in each one of the chain, taking up both threads at 
ODce; for the second row take two single crochet in every 
stitch of the first row; third row take two stitches in every 
third stitch, one each in the other; fourth row take two stitches 
in every fourth, and so on, widening enough to keep the 



70 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

work nearly flat till the size wanted is reached, then crochet 
without widening till the cap is tinished. 

A Ckochet Kose, 

No. 9. Ist round: Make a chain of f.)ur stitches and join. 
In this loop work twenty trebles. 

2nd round: Wor>' one ch and one trtble over each treble of 
the last rouii(\ 

3rd round: * On the treble and next chain make a leaf 
thus; The zephyr twice round the n'^^edle, take up the stitch, 
wor< through two, zephyr on the next, needle, draw through 
two, zephyr on the ueedle, take up the stitch again, work 
through 2, zephyr on the needle, work through 2, zephyr on 
the needle, take np the next stitch and work all ottthe needle 

2 loop at a time, then 4 ch. liepeat from *. 

4th round: 1 d c on the middle of the 4 cb, * 5 ch, 1 d c on 
the middle of the next 4 ch; rej^eat from *. 

Crochet Lace. 

No. 10. 1st row: * Make 22 ch, close the last 8 in a circle, 
12 double in a circle, 1 slip stitch in 1st of of 12 double, 7 ch, 
5 long treble with 3 ch between each in the next double 
stitches, 7 ch 1 double in the next stitch, twice alternately 5 
ch, 1 double in ever}" second stitch, th^a 5 ch, 1 slip stitch in 
last s'ip stitch, 2 double, 1 treble, 2 long treble in next 7 ch, 

3 ch, 2 long treble, 1 treble, 1 double in same ch, 4 times al- 
ternately 1 double, 1 treble, 2 long treble with two ch be- 
tween, 1 treble in 1 double in 3 ch, then 1 double, 1 treble, 1 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 71 

long treble iu 7 ch, 8 eh, 2 lui;g treble, 1 treble, 2 double in 
same 7 cli; repeat from ''. 

2nd row: * I treble in center of 5 ch scollops; 9 ch, 1 
treble in center of 13 ch, 9 ch; repeat from *. 

3rd row: * 1 long t'.-eble, i ch, miss 1, 1 long treble, join- 
ing the center stitch to center of lust long treble, 3 ch,misHj3; 
repeat from *. 

Wool Tidy of Two Colors. 

No. 11. Use No. 6 needle, ma'v-e a chain of 150 stitches of 
blue zephyr, turn, throw the thread over and make a shell of 
six double crochet stitches into the fourth stitch of the chain, 
skip four and ma'<e another shell of six double crochet, and 
so on to the end of the row, break oft* the blue and join the 
white, turn, make a chain of two, then make six double cro- 
chet into the loop between the shells of the first row, catch 
down tight without putting thread over between the shells; 
repeat and continue in this way, making the row of blue and 
white to alternate. Make a deep shell border of the two col- 
ors, four rows on the side and two on the top and bottom. 

Crochet Shoe. 

No. 12. Begin at the toe, make a chain of 15 stitches, work 
back in single crochet, working three stitches in the center 
stitch of chain; work 18 rows in this way, always being par- 
ticular to take up the back stitch and widening each time by 
working three stitches in the center. For the back, work 
back and forth on the first twelve stitches till the piece is 
long enough to go around the heel, the crochet to the other 



72 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

side; or tlie opposite 12 stitches may be crocheted out and the 
joiuiiig be done at the back. Crochet a row of scollops around 
the top, run elastic in ;ind finish with a bow of ribbon or 
ponpons and plush balls. The sole is finished by sewiDg on 
a lamb's wool sole, sewing it on the wrong side, and turning 
the shoe after it is done. These soles can be had at any shoe 
store. 

Double Twine Bag. 
No. 1^. This work is easy and simple in itself, but very 
troublesome with the connecting rows of chain stitch. AV^e 
would advise the reader to try common carpet warp for this 
work, as it is very cheap and durable. Make a chain of 224 
stitches, cut ofi' the thread, wLich must be done at the end of 
every row; the ends must be left long, as they are knotted to- 
gether afterward to form the fringe. 

Isfe row: 1 treble on the fir-it ch, * 1 ch, miss 1 ch, 1 treble 
on the next, repeat from * until you have 4(5 trebles. You 
then j<)in to the 11th treble stitch from the 1st, Go ch, have 60 
ch of the foundation row, 1 treble on the 61st, 1 ch, miss 1 
chain, one treble in the next, repeat until you h ive 46 trebles 
which brings you to the end of the chain, but at the 36th join 
to the firs.tof these 46. 

2nd row: 1 treble on the 1st treble of the last row, 1 ch, 1 
treble on the next; repeat until you come to the treble jast 
over the 60th ch, join to the 6 ith ch or the flips will not fall 
right, 1 treble on the 1st treble of the next piece, work 1 ch, 
1 treble, 35 more turns, jc>in neatly, finish the row. You 
must cross the chain stitches between the rows of treble, so 
that the end of the pieces will fall well as flaps over the bag. 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 73 

Cut the thread off taG^ain, Work in this way until you have 
18 rows, then Lnot the frin^^'e; add a fringe on the row form- 
ing the ends of the bag. 

Baby Carriage Robe. 

No. 14. Cast on a foundation of 19 stitches and crochet 2 
rows in wave stitch (to which follow two plain funis) lows 
with very raised round shapes. For tliese six chains are cro- 
chet in the first rows in going forward, fir^t five draw off 
loops,then three times after four of the same these are left un- 
touched in the next single tunis row, but are formed into long 
loops by uhe crowding together of the perpendicular bars. In 
goin«? backward in the now following row, all the loops made 
are drawn •!! iiiH hook uy putting the wool once this, the 
next perpendicular b ir is then to be pierced with the hook 
by uniting with tiie thre id 1 jop drawn through to the front 
to loop of the ra ^ttd sliai)e on the hook The perpendicular 
bars are again to be collected till the process as just described 
is repeated at the nexr stitch loop. This last row is formed 
by collecting the perpendicular bars on the left side, again 
into iije fi^-^r. wuve row. Curves each of one single worked 
into tlie thefiiNt, ^dne stitch, and five double into the third, 
ornament both sides of the strip. In sewing the strips to- 
gether you may use one of plain crochet and one ornamental. 
A. silk xjl- Wool lining is very nice. 

Tidy in Tricot. 

No. 15. 1st row: Make a chain the length required, work 
off in tricot. 

2nd row: One chain, * put the hook under the chain be- 



74 . CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

tween the two next tricot loops, pull up a loop, work np the 
next tricot loop, now pull iLrcugli two loops on the hook to- 
gether, work up the back perpendicular loop ot next tricot 
loop, i eep the loop on the hook, repeat from * 

3rd row: Coming back pull thrcugh each loop repea'ed'y. 
The second and third rows are repeated for the entire 
length. 

Crochet Trimming. 

No. IG. Materials: A coarse crochet hook and a ball of 
carpet warp, any color that may be desired. 

1st row: Make a chain as long again as the trimming re- 
quired, and crochet from left to right as follows: '' join to 1st 
stitch, 7 chain, join to same stitch, 3 times alternately 7 chain 
(crochet first of each 7 in the last of the preceding 7 like a 
slip stitch; all the chain scollops are crocheted like this and 
the description will not be repeated) miss 2, join to the next 
stitch, then 1 chain, miss 5, 3 times alternately join to next 
stitch, 7 chain, miss 2, then repeat from * 

2nd row: Along the other side of the work, like the pre- 
ceding row but in reversed position. To make raised knobs 
at the end of the vandikes take a different color of the warp, 
and begin from the center with the chain, close into a circle 
and w^ork 4 rounds of chain stitch so that there are 10 stitches 
in the 4th round. The wrong side of the^work is the right 
side of the knob, which is then sewn on to the border with 
fine stitches. 

Opera Cape of White Wool. 

No. 17. Make a chain of 84'stitches, which will make 12 
gores. 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 75 

1st row: Work 1 treble or l^ng^rocbet in each of the first 
and second chains, 3 trebles, crochet in the third, 1 treble 1st 
row in each of the 4tli and 5th, skip two of the chain to form 
t gore. If it is intended to finish with ribbon, make one 
singb chain before taking up the first stitch for the second 
gore, continue after skipping the two stitches by working 1 
treble in each of the next two stitches of the chain, 3 in the 
third, 1 in each of the 4th and 5th, repeat to the end of the 
row. 

2nd row: Turn and w^ork 1 treble crochet through the first 
and 1 through tn^^ second stitch of the first row, being par- 
ticular to t/'k'^ the stitch through the back loop, then take 5 
treble crochet through the next stitch (these five stitches are 
worked ii^^> the center of the three widening stitches of the 
the previous row), then work 1 treble in each of the two fol- 
lowing stitches, rep3;it to the end of the row, continue with 
treble crochet stitches, making the rows as follows: 

3rd row: * One each in first 3, 3 in the next, 1 each in next 
3, rex^eat from * 

4th row:* 1 each in first 3, 5 in next, 1 in next 3, repeat 
from " 

5th row : * 1 each in first 4, 3 in next, 1 each in next 4, re- 
peat from * 

6th row: * 1 each in first 4, 5 in next. 1 each in next 4, re- 
peat from * 

7th row: 1 each in first 5, 3^in next, 1 each in next 5, re- 
peat: from * 



7b' CROCHET DEPARTMENT 

Sth row: * 1 each in first 5, 5 iu next, 1 each in next 5, re- 
peat from * 

9th row: * 1 each in^first 6, 3 in next, 1 each in nex". 6, re- 
peat from * 

10th row: * 1 each in first 6, o in next, 1 each in n«xt 6, 
repeat from * 

11th row: * 1 each iu first 7, 3 in next, 1 each in next 7, 
repeat from * 

12th row: 1 each in first 7, 5 in nexf, 1 each in next 7. 

Repeat e.icli of tlie following rows in the same manner as 
the preceding ones: 

13th row: 1 each in first 8, 3 in next, 1 each in next 8. 

14th row; 1 each in first 8, o in next, 1 each in next 8. 

15th row: Same as 14th. 

16th row; 1 each in first 8, 5 in next, 1 each in next 8. 

17lh row: 1 each in first 9, 3 in next, 1 each in next 9. 

18th row: Same as 17th. 

19th row: Same as 18th. 

20th row: 1 each in first 9, 5 in next, one each in next 9. 

21st row: 1 each in first 10, 3 in next, 1 each in next 10. 

22nd row: Same as 21st. 

23rd row: Same as 22nd. 

24th row: 1 each in first 10, 5 in next, 1 each in next 10. 

'25th low: 1 each in first 11,3 in next, 1 each in next 11. 



CROCHET DEPARTMEET. 77 

2Gth row: Same as -Mth. 
27th row: Same as 2nth. 

•28tli row: 1 each in first 11, 5 in next, I each in next 11. 
29th row: 1 each in first, 12, 3 in next, 1 each in next 12. 
30th row; Same as 20th. 
31st row: Same as 30tl\ 

32nd row: 1 each in first 12, 5 in next, 1 each in next 12. 
33rd row: 1 each in first 13, 3 in next, 1 each in next 13. 

Finish by scolloping the edge. 

Gentleman's Si ull Cap. 

No. 18. Make a chain of three, unite, work in double cro- 
chet, always taking up the back of the loop and increasing 
graduall}^ to keep the work flat until you have worked twelve 
rounds. By increasing of course is meant taking two stitches 
in one loop; this must be done whenever you see the work 
beginning to draw up around the edges, it must be perfectly 
flat. 

13th round: 3 chain stitches, miss 2 d c, 1 treble in the 
next, that is )iti<s 2 stitches or loops in the preceding row, 
and take a treble stitch in the third loop) Repeat this 27 
times; in the 9th, ISrli and 27tli repetitions leave one stitch 
only between the treble stitches instead of two stitches as in 
the tirst. 

14th round: ♦ 3 chain, one treble over the next 3 ch, 3 ch, 
2 treble over the next 3 chain, repeat from * 



78 CROC BET DEPARTMENT. 

15th round: 3 chain, 1 treble over the next chain, in this 
round work 2 trebles as oflen as necessary to keep the work 
quite flat. Kepeat this round three more times. 

lOth round: * 3 d c, 1 d c on the treble, repeat from *• 11 
more rounds of d c, increase in each to keep the work flat. 

31st round: * 3 ch, miss 2 d c, 1 treble, 3 ch, miss 3 d c, 1 
treble, repeat from * 

32nd round: * 3 ch, one treble over the next 3 ch, repeat 3 
more times, then 3 ch, 1 treble, 3 ch, 1 treble over the next 
ch, repeat from * 

33rd, 34th and 35th rounds: * 3 ch, 1 treble over the next 
3 ch, repeat from * 

3Gth round: 1 d c on each treble, 4 d c over each 3 ch. 

37th and next three^rounds d c. 

41st round: * 2 d c in next, 4 d c, repeat from * 14 more 
rounds plain d c. 

56th round: 3 ch, 1 treble, * miss 3 d c, 1 treble, 3 ch, re- 
peat from * 

Kepeat the 5Gth round 5 more timefe, working the trebles 
over the 3 ch. 

G2nd round: 3 d c over the 3 ch, 1 d c on the treble, 20 
rounds more of d c. 

Now line your work with silk to match the other material, 
and sew in a piece of leather 1^ inches wide for the head,add 
a string to draw it up. 

Crochet TnrMMiNa. 
No. 19. This trimming is made by working part crosswise 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 79 

and part len;[!^thwise; for the crosswisft portion malve a foun- 
dation of 2() stitches and crochet the first round pLain. 

2nd round: Pass over 9 stitches, 1 single crochet on the 
following stitch, then 4 times alternately 5 chain''stitcheR, 1 sc 
on the loliowing stitch. 

3rd round: 3 ch, turn the work (this turning is done in 
each, so need not be again mentioned) 1 sc on the ch scollop, 
4 times alternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, then 5 
ch, 1 d oil the third following ch in the preceding row. 

4th round: 9 ch, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, 4 times alter- 
nately 5 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, then 5 ch, 1 
slip stitch on the first sc in the preceding round. 

5th round: 3 ch, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, 5 times alter- 
nately 5 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, then 5 cli, I d c 
on the middle of the first 9 ch in the preceding round. 

6th round: 9 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, then 5 
ch, 1 d c on the middle of the first 9 ch in the preceding 
round . 

7th round: 3 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, twice al- 
ternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, then 5 d c on the 
next sc, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, 5 d c on the nextsc, 
1 sc on the middle of the following dc, twice alternately 5 ch, 
1 sc on the next scollop, then 5 ch 1 d c on the middle of the 
first 9 ch in the preceding round. 

8th round: 9 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, twice al- 
ternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, then 5 ch twice al- 
ternately 1 sc on the middle of the following 5 d c, 5 d c on 
the next sc, then 1 sc on the following ch scollop, 5 ch, 1 sc 



80 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

on the next ch scollop, 5 cli, 1 slip stitch on the first sc in 
the preceding ruuiid. 

9t]i round: 3 ch, 1 sc on thf> next chain scollop, 5 ch, I sc 
on the t'ollov\ing c-i scollon, 5 d c on the next sc, twice alter- 
nately 1 sc on th3 middle of the following 5 dc, 5 ch, then 
twice alternately 1 ^c on the next ch scollop, 5 ch, then 1 sc 
on the following ch scollop, 5 d c on the next sc, 1 sc on the 
following ch scollop, 5 ch, 1 a c on the middle of the first 9 
ch in the preceding round. 

10th round: 9 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, 5 ch, 1 
sc on the middle of ihe next 5 dc, twice alternately 5 dc on 
the following sc, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, then twice al- 
ternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, then 5 chain, 
1 sc on the middle of the next 5 d c, 5 ch, 1 sc on the follow- 
ing ch scollop, 5 ch, 1 slip sti.ch ou the next sc in the pre- 
ceding round. 

11th round: 3 ch. 1 sc on the next ch scolloj), 5 ch, 1 s<^ on 
the following ch scollop, 5 d c on the next sc, 1 sc on the fol- 
lowing ch scollop, twice alternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the follow- 
ing ch scollop, then twice alternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the mid- 
dle of the next 5 d c, then 5 d c on rlie next sc, 1 sc on uie 
following ch scollop, 3 ch, 1 d c on the middle of the next 5 
d c then 5 d c on the next sc, 1 sc on the following ch scol- 
lop, 3 ch, 1 d c on the midd e of the first 9 ch in tlie preced- 
ing round. Work the 11th to 17th round to correspond wi h 
the 2nd to the 8th rounds, but in reversed order, thus shap- 
ing the point of the edging. 

18th round: 7 ch, 1 sc on the next ch scollop, four times 
alternately 5 ch, 1 sc on the following ch scollop, then 5 ch, 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT. ei 

1 slip sfitcli in the preceding round. Rej^eat the 2nd to 18th 
rounds until you have made as many yards as may be re- 
quired, then on the upper and under edges of the work cro- 
chet 1 round of sc each, and 2 rows of scollops similar to 
those of the crochet insertion. Complete the edge on the top 
with two rounds worked like the 6th and 7th rounds of the 
insertion. 

Crochet Carriage Robe. 

No. 2u. This is worked in alternate squares of plush and 
blue made of Shetland wool. The stitch is crochet tricotee, 
or what is popularly called "Afghan stitch." Make a chain 
of 14 stitches with the plush wool, making 13 loops of tri- 
cotee, work on it 13 rows of pink, then take the blue wool 
and conti la , working 13 rows, then take the pink again, 
work ni^ t lus in alternate squares uatil the required length is 
reached. 

The next stripe begins with ihe blue wool and is worked in 
alternate s j[uares in the same way. 

"I'hf- stripes are joined together by a row of chain stitch, in 
either pink or blue; a. plush square must always be next to 
the blue one, and vice versa. In the center of each square 
may ue embroidered in blue or silk any pretty flower or fig- 
ure. 

The robe is to be fini ihed with a frinsre which is crocheted 
thus: 



O' 



1st row: With pink wool, 1 s c (single crochet) ♦ 7 chain, 
miss 2 loops, 1 s c in the next ip.op, r jpeat from * all round. 



82 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

2nd row: 1 s c on the 4<h Joor of the fiv^- 7 chain, 1 ch, 1 
s c on the 4th of the next 7 ch of the preceding row, continue 
all round. This row is worked with blue woo]. 

Next cut the two wools in lengths of 9 inches, and loop 6 
strands into the center of eacL 7 ch of the 2ud row, putting 
the blue and white in i Iternate chains. 

Sofa Afghan (Crochet). 

No, 21. This afgl an is avo ked in alternate stripes of Vic- 
toria crochet and crcss-stitch. For the crocheted stripe pro- 
ceed as follow? : 

Along 13 stitches crochet in red wool two patterns in ordi- 
nary Victoria stitch. 

In the 1st row of the 3rd pattern take up the stitches as 
usual, and for the raised spots, crochet 6th chain after the 
3rd, 7th and 11th stitcher, drawing up the last of the 7 chain 
with the vertical part out of which the chain was taken, ;i. d 
in the return row crochet off all the stitches as usu?i'. 

In the 1st row of the 4th pattern row, when the raised 
loops are completed, take up the stitches as usual, but at the 
3rd, 7th and 11th, in the 6th chain, take up twice alternately 
1 stitch, pass the thread around the needle, then take up one 
stitch at the same j lace, and, lastly, draw up together every- 
thing that is in the needle. The return row is crocheted in 
the usual way. 

Repeat the 3rd and 4th pattern rows, letting the raised 
spots occur in reversed position. 

Along the long sides crochet as follows: on the wrono" side 
*J1 double in the marginal dtitcb, 4 chain, 1 treble in first 4 



CROCHET D3PATITVIEET. 83 

chain, rniss 2, repeat from *; for the alternate stripes of can- 
vass, work the pattern in cross-stitch, in fillsoelle of various 
sh .des. 

N vR '.ow Trim .iing ( 3!rochet). 

No. 22 . Crochet as follows: 

1st row: * 14 chains, 1 leaf as follows: Going back along 
the chain, 1 slip stitch, 1 single, 1 double, 2 treble, 1 double, 
1 single, 1 slip stitch, repeat from * 

2ud row: * 1 double in the 4th of the 6th full chain stitch- 
es, 3 chain, 7 treble in center 7 stitches of the leaf, working 
the center of the 7 treble in the point of the leaf, 3 chain, re- 
peat from * 

3rd row: * 1 double in 3 chain, 5 chain, 1 double in the 
center of 7 double, 5 chain, 1 double in next 3 chain, 1 purl 
of 5 ch, and 1 d »uble, repeat from * 

4th row: * 1 double in 5 chain, 5 chain, 1 double in 5 chain, 
5 chain, 1 d jub!e in next purl, 5 chain, repeat from * 

RoLLPicoT Edging (Crochet) 

No. 23. For the center, work 4 chain, 1 roll picot into the 
first, 8 ell ail!, draw throuufli the last stitch of the 4 chain, 8 
chain, 1 single into the stitch the roll picot was worked into. 
Repeat for the length required. 

For thft edge, 3 double separated by 3 chain under the 8 
chain of last row, 3 chain. Repeat. 

For the heading, 1 double under the 8 chain of the last 
row, 5 chain. Repeat. 



84 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

Crochet Astrakan. 
No. 24. 1st row: D c (double crochet), at the end 1 ch. 

2nd row: 1 d c in the first d c, takin^f up the bacV of the 
loop, which is done throuohout the worW, take up the back of 
the 2nd loop, draw the wool through, pass the wool round 
the needle, take up the same loop aofain, making 3 loops on 
the needle in this one stitch, draw the wool through these 3, 
then through the two on the needle; take up the whole of this 
row in this manner. 

Brd row: Plain d c worked from the back of the loop as be- 
fore; repeat the 2nd and 3rd row. 

Crochet Lace 

No. 25. 1st row: * Close 20 stitches into a circle, 5 chain, 
1 double in 4th chain stitch, 1 vandyke as follows: 9 cha.ins, 
going back from the 8th to the 1st stitch, take up one out of 
each stitch and draw them all up together 1 double in the 
next chain but 1 of the circle, 1 vandyke as above, four times 
alternately 1 long treble in the next stitch, 2 chain, then one 
long treble in the next stitch, repeat from * 

2nd row: 7 treble in the free chain of circle, 2 treble in the 
vertical part of the next long treble, 1 treble where the long 
treble was crocheted, repeat from * 
Lace EnGixa. 

No. 26. Select a narrow Valenciennes insertion, and cro- 
chet along one side of it as follows: 

1st row: 1 treble, 2 chair, repeat. 

2nd row: 3 double with 5 chain between each in the 2 



CROCHET DEPARTMENT 85 

chain, 7 chain, miss 3 treble, repeat. 

3rd row: 2 doable with 7 chain between in the 7 chain, 7 
chain, repeat. 

4th row: Along the other side of the insertion, 1 double, 1 
chain, repeat. 

Simple Crochet Edge. 

No. 27. Make a chain of 6 stitches, miss 4, in the oth 
chain make 1 single crochet; this forms a loop. 

Turn, 3 chain and 3 double crochet in this first loop, turn, 
3 chain and 3 double crochet in the 2nd loop formed by the 
3 chain before worked, turn, 3 chain and 12 double crochet 
in the 3rd loop and join the last one of the 12 double crochet 
to the first loop of 6 chain, turn and work 2 chain and 1 sin- 
gle crochet between 9 of the 12 double crochet, leaving three 
double crochet. 

2nd scollop: 3 chain, and 3 double crochet in the next 
loop,Jturn, 3 chain and 12 double crochet in the next loop, 
and join the last double crochet to last 2 chain worked in the 
1st scollop, turn, 2 chain and 1 single crochet between 9 of 
the 12 double crochet, leaving 3 double crochet, repeat till 
the edge is long enough. 

Ceiild's Crochet Hood. 

No. 28. Mrke a chain of 5, join in a circle, crochet round 
into chain, make outlets every second stitch for 3 rows; as it 
gets larger the outlets may be fewer, but keep flat. 

Outlets are made by working twice into one chain stilch. 



86 CROCHET DEPARTMENT. 

Work double crochet, make 20 rows all round, then leave 18 
stitch (this forms back of crown). 

Return the contrary way, always 1 javing the 18, and work 
backwards and forwards for 1 J rows to 4 the front, always 
take up the back chain. 

A. border may be added. Work triple crochet into 1 hole 3 
times, missing 1 always, 1 triple with 1. Repeat all round 
the cap. 

A -double border mav be put on if wished. Triple crochet 
into the chain stitch at the back of the front border. Ties 
done separately. 9 chain for width is enough. Double cro- 
chet like cap until it is long enough. 

A finished border will improve it. v^ ork one triple with 
every second stitch. Sew or crochet on the ties. 

Crochet Ball. 
No. 29, Take a large ball of twine, commence the coverof 
worsted by making a chain of three stitches joined to a circle, 
and work in single crochet stitches, increasing at regular in- 
tervals till the woik is large enough to cover one-half the 
ball, then work a few rows without increase, draw the cover 
over the ball, and work the other half to correspond with the 
first half, decreasing instead of increasing at regular inter- 
vals. 



sTAMPiisra-. 



Perforated Patterns. 
Oil a tough piece of tissue paper thoroughly with sweet oil 



STAMPING DEPARTMENT. 87 

or lard, sp^pncl ont ovr^r a piece of linen for an hour nr so, 
when it will be ready for use. Select some design from a 
book or picture card, lay the oiled paper on over it, wl en it 
will be seen that the most minute portion of the object can 
be discerned; with a lend pencil trace the object on the oiled 
paper. Fa ten a piece of parchment on a small cushioned 
footstool, lay the oiled parser outline over the parchment 
paper, pin it all around the stool to keep from slipoinpf. take 
a very fine needle ai d insert the eye into a cork, which ma es 
a punch; now proceed by stick ini>- little holes in the outline 
of the tissue paper, which will of course go through tiie 
parchment paper to(^; go all around the outline in this way, 
and thus form the pattern. Now what to do with the pat- 
tern after you have it made. 

Powder Process. 

Lay the perforated pattern on the goods to be stamped, 
burr siile no, dip the ponset or pad into the powder, rub it 
over the pattern being careful not to press too heavily or the 
pattern will be damaged; lift the pattern gently up so as to 
not blur the figure; cover the figure on the cloth with a piece 
of heavy tissue paper, and with a hot iron press it over the 
tissue paper scarcely touching the paper at first and gradually 
pressing heavier, and the figure is then stamped. 

Indelible or Liquid Process. 

This is done by using paint instead of powder and a brush 
instead of a ponset. Arrange the pattern as in powder 
stamping; dip the brush into the paint and rub evenly over 
the pattern; remove the pattern and place the stamped article 



88 PAINTING DEPARTMENT. 

in a dry place. The pattern should be thoroughly cleaned 
after using by washing it with benzine (keep the benzine 
away from the fire). 

How TO Make Stamping Powder. 

White powder: Use pulverized white glue, gum demar, 
gum copal and magnesia in equal parts; mix together and 
keep in a dry place 

Black powder: Use all the gums mentioned in the white 
powder, using povvdered charcoal instead of magnesia. 

To make a ponset: Take an empty spool, cut a piece of 
felt to fit the end of it, glue it onto the spool and you have a 
ponset as durable as any to be obtained. 



PAINTING- 



Painting on Oilcloth. 

To stamp the figure lay the pattern on the cloth the same 
as stamping on cloth, take a piece of charcoal from the fire 
pulverize it, tie in a piece of cloth, rub this over the cloth 
and just enough dust will go through to make a nice outline: 
mix a small portion of tube paint with turpentine, lay it 
around the charcoal outline and you have it permanent; fill in 
and shade with the same kind of mixture. 

The most beautiful landscape may be painted on oilcloth 
with very fine effect. I hardly know where to stop when 



PAINTING DEPARTMENT. 89 

enumerating the beautiful things that one exquisitely sensi- 
tive to beauty may fashion from ihe material with the aid of a 
brush and some tube paint made thin with turpentine . It is 
just the thing for slipper-cases, comb-pockets, match-safes, 
hairpin-boxes, splashers and kitchen lambrequins. Paint- 
ing on wood is done in the same manner. 

Glass Painting. 

Painting on glass is very much like the above In tracing 
your figure have the glass clean and lay it over the figure 3 ou 
wish to copy; mix with the paint a little demar varnish and 
proceed to sketch the 011 line; fill in with shade to suit the 
taste. If this is to be framed crush tin foil thesame as given in 
the directions for crushing paptr; lay it on the back of the 
glass and vou have sometliitiGf very novel in effect; or you 
may paint the whole back ground instead of using the tin 
foil. 

"White Velvet Painting. 

Use the best white cotton velvet; lay the pattern on the 
velvet the same as the oilcloth was done, using the sack of 
charcoal for the distributor; mix the paints with turpentine 
and sugar of lead, being careful not to have it too thin nor 
yet too thick, for if too thin it will run on the velvet and if 
too thick it will stand on the velvet and make it look rough. 
Now procee.l to fill in and shade using a fine camel's hair 
brush. Four or five painters or letters cut short to form a 
scrub will be needed to rub the paint into the velvet. These 
are all instructions needed to accomplish this bewitching art. 
It is hardly necessary to add that you should tack the velvet 
on paste-board before stamping it, and while working having 



90 PAINTING DEPARTMENT. 

it wrapped in paper with a small hole clipped in at the part 
you are working on. 

As an artist I have always found my first work in a new 
study of little value; the mind needs lime to adapt itself to 
new surroundings. It must assimilate the tone of the land- 
scape befoie it can render theii- true H])iiit. So the new 
beginner in this work need not feel discouraged if his first 
work does not give that satisfaction which can only be ren- 
dered by patient practice. 

Black Satin Painting. 

Stamp the figure on the satin; fill in ^\ith water paints, let 
these paints dry on the satin; mix oil paints the same as for 
oil cloth painting, put these on top of rlie water paints with a 
camels hair brush. The greatest latitude is possible in point 
of color, and the workei* can adapt sneaks and shades to give 
the apearance of reality. 

There are innumerable articles made from the satin paint- 
ings, for wear and ornaments, which naturely suggest them- 
selves to persons of ingenious minds and dexterous fingers. 

Light Satin Paintings. 

This is done in a similar manner, usin'jc the water paints 
first and not using the oil paints at all, as the oil would run 
on the satin; afterward put on coat of demar varnish. 

Embroidery Painting. 

Materials: Brass pen or quill, tu')e paints, palette-knife, 
palette-board or small piece of glass. This kind of painting 



PAINTING DEPARTMENT. 91 

can be done on all most any kind of material but velvet is the 
most desirable; ibis style of painting will become so popular 
by reas »n of its own merit, that all that is needed is but a 
fomal introduction. In case of using white velvet, put the 
paints out in a piece of blotting paper and let it stand over 
night; remove to the p illette-board with the palette-knife and 
the paints are ready for use. Sugar of lead is used as a dryer 
being mixed in with the paints. Apply the paints by taking 
them up in the hollow ot the pen or quill holding the pen 
bottom side up; have a piece of cotton cloth handy for the 
purpose of wiping the paint from the top (or rather the bot- 
tom) of the pea so it will not be smeared on the velvet; draw 
the point of the pen, with the back to the material, over the 
outlines, turning the pen slig'itly so as to draw it, in order to 
make the outlines clear and bright. Refill the pen with paint 
and till the center of the leaf or petals, drawing the pen 
towards center, as the stitch in silk embroidery. Shade to 
suit individual taste, blending colors together with the pen. 
This done then scratch the petals or leaf over with the point 
of the pen to give it the appearance of stitches, always mak- 
ing the leaves run toword the center. In painting leaves 
always begin from the outer edge and paint toward the cen- 
ter. For shading it is best to put on the light colors first, 
and then the darker ones, blending with the pen. In 
case of large flowers the paint may be applied with the pal- 
ette-knife, and than put in the finer details with the pen. It 
is only necessary to remember two things: First, that accur- 
racy in painting and blending are essential; second, the near- 
er the coloring approaches the natural tint the better. Any 
one who has succeeded in the easy task of satin painting will 



92 MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTiMENT. 

have no difficulty in doing the embroidery painting as the 
nack is caught with very little practice, and this style is espec- 
ially, as it takes a delicate observer to distinguish it from em- 
broidery. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 



"We do not intend to try to instruct all of our readers 
in economy at this late date, as we do not feel equal to the 
task . But we will endeavor to set forth a few useful hints in 
that direction. 

I was once pondering the question in my mind, what will 
1 get to make my baby a coat? Just then the thought struck 
me of an old coat that was hanging in the next room that 
might answer the purpose if ripped up and nicely brushed. 
Thereupon I undertook the task, and after the ripping and 
brushing had been completed then came the making, at 
which point I was puzzled on account of no^ liaving anj'thing 
with which to trim the garment. After studying for two or 
three days on the subjpct, i concluded (as tne coat was of 
gray color) to get some dapple-gray zephyr and knit some as- 
trakan trimming, which I did, also crocheting a cape of the 
same material and trimming it with astrakan; the whole cost 
of which was seventj^-tive cents (see astrakan trimming in 
knitting department, pattern No. 22). Thus papa's old coat 
was made into a warm and comfortable coat for baby. 

Ladies' Fancy Wall Bag. 

A handsome wall bag is something every lady would like 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 93 

to own, and our rlf-sfrioh'oT' of one olTers a suggestion to 
those who are oeginning the preparation of holiday gifts, or 
to those who have homes to decorate. This useful bag may- 
be made of cretone or cretone cotton flannel; the more expen- 
sive ones are made of silk, satin, velvet or plush. Take a 
piece of card-board, cut two pieces pocket shaped about six 
inches wide and seven inches deep; cut four pieces of the 
cloth the same size and shape; cut a piece of cloth one yard 
long and one-half yard wide, gather it lengthwise around one 
of the pocket-shaped pieces; tae up the opposite side of the 
long piece uf cloth to another one of the pocket-shaped 
pieces; line each one of the suj.uj pieces, leaving enough 
space to permit the inserting of th*^ paste-board forms; em- 
broider a piece of flannel and sew on to the side intended to 
hang next to the wall, this is for needles. For the outer 
facing of the bag make a neat pocket and tack on to the 
paste-board portion, ornamenting the same with a li?tle bow 
of ribbon; make six loops of cloth or get metal rings and at- 
tach to the bag, run a cord through them and fasten and 
your wall bag is complete. 

A Mammoth Boquet, 

This is most exquisite in desjofn. It is cemmenced by 
making a foundation from a board about eight inches long 
and boaring a hole through the center about one-half inch in 
diameter; cover the board with any kind of ciuth that may be 
at hand, making a hole in the cloth also; next a round stick 
two fnet long is needed and this is wedged into the h.)le pre- 
viously made in the board; cut three pieces of pa^te-board 24 
inches long: and three inches wide; cut one inch of the cor- 



9i MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 

ners off of each piece. Get some field grass, of which there 
are many varieties that will last for years and still be as fresh 
and pretly as when first cut. Sew small branches on the 
paste-board, placing one layer on the other like the shingles 
on the roof of a house until the entire piece of paste-board is 
covered, do all three in like manner; place the grass covered 
pieces of paste -board around the stici^ already mentioned 
tacking them together at the top (the ends with the corners 
cut off at the bottom); take fine gray spool cotton and wrap 
around them being careful to get the thread under the grass. 
Cover the foundation with dry moss gathered from the wood 
that has previously been dipped in green dye, using prepared 
glue to fasten the moss on to the board. Make paper roses, 
daises, pinks etc. having long stems and stick the stems 
down in between the thread that fastened the grass to the 
paste-board; bend the heads of the flowers downward to 
give the appearance of reality. Another way of filling the 
boquet is to take the little white everlasting flowers and 
use instead of paper flowers, leaving some of them their 
natural color and coloring others different colors. 

Traveler's Bolster. 

A convenient and very pretty bolster is given in our in- 
structions. They are exceedingly comfortable to place under 
the neck when lym^ down, and one frepuently sees them 
among travelers, who place them back of the neck while rid- 
ing in the cars. Make a case the required size and stuff with 
feathers. Make the outside of knitted astrakan (see knitting 
department) knit in stripes of different colors, brown and 
scarlet being a very pretty combination, and crochet together; 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 95 

or, if desired use plush for the outside and finish with cord 
and tassel. 

Precious Jewel Case. 

Take a small box, round or square and mount it onto three 
knitting needles, or China chop sticks will answer the pur- 
pose. The upper ends are fastened to the box and are tied 
together in the middle with a small piece of gold cord. Cov- 
er with tiny shells, which are of course stuck on with pre- 
pared glue; or the first teeth of the little ones mav be saved 
and fastened on in the same manner. This mikes t!ie jewel 
case more precious than the jewels which it m ly hold. 

Blocks for Children. 

This is something every man or woman can maVe, and you 
know the little folks must not be forgotten because ihey are 
small; this simple little toy will give them a wor d of enjoy- 
ment, besides being instructive, as it teaches them their ler- 
ters, and if figures be placed on one side it teaches them how 
to count. A piece of board about two inches wide and the 
length in accordance to the number of blocks to be maile, is 
needed; saw them off so they will be two inches square, and 
paper the edges: mark the letters on with a leid pencil, and 
then paint them on with oil paints mixed with turpentine. 
The brush needed for this work can be made by cutting off a 
lock of human hair and sticking it into the end of a quill. 

Instructions for Crazy Patchwork. 

Take a piece of muslin or firm goods the size you want 
the article. Upon this foundation baste the satin, silk, vel- 
vet or plush pieces in all sorts of irregular shapes, tarning 



96 MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 

in the edges. Then work the blocks together with different 
kinds of embroidery silk stitches. Tue wuric is muca im- 
proved by working sprays of flowirs, outline desigus of 
children, dogs' heads, bugs, etc. 

Table Scakf with Patchwork Border. 

A beautiful scarf appropriate for mantels, tscbles, stands, 
pianos, etc., is made of felt, edged at the end* with fringe 
formed of heavy silk tassels alternating with large silk pen- 
dants. About four or five inches above the fringe is applied 
a broad band of patchwork. Decorate witli a varia y of 
fancy stitches done with different (colors of embroidery silk. 
Bordering the patchwork on each side is a row of wide velvet 
ribbon, blind-stitched on. 

Borders for crazy patchwork are simply broad bands of 
plain or brocaded velvet, silk, satin or plush. 

Ornamental Fans. 

The ordinary large palm leaf fan can be made very decora- 
tive by painting in water colors a group of large sunflowers 
upon its irregular surface and tying a cord witJi yellow 
zephyr poupons on the end, around the handle. The fan is 
to be placed over a door, shelf, picture or bureau top. 

Moss Crosses. 

Pretty crosses can be made by covering wood crosses with 
moss. Stick the moss on the cross with glue. Bitter-sweet 
berries are prett}' in them; also small white everlasting flowers; 
the red berries and green leaves are pretty in a white, cross 
made of tissue paper. Baskets are pretty covereid with 
fringed paper; and it is also pretty sewed around a vase or 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTiMENT. 97 

amp-mat. If natural moss is used it should be dipped in a 
green d^^e and it will never fade. The everlasting flowers 
may be dyed any color. 

A Dainty Ottoman. 

This little article can readily be made at home. Take a 
square or round box six inches in height. Cover the box 
with black farmers satin, placing a little wadding on the top, 
'end pain t in water paints or oil paints a wreath. Around the 
top of sides finish with wool fringe and full plating of satin 
ribbon, or if preferred, pink out strips of cloth two inches wide 
and fasten on with brass headed nails around the top. 

A Picture frame of Pit Work. 

Any old picture frame that has been thrown aside will an- 
swer for this work. Cover with acorns, beach nuts, fruit pits, 
etc. These are stuck on to the frame with prepared glue, and 
touched here and there with copal varnish. An innumerable 
variety, of things may be made of this kind of work, such as, 
hanging baskets, fancy boxes, brush cases, wispbroom hold- 
ers, etc. They are also very i^retty for covering a parlor wood- 
box. We consider it not necessary to give directions for 
these as they are so simple. 

Fanci- Pin-cushion. 
This fancy pincushion is made on a circular cushion seven 
inches in diameter. The bottom being of x^asteboard, the 
sides of strong mumie cloth or satine, ajid the stuffing of 
wool. Cover the bottom with satine, sew a strip of satine six 
inches wide around the edge, take up the other side of the 
satine strip so as to hold the wool, and stitch a small round 



98 MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 

piece of satine over the gathers. Take two strips of garnet silk 
two inches wide, either pinked or hemmed on one side; one 
strip must be longer than the other, pleat up the long strip into 
sixteen double pleats, and sew them on the cushion. Now 
cut out a star shaped figure in blue velvet, embroider the des- 
sign with zephyr, filoselle, tinsel or silk, fasten it to the top 
of the cushion so that the point of the star fits in between the 
pleats of silk. 

A Beautiful Dkess. 

A dress of mineral-blue and golden brownchecked-wool 
this forming the skirt and bodice; the front drapery and lower 
half of the sleeves of blue watered silk trimmed with three 
bands of blue galloon dotted with white beads; the silk front is 
a wide square apron, pleated in at the top; the bodice has two 
bands of galloon, one on the edge and one above; the gal- 
loon outlines a deep pointed plastron, with linen chem- 
isette and collar; two bands of galloon trim the sleeves, one 
where silk and wool join and one above. 

Chemisette, 

Chemisettes are now very fashionable. Some of them have 
mcertion in the center, through which coUored ribbon is run 
with folds on either side and high collar of mull. Others 
have . Iternate rows of embroidery and plain mull, while still 
others are made of rows of embroidery with a high collar, 
covered by a band of embroidery. Chemisettes cut square in 
the neck have opening bordered by full ruching; those for 
mourning have the ruching run with black silk; those of 
Fedora lace have loops of ribbon among the lace. 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 99 

Saving Odds and Ends. 

Bits of ribbon, silk linings, odds and ends left from the 
crazy quilt, even the silk of a brown umbrella, every conceiv- 
able color and shade. These all may be cut into strips half 
an inch wide and sewed together at random, so as to color in 
one long piece and wound forming a large ball. This sewing 
can be done, either by hand or machine; in the latter case, 
cut the strips after sewing. Now cast from the silk forty 
stitches upon medium size tidy needles and knit in loose, 
plain stitch, back and forth. The blending of colors will be 
found very pleasing, the work rapid and fascinating, and the 
result most satisfactory . The pieces can be knitted of any 
desired size, and be applied to numberless uses and ways for 
ornamenting. To use long strips of this knitted material by 
alternating them with the same width of satin for window- 
curtains, is effective. It also makes a very handsome piano 
scarf, the ends finished with a heavy, mixed silk fringe . 

Housekeeper's Friend. 

A large wall bag to a li ousekeeper, is what a desk full of 
pigeon holes is to a business man. It is a large piece of 
strong gray drilling with a dozen (more or less) pockets 
sewed on, three rows of four pockets, or four rows of three 
according as you have a long or broad wall spa^e on which to 
hang it. These pockets are from six inches deep and five 
broad, to twelve by ten, according to the stowing room you 
require; they are stitched on, and on each is written in 
large plain letters with ink the contents; for instance, but- 
tons, tapes, ribbons, braids, curtain rings, etc; in short, all 
the articles that may be to useful to throw away, yet because 



100 MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 

they are not new or seldom used, may not find a i^lace in the 
work-basket. Eibbons a little soiled, just the thing to line 
or bind with, tapes still strong, or buttons from a garment 
old fashioned but sure to come in again; odd buttons too, 
that only encumber the reoular button box, All the odds 
and ends we may think it a sort of duty to keep, if we have 
a thrift}'' soul, yet which are a nuisance if we constantly come 
across them, may find appropriate homes in these bags. 

Toboggan Hood. 

• The Toboggan hood is more suitable for larger girls; and 
while it does not protect the throat so effectually, although 
strings may be easily added, it will keep the ears warm. The 
toboggans are made in wool, plush, velvet, or any soft warm 
material, and trimmed with bows of ribbon or ponpons in 
front. In some instances the brim is lined with fur. One- 
half yard of goods twenty-four inches wide will be required 
for the size for six years. 

Pen-Wipek. 

Make a roll of soft cotton material, then cut a strip of 
cloth, or blue silk, three inches wide and seven inches long, 
put it round the cloth, and make straps of zephyr cord, fin- 
ished with balls. 

Hair-Pin Holder. 

Materials : Small round tin spice box; small piece of card- 
board, and zephyrs light red, dark red, and green. Cut a 
piece of the perforated cardboard the size around the box, 
and work a small rose vine on the cardboard. Then place it 
around the box and fasten with a stitch here and there. For 



MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT. 101 

top and bottom, make a dozen tiny pompons and tie them to 
a zephyr cord about one quarter of an inch apart. Fasten 
these to the top and bottom with thread and needle. 

Table Cover, 

This cover is composed of navy-blue flannel, with a border 
pinked on both edges. The tendrils are worked in overcast 
stitches with brown silk, edged with olive green silk. 

Watch Case. 

The slipper is of blue silk, ornamented with an applique 
design in colored silk, trimmed at the edge with chenille cord. 
It is sewed to a sole, covered on both sides with silk. The 
edge is finished with chenille cord. A brass ring button-hole 
stitched round, fastened at the top to hang it up by, 

A Rag Bag. 

A useful present for a young lady to give to her mother is 
a rag-bag. A new way to make one is to take a strip of ma- 
terial the size of an ordinary chair-back; linen or woolen 
stuff will do; embroider it at one end and fringe it, turn over 
the other end, and work it to match, so that the two rows of 
fringe and work appear one above the other. Sew a piece of 
muslin at the back to make the bag, and some rings at the 
top through which run cord; hang it on the wall of the sew- 
ing-room, where it will be convenient to put scraps in. 



102 HOME DEPAETxMENT. 



THK IIOMK. 



A Pretty Room. 

A young friend of mine, who was no mean artist in a small 
way, had one of the most charming rooms I ever entered. 
She furnished it, as far as possible, with her own hands 
The beadstead, dressing case and chairs had been jDurchased 
in a very plain state, and she made them beautiful with her 
hand painting on the panels. The chairs were simple in 
style and only cane seated at that, but ever}^ one of them had 
been covered by her deft fingers into an upholstered chair, 
with an embroidered design to harmonize with painted panels 
of the furniture. Pictures, panels and plaques of the fair 
owner's onw make, just enough and no more, found their 
proper places in that room. Rugs, fashioned by her herself 
in imitation of Turkish by a familiar process known as" draw- 
ing," adorned the room and saved the carpet at the same, 
time. A bunch of lillies of the valley in wax, and so dainty 
as to invite you to smell them, stood in a tiny vase on the 
bracket of the girl's own carving. Mosses and ferns with the 
aid of her brush to execute back-grounds, grew into charming 
pictures more beautiful than landscape painting, and a dozen 
other means of adornment did the girl devise to make her 
room beautiful, careful always that the work should be of her 
own work, executed with as little expense to her father as 
possible. And it was a fairyland of beauty. 

Home Saving. 

We know not who is the author of the following- noble 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 103 

plea, but trust that it may have a wide reading and influence. 
"In regard to bedroom furnishing don't get a plain, cheap 
furniture for your own use and put a handsome suite in the 
guest chamber for the benefit of the occasional visitor. Get 
one bedroom suit of as handsojne a style as jou can afford, 
knowing it will never wear out, and if nice in the beginning 
will always remain so, though it may grow old-fashioned, and 
you have no idea with what tenacity these relics of your early 
housekeeping will cling to your heart in after years. In the 
first place decide if possible, on the exact sum you wish to 
use for your house furnishing; then go into your mother's 
kitchen and pantry and ma!<e a complete list of the things 
which you must have first of all, though there be no carpet 
in the parlor or lamp in the hall. Deduct the cost of these 
from the first amount, and to the expenditure of the remain- 
der devote your very best judgment, taste and forethought. 
Never, never buy expensive furniture and carpets at the sacri- 
fice of books, music, pictures and other things which so much 
more truly help to make ihe sunshine of our days. Better, 
far better have painted and varnished floors, with ingrain or 
even matting for rugs with these, than without them to in- 
dulge in these creature comforts ol elegance. 

Strive to make home a heaven of rest to the tired hearts 
and minds as much as the wearied bodies of yoar friends, 
administering refreshment by your intellectual and bright 
surroundings, just as truly to the former as to the latter, 
when they sit around your board, and you will find that your 
abode will be an alluring spot to many a worn pilgrim on 
life's way, and you will feel something of the joys of creation, 
having created that sweet, rare thing, true emblem of heaven 



104 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

]j rest — a true home." 

Doll's Furniture. 

Any article for her doll never fails to please a little girl. 
Common spools are quickly metamorphosed into toy ottomans 
b}'^ covering with a bit of gray chintz or silk, putting a little 
wadding in at the top for a cushion and tying a piece of rib- 
bon around the center. A cigar box set on end makes a 
doll's wardrobe if furnished with rows of small white tacks 
on which to hang the tiny dresses. A little varnish or polish 
improves it. A wooden box can be converted into a doll 
house by setting it up on end and running one or two shelf 
like partitions across to divide it into rooms, the lower serv- 
ing for kitchen and the upper for parlor and bedroom. The 
wall should be nicely papered or painted and the floor car- 
peted; then furnish with chairs cut out of card-board and a 
bedstead made out of paste-board and furnished with 
spread and pillows. A toy stove and a set of dishes, such as 
maybe purchased at any toy store, will be suitable furniture 
for the kitchen. 

Nursery Basket. 

An extremely pretty nursery basket can be made by taking 
two of the common half bushel j)each baskets^ so easily to 
procure, stand one upside down then place the other upon it. 
thus bringing the bottoms of the two baskets ^together, mak- 
ing a form much like an hour-glass; now take some silesia, 
any color, and line the inside of the top basket neatly, cover 
this again with darned net making deep pockets, etc. , and 
tacking them onto the basket wirh dainty bows of ribbon. It 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 105 

is well to make the round piece to line the bottom of the bas- 
ket, separately; now begin at the outside, tack the silesia in 
plaits about the top rim with smallest, flat-headed furniture 
tacks, then drawing it down tightly, tie with a ribbon tightly 
around where the two baskets come together or screwed to- 
gether, and then drawing the silesia to the bottom of the 
stand, turn the whole thing over and tack it onto the lower 
rim; across the bottom simply lack a piece of slate colored 
corset jeans, before putting on the lace. Take some carpet 
warp or twine and crochet some lace and beginning again at 
the upper part, sew on the lace putting the ed^^e or border of 
he lace at the top rim of the basket and then gather the plain 
part in where the silesia is tied; for covering the lower basket 
put another flounce gathering it quite full at the center, and 
letting it fall loosely . At the center where the baskets are 
joined tie a largo satin bow the same color as the silesia. 

A Warm Baby Blanket. 

Take heavy, soft flannel which comes for this purpose; the 
ornamenting consists of a three quarter wreath of ferns and 
dasies in the center, about fifteen inches in diameter. The 
dasies are worked in kensingbon stitch in silk of different 
shades of pink, and the fern leaves and the vine of delicate 
olive green. The edge is cut in squares, every other one 
taken out. A pretty cream lace is then frilled under-neath 
them. 

At the Foot of the Bed. 

Wall pockets to hang at the foot of the bed are very popu- 
lar at present. They are to hold the diary, pocket-book. 



106 HOME DEPARTxMENT. 

handkerchief, and watch, and the novel one is reading, and 
are most convenient to one who dislikes to get out of bed. 

A good way to make one is to take two pieces of silver 
card-board, of a size to suit the taste, one piece being four 
inches wider and six inches shorter than the other. The 
wider piece forms the pocket; join them together with scarlet 
or blue wool, and before doing so work on the outside some 
motto such as, "Early to bed, early to rise" or "Eest ye tired 
one." More elaborate ones can be made of satin, hand-paint- 
ed, and covering the card-board. 

Ladies^ Puese Bag. 

The lower part of the purse-bag is formed of black silk, in 
spider-web lace, lined with common silk, as also the upper 
part of the bag. Cord of crimson silk to draw the purse to- 
gether near the top, and tassels are placed at each division 
and one at the bottom. 

Dining Koom Pictures. 

I want to tell the sisters living in the States where we are 
obliged to use so much canned fruit how to use the pictures 
that are on the cans. Tomatoes and all kinds of fruit work 
in nicely. If the paper sticks tight to the cans, steam it over 
the tea-kettle a few minutes, and it will come off easily. 
When you have about 25 pictures, get a large piece of black 
or brown card-board from any j^rinting office, cut out the 
pictures neatly, and arrange them along the bottom of 
the sheet, contrasting with taste and using judgment in 
grouping; make the next short at each end, and so on until 
you have formed a pyramid; now get some small transfer 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 107 

picture, leaves and flowers, and fill in the spaces, so as to 
give the picture a connected appearance. Use mucilage to 
fasten the pictures on. 

Waste Paper Basket. 
A square basket, medium sized, is much prettier for this 
purpose, and neater than a round one. The decoration con- 
sists of half a yard of brown velvet, quarter of a yard of gold- 
colored felt, quarter of an ounce of each of the following 
shades of crewels, light and dark olive green, blue, brown and 
yellow, one yard and a quarter of worsted ball fringe made of 
different shades of brown and green, six yards of double 
faced satin ribbon, one side dark brown and the other gold 
colored. The ribbon must be three inches wide. Cut a strip 
of the felt an eighth and a half yard wide, and long enough 
to fit smothly around the basket; work on this strip with the 
crewels alternate bunches of cat-tails and yellow daisies or 
coreopsis, spacing them so that two bunches shall come on 
each side of the basket. They must be shaded in working 
them, the cat- tails brown, the daisies yellow with brown cen- 
ter; the leaves should be varied with different shades of green; 
a strip of velvet an eighth of a yard wide and the same length 
as the cloth, is then sewed on above the embroidery; the 
seam must of course be on the wrong side. Work on the 
right side a fancy stitch all along where the edges are joined; 
this piece is then fitted smoothly around the basket, allowing 
the seam to be at one of the corners; the velvet must be about 
two inches from the top of the basket; the ball-fringe is then 
sewn around the lower edge of the cloth, which finishes the 
bottom of the basket. The ribbon is then made in a full 
ruche of double box plait, having the gold colored on the 



108 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

inside of the ruche. Full bows of the ribbon are tied on each 
of the handles. The rachino- of ribbon is sewed around the 
top of the basket just above the velvet, but having the edges 
meet. The basket when finished is a rich and tasteful one. 

Dressing Old Frames. 

Old mirror frames are painted to match the pain t in the 
room and then draped with any pretty material used for tap- 
estry. 

The Porcupine Pin-cushion. 

One of the prettiest novelties suited for fairs or for gifts 
for a ladies* work-basket, is n poicupine pin-cushion. Of 
course the mere mention of the name will give a good idea 
of the appearance and shape of the article which we are to 
describe. To begin take a card-board and cut two oblong 
pieces, which are intended for the base, and may be about 
six inches long; cover these and sew them together as for a 
flat pin-cushion; then cover with green crinkled sephyr, to 
represent moss. The shaded zephyr will be the best for the 
purpose. For the pin-cushion itself take another piece of 
card-board cutting it the shape of a porcupine, with round 
body and short, tapering nose, and of brown silk of the same 
shape, only an inch larger all around, two pieces; these are 
to be worked with eye-lets of yellow silk all over except the 
head; put in black beads for eyes, and represent the mouth 
by a small circle of button-hole stitch at the extreme end, 
with two red dots for^nostrils; sew the silk edges over and 
over along the edge of the card-board, stuffing it out with 
wool until the body is firm and of a proper shape . For quills 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 109 

stick the pins into all the eyelet holes, and from the under 
side make small, flat feet with a darker shade of silk. Secure 
the whole upon the base with a few strong stitches and your 
porcupine is complete. 

Crepe Vails Bad for the Health. 

Dr. Rober B. Morison of Baltimore, in a public lecture, 
expresed the opinion that the long thick crepe veil is very in- 
jurious to the complection and that Baltimore exceeds other 
cities in the wearing of them. The rough crepe, he is report- 
ed to have said rubs the skin off, and the poisnous matter is 
taken into the circulation in that way as well as carried into 
the lungs in breathing. Such a vail worn for two consecutive 
years seldom fails to produce evil results. Simular goods 
about the neck, and black silk and black cotton goods, also 
produce bad effect. Paris has a feather dyer's disease, produce 
from the dye in which the feathers are dipped. 

Cleaning Carpets. 

Carpets should be thoroughly beaten on the wrong side 
first, and then on the right side, after which spots may be re- 
moved by the use of gall or ammonia and water. 

Clay Pipe Plaques. 
A beautiful and tasty plaque may be , made by covering a 
plaque with velvet or plush, and getting three clay pipes, 
paint one gold, one silver, and one red; cross one over the 
other placing the red one in the center, tie where they cross 
with blue ribbon, fasten to the plaque. 

Glove Sachet. 
This dainty sachet is made of ruby-colored plush and old 



110 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

gold quilted satin. The plush is 16 inches deep by 12 wide, 
and the satin is one inch wider each way. Embroider the top 
with silk applique embroidery. If applique embroidery is 
used they may be tinted with liquid bronze applied with the 
brush. The reinings and French knots at the centers are 
worked with brown silk. Turn up the edge of the lining and 
slip-stitch the plush down upon it with the lining projecting 
half an inch at the edge. Put in an interlining of stiff can- 
vas for a foundation. Fold the sachet through the middle, 
and if desired turn up one corner for reverse, finish with a 
bow of ribbon. 

Women Who Read. 

The pursuance of a regular system of reading is more easily 
preached to than practiced by busy women. There is a great 
many of those who declare that they have not an hour in the 
day they may call their own . But with even ten minutes a 
day some-thing may be achieved. A book kept on hand for 
odd moments may be finished in time, and the habit of read- 
ing, once rooted, is a strong point gained. As children grow 
older a great deal may be accomplished by the practice of 
reading aloud. When this is begun by little children, the 
system is not apt to be dropped as they grow older. By judi- 
cious care the mother may make herself the intelectual cen- 
ter of the family. 

Sofa Pillow. 

Materials : Three-quarters of a yard of black velvet, three 
yards of heavy cord, four tassels, three quarters of a yard of 
old-gold satin. Paint a wreath in Kensington on the velvet; 
paint the monogram of the owner in water-colors on the old- 



HOME DEPARTMENT. Ill 

gold satin; sew these together. Make a pillow of some com- 
mon material, fill it with curled hair, then slip the fancy cov- 
er on over it, finish the edge with cord leaving loops at each 
end, adding the tassels. 

Use of Perfumeries. 
There are few ladies who can resist the pleasure of using 
perfumes and if they are not in too great quantities they are 
not objectionable. It is a better plan to use only one kind 
of perfumery, such as violet, heliotrope, rose-geranium, etc. 
Instead of satuating the handkerchief use perfumes in sachet 
powders. Put them in cotton in small bags of muslin, silk or 
satin, and strew them in every part of the bureau and ward- 
robe, so that a delicate, fresh, almost nameless perfume 
prevades every article of dress from the hat to the boots. 
Sachets filled with powdered orris root will give a sweet, 
wholesome oder that never becomes so strong as to be disa- 
greeable. It is hardly needful to say that the use of strong 
extracts of perfumery is not considered in good taste. 

Perfume Sachet. 

Cut two pieces pale cashmere any size desired,' lay a little 
cotton between, with some perfume powder, button-hole 
stitch the edges together with white floss; chain stitch some 
small figure on with fine sewing silk. , 

Chest for Soild Linen. 

Take an ordinary cracker box, line it with paper muslin, 
and on the outside cover it with cretonne laid in box-plaits; 
around the top finish with a lambrequin of turkey red with 
cretonne flowers transferred on the center of each vandyke; 



112 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

cover the lid with cretonne inside and out and put a full 
plaiting of the same around the edge; for tassels on the lam- 
brequin use zephyr to correspond with the color of the cre- 
tonne. By stuffing the lid of this box it can stand in a 
room and be used for a seat. 

Parlor Door Mat. 

Materials: Piece of brussels carpet three-quarters of a 
yard square: cut three strips of cloth for ruffles, one of green 
one blue, and one yellow. Cut one edge in small Vandykes 
or pink it, and box-plait or ruffles, sew the green raffle on 
first all around the piece of carpet, then yellow and then the 
blue, laying one ruffle a trifle over the other. In the center 
put a piece of velvet upon which some design has been em- 
broidered or transfer cretonne figures on the piece of carpet. 

Lambrequins, 

An elegant lambrequin for a bedroom may be made of 
whita oilcloth, by cutting it in deep vanduykes or saw tooth 
style, and painting a vine of bunch of flowers upon it. The 
lambrequin should be lined with pink or blue paper muslin. 
The vines and flowers inside the Vandykes should be painted 
to imitate the tapestry stitch with shaded green and brown. 
A profusion of small tull tassels of the mixed colors used in 
painting, made of wool'or silk, are sewn on and between 
each vanduyke; large polished silver beads or the white shell 
beads should be sewn all around the lambrequin. 

White Oil-cloth Slipper Case. 

Cut a large piece of card-board the size desired; cover it with 
white oil-cloth on one side and paper muslin on the other; 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 113 

then cut. of ofird-bnard ^wo smarp" pieces for pockets; cover 
them with oil-cloth and paper muslin, and fasten them to the 
large piece. Paint on each of the pockets a larsje bunch of 
o-rapes and grape-leaves; paint a vine of grape-leaves all around 
tJie back ground of the case. Finish around the edge with a 
full ruching of satin ribbon; also around the pockets where 
they are sewed on to the main part of the case. To hang it, 
sew two large brass rings at the back of the top. 

Needle Book. 

Cut a piece of card-board about eight inches long and 
three inches wide; on this card-board work a border in cross- 
stitch; also a figure in the center (before doing this the card- 
board should be doubled in the middle so as to form the back 
ol the book) of one of the backs, and the word 'needles' on the 
other. Cui of blue satin or cashniere a piece the same size 
of the back, over-hand them together, this forms the linimg 
of the book; for the leaves cut three joieces of white flannel 
the same size of the other pieces, pink- them all around and 
sew them into the book. Sew narrow ribbons on to tie the 
covers together. 

Lattice Stitch. 

A stitch used in ticking work and other ornamental em- 
broideries for borders, and formed of straight interlaced lines. 
To work, trace along the edge of the border two straight 
lines half an inch apart, and in between these lines work the 
lattice stitch. Carry five straight but slanting lines of silk 
across these in contrary directions with five other lines, inter- 
lacing these with the finest laid by passing each thread over 
one line and under onej line as they cross. Miss the one- 



114 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

eighth of an inch and commence to throw the five lines again 
across the space and niicilace these as befere mentioned. 

Broom Case. 

Cut a board back the shape of a star and cover with plush. 
The front is of card-board sufficiently large to form a 
pocket. Cover this on the outside with plush, on which 
some design oas been painted. Line inside with plain satin. 
Fasten the top and bottom of the front in the frame with the 
back. The broom is slipped in at either side. 

CoLLAE Box. 

A satin box to hold collars is quite easily made, and is a 
very suitable present for a gentleman and one that will be ap- 
preciated. Take a common collar box and cover the outside 
in ruby-colored satin, the inside with pale-blue silesia or 
quilted satin. On the lid paint a design in water colors, hav- 
ing the principal flowers of blue and white. Around the sides 
put antique lace and finish the edges of the box with a silk 
cord corresponding with the flower-i. For the feet and knobs 
use gilt beads, strung on coarse linen thread, and a tiny bead 
to hold the thread to place. 

Oil Cloth Splash: r. 

Take a piece of white oil-cloth twenty-four inches long and 
eighteen inches wide. Paint some design on the center some 
design of children to be preferred with motto such as, 
"Splash, splash," or "Be careful of the carpet," Arise, the 
sun is high," "Make haste your breakfast is waiting." If any 
such design or motto be painted it is not necessary to fill 
them in, but simply to paint the immitation of chain or out- 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 115 

line stitch. Around the edge put crochet lace or a full ruche 
of satin ribbon; finish with a large bow of pink satin ribbon in 
the center of the top edge. 

Umbrella, Case. 

Material: Brown or l:)lack oil-cloth; bind with braid and 
work the edges with a feather stitching of coarse silk; work 
the monogram of the owner near the top; finish with straps 
and buttons . 

Sofa Roll. 

This roll is made of quilted satin; the ends are joined to- 
gether and quilted ribbon placed around and finished in the 
center with a heavy cord and tassel. Work two strips of vel- 
vet long enough to go around the roll, filazelle or arrasene. 
Chain stitch the strips on to the roll, laj-ing a plait in the 
pillow under the bands at the top. The pillow-case is much 
nicer if filled with curled hair. 

A Gipsy Table. 

Any old table can be used for this purpose, by being var- 
nished over with ebony varnish; then paint the monogram of 
the owner in the center and a wreath of flowers around that; 
varnish the entire surface with colorless varnish. Or cover 
the toj) with the same material as the lambrequins and embroi- 
der a design to correspond with the one on the lambrequins. 
The border is cut in Vandykes and a design embroidered in 
each point. Make the stitch very loug and spiky and the ef- 
fect is much more desirable. Old gold satin with a running 
viae of maderia, is particularh- effective and the same on 
cream color would be quite novel. When the embroidery is 



116 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

finished line the border with satin or silesia, by running the 
edges of the points together and turning, which is all the 
finish the edge requires. Put a large full tassel on each of 
the Vandykes. 

Card Rack. 

A novel card rack is one fashioned of a pine cone. Select 
a large, perfect one, sew on either side at the top a cord to 
hang it by, with a tassel covering where the cord is attached 
to the cone. On the lower end of the card-rack sew another 
tassel. Then gild or varnish the cone, and when dry it is 
ready for use. 

Night-Dress Case. 

Made of turkish toweling embroidered in red or blue mark- 
ing-cotton as the fancy may dictate. Cut the pique for the 
case thirty inches long and eighteen inches wide, and round 
one end for the floss, embroider some small design on the 
flap and on the part that forms the front when folded over, 
and execute the work ii> outline stitch in colors to suit the 
taste and character of design. Fold the pique in the manner 
one would seal an envelope, sew up the sides, and hem the 
top and the flap. Finish around the edge with colored linen 
lace. 

Stove Mats. 

These are made of cloth; take two pieces of cloth 5x6 inches 
lay a layer of cotton between them and overhand them to- 
gether. On one side the monogram of the owner can be 
worked and on the other side some humorous design be out- 
lined; fasten a loop on one corner to hang it up by; finish 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 117 

around the edges with crochet lace. 

A Rack for Keys and Hooks. 

Take a small rolling pin, cover it with velvet all over ex- 
cept the handles, paint in Kensington some vine, fasten six 
or seven brass hooks on one side; to hang it up ta'^e a yard 
of yellow ribbon and tie to each handle making a small bow 
on each end. 

Lambrequin for Cupboard. 

The lambrequin may be made of any kind of cloth. An 
applique design cut of blue perforated card- board and sewn 
on with blue and gold colored silk thread is very noTelistic. 
There may also be a feather stitching of red and a chain 
stitching of blue floss. Lay the pattern of the lambrequin 
on the perforated card-board, to get the edge the same size 
as the cloth. Work a star in each vandyke of the lambrequin 
in alternate colors of red and yellow; finish with fall tassels. 

Ornamental Bracket. 

This bracket is made nicely may pass for an objet dart, and 
find a place in the moist elegant boudoirs. It is 14 inches 
wide and ten inches wide including the frame. The small 
should be made with hinges on so it can be folded down at 
pleasure; it is ment to hold a small statuette, a vase of 
flowers or any small knick-knack. The frame is fitted up 
with Java canvas in slanting stitches of old-gold colored silk 
forming squares* when the canvas is this worked all over, the 
bracket of carved wood is fastened in the center. The outer 
edge of the canvas is covered with ruby plush, over which 
wooden beads are sewn on with small white beads so as to 



118 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

form a raised frame. The canvas should be previous^ lined 
with stout card-board, covered on the outside with paper 
muslin. 

Bedroom Rug. 

Take a common salt sack, cover it with Java canvas, work 
in slanting stitches of crimson zephyr forming squares, which 
may be crossed over with royal blue zephyr to give more bril- 
liance to the grounding. The rug is finished with zephyr 
fringe, to which little tufts are added, made by twisting 
zephyr over a pencil and fastening each twine with a twist of 
very fine mounting wire. 

Spittoon Mat. 

Cut a piece of brussels carpet the size of a saucer. Then 
cut strips for two ruffles, one of red and the other of blue. 
Have one edge of each psnked, and box plait all round, lay- 
ing one ruffle a trifle over the other. This mat is very nice 
for the slop bowls in the bedroom and may keep drops from 
the carpet. 

Fancy Woodbox. 

This wood-box is made of a box three feet long and one 
and one-half feet high, same width, and having a cover made 
with hinges. Line the inside with zinc, and bring it over the 
edges of the box, round the top, cover the outside with heavy 
navy blue cloth and to finish the edges tack on a narrow 
moulding. The sides and ends are ornamented with a lam- 
brequin of large Vandykes, embroidered in various colors of 
wool. When the embroidery is finished, press on the wrong 
side, then line with foundation, and finish the edges with a 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 119 

heavy cord) and a long tassel in the center of each point. 
The top is to be embroidered to correspond with the sides 
and ends. It is better to have casters on the box so it can 
be easily moved from one part of the room to another. 

Comb Pocket. 
Cut of card-boardj one piece ten b^' fifteen inches (back) 
a half circle, ten inches diameter (bottom) and another piece 
four by twenty inches (front). Cover the back, and front 
with red leather. On the front of the back either paint or em- 
broider some simple design. Treat the front of the pocket in a 
similar manner. Overhand the three pieces together, and 
trim the front, top, and bottom with tiny roses made with 
pink and white leather, which can be procured in almost any 
shade; finish the sides with tassels. 

Bedroom Commode. 

Have a round box made 9 inches high, and large enough 
to admit the vessel. The cover should be on hinges Cover 
he top with cloth padded with curled hair. Line the box 
on the inside with muslin. Cover the outside with cloth. 
On two sides and the top paint or imbroider a spray of flow- 
ers. Around the top, up one side, and at the bottom, is a 
loose puffing of light colored satin with variegated tassels 

Transom Tidy. 

Take a piece of green felt the size of the transom, pink it 
all around the edges; on the side that is to face the street, 
embroider a vine around the edge; in the center work the 
name in large letters, the outline of each letter to be made of 
goldjtinsel and the filling to be of silver tinsel; line with pale 



120 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

blue satin upon wliioh some design is painted in water colors. 

Blind stitch the two pieces together, leaving the green felt 

about one-half inch wider all around than the blue satin; 

finish with a dainty bow of ribbon on each corner of the blue 

satin. 

Handkerchief Sachet. " 

This sachet requires a box six inches square and two inches 
high. Line the inside with pink satin quilled on the sides; 
the outside is covered with pink velvet and embroidered; the 
leaves are outlined in stem stitch with reseda and yellow 
crewel, then filled in satin stitch with wool of a darker shade; 
the veins are in stem stitch. A small fiower is outlined in 
ruby crewel, and filled in satin stitch and point Russe with a 
darker shade. The outer petals are light blue, the center of 
darker blue. The top is covered and embroidered to corres- 
pond with the sides. Finish around the bottom and around 
the edges of the lid with a full plaiting of pink satin ribbon. 

Embroidery and Painting Scrap Book. 

Any old book will answer for this purpose; take out all the 
eaves, cover the back with blue satin, paint in water colors 
hin.^es in immitation cross stitch, and in the middle of the 
upper side a monogram. For leaves paint on all kinds of 
material, and in all the different methods of painting, also 
embroider in Kensington, Brier-stitch, Herring-bone, French 
knot, etc., on various kinds of cloth. This makes a very neat 
sample case for showing your own handiwork. 

Door Brick. 
Take a common brick, cover it with cloth; plait a puff at the 



HOME DEPAETMENT. 121 

bottom of the briok, and auisli with a cord; then place a lay- 
er of curled hair round the brick and draw the iDUif ud loosely 
over it, and fasten ar*ou;id the top of the brick, then finish the 
ed<^e with fringe or la«^e, and over that sew cord. Fasten the 
cover for the top on three sides, then put in the hair to suit 
fancy. T;r k the remaining side of material down, and sew 
on cord. The center of the t )p is ornamented with a tidy of 
Java canvass, edged with lace or a piece of the same material 
the brick is covered with, embroidered in colors. 

La ■'.IP Shade. 

Take a sheet of colored tissue paper, mark out some de- 
sign on it, and then with a sharp pair of scissors cut away all 
the outlines so that when the lamp is lighted the effect pro- 
duced is that of a pictured scene . Finish around the top 
and bottom with a row of paper flowers. 

Sha-ing Cake. 

This dainty little article is made by taking two pieces of 
card-board cut nearly square, covered on the outside with 
crushed paper and lined with any contrasting color, filled 
with fancy colored papers, which can be pulled out for u^e as 
they are wanted, then filled again; a handle of plaited paper 
fastened at the top with mucilage; form rows of fringe at the 
bottom, flowers on the outside. 

Decorated Fans. 

Handsome fans are made by covering Japanese fans all 
over with paper fringe with bows of ribbon or bunches of 
flowers placed in the center. The back is covered with plain, 
stiff paper of the same shade or white, covered with tissue 



122 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

pai^er of the color of the fan, put together with mucilage. 

SiTxma-RooM Basket. 

Nothing is more attractive in a room than a basket of flow- 
ers; the basket itself should be of dark-colored paper, and 
made without any bottom, simply with a wire ring, the paper 
being placed in folds; the flowers are then placed in the bas- 
ket. The handle is made of wire covered with paper; around 
the handle twine some climbing flowers such as morning 
glories, flowering-beans, etc. If covered with a glass shade 
one can scarely distinguish them from wax, 

Eo^iS^s Jersy Caps. 

Take n p"ece o^ cloth the s'zr> of the boys' head and about 
seven inches wide; blindstitch a hem on the rigtit side; gather 
the top; sew the two ends together making the seam in the 
back; draw the top together and place a button on it; make or 
buy a long tassel and fasten it on with the bottom. A brown 
jersey wirh gold cord and tassel arou:ii the edge forms a 
pretty combination. 

Waste Basket. 

Procure a common scrap basket, line it with silesia. The 
basket is covered with puffings of pink satin and tabs of nivy 
blue velvet, edged with narrow antique lace. The tabs are 
two and one-half inches wide and three lonar, pointed at one 
end. Some design should be worked on each tab in satin, 
chain and feather stitch and in point russe. A heavy fancy 
cord is arranged in loops around the basket and finished 
with a I'di-Li^ satin buw. 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 123 

Toilet Sjyrr. 

Make a CT'''^ ^^>e desired siz", fill ifc with ■wo'~>^; covpr the 
top with crushed paper, make a very full puff around the 
sides; make a mat three inches larger than the cushion, cover 
it with crushed paper; sew four rows of paper fringe around 
the edge, make a paper cord for a heading, fill the space 
between the cushion and the fringe with paper flowers, also 
put a bunch of flowers on the top of the cushion. 

Bed Valanje. 

Material: Dark green cloth, gilt cord and fringe, small 
white beads, yellow and brown silk floss. A scroll pattern of 
the gilt cord, and leaves of brown and yellow floss, the flow- 
ers of beads, and fringe on the edge makes a lambrequin 
that it is impossible tj exaggerate the pleasing effect pro- 
duced; it is sa njci to say it is a marvel of prettiness. 

L -.FTER SvCHET. 

Take a piece of silver perforated card-board, fourteen 
inches loiig by seven inches wide, double it in half, and on 
the part to form tha ro ,^ work sj.iie sinx]l design in silk floss 
or split zephyr, or work the word ''Letters" or 'Notes." 
Quilt a piece of pink ^ar.iu the size of the case, and fasten it 
to the inside of the case. Around the edges, put a narrow 
trimming of ostrich feather band, and finish with tiny loops 
of satin ribbon. Across rli-s top lay satin ribbon, and finish 
the ends with bows. A perfume sachet placed underneath 
the quilted lining is a great addition. 

Pablor "Wood Basket. 

Material : Basket without ends, twenty large tassels, thir- 



124 HOME DEPARTMENT 

t3^-two small ones, bot.tle f^reen cloth, garnet v^'I/et, spangles 
and a bottle of gilt and brushes. Gild the basket around the 
edges, the handles and the entire inside. Fasten a strip of 
the bottls green cloth across the sides, and over that make a 
Vandyke of the garnet velvet, and spangle it tliicklj. The 
tassels can. be made of worsted with a few strands of silk on 
the outside, and would look well if a few colors were mixed. 
These baskets can be had at any large basket house, and are 
called lire-wood baskets. Most of the houses in this country 
burn wood and this fancy little article will be found very 
useful as well as ornamental. 

Bureau Scarf. 

This scarf is made of felt or canton flannel; across the ends 
are colored velvets and braids laid in points and straight 
bands. To brighten the whole, feather and cat stitch the 
braid and velvet with various colors of floss. Finish the 
euds with deep antique 1 ice, and work some of the heavy 
spots in the lace with floss, and on each of the points hang 
different colored tassels. Or another very pretty way is to 
put a broad strip of velvet across each end of the scarf and 
upon this sew a band of satin with a conventional design in 
kid applique and tinsel couching or floss and gold thread em- 
broidery. A heavy couching covers the seams. 

Chair Cushion. 

Make a case the desired size, stuff wiih feathers or curled 
hair; cover with a fancy cover ma le after the old log cabin 
stylp. A thick twisted cord, silk tassels, and a puffing com- 
pletes the edge of the cushion. This style of work is very 
old, but never the less it is very effective, and can be worked 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 125 

bj an un practiced hand. 

French Knot Embeoidery. 

The French knot is formed by bringing the needle up 
through the material, winding the silk or thread around the 
needle two or three times, and putting it back in the same 
place it came up, being careful not to tangle the thread as it 
passes through. 

Folding Screens. 

Folding screens are very useful as well as ornamental, and 
can be easily mad'^. First, have a plain frame made at a 
carpenter shop after 3'our own direction. Those having three 
panels arc, perhaps, more useful than those having two. 
They can be made of various materials from muslin to the 
elaborate embroidered ones so common in fashionable draw 
ing-rooms. A very effective one may be made by making 
each i^anel differently; for instance cover one with Turkish 
toweling, another with coarse muslin nailed tightly down 
e;ich side, and a strip of garnet plush or velvet turned over 
the wooden edges, and tacked round to form the binding; for 
the panel use the unbleached muslin, upon which embroider 
a design of one or two long stalked ox-eyed daises, with a 
few leaves and blades of grass, and several rich hued butter- 
flies. On another, cover with striped bed-ticking, divide it 
into squares and oblongs by lines of brier stitch or herring- 
bone ill china blue crewel, leaving the central division larger 
than the rest. In each of the irregular divisions thus ob- 
tained, work with crewel in two shades of blue, pointed with 
stitches of filostlle, geometrical patterns not to minute in 



126 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

detail. If desired this pattern may be worked with applique 
cut from dark colored linen. It adds very much to finish 
the top of the screen with gilded balls; these can be pur- 
chased at almost any toy shop. The screen above mentioned 
is but a simple one, yet it adds to one's chamber, and one 
has little idea, unless they have used them, how very conven- 
ient they are. For home every day use this simple one is 
pretty. 

A Convenient Letter Carrier. 

These are very convenient to carry letters to and from the 
post office and are made of leather or any other material may 
be used. Take a large sized envelo^^e, cut out a piece of red 
leather large enough to make a case for it, and leave a flap 
like the envelope; embroider someth wg pieLcy on the back of 
the case, I prefer the name of the owner bps'^, and work a 
border around the edges. Line with silk^ or merino; put a 
full ruching of leather around the edges. Use a handsome 
cord and tassels to correspond with colors u^ed in the case to 
make the handles. Another pretty way to make the handles 
is to cover a small piece of rope with leather, shot with silver. 

Children's Bibs. 

Children's bibs are are made of Turkish toweling. These 
are cut out to fit the neck, and the edge is ornamented with 
a fril of linen lace. 

Fancy Penwiper. 

A pretty, small penwiper is made of two two-inch-aud-a 
half squares of celluloid for covers, with two or three leaves 
of chamois. On one cover is painted a branch of wild rose 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 127 

blossoms and leaves, with the legend, ''Extracts from the 

pen of " The name of the recipient to be inserted if 

used as a gift. The covers and leaves are tied together with 
a bow of narrow gros-grained ribbon. 

Chain-stitch Embroidery. 

The chain is formed by a loop made first upon the upper 
side of the material, and the needle passed through securing 
the loop. The needle is then i)assed back near where it was 
drawn up, a stitch taken toward you, and each time this is 
done the loop is left around the needle, forming a link in the 
chain. 

B \'i RING Slippers. 

These slippers nre inade of substantial bed-ticking, with 
either a felt, cloth, cork or rope sole. Bind the edges with 
a bias piece of the ticking and make a full bow of red oil cali- 
co for the top. The straps to go over the foot and around 
the ankle are made of cloth button-hole stitched on the edge. 

Childs' Carriage Cushion, 

Materials: Pink and light blue cloth and a heavy cord and 
tassals. l\Iake a cushion with ticking a foot square; fill it 
tightly with wool or feathers, then make a case of the pink 
cloth and in the saam around the edge of the case pull in one 
edge of the piece to from the puffs, then turn it up and turn 
in the upper edge and box-plait it and sew it firmly on the 
top of the case, leaving a space in the center about nine 
inches square. Cut of the blue cloth a piece for the center 
and braid it with gilt-edged and canary colored braids, hav- 
ing the edge of the center (which is star shaped) pinked. 



128 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

Fasten the star to the cushion in each point with a lar^e bead 
and finish each corner with a tassel. Draw the cord around 
the cushion firmly and tie in a knot, leaving a loop in the cen- 
ter to lift it bj.'^ 

Hair-receiver. 

The foundation is a small lard pail. The pail is covered 
with perforated card-board, with the word hair- receiver 
worked on it. Draw the card- board tightly over the pail first 
turning in the edges; the top is made of satin, and drawn up 
with cord and tassel; the handle is covered on both sides with 
the card-board, and bound or button-hole stitched together 
atlthe edges; finish on each side of handle with bow of ribbon. 

Embroidery Rings. 

This stitch is much used in cotton embroidery; it is first 
run round and then cut out with a pair of scissors, a small 
margin being left to turn back whare it should be neatly 
button-hole stitched. 

Boy's Marquerite Caps. 

To make a cap for a boy four years old you will require 
twenty inches of gray cloth one-half yard in width, and one 
yard of gray cord and a darker tassel; make same as the jer- 
sey cap until you come to the top. This is taken up and laid 
in a tripple box-plait and brought over and fasten to one side; 
next take the cord and trim the top bringing it over the plait 
and fasten at the side and then add the tassel. 

Satin Stitch Embroidery. 
The satin stitch is used in working the leaves and flowers 



H0:\1E DEPAPvTMEJST. 129 

ill all kinds of ev' .ode];; M ^ stamjD d pjitteni should first 
be run •■>'T'''. f^.en •■>'^f'v sc^wing m n ^'' -^^^ tl leads iu lono-^ 
loose stitches leiig-thwise of the leaf, the stitches are sewed in 
t -oselj side by side in a slanting and contrary direction, fol- 
o / .^ car^^fuiiy the delininy^lina of the pattern. 

Book Mark. 

Make the marker of cardboard and cover one side with silk. 
Paint flowers and birds in -^oid and other colors on the s k. 
T a satin ribbon through u hole at one end. Woik the ini- 
tio. Is on the cardboard side. 

Wa&t: Pap re B\sket. 

Take any ordinary scrap basket ^nd run s'-n^^o's o^ wine col- 
ored cotton flannel through the sj^lits. Around the top, make 
a valance of garnet piusn cut in Vandykes, and pink these, 
then stud it with beads. Add to each point a tassel of canary 
colo ^u wool. Line the basket throughout with silesia, and 
(•I'r sf-^Tr»s of tlie s;iT>-e fwo ijiclx^s wide; notcli both edges. 
plait in full box plait and secure firmly around the lop of the 
basket inside. 

Herring Bone Stitch Embroidery. 

Herring bone stitch is made by sewing backwards and all 
tei'natmg loose loops of bu.luii hole stitch. 

Baby Basket. 

The material required for covering one of these baskets 
is three yards of V^ht blue silk, two yards of dotted Swiss, 
and twelve yards of fitting or narrow lace for edging the 



130 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

fluted border. The basket should be first lined with the 
colored material and afterwards with the white muslin. 

Bath Room Picture Frame. 

For the foundation use a stiff piece of cardboard. The 
whole is first neatly covered witli brown glazed paper, and 
afterward ornamented witli little chips and pieces of wood of 
various sizes and shapes which cun be co'lected at any car- 
penter's shop; or they are more tf) be preferred if from the 
cabinet shop. Glue them on securely. The thin chip should 
form the border; the heaver pieces the center. When the 
chip work is finished, the bade m.iv be covered with a piece 
of cloth. When finished, brush over with a good copal var- 
nish. In order to enliven it, a few of the chips may be 
touched with gold and silver Ijaf. 

Kensington Stit( h Embroidery . 

The stitch is taken the snme as the outline stitch; they 
should be evenly laid and dovetaJed one lu a> another; the 
outline of the design should be ca.efally follower, nwf the 
interior of the leaf oi* petal filled in accordi:i:>- r<) the shape. 
The stalks of the flowers should be worked in stem 3at(.h. 

Dinning Room Crumb Cloth. 

This is made taking a lar.Lie unbleached sheet r.nd embroid- 
ering it in apjVique cut from red linen. Or treat it in a sim- 
ilar fashion, and work puppies and ragged robins in geomet- 
rical st^uares. BL-K k cotton m ly be used for the veining, 
and coarse linen fringe sewed around tiie edi»-3. Outline 
work is the moht simple method of arriving at an effect in 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 131 

this branch of deeoraSon. To vary the result, a dariied-in- 
background is olteu added. Of this work a few varieties 
may be described: A design of lar^e passion flowers, out- 
lined in chocolate brown crewel on linen crash, has a back- 
ground of old gold threads of crewel darned in wavy lines. 
The artichoke plant is outlined on linen in shades of orange, 
the back-ground covered with arrow-head stitches of dull 
yellow crewel, suggesting the seeds of the plant. 

Bed Spread and Shams. 

A bed spread and shams, easily made and highly effective, 
is cretonne canton flannel, finished around the edges w^ith 
crocheted lace. Or a stout linen sheet, divided into squares 
and oblongs by lines of brier stitch or herring bone in china 
blue crewel, leaving the central division larger than the rest. 
In each one of these divisions w^ork some design not to min- 
ute in detail. 

Darned netting is still used, a sixteenth century bed cover 
having been recently copied. It has twelve squares, each 
one with a figure representing a month of the j'ear, outlined 
in colors. Madras muslin, in all its varieties of faint hues, 
quaint designs, soft and lovely texture should be advanced 
as the chief among bed covering. If needle work be added 
to the ground of Madras muslin, it must be in the shape of 
outlines, or darned lines of filoselle introduced upon the 
woven pattern of a plain cream tinted siuff. 

A Table Scarf. 

A scarf table cover of pink satin diagonal has for the deco- 
ration of the border a band of scroll work. This is worked in 



13^ EIOME DEPAT^TM- NT 

darned stitch with brown, yellow and pale red filoselles. 
Below is a smaller border of deep led plush, with a heavy 
fringe of piiik. xi sipiiue ..li^ie er may be iiuide <>t' double 
width catiton tlmnel of a f\^o'i w^iip r* .I.--; the border has a 
stripe of heavy cretonne about six inches wide set fully six 
inches from the edqp of the cloth. The ground was light 
blue covered with sprays of flowers. The cretonne was sim- 
ply blind stitched on; a fancy stitch would have detracted 
rather than added ettVc iveness. A triune was made by 
slashing the edge of the flannel in quarter inch widths two 
inclje deep. A mantle laibbrequin may be make by using 
similar bands of cretonne on a foundat.. jj of Java canvas ap- 
plied by fancy stitches in filosottes o. s. vi ral colore. 

Kmlw.w ^-'TriCH Embik eery. 

Railway stitch is made by windiuL'' the tliread ov r the 
needle a number of times, or as many times as the space to 
be filled will require. No running out is necessary for this 
stitch, but a tracing only. v 

Pocket Pin Cushion. 

Cut two pieces of card-board any desired shape, then take 
two pieces of velvet and paint a spray of flowers in each cor- 
ner; then round the edge lay a fine gold thread, and cat- 
stitch over it with some bright color, and scatter tiny flowers 
in the center. J > aw the velvet tightly over the card-board 
and overhand the edges together, and stick the pins in 
nicely. 

Child's Ball. 

This may be made by making a ball of rags the required 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 133 

sizfi and covering" it with bright pieces of cretonne, or by 
crocheting a cover of some fancy stitch, using first red wool, 
then yellow, then using blue t.ll the work is lar^e enough to 
cover ofif -half of the bal), tlie' make one red row, draw the 
work over the ball, and wo k the other half to correspond 
with the first half, decreasing at regular intervals. A pattern 
of bright f.ow^is worked with wcrsted round the center, 
adds greatly to the ball's attraction to a child, 

CiiAiR Cushion. 

This may be made of odd bits of silk, cut in diamond 
shape. Silk cord finishes the edge, and a tassel on each 
l^oint. A button is drawn down through the center and 
fastened firinl}'. Cmled h.iir is uie most desirable filling for 
the cushion. The diamond pattern is five inches long and 
two cUid a li.Jf :iwou b \v. I . 

DOYL^.YS. 

Housekeepers v ill fin'"' somethint^f very p'easing in the Ht e 
of drajDery l)v making- do lays of linen r''"i'<h. irinqinrr the 
edge and worki i>- some conventional design in the center, 
but these are all done in brown tints, sc.iiv'< ly varied by 
other colors, and in the finest of silk. Still others have 
Japanese and Chinese pottery designs done in the lightests 
blues, reds and olive greens. 

Dress for Flower Pot. 

Material: Green, red and yellow floss. Black, blue and 
orange flannels. Cut a piece of card-board the shape of the 
flower pot; sew it together, and make a full puflf of the black 



134 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

flannel on the outside. Then cut four diamond shaped 
pieces of the orange flannel, and notch the edges, or l)etter 
still, have them pinked. In the center of each diamond ap- 
plique small pieces of the blue flannel feather stitching with 
the flosses. When all the pieces are fiaished, fasten them on 
the outside of the cover at the to]^, jJlowing the points just 
to reach the bottom outside. This design may also be used 
for covers for toilet bottles. 

Eyelet Holes E:\ibiioidery. 

The pattern, be it a leaf or hole, is first run round, then 
the material, after being slashed with a pair of pointed scis- 
sors, or pierced with a stiletto, is turned back and sewed 
neatlj and firmly over and over. 

MOXOGRVMS. 

For marking handkerchiefs, make a half moon, horse shoe, 
or circle, and place the letters ia tha center. 

Children's Legging?, 

Are vei-y pretty, made of striped Jersey cloth and buttons 
sewed on the outside. 

Hem Stitch Embroidery. 

A few threads are first drawn out of the material to be 
hem-stitched, and with the needl3, three, four or more 
threads are taken up, and the stitch caught in the hem. 

Baby Comfortable. 

A very neat comfort may be made for baby, of dark colored 
blue muslin, with a wide bold desio-n traced all round for 



H')ME DEPARTME^TT. 135 

braiding with coarse white, or if preferred, white wool, use 
and chain-stitch it. Hollaud u^ed as a border on light blue 
satin cover, and the Hjlland worked with blue floss or worst- 
ed, mates a very pretty cover. 

Teay CoveEv 

A servicalb cover may 1)e made of fine linen, ard a border 
of knotted fringe embroidered in the center. The embroid- 
ery should be of colofcjd washing cottons, blue or red worked 
in cross-stitch. 

Oc^TLiNE Stitch Embeoidery. 

Outline stitch is simply the back stitch, and is generally 
used in outlining designs upon linen, and is very popular for 
embroidering the ends of towels for splashers, doyleys, etc. 
It is usually done in cotto", but may be done in etching 
silk, which comes for the purpose. 

Pelerinf. 

Cast on thir'y-five stitches; knit eight turns straight, then 
thiry-six turns, increasing onq stitch on one end of each row. 
Decrease one stitch for 21 rows on the staight side to form 
the back part of the neck, siill increasing on the other side. 
Then knit twelve turns quite straight, the center of these 
twelve turns is the center of the Pelerine, and the other side 
must be knitted in reverse. 

Cap Basket. 
This is useful for Ladies to take along when driving out. A 
round is formed of silver piper it is lined, and at each side 
there is a ciimscn silk or satin bag, drawn with a silk cord. 



13G HOME DEPARTMENT. 

If preferred, cardboard covered with Java canvass and worked 
in cross-stitch can be submitted for the silver jDaper. This 
can also be used for carrj'ing fancy work and materials- 

Double Chain Stitch Embroider^-. 

Double chain stitch is done much the same as the single 
chain stitch, except that the needle is ]»ut iii furtier lu the 
left, and twisted a little as it j^asses thro igh. 

Tissue P\peh Dresses 

Are a very great success; They can be either all paper or 
just trimmed in paper. Of course these dresses are only or 
the ball room. The pretty dresses t.i;it can be made of tissue 
papers are familiar to every one who looks into a fashion store, 
and a little neatness in the trimming, a little taste in the se- 
lection of colors will make a tissue paper dress a manuel of 
prettiness . 

Piano Covur. 

For the materinl of the cover use ol've green velveteen, 
and for the border have a design of blossoms or deep yello\v 
sunflowers. Or another design is to have the cover of old 
gold felt, work ad with gorgeously colored humming-birds and 
tall grasses- 

Boot Pin Cjshion. 

Dmall china boots are soli in the toy shops all ready to re- 
ceive the cushions that are to make them useful. In this one 
the boot portion is of old gold satin, and the cushion is in 
harmony. Gold cords are jDretily arranged about the top and 
the tinv tassels that finish them seem a wee touch of 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 137 

croquetiy. The cushion should be firmly stuffed, and if the 
little boot is to be given to a bacheloi- the sjiiaer should not 
forget to have it full of pins. 

Umbrella and Cane Holder. 

""his receptac'e for canes an 1 umbrel'is is raade of willow 
and may be purchased ready for the trimmings at any willow- 
ware establishment, liibbon is run in and out through the 
open work left between the solid fancy work and is as wide as 
the space calls for; the ends are tie(i iji large, soft bows diagon- 
ally across the front of tli3 holder. The ribbon maj be of 
finy color and variety preferred, sometimes three different 
shades of ribbon are effestively used; again only two shades 
are selected, and oftentimev*? only one color is seen, so ones' 
taste can be exercised in producing a very original combina- 
tion. 

Embossed Top for a Lamp Ornament. 

Fasten a small piece of wire in the end of the top to fasten 
the top onto t le 1 un- ; then cover the top with silver foil and 
gild the peg and the ornament is completed. 

Pape;i Receiver. 

This receiver is made by coverinj^ two three cornered 
pieces of card-board with pale blue satin. Upon the front is 
a half wreath cluster of applique roses which is put on in 
perfect smoothness. Heavy crimson silk cords are fastened 
from corner to corner; while the pocket is suppended by 
crimson satin robbous which, starting from different points, 
all meet at the center and form many loops. For a room 



13S HOME DEPARTMENT. 

furnislied in pale-blue or crimson this pocket is very becom- 
ing. In arranging the poctet the colors used for the decora- 
tion should be in perfect harmony. 

Table Cover. 

For a square or oblong table this is a handsome and elab- 
orate looking cover. The material is cloth of dimensions to 
hang gracefully deep at all sides of the table. A wide 
band of velvet is arranged a little ai)ovf> f.,. edges and fast- 
ened down at its edges with fancy stitches done with con- 
trasting sil s It is also richly embroidered near the top and 
bottom with simple stitches, which only require care in pro- 
ducing a very elaborate and pretty effect. 

Lace Lamp Shade. 

In the development of this dainty and beautiful piece of 
work Spanish lace is used, the color being chiefly rose-red. 
The lace is mounted on rose colored tarlatan properly shaped, 
and is in three rows, the upper row being Inished for a 
heading and having narrow ribbon run through it. The re- 
sult is very dainty. Any color preferred may be chosen, and 
often a row of beading for the ribbon is added to the upper 
ruffle. 

Fancy "Work Staxd. 

A positively masculine air may be given to this little table 
because it is evident that somebody's brother has been robbed 
of his felt hat and then cajoled into giving up three of his 
walking sticks. The outer side of the hat is covered with 
strips of many colored ribbon arranged in rainbow fashion. 
The inside and brim are lined with pale blue satin. A tripod 



HOME DEPARTMENT, 139 

formed by three canes is caught in the center by an enorm- 
ous bow of blue satin ribbon deftly tied. This basket will be 
found especially convenient for cards oi- for one's v'naigrette, 
fan or the many Ictie tri ies of the boudoir. 

Phjtcguaph Case. 

This case is made by cutting three pieces of Bristol card- 
board the desired shape and covering them with deep crim- 
son plush. The edges are bound when required with narrow 
ribbon the same shade, the sewing of the pieces together 
over this making a less bulky seam than plush. S2:>rays of 
flowers are embroidered upon each frame. Small bows of 
ribbon decorate the corners of the center picture. Velvet, 
satin or brocade may be used, if preferred to plush. 

Tobogganing Cap. 

This handsone cap is made of pure silk, with Roman 
stripes up to live inches; from this point are shown narrow 
one and two stripes followed by two inch navy and cardinal 
bars. The top is linished in fall Roman stripes and is pro- 
vided with a heavy t issel. 

Tam O'Sh.nter Cap. 
Make a chain of three stitclies, join, and in each of these 
stitches make two single crochets and in each of these make 
two single crochets in the same way, working round and 
round, but not fastening at the ends of the rows. After 
the second row one single crochet only is male in each 
stitch, except when it is needful to widen so as not to make 
the work "cappy," two crocbets being made for this pur- 
pose whenever needed. All that is to be considered in the 



140 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

further jH'ogress of the crowi is to have the worv neither cap 
nor ruffle the least bit, and judgment will have to be exer- 
cised in introducing the two single crochets in one stitch, 
as no rule can be to lowed in this matter. Crochet very 
tif^htly and eveuly and do not widen regularly at certain 
places, for this will spoil the circular shiuc! needful. Forty 
rows are necessary to complete the crown. The part for the 
side and brim is lu ide separately from tl)«- O'.wn. Start 
with a chain of as many stitches as there are in the last row 
of the crown and join the ends of the chain; then make a 
siLgle crochet in each cbai)i. In the second row make as 
many stitches as in the second row from the last in the 
crown, skipping a stitch when necessary to obtain the right 
number; each succeeding row should also contain only rhe 
sain" number of stitches as the corresponding row in the 
crown, until twenty rows are made. Wneii correctly made 
this portion will be perfectly smootli when laid upon the 
outer part of the crown. The twenty-first row is made 
without widening or nirrow'ng and seven otli^j* rows are 
needed for the brim and to complete the cap. In ma ing 
these last seven rows widen a little on each row, only enou>>h, 
however, to make a band that will fit the hea 1 of the person 
that is to wear the cap. When the last row is m.ide finish 
oiT securely and neatly, then place this portion on the 
crown with the right sides together; with a piece of the 
worsted crochet them together by lifting the corresponding 
stitches in the two parts and making half stitches. The 
cap is then completed and ready for the pompou, which 
should be sewed on with strong thread at the center of the 
crown. 



HOME DEPAPvTMENT 141 

Match Receiver, 

This receiver has two divisions; the upper division being 
used for burnt matches, and the lower one for unused 
matches. The foundation is cari-board covered on the out- 
side with velvet or plush, and on the inside with Surah put 
in slightly full. A tin box is placed in each compartn.ent, 
but should not be visible Fancy stitches done with silk or 
floss decorate the eds^es of each compartment, a variety being 
used. The word "Matches'^ is embroidered with tinsel on 
thn lower compartment. A strap of ribbon joins the two 
parts at the end, and over each end of each strap is placed a 
bow of ribbon having long loops and ends, Ribbons extend- 
ing from the bows on the upper compartment are used to 
suspend the receiver, being tied in a bow at the point of 
suspension. The receptacle is exceedingly dainty, and the 
colors, materials and stitches will depend altogether on in- 
dividual taste. 

Work Basket. 

Somebody's archery box has been riffed for three * arrows 
which form the stand for this unique looking basket. The 
arrows are arranged with their heads down and are tied to- 
gether with ribbons a little above the heads. Between the 
arrows, just at the end of the feathers, are fastened throe 
fine brass rods, which are run in and out throuiih the meshes 
of a net bag, which is make of cord. Ribbons are run 
through the meshes just below, and tied in bows with long 
loops and ends at each arrow. The arrows may be gilded or 
painted any perferre.l color, and the ribbons may be in one 
or more colors and of any variety. 



142 HOME DEPARTMENT, 

Catch-all Cag. 

In any apartment this bag will be useful and decorative, 
and it may be hung in a corner, on the back of a chair or the 
side of a table. The lower part is card-board rolled cornu- 
copia fashion and covered with silk, with lapped edges of 
different lengths, producing a pretty effect. Ail tho edges 
are bordered with gold braid, and in the top is fastened a 
deep bag of silk that is gathered at the lower edge before 
being attached and is drawn in closely near the lop by nar- 
row fancy edged ribbons run in casings. The top is finished 
to form ix frill above the casings, and the ribbons are tied in 
long looped bows. One of the loops thrown over the chair 
or nail will support the bag in the must artistic manner. 
Sometimes velvet, plush or fancy silk is used to cover the 
stiff portion. 

Decorated Fans. 

A simple palm-leaf fan of good size can be cirefully painted 
with gold liquid paint and beautified by a cluster of three 
ostrich tips fastened to droop gracefully near the handle and a 
strip of ribbon passing from under the tips along the sides, 
terminating under the edge . The tips may be some that have 
done service on a hat or bonnet, and the ribbon may match 
or contrast with the tips and be of any preferred variety. 
Such fans are fastened against the wall or artistically placed 
on the table or mantje. A bunch of paj^er or artificial flowers 
may be used instead of the feathers, if preferred. 

Sachet. 
Three varieties of pretty ribbon are joined to form this 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 143 

beautiful sachet and fancy stitching in colored silk is made 
along the seams. The shape is three cornered and applied 
points of ribbon decorate one side, while the bottom is deco- 
rated with the ribbons gathered to the lower corners and 
tied together near the left corner. Scraps of fancy ribbons, 
silks and velvets may be thus utilized and frequently the 
three will De seen iii one sachet. Of coarse the customary 
fiilingof cotton well sprinkled with sachet powder is requis- 
ite, but it should not be too compact. 

Toilet Cushion. 

A. piece of biocaded silk showing a large detached pattern 
is used for i,his cus iion, the sil< being cut off so that only 
part of the pattern will come in one corner. The cushion is 
bordered with a thick silk cord which is looped in rosette 
fashion in the upper corner. 

Ornamented Scarf. 

To throw over a towel rack, a table or the back of a large 
chair; tliis scarf is useful as well as decorative. The fabric is 
China silk, and the end which hansfs over is decorated with a 
row of applied velvet dice edi^red with tinsel cord. A cro- 
cheted ring is fastened to the bottom of each disc and through 
it is fastened a bunch of silk floss to form a large tassel. A 
tassel made of floss is also fastened where the disc touches 
and also at a similar point to the outer discs; the other end, 
wdiich falls much deeper, is bordered with two bands of vel- 
vet edged at each side with tinsel cord arranged in single 
scroll; the lowest band is directly at the edge, and pendants 
formed of crocheted rings and tioss tassels are tacked to form 



144 HOME DEPARTMENT. 

a fringe all across the edge; the other ba-id is a short dis- 
tance above and a row of crocheted rings depends from it. 

Fancy Apron. 

The material of this apron is scrim. A deep hem is mnde 
at the bottom, at the sides and across the top,, a wide ribbon 
being inserted in the hem at the top to draw the apron in 
and to tie about the waiste; the hems are held with button- 
hole stitches of yellow floss; threads are drawn above the 
bottom hem to form three rows of squares, which are fillep 
in with long stitches of the floss radiating from the center to 
the edges; these stitches produce the effect of daisies and are 
soft and beautiful. Narrow ribbon the color of the embroidery 
silk is run in to show in the openings at the corners of the 
squares. The stitches may be shaded hues, heliotrope, pink 
scarlet, pale-blue or green. A row of button-hole stitching 
is aho made across the apron at the top of the squares. Ex- 
treme care is needful in drawing the threads to pro- 
duce the regular effect which is so desirable to the good finish 
of the work. 

Paper Pocket. 

An ordinary wire toaster or broiler is used for the founda- 
tion of this pocket. The toasrer is painted with gold liquid 
j)aint, and wide ribbon in two shades arranged to alternate 
as run in and out through the wires, each strip of ribbon be- 
ing in one continuous piece all around thus banking the sides; 
the ends are neatly joined at the back. A ribbon bow is 
fastened to the top at the sides, and ribbon is also tied in a 
bow near the top of the longest handle by which the pocket 



HOME DEPARTMENT. 



145 



is suspended. The ribbon mny hp in tvo shndes of one color 
or in two contrasting colors or each row may be of a different 
shade or color. When contrasting colors are chosen care 
should be taken to produce a pleasing harmony. 




14G COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPA^lT^•ENT. 



COOKING- AND BAKER'S OEPART» 
MKNT. 



Yeast Cake. 



Good yeast, one pint; rye or wheat flonr to form a thick bat- 
ter; salt, one teaspoonful; stir in and set to raise; when 
risen, stir in Indian meal until it will roll out good; when 
ag'ain risen roll out very tldn; cut them into cakes and dry in 
the shade or by the stove; if dried in the sun they will fer- 
ment. 

Potato Bread. 

Boil six common sized potatoes; when tborou^^hly cooked 
mash them fine adding a teasr^oonful of salt and one yeast 
which has been well dissolved in a cupful of lukewarm water; 
two quarts of warm water and with sufficient fitjur make a 
soft dough moulding it thoroughly; let it stand over night in 
a warm place to rise; in the morning when light mold into 
small loaves and bake. 

CoMPKESSED Yeast Bread. 

Place one Compressed Yeast Cake in a cup of warm water; 
when dissolved rub quite smooth; make a Si^onge in a large 
pan of flour with two quarts of warm milk or water, a tea- 
spoonful of salt and the yeast; stir all together thoroughly 
making a stiff batter; cover with a thick ch)th and set it in a 
warm place over night to rise; in the morning make it into a 
stiff dough by adding more flour and knead it for half an 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMEXT. 147 

hour; put it aside lo rise again, when light mold into six 
loaves, place in pans, cover and let stand a short time for 
further rising, and bake in a moderarely hot oven 

Graham Bread No. 1. 

Two quarts graham flour, a small cup of molasses or sugar, 
one cup baker's \e.i-ih, a little salt, w inn milk or water 
enough to make a well beaten thick batter; place this in tins 
and when light bake in moderately not oven. 

Graham Biscuits. 

Take two quarts of graham flour, one qiart cornmea^ one- 
half Clip of butter; one cup molasses, sour milk to wet it up 
with saleratus as for biscuits. Bake in the usual waj, 

Beeakfbst Rolls No. 1 . 

Two quarts of flour^ one tablesj^oonful of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half cup yeast, one pint scalded milk 
or water and set to rise until light, then knead until hard and 
set to rise, and when wanted make in rolls, place a piece 
of batter between the folds and bake in a slow oven. 

Brown Bread. 

Take a largo cooking bowl, into it put one cup Indian 
meal, one cup rye meal, also one cup graham meal, and a 
pinch of salt. Mix all thoroughly while dry. Put a tea- 
spoonfiil of saleratus into a tin pint measure, take teacup 
sour milk, pour it onto the soda and stir till foamy; turn into 
the dry meal; add one cup sweet milk and beat all together. 
Lastly add one-third cup molasses, beat again and turn into 



148 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

a buttered brown bread tin. The baking pan should have a 
tight cover. Steam three hours, bake half an hour. 

Grahoi Bread No. 2. 

Set a sponge at night with white flour. In the morning 
take enough to make two loaves, add a cup of molasses, and 
knead it well, adding only graham fiour. 

Graham Bread No. 3. 

Take enough hike warm water and flour to make a thin 
batter, add one-half teacupful of bakers's yeast, beat well to- 
gether; when light, mix in graham flour, one cujd of warm 
milk or water, half a cup of sugar, making a stiff dou^h; 
moid with a little wheat flower, put it into a pan, and, when 
light, bake. 

Breakfast Bolls No. 2. 

At night take two lbs. of flour, rub in an ounce and a half 
of lard; make a hole in the flour and add half pint of cold 
milk, half gill good yeast, 1 J oz. sugar, the yolk of one egg 
and a little salt, let it stand lill morning; then mix, let 
stand for an hour or so; then roll out and biki in hot oven. 

Bun p. 

To a pint of warm milk add half cnp good yeas*^, four eggs 
and cup and a half sugar beaten together, one cup butfcer 
tvell rubbed into some flour dry; mix all together, using 
enough flour to make a stiff batter, let it rise over night. 
When quite light, add flour and mold into small buns, place 
in bake pan; after rising more bake twenty minutes. 



COOKING AXD BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 149 

Another Kind of Roll. 

Take bread dougli after beino- raised, spread lumps of 
butter over the top, and sprinkle flonr over the butter. 
Knead till the butler is worked in thoroughly, then roll out 
and cut with a cutter. Have melted buiter at hand and rub 
over the rolls which are cut, and f-ld one-half over the 
other half. Let them stand in a warm place till very light, 
and bake in the usual way. 

Another Roll. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of sugar, and a 
pinch of salt well worked together^ make a sponge with warm 
milk or water, ad 1 one cup yoast and a little flour. When 
light add more flour and mold for twenty minutes; let rise 
again. E,oll it out, cut into cake-!, batter the topg, fold them 
half over, set to rise again and bake in a hot oven. 

Rusks. 

To a pint of luke warm milk add half cup yeast and a 
little salt, ma e a sponge and let it rise; then add one tea- 
cupful of sugar, two beaten eggs^ a cup of butter, wor!<ed 
well into dougli aiding more flour; let it rise. Roll into a 
sheet, butter it and cut into biscuits, fold them over, place 
in tins separate a little, let them rise again for a short time, 
then bake. 

Albany Rolls. 

One cup yeast, 3 cups sweet milk, 5 02 butter, the yolk of 
5 eggs, 3 02 of sugar, 1 oz. salt, all the flour it will take up. 
Set in a warm place to rise, then bake. 



150 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

French Rolls. 

Three-fourtlis pint of milk, ^ ]m]t of yenst, little salt, 1 oz. 
white sugar, 1 oz. lard, 2 lbs. flour; set in the morning with 
about one-half the flour; at noon add the remaining jDortion 
of the flour and work up stiff; at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, 
knead well and make into rolls. Should be brushed a little, 
then baked. 

Vienna Rolls. 

Two pounds of flour, 1 pint of milk, 1 cake compressed 
yeast, little salt, 1 teas^^oonful of sugar. Make the milk 
luke warm and dissolve the yeast in it. Set sponge at 8 in 
the morning, at 11 add the salt and sugar and make up 
stiff dough. Let rise till about 3. Then knead well on the 
table. KoU out the dough in thin sheets and divide it off in 
small divisions, then take each piece and form into a cres- 
cent. Place in jDans, let rise for half an hour, then bake 
ten minutes. 

Wheat Flour Griddle Cakes. 

One pint of warm milk, one beaten egg, J cup yeast, pinch 
of salt, and flour to make a batter, let rise over night, bake 
on a hot greased griddle. 

Wheat Hot Cakes. 

One quart flour, 1 cup yeast, little salt, 1 tablespoonful of 
syrup, ^ teaspoonful of saleratus. Mix flour and yeast to- 
gether over night, in the morning add other ingredients, 
5ilso enough luke warm water to make a thin batter. Bake 
on hot griddle. 



COOriXG AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 151 

Corn Bread. 

Scald 1 quart of corn meal: when cooled add a little salt, 
half piot wheat flour, J cup yeast; mix up with warm milk or 
water as stiff as can be km aded, set to rise in a warm place; 
when iiyii', bake, or st( am two hours. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes. 

Use with one quart of bucliwheat floni-, a pint of corn meal, 
a teaspoonlul of salt, and water to make a thin batter, after 
adduiy 1 cup of yeust. 

KCSKS. 

Make a doui:h of 14-lbs. of fiour, two ounces sugar, two 
ounces butter, ^ cup of baker's yeast, and a little salt and 
milk; proceed as for other rolls. 

New Exglbnd Rolls 

Two qnnr'« flonr, one-half pint warm milk, one pint warm 
water one cup 3 east, stirred into a stiff batter and set to rise; 
when light add c>ne tablespoonful of butter, one of sugar and 
two well beaten eggs; knead well adding flour if necessary; 
roll out thin, cub into small cakes, place in pans, and when 
light bake in a hot oven. 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 

Sift too-eH er two or three times dry, one quart of flour and' 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; rub in a tablespoonful of 
butter or lard and a little salt; have your oven hot; with cold 
sweet milk or water stir all up to astiff batter or soft dough as 
can be handled; roll out and cut the biscuits and bake imme- 
diately. 



152 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

Geaham .Rolls. 

Three cups graham flour, one cup wheat flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powd^L- weJl imxed tjgeth-^r dry; lump 
of butter the size of a walnut, a li:tie salt, two tablepoonfuls 
of syrup, one beaten e.L>g and cold sweet milk enough to 
make a soft dough; roll out, cut and bake as once. 

French Sweet Rusk. 

One pound light dou_,h, two ounces sugar, two ounces of 
butter, two yolks of eggs, half cup of milk and flour to make 
a soft dough. 

Oatmfal Gems. 

Soak one cuj) of oatmeal over night with one cup of water; 
in the morning sift togeilier dry, one cup of flour a)id two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder atid a littie salt; mix in the 
meal, wet with sweet muk lu stiiS'batter, drop into 3'oar gem 
pans and bake at one 3. 

Graham Gems. 

One-half pint of graham flour sifted dry with three tea- 
spoonfuls ol baking powder, rub in a tablespoonful of butter, 
add one pint more .crraham, a little salt, one egg^ and half cup 
sugar; stir all with cool sweet milk to a batter, drop in gem 
pans and bake in a hot oven. 

WaFFLES. 

Two cups milk, two eggh, three cups flour, one teaspoonful 
cream-tartar, one half teaspoonful ?oda, a little salt, small 
lump of butter; sift the cream-tartar into the flower with the 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 153 

jsaU; dissolve the soda in hot water; beat tlie eggs well; adil 
the flour last and it the batter is too stiff pour in more milk. 

Hot Ceoss Buns. 

Three cups of sweet milk, one cup yeast, aud flour to 
thick batter; set this as a sponge over night; in the morning 
add one cup sugar, one-half cup butter melted, half a nut- 
meg, a little salt and flour enough to roll out like biscuits, 
knead well and set to ri-^e ftv3 lioars; roll half an inch thick, 
cut into round cakes and lay in row^ in a buttered baking 
pan; when they have stood half an hour make' a cross upon 
each with a knife and put into the oven at once; bake to a 
light brown and brush over with the white of an egg beaten 
up stiff With white sugar. 

Muffins. 

Beat well the yolks and whites of four egj^-s separately; to 
the yolks add three pints of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and a little salt; stir in enough flour to make 
a batter; then add the whites of the eggs, one-half cup of 
butter; drop into gem ])ans and bake at once. For graham 
muffins use graham floar instead of white flour. If desired 
stir in a cup of sugar. 

Doughnuts No 1. 

Two egg^, one cup sno-ar, one-third cup of butter, a little 
salt, one cup sweet milk, teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to 
I oil out, nutmeg; bake in boiling lard. 

Another Gingerbread, 

Two cups of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 



154 ' COOKING AND BAKEE'S DEPAKTMENT. 

sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little milk and a heaping teaspoonful of 
ginger; stir to the consistency of dough, knead, roll tliin and 
bake. 

Tfa Cakes. 

One pound of light bread dough, six ounces of sugar, six 
ounces of butter, two eggs, one-fourth pound of flour to 
work in one-fourth pound of currants; take about five hours 
time; mix all the ingredients with the dough in the middle of 
the day and let it rise till 4; then beat the dough with a spoon; 
it will be a little to soft to handle and spread it thin on but- 
tered pans: rise about an hour, bake and split open and but- 
ter them. 

Doughnuts No. 2. 

One-half pound butter, one teaspoonful of soda, three- 
fourths pound sugar, salt, two eggs, flavor to suit, one-half 
pint milk, flour to make a dough; roll out one-fourth inch 
thick, cut into fanciful forms and boil in hot lard; when 
browned on both sides drain them, lay them on a dish and 
sprinkle with fine sugar. 

Breakfast Cake. 

One teaspoonful sweet milk, one teacupful buttermilk, one 
teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
melted butter and enough meal to enable you to roll it into a 
a sheet half an inch thick; spread upon a buttered tin or in a 
shallow pan and b'ake forty minutes; as soon as it begins to 
brown baste it with melted butter; repeat this live or six 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 155 

times until it is brown and crisj ; cut it up and use for brea1<- 
fast. 

GiNGI RIREAD 

One cup of sugar and molasses, one -half cup of butter, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one-half cup of 
water, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of 
ginger. Stir into the flour and knead as little as possible; 
roll in thin sheets and bake in hot oven. 

Breakfast Rosettes. 

Three eggs, the yolks beaten very ligh^., add one quart of 
milk, a piece of butter the size of an egg, cut in little pieces 
into the milk and eggs, three coffeecups of flour, a little salt, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and lastly the whites 
of the eggs beaten very light and stirred quickly into the 
mixlura. Bake ^u hot oven. 

Flannel Cake. 

One quart of milk, three-fourths cup vea«5^, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, melted, two eggs, well beaten, flour to make good 
batter^ little salt. Set the rest of the ingredients as a sponge 
over night, and in the morning add the melted butter and 



Morning Cake. 

One quart * 'clabber" milk,, about four cups sift 3d flour, 
two teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in boiling water, three table- 
spoonfuls molasses, salt to taste. Mix the molasses with the 
milk. Put the flour into a deep bowl, mix the salt through 
it; make a hole in the middle and pour in the milk, gradual- 



156 COOKING AND TAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

\j stirring the fioiir down into it with a spoon. The butter 
should not be to thick. AYhen all tho milk is in, beat until 
the mixture is free from lumps and very smooth Add the soda- 
water, stir up fast, and bake at once. 

One quart of fl- ur, three teaspaonfu's of bakino- powder, 
a little salt, raix to a batter with milk or water and bake on a 
well greased griddle. 

Breakfast Graham Cakes. 

Two cups brown flour, one cup white flour, three cups 

sour milk, oue teaspoonlid soda, dis-olve in hot water; one 

teaspoonful snlt, lump of lard size ot walnut, three eggs 
beaten very light. 

Gmddle Cakes of Graham Flour. 

Equal parts of graham and wheat, or buckwheat flour, to 
one quart, add three teaspoonfuls baking powder, little salt, 
wet to a batter with milk or water. 

French Sweet Rolls. 

One pound of light dough, two ounces suga". two ounces 
of butter, yolks of two eggs, one-half cu^) of milk, flour to 
make a soft dough. 

Tea Cones. 

One pound poAvered sugar, one-half pound grated cocoa- 
nut, whites of five eggs. "Whip the eggs as for icing, adding 
the sugar as 3'ou go on, until it will stand alone; then beat 
in the cocoanut. Mould the mixure with your hands into 
small rolls, and set them far enough apart not to touch one 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 157 

another, upon buttered paper in a baking pan. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

Strawberky Short Cake. 

One quart of flour sifted drj^ with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, little salt, one tablespoonful white sugar, 
mix thorough!}^, add three tablespoonfuls of butter, and milk 
enough to form a soft dough. Roll out in two crusts, lay 
one on top of the other, buttered slightly between; when 
baked and partially cooled, separate the crusts, place the 
bottom crust on a plate, cover it with a layer of ripe straw- 
berries, sprinkle well with white sugar, lay on the other 
crust and cover with berries and sugar, eat while warm. 

Orange Caiie. 

Two teacups of sugar, half cup butter, three spoonfuls 
baking powder, three eggs, grated rind and juice of an 
orange, cream for filling whites of three eggs beaten very 
light, one cup of sugar, and tlie grated rind and part of the 
juice of an orange with 3 cups flour. 

California Cakes. 

One ef!;^, one and one-quarter cups of butter, one-half 
cup cold water, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, 
ore and one-half cup flour, half teaspoon cinnamon, half 
teaspoon allspice. Bake in gem pans. Heat the pan before 
dropping them. 

Coffee Cakp. 
Set sponge without one ounce olyeast, half a pint of luke* 



158 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT 

warm mil'c, and flour sufficient; when raised add two ounces 
of sugar, two ounces of butter, the grated yellow rind of one 
lemon, a little salt, two eggs, flavor to suit, roll out and cut 
round or square; wash with mehed butter, then dust with 
powdered sugar and cinnamon mixed together; set them in 
a warm place to rise, and when light, bake them to a nice 
brown color, 

Crea-M Cakes. 

One-half pint boiling water, half cup butter and lard 
mixed. Place in a kettle and gradually stir in one-half pint 
sifted flour Boil and stir until smooth. When cool, add 
three eggs, one at a time. Bake in gem pans. Filling: 
One-half pint milk, one eg-jr, one-hxlf cup sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of flour; well cooked, When cool, split the cakes 
and place the filling within. 

Cookies. 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, one cup cream, four 
eggs, seven cups flour, or just enough to make nice rollable 
paste; two tablespoonfuls coriander seed (beaten,) one tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in boiling water. If sweet milk 
is used, add two teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 

Everlasting Cake. 

Butter or lard, one-half pound; molasses, one pint; soda, 
one-half ounce; milk or water, one gill; ground ginger, one 
teaspoonful; flavor, flour sufficient. Mix the ginger in the 
flour, rub the butter in also; dissolve the soda in the milk or 
water; put in the molasses, and use the flour in which the 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 159 

ginger and butter is rubbed ujj, and enough more to make 
the dough of a proper consistence to roll out; cut the cakes 
and wet the top with a little molasses and water to remove 
the flour from the cake; sprinkle the top with pulverized 
sugar, and bake in an oven sufficiently hot for bread. 

Butter Cake. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup butter; add four 
well beaten eggs, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour with 
two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder stirred into it. Beat all 
together verv light; bake slowly in a buttered tin. Fr )Sting: 
Beat the yolk and white of one egg together; add powdered 
sugar to the right consistency. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Make a crust with one-fourth more shortening than for 
biscuits, roll out o)ie-third of the crust, lay it in a tin and 
spread butter over the top; do the same with the other thirds 
of the crust except not buttering the top of the last <»ne; lay 
one on top of the other and bake in a quick oven; when baked 
the parts will separate easily; mix berries with plenty sugar 
and some cream, place between the layers and send to the 
table warm. Orange, raspberries, blackberries aad others 
are made the same way. 

Tape Cake. 

One and one-fourth cup sugar, one-half cup butter, beaten 
together, three well beaten eggs, two-thirds cup of sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one tea,spoonful cream-tartar, one-half 
teaspoon ful soda; reserve two cups of this mixture for top 



160 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

and bottom cakes; to the remainder add one teaspocnful each 
of cinnamon, and cloves, one-half a nutme.q:, two tablespoon- 
fal molasses, one cup fruit and one-half cup flour; bake in 
three cakes, place them together the durk one in the center 
with jelly or frosting between; the top may be frosted if 
desired. 

Hill Cake. 

Three cups sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, 
white of ten eggs, one-half teaspoonful soda and one tea- 
spoonful cream-tartar, sifted with the flour, four and one-half 
cups flour, flavor to suit. Icing, white of three eggs, one 
pound powdered sugar, flavor; bake in small tins and fill 
with grated cocoanut, sweeten with powdered sugar. 

Flour Drops. 

One pint molasses, one-half pound sugar, one-half pound 
lard, one and one-half pint water, one ounce soda, two and 
one-fourth pounds flour, flavor with lemon; place in pans as 
for drop ca'<es. 

Layer Cake No. 1. 

Dark part. — Two cups brown sugar, one cup milk, one-half 
cup butter, yolks ol five eggs, three and a half cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful each of 
ground allspice, cinnamon and cloves, one cofl'eecupful of 
chapped raisins; bake making three sheets. 

White part. — One-half cup butter and one cup sugar Avell 
beaten together, half cup of milk, whites of three eggs beaten 



/ 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 161 

to a froth, two cups of flour well mixed one teaspoonful of 
jeast powder; bake in two sliaatF. 

Grahah Br :ad, Common. 

The loaf is made with a quart of bread spong-e, half a tea- 
cup of molasses, and all tlie g-rahara flour that can be stirred 
in; do not knead it. Pour into a deep pan, wet the top and 
smooth it, let it rise and bake till done. 

StRvWBei.r: Short Cake. 

Make your crust up ju«t as you would for pies. Mash 
ripe berries with su;>ar and cream, and place between two 
crusts, eat warm. The sai>ar and berries make the juice 
neede 1. 

L :mon Cake . 

One pound of suofar, twelve eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately; half pound flour, juice and rind of one lemon, 
icing flavored with same. Ice the top. 

Common Cake. 

One egg, one cup susrar, onr-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of sodi, two teaspoonful.^ cream 
tartar. Flavor to suit, and use sufficient flour to make 
proper consistence. 

Layer Cake No. 2. 

Two cups sugar, half cup wa'^ei*, yolk 3 of five eggs and 
whites of three, two teaspoonfuls yeast powder well mixed 
dry with two cups of flour, mix and bake in sheets; make, an 



132 COOKING AKD BAKErJS DEPAflTMENT. 

i'ing with the whites of two eg-.i^'s nnri colored sugar sancl, 
flavor to suit and spread between the sheets. 

Layer Caee No. 3. 

Li^ht part — One and one-half cup white sugar, oue-half 
cup butter, oue-half cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful cream-tartar, whites of four eggs, two 
and one-half cups flour; beat and niix thoroughly. 

Dark part — Half cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one 
cup brown sugar, one-half cup sour milk, one teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful cream -tartar, two or tliree cups flour, 
yolks of four egg^, ground cinnamon, cloves, allspice and 
nutmeg of each one teaspoonful; beat and mix as above. 

Layer Cake No. 4. 

Two teacups light brown sugnr, two teacups flour, Svo tea- 
spoonful yeast powder, into this break six good sized eggs 
and beat well together; turn into louu'. narrow tins and 'bake 
in a hot oven to light brown; when baked turn out on a table 
and spread quickly with jelly; roll out and wrap each roll in a 
clean cloth. 

Excellent Caee. 

Three cups sugar, one and one-half cups butter, one cup 
railk, four and one-half cujos flour, five eggs, small teaspoon^ 
ful soda, two toaspoonfuls cream tartar. Caramel for flUing; 
One and one-half cups brown su^ar, one-half cup milk, one 
cup molasses, one teaspoonful l)urt( r, one tablespoouful 
flour, two tab'espoonfuls cold water, Boil this mixture five 
minutes, add half cake grated chocolate, boil until it is the 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 1G3 

consistency of rich custard. Add a pinch of soda, siir well, 
and remove from fire. When cold, flavor to suit and spread 
between the layers of cake, wh ^-U sho li I be bniced a.s for 
jelly cake. The above quantity will make two large cakes. 
Layer Jelly Cakf. 

Five eggs, one cup su,i>-ar, lemon flavor, one teaspoonful 
saleratu?, two cups sour milk and sufficient flour for cake; 
beat the eggs, sugar and Have r toi^e'her; dissolve the salera- 
tusiu tiie milk and mix; tiien stir in the flour to make onl}' a 
thin batter and b.ake in a quic'c oven; three or four of these 
thin cakes with jelly between, forms one cake; s])read jelly on 
while the cake is warm. 

Orange Layer Cake. 

Half cup butter and two cups sugar stirred to a cream, one 
cup sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, three cups flour, two 
teaspoonfuls yeast powder; bake in sheets. Frosting, white 
of two eggs, make a frosting as for other cakes; save enough 
to frost the top of the cake and add to the rest the juice and 
grated rind of a ic.rge orange and spread between the layers. 

Wedding Cake. 

One pound powdered sugar, one pound butter, one pound 
flour, twelve eggs, one pound currants, one pound chopped 
raisins, one-half pound citron cut: in slips, one tablespoon ful 
cinnamon, jtwo teaspoonfuls nutmeg, one teaspoonful cloves, 
one small glass brandy. Cream the bu!;ter and sugar, add 
the beat:en yolks of the ep-gs, and stir well together before 
putting in half of the flour. The spice should come next, 
then the whipped whites stirred in alternately with the rest 



16* COOKINa AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

of the flour, lastly the brandy. Bake at least two hours in 
deep tins lined with well buttered paper. The icing- sJiould 
be put on thickly. Tiie abjve ij lantity is for two large cakes. 

Jelly Rolls. 

Brown suo^ar, one and one- half cups, three eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, cream tartar and soda of each one 
teaspoonful, one teaspoonfiil lemon essence; beat the eggs 
and sugar together, mix the cream tartar and soda with milk 
stirring in the flour also; now mix in the flour; ba'<e at once 
spreading thin on a long pan and as soon as done spread jelly 
upon the top and roll up; slicing ofl" as used. 

Chocolate Cai e No. 1, 

One cup butter, two cnn^? suoav^ one onv) milk, one-half 
cup cornstarch, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls yeast pow- 
der mixed dry with flour; whites of six eggs beaten stiff, add 
all together, fl;)vor to suit, bake in layers. Frosting; Beat 
the yolks of the eggs, sweeten and add chocolale to taste, one 
cup milk; cook a few minutes, stirring continually, not allow- 
ing it to boil . Flavor with vanilla. 

HrCKLEBEKllY CaKE . 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cups butter, three cups 
flour, five eggs, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda 
dissolved m liot. water, one teaspoonful nutmeg, aud the 
same of cinnamon, uue quart of ripe huckleberries thickly 
dredged vvith flour. Work the butter and the sugar to a 
cream, add the beaten yolks, then the milk, the flour, and 
spice, the soda, and the whites of the eg'^s beat stiff. At the 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 165 

last stir in the huc'<leberrie3 being carefnl not to bruise 
them. Bciice iu a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

One cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup 
milk, yolks of nine eggs well beaten, two and one-half cups 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls yeast powder, flavor with vanilla, 
bake in sheets. Filling: One cup milk, one egg, half a cup 
sugar, two tablespoons grated chocolate scalded together, 
flavor with vanilla. 

Modest Cake. 

Ore teacup of brown sugar, one egg, piece of butter size of 
a walnut, one teacup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of sodi, 
two and one-half teacups of fl)ur, one teaspo )ti of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon cloves, one teacup chopped raisins stirred in. 
Bake in L-af and frost when cool with the following: B3afc 
white of one eg* very stitf. and two tablespoons granulated 
sugar, one teaspoonful flivor. Baat until smooth, spread 
over the cake, place in the oven and harden slightly. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, three eggs, 
two cups flour, two teaspooufuls peast powder. Mix thor- 
oughly and bake. Filling: Haif cup milk, one square of 
chocolate, yolk of three eggs, flavor with vanilla, sweetea 
to taste. 

Common Almoxd Macaroons. 

One-ha^f pound pulverized sugar, five ounces flour, whites 
of four eggs, two drops bitter oil of almond, mix flour and 



166 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

sugar together, then the whites of e.s^^.s; drop them on paper 
the sanie as cocoanut macaroons. 

Almond Cake. 

One cup of butter and two of su,:^-ar worked to a crenm, one 
cup of sweet mil^, two cups of flour or more mixed dry with 
two teaspoonfuls yeast powder, beat the white of six eggs to 
a stiff froth, stir all together, add in two teaspoonfuls of ex- 
tract of abnond and bake in sheets. Icing, beat the white of 
two eggs to a very stiff froth, adding onedialf poand of pul- 
verized sugar; use the 3'olks of the egg.s for a pudding. 

Bkead Cake. 

Take from your bread dough, after its" second rising, two 
cups dough, two caps white sug\r, one cup butter, creamed 
with sugar, three engs, one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot 
water, two tablespoonfuh sweet milk — cream is better, one 
half pound currants, well wasijed and dried, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves. Beat the 3^olks very light, 
add the creamed butter and sugar, the spice, milk, soda, and 
dough. Stir until all are well mixed; put in the beaten 
whites, lastly the fruit. Beat hard five minutes, let it resi 
thirty minutes in well buttered pans, and bake half an hour 
or until done. 

Orange Jelly Cake. 

One and a half cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, beat to 
a cream; half-cup milk, two and a half cups flour, two 
teaspoonfuls yeast powder, three eggs, well beater., bake in 
sheets. Filling. — One cup of sugar, one egg; grate the rind 
and use with the juce of one orange, one tablespoonful of 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. . 1C7 

water, one teaspoonful of fl mv. place the disli in a kettle of 
boiling water and let it thicken; when cool, spread between 
the cakes. 

S:.iALL SuGAii Cakes. 

One teacup of suira?-, three-quiirters tencnp of butter, one- 
quarer teacup sweet milk, two egj:>'s, well beaten, two tea- 
spooufuls civati) tar^-ii", one teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in 
hot water, flour surficient to enable you to roll out the dough, 
little salt, cloves and cinnamon to taste. Bake quickly. 

Nut Cake. 

One and one-fourth cup sugar, half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, two cups fluui- mixed dry with two teaspoonful of 
yeast power, whiles of three eggs beaten thoroughly, bake in 
sheets. Filling: AVhites of three eggs beaten stiff, one- 
hall cup white sugar, one cup chopped nut meats, flavor to 
suit taste. 

Peel and Citron Cake. 

Six eggs beaten light, two cups of sugar, three-quarfers 
cup of butter, two and one- h.-. If cups flour or enough to make 
pound cake dough, one-quarter pound citron cut in thin 
shreds, juice of nn orange and one-half pound grated peel, 
cream, bu'ter and sugar: add the yolks, the whites and flour 
by turns, the orange, and lastly, the citron, dredged with 
flour. Beat all up hard, and bake in two loaves. 

"White Cake. 

The whites of seven eggi^, two cups of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, three-fourths cup sweet milk, three cups flour, and 



168 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor to suit taste. 

Soda Cake, 

One-half pound flour, two drabms soda, six ounces butter, 
two drabms tartaric acid, two ounces white sugar, four 
ounces currants, two eggs, half teacLip warm milk. 

COCOANUT M.\CAR00NS. 

One-fourth pound sweet almonds bleached and dried, 
white of four eggs, one pound pulverized sugar, one pound 
cocoanut, grated, two pounds flour, Aolksoffour eggs; roll 
the almonds, sugar and whites of eggs together, mix in the 
grated cocounut then the yellow of the ef^g^, then the flour, 
drop the size of walnuts in greased and floured pans. 

Fruit Cake. 

One and one-half poundsof butter, one and one-ha'f pounds 
sugar one dozen eggs, well beaten, four pounds raisins, 
five pounds English cocoanut nicely washed, two pounds cit- 
rons cut tine, two pound sifted flour, nutmeg, mace, . cinna- 
pion, cloves, ginger, allspice, and oil of lemon. 
Smll Sugar Drops. 

Two pounds butter, two pounds sugar, foui pounds flour, 
four eggs, four teaspoonfuls baking powder; make a stiff 
dough, roll in strips an inch thick, cub them ihe size of a 
pepper box cover, roll them in sugar and bake in a cool oven. 

Cinnamon Wafers. 

One-quarter pound sugar, three ounces flour, iwo ounces 
cinnamon; put the flour, sugar and cinnamon in a dish, mix 



' COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 169 

in 'he wliites of seven eggs these arc made the same as 
almond ^aici;;. 

Nut and Fruit Cake. 

Two Clips sugar, four cups fljur, one cup batter, seven 
eggs, whites and yolks separated, one cuj) cold water, one 
cup of hickory nufc kernels, one-half pound raisins chopped 
and dredged with flour, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
hot Avater; two teaspooiifuls cream tartar bifted in the flour, 
one teaspoonful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. Rub the 
butter and sugar together to a smooth cream, jDut in tlie 
yolks, then the water, spice and sotla. next the whites and 
flour. The fruit and nuts stirred together and dredged, 
should go in lust. Mix thoroughly and bake in two large 
cakes. 

Layer Fruit Cake. 

T.vo cup^^ of sugar and a half cup butter beat to a cream, 
half cup sweet milk, mix three cups of flour with tliree tea- 
S230onfuls of yeast powder, beat the whites of seven eggs to 
a froth, stir all iogether and flavor to suit taste; bake in 
sheets. Fi]li)ig: Whites of seven eggs beaten with sugar 
as for frosting, save out enough for to of cake, add one tea- 
eii[) raisins chopped line, flavor to suit, spread between 
sheets. 

Gold Cake. 

Yolks of eleven eq-gs, five cups flour, three cups white sugar, 
one cup butter, one and one-half cups cream or sweet milk, 
one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Bake 



170 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

in deep pan. Beat the ecf^fs with the sugai-, having the 
butter melted by the fire, then stir it in; put the soda and 
cream tartar into the milk stirring up and mixing all together, 
then sift and stir in the liour. 

Yolk Cak^. 

Tol'sS of twelve eggs beaten, and two cups sugar, one of 
m Ik and one ot* buitei; mix four cups of flour with two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor to sait taste. 

Snow Cake. 

Two cups powdered sugar, one heaping cup flour, ten 
eggs, the whites only, whipped stiff; beat in the sugar, juice 
of one lemon and half the grated peel, and a little salt, and 
finally the flour Stir in very lightly and quickly and bake 
at once in two loaves, or in square pans. 

Marble Cakes, 

Stir to a cream one pound of white sugar and half pound 
of butter, beat the whites of ten eggs stiff and add to the 
sugar and butter, three cups of flour and one teaspoonful of 
yeast powder, mix all together, then take oue teacupful of 
the batter and stir into it one teaspoonful of fruit coloring. 
Fill a pan three inches deep, first with the white batter and 
then with the colored; alternate in taib way until the batter 
is all in. 

Dark Cake. 

One and one-half cups molasses, one teaspoonful soda, two 
cups sour milk, two eggs, butter or lard the sixe of a walnut; 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 171 

mix all by beating a few miautes with a spoon; bake immedi- 
ately in hot oven. 

Yellow Cake. 

The yolks of ten ep^gs, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
three-fourths cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, 
and two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor to suit taste. 

Light Cake. 

Whites of eleven eggs, five cups flour, one cup each of but- 
ter and white sugar, one and one-fourth cups sweet milk or 
cream, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, beat and mix as for ordinary cake, bake in deep cake 
cake pan. 

Quick Sponge Cake. 

One cup flour with one teaspoonful baking powder, one 
cup sugar, three eggs and a little sweet milk, flavor with ex- 
tract of lemon; stir briskly and bake at once, 

English Current Cake. 

Rub a cup of butter and a cup of sugar to a cream, beat 
and add five eggs, mix together dry two cups flour and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and add to the same one cup- 
ful of well washed, dried and dredged currants and flavor to 
suit the taste. 

Seedless Raisin Cake, 

Take one and one-fourth pounds of light dough, one tea- 
cupful of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, one teaspoonful 



172 C COKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

of soda, one pound of seedless raisins and cinnamon or cloves 
to taste; let it rise and bake one hour. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, 
eight eggs, flavor with lemon; mi:-: all by beating a few min- 
utes, then bake. 

Sponge Cake "With Milk. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, three egqs, one cup 
sweet milk, four cups flour, one teaspoonful each of cream 
tartar and soda and one teaspoonful lemon flavor; beat brisk- 
ly and bake at once. 

Common Almond Macaroons. 

Three-quarters of a pound pulverized sugar, sis ounces 
flour, whites of six eggs and a libtle extract of lemon; mix 
flour and sugar together, then the whites of eggs, drop them 
on paper and bake. 

Sponge Lady Finger. 

Take fifteen eggs, one and on^-quarter pounds powdered 
sugar, one pojind and a ha'f of flour, two ounces ammonia; 
beat the sugar and eggs light, then put the amtnonia in and 
beat again until it gets stiff, work in the flour lightly, drop 
them out on paper, sieve sugar over them and bake in hot 
oven. 

Grind Cake. 

Two and one-half joounds flour, one and one-half white 
pulverized sugar, three- fourths pound butter, five eggs well 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 173 

beaten, two teaspoon^ils baking powder, one pint water or 
milk is best if you have it 

Seed Cake. 

One-half pound sugar, one-quarter pound butter, creamed 
with sugar, five eggs beaten very light, enough flour for soft 
dough; one ounce caraway seids, mixed with dry flour, mix 
well, roll into thin paste, cut into small c dees, brush each 
over with the white of an egg, sift pulverized sugar upon it, 
and bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Do not take 
them from pans until nearly cold, as they are apt to break 
while hot 

LiLLiE Fingers. 

Two and one-fourth pounds sugar, one pound of butter, 
one-half pint milk; 6 eggs, flour enough to make an easy 
dough to roll out; cut them, place the:n on boirds closely, 
wash tliem with beaten eggs and milk, seive pulverized sugar 
over them lightly, bake in cool oven immediately after they 
are sugared, flavor the dough with mace. 

Jelly Mixture. 

Fifteen eggs, one and one quarter pounds sugar, one 
quarter pound butter, one-half oz. baking powder one and 
one-quarter piunds fl -ur, drop on jell} pans, spread jelly be- 
tween each layer. Bake in hot oven 

Fried Nuts. 

One pound of butter, one and one-quarter pound puVer- 
ized sugar, eleven eggs, mace and and nutmeg to taste, flour 
to roll out stiff. This is for a large quantiiy of nuts. Ro 1 



174 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

out in thin sheets, cut into shape small cutter, and fry in 
plenty of boiling lard. These should be a tine yellow. If 
the lard becomes too hot so that the nuts brown before they 
puff out to their full dimensions, take the kettle from the 
fire a few minutes. 

Spice Cup Cake. 

One cup brown sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, one 
of milk, one teaspoonful each of nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, 
macp, allspice and ginger, four eggs, four cups flour and two 
teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 

Fern Cake. 

Work two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter to a 
cream, half a cup of milk, one and a half cups of flour in 
which is mixed dry, half a cup of cornstarch and two tea- 
spoonfuls of yeast powder, then add the whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth; flavor with vanilla. 

Gilt Cake. 

The yolks of seven eggs well beaten, one cup sugar, half 
cup butter, half a cup of milk, one and a half cups of flour 
in which is well mixed, dr^ , half a cup of cornstarch and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, then add the whites of seven 
eggs beaten to a stiff' froth; flavor to suit taste. 

Lemon Snaps. 

One pound of pulverized sugar, four eggs whipped very 
light and long, juice of three lemons and peel of one, one 
heaping cup flour, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg. Butter 
your hands lightly, take up small lumps of the mixture make 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 175 

into balls about as lar:^e as a waladt aai lay upon a sheet of 
buttered paper more than two inches apart. Bake in hot 
oven. 

NUGGFT CaIIE. 

Two cups of sugar, one small cup of butter, beat to a 
cream, three eggs well beaten, one-half cup milk, three cups 
flour, one-half cup water, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, and one of flavor; mix all together quickly and bake at 
once. 

YocK Cake. 

Talf e one pound of flour, one quarter ounce bicarbonate of 
?oda, six ounces butter, six ounces su2far, six ounces currants, 
four eggs, one-half pint mi!k, bake for one hour and a half. 

FuFFY Cake. 

Oiip and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup thick cream, a 
little snlt, four well beaten eggs, two cups of flour, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, bake in quick oven. 

Peek-a-boo Cake. 

One quart molasses, one-fourth pound lard, one ounce 
soda, little almond, gin»3r, and one gill water, flour enough 
to make a tight dough to roll. 

Scollop Cake. 

One quarter pound butter, one-half j^ound white sugar, 
two eg^H, one gill milk, one teaspoonful soda, put in the 
milk one and one quarter pounds flour, one-half ounce 



176 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

cream tartar, put in the flour, flavor cinnamon and lemon 
oil, rub your butter and su^^ar to-j^ether, then add your e^gs 
and mix well, add your milk and soda, and then mix in your 
flour, roll them out thin and cut them out with scolloped 
cutter, then bake in hot oven. 

Currant Jam Cake. 

Rub one-half pound butter, one-half pound suG^ar, "^-i^ 
eggs, together, one-half pint millc, one teaspoonful baking 
powder, flavor lemon extract, three fourths pound fio'ir, l;iy 
out round, with currant jam, after icing Liie top and orna- 
ment with fancy jelly, 

Laurent Cake. 

Eight eggs beaten separately, one-half pound each of 
butter and sugar, a tnml>ler of milk, the juice and rind of a 
lemon, a small teaspoont il of cipam tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and flour enough to stiffen. 
Bake well. 

Sxow Mountain Cake. 

One pouna of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful soda. Sugar and butter with soda are 
rubbed light as for pounl cak \ whites of eggs must be 
beaten up stiff and slo vly mix«d in, cream tartar mixed wilh 
the flour is then sifted in. Filling: One pound and a half 
sugar, whites of four eggs, one and a half grated cocoanuts. 
This will make twenty sheets divided into so many greased 
jelly pans, spread out evenly, and bake at once in hot oven. 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 177 

This will m'.\]\f, four cakes of five lavprs each; between each 
of the layers the folio .vin.iif fiMing must be so divided that it 
will allow and even sliare for each; the whites of eg-2;s must 
be beaten stiff; t le cocoanut wi'h the milk of one, and lemon, 
and sugar, must be mixed tog^ether. Sift sugar over them. 

G:\GER Snaps. 

One pound and a half of tlKir, one-half pound brown 
sugar, one-half noniKl lard, one-li ilf pint molasses, one-half 
cup water, one quarter ounce of soda, one teaspoonful gin- 
ger, little salt. Rub sugar, lard, salt, molasses and ginger 
together, then mix the djur and soda in the water, with it; 
roll out with rollitii^ pin, and out with plain round cutter. 
Set on ungreased pans one inch apart, and bake in moderte 
oven. 

Illinois Cake. 

Four cups of flour mixed dry with two heaf ing teaspoon- 
fuls of yeast powder, two cups of white sugar, one cup of 
butter, one-half cup of sweet cream, the whites of eight eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, added to the cream, flavor with ex- 
tract of orange, work the butter and safjfar well together, 
then stir in the cream, then alteina:e the fl )ur and e/gs until 
all the ingredients are in, and last of all the extract. Put 
into deep buttered pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

Dainty Cake. 

Three cups sifted flour, one and a half cups of sugar, 
whites of six eggs, one teacup of swoet milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, two heaping teaspoonfuls yeast powder, and 



178 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

flavor to suit taste. Beat the batter and sugar to a cream, 
add to it the milk and eg'5^3 well beaten, then add the ex- 
tract. Mix with this very slowly three caps of flaur, in 
which the baking powder has been well mixed. Bake in a 
hot oven. 

irOL^FTlVl CaKF. 

One cup butter, little saU, two " '-^""^ '^^ ^our. Rub 
thoroughtly together with the jiands and wet up with cold 
water, beat well, and beat in fl Mir to mike quite l)rit;le and 
hard, then pinch off pieces and roll each cake by itself, if you 
wish them to resemble ba-ers' cracker cakes. 

CocoANUT Steeples. 

Take equal Avpioh'c of o-vated white part of cocoanut and 
powdered white sugar, add tlie white of eggs beaten sttff, six 
to a pound of cocoanut and sugar, should be eggs enough to 
wet the whole to stiff mixture, drop parcels the shape of 
small steeples separately upon buttered paper laid upon tins* 
and bake in a moderately heated oven. 

Columbia (/a: e. 

Take three ^eno- pfuls brown sugar, one of butter, one of 
milk, four eggs, one teapoonful each extract of mace and 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of grou id allspice, one ^ n'« of 
seedless raisins, thiee cups of flour and two teaspoonfuls of 
baking pew >ci. 

Rex Cakf. 
One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, two-thirds 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 179 

teacup milk; three teaspoonfuls baking powder mixed in the 
milk; mix the butter and sugar together, add your eggs and 
milk and one-fourth pound flour, roll out and cut with a 
round cutter, bake on • tod^i pans in uot ovea, when done 
ice with cbocoULe icing. 

C:n vmox Cak^. 

One cup of sweet milk, two of su^ar, otip of butter, three 
well beaten egg^, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
worked into flonr enough to make a stiff • I nu oil, roll out thin 
and sift ground cinnamon on the sheet and roll up into a roll, 
cut off slices from the roll and place on tins; before baking, 
sprinkle, rather thickly, dry white sugar, on the tops of the 
slices 

Orville Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup sweet 
cream, white of seven eggs beaten stiff, one teaspoonful 
good extract of lemon, two cups of flour, mixed well with one 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, mix all together and 
bak;). 

Walnut Cake, 

Two nup'j of sugar, one cup of butter, stir to a cream; 
whites of six eggs beaten <h'\\ one-fourth cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls balling powder, one coffee- 
cup of nut meets, bake in a loaf. 

Hill's High Cake. 
Stir to a cream one teacupful of butter with two coffeecup- 



ISO COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

fuls of sugar, add one teacupful of sweet milk, the white and 
yolk of six eggs beaten seperatelj', three or more cups of flour 
well mixed dr}', with three teaspoonfuls of yeasc powder, 
flavor to suit taste. 

Black C\ke. 

One teacupful of butter, and one and a half cups brown 
sugar, three quarters cup of molasses, one cup milk, three 
eggs well beaten, flavor to suit taste, four caps fl^ur with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one pound chopped raisins, 
one pound currants, and one quarter pound citron finely 
sliced. Bake at once. 

Filled Kolls. 

Three-quarters pound butter, three quarters pound flour, 
one gill water. Filling. — Seven whites «if eggs, one-half 
pound sugar. Rub one ounce of the butter into the flour, 
then add the water and ma^e a duugli, place this with the re- 
maining butter on ice, if warm weaiher. After allowing it lo 
stand ten minutes, roll out the dough into a sheet ten inches 
square place the butter in the centre of it, and fold the dough 
from both sides over it. Lightly flatten it down, and roll it a 
little, then work out the ends of the dough and roll them so 
as to cover the butter from both sides, then fold the other 
end of that, taking care that the paste is kept in a square, 
and that the butter will be t\ Ued evenly with every turn. 
Then roll out the dough as large as before, about ten inches 
square, and fold in three /olds as before, from each side, 
roll a little more, and repeat the same, then set it aside to 
rest ten or fifteen minutes, covered with a damp cloth, when 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 181 

this same foldiii.c: process must be repeated twice more. 
Allow it to stand again for fifteen minutes and roll out again 
into a. sheet measuring twenty by thirty inches, with a knife 
cut into strips five inches square, which will make two dozen 
squares. Tubes of tin, one inch in diameter and five incljea 
Jong, are necessary for these. With a little eggs and water 
wet the edge farthest from you, of each piece of d mgh, and 
proceed to wrap them around the tubes. When all are com- 
pleted, wet them over the top with the egs> phice them one 
inch apart on ungreased, lightly floured pans, and bake in 
hot oven. Wlien done the tubes are withdrawn, and they 
are filled with the following filling from a bag or bag ma- 
chine. Beat the seven white of egj;s very stiff and then 
lightly add the sugar. Fill each roll and place on a papered 
pan. When all are done, return to the oven until the ends 
begin to work out from the rolls, take them out and sift 
sugar over them. 

Rice Cake. 

One pound flour, one one-half pound sugar, one-half 
pound butter, one eighth pound rice flour, two egjfs, two 
teip.)onfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful rose water. 
R lb su i^ir, butter, eggs, baking powder and rose water light, 
then mix in the flour and r ce flour, and ma'^e a dough, this 
is to b3 rolled oib, cut with plain cutter, ani th3 calces 
placed on grea.sed pans. Press a piece of citron in the cen- 
ter of each and bake in moderatt-ly hot oven. 

FiLLMON Fruit Cake. 
Stir to a cream one pound each of brown sugar and butter, 



182 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT, 

and the whites and j'olks of ten eggs beaten to a froth separ- 
ately, two wine glasses of brandy; mix or sift thoroughly, 
one pound of flour with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
and when ready for baking add one pound chopped raisins, 
two of currants, one of citron, one-fourth of a pound of 
almonds blanched, flavor to slul taste, 

Sc )TCH Pound Cake. 

One pouT»d of sugar and three quarters of a pound of 
butter well beaten, i>e--)t separately to a stiff froth the whites 
and the yolks of eight eggs; one pound of flour with a heap- 
ing teaspoon lul of yeast powder well mixed dry, and Hcvor 
with excraut of Ijmuj . 

Citron Cup Cake. 

Stir three cups of sugar and one cnp of butter to a cream 
three and one -half cups of flour well mixed dry, with two 
teaspoonfuls of yeast powder; one cup of milk, four eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately; one-half pound citron 
finely cut, sliced and floured; mix all together and bake. 

L:.N>TIIY FiNGEEr, 

Bat six whitp of eggs to a froth onlv, then enough finely 
sifted pulverized sugar to make a dough that will admit of 
rolling out wiili rolling i^in, add one pound of blanched and 
half dried almonds aud mix them well through. Then divide 
this into three partp, an 1 dj^e one red with cochineal, tak 3 
this for a centre piece and place on each side of tjjis the 
white i^ieces. Work this out long enough to be about one 
inch in thickness, and three inches widi, then with a sharp 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 183 

knife cut slices off it one-fourth of an inch thick. Place 
them on well greased and thickly floured pans one-half inch 
apart. Bake in moderate oven. 

LovB Cake. 

Sift through one pound of flour two heaping teasj)oonfuls 
of baking powder, whip to cream half-pound ot butter, then 
stir into the butter one pound of sugar, the yolks of six eg,:;s^ 
and about half of the flour, then add one cup of sweet milk and 
the remainder of the flour, lastly, the white of five eggs beaten 
to a SI ifi" froth, and flavor with extract of vanilla. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

Tam O'Shanter. 

Wliitcs of four eggs well beaten, one and one quarter 
pounas pulverized sugar, two bars meL'ed chocolate, lay them 
out in a bag with tube in it on floured pans the shape of a 
Tam O'Shanter; let them stand for one hour and then bake 
in quick heat^ when cool take off your pans. 

Kentucky Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, two and one- 
half cups of flour, half cup of water, whites of ten eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, and flavor to suit taste. 

Almond Pudding. 

Pour boiling water on to three-fourths of a pound of sweet 
almonds; let it remain until the si<in comes oil' easily; rub 
with a dry cloth until white; when dry, pound fine with one 
large spoonful rose water; beat six eggs to a stiff froth with 
three spoonfuls of fine white sugar; mix with one quart of 



184 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

mil's tljroe spoonfuls of pounded crackers, four ounces of 
melted butter, and the same of citron cut into bits; add al- 
monds, stir all together, and bake in a small pudding pan 
with a lining and rim of pistry. This pudhiig is best when 
cold. It will bake in half an hour in a hot oven. 

Chocolate Cream Cake. 

Take some cream cake mixture, put some more flour in it; 
ibis will make them bake more eveuly; fill them with cream 
the same as the cream cakes, then chocolate them on top. 

Ceeam Ca e. 

Four cups sifted flour, two teas poo nfuh of baking powder, 
three cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one of sweet 
milk, and six eggs, flavor with lemon. 

Irish Cake. 

One pound and a quarter of sni]^ar, three guarters pound 
butter, two pounds and three quarters of flour, three eggs; 
this makes a good cake and easy to handle. 

Sour Apple Pie. 

Peel sour apples and stew until soft, then rub them 
through colander, beat three or four eggs for each pie to be 
baked, and put in at the rate of one-half cup of butter and 
one of sugar for three j)ies, season with cinnamon. If a frost- 
ing is to be put on them return for a few moments to the 
oven. 

Fritters. 

Four or five eggs well beaten, one quart of flour, two tea- 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 185 

spoonfuls of baking powJer, little salt, mill< to make a batter; 
fry iu hot lard; spnnkle with sugar; or eat with syrup. 

Fig Pudding No 1. 

One-half pouml of good figs, one pint of milk, yolks of 
two eggs, white of one, if lar>ie, gne-half ounce of gelatine 
soaked in coj.l water, one-half cup of sweet fruit jelly, 
slightly warmed, two tablespoonfuls of white sifted sugar 
two teaspoon fuls of good extract of vanilla. Soak the figs in 
warm water uuuil quite soft, split th )m, dip each piece in 
jelly and line a buttered mould with them. Heat the milk 
and stir into the well beaten yolks and sugar, return it to 
the saucepan and stir imni it thickens. Melt the soaked 
gelatine by adding a teaspoonful of boiling water, when it 
is quite melted add it to the milk, and when well mixed, set 
by to cool. As soon as it begins to congeal, whisk it thor- 
oughly with an eg<x beater, and add to it gradually the white 
of an egg, previously whipped to a stiff froth. Beat it rapid- 
ly and thoroughly until quite spongy, and fill up the fig lined 
mould. Set in a cool j)lace till quite firm, five or six hours 
at least. Dip the mould in hot water to loosen the pudding, 
when you are ready for it, and serve on a glass dish. The 
above c^uantity w^.l nil a qu.vrt mould. 

Fu.rPKiN Pie No. 1. 

Pare and cut the pumpkin in pieces convenient for steam- 
ing instead of cutting in small slices and stewing in water. 
Put it in a steamer and steam it ti 1 soft, mash fine and i^ve- 
pare in the usual manner. Separate egg used, putting in 
the yolks with the pumpkin. When done have ready the 



ISG COOKIXCx AND BAKER'S DEPAKTMEXT. 

the wliit^es whipped to a frotli with a little wh\\e sugar, and 
spread this over the pies, leaving thein in the oven with the 
door open for a few minutes. 

Ceeam Toast. 

Toas^ 1 ^'v-A n^ T>vpnd a n\i't- bi-owr, spread a little butter 
on i% dip sweet cream ovei it, set it in the oven until well 
beat'jii. 

Mock Cream Toast. 

"Mp't *'^ onr q "M- of innraiur'^ milk about two ounces of 
butter, a large teaspoiniul ol flour: freed from lumps, and 
the A oiks of tinve eggs, beaten light. Beat these ingre- 
dients together for sevejal mini tes, strain the cream through 

afluehiir seivn, mid when w.iurja beat it constantly with a 

brisk movement. 

Coco/, NUT Pie. 

Three- ''onrths nf n ] ound of r'o ormMh r^rated, onehfdf 
pound pulverized sugar, one quirt of miik, six eggs bea'eu 
to a froth, one tea«:2)oonful of nutmeg or cinnamon, twi) tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla or rose water. Boil the milk, tal<e it 
from the lire, and win]) in gradu< \y tbe beaten eggs; when 
nearly col<l, s. ; f-on, add the cocoanut, and pour into paste 
shells. Do not boil the eggs and milk together. Bake in 
moderate oven twent}^ minutes. 

Bice Doughnuts. 

Boil three-fourths of a cup of rice in a quart of sweet 
milk or water, with a little salt, until cooked; add half a cup 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 187 

of butter, two beaten eggs and a little corn meal, mate them 
such shapes asjou likj, .u.. drop them into hot lari. 

Jfj.ly Pie No 1. 

One tumbler each of jelly and water, throe tablespoonfuU 
of cornstarch, yolk of one egg, a small tablespoon ful of but- 
ter. Boil jelly, butter und water together, th^-ii thicken with 
the eg 4 'I'li'^ cv-rnstarch w«^t, in water. I'our into a pie pan 
lined with mice paste, bake till the crust is done, then beat 
the white of t le <^<XiX to a stilT frotli, uiding a tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar, spread over the pie and set in the oven 
until a delicate brown. 

Cook a coffeecupful of pearl tapioca until it is clarified. 
Stir into it a quart can of raspberries. Mould and serve 
with cream and sugar. Sbrawbarry pudding made in the 
same way is delicious, 

Apple Pudding. 

Three eggs, one coffee cup of sour milk, '^no lar":^ table- 
spoon of butter, three large tab'espoonfuls of sugar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, and fi )ur enough to make a batter as 
stiff as cake, Add quartered apples as desired. 

L'^MON Pie No. 1. 

Grate the rind of two large lem >ng and squeeze the juice 
into one heaping cup of brown sugar, and add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, the yolks of four e^j^=i, butter the size of 
an egg, stir all together and add three cups of boiling milk, 



188 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

and set away to cool, make crust as for custard pie, beat the 
white of the efygs to a froth, and add to t'le mixture, when 
cool, pour this into your pies, bake the same as custard, 
sprinkle with cinnamon. This makes three pies. 

Apple Dumplings, 

To one quart of flour, use one-half cup of lard or butter, 
scant measure, two teaspoonfuls of ba! ing powder and a 
little silt. Mix the same as for biseuits. llo 1 out and jjut 
an apple in each piece, lay in a floured steamer and set on a 
pot of boiling water. Cover the steamer with a cloth and 
lid, and steam from three quarters of an hour to an hour. 
Forty-five minutes is long enough if the apples are good 
cooking apples. 

One Egg Pie. 

One large cup of millc, yolk of one egg, two tab'esp-onfuls 
each of sugar and flour, and a litfle sail. Cook by setting the 
dish in a sauce-pan of boiling water, stir until scalded, re- 
move and let it cool, flavor with lemon, have your crust ready 
baked, pour in the mixture, and frost with the white of the 
egg, and one tablespoonf ul of white sugar. Set in a hot oven 
and brown slightly. 

Poor Cake. 

On^ pound of flour, one-half pound of sugar, one quarter 
pound of butter, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder,, 
little lemon extract. Hub butter into flour well; then add 
the sugar, e<;g>i, and baking powdei, with the lemon, and 
make up into a dough. 1 hice on lightly greased ^jans and 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPAUTMENT. 189 

bake in moderate oven. When done, brush over with a 
thick syrup of Avhite sugar. 

Quick Waffles. 

Beat four eggs, mix well one quart of flour with three 
teaspoonfula of baking powder dry, rub half cup of butter 
into the 11 >ur, and then add the eggs, use milk enough to 
make a b.i;ter, wLich will pour into the hot waffle irons, fill- 
ing tuem ivo-thirds full. 

Carolina Cakf. 

One cnyt cf su^.ir, one e^rg, four cups of butter, one-third 
cup sweet milk, one cup flour, mixed dry with one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, and flavor to suit taste. 

Pie Cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, beaten to a cream; four 
eggs \\ell beaten, one teaspoouful baking powder mixed dry 
with three cups of ilour, half a cup of milk, one-half cup 
split peas, one teaspoonful of extract of almond. 

Good Cookies. 

Two quarts of flour, three cups of sugar, one of butter, 
one cup of sweet cream, three eggs, one heaping teaspoon- 
ful of bids'] iig powder, flavor with extra<;t of orange or lemon 
to taste. Turn into granulated sugar before putting into 
the pans. 

Chocolate Strips. 

One pound of sugar, one quarter pound butter, six eggSj 
half cup sweet miik, flavor, extracts, mace, teaspoonful of 



190 COOKING AND BAKERS DEPAETMENT. 

ammonia. Mix well and add two and a half pounds of flour. 
Lay out into strips two inches long and dip in hot chocolate 
sugar. Bake in moderate heat, and when done dip them in 
chocolate. 

Poverty Cookies. 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, and two tablespoonfuls of 
currants, and two teaspoonfuls of yeast jDOwder. Add suf- 
ficient flour to roll thin. Bake in quick oven. 

Tea Biscuit. 

Beat very li^ljt one e^<^, pour it over a pint of flour, add a 
glass of milk, and chop in one tablespoonful of lard and but- 
ter mixed. Work thoroughly together, break up pieces the 
size of marbles, which must be rolled as thin as your nail. 
Sprinkle with dry flour as you roil th-m out to make them 
crisp, stick with a fork and bake. 

Johnny Cakf. 
One teacup of sweet milk, one teacup of buttermilk, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one table -ipoonful of melted butter, one 
teaspoonful yeast powder. Eaough meal to roll into a sheet 
vbout half an inch ihic-. 

Bread Pudding. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, the whites of three more for 
frosting, two cups very fine white dry bread crumbs, one 
tablespoonful nieltetl but rer, one teacupful sugar, juice and 
half the grated peel of one lemon. Beat eggs, sugar and 



COOKIXG AXD BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 191 

butter together. S.vdk the crumbs in the milk and mix all 

well, beating- v<^ry hard and rapidly. Season and bake in 

greased baking dishes. When almost done, cover with a 

frosting made of the -three whites of eggs and a little pow- 
dered bugar. Eat coid. 

Hot Drops. 

Tv o tidilrspoonfuls each of lard, snp-nr and mi'k, two eggs 
well beaten, one teaspoonfnl of yeast powder and flour 
enough lo )oll out; fry in hot hird. 

Tea C.\ke, Spongy. 

One and one-half cupfuls of white sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two and a half cupfuls of 
flour, white of four eggs, two teaspooufuls of baking powder, 
flavor with loniun. 

Nice Sponge Cake. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls fl -ur, sis eggs, one 
cupful co'd water, a little salt, and a heaping teaspoonfnl 
baking powder, sift ed in the flour. Beat the eggs (not 
separating the whites from the yolxs) add the sugar, mixing 
i^. well witli the eggs, add ha'f the water, then the sifted flour, 
the rest of the water, and flavor to suit taste. 
English Plumd Pudding. 

One-half pound of beef suet chopped fine, one pound of 
raisins seeded, one ])i)un<l of currants, one-quarter pound of 
citron, one nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon, one pound of 
flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, little salt, one pound 
brown sugar. Sift one pound of flour, and one teaspoonful 



192 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

of baking powder togetlier, then put all other ingredients in 
dry and mix well, then add cold water or milk to a stiff batter. 

SvLLY L'JNN. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter warmed in two teacups of 
sweet milk, three s^ix^ beat.jii separately, two lablespoonfuh 
of sugar beaten with the yolks. Sift tn'o tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder and a little salt in a quart of flour; stir all 
together, putting the white of the eggs in last and bake at 
once in a moderate oven. 

CocoANUT Jumbles. 

One cup eaoh of butter and sugar, one egg, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream tartar and one- 
half of a cocoanut grated. Add flour enough to make it 
stiff, roll very thin, cut into cakes and bake in a quick oven. 

Pumpkin Pie No. 2. 

Steam the pumpkin over boiling water until soft, strain 
through a colander one pint of squash, one pint of milk, 
three eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of ground 
ginger and oae of extract of nutmeg, a little salt, bake with- 
out top crust* 

Orange Pudding No. 1. 

Two oranges juice of both and grated peel of one, juioe of 
one lemon, one-half pound stale cookies or cake, two cups of 
milk, four eggs, one-half cupful sugar, one tablespoonful 
corn-starch, wet with water; one tables]30onful butter melted. 
Soak the crumbs iu the milk (raw), whip up light and add the 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 193 

eggs and sugar, already beaten to a cream with the batter. 
Next the corn-starch and when the mould is buttered and 
water boiling hard, stir in the juice and peel of the fruit. Do 
this quickly, and plunge the mold directly into the hot water. 
Boil for nearly an hour; turn out and eat witq fruit sause. 

Almond Flitters. 

Pound one-half pound of sweet almonds, and a few bitter 
ones, all blanched, orange peel, chopped lemon peel, sugar to 
sweeten, a teacupful of flour, and two or three whites of eggs; 
pound all together, adding a few drops of water or more 
whites of eggs to make it of a proper stiffness to roll out into 
balls; sprinkle a little fine suoar over them when read to serve. 

Squash Pie No. 1. 

Pare and grate raw squash, to one pint of the grated 
squash add one quart of milk, two cups of sugar one teaspoon- 
ful of ginger and one of nutmeg, little salt, three well beaten 
eggs, bake in custard dish without top crust. 

Home Pudding. 

One quart of sweet milk, one pint of bread crumbs soaked 
in milk, three eggs well beaten, one teacupful of sugar, a lit- 
tle mace, five or six good tart apples, pared, cores taken out, 
let them stand in the pudding and steam until the apples are 
done. An hour is sufficient. 

Fig Pudding No. 2. 

Three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, pound 

of best figs, six ounces of suet; one teacupful of moist sugar, 
a teaspoonful of milk, and a little nutmeg grated. The figs 



194 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT, 

and suet must be chopped very fine. Mix the bread and suet 
first, then the figs, sugar, and nutmeg, one egg beaten well^ 
and lastly the milk. Boil in a dish four hours. To be eaten 
with lemon sauce. 

Squash Pie No. 2. 

Pare ripe squashy slice into small pieces, boil or stew them 
with water enough to prevent burning, when quite tender 
rub through a colander; to one pint of squash, add one pint 
of cream or milk, two or throe ei^Q-^, one cup of ^ugar and 
one teaspoonful of spice; bake without top crust, 

Apple Pudding. 

Put in a buttered dish, first a layer of apple sauce sweet- 
ened with light brown sugar and sprinkle with bits of butter, 
then a layer of cra( ker crumbs with a little grated nutmeg, 
another layer of sauce and so on, ending with a layer of 
crumbs. Bake and eat hot. 

Corn Meal Cake. 

Scald a pint of corn meal, add two eggs, a little salt and 
one-half teaspoonful soda. Thin enough to make stiff batter, 
and fry by dropping in spoonfuls on hot lard. 

Boiled Pudding. 

One cup of cream, one cup sugar, one-half cup of butter 
melted, two and one-half cups flour, two even teaspoonfuls of 
soda dissolved in hot water, a little salt. Mix sugar and 
butter together, and beat until very light. Stir in the cream 
and salt, make a hole in the flour and pour in the mixure. 
Stir down the flour gradually until it is a smooth batter. 



COOKING ANB BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 195 

Beat in the soda water thoroughly and boil at once in a but- 
tered mould, leaving room to swell. Let it cook for an hour 
and a half. 

Tart Apple Pie. 

Pare and quarter enough tart apples to lay loosly in the 
prepared paste, the quarters should not touch each other. 
Fill the paste two-thirds full of thin sweet cream, then 
sjDriukle over one spoonful of flour, butter as large as a wal- 
nut, cut in bits, sugar. Grate nutmeg over the whole. 
Bake slow; if a brown crust forms over the top before the 
apples cook, stir it under with a spoon. 

Jelly Pie No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one glass of jelly, three eggs, half a 
cup of butter; work sugar and butter to a cream; beat the 
yolks of eggs until very light, mix with sugar and butter, 
then the whites, last the jelly, and flavor with one table- 
spoonful of extract of vanilla. 

Rice Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one teacupful of rice, one teacupful of 
raisins, one teacupful sugar, butter size of an egg, grated 
nutmeg, and one teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

Jelly Pudding, 

Two tablespoonfuls cornstaroh, one cup of rich cream, five 
eggs, beaten very light; one-half teaspoonful soda, stirred in 
boiling water; one glass currant jelly. Scald the milk and 
beat until half cold. Stir in the beaten yolks, then whites, 
finally the soda. Fill large pudding dish half full with 



196 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

batter, set in quick oven and bake half an hour . When 
done, tnrn out quickly; with a sharp kuive make an incision 
in the side of the puddiag, pull partly oj^en, and put a liber- 
al glass of the conserve within . Close the slip by 
pinching the edges with the fingers Eat warm with sweet- 
ened cream. 

Mince Pie, 

Boil good beef tender; when cold, chop it fine. To two 
pounds of chopped meat, and half a pound chopped suet add 
one tablespoonful each of mace, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, 
ginger and nutmeg, little salt, one cup of syrup or molasses, 
two of sugar; mix all well together and put it in a jar and 
cover it with molasses. "When making pies, to each pound 
of the above add one pound of finely chopped tart apples 
and sweeten more if desired. 

Cream Custard. 

Take yolks of six eggs, one-half pound of sugar, and beat 
up same as sponge cake, then add ten ounces of flour; stir it 
well and lay it out in jelly cake pans and bake them in hot 
oven, and when done turn them out. 

Orange Pudding No. 2. 

Set one pint of milk on the stove to heat. Mix one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch with a little cold milk and the yolks 
of three eggs, adding one-half teacup of sugar and a little 
salt. When the milk is hot, not boiling, stir in the mixture 
and let it boil, stirring constantly. Peel and slice four 
oranges, remove the seeds, and lay them in a dish, cover 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 197 

each layer with sugar. While the custard is still hot pour ii 
over the oranges. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and spread 
over the top of the custard. Serve when cold. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Let one pint of milk come to the boiling point adding four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one bar of grated chocolate, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, boil until thickened, pour into 
a dish and place in a cool room. Serve with rich cream, 
flavored with rose. 

Snow Mountain Pudding. 

Pour one pint of boiling water on one-half box of gelatine 
add the juice of one lemon and two cups of sugar. When 
nearly cold, strain; add the whites of four eggs beaten to a 
froth; beat the whole together, put in a dish and set on ice. 
With the yolks of the eggs, two teacupfuls of milk, one large 
spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of cornstarch make a 
boiled custard, flavor with lemon or vinilla. Serve cold by 
pouring the custard around portions of the snow placed in 
saucers. 

TuKisH Cream. 

One quart sweet cream, yolks of three eggs, one-half 
ounce gelatine^ one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of bitter 
almond extract . Soak the gelatine in enough cold water to 
cover it, for an hour. Drain, and stir into a pint of cream 
made boiling hot. Beat the yolks with the sugar and add 
the boiling mixture, beating in a little at a time . Heat until 
it begins to thicken, but do not boil it, remove it from the 



198 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

fire, flavor with vanilla, and while it is still hot stir in the 
other pint of cream, beat to a stiff froth. Beat in this a 
spoonful at a time the custard until it is the consistency of 
sponge cake batter. Dip a dish in cold water, pour in the 
mixure, and set on ice to form. 

Custard. 

B-at four eggs with one-half cup of white sugar, and add 
one quart of rich new milk, flavor with lemon, stir all to- 
gether. Pour into pudding mould and bake in moderate 
heat. 

Sweet Corn Macaroons. 

Make any kind of cake mixture, using three parts of ground 
corn and one of flour, drop on pa^oer as for cocoanut maca- 
roons. Bake in quick heat. 

Sauce For Pudding No. 1. 

Take equal quantities of sugar and molasses, boil them 
together, and stir in a little flour. 

Zephyr Crackers. 

Spread a thin layer of butter on the crackers, over which 
sprinkle a little grated cheese. Place in a warm oven. 

Puff Pudding. 

One pint sweet milk, whites of four eggs whipped to a 
froth, one teacupful of sifted flour, two-thirds cup powdered 
sugar, grated peel of half a lemon, little salt. Beat the 
eggs and sugar to a froth, and add this alternately with the 
flour to the milk. Beat until the mixture is very light, and 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPAUTMENT. 199 

bake in buttered mould. Turn out, sift powdered suo^ar 
over it, and eat with lemon sauce. This is delicious in taste, 

Sweet Pudding. 

Ingredients: Four eggs, three apple?, quarter of a pound 
of bread crumbs, one lemon, three ounces of sugar, one-half 
teacupful of currants, little nutmeg, butter for same. Pare, 
core and chop the apples and mix with the bread crumbs, 
nutmeg grated, sugar, currants, the juice of a lemon and 
half the rind grated. Beat the eggs, moisten the mixture 
with these and beat all together, adding the eggs last; put 
the pudding into a buttered dish, tie it down with a cloth, 
boil one hour and a half, and serve with sauce. 

Steamed Salmon. 

Take the contents of a tin of salmon, pound well in a 
morter with seasoning and some dripping, a spoonful of 
ketchup or other sauce may be added. Mix with a good cup- 
ful of oatmeal. Moisten wiUi one ejg and a little milk, and 
steam in a dish for two hours. Serve with sauce. 

Cheese and Egg Sandwiches. 

Grate the cheese, and to each cupful add the yolks of 
three hard boiled eggs minced fine; rub to a paste with a 
teaspoonful of batter, season to taste with salt and pepper 
and spread between buttered bread or crackers. These are 
nice make of graham bread. 

Minced Yeal. 

Cut the meat from the bones, and having minced it very 
fine with a small piece of lemon peel, grate over it a little 



200 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

nutmeg, and sprinkle on some pepper and salt, put the bones 
into a sauce pan with a large onion chopped fine and water 
enough to moisten well; thickea with a little flour and butter 
and serve on buttered toast. 

EscALLOPED Sweet Potatoes. 

Slice cold boiled sweet potatoes and place them in a buttered 
pie- plate, season with a little salt and pepper. Melt one- 
third of a cupful of butter into one-half of a teacupful of rich 
cream, and sprinkle some of it over the potatoes. Have 
your oven hot, and look at the potatoes every ten minutes 
until the butter and milk are all used. 

Potato Omelet. 

To a large coffee cupful of mash.ed potatoes allow three 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, a little salt, half & 
teacupful of milk, a very little sifted flour, a little black pep- 
per, and if flavor is preferred, use either parsley or celery 
chopped fine; heat and grease a large sauce-pan and pour mix- 
ture into it. Brown it lightly and serve hot. 

Cabbage Salad. 

One head of fine red cabbage, minced fine, three hard 
boiled eggs; two tableapoonfuls ham gravy, two tablespoon- 
fuls white sugar, little salt, little pepper, one teaspoonful 
mixed mustard, one teaspoonful vinnegar. Mix and pour 
over the chopped cabbage. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Put a layer of bread crumbs soaked to a soft paste in milk, 
then pepper and salt and pour into a pie pan, set in the oven 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPAKTMENT. 201 

until hot through. Beat five eggs to a stiff froth, add a table- 
spoonful of meUed butter and the same of cream, and pour 
over the bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven. 

A Good Way To Cook Chicken. 

Cut the chicken up, put into a pot and cover with water. 
Let it stew in the usual manner. When done, make a 
thickening of cream and corn starch, add butter, pepper and 
salt. Have ready a nice short cake, baked and cut in squares, 
rolled thin as for crust. Lay tlie cake on the dish and pour 
the chicken and gravy over tkem while hot. 

Potted Halibut. 

Pick to pieces cold halibut removing all the bones. Pub 
perfectly smooth. Put into a double boiler, having the 
water in the outer vessel at a hard boil, and when the fish ia 
heated through stir into it to each cupful of fish a good tea- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a tea- 
spoonful of vinnegur and a little cayenne pepper. When the 
fish is nearly cold, pack it into small jars, and cover the top 
with butter. This must be prepared by melting the butter 
in a cup, set in a sauce-pan of hot water, removing the white 
cheesy scum that rises to the top as it melts, and finally 
straining the melted butter through a cloth. Pour in on top 
of the potted fish while warm, but not hot. Codfish may be 
prepared in the same manner; either will keep a week or ten 
days in a cool place. 

How To Cook Veal Steaks. 
Beat them very little, then broil over clear hot coals until 
a nice brown on both sides, season with salt, pepper and but- 



202 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMEN^T. 

ter. Send to table while hot. A gravy made by stewing in 
a little hot water, some bits of veal, with a few oysters, 
seasoned^and poured over tlie steak is very nice. 

Fish Gems. 

Take any remnant of boiled fish, chop it fine and add the 
same amount of bread crumbs soaked soft in milk, also two 
eggs beaten and a spoonfull of butter; season with salt, pep- 
per and chopped parslej-. Bake in a buttered pan twenty 
minutes. 

How To Cook Steak. 

Have a hot pan on the stove and place the steak within, do 
not put in any j^rease or water. Turn and keep turning till 
done enough; it is best rare. Season with butter, salt and 
pepper rubbed together, and a very little hot water poured 
over it. 

Potato Saucf. 

Put into a sauce-pan three tablespoonfuls of butter, a 
small handful of parsley chop I )e< I tine; salt and pepper to 
taste. Stir up well until hot, add a sm; 11 teacupf ul of cream 
or new milk, thicken with one tablesi^oonful of corn-starch, 
and stir until it boils. Chop some cold boiled i)otatoes, put 
into the mixture, and boil up once before serving. 

Clam Chowder. 

Take the kettle in which your chowder is to be mad 3 and 
place within one-half pound of pork which you have cut in 
inch pieces. Let this fry uulil the f:it is all drawn out, being 
careful not to let it burn. Remove the pork and place in the 



COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 203 

fal two onions which 3'ou have chopped fine; when they are 
well cooked remove the kettle from the fire and put in a 
layer of clams cut in small pieces, then a layer of sliced 
potatoes, alternateh-. Sprinkle on each layer salt, black 
pepper, sweet mar jorum, a pinch of cayenne pepper and a 
little flour. Having saved all the water which was found in 
the clams, strain it and add with cold water >^nough to make 
a gallon. Return to the fire and let it boil slowly for an 
hour, then add five or si.^ crackers broken in pieces, and let 
it cook half an hour longer. 

Roast Pig's Head. 

The head must first be boiled until sufficiently tender to al- 
low the bones to be taken out. After removing these, shape 
the head neatly and skewer it together firmlj', then mix some 
powdered sa^e leaves with pepper and salt, and sprinkle the 
mixture over it. Then hang it on a splint and roast it before 
a fire, basting it well while roasting. Serve at once on a hot 
dish, pouri. g over it a good gravy. 

Chicken Pie. 

Take two young chickens, cut in small pieces, season with 
pepper and salt, uud small pieces of salt pork; put in a sauce 
pan with water to cover it; boil for half and hour, add flour 
and butter to thicken the gravy; have ready a large dish, 
served with paste, put all in a dish covered with a good rich 
paste. Bake half an hour. 

PoiN.)ED Beef. 

Boil a shin of twenty pounds of meat until it falls readily 
from the bone; pick it to joieces, mash gristle and all very 



204 COOKING AND BAKER'S DEPARTMENT. 

fine, pick out all the hard bits. Set the liquor away; when 
cool skim off all the fat, boil the liquor down to a pint. 
Then return the meat to it while hot, add pe^^per and salt 
and any spice you choose. L^^t it boil for a few minutes 
stirring all the while Put into a crock to cool. Use cold 
and cut in thin slices for tea or warm it for breakfast. 

Boiled Hams. 

vSoak over night. Put int-o a pot a rl b >i] gently for five 
or six hours, take it off the fire and let it remain in the water 
until cold. Peel off the fckiu and sprinkle with bread or 
cracker crumbs and brown in the oven; slice thin for the 
table. 




COLORING DEPARTMENT. 205 



COr^ORING- DEPARTMENT. 



COTTON GOODS. 

Greef. 

The goods should first be dipj^ed into home made blue; 
after remaining until the right darkness is obtained, take 
out, dry and rinse a little. Make a dye with fustic, three 
pounds logwood, three ounces to each pound g'ods, by boil- 
ing dye oue hour; when cooled so as to bear the hand, put 
in the goods, stir quickly for a few minutes, and let it str.nd 
for one hour; takeout and drain them; dissolve and add 
to the dye for each pound of cotton, blue vitrol one-half 
ouDcp, and di)) anorhef hour. VVring out and let dry in the 
shade. By diminishing or adding the fustic and logwood 
any shade may be obtained. 

Sky Blue. 

For five pounds of goods, seven ounces of blue vitriol; 
boil few minutes, then dip goods three hours, then pass' 
through strong lime water. 

Black, 

For five pounds of goods, sumac, wood and bark together, 
five pounds; boil three-fourths of an hour and let the goods 
steep nine houiv; then di|) in lime water three-fourths of an 
hour, then let the goods drain one and one-half Jiours; add 



206 COLORING DEPARTMENT. 

to til 9 pumac, twelve ounces of copperas, and dip another 
hour; then run through the lime water for twenty minutes; 
then make a new dye with three pounds of logwood, byg 
boiling one liour, and dij) again for two and one-half hours; 
now add three ounces of bi-chromate of potash to the log- 
wook dye, and dip one and one-half hours. Rinse in clear 
water and dry in the shude. 

Red. 

For live pounds of goods — three gills of muriate of tin, add 
water to cover floods, bring to boiling beat, put in the goods, 
stir for one hour; make a new dye with two pounds of nic- 
wood and sufficient water to cover the goods well; steep for 
three-fourths of an hour, then put in goods and increase for 
one hour, not bringing to a luoiling heat at all. Take the 
goods out and drain for one hour; wash in clear water, dry 
in ihe shade. 

Orange. 

For three pounds goods — three ounces sugar of lead; boil 
ten minutes, let cool, and then put m the goods; let stand 
two hours, wring out; make a new dye with bi-chromate of 
potash six ounces, one ounce madder, dip until suits; if the 
color is to J dark, dip into lime water until the desired shade 
is reached. 

Royal Blue. 

For three pounds of goods — three ounces copperas; boil 
and dip twenty minutes, then rinse through soap suds and 
back to the dye three times. Make a new dye of three-fourths 



COLORING DEPARTMENT. 207 

onuces of prussiale potash, two tablespoonfuls of vitriol oil, 
boil twenty-five minutes and rinse, dry in the shade. 

Yellow. 

For three pounds of goods-five ounces sugar of lead; dip the 
goods for one and oix-liulf lionr •, ma'ce a new dye with 
three ounces of bi-chromate of potash, wring out and dry 
in a shady place. If not yellow enough rejjeat the o^^er- 
ation. 

WOOLEN GOODS. 
Pink. 

For five pounds of goods — alum five ounces; boil one hour 
and dip the goods; then add two oz. pulverized cochineal, 
eight oz. cream tartar; l)(>i] and dip the goods wh.ld boiling 
until the desired shade is reached. 

Black. 

For five pounds of goods — ground argal one and one-half 
ounces, bi-chromate of potash two ounces; boil together and 
put in the goods letting it remain in the dye four hours. 
Take the goods out rinse in clear water, make a new dye, 
with one and one-half pounds of log ^vood. Boil one hour 
and iidd one gallon of vinegar, and let the goods lie in it all 
night. Rinse in clear water and dry. 

Blue 

For five pounds of goods —Tartaric acid six ounces, alum 
ten ounces; boil the goods in this for one hour. Make a new 
dye of warm water and the extract of indigo, using more or 



208 COLORING DEPARTMENT. 

less indigo according to the depth of color desired; boil again 
until the desired shade is obtained. 

Wine Color. 

For one pound of goods — camwood eight ounces; boil fifteen 
minutes and dip tlie goods one hour; add the vitriol one-fifth 
ounce; if not dark enough, add copperas one-fourth ounce. 

Scarlet, 

For five pounds of goods — cochineal two and one-half 
ounces, muriate of tin one pound, tartaric acid two and one- 
Lalf ounces; boil up the dye, pur the goods in, working the 
goods briskly for fifteen minutes, after which boil two hours, 
Btiring the while; rinse in clear water, drip and dry in the 
shade. 

Green. 

For five -jouuds of goods — fustic five pounds, alum one 
and one-half pounds, steep for two hours, put the goods in 
and let them remain until a good yellow is obtained, then 
filter, and ndd extract of chemic, one tablespooitful at a time, 
until the color suits. Or: 

Make a strong dye of hickory bark and yellow vak, in 
equal quantities, add the extract of indigo, until the desired 
shade is reached. 

Purple. 

For one pound of goods — alum one ounce, pulverized 
cochineal one-half ounce, tartaric acid one ounce, muriate of 
tin one gill, boil all the ingredients except the cochineal for 



COLORING DEPARTMENT. 209 

fifteen minutes, then add the cochineal and boil ten minutes, 
dip the goods for one and one-haif hour, make a new dye 
with Brazil wood two ounces, log wood, muriate of tin two 
gills, one teaspoonful of chemic, alum one ounce, work again 
until color suits, drain, rinse slightly in salt water and dry in 
the shade. 

Madder Red . 

For five pounds of goods — five ounces of red, or cream tar- 
tar, two pounds alum; put in the goods and boil for one 
hour; let the goods cool in the dye; boil again for one-half 
hour. Make a new dye with a peck of bran and sufficient 
water, make it luke warm, skim the bran off and add four 
pounds of madder; enter the goods and raise to a boiling 
heat; drain one-half hour, wash in strong suds, and dry in 
the sun . 

Tobacco Brown, 

For three pounds of goods, one-half pound camwood; 
boil twenty minutes, dip the goods for one hour; take out 
the goods and add to the dye, one pound fustic; boil twenty 
minutes, dip the goods for one hour, add one-half ounce of 
blue vitriol, two ounces copperas, dip again for twenty 
minutes; if the color is to light add more copperas; drain, 
rinse in clear water and hang in the shade. 

Orange. 

For one pound of goods — one ounce argal, one ounce 
muriate of tin, boil and dip one hour; then add to the dye 
one-half pound of fustic, boil fifteen minutes and dip three- 
fourths of an hour, and add to the dye two ounces of cochi- 



210 COLORING DEPARTMENT. 

neal; dip one-lialf hour^ drain and dry in the shade, 

Lac Red. 

For three pounds of goods — six ounces argal, boil five 
minutes; then mix one-half pound muriate of tin, with one- 
half pound of pulverized lac; let them stand for three hours, 
add half of this new mixure to the dye, and dip one-half hour; 
add the remainder and dip three-fourths of an hour; keep 
the dye at a boiling heat for one-half hour, cool off and drain 
the goods; do not rinse but dry in the shade. 

Deab. 

For three pounds of goods — two ounces of logwood, two 
ounces alum, boil together for one-half hour, dip the goods 
for three-fourths of an hour. If not dark enough add alum 
and logwood in equal quantities until the right shade is 
reached. 

Slate Color. 

Boil beach bark in an iron vessel, filter after it has boiled 
sufficiently, add copperas more or less according to the depth 
of color desired, rinse in clear water and dry in the shade. 

Dove Color. 

Boil a teacup of black tea in an iron vessel, with a tea- 
poon of copperas, and sufficient water. Dilute the goods in; 
this. 

Crimson. 

' For one pound of goods — make a paste of cochineal and 
water, put the goods in this for one hour; add one pound of 



COLORING DEPARTMENT. 211 

tartar, one pound of proto-chloride, six ounces of cochineal, 
boil for fifteen minutes, take out, wash in clear water and 
dry. 

Yellow. 

For five pounds of goods — three ounces of bichromate of 
potassa and two ounces of alum, sufficient water to cover the 
goods; boil for one-half hour; lift the goods until well cooled 
and drained, then work one-half hour in another mixture 
with five pounds fustic. Wash in clear water and dry in the 
shade. 

Salmon. 

For five pounds of goods — one pound of soap, one pound 
of annotto, sufficient water to cover the goods; boil for one- 
half hour; if not dark enough, add more or less annotto, ac- 
cording to the de^jth of color desired, 

SILK GOODS. 

Yellow, 

For five pounds of silk goods — one pound of sugar of lead, 
one and one-half pounds of alum; leave the goods in this 
mixture over night with sufficient water to cover, in the morn- 
ing take out, drain, and mike a new dye with five pounds 
fustic; dip until the required color is obtained. 

Lavender. 

For one pound silk — four ounces alnm; 'lirj one hour, 
wash out; make a new dye of one ounce of Brazil wood, one- 
fourth ounce logwood; boil together; dip in this, one-half 



212 COLORING DEPAETMENT. 

hour, then add more logwood or Brazil wood in equal quan- 
tities, until the color is dark enough. 

Light Blue. 

For one pound of silk — dissolve one-half tablespoon of 
alum in a teacup of hot water, and put it in a gallon of cold 
water; then add one teaspoon chemic at a time, to obtain the 
desired color. The more chemic that is used, the darker will 
be the color. This blue works equally well on woolen silk, 

Ora.nqe. 

For five pounds of silk— five ounces of annotto, five ounces 
of saleratus, boil the goods in this fifteen minutes, drain and 
dry. 

Crimson. 

For three pounds of silk — nine ounces of alum; steep and 
dip for one hour; take out and drain; make a new dye of 
six ounces of bruised nutgalls, one ounce tartaric acid, nine 
ounces cochineal, sufficient water to cover the goods; boil 
for fifteen minutes; when the dye begins to cool, dip, raise 
to a boil, continue to dip one hour; wash in clear water, 
rinse and dry in the shade . 

Green. 

For three pounds of silk — two pounds yellow oak bark; 
boil three-fourths of an hour; filter and add one and one-half 
pounds of alum; let stand until cold; while this dye is beinS 
made, color the goods in wash blueing; dry and wash; then 
dip in the alum and bark dye; if it does not take well, warm 
the dye a little. Or: 



COLORING DEPARTMENr. 213 

One-half peck peach leaves; boil well; filter and add one- 
half teacup of pro to-chloride of tin, stirring well; put in the 
goods and stir round for ten minutes; take the goods out, and 
add to the dye one tablespoon of indigo at a time until the 
desired shade is reached; put in the goods again and dip one- 
half hour; take out the goods, rinse and dry immediately. 

Purple. 

For three pounds of silk— first dip the goods in a solution 
of bluing water; dry the goods, then dip in one pound alum, 
to sufficient water to cover; steep for ten minutes; if the color 
is not full enough, add a little chemic; drain and dry. 

Snuff Brown. 

For three pounds of silk — make a solution of two gallons 
of water and six ounces of blue vitriol; dip in this for fifteen 
minutes; then run it through lime water; then run through a 
solution of three ounces of Prussiate of potash, to one gallon 
of water. 

Black, 

Make a week dye the same as the black in woolen goods; 
work the goods in bichromate of patassa, at a little below 
boiling heat; then dip in logwood in the same manner; if 
colored in blue vitriol, use about the same heat. 



MISCP^LLANEOUS COOKINO AND 
BAKINGJ^ RECIPE-. 



COCOANUT CeEAM CaKE . 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and a half cups 
flour, whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder, one- 
half cup of milk, bake in laj-ers. Filling: One-half cup 
sugar, one-half cup flour, whites of two eggs; beat the eggs 
and stir in sugar and flour; add one-half pint boiling milk 
and one cup cocoanut, make frosting for the top; sprinkle- 
with cocoanut before dry. 

Graham Bread. 

One quart of warm water^ one pint of bread sponge, one 
cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus, and one of 
salt; graham flour to make a stiff batter; add the sponge last, 
put it in buttered tins, and let it rise before baking. Bake 
in small loaves for three-quarters of an hour. 

Canned Salmon Soup. 

Drop into a quart of milk two slices of ouiou, a little salt, 
half a spoonful of pepper, and place over the fire to boil for a 
few minutes. While it is boiling select about a pound of 
finely chopped, canned salmon, from which all pieces of 
bone, fat and skin huve been removed. Thicken the milk 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES . 215 

with two tablespoonfuls of flour wet with a little cold milk or 
water, or with three finely crumbled and rolled crackers. 
When it has thickened, add the salmon, and as soon as it 
boils once more, take it from the fire and add a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, that has heated just enough to melt 
it. Serve hot. 

Cream Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak three tablespoonful of tapioca in a little water for 
three hours. Put the saine in a quart of hot milk and then 
boil fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs in one cup 
of sugar and stir them into the pudding five minutes before 
it is done, flavoring with lemon or vanilla. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth, with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Put this over the pudding and bake five minutes. 

Lobster Soup. 

Chop half a pound of fresh lobster into small bits and let 
it simmer in a quart of milk twenty-five minutes. Add a 
teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper and a tablespoonful of 
flour wet with cold milk. Remove from the fire; stir into the 
soup a heaping tablespoonful of softened butter, and serve 
at once in a hot soap tureen. 

CocoANUT Chocolate Cake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, four cups of flour, four eggs, bake in layers. 

Corn Bread, 
One quart white Indian meal, pour boiling water enough to 



216 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

scald the meal without leaving any lumps or wetting to much, 
then one cup molasses and. one teaspoonful saleratus, dis- 
solved in a little water. Let it cool enough to mix with the 
hands. Use a bowl of sponge prepared the night before, 
and knead up with wheat flour until quite stiff then set it near 
the stove to rise. Bake nearly an hour. 

Another Graham Bread. 

One cup light sponge, two tablespoonfuls molasses, two 
cups graham flour, one cup wheat flonr, eno cup warm water, 
one-half cup milk, one-halfteaspoonful saleratus and one of 
»alt. 

Brown Bread. 

Three cups of yellow Indian meal, one and one half cups 
rye meal, three cups of sour milk, one-half cup molasses, one 
teaspoonful saleratus. Steam three hours, then bake three 
hours slowly . 

Cake Iceing. 

Beat white of three eggs to stiff froth and add one and one- 
half cups pulverized sugar. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Drain the liquor from a quart of oysters into a kettle and 
place it over the fire to boil. Skim twice, and then turn in 
the oysters. As soon as the oysters are roughed and plump 
skim them out again. If there is not a pint of the liquor re- 
maining add enough milk to make that quantity. Rub two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour into some more milk, and 
stir it into the hot liquid to make a smooth cream. Salt to 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AMD BAKING RECIPES . 217 

taste, add a saltspoonful of pepper and a little ground nut- 
meg. Drop the oysters into this s luce after it has boiled to 
a thick cream, and as soon as it reaches boiling point stir into 
it the yolks of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Serve in a shallow, broad dish, and garnish with 
thin angular bits of hot toast. 

For Chocolate. 

Scald two-thirds of a cup of milk and a tablespoonful of 
sugar, ad'd two ounces of grated chocolate and boil until 
quite thick; cool belore using. 

Wheat Bread. 

Put seven pounds of Hour into a large bowl or tray, heap 
it around the sides, leaving a hollow in the centre; put into it 
a quart of warm water, add to it a large tablespoonful of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of snleratus, dissolved in a little water, 
and half a gill of bakers yeast; have three pints more of warm 
water, and with as much of it as may be necessary, make the 
whole in a rather soft dough; work it well -with both hands- 
when it is smooth and shining strew a little flour over, lay 
a thickly folded cloth over it, and set it in a warm place for 
four or five hours, then knead it again, f<»r fifteen minutes, 
cover ib, and let it set, to rise again; when it is li^-e a sponge, 
work it down'again, divide it in loaves, either two or four 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Curry Eice And Chichen. 

Cut a pound of canned or cooked chicken into small pieces 
and season with pepper and salt. Drop them into a pan in 



218 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

which there is a heaping tablespoonful of butter, bubbling" 
hot. If onion flavor is liked, a tablespoonful of that vegeta- 
ble, finely chopped and browned in butter may be added. 
Stir the chicken until it is slightly browned, then remove it, 
and add the butter, a teacup! )il of rice stock or the same 
quantity of milk, a teaspoonful of sugar and a teaspoonful of 
curry powder that has been thoroughly mixed with a tea- 
spoonful of flour and well moistened with milk or stock. Stir 
until all is of about the consistency of cream; then add the 
chicken, and boil two or three minutes, stirring all" the time. 
Now remove it from the fire and squeeze into it the juice of 
half a lemon; stir again, and pour it into a dish of rice. For 
East India tastes one or even two tablespoonf uls of curry will 
be none too much. Warm and cold veal, lamb and all kinds 
of poultry or game may be used instead of chicken. Some 
cooks udd half a grated cocoanut to the curry, and many 
think it a pleasing addition. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Mix one quart of sour milk with three tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, and salt to taste; then add slowly, four cups of 
sifted flour, well mixed with two teaspoonfuls of saleratus 
before wetting One or two eggs will greatly improve this. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Make a custard with one one pint of rich milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls corn starch, one-half cup sugar, whites of four 
eggs, a little salt and flavoring. Boil the milk, keeping a 
tablespoonful or two iu which to dissolve the corn starch; 
pour the boiling milk upon it, adding the sugar and the eggs 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 219 

well beaten; let it boil a few minutes, then take it off and 
stir in half a cup cocoanut; butter a deep dish, pour in the 
mixture and put in the oven to brown. 
Corn Meal Cake. 

One quart of sour milk, two eggs beaten, two tablespoon- 
fuls molasses^ a handful of flour and litttle salt. Then add 
three cups of corn meal, well mixed with one large teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus before wetting. If the batter is not thick 
enough add more corn meaL 

Co(30ANUT Custard. 

Same receipt as for cocoanut pie; pour the raw mixture 
into cups and bake by setting in a pan of boiling water, stir- 
ring well once as they begin to warm . This cup custard is 
much liked. 

Orange Dessert. 

Place layers of sliced oranges on bottom of ja glass dish; 
cover with powdered sugar and then a thick layer of cocoa- 
nut, repeating this until the dish is full. 

Chicken for Dinner. 

Have ready two cupfuls of cooked chicken from which the 
skin and bones have been removed; salt and pepper slightly, 
and cut into small pieces. Place in a kettle over the fire 
where it will not scorch, two cupfuls of milk in which a small 
sliced onion has boiled rfive minutes. To this add a little 
mace, a teaspoonful of celery salt^and a little white pepper. 
Remove the onions, add the chicken and boil three minutes; 
after which remove from the fire and beat into it the whipped 



220 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

yolks of two eggs, and serve in the hollow of a dish of rice or 
over hot buttered or slightly dipped toast. In either case a 
few browned hot bread crumbs sprinkled over it adds to its 
appearance and flavor. 

Flaxnel Cake. 

Pour about a pint of boiling: water in two cups of corn 
meal; strain in one quari of fioiir mi!k; add flour enough to 
make a proper batter, first sifting the flour well, mixed with 
two teaspoonfuls of saleratus before wetting; mix thoroughly, 
and bake quickly. One or two eggs improves this receipt. 

Johnny Cake, 

One cup sour milk, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, one egg, 
butter size of a walnut, half teaspoonful of saleratus; equal 
parts of flour and Indian meal to make it as thick as soft 
gingerbread. 

CocoANUT Cracker Pudding. 

To one-half cup cnooa}iut add one-fourth of a poumd of 
cracker dust; and to them, one and a half pints of boiling 
milk, two ounces melted butter and six ounces sugar. Stir 
all together; beat six eggs, yolks and whites separately, stir 
them into the mixture, then put it in a pan and bake it, or 
into a pudding mould and boil it like custaiKi; or it may be 
put into a dish lined with puff paste and baked. 

Flandy Sauce. 

Rub a heaping tablespoonful of butter into a cupful of 
sugar until it becomes a cream; then stir into it, half a cup- 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING KECIPES. 221 

ful of cold sweet milk, a spoonfal or so at a time. When all 
is min.oled smoothly and evenly grate over it a little nutmeg; 
sprinkle a sifting of cinnamon upon it, or beat into it a table- 
spoonful rose water or any preferred flavoring. 

Biscuits. 

One pint cream, one and one-half pints buttermilk, one 
large teacpoonful saleratus, little salt, flour enough to make 
stiff as bread. 

Steamed Indian Bread. 

Two cups of flour, four cups of corn meal, two cups sweet 
milk, two cups sour miik, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
egg, little salt, one cup syrup. Steam three hours. 

CocoANUT Layer Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one-half butter, three eggs, one cup milk, 
three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder; bake as 
for jelly cake. Filling: One cup cocoanur; add whites of 
three eggs beaten to a froth, and one cup of powdered sugar; 
spread this between the layers of cake. Then to one-fourth 
cup of cocoanut add four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
and spread thickly over top of cai<e. 

Cocoanut Bread Pudding. 

One cup bread crumbs, two eggs, one-half cup concentrat- 
ed cocoanut, one pint milk; butter and sugar to taste, 

Pudding Sauce No. 1, 

This excellent pudding sauce is made by beating into a 
pint of boiling and slightly salted milk, half a cupful of 



2?2 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

augar and the whipped jolks of three eggs. Stir this until 
it become a cream, but not a custard; remove from the fire; 
flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla or other extracts, and 
beat into it the finely frothed white of an egg. 

CocoANUT Pie. 

One cup cocoanut, one-half pound powdered sugar, one 
quart unskimmed milk, whites of six eggs beaten to froth, 
one teaspoonful nutmeg; boil the milk and remove from the 
fire, then gradually whip in the beaten eggs; when nearly 
cold add nutmegs and extracts and stir in cocoanut; pour in 
paste shells, bake about twenty minutes. 

Hominy Cake. 

Two cups of boiled hominy, cold; it smooth; stir in 

three cups sour milk and half a cup melted butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar; add three eggs well 
beaten, one teasoonful saleratus dissolved in luke warm 
water two cups flour. Bake quickly. 

Graham Gems, 

One pint sour milk, one egg, one tablespoonful molasses, 
one and a half pints of graham flour, half a teaspoonful of 
saleratus; beat together a few minutes. Have the tins hot 
and greased; drop in the batter, and bake ten to fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Macaroni and Tomatoes. 

Wash a quarter of a pound of macaroni and place it in 
boiling salted water. When it is done enough to be easily 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 223 

pierced with a fork drain it and have ready a buttered, 
pudding dish. To a pint of tomatoes add one sliced onion of 
moderate size, a teaspoonful of chopped or dried parsley, a 
level teaspoonful of salt and a few cloves. Boil until it is 
reduced one-half. Mash the tomatoes fine, pass them 
through a strainer, and add a lump of butter size of walnut. 
When this is melted arrange the macaroni in alternate layers 
with the tomatoes in the dish, saving enough of the tomatoes 
to pour over the top. Sprinkle lightly with fine bread 
crumbs, and bake ten minutes. 

Rice Gems. 

One pound of wheat flour, one pound rice flour; mix thor- 
oughly and add one pound sugar, one pound butter, four 
eggs, flavor to taste. Then dissolve one teaspoonful of saler- 
atus in enough milk to form a dough that can be rolled out 
and cut the same as cookies, 

CocoANUT Pie 2. 

Two cups cocoanut and two stale rusk; rub together one- 
half pound of powdered sugar and one-half pound butter; 
beat six eggs, or the whites of twelve eggs, very light; stir 
them into the sugar and butter alternately with the cocoanut 
and rusks; and lastly four tablespoonfuls of milk. Bake 
with a rich paste. 

Quick Plum Pudding. 

One pound each of finely chopped suet, sugar, currants, 
raisins, two pounds soaked bread, five well beaten eggs, 
little salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one grated nut- 



•224 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

meg; mix all together thoroughly; take a cotton bag, dip it 
in scalding hot water; flour it well and lay over it a pan; 
place the pudding in fetie sack and tie it closely, put it in a 
kettle of boiling water for four or five hours; have boiling 
hot water ready to fill the pot a-^ it boils away so as not to 
allow it to get below heat, 

CocoANUT Pie 3. 

Three eggs, one-half cup cocoanut soaked in a pint of 
milk; bake without upper crust. 

Chocolate Drink. 

Scrape or grate two oblong bars of fine chocolate and pour 
a tablespoonful of boiling water upon it stirring until thor- 
oughly mixed, then add a cupful of milk that has reached 
boiling point and permit it to simmer, but not boil, stirring 
constantly about seven minutes. Sugar may be added if 
desired. 

Broiled Chicken. 

gplit the chicken down the back, disjoint but do not part 
it and flatten with a potato masher; broil over a hot fire from 
seven to ten minutes, turning frequently: sprinkle with salt 
and add a little butter or olive oil; lay the chicken upon a 
lightly browned piece of buttered toast that has its edges 
neatly trimmed, and serve. 

Corn Cake. 

Three eggs beaten light, two cups sour milk; three table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, one tablespoonful white sugar, one 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 225 

small teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful soda, mixed well 
with corn meal enough to miike a thin bat'er. Ba];e in a 
shallow pan or small tins for half an hour in a hot oven. 

Clove C\ke. 

One-half pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
one pound raisins, one cup milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, one large teaspoonful cloves, cinnamon cind nutmeg. 

Corn Starch Pudding. 

One quart of milk, except enough to wet two tablepoonfuls 
of corn starch, placed in a tin pail and set in a kettle of boil- 
ing water; add the yolks of four eggs beaten, half a cup of 
sugar, the corn starch and a little salt; let it boil until it thick- 
ens; when cool flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla, pour in- 
to a pudding dish, beat the whites of the eggs with half a cup 
pulverized sugar, flavor with lemon and place in the oven to 
brown. 

Dark Cup Cake. 

Thrae cups butter, six cups sugar, ten cups flour, eight eggs, 
two cups milk, one teaspoonful soda and spice and fruit if de- 
sired. One- third of this receipt will be sufficient for one loaf. 

Plum Pudding. 

Three-quarters of a cup of raisins cover with a cupful of 
boiling water. Let stand for fifteen minutes, drain the water. 
Dredge, and stir through them a heaping teaspoonful of flour. 
While the raisins are soaking beat a heaping tablespoonful 
of butter into a teaspoonful of sugar and add the beaten yolks 
of two eggs; mix thoroughly, and pour slowly into it half a 



•226 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

tea cupful of sweet milk, stirrins? consbintly. Now stir into 
it one and a half teacups of flour into which two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder have been carefully mixed by passing them 
together through a sieve. After this is beaten into a smooth 
dough add the well beaten whites (>f the eggs. Pour into a 
pudding pan and bake in a quick oven until by testing with a 
straw it is found to be thoroughly cooked. Serve hot with 
pudding sauce. 

Lemon Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, two and a half cups flour, three eggs, half a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, and the juice and grated rind of one 
iemon. 

Spice Beead Pudding. 

One quart of grated bread crumbs, one quart of milk, four 
eggs well beaten, butter the size of an egg, one-half cup 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls spice, mix all well together and bake. 
Serve with sauce. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

Boil sweet potatoes sufficient to make a pint of pulp, add a 
pint of milk, a small cup of sugar, a little salt, the yolks of 
two eggs, a teaspoonful of flour and bake in a shallow pan 
lined with pie paste. When done beat the whites of the eggs 
with powdered sugar for the top, and brown it in the oven. 

Dried Apple Gale. 

Three cups dried apples, soaked over night and chopped 
fine and stewed in three cups of molasess, three eggs, three 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 227 

cups flour, half a cup butter, two teaspoonfuls saleratus, one 
and a half pounds of currants, allspice, cinnamon and nut- 
megs to taste This will make two large loaves. 

Cookies. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups flour, two eggs, 
half a cu]) sour cream and half a teaspoonful of saleratus. 

Sugar Cookies. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, half a cup of milk, 
three eggt, half a teaspoonful saleratus dissolved in milk; 
flavor and add jusr enough flour to make it stiff enough to 
roll out thin. 

Flour Pudding. 

One pint sweet milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful butter, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one 
quart flour and two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
bake in cups, and serve with sauce. 

Corn Starch Custard. 

Two tablespoonfuls of c^rn starch to one quart of milk; 
mix the corn starch with a small quantity of milk, and flavor 
with vanilla, beat up two eggs; heat the remainder of the 
milk to near boiling, then add the mixed corn starch, the 
eggs, half a cup sugar, a little butter and salt, boil five min- 
utes stirring it briskly. 

Raisin Cake. 
Three pounds of raisins, two pounds currants, half a pound 



228 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING EECIPES. 

citron, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one and one- 
quarter poufid of flour, ten eggs, hixli a cup molasses, one 
tablespoonful of mace, cloves, cinnamon, allspice and nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful saleratus dissolved in sour cream. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter, seven 
cups flour, one egg, one large teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar and ginger to tubie. 

Fruit Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, two cups 
raisins, two tablespoonfuls sour cream or sour milk, two 
tablespoonfuls cinnamon, one tablespoonful nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful saleratus. Koll a few at a tauc. 

Boiled Pcdding. 

To one quart of bread crumbs soaked in water, add one 
cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of butter, one cup of fruit, 
one teaspoonful each of all kinds of spices, one teaspoonful 
of saleratus, three-quarters of a cup of flour. Boil one hour 
and serve with sauce. 

Yeast Cake. 

One cup butter, four cups of flour, half a pint of milk, one 
egg, a little yeast, spice to taste, uae and a half cups of 
sugar. 

Peach Pie. 

Line a pie plate with a nice crust, pare and slice tart 
peaches, fill the plate quite full, covtr with another crust and 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES . 229 

bake; when done, cut around the edge and remove the top 
crust; mix with the peaches two- thirds of a cupful of sugar, 
butter half the size of an egg; flavor to suit the taste and re- 
place the crust; or turn the top crust over and spread in it a 
part of the peach and lay it crust side down on the bottom 
part, forming a double peach pie with out a top crust. 

Pudding Sauce No. 2. 

One cup sugar, one teaspoonful butter, one pint boiling 
water, spice to taste, flavor with lemon and thicken a little 
with corn starch. 

A Good Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, one pint sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
saleratus, four eggs and half a nutmeg. 

HoLLiDAY Pudding. 

One and a quarter pounds of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
good baking powder well mixed dry, one pound chopped 
suet, quarter pound sugar, one pound English currants, one 
pound chopped raisins, two ounces citron, flavor, ten well 
beaten eggs; mix all thoroughly wringing out the pudding 
bag in hot water, flour well inside, pour in the mixture, tie 
and bull five hours; serve with pudding sauce. 

Potatoes for Supper. 

Pare eight medium sized potatoes and let them remain in 
cold water for half an hour; wipe dry and place them in boil- 
ing salted water; as soon as they are cooked drain and set 
them back on the stove to permit the steam to escape, then 



230 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

lat them dry; then mash fine and mix with them a table- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper and two raw eggs 
that have been beaten; now form them into cakes and brush 
them over with tJje yolk of an egg into which has been stirred 
a teaspoonful of water; now set them into the oven to brown; 
bake five minutes. 

Ginger Cookies. 

Half a pound of butter, one pint of molassess, two teacups 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls ginger, two teaspoonfuls saleratus, 
spice to suit the taste and flour enough to make a stiff dough. 

Crullers. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sour milk, one and one-half 
cups of sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, and one cup 
of new milk; bake in a slow oven. 

Stewed Oysters. 

Put the juice into a saucepan and let it simmer, skimming 
it careful, then lub the yolks of three hard boiled eggs and 
one large j-ioonful of flour well together, and stir into the 
juice; cut into ^mall pieces quarter of a pound of butter, half 
a teaspoonful < i vhole allspice, a little salt, a little cayenne 
and the juice of a fresh lemon; let all simmer for ten minutes, 
and just before dishing aad the oysters. This is for two 
quarts of oysteis. • 

Cottage Cheese. 

Heat some sour milk until whey rises to the top; pour it 
joff, put curd in bag, and let drip six hours without squeezing 
it; put in a b<>wl and chop fine with a wooden spoon, salt to 



MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING KECIPES. 231 

taste, and work to the consistency of soft putty addiDo: grad- 
ually a little cream and butter; mould with the hands into 
pats or balls and keep in a cool place. Best eaten when 
fresh. 

Lobster Rissoles. 

Boil the lobster, take out the meat, mince it fine, pound 
the coral smooth, and grate for one lobster the yolks of 
three hard boiled eggs, season with salt and pepper; make a 
batter of milk, flour and well beaten eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk and one of flour to each ego-; beat tlie batter 
well, mix the lobster with it gradually until stiff enough to 
roll into balls the size of a walnut; fry in fresh butter, or 
best salad oil, and serve. 

Composition Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, five cups of flour, one cup sour milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one cup butter. 
Fruit to taste, 

Noodles for Soup. 

Beat one egg light, add a pinch of salt and flour enough 
to make a stiff dough, roll out in a very thin sheet, dredge 
with flour to keep from sticking, then roll up tightly. Begin 
at one end and shave down fine like cabbage for blaw. 

Strawberry Cordial. 

Einse ripe berries in cold water and press them thorough- 
ly; to each gallon of juice add three pounds of sugar, put in 
demijohns or other suitable vessels, which must be complete- 



232 MISCELLANEOUS COOKING AND BAKING RECIPES. 

ly filled and stand away in the cellar to ferment. The mat- 
ter thrown off in fermentation must be cleaned away at inter- 
vals aud the vessels kept filled by> adding sweetened water 
once a day, if necessary. When the fermentation has entire- 
ly ceased, strain and bottle for use. 




ANYTHHSTG^ AND EVERYTHING^. 



To Wash Kid Gloves. 

Put a little n-^w milk in one saucer and a piece of brown 
soap in another, a towel folded three or four times; spread 
the gloves out smoothly on the towel, take a piece of flannel, 
dip it in the milk, then rub off a good quantity of soap to 
wet the flannel, and commence to rub the glove downward 
toward the fingers, hohling it firmly with the left hand. 
Continue this process until the glove, if white, looks of a 
dingy yellow, though clean, if colored until it looks darker 
and spoiled. Lay it to dry, and the operater will soon be 
gratified to see the old gloves look nearly new; they will be 
soft, smooth, glossy and elastic. 

To Wash Kibbon. 

Lay the ribbon on the table and rub it with a sponge; if 
soap has to be used, put it on the sponge and rub it thor- 
oughly; after all the dirty spots have been cleaned dip the 
ribbon into clear water until all the suds are washed out; 
care should be taken not to wring them, for this has a tend- 
ency to wrinkle and break the silk. 

To Remove Iron Rust from Cloth. 

Wet the spot with cold water and place the cloth in the 
sun shine, then mix equal quantities of cream tartar and 



234 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

table salt, and sprinkle the mixture upon it until the damp- 
ness has absorbed a great deal, then lay on enough to hide 
the spot. Wet the spot with cold water every half hour, and 
if the stain is then seen, cover it again with cream tartar and 
salt, keep in the sun shine and continue these applications 
till the stain is gone, if recently contracted two or three 
applications will remove it. 

Cure for a Felon. 

Take common rock salt, such as is used for salting pork 
and beef, and mix it with spirits of turpentine in equal parts; 
put it on a rag and wrap it up well; as it gets dry put on 
mpre, and in twenty-four hours the felon will be dead. 

How TO Judge Canned Goods. 

Note when about to purchase the condition of the tin, if 
bulged outwards don't have it, even as a gift. On the con- 
trary, if the tin has sunk it is an infallible sign of goodness; 
it proves a vacuum, which is natural, as the meat shrinks 
when any air is left in the tin. 

Whooping Cough. 

Whooping cough can be very much relieved by covering 
the patient at night with a blanket upon which a five per 
cent, solution of carbolic acid has been sprinkled. A five 
per cent, solution would be about twenty drops of acid to an 
ounce of water. 

To Remove Mildew from Roses. 

Mildew has been successfully removed from roses and 
pelargonians, by dissolving one ounce of nitre to one gallon 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 235 

water, and watering the plaa^s with it occasionally; another 
way is to wash the diseased parts with a decoction of elder 
leaves; but the most effectual remedy is flowers of sulpher 
dusted over the folliage by means of a dredging box with 
very fine holes. 

To Cultivate Corn. 

Cultivate the corn as long as it can be done. It is a 
crop that should have the ground plowed deep before the 
seed is planted, bub frequent and shallow cultivation should 
be given while it is growing. The surface of the ground 
alone should be stirred, and the of tener it is mellowed and 
loosened, the better for the crop. 

How TO Pkeserve Eggs. 

To each pailful of water add two pints of fresh slacked 
lime and one pint of common salt; mix well. Fill your barrel 
half full with this fluid and put your eggs down in it any 
time after June and they will keep two years if desired. 

How TO WASH Lace. 

Lace may be washed by winding it around bottles or sew- 
ing it on muslin and boiling it in soft water with white castile 
soap. It should be rinsed in soft water after removing from 
the suds. 

How TO SvvE Stair Carpets. 

Stair carpets should always have a strip of paper put under 

them, at and over the edge of every stair, which is the part 

where they wear first, in order to lessen the friction of the 

carpet against the boaids beneath. The strips should be 



236 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

within an inch or two as long as the carpet is wide and about 
four or five inches in breath. A piece of old carpet answers 
better than paper if you have it. This plan will keep a stair 
carpet in good condition for a much longer time \Liiii with- 
out it. 

Checking Hemorrhage. 

To stop hemorrhage of the lini,u;s, cord the thighs and arms 
above the elbows with small strong cords tightly drawn and 
tied. It will stop the How of blood almost instantly. 

The Cellar. 

To keep the air of a cellar sweet and wholesome, use white- 
wash made of good white lime and water only. The addition 
of glue or size, or anything of this class, is only a damage by 
furnishing organic matter to speedily putrify. The use of lime 
in whitewash is not simply to give a white color, bai it greatly 
promotes the complete oxidation of effluvia in the cellar air. 

To Clean Kid Gloves. 

Eub the gloves with very slightly dampened crumbs of 
bread. Or scrape French chalk upon them while on the 
hands, and wash them in a basin containing diluted spirits of 
ammonia. 

Air in the Sleeping Room. 

Most people, even many intelligent reformers, have the 
idea that to sleep in a cold room is essential to health. But 
this is a great mistake; it is better to have an open fire in 
your bedroom. The atmosphere is not only by this means 
constantly changed, but you will keep the window open, 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 237 

whicli will add greatly to the needed veDtilation. But more 
than this, with the 5re you will have fewer bed clothes over 
you, which is a gain, as a large number of blankets not only 
interferes somewhat with the circulation and respiration, but 
prevents the escape of those gases which the skin is constantly 
emitting. Even furnace or stove heat, with au open window, 
is better than a close, cold room. 

Rust Stains on Nickel Plating. 

Rust stains on nickel plating may be removed by thor- 
oughly greasing, and after several days, rubbing with a clotJar 
moistened with the water of ammonia. Any visible spots 
may then be moistened with dilute hydrochloric acid, and 
immediately rubbed dry. Washing and the use of some 
polishing completes the process. 

An Excellent Mouth Wash. 

Salol is recommended as an excellent antiseptic wash for 
the mouth, and is to be preferred to the solution of salicylic 
acid, as it does not effect the teeth. As it is insoluble in 
water, it is separated from its alcoholic solution by the latter 
in form of minute droplets which adhere to the teeth and 
gums, and exert there a protracted antiseptic effect. It 
should be dissolved in alcohol, and enough of the solution 
adder to water to make the mixture contain three per cent, of 
saloj. 

To Clean Carpets. 

Take a puil of cold water and add to it a gill of ox gall. 
Rub it into the carpet with a soft brush. It will raise a lath- 
er which must be washed off with clear cold water; rub dry 



238 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

with a clean cloth; in nailing down a carpet after the floor 
has been washed, be certain that the floor is quite dry, or the 
nails will rust and injure the carpet. A weak solution of 
alum or soda is used for reviving the colors. The crumbs of 
hot wheaten loaf rubbed over a carpet has been found effec- 
tive 

To Prevent Pie Juice From Soaking into the Crust. 

The preventive is this: beat the white of an egg and brush 
the crust with it. If the oven is too hot when bakino place 
a Hmall dish of cold water in it or place a stick of wood in the 
oven which will take up part of the heat. 

How TO Stamp a Cake. 

To stamp flowers, figures, monograms or mottoes on cakes, 
put the first coating on the cake and let it dry, then take the 
pattern to be stamped, lay it on the cake burr side up, and 
with a little sack of pulverized charcoal go all over the pat- 
tern; remove the pattern with the greatest care, then take a 
No, 1 tube, fill it with some of the prepared frosting and 
outline the design, then fill in to suit individual taste and 
talent . 

To Clean the Scalp. 

To clean your hair and scalp, beat up the yolk of an egg, 
rub it all through the hair, wash and rinse in warm soft water, 
dry with a towel as much as possible. Avoid going out be- 
fore the hair is thoroughly dry, as you will be likely to catch 
cold. Ammonia is also very good to cleanse the hair and 
hair brushes; a teaspoonful of liquid ammonia in a pint of 
warm water is the right proportion; add a little soap, wash 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTrtlNG. 23n 

the hair in this and rinse well in clear, warm water. When 
dry, brush ten or fifteen minutes and soften with some harm- 
less oil. 

Another handy hair wash, is to take one ounce of borax, 
half an ounce of camphor; powder these ingredients very 
fine and dissolve them in one quart of soft boiling water; 
when cool, the solution will be ready for use; dampen t)fe 
hair frequently. This wash effectually cleanses, beautifies 
and strengthens the hair. 

To Blind a Window. 

This method renders the glass impervious to sight, though 
not impervious to light. Dissolve five parts of sandaric and 
three parts of mastic in fifty parts of either, and add to the 
solution such an amount of benzine that a portion of the 
liquid, when spread upon the glass, will leave after drying, a 
dull uniform coat, causing the glass to appear as if ground. 
It is advisable that the window be laid in a horizontal posi- 
tion when the solution is applied. Finely, when a sufficient 
coat has been produced, a spray of benzine may be passed 
over it to give it more uniformity. 

Food to be Avoided. 

Very greasy food should be avoided as it is indigestible 
and requires of the stomach that which is almost imposible. 
One should eat slowly, chew thoroughly, and chat pleasantly 
while at the table. Pork should be eaten only by people in 
rugged health and of strong constitution. Nice fresh beef 
and mutton are the most desirable food, if not over done; 
veal is villianous and should not be eaten; most hot bread is 



240 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

indigestible; do not discuss the question whether this or 
that dish will hurt you; that is doing violence. A habit of 
this sort of discussion promotes dyspepsia, even if the food is 
good. 

In-growing Toe Nails 

Cut a notch the shape of a V in the end of the nail, about 
one-quarter the width of the nail distance from the in-grow- 
ing side; cut down as near to the quick as possible, one-third 
the length of the nail. The pressure of the boot or shoe will 
tend to close the opening you have made in the nail and thus 
afford relief. Allow the in-grown portion of the nail to grow 
without cutting it until it gets beyond the fiesh. 

To Take Pitch off of the Hands. 

Mix together pulverized extract of licorice, and the oil of 
anise, to the consistency of a thick cream, rub it on the 
hands or the parts with the pitch on, then wash off with soap 
and warm soft water. 

Kemedy for Cold in the Head. 

Sulpher flour sprinkled on a heated shovel and the fumes 
inhaled while they are fresh, will cure a cold in the head. A 
teaspoonful of sulpher is sufficient, and it does not cause dis- 
agreable sensations. 

Emery Bag for the Invalid. 

A very convenient article for the sick-room is the emery or 
sand. Procure some fine emery sand, or, the common sand 
will answer the purpose; dry it thoroughly in a kettle on the 
stove; make a bag, about 10 inches square of flannel; fill it 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 241 

with the dry sand, sew the openino^ carefully together, and 
cover the bag with cotton or linen. This will prevent the 
sand from sifting out, and will also enable you to heat the 
bag quickly by placing it in the ovnn or even on top of the 
stove. After once using this you will never again attempt to 
warm the hands or feet of a sick person with a heated brick or 
a bottle of hot water. The saud holds its heat a considerable 
length of time, and the bag can be tucked up to the back 
without any inconvenience to the invalid. It is a good plan 
to make two or tbiee of the huf^s and ke3^j thim on hand, 
ready for u^e at any time when needed. 

How TO Make a Telephone. 

A very handy and serviceable telephone can be made with 
two small wooden boxes and enough wire to stretch the re- 
quired distant. In your boxes make a hole an inch in diame- 
ter in the centre then place one box in each of the houses you 
wish to connect. Then get live pounds of wire, (the common 
stove pipe w.ie) jii;;ke a loop in one end and put it through 
the hole in your box and fasten it with a nail, then draw it 
tight to tile other box, s importing it when necessary with a 
stout cord, and you have your telephone complete. 

When Yotj Eat Onions. 

A cup of strong coffee will remove the odor of onions 
from the breath. 

Wax for Grafting and Other Purposes. 

Dissolve in an earthen vessel over a slow fire, six ounces of 
resin, six ounces of opi oli, four oances of beeswax, four 



242 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

ounces of lard, and 3^0 u will have an excellent wax. By 
spreading this mixture pn paper it makes grafting paper. 
For an application where limbs have been removed in prun- 
ing, nothing is better than this wax. 

The Tabie. 

■" Put aside business cares when you come to the table. This 
is a good time to cultivate acquaintance with your family. 
It is not only strictly polite, but a great compliment to the 
entertainer, for a guest to ask for a second help from any 
dish. 

Bed Aieing. 

The most effectual way to air beds and bed clothing is to 
throw the clothes over a chair and lift the mattress partly 
over the foot board in a round, hoop like fashiou, and if 
a feather bed is used, pull it oif upon a chair, then open the 
windows and the doors so that a current of air can pass 
through the room, and let it remain so for two or three hours, 
or even longer. Beds thus aired are always healthful, and 
will induce sound sleep to their occupants. 

Remedy for Headache. 

Pains in the head arise from such a variety of causes that 
no remedy will answer in every case. But the following is 
said to be an excellent preparation, and from the simple 
nature of the ingrediants we think it worth trying. Put a 
handful of salt into a quart of water, and one ounce of spir- 
its of hartshorn, and one ounce of spirits of camphor; put 
them quickly into a bottle and cork tightly to prevent the 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 243 

escape of the spirits; soak a piece of cloth with the mixture 
and apply it to the he<id. 

To Preserve Potatoes from Kot, 

Dust over the floor of the bin with lime, and put in about 
six or seven inches of potatoes, and dust with lime as before, 
then more potatoes, using about one bushel of lime to four 
bushels of potatoes. The lime improves the flavor of the 
potato, and effectually kills the fungi which causes the rot. 

To Banish Flies From The Barn. 

Scatter chlorida lime on a board in the stable, to remove 
all kinds of flies, but more especially biting flies. Sprinkling 
beds of vegetables, with even a weak solution, effectually 
preserves them from caterpillars, slugs, ect. A paste of one 
part powered chloride of lime and one-half part of some 
fatty matter placed in a narrow band round the trunk of the 
tree, prevents insects from creeping up it. Even rats, mice, 
cockroaches and crickets flee from it. 

To PORIFY TH3 AlR OF THE SiCK RoOM. 

Oils of lavender, thyme and rosemary, in the proportions 
of two and one-half, two and one-half and ten parts respec- 
tively, are mixed with water anl nitric acid ' n the proportion 
of thirty to one. The bottle should be shaken before using, 
and a sponge saturated in the compound and left to diffuse 
by evaporation. This compound is said to possess extraor- 
dinary properties in controlling odors and effluvia. 

"Mrs. OR Miss". 
A lady shotdd always sign her name Mrs. or Miss, as the 



244 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

case may be, in writing business letters or to persons who 
are not acquainted with her . If all ladies would do this, 
much embarassment might be saved, both to themselves and 
their correspondents. 

Stamm] rixg. 

Impediments of the speech may be cured where there is no 
malformation of the organs of articulation, by perseverance 
for three or four months, in the simple remedy of reading 
aloud, with the teeth closed, for at least two hours each day. 

To Prevent CHu^^^'s Ovekflowing. 

Take the body of the churn and cut a grove around the 
inside of the mouth, about three inches from the top and 
three-eights inch deep, and then remove half the thickness 
of the wood, making a shoulder all around, then take the 
cover and fit nicely inside, and you have now done away 
with cloths, pans, etc., heretofore required to save the cream 
from flowing over. 

To Kill Docks, Dandelions, etc 

Cut the tops off in the spring or summer time, and pour 
some gas tar, or sprinkle salt on the wound. Either of these 
will kill the root by eating to the very extremity. 

To Destoy Insects on Plants, 

Boil five drachma of laik'=jp'ir s'^d ?>^id four ounces of 
quassia chips in seven pints of water until the decoction is 
reduced to five pints. When the liquid is cooled it is to be 
strained and used with u wulet a.,^ pot or a syringe, as may be 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTrtlNG. 245 

most convenient. This is a most excelleut method of de- 
stroying insects on plants without injury to the hitter. 

Manufactured Ciika-. 

Take two or ^bv^e whoh^ eggs, beat them well up in a 
basin or bowl, then pour boiling hot tea over them, pour 
gradually to prevent curdling. It is difficult for the taste to 
distiiiguish it trom rich cream. 

Insect Desteoyep. 

Hot alum water is the best insect desti^oyer known. Put the 
alum into hot water and let it boil until all the alum is dis- 
solved, then apply it hot with a brush to all cracks, closets, 
bedsteads and other places where any insects are found; ants, 
bedbugs, cochroaches and creeping things are killed by it, 
while it has no danger of poisoDiiig the family or injuring 
property. 

How TO Open a Fruit Jar, 

It is not always easy to start a fruit jar cover. Instead of 
wrenching your hands and bringing uu blisters, simply iii- 
vert the jar and place the top in hot water for a minute. 
Then try it, and you will find it turns quite easily. 

Parched Eice. 

Parch rice a nice brown as you would coffee. Throw it in?- 
to boiling salted water, and boil it until thoroughly done. 
Do not stir it any more than necessary, on account of break- 
ing the grains. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Shaving Cieam. 

One ounce each of white wax, spermaceti and almond oil; 



246 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

melt, and while warm, beat in two squares of Winsor soap 
previously reduced to u paste with rose water. 

Liquid Blacking, 

Ivory black, one half-pound; molasses, one-half pound; 
sweet oil, one-quarter pound; rub together till well mixed 
then add oil of vitriol, one- quarter pound; coarse sugar one- 
eighth pound, and dilute with beer bottoms. This cannot 
be excelled. 

When You Swim. 

No one can possibly sink if the head is thrust entirely un- 
der water. In this position a novice can swim as easily as 
walk, and get to shore readily by lifting the head at inter- 
vals for breath. 

Noisy Beds. 

If a bedstead creaks at each movement of the sleepers, re- 
move the slats and wrap the end of each in old newspaper. 
This will prove a complete silence . 

Cara.mels. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, one-half cake of 
chocolate, one tablespoon of butter, one-half cup of cream. 
Flavor with vanilla and boil twenty five minutes, stirring all 
the time. Pour into buttered pans and cut into squares. 

Always Kemove 

The contents of tin cans the moment they are opened. It 
is positively dangerous to leave contents in the can after 
opening. The action of the air upon the soldering form an 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. ?47 

oxide which renders the food unfit for use. Cases of poison- 
ing from this cause happen from time to time. 

To Remove Mildew. 

Soak the parts in butter-milk and expose to the sun^s 
rays. Or soak the parts previously wetted, and apply salt 
and lemon juice to both sides, or apply finely powdered pipe 
clay, or pulverized chalk. Expose it for several hours to the 
atmosphere. 

To Prevent Chapped Hands. 

Chapping of the hands, which is one of the most disagree- 
able inconveniences of cold weather, can be easily prevented 
by rubbing the hands with powdered starch. 

Fastening Knife Handles. 

To fasten knife handles, melt rosen, add brick dust, and 
mix well together. This is a very good cement for this and 
other purposes. Shellac and prepared chalk, intimately 
mixed, answers well. Heat the part to be inserted, and fill 
the aparture with the mixture; press it in. 

Parrot Food. 

The best food for a young parrot is soaked bread or crack- 
ers, squeezed dry with the hand; cornmeal is also an excellent 
article for 3 oung birds. Keep seed and water in the cage, 
and cover the bird at night. 

Some Uses of Salt. 

To keep stove polish from flying and make it last, put in a 
little molasses and salt. 



248 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

Salt extracts the juices from meat in cooking, steaks ought 
not therefore to be salted until they have been bro.led. 

It has been declared that the excessive use of salt is one of 
the main factors in i lie destruction of human body. 

To clean brass or copper ware, use a tablespoonful of salt 
and a teacupful of vinegar; apply it with a piece of flannel 
and rub till dry. 

Salts and soaps mixed together makes a good blind for the 
pastry or iD.uitiy window. 

If 3'ou drop soot on the cimet, cover it with salt, and it 
may be swept up without blacking the carpet. 

To remove tea stains from the cups, and saucers, scour 
with salt. 

Colored stockings washe 1 in strong sa^ water and dried, 
and then washed again in another solution, finishing in clear 
water, will prevent the dye rubbing off on the feet. 

By using soda watei- and salt as a wash you can clean ceil- 
ings that have been smok<^d by a kerosene 1 imp. 

A crack in the stove can be mended by a mixture of ashes, 
salt and water. 

To brighten carpets, spiiukle with salt before sweeping. 

Glossy Starch, 

Make a mixture of one pint of boiling water and two ounces 
of white gum arabic powder; cover it and let stand over night; 
in the morning pour it carefully from the dregs into a clean 
bottle, keep it for use; a teaspoonful of the gum water stirred 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 249 

into a pint of sturch that has been made in the usual manner 
will give lawns, either black or printed, a look of newness 
when nothing else can restore them after washing. It is also 
good, miuh diluted, for the white muslin and bobinet. 

Molasses Candy. 

West Tn<lia molasses one quart, brown sugar one-half 
pound; boil the molasses and sugar in a preserving kettle 
over a slow fire, when done enough it will cease boiling; stir 
frequently, and when nearly done, stir in the juice of a lemon 
or a teaspoouful of essence of lemon; afterwards butter a pan 
and pour out to cool. 

Cure for Warts and Corns. 

This cure will be effected in ten minutes. Take a small 
piece of potash and let it stand in the open air until it slacks, 
then thicken it to a paste with pulverized gum arabic, which 
prevents it iroui spreading where it is not wanted. 

Hair Invigorator. 

Alcohol, ono-half pi'i', castor oil on'^-half oun-^p, car- 
bonate of amonia, oae-quartn* ounce, biy rum, one pint,tinct- 
ure of cantharides, one-ha f ounce. Mix them well. This 
compound will promote the growth of the hair, and prevent it 
from falling out. 

Grapes to do their best 

And rot the least, re^ lire hiofh, dry ground. Grapes 
growing where ihe vine is sheltered from excessive rains and 
hot sun are induced to rot but little. We believe a trellis 
made with a wide board cover at the top would in a measure 



250 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

prevent rot and mildew. On higli gi*avelly soil we have had 
no trouble with either. 

Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes are a slow growing plant, and if desired reason- 
ably early in the summer, the seed should be sowed early in 
the spring in boxes in the window garden. 

A Feather Brush. 

To make feather brushes to use in greasing pans or brush- 
ing eggs over tarts or pastry, boil the wing feathers of a 
turkey or chicken for about ten minutes, then rinse them in 
tepid water, and tie up in bunches. 

The Luster of Morocco 

Is restored by varnishing it with the white of an egg ap- 
plied with a sponge. 

Remedy for a CourH. 

Roast a lemon very carefully without burning it; when it is 
thoroughly hot, cut and sqeeze into a cup upon three ounces 
of pulverized sugar. Take a teaspoonful whenever your 
cough troubles you. 

Delicate Glue. 

A delicate glue for mounting ferns, leaves, sea weeds, etc., 
is made of five parts f^um-arabic, three pirts white sugar, 
two parts starch, and a very little water. Boil until thick and 
white. 

To Prevent Wet 

From penetrating boots, take half a pound of tallow or 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. -251 

mutton suet, four ounces of lard and two ounces of new bees- 
wax and olive oil; dissolve over tiid fire, mix well and ap- 
ply it to the leather, 

HOMK ]\[aI)E (JoLOCiNE. 

One-eighth ounce each of oil of lavender and bergamot, 
one-quarter ounce each of oil of letn )ii and rosemary, fifteen 
drops each of oil of cloves and rose, eight drops oil of cinna- 
mon, two quarts best deodorized alcohol; saake two or three 
times per any lor a week uv ten days. 

In Whitewashing. 

The interior of a poultry house do not leave a spot even as 
large as th^ head o' a pm untouched anywhere; splash the 
whitewash liberally into every nook and corner, crack and 
crevice. If the hennery has a fioor of cement, stone, brick 
or boards, wiiito./a.su t i lu .tlwuc. 

To Remove Ink Stains. 
Soak in sour milk over night. 

To Prevent Vermin in Cellars. 
Mix copperas with whitewash and apply freely. 
To Preserve Milk. 

Wrap well in a wet cloth the tin or jar in which the milk 
is kept. 

Where the Making of New Lawns 

Is contemplated, all available manure should be spread 
over the surface as soon as possible; the winter rains and 



S52 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

snows will carry the soluble parts into the soil and prepare 
them for immediate assimilation by the young grass roots. 

A Very Good Cement. 

This cement is to fasten on lamp tops and consists of noth- 
ing more than melted alum. Use as soon as melted and the 
lamp is ready for use as soon as the cement is cold. 

To Take out Scorch. 

Scorch caused by using a too hot iron may be taken out 
by laying the garment where the 1 right sunshine will fall 
directly on it; it will take scorch entirely out. 

To Remove Grease from Wall Paper. 

Lay several folds of blotting paper over it and place a hot 
iron over it until the grease is absorbed. 

Relief for Rheumatism. 

Cloths dipped into hot potato water are recommended for 
immediate and complete relief in the severest cases of rheu- 
matism. 

Cold Tea 

And tea leaves laid about the roots jof potted plants fer- 
tilizes and keeps the soil light. 

To Purify Water. 

Pulverized alum possesses the property of purifying water; 
a large spoonful stirred into a hogshead of water will so puri- 
fy it that in a few hours the dirt will sink to the bottom, and 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 253 

it will be fresh and clear as spring water. Four gallons may 
be purified by a teaspoonful. 

Butter Scotch Candy. 

Take one pound of sugar and one pint of water, dissolve 
and boil; when done add one tablespoonful of butter and 
enough lemon juice and the oil of lemon to flavor. 

To Remove Scratchhb on Furniture. 

Melt together beeswax and linseed oil and rub the marred 
places with it, using a woolen cloth or chamois skin. 

Lotion for Cherries, 

To have a fine crop of cherries and no worms, simply spray 
them with purple water right after the blossoms are dropped, 
and then two or three times afterwards. Use a teaspoonful 
of the purple water to a large pail of well water. 

Foot Lotion. 

If the feet are painful after long walking or standing,great 
relief can be had by bathing them in a lotion of salt and water, 
A handful of salt to a gallon of water is the right proportion. 
Have the water as hot as will be comfortable and immerse 
the feet and throw the water over the legs as far as the kneea 
with the hands. When the water becomes too cool, rub 
briskly with a fresh towel. This method, if used night and 
morning, will cure neuralgia of the feet. 

To Tell the age of Eogs. 

Dissolve two ounces salt in a pint of water. When a 
fresh laid egg is placed in this solution it will descend to the 



254 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

bottom of the vessel, while one that has been laid the day 
previous will not quite reach the b jttom. If the egg be three 
days old it will -wim in the liquid, and if it is more than 
three daj's old it will float on the surface, and project above 
the water more and m )r3 in proportion as it is older. 

To Clean Paint. 

Use but little water at once, keep it warm and clean by 
changing it often. A llaunel cloth takes the h} specks off 
better than a cotton one. Soap will remove the paint, so 
use but little of it. Cold tea is the best liquid for cleaning 
varnished paint, window panes and mirrors. A saucer of 
sifted ashes shoal 1 always be standing at hand to clean un- 
varnished paint that has become badly smoked, it is better 
than soap. Never put soap upon glass unless it can be thor- 
ougly rinsed off, which can never be done to window glass. 
Wash off the specks with cold tea, and rub the panes dry, 
then make a paste of whiting and water, and put a little in the 
center of each pane. Take a dry cloth and rub it all over the 
glass then rub it off with a chamois skin or flannel, and your 
glass will shine like crystal. 

The Preperation or Night Soil. 

So prepare night soil for use as a fertilizer, mix it with 
about four times its bulk of dry loam oi road dust; keep under 
cover and mix thoroughly. When used harrow under lightly. 

To Cure Enlarged Neck. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of salt, two of borax and two of 
alum, dissolve in a small quantity of water and apply three 
times a day for three weeks. For cough, take suet, boiled in 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 255 

milk. For burns, take atari apple and simmer in lard till it 
forms a salve. It heals quick, and always without a scar. 
Another remedy: liveforever and sweet clover leaves, cam- 
mile and sweet elder, the inner bark, a, handful of each; 
simmer them in fresh butter and mutton tallow, one-quarter 
of a pound of each; when crisped, strain out and add a suffi- 
cient quantity of beeswax to form a salve, spread very thin 
on a thin cloth. 

To Prevent Stoves From Rusting. 

By applying kerosene with a rag when you are about to 
put your stoves away for the summer, 3'ou will prevent them 
from rusting. Treat your farming implements in the same 
way before you lay them aside in the fall. 

To Preserve Milk. No. 2. 

Milk often turns by an acid developed in the liquid. To 
prevent it, add to the milk a small portion of bicarbonate of 
soda. This is not injurious to the health, but rather aids 
digestion. Many of the great dairies on the continent adopts 
this method. 

How TO Ventilate a Room. 

In ventilating a room open the windows at the top and the 
bottom. The fresh air rushes in one way while the foul air 
makes it exit the other; thus you let in a friend and expel an 
enemy. Well ventilated bed-rooms will prevent morning 
headaches and lassitude. 

To Remove Grease from Glass. 
A teaspoonful of hartshorn in the hot sude of the dish pan 



256 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

will remove grease instantly and gives a fine polish to silver 
and glass ware. 

To Test Nutmegs. 

If nutmegs are good when pricked with a pin, oil will in- 
stantly ooze out. 

To Remove Mortar or Paint from Windows. 

Mortar and paint may be removed from window glass with 
hot, sharp vinegar. 

Pen- WIPER. 

A good pen-wiper for steel pens is a raw potato; it re- 
moves the ink crust and causes a smooth flow of ink. 

To Banish Flees. 

The oil of pennyroyal has been found to be the best de- 
stroyer of fleep. If the oil cannot be obtained and the weed 
flourish, dip dogs and cats into a decoction of it once a week, 
scatter in the beds of pigs once a month. Strings saturated 
with the oil and tied around the neck and tail of horses, will 
drive off lice; the strings should be saturated once a day. 

Head Wash. 

When one has had a fever, and the hair is falling off, take 
a teaspoonful of sage steeped well in a quart of soft water, 
strain off into a bottle with an ounce of borax added. 

An Attack of Indigestion. 

Caused by eating nutB, will be immediately relieved and 
Cured by the sim{)le remedy, salt Medical men recommend 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 257 

that salt bhoald be used with nuts, especially when eaten at 
night. 

Hjw TO Keep Cidfr, 

To keep cider perfect, take a keg, in the bottom of it bore 
some holes; spread a woolen clo'li at the bottom, ^hea fill 
with sand closely packed; draw your cider from the barrel 
just as fast as it will run through the sand; after this put it 
in clean barrels which have had a jDiece of cotton or linen 
cloth two by seven niches dipped iii melted sulphur and 
burned inside of them, thereby absorbing the sulphur fumes 
(this process will also sweeten sour cider), then keep in a 
cellar or room where there is no fire, and add one-half pound 
of white SLiiiar to each barrel. * 



't5' 



Removing Feuit Stains from LiNEy. 

To remove them, rub the part on each side with fellow soap 
thea tie up a piece of pearl ish in the cloth, etc. , and soak 
well in hot water, or boil; afterward expose the parts that are 
stained to the sun's rays and air until no trace of the stains 
can be seen. 

The use of CHmcoAL. 

Charcoal is recommended as an absorber of gases in the 
milk-room where foul gases are present. It should be freshly 
powdered and kept there continuxlly, especially in hot 
weather when the unwholesome odors are most liable to infect 
the milk. Another use of charcoal is for, burns. This was 
successfully used in a very bad case; bound all over the face 
and neck, in five minutes from the application, the patient 



1258 AKYTHIKG AIS^D EVERYTHING. 

was asleep, the paiti king soothed and quieted, and not s 
particle of a scar left. Take th(=! charcoal inst ns it comes 
from the fire, powder it and apply to the burned place. 

To Extinguish a. Burning Chimney. 

If it is desired to extinguish the fire in a chimney which 
has been lighted by a fire in the fire-place, shut all the doors 
of the apartments, so as fo prevent any current of air up the 
chimney, then throw a few handsful of common fine salt upon 
the fire in the grate or stove, which will immediately extin- 
guish the fire in the chimney. The philosophy of this is that 
in the process of burning sjilt, muriatic acid gas is evolved, 
which is a prompt extinguisher of fire. 

Rubber Glue. 

Make a mixiure of soft soap, glycerine and salicylic acid 
each four ounces, then add one pint of water. Shake thor- 
ougly and add to it a mixture of mucilage made with gum 
arable and water, let it Htand over night and it is ready for 
use. Keep it in an air tight bottle or it will evaporate. 

To Remove Grease Spots from Carpet. 

Remove the grease spots by placing a piece of blotting 
paper under the stain and one immediately above it, then 
pass a hot iron over the paper and in this way extract the 
grease without injury to the carpet. 

How TO Use Gas L^me. 

Do not spread gas lime directly on your land. It is de- 
structive to plant life, unless modified by atmosphere influ- 
ences. It should first be worked into compost with old turf, 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 259 

wool moll, m irl or muck. A mass of green vegetable matter 
such as weeds, may be used with it as a compost, and it 
should no^ be sj)read until the white heap has been reduced 
to a fine condition. 

Relief for Neuralgia, 

This receipt has been used by myself for a number of times 
and has always been found to give immediate relief. Boil a 
teaspoonful of lobelia in a pint of water, till the strength is 
out of the herb, then strain oil' and add a teaspoonful of fine 
salt. Wring cloths out of tlie liquid as hot as possible, and 
spread them over the part effected. Change the cloths as 
soon as cold, till tlie pain is all gone, then cover the place 
with soft dry covering till persj^iration is over, so as to pre- 
vent taking cold. Another remedy, when the pain is in the 
face, take two large teaspoonfuls of cologne and two tea- 
spoonfuls of table salt, hjik tKe.j) together in a small bottle; 
every time an acute pain is felt, simply breath the fumes into 
your nose from tiie bottle. aud relief will be had. When the 
pain is in the temples, prepare horseradish by grating and 
mixing with vinegar, the same as for r,ije table, and apply to 
the temple, or apply to the wrist when the pain is in the arm 
or shoulder. 

To Prevent Sore Throat. 

It is said a gargle of strong black tea used cold, night and 
morning, is a preventative for sore throat. 

Use of Borax. 
A teaspoonful of borax put in the last water in which cloths 



260 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

are rinsed will whiten them surprisingly. Pound the borax 
so it will disolve quickly. This is especially good to remove 
the yellow that \uue gives to white garments that have been 
laid aside for a number of years. 

Soft Soap. 

Make a mixture of stone lime, two pounds; sal-soda and 
lard, each four pounds; soft water, three gallons. Dissolve 
the lime and soda in the water by boiling, stirring, settling 
and pouring off, then return to the brass kettle and add the 
lard and boil until it becomes soa?"), then pour it into a dish 
or moulds, and when cold, cut it into bars and let it dry. 

Cultivation of Tkees, Grapes, Onions, Etc. 

Success cannot be expected in soil that holds much water 
in it. Grapes begin to change their color from two to three 
weeks before they are fully matured. It is now conceded to 
be the best plan in the cultivation of onions to dig the soil 
away from the bulb and never allow it to become covered 
with the soil. Trees in a cultivated field are troublesome,but 
when they are numerous they add enough to the beauty of 
the landscape to compensate. Sweet alyssum can be easily 
propogated by cutting. In the old wheat fields, where the 
late weeds have started up, turn in the sheep. They are not 
dainty in the choice of food, and weeds that are pushed for- 
ward by the late rains might as well be converted into mutton 
as to remain and make the field foul. 

Whale Bones, Etc. 

Bent whf le bones can be restored an^ used again by simply 
soaking in water a few hours, and then drying them in the 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 261 

shade. To restore crushed velvet, hold it over the tea kettle 
spout, and let it steam well, then with a soft brush comb up 
the nap. Kid shoes may be kept soft and free from cracks 
by rulbing them once a week with a little pure glycerine of 
castor oil A piece of zinc placed on the coals of a hot stove 
will clean out the stove pipe. The vapor produced carries 
off the soot by chemical decomposition. Brooms dipped for 
five or ten minutes into a bucket of boiling soap suds, at 
least once a week will last much longer than they otherwise 
would. 

To Clean Silverware. 

One teaspoonful of amonia to a teacup of water applied 
with a rag will clean silverware or j^oldware perfectly. To 
avoid a general cleaning of silver or goLlware, wash with a 
chamois skin saturated with silver soap, each time after 
use. 

To Destroy Moss. 

The mossy parts of meadow land should be well manured 
with good well rotted stable dung in the autumn, and if prac- 
ticable the grass should be fed off the following spring with 
sheep or cattle. Nitrate of soda sown on the mossy parts of 
the field will also kill the moss, and is an excellent manure 
for the grass, but this should not be sown at the rate of 
more than one and one-half hundred weight to the acre. 

To Remove Anything from the Eye. 

Take a bristle, double it so as to form a loop. Lift the eye- 
lid gently and insert the loop over the e^^eball, which will 



262 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

cause no disagreo:il)le feeling or pain. Now close the lid 
dr>wn upon the bristle, which ma}^ now be withdrawn. The 
dirt will surely be upon the bristle. Or insert a flaxseed 
into the eye and close and shut the eye several times. Then 
take a glass of clear cold water and wink the eye in this and 
the flax seed will come out and almost certain to have the 
particle sticking to it. 

E.EMEDY FOR A FeLON. 

Common salt roasted on a hot stove to throw off the chlo- 
ride gas, or get the salt as hot as possible. To a teaspoonful 
of the salt and the same quantity of pulverized castile soap, 
add same quantity of turpentine; mix well into a poultice and 
apply to the felon. Make as many poultices as you have 
felons and renew them twice a day; in four or five days your 
felon will present a hole down to the bone, where the pent 
tip matter was secreted. Of course it will not restore the 
bone, but it will soon heal 

WuEN Boiling Any 

Kind of meat, cabbage, onions, etc., put in a piece of red 
pepper about the size of a five cent piece, to destroy the un- 
pleasant odor. 

When Putting Down 

A new carpet be sure to save the ravelings; they will furnish 
just the darning thread you will need when the carpet "be- 
gins to go."" 

To Can Fruits. 

In canning most fruits a good rule is a pound of sugar and 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 263 

a cup of water for every three pound?? of fruit. MaKe the 
syrup and conk the fruit in it until tender and well heated 
through; use a porcelain or granite kettle, and a silver or 
wooden spoon. 

To Sweeten Musty Casks. 

Throw in burning coals and then cold water; or, wash the 
casks with lime and water niixed nearly to the consistency of 
paste; remain till dry and then wash wtll with water. 

Fig Candy. 

Take one pound of sugar and one pint of water, set over a 
slow fire; when done add a few drops of vinegar and a small 
lump of butter, and pour into pans in which split figs are 
laid. 

The Smell of Paint. / 

Water neutralizes the smell of paint; vessels of water placed 
in a newly painted room will remove the smell, especially if 
inpregnated with a little sulphuric acid; or straw and bay 
well saturated with water; or chloride of lime and water. 

To Prevent Mustard Plasters from Blistering. 
Mix the mustard with molasses or the white of an egg. 
For Sprains and Swellings. 

Strong vinegar saturated with common salt, used warm, is 
good for sprains and reducing swellings. 

Window Supporters. 
This is performed by means of a cork in the simplest 



2fi4 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

manner, and with scarcely any expense; bore three or four 
holes in the sides of the sash, into which insert common 
bottle cork, projecting about sixteenth part of an inch. These 
will press against the window frames along the usual groove, 
and by their elastictily support the sash at any height which 
may be required. 

Fly Paper. 

Coat paper with turpentine varnish and oil it to keep the 
varnish from drying. 

To Prevent Incrustation of Kettles. 

Keep in the vessel a clean marble, a cockle or an oyster 
shell; these will attract the particles of sand. 

CiDAR Without Apples. 

Two pounds common sugar, two gallons water, two table- 
spoonfuls yeast, one ounce tartaric acid; shake well; make in 
the evening and in the morning it will be ready for use. 

Vinegar and Fruit 

Stains upon knives can be taken off by rubbing the blades 
with raw potato and then polishing on the knife board in the 
usual manner. 

Night Drink. 

A hot, strong lemonade, taken at bedtime, will break up 
a bad cold. 

To Keep Rare Ripe Tomatoes. 
If they are picked when just ripe and with a portion of the 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 265 

stems retained, and at once covered with a brine composed of 
a teacupful of salt dissolved in a gallon of water, they can be 
kept nearly all the year without noticeable loss of their fresh- 
ness. 

Never Allow 

Fresh meat to remain in paper, it absorbs the juice. 
Fish Scales. 

Fish may be scaled much easier by first dipping in hot 
water. 

To Find the Fir^ Test of Coal Oil. 

Pour an ounce of the oil into a small tin cup; put it on a 
stove or over a lamp, place the bulb of a thermometer in the 
oil; as the temperature rises try to ignite the oii with a light- 
ed taper or matoh; if it will ignite below 110 degrees Fahren- 
heit, the oil is dangerous to use; the higher the point at which 
it will ignice, the safer the oil. 

Popped Corn 

Dipped in boiling molasses and stuck together, forms an ex- 
cellent candy. 

Lemonade. 

One- half pound white sugar, fifteen drops essence of 
lemon, three pints water, one-eigth of an ounce of tartaric 
acid. 

To Prevent Screws from Rusting. 

A mixture of oil and graphite will actually prevent screws 
becoming fixed, and moreover, protect them for years against 



266 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

rust. The mixture facilitates tightening up, is an excellent 
lubricant and reduces the friction of the screw in its socket. 

Cement for Meerschaum. 

This cement can be made of quicklime mixed to a thick 
paste with the white of an egg; this is also good to unite glass 
or china. 

Carbonate of Ammonia. 

An ounce of carbonate of ammonate to a pint of water is 
said to check mamary abscess if frequently applied. 

Never Place Fresh Eggs 

Near lard, fruit, cheese, fish or other articles from whic'\ any 
odor arises. Eggs are extremely active in absorbing power, 
and in a very short time they are contaminated. 

How TO Pickle Oranges. 

This method is to place in a barrel of brine, lemons, 
oranges and limes that are liable to spoil; a flavor is imparted 
which is very pleasant. 

Black Transfer Paper. 

Five ounces hog's lard, sufficient quantity lamp black, one 
ounce bees-wax, one-tenth ounce Canada balsam; melt to- 
gether and mix thoroughly. Appjy with a sponge. 

Ink to Write on Glass. 

An ink that will write on <>lass can be made from ammo 
nium fluoride dissolved in water and mixed with three times 
its weight of barium of sulphate. 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING, 267 

To Clean Alpaca. 

To brighten and clean old Alpaca, wash in coffee. 

To Sweeten Sour Milk. 

Put in the milk a small quantity of carbonate magnesia. 
This will also prevent sweet milk from souring. 

Lotion for Stiff Neck and Bruises. 

A strong infusion of capsicum annum, mixed with equal 
bulk of mucilage of acacia and with a few drops of glycerine, 
has been found to be an excellent application to bruises and 
stiff neck. Two or three successive coatings applied with a 
camel's hair brush, if done immediately after the receipt of an 
injury, will prevent discoloration. 

Ginger Pop. 

One quarter pound bruised ginger root, the juice of three 
lemons, one-half pound lemon sugar, the whites of three 
eggs well beaten, one gill yeast, one and one-half pounds 
sugar, five gallons water. Boil the root for thirty minutes in 
one gallon of water; staain off and put in the other ingredi- 
ents while hot; make over night and in the morning skim and 
bottle. 

Kindling Wood. 

The following composition is in great ^"'emanr'. Six parts 
melted resin, four parts tar, in which the wood is dipped for 
a moment. Or take a quart of tar a^d three pounds of resin 
melt them, then cool, mix as much sawdust with a little char- 
coal added as can be worked in . Spread out on a board and 



268 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

when cold, break it into lumps the size of a hirkorv nut, and 
you will have enough kindling to last you a good while. 

How TO Corn Beef. 

For one-hundred pounds of beef take seven pounds of salt, 
two pounds of sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of 
soda; dissolve in two and a half gallons of water; boil, skim 
and pour on hot. 

Household Measuhe. 

One pound of sugar is a pinf; ten eggs are a pound; one 
pound of butter is a pint; eighteen ounces of meal is a quart; 
one pound of tiour is a quart. 

Sit in a Draught, 

Or by an open window when peeling onions, and thus avoid 
the unpleasantness to the eyes. 

To Mix Mustard. 

Flour and mustard equal quantities, season with salt and 
pepper and sufiQcient vinegar to mix. 

To Distinguish Body Brussels Carpet, 

Body orussels is easily distinguished from carpets known 
as tapestry brussels, by showing the wool threads on the 
back. So generally has this become known that a style of 
carpet with a slightly clouded or stamp back has recently 
been put upon the market. It is intended to appear like 
body brussels, but could not for a moment deceive the eye of 
an expert. Tapestry brussels is printed like calico or cambric, 
fast colors are laid on with a brush and set by heated cylin- 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 269 

ders over which the carpet passes. The weave of tapestry 
carpets is much less durable than that of body brussels, as 
the wool surface threads simply pass under a thread of th^ 
warp that holds them. 

To Drive Away Ants. 

To drive away ants, scrab the shelves or drawers that they 
frequent with strong carbolic soap, after which sprinkle red 
pepper in every crack and crevice. 

How To Preserve Orange Peel. 

Weigh the orange whole, and allow pound for a pound. 
Peal the oranges neatly and cut the rind into shreds. Boil 
until tender, changing the water twice, and replenishing with 
hot from the kettle. Squeeze the strained juice of the 
oranges over the sugar, let this heat to a boil, pour in the 
shreds and boil twenty minutes. Lemon peel can be pre- 
served in the same way, allowing more sugar. 

House Painting. 

Done during the autumn or early winter is much more dur- 
able than that done in the early summer or spring. The 
painter too, is not then annoyed by ihe tiny flies which are 
always attracted by fresh paint if applied while they are 
around. 

How To Cool a Cellar. 

The windows should be open at night. The cool air enters 
the apartment during the night, and circulates through it 
The windows should be closed before sunrise in thQ morning, 



270 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

and kept closed and shaded through the day. If the air of 
the cellar is damp, it may be thoroughly dried by placing in 
it a peck of fresh lime in an open box. A peck of lime will 
absorb about seven pounds or more than three quarts of 
water, and in this way a cellar or milk room may be dried. 

Furniture Polish. 

Melt over a slow fire four ounces of white wax, when cool, 
add six ounces of turpentine, stir until cool when it is ready 
for use. Apply with a cork or piece of chamois. 

To Prevent Milk trom Scorching. 

Put a small piece of butter in the pan or dish in which 
milk js to be cooked, and it will not bcorch. 

To Dry Rubber Boots. 

If you fill rubber boots half full of oats when they are taken 
off at night they will be nice and dry inside in the morning. 

Ox Morrow Pomade. 

Melt together one ounce of white wax, four ounces of ox 
tallow, six ounces of fresh lard, when cold add one and one- 
half ounce of oil of bergamot. 

The New York Sun Cholera Mixture. 

Take equal parts of tincture of opium, tincture of rhubarb, 
essence of pepermint, and spirits of camphor, mix well. Dose, 
fifteen to thirty drops in a wine glass of water, according to 
age and the violence of the attack. Repeat every fifteen or 
twenty minuter until relief is obtained. A cheap and effec- 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 271 

tive remedy and should be kept handy at all time. Use also 
for diarrhoea or dysentery. 

To Preserve Celery. 

Celery may be kept indefinitely by wrapping around it a 
heavy towel wrung out of cold water. When the towel gets 
dry renew the water. 

How TO Cure a Ham. 

If this mixture is followed, the hams are sure to keep and 
will be noted for their exeelient flavor. For one hundred 
pounds of meat take four pounds of fine salt, four ounces of 
saltpetre and one pound of brown suo-ar. Rub the hams with 
the mixture every other day, until all is absorbed. No more 
salt is required. 

Sovereign Pop. 

One and one-half ounces of ginger, five pounds of white 
sugar, five gallons of water, one pint of yeast, one drachm af 
the essence of lemon, one pound of cream tartar; bottle and 
tie the corks down. 

How TO Keep Eggs all Winter. 

Wrap eggs in paper, twisting the ends hard; put them in a 
box in a good cellar and they will keep all winter. 

How TO Make Vinegar. 

Two gallons molasses, two quarts yeast, five pounds acetic, 
put them into a fifty gallon cask, and fill up with soft water; 
stir it up, and let it stand two or three weeks, letting it have 
all the air possible, and you will have a good vinegar, The 



272 ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 

more molosses added the stronger the vinegar will be. Make 
in a strong place. 

How TO Make Beer. 

Two quarts corn, one gallon molasses, ten gallons wa^er; 
put all into a keg, shake well and in a few days a nice fer- 
mentation will have been brourhfc on; keep it bunged tight. 
It may be flavored with the oil of spruce oi lemon , if desired, 
by pouring on the oils one or two quarts of the water boiling 
hot. The corn will last several makings . 

Treatment of Plants. 

With plants received by mail, some care and precaution 
have to be taken oc arrival. If plants are in the least wilted 
on arrival, put them in lake warm water in a shallow pan for 
about an hour, leaving the paper undisturbed. This will 
soon restore their vitality. After potting them, keep in the 
shade and from the wind or draft for four or five days. 
Sprinkle the leaves every day, but take care not to wet the 
soil in the pot too much, which would make the roots rot. 
In any case avoid extremes in watering or drying out . 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Press the berries, weigh one of sugar to every pound of 
juice, put the sugar and juice in a porcelaine kettle; add 
one-quarter of an ounce of cloves and allspice, one-half ounce 
of powdered nutmeg, one-half ounce of cinnamon bark, to 
each quart of liquid. Start it on a quick fire and let it boil 
one hour, removing all scum that may gather on the top. Let 
it cool and then add one-half a pint of brandy for every quart 



ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING. 273 

of cordial. Strain throujh a fine hair seive, bottle and cork 
tight 

Cure for Cow Itch. 

To cure cow itch between the toes, tie a blue yarn thread 
around each toe separately. 

To Pickle Cele :v. 

Separate the stalks from the head, clean them thoroughly, 
and put them into salt and water strong enough to bear an 
egg, let them remain in this a week or ten days, or until 
wanted to pici^le, then take t!u^)'i out, wash them clean in 
water, drain dry, place in a jar and pour boiling vinegar over, 
to which any approved spices may have been added, keep 
well covered with vinegar. If the celery is allowed to remain 
any length of time in the salt and water it will be necessary 
to soak it a day or two in clean fresh water, changing the 
water occassionally. 

To Clean Furniture. 

For cleaning bed-stedS; chairs, tables, etc., mix sweet oil and 
kerosene together, aud apply with a sponge or flannel cloth. 
For cleaning pianos, mix sweet oil and turpentine together 
and apply with a cham ji>. 

TOMAT )ES FOR SuPPER. 

Take as many eggs as there are members, in the family, 
boil two-thirds of them hard, dissolve the yolk with suffi- 
cient vinegar, and about three teaspoonsfuis of mustard, and 
mash as smooth as possible, then add the remaining one-third 
of the eggs, (raw) yolK. and white, stir well then add oil to 



274 ANYTHINCt AND EVERYTfllNG. 

make altogether, sauce sufficient to cover the tomatoes well, 
and plenty of salt a)id pepper: beat througlilj^ until it frosts. 
Skin and cut the tomatoes a fourth of an inch thick, and pour 
the sauce over them. 

Relief for Ceoup. 

Mix together one-half teaspoonful of white sugar and one- 
half teaspoonful powdered burnt alum. It is better to give it 
to the child dry, but if too ;^oung it may be giv^^n in water. 
I know from personal experience Ihattliis^- recipe will give im- 
mediate relief. 1 have used it in my own family for a number 
of years and without a single failure. 

To Remove Warts and Corns, 
Soak them until ihey become soft, *hm^ with a sharp knife 
pare the toj) until it bleeds, then tie them up in spirits of tur- 
pentine. 

How TO Make Gooseberry Marmalade. 

Press a sufficient quantity of gooseberries, and add three- 
quarters of their Tf^i'ht-, i»> ]upn> srgar. Boil the fruit and 
sugar into a jf^lly so thick that when it is dropped upon a cold 
plate, just dipped into cold water, it will not adhere to it. 
Turn it into cups or bowls, and cut in thin slices for bread 
and butter. It makes nice sandwiches for children. 



A LIST OF NEW AND ORIQINAL NAMES FOR CHILDREN. 



, 




GIKLS. 




Aur. 


Frost. 


K.^hI. 


Quake. 


Auece. 


F'S'il. 


Lnve. 


Quola. 


Auz 


F-r.la. 


Lyma. 


Qunell. 


Adoll. 


Forrest. 


Lila. 


Rita. 


Agkell. 


Giz. 


Lura. 


Reena 


A'-nory. 


Gire. 


Lnva. 


Restella. 


Adot. 


Gay. 


Lieve. 


Rouna, 


Beela. 


GoLulelle. 


Lennox. 


Raiisen. 


Born a. 


Geza. 


Moil a. 


Rota. 


Bnira. 


Gavre. 


Merl. 


Raj . 


Beryl. 


, Gaker. 


Mra. 


Savanna. 


Basdir. 


Hayx. 


Me.Zi. 


Sola. 


Buiiorr. 


Hvzar. 


Marsnilles. 


Samantha 


Bernice. 


Hayda. 


Myrtle. 


Selna. 


Corazz. 


Hadd. 


jNIaiguerritte. 


Sena. 


Conn. 


Husta. 


Or. 


Saiinda. 


Cozut. 


Heza. 


Oda. 


Suita. 


Coy. 


Hest. 


Odellant. 


Tina. 


Cultz. 


Inez. 


Odma. 


Tana. 


Culitt. 


Inare. 


Ozcireil . 


Tot. 


Conny. 


Irna. 


Oi.id. 


Tulura, 


Delia. 


Ilynn. 


0;i quest. 


T-.oze. 


Davy. 


lUis. 


Navy. 


Tonna. 


Devere. 


Isa. 


N inkeent. 


T.paz. 


Dyke. 


Ibon. 


Na-tell. 


Ursurla. 


Daphne. 


Java. 


N-rvaiee. 


U^e. 


Dorris. 


Jura. 


N<»rinau. 


Unnis. 


Durena. 


Jean. 


Nona. 


Ulna. 


Ernis. 


Jise. 


Nook. 


Urn. 


Estol. 


Jove. 


Petit. 


Ulmata. 


Eloise 


Janet. 


Pearl 


Umarita. 


Elite. 


Jackey. 


. Partasia. 


Valarie. 


Eureka. 


Kaleen. 


Parnell. 


Veiona. 


Etna. 


Kux. 


Palm. 


V-rna. 


Elcore. 


Kissaue. 


Pern. 


A^era. 


Fawn. 


Kinnell. 


Pinkie. 


Valparii. 


Fern. 


Karta. 


Ouez I. 


Vazz. 


Faisy. 


Kiro. 


Queena. 


Veuuzuee 



276 



NEW NAMES FOR CHILDREN. 



Wave. 


Wanby. 


Yon. 


Wannetta. 


Wrmky. 


Yolla. 


Willamette. 


Xida. 


Yeal. 


Winona. 


Xylo. 


Yez. 


Wilda. 


Xyiiphe. 


Yates. 


Wilma. 


Xyrua. 


Yanta. 


Zelma. 







Yoc, 

Zula. 

Zarcella. 

Zee. 

Zella. 

Zoy. 



NAMES FOR BOYS. 



Albreta. 

Adiar. 

Alzene. 

Addison. 

Alwood. 

Anvil. 

Armory. 

Buruis. 

Boyd. 

Beryl. 

Bayard. 

Benard. 

Bruce . 

Byrdn. 

Caddie. 

Conrad. 

Channcey. 

Chase. 

Coke. 

Clyde. 

Clandns. 

Cloudy. 

Dana. 

Durnard. 

Donald. 

Devore. 

Dait. 

Dover. 

Darleigb. 

Envil. 

Elward. 

Eanis. 

Eustace. 



Evans. 

Eulau. 

Everette. 

Frazier. 

Farmer. 

Faut. 

Fuss. 

Farrell. 

Fenton. 

France. 

Guy. 

Grey. 

Gi&tine. 

G'ac'ie. 

Ghrnham. 

Gormal 

G-avt. 

Harmon . 

Harvey. 

Havre. 

Hoyt. 

Hay ward. 

Hansell. 

Hanse. 

Iven. 

Irvin. 

Inky. 

Ivy. 

It.al . 

Istel . 

In ware. 

Jay. 

Jai veil. 



Joy. 

Jurman. 

Jave. 

Jese. 

Jacky. 

Koiair. 

Kaleen. 

Kay. 

Knox. 

Knott. 

Kater. 

Kruse. 

Levi. 

Louis. 

Lennex. 

Lonsay. 

Londa. 

La van da. 

Loyd. 

Minnian. 

Maurice. 

Marx, 

Milifant. 

Messellee. 

Markey. 

Maney. 

Niox. 

Napher. 

Narkel. 

Noel. 

Neice. 

Nurbach. 

Nayvel. 



Orville. 

Oar. 

Orkan. 

Oakley. 

Ogden . 

Octavus. 

Orvery . 

Payson. 

Peerey. 

Percy. 

Pai. 

Peruda. 

Pileha. 

Pontius. 

Quintus. 

Queta. 

Qunicy. 

Quietus. 

Quota. 

Quip. 

Quoin. 

Rebeoc. 

Renel. 

Rodolph. 

Renn. 

Roxaua. 

Ross. 

Rylvan. 

Selba. 

Sylvanus. 

Solome. 

Serene. 

Seled. 



NEW NAMES FOR CHILDREN, 



277 



Syene« 


Uzza. 


Weser. 


Yedd. 


Sotia. 


Ulrica. 


Weimar. 


Yretdt. 


Trebia. 


Urania, 


W;,]la.ohia. 


Yonda. 


Taree. 


Undectmviri. 


Wythe. 


Yac. 


Tebinm, 


Vivian, 


Weyniont. 


Yemen, 


Tybalt. 


Vincent. 


Xen^phnn, 


Zante. 


Tryphosa. 


Valentine, 


Xenoeles. 


Zynder. 


Tristran. 


Vierre. 


Xuil. 


Zaire. 


Thraso. 


Vane. 


Xenia. 


Zabdile. 


Ulai. 


Vendee, 


Xingre. 


Zoreah. 


Uriel. 


Voljja. 


Xanthicus, 


Z^nas. 


Urban. 


Wilhelm. 


Xuriel. 


Zaccia. 


Uzan. 


Wady. 


Yagoo- 


Zavan. 




CHARACTERS FOR MASQUE BALL. 







GIRLS. 




Peasant girL 


Dade^s. 


Elith. 


Toboggan . 


Bopeep. 


Mdtcmaid. 


ValHi.line. 


Astronomer. 


Queen of hearts. 


Sw.^et sixteen. 


Squ iw. 


Bridget. 


Popcorn .yirl. 


Japiuee.s fan. 


Bit.y. 


Rosebud. 


Carnation pink. 


Appl« j:irl. 


Cook . 


Witch. 


Princuss Louise. 


Ballot girl. 


Rebecca; 


Sunflower. 


O'Cuuuer child. 


Prnicess. 


Paue. 


Domino. 


Golden slii pers. 


Queen of di imondsCnpid . 


Dress . 


Goddess or Libert 


yiStairy night. 


Ldly. 


Morning star, 


Motlier huhbaid. 


Fi hina; girl . 


Qaeen. 


Spanish Queen. 


Grecian woman . 


Chiuavvi'inau. 


^\■altress. 


Grandma. 


Tambourine girl. 


School gill. 


Actress. 


Nun. 


Butteifly. 


Old inaid. 


Huntress. 


Juliet. 


Jockey. 


Sanaiitha Allen 


. Fairy. 


Confidence. 






BOYS. 




Baker. 


Divine. 


Sailor boy. 


Fairy king. 


Mikado. 


Priest. 


Scotchman. 


Connocht Moran. 


School boy. 


Devil. 


Baseball boy. 


Irish lad. 


Page. 


Rdnieo. 


Sir Walter Scolt 


. Spanish bncaro. 


Jocky. 


Kafl-.r. 


EngUsh nabob. 


D'Anjou. 


Duie. 


Bicvcbst. 


Giaudpa. 


Butcher. 


Prince. 


Shepad. 


t>(janisli Cavalier, 


. Cook. 


Kiujz. ■ 


ClO^vU . 


Prince Mathusala 


i . Carpenter . 


Lnuis XIV 


Soldier. 


.'■>viah Allen. 


Green horn. 


Lawyer. 


Policeman. 


Nankipoo. 


Irish Mick. 


Doctor. 


Sambo. 


Lord Byron . 


Barber. 


Chinaman. 


Marionette. 


(Tfo. WasningtOE 


I Drummer. 


Aclor. 


Indian. 


Duke. 


Reporter. 


Professor. 


Bard.L. 


Father hubbard. 


Spanish dancer. 



INDEX. 






G-EisrEE.A.iij i:]sriDE3i 



It will help those who consult this book to remember that the recipes 
for each department are arranged in the simple order of the alphabet, so 
far as has been possible, both in regard to the recipes and the subjects 
treated. 



Page. 
Paper Flowers 

Butter Cup 10 

Dahlia 10 

Fuchia 8 

Poppy 8 

Petunia ^ 

Pink 9 

Plaque 9 

R(se 7 

Tulip 7 

Water Lilly 6 

Wool Flowers. 

Rose 12 

Rose Woven. 12 

Tiger Lilly./. ... 11 

Hair Flowers. 

Materials 13 

Feather Flowers. 

Materials 14 

Tinsel Flowers, 

Materials 15 

Christmas Tree Ornaments. 
Description 15 



Page. 

Feather Work. 
Desonption 17 

Bead Work. 

Fischu 21 

Lamp screen 20 

Purse 21 

Wateh case beaded 22 

Knitting Department. 

Astrakan knitted 38 

Babitj's knitted shirt 32 

Break fast cape 59 

Child's knitted shirt .48 

Eilging 35 

Edging knit 45 

Edging 34 

Edying nice knitted 39 

Edging knit 44 

Edging knitted 54 

Edging saw tooth 56 

Infant's knitter^ shirt 25 

Insertion knitted 53 

Insertion knitted 55 

Ids* rtion pretty 24 

Insertion bead 27 

Jacket 49 

Leggins, child's 41 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Page. 
Knitting Department. 

Lace, infant's 29 

Lace, baby 30 

Lace, Basket 24 

Lace, bead 27 

Lace, fern 30 

Lace, six inches wide 25 

Lace, Louis 31 

Lace, Oregon 29 

Lace, new pattern 37 

Lace, knitted 47 

Lace, knitted 51 

L.*ce, I'ose leaf 54 

Lace, knitted 53 

Lace, knitted 55 

Lace, knitted 57 

Lace, knitted 58 

Lace, clyde 32 

Lace, Tidy 24 

Lace, German 58 

Lace, rose leaf 38 

Lace, zig zag 56 

Mats . r 40 

' Mittens, 46 

Play thing for baby 32 

Robe for carriage 60 

Rug 61 

Shawl pattern 60 

Shawl, shoulder 41 

Scarf 40 

Straps for curtain 57 

Slipper, knit 28 

Tidy, knitted 36 

Tidy, knitted 45 

Twilight 59 

Twining leaf pattern 36 

Wristlets 43 

Crochet Department. 

Abbreviations 62 

Baby carriage robe 73 

Carriage Robe 81 

Child's crochet hood 85 

' Crochet ball 86 



Page. 

Crochet Depaktmknt. 

Edging 65 

E(iging. simple 85 

Gent's leisure cap 69 

Lace edging 84 

Lamp mat 67 

Lace 70 

Lace 84 

Opera cape 74 

Rose 70 

Rolipicot edging 83 

Sacqae for baliy 63 

Silk watch chain 65 

Skull cap 77 

Sofa pillow 66 

Sofa af gan 82 

Scarf 67 

Shoe 71 

Trimming 68 

Trimming 74 

Trimming 78 

Trimming narroM' 83 

Twine bag 72 

Tidy in tricot 73 

Wool tidy 71 

Stamping Department. 

Indelible or liquid process 87 

Perforated patterns 86 

Powder process 87 

Stamping powder 88 

Painting Departm e nt , 

Black satin 90 

Embroidery 90 

Glass painting 89 

Light satin 90 

Paintinsr on oilcloth 88 

White velvet 89 

Miscellaneous Department. 

Blocks for children 95 

Beautiful dress 98 

Chemisette 98 



GENERAL INDEX, 



Page. 

Crazy patchwork 95 

Dainty Ottoman 97 

Fancy pin-cushion 97 

Fancy wall bag 92 

Housekeepers friend 99 

Hair pin holder 100 

Mammoth boquet 93 

Moss cross 96 

Odds and ends 99 

Ornamental fan 96 

Precious jewel case 95 

Picture frame of pit work 97 

Pen wiper 100 

Ragbag 101 

<* Traveler's bolster 94 

-''Table cover 101 

"''Table scarf 96 

' "Toboggan hood 100 

''•'^'Watch case 101 

t-T. 

Home Department. 

;-:Bed, foot of 105 

'-^Bo^y's marquerit ecaps 128 

'^Bathing slippers 127 

' 'Broom case 114 

Book mark 129 

_ Baby basket 129 

>'^ath room picture frames. . . . 130 

*_'|lBed spread and shams 131 

' '^aby comforter 134 

'"'Bureau scarf 124 

Bed valance ] 25 

Boy's Jersey caps 122 

'J'Bed room rug 118 

''•Bed room commode 119 

* -Collar box 114 

'*<t;ord rack. . .y. 116 

'^tJomb pockeifi-.' ': 119 

^•'l3hair cushion 124 

Convenient letter carrier 126 

Childretf^'blbs:','. 126 

^•^fehain stitch ettifcroidery 127 

^''Child's cafriage dtishion . 127 

^'fehild'a ball 132 



Page. 

Home Department. 

Chair cushion 133 

Child's legffins 134 

Cap basket 131 

Crape veils 109 

Cleaning carpets 109 

Chest for soiled linen Ill 

Dolls furniture 104 

I'ecorated fans 121 

Dining room pictures 106 

Door brick 120 

Dressing old frames. 108 

Dinning room crumb cloth. ... 130 

Doyleys 133 

Dress for flower pot 133 

Delevine 135 

Double stitch embroidery .... 136 

Decorated fans 142 

Eml)roidery rings 128 

Eylet hole embroidery 134 

Embossed top for lamp orn't. .137 

Fancy knot embroidery 125 

Folding screens 125 

Fancy pen-wiper 126 

Fancy apron 144 

Glove sachet 109 

Home savings 102 

Handkerchief sachet 120 

Hair receiver 128 

Herring bone sticth embroid'y. 119 

Hem stitch embroidery 134 

Lamp shade 121 

Ladies' purse bag 106 

Lace lan)p shade 138 

Lambrequins 112 

Lattice stitch 113 

Lambrequins for cup boards. . .117 

Letter sachet 123 

Match receiver 121 

Monograms 134 

Nurserys baskets 104 

Needle book 113 

Night dress case 116 

Oil cloth splasher 114 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Page. 
Home Department. 

Ornamental bi-acket 117 

Outside ftiteh embroidery. . . . 135 

Ornamental scarf 143 

Plaques, clay pipes 109 

Parlor wood brac-ket 123 

Parlor door mat Il2 

Pretty roo n 102 

Paper receiver 107 

Porcupine pin-cushion 108 

Piano cover 136 

Perfume sachet Ill 

Photograph case 139 

Pocket pin-cush;on 132 

Paper pocket 144 

Railway stitch embroidery. . . .132 
Racks for keys and hooks. . . .117 

Sofa ball 115 

Sofa pillow 110 

Satin stitch embroidery 128 

Shaving case 121 

Stove mat 116 

Spittoon mat 118 

Sitting room basket 122 

Sachet 142 

Scrap book, embroid'y and pt.r20 

Table, gipsy 115 

Toboggan cap 139 

Table cover 138 

Tam O'Shanter cap 139 

Table scarf 131 

Transon), tidy 119 

Toilet setts 123 

Tray co ver 135 

Tissue paper dresses 136 

Toilet cu.shion wd43 

Umbrella case ,^. ,gjLhbd'H5 

Umbrella and ciue,\'Mdf!jp.i\h\iiY37 
Use of perfmneri^Si.ji^js . ,g(j(Jiiiiril 
Warm .b.a.hy blg-ukfeivi-J. ,\m\h\>iQ6 
iVV[abt.e pap«irllfafikfit.jui . ,>j:ii.UljilGF7 
L-Whitt^ .0 jlcjotb .sjj^pttfi .ca3^!j iJ ib i5I2 
J.Wouxe.n wbQ.r.eAdtJiciotJ. ,j^iii.hbil1l0 
8W^§te. basket §9 . ^>^aiJjJijlS2 



j Page . 

jHoME Depaktment. 

! Waste paper basket 129 

I Work basket 141 

Wood box, fancy 118 

Work stand, fanc_y 138 

1 

|C00KING AND BaKER's DEPARTMENT. 

I Albany rolls 149 

; Beef pounded 203 

j Buns 153 

j Breakfast rolls No. 1 147 

Breakfast rolls 149 

I Breakfast rolls 148 

Buns 148 

Bread, brown 147 

Biscuits .... 151 

Breakfast cake 154 

Bread, Graham 161 

Bread, compressed yeast 146 

Breai'jCorn 151 

Custard, cream 196 

Custard . . 198 

Chow der,clam 202 

Cracker, zephyr 198 

Chicken 201 

Cookies, poverty 190 

Cookies 158 

Cookies 159 

Cake, orange 157 

Cake, California .-/'.457 

Cake, coffee -.■ Jf-i ,,.^/'.j4A7 

Cake, cream y v.'l .,:^A4iS 

Cake, ev.ejlastingihX). uwiT . »9.;j4^8 

Cak^,. .butter.. -viltJuJy^H .,^A4^9 

f C^ke.,. tapeui.r.a-io.aiJ^iJg:vOii9 . ^s.H'JSQ 

J CJake, .bill /fjJiyio. .,y >UJdO 

i flakq,. layer ij«ii:il. ♦^.H^I^O 

f^43akq,. letnoii .,ao.<>.q ^y^I/J^^l 

oQake.,. common Qiuiviii'J. ^'y<ifiil 

ctlaik^,. layer 9!.<i . ^i)/I.4^1 

()<^a.ke.,. layer - '^iisidnl . »y.>Ufd2 

\^k'i,. iayer v-^^fM'l'i .»?'X4-d2 

lCJa.k.e.,.exceUen<i?^tii'i].-'.. i>'jui .^Aii^2 
i-C/.bke, .jelly L/iaxti. iavv.,?A'i43 



GEKERAL INDEX. 



: Fagf. 

000KIN(4 AND BakER's DePARTMKKT 

Cake, oraDue ■ "'-^ 

Cake, weddiiii]^ 163 

Cake, chocolate 164 

Cake, huckleVieriy 164 

Cake, chocolate layer 165 

(yake, modest 165 

Cake, chocolate 165 

Cake, almond 166 

Cake, bread 166 

Cake, orange jelly 166 

Cake, small sugar 167 

Cake, nut 167 

Cake, peel and citron 167 

Cake, white . . . , 167 

Cake, soda 168 

Cake, fruit 168 

Cake, Illinois 177 

Cake, dainty 177 

Cake, kolderve 178 

Cake, Columbia 17S 

Cake, ren 178 

Cake, cinnamon .179 

Cake, orville 179 

Cake, walnut 179 

Cake, Hill's high 179 

Cake, black 180 

Cake, rice 181 

Cake, fiUmon fruit 181 

Cake, Scotch pound 182 

Cake, citron cup 182 

Cake, love 183 

Cake, TamO'Shanter 183 

Cake, Kentucky 183 

Cake, chocolate cream 184 

Cake, cream 184 

Cake, Irish 184 

Cake, poor, 188 

Cake, Carolino , 189 

Cake, pie 189 

Cake, Johnny 190 

Cake, spongy 191 

Cake, nice spongy 191 

Cake, corn meal , 194 



Page. 
Cooking and Bakek's Department 

Doughnuts rice 186 

Doughnuts 153 

Drops, small sugar 168 

Drops, hot 191 

Doughnuts 154 

Dumph'ng, apple 188 

Eggs, scalloped 200 

Flannel cakes 155 

Flour drops 160 

Flitters 184 

Flitters, almond 193 

Hallibut, potted 291 

Graham cake 156 

Graham bread 147 

Graham bread 148 

Graham Bread 148 

Graham biscuits 147 

Griddle cake 150 

Griddle cakes 151 

Griddle cakes , 156 

Gems 152 

Gem?, fish 202 

Ginger bread 153 

Ginger bread 155 

Hot cakes 150 

Ham boiled 204 

Jumbler cocoanut 192 

Lanetry ringer. 182 

Muffins 153 

Morning cake 155 

Macaroons, common almond.. 165 

Macaroons, cocanut 168 

Macaroon t, sweet corn 198 

Minced veal 199 



Puddi 



almond 183 



Pudding, fig 185 

Pudding, raspberry 187 

Pudding, apple 187 

Pudding, bread 190 

Pudding, English plum 191 

Padding, orange 192 

Pudding, home 193 

Pudding, fig 193 



(^KKEK/vL INPLX. 



Page 
.oK\N«:; AND Bakek's Depaktmbn'j 

Pudding, apple 194 

I'udrUng, hoiled 194 

Fnddmi^, rice 195 

l-'uddini,', jelly IS. 

Puiidiug, orange 19C 

Pudiiing, chocolate 19' 

Padding, snow 197 

Pudding, puff 19i 

Pudding, sweet 199 

Potatoe. bread 140 

Pots toe, omelet .200j 

Potatoes, escalloped 200| 

Pie, sour apple lS4j 

Pie, pumkin 185| 

Pie. cocoanut 18G| 

Pie, jelly 187^ 

Pie, lemon 187 

Pie, one egg 188 

Pie, pnnkin 192 

Pie, squash 193 

Pie, squash 194 

Pie, tart apple 195 

Pie, jelly 195 

Pie. miace 193 

Pie, chicken 202 

Piji's head roasted 2C3 



Ktdls, filled 180 



fiolls, jelly 

lloils 

liolls 

Pvolls 

Kolls 

Kolls 

Rolls 



164 

156 

147 

148 

149 

150 

150 

Rolls 151 

Rolls 152 

Ptusks 151 

Rusks 152 

Rosettes 155 

Short cake, strawberry 157 

Short cake, strawberry 159 

Short cake, strawberry 161 

Sauce for pudding ' 198 



^ PAOfi. 

L -jking and Bakers Department 
3auce, potatoe. ... . , .202 

Salmon, steain . , . .199 

3andwitche.5, cheesj ^S: eggs , .199 

3alid, cabi)age.. ^ 200 

Steak, veal.. .201 

Sreak '. .202 

Tea cakei' ... . . 154 

Tea cones .... .156 

To5,st, cream . . iS6 

Toast, mock cre.iin 186 

Xurkish cream 197 

Waffles , 152 

.."afflis, quick 189 

Wafers, ciunamon 168 

Yeaat cake . , . ,,145 

OoLCRiiiG Department. 
Cotton Goods. 

Black... ..205 

Green 205 

Orange .206 

Red 206 

Royal blue. 206 

Sky blue ...205 

Yellow... ...... .207 

Woolen Goods . 

Blick. .. ...207 

Blue 207 

Crimson 210 

Da.b 210 

Dove 210 

Green. ....208 

Lac red 210 

Madder :ed,. ....209 

Orange.. 209 

Pink..... 207 

Purole ....208 

Slate 210 

Scarlet... 208 

Salmon... 211 

Wire 208 

Yellow.... 211 

Silk Goods. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Page. 
CoLOKiNG Department. 

Black 213 

Crnnison 212 

Green 212 

Lavender 211 

Light blue 212 

Orange 212 

Purole ...• 213 

Snuff brown 213 

Yellow 211 

Miss Cooking and Baking Rrcipes. 

Biscuits 221 

Bread, graham 214 

Bread, corn 215 

Bread, wheat 217 

Bread, graham 216 

Bread, steamed Indian 221 

Breatl, br.)wn 216 

Custard, coin starch 227 

Chocolate 217 

Curry rice and chicken 217 

Chicken tor dinner 219 

Chicken, broiled 224 

Chocolate drink 224 

Cheese, cottage 230 

Cordial, strawberry 231 

Crullers ,230 

Custard, cocoanut 219 

Cookies 227 

Cookies, sugar 227 

Cookies, fruit 228 

Cookies, ginger 230 

Cake, cocoanut cream 214 

Cake, cocoanut chocolate 216 

Cake, icing for 216 

Cake, corn meal 219 

Cake, flannel 220 

Cake, Johnny 220 

Cake, cocoanut layer 221 

Cake, hominy 222 

Cake, corn ?24 

Cake, clove 225 

Cake, dark cup 225 



Page. 
Miss. Cooking and Baking Recipes 

Caks lemon 226 

Uake, raisin 227 

Cake, yeast 228 

Cake, good 229 

Cake, composition 231 

Griddle cakes 218 

Gems, graham 222 

Gems, rice 223 

Macaronia and tomatoes 222 

Noodles for soup 231 

Orange, desert 219 

Oysters, stewed 230 

Potatues 229 

Padding, cream tapico 215 

Pudding, cocoanut 218 

Pudding, cocoanut cracker. . . .220 

Pudding, cocoanut bread 221 

Pudding, quick plum 223 

Pudding, corn starch 225 

Pudding, plum 225 

Pudding, spice bread 226 

Pudding, flour 227 

Pudding, boiled 228 

Pudding, holiday 229 

Pie, cocoanut 222 

Pie, cocoanut 223 

Pie, cocoanut 224 

Pie, sweet potatoes 226 

Pie, peach 228 

Rissoles, lobster 231 

Sauce, pudding 221 

Sauce, oyster : . .216 

Sauce, flandy 220 

Soup, canned salmon 214 

Soup, lobster 215 

Snaps, ginger 228 

Anything avd everything. 

Alpaca, to clean 267 

Amonia, carbonate 266 

Ants, to drive away 269 

Borax, use of 259 

Burning chimoey to extin'h. . .258 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Page. 
Anything and t'^ t-'-ythtvg. 

Blackberry cordial 272 

Beer, tc make 272 

Beef, to corn 268 

Brush, feather , . 2oi' 

Bed, airing... 2 '2 

Blacking. liqui<i 246 

Beds, noisy 246 

Caramels 246 

Canned goods, to judge 284 

Corn, to cultivate 285 

Cellar, the 286 

Carpets, to clean 287 

Cake, how to stamp 288 

Cold, in head 240 

Churns, prevent overflowine. .244 

Creau), to make 245 

Cream for shaving 245 

Candy, molasses 249 

Cough, remedy for 250 

Cologne, home made 251 

(>meut. to make 252 

Candy 253 

Cherries, lotion for 253 

Corn, popped "-65 

Coal oil, fire test of 265 

Cider, without apples 264 

Candy, figs 268 

Casks, to sweeten 263 

Croup, releif for .274 

Celery, to pickle 273 

Cow itch to cure 272 

Celery, to preserve 271 

Cholera 270 

Cellar, to cool 269 

Carpets, to distinguish 268 

Carpets, putting down 262 

Cliarcoal, use of 237 

Cider, to keep 257 

Docks, etc, to kill 244 

Draught, sit in a 268 

Eggs, to preserve 235 

Eggs, to tell age of 253 

Emery bag 240 



Pace. 

Anything and Everything. 

Ejjgs, to keep 271 

r.-.-,^^, never place 266 

Fve. to r^nu've cinder 261 

Flees, to banish 256 

Felon, cure for 284 

F.M,<I, what to eat 289 

7^';ps, M banish 243 

Fruit jar to open 245 

Food for parrot 247 

Foot, lotion for 253 

Furniture, polish 270 

Fly paper 264 

Fruits, to can 262 

Felon, remedy for 262 

Glass to clean : 255 

Grapes 249 

Glue 250 

Grease, to remove 252 

Gooseberry marmalode 274 

' Gas lime, to use 258 

Hemorrhage, to stop 286 

Headache, remedy for 242 

Hands, chapped 247 

Hair invigorator 249 

Ham, to cure 271 

Indigestion, cure for 256 

Inkstains 251 

Insects on plants, to kill 244 

Iron rust, to remove 233 

Insect destroyer 245 

Ink, to wiite on glass 266 

Kid gloves, to wash 233 

Kid gloves, to clean 236 

Knife handles, to fasten 247 

Kindling wood 267 

Kettles, to keep clean 264 

Lace, to wash 251 

Lawns, to prepare 235 

Lemonade 265 

Morocco 250 

Mildew, to remove 247 

Mildew from roses 234 

Mouth wash 237 



KNF.RAL INDEX 



Page . 

Mrs. or Mi^s 2;L3 

Milk, to preserve. io\ 

Milk, to preserve 255 

Masquerade characters . . . .278 

Milk, to prevent scortcbiiig. . .2/0 

Mustarfi, to mix .568 

Measure, household ...,....,, "^^58 

Milk sour, to sweeten. 237 

Meerchaum, cernct«.i; 266 

Mustard plaster . . . ''Q3\ 



Ms.it, boilin:^ -'i>i^ 

.VIosa, to ':^';ourc' .... . . /•'•:> i 

Nutmegs, xc text 250 

Nubtdrinkc... ..264 

Never allow 255 

Night soil, to prepare. ...... .254 

Neck enlargeil, to cure 254 

Neuralgia, relier fvv , .259 

Names tor child rc;.. 275 

Oranges, to pickie. . .266 

Orange peel, to preserve 269 

Onions, wi-.i?. jon eat 241 

Penwiper 256 

Paint, to clean 254 

Pie, to bake 238 

Pitcli, to remove 240 

Potatoes, to preserve 243 

Plants, treatment 272 

Pop ginger 267 

Pomade, ox morrow 270 

Painting, house 269 

Paint, smell of 263 

Ivibbon, to wash 233 

Rice, parched 245 

Eheumatism, relief for 252 

Boom to ventil&te 255 

Rubber boot, to dry 270 

Rubber glue ... 258 

Stiff neck, to en .re 267 

Screws, to prevent rust. . 265 

Sprains, etc 263 

Silverware, to clean 261 

Soap, soft '2 60 



AlvYTHIN(i .\ND EvERYTHIN<: 

Sf)re thvout to prevent l*.")!^ 

Stains, to remove 257 

Stair carpet, to iireserve 235 

Sleeping rooms ■ rJ'M* 

Scalp, to clean 238 

Sick room, to purify 243 

Stammering 244 

Swimming . . 245 

Salt, uses for 247 

Starch, glossy 24.S 

» Shoes, protection of 27)0 

Scorch, too remove 252 

Sci-atches to remove 253 

Stoves, to prevent rusting 2.55 

Transfer paper, black 266 

Toe nail, ingrowing '240 

Trees, cultivation of 260 

Telephone, how to make 241 

Tomatoes 25(f 

Table, the 24-2 

Tea, cold 252 

Tomatoes, to keep 264 

Tomatoes, for supper 273 

Vinegar, to make 264 

Vermin, to prevent 251 

Wash, for head 256 

Wart, cure for 249 

Whooping cough 234 

Windows, how to blind 239 

Wax, how to make 24 1 

White wash 25 1 

Water to purify 252 

Windows to clean 256 

Window support 263 

Whalebone, etc . . ' 260 







WHERE YOU CAN GET THE BEST 




in all kinds of 
&:roce:ries, 

"V"EGhET.^^BIL.ES. ETC. 



vlM' JtB, JE S 'MmLV_ 



BREAD, PIES I CAKES 

■*?GOOKIES*94.BROWNtBBEAD«*^ 




€>JKB.S:«^C»1W. 






^^0^ -1 I'M 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 184 174 9 



