
^'^ 



175 



Choice Recipes 



MAINLY FURNISHED 



BY MEMBERS OF THE 

J 

CHICAGO WOMEN'S CLUB 



PUBLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT OF 

the: club KIINDKRQARTKN 



^ JAN 3 1887^^ 

CHICAGO S/^V?-^^^^ 

CHARLES H. KERR & COMPAN'" 
175 Dearborn Street 
1SS7 



y^-k^ 






Copyrighted by 
CHARLES H. KERR & COMPANY 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Brown Bread 5 

Breakfast Dishes y 

Soups 13 

Fish 20 

Entrees and Meat Rechauffe 25 

Meat and Fish Sauces 30 

Croquettes 33 

Oysters 34 

Vegetables 36 

Salads and Salad Dressings 38 

Pies 43 

Puddings 45 

Custards, Creams and Ices 50 

Pudding Sauces 61 

Cake 63 

Preserves 71 

Pickles 73 

Beverages 76 



NOTE. 



It was not the aim of the compilers of this book to 
furnish a complete guide to housekeeping, but to collect 
such rich, rare and racy, as well as time-honored, recipes 
as have never been given to the public. To these we 
have added some from well-known books because of 
their great excellence. 

Fully aware that by adding the recipe to be found on 
the last page of the book we have laid ourselves open to 
the charge of inconsistency, we have done so because 
we believe that the prophet should not be without honor 
in her own country. 

Our thanks are due to the friends who so cordially 
responded to our request for the " choicest recipe." 

Kindergarten Committee. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 



BROWN BREAD. 



Steamed Brown Bread. 

2 full cups of Indian meal. 

3 level cups of rye meal. 
I cup of molasses. 

I teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a very little boiling 

water. 

I quart of milk. 

Salt. Steam four hours. 

Mrs. J. P. Odell. 



Graham Bread. 

I quart of sour milk. 

Soda enough to make it foam. 

I tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Salt to taste. 

Stir in graham flour enough to make a thick paste. 

This bread is good as an occasional and quickly-baked 

loaf. 

Flokenck R. Hartlett. 



6 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

I cup of flour. ^ cup of molasses. 

I cup of graham flour. Pinch of salt. 

1 cup of corn meal. i teaspoonful of soda. 

2 cups of sour milk. 

Stir milk and molasses together; dissolve soda in a 
tablespoonful of warm water; pour in mould well but- 
tered and steam 3 hours ; remove cover and put in oven 
to dry yi hour. 

Mrs. E. H. Ball. 



Swedish Bread. 

1 cup of butter. 3 quarts of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. ^ cup of yeast. 
Let it rise over night, and add a little more flour in 

the morning; let it stand another hour before baking; 
brush the white of an ^^'g over the top, and sift over it a 
little sugar and cinnamon. To be mixed very thoroughly, 
and all the materials put in at once. 



Swedish Crust. 

Prepare like the above, only add still more flour in 
the morning; make it stiff enough to roll into very thin 
sheets, and omit the white of ^gg, sugar and cinnamon. 

Mrs. Lucy F. Furness. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

BREAKFAST DISHES. 



Cream Johnnycake. 

I pint of sour cream. 2 cups of cornmeal. 

6 eggs. y2 cup of sugar. 

I teaspoonful of soda. A little salt. 
I cup of white flour. 



Cornmeal Buns. 

2 cups of white flour. 2 beaten eggs. 

y^ cup of cornmeal. i cup of sweet milk. 

i^ cup of butter. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 

y^ cup of sugar. powder. 

Bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Frank Johnson. 



Oatmeal Mush. 

1 measure of oatmeal. 

2 measures of milk. 
2 measures of water. 

Much or little salt, as your measure is large or 
small; in other words, salt to taste. Put in a farina 
kettle, the water in the lower part being boiling hot; 
boil two hours, or until the mush is all thick alike; 
then for the first time stir just enough to prevent part 
of it being thinner than the rest when it is turned out. 
If set to cool in a square dish or bright tin pan, it is 
delicious fried after it has cooled and thickened. 

F. M. Stkkli. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Pop- Overs. 

4 cups of flour. I tablespoonful of butter. 

4 cups of milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

Mrs. a. M. Rowk. 



Corn Bread. 

I pint of sweet milk. i egg. 

I pint of cornmeal. Butter size of an egg. 

I pint of wheat flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

I cup of granulated sugar. powder. 

Mrs. a. M. Rowe, 



German Potato Pancakes. 

I quart of peeled and grated raw potatoes. 
3 well-beaten eggs. 
I cup of milk. 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour. 
I teaspoonful of salt. 

Use half meat drippings and half butter for greasing 
the griddle. 

Helen W. Affeld. 



« German Brod-Forte. 

6 ounces of almonds, dried and pounded fine. 

12 eggs. 

^ pound of sugar. 

4 ounces of citron. 

3^ ounce of cinnamon. 

'4 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 9 

6 ounces of grated rye bread, dried in oven. 

I strip of sweet chocolate, grated. 

A little grated lemon-peel, if liked. 

Beat the I2 yelks to a cream with the sugar and mix 
chocolate and bread. Mix with the yelks and sugar 
all the ingredients exceft the bread, chocolate and 
whites of eggs. After they are well mixed, add the 
bread and chocolate gradually; lastly stir in the whites 
of lo eggs which have been beaten to a froth. The 
other 2 whites may be reserved for frosting. Bake i 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Helen W. Affeld. 



Breakfast Gems. 

2 eggs. I cup of flour. 

I cup of sweet milk. A pinch of salt. 

Stir all together with as little motion as possible; beat- 
ing spoils it. Drop a spoonful at a time in smoking hot 
iron gem pans, which have been buttered ; bake 20 
minutes in a hot oven. When taken from the oven they 
should be very hard, but in a few minutes will be soft and 
delicious. 

Julia C. Mann. 

Kate Coyle's Corn Bread. 

i^ cup of boiled rice. 2 large spoonfuls of sugar. 

2 cups of white cornmeal. 2 eggs. 

I cup of milk. I teaspoonful of baking 

I large spoonful of lard. powder. 

Mix the cornmeal, rice and lard together and pour 
enough boiling water on them to saturate thoroughly ; 
add the milk, then the eggs (which must be well beaten), 



10 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

lastly the baking powder. Bake in a buttered pudding 
dish and serve in the dish with napkin round it. Flour 
may be used in place of rice. k. e. t. 



Codfish Balls. 

The codfish to be freshened by being placed in cold 
water and brought to a boil, which repeat a second time, 
and to a cup of fish add twice the quantity of freshly- 
boiled hot potatoes, one raw egg, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg. Season with pepper. Chop all together 
in a chopping-bowl until very light ; make up immediately 
into oblong shape, drop into hot lard and fry brown. 

Mrs. Gilbert Pryor. 



Bannocks. 

Mix thoroughly one cup flour and two cups white corn- 
meal, with a little salt. Pour on boiling water enough to 
wet thoroughly. Dip the hand in dry flour and pat the 
dough into a thin sheet on a buttered pan. Bake in a 
hot oven till quite brown and serve hot. 

A delicious toast can be made by splitting this ban- 
nock and pouring over it a dip made as for cream or 
milk toast. 

Mrs. Caroline M. Brown. 



Cream Puffs. 

1 pint of milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 

2 eggs. 

Flour enough to make of the consistency of pancake 
batter. Bake in new cups which have never been 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 11 

washed (which never need to be buttered), or use old cups 
and butter them. Twenty minutes in a hot oven or 30 
minutes in a slow one. Do not open the oven door while 
baking if possible. They will turn out of the cups a rich 
maho<;any brown, and will make alJelicious breakfast or 
supper dish, or an excellent dessert served with wine 
sauce. 

Kate E. Tuley. 

Huckleberry Breakfast Cake. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 
Yi cup of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
I pint of flour. 

I pint of berries, freshly washed, to help moisten the 
flour. 

1 tablespoonful of water. 
Bake in one pie-pan. 

L. G. Bedell. 

Kinsley's Corned Beef Hash. 

J^ pound of cooked corned beef, chopped fine. 
Double quantity in bulk of cold boiled potatoes, 
chopped fine. 

3 drops tobasco pepper. 
^ cup of water. 

2 ounces of butter. 

Salt and black pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter in the water, add the other ingredi- 
ents, cook until thoroughly heated through, then put 
into a baking pan and place in the oven till brown on 
top. Serve with white sauce if preferred. 



12 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Parker House Rolls. 

2 quarts of flour, scant. >4 cup of sugar. 

I tablespoonful lard. i pint of milk. 

Yi small cake compressed yeast. 

Mix well the lard and flour and let it stand in pan 
from morning till night. 

Dissolve the yeast in ^ pint of warm milk, add an- 
other Yz pint of cool milk and the sugar. Push the 
flour one side and pour the mixture into center of pan. 
Cover lightly with the flour and let it rise all night. In 
the morning knead well and let it rise quite high, but 
not long enough to sour. Knead again, roll as thin as 
possible, cut out with large biscuit cutter, spread with 
melted butter, turn over the sides, let it rise ^ hour and 
bake. 

Helen Leeds Mitchell. 



A Good Cake for Breakfast or Tea. 
I quart of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Butter the size of a hen's ^%^. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
A little salt. 

Flour to make of the consistency of pound cake. 

Beat the eggs, butter and sugar till light ; add the 
milk ; mix baking powder with flour and add la.st. 
Bake about lO minutes ; temperature of oven about as 
for cake ; or, substitute yeast for baking powder and set 
to rise over night if wanted for breakfast ; if for tea, five 
hours. 

RnoDA M. Coffin. 



175 ' "' 'Kl'^ Ri:(ll'i;s. 13 

Cerealine Muffins. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

I pint cerealine. i teaspoon ful of baking 

y2 pint of milk. powder. 

I teaspoonful of salt. i pint of flour. 

Add the flour with baking powder well mixed in it, 
the last thing, and do not stop stirring afterwards until 
poured into the warm, well-greased tins. Bake in a hot 
oven. 



SOUPS. 



Cream of Celery. 

I pint of milk. i pint of water. 

I tablespoonful of flour. i cup of whipped cream. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 3 heads celery. 

I slice of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Boil the celery in the water for ^ or ^ of an hour ; 
boil milk and onion together and thicken with the flour 
and butter rubbed to a cream ; mash the celery in the 
water in which it was cooked and stir into the milk. 
Season to taste. Add the whipped cream after the soup 
is in the tureen. 

Mrs. J. M. P'lower. 

COURBOUILLON. 

4 or 5 slices of fish (trout or white fish), 

3 cloves. 

4 onions chopped fine 

12 tomatoes squeezed and strained 

Salt, pepper, parsley and thyme. 

Put the fish into a saucepan, sprinkle over a little flour, 



14 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

add 2 tablespoonfuls of water, stir until brown ; then 

add 2 tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. Put in the onions and 

the cloves, always stirring carefully to prevent burning; 

then add juice of tomatoes ; season with salt, pepper, 

parsley and thyme as said before. When done pour 

over toast and serve. 

Julia Holmes Smith, M.D. 



Black Oyster Soup. 

3 pounds of brisket or loin beef. 

I dozen oysters. 

Part of a cup of claret or sherry. 

I onion, cut fine. 

Thyme, cloves, parsley. 

Let the beef boil in 3 quarts of water until thor- 
oughly done; make a small bag into which tie thyme, 
cloves, parsley and onion; put in the pot with the beef. 
Brown some flour, 2 tablespoonfuls, rub into it as much 
butter as it will hold, and thicken the soup with that. 
Just before serving, remove the beef and spices, and 
put in the oysters; pour the wine in the tureen, then 
pour in the soup and stir thoroughly. 

Julia Holmes Smith, M.D. 



Ox-Tail Soup. 

Take 2 tails and cut them in pieces, lay them in a stew- 
pan with I ounce of butter and i large onion, and let 
them brown. Pour suOlcient boiling water over them 
to cover them, and add 2 stems of celery, i carrot, i 
turnip, a little thyme and parsley, 6 pepper-corns, all- 
spice and 4 cloves. Let all boil very gently for 4 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 15 

hours. In the meantime prepare i pint of butter-onions 
and the same quantity of carrots and turnips cut into 
small balls or squares, and boil them in water with a 
little salt. Take the pieces of tail out carefully, strain 
the liquor and skim off all the fat. Put into a small 
stew-pan i ounce of butter and 2 ounces flour. When 
mixed add to the liquor i teaspoonful of salt, the prepared 
vegetables and the pieces of tail. Let all boil and add 
a glass of port wine when ready to serve. 

Mme. Garnier Russell. 



Marrow Dumpling Soup. 

Take half a French breakfast-roll, grate the crust and 
crumble the inside; soak in milk, drain and add i ounce 
of flour; chop fine and add y^ pound beef marrow, 
freed from skin and shreds; beat yelks of 2 eggs, mix 
all together, salt and pepper well. If too moist add 
more bread crumbs. Form into small round dumplings, 
size of a hickory nut. Boil up 3 pints of stock, drop 
in dumplings and cook 20 or 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Reeves Jackson. 

A Philadelphia Soup called Pepperpot. 

Boil I pound of fresh tripe until tender, and skim. 

3 pints of bouillon, boiled up and skimmed. 

Cut the tripe in dice, and add to the boiling broth. 

2 medium-sized potatoes cut in dice. 
.Boil until the potato is partially dissolved. Then 
shred into the pot 2^ of a cup of biscuit dough in 
bits no larger than June peas. 



16 1/5 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Boil 2 or 3 minutes ; season with salt, black and red 

pepper, and lightly with sweet basil, sweet marjoram 

and summer savory. Serve — as every soup should be 

— very hot. 

Mrs. Reeves Jackson. 

Tomato Bisque. 

I small can tomatoes. ^ teaspoonful of soda. 

I quart milk. i teaspoonful of salt. 

y^ cup butter. i^ saltspoonful of pepper. 

Strain the tomatoes and add to the boiling milk after 
you have carefully mixed the soda with them. Add 
seasoning and cook lo minutes. Put in the butter just 
before removing from the fire. Be very careful not to 
use too much soda. 

Mrs. Frank Johnson. 

Bean Soup. 

1 cup of beans boiled until they are soft enough to 
put through a colander. 

2 rolled crackers. 
I quart of milk. 

Butter the size of an ^gg^ salt and a dash of red 
pepper. 

Boil together for a few minutes and serve hot. 



Chicken Soup. 

I large or 2 small chickens. 
I ^gg yelk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
4 quarts of cold water. 



175 CIIOK'K RECIPES. 17 

Put chicken with bones well cracked in water, stew 
slowly 4 hours, cool and skim after straining, season, 
then heat to boiling. Beat the yelk of egg with about 
half cup of water, and put in the tureen; pour boiling 
soup on it. 



Balls for Soup. 

3 eggs, butter size of two eggs, 8 soda crackers rolled 
and sifted. 

Chopped parsley. 

Beat the yelks and butter to a cream. 

Crackers and teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

Whites of eggs beaten to stiff froth. 

Mould into balls the size of walnut, drop into the 
hot soup, and cook lo minutes. 

Mrs. W. C. Dow. 



Cream of Asparagus. 

2 bunches of asparagus. i quart of cream. 

Small squares of toasted bread. 

Boil asparagus tender in enough salted water to 
cover. Mash through colander, add small piece of 
butter and i tablespoonful of flour stirred to smooth 
paste. When flour has sufficiently boiled in asparagus 
liquid, add cream. Allow it to boil up once or twice 
more, and pour over small squares of bread, nicely 
browned. 

Nourishing and easily made. 

Mrs. R. M. Woods. 



18 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Cream of Rice Soup. 

2 quarts of chicken stock (the water in which fowl 
have been boiled will answer). 

I teacupful of rice. i quart of cream or milk. 

A small onion A stalk of celery. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Wash rice carefully and add to stock onion and cel- 
ery. Cook very slowly two hours. Put through a 
sieve, add seasoning and the milk or cream which has 
been allowed to come to a boil. If milk is used, add 
I tablespoonful of butter. 

Miss Parloa. 



Wine Soup. 

Wash carefully in warm water y^ pound of sago. 
Let it come to a boil in i pint of water; add i pint 
of wine, a little sugar, a little grated I'emon rind and 
powdered cinnamon. 

Boil until the sago is quite thick. If the soup is too 
strong, add more water. Red wine is the best. 

L. B. w. 



Corn Soup. 

I pint of hot water. 

I pint of grated green corn, or i can of corn. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

I heaping tablespoonful of flour. 

I slice of onion. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



175 CHOICE RKCIl'KS. 19 

Cook the corn in the water 30 minutes. Let the 
milk and onion come to a boil. Have the Hour and 
butter mixed together and add a few tablespoonfuls of 
boiling milk. When perfectly smooth, stir into the 
boiling milk: cook 8 minutes; take out the onion and 
add the corn; season to taste and serve. If canned 
corn is used, it should be pressed through a colander 
or strainer before adding to milk. 



Green Pea Soup. 

Cover a quart of green peas (or i can) with hot 
water and boil with an onion until they can be easily 
mashed (20 or 30 minutes); cook together 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and one of flour until smooth, but 
not brown; add to the mashed peas and then add a cup 
of cream and one of milk; season with salt and pepper 
and boil up once; strain and serve. A cupful of 
whipped cream added at the last moment is an im- 
provement. 

Miss Parloa. 



Beer Soup. 

Let I quart of beer come to a boil; skim, sweeten 
with rock candy; add a small piece of cinnamon, a little 
grated lemon rind, then a pint or more of milk (accord- 
ing to taste, whether you like it strong or not); then 
put the w^ell-beaten yelks of 3 eggs in the tureen and 
pour in the boiling soup, stirring constantly. 

Serve with squares of toasted bread. 

Deemed by the Germans a very strengthening dish 
for convalescents. l. b. w. 



20 175 CHOICE RKCIPES. 

Normandy Soup. 

Boil 4 pounds of veal in 4 quarts of water. Let it 
simmer slowly for two hours or more; add a small tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne pepper; boil 
two hours longer; remove the meat and strain the soup 
into a pan, and to every quart of soup add a pint of 
cream and about 2 ounces of butter, divided into four 
bits and rolled in flour; add more seasoning, if desired. 
Let it just come to a boil again before serving. 

Mrs. G. E, Adams. 



Veal Gumbo. 

2 pounds of fresh veal. Parsley. 

I pound of fresh pork. 3^ pound of okra. 

I onion. 

Cut the veal finely, also the pork. Fry until brown, 
then cut the okra into small slices; add that with onion 
and parsley to the meat, stir until brown; add a pint of 
warm water; flavor with salt and pepper. Let it sim- 
mer slowly; in 20 minutes add another pint of boiling 
water and 2 gills of claret wine. The soup is now 
ready for the table. 

Julia Holmes Smith, M.D. 



FISH. 
Baked Cod. 



Make a dressing of 5 rolled crackers, butter, salt, 
pepper, i teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a little 



175 rilOTCE RKni'KS. 21 

onion, tomato and celery. Stuff the fish with this, and 
pour around it a pint of fresh oyster^, tomatoes on top; 
pour over all a glass of sherry Bake i hour and serve 
with fish sauce. 

Mrs. Isadore Taylor. 



EscALLOPED Salmon. 

Line the bottom of a baking dish with bread crumbs, 
then add a layer of canned salmon, chopped; pour on 
dressing given below; add another layer of crumbs and 
salmon until dish is filled. 

DRESSING. 

3 cups of milk thickened with flour; season with salt, 
pepper and butter, and 2 beaten eggs. Cook a few 
minutes. 

Mrs. J. H. Pratt. 

Fish-Pie. 

Take any cooked fish, pick carefully from the bones, 
and season with pepper and salt. Lay in a buttered 
baking dish alternate layers of fish, baker's bread 
broken in small bits, and drawn butter sauce enough 
to moisten thoroughly. Bake about 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven. If the sauce is not rich enough, add 
a few bits of butter. A hard-boiled egg chopped fine 
makes it more delicate. 

Mrs. Charles Gl y Bolte. 



Potato Salad. 

6 large potatoes boiled till done but not crumbled. 
Cut in discs, leaving out uneven pieces. 



22 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

2 medium size onions chopped fine and mixed into 
cream salad dressing. 

Pile the potatoes in a dish and pour dressing and 
onion over them. Small round radishes cut in two 
make a nice garnish for this salad. Mayonnaise dress- 
ing may be used, if preferred. 

Mrs. C. G. Bolte. 



Matelote d'Anguilles. 

2 or 3 pounds of fresh conger eel. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 

I teacup of bacon, cut in discs. 

I dozen small onions. 

I dessertspoonful of flour. 

Pepper to taste. 

Small bunch of parsley and thyme. 

I bay-leaf. 

The eel must be placed in salt brine and remain for 
two days, turning frequently. Put in a deep saucepan 
with a tight fitting cover one large tablespoonful of 
butter and a teacupful of discs of bacon, not too fat; 
fry thoroughly, then take the bacon out and throw 
in one dozen small whole onions. Fry these a 
light brown. Add a dessertspoonful of sifted flour. 
Turn the onions; do not let them get too dark. Add 
a little water, taking care to have the sauce perfectly 
smooth, and pepper to taste. Return your discs of 
bacon to the saucepan, and lay in your eel carefully 
dried; cover up tightly and put to simmer gently till 
the eel is quite tender, but not broken. Ten minutes 
before serving add a wine-glass of white wine, and 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 23 

simmer again. Lift your fish out carefully, dish and 
pour the gravy over it, taking out the bunch of herbs. 
Serve very hot. 

This is a dish of southern France and most palatable 
to those who like sea-fish. 

Mme. Garnier Russell. 



EscALLOPED Fish. 

2 or 3 pounds of whitefish. i tablespoonful cornstarch. 
I pint of milk. i small grated nutmeg. 

3 yolks of eggs. A pinch of cayenne pepper. 
^ pound of butter. Salt to taste. 

Boil the whitefish ; when cool, take out the bones and 
pick the fish to pieces ; boil the milk, stir in carefully the 
well-beaten yelks so that it may be smooth like custard ; 
add the butter, salt, pepper and nutmeg, lastly the corn 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk. Butter a pudding 
dish and fill with alternate layers of fish and dressing. 
Cover with cracker crumbs and brown in the oven. 

Mrs. G. E. Marquerat. 



Salmon Roll. 

I can of salmon. 

^ the quantity of bread crumbs. 

3 whites of eggs. 

A little chopped parsley. 

Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 

Mix all together and make into an oblong roll. Use 
the yolks of eggs to mix with bread crumbs, in which 
roll the salmon balls ; inclose these in well-bettered 
writing paper and tie with cords; strew bits of butter 
quickly on the outside, place in a buttered tin with a little 



24 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

water and brown 30 minutes, basting constantly. Serve 

with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. a. G. Pettibone. 



Fish a la Creme. 

4 pounds of whitefish ; pour boiling water over it and 
boil 20 minutes. 

I pint of milk. 

3/ bunch of parsley. 

I small onion, cut in half. 

I small cup of cream. 

Salt, pepper and butter to taste. 

Put the parsley and the two halves of onion into milk 
and let it simmer on the back of the stove for one hour, 
then boil for a minute ; thicken with flour and season 
with salt, white pepper and butter. Take from fire and 
add the cream. After boiling the fish remove bones and 
skin ; mix with the above dressing ; heap on a platter, 
cover with bread crumbs, dot with butter, bake one hour. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. E. H. Ball. 



Ingeborg's Fish a la Norvege. 

3 pounds of fresh fish, raw. Salt, sufficient quantity. 

Yi pound of butter. ^ pint of cream. 

Scrape the raw fish and free it from bones and skin ; 
then pound the fish, butter and salt to a smooth paste ; 
add a little pepper and mace, finely ground, and work in 
yi pint of cream, a tablespoonful at a time. The mixture 
must be as smooth as the batter for cake and of the same 
consistency ; if too thick, add a little milk ; bake for one 
hour in a buttered tin with cracker crumbs scattered over 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 25 

it ; when cold, slice. This makes a dcHcate cntrue, much 
esteemed by the Norwegians. 

Mrs. Auhy G. Kkndig. 



ENTREES AND MEAT RECHAUFFE. 



EscALLOPED Chicken. 

Boil tender one good-sized chicken ; remove the large 
bones; line a deep dish with boiled rice, a layer of 
chicken, a layer of rice. When the dish is full, add the 
liquor in which the chicken was boiled ; salt, y^ cup ot 
butter and 2 well-beaten eggs. 

Mrs. M. C. Remick. 



Entree of Chicken and Rice. 

Boil a two-pound chicken in enough water to cover, 
until tender ; remove all the bones ; place in the ov^en to 
keep warm ; add to the liquor ^^ cup of butter, juice ot 
^2 lemon, a little parsley, i pint of oysters ; cook until 
the oysters swell, then add the well-beaten yelks of 2 
eggs ; place chicken in a deep dish and pour the liquor 
over it; garnish the edges with steamed rice, dotted with 
stewed prunes. 

Veal Loaf. 

Parboil 3 pounds of lean veal; chop fine. 
4 butter crackers, pounded. 
2 well-beaten eggs. 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 
I saltspoonful of pepper. 



26 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

I teaspoonful of ground thyme. 

y^ cup of butter. 

Moisten with the meat liquor, mould into a loaf and 
put into a shallow pan. Add a little of the water in 
which the meat was boiled. Bake till brown, basting 
often. Serve hot or cold. 



Beefsteak Pie. 

3 pounds of beefsteak. i pound of butter. 

I quart of oysters. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the steak in small pieces. Line a four-quart 
tin-pan with pie-crust. Lay a layer of beefsteak and 
oysters alternately in the pan, seasoning each layer with 
salt and pepper, and the butter cut into small bits. 
Cover with pie crust, and set into a vessel with boiling 
water; boil three hours, then bake a nice brown. 

Mrs. G. E. Marquerat. 



Scotch Mince Collops. 

2 pounds of round steak, i tablespoonful of flour. 

2 onions. Salt and pepper to taste. 

I coffeecupful of water. 

Mince the steak fine, chop onions, and put both in a 
stew-pan with a cup of cold water. Stir till it boils, 
then set on the back of stove to stew slowly for three- 
quarters of an hour. Just before serving thicken with 
a tablespoonful of Hour, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve with sippets of toasted bread round the dish. 

Mrs. J. W. Brackenridgk. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. ^7 

Pigeon Pie. 

3 or 4 pigeons. 

^ pounds of round steak, quite thin. 

2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

I small cup of water. 

Pepper, salt and butter ad. Hb. 

Puff paste enough to cover a baking dish. 

Lay the steak in the bottom of the dish, sprinkle a 
little pepper and salt on it. Have the pigeons washed 
and spHt in half; rub salt and pepper over them; lay 
them on the steak breasts up, with a piece of butter on 
each, also a Httle flour; lay necks, gizzards, etc., in the 
interstices. Have the eggs hard boiled; slice and scat- 
ter slices over the birds. Add small cup of water. 
Cover with puff paste, ornament the top and leave a 
few feet sticking out. Bake i ^ hours. 

Mrs. J. W. Brackenridge. 



Ingeborg's Game-Dish a la Nore. e. 

The breasts of 3 snipes and i turkey. 

2 pounds of raw ham. 

I pound of fresh pork. 

6 eggs. 

No salt required. 

Chop the whole together very fine; beat eggs well 
and mix with it; add pepper, cloves and mace to taste, 
lastly I pint of Spanish wine; pour into a buttered 
baking dish and scatter bread crumbs over it. Bake 
one hour. 

Malaga wine is good as a sauce for this. 

Mrs. Abby G. Kendig. 



28 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

German Method of Preparing Spring Chicken. 

Carefully dress and singe the chicken; mix salt and 
pepper, and rub thoroughly all over the inside; peel a 
small onion and lay with half a teaspoonful of thyme 
inside the chicken; spread a sheet of writing paper 
thickly with butter and tie around the chicken, care- 
fully covering all the incisions; put into a dripping pan 
with enough hot water to more than cover the bottom; 
put one or two small onions into the pan, with two 
cloves stuck into each. Half an hour before removing 
from the oven, place a small piece of toasted bread in 
the pan. Remove the paper. Serve the gravy in a 
tureen, removing onion and bread if desired. 

L. B. w. 

Cheese Fondue. 

1 cup of bread-crumbs. J^ teaspoonful of soda. 

2 cups grated cheese(old). i tablespoonful of butter. 

3 eggs. ^ Salt. 

Soak bread-crumbs in the milk; add the eggs, cheese 
and the butter (melted), lastly the soda dissolved in a 
little hot water. Pour into a buttered baking dish and 
bake 15 or 20 minutes. 

A delightful dish for luncheon or supper, also light 
and wholesome. 

. Kate E. Tuley. 



Curry and Rice. 

3 pounds of pork tenderloin or young chicken. 
2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder. 
2 large tablespoonfuls of butter. 



175 <^"H()ICE RECIPES. ^9 

1 small onion. 

Juice of I large lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut. 
I cup of milk. 

Salt to taste. 

Put the cocoanut to soak in the cup of milk; make a 
paste of the curry by mixing it with a little cold water; 
slice the onion thinly and put it in about half the butter 
into a pan on the fire; cook till well browned; add the 
rest of the butter and put in the curr}- paste. Fry from 
5 to 8 minutes, stirring all the time. When quite dry 
put on the back of the stove, adding a cup of hot water. 
Now add the meat cut in small pieces; cook the whole 
for about an hour, preventing its getting dry by adding 
hot water occasionally, or, better still, broth or gravy. 
Twenty minutes before serving add the juice of the 
lemon, and before removing from the fire add the des- 
iccated cocoanut and milk, with salt. 

This dish is not good unless the rice is cooked dry 
and each grain separate. 

HOW TO BOIL RICE WELL. 

Take the largest porcelain-lined kettle you have, fill 
with water, and let it boil. When it is boiling hard 
throw in the washed rice. Boil fast for about 20 
minutes, stirring occasionally to keep from burning. 
Add salt. Try the rice by biting it, and the moment it 
is soft, remove from fire and pour off the water. Put 
the rice in a colander and let it drain till quite dry. 
Serve in separate dishes the rice and the curry, and in 
helping put rice first on each plate, then the curry 
on top. 

Mrs. Horace Scuddkr. 



30 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Steamed Bread-Balls. 

Moisten slices or bits of bread with milk or water, 
and crumble rather fine. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter, and any additional flavoring to the taste. 

A better way is to spread the bread with butter and 
sprinkle with the pepper and salt before moistening. 
After crumbling, roll it into balls and steam till heated 
through. These furnish an excellent accompaniment 
Xo any dish of meat, and it is a good way of disposing 
of dry crusts. 

Mrs. Sara Hubbard. 



MEAT AND PISH SAUCES. 



BURRE NOIR. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
I tablespoonful of vinegar. 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

I teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 

j{ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Put the butter in the frying-pan, and when z/^rrj/ hot 
add the parsley and then the other ingredients. Boil 
up once. Pour over fried or broiled fish before serving. 

Miss Parloa. 

Sauce Tartar for Fish. 

3 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 
ij4 teaspoonfuls of mustard. 

I teaspoonful of black pepper. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 81 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Juice of I lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Boil two of the eggs very hard; rub the yelks to a 
powder; add the raw yelk of the other egg. Stir in 
slowly the oil. Chop line the two whites of the boiled 
eggs; add the chopped parsley and one small onion 
chopped as fine as possible. 

Mrs. Walter Pkck. 

Brown Sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

i}4 cups of soup-stock, or same of milk. 

i^ teaspoonful of salt. 

j/i teaspoonful of pepper. 

I tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 

Heat the butter in frying pan; when it begins to 
brown, stir in the flour; stir till the mixture becomes a 
dark brown, then draw the pan back to a cooler place 
and gradually pour into it i^^ cups of stock. Milk 
may be used in place of stock. 

Stir the sauce till it boils; then let it simmer for 3 
minutes and add the above seasoning. 

Mrs. Amy Enos. 



Sauce Hollandaise. 
(Grand Hotel, Parls.) 

Place in a saucepan the yelks of 6 eggs and a little 
white pepper; set the saucepan in a vessel of hot water 
or over a very slow fire, adding little by little i pound 



82 175 CHOICE RFXIPES. 

of fresh butter. When the butter is melted and mixed, 
pass through a sieve; add the juice of a lemon or a little 
vinegar. To keep it hot, return the saucepan to the 
vessel of hot water. 

Mrs. Henry Strong. 



Sauce Hollandaise. 

2 ounces of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

^ pint of sweet cream. Juice of i lemon. 

Pepper and salt. Yelks of 3 eggs. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, boil the cream and 
stir it in, and then add the lemon, pepper and salt; whip 
the eggs and add to the above. If too thick, thin it 
with fish broth. 



White Sauce. 
Same as above, leaving out the lemon and eggs. 

Kinsley. 



Tartar Sauce. 

i^ pint French mayonnaise — stiff. 
I tablespoonful of capers, chopped fine. 
^ cup of pure cider vinegar. 
6 small cucumber pickles, chopped fine. 
Very little garlic or onions, chopped fine. 
Mix all together and serve cold. Serve with corn- 
beef hash a la Kinsley. 



175 CIIOlCi: RECII'KS. 



CROQUETTES. 

Philadelphia Chick kn Ckuoulttes. 

2 calves' sweetbreads. 

2 pounds of chicken, boiled tender and chopped as fine 
as possible. 

4 ounces of butter. 

2 ounces of flour. 
I gill of cream. 

I dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 

I teaspoonful of chopped onion. 

Pepper, salt and nutmeg. 

Melt butter and stir into it the dry flour ; add by 
degrees the cream and stir until it boils ; add seasoning. 
Take from fire and stir into the meat; add enough of the 
jelly obtained by boiling the chicken to make the mixture 
quite soft ; let stand until cold ; shape ; dip in beaten 
white of an egg ; roll in cracker dust and let stand on ice 
until quite cool ; fry in hot lard and drain on paper. 

Mrs. Reeves Jackson. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

The meat of i chicken, roast or boiled, chopped fine 
and free from skin. 

^ as much fine bread-crumbs as chicken. 

3 medium-size cold boiled potatoes, chopped. 
^2 cup of butter. 

I tablespoonful of salt. 
5^ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Mix the chopped meat, crumbs and potatoes ; add the 
butter, melted, and enough milk to make it quite moist ; 



34 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

season to taste. Make your croquettes into cylindrical 
shapes, roll in beaten eggs and fine cracker-crumbs and 
fry in sufficient hot lard to cover them. If you would 
have perfection, use a wire basket to cook them in. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Sara C. Purdy. 



OYSTERS. 

Oysters St. August: n. 

Have a long and strong wire (which can be procured 
at a hardware store), bent like the letter W. Upon this 
string first an oyster, then the thinnest possible bit of 
breakfast bacon, then another oyster, another bit of bacon^ 
and so on. Broil over glowing coals. A bon vivant will 
find these sweetly to his taste. 

Emma E. Marfan. 

Oysters a la Poulette. 

2 dozen oysters. I tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 2 yelks of eggs. 

Salt, pepper, parsley, lemon. 

Place 2 dozen medium-size oysters in a sauce-pan with 
their own liquid ; let them come to a boil, then strain the 
oysters, saving the liquid ; put about i tablespoonful 
of butter and 2 of flour in a sauce-pan ; heat and work 
smooth, then add the oyster liquid and let the whole boil 
about 5 minutes, stirring all the while. Add a little of 
the juice of a lemon, according to taste, the yelks of 2 
eggs, well beaten, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and lastly 
the oysters. Serve on toast. 

Mrs. H. L. Frank. 



175 CHOICE RECirKS. 35 

Fricasseed Oysters. 

Carefully drain and remove all bits of shell from r 
quart of select oysters ; dot with butter and salt to taste ; 
place them in a dripping-pan in a moderate oven ; bake 
about 20 minutes, then stir in a cup of cream with a small 
teaspoonful of cornstarch dissolved in it ; let it simmer a 
few minutes and then pour over toast, place oysters on 
it, and serve hot. 

Mar if: C. RF.>ncK . 



Oyster Bisque. 

I pint of chicken or veal stock, or the liquor in which; 
chickens have been boiled. 
I pint of oysters. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 eggs. 

Salt, pepper, chopped parsley. 

I heaping cup of bread crumbs. 

I large tablespoonful of butter rubbed in i of flour. 

Strain the stock and set over the fire with the crumbs 
in a farina kettle ; in another vessel heat the oyster 
liquor, and when it simmers add the oysters, chopped 
fine ; cook all 20 minutes. In a third vessel scald the 
milk, stir into this the floured butter, boil up sharply 
and pour on the beaten eggs ; set in hot water while you 
turn the oysters and liquor in the kettle containing the 
stock and crumbs, and cook together before putting in 
the parsley and other seasoning ; finally pour in milk 
and eggs, after which the soup must not boil but stand in 
hot water 3 minutes. Serve promptly. 

Marion Harland. 



:S6 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

VEGETABLES. 

Hashed Potatoes Browned. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes, put them in a sauce-pan 
■^vith milk, butter and salt to taste. Have some hot 
butter in a frying-pan, pour in the potatoes and let them 
brown. Serve in the shape of an omelet, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Marie C. Remick. 

German Manner of Cooking Spinach. 

Pick and wash the spinach thoroughly; have the 
water salted and boiling hard, boil the spinach 8 or 10 
minutes uncovered; put in a colander and pour cold 
water over it, drain well and chop fine; put a little 
suet and butter in a pot or skillet, and heat it, brown a 
little flour in this, add bouillon or water to make a 
gravy, add^the spinach, and boil a few minutes. Serve 
hot. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled ^gg- Add 
nutmeg and a small sHced onion to the fat before 
jTiaking the gravy, if desired. 

Mrs, Henrietta Galloway, 

Turkish Pilaf. 

I cup of stewed and strained tomatoes. 

I cup of stock, highly seasoned with salt, pepper and 
sminced onion. 

When boiling add i cup of well- washed rice; stir 
lightly with a fork until the liquor is absorbed, 
-.ihen add ^ cup of butter, set on the back of the 



175 CIIOICK RKCll'KS. 8T 

Stove or in a double boiler, and steam 20 minutest- 
Remove the cover, stir it lightly, cover with a towel 
and let the steam escape. Serve as a vegetable. 

Mrs. D. a. Lincoln. 

To Cook Spinach. 

Pick over and wash carefully, put the spinach in a' 
large kettle without water, place it on the back of the 
stove \vhere it will cook slowly until the juice is drawn 
out, then boil until tender; drain and chop tine. For 
one-half peck of spinach, add i large tablespoonful 
of butter, 3^ teaspoonful of salt and % saltspoonful of 
pepper. Heat again and serve on toast. 

Spinach is nearly all water, and a smaller portion of 
the potash salts — its most valuable constituent — is lost 
when it is cooked in its own juices. 

Mrs. Lincoln's -'Boston Cook Rdok.'^ 

Asparagus Pudding. 

I pint of asparagus ends. 2 ounces of butter. 

8 eggs. Pepper and salt to taste^ 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Cut up the green tender parts of asparagus, put 
them into a bowl with the eggs, well-beaten, add the 
flour, butter, pep;-er and salt, mix well together and 
moisten w^th sutiicient milk to make a thick batter; 
put into a quart mould, well buttered, place in hoiling 
water, and boil two hours. Turn into a hot dish and 
serve with butter sauce. 

Mrs. Mary Stronc; Sheldon. 



38 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take ^ dozen large smooth tomatoes, scald and 
peel them, cut in half, take out part of the pulp and fill 
the space with celery cut in small bits and mixed with 
salad dressing; put the halves together, place each 
tomato in a lettuce-leaf, and pour the rest of the salad 
dressing over them. 

Mrs. Charles Guy Bolte. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

3 ^ggs, well-beaten. 
3^ cup of butter. 
3^ cup of vinegar. 

I heaping teaspoonful of mixed mustard. 
I teaspoonful of salt. 
I tablespoonful of sugar. 
A pinch of red pepper. 

Cook in a double boiler, stirring constantly until 
thick as rich cream : wlien cold stir in ^ cup of cream. 

Mrs. CiiARLEs Guy Bolte. 



Salmon Salad. 

Take a can of salmon, carefully pick out bones and 
skin; line a platter with lettuce-leaves, pile the salmon 
on it, and pour over it the cream salad-dressing as 
above. A cup of cold cooked French peas may be 
added to it. A sliced cucumber is a pleasant addition. 

Mrs. Charles G. Bolte. 



175 CHOICE RIX'IPES. 89 

Oyster Salad. 

Put into a stew pan i quart of oysters, set on the stove 
and pour about a pint of boiling water over them ; let 
them come to a boil, carefully removing the scum that 
rises, skim out the oysters, and to the liquor add vinegar, 
cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg to the taste ; boil 5 minutes 
and let them stand in a cool place over night. When 
you wish to prepare the salad, drain the oysters, spread 
them on a towel and wipe them dry, cut celery in small 
bits until you have about the same quantity as of oysters. 
Prepare the mayonnaise dressing and mix with the 
oysters and celery a short time before serving. 

Mayonnaise Dressing for Salad. 

Yelks of 2 eggs. Juice of ;^ a lemon. 

Pinch of cayenne pepper. y> teaspoonful of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. y^ pint of best olive oil. 

I teaspoonful of dry mustard. 

Put the eggs in a china bowl, salt and mustard them, 
stir with a fork and drop in the oil slowly till it thickens, 
then add the vinegar and lemon juice, stirring all the 
time until well mixed. The juice of the whole lemon 
may be used instead of vinegar. 

Cl.\r.\ Doty Bates. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Boil a large sweetbread in salt and water, remove 
all stringy portions and cut in small pieces: cut the ten- 
der part of 3 heads of celery in small pieces, mi.\ with 
sweetbread and enough salad dressing to make it moist. 
Serve a spoonful on a lettuce-leaf with a few French 
peas, 2 or 3 shces of cucumber, 3^2 radish and ^< an olive. 



40 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Or leave out all the garnish, and put in i nasturtion 
flower with i leaf; the flower to be fresh must be 
added just before serving. 

Mrs. Charles Guy Bolte. 

A Delicious Bean-Salad. 

Take small young beans, cut them fine lengthwise 
and boil them in salted water; when soft place them in 
a colander and pour cold water over them, drain and 
dry them by laying them on a clean towel, turn into a 
salad-bowl, adding a small onion chopped fine with salt, 
pepper, vinegar and salad oil. 

Miss Lilian Weide. 

American Chicken Cheese. 

Boil I chicken till tender, free it from bone, skin 
and grizzle, chop fine, and season with pepper and salt. 
Boil the liquor left in the pot till there is just enough to 
moisten the chicken. If too moist add cracker-crumbs. 
Press the mixture into a dish or mould. When cold, 
slice. 

Miss Lilian Weide. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Buy Dunbar's shrimps. Open the can and turn 
out the shrimps several hours before using them. 
Break them in small pieces (don't chop). To ever}^ 
cup of shrimps use two cups of crisp celery, cut in 
small pieces (not chopped), season to taste with salt, 
mustard, red pepper and vinegar. 

Dressing. 
For every can of shrimps use the yelks of two eggs» 



175 CIIOKK Rl'XMl'F-S. 11 

The eggs should be fresh and cokl, and the oil of the 
best quality and cold. Put the yelks of the eggs on a 
dinner plate, stir them round and round a minute or so 
with a silver fork, then begin adding the oil, a few drops 
at a time, stirring steadily. As the eggs and oil begin 
to thicken, the oil can be added a little more at a time; 
but the more slowly it is put in the less likely are the 
eggs and oil to separate. When it becomes very stiff, 
a little vinecrar can be added and stirred in slowlv until 
the dressing resembles boiled custard. Much or little 
oil can be used, but a coffee cup of the mayonnaise is 
not too much for an ordinary dish of salad. Those 
who like oil would use 2 cups. Mix a little of the 
dressing with the salad; pile it lightly on a flat dish or 
in a salad bowl, and pour the dressing evenly over it. 
The salad can be trimmed wdth the delicate tops of the 
celery for a border and ornamented with olives, capers,^ 
rings of hard-boiled eggs and thin slices of red beets 
cut in diamonds or stars. The same mayonnaise can be 
used for chicken or lobster salad; but for lobster omit 
the celery dressing, using lettuce leaves fresh and crisp. 
Serve a few of these with each plate of salad. 

Mrs. Margaret G. Fo<i<;. 

Salad Dressing. 

2 eggs. I tablespoonful of niusiard. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. A Httle pepper. 
I teaspoonful of sugar, y^ teacupful melted butter. 
Y2 coffee-cup of vinegar. 

Rub the mustard thoroughly into the eggs, add salt, 
pepper and sugar, then the melted butter, a few drops 



42 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

at a time; lastly, the vinegar very slowly. Cook until 
smooth and thickened. 

Mrs. Frank Johnson. 

Salad Dressing. 
6 eggs. Butter size of an tgg- 

1 ^ cups of vinegar. i teaspoonful of salt. 
A pinch of red pepper. 

Put vinegar and butter in a sauce-pan and set it in 
boiling water. Add the salt and pepper, mustard if 
desired. When nearly boiling stir in very slowly the 
eggs beaten light. Great care must be taken that it 
does not curdle. When ready to serve add one cup of 
cream, and a tablespoonful of sugar. 

Marie C. Remick. 

Salad Dressing. 

2 yelks of eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil. 

^4 teaspoonful of mustard. 

j/2 cup of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of Cross & BlackwelPs vinegar. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. 

A small quantity of ca\^enne pepper. 

A pinch of salt. 

Beat the yelks of the eggs very light, have an as- 
sistant drop in carefully two tablespoonfuls of oil, add 
the mustard, cayenne pepper, salt and sugar, the half 
cup of cream, and, lastly, the two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. Stir all the time, put the mixture over boil- 
ing water, still stirring till it is thick, but do not cook 
till it curdles. 

Hklen M. Wood, 



75 CHOICE RECIPES. 43 



PIES. 



Mince Meat. 

6 pounds of lean meat. 

3 pounds of suet, chopped fine. 

3 pounds of apples. 

6 pounds of currants. 

2 quarts of red wine or cider; sugar, salt, spice and 
brandy to taste. This is a recipe of Martha Wash- 
ington given our grandmother. 

Mrs. E. E. Woodward. 

English Lemon Cream Cheese 

For Pies or Tarts. 

I pound of sugar. 

6 eggs, less the whites of 2. 

The juice of 3 lemons, grated rind of 2. 

y^ pound of butter. 

I % sweet crackers, grated. 

Put all together and stir gently over a slow fire until 
thick like honey. Put in jelly-bowls or tumblers. Will 
keep three years. 

Mrs. Ellen E. Woodward. 

Potato Pie. 

1 cup of mashed potato. \^ cup of sugar. 

2 eggs. % of a nutmeg, grated. 

2 cups of milk. i tablespoonful of butter. 

Put the potato through a colander, add the butter 



44 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

while it is warm, then the sugar, milk, eggs and 
nutmeg. The batter should be very thin. Pour into 
a pie plate lined with paste. 

Mrs. L. E. Wilson. 



Sweet-Potato Pie. 

Boil one medium, sized sweet-potato, peel it and strain 
through a colander, then mix with it a teaspoonful of 
melted butter. Beat one egg with half a cup of sugar. 
Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, add a cup of sweet 
milk and flavor with vanilla or cinnamon. At the south 
this is called potato custard. 

Miss Merrick. 

Mince Meat. 

4 pounds cooked meat. 

2 pounds chopped suet. 

7 pounds apples. 

3 pounds sugar. 

3 quarts boiled cider. 

1 quart sweet cider. 
yi, pint molasses. 

2 ounces ground cassia buds. 

2 tablespoonfuls ground cloves. 
2 tablespoonfuls salt. 
^ tablespoonful pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 

8 tablespoonfuls allspice (mixed in apple). 
6 nutmegs. 

Raisins, currants, and citron to taste. Add brandy or 
whisky to each pie when making. 

Mrs. Senour. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 46 

Sweet-Potato Pie. 

li pound sweet-potatoes boiled and mashed. 

3 eggs beaten very light. 

3^ pound powdered sugar. 

i^ pound fresh butter, 

I wine glass wine and brandy mixed. 

I wine glass rose water. 

I teaspoonful of mixed spices, nutmeg, mace and cin- 
namon. 

Line a deep dish with paste as if for pie, fill with the 
above mixture and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. L. E. Wilson. 

Very Nice Lemon Pie. 

I teacupful of sugar. 

}4 teacupful of milk. 

I lemon, juice and rind. 

I tablespoonful cornstarch. 

3 Gggs, yelks and whites beaten separately. 

Use the yelks with the other ingredients, pour this 
into a pie-plate lined with paste, the whites, beaten to a 
froth, placed on the pie after it is baked and returned to 
the oven until slightly browned. 

Mrs. L. E. Wilson. 



PUDDINGS, 



Sponge Pudding. 



5 level tablcspoonfuls flour. 
3 tablcspoonfuls sugar. 



46 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

1 pint boiling milk. 

6 eggs, yelks and whites beaten separately. 

Stir flour, sugar and butter well together, then add the 
boiling milk. When smooth and thickened pour into a 
dish to cool. When cool add the beaten yelks, and just 
before putting in the oven stir in the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a froth. Set the pudding dish in a pan of hot 
water and bake an hour and a quarter. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

Mrs. J. J. P. Odell. 

Graham Pudding. 

2 cups graham flour. 
I cup sweet milk. 

I cup molasses. 

I cup raisins (or rasins and citron). 

I teaspoonful each of salt, soda, cinnamon and cloves. 

Mix and steam an hour and a half in a basin or cake 

pan. Serve hot with any suitable sauce, but "hard 

sauce" is preferable if properly made. The recipe will 

not be suggestive of anything good if only read, but if 

tried you will astonish yourself with the excellence of its 

simplicity. 

L. G. Bedell. 

Graham Mush with Bananas. 

Make a mush in the proportion of ^ cup of graham 
to I pint boiling water, ^ teaspoonful salt. Let it cook 
for two hours in a kettle of hot water, stirring often. 
Pour while hot into cups lined with sliced bananas. The 
mush should be like jelly when cold. Turn into aflat dish 
and serve with sugar and cream. 

Dansville Sanitarium. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 47 

Swedish Pudding. 

2 cups of sugar. ^ cup of butter. 

Yelks of 4 eggs. Whites of 4 eggs. 

l^ pound of macaroons, i dozen ladyfingers. 

]A cup of sherry wine. Preserved fruit. 

Work the butter and sugar to a cream and beat in 
yelks. Crumble macaroons and ladyfingers and put 
a layer in bottom of a pudding-dish, then a layer of 
fruit (peaches, cherries, or strawberries), pour on the 
wine and the mixture of butter, sugar and eggs. Have 
two la3'ers of each. Bake very slowfy three quarters 
of an hour, spread with meringue made from whites 
of eggs and brown. 

Apple Pudding. 

^ loaf of bread, grated. 6 apples. 

Preserved cherries. Wine. 

Lemon juice. Sugar. 

Fry the bread crumbs in a little butter, core, pare 
and boil the apples, add a little lemon juice and sugar. 
Line the bottom of a pudding-dish with bread crumbs, 
then a layer of apples and cherries. Place these in al- 
ternate layers, bread crumbs on top. Bake slowly i yi 
hours. 

Pan-Dowdy. 

An Old-Fashioxed Yankee Dish. 

Fill a deep dish with sour apples, pared and cored, 
cover with a thick crust of common bread dough, 
raised with yeast. Bake until the crust is brown and 
the apples very soft, then take off the crust and 



48 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

sweeten the apples to taste with brown sugar or part 
molasses. Break up the crust and stir into the apple, 
adding a bit of butter, smooth over the tops and set in 
a slow oven 2 or 3 hours till the pan-dowdy is a dark, 
rich brown. Serve hot or cold, with cream. This is 
a homely, but appetizing dessert or tea-dish. 

Mrs. Caroline M. Brown, 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 

I pound currants. 

y2 pound beef suet, chopped fine. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

y^ pound citron. 

^ pint milk. 

I heaping coffee-cup of sugar. 

I pound raisins, stoned. 

I pound bread crumbs. 

8 eggs. 

I gill brandy or wine. 

Mace and nutmeg to taste. 

Mix these ingredients, adding the whipped whites of 
eggs last. Boil 6 or 7 hours, turning often. Pour 
brandy over it and bring to the table on fire. Eat with 
Hquid sauce. 

Mrs. Anna B. Silsbek. 

Rose's Suet Pudding. 

I cupful of chopped beef suet. 

I cupful of sour milk. 

I cupful of molasses. 

I large cupful of currants and sliced citron mixed to- 



175 »ii<»i<'i'- ki:('ii'i:s ^y 

gc-ther and rolled in Hour, with enough oround cinna- 
mon, cloves and grated nutmeg to spice it; 2 well- 
beaten eggs: I teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the 
milk: dour enough to make a thick batter. Steam i i/> 
hours or longer, l^o be eaten with foam sauce, made 
of butter and sugar, beaten light and creamy, to which 
is added i cupful of boiling milk just before serving. 

Mks II. C\ 11..VT. 

Sui:t Pui)i)iN(i. 

I cupful of molasses. i cupful of sw'eet milk. 

I cupful of chopped suet, i cupful of stoned raisins. 

1 cupful of currants. }4 cupful of sliced citron. 

2 iiggs. I teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

^2 teaspoonful of salt. 3 cupfuls of Hour. 

Steam about 3 hours. 

Sacck. 

I'pon T cup of granulated sugar and % cup of but- 
ter pour 3 tabiespoonfuls of boiling water and stir to a 
cream. Put this into a bowl and steam over the tea- 
kettle until it foams, stirring occasionally from tlu- 
bottom to prevent sugar from settling. Fla\'or with 
\'anilla. 

Mrs. IIOKACK R. lIoHAKI. 



H.\Ki:i) AppLE:-DuMPLiN(i. 

Pare and slice apples; make light pastry, roll it and 
place in apples to make dumplings of medium size. 
riuci* in buttered pudding-disli close together. Put 
butter, size of a large hickory nut, on top of each 



50 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

dumpling. Sprinkle over all a coffeecupful of white 
sugar and a little nutmeg. More than cover with cold 
water. Bake i hour. Needs no other sauce. 

Mrs. F. .S. Simmons. 

Mountain-Dew" Pudding. 

I pint of milk. 

Yelks of 3 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls of pounded crackers. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

Juice of I lemon. 

Mix the milk, pounded crackers and well-beaten 
yelks and bake to a light brown, then beat the whites 
of the eggs with sugar and lemon-juice. Spread over 
the pudding and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Florence R. Bartlett. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, JELLIES AND ICES. 

Prune Souffle. 

^ pound of prunes. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

12 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

Stew the prunes and cliop line: beat the eggs to a 
stil^ froth, stir in the sugar, and whip in very lightly 
the chopped prunes. Bake in quick oven 5 or 10 min- 
utes and serve immediately with cream. 

Mrs. S. 1). LoRiNG 



1 75 CHOICE RECIPES. 51 

Baked Apple Dksskrt. 

Pare and core choice cooking apples, fill the holes 
with hickory-nut meats and a little chopped apples: 
sprinkle with sugar and bake carefully so the apples 
will keep their shape. Serve cold, garnished with 
whipped cream. To be eaten with wafers. 

Mrs. Mary Strong Sukldon. 



Coffee Pudding. 

1 3^ cups of strong coffee. 

I cup of sugar. 

I cup of whipped cream. 

y2 box gelatine, dissolved in ^ cup of water. 

Add the gelatine to the coffee, which must be hot. 
When beginning to set, add cream and put into a 
mould. 

Miss E. S. L. Chase. 



Calla Lilies. 

I cup of sugar. 

I cup of flour. 

5 ^ggs, yelks and whites beaten separately. 

Stir into a batter and bake in a thin layer. When 
slightly cool, cut in squares and roll in the shape of a 
calla lily. When the callas are cold, lill with the fol- 
lowing mixture: ^ pint cream whipped to a stiff froth, 
seasoned with vanilla and sugar to taste, and the beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. A thin strip of 3^ellow orange peel 
inserted in the cream completes the resemblance. 



52 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Charlotte Russe. 

8 eggs. 2 cups of milk. 

^ stick vanilla. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

% box gelatine. i pint cream. 

Put the vanilla in the milk and let it come to a boil; 
add the eggs and sugar, and the gelatine which has 
been dissolved and strained: add the whipped cream, 
and put away in a mould to stiffen. Line the mould 
with ladyfingers, if desired. 

Mrs. L. Mayer. 

Dr. Smith's PuudiNg. 

% box of gelatine, dissolved in ^ cup of water. 

I quart of milk. Wine or vanilla. 

Yelks of 5 eggs. Whites of 5 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. 

Make a boiled custard with velks of eggs, sugar and 
milk, add gelatine and flavoring: when thickened add 
the well-beaten whites, and pour into a mould. 

Spanish Cream. 

I quart of milk. 4 eggs. 

^ ounce of gelatine. 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Dissolve the gelatine in i pint of the milk, then add 
the other pint and stir over the fire; beat the yelks of 
the eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls of the sugar, and stii" 
into the milk just before it boils; when it comes to a 
boil take it off and stir into it the whites of the eggs 
which have been beaten to a stiff froth with the 
remainder of the sugar. Flavor to taste. Pour into 
moulds. 

Mrs. Blancmi-: S. Dixiiaisi. 



175 CHOICE RECTPES. 53 

Cream du Cafe. 

I pint of rich cream, whipped light. 

y^ package of gelatine, dissolved in i cup of milk. 

I large cup of strong coffee. 

I cup of sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

i\dd the gelatine and sugar to the boiling coffee, 
strain and let cool: when the gelatine is perfectly cold, 
whip it by degrees into the beaten whites, until it is a 
firm froth, then add the whipped cream. Mould, serve 
with cream. 

Mrs. Blanchi: S. Dinham. 



PHii>AUEi.rHiA Pudding. 

5 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot. 

I quart of milk. 

lO bitter and 20 sweet almonds. 

I small cup of white sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

I cup of confectioner's sugar. 

Blanch and pound the almonds, dissolve the arrow- 
root in a Httle milk, boil the milk, add the cup of 
sugar, arrowroot and almonds, and let it come to a boil 
again, and put in a dish to cool. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar, spread on the pud- 
ding and set in the oven to brown. 

Apricot Crkam. 

One can of apricots, drain off the juice, add an equal 
quantity of water and i cup of sugar, boil until it begins 



54 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

to thicken, add the apricots and simmer lo minutes. 
Drain off syrup and put aside to use as a sauce after 
straining carefully. 

Cream. 

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch dissolved in a little 
cold milk, stir this into i quart of boiling milk, add 
3^elks of 3 eggs, sweeten, stir lo minutes, taking care 
that it does not boil, pour into a basin, whisk occasion- 
ally until nearly cold, then stir into it i ounce of gela- 
tine dissolved and nearly cold ; mix thorough^ together. 
Rinse a mould in cold water and. fill with alternate 
layers of apricot and cream. Use the syrup for sauce. 

Mrs. W. H. Bush. 



Ice-Cream. 

3 eggs. I pint of thick cream. 

I small cup of sugar. ^ teaspoonful of vanilla. 

I pint of milk. 

Boil in a double kettle the yelks of the eggs well 
beaten, the milk and the sugar, until a custard is 
formed of the consistency of thick cream. Cool thor- 
oughly to avoid curdling, add the vanilla and put in 
the freezer which must first be placed in the freezing- 
tub and the dasher put in place. Fill tub with broken 
ice and coarse salt, and turn freezer until it begins to 
turn hard. In the meantime beat the whites of the 
eggs until stiff and whip the cream, skimming off the 
froth as it forms, until all is whipped light. Carefully 
wipe ice and salt from freezer, remove cover and add 
eggs and cream. Close the freezer, add more ice and 
salt, if necessary, and turn until the dasher will not 



move. Keep packed in ice and sail until needed, turn- 
ing occasionally. The White Mountain freezer is the 
best, and it will take about ^ of an hour to freeze this 
amount, which is ample for five persons. This recipe is 
infallible if properly followed, and the cream is smooth 
and firm. 

Mrs. Cmarlks (jlv Boi.tk. 



Fine Chocolate Cream. 

Yi box of gelatine. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

I pint of milk. Yelks of 5 eggs. 

I ounce of chocolate. 

Scald the milk, add the grated chocolate and sugar, 
add the gelatine (dissolved and strained), then the well- 
beaten yelks. Set in a pan of ice water and stir often 
until it begins to thicken. Mould. Serve with cream. 

Edith Gifford. 



Italian Pudding. 

I quart of milk. 9 eggs. 

Leave out 4 whites. Let the milk scald with a little 

lemon peel to give it flavor. Beat the eggs with sugar 

very light, and stir into the milk after it is a little cool. 

Have ready a tin mould lined with i cup of burnt sugar, 

pour the custard in and bake slowly, setting the form in 

warm water. When it is cold turn out on a platter, 

the burnt sugar making a rich sauce: you can improve 

it with chopped blanched almonds. It takes some time 

to cool. 

Julia Ross Low, M.D. 



56 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Macaroon Cream. 

]/^ pound of macaroons. 

2 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

I heaping tablespoonful of flour. 

J4 cup of red raspberry jam. 

I cup of milk. . 

Grated rind of i lemon. 

I pint of cream. 

Line a deep glass dish with the macaroons, putting 
on each cake a teaspoonful of the jam. Make a boiled 
custard of the eggs, sugar, milk, flour and lemon rind, 
and when smooth and thick enough pour while hot over 
the macaroons, and set away to cool. Before serving 
add the cream, whipped to a froth. 

Mrs. Mixa Pfirshixg. 

Fruit Moulded in Jelly. 

Follow the directions given for orange jellw Upon 
the bottom of a dripping-pan place white paper, and 
upon this scatter candied fruit, fresh grapes, sections of 
orange, or strawberries, pour the jelly over this before 
it begins to thicken, cut into blocks and serve on a flat 
dish. Nice to serve with custards. 

Salted Al.monds. 

Blanch the almonds, place in a tin witli a small 
piece of butter, just enough to moisten the almonds, 
sprinkle with salt and place in the oven until they are a 
light brown; stir occasionally. 



175 riioirv: Rr.rii'KS. r,7 

Coffee Ice-Cream. 

2 quarts of cream. 2 tablespoonfuls of \anilla. 
2 cups of sugar. >< cup of very strong coffee. 

Scald the cream, melt the sugar in it and flavor when 
cool ; freeze. 

Pi \ KA PPl ,F S I \ KK I!FT. 

I V2 pint cans of pineapple, or, if fresh fruit is used, i 
large pineapple. 

A small pint of sugar. 

I pint of water. 

T tablespoonful of gelatine. 

Soak the gelatine i or 2 hours in enough cold water to 
cover ; cut the hearts and eyes from the fruit, chop it fine 
and add to the sugar and juice from the can; have half 
of the water hot and dissolve gelatine in it. stir this and 
the cold water into the pineapple. Freeze. The sher- 
bet will be white and creamy. 

?«hss P\iu.o,\. 



WllITF PLDDlNd. 

Whites of 4 eggs. ^ ;;/< cup of sugar. 

1 pint of niilk. ' Vanilla. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk, add to the 
boiling milk, also the sugar, and boil until it thickens; 
then flavor, and carefully add to the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth. Success depends upon manipu- 
lation ; the custard must be mixed with the agg in long 
strokes, not sHnrd; or it will not have the foamy appear- 
ance desired. 



58 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Bake a sponge-cake in a pudding dish ; when cool cut 
out the center, leaving only a thin shell, and fill with fol- 
lowing mixture: 

I pint of milk. 2 eggs. 

^ cup of flour. Pinch of salt. 

I cup of sugar. 

I lemon juice and grated rind. 

Cook until thick. Pour into the shell, and before serv- 
ing cover with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Frank Johnson. 

Old-Time Charlotte Russe. 

I pint of milk. y^ cup of sugar. 

y^ package of gelatine. Yelks of 4 eggs. 

I pint of cream. i sponge cake. 

Make a custard of the milk, eggs and sugar ; dissolve 
the gelatine and add to the custard after the custard is 
cold ; whip the cream and add it to the custard ; as the 
gelatine begins to harden, flavor with vanilla. Remove 
the center from around sponge cake, pour in the mixture, 
cover the top with whipped cream and serve very cold. 

ISIrs. M. a. Cu.m.mings. 

Banana P"loat. 

Half box Cox's gelatine dissolved in a cup of boiling 
water, add i pint of sweet milk, sweeten to taste and 
boil ; when cold, but not too stiff, stir in 6 bananas that 
have been broken up with a fork; mix well and set away 
to cool. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened, and 
flavored with vanilla: 

Mrs. Robert Babc ock 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 59 

Golden Bavarian Cream. 

}i box of Cox's gelatine. 

5 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

1 pint of fresh milk. 

i^ pint of sweet cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar. 
4 eggs. 

Soak gelatine in cold water till dissolved ; strain gela- 
tine into the milk, stir well and set aside to stiffen ; beat 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar and flavoring. 
When the milk is quite cold beat till smooth, then stir in 
the yelks of 2 eggs which have been beaten light; whip 
in the whites of the eggs and turn the whole into a glass 
dish to harden. 

Mrs. H. L. Frank. 



Tapioca Pudding. 

yi cup of tapioca soaked in i ^ cups milk or water. 

I quart of milk. A very little salt. 

^ cup of sugar. 3 eggs. 

Soak the tapioca over night ; in the morning scald the 
quart of milk, add tapioca and cook till clear, then add 
the yelks of the eggs, well beaten, and the sugar and salt ; 
stir well a few minutes and pour into a baking dish. 

Meringue. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir into 
them y^ of a cup of pulverized sugar and spread this over 
the pudding. (The pudding must be flavored with 
vanilla and the meringue with lemon.) Set the dish in 
the oven to brown. Serve cold. 

Mrs. G. W. Huddleston. 



60 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Orange Baskets. 

Cut as many oranges as will be required, leaving half 
the peel whole for the baskets, and a strip half an inch 
wide for the handle ; remove the pulp and juice, and use 
the juice in making orange jelly; fill the baskets with 
orange jelly. When ready to serve, put a spoonful of 
whipped cream over the jelly in each basket. 



Orange Jelly. 

i^ box ot gelatine. Juice of i lemon. 

i^ cup of cold water. i cup of sugar. 

I cup of boiling water. i pint of orange juice. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft, add the boil- 
ing water, sugar, lemon juice and orange juice ; stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, and strain. Add wine if desired. 

Mrs. D. a. Lincoln. 



Frozen Pudding. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar. 

y2 cupful of flour, scant measure. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of gelatine. 

I quart of cream. 

Yz pound of French candied fruit. 

4 tablespoonfuls of wine. 

Beat together the eggs, half the sugar and all the flour, 
and stir into the boiling milk ; cook 20 minutes, then add 
the gelatine which has been soaked in water enough to 
cover it, set away to cool, and when cool, add the wine, 
sugar and cream, freeze lo minutes, then add the can- 



died fruit and finish frcezinj^, take out the heater, pack 
smoothly and set away for an hour or two. Serve witli 
whipped cream. 

Mks. Amy Kno-^, 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

Hard Sal'ck. 

3 cupfuls of pulverized sugar. Velks of 2 eggs. 
I cupful of butter. Whites of 3 eggs. 

V2 cup sherry wine or yi teaspoonful vanilla. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add other ingredients and 
mix thoroughly. Set in hot water, but do not let it boil. 

Miss Mary K. Wmitinc,. 

StRUT'I'A. 
(SwKnisH Drssert.) 

5 eggs. 1 full cup of flour. 

I Y2 cups of sugar. 

Stir whites and yelks together with sugar, beat thor- 
oughly, add flour gradually until thick enough to pour ; 
heat a pan and wax with white wax, do not grease. When 
the pan has cooled, pour in the thinnest possible layer 
of batter and bake a" delicate brown. Cut into squares 
while hot and twist into cornucopias ; fill with whipped 
cream and white of ^^^, with sugar and jelly or jam 
beaten in. 

Mr.S. S. D. L(JRIN<i. 



Hard Sauce for Puddings. 
heaping tablespoonful of butter. 



02 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

I wine glass of sherry. 

Much more depends upon the manipulation than the 
ingredients. Mix your butter and sugar thoroughly and 
heat to a light cream, then add the wine (or flavoring ex- 
tract) drop by drop, still beating the mixture till every 
drop is incorporated into the butter and sugar in infin- 
itesimal particles. Set aside to cool thoroughly before 
using. 

L. G. Bedell. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Beat I ^'g'g and i cup of sugar to a froth. Beat this 
quickly into 6 tablespoonfuls boiling milk. Flavor. 

Mrs. F. S. Simmoxs. 

Maple-Sugar Sauce. 

Make a rich syrup of one scant cup of water and one 
heaping cup of maple sugar; let it boil about half an 
hour. When ready to serve stir into the boiling sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter mixed with one teaspoonful of 
flour. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

I tablespoonful of sugar. Bit of cinnamon. 

About 2 inches vanilla stick. Yelks of 2 eggs. 
I pint of milk. 

Put the flour into the milk, add the other ingredients 
and let it come to a boil, stirring constantly. 



Whipped Cream Sauce. 
I cup powdered sugar. 



175 < nolCE KECU'ES. 68 

1 egg, white and yelk beaten separately. 

2 cups whipped cream. 
Lemon, vanilla or wine. 

To the beaten white add the yelk of the Qgg and the 
siif^ar. Beat thoroughly, add flavoring and lastly the 
whipped cream. Delicious. 

Miss Pakfov. 



CAKE. 



Sunshine Cake. 

I cup of flour. I teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

Whites of 1 1 eggs. Yelks of 6 eggs. 

I ^2 cups fine sugar. i teaspoonful orange extract. 

Measure the flour after one sifting, then add cream of 
tartar and sift 4 times. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, add the sugar, then the beaten yelks, extract and 
finally flour. Line cake tin with ungreased paper, pour 
in mixture and bake forty minutes. Turn out at once. 

Mary Hyde. 

Filling for Layer Cake. 
I lemon grated. 
I apple grated. 

Put together and simmer enough to just cook the egg. 

Mrs. E. E. Woodward. 

Cream Cake. 

4 eggs. I cup of flour 

I cup of granulated sugar. 2 tcaspuonfuls baking 

Flavor with lemon. pewf^er- 



64 175 CHOICE RECirES. 

Cream. 

1 i^ cups of milk. i^^ cup sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch. Flavor with vanilla. 
Cook until smooth and spread between the cakes. 

Sprinkle the top layer with powdered sugar. 

Mrs. a. G. SpAULDixci. 



Bride's Cake. 

lyi pints flour. i small teacup of butter. 

I pint sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Whites 12 eggs. Flavor with almond or vanilla. 

Mr.s. Senouk. 



Caramel Cake. 

2 cups of sugar. i cup of milk. 

1 cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 
Whites of five eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 

Filling. 

2 cups of brown sugar, 
i cup of cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
i teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Boil until thick. This quantity will make a cake of 
four layers; the caramel will cover the entire outside 
of the cake. When rightly made this is one of the finest 
cakes. Judgment must be used in determining when 
the Caramel is done. One: mode of testing it is to drop 
It intb" Vater; if it remair**^ '^ti form it iv« done. Use ?? 
^ilvef=' fehiff in fro.'^tin^. 

Mm§, Gilbert Pftirb'it 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 65 

Whitp: Layer Cake. 
3 whites of eggs. % cup of milk. 

i4 cup of butter. ly^ teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 
I cup of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

Stir the whites of eggs and the flour together the 
last thing. Will make one loaf of three layers. 

Raisin mixture for white layer cake: % pound of 
raisins, stone and chop flne : add ^ teacupful of water 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Place on stove 
and cook until it becomes pasty. Place this mixture 
between each layer of cake w^ith frosting on top. 

Mrs. Helkn S. Shedd. 



Water Pound Cake. 

^ cup of butter. 3 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar. i cup of water. 

3 eggs. Flavor with almond. 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat whites and 
yelks separately; add the whites last. 

p. M. B. 



Lemon Jelly for Layer Cake. 

Beat the white of 1 ^gg to a stiff froth, add two cups 
of powdered sugar, and the grated rind and juice of 
2 lemons. This will make enough for three cakes and 
frosting', 

MR6. B. M. HlNCKLBY, 



66 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Soft Spanish Gingerbread. 

I cup of butter. i cup of molasses. 

I cup of sugar. i cup of sour cream. 

4 eggs. 3 cups of flour. 

I tablespoonful of ginger, i teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

I teaspoonful of cloves. i teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix part of the flour with the butter, sugar, molasses 
and sour cream, to which add the yelks of four eggs 
well beaten, then the spices, and last the whites of four 
eggs and the rest of the flour. Bake moderately fast. 

Mrs Mary C. Leuthstrom. 



Banana Cake. 

5 whites of eggs. >^ cup of butter. 

I cup of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

^ cup of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 
Filling. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of water. Boil to a syrup. 

Stir slowly into the syrup while hot the whites of 2 
eggs well beaten. Spread each layer with the syrup; 
slice bananas very thin and cover the syrup. 

Mrs. Robert Babcock. 



Gossamer Gingerbread. 

1 cup of butter. i cup of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. 3j^ cups of flour. 
I tablespoonful of ginger. 2 eggs. 

Beat butter and sugar together. Have tin sheets 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 67 

without any edge buttered, put i tablespoonful of the 
mixture on each tin, and spread as thin as you can with 
a knife. Have oven well heated, but not too hot. 
Serve on tlie tins as they are taken from the oven. 

Mrs. B. M. IIincklev. 



Vanilla Cake. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

lYz cups of powdered sugar. 

1}^ cups of butter. 

y^ cup of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

2 cups of flour, or i ^ cups of flour and i^ cup of 
cornstarch. 

Cream the butter and sugar, to which add the milk, 
then the flour, baking powder, vanilla, last the whites 
of the eggs; bake in layers. 

Icing. 

Make icing of the whites of 2 eggs, season with i 
teaspoonful of vanilla, and place between the layers. 

Mrs. W. S. Chapman. 

Sponge Cake. 

3 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water. 

I very full cup of flour. 

I even teaspoonful of baking powder. 

A few drops of vanilla. 

Beat together the yelks and cup of sugar, then the 



68 175 CHOICE RECII'KS. 

water, add to this flour, baking powder and vanilla, 
last the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and stir only 
enough to mix well. 

Helen Leeds Mitchell. 

Gingerbread. 

I cup of boiling water. i^ cup of butter. 

I cup- of best N. O. molasses. 2^ cups of flour. 
I even teaspoonful of soda. Ginger to taste. 

Mrs. L. M, Heywood. 

Tumbler Cake. 

I tumbler butter. 2 tumblers raisins. 

3 tumblers sugar. 3 tumblers sour milk. 

51^ tumblers of flour. Spice to taste. 

Stir butter and sugar to a cream; then add two tum- 
blers of the milk ; in the third dissolve two small tea- 
spoonfuls of soda. Add the other ingredients. Bake in 
two loaves, ^ of an hour. 

Mrs. M. L. Brown. 

OR.A.NGE Cake. 

i^ cup of butter. ^ cup sweet milk. 

I cup of sugar. 2 cups of flour. 

3 eggs. I teaspoonful of baking 

Bake in layer tins. powder. 

Filling for Orange Cake. 

Boil I cup of powdered sugar and 4 tablespoonfuls of 
water until it strings when dropped from the spoon. 
Pour this in a fine stream upon the beaten white of one 
Ggg ; beat until nearly cold; use half the grated peel and 
pulp of a large orange, carefully removing all the inner 



175 <'-H()ICE KKCIPES. 6j| 

skin. This will make a sufficient quantity to spread be- 
tween the layers and over the top. 

Mary S. Sr.AnE. 

Doughnuts. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 cups of milk. 
I cup of butter. i cup of yeast. 

3 eggs. I grated nutmeg. 

Set the mixture at night, in the morning knead and 
make into cakes. When light fry. 

Mrs. Blanche Dunham. 

Holland Jumbles. 

^ pound of butter. ^ pound of flour. 

^ pound of sugar. 2 eggs. 

Save a portion of the sugar to roll the batter in. Form 
into rings with your hands, as the batter is so rich you 
cannot use a rolling pin. 



Quick Loaf Cake. 

I scant pound of flour. ^ pound of sugar. 

^ pound of butter. 3 eggs. 

I wine glass of wine. ^ pint of milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Ida M. Lane. 



Spice Cake. 

3 cups of very brown sugar. ^ cup of lard. 

I cup of butter. i^ cup of molasses. 

I cup of milk. S}4 cups of flour. 

4 ^g&s. I cup of raisins. 



70 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

I tablespoonful of cinnamon. i cup of currants. 
I teaspoonful of cloves. i^^ tup of citron. 

I teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup of hickor3^-nut meats may be added or omitted 
at pleasure. 

This will make 2 cakes. 

Sara C. Purdy. 



Connecticut Loaf Cake. 

I cup of milk. I cup of lard. 

I cup of yeast. 2 eggs. 

I cup of sugar. 

Stir up with enough flour to make a stiff batter, and 
let it rise over night. In the morning add 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

I egg. _ • 

1 pound of seeded raisins. 

2 wineglasses of brandy with a little soda dissolved 
in it. 

I nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Divide into loaves when quite light. Bake in a 
moderately heated oven. 

Mrs. a. G. Pkttiboxe. 



Hickory-Nut Cake. 

j4 cup of butter. 1 1^ cups of sugar. 

Whites of 3 eggs. i cup of hickory-nut meats. 

2 cups of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
^ cup of milk. powder. 



175 choice recipes. 71 

Golden Cream Cake. 

I cup of sugar. ]^ cup of butter. 

y^ cup of sweet milk. 1 1/^ cups of flour. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, flour and lastly 
whites of eggs beaten to a froth. Bake in 3 la^^ers. 

C3-Ex\M FRILLING. 

I pint of thick cream beaten until it is like ice-cream, 
sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Blanch and chop ^ 
pound of almonds, stir into the cream, and put between 
the cakes. 



PRESERVES, ETC. 



West India Preserves. 

Use small yellow or white tomatoes si^e and shape 
of plums, wash carefully without breaking. 

To 10 pounds of fruit use 

10 pounds of sugar. 

3 lemons, sliced fine. 

y^ pound of large raisins. 

I ounce of white ginger-root. 

Dissolve sugar in water, pour boiling over the fruit 
and let it stand over night. Then simmer till the fruit 
is perfectly tender. When half done add lemons and 
raisins and ginger. 

Very rich and very handsome. 

Miss Edith Gifford- 



72 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

Scotch Orange Marmalade. 

Take i dozen Seville (bitter) oranges, wash and wipe 
them carefully, take a large, wide-mouthed stone or 
earthenware jar, and for each orange pour into the jar i 
pint of pure cold water ; with a very sharp broad-bladed 
knife slice the oranges as thin as possible, rejecting the 
seeds only, slice them on a plate ; as the plate is filled 
pour into the jar ; when all the oranges are sliced cover 
the jar and let it stand about twelve hours ; in the morn- 
ing pour the contents of the jar into a porcelain preserv- 
ing kettle and boil for one hour, then add a pint of sugar 
for each oi-.uige ; boil slowly for another hour, watching 
and stirring carefully to prevent stic' ing or burning; 
use a silver or wooden spoon ; at the end of the second 
hour add two lemons, sliced as thin as the oranges, or as 
thin as paper ; at the end of the third hour, if of the con- 
sistency of marmalade, remove from the fire and when 
thoroughly cold fill little jars or pots and cover. 

Miss Lizzie Copelix. 



Pumpkin Chips. 

4 pounds of pumpkin. 4 pounds of sugar. 

I dozen lemons. 

Pare, slice thin and cut with scissors the pumpkin, put 
into a bowl and cover with 4 pounds of sugar and the 
juice of I dozen lemons ; let it stand over night , boil the 
lemon peel till tender, scrape off all the bitter part, chip 
like the pumpkin, boil all together about two hours till 
quite crisp ; put away in glass jars and paste covers on, 
Makes delicious marmalade. 



175 (^HOTCE RECIPES. 7S 

Spiced Grapes. 



7 pounds of grapes. 

^ pint of vinegar. 

3 pounds of light brown sugar. 

Spice of all kinds to taste. 

Boil until thick. To be eaten with meat. 



PICKLES. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

400 small cucumbers or " Tiny Tims." 

Vinegar enough to cover. 

2 tablespoonfuls black mustard seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls white mustard seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls celery seed. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

I handful of juniper berries (to be found at any drug 
store). 

}4 dozen green or red peppers. 

Alum size of a walnut. 

Lay the cucumbers in salt for 3 days, then put them 

in vinegar and water, equal parts, with the alum dis 

solved in it ; there must be sufficient vinegar and water 

to cover the pickles ; let them stand on the back of the 

stove and keep warm for half a day, take them out ot 

this and pour over them enough boiling vinegar to cover 

them ; do this three times, using same vinegar each time ; 

then take fresh vinegar (enough to cover), put in the 

juniper berries, spices, etc., let it come to a boil and pour 

scalding hot water over pickles. Put away in jars not 

covered too tight. 

Mrs. S. W. Chapman. 



74 175 CHOICE RECIPES, 

Mustard Pickles. 

2 quarts of cucumbers. 

2 quarts of green tomatoes. 

2 quarts of onions. 

2 quarts of cauliflower or cabbage. 

I gallon of strong vinegar. 

I large cup of flour. 

I pound of mustard. 

I % pounds of sugar. 

Cook cucumbers, tomatoes, onions and cauliflower 
each separately till tender, then mix the flour, mustard 
and sugar with vinegar, stir while it boils and pour hot 
over the pickles. This pickle will keep a year. 

Mrs. S. a. Sears. 



Cucumber Relish. 

12 large green cucumbers. 

12 large white onions. 

6 green peppers. 

i^ pound white mustard seed. 

^ pound black mustard seed. 

I cup of celery seed. 

I cup of salt. 

Wash the cucumbers, pare them and take out seeds ; 
chop the cucumbers, onions and peppers together, quite 
fine, then add the mustard and celery seed and salt. 
Mix all together and hang in a thin cotton bag to drain 
for 24 hours ; put into stone jars and cover with clear, 
cold vinegar, tie them up and set away ; in six weeks 
it will be ready for use. 

Mrs. E. M. Phelps. 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 75 

Juniper Pickle. 

Soak 300 small cucumbers in brine over night ; in the 
morning pour off brine and wash them. Have ready 
I gallon of cider vinegar, into which throw 
I handful small green peppers. 
I quart of small onions. 
13^ ounces of white mustard seed. 
I yi ounces black mustard seed. 

1 yi ounces of celery seed. 

7 ounces of juniper berries (from the drug store). 

2 pounds of brown sugar. 

Let this come to a boil and scald the pickles 
thoroughly, till well seasoned. When ready to bottle 
add I quart of Cross %i Blackwell's English chow-chow 
and a spoonful of ground mustard mixed with cold 
vinegar. 

Miss Mary Ewing. 



Pickled Pears. 

I pint of vinegar. 

I pound of sugar. 

Yz pound of raisins, spices, cinnamon and whole 
cloves tied in a bag. 

Cook pears till soft, but not broken, in this syrup. This 
recipe is very nice, the raisins give a fine flavor. They 
should not be cooked too long as they look better whole. 
I always peel my pears but keep them whole, also. 

Mrs. E. M, Phelps. 



76 175 CHOICE RECIPES. 

BEVERAGES. 

Cream Nectar. 

2 ounces of tartaric acid. Juice of ^ lemon. 

2 1^ pounds of sugar. 3 pints of water. 

Boil all together five minutes. When nearly cold 
add whites of 3 eggs well beaten with i^ cup of flour 
and r ounce of essence of wintergreen. Bottle and keep 
in a cool place. To a glass of cold water use i table- 
spoonful of the nectar, add y^ teaspoonful of soda and 
stir briskh^ 

Emma S. L. Chase. 

Elderberry Wine. 

Equal parts of juice and water. To every gallon 
add 3 pounds of brown sugar. Spice to taste with 
cloves and cinnamon. x\dd i cup of yeast, let it stand 
and ferment, then bottle. 

Lemon Beer. 

Slice 12 large lemons, sprinkle with i pound of 
white sugar, and put into a stone jar. Add i gallon of 
boiling water and let stand until cool, then add % cup 
of yeast, let stand until it ferments, then bottle and 

cork tightly. 

M. A. Farnham. 



Hop Beer. 

Boil I quart of hops two hours, strain into a pail of 
cold water (size of patent-pail), add i quart of molasses 



175 CHOICE RECIPES. 77 

and I teacup of yeast; have the mixture at blood-heat 
when the yeast is added. Put into a stone jar and let 
stand until morning, when it will be ready to bottle. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

lo quarts red raspberries. 

2 quarts wine vinegar. 

11^ pounds sugar for every quart juice. 

Pul the berries in a stone jar, mash them and pour 
the vinegar over them, stir well and let stand for 24 
hours, press out the juice and strain, and let stand over 
night, pour the juice off from the sediment and to 
every quart of juice add i i^ pounds sugar, boil up, let 
cool and bottle. 



" I have formed a settled conviction that the world 
is fed too much. Pastries, cakes, hot bread, rich gra- 
vies, pickles, pepper sauces, salads, tea and coffee are 
discarded from my ' bill of fare,' and I firmly believe 
that they will be from the recipes of the twentieth cent- 
ury. Entire wheat flour bread, vegetables, fruit, fish 
with a little meat, and milk as the chief drink, will dis- 
till in the alembic of the digestive organs into pure, 
rich, feverless blood, electric but steady nerves, and 
brains that can ' think God's thoughts after Him ' as 
they have never yet been thought. This is my recipe : 
'■Plain living and high thinking^ and this is my warn- 
ing: With high living yoti will get exceedingly plain 
thinking. Yours for stomachic rights, 

''Frances E. Willard." 



KINDLINGmMAPLE. 



The Provident Wood Yard 

of the CHARITY ORGANIZATION SOCIETY carries a full stock of Dry Pine 
KincUing and Maple, and sells it at the current market price bv the cord or less. 
FULL MEASURE, GOOD OUALITY and PROMPT DELIVERY 
GUARANTEED. 

Transient Male Help Furnished Promptly Without Charge. 

Support the yard by buying its merchandise, and send all male applicants for 
charity to it for temporary relief by work. Address 

395 N. CLARK STREET. 

Telephone 773. 



TAKE YOUR 

DYEING AND CLEANING 

TO 

THIE OLID 

f^Mm Inland D jeinj E^M^Jmeni 



The Oldest and Most Reliable Concern of the 
kind in the country. 



OFFICE AT 

42 East Madisou Street, - - - CHICAGO. 



ALEX. M. THOMSON, President. JAS. E. TAYLOR, Vice-President. 

GEO. THOMPSON, Secretary and Treasurer. 



-f TUDB ^ 



Thomson & Taylor Spice Company, 



Manufacturers of 



PURE SPICES, 

Baking Powder and Flavoring Extracts, 

BLUIHG, LYE AND POTASH. 



30 to 40 South 'Water Street, 

CHICAGO. 



CHE-NE-QUA. 



The analyses of the water from this spring on 
JUDGE M. F. Tuley's farm, Waukesha Co., Wis., 
shows it to be a very vakiable, pure water, re- 
niarkabl}' free from lime and organic matter. 



As a Table Water it is 



It has proven to be a great curative agent in 
Dyspepsia and in all diseases of the kidneys and 
bladder. 



Delivered, Ten Gallons, $1.00. 



A1>DRES.S ; 



THE CHE-NE-QUA CO., 

15 Vau Buieu St., Chicago. 



TjiLErHUNE bTiH. 





:^jeAjf 




Will not Unhook \vhile being \A/'orn. 



SUPERIORITY OF STYLE, 

PBRKECT KITTINQ 

Manufactured in High and Medium Grrades. 



FOR SALE BY FIRST-CLASS DEALERS. 



WORCESTER CORSET CO., 



218 A 220 Market Street, 



CHICAGO, ILL. 



THE CHICAGO 



^cjool of Coolj^ei'g and [lou^ewoi'l^, 

Under the auB])ices of the 

KITCHEN GARDEN ASSOCIATION, 

IS NOW OPEN AT 209 CHICAGO AVENUE. 



LESSONS GIVEN 

Kvery morning and alternate afternoons and evenliigs, at 9 A.M. 
2 P.M. and 7 P.M. 



TERMS REASONABLE. FURNISHED ON APPLICATION. 



CAN BE CURED 



BY HOMCEOPATHir 



A COUGH 

BRONCHIAL SYRUP, 

For Coughs, Croup, Bronchitis, Sore Throat and 
Colds. A simple, safe and effectual remedy. 

PER BOTTLE, 50 CENTS. 



CARBO-PEPTINE WAFERS 

Are successful in Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Heartlmrn, Waterbrash, 
Nausea, Morning Sickness, etc. Sold in bottles of lOO doses, SOc. 

Order through your Drujjgist, or of 

lHAl^SEir BROS., 

Chicago Homoeopathic Pharmacy, 

Branch in Detroit, 29 La Fayette Ave. 27 Washington St. . CHICAGO. 



HARRIBX HUBBARD AYKR, 

27 Union Square. 

LADIES, READ THIS. 

AVER'S RECAMIER CREAM 

— AND — 

FOR THE COMPLEXION. 



POSITIVELY umde from a recipe used for years by the beautiful 

Mme. de Kecamier, and purchased from her descendant, 

a French Countess, by Mrs. Ayer, and NEVER 

before manufactured for sale. 

If used according to directions the '-Recamier Cream '" will positively remove 
tan, sunburn, and all eruptions and irritations from the skin. The Balm is not 
a vulgar whitewash or so-called enameJ, but an absolutely harmlees liquid, imper- 
ceptible under the closest scrutiny, except in the delicate freshness and youthful- 
ness it imparts to the skin. 

WHAT MKS. JAMES BKOWN POTTER SAYS: 

Tuxedo Ci.ub, Tuxedo Park, New York, Oct. 29. 
Lear Madam:— I am using the pot of Recamier Cream you so kindly sent me, 
and find it all you claim it to be. It will be one of my articles of toilet from this 
time forth. I consider it a luxury and necessity to every woman, young or old. 
With renewed thanks for introducing me to your delightf ill Recamier Cream, 

I am trulv, 

CORA URQUHART POTTER. 
Mrs. James Brown Potter to Mrs. H. H. Ayer. 

Mrs. Langtry writes Mrs. Ayer : " I use Recamier Cream religious!}'. ^^ 

LiLii ±jA.N VT i jtv X . 

Mrs. Le Breton, Mrs. Langtrv's mother, says: "Mrs. Langtry is perfectly de- 
lighted with vour Recamier preparations. Please send her six JaifJIith bill. 
She wishes to give it to some friends. M. Le BKHilOJN. 

The original letters from which the following extracts are printed, are from the 
Innumerable numbers of unsolicited testimonials daily received, and can be seen 
on application at our office, No. '^7 Union Square: 

" Recamier Cream should be on every toilet table in the country I do not see 
how I have existed without it."' 

" I can defy winds and sun now, and for the first time in my life am not obliged 
to wear a veil, as the delicious Recamier Cream used at night repairs every 
damage done by day." 

Price :— Recamier Cream, $1.30. Recamier Balm, $1.50. 

For sale by all di-uggists, and at wholesale and retail by 

Harriet Hubbard Ayer, 27 Union Square. New York, 




James H. Walker & Co., 

Wabash-av. and Adams-st. 
^ HEADQUARTERS FOR ^ 

STABLE LINENS.* 

§UR DEPARTMENT of Table Linens comprises all the latest and best 
Scotch, Irish, German and French goods, and is ackru)wledged to be the 
most complete of its kind in the conntrv. For quality, variety and low 
prices, we mean to maintain the reputation already established. Besidee 
all substantial vveaves of heavy cream and white damasks and other linens 
by the yard or jiiece, we offer the following: 

Momic Table Sets, all sizes, in plain and drawn work. Damask Table 
Sets, all sizes, in fancy borders, in pink, blue, old gold, brown and red. Elegant 
iBroche L<iincli Sets, in white and cream ground, \^•ith a vine in red and old gold. 
Four o'clock Tea Cloths, quite new. Crermaii hand euibroidered Tea 
Sets. Hemstiti^h Side Koard Covers. Heinstitcli Finjjer BoavI Doylies. 
Silk and L.inen Finger Bowl Doylies, a full line. Silk and Linen Tray 
Cloths. Silk and Linen Stand Covers. Side Board Covers, drawn work, 
various sizes. Side Board Covers, in all desirable colors. Madras Tidies, 
a very choice assortment. 

Mail orders from any part of tbe country given careful attention. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 485 293 A • 



7X 



s4r 



