Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



y.a-*-/-^ 



I 



IRAPCUFFE COIIEGE UBRARY( 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

1960 



]i..,i..ri, iir„n,„. Jii-iDi 

■1 1 



'J 



/■/fu^-^f /../. />^ '»-•-"'> 

/ / 



/ 







MRS. SHILLABER'S COOK-BOOK: 



PRACTICAL GUIDE FOR HOUSEKEEPERS- 



BY 



LYDIA SHILLABER. 



WITH INTRODUCTION BY MRS, PARTINGTON 



"The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Is through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 



NEW YORK: 

THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO. 

No. 13 AsTOR Place. 



^3t^74%U,^4- 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

REQUEST OF 

MRS. CNESTEK N GREEN0U6H 

IEPTEM6ER 20, 1926 



Copyright, i887» 
By T. Y. Cbowbll & Co. 






PREFACE. 



It might seem to a superficial observer that there 
are cookery-books and housekeeping manuals in abun- 
dance already before the public. 

But a practical attempt to apply the most of these 
to the everyday wants of . the average household, 
proves that there is need of a safe guide for the house- 
wife who must do her own work or teach and direct 
unskilled help. 

It is the object of this work to supply this long- 
felt want. Therefore, we have given the most of our 
space to plain, practicable rules, suitable for common 
use. We have given a list of the articles needed, at 
the head of each receipt, so that it can be seen at a 
glance whether the ingredients called for are at hand, 
and what sort of material is required. 

We have been explicit in our directions, even at 
the risk of repeating them more than once, or of 
telling what "everybody knows." Only those who 
have trodden the untried ways themselves can under- 



iv PREFACE, 

Stand the snares and pitfalls into which the inex- 
perienced may be led by the mysteries of a cooking 
receipt. 

Those who have servants competent to carry on an 
establishment without superintendence, do not need 
a housekeeping manual. But in the chaotic state of 
domestic service in this country, such a condition of 
things is rare and by no means to be depended 
upon; for at any time the mistress of a household 
is liable to be left alone, or at the mercy of the utterly 
raw material that is stranded upon our shores to be 
educated and utilized as " help." It is therefore for 
the interest of every woman who undertakes the care 
of a house to inform herself of how.things should be 
done, even though she hopes never to be obliged to 
do them. 

An expert manager, with an intelligent knowledge 
of domestic affairs, who can, if occasion requires, 
illustrate as well as explain, may obtain good results 
from the most unpromising appearances ; while the 
mistress ignorant of household duties does not even 
know whether she is well served ; and to her, house- 
keeping is a perpetual torment. 

There are many housekeepers, of whom circum- 
stances require the daily sacrifice of strength as well 
as of thought, and who grow prematurely old under 
the care of an increasing family. They realize from 



PREFACE, V 

tired experience the truism that "woman's work is 
never done." A lady distinguished in literature, who 
is also a skilful housekeeper, has made the following 
ingenious application of one of Alice's adventures 
in the Looking-glass, which will seem no absurdity to 
these overburdened house-mothers. 

" When Alice was in the Looking-glass world, she 
was greatly surprised, when, in the middle of a con- 
versation with the queen, that the lady seized her 
hand and began running rapidly. After they had 
run awhile, Alice perceived that they were in the 
same place, and naturally inquired what it meant. 
Said the queen, 'Our world revolves so rapidly that 
we have to run like this in order to remain in the 
same place ; when we wish to go anywhere we have 
to run twice as fast.' Thus it is with housekeepers. 
They are obliged to maintain a lively run, in order 
to stay just where they are and keep from getting 
behindhand ; and when they wish to gain a day, they 
must go twice as fast." 

It is to such busy workers, especially if they be 
young and unskilful, that we offer practical aid, by 
telling them what others have learned in the dear 
school of experience, thus saving valuable material 
and more valuable time from being wasted in experi- 
ment ; though we also hope to bring new ideas and 
the spice of variety to the wisest. 



Vi PREFACE, 

All our rules have been tested by good house- 
keepers, and though everything must be seasoned 
with " a grain of common sense," the best quality of 
which IS obtained from experience, we have tried to 
make our directions as plain as possible, that no Bella 
Wilfer in search of the available may apostrophize 
our book as a "stupid old donkey." 



-i 



MRS. PARTINGTON'S OPINION 



or 



MRS. SHILLABER'S COOK-BOOK. 



"Well, well," said Mrs. Partington, her spec- 
tacles beaming with delight, as she turned over the 
leaves of the new cookery-book, " I declare it excites 
my salvation glands, even to read the names of these 
good things. It seems as though the greatest epicac 
might find something among all these meats and 
cosmetics to give a jest to appetite. 

" It is such a benefice to housekeepers who have 
exasperated all their receipts and are tired of their 
own cooking ; especially where it isn't affordable to 
keep a domestic, and they have to cook themselves." 

She read on with increasing interest, and it was 
pleasure to watch the emotions expressed on her face, 
that, like a sensitive photographic plate, revealed her 
reflections. 

"The good Lord sends vittles," she continued, 
"and his intentions should be carried out in the cook- 
ing of 'em, which doesn't always follow, sometimes. 



viii MRS, PARTINGTON'S OPINION 

where good things are thrown together anyhow and 
left to come out the best they can. 

"Ah, many a fair home has b*een dessicated by 
poor cooking, and a man's table is often the rock on 
which his happiness has split, with bread so hard you 
could throw it at a stone wall. 

"If a man's as pieus as Beelzebub his stomach 
can't stand everything. 

" Now a book like this will come into a house like 
an oasis in the desert of great Sarah, and be a quar- 
antine of perpetual peace. 

"Better is a stolid ox and contention therewith, 
than — 

" Isaac, dear, if you are so glutinous, that mince-pie 
will stick in your sarcophagus, and kill you within an 
inch of your life." 

" It can't stick long," said Ike, as plainly as he 
could articulate with his mouth full. 

" Why can't it, if you glutinize it so } " asked 
Mrs. P. 

" 'Cause the crust is so shorty'' said Ike jocosely ; 
"besides it can't stay stuck, — it's a turnover^ 

Mrs. Partington settled the question by turning 
over the remainder of the pie into a clean plate and 
setting it upon the top shelf. But she smiled appre- 
ciatively as Ike departed with a quarter section of 
the comestible in his hand, and murmured, — 

" He is such a funny boy ! So full of humors ! " 



THINGS FOR A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

TO REMEMBER, 



That all experienced housekeepers were once be- 
ginners, and blundered and wasted as you do. 

That a cooking receipt should be followed exactly 
the first time it is used. After that it may be modi- 
fied to suit the taste and judgment of the cook. 

That stingy or lazy people never make good cooks. 
It requires plenty of good* materials and much care 
in their preparation to accomplish the best results in 
this important branch of domestic science. 

That " variety is the spice of life " at the table as 
well as elsewhere. Though it may be a saving of 
trouble to have a routine laid out for every day, it is 
exceedingly monotonous. Avoid the fashion that pre- 
vails in some boarding-houses of announcing the day 
of the week by the odor from the kitchen, the boiled 
meat and vegetables coming around as regularly as 
the Thursday, and a breakfast of fish-hash and a 
dinner of chowder being as inevitable as the Friday. 
A dainty surprise will often tempt back a lost or 



X THINGS EOR A 

wandering appetite, and thought is as essential in 
the kitchen as in the parlor or library. 

That a generous wholesome diet is less expensive 
than doctors' bills, and less trouble than the care of 
the sick ; and no money or time spent in furnishing 
it is wasted. 

That while " economy is wealth," and nothing of 
use should be thrown away, it is the worst sort of 
waste to try, by any artifice of cookery or disguise 
of condiments, to insinuate things unfit to be eaten 
into people's stomachs. It is criminal to impede the 
delicate processes of Nature, by compelling her to do 
scavenger work. 

That there is a limit to the labor that can be 
accomplished by one pair of hands ; therefore resolve 
that the non-essentials only shall be neglected. The 
daily comfort of the family, and the mental and moral 
training of the children, are of more importance than 
frosted fruit-cake for company, or embroidered pillow- 
shams and mantel lambrequins in the guest-chamber. 
Beautiful things are the ornaments of everyday life, 
not its substance. 

That no service can be menial that is sweetened by 
love and duty. One can do anything for one's own, 
and the work of the mistress should therefore be 



YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER TO REMEMBER. xi 

much better than that of the maid ; though even of 
her lowly tasks the good Geo. Herbert says; — 

** A servant with this clause 
Makes drudgery divine. 
Who sweeps a room as to Thy laws 
Makes that and the action fine.^^ 

When you especially realize your tired feet, and 
aching back, and coarse, red hands, try also to appre- 
ciate the greatness in littleness, the nobleness under- 
lying the pettiness of your office. If you belong to 
the noble army of martyrs who are daily sacrificing 
themselves upon the domestic altar, — conscious that 
they are capable of higher service, — let these words 
of Ruskin's encourage you. 

" Every action, however mean or inconsiderable, is 
capable of a peculiar dignity in the manner of it, 
and a still higher dignity in the motive of it. For 
there is no action so slight but it may be done to a 
great purpose, and ennobled therefore." 



THREE ROYAL RULES FOR THE QUEEN 

OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 



First Be systematic ! "An hour lost in the morn- 
ing may be chased all day " ; and a duty omitted till 
a more convenient season may put the whole domes- 
tic machinery out of gear. 

Second, Be punctual ! and require others to be so. 
Do not have it understood that you furnish " meals 
at all hours.'* The table should be the rendezvous 
from which neither business nor pleasure should keep 
any member of the household. The meal-times will 
be the most cheerful seasons of the day to the whole 
family, with the right sort of a meal and the right 
sort of a family. 

Third, Be serene ! A prompt and systematic 
housekeeper may be a great tyrant. If the greatest 
good of the greatest number requires a change of 
routine, do not be upset by it. The greatest good 
is a happy home, which is an impossibility without 
a happy mistress. Even the unexpected arrival of 
company to dinner, on the busiest of days, should be 
met with equanimity. Cordial hospitality is good 
sauce, even though there be a scant supply of pud- 
ding. 



THINGS HANDY TO HAVE IN THE 

HOUSE. 



« 



ECONOMY IS WEALTH." 



FOR COOKING PURPOSES. 

Stale bread will make excellent cream or water 
toast, and good puddings. When not wanted for 
immediate use, it may be dried in a slow oven, and 
rolled or pounded into crumbs. It may then be used 
for puddings, or for stuffing for fowl, or for breading 
meat or oysters, or for scalloped oysters. 

Cake, a little stale, may be used instead of bread 
for a pudding, when less sugar is required than for a 
bread pudding, as the cake is already sweet. It will 
also make an excellent Tipsy-Parson (see rule). 

Crackers, which have become soft by being kept, 
can be freshened and made crisp by putting them in 
the oven a few minutes. Cracker crumbs can be 
used for the same purposes as bread crumbs. 

Drippings, — the skimmings of roast-beef gravy, or 
of soup stock before vegetables are added, or of the 
water in which corned beef has been boiled, — can be 
used in place of lard or cooking-butter. The rem- 



xiv THINGS HANDY TO 

nants of the fat of roast beef may be melted in the 
oven, and all these will serve as well for gingerbread 
and frying purposes as more expensive shortening. 
The dripping should be heated, and all carefully 
strained, taking care that it be not scorched. It is 
doubtful economy to save mutton fat, the taste of 
which is easily detected and disagreeable to many ; 
or ham fat, which is liable to be smoky, unless for 
soap-grease. 

FOR CLEANSING PURPOSES. 

A can of lye should always stand beside the soap- 
dish. It must be used with care, as it will burn any- 
thing it touches, if strong. Dissolve it in hot water, 
and wash the sink with it every day or two. It will 
remove grease and other obstructions from the pipes, 
and keep them clear. If your pots and pans have 
been left rough and greasy by the last " hired girl," 
they can be made smooth and clean by a few hours' 
soaking in lye water. 

A bottle of ammonia (reduced one half) is handy 
to have in the kitchen to remove obdurate spots 
from the floor, the kitchen table, or the sink shelves. 
Keep it out of the way of the children. A table- 
spoonful or two, added to a pail of water, will assist 
a great deal in cleaning paint, and is better than soap 
for cleaning glass. 



HAVE IN THE HOUSE, xv 

Oxalic acid dissolved in water will clean your 
copper boiler. It is a deadly poison, and if you have 
a servant that cannot be trusted to keep it away from 
the food and the children, it is better to use salt and 
vinegar, which will answer very well. 

The dishes are the most significant symbol of the 
housekeeping. That they may be smooth, clean, and 
shining there must be plenty of hot water ; an abun- 
dance of clean towels, coarse and fine ; a dish-cloth ; 
a handled dish-mop for pitchers, etc. ; an iron dish- 
cloth for pots and kettles. 

The towels and dish-cloths should be washed and 
perfectly dried, in the open air if possible, after each 
using, that no musty smell may cling to the dishes 
after they are wiped. 

All tin or iron-ware should be thoroughly dried 
on the back of the range before being set away. 

Cleaning and dusting cloths should be regularly 
washed and taken care of. This is a hard saying, 
where it is to be done by the average servant, who 
thinks it doesn't pay to wash old rags, and who never 
knows what becomes of them after they are used. 

Dusting cloths that are neatly hemmed stand a 
chance of turning up again after the wash. Cheese 
cloth, which can be bought at three or four cents a 
yard, makes good dusters. 



SERVANTS. 



■ Ot 



A HOUSEKEEPING manual would probably be con- 
sidered incomplete, without some remarks in regard 
to the management of servants. 

To give peremptory directions for the treatment 
of servants, seems almost as absurd as to lay 
down rules for the bringing up of children. In most 
of the experiences of life, general rules fail to meet 
particular cases, and then the only appeal is to good 
sense and judgment. 

Each servant requires different management, and 
every mistress is adapted to a different sort of gov- 
ernment, as human nature varies in the kitchen and 
in the parlor. 

Both mistresses and servants have their rights and 
their grievances, and both have had their champions, 
and a great many foolish things have been said on 
both sides. A good deal depends upon the point of 
view. Few servants find their ideal " place," and few 
women a perfect servant. 

Many instances could be cited of the total depravity 
and selfishness of the representative " domestic '' ; on 



SEE VANTS. xvii 

the other hand, those who employ her do not always 
set the example that should be expected from their 
superior advantages. 

Culture and good breeding demand a higher plane 
of conduct than ignorance. Noblesse oblige. 

If I were to give only one rule to the mistress of a 
house, it would be, — Keep the reins. 

If that is done, all else follows easily. Enforce 
authority, however, as gently as may be, and with as 
few words. It is beneath the dignity of a lady to 
bandy words with a servant. An impertinent maid 
implies a weak mistress. Insubordination in the 
ranks usually indicates some fault in the command. 

"Why did you leave your last place.? '* I inquired 
of an applicant for service. 

"The lady said I was sassy to her, ma'am." 

" Were you } " 

" Yes, ma'am ; but she was sassy to me first." 

One of Goethe's heroines, who won hearts by her 
housewifely qualities, says, " The ground of all true 
housekeeping is to watch the servants with a falcon's 
eye." 

This is doubtless true ideally, but in this age and 
country of independent labor must be taken with 
limitations. All housekeepers have seen times when 
poor help was better than none, and they could not 
afford to be too exacting. Therefore, " watch with a 



xviii SEH VANTS. 

falcon's eye " if you will, but learn also what twt to see. 
That requires more tact and patience than the strict- 
est watching. 

Finally, a sensible woman will do her duty to 
herself and her household by studying how to secure 
the best service her help is capable of giving, and a 
right-minded one will do her duty towards her ser- 
vants by treating them with all the consideration 
they deserve. This covers the whole ground. 

If a woman be neither sensible nor right-minded, 
it is useless to appeal to her interest or her con- 
science ; and a set of rules " as long as the moral law " 
would be of no advantage to her. 



Mrs. Shillaber's Cook-Book. 



->o}*je 



BREAD. 

•* Good bread essential is to every feast ; 
First in preferment, though pretentious least. 
It rests in flaky whiteness on the board, 
With healthful attributes, and pleasure stored ; 
Contesting not the palm with viands rare, 
But sought, their meed of excellence to share ; 
Humble in guise, with province very small, 
And yet with princely dishes peer of all.'* 



-•o*- 



DIRECTIONS REGARDING BREAD. 

The first requisite for good bread is good flour; 
the second, good yeast ; the third, patience. 

The housewife can, if she wishes, make her own 
yeast, and will find directions for so doing. But good 
yeast can be easily procured in liquid or compressed 
form, which is perfectly reliable when fresh. Any 
good yeast will make good bread ; and if cooks com- 

NoTE. — By the term cup is meant an old-fashioned teacup, which 
is equivalent to a modern teacup heaped full or a scant coffee-cup. It 
measures half a pint, and is about the same as an ordinary tumblerful. 



2 BREAD. 

plain of having no luck in making bread, it must 
argue some want of pains or of understanding. 

A cup of liquid yeast is equivalent to half a cake 
of compressed yeast. 

Bread should be made up warm; but the yeast 
should never be scalded, as that would take away its 
"liveliness." 

Good materials, careful mixing, and long kneading 
will always secure good bread. Home-made bread 
is much more satisfying and cheaper than bakers' 
bread, and one does not tire of it. A cook cannot 
acquire a more valuable accomplishment than that 
of making good bread. It is "the staff of life." 

HOME-BREWED YEAST (without hops). 

Potatoes (boiled and grated) four large ones. 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Salt one-half cup. 

Yeast one cup. 

Mix the potatoes, sugar, and salt, and pour over 
them a quart of boiling water. This will make quite 
a thick mixture. Add about a pint of cold water, to 
thin it to the right consistency. When lukewarm, 
add the yeast. Set it in a warm place to rise. 
When risen, put it in a glass jar, which must be 
perfectly sweet. Keep in a cool place. 

When it becomes watery, and has a strong, sour 



BREAD, 



3 



smell, it is unfit for use, and a fresh supply should 
be made. 

HOME-BREWED YEAST (No. 2). 

Potatoes four. 

Hops one ounce. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Flour four tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Yeast . . . • • . . one cup, 

or 
Compressed yeast one cake. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, and mix with the flour, 
sugar, and salt. Pour over this two quarts of boiling 
water ; stir, and put it aside to cool. Steep the hops 
in a pint of water ; strain them. When blood warm, 
mix all the ingredients, and set in a warm place to 
rise. When it begins to work, pour it into a stone 
jug and cork tightly, and keep it in a cool place. 
For four moderate sized loaves of bread, one cup of 
home-brewed is sufficient. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Potatoes (boiled and grated) one cup. 

Salt one tablespoonful. 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Yeast one-half cup. 

Hops a pinch. 



4 BREAD, 

Boil the hops in a little water; strain, and pour 
over the potatoes ; salt and sugar. Add enough water 
to make two quarts. Put on the stove until it comes 
to a boil. Then set it away till it is milk warm, 
when add the yeast. Set it in a warm place to rise. 
Keep in a clean vessel in a cool place. 

These three rules are all reliable, and differ but 
little in method or quantity. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Have ready two quarts of sifted flour ; then scald 
one quart of milk ; dissolve in this one tablespoonf ul 
of butter or lard, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
a little salt. Dissolve a cake of compressed yeast 
in a little lukewarm water ; add it to the milk when 
partly cooled. Stir this gradually into the flour. 
Knead twenty minutes. Cover with a clean bread 
towel, and set to rise. If set at night, it will be 
risen in the morning, and should • have another 
thorough kneading, and then be put into the pans 
to rise again. This quantity will make two good- 
sized loaves and a pan of biscuits. The loaves will 
require about three-quarters of an . hour to bake. 
The biscuits should bake in from twenty min- 
utes to half an hour. This bread can be made up 
with all or part water instead of milk, and is as good 
as any bread mixed with water. It can be sweet- 
ened more if desired. 



BREAD. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



Milk or Water * one pint. 

Yeast one-half cup. 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Wheat flour one pint. 

Graham flour one pint. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Stir the yeast into the water (or milk), which must 
be blood warm. Sift the white flour into your knead- 
ing-bowl. Add the water (or milk) and yeast grad- 
ually. Stir until smooth. Let it rise over night in 
a moderately warm place. In the morning add the 
salt and sugar and Graham fl^r — the latter grad- 
ually. Beat well, and let it rise in two baking-pans 
an hour. It should bake in an hour. If the crust 
bakes too hard, cover it with a clean, damp towel, 
and put another dry towel outside of it. This will 
serve for white bread also, and will soften the crust. 
Take the loaf from the pan as soon as done and 
stand it on the side till cool. When perfectly cool, 
put it in a clean, dry, tin box, or stone jar, with tight 
cover. The bread-box must be examined often, in 
summer especially, to see that it is sweet, and that 
the bread is not allowed to accumulate and become 
mouldy. 



6 BREAD. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Graham flour sufficient for the batter. 

« 

White flour four cups. 

Yeast one cup, 

or 
Compressed yeast one-half Cake. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Water (warm) one quart. 

Indian meal one cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Soda two teaspoonfuls (scant). 

Make a sponge at night of the water (which must 
be warm), the white flour, yeast, and salt. 

In the morning, when the sponge is light, add the 
Indian meal, sugar, and the soda dissolved in a little 
boiling water. 

Then scatter in gradually as much Graham flour 
as you can possibly stir in smooth, and put the dough 
in pans to rise. This will make two good loaves. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Make a hole in the centre of two quarts of flour. 
Sift into it half a cup of white sugar ; add a pint of 
cold boiled milk ; a little salt ; lard size of half an 
^gg'y a teacup of yeast, or half a yeast cake dis- 
solved in lukewarm water. Let it stand over night 
without stirring. In the morning, stir all together, 
knead fifteen minutes, and let it rise again till noon. 



BREAD, 7 

Roll out thin, cut into cakes, butter one-half, fold 
over, let it rise two hours, and bake. 

ROLLS. 

Milk one quart. 

Eggs four. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Compressed yeast half of a cake. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Warm the milk sufficiently to melt the butter, add 
the eggs beaten light, enough flour to make a stiff 
sponge, then the yeast dissolved in a little lukewarm 
water. In the morning, add the salt, the soda dis- 
solved in a little boiling water, and as much flour 
as is needed to mould it easily. Roll out and cut 
into biscuit, and let them stand for about an hour. 
They should rise to about twice their original size. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

This dough will serve for waffles, muffins, or grid- 
dle cakes. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Flour two quarts. 

Butter size of an ^gg. 

Milk one pint. 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Yeast . four tablespoonfuls, or one-fourth of a yeast cake. 
Salt a litde. 



8 BREAD, 

Scald the milk, and add all the ingredients but the 
flour and yeast. When cool, add the yeast and pour 
the mixture into the flour, but do not stir it. If 
made up in the morning, let it rise until noon ; then 
mix all together with a knife, and let it stand till two 
hours before tea-time ; then roll thin, cut in rounds, 
butter one-half, and fold them together. If made at 
night for breakfast, they must not be set in too warm 
a place, or they will rise too much before morning. 
They should have at least two hours for the second 
rising. Bake in a quick oven. 

SNOW ROLLS. 

Milk one pint. 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Butter or lard one-half cup. 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Yeast .... one-half cup, or one-fourth of yeast cake. 
Salt a little. 

Mix, and bake as in French rolls. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Graham flour two cups. 

Sour milk one and two-thirds cups. 

Butter one teaspoonful. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Molasses one tablespoonful. 

Salt a little. 



BREAD, 



9 



Dissolve the soda in a portion of the milk and melt 
the butter. Mix, and bake in gem pans. 

RAISED GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Flour one cup. 

Molasses two-thirds of cup. 

Compressed yeast one-half cake. 

Water one quart. 

Butter . a teaspoonful. 

Graham flour sufficient for a stiff batter. 

Melt the butter, mix, and raise over night. 

WHITE RAISED MUFFINS. 

Milk one pint. 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Butter size of an ^gg. 

Egg one. 

Compressed yeast . one-quarter of a cake, or one-half cup. 
Flour sufficient for a stiff batter. 

Warm the milk, melt the butter in it, add the 
other ingredients. The yeast must not be added till 
the batter is cool. Raise over night. Bake in muffin 
rings or pans. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

Flour three cups. 

Milk two cups. 

Sugar one-quarter cup. 



lO BREAD, 

Egg one. 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Salt a little. 

Sift the flour and cream of tartar together ; dissolve 
the soda in a little of the milk, and add it after the 
other ingredients are mixed. Bake in a quick oven. 

WHITE MUFFINS. 

Flour two and one-half cups. 

Milk one pint. 

Baking powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Egg one. 

Salt a little. 

Mix the baking-powder with the flour; add the 
milk gradually to avoid lumps ; then the egg and 
salt. Bake in muffin pans. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

Flour one pint. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Baking-powder one and a half teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs two. 

Cream three-quarters cup. 

Mix well together the salt, flour, and baking-pow- 
der. Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly, to which 
add the cream. Stir all together and add the whites, 



_^ M 



BREAD, 1 1 

which must be beaten stiff, last. Bake in muffin 
pans. Serve hot. 

ANGIE'S JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Indian meal two-thirds of a quart. 

Flour one-third of a quart. 

Egg one. 

Molasses one tablespoonful. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Mix with lukewarm water to a thin batter, and 
cook at once. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

Indian meal one pint. 

Eggs three. 

Lard or butter one tablespoonful. 

Boiling water one and one-quarter pints. 

Salt a little. 

Mix the lard with the sifted meal ; pour the boiling 
water over it. Stir until lukewarm ; add the eggs 
well beaten, and the salt. Bake in gem pans. 

SQUASH CAKES. 

Squash (sifted) one-half pint. 

Butter (melted) one tablespoonful. 

Milk . . . » , one-half cup. 

Flour three cups. 

Salt a little. 

Yeast cake one-quarter of one. 

Raise them over night, and bake in gem pans. 



12 BREAD. 



RICE GEMS. 



Boiled rice two cups. 

Milk four cups. 

Eggs three. 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Sugar . a little. 

Salt ^ . . . . a little. 

Flour .... sufficient to make a medium stiff batter. 

Bake in a gem pan. This will make thirty gems. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

Rye flour three cups. 

Sour milk three cups. 

White flour one and a half cups. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls. 

This may be made with sweet milk, when two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar should be added to the 
flour. 

WAFFLES. 

Milk one pint. 

Eggs four. 

Yeast one large tablespoonful. 

Butter . one large tablespoonful. 

Flour one-quarter pound. 

Salt a little. 



i 



BREAD, 1 3 

Warm half the milk till it will melt the butter. 
Beat the eggs, and mix them with the cold milk; 
then stir in the flour, add the salt, and mix with the 
warm milk and butter ; add the yeast, and set in a 
warm place to rise over night. Cook on hot waffle 
irons. 

YEAST-POWDER BISCUIT. 

Flour one quart. 

Baking-powder three teaspoonfuls. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Sift all together; add milk enough to moisten. 
The dough should be quite soft. Roll an inch thick ; 
cut into cakes and bake. Twenty minutes in a quick 
oven should be sufficient. A teaspoonful of shorten- 
ing may be added to the dry flour. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

Flour one quart. 

Baking-powder three and a half teaspoonfuls. 

Lard one-half tablespoonful. 

Butter one-half tablespoonful. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Milk sufficient to moisten the above. 

Sift the yeast powder and flour into a bowl. Rub 
into them the butter and lard, add the salt, and soften 
with sweet milk. Roll out the dough, cut into cakes, 
and bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. 



14 



BREAD, 



POP-OVERS. 

Milk two cups. 

Flour two cups a little heaped. 

Eggs two. 

Sugar one tablespoonful, heaped. 

Butter one teaspoonful. 

Nutmeg one-quarter of one. 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Pour the milk upon the flour gradually to avoid 
lumps. Add the eggs well beaten, and melted butter ; 
then the sugar, spice, and salt. Beat very light. 
Bake in cups or muffin pans twenty minutes in a 
quick oven. These may be eaten with a hot sauce 
as a dessert. If made rightly, they are " as light as 
a feather,'* and delicious. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD (mixed with milk, and 

steamed). 

Indian or com meal two cups. 

Rye meal or flour one cup. 

Milk one pint. 

Molasses one-half cup. 

Soda one even teaspoonful. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Mix the meal and flour. Add the milk gradually 
to avoid lumps. Add the molasses and salt. Dis- 
solve the soda in two tablespoonfuls of hot water 



BREAD. 



15 



and add it, stirring very fast. Steam five or six 
hours in a well-greased double kettle. 

Sour milk may be used, in which case a half- 
teaspoonful more of soda should be added. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD (with water). 

Indian meal two and one-half cups. 

Rye meal two cups. 

Flour one cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Mix with warm water ; steam three or four hours. 
The batter should be quite stiff. 

BAKED BROWN BREAD (with water). 

Indian meal five cups. 

Rye meal five cups. 

Molasses one cup. 

Soda one teaspoonfuL 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Mix with lukewarm water, and bake three or four 
hours in a deep pot or pan. 

GRAHAM BROWN BREAD (steamed and baked). 

Graham flour two and one-half cups. 

Indian meal two and one-half cups. 

Wheat flour one-half a cup. 



1 6 BREAD, 

Molasses one cup. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Sweet milk tliree cups. 

Boiling water one cup. 

First mix all the ingredients except the boiling 
water; add this just before putting into the steamer, 
stirring rapidly. 

Steam three hours and bake two hours. 

It is exceedingly difficult in some localities to get 
really good rye meal for making the " Boston Brown 
Bread." Graham flour substituted for the rye meal, 
and used after this receipt, has given most satisfac- 
tory results, and is considered by many far superior 
to the rye and Indian bread of our grandmothers. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



" Lucky art thou who canst eat the simple fare." 



-•o*- 



OAT MEAL. 

Moisten the oat meal in cold water ; then put it to 
cook in a double kettle, in boiling water — four times 
as much water as meal. After it has cooked an 
hour, salt it. About half a 'teaspoonful of salt to a 
pint of meal will suit most persons. Cook it for 
another hour, adding more water if required. This 
may be eaten with milk and sugar, or, when cold, 
may be cut in slices and fried. 

All articles which burn easily should he cooked 
in a double kettle, or in a tin pail set in a kettle 
of water. They do not need to be watched and 
stirred so constantly as when the vessel stands 
directly upon the stove. 

Prepared oat meal will cook in a much shorter 
time, but not in ten minutes, as is sometimes claimed 
for it. The best rule for all kinds is, "Cook until 
done." 



1 8 BREAKFAST DISHES, 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Cracked wheat may be cooked in precisely the 
same way as oat meal, and both may be turned into 
a dish wet with cold water, and when cold, sliced and 
fried in a buttered frying-pan till brown, for variety. 

HOMINY. 

Wash carefully ; stir into twice the quantity of boil- 
ing water. Salt while cooking. Boil till done, which 
will not be in less than an hour. If cooked in a 
double kettle, it will take longer. 

HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

Hominy about a pint 

Eggs two. 

Salt a little. 

Baking-powder one teaspoonful. 

Boil the hominy three hours, or until well done. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly ; mix all together ; form 
intQ balls ; and fry in hot lard, the same as you would 
doughnuts. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Make a smooth, thin batter of buckwheat and 
warm water. For a quart of water allow a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a gill of yeast, or a small quarter of a 
yeast cake. Add these to the batter and let it rise 
over night. In the morning add a quarter of a tea- 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



19 



spoonful of saleratus. Fry on- a griddle, which 
should be greased just enough to keep the cakes 
from sticking. Turn with a fritter-turner. A little 
flour can be used with the buckwheat if desired, and 
one or two spoonfuls of molasses added. 

WHITE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Make a thin batter of flour and sour milk. Add 
an egg, a teaspoonful -of salt, and one of saleratus. 
A spoonful of Indian meal is considered by some to 
be an improvement to this batter. Fry the same as 
Buckwheat cakes. Try a spoonful of the batter to 
see if it is of the right consistency. The egg can 
be omitted. 

Prepared buckwheat and prepared white flour may 
be purchased, that can be stirred up and cooked at 
once without any added ingredient. 

INDIAN MEAL CAKES. 

Make a batter as for white flour griddle cakes, sub- 
stituting Indian meal for flour. A spoonful of white 
flour may be added to this batter. 

HASTY PUDDING. 

Into boiling water stir very gradually sufficient 
Indian meal to make it quite thick. The meal must 
be added with the left hand, and stirred in constantly 
with the right until it is of the right consistency. 



20 BREAKFAST DISHES, 

Then set it on the back of the range where it will 
cook slowly twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Salt it while cooking. Turn it into a dish which has 
been wet with cold water. This may be eaten warm 
with milk, but a better way is to cut it into slices, 
after it has cooled, and brown it nicely on both sides 
in a well-greased spider. Serve hot with molasses. 

FRIED BREAD. 

Dip thin slices of stale bread in beaten eggs which 
have been salted a little, and fry until brown in hot 
fat — butter is best. 

This may be cut in cubes and placed in the bottom 
of the soup tureen, and the soup poured upon it, 

CREAM TOAST. 

Milk one pint. 

Salt . , . 1 one-half teaspoonful. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Boil the milk, add the flour smoothed in a little 
cold milk. Stir it until it thickens. Add the butter, 
stir it until it melts; add the salt. Dip slices of 
nicely browned toast, one by one, into this cream. 
When they are well soaked, put them into a dish, 
pour the cream over them, cover, and serve hot. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 21 

WATER TOAST. 

Boiling water one pint. 

Flour one tablespoonful 

Butter one scant cup. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Smooth the flour in cold water; stir it into the 
boiling water till it thickens. Add the butter, stir- 
ring till it is melted ; then the salt, and pour over 
the toast. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

BOILED BISCUIT. 

Soak half a dozen nice, fresh pilot biscuit in water 
a little salted, half an hour. Steam them in a per- 
forated steamer till thoroughly heated through. 

Stir half a cup of butter into them till it is melted ; 
salt to taste, and serve hot. 

SPLIT PEAS (boiled). 

Wash a cupful of split peas. Put them to soak 
over night in twice the quantity of water that will 
cover them. In the morning boil them till they are 
soft and the water is nearly boiled away. Season 
with salt, and melt a tablespoonful of butter in them. 
Turn into a mould wet with cold water. When cold, 
they can be turned out into a platter and cut into 
slices like cheese. 

Instead of the butter, a slice of pork may be boiled 
with the peas, if pork is liked. 

This makes a nice side-dish for luncheon or tea. 



SOUPS. 



Gilbert Stuart was asked by one of his admirers, 
and perhaps imitators, how he mixed his colors. 
His reply was, "According to my taste," which was 
equivalent to saying that no artist could give an 
exact rule for mixing colors. 

In cooking, as in other fine arts, no exact rule can 
be given for many mixtures. In soups, more than in 
most things, the taste must guide. " What is one's 
meat is another's poison," and all cooks must discover 
the taste of those to whom they have to cater, and 
govern themselves accordingly. 

Beef furnishes a good foundation for soup stock. 
It should be put on in cold water, about two quarts 
to the pound, and boiled slowly. After it comes to 
a boil, add a cup of cold water, and skim it carefully. 
Soup should be boiled the day before it is to be used, 
that it may have time to cool, so that all the fat can 
be removed. The soup may be varied each day by 
different thickening and seasoning. Vegetables to 
suit the taste may be added, and it may be thickened 



SOUPS. 23 

with vermicelli or spagetthi, which require fifteen 
minutes to boil ; or rice, which should boil in half an 
hour ; or barley, which requires from three-quarters of 
an hour to an hour. Strained tomato sauce, or a few 
spoonfuls of tomato ketchup, may be added to the 
soup just before serving, for an occasional change. 

It is a good idea to keep a pot of soup stock on 
hiand, if one wishes to make the most of remnants. 
The bits of meat that are less palatable than the rest 
— as the flank end of beefsteak, and the remnants 
of roast meat — can be boiled down and added to 
the stock. The pot should be kept in a cool place, 
and emptied, cleansed and renewed often. The 
meat for stock should not be allowed to stand upon 
the stove after it has boiled sufficiently to extract 
the juices, but should be strained and cooled at once. 
Take care that no tainted bit of meat finds its way 
to the soup pot, as it would render the whole un- 
wholesome and unpalatable. 

CONSOMME. 

This will furnish a clear stock for almost any soup. 
It may be made of beef, or of veal, or of fowl, or of 
all these. 

It will be whiter if fowl and veal only are used. 
There should be about a quart of water to a pound 
of meat, and it should cook slowly and a long time. 
It should be well strained, and may be extended by 



24 



SOUPS. 



adding water, and seasoned by the addition of vege- 
tables, herbs, and spices according to need. 

All soups should be carefully skimmed, and all 
the fat removed. To make it quite free from grease, 
strain it through a flannel bag, which should be 
kept for the purpose, and carefully cleansed after 
each using. 

If one wishes to take the trouble, clear soups 
may be colored by adding a little caramel, which 
is burnt sugar stirred into boiling water till clear. 

VEGETABLE SOUP, 

Put a large shin-bone of beef and a knuckle of 
veal into a pot. Cover with cold water. Add salt 
and two large onions, and boil together three or four 
hours. Then strain, and add a carrot, a turnip, and 
an onion, and three large tomatoes chopped fine ; 
also celery and parsley. Boil half an hour longer; 
then thicken with browned flour. A cup of rich 
milk or cream put into the soup tureen before the 
soup is poured in improves it. In summer, it may 
be thickened with rice, instead of the browned flour, 
and a handful of lima beans and the corn cut from 
one or two ears, or a cupful of green peas, may be 
added. 

RICE SOUP. 

% 

An excellent rice soup is made by boiling five 
cents* worth of soup-greens (chopped carrot, celery 



SOUPS, 



25 



leaves, parsley, a leek, and a tomato) in a saucepan 
with a little water, a tablespoonful of rice, and table- 
spoonful of butter. Just before serving-time, remove 
the vegetables, and pour two quarts of hot soup stock 
into the saucepan. Boil up once. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. 

Soup stock two quarts. 

Milk one quart. 

Rice one cup. 

Onion one. 

Cook all together very slowly two hours, and 
strain. Serve very hot. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Potatoes, large twelve. 

Onions two. 

Carrot . one. 

Soup celery one small bunch. 

Boil these together two hours. Then strain through 
a colander, and return to the fire. Melt a quarter of 
a cup of butter in a frying-pan, and stir into it while 
still over the fire a cup of flour, dry. Add this to 
the soup. Serve hot. 

POTATO SOUP (Western Style). 

For two quarts of soup, peel and slice a quart of 
potatoes, and three large white onions. Put them 
over the fire in sufficient boiling water to cover 



26 SOUPS. 

them, with a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful 
of butter, and boil them until they can be rubbed 
through a sieve with a potato-masher. Meantime, 
rub to a smooth paste a heaping teaspoonful each 
of flour and butter. After the potatoes have been 
rubbed through a sieve, put them again over the 
fire, with two quarts of hot milk, the flour and butter 
rubbed together, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir 
the soup until it boils ; let it boil two or three min- 
utes, and serve it with small dice of toasted bread. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Soup Stock two quarts. 

Tomatoes two quarts. 

Onions one. 

Boil, strain, and thicken with browned flour. Add 
two teaspoonf uls of sugar ; salt and pepper to taste. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

Tomatoes one can. 

Milk three pints. 

Cora starch two even tablespoonfuls. 

Butter size of an tgg. 

Soda one-bajf teaspoonful. 

Heat the tomato, and add the soda. Reserve suf- 
ficient cold milk to smooth the corn starch. Boil the 
rest of the milk, and add the corn starch, then the 
tomato and butter. Season with salt and pepper to 



SOUPS, 



27 



suit the taste. Boil all together a moment, and serve 
immediately. This is easily made and very nice. 

PEA SOUP. 

Split peas one pint. 

Corned beef or pork one pound. 

Carrot one. 

Turnip one. 

Onion one. 

Celery one tablespoonful, 

or 
Celery leaves " . a handful. 

Soak the peas over night. In the morning boil 
them with the meat for three hours, hard. 

Add the chopped vegetables, and boil one hour 
more. Strain and season. 

Pour the soup over two thin slices of toast, which 
must be cut up like dice and placed in the bottom of 
the tureen. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Clams ; cold water, one quart to a dozen clams. 

Chop the clams, which should be large and plump, 
very fine. Put the clams, with their liquor and a 
quart of cold water for every dozen clams, upon the 
fire in a perfectly clean vessel, and let them simmer 
gently, but not boil, for about an hour and a half. 

The clams should be so well cooked that you seem 
to have only a thick broth. 



28 SOUPS. 

Season to taste, and pour into a tureen in which 
a few slices of well-browned toast have been placed. 

If desired, an egg and a cup of milk may be added 
for every two dozen clams. The egg should be thor- 
oughly beaten, and the milk added to it gradually ; 
then, after the soup is removed from the fire, they 
may be stirred into it. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Put one quart of milk on to boil ; put one large 
tablespoonful butter in a saucepan. When bubbling, 
add two heaping tablespoonfuls flour ; then add the 
boiled milk gradually ; season highly with pepper 
and salt ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Dry the 
coral in the oven, and rub through a strainer into 
milk until it has a pink color; then add the meat 
chopped fine ; cook five minutes. 

If you wish, you can strain it before serving. The 
shell can be boiled in the milk. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Set the liquor of a quart of oysters on the fire. If 
there is not sufficient liquor for the amount of soup 
you wish, add water. Skim it carefully, and add three 
or four stalks of chopped celery. After it has boiled a 
few minutes, add a quart of milk. When this boils, 
thicken with a tablespoonful of butter smoothed in 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add the oysters, boil a 



SOUPS. 29 

few minutes, season with salt and pepper, and serve 
at once. Some cooks chop the oysters for oyster 
soup. 

GREEN PEA SOUP- 

Cover a quart of green peas with water. Add a 
small onion, and boil until the peas are soft. Mash, 
and add a pint of soup stock, or water. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; when bub- 
bling, add one tablespoonful of flour, and pour in 
gradually one cup of boiling milk. Add a cupful 
of cream or rich milk. Season with salt and pepper. 
Boil up once ; strain and serve. A cup of whipped 
cream added the last thing is an improvement. 

CREAM PEA SOUP. 

Soak a pint of split peas over night in a gallon or 
more of water. In the morning place on the stove in 
a kettle, using the same water. Add a small piece 
of pork and a good-sized onion. Boil two or three 
hours, till the peas are soft. Strain through a col- 
ander. Add a quart of milk or a pint of cream, and 
salt and pepper to suit the taste. Set it back on the 
fire, and let it come to a boil, and serve immediately. 

MILK SOUP. 
Milk one quart. 

Water one pint. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Egg one. 

Flour one cup. 



30 



SOUPS. 



Boil the water, milk, and butter together. Beat 
the egg, and stir it into the flour. Then rub together 
between the hands, until it is in little lumps or shreds. 
Scatter slowly into the boiling soup, and let all boil 
five minutes. This is a delicious soup, and easily 
made, but care must be taken not to allow it to burn. 
All milk soups scorch easily. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Take two carrots, two onions, two turnips, and cut 
into thin strips. Put them in a saucepan, with a 
piece of butter, over a slow fire. Stir gently till the 
vegetables begin to brown. Then add three pints of 
consomm6 or clear soup stock. Boil slowly for an 
hour. A few minutes before serving, a few leaves 
of lettuce or cabbage, and a tablespoonful of boiled 
green peas may be added. 

BEEF BOUILLON. 

To six pounds of solid beef, — a piece of the round 
is preferable, — put four quarts of cold water. Set it 
where it will boil slowly till the water is reduced one- 
half. Skim carefully. Set it away to cool, and when 
it is cold take off all the fat. Strain it, and season 
with salt and pepper. Boil up again, and strain it 
again. A flannel cloth is the best strainer, if you 
wish to remove every grain of fat. 



SOUPS. 



31 



WHITE SOUP- 

Boil a knuckle of veal to shreds. Strain it. Add 
to the liquid a quarter of a pound of vermicelli ; a 
few blades of mace, or a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
powdered mace ; and the grated rind of one lemon, if 
you wish. Just before serving, add half a pint of 
cream or milk, and boil up once. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Wash a bunch of asparagus ; boil the green stalks 
in salt and water till tender ; then put them in cold 
water for a moment. Put into a saucepan a large 
tablespoonful of butter, two heaping ones of flour; 
add three cups of soup stock, the same of cream or 
milk, and the asparagus. Salt to taste; stir till it 
boils. Strain it, put it on the fire again, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and serve. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Clean two ox-tails thoroughly ; cut into short pieces, 
and proceed as in any beef soup. Add soup vegeta- 
bles, season, and thicken with rice or barley. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Chop fifty clams. Boil them in their own liquor 
and a cup of water, slowly, for an hour. Boil a quart 
of milk, add butter the size of an egg, and a little 
pepper. Roll four crackers, and add to the clams a 



32 



SOUPS. 



few minutes before taking up. Pour the clams into 
the tureen, add the milk, and mix thoroughly. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

A very good soup can be made from the remnants 
of a turkey. Flavor with celery and parsley, and add 
tomato and rice. Season with pepper and salt. 

THICKENING FOR SOUPS. 
Noodles. 

Add gradually to two or three eggs (not beaten) 
sufficient flour to make a very stiff batter. When 
too stiff to stir with a spoon, mould with the hands. 

Cut the dough in two. If there are any small 
holes in it, mould it still longer, until it is entirely 
smooth. , 

Roll out very thin, and leave the paste on the 
moulding-board till perfectly dry; or it may be 
spread upon a clean cloth to dry. 

When dry, cut into narrow strips. These require 
about five minutes to boil, and are excellent to 
thicken soups. They may also be boiled in salted 
water, to eat with meat, when squares of fried bread 
may be spread over the top, after they are put in the 
dish in which they are to be served. 

Grated Noodles. 

Make a dough as for noodles. Roll into a ball 
while moist, and grate through a coarse grater. Set 



SOUPS. 33 

the crumbs away to dry. They can be kept for a 
long time, and should be added to the soup about 
five minutes before serving. 

Egg-thickening for Soup. 

Rub an egg . into two teaspoonf uls of flour till 
smooth. Pour this slowly into the soup just before 
serving, stirring all the time. 

Another. 

Mix smoothly two eggs and five tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk. Dip a spoon 
into the soup, then into the thickening, taking out 
smooth spoonfuls, which drop into the soup. 

Cracker Balls. 

Cream a tablespoonful of butter; add one egg, 
not beaten, then two crackers rolled into fine crumbs. 
Shape into small balls. Drop them into the soup, 
and boil five minutes. 

With soup serve sea-foam, or other delicate crack- 
ers, or toasted bread cut up into cubes, or cubes of 
bread fried in hot fat, like doughnuts. 

Dried Green Peas. 

These may be soaked over night in cold water, and 
boiled with the soup, which should be strained before 
serving, as the skins of dried peas are tough and un- 
palatable. 

Do not serve the same kind of soup day after day. 
Variety is better than richness. 



FISH. 

** Fresh from sea or shore, 
Freshet or purling brook.^' 



BOILED FISH. 

A solid piece of halibut, or a whole small fish — 
cod, bass, etc. — may be cooked as follows : — 

Clean the fish by putting it in warm water, and 
scraping the skin thoroughly. You will be surprised 
to see how much grease and slime the warm water 
will remove. Then place it in cold water, with a 
little salt in it. Let it stand a few minutes, rinse in 
cold fresh water, and wipe dry. Tie it up in a 
floured cloth, put it into cold water with a table- 
spoonful of salt in it, and set it on the fire. As soon 
as it comes to a boil, move it back where it will boil 
slowly for half an hour (fifteen minutes longer for 
halibut). This will be sufficient time for a piece 
weighing five pounds. Boil five minutes longer for 
every additional pound. If it boils rapidly, it will 
break, and not look as well when served. Slip it out 
of the cloth carefully, upon the platter. Remove as 



FISH. 



35 



much of the skin as you can, garnish with parsley or 
slices of lemon, and serve with drawn butter, or 
some other nice fish sauce. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Salmon requires more boiling and more salt than 
other fish, and is very unwholesome if not thoroughly 
cooked. Proceed as with other boiled fish, only boil 
it twenty minutes for every pound. Skin it care- 
fully before serving. 

BROILED FISH, OR SCROD. 

Cod, Spanish mackerel, and blue-fish are very nice 
broiled. 

Have the fish split, and the bone removed. Wash, 
and dry in a cloth. Grease the gridiron well. It 
should be a wire one that can be turned. 

Broil over a good, but not too hot, fire. Put the 
skin-side down first. It will take from twenty min- 
utes to half an hour to cook, and must be nicely 
browned, but not scorched. 

Salt when half-done, and again when laid in the 
platter. Spread with butter. Serve hot. Some 
cooks salt the fish over night, and wash and freshen 
it in the morning, before broiling. 

TO FRY FISH. 

When cleaned and dried, dip in Indian meal or 
flour, and fry in hot pork fat, slowly, till brown. Do 



36 Pf^f^' 

not have too much fat, and do not salt the fish till 
nearly done, if you wish it to become a nice brown. 
Cod is a good fish to fry, though many persons pre- 
fer haddock, as it is firmer, and does not break as 
easily as cod. 

All small fishes, as smelts, weak fish, and other 
" pan fish," should be carefully cleaned, and the heads 
and tails removed. Any nice drippings will do to 
fry fish in, but pork gives a flavor that drippings do 
not. Mackerel, before they become fat, are better 
fried ; then they should be broiled. 

BAKED FISH. 

Clean thoroughly, and dry with a cloth, outside and 
in. Stuff with slices of buttered bread, sprinkled 
with salt, pepper, and parsley. Skewer together, 
flour and salt it, and put it in a baking-pan, on a 
rack. Put a little hot water in the bottom of the 
pan. Skewer small slices of pork over the top of the 
fish. Baste occasionally. If it weighs about three 
or four pounds, it will require one hour to cook. 

May be served with drawn butter, to which pieces 
of hard boiled eggs, and parsley are added. Garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

BAKED BLUE-FISH. 

Have a medium-sized blue-fish scaled, drawn, and 
washed. Roll a pound of crackers, not too fine ; mix 



FISH, 37 

with them two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, 
slightly melted, one teaspoonful each of salt, sweet- 
marjoram, and summer savory, half a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one raw ^gg, and just enough boiling 
water to moisten the crumbs. Stuff the fish with 
this, and lay it in the baking-pan. Put into the pan 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a level teaspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup or any good table 
sauce, and a pint of hot water. 

Put the fish in a hot oven, and baste it every ten 
minutes. After it has been in the oven half an hour, 
dredge it all over with flour, and let it brown. Then 
baste again and dredge again. Repeat the basting 
and dredging every fifteen minutes, until the fish has 
been baked an hour, and is nicely browned all over. 
This may be served with drawn butter sauce, or 
the gravy in the dripping-pan may be thickened with 
browned flour. 

The stuffing in these two receipts will answer as 
well for boiled fish. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Cut half a pound of larding pork in slices, and fry 
brown in a deep kettle. Take out the pork, and keep 
it hot to serve with the chowder. Peel and cut in 
slices twelve potatoes and three or four onions. Put 
these in the kettle in. layers, alternately with about 
four pounds of fish cut in pieces. Haddock or the 



38 FISH, 

tail of a cod is best. Sprinkle salt and pepper and 
dredge a little flour over each layer. Pour in enough 
boiling water to cover all. Cover the kettle, and 
boil moderately three-quarters of an hour. Soak half 
a dozen pilot biscuit a few minutes in cold water, 
place them over the chowder, add two cups of milk, 
cover, boil up once and serve. 

PICKLED FISH. 

Raw fresh fish (shad is the best) ; salt ; pepper 
(whole) ; cloves (whole) ; onion (sliced), half a one ; 
vinegar. 

Put a layer of raw fresh fish in the bottom of a 
stone pot. The pot should be large at the top, as it 
is easier to remove the fish without breaking. Season 
with salt, pepper, and cloves, and a little onion. 
Then put in another layer of fish, to which add 
seasoning as before. Repeat this till the pot is full. 
Pour over all sufficient vinegar to cover it. Put it in 
a lukewarm oven at evening, and leave it until morn- 
ing. In the morning set it away to cool, and you will 
have an excellent relish ready for the table without 
any further preparation. 

POTTED SHAD. 

Cut one shad through the back; wash and dry. 
Cut it in small pieces and season with salt, pepper, 
allspice, cloves, and mace. Pack tight in a stone jar. 



FISH, 39 

Make it tight by putting a paste crust over the top. 
Cover, and bake in a moderate oven two hours. 
When taken out of the oven, remove the crust and 
cover with vinegar. 
To be eaten next day. 

POTTED MACKEREL. 

Small mackerel one dozen. 

Salt half-cup. 

Cloves one tablespoonful, heaped. 

Allspice . one tablespoonful, heaped. 

Clean the mackerel and cut them in halves. Roll 
each piece in the salt and spices mixed ; put into an 
earthen pot, cover with vinegar, cover close, and 
bake six hours in a slow oven. 

SALT COD BOILED. 

Wash the fish in several waters. Soak it over 
night in cold water. In the morning put it into a 
kettle in fresh cold water, and let it stand where it 
will heat and finally come to a simmer, but not boil. 
This may be served with potatoes, beets, and other 
vegetables, with a drawn butter sauce or with scraps 
of pork fried brown. 

FISHBALLS. 

Prepare the salt fish as in salt cod boiled. Remove 
the bones and mince the fish; mix it with mashed 
potatoes fresh boiled — -two-thirds potatoes to one- 



40 ^^^^' 

third fish. Season with butter and pepper ; mix till 
smooth. Moisten with a little milk ; add the beaten 
yolk of an eggy a little melted butter ; roll into balls 
and fry in hot lard, like doughnuts. 

FISH OMELET. 

Prepare the fish as in salt cod boiled. Take out 
the bones, mince, season with melted butter, salt, and 
pepper. Pour over it a pint of milk to a cup of fish. 
Put it in a frying-pan, and when boiling, thicken with 
a tablespoonf ul of flour smoothed in cold milk ; add 
a beaten egg or two, and serve in a covered dish. 
This, with baked potatoes, makes an excellent break- 
fast or luncheon dish. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 

Take any cold boiled fresh fish. Flake it, remov- 
ing the bones and skin. Melt a small piece of butter 
in a quart of milk, thicken with four tablespoonfuls 
of flour dissolved in cold milk, and cook eight min- 
utes. Season this sauce with salt and pepper. Put 
a layer of the sauce into a nappie or pudding dish ; 
then a layer of fish till all is used, seasoning each 
layer. Cover with crumbs and bake half an hour. 

CODFISH BALLS (Western Style). 

Codfish one cup. 

Mashed potatoes two cups. 

Eggs two. 



FISH. 



41 



Scald the fish, as in codfish boiled. Drain and 
dry it. To one cup of the fish, picked or minced 
fine, put two cups of mashed potatoes. Cook the 
potatoes fresh, as cold boiled potatoes will not make 
delicate fishballs. Beat two eggs thoroughly, and 
add, mixing well. 

Drop the mixture, a spoonful at a time, into boiling 
lard. Do not try to cook too many at once, as that 
will cool the lard, and the fish will soak too much 
grease. 

OYSTERS. 

Raw oysters at the beginning of a meal are ex- 
cellent as an appetizer. Serve with a quarter of a 
lemon, pepper, and salt, for each dish. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Separate the liquor from the oysters. Strain the 
liquor, and if the oysters are "solid," add as much 
water as liquor. 

Put this upon the fire, and at the same time another 
saucepan containing milk equal in quantity to the 
oyster liquor. Let the milk heat upon the back of 
the stove, but not boil. 

When the oyster liquor boils, add the oysters, and 
let them boil till the beards begin to curl up. 

Then add the milk, and let it boil up once. Too 
long boiling curdles the milk. Season to taste. 

Pour the stew into a tureen containing two table- 



42 



FISH, 



spoonfuls of fine oyster-cracker crumbs and two table- 
spoonfuls (more if desired) of butter. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter a^ pudding dish. 

Spread cracker crumbs over the bottom ; put 
evenly over this a layer of oysters. Take them from 
the liquor one by one, with a silver fork (you can 
thus see if any particles of shell adhere) ; sprinkle 
them with salt and pepper. 

Spread over these another layer of crumbs, with 
bits of butter scattered over them ; then another layer 
of oysters seasoned as before ; then more crumbs and 
butter, till all the oysters are used. 

Strain the oyster liquor and pour over all. If there 
is not sufficient liquor to moisten them thoroughly, 
add a little milk. 

Put large pieces of butter on the top, and grate a 
little nutmeg over it. 

The success of this dish depends upon a lavish use 
of butter and seasoning. It is safe to say that a 
quart of oysters will require half a cupful of butter, 
at least. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 

Oysters, chopped fine twenty-five. 

Cracker crumbs one-half cup. 



FISH. 43 

Melted butter one tablespoonful. 

Cream one cup. 

Salt to taste. 

Pepper, red and black to taste. 

Mix, and cook fifteen minutes on well buttered 
oyster shells, putting a large spoonful of the mixture 
on each shell. 

Tin or crockery shells can be obtained at the stores, 
and are more convenient than the oyster shells, 

FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS. 

Oysters one quart, or twenty-five oysters. 

Butter size of an ^gg, or two ounces. 

Flour (sifted) . one tablespoonful. 

Eggs two. 

Salt to taste. 

Red pepper a pinch. 

Nutmeg one-quarter of one. 

Put the oysters on the fire, in their own liquor; 
the moment they begin to boil, drain the liquor into 
a hot dish, through a colander, leaving the oysters 
in the colander. 

Put the butter into a saucepan ; when it bubbles, 
sprinkle in the sifted flour. Let it cook a minute 
without taking color, stirring it zvell all the time, 
with a wire egg-beater ; then add a cup of the oyster 
liquor, mixing well. Take this from the fire ; mix in 



44 



FISH, 



the yolks of the eggs, the salt, and red pepper, and 
nutmeg. A teaspoonful of lemon juice can be added 
here if desired. Beat all well together, return to 
the fire to set the eggs, but do not allow it to boil ; 
then put in the oysters. 

All the dishes used in the preparation of this must 
be hot, and the beating done with care, that the cream 
may be smooth and velvety. 

FANCY ROAST. 

Boil the oyster liquor; add salt, pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of butter ; then put in the oysters. 
When done, pour over slices of buttered toast. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Dry the oysters in a towel. Dip each one in 
beaten egg, then in bread crumbs ; repeat the pro- 
cess, and fry in equal quantities of lard and butter. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Oysters one pint. 

Flour one pint. 

Eggs two. 

Salt a teaspoonful. 

Oyster liquor a small half-pint. 

If there is not sufficient liquor on the oysters, add 
water. Add the salt to the liquor. Pour this grad- 
ually upon the flour till smoothly mixed; then add 
the eggs, which should be well beaten. Drain and 



• 



FISH, 



45 



f 

[ 



chop the oysters and add them. Fry in hot fat, a 
spoonful at a time. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

To the meat of two boiled lobsters, chopped fine, 
add a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and a 
quarter as much bread crumbs as meat. Make into 
egg-shaped balls, with a little melted butter. Roll 
in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in 
butter or nice lard. Serve dry and hot. 

STEWED LOBSTER, 

Take the lobster from the shell and chop it, but 
not too fine. 

Put it upon the fire in a saucepan, with water 
enough to nearly cover it, a tablespoonful of butter, 
a little salt, according to taste, a little pepper, and a 
pinch of cayenne pepper. Let it stew slowly for ten 
minutes. Then dredge in a little flour. Let it boil 
up once ; pour in a deep dish, and serve hot. 

This is a very nice and wholesome way of prepar- 
ing lobster. 

The juice of a lemon or a tablespoonful of vinegar 
may be added to this. 

SCALLOPED LOBSTER. 

Remove the meat of a lobster, and cut it in pieces 
one-quarter of an inch thick. 



46 



FISH. 



Make one cup of thick white sauce with one table- 
spoonful butter, one heaping of flour, and one cup 
hot milk ; season highly with salt, pepper, lemon 
juice, and cayenne. 

Mix the lobster with the sauce, put it into the 
shells, cover with buttered crumbs, and brown in 
the oven. Garnish with the claws and parsley. 

SHRIMPS EN COQUILLE. 

Pick over carefully one can of shrimps. Make a 
thick white sauce with one cup of cream or milk, 
one tablespoonful of butter, and one large table- 
spoonful of flour ; season with salt and pepper, add 
the shrimps, fill the shells, and cover with cracker 
crumbs moistened with butter. 

The shells in which fish is cooked and served can 
be obtained at any house-furnishing store. They 
are of tin or earthen, and are convenient when you 
wish to bake anything in small quantities. 

CLAMS. 

To open them, pour boiling water over them, after 
washing them thoroughly. The shells will then 
open easily. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Fry a few slices of salt pork in a deep kettle. 
Remove the pork, and add two quarts of water. 
Boil layers of sliced potatoes and onions in this 



I 

J 



FISH, 



47 



till nearly done. Add the clams, chopped fine ; sea- 
son to taste, and add a few crackers which have been 
soaked in milk, and a cup of milk. A little butter 
can be added with the seasoning. There should be 
sufficient water to cover all. 

BOILED CLAMS. 

Wash them thoroughly, and boil until the shells 
are opened. Remove the clams from the shell, and 
serve them in a covered dish in their own liquor. 
Provide a small dish of melted butter for each 
person. 

STUFFED CLAMS. 

Take equal quantities of finely chopped clams and 
bread soaked in milk. Season with pepper and pars- 
ley. Mix well and add the yolk of one egg. 

Put a small piece of butter into a frying-pan. 
When hot, add a teaspoonful of flour. Stir the clam 
mixture into this. Brown, and add some tomato 
sauce. 

Fill the clam shells ; cover over with fine bread 
crumbs, and keep warm until served. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Proceed as in rule for oyster fritters, only use 
more flour for the batter, as clams are more moist 
than oysters. 



48 PfSH, 

SCALLOPS. 

Boil them a few moments in their own liquor. 
Then add a pint of milk (if you have a quart of scal- 
lops), and boil about five minutes longer. Thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour and the same of butter 
smoothed together. Boil up once to cook the flour. 
Season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve. 

FRIED SCALLOPS. 

Roll the scallops in beaten egg, then in crumbs, as 
in rule for fried oysters, and fry in a hot buttered 
spider. 



MEATS. 

•* Let your table smoke 
With solid roast or baked ; or what the wilds 

# 

Yield to the toilsome pleasures of the chase." 



TO BOIL MEAT. 

Meat should be put into boiling water and boiled 
steadily but not violently, and skimmed often. 

When done, the meat will cleave from the bone. 

Liebig says, that "if the flesh be introduced into 
the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebul- 
lition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes, 
and the pot be put in a warm place so that the tem- 
perature of the water is kept at 158 to 165 degrees, 
we have the united conditions for giving to the meat 
the qualities that best fit it for being eaten." 

By this means the meat is both wholesome and 
palatable, as it keeps all its nourishing properties. 

ROAST MEAT. 

Meat to be roasted, especially beef, should be put 
into a very hot oven, so that it will cook quickly upon 
the outside. The juices are thus retained, which 



50 ^^A TS, 

would simmer out into the dripping-pan if the oven 
were only moderately warm. 

Roasting meat should be thoroughly dredged with 
flour before being put into the oven, but should not 
be salted till partly cooked, as salt extracts the juices 
from raw meat. 

Beef should be cooked about ten minutes for every 
pound if it is to be eaten rare, which is the most 
healthful way to eat it. 

Mutton requires about fifteen minutes to the pound ; 
lamb, a little more, as the latter should never be served 
rare. 

Veal and venison require long roasting. Four or, 
five hours is not too much, and a few slices of salt 
pork should be skewered over the top. Venison may 
be wrapped in a crust of pastry, which keeps the 
juices from escaping. If pork is ever fit to be eaten, 
it is only when thoroughly done, and should be 
roasted from three to five hours. 

A roasting-pan should be furnished with a rack or 
grate upon which the meat can be placed. It is thus 
prevented from becoming "soggy" by soaking in the 
gravy. It should, however, be basted frequently. 

Do not wash roast beef, but scrape it thoroughly 
and wipe all over with a damp towel, then with a 
dry one. 



ME A TS. 



SI 



BEEFSTEAK. 

The best way to cook a steak is to broil it over 
moderately hot coals, turning often. 

But this method has its disadvantages. It causes 
much smoke, which, if there is no smoke-escape over 
the range, fills the kitchen and finds its way to the 
dining-room, besides investing the cook with an 
aroma suggestive of a ham just from the smoke- 
house. If the cook happens also to be the " lady of 
the house," the family will be quite contented with a 
steak cooked as follows : — 

Have the frying-pan hot. Grease the bottom, but 
leave no surplus fat. Put in the steak, and as soon 
as it is brown, turn it. Keep turning it every minute 
or two till the outside is cooked. This will keep in 
the juices. Then cover it, and let it cook for about 
three minutes. Turn it, and cook it for three minutes 
more. If it is not a very thick steak, it will be done 
sufficiently by this time for those who like a rare- 
done steak. 

If it is turned often at first, and cooked just long 
enough, it cannot be distinguished from a broiled 
steak. 

PpT-PIE. 

Boil the meat or fowl till nearly done. Add eight 
or ten sliced potatoes, a small onion, and pepper and 
salt to taste. 



52 



ME A TS, 



When the potatoes have boiled ten minutes, put 
dumplings made like yeast powder biscuit (see rule) 
over the top of all. Care should be taken that the 
water does not boil over the dumplings, or they will 
be heavy. If the kettle contains too much water, 
remove some of it till the dumplings have risen. 
The gravy may be returned as it is needed. A cup 
may be put under the dumplings to keep them above 
the gravy. 

When the dumplings are done, which will be in 
about twenty minutes, put them on a platter and 
place them where they will keep warm. Serve the 
potatoes and meat on another platter. Thicken the 
gravy, let it boil up, and serve it in a gravy dish. 

BAKED MEAT PIE. 

Boil the meat — lamb, veal, or poultry — till tender. 
Line a deep dish with a crust made with about half 
as much shortening as for pies. Put in the meat, 
season it well with salt and pepper, pour in the gravy 
in which the meat was boiled, put a few lumps of 
butter over it, cover with a thick upper crust, pierced 
with holes to let the steam escape, and bake till the 
crust is done. A few slices of pork and an onion 
may be boiled with the meat, if desired. 

POT-ROAST. 

Take a solid piece of beef (off the round is prefer- 
able), say six or seven pounds. If the meat has not 



MEA TS. 



S3 



much fat, put a tablespoonful of drippings, into the 
pot. Take the outside skin ofif a red onion ; but do not 
peel it, as the peel gives its color to the gravy. Cut 
this in two, and put it into the pot. Rub salt and 
sprinkle pepper over the meat, and brown it on both 
sides in the pot. After it is browned, put in a cupful 
of water. Cook slowly for three or four hours. 

About an hour before serving, remove the meat 
and pour into the pot a heaping tablespoonful of 
flour smoothed in cold water. Add sufficient water 
to yield about a cupful of gravy. Return the meat 
to the pot and cook it the rest of the time in the 
gravy. Some people like a slight seasoning of ginger, 
which may be added with the thickening. 

FRENCH STEW. 

Beef, in one solid piece three pounds. 

Onion one. 

Carrot one. 

Turnip one. 

Celery two sprigs. 

Parsley two sprigs. 

Tomatoes two. 

Water one quart. 

Vinegar two taMespoonfuls. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Salt to taste. 

Pepper to taste. 

Flour ..••••••... to thicken the gravy. 



54 



ME A TS. 



First put the meat in the cold water, with the 
vinegar and sugar. After it boils steadily one hour, 
add the chopped vegetables, salt, and pepper. Boil 
one hour longer, or until the meat is tender. 

BOILED FLANK OF BEEF. 

Wash the flank; salt and pepper it, and spread 
over it a dressing made as for poultry. Roll this 
up and tie it firmly. Then sew it up in a cloth. 
Lay it on a small plate in an iron pot, cover with 
six quarts of boiling water, and boil gently six hours. 

When done, remove the cloth, but do not take ojBf 
the twine until the meat is entirely cold. 

Cut in thin slices and serve for lunch or tea. 

CHIPPED BEEF. 

Beef two pounds. 

Suet one-quarter pound. 

Have these chopped together very fine by the 
butcher. 

Cover with cold water and cook slowly two hours. 
Season to taste, and just before removing it from the 
fire dredge in a little flour. Let it boil up. 

This n^y be cooked a day beforehand and warmed 
up for breakfast. 

When ready to serve, pour it hot upon slices of 
toast. Poached eggs {i.e., eggs cooked in hot water) 
may be spread over the top. 



ME A TS. 



55 



MOCK DUCK. 

Take two pieces of thick steak, pound it a little, 
put a layer of stuffing*, made as for duck, between 
the slices ; skewer together, and rub beaten egg and 
bits of butter over it. 

The meat should be cooked on a grate which 
raises it from the pan. Cover the bottom of the 
pan with water. Bake about one hour, basting 
often. Thicken the gravy. 

This does not require the best cuts of steak. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

A shank of beef ; salt, pepper, sage, or any sweet 
herb. 

Crack the bone in several places. Wash, and cut 
the meat in small pieces. Cover with cold water and 
boil slowly, adding more hot water as the water boils 
away. 

When the meat will cleave from tKe bone, by 
which time the water will be reduced two-thirds, 
take out the meat and set it and the broth away 
till next day. 

Then chop the meat fine, and strain the broth 
(having removed the fat) into it. Season; place 
upon the fire, and stew till dry, stirring constantly 
to prevent its burning. Put into an oblong pan, 
press, and serve cold, cut in slices. 



56 



ME A TS, 



BEEF JELLY (with cream). 

This jelly is made from a shin-bone of beef. It 
should be boiled without any salt, and long and 
slowly. After cooling, remove all fat and sediment. 
Then, to one and one-half pints of this jelly, add 
lemons, juice of two and rind of one ; sugar, one 
cup ; white wine, one cup. 

Heat these together, and, when broken, add one 
cup of cream. 

Take it from the fire before it boils, and pour into 
cups or glasses while hot. 

ROAST BEEF (second day). 

Cut cold roast beef into thin slices, and brown it 
lightly in a hot buttered spider. Do not salt it. 
Have the pan quite hot, that the meat may brown 
quickly without losing its juices. Take it from the 
pan and mix well a spoonful of butter and one of 
flour in the hot pan. Add a cup of boiling water 
and boil a minute. Season to taste. Add a little 
ketchup or Worcestershire sauce, if desired. Pour 
the gravy over the meat and serve. 

SAUER BROUTEN. 
For the Pickle. 

Round of beef (larded) four pounds. 

Cloves (whole) ; . one ounce. 

Black pepper (whole) one ounce. 

Onion one-half of one. 

Bay leaves. Vinegar. 



ME A TS. 



57 



For the Stew. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Water one tablespoonful. 

Bacon (sliced) one-quarter pound. 

To lard the meat, fill a larding-needle, to be ob- 
tained at any furnishing store, with larding-pork, 
and draw it several times through the beef; this 
done, put the meat in a stone pot and cover it 
with vinegar ; add the cloves, pepper, onion, and bay 
leaves. 

Let it' remain four days ; then drain, and put it on 
the fire in an iron pot with the butter, water, and 
bacon, as given above, and oook two hours, turning 
frequently. When done, add to the gravy in the 
pot a little flour, a little vinegar, and serve. 

JELLIED TONGUE. 

Tongue, boiled and cold one. 

Gelatine, two ounces . dissolved in one-half pint of water. 

Veal gravy (browned) one teacup. 

Liquor in which the tongue was boiled . . . one pint. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Burnt sugar, for coloring one tablespoonful. 

Vinegar three tablespoonfuls. 

Boiling water one pint. 

Put together the gravy, liquor, sugar, vinegar, and 
the tablespoonful of burnt sugar dissolved in cold 
water. Add the dissolved gelatine and mix well ; 



58 



ME A TS, 



then add the boiling water and strain through a 
flannel Cut the tongue in slices as for the table. 
Let the jelly cool and begin to thicken. Wet a 
mould with cold water, put a little jelly into the 
bottom, then a layer of tongue, and so on in alter- 
nate layers till all is used. Set the mould, well 
covered, in a cool place. 

To turn it out, dip the mould in hot water for an 
instant, invert it upon a dish, and garnish with celery 
sprigs and nasturtium flowers, if you can get them. 

Cut with a thin, sharp knife, perpendicularly. 

This is a handsome and delicious dish and easily 
made. 

STEAMED BEEF. 

Cold roast beef cut in thin slices. 

Butter (melted) one tablespoonful. 

Worcestershire sauce, or walnut ketchup, one tablespoonful. 

Vinegar one teaspoonful. 

Currant jelly one tablespoonful. 

Mustard a saltspoonful. 

Salt and pepper a little. 

A little raw onion may be added, if desired. Steam 
in a double kettle half an hour. This is a nice break- 
fast dish, especially where the beef is underdone. 

TONGUE. 

Soak in cold water; if very salt, several hours. 
Then wash it with fresh water, and put it into the 



ME A TS. 



59 



pot with plenty of cold water. Let it come slowly 
to a boil, and cook it gently for three or four hours 
at least. Try it with a fork, and, when tender, take 
it up, and remove the skin while hot. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Wash in several waters. Put it into a pot with a 
good supply of cold water. Boil it gently and long. 
Forty minutes to a pound is not too much time to 
allow. If it is to be eaten cold, let it cool in the 
water. Then put it into a dish or pan that will just 
hold it. Fit a plate or board over it, put a weight 
upon it, and press it. 

Skim the fat from the top of the pot for cooking 
purposes. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED WITH ONIONS. 

Stew five or six sliced onions in a little water. 
When soft, season with salt and pepper; add a 
tablespoonful of butter. Broil the steak, and lay it 
in the frying-pan with the onions. Cover closely, 
and simmer a few minutes. Serve hot. 

SMOTHERED BEEFSTEAK (without onions). 

Prepare a seasoning of bread crumbs, as for any 
stuffing. A little onion may be added if desired. 
Spread it on the steak, roll it up, and tie it firmly. 
Put it in a saucepan with a slice of pork and half a 



6o ^^^ TS. 

pint of water, and stew till tender. It is not neces- 
sary to have the best cut of steak for this. This may 
be baked in the oven. 



" A plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, 
I prithee get ready at three : 
Have it smoking, and tender, and juicy, 
And what meat better can be? " 



ROAST MUTTON. 

See general directions for roasting. 

A leg of mutton, with the bone removed, and 
stuffed like poultry, is very nice baked. 

Mutton is more tender and juicy when roasted 
over the fire in a pot. It will require from three to 
four hours to cook, and should be put into the pot 
with a tablespoonful of nice drippings or butter. 
After it is browned on both sides, salt and a little 
water may be added. Just before serving, add suffi- 
cient water to make the requisite amount of gravy. 
Thicken the gravy after the meat is taken up. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Put a leg of mutton into boiling water. Boil 
steadily, but not violently, two or three hours. This 
will cook it well. (See directions for boiling.) Serve 
with caper sauce. (See rule.) Roast spring lamb 
should be served with mint sauce. (See rule.) 



MEATS. 6 1 

HARICOT OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Take a leg of lamb or a small leg of mutton ; trim 
off the fat ; put it into a kettle with water enough to 
cover it. Skim this well as it boils. Keep it cov- 
ered and boil it slowly four hours. When about half 
done, salt it, and add an onion, a carrot, and a turnip, 
chopped fine. Let the water waste away till only 
enough for the gravy is left. Thicken this with 
browned flour ; add half a cup of tomato ketchup ; 
let it boil up once ; and pour it over the mutton, 
which should be removed to a hot platter before the 
gravy is made. 

MUTTON STEW. 

Cut up three or four pounds of mutton or lamb, 
removing the most of the fat. Stew an hour, in 
water enough to cover it. Then add half a pound 
of salt pork cut into strips, and a chopped onion. 
Cook till done ; add salt, pepper, parsley, and thyme. 
Thicken with flour stirred into a cup of cold milk. 
This is much improved by adding a can of sweet 
com, or, in the season, half a dozen ears of corn cut 
from the cob. Put slices of buttered toast in the 
bottom of the platter and pour the stew over it. 

STEWED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in an iron 
pot. Put the leg of mutton in and cook it one hour. 



62 ^^^"i TS. 

After that time, turn it frequently until it is brown 
all over. 

About an hour|before taking it up, sprinkle in a 
handful of flour, and salt to taste. If there is too 
much fat, skim it now. Cut up turnip and carrot, 
about two tablespoonf uls, and boil till fender. Drain 
them, and after the meat is taken up, put them into 
the pot, and cook ten minutes longer. 

It will require from three to four hours to cook. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Fry in their own fat. When in the platter, put a 
small lump of butter on each chop. Keep the fat for 
soap grease. Salt while frying. 

BROILED CHOPS. 

French chops are best for broiling, as there is not 
so much fat to make smoke. The butcher will re- 
move the surplus fat and scrape the bone, making 
what are called French chops. 

Broil eight minutes, turning often. 

BREADED CHOPS. 

Have them "Frenched." Dip in melted butter, 
then in beaten Qgg, then in crumbs, and fry. These 
are also nice baked in a quick oven, on a rack or 
grate. 

VEAL STEAKS OR CUTLETS. 

Wash, dry in a cloth, dip in beaten eggs, then in 
cracker or bread crumbs. 



ME A TS. 



63 



Fry in salt pork fat, or half lard and half butter. 
Veal requires long, slow cooking. Thicken the gravy 
with a tablespoonful of flour, bqawned if you wish, 
and let it boil up, adding as much water as you need 
for the requisite quantity of gravy. Melt a liberal 
piece of butter in this, and pour it over the meat. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Veal, both fat and lean . . . three and one-half pounds. 

Salt fat pork one thick slice. 

Crackers, pounded fine six. 

Eggs two. 

Butter half a cup. 

Pepper one teaspoonful. 

Cloves a pinch. 

Sweet herbs to taste. 

Chop the meat raw. Mix all well^ and form a loaf. 
Place in a shallow pan, with a little water and bits of 
butter on top. Dredge with flour. 

Bake slowly two hours, basting frequently. It will 
keep for some time, and is a nice dish for lunch 
or tea. 

VEAL FRICASSEE. 

Take a piece of veal from the breast or ribs. Cut 
it in thin pieces about three inches square. Wash it, 
and put it over the fire in enough water to yield 
plenty of gravy. After it boils, skim it well. Add 



64 ^J^A TS. 

an onion, some salt, some leaves or stalks of celery 
tied in a bunch, and let it cook slowly for two hours. 
Just before taking it up, add a tablespoonful of 
butter and a tablespoonful of flour creamed together. 
After removing the meat, add a little chopped parsley 
to the gravy. 

HASHED VEAL. 

Chop the cold remnants of veal very fine. Season 
with pepper and salt, and warm up in the gravy. 
A little water may be added, if there is not sufficient 
gravy left to make it quite moist. 

Add a liberal piece of butter, and spread over 
slices of buttered toast in a hot platter. Eggs cooked 
in hot water — called by some, dropped, by others, 
poached — may be laid over the top. 

STUFFED VEAL. 

Have the bone removed from a shoulder of veal. 
Fill the space with stuffing, made as for poultry. 
Roast as directed under Roast Meat. 

MARBLED VEAL. 

Trim all the roots and tough parts from a boiled 
pickled tongue. Chop it, and pound to a paste. 
Mix with it two tablespoonfuls of butter and a speck 
of cayenne. 

Chop and pound to a paste two quarts of cold 
roasted or boiled veal. Mix with this four table- 



ME A TS, 65 

spoonfuls of butter, one of salt, one-quarter of a 
tablespoonful of pepper, and one of mace. Butter 
a deep earthen dish. Put into it a layer of the veal, 
pack it down solidly, and drop spoonfuls of the 
tongue here and there over it. Fill in the spaces 
with the veal, and thus continue until all the meat 
bas been used. It should be packed very solidly, the 
dish covered closely, and placed in a pan of water. 
Cook it one hour in a good oven. After it is cooled, 
pour melted butter over it ; cover it ; set it away 
for use. 

HASH. 

Mix equal quantities of cold chopped meat and 
mashed potato. Put a little boiling water and a little 
butter into a spider. The quantity of butter should 
depend upon the richness of the meat. When the 
water boils, put in the meat and potato; stir occa- 
sionally ; season with salt and pepper. May be 
served on buttered toast. 

FRIED TRIPE. 

Tripe should be kept in salt and water, in a cool 
place, till it is time to cook it, as it spoils very 
quickly. 

Before cooking, pour boiling water upon it j let it 
stand a minute, then draiii it, and rinse it two or 
three times in cold water. Dry it in a clean towel ; 
cut it in pieces ; dip each piece in beaten egg, then 



66 ^^A TS. 

in crumbs, and fry in a hot spicier in salt pork fat or 
good drippings, or in lard and butter in equal quan- 
tities. 

Served hot, as soon as fried, this makes a good 
breakfast dish. It is as acceptable to some people as 
a beefsteak, and much cheaper. 

BREAKFAST MEAT CAKES. 

Take any cold meat that is suitable for hash. Chop 
it fine, and add — 

Egg one. 

Butter (melted) a little. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Roll into balls, and fry in a pan with very little 
lard. 

MEAT CAKES. 

Meat, chopped one cupful. 

Bread crumbs one cupful. 

Butter, melted two tablespoonfuls. 

Onion one (small). 

Milk six tablespoonfuls. 

Egg one. 

Salt, pepper, and allspice. 

First mix the egg, crumbs, spice, and salt; then 
add the meat and chopped onion, and stir well to- 
gether ; afterwards, the milk and melted butter ; roll 
into round cakes, and fry in fat. 



ME A TS. 67 

SWEETBREADS. 

Clean thoroughly. Put them in cold salt and water 
a few minutes, then in hot water, and boil about 
twenty minutes. 

Take them from the water, and put them in an 
earthen dish. Put over them one or two slices of 
salt pork cut into narrow strips. Sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper, dredge over them a little flour, and 
add a few bits of butter. 

Bake them in a hot oven twenty or thirty minutes, 
according to their size. 

SAUSAGES. 

Prick them all over with a fork, and fry in a hot 
spider slowly. They will fry in their own fat, and 
should be done through thoroughly. 

Pile mashed potato, made quite dry, and with but 
little butter, in the centre of the dish, and place 
the sausages around it. The gravy is too gross to 
be eaten. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

Wash and scrape the ham thoroughly. Boil it 
slowly for three or four hours, according to its size. 
Remove it from the water ; skin it ; put it on the 
grate of your roast ing-pan, and let it stand in a mod- 
erate oven for an hour. Then take it out and dust 
the fat thickly with fine crumbs. Return it to the 



68 AfEA TS. 

oven until the crumbs are brown. A little sugar 
may be sifted over it with the crumbs if desired. 

A ham is made more tender by baking, and much 
of the gross fat is tried out. 

TO FRY HAM. 

Soak sliced ham in cold water over night. Remove 
the rind, and fry in a hot spider in its own fat. If 
served with eggs, fry them also in the ham fat. 

TO BROIL HAM. 

Have the slices cut thin, and broil over a quick fire, 
turning often. Three or four minutes should cook 
them. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Trim the crusts from thin slices of bread, butter 
them, and between two slices put thin slices of boiled 
ham from which most of the fat has been removed. 
Season with made mustard if desired. 

The remnants of a boiled ham may be chopped, 
seasoned with mustard, and spread between slices of 
buttered bread. If the bread is fresh, it will not be 
so liable to crumble if it is spread upon the loaf 
before slicing it. 

SCALLOPED MEAT. 

Almost any kind of meat or poultry may be cooked 
in this way. Chop ; season to taste ; place in an 
earthen dish with alternate layers of bread crumbs. 



MEATS. 



69 



Have the upper layer of crumbs, always. Pour over 
gravy enough to moisten, and bake till the crumbs 
are brown. If you have not sufficient gravy, add 
soup stock or water, 

TO COOK A CALF'S HEAD. 

Scald it and scrape off the hair. Clean it thor- 
oughly, and soak it in cold water over night. Cover 
with water and boil. When nearly done, add chopped 
vegetables and rice. When the meat is sufficiently 
cooked, remove it from the bones and chop fine. 
Season with salt, pepper, sage, summer savory, thyme, 
and all sweet herbs. 

Serve the soup in a tureen, the hash in a platter. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. 

Have the bacon sliced very thin. Remove the 
rind and fry till crisp. Take out the bacon and put 
it around the edge of a platter. 

Pour hot water upon the liver and let it stand for 
a moment. Dry it in a towel, and fry till brown in 
the bacon fat. Lay the slices in the middle of the 
platter. 

Add sufficient water to the gravy, thicken it, and 
pour it over the meat. 

Beefs liver may be cooked in the same way, but 
should be soaked longer in hot water. 



70 



ME A TS, 



STEWED LIVER. 

Soak the liver in hot water ; remove the skin ; cut 
in small pieces, and stew slowly in plenty of water. 
Season with pepper and salt, and thicken a little. 
A small onion can be added. 

PORK CHOPS. 

Fry like mutton chops, only much longer and 
slowly. They are unwholesome unless thoroughly 
cooked. A little sage scattered over roast or fried 
pork is agreeable and healthful. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING (to be served with roast beef). 

Eggs • . • • three. 

Salt a pinch. 

Flour one and one-half cups. 

Milk to make a thin batter. 

Baking-powder one teaspoonful. 

Add the milk to the flour gradually, to avoid 
lumps. Bake it in the roasting-pan after the meat 
has been • removed. Leave sufficient gravy in the 
pan to cover the bottom, to prevent the pudding 
from sticking. 



POULTRY. 



The easiest way to dress poultry is to get the 
butcher to do it. 

Even then it must be examined to see if no bits of 
the windpipe or other refuse is left. 

If it is necessary for you to remove the inwards, 
remember that if you put your hand far enough into 
the body of the fowl to grasp the heart, you can 
remove all at once, and need not fear breaking the 
gall-bag. 

Fowl should be singed, all pin-feathers removed, 
and washed in several waters ; then dried both out- 
side and in. Many people stuff the body of the 
turkey or chicken ; but for those who do not like a 
moist stuffing, it is better to stuff the neck. 

After the crop is removed, twist off the neck near 
the body. Tie a string around the skin of the neck 
where the head was cut off, stuff the space left 
vacant by the removal of the neck and crop, and 
sew it up. 

Put a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of 
pepper in the body of the turkey. Rub salt over the 



72 



POULTRY, 



outside, skewer and tie down the legs and wings, and 
dredge well with flour. 

Bake it on a rack. 

A turkey weighing twelve pounds will cook in 
three hours. 

The giblets and neck should be boiled by them- 
selves, and put into the dripping-pan half an hour 
before the turkey is done. The water in which they 
are boiled can be thrown away. 

The giblets are sometimes chopped and added to 
the gravy. The gravy of a roast turkey should be 
skimmed of the gross fat before it is thickened. 

STUFFING FOR FOWL (No. 1). 

Bread or cracker crumbs two cups. 

Sweet marjoram three tablespoonfuls. 

Salt one tablespoonful. 

Pepper one saltspoonful. 

Butter two-thirds cup. 

Egg one. 

Mix the crumbs and seasoning. Place the butter 
in the centre of the dish containing them, and pour 
in boiling water sufficient to melt the butter. If 
this does not moisten the crumbs, add more water. 
Dried bread crumbs require more wetting than 
crackers. Do not get them very moist. Add an 
egg, and beat all well together. 



POULTRY. 



n 



STUFFING FOR FOWL (No. 2). 

Baker's bread one loaf. 

Thyme (powdered) two teaspoonfuls. 

Summer savory two teaspoonfuls. 

Sage one teaspoonful. 

Egg one. 

Onion . . . one-half of a small one, chopped or grated. 

Remove the crust from the bread, and soak the 
soft part for several hours in cold water. 

When thoroughly soaked, squeeze all the water out 
through a cloth or fine strainer ; then mix with the 
herbs and onion ; last, the beaten egg. 

This is enough for a ten-pound turkey. 

STEAMED TURKEY. 

Prepare the turkey as for baking, except that 
chopped celery is added to the stuffing, which must 
be made quite dry, as steaming makes it more moist. 

A turkey weighing eleven pounds needs to be 
steamed about two and a half hours. 

It should be served with oyster sauce, which is 
made according to the rule for drawn butter (see 
Gravies), with oysters added. • The drawn butter 
should be a little thicker than for meats, as the liquor 
from the oysters thins it. 

This is a delicious way of cooking a fowl 



74 



POULTRY, 



HASHED TURKEY. 

Chop cold (roast) turkey quite fine ; season with 
pepper and salt, and warm it in the gravy. If there 
is not sufficient gravy left to moisten the meat, add a 
little water and a piece of butter. 

Serve on slices of buttered toast. Poached eggs 
may be laid over the top. 

A WHITE FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Fry a few slices of pork in a deep kettle. Take 
out the pork and put in the chicken, cleaned, washed, 
and jointed; cover with water; season with salt 
and pepper while cooking. When done, remove the 
chicken to the platter in which it is to be served. It 
is desirable to have only enough water left in the 
kettle for gravy. If there is more than that, take it 
out and save it for soup stock. 

Smooth a large tablespoonful of flour in a little 
cold milk ; add enough milk to make half a cup, and 
turn into the gravy in the kettle. Boil up once, pour 
over the chicken, and serve immediately. 

A BROWN FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Clean and cut up the chicken ; boil in as little 
water as possible till tender ; then fry three or four 
slices of salt pork in a frying-pan. When quite dry, 
remove the pork, and put the chicken in, piece by 
piece, browning both sides. 



POULTRY. 75 

When all are browned, pour out the pork fat from 
the frying-pan, add gravy from the kettle in which 
the chicken was boiled, thicken with browned iflour, 
add a lump of butter, and pour over the chicken in 
the platter. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil two chickens until very tender ; have as little 
water as possible ; salt it a little while cooking. 
When done, remove all the meat from the bone, 
separating the light and dark meat. Put into an 
earthen dish a layer of dark meat, and then a layer 
of light, alternately, until all is used. Season each 
layer with pepper and salt. Boil the gravy down to 
a cupfu] ; pour this over the chicken, fit a board or 
cover over it, and press it till cold. This may be 
turned out upon a platter and cut at the table, or it 
may be sliced before being served. 

CHICKENS FRIED IN BATTER. 

Eggs two. 

Milk one cup. 

Mix ; add a little salt ; thicken with flour. 

Parboil the chickens a little ; cut them up and sea- 
son them. Dip the pieces in the batter, and fry in 
hot lard. Make a gravy by pouring half a cup of 
water into the pan, and adding a tablespoonful of 
flour smoothed in cold water, and a lump of butter. 



76 



POULTRY. 



CHICKEN SOUFFL6. 

Cool^ed chicken one pint (chopped). 

Cream sauce (see rule) one pint. 

Eggs four. 

Chopped parsley one teaspoonful. 

Chopped onion % one teaspoonful. 

Put salt, pepper, and other seasoning to taste, into 
the sauce. Cook two minutes. 

Add yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and when cold 
add the whites, beaten stiff. Add the chicken. 

Bake half an hour, in a buttered dish. Serve with 
celery sauce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Chickens two (large). 

Sweetbreads three pairs. 

Onion one (small). 

Flour three tablespoonfuls. 

Butter three tablespoonfuls. 

Cream one pint. 

Black pepper one teaspoonful (scant). 

Cayenne pepper .... one-half teaspoonful (scant). 

Nutmeg (grated) one-half teaspoonful. 

Mustard one teaspoonful. 

Salt two teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs yolks of two. 

This can be made without the sweetbreads ; but if 
they are used, they should be parboiled, as should 
also the chickens. Chop these very fine. 



POULTRY. 77 

Mix the melted butter with the flour, spice, and 
seasoning. When smooth, add the cream ; put all in 
a tin, which place in a pot of boiling water ; stir until 
thick, then set it away to cool. When cool, add the 
chicken, onion, and well-beaten yolks of the eggs. 

Form into long rolls by rolling in fine cracker 
crumbs and egg, and fry in boiling lard to a delicate 
brown. 

QUAIL. 

Split, clean, and wash the quail. 

Broil on a buttered gridiron, over a lively fire, 
taking care that they do not scorch at first. 

Season, put a bit of butter on each, and serve hot 
on buttered toast from which the crusts have been 
removed. 

ROAST DUCKS. • 

Prepare and roast like other poultry. 

They require but a short time to roast ; from 
twenty minutes to half an hour, in a quick oven, is 
sufficient, if they are liked rare. The body may be 
stuffed with apples, cored, but not peeled. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS OR GROUSE. 

Clean and wash. Lard the breast and legs ; 
skewer, and tie into shape. Sprinkle with salt ; rub 
a little butter upon the breast ; dredge with flour. 
Cook in a quick oven twenty minutes, if liked rare ; 
thirty, if well done. Drawn butter may be served 
with them. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

FOR MEAT AND FISH. , 



GRAVY. 

The foundation of gravies is the juice of the meat 
which is left in the dripping-pan with the water after 
the roast is removed. If it is very fat, it should be 
skimmed, and as much water added as is needed for 
the requisite amount of gravy. It should be thick- 
ened with a tablespoonful of flour, which may have 
be^n previously browned, if a dark gravy is desired. 
It takes more brown flour to thicken. 

Salt to taste, and if the gravy is not rich, add a bit 
of butter. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Butter one (small) cup. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Mix till smooth ; pour half a pint of boiling water 
gradually over this till all is dissolved ; set it upon 
the fire, and let it boil up once. More boiling makes 
it oily. Or, — 

Stir one large tablespoonful of flour, smoothed in 
cold water, into half a pint of boiling water. When 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 



79 



it has thickened, add a cup of butter, and stir till it is 
all melted. This is more easily made, as there is not 
so much danger of its separating and becoming oily. 
It is safer to cook it in a double kettle. 

Milk may be substituted for the water. For boiled 
lamb, two tablespoonfuls of capers may be added just 
before taking it from the fire. 

For fish, two or three hard boiled eggs, or a little 
chopped parsley, should be added. 

CELERY SAUCE (for turkey). 

Milk one quart. 

Celery four small heads. 

Pepper corns two or three. 

Onion one. 

Cloves .... two or three to be stuck into the onion. 
Mace one blade. 

Cut the celery very small,- using the white part 
only, and boil, with the onion and spices, in the milk 
until soft. It takes an hour and a half. Thicken 
with flour to the consistency of custard, or thick 
enough to keep its place when poured over the 
turkey. Before thickening the sauce, remove the 
onion and spice. 

GIBLET GRAVY (for fowl). 

Put the giblets and neck in a saucepan with cold 
water ; add an onion, a tomato, or a spoonful of 
canned tomato, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, 



80 GRAVIES AND SAUCES, 

and a slice of dry bread which has been made very 
brown in the oven. Let this boil two or three hours, 
then strain it. 

Chop the giblets fine, and put them and the gravy 
back into the saucepan. Thicken with a little flour ; 
add the brown gravy from the bottom of the pan in 
which the fowl was cooked, after skimming off the 
fat. Add a teaspoonf ul of vinegar, and serve hot. 

OYSTER SAUCE (for poultry). 

Put the oysters in a saucepan, pour over them the 
strained liquor, and let them heat slowly, allowing 
them to simmer, but not to boil. After they have 
simmered a few minutes, beard them. Stir into the 
liquor a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a 
tablespoonful of flour. Let it boil, and add a cup of 
cream. 

Put back the oysters, with a little cayenne pepper, 
and simmer until wanted. 

SAUCE FOR CAULIFLOWER. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Flour (sifted) one tablespoonful. 

Soup stock one cupful. 

Egg yolk of one. 

Lemon juice of half a one. 

Put the butter in a pan. When it bubbles, add 
the flour and soup stock. Let it boil ; take it off the 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES, 8 1 

fire, and add the well-beaten yolk of the egg and 
the lemon juice. Pour, hot, over the cauliflower. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE (No. 1). 

Grated horseradish four tablespoonfuls. 

Powdered sugar one teaspoonful. 

White vinegar four tablespoonfuls. 

Salt a little. 

Mix these, and add gradually four tablespoonfuls 
of cream or milk. 

Warm this, to serve with hot meat. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE (No. 2). 

Bread crumbs one cup. 

Beef liquor one pint. 

Butter one teaspoonful. 

Pepper one-quarter saltspoonful. 

Salt one saltspoonful. 

Oil one teaspoonful. 

Horseradish ten cents* worth. 

Boil the crumbs and beef liquor together for five 
minutes, then add the other ingredients, and boil 
hard fifteen minutes. 

MINT SAUCE (for spring Iamb). 

Chop the mint ; mix with half a cup of nice cider 
vinegar, and one tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 



82 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 

MADB MUSTARD. 

Pour a very little boiling water over three table- 
spoonfuls of mustard. Stir into this gradually a 
teaspoonful of sugar, a tablespoonful of oil, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and the beaten yolk of an egg. Add 
vinegar to taste. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Eggs yolks of two (raw). 

Mustard half a teaspoonful (dr)') . 

Vinegar half a wineglass. 

Olive oil half a pint. 

Lemon juice of one (if convenient) . 

Salt and pepper. 

If the lemon juice is used, only half as much 
vinegar is required. 

Mix the yolks of the eggs, the pepper, salt, and 
mustard together. If you use lemon juice, put it 
in now. Add the vinegar gradually, stirring con- 
stantly ; then the oil, a few drops at a time, till all 
is absorbed. 

Some people add a few capers or pickles chopped 
fine, or a few olives with the pits removed, to this 
dressing. It needs long, careful beating. Mix with 
a wooden spoon. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES, 83 

SAUCE FOR LOBSTER. 

(For those who do not like oil.) 

Vinegar one cup. 

Mustard one tablespoonful. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Eggs yolks of four. 

Mix; simmer, not boil, a moment. A cup of 
scalded cream is an improvement. 

CURRY SAUCE (for any kind of meat). 

Fry the meat partially in salt pork fat. Remove 
the meat, and to a pound allow a pint of water and 
two tablespoonful s of curry powder. Boil these to- 
gether a few minutes, then add the meat, and cook 
till done. Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful 
of flour before serving. Serve with boiled rice. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Put two large tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan, with a little salt, nutmeg, and a large cup of 
water ; mix all together on the fire. Mix in another 
dish two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and an equal 
quantity of water. Add it to the other ingredients, 
with a large tablespoonful of butter ; mix all well to- 
gether. Take the yolks of four eggs, which mix with 
a little water, and add after the sauce has been re- 
moved from the fire and has ceased boiling. Add the 
juice of a lemon ; strain and serve. A pinch of cay- 
enne can be added, if liked. This is a good fish sauce. 



84 GRAVIES AND SAUCES, 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Boil together ten minutes, nearly half a cup of fine 
bread crumbs, an onion chopped fine, and a cup of 
milk. Season with salt and pepper while cooking. 
Add another cup of rich milk or cream, and serve. 

FRENCH SAUCE (for meat or fish). 

Melt two large tablespoonfuls of butter over a 
slow fire ; mix with it four heaping tablespoonfuls 
of sifted flour. Add a pint of clear soup stock ; 
season with salt and pepper, and boil fifteen min- 
utes, stirring often while boiling. Remove from the 
fire and skim carefully. When it ceases boiling, 
add the yolks of three eggs well mixed with a little 
water. Beat them in lightly with an egg-beater. 

CURRY SAUCE (for meat or fish). 

Curry one teaspoonfui. 

Onion one slice. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Stock one cup. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut the onion fine and fry brown in the butter. 
Add the flour and curry powder. Stir a minute, 
then add the stock, and salt, and pepper. Simmer 
all together five minutes, and strain. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES, 85 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Tomatoes one bushel. 

Salt one pint. 

Allspice one ounce. 

Cloves one ounce. 

Ginger one ounce. 

Cinnamon one ounce. 

Mace one-half ounce. 

White pepper one-eighth pound. 

Mustard seed one-quarter pound. 

Cayenne o one teaspoonful. 

Wash and dry the tomatoes, cut them in pieces, 
and boil them for about half an hour. Then strain 
them through a fine sieve. 

Mix with the spices, and boil them eight hours, 
very fast. Put them, hot, into perfectly clean bot- 
tles, first immersing the bottle in hot water. 

Liquor bottles keep the ketchup best. Let them 
stand till the next day, then cork them with new 
stopper^, and seal them with sealing-wax. 

A pint of vinegar and a cup of sugar may be added 
to the above ingredients, if desired, 

TOMATO KETCHUP (made of canned tomatoes). 

Tomatoes one dozen three-pound cans. 

Vinegar four quarts. 

Allspice one tablespoonful. 

Cinnamon one tablespoonful. 



86 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 

Red pepper one tablespoonfal (scant). 

Black pepper one tablespoonful. 

Mustard two tablespoonfuls. 

Nutmegs (grated) two. 

Salt four tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar one cup. 

Boil till thick enough, which will be four or five 
hours. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE (with egrg). 

Horseradish, grated one cup. 

Egg (yolk only) one. 

Sugar one teaspoonful. 

Vinegar sufficient to moisten. 

Beat the egg smooth ; mix all together. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE (for lobster or fish). 

Egg, raw yolk of one. 

Vinegar one tablespoonful. 

Salt two saltspoonfuls. 

Mustard one saltspoonful. 

Oil one gill. 

Beat thoroughly the yolk of the egg in a cold 
bowl with a silver fork ; add the salt and mustard 
(ground). Mix these well together, then add grad- 
ually a little best olive oil, alternating with a few 
drops of vinegar. When the gill of oil has all been 
used, add a pinch of cayenne pepper and the rest of 
the vinegar. Beat long and hard. 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 8/ 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Cream one pint. 

Butter one heaping tablespoonful. 

Com starch two heaping tablespoonfuls. 

Smooth the corn starch with a little cold milk. 
Heat the cream in a double kettle, and add the 
dissolved corn starch. 

When it is thickened add the butter, stirring con- 
stantly till all is blended ; cook ten minutes. 

This may be seasoned with salt, pepper, celery- 
salt, parsley, or onion juice, and a little lemon juice 
may be added. The seasoning should depend upon 
the kind of meat the sauce is to accompany. 

This is an excellent dressing for chicken cro- 
quettes. Half a pound of cold chicken chopped 
fine, and a beaten egg, is the right proportion for 
this quantity of sauce. 

CUCUMBER KETCHUP. 

Cut cucumbers in small pieces, or grate them. 
Sprinkle them with salt, and let them stand twenty- 
four hours. Then strain off the water, and add a 
pinch of black pepper, some black and white mus- 
tard seed, and a little celery seed. Add a little 
chopped onion. Cover all with vinegar, and it is 
ready for use. 



SALADS AND PICKLES- 



TOMATO SALAD. 

Pour boiling water upon fair, ripe tomatoes, and 
remove the skins. Slice, and place in the dish in 
which they are to be served, scattering a little salt 
and a little pepper upon each layer. Pour over all 
a little vinegar, and, if desired, a little olive oil. 
Serve cold. 

SIMPLE POTATO SALAD. 

Boil the potatoes with the skins on, as they will 
slice more smoothly. When cold, slice them thin. 
Add half an onion, chopped fine, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, moisten with vinegar and sweet oil — 
twice as much vinegar as oil — added gradually. 
Place it in a dish lined with lettuce. Keep it in a 
cool place till wanted. A little chopped parsley can 
be added, if convenient. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take the lobster from the shell and chop fine. 
Chop two heads of lettuce fine, or pick it apart with 
a silver fork. The dressing is made as follows : — 



SALADS ABID pickles. 89 

Eggs two. 

Sugar four teaspoonfuls. 

Cream three-quarters cup. 

Mustard one teaspoonful. 

Vinegar three-quarters cup. 

Salt and pepper (a little). 

Boil the eggs hard. Mix the yolk and the tomal- 
ley of the lobster together. Add the mustard, sugar, 
salt, and pepper. Then the vinegar slowly, and last 
the cream. 

Put into the dish in which it is to be served a layer 
of lobster, then one of the chopped lettuce ; pour 
over this three or four spoonfuls of the dressing ; 
so continue till all is used. Spread the whites of 
the eggs, cut in slices, over the top. Garnish with 
whole lettuce leaves and the claws of the lobster. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

This may be made like lobster salad, using shrimps 
instead of lobster. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Chop the chicken quite fine. It makes a more 
delicate looking dish to use the white meat only. 
Put it in a bowl. Allow two tablespoonfuls of oil 
and one of vinegar to each pound. Mix these thor- 
oughly with the chicken, and season with salt and 
pepper. Take three or four heads of lettuce and 



go SALADS AND PICKLES. 

wash them ; chop them, reserving the tender inside 
leaves, and mix them with the chicken. Spread over 
a platter, cover with Mayonnaise dressing, smoothing 
it with a knife, and garnish with the leaves from the 
heart of the lettuce and hard boiled eggs cut into 
quarters. 

Chopped celery can be mixed with the chicken 
instead of lettuce for those who prefer it. 

COLE SLAW. 

Cut cabbage in long, thin strips, and cover with 
Mayonnaise dressing. 

CREAM SLAW. 

Whip together half a pint of sour cream and half 
a tablespoonful of sugar. Add vinegar enough to 
take off the taste of sour cream ; pepper and salt 
to taste. Shred the cabbage and pour over it the 
dressing. 

STRING-BEAN SALAD. 

Cut cold boiled string-beans in pieces an inch 
long, and proceed as in potato salad. If the vine- 
gar is very sharp, add a little water. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Wash the oysters and cook them one minute. 
Drain them. Make a dressing of three table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a saltspoon of salt, 



SALADS AND PICKLES, 



91 



and half a salt spoon of pepper. Put some fresh, 
smooth lettuce leaves on a platter. Place two or 
three oysters on each leaf, and pour over them a 
tablespoonful of the dressing. Garnish the platter 
with leaves from the heart of the lettuce. 

LETTUCE DRESSING. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs very light. Stir into 
these a quarter of a cup of weak vinegar, a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, and a quarter of a cup of melted butter. 
Cook in a double kettle, stirring all the time, till it 
is of the consistency of custard. Add a teaspoonful 
of made mustard ; salt and pepper to taste. 

Thin it with weak vinegar till it will go through 
a sieve. Vinegar to be used in salads can be re- 
duced a little, if it is too sharp. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Slice a small white cabbage very fine. Put two 
saucepans over the fire, one containing half a cup 
of vinegar, the other half a cup of milk. 

To the vinegar, when hot, add one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Let it come to the boiling point, 
then add the cabbage and set it upon the back of 
the range, where it will keep hot but not boil, 
keeping it closely covered. 



g2 SALADS AND PICKLES. 

When the milk is hot, add to it one well-beaten 
egg, and stir till it thickens. Turn the contents 
of the saucepan containing the cabbage into the 
salad bowl, over that pour the hot milk and egg. 
Mix it thoroughly with a salad fork. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Wash fresh cucumbers (the smaller the better), 
until they are clean. 

Pour over them a strong, hot brine. Let them 
stand twenty-four hours. Pour oJBf the brine and 
add a little more salt to it ; heat, and pour it 
over the pickles again. There should be about as 
much salt used as the water will dissolve. After 
they have stood in the second water twenty-four 
hours, throw away the brine and rinse the cucum- 
bers thoroughly in fresh water. Wipe each one 
with a dry, clean cloth. Try and not break the 
little prickles upon the cucumbers, and do not put 
any broken or imperfect ones into your jars. 

Boil together. 

Vinegar — enough to cover the pickles. 

To a gallon of vinegar put (tied in a bag) — 

Ground cloves two teaspoonfdls. 

Ground allspice two teaspoonfuls. 

Ground cinnamon two teaspoonfuls. 



SALADS AND PICKLES. 



93 



Throw in a handful of whole cloves and allspice 
and a few pepper corns. If the vinegar is very sour 
add a cup of sugar. Put the pickles into jars and 
pour the hot spiced vinegar over them. Put a lump 
of alum as large as a walnut, and half a green pepper, 
into each jar. If the vinegar is good these will keep 
as long as you wish them to. 

PICKLED BEANS. 

♦ Young string beans may be boiled in salted water 
till they are tender, then pickled in the same way 
as cucumbers. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
(Spiced and slightly sweet.) 

Make a brine of cold water and salt, strong enough 
to bear up an egg. Heat it boiling hot and pour 
over the pickles. 

Let them stand twenty-four hours, then take them 
, out and wipe them dry. 

Scald vinegar and pour over them, and let them 
stand twenty-four hours more. Then pour off the 
vinegar and pour over the following mixture, boiling 
hot : — 

Fresh vinegar sufficient to cover the pickles. 

Brown sugar one quart. 

Peppers (green) two large. 

White mustard seed one-half pound. 

Ginger (root) six cents* worth. 



94 



SALADS AND PICKLES, 



Cinnamon one ounce (ground). 

Allspice one ounce (ground)- 

Cloves one ounce (ground). 

Celery seed one tablespoon ful. 

Alum size of a butternut. 

Put the spices in a bag. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

White onions (small) two quarts. 

Cabbage one (large). 

Cauliflowers two (large). 

Green tomatoes (small) one half-peck. 

Cucumbers (small) fifty. 

String-beans two quarts. 

Red peppers half a dozen. 

Put these in salt over night. In the morning 
wipe the pickles dry. If the onions, tomatoes, and 
cucumbers are not very small, cut them in two. 
Cut the cabbage and cauliflower in small pieces. 
Scald all in vinegar, enough to cover them. Then 
make a dressing as follows : — 

To a gallon of vinegar allow, — 

White pepper (ground) one-quarter pound. 

Mustard (ground) nine ounces. 

Tumeric (ground) two ounces. 

Ginger (ground) one ounce. 



SALADS AND PICKLES, 



95 



Mix these with a little cold water, and stir them 
into the hot vinegar, having first removed the 
pickles. Boil up well, and pour over the pickles. 

This is much like Crosse & Blackwell's chow- 
chow, and fully as good. 

This dressing is also excellent for pickled 
sheep* s tongues. 

PLUM PICKLES. 

Plums three quarts. 

Vinegar one pint. 

Sugar two pounds. 

Cinnamon one ounce. 

Cloves one ounce. 

Pour the vinegar on the plums and let them 
stand over night. Then pour the vinegar off and 
mix with the other ingredients. The cinnamon 
(stick) should be broken in pieces. Boil the mix- 
ture and pour over the plums. Repeat this pro- 
cess two or three days in succession. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Tomatoes (ripe) . . . • .. .• • . • • • twelve. 

Peppers (green) five. 

Sugar . . one tablespoonful. 

Onions eight. 

Salt two tablespoonfuls. 

Vinegar . one quart 

Boil together till the onions are tender. 



96 SALADS AND PICKLES 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Peaches seven pounds. 

Cider vinegar one large pint. 

Sugar four pounds. 

Stick cinnamon one ounce. 

Cloves (whole) four for each peach. 

Boil the sugar, vinegar, and cinnamon together, 
and skim the mixture carefully. After it has boiled 
a few minutes, take out the cinnamon, stick four 
cloves into each peach, and put a layer of peaches 
into the kettle. Boil them till tender ; lay them 
in jars and boil the syrup twenty minutes longer. 
Pour the liquor boiling hot over the peaches and 
seal the jars at once. 

PICKLED PEARS. 

Boil the pears in water till quite tender, then 
proceed as in the rule for pickled peaches. These 
will keep in a cool place without sealing. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Peppers one dozen. 

White mustard seed four tablespoonfuls. 

Cabbage one. 

Chop a white cabbage. • Sprinkle it well with 
salt and let it stand over night. Take a dozen 
green peppers, cut a piece smoothly off the stem 



SALADS AND PICKLES. 



97 



end. With a narrow-bladed knife remove most of 
the seeds. 

Drain the cabbage, squeeze out all the water, 
mix the mustard seed evenly through the cabbage, 
fill the peppers as full as possible. The closer 
the stuffing is packed, the better it will keep 
together when cut. Put the stem^ end on and tie 
it firmly with narrow strips of clean cloth. These 
strings keep in place better than cord. Place in 
jars and pour hot vinegar over them. 

If the peppers are soaked over night in cold 
water, they will not be as hot ; but if a highly 
seasoned pickle is liked, this is not necessary. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Green tomatoes one peck. 

Salt a large cup. 

Ground mustard one tablespoonful. 

Black mustard seed four tablespoonfuls. 

Cinnamon one tablespoonful. 

Ground mace one tablespoonful. 

Ground pepper half a tablespoonful. 

Peppers six. 

Onions • • • • • six. 

Sugar two pounds. 

A handful of whole cloves and pepper corns. 

Chop the tomatoes, sprinkle the salt over them, 
and let them stand over night. Drain off the 



98 SALADS AND PICKLES. 

water, and mix the peppers and onions, chopped 
fine, with the tomato. Put a layer of this mix- 
ture into the preserving kettle, sprinkle with some 
of the sugar and spice, then add more tomato, 
which season as before, till all is used. Cover 
with best cider vinegar. Set it on the back of 
the range. Cover till it heats through. Let it 
simmer slowly two hours. This will need occa- 
sional looking after, as it does not keep as well 
as cucumber pickle. If it seems likely to spoil, 
scald it up again. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Place small white onions in a deep dish, cover 
them with salt, and let them stand over night. 
The next morning take out the onions, and put 
them in jars. Cover with cold white-wine vinegar. 



SPICED CURRANTS. 

Currants five pounds. 

Vinegar one pint. 

Cloves one tablespoonful. 

Cinnamon two tablespoonfuls. 

Sugar four pounds. 

Wash, dry, and stem the currants. Mix all to- 
gether, and boil until quite thick. 



SALADS AND PICKLES. 



99 



SPICED GRAPES. 

Wash the grapes and put them into a preserving 
kettle, with water enough to cover the bottom of 
the kettle. Boil until tender enough to rub through 
a sieve. 

For every pound of fruit, allow a pound of sugar, 
a tablespoonful each of cloves, allspice, and cinna- 
mon, and a third of a cup of vinegar. Boil until 
it is of the consistency of jelly, stirring constantly. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Have equal quantities of oyster juice and boiling 
water. Bring these, with the oysters, to a scald. 
Then skim out the oysters, and throw them into 
cold water, changing the water two or three times. 
Then into about half the juice put sufficient ground 
cinnamon, whole white peppers, mace, and salt to 
season. Add white-wine vinegar to suit the taste. 

PICKLED HERRING. 

Salt herring one dozen. 

Onions two. 

Whole peppers one teaspoonful. 

Ground pepper . , one teaspoonful. 

Cloves one teaspoonful. 

Bay leaves a handful. 

Vinegar enough to cover. 



lOO SALADS AND PICKLES. 

Soak the herrings in water twelve hours, then skin 
carefully, clean, cut in small pieces, and put in an 
earthen pot, with the onions sliced, and the spices. 
Lay the bay leaves over all, and pour on vinegar 
enough to cover. Let it stand at least twenty-four 
hours before using. 

PICKLED SHEEP'S TONGUES. 

Boil till done. Add hot vinegar, and spices, and 
bay leaves, and put away in a stone pot. They will 
keep for months. 

These may be eaten with a dressing made as in 
Mustard Pickles, (See rule.) 



VEGETABLEa 

" Grateful and salutary spring the plants 
Which crown thy numerous gardens, and invite 
To health and temperance in the simple meal. 
For this the bulbous esculents their roots 
With sweetness fill ; for this, with cooling juice 
The green herb spreads its leaves, and opening buds 
And flowers and seeds, with various flavors 
Tempt the palate." 



POTATOES (boiled). 

When potatoes are old peel them, and let them lie 
an hour or two in cold water before boiling. 

They should be boiled in hot water with a little 
salt in it ; as little water as possible should be used. 
It is desirable to have it all dry away by the time 
the potatoes are done. Cover them with a towel, 
take them to the open air and shake them. If they 
are to be mashed, take a wooden spoon or potato 
masher and beat them- till soft and light, in the 
kettle they were cooked in or in a hot dish. Add 
butter and seasoning to taste, and moisten with a 
little milk. Potatoes pressed through a colander 
make a pretty dish. 



I02 VEGETABLES. 

POTATOES (steamed). 

Potatoes may be put in a colander or steamer over 
a kettle of hot water and steamed till done. They 
will be very mealy, but require more time than to 
boil in water. They can be put over the kettle 
containing some other boiling vegetable, and thus 
save the space of an extra kettle. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash, dry, and bake in a quick oven. 

They should be smooth and fair, done through, 
but not baked a minute too long. If they cannot 
be sent at once to the table, break them open care- 
fully to let the steam escape. They will be less 
"soggy," but will not be really nice unless served 
the minute they are done. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Slice cold, boiled potatoes lengthwise, in about 
eight pieces. They are better if rather underdone. 
Fry in plenty of hot lard, as you would doughnuts. 
Salt ; drain in a napkin ; serve hot. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Take one pint mashed potato, highly seasoned 
with salt, pepper, celery-salt, chopped parsley, and 
butter, and moisten with a little hot milk or cream. 
Beat one egg light. Add part of it to the potato. 



VEGETABLES, 



103 



Shape into smodth, round balls. Brush over with 
the remainder of the egg, and bake on a buttered 
tin till brown. Be careful and not get them too 
moist. 

DUCHESS POTATOES. 

Potatoes five. 

Flour five dessertspoonfuls. 

Milk one large half-cup. 

Eggs two. 

Grate the potatoes, which should be boiled and 
cold. Mix them with the flour and milk gradually. 

Add the egg, and drop by spoonfuls into boiling 
lard. Take them out the instant they are of a 
delicate brown. 

POTATO SOUFFLE (nice). 

Potatoes six (large and smooth) . 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Pepper one-half saltspoonful. 

Eggs whites of four. 

Milk (hot) to moisten. 

Wash the potatoes very clean ; bake them until 
just done; cut them in halves lengthwise. 

Scoop out the potato into a hot bowl ; mash ; add 
the seasoning and half the beaten egg. Fill the 
skins with the mixture, and cover lightly with the 
remaining egg, well salted. Brown lightly. 



104 



VEGETABLES, 



POTATO PUFF. 

Cold mashed potato two cups. 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs two. 

Milk one cup. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Beat the potato and butter to a cream, add the 
eggs, beaten light, then the milk, then the salt. 
Beat all together well, pour into a deep dish, and 
bake in a quick oven till brown. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Pare and wash raw potatoes and wipe dry. Cut 
in very thin slices, and fry in hot lard. Take from 
the fat as soon as brown with a perforated skimmer ; 
put into a colander and keep hot. Do not cover 
them. 

DELMONICO FRIES. 

Pare, wash, and wipe the potatoes as above. Cut 
in strips about the size of the little finger. Fry in 
hot fat. Lay in a colander on straw paper or a clean 
towel, which will absorb any fat that may adhere. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Potatoes six. 

Eggs (yolks only) two. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Salt to taste. 

Pepper to taste. 

Crumbs. 



VEGETABLES. 



105 



Pare the potatoes and put them into boiling salt 
and water. When cooked, mash fine. Season with 
the butter, salt, and pepper; add two-thirds of the 
beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat these together very 
light, and rub through a sieve. 

When cool, shape into balls, dip in bread crumbs, 
then in yolk of egg, again in crumbs, and fry in boil- 
ing lard. Lay on a pan covered with paper to drain. 
A little chopped parsley may be added. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Wash, pare, and slice potatoes. Put them in a 
saucepan with milk enough to cover them. Let 
them boil till done ; thicken with a little flour 
smoothed in cold milk. Add a good piece of butter, 
a little pepper, and salt to taste. A little finely 
chopped parsley may be added. 

COLD BOILED POTATOES (stewed). 

Potatoes which are to be cooked a second time, 
or made into salad, should be boiled in salted water 
with the skins on. They should be washed thor- 
oughly, that they may not be discolored in boiling. 
Slice cold boiled potatoes thin, and proceed as in the 
rule for Stewed Potatoes. They will not require 
more than five or six minutes for cooking. 



I06 VEGETABLES, 

CRESTLINE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes, rather underdone, into 
small cubes. Cover with milk, add salt and pepper 
to taste, and a large lump of butter. Cook in a 
double kettle two hours. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin. Place a layer half 
an inch thick loosely in the bottom of a baking-dish. 
Season with pepper and salt to taste; spread with 
bits of butter, and dredge over a little flour. Then 
put in another layer, seasoning as before, until a 
quart dish is half full. Cover with milk ; bake in 
a slow oven. Cover at first with a plate. 

SCALLOPED COLD POTATOES. 

Slice cold potatoes very thin. Grease a baking- 
dish ; sprinkle the bottom with a thin layer of cracker 
crumbs. Over these put a layer of potatoes ; scatter 
on salt, pepper, and small bits of butter. Repeat 
the layers until the potatoes are all used, seasoning 
each layer. Cover with milk or cream, or, if you 
have it, a cup of rich chicken broth. Bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes or half an hour, according to 
the quantity. 

POTATOES X LA CR§ME. 

Heat in the frying-pan a piece of butter half the 
size of an egg. When it bubbles, add an equal quan- 



VEGETABLES. 



107 



tity of flour. Stir while heating, but do not let it 
brown. When smooth, add a cup of milk or cream, 
a little at a time. Cut cold potatoes into small 
pieces ; season them with salt and pepper to taste ; 
add them to the butter and flour; cover the pan, 
and let the potatoes heat through thoroughly. Serve 
at once. 

POTATOES LYONAISE. 

Chop a small onion fine. Fry it in two or three 
tablespoonfuls of butter. When the onion begins to 
color, add cold boiled potatoes cut into cubes like 
dice. Stir with a fork, being careful not to break 
them. Season with pepper and salt, and when they 
are heated through, scatter a tablespoonful of parsley 
over them, and cook for two or three minutes longer. 
Serve at once on a hot dish. 

All the preceding receipts for cooking potatoes are 
good. It is unnecessary to serve this essential vege- 
table in the same monotonous style day after day, 
when it can be prepared in such a variety of ways. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

These require longer cooking than white potatoes. 
Allow three-quarters of an hour for boiling ; an hour, 
at least, for baking. Cold boiled sweet potatoes are 
very nice sliced lengthwise and fried till brown. Do 
not peel them before boiling. 



I08 VEGETABLES. 

TURNIPS. 

Peel and slice them, and boil till soft. An hour 
and a half should suffice. Mash them fine and 
smooth ; add pepper, salt, and butter to taste ; 
smooth the top, and serve hot. 

PARSNIPS. 

Boil them three-quarters of an hour, or till done. 
Scrape the outside, split them, and scatter a little 
butter, salt, and pepper over them. 

This sweet and rather insipid vegetable is im- 
proved by being fried in hot fat upon a well-greased 
griddle. 

Some cooks add one or two parsnips to a meat 
stew. 

PEAS. 

Peas should be shelled by clean hands into a clean 
dish, as they are better not to be washed. Put them 
into cold water, and boil them till tender. The 
amount of time they will require depends upon 
their freshness. Half an hour should be sufficient 
for peas fit to be eaten. Have as little water as will 
suffice in the kettle. 

STRING BEANS. 

Beans require long boiling, say an hour and a half. 
Strip oflf the strings and break them in inch pieces. 
Put them into cold water. Boil a piece of salt pork 



VEGETABLES. 



109 



with them. When done, drain, add plenty of butter 
and salt. Serve the pork with the beans, if desired. 
As little water as possible should be used, that the 
goodness of the beans may not be wasted. Beans 
and peas will boil more quickly if a pinch of soda 
is put into the water ; but if they are young and 
fresh they do not need this. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash in several waters. Cut off the tough end ; 
scrape the white part ; tie up in bunches and throw 
them into boiling water with salt in it. 

Boil twenty-five minutes ; more if required. Try 
one or two stalks and see if it is tender. 

Lay the bunches evenly, with the green ends 
toward the centre of the platter, upon slices of 
moistened buttered toast. Cut and remove the 
strings ; spread bountifully with bits of butter, and 
serve hot. 

Some people cut the asparagus into inch pieces 
after it is boiled tender, and pour drawn butter over 
it, and serve it in a vegetable dish. 

SHELLED BEANS. 

Put them into just enough cold water to cover 
them. Cook an hour, or till tender. Add salt and 
butter. 



no VEGETABLES, 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water upon the tomatoes, then the 
skins can be easily removed. Put them on the stove 
in a saucepan and stew half an hour. If they are 
very watery, pour away a part of the surplus water. 
Add a liberal piece of butter and a little salt. Let 
each one add pepper and sugar to his taste. They 
may be thickened with bread or cracker crumbs if 
desired. The crumbs should be rolled fine and 
sifted. 

BAKED AND STUFFED TOMATOES- 

Select firm, ripe tomatoes, and with a sharp knife 
cut off a thin slice from the stem end. Now remove 
the green core, and fill the orifice with an onion 
chopped very fine, a small piece of butter, a little 
pepper, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of cracker- 
dust or bread-crumbs ; arrange them in a baking 
pan, add a little water, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut ripe tomatoes in half, and fry them on both 
sides in hot lard and butter. After the tomatoes 
are taken from the frying-pan, pour into it a cupful 
of cream, thickened with flour, and seasoned with 
a little cayenne and salt. Pour over the tomatoes 
and serve hot. Cold boiled ham chopped or grated 
fine may be added to this. 



VEGETABLES, \\\ 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Scald and skin half a peck of firm, ripe tomatoes ; 
cut them into slices ; take one pound of bread- 
crumbs, half a pound of best butter, two ounces 
of fine sugar, a dessertspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and one of onion chopped fine. 

Put into a baking-dish a layer of crumbs, upon 
which place a layer of sliced tomatoes ; upon these 
place a few bits of butter, a little of the chopped 
onion, a sprinkling of pepper, sugar, and salt, now 
another layer of crumbs, and then another of toma- 
toes and butter, etc. 

Fill the dish with alternate layers in this way, 
making the last layer of crumbs, dotting it over 
with pieces of butter, and dusting with pepper and 
salt. Bake in a good oven an hour. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Select firm, ripe tomatoes, cut them in two, and 
place upon a well-greased broiler. Broil them over 
a clear fire, keeping the skin side next the fire 
most of the time. Pour melted butter over them. 
Season with pepper and salt. Serve on a hot dish. 

GREEN CORN. 

The corn will be sweeter if the inside layer of 
husks is left on while it is boiling. Strip off the 
outside husks, turn back the inner layer, and pick 



112 VEGETABLES, 

off all the silk. Fold over the inner husks again, 
put it into boiling water and cook ten minutes. If 
corn is cooked too long it loses its sweetness. Serve 
on a platter, over which a napkin is spread. Turn 
the corners of the napkin over the corn. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Com one dozen ears, or one can. 

Milk . one quart. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs (well beaten) four. 

Mix all thoroughly, and bake half an hour, or 
until the custard is set. Serve as a vegetable. 

CORN OMELET. 

Com one can. 

Milk half of one cup. 

Eggs four. 

Butter three tablespoonfuls. 

Beat the eggs, chop the corn, add it and the 
milk, season with salt and pepper, add the butter. 
Fry in a hot frying-pan. 

PUFF TOMATO OMELET. 

Tomatoes fotu (medium size). 

Butter . • . a small piece. 

Flour two tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs six. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 



VEGETABLES. 113 

Peel and chop the tomatoes. Rub the flour and 
butter together, and mix with the tomatoes. Add 
pepper and salt. Beat the eggs light, and stir into 
the mixture, and fry in a hot frying-pan. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET. 

Asparagus two pounds. 

Eggs yolks of five, whites of three. 

Cream two tablespoonfuls. 

Salt a little. 

Boil the asparagus, which should be tender and 
fresh, in as little water as possible ; or, better still, 
steam it till tender. Then chop it very fine ; mix it 
with eggs well beaten and cream. Fry it in butter, 
and serve hot. 

SPINACH. 

Wash in several waters. Put into plenty of water 
and boil half an hour, or till tender. Take from 
the pot and drain. 

It may now be seasoned with salt, a little pepper, 
and a tablespoonful or two of butter, and garnished 
with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and sent to the table 
thus ; or, after removing from the pot, drain in a 
colander, rinse thoroughly with cold water, then 
chop it in a tray quite fine. Heat in a spider a 
• tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, 
a few bits of chopped or grated onion, salt and 



114 



VEGETABLES. 



pepper. Mix the spinach thoroughly with this ; 
heat it through ; garnish with slices of egg, and 
serve. 

RICE (as a vegetable). 

Soak the rice, after picking it over and washing 
it, in cold water for two hours. Scatter this slowly 
into a large kettleful of boiling water, and cook 
twenty minutes without stirring. 

Drain in a colander and serve, 

RICE (as a vegetable, or for croquettes). 

Wash and pick over the rice. Boil it about five 
minutes. Remove it from the fire ; turn it into a 
colander, and turn cold water over it, or put it under 
the faucet for a moment. 

Boil it now in milk, slowly, from half to three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Allow a pint of milk for every four tablespoonfuls 
of the raw rice. 

This may be made into croquettes by mixing a 
beaten egg with it, shaping into balls, and rolling 
in beaten egg, then in crumbs. Fry in hot lard. A 
little sugar can be added to the rice before shaping, 
if desired. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boiled rice two cups. 

Eggs four. 

Butter (melted) two tablespoonfuls. 



VEGETABLES, 



IIS 



Cracker crumbs half of one cup. 

White sugar two teaspoonfuls. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Salt to taste. 

Mix the butter and salt well into the rice. Add 
the sugar, then the eggs well beaten, reserving the 
white of one. Form into shape ; roll in the flour, 
then in the white of ^g'g, then in the crumbs. 

Fry a light brown in plenty of fat. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Boil summer squash in a bag or cloth. It should 
be put in boiling water, and cooked about three- 
quarters of an hour. When done, press out as much 
of the water as possible ; turn it into a vegetable 
dish, and season with salt and butter. Smooth over 
the top. Do not peel summer squash. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

A hard -skinned Hubbard squash need not be 
peeled, as after it is cooked the squash can be easily 
removed from the rind with a spoon. Other kinds 
should be peeled. Scrape out the seeds and soft 
fibres from the inside ; cut it in pieces, and put it into 
a colander or steamer over a kettle of boiling water. 
It will be much dryer than if boiled in water. Press 
through a hot colander, add plenty of butter and 
salt, a little pepper, and serve. Smooth the top. 



Il6 VEGETABLES. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Wash the cabbage and lay it in cold water for an 
hour. Put it into well-salted, boiling water. Change 
the water after it has boiled half an hour. When 
done, drain, chop fine, and add one cup milk, one- 
quarter cup butter, one teaspoon salt, one-half salt- 
spoon pepper, two eggs. Put it in a shallow dish, 
cover with bread-crumbs moistened with butter, and 
bake till the crumbs are brown. 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 

Cabbage one (a fine white one). 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Pepper a little. 

Eggs two. 

Milk three tablespoonfuls. 

Salt a little. 

Boil the cabbage. When cool chop fine, and add 
the eggs well beaten, then the other ingredients. 
Mix well, and bake in a buttered dish till brown. 

ONIONS. 

Peel ten or twelve small onions. Put them in 
boiling salted water. When they have boiled five 
minutes change the water, and again after ten min- 
utes. Boil till they are tender, but not broken. 
Drain ofif the water, cover them with milk, and cook 



VEGETABLES, 117 

five or ten minutes longer. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Serve plain, or as a garnish for beef, or pour cream 
or drawn-butter sauce over them. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Strip off the leaves, and soak for half an hour in 
cold water. Boil in salted water till tender. Drain, 
and serve with drawn butter. 

BEETS. 

Wash them, but do not break the skins any more 
than necessary, as they will " bleed '* and lose their 
sweetness in cooking. It is safe to allow three hours 
for cooking them, though young beets will cook in 
less time. When tender, rub off the skins, and 
slice lengthwise. When cold they may be covered 
with vinegar, and will make an excellent pickle. 

EGG PLANT. 

Cut in slices about quarter of an inch thick. 
Soak them in salt and water for an hour. Drain 
and dry. Dip each slice in beaten egg, then in 
cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till brown. 

SALSIFY, OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Wash and scrape it, and boil in salted water. 
When done, cut it in slices, dip in egg, then in 
cracker-crumbs, and fry on a greased griddle till 



Il8 VEGETABLES. 

done. Or make a batter of egg, milk, flour, and 
salt ; mix the slices of salsify with it, and fry in 
hot fat. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Put a can of French mushrooms into a porcelain- 
lined saucepan. Add a little pepper, salt, a squeeze 
of lemon, and a good-sized piece of butter. Cover 
the pan, and let them stew slowly ten minutes, or till 
tender. Then add flour, which has been smoothed 
in milk, sufficient to thicken them to the consis- 
tency of cream. Remove any particles of butter 
which are floating on top, add a little grated nut- 
meg, and let them simmer till they are done. 

MUSHROOMS WITH CREAM. 

Pull off the stalk. Peel both the top and the 
stalk, break in small pieces, and scatter salt and a 
little pepper over them. When they have stood for 
about half an hour, stew them till they are tender. 
Add a little butter while they are cooking. Serve 
on slices of toasted bread from which the crusts 
have been removed. Pour over all cream enough 
to cover. 

Fresh mushrooms may be tested by scattering 
salt on the gills. If they turn black, they are sup- 
posed to be good. It is safer, however, to use 
canned mushrooms, as they are selected by experts. 



VEGETABLES. 



119 



BAKED MACARONI. 

Break in inch-pieces and boil half a package of 
macaroni for half an hour. The water should be 
boiling when the macaroni is put into it, and well 
salted. There should be ten times as much water 
as macaroni. 

At the end of the half hour drain it in a colan- 
der. Return it to the kettle with four or five table- 
spoonfuls of beef-drippings and a little salt. Let it 
heat through ; then put it into an earthen dish, add 
a can of strained tomatoes, a few spoonfuls of milk, 
a little butter, a little cayenne-pepper, and salt to 
taste. 

Grate some old English cheese over the top, and 
set it in the oven to brown. The tomatoes should 
be boiled down for an hour or so before being added 
to the macaroni. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Spaghetti may be cooked in the same way as 
macaroni. It is more delicate, and need not be 
boiled more than fifteen minutes. Butter may be 
substituted for the beef-drippings, when more con- 
venient. 



EGGS. 



TO BOIL EGGS. 

Put them in boiling water with a laddie or spoon, 
that the shells may not crack. Boil them from three 
to ten minutes, according as they are liked hard or 
soft. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have a saucepan nearly full of boiling water with 
a little salt in it. 

Break each egg separately, being careful not to 
break the yolk. 

Put a skimmer into the saucepan, and upon that 
drop the egg. When the white is cooked, draw out 
the skimmer with the egg in it, carefully. Serve 
upon slices of buttered toast that have been soaked 
a little, or upon hashed meat. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Eggs six. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Milk one cup. 

Salt a saltspoonful. 



EGGS. 121 

Put the milk upon the fire in a pan. When it is 
nearly boiling, add the salt and butter. Then the 
eggs, well beaten, and stir steadily till it thickens. 
Take from the fire before it becomes too thick, and 
pour it over slices of buttered toast. 

FRIED OMELET (plain). 

The requisites for success in cooking an omelet 
are a smooth spider, good butter, and dexterity. 
Beat together, — 

Eggs four. 

Cream four tablespoonfuls. 

Put into a hot spider a large tablespoonful of 
butter. Let it melt and turn to a golden yellow, but 
do not let it brown. The pan must not be too hot. 
Pour in the mixture, stir very gently with a fork. 
When it begins to set, loosen the edge with a knife, 
fold, and serve in a hot platter. Let each one salt 
it to his taste, as salt, if added before it is cooked, 
makes it heavy. 

Small bits of ham, smoked tongue or beef may be 
sprinkled over it before it is folded. 

FRIED OMELET (seasoned). 

Eggs four. 

Flour four teaspoonfuls. 

Thyme one teaspoonful. 



122 EGGS, 

Milk one cupful. 

Parsley one teaspoonful. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Pepper a pinch. 

Onion (chopped fine) one teaspoonful. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly. To them 
add the flour, then the seasoning, then stir in the 
milk ; lastly add the whites beaten very stiff. 

Have an omelet pan hot over the fire with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Pour in the omelet and stir till 
half done. Let it stand a minute, and then fold one- 
half over the other with a fritter-turner. Serve hot. 

PUFF OMELET (baked). 

Milk • . . one cup. 

Eggs six. 

Heat the milk, add a little salt and butter; beat 
together the yolks of the six eggs and the whites of 
three ; stir them into the hot milk ; pour into a hot, 
buttered dish, and add the other three whites well 
beaten. Bake ten or fifteen minutes. If the top 
browns before the rest is done, finish cooking it upon 
the top of the stove. 

TO FRY EGGS. 

Be careful not to break the yolks. Fry in hot fat 
in a frying-pan, and dip the fat constantly over the 
top of the eggs, that they may cook through without 



EGGS, 



123 



being turned. Some cooks keep muffin-rings which 
they place in the pan, and break each ^g'g separately 
into a ring. They can be sent to the table in better 
shape, if cooked in this way. 

DEVILLED EGGS. 

Boil the eggs twenty minutes. Shell them, cut off 
the thin side of the white, and take out the yolks. 
Mix the yolk with mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar (or 
lemon), butter (or oil), to taste. Put the mixture 
back into the eggs, and serve. 



" Dainty bits make rich the ribs." 



TO BEAT THE WHITES OF EGGS. 

The whites of eggs will froth more quickly if they 
are cold. Let them lie in cold water before breaking 
them, and beat them in a cold dish. If they are 
fresh they can soon be beaten stiff enough to stay in 
any shape. If they are not to be used immediately, 
they can be set over the steam of a kettle a few min- 
utes. This will harden them so that they will retain 
their stiffness a long time. 

Unless eggs are fresh laid, break them each sepa- 
rately in a cup, or the whole may be spoiled by the 
addition of a stale one. 



This should be made in a double kettle, the out- 
side one containing boiling water. Into the inner 
kettle put the milk, and when it comes as near to 
boiling as it will in a double kettle, add well-beaten 
eggs in the proportion of four or five to the pint of 



STEAMED CUSTARD. j 



DESSERTS. 



I2S 



milk, and sugar one-half of a cup to a pint. It is well 
to beat the sugar and eggs together before adding 
them to the milk. The whites of the eggs, or a part 
of them, may be reserved to garnish the custard. 
Beat them to a stiff froth, add gradually a few spoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and spread or drop this over 
the top, after the custard has been turned into the 
dish in which it is to be served. 

It will be more sure to be smooth if a teaspoonful 
of corn starch dissolved in cold milk is added to the 
beaten eggs. It is impossible to tell just how long 
to cook a steamed custard. It must be stirred con- 
stantly, and when it appears to be thickening and 
seems like cream, remove the inner kettle to the 
table and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. 
Then pour the custard into a cold pitcher and stir 
till it begins to cool, or the outside of the custard will 
cool soonest and curdle. If the custard is cooked 
too long it thickens too much and curdles, which 
hurts its appearance. If it does not cook long enough 
it is watery. Only experience will teach just when 
is the right moment to take it from the fire. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Milk one quart. 

Eggs six. 

Sugar one cup. 

Vanilla or nutmeg to taste. 



126 DESSERTS, 

Boil the milk; when nearly cool add the sugar, 
eggs, and flavoring. Bake in a pudding-dish in a slow 
oven till done. Try it by slipping a spoon handle 
into the edge. If the milk does not follow the spoon 
the custard is set. 

This quantity will make a filling for two pies, to be 
baked without an upper crust. 

CUSTARD SOUFFL6. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls. 

Milk (boiling) one cup. 

Flour two tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs four. 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter, add the flour, and gradually the 
milk, which must be boiling ; then add the yolks of 
the eggs, which must have been thoroughly beaten 
and mixed with the sugar. 

When cool add the beaten whites, and bake in a 
buttered dish in a moderate oven, thirty minutes or 
more. Serve instantly. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Milk one pint. 

Eggs two. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Gelatine, three-eighths of an ounce (or the weight of three 
thick nickel pennies) . 

Soak the gelatine half an hour in three tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water. 



DESSER TS, 



127 



Boil the milk and stir in the gelatine, and when 
cool strain them into the eggs, which must have been 
beaten very light. Add the sugar; flavor with va- 
nilla. Beat well and pour into a mould. Set on the 
ice. Serve with cream and sugar. 

BRUNSWICK CREAM. 

Milk one quart. 

Sugar eight tablespoonfuls. 

Brandy or sherry wine one wineglassful. 

Gelatine one-half box. 

Eggs six. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk ten minutes ; place 
over the fire, and let it come to the boiling point. 
Add the sugar and the yolks of the eggs beaten very 
light, and stir till it is a thick custard. Remove it 
from the fire and let it stand five minutes. Stir in 
the whites, well beaten, and the wine. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Whip a pint of cold cream to a stiflf froth, which 
will lie on a sieve. Boil another pint of cream or 
rich milk with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and a 
vanilla bean, or a little vanilla extract. Soak half 
a box of gelatine in a cupful of water in a warm 
place. Add this to the boiled milk. When slightly 
cooled, stir in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. 
When it becomes cold enough to begin to thicken, 



128 DESSERTS, 

Stir constantly until it is smooth. Then stir in the 
whipped cream lightly. When well mixed, pour it 
into moulds and set it on the ice or in a cool place 
to harden. 

Any seasonable fruit or nuts may be added to this 
before it hardens. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Cream one quart. 

Gelatine half a box. 

Eggs three. 

Powdered sugar half a pound. 

Brandy two tablespoonfuls. 

Whip the cream to a froth while standing on the 
ice. 

Cover the gelatine with milk, and place it on the 
back of the range until thoroughly dissolved. Beat 
the eggs well ; to them add the sugar, and stir these 
into the gelatine very gradually. Add the brandy. 
Pour this mixture into the cream, whipping it all the 
time. Pour it into moulds (it will fill two large ones), 
and set it on the ice or in a cool place. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Cream one pint. 

Eggs whites of two. 

Sugar two-thirds cup. 

Gelatine one quarter box dissolved in 

Milk two-thirds cup. 

Vanilla one teaspoonful. 



DESSEHTS, 



129 



Beat the cream, skimming off the froth as it rises, 
and putting it into another pan, set in ice water. 
Then stir in the sugar and the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. Next the gelatine, which must have 
been dissolved in the milk. Stir all together, and 
when thick enough to just pour, turn into moulds 
lined with thin slices of sponge cake. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Milk one pint 

Eggs four. 

Cream ........* one pint. 

English gelatine one-half ounce. 

Sugar one cup. 

Vanilla one teaspoonful or more. 

Put the gelatine into a gill of milk, and place it 
upon the back of the stove, where it will warm 
slowly. Whip the cream to a complete froth, and 
add the gelatine when it is thoroughly dissolved. 

Make a boiled custard (see receipt) of the pint 
of milk and four eggs, and enough sugar to make 
it very sweet. When the custard is cold, flavor it 
with the vanilla, and add it to the whipped cream. 

Line a mould that holds a quart with thin slices 
of sponge cake; pour the mixture into it, and set 
it in a cool place to stiffen. 



I30 



DESSERTS. 



DELICATE DESSERT. 

Bake a sponge cake in a shallow pan, so that the 
cake will be about two inches thick when done. 

Just before serving, pour some boiled custard over 
this, and spread a layer of sliced oranges or peaches 
upon it. Beat the whites of the eggs (about fdur, 
which may be reserved from the custard) to a stiff 
froth, and drop them over the top. 

WINE JELLY. 

Gelatine one package. 

Cut sugar one pound. 

Water three pints. 

Lemons juice of three. 

Sicily Madeira wine one pint. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a pint of cold water. 
Add the sugar and lemon juice. Upon this pour two 
pints of boiling water. Add the wine, and strain into 
bowls or moulds. Set it away in a cool place. It 
will require about eight hours to harden. 

CIDER JELLY. 

Cider two quarts. 

Sugar three cups. 

Lemons the juice and grated rind of two. 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Gelatine one package. 

Dissolve the gelatine and sugar for half an hour 
in one pint of the cider. 



DESSERTS. 



131 



Boil the remaining three pints of cider, and when 
it boils, add the cidef containing the sugar and 
gelatine. Let it thoroughly mix, but not boil. 
Remove from the fire, flavor, and strain into 
moulds, which have been wet with cold water. 

If the cider is pretty sour, the lemon juice 
may be omitted. 

CALF'S-FOOT LEMON JELLY. 

Gelatine one two-ounce package. 

Sugar one and one-half pounds. 

Lemons : the juice of four or five and the grated rind of two. 

A little cinnamon or orange peel may be added 
for flavoring. 

Soak all these in a pint of cold water till the 
gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Then add three 
pints of boiling water, mix thoroughly, and strain. 
This will make two quarts of table jelly. It may 
be colored with a little burnt sugar, if desired. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Gelatine half box dissolved in 

Hot water one small cup; then 

Lemon juice of one. 

Cold water half-cup; add 

Orange juice one pint. 

Sugar one cup. 

Stir all together and strain. 



132 



DESSERTS. 



ORANGE JELLY. 

Gelatine half box. 

Oranges juice of four. 

Sugar one and a half cups. 

Lemon one. 

Water one pint. 

Moisten the gelatine with cold water. Pour over 
it the pint of boiling water; add the sugar and fruit 
juice ; let it boil up once, then strain into a mould 
wet with cold water. 

TO SERVE ORANGE JELLY. 

Cut a small piece from the tops of the oranges, 
smoothly. Take out all the inside. When the jelly- 
has cooled a little, pour it into the oranges, as into 
cups, and set them on the ice to harden. 

When the jelly is firm, serve on a glass dish orna- 
mented with green leaves. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Fill a mould with alternate layers, as follows: 
First, slices of sponge cake ; then slices of banana ; 
then some smooth jelly; then macaroons; and so 
continue till the mould is full. 

Make a steamed custard, in which dissolve a tea- 
spoonful of gelatine. When cool, pour it over all, 
and freeze. 



DESSER TS. 



133 



ICE CREAM. 

Ices make a delicious and healthful dessert ; and 
if one has a good freezer, they can be made as easily 
as a pudding or a pie, and are certainly more satis- 
factory in summer. It is well to pound the ice fine 
in a stout bag, for then the pieces will not fly. The 
ice, with alternate layers of salt, should be packed 
around the pail. 

Heat a quart of milk. 

Wet two tablespoonfuls of corn starch in a little 
cold milk. Add this to the hot milk. Stir into it 
one and one-half cups of sugar and a pint of cream. 
Freeze. This can be made of all cream, when half 
as much corn starch may be used. A box of straw- 
berries, mashed and made very sweet, may be added 
when the cream is half frozen. If strawberries are 
used, other flavoring may be omitted. 

Vanilla, pineapple, or lemon extract can be added 
in such quantity as suits the taste. Some of the 
flavoring is lost in the process of freezing. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Milk one large pint. 

Flour one small cup. 

Eggs two. 

Sugar . two cups. 

Cream one quart. 

Chocolate one ounce. 



134 DESSEI^TS. 

Mix the chocolate with two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and one of boiling water. 

Beat the eggs, one cup of sugar, and the flour 
together, and stir them into the boiling milk. Cook 
twenty minutes, stirring often. 

Set the chocolate (with the two spoonfuls of sugar 
and one of hot water) over the fire till melted. Add 
this to the mixture. Then add the other cup of 
sugar and the quart of cream very gradually. Mix 
thoroughly and freeze. 

ICE CREAM. 

Milk one quart. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Sugar (white powdered) three cups. 

Gelatine one tablespoonful. 

Eggs (yolks only) three. 

Vanilla or lemon extract one tablespoonful. 

Cream three pints. 

Bring the milk to a boil, and add to it the flour, 
smoothed in a little cold milk. Then add the eggs, 
beaten up with one cup of the sugar. Then the 
gelatine, dissolved in a little cold milk. Remove 
from the fire and strain. 

The next day add to the mixture the remaining 
two cups of sugar, the cream, and flavoring. Beat 
all together and freeze. i 

Any kind of fruit juice can be added after the 
cream is partly frozen, instead of lemon or vanilla. 



DESSERTS, 135 

ORANGE ICE. 

Oranges six of large size. 

Lemons two. 

Water (boiling) five gills. 

After squeezing the juice from the fruit, pour the 
boiling water over the peel and pulp, and let it 
stand until cool. Then add it to the juice, sweeten 
to the taste, and freeze. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Make a steamed custard of a pint of milk, two 
eggs, and a cup of sugar. When cold, add a pint of 
cream, six bananas sliced, and freeze. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 

Raspberry jam . one cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Water one and one-half pints. 

Lemon juice of one-half of one. 

Gelatine one tablespoonful. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the water, mix 
with the other ingredients, strain, put into a mould, 
and freeze. 

Substitute three-quarters package of gelatine for 
the above quantity; melt all together over the fire, 
strain, and set away till cold, and you will have excel- 
lent jelly. 



136 



DESSERTS. 



WATER ICE. 

Make strong lemonade very sweet ; dissolve a 
tablespoonf ul of gelatine in cold water ; to these add 
sufficient cold water to make the requisite quantity 
of ice. Orange or any other fruit juice may be sub- 
stituted for lemon. 

TO SERVE A WATERMELON. 

Cut the melon in two ; take out the pink part in 
smooth spoonfuls, removing the seeds, and pile up in 
a glass dish ; ornament with flakes of white of egg, 
frothed, and sweetened with a little powdered sugar. 
Set on the ice till ready to serve. 

STEAMED SWEET APPLES. 

Wash and core some fair sweet apples ; lay them 
in a porcelain-lined kettle ; fill the hole in the centre 
with white sugar, and scatter a little sugar over the 
top; put a little warm water into the kettle and 
steam them till they are soft. Add more water as it 
is needed, so that there will be sufficient for a little 
juice when done. Keep them covered closely while 
cooking. Serve cold. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Stew ten or twelve fair apples in a very little 
water, just enough to keep them from burning. Do 
not peel or cut them. Boil them slowly, and when 
they are very soft strain them through a sieve. Beat 



DESSERTS, 137 

them till very light. Take the whites of as many 
eggs as you have apples. Beat them to a stiff froth, 
stir them lightly into the apple, and beat till the 
mixture is quite stiff. Heap it upon a glass dish, and 
pour tiround it a steamed custard made of a quart of 
milk, the yolks of eight of the eggs, and a cup of 
sugar. 

BLANC-MANCB. 

Milk one quart. 

Sea-moss farine one even tablespoonful. 

Put the milk into a double kettle. Scatter into it 
very slowly the sea-moss farine, stirring constantly. 
If the farine begins to lump at first it is almost im- 
possible to stir it smooth afterwards. Let it heat 
slowly ; stir it occasionally. When it has boiled up, 
looks white, and seems smooth and thick, set it 
back where it will cook slowly till done. Strain it 
into a mould which has been wet with cold water. 
Set it in a cool place. To be served with powdered 
sugar and cream. 

This may be flavored with vanilla, lemon, or 
almond, about a teaspoonful, which must be added 
just before it is strained. It will take two or three 
hours to cook this. 

LEMON JELLY WITH FRUIT. 

Slice bananas or oranges, or both. Spread them 
over the bottom of a deep glass dish. Make lemon 



138 



DESSERTS, 



jelly (see rule), and while warm pour over the fruit 
enough to cover it. Set it on the ice that it may cool 
quickly, but keep the rest of the jelly near the fire 
that it may not harden. When the jelly in the glass 
dish is stiff enough to bear another layer of fruit, add 
more slices of bananas or oranges, and cover with 
jelly as before. Proceed in this way till the dish is 
filled. The additional jelly must not be warm 
enough to melt the first instalment, but just so that 
it can be poured. 

Another pretty dish is made by tying a bunch of 
grapes to a stick, letting the stick rest upon the top 
of a deep glass dish. Pour the jelly around the 
grapes which will hang within the dish. When the 
jelly is cool the string may be cut and the stick 
removed, and the grapes will keep their place in the 
centre of the jelly. 

AMBROSIA. 

Pineapple one. 

Bananas six. 

Oranges six. 

Lemon one. 

Strawberries one pint. 

Chop the pineapple quite fine. Slice the bananas 
and oranges, and quarter the slices. Cut the lemon 
fine. Mix the fruit together; make it quite sweet 
with powdered sugar. 



DESSEBTS, 



139 



Pour a wineglass of nice wine — sherry or Ma- 
deira — over all. Set it away till cool, 

SABYLLON. 

Eggs (yolks only) ten or more. 

Marsala wine (sherry will do) . four tablespoonfuls to an Qg'g, 
Sugar two tablespoonfuls to an Qgg. 

Mix; boil until thick in a double kettle, stirring 
constantly. Serve for- dessert in little cups or 
glasses. A good accompaniment to cake. 



PUDDINGS. 

" Trimmed with sauce, — a feast for the eyes, 
And giving the taste a sweet surprise.'' 



• 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Flour three and a half cups. 

Suet one cup. 

Currants one cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Chopped raisins one cup. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Warm the molasses, and stir the suet, which must 
be freed from strings and chopped very fine, into it. 
Pour this gradually upon the flour. Then add the 
other ingredients, last the saleratus, which must be 
dissolved in a little of the warm molasses reserved 
for the purpose. Stir fast and thoroughly after the 
saleratus is added. Steam in a well-greased double 
kettle for four hours. 

This may be eaten with hot or cold sauce. 



PUDDINGS, 



141 



SIMPLE SUET PUDDING. 

Chopped raisins one cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Suet one cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Prepared flour three cups. 

Steam in a double kettle — one with a hole in the 
centre is best — three and a half hours. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

Baker's bread (stale) one loaf. 

Molasses one cup. 

Raisins one pound. 

Citron one-half pound. 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Nutmeg one. 

Suet one cup. 

Sugar two cups. 

Currants one pound. 

Eggs nine. 

Cloves one teaspoonful. 

Wine one wineglassful. 

Brandy one wineglassful. 

Soak the bread in milk over night. In the morn- 
ing pour away the milk not absorbed, and mix all the 
ingredients in a bowl over a kettle of hot water. 
Bake very slowly five hours. 

The raisins for puddings should be stoned or 
chopped. 



142 



PUDDINGS, 



BREAD PUDDING. 

Milk three pints. 

Raisins (stoned) one cup. 

Eggs four or five. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Bread 

Spices 

Break stale bread into the milk, and set it upon 
the back of the range. Baker's bread will make 
the lightest pudding, though any pieces of bread 
may be used ; pieces of cake, slightly stale, may also 
be used up in this way. About as much bread as 
the milk will thoroughly soak will make it of the 
proper consistency. 

Add the butter, and let it melt ; then the sugar ; 
then the eggs, well beaten ; last, the raisins. Spice 
to suit ; all kinds may be used. A tablespoonful of 
molasses will make it look dark and rich. 

Any bread pudding may be varied by spreading a 
layer of jelly over the top, and frosting it with the 
whites of one or two of the eggs beaten up with a 
little sugar. 

OLD-FASHIONED BREAD PUDDING. 

Bread (baker's) one loaf. 

Milk sufficient to soak the bread. 

Sugar one cup. 



PUDDINGS. 



143 



Molasses one cup. 

Eggs five. 

Raisins (stoned) one-half pound. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Spices 

Slice the bread, and pour over it milk enough to 
cover it. Add the sugar, molasses, and eggs, well 
beaten. Mix, and add the raisins ; add spices to 
taste, — half a nutmeg, or half a teaspoonful of clove 
and cinnamon each ; a little salt may be added if 
desired. Turn into a dish holding about two or 
three quarts, fill it up with milk, and bake slowly 
five hours. When it has baked four hours, set it 
in a pan of hot water for the rest of the time. Can 
be eaten with any liquid pudding-sauce. Is good 
warmed over. 

DELICATE BREAD PUDDING. 

Bread crumbs one pint ; or 

Cracker-crumbs one pint. 

Milk one quart. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Salt one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Powdered sugar four tablespoonfuls. 

Raisins one cup (chopped). 

Eggs four. 

Spices to taste. 



144 PUDDINGS, 

Soak the crumbs in the milk till soft. Add the 
cup of sugar, then the yolks of the eggs, salt and 
spices. Put in the butter and raisins, and set in 
the oven. After it has stood long enough for the 
butter to melt, stir it well from the bottom. 

It will require from half to three-quarters of an 
hour in a moderate oven to bake. When done, frost 
with the whites of the eggs beaten stiff and the four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, added gradually. 
Brown. 

BREAD PUDDING (baked In cups). 
Baker's loaf one. 

Cream, or condensed milk one tablespoonful. 

Milk one pint. 

Lemon one. 

Eggs two. 

Nutmeg half of one. 

Currants one cup. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Soak the soft part of a baker's loaf in a pint of 
milk. Let it set upon the back of the range and 
warm gradually. Add a cup of sugar, a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, and one of rich cream or condensed 
milk, the grated rind and half the juice of a lemon, 
then the eggs well beaten. Flour the currants, grate 
the nutmeg over them, and add to the rest. Butter 
some cups and bake. Serve with any nice pudding- 
sauce. 



PUDDINGS, 



145 



CRACKER PUDDING. 

Cracker-crumbs two-thirds cup. 

Raisins one cup. 

Butter two-thirds cup. 

Milk one quart. 

Sugar one cup. 

Eggs four. 

Boil the milk, and pour it over the cracker-crumbs, 
which must be rolled fine. Add the butter and 
sugar, then the eggs and raisins. Bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

SWEDISH HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

Flour one cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Eggs four. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Beat the flour (sifted), sugar, and molasses to- 
gether. Melt the butter in the warm milk ; to this 
add the soda. 

Mix all these ingredients, and add the eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve with liquid sauce. 



146 PUDDINGS, 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Graham flour two cups. 

Milk one cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Raisins one cup. 

Baking-soda one teaspoonful. 

Salt a little. 

This is a very plain pudding, containing neither 
suet, butter, nor eggs, but is a very good, cheap 
imitation of an English plum pudding. 

Citron and currants can be added, if desired. 
Steam in a tin pudding-boiler. 

INDIAN PUDDING (steamed). 

Com meal four even tablespoonfuls. 

Flour four even tablespoonfuls. 

Salt a little. 

Mix the above with a little cold milk. 

Add to these one quart of scalded milk. Then 

Eggs four (well beaten). 

Soda . one teaspoonful dissolved in two tablespoonfuls 
of hot water. 

Add to the soda and water, — 

Molasses one cup. 

Raisins (stoned) one cup. 

Cinnamon a little. 



PUDDINGS. 147 

Mix all, and steam three hours. To be eaten with 
sugar and cream. 



INDIAN PUDDING (baked). 

Milk two quarts. 

Indian meal two cups. 

Molasses one-half cup. 

Suet two tablespoonfuls (chopped). 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Cinnamon one-half teaspoonful. 

Ginger one-half teaspoonful. 

Flour one-half cup. 

Boil all but a pint of the milk, and pour it hot 
over the other ingredients. 

Bake in a high pudding-pot, slowly, three hours. 

Then pour half of the cold milk over it, and bake 
another hour ; then add the rest of the cold milk, 
cover with a plate, and bake three hours longer. 

ANGIE'S INDIAN PUDDING. 

Milk two quarts. 

Indian meal one pint. 

Molasses one cup. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Put a quart of milk upon the stove, and let it 
come to a boil. 

Mix the meal, which may be either white or yel- 
low, with a little cold milk. Add this to the hot 



148 PUDDINGS, 

milk, and let it come to a boil again, stirring it 
steadily until it thickens, when remove it immedi- 
ately. When partially cooled add the molasses, the 
remainder of the cold milk, and salt to taste. 

A few raisins or sliced apples can be added, if 
desired, and will improve it. 

Some cooks add a cupful of suet (from which the 
skin and shreds have been removed), chopped fine. 

Bake slowly three hours, at least. 

A high pudding-pot of earthenware is best to 
cook this pudding in, and the longer and more 
slowly, it is cooked the better it is. 

VIRGINIA PUDDING. 

Eggs eight (omitting half the whites). 

Sugar the weight of the eggs. 

Indian-com meal the weight of six eggs. 

Butter (creamed) . • half a pound. 

Nutmeg one. 

Milk three pints. 

Cream the butter, mix all well together, and bake 
in a slow oven two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 
To be eaten hot. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Bread-crumbs two cups. 

Water one-half a cup. 

Sugar .•••• one-half a cup. 



PUDDINGS. 



149 



Chopped apples (tart and juicy) two cups. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls. 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Butter a pudding-dish, fill with alternate layers 
of apples and crumbs, sprinkling each layer with 
sugar, bits of butter, and spice. Cover closely, and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. When nearly done, 
take off the cover, and let it brown on top. 

Serve with any nicfe pudding-sauce. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Milk one quart. 

Farina three-quarters of a cup. 

Butter size of an ^gg. 

Eggs three. 

Sugar three tablespoonfuls. 

Vanilla one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Put a pint of milk over the fire with the butter. 
Let it come to a boil. Add the farina gradually, and 
boil till it does not adhere to the pan. Stir it con- 
stantly. Take it from the fire till it cools. When 
cool, add the yolks of the eggs well-beaten and the 
sugar and vanilla. Stir until smooth, and then add 
a pint of cold milk. Beat all well together, and then 
add the whites of the eggs, which must have been 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake three-quarters of an 
hour. This may be eaten without sauce, or may be 



Ijo PUDDINGS. 

served with cream and sugar. It is a very healthful 
-pudding. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Milk one pint. 

Corn starch two large tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs whites of four. 

Salt a pinch. 

Vanilla one scant teaspoonful. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold milk. Stir 
the sugar into the rest of the milk, and put it on the 
fire in a double kettle. When it begins to boil add 
the dissolved corn starch. Stir constantly until it 
thickens and is smooth. Add the whites of four 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Boil a few minutes 
longer to cook the egg. Remove from the fire and 
add the flavoring ; also, if desired, a cup of grated 
cocoanut. 

This may be served with a steamed custard made 
of the yolks of the eggs, a pint of milk, and half a 
cup of sugar. It is very nice also with jelly sauce. 
(See rule.) 

RICE PUDDING (to be eaten cold). 

Milk one quart. 

Rice (raw) one level tablespoonful. 

Salt a pinch. 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls. 

Nutmeg or vanilla to taste. 



PUDDINGS, 



151 



Mix and bake very slowly four hours. 
Economical and delicious. Make twice the quan- 
tity for a large family. 

LEMON RICE PUDDING. 

Rice one cupful. 

Butter one large tablespoonful. 

Eggs four. 

Milk one pint. 

Sugar one cupful. 

Powdered sugar four tablespoonfuls. 

Lemon one. 

Boil the rice in salted water seventeen minutes. 
Drain, and add the milk and butter to the rice while 
hot ; then the sugar and the yolks of the four eggs, 
well beaten, with the grated rind and a teaspoonful 
of the lemon juice. Bake this. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the remainder 
of the lemon juice, and, gradually, four tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Spread this over the pudding 
when done, and brown lightly. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Cocoanut one (grated), or 

Desiccated cocoanut one and one-half cups. 

Milk one quart. 

Eggs five. 

Sugar .... one cup (if grated cocoanut is used), or 
Sugar half-cup (if desiccated cocoanut). 



152 PUDDINGS, 

Boil the milk, and add the eggs well beaten, and 
the sugar and cocoanut. 

It is better to soak the desiccated cocoanut in 
milk for an hour before adding the eggs and sugar. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

Gelatine one-half box. 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk one quart. 

Bananas five. 

Cream one pint. 

Dissolve the gelatine in a cup of cold water. 
Scald the sugar and milk together. Thin the gela- 
tine with a little of the hot milk, strain it, and add 
the rest of the milk. Let it simmer upon the back 
of the stove for ten minutes. Pour into a bowl to 
cool. Stir the bananas, which must be peeled and 
cut into small pieces, into the mixture after it has 
cooled (but not stiffened). 

Serve with the cream whipped to a froth, sweet- 
ened if desired. 

This should be made a day before it is to be used, 
to give it time to harden. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Sugar one-half pound. 

Eggs six. 

Butter . . . ^ one-quarter pound. 

Oranges . . • two. 



PUDDINGS, 153 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the juice and 
grated rind of the oranges, then the yolks of the 
c&gs, one by one ; then slowly the whites well 
beaten. 

Line a deep dish with puff paste, pour in the mix- 
ture, and bake. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Line a bowl or mould with thin slices of stale 
baker's bread. Pour into this a quart of stewed 
strawberries, hot. 

If the strawberries are fresh, they must be made 
very sweet ; if canned, half a cup of sugar should be 
added. 

Set this away till cool. Then turn it out into a 
glass dish, without disturbing its shape. Pour 
around it a steamed custard made of a pint of milk, 
and the yolks of three or four eggs, and two-thirds of 
a cup of sugar. 

Ornament the top of the pudding with a meringue 
made of the beaten whites of the eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Chocolate (grated) two ounces. 

Com starch one teaspoonful. 

Milk (boiled) one quart. 

Eggs four. 

Vanilla • half a teaspoonful. 



154 PUDDINGS. 

Boil the milk, add the chocolate, and boil five 
minutes. Add the corn starch, smoothed in a little 
cold milk. Cool a little, and add the eggs, except 
the whites of two, which are reserved for frosting. 
Add the vanilla. 

Bake slowly for half an hour. When done, frost 
with the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, to which four tablespoonfuls of sugar have 
been added gradually. Brown the frosting lightly. 

TIPSY PARSON PUDDING. 

Pour over slices of slightly stale cake (sponge is 
best) wine and water enough to cover. When soaked, 
drain off the water. 

Make a steamed custard, and pour over it. Serve 
cold. 

The wine may be omitted, and the custard flavored 
with vanilla or lemon. 

This pudding may be ornamented with the white 
of one of the eggs used in the custard beaten stiff 
and dropped over the top. 

Half a dozen cocoanut macaroons may be placed 
around the edge. 

DANISH PUDDING. 

Pearl tapioca one cup. 

Cold water one pint. 

Boiling water one pint. 



PUDDINGS, 



ISS 



Sugar one-half cup. 

Salt one-half teaspoonful. 

Jelly (currant, or some acid jelly) .... one cupful. 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water over night. 

In the morning, put it into a double kettle with 
the boiling water, and cook an hour, or until trans- 
parent ; stir often. Add the sugar, salt, and jelly. 
Stir well, and put into a mould to cool. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

SARATOGA PUDDING. 

Tapioca one coffee-cup. 

Sugar (white) one cup. 

Lemon one. 

Water two quarts. 

Raisins (stoned) one cup. 

Apples (chopped) one quart. 

Soak the tapioca in the water over night. In the 
morning, add the apples, then the sugar, then 
the juice and grated rind of the lemon. Lastly, 
the stoned raisins. Bake in a covered dish, in a 
slow oven, two hours. Serve with sugar and cream. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 
Tapioca one-half cup. 

Eggs ' . five. 

Milk one quart. 

Sugar one cup. 



1 56 PUDDINGS. 

Soak the tapioca in water three or four hours. 
Have just water enough to keep it covered. 

Boil the milk in a double kettle, add the tapioca, 
and cook till it is perfectly soft. Then add the yolks 
of the eggs beaten up with the sugar. Cook ten 
minutes longer. 

Turn it into the dish into which it is to be served, 
and beat into it gently, with a silver fork, the whites 
of the eggs, which have been beaten to a froth. 

Flavor with vanilla. Serve very cold. 

RED PUDDING, 

Heat equal quantities of currant juice and water 
over the fire. When boiling hot, add slowly suffi- 
cient sago or farina to make it as thick as blanc- 
mange. It will require about six tablespoonfuls to 
thicken a quart of liquid. Boil until clear, and pour 
into moulds to cool. Serve with sugar and cream, 
or a steamed custard. 

Currant jelly dissolved in water may be used when 
the fruit is out of season. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Butter a deep pudding-dish thoroughly. Line it 
with thin, smooth slices of baker's bread well but- 
tered, from which the crusts have been trimmed. 
Fill the dish nearly full of sliced or canned peaches. 



PUDDINGS. 



157 



Sweeten to taste, and cover the whole with slices of 
bread which have been soaked for a minute or two 
in milk. 

Put a plate, that will fit closely, over the top ; lay 
a weight upon it to keep it in place, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

An hour, or an hour and a half, according to 
the oven, will suffice to bake it, if made of canned 
peaches. If raw peaches are used, it should be 
baked an hour longer. 

BIRD'S-NEST PUDDING. 

Apples six. 

Eggs three. 

Salt a pinch. 

Milk one pint. 

Flour one teaspoonful. 

Sugar one cup. 

Smooth the flour in a part of the milk ; add the 
yolks of the eggs well beaten ; then the whites, also 
well beaten ; then the salt and the remainder of the 
milk. Stir in the sugar till it is dissolved. 

Arrange the apples, which must be peeled and 
cored, in the bottom of a deep pudding-dish. Pour 
the custard over them, and bake till the apples are 
done. 



158 PUDDINGS. 

BIRD'S-NEST PUDDING OF BAKED APPLES. 

Core, peel, and bake the apples till soft. Make a 
custard, as in the rule for Baked Custard. Pour it 
over the apples, and bake till the custard is done. 

This is a good rule, as the apples require longer 
baking than the custard. The inside of the apples 
where the core was taken out may be filled with 
sugar, and less sugar used in the custard. The 
apples will be better sweetened. 

If these puddings are served with a sweet sauce, 
half the sugar may be left out. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Eggs six. 

Sugar one tablespoonful. 

Salt a little. 

Com starch six tablespoonfuls. 

Lemon juice of one. 

Water one quart. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold water. 
Pour a quart of boiling water over it. Add the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Stir well ; set it in 
a basin of boiling water, or double kettle ; cook ten 
minutes. Turn into a mould, and put away to harden. 

Make a steamed custard, for sauce, of the yolks of 
the eggs, a pint or a pint and a half of milk, two- 
thirds of a cup of sugar, and a teaspoonful of vanilla 



PUDDINGS. 



IS9 



or any flavoring preferred. (See rule for Steamed 
Custard.) 

Turn the pudding when cold into a dish, and pour 
the custard around it before serving. 

SIERRA NEVADA PUDDING. 

Eggs ten. 

Lemons three small or two large. 

Gelatine . four teaspoonfuls. 

Sugar one-half pound. 

Water ' one cup. 

Boil the water, and dissolve in it the sugar and 
gelatine. Add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the 
juice of the lemons, and the rind of one. 

Let this come to a boil. When a little cool, add 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Beat all to- 
gether and cool. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Sugar one cup. 

Egg one. 

Milk one cup. 

Butter two teaspoonfuls. 

Flour two cups. 

Baking-powder .... one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Mix and bake as for cake, and serve with liquid 
sauce. 



l6o PUDDINGS, 

APPLE DUMPLINGS (baked). 

Peel and core some fair apples. Make a paste as 
for pie-crust. Wrap each apple in a thin covering 
of the paste, first filling the space where the cores 
were taken out with sugar. Bake in a good oven; 
serve with liquid sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS (steamed). 

Peel and slice the apples, put them in a double 
boiler, cover with a paste, and steam till the apples 
are done. Serve in a deep dish, with liquid sauce. 

APPLE PANDOWDY. 

Fill a deep pudding-dish two-thirds full of sliced 
apples. Sweeten with a cup of sugar, flavor with 
nutmeg or cinnamon, add a few bits of butter. 
Cover with a thick pie-crust, perforated to allow the 
steam to escape, and bake till the apples are soft. 
When done, break the crust into the apples. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Soak slices of bread, with the crusts trimmed off, 
in a batter made of two eggs and half a pint of 
milk; then fry in a buttered frying-pan. 

This may be eaten for dessert with a sauce made 
as follows : — 

Two eggs and a cup of powdered sugar beaten to 



PUDDINGS. l6l 

a froth. Just before serving, add nearly a cup of 
boiling milk, and flavor with vanilla. This is a good 
sauce for any pudding, and easily made. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Sugar . . . .• four tablespoonfuls. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Beat together, and add, — 
Egg the white of one, beaten to a froth. 

Add a gill of boiling water, stirring fast. Flavor 
with wine or brandy, or any essence liked. This is a 
good sauce for any hot pudding. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Butter one-half cup (scant). 

Sugar one<:up. 

Egg one. 

Nutmeg one teaspoonful. 

Lemon grated rind and juice of one. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then 
the egg well beaten, then the rind and juice of the 
lemon, and the nutmeg. 

Place the dish in hot water, and add half a cup of 
boiling water. Stir five minutes. 



1 62 PUDDINGS. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter size of a walnut. 

Egg one. 

Beat all together; add hot water sufficient, and 
flavor with wine or any flavoring liked. 

SABYLLON SAUCE. 

Eggs two. 

Sugar half a cup. 

Sherry half a cup. 

Lemon juice of half of one. 

Beat the yolks of the two eggs and the white of 
one with the sugar, in a double kettle. Place it over 
the fire, and pour in gradually, stirring constantly, 
the wine. When it begins to thicken, remove it, and 
add the juice of half a lemon. When served, beat 
the white of the other egg, and place over the top 
of the sauce boat. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

Sugar one cup (heaped). 

Butter one-half cup. 

Egg one. 

Lemon one. 

Water three tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg well 
beaten, then the juice and half the grated rind of the 



PUDDINGS. 



163 



lemon. Last, the three tablespoonfuls of water, which 
must be boiling, stirred in slowly. 

MOLASSES SAUCE. 

Molasses one cup. 

Butter a tablespoonful. 

Vinegar or cider . . one-quarter of a cup (more if desired). 

Boil the molasses (it should be very nice) until it 
thickens a little. Add the vinegar or cider, and boil 
up again ; stir in the butter, and serve warm. 

(Good with apple dumplings or boiled-rice pud- 
ding.) 

The vinegar may be omitted. Some do not like it. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Powdered sugar, sifted one cup. 

Wine four tablespoonfuls. 

Cream or milk two tablespoonfuls. 

Cream the butter. Add gradually the sifted sugar. 
Then add gradually, beating all the time, the four 
tablespoonfuls of wine, then the two of cream or 
milk. 

When this is beaten well, and just before serving, 
place the bowl in hot water, and stir until smooth or 



creamy. 



HARD SAUCE. 



Sugar (powdered) ten tablespoonfuls. 

Butter (nice) two tablespoonfuls. 



1 64 PUDDINGS. 

Beat to a perfect cream. Add the white of one 
egg beaten to a stiff froth. 

Flavor with wine, brandy, or lemon or vanilla 
extract, or grate a little nutmeg over the top. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Sugar one cup. 

Strawberries one cup. 

Butter half a cup. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream. Add the 
strawberries, which must be thoroughly mashed. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

Cream one-half pint. 

Jelly one-half cup. 

Whip the cream to a froth. Add the jelly, — 
currant, grape, or any tart jelly, — a teaspoonful at 
a time, and mix it thoroughly. 

Sour cream can be used, when half a cup of pow- 
dered sugar should be added to it before putting 
in the jelly. It does not beat up as handsomely as 
sweet cream, and must not be old. 



PIES. 



-•o»- 



We see a great many sarcastic comments upon 
what is termed "that American institution — the 
Pier It seems to be a favorite theme in French 
and English cookery books especially, though these 
same books often contain receipts for tarts, cheese- 
cakes, and pdth^ which have for their foundation a 
rich puff paste. The union of grease and pastry that 
pdth contain is a combination before which the 
stoutest stomach may quail. But an apple, berry, or 
squash pie, with a delicate crust, is as healthful a 
dessert as can be desired. 

For the mince pie we have no word of defence, 
except that it tastes good ; and that is enough to 
insure its popularity until the human race is suffi- 
ciently advanced to prefer what is beneficial to what 
is agreeable. 

PIE-CRUST. 

Flour six cups. 

Lard one cup. 

Butter (at first) one cup. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 



i66 P^^^' 

Chop the shortening, flour, and salt together in a 
chopping-tray. (It is a good plan to wash the butter 
the day before. Many cooks do this, also, for cake, 
as they think it makes it lighter.) 

Wet this with ice-water. 

Roll out about an inch thick, and, with a knife, 
spread little bits of additional butter all over it, and 
roll it again. Do this three times, always dredging 
flour over the butter before folding the paste. After 
rolling in the butter three times in this way, make 
the paste into a long roll, and lay it on the ice, or in 
a very cool place, for an hour or more. 

Cut a piece from the end of the roll, and roll out 
lightly a thin crust of the size of the plate. 

Chopping the shortening in obviates the necessity 
of handling the paste, which makes it heavy. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Butter one pound. 

Egg yolk of one. 

Flour one pound. 

Lemon juice of one. 

Salt a pinch. 

Wash the butter the night before. Make a hole 
in the niiddle of the flour ; put in the yolk of the 
egg, the juice of the lemon, and the salt. Mix this 
with ice-water ; then put in the butter, and roll out 
four times. 






PIES, 167 

Set the paste on the ice for an hour before rolling 
out for the plates. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Meat (round of beef) three pounds. 

Suet one pound. 

Apples three pounds. 

Cinnamon two teaspoonfuls. 

Allspice two teaspoonfuls. 

Cloves two teaspoonfuls. 

Nutmeg one. 

Cider three cups. 

Sugar three pounds. 

Molasses one cup. 

Raisins one and one-half pounds. 

Currants one pound. 

Citron one-half pound. 

Salt to taste. 

Lemons grated rind and juice of two. 

Vinegar (best cider) one cup. 

Boil the meat till tender in a small quantity of 
water, so that there will be only one or two cupfuls 
of liquor. Chop the meat very fine. Peel, slice, and 
chop the apples. Chop the suet ; and remember that 
it is impossible to get any of these ingredients too 
fine. Chop the citron ; stone the raisins ; grate the 
rind of the lemon, and squeeze out the juice ; wash 
the currants. 



i68 P^^s, 

Boil together in a porcelain-lined kettle the cider, 
vinegar, molasses, sugar, and suet. 

Pour these hot upon the other ingredients, which 
must first be well mixed. This will keep a long time 
with the addition of a little brandy. If at any time 
you fear its spoiling, put it into a preserving kettle, 
and set it on the back of the range and let it scald 
through. 

If you wish, spread a few bits of butter on each pie 
before you cover it, a little additional salt, and a few 
teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

If anything seems to be lacking in mince-meat, it 
is usually either sugar or salt. 

The juice of preserved fruit or jelly may be added 
to the mince-meat ; to which the saying " the more 
good things the better *' is particularly applicable. 

MINCE MEAT (No. 2). 

Beef (second cut from the neck) .... five pounds. 

Suet (chopped fine) three-quarters pound. 

Raisins (stoned) one and one-half pounds. 

Apples (peeled, sliced, and chopped) . . . five pounds. 

Cinnamon two teaspoonfuls. 

Allspice two teaspoonfuls. 

Cloves two teaspoonfuls. 

Mace one teaspoonful. 

Nutmeg (grated) one. 

Cider one quart. 

Sugar to taste. 



PIES, 169 

Boil the cider down one-half, and add the juice 
the meat was boiled in, and a little of the fat. 
Then add the other ingredients, with wine and 
brandy to taste. 

MINCE MEAT (No. 3). 

Chopped meat two pounds. 

Chopped apples four pounds. 

Suet (freed from strings and chopped) . . one pound. 

Raisins (stoned and chopped) one pound. 

Currants (cleaned) one pound. 

Citron (chopped) one-quarter pound. 

Sugar (brown) three pounds. 

Cider three pints; or 

Brandy one pint; or 

Wine one bottle. 

Nutmegs one and one-half. 

Cloves (ground) one tablespoonful. 

Cinnamon (ground) one tablespoonful. 

Allspice two tablespoonfuls. 

Mace one-half teaspoonful. 

Salt two tablespoonfuls. 

Lemons juice and grated rind of three. 

The meat must be boiled tender and chopped 
very fine. It is desirable to have but little of 
the meat liquor left, which may be added to the 
mixture. Cook all together twenty minutes, except 
the wine or brandy, which must be added last. If 



PIES, 



171 



six tablespoonfuls of sugar and one of molasses to a 
pie. Spread little bits of butter and a pinch of salt 
over the top. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. 
Cut a narrow strip of crust for the edge, dip it in 
water and put it between the two crusts, pressing 
the upper one down. This forms a paste which joins 
the crusts firmly and prevents the juice from escap- 
ing, and is a good expedient for all juicy pies. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Squash one large pint. 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk one quart. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls. 

Cracker three tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs four (three will do). 

Ginger one teaspoonful. 

Extract of lemon one teaspoonful. 

Salt one teaspoonful. 

Peel the squash, steam it until soft, and strain it. 

To a large pint, add the sugar, spice, salt, and 
cracker crumbs, the latter rolled fine and sifted. 

Boil the milk, and melt the butter in it. Pour this 
gradually over the squash, stirring all the time. 
When thoroughly mixed, add the eggs well beaten. 

Bake in deep plates, with a nice undercrust. It 
can be made sweeter, if desired. 



1/2 



PIES. 



RHUBARB PIE. 

Rhubarb (chopped) one cup. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Eggs three. 

Mix the rhubarb, sugar, and yolks of the eggs. 
Bake in a deep plate, without an upper crust. When 
done, frost with the beaten whites of the eggs mixed 
with three or four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Brown the frosting lightly. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Fill a deep plate lined with crust with cranberry 
sauce (see rule), and bake till the crust is done. 

A few strips of pie-crust crossed over the top will 
improve its appearance, and a little powdered sugar 
may be sifted over it just before serving. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

This may be made in the same way as cranberry 
pie, using gooseberry instead of cranberry sauce (see 
rule). 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Cocoanut (grated), one, or cocoanut (desiccated), two cups. 

Milk one pint. 

Sugar one cup. 

Lemon ....... one-half grated rind and juice. 

Eggs four. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Crackers (pounded and sifted) ........ two. 



PIES, 



173 



If desiccated cocoanut is used, soak it for two 
hours in the milk, and use only half as much sugar, 
as the desiccated cocoanut is sweetened. Bake in a 
deep dish lined with nice paste, without upper crust. 

The whites of two of the eggs may be reserved 
for frosting. Beat them to a stiff froth, sweeten 
with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, add a 
little lemon juice, and after the pie is baked pile the 
frosting over it in little mounds. Return it to the 
oven, and brown lightly. 

PRUNE PIE. 

Soak the prunes over night, after having thor- 
oughly washed them. In the morning, stew them 
gently on the back of the range in the same water 
they were soaked in. When done, and while still 
hot, remove the stones, add the juice of one lemon, 
and bake in a deep plate, with an upper crust. Prunes 
require about a cup of sugar to a pound of fruit. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Raisins one pound. 

Sugar one cup. 

Lemon one. 

Crackers three. 

Boil, stone, and chop the raisins, roll the crackers 
fine, grate the lemon rind and squeeze out the juice ; 
mix all, and bake with two crusts. This makes three 
pies. 



174 



PIES, 



LEMON PIE (with corn starch). 

Com starch four tablespoonfuls. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls. 

Lemons two large or three small. 

Sugar two cups. 

Salt half a teaspoonful. 

Eggs three. 

Boiling water three cups. 

Smooth the com starch in a little cold water, add 
the salt, and upon this pour the boiling water. Set 
it upon the fire, and stir until it looks clear. Remove 
from the fire, add the butter, sugar, juice of the 
lemons, and the grated rind of one. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs, and add them. Line two deep plates 
with a nice paste, fill with the mixture, and bake 
immediately. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add gradually two or three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, pile it irregularly upon the top of 
the pies after they are taken from the oven. Brown 
the meringue lightly. 

All juicy pies should be baked as soon as they are 
filled, and in a quick oven, or the crust will become 
soaked, and will be tough and unwholesome. 

RICH LEMON PIE. 

Eggs four. 

Lemons one large or two small. 

Powdered sugar, eight tablespoonfuls for pie, four for frosting. 
Butter (melted) one large tablespoonful. 



PIES. 



175 



Beat the yolks of the eggs by themselves. Grate 
the rind and strain the juice of the lemons into them, 
and add the eight spoonfuls of sugar. Beat all to- 
gether until very light. Then add the melted butter. 
Pour into a deep plate lined with crust, and bake. 

When done, frost with the whites, which must be 
beaten to a stiff froth, and sweetened with the four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown in the oven. 

PLAIN LEMON PIE. 

Lemon one. 

Sugar one cup. 

Egg one. 

Flour one tablespoonful. 

Butter one teaspoonful. 

Milk half a cup. 

Beat the sugar, egg, flour, and butter together. 
Add the grated rind and juice of the lemon. Add 
the milk, mix well, and bake with two thin crusts. 

LEMON PIE (with milk). 

Lemons juice and rind of two. 

Sugar two cups. 

Eggs six. 

Milk two cups. 

Flour two tablespoonfuls. 

Smooth the flour in a little cold milk. Scald the 
rest of the milk, and to it add the thickening. Beat 



176 PIES. 

the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, and add 
these to the milk. Add the grated rind and juice of 
the lemons. 

Bake in deep plates lined with an undercrust, and 
when done, frost with the beaten whites mixed with 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Brown the frosting 
lightly. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Eggs three. 

Milk one and one-half cups. 

Sugar four tablespoonfuls. 

Flour one heaping tablespoonful. 

Orange one ; juice and grated rind. 

Smooth the flour in a little cold milk, add it to the 
boiling milk, add the other ingredients as in Lemon 
Pie. Reserve the whites of the eggs for frosting. 



CAKE. 

" But nicer cates her dairy's boasted fare, 
While at their frugal board contentment sits, 
And calls it feasting/' 



DIRECTIONS REGARDING CAKE. 

It will save some trouble to know the following 
comparative weights and measures. 

Butter, one tablespoonful heaped is equal to one ounce. 

Butter, one old-fashioned teacup a little heaped is equal 
to one-half pound. 

Butter, the size of an egg is one tablespoonful. 

Butter, the size of a walnut is one teaspoonful. 

An old-fashioned teacup or tumbler, or a common gob- 
let, holds half a pint. 

The old saying, "A pint is a pound all the world round," 
is true of most things, — liquids, sugar, meal, etc. ; but of 
flour, a quart is a pound. 

Sugar, one old-fashioned teacup is equal to one-half of a 
pound. 

Sugar, one heaping tablespoonful is equal to one ounce. 

Flour (sifted), four heaping cups are equal to one pound. 

Flour (sifted), three tablespoonfuls are equal to one 
ounce. 



178 



CAKE, 



Baking-powder or yeast powder is simply soda, (or 
saleratus, which is the same thing,) mixed with cream 
of tartar, in the proportion of one part of the former 
to two of the latter. Some cooks imagine that the 
baking-powder has a diflferent effect from cream of 
tartar and soda used separately. But there is no 
reason why it should be so, and it is more convenient 
to buy the chemicals already combined in proper pro- 
portions. 

Baking-powder should be mixed and sifted with 
the flour when dry. If, however, the soda and cream 
of tartar are used separately, the former should be 
dissolved in water or milk, whichever is called for in 
the receipt, and the latter mixed with the dry flour. 

Prepared flour is flour with the baking-powder 
already mixed with it. 

Before making cake, get all the ingredients you will 
need ready to your hand. 

Use the same vessel for measuring the several in- 
gredients to be used in anything you are cooking, 
that the proportion may not be changed. 

Currants, which are very dirty usually, should have 
been thoroughly washed and dried. 

Raisins should have been stoned. Have a cup of 
water at your side when stoning raisins, and drop the 
stones into it. This washes the fingers at the same 
time, and prevents their becoming sticky. This can 



CAKE. 



179 



be done whenever there is a little time of leisure or 
waiting in the kitchen. 

Sift the flour. 

In mixing cake, the butter and sugar should first 
be beaten together till they look like cream. This 
should be done with a wooden spoon, as an iron one 
is apt to discolor the cake. It saves a good deal of 
strength to beat cake with the hand, and this may be 
done in cool weather ; but in summer the heat of the 
hand makes it heavy. 

Beat the eggs, — yolks and whites separately, — and 
add the yolks to the butter and sugar ; then the whites. 
Next add half the milk, and when this is well mixed 
half the flour ; then the rest of the milk and the re- 
mainder of the flour containing the baking-powder. 
If fruit is used, save out a third of the flour to mix it 
with. It is less likely to sink to the bottom of the 
pan. Add flavoring. 

This is a good general method to follow, unless 
otherwise directed in the receipt. 

Grease the pans well. The cake is more certain 
to turn out easily if the pan is lined with a well 
greased paper. Have a brisk, but not too hot, oven. 

Treat the stove very gently while cake is in the 
oven, as a sudden jar may cause a loaf that is rising 
to "fall, never to rise again." 

Have your fire just right, so that you need not 



l8o CAKE. 

touch it till the cake is done. The old proverb that 
" there is more in baking than there is in making," 
applies here. If it is mixed ever so carefully and not 
properly baked, it is labor and material wasted. Do 
not move it, if you can help it, till it is done. If it 
begins to brown before it is properly raised, cool the 
oven a little by removing the cover from the stove a 
little way. 

The cake will shrink from the sides of the pan 
when it is done. Try it also with a broom-straw, and 
when no dough sticks to the straw it is safe to con- 
sider it baked sufficiently. Turn it carefully from 
the pan upon a toast-rack or clean broiler. Let it 
cool before putting it away in the cake-box. 

Fruit cake needs long, slow baking. It is safe 
to leave it in the oven half an hour after you think it 
is done. 

All cakes containing molasses bum more easily 
than sugar cakes. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Flour one pound. 

Butter one pound. 

Raisins three pounds. 

Wine one gill. 

Cloves one-half teaspoonful. 

Sugar one pound. 

Eggs ten. 



CAKE, 1 8 1 

Citron one-half pound. 

Nutmeg one. 

Allspice one-half teaspoonful. 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream ; add the 
brandy. Beat the eggs very light, strain, and add 
them. Add two-thirds of the flour; mix the fruit 
with the rest of the flour, and add it with the spices. 
The juice and grated rind of a lemon improves this 
cake. Bake in two well-greased pans, lined with 
paper also well-greased, in a moderate oven, from 
two to three hours. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Sugar (brown) one pound. 

Butter one pound. 

Flour one pound. 

Eggs ten. 

Citron three pounds. 

Raisins (stoned) four pounds. 

Currants four pounds. 

Molasses (darkest) one-half pint. 

Mace, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg (a little more 

cloves and mace) one ounce each. 

Brandy one gill. 

Mix, as in the preceding receipt. 

CLEVELAND FRUIT CAKE. 

Sugar one pound. 

Butter three-quarters pound. 



1 82 CAKE. 

Citron one-half pound. 

Currants one pound. 

Raisins (stoned and chopped) one pound. 

Flour one pound. 

Molasses one-half cup. 

Eggs eight. 

Spices all kinds. 

Bake four hours in a slow oven. 

APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

Molasses two cups. 

Flour four cups. 

Raisins (chopped) one pound. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Nutmeg one. 

Salt a little. 

Sugar (brown) one cup. 

Eggs three. 

Butter one cup. 

Cloves one teaspoonful. 

Citron one-half pound. 

Dried apples three cups. 

Soak the dried apples over night, and in the morn- 
ing stew them in one cup of the molasses. Add 
them to the cake batter when mixed, as by directions 
for other fruit cake. This will keep well. 



CAKE. 



183 



CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

Butter one large cup. 

Flour four cups. 

Brown sugar two cups. 

Eggs five. 

Currants one cup. 

Raisins (chopped) two cups. 

Citron one-half pound. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Molasses one-half cup. 

Soda one-half teaspoonRil. 

Mix according to previous directions. 

SPICE CAKES. 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Butter (melted) one-third of a cup. 

Flour three and one-half cups. 

Egg one. 

Cinnamon one teaspoonful. 

Cloves, ginger, allspice, and nutmeg . one-half teaspoonful, 

each. 

Soda one teaspoonful, dissolved in 

Boiling water one teaspoonful. 

Mix, and shape nicely with the hands in small, 
flat cakes. Dip each cake in white sugar, and bake 
in a quick oven. 



1 84 



CAKE, 



CUP CAKE. 

An old, reliable, and generally useful rule for cake, 
and one easily remembered, is the old-fashioned one- 
two-three-four cake. Only instead of three, put 
three and a half, and remember that there are two 
ones. 

Butter one cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Sugar two cups. 

Flour, three and a half cups ; three does not make it quite 
stiff enough. 

Eggs , , four. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

This should be mixed according to the preceding 
directions, and is good as a plain cake ; or it may be 
made into currant cake, by adding a cup of currants ; 
or raisin cake, by adding a cup of stoned raisins ; mar- 
ble cake, by adding to one-half of the batter, spices of 
all kinds and a small half -cup of molasses, and putting 
into the baking-pan in alternate layers of light and 
dark ; or fruit cake, by adding spices, molasses, and 
raisins to all the batter ; or layer cake, by baking in 
Washington-pie pans, when a little less baking-pow- 
der should be used. 

The dullest servant, if she cannot read, can easily 
learn this rule. It is ^^multum inparvoT 



CAKE, 



i8s 



FRENCH CAKE (reliable and good). 

Sugar two cups. 

Flour three cups. 

Eggs three. 

Butter . one-half cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

This makes an excellent batter for layer cake. 

ONE-EGG CAKE. 

Flour two heeping cups. 

Butter two large tablespoonfuls. 

Baking-powder three teaspoonfuls. 

Sugar one large cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Egg one. 

This is an economical cake, and very good if eaten 
soon after it is made. The white of the egg may be 
reserved for frosting. It also makes a nice marble 
cake, if spices and a tablespoonful of molasses are 
mixed with half the batter, and the light and dark 
placed in the pan in alternate streaks. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

Sugar three cups. 

Butter one cup. 

Milk one cup (scant). 

Eggs four. 



1 86 CAKE. 

Flour five cups. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Hickory-nut meats (chopped) one pint. 

Brandy or sherry wine one wineglass. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Eggs three. 

Baking-powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Flour two cups. 

Walnut meats one cup. 

Vanilla half a teaspoonful. 

Mix as directed. Add the nut meats, broken very 
fine, last. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Butter one and one-half cups. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Milk one and one-half cups. 

Flour two and one-half cups. 

Eggs (whites only) four. 

Cream of tartar .... one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Soda one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Almonds . . two dozen, placed over the top of the cake. 

The almonds 'must be blanched by soaking three 
minutes in boiling water; then put them into cold 
water and rub off the skins. Flavor with essence of 
almond. 



CAKE, 



187 



RIBBON CAKE. 

Sugar two and one-half cups. 

Butter one cup. 

Flour two and one-half cups. 

Milk one cup. 

Eggs four. 

Baking-powder two heaping teaspoonfuls. 

Raisins one cup. 

Currants one cup. 

Molasses one tablespoonful. 

Spices all kinds (to taste). 

Mix as in previous directions. Separate the batter 
into three parts. To one part add the fruit, molasses, 
and spices, and bake the three parts in pans of cor- 
responding size. 

Put the dark layer between the other two, with a 
little jelly between the layers. Press lightly to- 
gether. 

Frosting may be added if desired. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

Make the batter by the rule for cup cake. Divide 
it into four parts. Color one part with two squares 
of melted chocolate, and one with pink coloring, 
made as follows : — 

Cochineal one-half an ounce. 

Alum one-half an ounce. 

Cream of tartar . • « one-half an ounce. 



1 88 CAKE, 

Pour half a pint of boiling water over these three 
ingredients. Let it stand on the stove two minutes, 
then add gradually 

Salts of tartar one ounce. 

Add half a pound of sugar and strain through a 
cloth. Color one-fourth of the batter with this, and 
bake the four parts in pans of corresponding size. 
When done, put a light cake upon the plate, then the 
pink one, then another light layer, and on top the 
chocolate. Spread lemon filling between the layers. 

BUTTERCUP CAKE. 

Eggs three (yolks only). 

Butter one-half a cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Flour one and one-half cups. 

Baking-powder one even teaspoonful. 

Vanilla one teaspoonful 

DAISY CAKE. 

Eggs three (whites only). 

Butter one-half a cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Flour one and one-half cups. 

Baking-powder one even teaspoonful. 

Lemon or rose extract one teaspoonful. 

These two cakes should be made at the same time, 
and placed in the basket alternately. The white 



CAKE, 



189 



cake may be frosted with yellow frosting, and the 
buttercup cake with white frosting, for which, see 
rules for frosting. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

For the white part : — 

Butter one-third cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Milk one-quarter cup. 

Flour one and one-quarter cups. 

Soda one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Cream of tartar .... three-quarters teaspoonful, or 

Baking-powder one teaspoonful. 

Eggs whites of four. 

For the red part : — 

Butter one-third cup. 

Eggs yolks of four. 

Red sugar one cup. 

Milk one-quarter cup. 

Flour two cups. 

Raisins (stoned and quartered) one cup. 

Baking-powder two even teaspoonfuls. 

Put the red part in the centre of a round pan; scat- 
ter the raisins through it to look like the seeds, and 
put the white around the edge. 

DOMINOS. 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk one cup. 



igo 



CAKE, 



Butter two-thirds of a cup. 

Flour three cups. 

Eggs three. 

Lemon (juice and grated rind) one. 

Baking-powder . two teaspoonfuls. 

Bake in a thin sheet in a large pan, — a roasting- 
pan will do, — and frost with boiled chocolate frosting, 
made as follows : — 

Baker's chocolate two squares. 

Sugar (granulated) one cup. 

Egg (white only) one. 

Water one-half cup (scant). 

Boil the sugar and water together until it " hairs " 
or " ropes." Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, 
and turn the hot syrup over it, stirring constantly. 

Reserve some of the white frosting to make the 
dots upon the dominos. To the rest add the grated 
chocolate. Frost both sides of the cake with choco- 
late frosting ; cut it into oblong pieces the shape of 
dominos, and make the dots of the white frosting. 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE. 

Butter one cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Flour three cups. 

Sugar two cups. 

Eggs four. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 



CAKK, I Q I 

Dissolve a tablespoonful of chocolate in a little 
milk or cream. Stir this thoroughly into a cupful of 
the cake batter. Spread the dark batter over the light 
at intervals, forming little rings of the dark, that the 
cake may look like marble when done. 

SOUR-MILK CAKE (without eerers). 

Flour four cups. 

Sugar (brown) two cups. 

Butter two-thirds cup. 

Sour milk one and one-half cups. 

Soda . . one teaspoonful (to be dissolved in the milk) . 
Raisins . . . two cups (stoned, and chopped or halved) . 
Spices . • . , all kinds (to taste) . 

This is a very nice rule. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

Blueberries one cup (more if desired) . 

Sugar one cup. 

Milk one cup (scant). 

Eggs two. 

Butter one teaspoonful. 

Baking-powder three teaspoonfuls. 

Flour for a stiff batter. 

POUND CAKE. 

Flour one pound. 

Sugar one pound. 

Eggs eight. 



192 



CAKE. 



Butter three-quarters of a pound. 

Baking-powder two large teaspoonfuls. 

Cream the butter and sugar till very white. Beat 
the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Add 
first the yolks, and then the whites, to the butter 
and sugar. Sift the yeast powder with the flour, and 
add it. Beat it till very light. 

Bake in two cake pans lined with well-greased 
paper. 

Do not have the oven too hot at first, but after the 
cake has risen increase the heat a little. 

These directions seem minute, and have been re- 
peated more than once, but upon the manner of put- 
ting together and baking depends the success of 
cake, and this is a very nice cake if properly made. 

A glass of brandy, or a little nutmeg or mace, may 
be added, if desired. 

OLD DOMINION CAKE. 

Sugar weight of fourteen eggs. 

Flour weight of eight eggs. 

Butter weight of six eggs. 

Eggs eight. 

Lemons juice of two. 

Cream the butter and flour. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs and the sugar light, and mix them with the but- 



CAKE. 



193 



ter and flour. Lastly, add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, with the lemon juice. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

KENTUCKY CAKE. 

Eggs (whites only) fourteen. 

Sugar * one pound. 

Flour three-quarters of a pound. 

Butter one-half pound. 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the flour, and, 
last, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Add the juice of a lemon to the whites of the eggs, 
and flavor with whiskey to suit the taste. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Milk one cup. 

Baking-powder one teaspoonful. 

Butter a small piece. 

Egg one (can be omitted) . 

Flavor with nutmeg. Add a few raisins if desired. 
Add flour sufficient to make a batter of the consis- 
tency of cup cake. 

THE BOYS' SPONGE CAKE. 

Eggs six. 

Sugar equal to the weight of six eggs. 

Flour equal to the weight of four eggs. 



194 



CAKE. 



Baking-powder half a teaspoonfuL 

Lemon extract one teaspoonfuL 

Salt a little. 

Beat the sugar and yolks of the eggs together. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them. Sift 
the flour and baking-powder together. Add them 
gradually to the eggs and sugar, stirring all the time. 
Add the salt and flavoring. Bake in a good oven. 



« 



PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. 

Eggs four. 

Granulated sugar two cups. 

Flour two cups. 

Boiling water two cups (scant) . 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Lemon juice and grated rind of one. 

Salt a little. 

First. Beat the yolks with the granulated sugar. 

Second. Add gradually one cup of flour. 

Third. Add the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. 

Fourth. Add the remaining cup of flour sifted with 
the baking-powder. 

Fifth. Stir in the boiling water, a little at a time. 

Sixth. Add lemon and salt. 

Bake in shallow tins. No matter how thin this 
mixture may appear, do not add any more flour. 



CAKE. 



195 



SPONGE CAKE (simple and sure). 
Eggs three. 

« 

Sugar one cup. 

Flour one cup. 

Baking-powder one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Lemon juice and grated rind of one. 

Sift all together but the eggs and lemon, which add 
last. Beat well, and bake quickly in one loaf. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat eggs . . six yolks and whites together two minutes. 
Add sugar . . . three cups-, and beat five minutes ; then 

Flour two cups, with 

Cream of tartar . . two teaspoonfuls ; beat two minutes. 

Then cold water one cup, with 

Soda one teaspoonful ; beat one minute ; then 

Lemon one-half grated rind and juice. 

Flour two cups ; beat three minutes. 

Observe the time exactly, and bake in rather deep 
cup-cake pans, in a good oven. 

ANGEL'S FOOD (or White Sponge Cake). 

Eggs whites of eleven. 

Sugar (powdered or sifted granulated), one and one-half cups. 

Flour . . one cup. 

Vanilla one teaspoonful (scant). 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful. 

Sift some flour four times ; then measure out the 
cupful, add the cream of tartar, and sift again. 



196 



CAKE. 



Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the sugar 
lightly, then the flour very gently, then the vanilla. 

Do not stop beating till the cake is in the pan. 
Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven, in an angel- 
cake pan with a hole in the centre, that must be kept 
for that purpose alone, and must not be greased. 

Turn the pan upside down to cool. When cool, cut 
round the edge with a knife and remove. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Sugar (powdered) . .• two cup>s. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Flour two cups. 

Eggs whites of four. 

Baking-powder .... one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 
Almond . . to taste. 

Bake in a brisk, but not too hot oven. 

BRIDE CAKE. 

Eggs • six (whites only). 

Flour two and one-half cups. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Baking-powder .... one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the milk, then 
the flour, mixed with the baking-powder ; the whites 
of the eggs, well beaten, last. 

Flavor with rose or almond. 



CAKE, 



197 



CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Sugar two cups. 

Butter one cup. 

Flour two cups. 

Com starch one cup, dissolved in 

Milk one cup. 

Baking-powder three teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs whites of six. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

Flour one pint. 

Apples four. 

Milk one-half of a cup. 

Baking-powder two heaping teaspoonfuls. 

Sugar two tablespoonfuls. 

Butter size of an tgg. 

Egg one. 

Mix the baking-powder with the flour, add the salt, 
rub in the butter, beat the egg light, mix it with the 
milk and pour it over the flour; mix it into a soft 
dough, and spread it over a large pan. The batter 
should be about half an inch thick. Pare the apples, 
cut them in eighths, and stick them into the dough 
in rows. Sprinkle sugar over the top, and bake 
twenty or thirty minutes. 

HARD SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Butter one cup. 

Egg one. 

Ginger one teaspoonful 



198 CAKE. 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk three-quarters cup. 

Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Mix rather stiff ; add flour to roll out. 

NEW YEAR'S CAKES. 

Butter one and one-quarter pounds. 

Lard one pound. 

Sugar two pounds. 

Lukewarm water one pint. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Caraway seed five teaspoonfuls. 

Flour, about six pounds, or enough to make it sufficiently 
stiff to roll out. 

Cream the lard, butter, and sugar ; add the flour ; 
drop in the caraway seeds ; then add the water and 
the soda dissolved in a little hot water. Roll about 
half an inch thick and cut with a wooden cake cutter. 

HERMIT CAKES. 

Sugar one and two-thirds cups. 

Butter two-thirds of a cup. 

Eggs two. 

Raisins (chopped fine) two-thirds of a cup. 

Sour milk two tablespoonfuls. 

Allspice, cloves, nutmeg, and cinnamon . half a teaspoon- 
ful each. 
Soda one teaspoonful. 



CAKE, 



199 



Dissolve the soda in the sour milk ; add the other 
ingredients and flour enough to roll out. Roll thin 
and bake. 

If sweet milk is used, add a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar to the dry flour. 

These will keep a long time. 

SUGAR COOKIES (rich). 

Butter two-thirds of a cupful. 

Sugar two-thirds of a cupful. 

Flour one heaping cupful. 

Cinnamon (ground) one teaspoonful. 

Mace or nutmeg (ground) .... one-half teaspoonful. 

Egg one. 

Cold water one teaspoonful. 

Cream the sugar and butter; add the egg and 
spice, then gradually the flour. Roll as thin as pos- 
sible. Cut into cookies and bake. 

WAFERS. 

Sugar two cups. 

Butter ' one cup. 

Eggs three. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Baking-soda one teaspoonful. 

Nutmeg (grated) one. 

Flour to roll stiff. 

Mi^ as for cake, add as much flour as is needed, 
roll very thin, cut out, scatter a little sugar over the 



200 CAKE. 

top before putting in pans, and press it down with 
the rolling-pin. 

Caraway seeds may be added to this recipe. 

ANGIE'S SUGAR COOKIES. 

Flour one quart 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk one cup. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Cream of tartar two teaspoonfuls. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Salt a little. 

Nutmeg to taste. 

ANGIE'S DOUGHNUTS. 

Sugar • one cup. 

Milk one cup. 

Egg one. 

Soda one-half a teaspoonful. 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful. 

Butter size of a walnut. 

Flour sufficient to roll out 

Spice to taste. 

Mix as for cake, cut out, Aid fry in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Butter one-half teaspoonful. 

Milk one cup. 

Eggs two. 



CAKE, 20 1 

Baking-powder three teaspoonfuls. 

Nutmeg one and one-half. 

Flour enough to roll out. 

Mix as for cake, cut out, and fry in plenty of hot 
lard. Try a piece of the dough ; if it rises quickly to 
the top of the lard, and does not scorch, the heat will 
be right. When it rises, turn the doughnut over. 
They should be rolled about one-quarter of an inch 
thick. Sift powdered sugar over them before you 
put them upon the table. 

GINGER SNAPS (No. 1). 

Molasses one cup. 

Butter three-quarters cup. 

Water (hot) one-third cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Ginger . two teaspoonfuls. 

Flour sufficient to roll out. 

Boil the sugar and molasses together one minute. 
Add the butter, then the soda dissolved in the hot 
water, then the ginger and flour. Will roll out very 
thin. 

GINGER SNAPS (No. 2). 

Butter two-thirds cup. 

Lard two-thirds cup. 

Sugar (brown) one cup. 

Molasses one pint. 



202 CAKE. 

Ginger . . • • two tablespoonfiils. 

Flour one quart (at first). 

Soda two teaspoonflils, dissolved in 

Milk four tablespoonfiils. 

Spice a little of all kinds. 

Pepper one-half teaspoonful (if liked). 

After mixing, add flour enough to roll out. 

JUMBLES. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Eggs two or three. 

Soda half a teaspoonful. 

Flour sufficient for a sofl dough. 

Dissolve the soda in a little hot water, and add it 
after all the other ingredients have been mixed as for 
cake. Roll, and cut out as for doughnuts. Bake in 
shallow pans. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Eggs six. 

Flour two cups. 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk one large tablespoonful. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Put in the pans very thin. Do not bake too long. 
While hot, spread with jelly, roll and place in napkins 
to keep it in shape. 



CAKE, 



203 



This may be flavored with the grated rind of a 
lemon or a few drops of lemon extract. 

If the edges are baked hard, cut them off with a 
sharp knife before rolling. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Sugar two cups. 

Butter one-half of a cup. 

Flour three cups. 

Eggs .... four (yolks and whites beaten separately) . 
Oranges .... juice of two and grated rind of one. 

Add the white of eggs last. Mix lightly and bake 
quickly in rather thick layers. Spread the layers 
with orange filling (see rule), and put sliced oranges 
sprinkled with sugar between the layers. Frost with 
boiled icing flavored with orange. 

FIG CAKE. 

For the white part. 

Sugar two cups. 

Butter two-thirds of a cup. 

Milk two-thirds of a cup. 

Flour three cups. 

Eggs eight (whites only) . 

Baking-pow'der two teaspoonfuls. 

Mix as in cup cake and bake in two layers. 

For the yellow part. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter one (large) half-cup. 



204 



CAKE. 



Milk half of one cup. 

Eggs yolks of seven and one whole one. 

Flour one and one-half cups. 

Baking-powder one teaspoonfuL 

Flavor strongly with cinnamon and allspice. Put 
half the yellow batter into a pan corresponding to 
the pans the white cakes were baked in. Put over 
this batter a layer of figs cut in halves. Dust a little 
flour over them, put in the rest of the batter, and bake. 

When done, put the gold cake between the two 
white layers, with a little icing between each of the 
layers. 

Ice the whole cake if desired. 

FIG LAYER CAKE. 

Butter one cup. 

Sugar two cups. 

Eggs seven (whites only). 

Flour three and one-half cups. 

Milk one-half cup. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Bake in layers, and fill with fig paste made as fol- 
lows : — 

Chop one pound of nice figs, cook them until soft 
and smooth with one cup of water and half a cup of 
sugar. If desired, the paste may be made with two- 
thirds figs and one-third stoned raisins. The juice 
of a lemon can be added to the paste. 



CAKE, 



20S 



CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Boil one cup of water and one-half a cup of 
butter together. When it begins to boil, add 
slowly half a cup of sifted flour. Beat it well over 
the fire for five minutes. Pour this into a bowl 
to cool. When cool, add five eggs gradually, 
beating with the hand. Bake them in a quick 
oven in a well-buttered pan. The batter should 
be spread over the bottom of the pan in cakes 
of oblong shape, about three times as long as 
wide. 

When they are done, spread chocolate icing 
over the top. When the icing is cold, split each 
cake and fill with cream filling. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Boil together three tablespoonfuls boiling water, 
five tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and six table- 
spoonfuls of chocolate, stirring constantly. Frost 
the top of the eclairs with this. 

CREAM FILLING. 

Beat together three eggs, three-quarters of a 
cup of sugar, one tablcspoonful of corn starch, 
and a pinch of salt. 

Add these to a pint of boiling milk, and cook 
till the cream is smooth and thick. Cook in a 



206 CAKE, 

double kettle, as it scorches very easily. Flavor 
with vanilla or lemon extract. When cold, fill 
the cakes. 
This filling is good for any layer cake. 

CHEESE CAKES. 

Make a puff paste as in the rule under Pies. 
Cut into small rounds and bake. When done, 
split them and fill with lemon filling. 

It is a good idea to lay one thin paste upon 
another, with a large, flat cork between the upper 
and under crust, before baking. 

When donCy remove the cork, and you have 
space for the filling. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Flour one cup. 

Water one cup. 

Eggs three. 

Boil the water and butter together, then stir in 
the flour. Set it away to cool. When cold, add the 
eggs without beating. 

Butter a pan very slightly, and drop a lar?^ 
spoonful of the batter at intervals. 

Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. SpJi^ 
open the cakes and fill with cream. 



CAKE, 



207 



Cream Filling. 

Milk two cups. 

Sugar one cup. 

Eggs two. 

Flour two tablespoonfuls. 

Salt a little. 

Scald the milk, and add the other ingredients. Boil 
till it thickens. 

CAKE TO BE BAKED IN LAYERS. 
Suitable for any Filling. 

Eggs three. 

Flour one cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Milk two tablespoonfuls. 

Baking-powder ...... one and one-half teaspoonfuls. 

Salt a little. 

Flavoring vanilla or lemon. 

Mix as in previous directions for cake, and bake 
in jelly-cake pans. 

LAYER CAKE (richer). 
Butter . one cup. 

Sugar two cups. 

Milk one cup. 

Eggs . five, except the whites of two (reserved for icing). 

Flour three and one-half cups. 

Cream of tartar one teaspoonful. 

Soda one-half teasDoonful. 

Lemon extract one teaspoonful. 



208 CAKE, 

CAKE FOR LAYER CAKE (without milk). 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Water one cup. 

Flour two and one-half cups. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs .... three (white of one reserved for icing). 
Lemon grated rind of one if convenient 

CREAM LAYER CAKE. 

Eggs three. 

Powdered sugar one cup. 

Flour one and one-half cups. 

Water three tablespoonfiils. 

Baking-powder two teaspoonfuls. 

Cream. 

Milk one pint 

Flour one-half cup. 

Sugar one (scant) cup. 

Eggs two. 

Salt a httle. 

To the boiling milk add the other ingredients all 
beaten together; boil until it thickens; flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. 

CREAM FILLING (with corn starch). 
Milk one pint 

Sugar one-half cup. 

Butter two tablespoonfuls. 

Com starch one tablespoonful. 



CAKE. 



209 



Scald the milk, add the other ingredients, and 
boil in a double kettle till it thickens. 

CREAM FILLING (uncooked). 

Cream one pint, beaten stiff. 

Sugar six tablespoonfuls. 

Eggs whites of two, beaten stiff. 

Mix. Flavor with vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Baker's chocolate one square. 

Eggs yolks of two. 

Sugar one cup. 

Milk one-third cup (boiled). 

Stir the chocolate and sugar into the boiling 

milk, then add the eggs well beaten. Simmer ten 

minutes ; flavor with vanilla. Let it cool before 
using. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING (with cocoanut). 

Baker's chocolate . one-half or two-thirds cake (melted). 

Sugar two cups, dissolved in boiling water. 

Eggs whites of two, beaten a little. 

Boil all together ; when cool, add 

Vanilla four teaspoonfuls. 

Cocoanut one cupful. 



2IO CAKE. 

LEMON PILLING. 

Water one cup. 

LemoD juice and grated rind of one. 

Sugar one cup. 

Flour .... two tablespoonfuls, stirred into the egg. 
Egg one, well beaten. 

Mix, and cook till smooth like cream, 

ORANGE OR LEMON FILLING. 

Water two cups. 

Com starch three tablespoonfiils. 

Oranges . . . juice of three, grated rind of two; w 

Lemons two. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter one tablespoonfiil. 

Eggs yolks of three. 

Add the corn starch dissolved in one-half cup of 
the cold water, to the rest of the water when it 
boils ; add the rest of the ingredients ; cook all 
together ten minutes, or until it thickens. 

LEMON FILLING (with apple). 

Sugar one cup. 

Lemon juice and grated rind of one. 

Apple (grated) one. 

Egg one. 



CAKE, 211 

Beat together, set over the fire in a double ket- 
tle, and boil till clear. 

Orange may be substituted for the lemon. 

RAISIN FILLING. 

Raisins (stoned and chopped fine) .... one cup. 

Eggs (whites only) two. 

Lemons one or two. 

Add the whites of the eggs well beaten to the 
raisins, then the juice of the lemons. A little 
finely chopped citron may be added. 

This may be varied by using equal quantities of 
chopped nuts and raisins. The cake layers should 
be spread with boiled icing before the filling is 
put on. 

COCOANUT FILLING. 

Grate the cocoanut fine. 

Beat the whites of two eggs. Stir the cocoanut 
into the beaten egg, add half a cup of powdered 
sugar and enough of the milk of the cocoanut to 
moisten the mixture. 

Desiccated cocoanut may be used for this filling. 
Be sure that it is fresh, as cocoanut soon becomes 
rancid. 

Soak it, in milk enough to cover it, for an hour 
or two, mix it with the beaten whites of two eggs 
and one or two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 



2 1 2 CAKE, 

The desiccated cocoanut is already sweetened, so 
that it docs not require as much sugar as fresh 
cocoanut. 

Put the cocoanut mixture between the layers of 
the cake, and ornament the top with some of it. 

If you like the taste of chocolate and cocoanut 
together, the top of the cake may be covered with 
chocolate icing. 

COCOANUT AND ORANGE FILLING. 

Spread the bottom layer of your cake with white 
icing, then with grated cocoanut, then with sliced 
orange, then with another sprinkling of cocoanut. 
Ice the under part of the next layer, and place it 
Srmly upon the bottom one. Proceed with this 
layer as before, and so on, till you reach the top 
layer. Ice that, and scatter cocoanut lightly over it. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Flour one cup. 

Milk (sour) one cup. 

Butter size of a walnut. 

Soda, one-third of a teaspoonful dissolved in a little of the 
milk. 

Mix lightly, and bake in a quick oven. 

Mash and sweeten a pint and a half of berries. 
When the cake is baked, split it and butter each 
part. Spread the strawberries between the layers 
and serve immediately. 



CAKE, 



213 



Strawberries mashed and sweetened may be spread 
between any layer cake. Then garnish the top with 
whole strawberries. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE (to be baked in layers). 

Flour one and one-half pints. 

Butter one-half cup (scant). 

Baking-powder three even teaspoonfuls. 

Mix with water, and roll out a little thicker than 
pie-crust, and bake in jelly-cake pans. Mash and 
sweeten strawberries, and spread between the layers. 

ORANGE SHORT-CAKE. 

Make a crust as for strawberry short-cake, and 
spread sliced oranges, from which the seeds and as 
much as possible of the pulp have been removed, 
between the layers. A little grated or desiccated 
cocoanut may be mixed with the orange for variety. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Hot gingerbread spread with butter makes a very 
satisfactory dessert for an occasional change. It 
should be as well beaten and as carefully mixed 
as caice. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Molasses one cup. 

Boiling water one cup. 

Lard or butter one tablespoonful. 

Ginger one teaspoon ful. 



214 



CAKE, 



Baking-soda one teaspoonfiiL 

Salt a little. 

Flour . . as much as can be stirred into the molasses. 

Mix the flour and molasses, then add the soda 
dissolved in the boiling water, then the ginger, salt, 
and shortening. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

Molasses one cup. 

Kgg one. 

Milk one-half a cup. 

Lard one tablespoonful. 

Flour two cups. 

Soda one teaspoonful. 

Vinegar one tablespoonful. 

Ginger one teaspoonful ; more if liked. 

ANGIE'S MOLASSES STIR-CAKE. 

Molasses one cup. 

Egg one. 

Soda one-half teaspoonful. 

Ginger one teaspoonful. 

Salt a little. 

Shortening (lard or nice drippings), one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls. 

Flour to make a thin batter. 

HARD MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

Mix like the molasses stir-cake, omitting the 
cgg» ^^^ ^^^ sufficient flour to knead and roll out. 



FROSTING. 



FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

For the white of one egg, add one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice and one teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar. Beat thoroughly ; then add another tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and so on, till the frosting is thick 
enough to cut with a knife and leave its mark. 

Put on one coat of frosting while the cake is 
warm. This will make it stick, but care must be 
taken not to press the loaf. When this coat 
is cool, add the rest of the frosting, smoothing it 
carefully with a knife dipped in cold water. Cut 
with the back of the knife the lines for slicing the 
cake. Then smooth the sides. 

For decorating, the frosting, should be a little 
stiffer, and may be put on with a tube made of 
writing-paper rolled in the shape of a cone. 

FROSTING (easily made). 
Egg white of one. 

Powdered sugar one large cup. 

Com starch one teaspoonful. 

Beat the egg a little, — not till white, — stir in the 
sugar gradually, then the corn starch. When 
smooth, spread it on your cake. 



2i6 FROSTING. 



GELATINE FROSTING. 

Gelatine one teaspoonful. 

Water one-third of a cup. 

Sugar (powdered) sufficient to thicken. 

Vinegar (nice) one-half teaspoonful. 



k 



Dissolve the gelatine in the water on the back of 
the range. 

Add the sugar gradually, and the vinegar. This 
hardens quickly and is easily made. It is thick 
enough when it will just spread smoothly without 
running. It is not as white as egg frosting. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 
Eggs whites of two. 

Sugar (powdered) one-half cup. 

Chocolate six tablespoonfuls. 

Vanilla one teaspoonful. 

Melt over the fire the chocolate and sugar in two 
tablespoonfuls of water. When smooth, add the egg. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING (No. 2). 

Chocolate • . . . . two squares. 

Powdered sugar one and one-half cups. 

Eggs whites of two. 

Melt the chocolate over the steam of a kettle. 
Add the sugar and eggs, and frost the cake as soon 
as it comes from the oven. A little vanilla may be 
added to the frosting. 



FROSTING. 217 

YELLOW FROSTING. 

Egg • yolk of one. 

Sugar ten tablespoonfuls, or enough to stiffen. 

Vanilla half a teaspoonful. 

This is a pretty frosting for a light cake. 

BOILED ICING. 

Granulated sugar one cup. 

Boiling water . one-third of a cup. 

Egg white of one. 

Cream of tartar . one saltspoonful. 

Boil the water and sugar together without stirring, 
until it will thread. Meanwhile, beat the white of 
the egg stiff. Add the cream of tartar to the ^gg 
and pour the boiling syrup over them. Turn slowly 
and beat constantly. 

When it thickens and is smooth, pour it over the 
cake. 

This is a nice icing to spread between the layers of 
any layer cake. 

BOILED CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Make an icing by the preceding rule, and add 
gradually two squares of Baker's chocolate grated 
fine, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. 



2|8 FROSTING, 

MERINGUE. 

Beat the whites of one or two eggs to a stiff froth. 
Add very gradually powdered sugar, about a table- 
spoonful to an egg. Heap it upon the pie or pudding 
in little mounds, and brown it lightly in a quick oven. 

RED FROSTING. 

Any white frosting can be colored with fruit juice, 
currant or cranberry jelly, or the juice of damson 
preserves. 

ALMOND ICING. 

Whites of three eggs and three cups of powdered 
sugar should be mixed well together. Add to them 
one pound of almonds which have been blanched by 
lying in hot water till the skins could be removed, 
and chopped fine. Flavor with rose. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 



<< 



A pleasant fancy this, my Imogen, 
That nature is prolonged with sweetest art, 
And made subservient to woman's skill : 
The melting conserve yieldeth to desire. 
Nor leaves for season motive of regret." 



-•o*- 



DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Jellies should be made from the juice (only) of 
fruits. Equal quantities of juice and sugar, heated 
separately, and then boiled together hard and cease- 
lessly for twenty minutes, is a good general rule. 
Jam is made from the juice and pulp of fruit — all 
that can be squeezed through a sieve. Equal quanti- 
ties of pulp and sugar boiled together till quite thick. 
It must be stirred constantly. Try it on the ice to 
judge when it is thick enough. Put a paper wet in 
brandy over each glass of jelly after it has hardened. 
Cover with a tin lid, or paste a thick paper over the 
top. 

Canned preserves require about two cups of sugar 
to a cup of water. Boil the syrup by itself, adding 
a cup of water once or twice as it boils away. Skim 
it carefully. Add the fruit, and boil till tender. The 



220 PRESERVES AND JELLIES: 

cans should be filled with boiling hot preserve, en- 
tirely full, and closed immediately, air-tight. Lay 
the cans on the side, and if they are not tight they 
will probably leak. * 

Glasses for jellies and preserves should be im- 
mersed in hot water before filling. 

A silver spoon or fork put into a glass will draw 
the heat from the hot liquid and prevent the glass 
from breaking. Setting the glasses upon a wet towel 
will serve the same purpose. 

QUINCE PRESERVE. 

Of nice orange quinces, take equal quantities of 
fruit and sugar. 

Peel the quinces, and cut into quarters or eighths. 

Boil them, in water enough to cover them, till they 
are tender. Take them out one by one and lay them 
upon a platter. 

Make a syrup of the water and sugar by boiling 
them together, skimming if necessary. Return the 
quince to the preserving-kettle, and boil all three- 
quarters of an hour longer. Put into a stone jar, 
spread a brandied paper over the preserve, and cover 
close. Tie a piece of wrapping-paper over the cover 
of the jar. 

This preserve can be made of equal quantities of 
quinces and fair sweet apples. The flavor of the 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES, 221 

quince will so penetrate the apples that they cannot 
be distinguished. 

The apples will not require so long boiling as the 
quinces. 

The juice of this preserve should be quite thick, 
and, if the fruit is done before the juice is thick 
enough, remove it, and continue boiling the juice till 
it is of a dark, rich color. The preserve will be richer 
if the cores and skins .of the fruit are boiled down by 
themselves and strained into the boiling quince. 
But many persons prefer to make the cores and skins 
into jelly. 

Preserves that are put up in stone jars and not 
sealed, should be looked at occasionally, that they 
may be scalded up in case they threaten to ferment 
or mould. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Pare the peaches carefully, and try to make them 
look smooth and even. All canned fruits are more 
palatable if they look inviting. If they are quite ripe, 
the skins can be pulled off smoothly by letting them 
lie a moment ^in hot water. But most cooking- 
peaches need to be peeled with a sharp knife. As 
fast as they are peeled, drop them in cold water, that 
they may not become discolored. 

If there are any with blemishes or imperfections, 
lay them aside to be cut up and cooked by them- 



222 PliESERVES AND JELLIES, 

selves. Of those to be canned whole, use only fair 
ones. Make a syrup as directed under Preserves, 
and cook the fruit in it till soft. Put as many peaches 
into a jar as it will hold, taking them up with a spoon 
and a fork carefully, that they may not break. Fill 
the jar with the hot syrup ; seal at once. 

If you do not like the flavor of the peach stones, 
the fruit may be cut in halves before it is boiled. 

BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Select ripe, but not too soft, peaches. Cook them 
as in the rule for Canned Peaches. Fill the can with 
peaches, and pour over them the syrup and white 
wine brandy in equal quantities. 

CANNED PEARS. 

Proceed as in canned peaches. If the pears are 
Bartletts, they will need no flavoring ; but if they are 
common cooking-pears, they are very insipid unless 
flavored. A lemon and a good-sized piece of ginger- 
root for every dozen pears, added to the syrup, will 
improve them. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

Green-gage plums make a very nice preserve. If 
a sweet preserve is liked, make the syrup a little 
sweeter than for peaches and pears. Boil the fruit 
till tender. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 223 

DAMSONS. 

Wash, dry, and weigh the damsons. Allow a 
pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Boil them slowly 
about an hour. Press the top ones down occasionally. 
The juice of this preserve will give a beautiful color 
to frosting. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Many cooks think the color of currant jelly is in- 
jured by boiling twenty minutes in the old-fashioned 
way, and pursue the following method. 

After the juice has been strained, the sugar, in 
equal quantity, is put in flat, shallow dishes in the 
oven to heat. While the sugar is heating, the juice 
is put on to boil. When the sugar is very hot, — no 
matter if that around the edge of the platter is 
scorched, — and the juice is boiling, turn the sugar 
into the preserving-kettle with the juice. It will hiss 
as it is poured in. Let it boil for about five minutes, 
— ten will make it more sure, — and turn into 
tumblers. I have known jelly to be made by being 
simply mixed upon the fire and turned out as soon 
as the sugar was dissolved. It hardened perfectly ; 
but it is safer for the inexperienced to make it cer- 
tain by a few minutes' boiling, though, of course, the 
less it boils, the finer the color. If jelly does not 
thoroughly harden, set it in the sun for some days. 



224 PRESERVES AND JELUES. 

RHUBARB JELLY. 

Cut up the rhubarb without peeling. Steam it 
till very soft. Then lay it on a hair-sieve to 
drain over night, till all the juice is out. It may 
be pressed a little at last. 

To a pint of juice allow a scant pound of sugar. 

Boil the juice, and skim. Heat the sugar in the 
oven while the juice is boiling. Add the hot 
sugar to the juice, and boil till it forms jelly when 
tried. 

This looks and tastes like guava jelly, and keeps 
well. 

DELICIOUS APPLE SAUCE. 

Place a layer of peeled and quartered apples in 
a bean-pot ; sprinkle a little sugar over them ; 
then put in another layer of apples, which sweeten 
as before ; continue till the pot is about two-thirds 
full. 

Cover tightly, and bake three or four hours. 
Put no water in them, but do not let them bake 
dry. Take them from the oven while moist and 
juicy, and do not allow them to bake too fast. 

Tasteless, insipid apples become in this manner 
rich in color and flavor. 

SUNDAY APPLE SAUCE. 

Core and bake, filling the holes with sugar, seven 
or eight apples. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 225 

When very soft, strain them into a small pudding- 
dish. Grate in the rind of a lemon, and spread 
over the top the white of an egg beaten to a stiff 
froth and mixed with half a cup of powdered sugar. 
Brown slightly. To be eaten cold. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Wash and pick over the cranberries carefully ; 
cover the bottom of a porcelain-lined kettle with 
water ; put in the berries with two-thirds the quantity 
of sugar. Pour over them a teacupful more of 
water, and boil slowly till every berry is broken. 

GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Follow directions for Cranberry Sauce. 

This or the preceding rule will make a good 
filling for pies. Dredge a little flour over the top 
of the pie after it is filled. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY. 

Green grapes make better jelly to serve with meat 
than ripe ones ; they are more tart. This should be 
made like other jellies, with equal quantities of fruit 
juice and sugar, and boiled twenty minutes. 

ORIENTAL APPLE JAM. 

Pare, slice, and chop the apples very fine. Make 
a syrup as for preserves, using a pound of sugar 
for a pound of fruit. 



226 PRESERVES AND JELLIES, 

Boil the apples in this syrup with the grated 
peel and juice of two or three lemons and two 
ounces of ginger-root, until the preserve looks clear 
and yellow. This keeps well. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Put the apples into water enough to cover them, 
and let them boil till tender. Mash them with a 
spoon, and strain through a jelly bag. Allow 
a pound of sugar to a pint of juice. Heat the 
sugar in the oven, the juice in the preserving- 
kettle. When the sugar is hot add it to the juice, 
and boil thirty minutes. Pour the jelly into glasses, 
put brandied paper over each glass, and cover close. 
The red crab-apples make the finest colored jelly ; 
they should not be peeled. 

This jelly needs long boiling, because the apples 
require more water at first than other fruit. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash the fruit in several waters. Soak them 
over night ; in the morning stew them gently on 
the back of the rafige in the same water they were 
soaked in, adding more if necessary. Sweeten while 
cooking, in the proportion of a cup of sugar to a 
pound of fruit. 



CANDIES. 

*• The ancient saying rans, • Sweets to the sweet,' 
And, lady mine, let me in love commend 
These comfits to your taste, with like accord.^' 



MOLASSES CANDY (No. 1). 

New Orleans molasses one cup. 

Sugar (granulated) two small cups. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Vinegar four tablespoonfuls. 

Cook slowly, and do not stir while cooking. When 
it will harden in cold water, pour it upon a buttered 
platter. Grease the kettle before putting in the 
molasses. 

. MOLASSES CANDY (No. 2). 

Molasses two cups. 

Sugar . . . . ^ one cup. 

Butter size of a walnut. 

Saleratus one teaspoonful. 

Grease the kettle before putting in the molasses. 
Add the saleratus just before it is taken from the 
fire. Add a little vinegar, if you wish. 

CORN-BALLS. 

Molasses corn-balls can be made from either of 
these rules. 



228 CANDIES. 

Leave a part of the candy in the kettle, throw in 
the popped com, and stir rapidly till all the corns are 
covered with molasses. 

Flour the hands, and, as soon as the corns can be 
handled, shape into balls. 

TAFFY. 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Molasses one tablespoonful. 

Water one tablespoonful. 

Boil twenty minutes ; pour into well-buttered tins ; 
cut in squares while warm. 

NICE BUTTER TAFFY. 

Sugar (white coffee-crushed) three cups. 

New Orleans molasses two large cups. 

Butter one cup. 

Vanilla two teaspoonfuls. 

Boil until it will "rope" in water. Pour into well- 
buttered pans, and cut in squares. 

This is very nice, if the best materials are used. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Sugar two cups. 

Water one cup. 

Vinegar four tablespoonfuls. 

Butter size of an tgg. 

Boil until it hardens in water. 



CANDIES, 



229 



LEMON CANDY. 

Sugar two cups. 

Water one cup. 

Vinegar . three-quarters cup. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Essence of lemon one teaspoonful. 

Boil the sugar, water, and vinegar together. Put 
in the butter when nearly done, and the lemon after 
it is taken from the fire. Try in a cup of water 
when it will harden ; turn into a well-greased platter. 
When nearly cool, mark off into squares. 

CREAM PEPPERMINT CANDY. 

Granulated sugar three cups. 

Hot water one cup. 

Cream of tartar one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Mix these, and put them upon the fire. Boil hard 
ten minutes. Do not stir it till you take it from the 
fire. Then drop eight or ten drops of oil of pepper- 
mint into it. Beat it until it creams and will drop on 
paper. 

* PEPPERMINTS. 

Sugar two cups. 

Water one-half a cup. 

Boil five minutes, flavor to taste with peppermint 
extract, stir until thick, and drop upon paper. 



230 



CANDIES, 



COCOANUT CREAM CANDY (No. 1). 

Water three-quarters cup. 

Sugar three cups. 

Boil ten minutes without stirring. Just before 
taking from the fire, add one and one-half cups of 
cocoanut and a little cream of tartar. 

Beat until cold. Spread over buttered paper. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY (No. 2). 

Sugar two cupfuls. 

Water one-third of a cup. 

Lemon or vanilla . . one teaspoonful (more, if desired). 

Boil the water and sugar less than five minutes, 
till it is stringy. When cold beat v/ith a fork till it 
has a creamy appearance. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla, and stir in cocoanut till it is thick enough. 
Pour into a platter to harden. 

CREAM CANDY. 

White sugar two cups. 

Water one pint. 

Vinegar one tablespoonfiil. 

Flavoring (vanilla or lemon) one teaspoonfiil. 

Do not stir it while boiling. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CANDY. 

Proceed as in rule for cream candy. When nearly 
done, add six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 



CANDIES. 



231 



PEANUT CANDY (No. 1). 

Sugar two cups. 

Water one-half a cup. 

Boil these together. Dissolve half a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar in a little cold water, and add. 
Cook until it is brittle when dropped in cold water. 

Add a teaspoonful of butter, cook three or four 
minutes more, and pour over the nuts in a buttered 
platter. 

PEANUT CANDY (No. 2). 

Molasses one cup. 

Sugar one cup. 

Boil until it is brittle when dropped in cold 
water. Stir in half a pint of peanuts while it is 
over the fire. Pour into a buttered pan, and mark 
off into squares before it cools. 

NUT CANDY. 

Molasses one and one-half cups. 

Sugar one cup. 

Boil until brittle ; add a teaspoonful of soda and 
a cupful of walnuts, almonds, or peanuts. 

WALNUT CANDY. 

White sugar ............ two cups. 

Water one cup. 

Boil ten or fifteen minutes. Beat until white 
and cool. Take half of a walnut and place it upon 



232 



CANDIES, 



2l ball of the candy, put another half walnut on the 
other side of the ball, press them together, and lay 
them aside to cool. 

CREAM WALNUTS. 

Sugar two cups. 

Water two-thirds of a cup. 

Boil without stirring till it will "thread." Flavor 
with a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon. Set it into 
a dish of cold water. Beat it until it looks white 
and creamy. 

Shape the candy into little balls, put half a wal- 
nut on each side a ball, roll it in sifted sugar, and 
lay it upon a platter to cool. 

ENGLISH CREAMS. 

Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth. Add 
gradually eight taKespoonfuls of sifted powdered 
sugar. Beat well together, and flavor with vanilla. 
Halve the walnuts and put the cream between 
them. Press them firmly together, and set them 
away to harden. This should cream fifty walnuts. 

FRUIT CANDY. 

Molasses • . . . one cup. 

Sugar one and one-half cups. 

Mixed nut meats one and one-half cups. 

Raisins one-half cup. 



CANDIES, 



233 



Figs one-half cup. 

Currants one-half cup. 

Butter one-half cup. 

Citron a little. 

Boil the molasses and sugar together, until brittle 
when tried in cold water. Have the currants washed 
thoroughly and dried. Seed and chop the raisins ; 
chop the figs and the citron ; chop the nut meats, 
but not too fine. Mix all with the candy, and 
pour thick into buttered pans. 

CANDIED POP-CORN. 

Powdered sugar one cup. 

Butter one tablespoonful. 

Water three tablespoonfuls. 

Boil until ready to candy. Pour into the kettle 
three pints of nicely popped corn. Stir until all 
the corn is evenly covered with the syrup. Then 
take the kettle from the stove, and stir until partly 
cooled, so that the grains will separate. 

Nut meats may be mixed with this candy instead 
of corn. 

ICE-CREAM CANDY. 

White sugar two cups. 

Cold water one cup. 

Cream of tartar two-thirds of a teaspoonful. 



234 



CANDIES. 



Dissolve the cream of tartar in a little water. 
Boil all together, without stirring, until it strings. 
Pull it until it is as white as cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS (No. 1). 

Powdered sugar two cups. 

Water half a cup. 

Boil ten minutes. Set it in a dish of cold water, 
and stir briskly while cooling. Shape into little 
balls, and lay them on a buttered platter. 

Dissolve five squares of melted chocolate over 
the tea-kettle. Dip the balls in the melted choco- 
late, and set them aside to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS (No. 2). 

Cold water one and one-half gills. 

Arrowroot or com starch two ounces. 

Powdered sugar , three-quarters of a pound. 

Mix the corn starch or arrowroot smoothly with 
a little of the water. Stir this into the rest of the 
water; add the ^ugar and boil ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Take it from the fire; stir till cool. 
Add a quarter of a teaspoonful of vanilla, and con- 
tinue stirring till it creams. 

Form into balls, and, when cool, roll them in choco- 
late which has been melted over the steam of a kettle. 



CANDIES, 



235 



CHOCOLATE CREAM <In squares). 

Make a candy as in the last rule. Spread buttered 
paper with a layer of chocolate which has been dis- 
solved over the steam of a kettle. Let it harden a 
little ; then spread with a layer of candy, then another 
layer of chocolate. When cool, cut in squares. 

This is improved by adding a cup of grated cocoa- 
nut to the white candy just before taking it from the 
fire. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS (No. 1). 

Sugar . one cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Milk one-quarter cup. 

Butter one tablespoon ful. 

Chocolate qjiarter of a pound. 

Vanilla two teaspoonfuls. 

Boil the sugar and molasses together for fifteen 
minutes ; add the chocolate, grated, butter and milk, 
and boil fifteen minutes more. Try in cold water. 
When it will harden, take it from the fire. Add the 
flavoring, and pour into a buttered platter. 

Mark off into squares before it is quite cold. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS (No. 2). 

Sugar one cup. 

Butter • one cup. 

Molasses one cup. 

Chocolate one-quarter pound. 



236 



CANDIES, 



Boil from thirty to forty minutes, or until brittle 
when put in water. Flavor with vanilla. 

HOARHOUND CANDY. 

Hoarhound tea (strong) one cup. 

Sugar two pounds. 

Water one-half cup. 

Cream of tartar one-quarter teaspoonful. 

Dissolve all together. Boil hard. Turn upon a 
plate thin. Cut while hot. 

FRENCH CANDIES. 

A I confectioner's sugar must be used in making 
these candies. It must be rolled and sifted. 

Place the whites of two eggs in a tumbler, and 
mark the amount. Pour this into a dish and add 
the same of cold water, and a scant teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Stir these well together, and have ready 
about two pounds of the sugar; add this slowly, 
stirring with a silver spoon. A little more or less 
sugar must be used, according to the size of the 
eggs. 

Have ready, — 

Cocoanut (grated) one. 

English walnuts (shelled) one-half pound. 

Almonds (shelled) one-half pound. 

Dates (stoned) one-half pound. 



CANDIES, 



237 



Take a part of the mixture on the bread-board, and 
knead a little more sugar into it, then roll it out half 
an inch thick. 

Cut off small pieces with a silver knife, and shape 
with the hands into balls ; set this aside to harden 
for chocolate drops. 

Cut off other pieces, and shaping them with the 
hands, place halves of the walnuts on each side. 

Roll the almonds in pieces of the dough, and then 
in granulated sugar, shaping them nicely. 

Stone the dates and fill the opening with the 
dough, then roll in granulated sugar. 

Place some more of the dough upon the board, and 
knead into it as much cocoanut as it will hold ; then 
roll and cut into squares. The broken pieces of 
nuts may be chopped and mixed with the cocoanut, 
moulded into the dough, and cut into squares. 

Melt half a cake of Baker's chocolate on the back 
of the stove ; do not let it boil. Drop the balls 
which were reserved at first into this, dip them out 
with a silver fork, and place them on a paper to 
harden. 

This makes delicious candy. 



DRINKS. 



TO ROAST COFFEE. 

Put it in the oven in a large pan. It is less liable 
to burn and needs less watching thaji when browned 
over the fire. Stir it often, and when it is thoroughly 
and evenly colored a dark brown, put into it a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut. Stir until the butter 
is melted. Do not grind the coffee too fine. Keep 
it closely covered after it is ground. 

TO MAKE COFFEE. 

Allow one cupful of ground coffee for every six 
cups of water. 

Coffee is better if it is tied up in a muslin bag, 
unless you have a patent coffee pot with a wire 
strainer. Pour boiling water over the coffee, and let 
it stand about ten minutes where it will keep hot, 
but not boil. At the end of ten minutes remove the 
bag or strainer containing the coffee, and let the 
pot stand where it will keep hot till served. 

Boiling coffee dissipates part of its strength and 
aroma in steam. 

Anything put into coffee to clear it affects the 



DRINKS, 239 

taste, and if the coffee grounds remain after their 
virtue is extracted, they impair the flavor and nu- 
tritious qualities of this agreeable beverage. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 

To clear, cold coffee, put half as much milk and 
sufficient sugar to sweeten. Boil all together. 

TEA. 

Boil the water fresh for the occasion. Water which 
has been standing in the tea-kettle is not as good. 
Allow a teaspoonful of tea for each person and one 
for the pot. 

Pour boiling water over the tea, and let it stand 
where it will keep hot till needed. Tea is better not 
to be made till it is wanted. Standing injures the 
flavor. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Have boiling milk and water — half as much milk 
as water — upon the fire. Add a tablespoonful of 
grated chocolate for every cup of liquid. Boil slowly 
ten minutes. Add a tablespoonful of sugar. 

Serve chocolate with whipped cream. Let each 
person sweeten to his taste. 

LEMONADE. 

Strain the lemon juice. Many persons consider it 
an improvement to allow half a dozen oranges to 
every dozen lemons. 



240 



DRINKS, 



CLARET CUP. 

This is something delightful for cultivated palates. 

Take one bottle of claret (not twenty-five cent 
claret), the rind of half a lemon, a few cloves, half a 
stick of cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten. 
Do not make it too sweet. 

Let it just boil in an agate-ware saucepan. 

Then take one pint of cream and the yolks of two 
fresh-laid eggs, and beat them to a froth. Over this 
pour the boiling claret very gently, continuing the 
beating. Stir for ten minutes, so that it may not 
curdle. Remove the spices, and serve warm. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Sugar seven pounds. 

Raspberry juice five quarts. 

Bring to a boil ; skim, and bottle while hot. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

Heat the currants till soft, and strain. To a quart 
of juice add a pound of sugar; boil fifteen minutes, 
skimming carefully. Bottle tight or seal in cans. 

A SUMMER DRINK. 

Brown sugar three and one-half pints. 

Molasses one-half pint. 

Boiling water three pints. 



DRINKS, 241 

Boil these together ; skim, and add two ounces of 
tartaric acid. Set it away to cool. 

When cool, add one ounce of essence of sassafras, 
and bottle. 

A tablespoonful (or more) in a glass of water will 
make an agreeable drink. 

Fill the glass two-thirds full of water, and foam it 
with a little saleratus. 

If desired, it can be flavored with both sassafras 
and checkerberry, — half an ounce of each. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

Cheese one cupful. 

Butter one large tablespoonful. 

Milk or cream two or three teaspoonfuls. 

Egg one. 

Pepper; salt; mustard. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cheese cut 
small, then the milk or cream. Stir often till the 
cheese is melted. Add the beaten egg and season- 
ing. 

Pour on some slices of buttered toast in a hot dish. 
Serve hot. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Cheese . . ' one pound. 

Milk one cup. 

Mustard one-half teaspoonful. 

Butter one lump. 

Egg one. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Heat the butter, milk, and mustard through. Add 
the pepper and salt. Grate or cut into small pieces 
the cheese, and stir it into the heated milk. When 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



243 



melted, stir in the egg. Let it boil up, and pour over 
small pieces of toast. Serve hot. 

CHEESE RELISH. 

Common crackers . . . two and one-half (rolled fine). 

Grated cheese . three tablespoonfuls. 

Milk one cup. 

Heat milk in a saucepan ; add the other ingre- 
dients ; then a small piece of butter. Pepper and 
salt to taste. Should be served at once. 

POT CHEESE. 

Put a pan of clabbered sour milk over the fire ; 
scald until the whey separates. Strain through a 
cloth, and squeeze the curd dry. Add a little salt, 
two or three tablespoonfuls of cream, and a little 
butter. Mould into balls. 

GREEN-CORN CHOWDER. 
Green com .... one quart. 

Potatoes one quart. 

Onions two or three. 

Fat pork half a pound. 

Milk three cups. 

Flour three tablespoonfuls. 

Water (boiling) five cups. 

Pilot biscuit six. 

Pepper about half a teaspoonful. 

Salt a large tablespoonful. 



244 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 



It must be seasoned according to taste. 

Cut the corn from the cob. Peel and slice the 
potatoes and onions. Cut the pork in slices, and fry 
in the chowder kettle. Remove the pork, and put 
the com, potatoes, and onions in the kettle in layers, 
sprinkling pepper and salt and dredging flour over 
each layer. Pour in gradually five cups of boiling 
water. Cover the kettle, and boil twenty minutes. 
Smooth the three tablespoonfuls of flour in a little 
cold milk, add it to the rest of the milk, and pour it 
over the chowder. Soak half a dozen pilot biscuit 
in cold water till they are soft, but not broken. Lay 
them over the chowder, boil up once, and serve. 

ANGIE'S DUMPLINGS (for meat stews). 
Flour one quart. 

Lard one tablespoonful. 

Baking-powder three teaspoonfuls. 

Water sufficient to make a soft dough. 

These may be mixed with milk instead of water, 
in which case omit the lard. Mix lightly, and knead 
as little as possible. Before putting them over the 
stew, be sure that the pot is boiling, and see that it 
is kept so while the dumplings are cookfng. They 
should cook in twenty minutes. 

MOTHER'S BAKED BEANS. 

Beans one pint. 

Salt pork (part lean and part fat), a piece two inches square. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 



245 



Soak the beans all night in lukewarm water; 
freshen the pork in the same way. Bake in an 
earthen bean-pot. Let the beans nearly cover the 
pork, leaving the fat side a little raised above their 
level. Add a little pepper and a spoonful of mo- 
lasses. Cover with water. Cook from twenty-four 
to thirty-six hours in a moderate oven, adding water 
as it evaporates, finally allowing it to dry away suffi- 
ciently to brown the beans on top. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Dried pea beans one quart. 

Salt pork half a pound. 

Granulated sugar or molasses .... two tablespoonfuls. 

Salt and pepper. 

Put on the beans in plenty of cold water, and let 
them come to a boil. Parboil until the skins 
"wrinkle," changing the water two or three times. 
Drain, and wash thoroughly. 

Put in a deep " Boston bean-pot," and lay the 
pork, scored, over the top. Add the sugar and salt, 
and pour over them boiling water enough to cover 
them. 

Bake from eight to twelve hours, keeping a cover 
over the top until an hour before serving. Add more 
boiling water once or twice. To serve, remove the 
pork first, then pour out the beans. Do not dip out 
with a spoon. 



246 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 

A GOOD BRINE FOR BUTTER. 

Water two quarts. 

White sugar one pound. 

Clean white salt one quart. 

Saltpetre one teaspoonful. 

Mix. When it has stood an hour, strain through 
a flannel cloth, and pour over the butter. Less salt 
may be enough, but as much should be used as the 
water will take up. 

TO KEEP MILK SWEET OR BUTTER HARD. 

Put them in a bowl, and place the bowl in a pan of 
cold water. Over the bowl put an inverted flower- 
pot wrapped in a wet cloth. 

This is a very handy refrigerator. 

A HINT FOR DRAWN BUTTER. 

If drawn butter separates and becomes decomposed 
from standing, add a small piece of ice, or (in winter) 
a spoonful of cold water. Beat it up thoroughly, and 
it will become smooth again. 

TO TRY LARD. 

To ten pounds of leaf lard allow one pound of beef 
suet. Wash thoroughly. Put a very little water in 
the bottom of the kettle, to prevent the fat from stick- 
ing before it begins to fry. Boil slowly and steadily, 
till the fat is all tried out. Dip it out, and strain it 
into the lard pot. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



247 



TO CLEANSE DRIPPINGS. 

After drippings have been heated and strained, 
they may be poured while hot over a dish of cold 
water. 

When the drippings have hardened, the whole cake 
of fat may be removed by slipping a knife around the 
edge, and all sediment scraped from the bottom, leav- 
ing a clean, clear cake of shortening. 

VINEGAR FOR BOILED FISH. 

A tablespoonful of vinegar added to fish (salt or 
fresh), when boiling, is an improvement. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take equal quantities of corn and shelled beans, 
and cook together till tender. Most kinds of beans 
should be partly cooked before the corn is added. If 
dried beans are used, they should be soaked over 
night. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 



LINSEED POULTICE. 

Take one cup of linseed, and pour over it boiling 
water sufficient to make it of the consistency of a 
thick paste. Spread it upon a piece of thin cloth, 
cover with another piece, and apply. Lay a piece 
of thick flannel over the whole. Change it when it 
begins to have a sour smell. Make a fresh one every 
time. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 

Mix the mustard with warm water (unless other- 
wise directed by the physician) to a paste that can 
be spread upon a thin cloth. Cover it with another 
piece of thin cloth, and apply. Cover all with a 
towel or a piece of thick cloth. It will not be so 
likely to blister if the white of an egg is mixed with 
the mustard. If only a .mild plaster is needed, use 
half or two-thirds flour. If the skin is irritated after 
the application of the paste, scatter dry flour over 
the affected surface. 

MUSTARD PASTE IN HASTE. 

Cut a piece of flannel twice as large as the surface 
to be covered. Wring it out in hot water. Sprinkle 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 



249 



one side with ground mustard, fold together smoothly, 
and apply. Completely cover the flannel with a dry 
towel or thick piece of cloth. 

TO CRACK ICE. 

If ice is broken in small pieces before being 
brought to the sick-room, it melts rapidly. A large 
piece can be broken noiselessly by taking a darning- 
needle and knocking it gently upon the ice with a 
thimble worn upon the finger. An incision is easily 
made, and the ice broken in any size desired. 

SCOTCH PANADA. 

Soda biscuit six. 

Salt a pinch. 

Sugar two teaspoonfuls. 

Nutmeg a little. 

Scatter a little sugar and a grain of salt over each 
cracker. Cover with boiling water, and grate the 
nutmeg over all. Cover the dish, and let it stand in 
a warm place till the crackers are soaked. This is 
nice for an invalid. 

BEEF TEA. 

Have the beef chopped very fine ; cover it with 
cold water, and let it stand for an hour and a half. 
Then set it upon the back of the range, and let it 
simmer till the juice of the meat is all extracted. 

Skim off the fat, and season. 



250 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 



Another way of making beef tea is by putting the 
finely chopped beef into a glass jar. Place the jar in 
a vessel of water, and boil till the juice of the meat 
is extracted. This will take several hours. Skim, 
and strain through flannel. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

Smooth a tablespoonful of arrowroot in a little 
cold milk. Stir this into a pint of boiling milk. 
Boil four minutes. Salt it a little. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Boil some milk, and add as much flour smoothed 
in cold milk as will make it of the right consistency. 
A tablespoonful of flour to a pint of milk will make 
it quite thick. Salt it a little. 

WATER GRUEL. 

Smooth a tablespoonful of flour in cold water. To 
a quart of boiling water add this thickening, and boil 
till it looks clear. Add salt, and a little milk, if 
desired. 

INDIAN-MEAL GRUELt 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of . Indian meal smooth 
with cold water. Add a saltspoonful of salt. Stir 
this into a quart of boiling water, and cook twenty 
minutes. 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM, 



251 



SOFT TOAST. 

Toast two thin slices of stale baker's bread a 
golden brown. Put them on a warm plate, and 
pour over them boiling water sufficient to just soak 
them through. If there is any surplus water, drain 
it off quickly, put a bit of butter over the toast, 
cover with a dish, and serve at once. 

ANTIDOTE FOR POISON. 

A glass of cold water with a tablespoonful of 
mustard stirred into it, drank immediately, taking 
afterwards the white of one or two eggs, is an anti- 
dote for most poisons. 

ECGNOG. 

To each egg, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
add one tablespoonful of white sugar, one wine- 
glass of rum or brandy, one wineglass of cream or 
milk. Add the whites of eggs last. The propor- 
tions are perfect. 

VASELINE FOR COLDS. 

Hot vaseline, applied to the throat and chest, has 
given great relief in severe colds. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



TO CLEAN LACE. 

To clean lace that would be injured by washing, 
lay it away for two or three days in a box con- 
taining pulverized magnesia. Magnesia will remove 
grease-spots from silk and other delicate materials. 

GLUE STARCH. 

Dark cambrics and lawns look much better if 
they are starched with glue. White glue can be 
used for light-colored fabrics with good effect. 

This can be made by putting a piece of glue four 
inches square into three quarts of water. Keep it 
bottled closely till needed. 

PAPER FOR CLEANING. 

After the stove has been blackened, polish it with 
old newspaper. Tins and glass can be given "an 
extra shine " by the same means. 

TO RENOVATE BLACK KID GLOVES OR FRENCH 

KID BOOTS. 

Stir a few drops of ink and sweet oil together, and 
apply the mixture to any spots that are rubbed or 
white. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



253 



TO WASH BLANKETS. 

Dissolve a bar of soap in hot water. Put this into 
a tub of lukewarm water ; throw into the water a 
large handful of borax. Soak the blankets in this 
over night. Rinse in three clean waters. 

Do not wring them out, but let two persons take 
hold of either end and shake them thoroughly. 

If there be any soiled spots a thread should be 
sewed around them while dry, as they cannot be 

I 

distinguished when wet. A little soap may be 
rubbed upon these spots. 

Turn them once in a while as they hang upon the 
line. Take a good drying season for washing bed- 
clothing. 

TO CLEAN COMBS AND BRUSHES. 

Immerse them in water in which a little ammonia 
or a little borax has been put. Shake them thor- 
oughly, and dry as quickly as possible. 

SALT TO RENOVATE CARPETS. 

Scatter coarse salt over your carpets once in two 
or three months ; let it lie for several hours or over 
night. Give it two thorough sweepings, and your 
carpets will look almost as good as new. 

TO PRESERVE OILCLOTHS. 

Varnish them when they are new, let them dry 
thoroughly, and they will last twice as long. A 



254 ODDS AND ENDS, 

cloth moistened with kerosene oil is an excellent 
cleanser for oilcloth. 

TO REMOVE GREASE SPOTS. 

Put blotting or other porous paper upon a grease 
spot, and over that a hot iron. The heat of the iron 
will draw the grease from the cloth into the paper. 
If it is not all removed by the first trial, put another 
clean piece of paper on and repeat the process. 

Do not try to remove grease with liquids, unless 
you have a small piece of the goods to experiment 
with first. 

A little tailor's chalk or magnesia, scraped over a 
grease spot and left for awhile, may draw out the 
grease. 

Benzine is an excellent cleansing medium, if the 
whole article can be saturated ; but it leaves a mark 
the size of the application if it is rubbed or poured 
upon a spot. 

TO REMOVE IRON RUST. 

Put the spot over a pitcher containing boiling 
water. Scatter some pulverized oxalic acid upon it. 
Let it stand till the discoloration disappears. Wash 
the article immediately, that the acid may not eat a 
hole in the goods. 

TO REMOVE INK SPOTS. 

Wash immediately in cold milk. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 



TO REMOVE MILDEW. 



255 



Equal quantities of salt and lemon juice applied to 
mildewed spots, laying the article in the sun for 
awhile, will remove mildew, if anything will. 

TO WASH LACE. 

Sew it over a bottle which has been covered 
smoothly with a piece of cloth. Be careful and 
sew down each point. Soak it for awhile in cold 
soapsuds, then change to warm soapsuds. Change 
the water two or three times. When it looks clean, 
rinse it in clear, cold water, and dry it quickly in the 
sun or near the fire. Rip the lace off carefully, but 
do not iron it. 



INDEX. 



INDEX. 



Asparagus, zoq* 

Omelet, 1x3. 
Apples, Steamed Sweet, 136. 
Apple Snow, 136. 
Ambrosia, 138. 

Angie's Dumplings (for meat stews), 944. 
Arrowroot Gruel, 250. 
Antidote for Poison, 351. 

Baked Meat Pie, 5a. 
Beans, Boston Baked, 345. 

Mother's Baked, 244. 

Shelled, X09. 

String, 108. 
Beef Tea, 349. 
Beefsteak, 51. 

Smothered in Onions, 59. 

** without Onions, 59. 
Beef, Boiled Flank of, 54. 

Chipped, 54. 

jelly, 56. 

Mock Duck, 55. 

Pressed, 55. 

Roast (second day), 56. 

Sauer Brouten, 56, 57. 

Steamed, 58. 
Biscuit, Yeast-Powder, 13. 

Tea, 13. 

Boiled, 2x. 
Breakfast Dishes, 17. 
Breakfast Meat Cakes, 66. 
Bread, x. 

Boston Brown, 14. 

Steamed Brown, 15. 

Baked Brown, 15. 

Graham Brown, 15. 

Fried, 20. 

Graham, 5, 6. 



Bread, White, 4. 
Blanc Mange, 137. 
Blankets (to wash), 353. 
Bluefish, Baked, 36. 
Brine for Butter, 246. 
Buckwheat Cakes, x8. 
Butter, a Hint for Drawn, 346. 
To keep Hard, 246. 

Cabbage, Baked, xz6. 

Ladies', xi6. 
Caf<£ au Lait, 339. 
Cake, Almond, x86. 

Angel's Food, 195. 

Angie's Doughnuts, 200. 

Angie's Sugar Cookies, aoo* 

Angie's Molasses Stir, 3x4. 

Apple Fruit, 182. 

Berwick Sponge, 195. 

Blueberry, X9X. 

Bride, 196. 

Buttercup, x88. 

Cheap Fruit, 183. 

Cheese, 206. 

Chocolate Eclairs, 305. 

Chocolate Marble, X90. 

Qeveland Fruit, z8x. 

Com Starch, X97. 

Cream, 306. 

Cream Layer, 308. 

Cup, X84. 

Daisy, x88. 

Directions regarding, X77« . 

Dominos, X89. 

Doughnuts, 300. 

Dutch Apple, X97. 

French, 185. 

Fruit, x8o. 



26o 



INDEX, 



Cake, Fig, 903. 

Fig I^yer, 904. 

Gingerbread, 3x3. 

Gingerbread, Hard Molasses, 9x4. 

Gingerbread, Hard Sugar, 197. 

Gingerbread, Soft, 913. 

Gingerbread, Sponge, 914. 

Ginger Snaps, 9ox, 

Harlequin, 187. 

Hermit, 198. 

Hickory Nut, X85. 

Jelly Roll, 309. 

Jumbles, 903. 

Kentucky, 193. 

Layer, 907, 9o8< 

New Year's, 198. 

One-Egg, X85. 

Orange, 903. 

Orange Short, 9x3. 

Old Dominion, 199. 

Plain Sponge, X94. 

Poor Man's, X93. 

Pound, X9X. 

Ribbon, X87. 

Sour-Milk, X9X. 

Spice, 183. 

Sponge. X95. 

Strawberry Short, 9X9, 9x3. 

Sugar Cookies, 199. 

To be baked in Layers, 907. 

The Boys' Sponge, 193. 

Wafers, 199. 

Walnut, x86. 

Watermelon, 189. 

Wedding, i8x. 

White, 196. 
Calf's Head, to cook a, 69. 
Calfs Liver and Bacon, 69. 
Candy, Butter Scotch, 998. 

Candied Pop Com, 933. 

Chocolate Caramels, 935. 

Chocolate Cream, 930, 934, 935. 

Cocoanut Cream, 930. 

Com Balls, 997. 

Cream, 230. 

Cream Ibppermint, 999. 

Cream Walnuts, 333. 

English Creams, 333. 

French, 336. 



Candy, Fruit, 939. 

Hoarhound, 936. 

Ice Cream, 333. 

Lemon, 999. 

Molasses, 997. 

Nice Butter Tafly, 998. 

Nut, 33X. 

Peanut, 331. 

Peppermints, 399. 

Ta%, 338. 

Walnut, 33X. 
Carpets, to Renovate, 353. 
Cauliflower, 117. 
Celery Sauce, 79. 
Charlotte Russe, 138, X99. 
Cheese Relish, 343. 
Chicken, Brown, Fricassee of, 74. 

White, Fricassee of, 74. 

Pressed, 75. 

Fried in Batter, 75. 

Souffle, 76. 

Croquettes, 76. 
Chili Sauce, 95. 
Chocolate, 339. 

Filling, 309. 

Filling (with cocoanut), 909. 

Icing, 305. 
Chow-Chow, 97. 
Clams, 46. 

Boiled, 47. 

Stuffed, 47. 
Clam Chowder, 46. 

Fritters, 47. 
Cleaning, Paper for, 959. 
Cocoanut Filling, axx. 
Cocoanut and Orange Filling, 9X9. 
Cod, Boiled Salt, 39. 
Codfish Balls, 40. 
Coffee, to Roast, 938. 

To Make, 338. 
Cole Slaw, 90. 
Combs, to Clean, 353. 
Cracked Wheat, x8. 
Cracker Balls, 33. 
Cream Filling, 305, 307, 908, 909. 

Slaw, 90. 

Bavarian, 197. 

Brunswick, 137. 

Italian, 136. 



INDEX, 



261 



Cucumber Ketchup, 87. 
Cucumber Pickles, 93, 93. 
Currant Shrub, 340. 
Custard, Baked, 124. 

Steamed, 124. 

Souffle, 136. 

Ducks, Roast, 77. 
Drawn Butter, 78. 
Desserts, 124. 
Delicate Dessert, 130. 
Drinks, 238. 

Drippings, to Cleanse, 247. 
Duck, Mock, 55. 

Egg Thickening for Soup, 33. 
Egg Plant, 117. 
Eggs, to Boil, ISO. 

Poached, 120. 

Scrambled, 120. 

Fried Omelet, Plain, xsi. 

Fried Omelet, Seasoned, X2x. 

Puff Omelet, 122. 

To Fry, 122. 

Devilled, 123. 

To Beat the Whites of, 134. 
Eggnog, 251. 

Fish, Boiled, 34. 

Broiled, 35. 

To Fry, 35. 

Baked, 36. 

Baked Blue, 36. 

Chowder, 37. 

Pickled, 38. 
Fishballs, 39. 
Fish Omelet, 40. 
Fish, Scalloped, 40. 
French Stew, 53. 
Frozen Pudding, 132. 
Frosting, for Cake, 215. 

Easily Made, 215. 

Gelatine, 216. 

Chocolate, 2x6. 

Yellow, 2x7. 

Boiled Icing, 217. 

Boiled Chocolate Icing, 2x7. 

Meringue, 218. 

Red, 218. 

Almond Icing, 218. 



Gems, Graham, 8. 

Breakfast, 9. 

Rice, X2. 
Grouse, 77. 

Gravies and Sauces, 78* 
Gravy, 78. 
Giblet Gravy, 79. 
Green Corn, ixx. 

Pudding, 1x2. 

Omelet, xx2. 

Chowder, 243. 
Gruel, Arrowroot, 2Sa 

Water, 250. 

Indian Meal, 250. 
Gloves, to Renovate Black Kid, 252. 
Grease Spots, to Remove, 354. 

Hominy, x8. 

Croquettes, x8. 
Hasty Pudding, X9. 
Hash, 65. 
Ham, to Boil a, 67. 

To Fry, 68. 

To Broil, 68. 

Sandwiches, 68. 
Horseradish Sauce, 8x. 
Hints for Sick-Room, 248. 

Indian Meal Cakes, X9. 
Ice Cream, 133, 134. 

Chocolate, 133. 

Banana, 135. 
Ice, to Crack, 249. 
Indian Meal Gruel, 350. 
Iron Rust, to Remove, 354. 
Ink Spots, to Remove, 354. 

Johnnie Cake, Angie's, xx. 
Jelly, Wine, X30. 

Cider, 130. 

Calf's-Foot, Lemon, X3X. 

Orange, 13X. 

To Serve Orange, 133. 

Lemon (with fruit), X37. 

Crab-Apple, 226. 

Currant, 223. 

Green Grape, 235. 

Rhubarb, 334. 



^2 



INDEX. 



Lobster Croquettes, 45. 

Stewed, 45. 

Scalloped, 45. 
liver. Stewed, 70. 
Lettuce Dressing, 91. 
Lemon Sauce, 161. 

Filling, axo. 

Filling (with apple), aia 
Lemonade, 239. 
Lard, to Try, 346. 
Linseed Poultice, 348. 
Lace, to Clean, ass. 

To Wash, 955. 



Macaroni, Baked, 1x9. 
Mackerel, Potted, 39. 
Made Mustard, 83. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, ^ 
Meats, 49. 
Meat, to Boil, 49. 

To Roast, 49. 
Meat Cakes, 66. 
Mildew, to Remove, S55. 
Milk, to Keep Sweet, 346. 

Porridge, 350. 
Mince Meat, 167, z68, 169. 
Mint Sauce, 81. 
Miscellaneous Receipts, 949. 
Mrs. Partington's Opinions, vii. 
Muffins, Com, xx. 

Cream, xo. 

Rye, X9. 

Raised Grahamt 9. 

White, xo. 

White Raised, 9. 
Mushrooms, Stewed, xx8. 

With Cream, zi8. 
Mustard Pickles, 94. 

Paste in Haste, 348. 

Poultice, 948. 
Mutton, Boiled, 60. 

Breaded Chops, 63. 

Broiled Chops, 69. 

Chops, 69. 

Haricot of, 6z. 

Roast, 60. 

Stew, 6x. 

Stewed Leg of, 6z. 



Noodles, 39. 
Grated, 39. 

Oat Meal, X7. 

Oil Cloths, to Preserve, 953. 

Omelet, Fried, Plain, xax. 

Fried, Seasoned, X9X. 

Puff, Baked, X33. 
Onions, xx6. 
Orange Ice, 135. 
Orange or Lemon Filling, 9x0. 
Oyster Plant, xtf. 

Sauce, 80. 
Oysters, Devilled, 49. 

Fancy Roast, 44. 

Fricassee, 43. 

Fried, 44. 

Fritters, 44. 

Scalloped, 43. 

Stewed, 41. 

Parsnips, xo8. 
Peas, Z08. 

Dried Green, 33. 

Split, 3x. 
Pickles, Salads and, 88. 
Pickled Beans, 93. 

Herring, 99. 

Peaches, 96. 

Pears, 96. 

Plums, 95. 

Onions, 98. 

Oysters, 99. 

Sheep's Tongues, xoob 
Pie-Crust, x66. 
Pies, x66. 
Pie, Apple, X70. 

Baked Meat, 59. 

Cocoanut, 173. 

Cranberry, 173. 

Gooseberry, 173. 

Lemon (with com stardi), 174. 
Plain, 175. 
Rich, X74. 
With Milk, X75. 

Mince, 167, x68, 169. 

Orange, X76. 

Pot, 57. 



INDEX, 



263 



Pie, Prune, 173. 

Raisin, 173. 

Rhubarb, 173. 

Squash, 171. 

Summer Mince, 170. 
Poison, Antidote for, 351* 
Pop-Overs, 14. 
Pork Chops, 70. 
Pot Cheese, 243. 

Pie, 5x. 

Roast, 53. 
Potatoes, Baked, ids. 

Boiled, lox. 

Boiled, Cold, 105. 

A la Creme, 106. 

Balls, I03. 

Crestline, 106. 

Croquettes, 104. 

Delmonico Fries, 104. 

Duchess, 103. 

Fried, 103. 

Lyonaise, 107. 

Puff, 104. 

Saratoga, 104. 

Scalloped, 106. 

Scalloped, Cold, xo6. 

Souffle, X03. 

Steamed, los. 

Stewed, 103. 

Sweet, 107. 
Poultice, Linseed, 348. 

Mustard, 348. 
Poultry, 71. 
Prairie Chicken, 77. 

Preserves and Jellies, Directions for, 319. 
Preserves, Brandied Peaches, 333. 

Canned Peaches, 33z. 

Canned Pears, 333. 

Canned Plums, 333. 

Crab- Apple Jelly, 336. 

Cranberry Sauce, 335. 

Currant Jelly, 223. 

Damsons, 333. 

Delicious Apple Sauce, 334. 

Gooseberry Sauce, 335. 

Green Grape Jelly, 335. 

Oriental Apple Jam, 335. 

Quince, 320. 

Rhubarb Jelly, 334. 



Preserves, Stewed Prunes, 336. 

Sunday Apple Sauce, 324. 
Pudding Sauce, x6i. 
Pudding, Apple Dumpling, Baked, x6o. 
Apple Dumpling, Steamed, x6o. 
Apple Pandowdy, i6a 
Baked Plum, X4X. 
Banana, X52. 
Bird's- Nest, X57, X58. 
Bread, X42. 

Delicate, X43. 

Old-Fashioned, X43. 

Baked in Cups, X44. 
Brown Betty, X48. 
Chocolate, X53. 
Cocoanut, X5x. 
Corn-Starch, X50. 
Cottage, X59. 
Cracker, 145* 
Danish, X54. 
English Plum, 140. 
Farina, X49. 
French Toast, x6o. 
Graham, 146. 
Indian, Angie's, 147. 

Baked, X47. 

Steamed, X46. 
Lemon Rice, X5Z. 
Orange, X53. 
Peach, 156. 
Red, 156. 
Rice, X50. 
Saratoga, 155. 
Sierra Nevada, 159. 
Simple Suet, 141 . 
Snow, X58. 
Strawberry, 153. 
Swedish Honeycomb, 145. 
Tapioca Cream, 155. 
Tipsy Parson, 154. 
Virginia, 148. 
PuflT Paste, z66. 

Quail, 77. 

Rolls, 7. 
French, 7. 
Parker House, 6. 



264 



INDEX, 



Rolls, Snow, 8. 
Rice, X14. 

Croquettes, 1x4. 
Raspberry Sherbet, 135. 
Raisin Filling, azx. 
Raspberry Shrub, 340. 

Sabyllon, 139. 
Salad, Cabbage, qx. 
Chicken, 89. 
Lobster, 88. 
Oyster, 90. 
Shrimp, 89. 
Simple Potato, 88. 
String-Bean, 90. 
Tomato, 88. 
Salmon, Boiled, 35. 
Salt Cod, Boiled, 39. 
Salsify, or Oyster Plant, 117. 
Sauce, Bread, 84. 
Celery, 79. 
Cream, 87. 
Curry, 83, 84. 
For Cauliflower, 8z. 
For Lobster, 83. 
French, 84. 
HoUandaise, 83. 
Horseradish, 81, 86. 
Mayonnaise, 83, 86. 
Mint, 8x. 
Oyster, 8x. 
Pudding, x6x. 
Creamy, X63. 
Egg, 163. 
Foaming, i6a. 
Hard, 163. 
Jelly, 164. 
Lemon, i6x. 
Molasses, 163. 
Sabyllon, 163. 
Strawberry, X64. 
Sausages, 67. 
Scallops, 48. 
Fried, 48. 
Scalloped Meat, 68. 
Scotch Panada, 349. 
Scrod, 35. 
Servants, xvi. 
Shad, Potted, 38. 



Shrimps, En coquille, 46. 
Soups, 33. 

Asparagus, 31. 

Beef Bouillon, 30. 

Consomm^, 33. 

Cream Pea, 39. 

Cream of Rice, 3$. 

Clam, 37,31. 

Green Pea, 39. 

Julienne, 30. 

Lobster, 38. 

Milk, 39. 

Mock Bisque, 36. 

Ox-Tail, 31. 

Oyster, 38. 

Pea, 37. 

Potato, 35. 

Rice, 34. 

Tomato, 36. 

Turkey, 33. 

Vegetable, 34. 

White, 3x. 
Spaghetti, 119. 
Spiced Currants, 98* 

Grapes, 99. 
Spinach, 1x3. 
Squash Cakes, xz. 

Summer, 115. 

Winter, 1x5. 
Starch, Glue, 353. 
Stuffed Peppers, 96. 
Stuffing for Fowl, 73, 73. 
Sweetbreads, 67. 
Succotash, 347. 
Summer Drink, A, 340. 

Tea, 339. 

Things Handy to have in the House, xiii. 

Things to remember, ix. 

Three Royal Rules, xii. 

Thickening for Soup, 33. 

Toast, Cream, so. 

Soft, 35 X. 

Water, 3x. 
Tomato Ketchup, 85. 
Tomatoes, Baked and Stuffed, no. 

Broiled, xix. 

Fried, no. 

Puff Omelet, xia. 



INDEX. 



265 



Tomatoes, Scalloped, zzx. 

Stewed, zzo. 
Tongue, 58. 

Jellied, 57. 
Tripe, Fried, 65. 
Turkey, Hashed, 74. 

Steamed, 73. 
Turnips, xo8. 

Vaseline for Colds, 951. 
Veal Steaks, or Cutlets, 63. 

Loaf, 63. 

Fricassee, 63. 

Hashed, 64. 



Veal, Stuffed, 64. 

Marbled, 64. 
Vegetables, loz. 
Vinegar for Boiled Fish, 347. 

Waffles, Z9. 

White Griddle Cakes, zg. 
Water Ice, X36. 
Watermelon, to Serve a, Z36. 
Welsh Rarebit, 243. 
Water Gruel, 250. 

Yeast, Home-Brewed, 3) 3. 
Potato, 3. 



Count TohtoVs Greatest Work of Fiction^ 

ANNA KARfiNINA. 

By COUNT LEO. TOLSTOI. 

Translated from the Russian by Nathan Haskell Dole. 

Royal xamo, 7^ pp., $1.75. 



«* As you read on you say, not, * This is like life,* but, * This is life.* It has not 
only the complexion, the very hue, of life, but its movement, its advances, its 
strange pauses, its seeming^ reversions to form€r conditions, and its perpetual 
change, its apparent isolations, its essential solidarity. It is a world, and you 
live in it while you read, and long afterward; but at no step have you been 
betrayed, not because your guide has warned or exhorted you, but because he 
has been true, and has shown you all things as they are.'* — W, D. Hovfells^ in 
Harpers' Monthly, 

" The power of this book lies in the author's supreme control of the influences 
which affect human action, in his vivid apprehension of the operation of inex- 
orable law, in his intuitive knowledge of the action and reaction of spiritual con- 
ditions. With a noble art he throws against the shadow, that deepens ever to 
the end, a radiant soul development that serenely grows brighter till we know it 
is Tolstoi himself, his experience, his best. It is a great book, and of such 
creations the most sincere admiration falls sadly short of fitting expression.*' — 
Washington Post. 

"The effect of the whole is stimulating and elevating. The book is certainly 
one of decided genius." -r-AVw York Tribune. 

■* It is difficult to speak of this noble book without incurring the suspicion of 
extravagance."— JVJfzp York Examiner. 

" Will take rank among the great works of fiction of the age." — Portland 
Transcript. 

" Characterized by all the breadth and complexity, the insight, and the pro- 
found analysis of* Middlemarch.' " — Critic, New York. 

** It is not undue praise to say that, since the publication of Goethe's ' Elective 
Affinities,' no such relentless analysis of the human emotions, and of the action 
and reaction of social relations, has appeared as is shown in Count Tolstoi's 
novel, * Anna Kardnina.' " — Boston Traveller. 



THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO., 

X3 ASTOR PLACE, NEW YORK. 



THE MARQUIS OF PENALTA. 

(MART A Y MARIA.) 

By don ARMANDO PALACIO VALDES. 

umo. $x.sa 



" The literature is delightful : full of charming humor, tender pathos, the liyeliest 
sympathy with nature, the keenest knowledge of human nature, and a style 
whose charm makes itself felt through the shadows of a strange speech. It 
is the story of two sisters, — daughters of the chief family in a Spanish seaport 
city : Maria, who passes from the romance of literature to the romance of religion, 
and abandons home, father, and lover to become the spouse of heaven ; and Marta, 
who remains to console all these for her loss. We do not remember a character 
more finely studied than that of ^aria, who is followed, not satirically or ironically, 
through all the involutions of a conscious, artificial personality, but with masterly 
divination, and is shown as essentially cold-hearted and selfish in her religious 
abnegation, and as sensuous in her spiritual ecstasies as she was in her abandon to the 
romances on which she first fed her egoistic fancy. But Marta — Marta is delicious! 
We see her first as an awkward girl of thirteen at her mother's tertuliay helplessly 
laughing at some couples who give a few supererogatory hops in the dance after the 
music suddenly stops; and the note of friendly simplicity, of joyous, frank, sweet 
naturalness, struck in the beginning, is ielt in her character throughout. Nothing 
could be lovelier than the portrayal of this girl's afEection for her father and mother, 
and of the tenderness that insensibly grows up between her and her sister's lover, left 
step by step in the lurch by the intending bride of heaven. One of the uses of re<ilism 
is to make us know people ; to make us understand that the Spaniards, for example, 
are not the remote cloak-and-sword gentry of opera which romance has painted them, 
abounding in guitars, poniards, billets, a«/^u-dSei^, and confessionals, but are as 'like 
folks ' as we are. It seems that there is much of that freedom among young people 
with them which makes youth a heavenly holiday in these favored States. Maria's 
lover has 'the run of the house,' in this Spanish town, quite as he would have in 
Chicago or Portland, and he follows Marta about in the frequent intervals of Maria's 
neglect ; he makes her give him lunch in the kitchen when he is hungry, this very 
human young Marquis de Penalta; he helps her to make a pie — the young lady hav- 
ing a passion for all domestic employments — and to put away the clean clothes. Her 
father — Don Mariano Elorza— has a passion for the smell of freshly ironed linen, 
much as any well-domesticated American citizen might have, and loves to go and put 
his nose in the closets where it hangs. His wife has been a tedious, complaining 
invsdid all her married life, but he is heart-broken when she dies; and it is at this 
moment that Maria — who has compromised him in the Carlist movement because that 
is the party of the Church, and has tried in the same cause to make her lover turn 
traitor to the government which he has sworn as citizen and soldier to defend — comes 
ecstatic from the death-scene to ask his permission to complete her vocation in the con- 
vent. He gives it with a sort of disdain for her pitiless and senseless egotism. The 
story closes with the happy love of Marta and Ricardo, clasped to the old man's 
breast, and mingling their tears with his; and the author cries, 'O eternal God, who 
dwellest in the hearts of the good, can it be that these tears are less grateful to Thee 
than the mystical colloquies of the Convent of St. Bernard?' 

" A sketch of the story gives no idea of its situations, or, what is more difficult and 
important, the atmosphere of reality in which it moves. The whole social life of the 
quiet town is skilfuUy suggested, and an abundance of figures pass before us, all 
graphically drawn, none touched with weakness or exaggeration." 

"W. D, HmveUi, m Harfer'i MotOhfy. 



T. Y. CROWELL & CO., 13 Astor Place, New York. 



The demand for these Russian stories has hut just fairly begun ; hut it is a 

'ug this country has 

TkAV£LL£K. 



•• The demand for these Russian stories has hut just fairly 
literary movement more widespread^ more intense^ than anytnir 
probably seen within the past quarter of a century** — Boston 1 



DOSTOYBVSKY'S WORKS. 

Crime and Punishment. i2mo. $1.50. 
Injury and Insult. In press. 
Recollections of a Dead-House, in press. 

"The readers of Turg^nief and of Tolstoi must now add Dostoyevsky to their list 
ff they wish to understand the reasons for the supremacy of the Russians in modern 
fiction." — W. D, HowellSf in Harper* s Monthly for September. 



Anna Kar6nina. By Count Lyof N. Tolstoi. Translated from the Russian 
by Nathan Haskell Dole. Royal lamo. $1.75. 

"Will rank among the great works of fiction of the 2^%^** — Portland Transcript, 

" Characterized by all the breadth and complexity, the insight and the profound 
analysis, of ' Middlemarch.' " — Critic ^ New York, 

My Religrion. By Count Lyof N. Tolstoi. Translated by Huntington 
Smith. lamo. $1.00. 

" Every man whose eyes are lifted above the manger and the trough should take 
' My Religion ' to his home. Let him read it with no matter what hostile preposses- 
sions, let him read it to confute it, but still read, and ' he that is able to receive it, let 
him receive it.* " — New York Sun. 

Childhood. Boyhood, Youth. By Count Lyof N. TolstoY. Translated by 
Isabel F. Hapgood. With portrait of the author. lamo. $1.50. 

" Will make profound impression on all thoughtful people.** — Nation^ NewYork, 

"A rare and veracious picture of character development.'* — Star ^ New York, 

" These exquisite sketches belong to the literature which never grows old, which 
lives forever in the heart of humanity as a cherished revelation.** — Literary World, 

Taras Bulba. By Nikolai V. Gogol. With portrait of the author. lamo. $1, 

" For grandeur, simplicity of conception, and superbness of description, can 
hardly be equalled.** — N^ew York Times. 

** A wonderful prose epic, having all the charm and style of a stately poem, — one 
of tlie masterpieces of literature.** — New York Star, 

St. John's Eve, and Other Stories. By Nikola! v. Gogol. lamo. $1.35. 

In these tales of Gogol, the marvellous abounds. His field of observation is the 
village. His heroes are unimportant people, with superstitious imaginations, — very 
simple souls, whose artless passions are shown without any veil, but whose very 
ingenuousness is a deliciously restful contrast to our romantic or theatrical char- 
acters, so insipid and perfunctory in the refinements of their conventionality. 

This volume is the second of a series of Gogol's Works which we have in prepara- 
tion, and will be followed by " Dead Souls,*' now in press. 

A Vital Question; or. What is to be Done? By Nikolai G. Tchbr. 
NuiSHEVSKY. With portrait of the author. lamo. $1.35. 

" A famous but crude novel." — New York Tribune, 

" Yet it so touches the deep realities of life that in its force one forgets its crudity 
of form.** — Evening Traveller^ Boston, 

" People accustomed to think out of leading strings will be glad to read it." 

— Hartford Post. 

Great Masters of Russian Literature. By Ernest Dupuy. Sketches 

of the Life and Works of Gogol, Turgenief, Tolstoi. With portraits. Trans- 
lated by Nathan Haskell Dole. lamo. $1.35. 

"This volume, with its clear outline of the lives of these three g^eat novelists, 
and its delineation of their literary characteristics, will be found a most available 
and useful hand-book." — Traveller. 



THOMAS Y. CROWELL & 00., 

13 ASTOB PliACB, NEW YORK. 



MEDITATIONS OF A PARISH PRIEST. 

THOUGHTS BY JOSEPH ROUX. 
zamo. Gilt Top. $x.a5. 

There comes to us just now a book from Paris bearings the trite title^ 
** Peos^es,'* and for author's name a signature wholly unknown, — that of Joseph 
Roux. We approached the work with that distrustful indifference which a new 
name arouses; we laid it down, after even the tirst cursory (lerusal, convinced 
that in this rustic curt we had once more come across that rara avis of hu- 
manity, an individual souU Who would have dreamed that tlie nhilosnphical 
communing^ of a Catholic priest should, in these days of wide and enli(^liteucd 
thou&[lit, be able to arouse the faintest interest outside the narrow community of 
faitliful souls for whose benefit we might suppose they had been penned? Vet, 
once ag^n, the strangle is the true. These " Thouehts," -not one of which tlie 
wortiiy priest's parishioners could either read or understand, have caused a per* 
feet excitement of enthusiasm in France among- thinkers the most various. 
M. Curo, the painter Puvis de Chavannes, Renan himself, nay, even the great 

f>riest-h;iter, Francisque Sarccy, — all with one accord have done homage to the 
ittle book whose richness of first-hand thoughts (itUes m^res^ as the French call 
them in their happy idiom) have equally charmed and amazed them. They have 
not even hesit;itea to name their author in one breath with those great French- 
men who have achieved immortality in that walk of literature which seems 
specially suited to the genius of the h rench. 



The author of these *' I'etisies," as we have said, is an unknown man, a parish 

le had just touched his fiftieth year when his 
work was put forth to the world, — put forth almost against his will, certainly 



priest, and is no longer young. He had just touched his fiftieth year 



without his aid. But for an accident, the Abb^ Roux might have been numbered 
among the " mute inglorious Miltons,** to whom tiie world perchance owes more 
than it wots. An accident made famous the man who, but for this, would prob- 
ably have gone down to his grave unhonored and unknown. 
. • • • ■ 

It was the centenary of Petrarch, held in 1S74, that first called Roux into 
notice, — a festival celebrated in southern Fran -re by the F^libres, that society 
for the promotion and revival of Proven9al poetry, of which Mistral is the out* 
come and to the present time the chief glory. M. Paul Marieton, himself a young 
Fcflibre, a poet in French and Provencal, made the acquaintance of the Abbl 
Roux, and, struck with his work in dialect, sought to gain closer intimacy with 
the author. He unearthed him one da^ in his retired nest. '* He appeared to 
me," says Marieton, " like one of the Limousin giants of his ' Gcste de Charle- 
magne,'^ with his strong, square frame, his deep bass voice. His visage, large and 
tender, sweet and yet rough-hewn, resembled that of those English lords of Henry 
VIIl.'s time, — Northern colossi, painted by Holbein. With the gentleness of a 
child and a poet, he showed me the simplicity of his life; and I departed more 
moved than I can express." .... It was during this visit from the ardent 
youii^ Felibre that the Abbi Roux diffidently confided to him a large number of 
copy-books, written in a mighty firm hand, — a hand that would delight graph- 
ologists, — in which were put down the mile-stones of thought, marking the way 
traversed by this lonely minister of God during his twenty -five years of isolated 
life. Delighted, M. Marieton at once proposed to publish a selection. At first 
the Abb^ demurred. ** You would pubtish my ' Pens^es,' " he said. ** Beware! 
I am not independent enough to seek calumny, for I am not an individual, but a 
legion ; and the go<xl Abb^ Roux will bear the mountain of prejudice that weighs 
on the clergy of all times, and above all of this time. Prudence, my* friend. 
You would nave me think that I shall become a personage. I can scarcely hope 
it. I shall always be an immured. With a proud and timid character, one 
never arrives at anything." But M. Marieton did not let himself be deterred; 
and to-day the world can decide whether he did well or not to drajg^ forth ''Ss 
priest from his lonely obscurity. — Blackwood*s Edinburg'k Mag'axtne* 

T. Y. CROWELL & CO., 13 Astor Blace, Ntw York. 



mMu f 



foy 



->\ H- 







M 



