^ii^^'l 



r^ 



titters 



' me «>• »■ 



j^cessious 



•Stielf No. 



(^^J. //f c/ #^E^ rir^jy^l 




■■'-^3 l\ 



Boston Public Library 

Do not write in thie book or mark it with pen or 
penal Penaltfc. for ^ doin^ are imposed hy the 
Rev.sed U^s of th e Commonwolth of Massachusetts. 

iasrit'pt Mot'' '° ''^ **^^^^"^ '- ''' '^^^ 



oc 




FORNNO. e09: I.4.lfl,i80ll 



\ 



Practical 
Dinners 



WITH PLAIN DIRECTIONS FOR THEIR 
PREPARATION. 



By ^^The a. C' 

Author of " Bmrnd the Table,'' &c. 



LONDON : 

HORACE COX, 

THE QUEEN" OFFICE, 346, STEAND, W.C. 

1887. 



4v 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY HORACE COX, 34G, STRAND, W.C. 






PREFACE. 



The following recipes appeared originally in the 
pages of The Qneen, and they are now, after careful 
revision and correction, offered to the public in a 
collected form. 

The work has been undertaken in compliance with 
a very general desire expressed by readers of The 
Queen, and it is hoped that in its present form it will 
prove both useful and acceptable. 

The G. C. 

Aijril 1887. 



CONTENTS. 



ers for January Page 22, 49, 83, 105, 131, 132, 

157, 159, 173, 174, 194 


„ February 


„ 24,52,84,86, 107,135,160 


„ March 


, 26, 55, 87, 109, 111, 137, 
161, 175, 177, 194 


April 


„ 1, 28, 58, 89, 114, 138, 162, 
177 


May 


„ 3, 31, 34, 60, 90, 116, 141, 
163, 164, 179 


„ June 


, 5, 36, 63, 91, 118, 144, 165, 
179 


July 


, 8, 39, 66, 93, 120, 146, 166, 
167, 180 


„ August 


, 11, 41, 69, 94, 122, 148, 181 


„ September , 


, 13, 43, 71, 96, 124, 149, 
167, 182 


„ October 


, 16, 18, 45, 73, 99, 126, 150, 
168, 183 


„ November , 


, 19, 47, 75, 101, 128, 153, 
169, 192 


„ December , 


, 77, 103, 129, 155, 170, 184, 



Index 



185, 188, 191, 196, 199, 
201 

205 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 1. AFBIL. 

Croute au pot. 

Sole au gratin. 

MiTtton Cutlets and Spinach. 

Potato Salad. 

Apricot Omelet. 



Croute au pot. — Cut off the bottom crust of a quartern 
loaf, leaving the same thickness of crumb as there is crust. 
Cut it out in rounds the size of a sixpence. Soak these 
rounds in some good clear stock, lay them in a well-buttered 
tin, and put them into the oven to remain till they are quite 
dried up. Then lay them in the soup tureen with pieces 
of carrots, turnips, and leeks, that have been used to make 
the stock, cut out in rounds, pour some clear stock boiling- 
hot over, and in a few minutes serve. 

Cleae Stock (Consomme). — Take 21b. of beef (lean), cut 
it in small pieces, and a fowl half roasted also cut in 
pieces, bones and all. Put the whole into a saucepan, 
and fill up with common stock or broth (cold). Set the 
saucepan on the fire, and when the contents get hot, 
skim the liquor carefully, then add salt to taste, and the 
following vegetables cut up in small pieces : two or three 
carrots, a couple of onions, a small turnip, one leek, a head 
of celery, one tomato (fresh or dried), and a handful of 
parsley ; also add in due proportions, and according to taste, 
chervil, marjoram, thyme, cloves, allspice, whole pepper, 
mace, and bay leaf. This done, set the saucepan by the 
side of the fire to simmer very gently for at least four 

B 



PKACTICAL DINNERS. 



hours ; then strain the liquor through a cloth, free it 
absolutely from fat, clarify it with white of egg or raw meat, 
and it is ready. 

To Clarify Stock. — (1) For one quart of stock take the 
white of an egg, beat it up with a cu^Dful of the stock 
(cold), then add the rest, and beat it up on the fire with 
an egg whisk ; when it begins to boil strain it through a 
piece of tammy. (2) For the same quantity of liquor, mince 
not too finely, one ounce of lean raw beef or liver, add it 
to the liquor, and set it on the fire in a saucepan ; when it 
boils, strain it as above. If the consomme does not turn out 
clear enough the operation of clarifying must be repeated. 

Sole au gratin. — Mince finely half-a-dozen mushrooms, a 
couple of shallots, and some parsley; mix together, and 
strew a dish or tin (plentifully buttered) with half of this 
mixture, some baked bread crumbs sifted fine, and pepper 
and salt. Lay a couple of soles on this, then the remainder 
of the mushrooms, &c., more pepper and salt to taste, and 
cover up the whole with baked bread crumbs ; pour in at the 
sides a wineglassful of white wine, and enough stock or broth 
to come up to, but not over, the fish. Put the tin in the oven 
to bake till hardly any gravy remains. 

Mutton Cutlets. — Take a piece of the best end of a neck of 
mutton, saw off the bones short, trim off all superfluous fat, 
then cut out the cutlets, again trim them one by one, remov- 
ing superfluous fat, &c., and beat them gently on both sides 
with a cutlet bat dipped in water. Place them in a double 
gridiron, and grill them on or in front of a fierce fire, turning 
them twice during the process. When done sprinkle with 
salt, and arrange them on a dish in a circle with spinach in 
the centre. 

Spinach. — Pick and wash perfectly clean two or three 
pounds of spinach ; put it into a saucepan with a little water, 
and let it boil till quite done. Turn it out on a hair sieve to 
drain, squeeze the water out, and pass the spinach through 
the sieve. Put a good lump of butter into a saucepan, fry it 
a light brown, add a pinch of flour, mix well, put in the 
spinach, pepper and salt to taste, and a little milk ; stir well 
and serve. 

Potato Salad. — Boil some new potatoes and let them get 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



cold ; then cut them in slices, and arrange them neatly, in 
some sort of pattern, on a dish, with hard-boiled eggs cut into 
quarters, slices of beetroot stamped out into shapes, and 
olives stoned. The dish should be slightly rubbed with a 
shallot. Make a sauce with two parts oil and one tarragon 
vinegar, pepper and salt, a little tarragon, some capers, 
chervil, parsley, and a few leaves of thyme, all finely minced; 
beat the sauce well together, pour over the salad, and serve. 

Apricot Omelet. — Beat up the whites of four, and the yolks 
of six eggs with a very small pinch of salt. Put a piece of 
fresh butter in the omelet pan, and directly it is melted pour 
in the eggs. As soon as they are set, fold up the omelet, 
inserting within the fold as much apricot jam as will lie in it. 
Turn out the omelet neatly on its dish, cover it with powdered 
sugar, and glaze it w4th a red-hot salamander. 



No. 2. MAY. 

Spring Soup. 

Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber. 

Fricandeau with Spinach. 

Maccaroni Cheese. 

Caramel Pudding. 



Spring Soup. — Cut some new carrots and some new 
turnips in the shape of peas, put them in separate saucepans 
with enough stock to cover them, and a pinch of sugar ; keep 
them on the fire till the stock has all boiled away, but mind 
.they do not catch or burn. Cook some peas and some 
asparagus points in the same way. There should be equal 
quantities of each of these vegetables. Cut out of lettuces 
and sorrel leaves pieces the size of a sixpence, let them have 
one boil in some stock. Put all the vegetables so prepared in 
the soup tureen, add a few sprigs of chervil, pour over them 
some well-flavoured consomme, and serve. 

Salmon with Cucumber. — Take a piece of salmon, remove 
carefully the bones and skin, cut it into slices half an 
inch thick and flatten each on the chopping board with a 

B 2 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



cutlet bat or common chopper dipped in water. From 
these slices cut as many neatly shaped cutlets of a uniform 
shape as is possible. Place them quite flat on a well-buttered 
baking tin, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and ten 
minutes before they are wanted put them into the oven with 
a sheet of buttered white paper over them. Place all the 
trimmings of the salmon into a saucepan with carrots, onions, 
thyme, bay leaf, some parsley, pepper, and salt, and a pint of 
stock. Let this boil for half an hour, melt a small piece of 
butter, add to it about a teaspoonful of flour ; stir it till it 
begins to colour ; then strain into it the above sauce, and add 
a little chopped parsley. Cut a large cucumber in rounds 
an inch long, cut each round into four quarters, remove the 
seeds and rind, and trim each piece to a uniform shape ; then 
throw them into boiling water with a little salt ; let them boil 
until nearly cooked. Strain them, and throw them into cold 
water, then strain them again and put them into a saucepan 
with a little butter, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, to be 
kept covered up and warm until wanted. To dish up, pour 
the sauce on a dish, arrange the cutlets slanting, overlapping 
each other round it, and fill the hollow space in the middle 
with the cucumber. 

Fricandeau with Spinach. — Neatly trim a nice piece of 
fillet or cushion of veal, lard it thickly with bacon on one 
side. Place in a large stewpan a layer of slices of bacon, 
then some carrots and onions cut in slices, with a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to taste ; lay the piece of 
veal in the middle, and moisten with about a pint of stock. 
Let the meat stew gently for three or four hours, basting the 
top occasionally. Then strain off the gravy, put it into a 
small saucepan, skim off superfluous fat, add to it a little 
butter mixed smooth with a small quantity of flour, and let 
the gravy reduce nearly to a glaze ; pour it over the meat, 
the top of which should be previously browned with a sala- 
mander if necessary, and serve with a border of spinach. . 

Maccaroni Cheese. — Parboil for ten minutes in fast-boiling 
and salted water ^\h. of any kind of maccaroni. Drain it 
well, and put it into a saucepan with a little fresh butter, 
some milk, and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese and black 
pepper. Simmer until the maccaroni is cooked to your taste, 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



turn it out on a hot dish, sprinkle grated Parmesan over, 
brown with a salamander, and serve. 

Caramel Pudding. — Put a handful of loaf sugar to boil 
with a quartei of a pint of water until the syrup becomes a 
deep brown. Warm a small basin, pour the syrup into it, and 
keep turning the basin in your hand until the inside is com- 
pletely coated with the syrup, which will by that time have 
set. Strain the j^olks of eight eggs from the whites, and mix 
them gradually and effectually with one pint of milk. Pour 
this mixture into the prepared mould. Lay a piece of paper 
on the top. Set it in a saucepan full of cold water, taking 
care that the water does not come over the top of the mould, 
put on the cover, and let it boil gently by the side of the fire 
for one hour. Remove the saucepan to a cool place, and when 
the water is quite cold take out the mould, and turn out the 
pudding very carefully. 



No. 3. JUNE. 



Clear Soup (Consomme a la Royale). 

Red Mullets in Papers. 

Kromeskys of Chicken. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. 

New Potatoes. New Carrots. 

Cheese Tartlets. 

Gooseberry Tart. 



Consomme a la Royale. — Mix the yolks of six eggs with 
rather less than a gill of cold water and a pinch of salt; 
strain the mixture, and divide it into three equal parts ; 
colour one with some cochineal, the other with spinach 
greening, and leave the third plain. Put them into three 
small plain moulds, previously buttered, and set these in a 
pan of hot water, which place on the fire to boil just long 
enough to set the mixture. When the water in the sauce- 
pan has become quite cold turn out the contents of each 
mould on to a wet napkin, and you will have three small cakes 
of firm custard, respectively green, red, and yellow. Cut 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



them into small dice, and, handling them in the gentlest 
possible manner, spread them out on a plate to be kept till 
wanted. At the time of serving put a clear and well-flavoured 
consomme (clear stock) into the soup tureen ; slip in carefully 
the custard dice, and serve at once. 

Clear Stock. — Cut into small pieces the remains of a 
couple of roast fowls, bones and all ; put them in a saucepan 
with a pound of knuckle of veal and a piece of lean ham; 
cover with water, add salt to taste, and put the saucepan on 
the fire, skimming carefully all the scum that rises ; just 
before it begins to boil put in three or four carrots, two or 
three onions, a head of celery, some thjTne, parsley, marjoram, 
a bay leaf, a few cloves and whole pepper to taste ; then place 
the saucepan at such a distance from the fire as will let the 
contents simmer, but not boil. In about four hours strain 
the liquor through a napkin, effectually free it from fat, and 
clarify it with raw meat or with the white of an egg. 

Red Mullets in Papers. — Cut one carrot and two onions 
into thin slices ; add thyme, parsley, and marjoram, with 
pepper and salt to taste, and three tablespoonfuls of salad oil ; 
mix these well together, cover each mullet with the mixture, 
and roll it up in a piece of white paper, previously oiled ; bake 
them in a moderate oven half an hour, then carefully open the 
paper, place the fish neatly on a dish, ready to be served, and 
keep it warm. Melt a small piece of butter, add a large pinch 
of flour, half a tumblerful of good stock, and the vegetables, 
&c., the fish were cooked in. Let the sauce boil five minutes, 
add salt if wanted; strain, skim, pour it over the fish, and 
serve. 

Kromeskys of Chicken. — Pick out the meat from what is 
left of a roast fowl, chop it up not too fine, and toss it in a 
saucepan with a good piece of butter and a little fiour ; add a 
few mushrooms chopped up finely, pepper, salt, and spices to 
taste, as well as some minced parsley ; moisten with a little 
good stock, then stir into the mixture, off the fire, the yolk 
of an egg strained and beaten up with the juice of half a 
lemon ; turn out this mince on a plate to get cold ; cut some 
slices of bacon, previously parboiled, as thin as you possibly 
can, and to the size of about an inch and a half by two or two 
and a half inches ; place on each slice a teaspoonful of the 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



above mince, and roll it up very neatly in the bacon ; beat up 
together the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
one of olive oil, and four or five of cold water. Incorporate 
with this mixture three tablespoonfuls of flour and a pinch of 
salt ; keep on beating it for some time, and add as much more 
water as will make it of a proper thickness. When ready to 
use the batter, stir into it quickly the whites of two eggs 
whisked to a froth. Dip each kromesky in the batter, and 
fry them a light colour in hot lard. 

KoAST Leg of Lamb. — Let the fire be moderate, and roast 
the joint slowly, basting it frequently till done, when it should 
be sprinkled with salt, and the gravy freed from all fat before 
serving. 

Mint Sauce. — Chop as finely as possible a quantity of mint 
leaves, previously washed. Add to them sufficient white wine 
vinegar and water in equal parts to float them, and a small 
quantity of powdered sugar. Let the sauce stand for an hour 
before serving. 

New Potatoes au Beurre. — Choose smallish potatoes and 
all of one size, put them in a stewpan with plenty of butter, 
and a good sprinkling of salt ; keep the saucepan covered, and 
shake it occasionally until they are quite done, which will be 
in about one hour. 

New Carrots a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Trim each carrot 
neatly, and boil them in salted water ; when done drain off 
the water; add a piece of fresh butter to the carrots, some 
parsley finely mixed, a dash of pepper, a little powdered 
sugar, and a squeeze of lemon. Give the saucepan a toss or 
two on the fire, and keep the contents hot till the time of 
serving. 

Cheese Tartlets. — Make a paste with loz. of butter, 2oz. of 
flour, the yolk of an egg, a little water, a pinch of salt ; roll it 
out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, and line some patty 
pans with it. Take 2oz. of finely grated Parmesan cheese, beat 
it up in a bowl with the yolks of two eggs ; add pepper, salt, 
cayenne and nutmeg, according to taste, very little of the two 
latter ; then work in three tablespoonfuls of cream, fill each 
patty pan with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate 
oven till done. 

Gooseberry Tart. — Make a short paste with 4oz. of flour, 



8 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



3oz. of butter, 2oz. of sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, a little water, 
and a pinch of salt. Work it smoothly and roll it out to the 
thickness of rather more than one-eighth of an inch. Place a 
" flan " ring on a baking sheet, lay the sheet of paste over it, 
and with the fingers fit it carefull}' inside the ring, then cut 
off all the part that is above the ring, fill the shape with un- 
cooked rice, and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven ; 
then take out all the rice, and put in its place a compote made 
as follows : pick a quantity of gooseberries, put them in a 
saucepan with plenty of loaf sugar and a little cold water; 
when they come to the boil drain them off from the syrup ; 
let this boil up for ten minutes, then return the goose- 
berries to it. 



No. 4. JULY. 

Soup Bonne Femme. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

Veal Cutlets and Peas. 

Roast Quails. Salad. 

Ramakins. 

Genoise Pastry. Fruit Salad. 



Bonne Femme Soup. — Cut up a good-sized onion in very 
thin rounds, and place these in a saucepan with a good 
allowance of butter. Take care not to let the onion get 
brown, and when it is half done throw in two or three handfuls of 
sorrel, one lettuce, and a small quantity of chervil, all finely 
cut ; then add pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and keep stirring 
until the vegetables are nearly done. Then put in one table- 
spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, and half a cupful of stock or 
broth free from fat. Let the mixture reduce nearly to a glaze, 
when about a quart of stock or broth of the same kind as that 
used before should be added, and after the soup has given 
one boil, it can be put aside until the time of serving. Mean- 
while prepare about a dozen and a half very thin slices of 
bread about lin. wide and 2in. long, taking care that they 
have a crust along one of their long sides. Dry these slices 
in the oven. When it is time to send up the soup, first 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



remove the superfluous fat from it, then set it to boil, and 
when it boils take it off the fire and stir into it the yolks of two 
or three eggs beaten up with a quarter of a pint of cream or 
milk. Pour the soup over the slices of bread, and serve in 
three minutes. 

Salmon Croquettes. — Carefully pick out the flesh of some 
remnants of boiled salmon and mince it slightly. Melt a 
piece of butter in a saucepan, add the smallest quantity of 
flour and some hot milk. Stir on the fire a minute or so, 
then add pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, some minced 
parsley, and lastly the fish ; shake it well, and as soon as the 
fish is hot take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the yolk 
of an egg beaten up with the juice of half a lemon; now 
spread out the mixture on a plate to get cold : when cold 
divide it in tablespoonfuls, and fashion them all in bread 
crumbs into the shape of balls ; roll these in beaten-up egg, 
bread-crumb them well, and, after the lapse of about an hour, 
fry in very hot lard, serving with fried parsley. 

Veal Cutlets and Peas. — Take a small neck of veal, divide 
it into cutlets with a bone to each ; trim them all neatly in 
the same manner as mutton cutlets. Take a piece of rather 
lean bacon, cut it in slices one-eighth of an inch thick, and 
trim each slice to the size of the cutlets ; sprinkle the veal 
cutlets with pepper and salt, and fry them on both sides in 
butter till well done. Fry the bacon separately. Have some 
parsley and a very small quantity of thyme finely minced 
together. Arrange the cutlets and bacon alternately in a 
circle on a dish, sprinkle them freely with the minced parsley 
and thyme, and in the middle, place the peas cooked as 
follows : Put the peas with a small bunch of mint in plenty 
of water salted to taste, and let them boil as fast as possible, 
keeping the saucepan uncovered ; when done, remove the 
mint, strain off the water effectually, and give the peas a toss 
or two in a saucepan with a piece of butter. 

Roast Quails.— Cover the breast of each l}ird with a vine 
leaf, and over that place a thin sheet of fat bacon, tied on 
with thread ; put the quails on a long skewer, attach this to 
the spit, and roast ten minutes before a clear fire. Serve on 
buttered toast. 

Salad. — Wash two heads of lettuces, dry them thoroughly, 



10 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and break the leaves or cut them into convenient pieces ; put 
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin with a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, pepper and salt to taste, and one table- 
spoonful of oil ; work the mixture into a smooth paste, and 
add consecutively three tablespoonfuls of oil and two of 
tarragon vinegar, then add a handful of garden cress, and a 
little tarragon finely minced, and the whites of the eggs 
coarsely chopped. The mixture must be well stirred. Lastly, 
add the lettuce, turn it well over, and serve. 

Kamakins. — Put loz. of butter into a stewpan; when 
melted, add half a tablespoonful of flour ; stir it on the fire 
for a few minutes, but do not allow it to take colour; add a 
gill of milk, a pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls of Parmesan 
cheese, a little grated nutmeg, and a little cayenne ; stir it 
until it boils, remove it from the fire, and stir in the yolks of 
three eggs, putting aside the whites in a cool place until near 
serving time, then whisk them into a stiff froth, stir them 
lightly into the above mixture, fill some paper cases with the 
mixture, sprinkle a little grated cheese on the top, and bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

Genoise Pastry. — Take a quarter of a pound of the 
freshest butter, put it in a bowl, and warm it until it can be 
beaten with a spoon ; add to it four ounces of powdered loaf 
sugar, and beat the two together until a smooth white cream 
is obtained, then add one egg, and keep on beating the mix- 
ture till it is smooth again, then add three more eggs in the 
same manner. The germ of the eggs should be removed. 
Lastly, incorporate quickly a quarter of a pound of fine 
flour with the mixture, and as soon as it is smooth pour it 
out to the thickness of half an inch on a buttered flat tin, 
which you put into the oven at once. When done (in about 
ten to fifteen minutes) turn out the slab of genoise, and put 
it to cool, under side uppermost, on a sieve. N.B. There is a 
great knack in beating this paste to prevent its curdling. 
Should this happen, it can generally be remedied by beating 
as quickly as possilile until the mixture is smooth again. — 
Take a slab of genoise, spread on the top of it the thinnest 
possible coating of apricot jam, then a coating of chocolate 
icing. Put it into a very hot oven for rather less than 
a minute, take it out, arid place it in a cold place to get 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 11 



cool. Then cut it up with a sharp knife in any shapes you 
like. 

Chocolate Icing. — Put into a saucepan half a pound of 
powdered loaf sugar, two ounces of grated chocolate, and 
about a gill of water; stir on the fire until the mixture 
assumes the consistence of a thick smooth cream. 

Salad op Fruit. — Take equal parts of strawberries, red 
currants, white currants, raspberries, and very ripe cherries. 
Remove all the stalks, the stones from the cherries, and pick 
the currants one by one ; sprinkle plenty of powdered lump 
sugar over the fruit, and a wine glass of the best pale French 
brandy, or more according to the quantity of fruit ; toss them 
lightly until the sugar is all dissolved, and serve. 



No. 5. AUGUST. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Grilled Mackerel. 

Roast Fillet of Beef. 

Salad of French Beans. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Empress Rice. 



Green Pea Soup. — Take one pint and a half of green peas^ 
boil them in salt and water with a little mint ; when 
thoroughly cooked, pound them and pass them through a 
hair sieve. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan; when 
melted put in an onion and a carrot, cut in thin slices, fry 
until they begin to colour ; add a quart of stock, a little salt, 
pepper, and a pinch of white sugar. Leave it to boil for a 
quarter of an hour, stir in the puree of peas, let it come to 
the boil, strain it, and serve with small dice of bread fried in 
butter. 

Grilled Mackerel. — Split a couple of mackerel down th e 
back, and remove the bone. Mix some olive oil in a dish with 
pepper and salt, lay the mackerel in this, and turn them over 
so that they are well oiled on both sides. Place them in a 
double gridiron, and grill them for about ten minutes in front 



12 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



of a clear, but not too fierce, fire, turning them frequently 
during the process. Serve, back downwai ds, with a large 
piece of maitre cVhotel butter on each fish. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter. — Put a couple of ounces of fresh 
butter into a basin, with the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt 
to taste, and a small quantity of parsley freed from moisture 
and finely minced. Incorporate the whole well together, and 
keep it in a cool place till wanted. 

KoAST Fillet of Beef. — Take a piece of the undercut of 
sirloin of beef, trim off the fat neatly, and the thin skin next 
to it ; lard (not too finely) that side of it with fat bacon, and 
lay it for a whole day in a pie dish, with plenty of olive oil, 
pepper, salt, parsley, slices of onion, and laurel leaves. Tie it 
on the spit, cover the larded side with a piece of buttered 
paper, roast it at a brisk fire, and do not let it be overdone. 
Baste it frequently with its own gravy, and a short time 
before serving remove the piece of paper to let the larding 
take colour. Serve with its own gravy, and round it small 
potatoes, tossed in buttei until done. 

Salad of French Beans. — String some French beans, and boil 
them whole in plenty of salted water ; when cold dress them 
with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, some tarragon and capers 
finely minced, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, 
and beetroot. The dish must be well rubbed with a shallot. 

Cheese Omelet. — Beat up three eggs, with pepper and salt 
to taste, and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into the omelet pan ; 
as soon as it is melted pour in the eggs, and, holding the 
handle of the pan with one hand, stir the omelet with the 
other b}" means of a flat spoon. The moment the omelet 
begins to set cease stirring, but keep shaking the pan for a 
minute or so ; then with the spoon double up the omelet, and 
keep on shaking the pan until the underside is of a good 
colour. Turn it out on a hot dish, coloured side uppermost, 
and serve quickly. N.B. The cheese should be of good 
quality, and grated at the time, not the musty powder which 
often does duty for Parmesan, 

Empress Rice. — Boil three tablespoonfuls of rice, picked 
and washed clean, in a pint of milk, with sugar to taste, and 
a piece of vanilla ; when quite done put it into a basin to get 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 13 



cold. Make a custard with a gill of milk and the yolks of 
four eggs ; when cold mix it with the rice. Beat up to a 
froth a gill of cream, with some sugar and a pinch of isinglass 
dissolved in a little water; mix this very lightly with the 
rice and custard ; fill a mould with the mixture, and set it on 
ice. When moderately iced turn it out on a dish and serve 
plain or over a 

Puree op Plums. — Stew a quantity of plums, with sugar to 
taste, and not too much water. When quite done pass 
through a hair sieve, stir well, and when cold it is ready. 



No. 6. SEPTEMBER. 

Tomato Soup. 

Fried Sole (Colbert). 

Braized Neck of Mutton. 

Koast Partridges. 

Fried Vegetable Marrow. 

Fondue. 

Apple Charlotte. 



Tomato Soup. — Take eight medium size tomatoes, cut 
them in two, and, removing the pips and watery substance, 
put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove 
of garlic, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, some 
allspice, whole pepper, and salt to taste. Place the saucepan 
on a gentle fire, stirring the contents occasionally. When 
the tomatoes are thoroughly done, turn them out on a 
hair sieve, remove the onion, the garlic, and the sweet 
herbs ; remove also the moisture which will drip from the 
tomatoes, then work them through the sieve until nothing 
remains on the top but the skins. Have a quart of plain 
stock boiling hot, stir the tomato pulp into it, and, removing 
the saucepan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten up with a little cold water and strained. Serve over 
small dice of bread fried in butter. 

Sole a la Colbert. — Make an incision along the backbone 
on that side of the sole which is called the back of it, from 



1-i PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and up to within an inch of the head and tail ; slip a knife 
under the flesh on each side, and loosen it from the bones ; 
then egg and bread-crumb (with baked bread crumbs) the 
sole, and fry it in plenty of lard, with the side bearing the 
incision uppermost. The edges of this will curl outwards in 
the process of fr^nng, and the opening thus made is filled at 
the time of serving with plenty of maitre d'hotel butter, 
the sole being sprinkled with fine salt. While the sole is 
being drained in front of the fire, the backbone may be 
removed carefully, but this is not necessary. 

Braized Neck of Mutton. — Take a piece of the best end of 
a neck of mutton, trim off all superfluous fat, lay the joint in 
a stewpan over a slice of fat bacon ; add whole pepper and 
salt to taste, an onion stuck with cloves, a couple of sliced 
carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; moisten with a little 
stock, and let it braize gently for about one hour. When 
done, strain the gravy, free it from fat, pour it over the joint 
in the dish, and serve garnished with carrots cut as for 
Julienne, and cooked by being tossed in butter till done. 

Roast Partridges. — Pick, draw, singe, and truss, placing 
a slice of bacon over the breast of each bird. Roast at a 
moderate fire, removing the bacon a few minutes before the 
birds are done. Serve with plain gravy and bread sauce in a 
boat. 

Bread Sauce. — Pour half a pint of boiling milk on a tea- 
cupful of fine bread crumbs, add a small onion stuck with 
three cloves, a small blade of mace, a few peppercorns, and 
salt to taste ; let the sauce simmer five minutes, add a small 
piece of fresh butter, and at the time of serving remove the 
onion and mace. 

Plain Gravy. — Mince an onion finely, fry it in butter to a 
dark brown colour, then add three-quarters of a pint of stock, 
pepper and salt to taste, a small piece of lean ham or bacon 
minced small, a little Worcester sauce, a sprig of thyme, and 
one of parsley. Let it boil five minutes; put it by till 
wanted, and strain before serving. 

Fried Vegetable Marrow. — Cut the marrow in strips an 
inch and a half long and three-eighths of an inch square, 
sprinkle freely with fine salt, and place the strips on an 
inverted plate in a basin ; in a couple of hours put them in a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 15 



cloth, and thoroughly dry them by wringing them in the 
cloth, then flour them in the same manner as whitebait, 
and throw them in plenty of boiling lard ; as soon as they 
begin to take colour drain thoroughly, sprinkle with salt, 
and serve hot. 

Fondue. — Melt half an ounce of fresh butter in a saucepan, 
stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; when the two are well 
amalgamated put in a small quantity of milk and about three 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture on a 
slow Are till it assumes the appearance of thick cream, but be 
careful not to let it boil ; then add one clove of garlic, a small 
quantity of flour of mustard, a dash of powdered nutmeg, 
and some white pepper ; mix thoroughly, and, if required, 
add a little salt ; keep on stirring the mixture at a very 
moderate heat for about ten minutes, then remove the clove 
of garlic, take the saucepan off the fire, and stir the contents 
occasionally until quite cold, when you stir into them the 
yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little milk, and strained 
and finally the whites of five eggs whisked into a stiff froth. 
Pour the mixture into a deep round tin, put it into the oven, 
which must not be too hot ; in about twenty or thirty 
minutes the fondue will have risen and taken colour. Pin a 
napkin round the tin, and serve quickly, 

Apple Charlotte. — Cut from a household loaf a number 
of slices of uniform thickness (one-quarter to three-eighths 
of an inch) ; butter a plain mould and all the slices of bread ; 
shape one of them round to fit the bottom of the mould, and 
another one for the top ; cut the rest in pieces an inch wide, 
and the height of the mould in length ; lay one of the round 
pieces at the bottom of the mould, and line the sides with the 
small pieces, carefully smearing the edges with white of egg, 
so as to make them well hold together. Stew a quantity of 
apples with plenty of brown sugar, a little water, the juice 
and the thin rind of a lemon, and a piece of cinnamon ; when 
thoroughly done, pass them through a hair sieve ; fill the 
mould with this puree, put on the round slice of bread for 
the cover, and set in a quick oven for about an hour and a 
half. 



16 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 7. OCTOBER. 

Clear Soup with Poached Eggs. 

Fillets of Soles in Cases. 

Fillets of Beef with Vegetables. 

Boiled Fowls and Onion Sauce (Soubise). 

Stufeed Eggs. 

Stewed Pears. Rice SouflEle. 



Clear Soup with Poached Eggs. — Cut up in small pieces 
lib. of lean veal, put it into a saucepan with a couple of 
onions, two or three carrots, a head of celery, all cut in small 
pieces, and a large piece of butter. Shake the saucepan on 
the fire until the contents have become a nice colour, moisten 
with half a pint of common stock (hot), and keep on stirring 
over the fire for some time longer, adding during the process 
half a pound of ham cut up small. Then take the saucepan 
off the fire, and when the contents are cold pile up on them a 
small knuckle of veal chopped up (bones and all) in small 
pieces ; fill up the saucepan with common stock (cold), and 
add parsley, sweet herbs, spices, pepper, and salt in due pro- 
portions. Set the saucepan to simmer gently by the side of 
the fire for about three hours, then strain the liquor. When 
cold free it absolutely from fat, and to every quart of liquor 
add the white of an egg whisked to a froth, keep on beating 
the liquor on the fire at intervals, and as soon as it boils 
strain it through a fine tammy or a napkin. 

Put into a shallow sautepan some water salted to taste, a little 
vinegar, a few peppercorns, and a few leaves of parsley. As 
soon as the water approaches boiling point (it should never be 
allowed to boil), poach some eggs (one for each person and one 
over) in it, just long enough to set the yolk slightly. Take out 
each egg with a slice, brush it clean with a paste brush, and 
cut it with a round fluted paste cutter, about 2in. in diameter, 
so as to get all the eggs a uniform shape, and leave neither 
too much nor too little white round them. Turn the egg over 
carefully. Inrush it clean, and lay it in the soup tureen ready 
filled with boiling hot clear soup. Add a few leaves of tar- 
ragon and chervil, and serve. 



PllACTICAL DINNERS. 17 



Fillets of Soles in cases. — Eoll round each fillet, and 
arrange them close together in a pie dish, with plenty of 
butter ; sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and cover them 
with a piece of buttered paper. Boil the trimmings of the 
soles with a little common stock, a bunch of sweet herl)S, and 
a couple of shallots. Strain this liquor, thicken it with an 
ounce of butter kneaded with a little flour, add a little grated 
nutmeg, and as many large button mushrooms as there are 
fillets of soles. When the mushrooms are cooked, stir in off the 
fire the yolk of an egg, beaten up with the juice of half a lemon. 
Meanwhile put the dish with the fillets into the oven, and 
when they are done (fifteen to twenty minutes), put each 
fillet into a paper case, pour a little of the sauce over it, 
place a mushroom on the top and serve. 

Beef Fillets with Vegetables. — Cut some rump steak 
in slices half an inch thick, trim them all to the same size in 
the shape of cutlets, lay them out in a baking dish, and 
put in as much rich stock or gravy as will come over them ; 
cover the dish, and place it in the oven to braize gently for 
half an hour, then remove the cover, baste the fillets with the 
gravy, and let them remain uncovered in the oven to take 
colour. Take equal quantities of carrots and turnips, cut into 
the shape of small olives, parboil them, then toss them in 
butter separately until done. Melt a piece of butter in a 
saucepan, add a little flour, mix well, and put in as much of the 
gravy in which the fillets have been braized as will make enough 
sauce; stir well, add the vegetables, and when quite hot 
arrange them on a dish with the fillets round them, and serve.. 

Boiled Fowls with Onion Sauce. — Place a couple of fowls 
trussed for boiling, with an onion and a piece of butter inside 
each, into a saucepan with sufficient water and 3oz. of butter, 
a couple of carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs (parsley, thyme, and 
celery), whole pepper and salt to taste; let them boil slowly till 
done — about one hour. Serve with the sauce over them, and 
a circle of Brussels sprouts, plainly boiled in salted water, 
round them. 

Onion Sauce. — Parboil some onions a few minutes, mince 
them roughly and put them into a saucepan, with plenty of 
butter, a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste ; let 
them cook slowly, so that they do not take colour, and add a 

c 



18 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



tablespoonf ul of flour. When they are quite tender pass them 
through a hair sieve. Dilute the onion pulp with sufficient milk 
to make the sauce of the desired consistency ; add a table- 
spoonful of Parmesan cheese, stir well, make it hot, and serve. 

Stuffed Eggs. — Cut some hard-boiled eggs in half, mince the 
yolks with capers, anchovies, and truffles in due proportions, 
and a little tarragon ; add pepper and salt. Fill each half-egg 
with this mixture, pour some liquefied butter over each egg, 
warm them in the oven, and serve each half -egg on a bread sippet 
cut with an ornamental cutter, and fried a light colour in butter. 

Stewed Pears. — Cut a number of pears in halves, peel 
them, and trim them so as to get them all of a size ; put them 
into an enamelled saucepan with just enough water to cover 
them, and a good allowance of loaf sugar, the thin rind of a 
lemon, a few cloves, and enough prepared cochineal to give 
them a good colour. Let them stew gently till quite done. 
Arrange them neatly on a dish, strain the syrup, let it reduce 
on the fire, then pour it over the pears. 

Rice Souffle. — Pick and wash a teacu])ful of rice. Put it 
into a saucepan with a pint of milk sweetened to taste, and a 
pod of vanilla. Let the milk boil till the rice is thoroughly 
done. When cold, remove the stick of vanilla, and work in 
the yolks of six eggs, one by one, then stir in the whites of 
eight eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a 
plain cake mould, put it into the oven at once, bake for about 
half an hour, and serve in the mould with a napkin pinned 
round it, or place the mould into a silver souffle dish. 



No. 8. OCTOBER. 

Mutton Broth. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Maccaroni with Cheese. 



Mutton Broth. — Take a piece of the best end of a neck of 
mutter, (say six cutlets), saw, short off, the end of the ribs in 
one tiicce, also the chine, divide the cutlets, and trim off the 
fat. Put the cutlets, ribs, and chine into a saucepan with 
two quarts of cold water, and two tablespoonfuls of pearl 
barley when the saucepan has been on the fire for half an 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 19 



"hour, throw in one onion, two carrots, one turnip, and half a 
head of celery, all cut in small squares the size of peas. 
Keep on skimming the broth of all fat, and scum at intervals. 
When it has boiled another hour, add pepper and salt to taste, 
a pinch of powdered thyme, and a dessertspoonful of finely 
minced parsley. Then let the broth simmer gently till wanted, 
removing the ribs and chine at the time of serving. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Dip some tomatoes in hot water, peel 
them, cut them in half, and remove the pips. Rub a baking 
fiheet with shallot, butter it well, and lay the tomatoes in it, 
filling each half with the following composition : Two parts 
bread crumbs, one part ham finely minced, and, according to 
taste, parsley and sweet herbs also finely minced, and pepper 
and salt. Put a small piece of butter on each half tomato, 
and bake them a quarter of an hour. Have ready some 
round pieces of buttered toast ; on each of these put a half 
tomato, and serve. 

Maccaroni with Cheese. — Take half a pound of large 
maccaroni, cut it into convenient lengths, and place it into a 
saucepan with plenty of fast-boiling water, add salt to taste, 
and let it boil rather less than half an hour. Drain off the 
water, place the maccaroni in a deep dish, pour over it a 
couple of ounces of butter melted till it just begins to colour, 
add plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, turn over the 
maccaroni with two forks as if mixing a salad, then put on a 
final layer of Parmesan, place the dish in a brisk oven for a 
few minutes, and serve. 



No. 9. NOVEMBER. 

Maccaroni Soup. 

Codfish Saute. 

Croquettes of Beef. 

Roast Pheasant. Salad. 

Oyster Croustades. 

Gruyere Sandwiches. 

Plain Fritters (Beignets Souffles) 



Maccaroni Soup. — Boil a couple of ounces of maccaroni 
c 2 



20 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



(broken up in convenient pieces) in a pint of stock free from 
grease, to which add a good pinch of salt, when cooked (ten 
or fifteen minutes), drain them, and put them into the soup' 
tureen containing one quart of well-flavoured clear stock 
boiling hot. Grated Parmesan to be handed round at the 
table. 

Codfish Saute. — Boil a piece of codfish, l)ut do not overda 
it. Pick out the flesh in flakes, put them in a saucepan with a 
piece of butter, pepper and salt to taste, some minced 
parsley, and the juice of a lemon, with a dust of cayenne. 
Put it on the fire till quite hot, and serve. 

Croquettes of Beef. — Take |lb. of roast or stewed beef, 
trim off all the outside parts and fat, mince it very finely ; 
melt in a saucepan a small piece of butter, stir into it a 
tablespoonful of flour, and keep on stirring till it gets brown ;. 
add a gill of good stock, some powdered sweet herbs, pepper 
and salt to taste, and the minced beef ; keep on stirring till 
the mixture is hot, add a little chopped parsley, then work 
into it, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs ; lay the mince on 
a plate to cool. Fashion it in bread crumbs into the shape of 
corks, roll them in beaten-up egg, and then in baked bread 
crumbs. Fry the croquettes in very hot lard, and serve with 
fried parsley. 

Roast Pheasant. — Pick, draw, singe, and truss, placing a 
couple of shallots and loz. of butter inside the Inrd; lard the 
breast very finely, tie a thin slice of bacon over the larding, 
and roast the bird at a moderate fire, basting it frequently 
with butter. A few minutes before the bird is done i emove 
the slice of bacon so as to let the larding take colour ; serve 
with plain gravy, fried crumbs, and bread sauce. Time,, 
about half an hour. 

Plain Gravy. Bread Sauce. See No. 6. 

Fried Bread Crumbs. — Make some bread crumbs by rubbing 
a piece of stale bread through a wire sieve. Put them in a 
baking tin with a lump of butter, place it in the oven, and 
stir them occasionally until they have absorbed all the butter 
and are of a golden colour. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Oyster Croustades. — Parboil a quantity of oysters in their 
own liquor, remove the beards, cut each oyster into four or 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 21 



six pieces. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add to it a 
pinch of flour, the liquor of the oysters, a little cream, salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, the least bit of cayenne, and some finely 
minced parsley. Put in the oysters and toss them in this 
sauce just long enough to make them quite hot. Stir into 
them, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice 
of half a lemon, and strained; fill some bread croustades, 
warm them in the oven, and serve. To make the croustades, 
cut the crumb of a loaf of bread into slices, 2in. thick, and 
then with a round paste cutter, about 2in. in diameter, cut out 
of each slice as many pieces as you can ; with another paste 
cutter, about l^^in. in diameter, make a mark on one side of each 
cylinder of bread crumb. When all are ready fry them a golden 
colour in very hot lard ; a deep frying pan should be used, and 
plenty of lard, so that the croustades fairly swim in the fat. 
When done, lay them in front of the fire to drain, and after- 
wards remove the cover (marked with the smaller paste 
cutter), and with the handle of a teaspoon scoop out all the 
inside of each croustade. 

Gruyere Sandwiches. — Cut some slices of bread a day old 
and of Gruyere cheese, both an eighth of an inch thick ; butter 
the bread with fresh butter, sprinkle the slices of Gruyere 
with mignonette pepper, put them between two slices of 
bread, press them lightly, cut out the sandwiches the shape of 
Savoy biscuits, and serve immediately. 

Plain Fritters. — Put about one pint of water into a sauce- 
pan with a few grains of salt, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, and as much sugar, with plenty of grated lemon peel. 
When the water boils throw gradually into it sufficient flour 
to form a thick paste ; then take it off the fire, let it remain 
ten minutes, and work into it three or four eggs, reserving the 
whites of one or two, which you whisk to a froth and mix into 
the paste. Let it rest a couple of hours, then proceed to fry, 
by dropping into hot lard, pieces of it the size of a walnut. 
Serve piled on a dish, with powdered sugar over, and a lemon 
cut into quarters, or make an incision in each beignet, and 
insert a small piece of jam or jelly. 



22 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 10. JANUARY. 

Palestine Soup. 
Whitings au Gratin. 

Yeal Croquettes. 

Eoast Fillet of Beef. 

Potatoes Soufflees. 

Lasagnes with Tomatoes. 

Cheese. Oatcake. Celery. 

Apricot Compote. 



Palestine Soup. — Boil 21b. of Jerusalem artichokes in 
salted water, and when quite done pass them through a hair 
sieve. Take a quart of milk, boil in it a handful of whole 
pepper, a piece of mace, half a dozen cloves, and an onion or 
two shallots. When the milk is well flavoured, strain it ; then 
melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, stir into it a table- 
spoonful of flour, then gradually the flavoured milk and the 
artichoke pulp. Boil it up, mix well, and lastly stir in a gill 
of cream, adding more milk if the soup be too thick ; serve 
with small dice of Ijread fried in butter. 

Whiting au Gratin. — Take a few mushrooms, a couple of 
shallots, and some parsley, all finely minced ; mix them 
together. Butter a tin very plentifully, strew in it some of 
the above mixture and some fine baked bread crumbs, with 
a little pepper and salt. On this place the whitings (split 
open), on them place the remainder of the mushrooms, &c., 
more pepper and salt, and cover up the whole with a thin 
layer of baked bread crumbs. Pour in at the side a glass of 
white wine, and a sufficient quantity of stock to come up to 
the fish and soak the bread crumbs without washing them 
ofl'. Put the tin in the oven to bake for twenty minutes. 

Veal Croquettes. — Take some cold veal, remove carefully 
all fat and outside parts, and mince it finely ; melt a piece 
of butter in a saucepan, add a little flour, stir ; then add a 
small quantity of stock and the minced meat with some 
parsley, finely chopped ; season with pepper, salt, and a little 
powdered spices ; stir well, and as soon as the mixture is 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



quite hot remove it from the fire. Beat up and strain into 
a basin the yolks of one or two eggs with the juice of half 
or of a whole lemon, according to the quantity of mince ; 
put two or three tablespoonfuls of mince into the basin ; mix 
them well with the egg and lemon ; then add the whole to 
the rest of the mince ; mix well, and turn it out on a dish- 
When cold, fashion it in bread crumbs to the shape of corks, 
taking care to make them all of a uniform size ; then roll 
them in egg, and again in l^read crumbs. Let them dry a 
short time ; then fry in plenty of hot lard, and serve with 
fried parsley. 

Fillet op Beef. See No. 5. — Garnish with Brussels 
sprouts, boiled and then tossed in butter, with pepper and 
salt, and the juice of half a lemon. 

Potatoes Soufflees.— Take some large potatoes, peel them, 
and cut them in slices rather less than :|in. thick, dry them 
thoroughly with a cloth, and put them in the frying basket. 
Have ready two pans filled with boiling lard, plunge the 
basket in one of them, and keep shaking it ; in two or three 
minutes lift up the basket, and plunge it into the other pan ; 
when the slices of potato swell out, drain them of all fat, and 
serve. The secret of success consists in removing the basket 
from the first pan of fat at the right time. The potatoes 
should not be allowed to colour in it. 

Lasagnes aux Tomates a la Napolitaine. — Mince about 
|lb. of rather fat bacon, together with a clove of garlic, a 
couple of onions, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, and basil to 
taste. When the mixture is minced into a paste put it into a 
saucepan with about lib. of fresh beef, cut up into small 
pieces. Keep on turning this on the fire until the meat is 
well browned, then moisten with a little water or stock, and 
add the contents of a shilling bottle of conserve de tomates. 
Let the sauce simmer for an hour, put in pepper and salt to 
taste, and if it be too thick add more stock, then strain it 
carefully, remove superfluous fat, and put it by till wanted. 
Take a pound of the flat, broad maccaroni called Lasagne, 
break it up into convenient lengths, and throw it into a 
very large saucepan full of boiling water, with a small 
handful of salt. Keep stirring the Lasagne, with care not 
to break them, and the moment they are done pour 



24 niACTICAL DINNERS. 

into the saucepan a jugful of cold water, and strain them 
immediately and effectually. The Lasagne should not be 
overdone ; about half an hour's boiling will cook them as they 
ought to be. Place on a deep dish a few pieces of fresh 
butter, then arrange the Lasagnes in layers, pouring plenty of 
the sauce with a good sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese 
over each ; put a few more pieces of fresh butter on the top of 
all, more sauce, and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. Let 
the dish remain in the meat screen in front of the fire foi- 
about ten minutes, then send it up to table. 

Apricot Compote. — Take a tin of preserved apricots, turn 
out the juice into a saucepan, add loz. of sugar and a glass of 
white wine, boil it up. Put in the apricots for a few minutes. 
Take them out and dispose them on a glass dish, then well 
reduce the syrup, pour it over the apricots, and serve in a 
glass dish. 



No. 11. FEBRUARY. 

Haricot Bean Soup. 

Boiled Haddock and Egg Sauce. 

Hashed Mutton. Mashed Potatoes. 

Turnip-top Salad. 

Anchovy Toast. 
Apples with Rice. 



Haricot Bean Soup. — Boil some red haricot beans in water, 
with a couple of onions, a few cloves, pepper and salt to taste, 
a head of celerj^ and some parsley ; when thoroughly done, 
drain the water from them, and pass them through a hair 
sieve. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add the beans, 
and as much common stock as will bring the soup to the proper 
consistency. AVhen it boils, stir into it, off the fire, the 
yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a little milk or cream, and 
strained. 

Haddock.— Tie the fish with a string in the shape of an S, 
or with its tail in its mouth ; lay it in plenty of cold water, 
well salted. Place the fish kettle on the fire, and by the time 
the water is on the point of boiling, the fish, unless it be a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 25 



very large one, should be quite done. Let it drain across the 
kettle, and serve with egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce.- — Boil half-a-dozen eggs hard ; when cold re- 
move the shell, cut each egg in half crosswise, and each half 
into four quarters. Put them into half a pint of melted butter, 
made as follows : Mix in a saucepan on the fire 2oz. of butter 
with half an ounce of flour, stir in half a pint of boiling water, 
salt to taste with a dust of white pepper, keep stirring till the 
sauce thickens. 

Hashed Mutton. — Fry an onion chopped small, with some 
butter, till it is browned ; add a tablespoonful of flour, and 
one and a half or two gills of stock, with a few cloves, some 
whole pepper, salt to taste, a teaspoonful of walnut catsup, 
half that quantity of Worcester sauce, and a tablespoonful of 
tomato sauce. Stir the whole together, let it Ijoil once or 
twice, and strain it into a saucepan. When cold, lay the 
pieces of mutton in it with this sauce, and place the saucepan 
by the side of the fire, so that the contents are very gradually 
heated ; shake the saucepan occasionally, but never let the 
hash boil. Serve with sippets of bread fried in butter. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil some potatoes, and pass them 
through a coarse hair sieve. Put them into a saucepan with 
a good lump of butter and salt to taste ; add a little milk, and 
work them well with a spoon on a slow fire for some minutes, 
adding small quantities of milk as they get dry. 

TuRNiP-TOP Salad. — Take some turnip tops, trim them 
neatly, and tie them up in bundles of three or four, boil them 
in plenty of salted water ; when quite done put them on a 
sieve to drain in front of the fire ; then arrange them on a 
dish, and pour over them a mixture of three parts oil and 
one vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste ; the mixture to 
be well beaten. 

Anchovy Toast. — Bone, clean, and wash a number of 
anchovies ; make some slices of toast, butter them on one 
side very plentifully, cut them in pieces the size of finger 
biscuits ; lay three fillets of anchovy on each piece, throw a 
dash of pepper and the least bit of cayenne on them, and put 
them in the oven, just long enough to get thoroughly hot, 
and so serve them. 

Apple with Rice (Pommes au Riz Meringuees). — Peel six 



26 PRACTICAL PIXNERS. 



apples, core them, cut them in half, and place them in a flat 
stewpan with half a pint of water, 4oz. of lump sugar, a few 
cloves, and a little cinnamon. Let them boil gently till 
they become quite soft, then remove them, and let the syrup 
boil away till reduced to a couple of tablespoonfuls, then 
strain it over the apples. Put into a stewpan half a pound 
of Patna rice and a quart of water, leave it on the fire till it 
boils. Drain off the water, and add one pint of milk, four 
ounces of white sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon. When 
the rice is thoroughly cooked, remove the lemon rind and 
work into it the yolks of three eggs ; then put it in a heap on 
the dish in which it is to be served, place the apples on the 
top, and cover the whole thoroughly with the whites of the 
eggs beaten up into a stiff froth with one tablespoonful of 
powdered lump sugar. Sprinkle powdered sugar over, and 
bake half an hour in a cool oven. 



No. 12. MARCH. 

Julienne Soup. 

Torbay Whiting with Dutch Sauce. 

Chicken Saute with Tarragon. 

Fillets of Beef. 

New Potatoes. Seakale. 

Savoury Eice. 



Julienne Soup. — Take about equal quantities of carrots, 
turnips, leeks, onions, and celery ; cut them all in thin strips, 
not much more than ^in. square, and about l^in. long, put 
them in a saucepan with a lump of fresh butter, a good pinch 
of pounded lump sugar, and pepper and salt to taste; toss 
them lightly on the fire until they begin to colour, then add a 
head of lettuce finely shredded, and a small handful of chervil 
and sorrel, also finely shredded ; and, after giving the whole a 
tossing on the fire for about five minutes, moisten with some 
clear stock, and keep the soup hot by the side of the fire for a 
couple of hours. When wanted add as much more stock as is 
necessary, and serve. 

Torbay Whiting. — Lay the fish on the kettle strainer, put 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 27 



in as much cold water as will completely cover it, add plenty 
of salt ; and as soon as the water boils the fish will be done. 

Dutch Sauce. — Put three tablespoonfuls of vinegar in a 
saucepan, and reduce it on the fire to one third, add |lb. of 
butter and the yolks of two eggs ; place the saucepan on a 
slow fire, stir the contents continuously with a spoon, and as 
fast as the butter melts add more until lib. is used. If the 
sauce becomes too thick at any time during the process, add a 
tablespoonful of cold water, and continue stirring ; then put 
in pepper and salt to taste, and take great care not to let the 
sauce boil. When it is made — that is, when all the butter 
is used and the sauce is of the pioper thickness — put the 
saucepan containing it into another filled with warm (not 
boiling) water until the time of serving. 

Chicken Saute with Tarragon. — Pick the leaves from a 
handful of tarragon, cut up the stalks, and put them into a 
small saucepan with half a pint of clear stock or gravy 
perfectly free from fat ; let this boil half an hour, then put it 
by to be kept warm till wanted. Cut up a chicken (raw) 
as for a fricassee, in twelve or fourteen pieces. Sprinkle the 
pieces with pepper and salt, and toss them in a saucepan with 
plenty of olive oil until they are cooked. Blanch the tarragon 
leaves ; strain the gravy from the stalks, add the leaves to 
it, and, having dished the pieces of chicken, pour the gravy 
over them, and serve. 

Fillets of Beef. — Cut some slices from the fillet (undercut 
of sirloin) of beef about an inch thick, beat them with a cutlet 
bat, and fry them in very hot butter, sprinkling them with 
pepper and salt during the process. When done dish them, 
placing on each a piece of butter, with plenty of finely- 
minced parsley kneaded into it, and new potatoes as a 
garnish. 

New Potatoes. See No. 3. 

Seakale. — Trim it and tie it up in bundles, and lay them in 
plenty of salted water, boiling fast ; when quite done drain 
them well, and serve with a plain salad dressing in a boat. 

Salad Dressing. — One pinch of salt, one of pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one of tarragon vinegar, and one 
teaspoonful of mustard. Take the ingredients in the above 
proportions, and beat them smooth. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Savoury Rice. — Take some plainly boiled rice, put it into 
a saucepan -with a lump of butter, add as much French tomato 
sauce {conserve cle tomcites) as the rice will take up, and plenty 
of grated Parmesan cheese, mix well, and keep stirring on the 
fire till hot. Serve piled on the dish. 

Boiled Rice. — Wash ^b. of rice in salt and water, put it 
with a pinch of salt into boiling water ; if Patna, into four 
pints ; if Carolina, into five pints. Boil it tAventy minutes, 
drain it in a colander, and set it near the fire to dry. 



No. 13. APRIL. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Salmon with Fennel Sauce, 

Supreme of Fowls. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. Potatoes. 

Russian Salad. 

Fondue. 

Charlotte Russe. Gooseberry Tartlets. 



Asparagus Soup. — Take half a hundred of sprue asparagus, 
boil it in a saucepan with three pints of stock free from fat. 
When done, remove the asparagus, pound it in a mortar and 
pass it through a sieve. Melt about l|oz. of butter in a 
saucepan on the fire, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, add a little sugar, pepper, and salt quant, suff., the 
asparagus pulp and all the stock in which the asparagus was 
boiled. Let the whole boil up, adding as much more stock as 
will make the soup of the right consistency. Then put in a 
little spinach greening, and lastly a small pat of fresh butter, 
or stir in half a gill of cream. Serve over small dice of bread 
fried in butter. 

Boiled Salmon. — Take a piece of about 31b. or 41b. weight 
cut from the middle of the fish, lay it in the fish kettle with 
enough cold water to cover it well, add plenty of salt, and as 
soon as the water is on the point of boiling, draw the kettle 
by the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently 



PllACTICAL DINNERS. 29' 



until the fish is done (about five or six minutes). Take it up,, 
and lightly touch up the skin with a feather dipped in salad 
oil. 

Fennel Sauce. — Blanch a small quantity in boiling salted 
water, take it out, dry in a cloth, and chop it finely ; melt 3oz. 
of fresh butter, add rather more than a tablespoonful of flour, 
mix well, put in pepper and salt to taste and about a pint of 
hot water ; stir on the fire till the sauce thickens, then stir in 
it the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lemon 
and strained. Add plenty of the chopped fennel, and serve. 

Supreme of Fowls. — Take three fowls, and cut out of their 
breasts as many slices ^in. thick as is possible ; shape the slices 
all to the same size, in the form of cutlets (pear shape). Just 
before they are wanted, cook them in a tin in the oven, 
with plenty of butter, a sprinkling of salt, and a buttered 
paper over them to keep them white. Cut some slices of 
dressed tongue to a similar shape, but a little smaller, to be 
warmed when wanted by putting them in the oven, wrapped 
in buttered paper between two plates. Cut off the legs of the 
fowls, and put them aside to be used for other purposes. Cut 
up the carcases into convenient pieces, as well as a piece of 
ham or bacon (about lib.), any trimmings of veal cutlets or 
half a calf's foot ; pack all this into a saucepan with onions, 
carrots, celery, thyme, marjoram, parsley, and a bay leaf, 
some mushrooms and truffle trimmings, as well as salt, 
pepper, mace, and cloves to taste. Fill up the saucepan with 
cold water, and let it simmer gently on the fire for about 
three or four hours. Strain off the liquor, put it by to cool, 
and remove all fat. Mix a piece of butter in a saucepan with 
a little flour ; add the liquor, and stir it on the fire for about 
ten minutes, but do not let it boil ; then skim it if necessary, 
and stir in half a gill of cream or two eggs beaten up with 
milk and strained, after which put the sauce in a hain marie, 
to be kept warm till it is wanted, taking care to stir it occa- 
sionally to prevent a skin forming on the top. Take a small 
tin of preserved mushrooms and one of truffles, trim them 
neatly, and put them back in their own liquor, also a tin of 
preserved cockscombs ; cut them in convenient pieces ; warm 
all these by placing the tins in a saucepan of boiling watei . 
Pour some of the sauce above on a dish. Arrange tastefully 



30 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



the mushrooms, truffles and cockscombs in a heap in the 
middle, mixing up with them a due quantity of the sauce ; 
then dispose the pieces of fowl and tongue alternately in a 
circle on the dish and serve. 

EoAST Leg of Lamb. See No. 3. 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Knead an ounce of butter 
with the juice of half a lemon, white pepper, and salt to 
taste, and a small quantity of parsley freed from moisture, 
and minced very finely. Put this on a hot dish, and on it 
place a quantity of plain boiled new potatoes. 

Russian Salad. — Boil some carrots and some turnips in 
salted water with a small piece of butter, but do not let 
them be overdone ; when cold cut out of them, with a vege- 
table scoop, a number of pieces the size of an olive ; cut 
some beetroot in the same way, and likewise some truffles. 
Take equal parts — say a cupful — of each of the above, and a 
similar quantity of preserved fresh (not dried) haricot beans 
ready cooked, and of asparagus points preserved in the same 
way. Take also two tablespoonfuls respectively of capers, of 
French pickled gherkins, Avhich you cut into the shape of 
capers, and of anchovies, perfectly cleaned, and cut into small 
pieces ; a couple of dozen or more olives stoned, one table- 
spoonful of tarragon and chervil minced finely, and half that 
quantity of chives, also minced. Mix the whole lightly together 
with a sauce, made of raw yolks of eggs, oil, vinegar, pepper, 
and salt, well worked together. Ornament with hai d-boiled 
eggs, caviare, lobster spawn, olives, pickles, truffles, &c. 
N.B. The Spanish preserved sweet capsicums (Pimientos 
dulces) are a great addition to the above, not only for their 
exquisite taste, but on account of their brilliant colour. 

Parmesan Fondue. See No. 6. 

Gooseberry Tartlets. — Make some short paste with 2oz. 
of sugar, 2oz. of butter, the yolks of four eggs, a little water, 
a pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff. ; work it lightly, and 
roll it out to the thickness of one-eighth of an inch. Line 
some patty pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep 
their shape, and bake them in a moderate oven till done. 
Remove the rice, and fill each tartlet with some gooseberries 
previously stewed with a little water and plenty of lump 
sugar. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 31 



Charlotte Eusse. — Line the bottom and sides of a plain 
mould with finger biscuits (sponge), trimmed for the pur- 
pose; beat to a froth one pint of double cream, sweetened \ 
to taste with powdered lump sugar ; add one ounce of the 
finest isinglass dissolved in a tumblei of milk, and a liqueur 
glass of maraschino. Pour this mixture into the mould, set 
it on ice for a couple of hours, then turn out and serve. 



No. 14. MAY. 

Sevigne Soup. 

John Dory with Caper Sauce. 

Lamb Cutlets and Peas. 

Chickens with Tarragon. 

Asparagus. 

Gorgonzola. "Watercress Butter. Oliver Biscuits. 

Gooseberry Fool. Kice Cake. 



Sevigne Soup. — Cut some carrots in slices, and, with a 
■column cutter, cut out of these a number of discs a quarter 
of an inch in diameter ; cut similar discs out of some leeks, 
celery, and sorrel leaves ; make an equal quantity (about a 
wineglassful) of each, and parboil them separately in salted 
water, leaving the leeks and sorrel discs in the watei till 
wanted. Take three pints of white stock made with poultry, 
and quite free from grease ; when boiling, put the vegetables 
into it, then a few tarragon leaves, cut small, and a little 
chervil, picked out leaf l)y leaf. Beat up the strained yolks 
of four eggs with one gill and a half of cream ; stir into 
them a little of the soup, and then Cjuickly stir in the rest of 
the soup, off the fire, and serve. 

White Stock. — Put a knuckle of veal or two calves' feet, 
together with a fowl or a rabbit and a piece of ham (about 
half a pound), all cut up in small pieces, into a saucepan 
with sufficient water to cover the contents. The stock should 
be carefully skimmed as it gi-adually becomes heated ; then 
put in two carrots, a head of celery, two onions, and a bunch 
of parsley, together with two bay leaves and a sprig of thyme, 



32 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



a little mace, a few cloves, with pepper and salt to taste, and 
leave the Avhole to boil slowly from three to four hours, when 
it should be strained, and freed from fat. 

John Dory. — Lay the fish in the kettle, with plenty 
of cold water, the juice of two or three lemons, a good 
bunch of parsley, and salt to taste. Place the kettle on 
the fire, and when the contents approach Ijoiling point draw 
it aside, and let it simmer till the fish is quite done. Lift up 
the fish carefully, drain off the water, garnish with horse- 
radish and parsley. 

Caper Sauce. — Put 2oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of 
flour into a saucepan; stir the mixture on the fire until it 
acquires a brown colour ; add rather less than a pint of boil- 
ing stock, free from fat ; season with pepper, salt, and a little 
Worcester sauce. When the sauce boils throw in plenty of 
roughly chopped capers, let it boil once more, and it is ready. 

Lamb Cutlets with Peas. — Trim the cutlets neatly, egg 
and bread-crumb them, and fry them in butter a light brown, 
drain and arrange them in a circle on a dish, placing in the 
centre some peas prepared as follows : Melt ^Ib. of butter in 
a saucepan, then add one pint and a half of young peas, 
pepper and salt to taste, a couple of small onions (whole), a 
small bunch of parsley and half a head of lettuce tied up 
together, and a pinch of sugar. Toss on a slow fire till the 
peas are cooked, then remove the parsley, lettuce, and onions, 
and serve with a little finely minced parsley mixed in the 
peas. 

Chicken with Tarragon. — Truss two fowls for boiling 
and put inside each of them an onion, a piece of butter of 
equal bulk, and plenty of tarragon. Line the bottom of a 
saucepan with slices of bacon, place the fowls on them, and 
add a couple of carrots and onions cut in small pieces, whole 
pepper, a few cloves and salt to taste, with some tarragon, 
parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf tied up in a bundle. Fill up 
the saucepan with water until the fowls are almost covered. 
Place a piece of Ijuttered paper over them, put on the cover 
of the saucepan, and let them simmer gently till done. Then 
strain as much of the liquor as may be wanted for sauce, and 
free it from fat. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a 
little flour, then the liquor, and plenty of tarragon leaves 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 33 



chopped fine ; stir the sauce on the fire a short time, put it on 
a dish, remove the onions and tarragon leaves from the fowls 
and lay them on it. 

Asparagus. — Scrape each head with the back of a knife, 
and tie the asparagus in small bundles of a dozen heads each ; 
cut off the ends evenly. Put them into a pan full of fast- 
l)oiling water, with plenty of salt, and in about ten minutes 
they will be done, drain at once, untie the bundles, and serve 
on a napkin with the following sauce in a boat : 

White Sauce. — Put into one pint of milk two or three 
mushrooms, an onion and a carrot cut in pieces, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, whole pepper and salt to taste, a few cloves, and 
a little mace ; let the whole gently simmer for about an hour. 
Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, and mix with it a 
tablespoonful of flour, then strain the flavoured milk into the 
saucepan, and stir on the fire until it thickens. Finish by 
stirring in a gill of cream. 

Watercress Butter. — Pick the leaves of a quantity of 
watercress, and mince them finely ; then dry them in a 
cloth, mince them still more and dry them again, then 
knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take 
up, adding a very little salt and white pepper, and with a 
couple of butterman's pats shape the watercress butter into 
as many pats, of as many shapes as you are able to work out. 

EiCE Cake (Gateau de Riz). — Pick and wash in two or 
three waters a couple of handfuls of rice, and put it to cook 
in rather less than one quart of milk sweetened to taste, with 
the addition of the thin rind of one lemon cut in one piece, and 
a small stick of cinnamon. Let the rice simmer gently until it 
is quite tendei and has absorbed all the milk. Turn it out 
into a basin to get cold, and remove the lemon rind and 
cinnamon. Then stir into it the yolks of four eggs and the 
white of one ; add a small quantity of candied citron cut into 
small pieces. Butter and bread-crumb a plain cake mould ; put 
the mixture in it and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. 

Gooseberry Fool. — Pick one quart of quite young goose- 
berries, and put them into a jar with a very little water and 
plenty of sugar. Put the jar in a saucepan of boiling water 
till the fruit be quite tender, then beat it through a colander, 
and add gradually one quart of cream with sufficient sugar to 
sweeten ; garnish the dish with maccaroons or ratafias. 

D 



34 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 15. MAY. 

Cauliflower Soup. 

Whitebait. 

Quenelles of Veal. 

Roast Ducks and Peas. 

Salad. 

Cheese Fritters. 

Cherry Tart. 



Cauliflower Soup. — Cut out of a cauliflower a number of 
very small sprigs, boil them in stock, when done take them 
out, put them into the soup tureen, and pour over them a 
sufficient quantity of well-flavoured clear consomme. 

Whitebait. — Drain the fish from water, lay it on a cloth, 
sprinkle flour on it, double up the cloth, and shake it about 
from side to side until the fish is well covered with flour. 
Transfer it to a frying basket ; shake it gently to get rid of 
the superfluous flour. Have a panful of boiling lard, try it 
with a small piece of bread ; if the fat hisses sharply, and the 
bread colours at once, the fat is hot enough ; plunge the 
basket into it, and never cease shaking until the whitebait is 
cooked (two or three minutes). Turn the fish out on a napkin 
in front of the fire, and sprinkle it freely with salt at the 
time of serving. It is a good plan when practicable to have 
two pans of boiling fat, and when the whitebait has been 
cooked in the one, to take it out, drain it, and plunge it for a 
second or two in the other pan, the fat in which should be 
boiling hot. 

Quenelles of Veal. — Mix in a saucepan on the fire one 
ounce of butter and a handful of flour, add enough water 
to make a thick paste, let it come to boiling point, then put it 
by to get cold. Take one pound of uncooked veal cutlet, cut 
it up small, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Take of 
paste half the quantity there is of meat pulp, and of butter 
half the quantity there is of paste. Mix the whole thoroughly 
in the mortar, then pass the mixture through a sieve. Return 
it to a clean mortar, add pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 35 



work into it with the pestle the whites of one or two, and the 
yolks of four or five eggs. Poach a piece of the mixture to 
try it as to taste and consistency, and alter it by adding more 
condiments or whites of eggs. Shape the quenelles neatly 
with two tablespoons, and dispose them in a well-buttered 
saute pan, leaving a clear space on one side in which to put a 
pinch of salt, pour in sufficient boiling water to cover the 
quenelles, leave them to poach for ten minutes, drain them, 
and arrange them neatly on a bed of tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. — Cut up some tomatoes, and put them into 
a saucepan containing a little water with some parsley, basil, 
marjoram, thyme, and laurel leaf, according to taste ; a clove 
of garlic, a few cloves, some whole pepper, and salt. Let 
them boil until thoroughly done, then strain off the water and 
pass them through a hair sieve. Put a piece of butter in a 
saucepan, add to it when melted a spoonful of flour and the 
tomato pulp ; mix thoroughly, and when hot the sauce is 
ready. 

Roast Ducks. — Pluck, singe and draw, blanch the feet and 
remove the skin, make a stuffing with sage, onions (previously 
blanched and chopped fine), and bread crumbs, using twice as 
much onion as sage, and twice as much bread crumbs as onion, 
add a little butter, pepper and salt to taste. When stuffed 
truss them, tie some thin slices of bacon over the breasts, 
roast for fifteen minutes before a brisk fire, basting well with 
butter, remove the bacon from the birds a minute or two 
before they are done. Serve with gravy in the dish, but not 
over the birds, and with peas on a separate dish. 

Peas (a L'Anglaise). — Boil the peas in plenty of water, 
and as fast as possible, with salt to taste, and a small bunch 
of mint. Do not cover the saucepan. When done, remove 
the mint, strain the peas, give them one toss in a saucepan 
with a piece of butter the size of an egg ; add pepper, salt, and 
a pinch of sugar to taste, and serve. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Cheese Fritters. — Put about a pint of water into a sauce- 
pan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, the least bit of 
cayenne and plenty of black pepper. When the water boils 
throw gradually into it sufficient flour to form a thick paste ; 
then take it off the fire and work into it about :|lb. of grated 

D 2 



36 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Parmesan cheese, and then the yolks of three or four eggs 
and the whites of two beaten up to a froth. Let the paste 
rest for a couple of hours, and proceed to fry by dropping 
pieces of it the size of a walnut into plenty of hot lard. 
Serve sprinkled with very fine salt. 

Cherry Tart. — Make a short paste with one white and 
three yolks of eggs, loz. of sugar, a little milk, an ounce of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and flour cpiantum siiff. Work it 
lightly, roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; line 
a flat tourte mould with the paste, uniting the joints carefully 
with white of egg, fill the mould with rice and bake it. Stone 
l^lb. of stewing cherries and cook them with some sugar, a 
little sherry, and a few drops of cochineal to give them a good 
colour. Bemove the rice and put in the stewed cherries. 
Serve hot or cold. 



No. 16. JUNE. 

Eice Crecy Soup. 

Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms 

Braized Fowls with Maccaroni. 

Lamb Cutlets and Peas. 

Asparagus. 

Potato Cheese. 

Sponge Pudding. 

Lemon Water Ice. 



Rice Crecy Soup. — Take for each person one heaped table- 
spoonful of Bousquin's Biz Crecy, make three pints of ordinary 
clear stock boiling hot, and when it begins to boil strew 
lightly into it the Bdz Crecy, and let it gently simmer for 
half an hour. 

Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms. — Take the fillets of 
three soles, double each fillet in two, and trim them to a 
uniform shape. Butter a baking tin plentifully, lay the fillets 
in it, add salt and white pepper to taste, and cover them with 
a well-buttered paper. Take a punnet of mushrooms, cut 
them each into four pieces, rubbing them with lemon as this 
is being done ; boil them in salted water till quite tender. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 37 



Put a piece of butter in a saucepan, with a small quantity of 
flour, mix well, add as much of the water in which the mush- 
rooms were cooked as will make the sauce of the proper 
consistency, add pepper and salt to taste. Meanwhile, put 
the tin with the fillets into the oven ; when they are done 
(about twenty minutes) arrange them in a circle on a dish, 
place the mushrooms in the centre, strain the butter in the 
tin into the sauce, stir it well, and pour it over the mushrooms, 
but not over the fillets. 

Braized Fowls with Maccaroni. — Truss a pair of fowls as 
for boiling, putting an onion and a piece of butter inside 
each ; lay them in a saucepan over two slices of bacon, with 
an onion and two carrots cut in pieces ; add pepper and salt 
to taste, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; moisten with a little 
stock ; put a piece of buttered paper over the fowls, and set 
them to braize very slowly for one hour, frequently basting 
them with their own liquor. Throw lib. of ribbon maccaroni 
into fast-boiling salted water ; when done (twenty minutes) 
drain off the water, put them into a saucepan with the contents 
of an 8d. bottle of French tomato sauce, and loz. of butter 
previously melted ; toss on the fire a few minutes, adding 
during the process plenty of Parmesan cheese. Place the 
fowls on a dish, with the maccaroni round them, and serve. 

Lamb Cutlets and Peas. — ^Trim the cutlets neatly, and 
grill them on or before a clear fire, sprinkling them with salt 
and a little pepper. Take a tin of preserved green peas, 
turn them out into a saucepan with a piece of fresh butter, 
and toss them on the fire until quite warm. Put a little 
gravy into a dish, arrange the cutlets in a circle on it, with 
the peas in the centre, and serve. 

Asparagus. See No. 14. Serve with the following sauce 
in a boat : 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — Strain the yolks of two eggs into a 
basin, mix with them a teaspoonful of salt, then, without 
ceasing to stir, pour in, drop by drop, four tablespoonfuls of 
oil and one of French white vinegar, adding the vinegar at 
intervals during the process of pouring in the oil ; lastly, stir 
in a little white pepper. 

Potato Cheese. — Take six medium-sized potatoes, as nearly 
as possible equal in size ; wash them quite clean, dry them, 



38 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and on that side of them which will more readily stand 
uppermost make an incision ^in. deep with a patty cutter as 
large as the size of each potato will allow; then put the 
potatoes in the oven to bake. When quite done, remove the 
covers (marked out with the patty cutter), and with a tea- 
spoon empty each potato as thoroughly as is possible without 
breaking the skin ; pass through a sieve what is taken out of 
the potatoes. Take four tablespoonfuls of the potato snow 
thus obtained, one and a half tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and mix the two thoroughly with half a gill of milk 
and the yolks of two eggs, pepper and salt to taste, and the 
least bit of cayenne or grated nutmeg, or of both. Beat up 
the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, mix the whole well 
together ; fill quickly the potato skins with the mixture flush 
with the top, and Ijake them long enough for the mixture to 
rise and take a golden-brown colour ; about twenty minutes. 

Sponge Pudding. — Mix loz. of fresh butter, on the fire, 
with loz. of flour, taking care it docs not colour ; add a gill of 
milk, stir well ; then add, off the fire, the strained yolks of 
three eggs, castor sugar, and essence of vanilla quant, suff. ; 
when the mixture is nearly cold add the whites of four eggs, 
beaten up to a stiff froth ; mix the whole swiftly and 
effectually. Pour into a well-buttered mould, place this in a 
saucepan half filled with boiling water, put a piece of buttered 
paper on the top, and let the saucepan stand at the side of the 
fire till the pudding is wanted. The water in it must be kept 
hot, but on no account boil. Turn out the pudding on a dish, 
and garnish with a tin of preserved apricots or peaches, the 
contents of which have been made hot by the tin being placed 
in a saucepan of boiling water for a short time. 

Lemon Water Ice. — Mix together equal parts, weight for 
weight, of pounded ice and common salt. Put a layer of this 
into the ice tul:) (an ordinary wooden tub or bucket, with a 
hole at the bottom, will do), place on it a plain mould (in 
default of a regular ice pail), and fill up tightly with the 
mixture of ice and salt till within an inch of the rim of the 
mould, the space that intervenes between it and the bucket ; 
then, holding the rim of the mould with the thumb and 
forefinger of each hand, see that it turns easily backward and 
forward in the ice. Put the mixture given below into the 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 39 



mould, and place a folded napkin on the top ; turn the mould 
gently backward and forward for two or three minutes, then 
with a spoon detach the portions of the mixture which have 
begun to freeze at the sides. Work the mixture well with the 
spoon, then go on turning the mould backward and forward, 
and keep working the mixture at frequent intervals, so that 
the congelation may take place evenly, and the mixture 
assume a smooth consistence. After about one hour's working 
the mixture will be sufficiently frozen to be pressed down 
into a fancy mould ; and, two sheets of paper being put over 
it, put on the cover of the mould ; and cover it up with the ice 
and salt mixture to remain till wanted. The ice mixture. — 
Put lib. of loaf sugar in a quart of water and set it to boil, 
skimming it very carefully. When reduced to 1| pints, take 
it off the fire, add to it the strained juice of four lemons, and 
the thin rind of three. When quite cold strain it through a 
napkin, and it is ready to be frozen. 



No. 17. JULY. 

Chicken Soup. 

Broiled Trout and Tartare Sauce. 

Epigrams of Lamb. 

Fillets of Beef Chateaubriand. 

Salad. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Easpberry and Currant Tartlets. 



Chicken Soup (Consomme de Yolaille). — Cut into small 
pieces the remains of a couple of roast fowls, bones and all, 
put them into a saucepan with a pound of knuckle of veal 
and a piece of lean ham, cover with water, add salt to taste, 
and put the saucepan on the fire, skimming all the scum that 
rises ; just before it begins to boil put in three or four carrots, 
two or three onions, a head of celery, some thyme, parsley, 
marjoram, a bay leaf, a few cloves, and whole pepper to taste ; 
then place the saucepan at such a distance from the fire as 
will let the contents simmer, but not boil. In about four 



40 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



hours strain the liquor through a napkin, effectually free it 
from fat, and clarify it with raw meat, or with the white of 
an egg. Serve the soup with sprigs of chervil and tarragon. 

Broiled Trout. — Clean and split them down the back, 
notch them three or four times across, mix a little olive oil 
in a dish, with pepper, salt, and powdered thyme ; lay the 
trout in this, turn them over once or twice, so that they may 
be well oiled on both sides, and broil them over a moderate fire. 

Tartare Sauce. — Break into a small basin the yolks of two 
eggs, add a pinch of salt, put in some salad oil drop by drop, 
stirring it all the while until it thickens ; add a squeeze of 
lemon, half a teaspoonful of French mustard, a few drops of 
white vinegar. Take a little tarragon, chervil, one gherkin, 
half a tablespoonful of capers, chop all these very finely, but 
separately, stir all in together, and add salt to taste. Keep 
it in a cool place till wanted. 

Epigrams of Lamb. — Braize a piece of breast of lamb in 
a stewpan with a little water and some onions, carrots, celery, 
whole pepper, salt, cloves, parsley, and sweet herbs to taste. 
When sufficiently cooked to allow it, pull out all the bones, 
and put the breast between two dishes with a heavy weight 
on it. The piece of breast being quite cold and flat, cut it 
out into small cutlets ; egg and bread-crumb them, then fry 
them a nice colour in lard, and serve with a puree of peas in 
the centre of the dish. 

Puree of Peas. — Boil one pint of green peas in water, 
with salt, a slice of onion, a sprig of parsley, and a few leaves 
of mint. When cooked, drain off the water, and pass them 
through a hair sieve. Moisten the puree to a proper con- 
sistency with some good stock, perfectly free from fat ; 
work it well in a saucepan on the fire with a piece of fresh 
butter until it is quite hot, and serve. 

Fillets of Beep a la Chateaubriand. — Take a piece of 
the undercut of the sirloin of beef, trim off the fat neatly, and 
the skin next to it ; cut it across the grain into slices l^in. 
thick, sprinkle them with pepper, dip them in oil, and broil 
over a clear fire, sprinkle with salt, and serve very hot in a 
dish garnished with potatoes sautees au beurre. 

Potatoes Sautees au Beurre. — Cut them with a vegetable 
cutter into small balls about the size of a marble ; put them in 
a stewpan with plenty of butter and a good sprinkling of salt 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 41 



keep the saucepan covered, and shake it occasionally until 
they are quite done, which will be in about an hour. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. — Boil a cauliflower, previously 
well washed and trimmed, in plenty of water, with a due 
quantity of salt ; be careful not to over-boil it : about ten 
minutes will do it. Try the stem with a thin iron skewer, 
and the moment it is soft remove the saucepan from the fire, 
and put the cauliflower to drain on a hair sieve. When it is 
quite cold, cut it up neatly and carefully ; place the roughest 
pieces flat on a well-buttered dish, so as to form a sort of 
foundation, sprinkle this with pepper and salt, a little 
nutmeg, and cover it well with grated Parmesan cheese, dispose 
the remaining and best pieces on the top, add more pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, cover with grated Parmesan, add a few 
baked bread crumbs, and pour over all a little liquefied butter ; 
bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve, 
flubbing the dish with garlic is an improvement. 

Raspberry and Currant Tartlets. — Make a short paste 
with the white of one and the yolks of three eggs, loz. of 
sugar, loz. of butter, a pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff. ; 
work it lightly, roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch. Line some patty pans with it, fill them with uncooked 
rice to keep their shape, and bake them in a moderate oven 
till done. Remove the stalks from some raspberries and 
currants, add some syrup made with sugar and a little brandy 
or sherry, empty the tartlets of the rice, fill each with the 
fruit, put them into the oven to get hot, and serve. They 
may also be served cold. 



No, 18. AUGUST. 

Sorrel Soup. 

Grey Mullet. 

Chicken Kromeskys. 

Hashed Venison. 

French Beans au Beurre. 

Maccaroni au Gratin. 

Greengaffe Tart. 



Sorrel Soup. — Take lib. of son el, pick it clean, wash it, 



42 PRACTICAL DIXNEKS. 



and put it into a saucepan ; when it is quite cooked turn it 
out on a hair sieve; let all the moisture run out, throw it 
away, and pass the sorrel through the sieve. Put l^oz. of 
butter in a saucepan, with an onion and a carrot sliced finely ; 
toss them on the fire till quite done ; add the sorrel puree 
and a due quantity of common stock, free from grease ; 
pepper and salt to taste, and, if thought necessary, a pinch 
of powdered loaf sugar. When quite hot, strain the soup 
through a fine colander into the soup tureen over small dice 
of bread fried in butter. 

Grey Mullet. — Choose a good-sized fish, lay it in the fish 
kettle with plenty of well-salted cold water ; when the water 
Ijoils draw the kettle aside, lift up the fish, and let it drain 
covered up over the water until the time of serving. 

White Sauce. — Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add 
to it a dessertspoonful of flour ; mix thoroughly, add salt and 
white pepper to taste, and about a tumblerful of boiling water ; 
stir on the fire until it thickens. Then take the saucepan off 
the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the 
juice of a lemon, and strained. 

Chicken Kro^ieskys. See No. 3. 

Hashed Venison. — Cut some cold haunch or neck of venison 
into thin slices, trimming oft* all outside parts. Put any 
venison gravy that may be left, the bones and trimmings, 
half a pint of claret and as much stock, into a saucepan, with 
four shallots finely chopped, four cloves, and a teaspoonful of 
mushroom ketchup ; let all this simmer slowly for an hour or 
two, then strain it into a saucepan in which a good piece of 
butter has been amalgamated with a tablespoonful of flour, 
add pepper and salt to taste, and when the sauce boils take it 
off the fire and let it get cold, then put into it the slices of 
venison, and let the whole slowly get hot hj the side of the 
fire. It should take a couple of hours. Serve garnished 
with sippets of bread fried in butter, and serve red currant 
jelly with it. 

French Beans au Beurre. — String some young French 
beans, but do not cut them. Boil them in plenty of water 
salted to taste ; when done thoroughly drain them, and toss 
them in a saucepan with a large piece of butter ; add a 
sprinkling of pepper and a squeeze of lemon, and serve. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 43 



Maccaroni au Gratin. — Cut some pipe maccaroni in con- 
venient pieces, throw it into plenty of salted boiling water. 
When quite done drain off the water, butter a silver dish, 
arrange the maccaroni on it, with plenty of grated Parmesan 
cheese, some powdered pepper and liquefied butter; cover the 
top with cheese, and put over all a sprinkling of fine baked 
bread crumbs, place the dish in the oven just long enough 
to heat the contents ; thoroughly brown the top with a 
salamander, and serve. 

Greengage Tart. — Make a short paste with one white and 
three yolks of egg, an ounce of sugar, an ounce of butter, a 
small pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff. ; work it lightly, 
and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line 
a flat tourte mould with this paste, uniting the joints carefully 
with white of egg, fill it with uncooked rice, and bake it. 
When done, remove the rice and put in greengages treated 
as follows : Stone the fruit, and cut it in halves, and stew 
it for an hour with plenty of powdered loaf sugar and a little 
water, adding at the last a liqueur glass of pale brandy. To 
be served hot or cold. 



No. 19. SEPTEMBER. 

Italian Soup. 

Sole au Gratin. 

Mutton Cutlets with French Beans. 

Roast Partridges. Salad. 

Vegetable Marrow with Cheese. 

Apricot Omelet. 



Italian Soup (Minestrone). — Take equal quantities of 
marrowfat peas, and carrots cut to the size of peas ; boil them 
separately in salted water till done ; take as much rice boiled 
in salted water as there are peas and carrots ; put them all 
into a saucepan with a sufficient quantity of common stock 
free from fat ; add enough French tomato sauce to give the 
stock a rich colour. Let the whole come to boiling point, and 
serve. Grated Parmesan cheese to be handed round with the 
soup. 



44 PRACTICAL DIXXERS, 



Sole atj Gratin. See No. 1. 

Mutton Cutlets with French Beans. — Cut the cutlets 
out of a piece of the best end of a neck of mutton. They 
should be less than half an inch thick, and neatly trimmed, 
with not too much fat left on them. Give them a few blows 
with the bat, and grill them on or in front of the fire, which 
should be clear and fierce, so that each cutlet be full of juice 
when cut. Sprinkle with salt, and arrange them in a circle 
on a dish, overlapping each other, round a heap of French 
beans prepared as follows : String the beans, but do not cut 
them. Boil them in plenty of salted water. When done 
drain them thoroughly, and toss them in a saucepan for a few 
minutes with a large piece of butter, add parsley finely 
minced, a sprinkling of pepper, and the juice of a lemon. 

Eoast Partridges. See No. 6. 

Salad. — Take four or five heads of cabbage lettuce, remove 
all outside leaves, and cut off the stalks close ; then cut each 
head apart into four or five " quarters," that is, cut through 
the stalk and then tear the rest. Put four tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil into the salad bowl, with two or one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt ac- 
cording to taste, and beat the mixture with a fork for some 
minutes ; then put in the lettuce, and keep turning it over 
swiftly for five minutes, adding a small pinch of mint, 
chopped as finely as possible. 

Vegetable Marrow with Cheese. — Lightly scrape a 
couple of small marrows, cut them in two lengthwise, and 
with the handle of a spoon remove all the inside ; divide each 
half in two lengthwise, lay the pieces in a stewpan with a 
large piece of butter, add a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and 
set the saucepan on the fire for about half an hour, shaking 
the contents occasionally. In the middle of the process add 
two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Dispose the 
marrows on a dish, pour their gravy over them, sprinkle 
some more Parmesan over them, and a few very finely sifted 
baked bread crumbs. Keep the dish in a slack oven till the 
time of serving. 

Apricot Omelet. See No. 1. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 45 



No. 20. OCTOBER. 

Brunoise Soup. 
Brill with Shrimp Sauce. 

Jugged Hare. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

Mashed Potatoes. Tomato Salad. 

Gascony Butter. 

Peach Toast. 



Brunoise. — Take equal parts of carrots, turnips, onions, and 
celery, cut them all in the shape of very small dice, put a good 
piece of butter in a saucepan with a little pepper and salt and 
a teaspoonful of powdered lump sugar ; toss the carrots in 
this till they begin to take colour ; then put in the celery, 
after a little time the onions, and then the turnips. When 
all the vegetables are equally coloured add as much stock as 
you want soup, and set the saucepan by the side of the fire 
to simmer gently for a couple of hours, then skim and 
serve. 

Boiled Brill — Shrimp Sauce. — Take a fine brill, scrape it, 
and lay it in the fish kettle with plenty of cold water, the juice 
of a lemon, a bunch of parsley, and salt to taste. Place the 
kettle on the fire, and directly the contents approach boiling 
point draw it aside, and let it simmer till the fish is quite done. 
An ordinary sized fish will be done shortly after the 
water boils. Lift up the fish carefully, let the water drain 
off, and serve garnished with quarters of lemon and 
parsley. 

Shrimp Sauce. — Take half a pint of shrimps, pick out all 
the meat from the tails, pound the rest in a mortar with the 
juice of half a lemon and a piece of butter ; pass the whole 
through a sieve. Make a pint of melted butter, put the meat 
from the tails into it, add a dust of cayenne, and when the 
sauce boils stir into it the shrimp butter that has come 
through the sieve, with or without a tablespoonful of 
cream. 

Jugged HARE.^Cut up a hare into pieces, not too small. 



46 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



lard the shoulders, thighs, and best pieces of the back, with 
bacon. Put them into a jug or earthen jar, with the blood 
of the hare, a pint of claret or half a pint of port, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, a few minced shallots, 
and some pepper and salt. Cover the mouth of the jar with 
common paste,' and put it into a saucepan of boiling water 
just up to the neck, boil slowly for about four hours, and 
serve in a deep dish. 

EoAST Saddle of Mutton. — Trim the joint carefully, 
roast it at a brisk, clear fire ; baste frequently, and when 
done dredge it plentifully with salt, and serve with the gravy 
well freed from fat. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Tomato Salad. — Peel some good-sized tomatoes, not over 
ripe, cut them in slices and remove the pips, lay them in a 
dish previously rubbed with garlic, with oil and vinegar in 
the proportion of two to one, sprinkle pepper and salt over 
them according to taste, and a few leaves of basil finely 
minced. They should lie in the sauce for a couple of hours 
before serving. 

Gascon Y Butter. — Take equal quantities of parsley picked 
from the stalk and parboiled, of anchovies washed, boned, 
and pounded, and of fresh butter. Mix the ingredients well 
together, and pass them through a hair sieve ; shape the butter 
into egg-shaped balls, ice them, and serve with a piece of 
toast under each ball. 

Peach Toast. — Cut some round slices off some milk rolls, 
remove the crust, and fry them a pale yellow in fresh butter. 
Take a tin of preserved peaches, turn out the liquor into a 
saucepan, add a little sugar and a glass of white wine ; boil 
it up ; put in the peaches, simmer a few minutes, drain them, 
and place half a peach, concave side uppermost, on each piece 
of bread, put a piece of currant jelly in the cavity of each 
peach, pour the syrup round, and serve. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 47 



No. 21. NOVEMBER. 

Soup with Quenelles. 

Fried Fillets of Soles. 

Pork Chops. Sharp Sauce. 

Stewed Beef. 

Eoast Pheasant. Endive Salad. 

Bombay Toast. 

Albert Pudding. 

Compote of Apples. 



Consomme aux Quenelles. — Put into a saucepan a gill of 
water, a pinch of salt, and a small piece of butter ; when the 
water boils stir in as much flour as will form a paste, and put 
this away to get cold. Take ^Ib. of lean veal, cut it into small 
pieces, and pound it in a mortar; add 3oz. of butter and 2oz. 
of the paste, and thoroughly mix the whole in the mortar, 
adding during the process the yolks of two and the white of 
one egg, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste ; pass the 
mixture through a sieve, work a little cream into it, and by 
means of two teaspoons shape it in pieces the size of pigeons' 
eggs ; lay these carefully in a saucepan, pour in at the side 
sufficient boiling stock to cover them, and let them cook 
gently for a few minutes. Have the tureen ready filled with 
well-flavoured clear stock, boiling hot ; slip the quenelles 
into it (with or without the stock they were boiled in), and 
serve. 

Fried Fillets of Sole. — Steep some fillets of sole for three 
or four hours in a marinade composed of olive oil and lemon 
juice in equal quantities, with a few slices of onion, a little 
parsley, pepper and salt; take them out, flour thoroughly, 
and fry them in plenty of lard. Serve garnished with fried 
parsley, and lemons cut in quarters. 

Pork Chops. — Cut some cutlets from a neck of pork, trim 
them neatly, and take off the chine bone, give them a few 
blows with the bat, and grill them on or in front of the 
fire ; sprinkle them with salt, and arrange them in a circle 
on a dish with mashed potatoes in the centre and the sauce 
round them. 



48 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Sharp Sauce. — Put a large piece of butter rolled in flour 
in a stewpan slightly rubbed with garlic, add chopped and 
blanched parsley and mushrooms and a little chopped shallot ; 
moisten with equal quantities of vinegar and broth, add salt 
and grated nutmeg, strain, boil it up, add a little mustard, 
stir well, and serve. 

Stewed Beef. — Take a piece of fresh silverside of beef (71b. or 
81b.) ; with a sharp knife make five or six incisions through it. 
Cut as many square pieces of bacon, fat and lean, long enough 
to go right through from one side of the piece of meat to the 
other. Roll each piece of bacon in a mixture of powdered 
pepper, spices, and sweet herbs, and insert one into each 
incision; tie up the meat carefully, line the bottom of a 
stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put the meat on this with 
some onions and carrots cut in slices, some sweet herbs, a 
couple of bay leaves, parsley, whole pepper, and salt to taste ; 
add a pint of common claret, and half that quantity of stock ; 
set the whole to stew gently for some hours, turning the 
meat occasionally. At the time of serving strain off the 
gravy, skim it well of fat, remove the string from the meat, 
pour the gravy over it, and garnish with Brussels sprouts. 

Brussels Sprouts. — Trim them neatly, and wash them in 
several waters. Put them to boil in plenty of salted water, 
and when almost done strain them and dry them in a cloth. 
Put them in a saucepan with a large piece of butter, pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg to taste. Toss them gently on the 
fire until they are quite cooked. 

Roast Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Endive Salad. — Wash two heads of endive, well freed from 
the outside leaves. Dry them thoroughly, and cut them up. 
Rub a salad bowl slightly with garlic, in it put one table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
good pinch of black pepper, mix thoroughly, then gradually 
add three tal)lespoonfuls of olive oil, beat up the mixture till 
the ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated, put in the 
endive, " work " the salad well, and serve. 

Bombay Toast. — Melt a piece of butter about lin. square, 
stir into it two eggs, quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, and a few drops of anchovy essence, spread the 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 49 



mixture on pieces of buttered toast all cut to the same shape, 
and serve hot. 

Albert Pudding. — Beat |lb. of butter to a cream, add |lb, 
of crushed loaf sugar, ^Ib. of flour, ^Ib. of chopped raisins, the 
juice of a lemon, some candied peel cut very fine; mix all 
well together, beat six eggs (yolks and whites separately), 
mix all together, put into a mould, boil three and half hours. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

Wine Sauce. — Mix a tablespoonful of potato flour with a 
gill of sherry ; beat up another gill of sherry with the yolks of 
four eggs; mix the two together, add powdered loaf sugar, 
powdered cinnamon, grated lemon peel to taste, and a third 
gill of sherry. Put the whole in a saucepan, and keep 
stirring on the fire till the sauce thickens, when it is ready. 

Apple Compote. — Peel, core, and halve six large apples, 
trimming them so as to get them all of a size ; drop them as 
they are done into cold water with the juice of a lemon 
squeezed into it, to prevent their turning brown. Have ready 
a strong syrup (made with a pound of sugar and one quart of 
water) boiling hot ; put the apples into this, with the thin 
rind of a lemon and two or three cloves. As soon as they are 
cooked (great care must be taken that they do not break), 
take them out and dispose them on a glass dish concave sides 
uppermost ; place a piece of currant jelly or quince jelly in the 
hollow of each apple, then reduce the syrup well, and, when 
cold, pour as much of it as is necessary under the apples. 



No. 22. JANUARY. 

Mulligatawny Soup. 

Codfish and Oyster Sauce. 

Grenadins of Beef with Olives. 

Fricassee of Chicken. 

Roast Hare. 

Potatoes Soufflees. Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Camembert. Celery. 

Rice Souffle. 



Mulligatawny Soup. — Boil a knuckle of veal in a little 

£ 



50 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



more than three quarts of water, skim carefully, and let it 
boil gently for an hour and a half ; then strain the liquor 
into a clean stewpan. Have ready 31b. of the best end of a 
breast of veal, cut up into pieces about an inch square, with- 
out gristle or bone, and three large onions sliced ; fry these 
two together in butter till they are a delicate brown, put 
them into the veal broth, and let it simmer one hour, taking 
care to skim it carefully ; then take five or six tablespoonfuls 
of the broth, and mix with it one large tablespoonful of curry 
powder and one of flour till quite smooth, adding a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir all this 
gradually and well into the soup, keep it simmering, but not 
boiling, for one quarter of an hour longer, and serve with rice 
as for curry. A couple of shallots minced fine, one tea- 
spoonful of powdered ginger, and one of powdered mace 
may be added. 

Codfish and Oyster Sauce. — Tie the fish several times 
over with string, lay it in cold water plentifully salted, and 
let it boil gently, carefully skimming the water ; when done 
lift it up and let it drain, then serve. An ordinary sized piece 
will be done two or three minutes after the water comes to 
boiling point. 

Oyster Sauce. — Parboil the oysters in their own liquor, 
beard them, and reserve all the liquor. Melt a piece of butter 
in a saucepan, add a little flour, the oyster liquor, and enough 
milk to make as much sauce as is wanted. Put in a blade 
of mace and a bay leaf tied together, pepper and salt to taste, 
and the least dust of cayenne. Let the sauce come to the 
boil, add the oysters, and as soon as they are quite hot re- 
move the mace and bay leaf. Stir in a few drops of lemon 
juice, and serve. 

Grenadins op Beef with Olives. — Cut some rump steak 
in slices a little more than half an inch thick, trim them all 
to the same size in the shape of cutlets, and lard them thickly 
on one side with fine lardoons of bacon fat. Lay them out, 
the larded side uppermost, in a flat pan, and put into it as 
much highly-flavoured rich stock or gravy as will come up to 
the grenadins without covering them. Cover the pan, and 
place it in the oven to braize gently for an hour. Then 
lemove the cover, baste the grenadins with the gravy, and 



PKACTICAL DINNERS. 51 



let them remain uncovered in the oven till the larding has 
taken colour ; they are then ready. Stone a quantity of 
Spanish olives, parboil them for ten minutes, then mince 
them fine, fry an onion in butter till it begins to colour, add 
a pinch of flour, some stock, and a piece of glaze, strain the 
sauce. Put in the olives with the least drop of lemon juice. 
Dress them in the middle of the dish, dispose the grenadins 
in a circle round them, remove all superfluous fat from the 
gravy ; pour this round the grenadins, and serve. 

Fricassee of Chicken. — Cut up a large chicken into neat 
joints. Lay them into boiling salted water for two or 
three minutes. Take them out, and on doing so rub each 
piece with a lemon cut in half. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, add a tablespoonful of flour, white pepper, salt, 
powdered nutmeg to taste, and half a pint of white stock, 
with an onion, a bunch of parsley, and some button mush- 
rooms ; stir the sauce till it boils, then put in the pieces of 
fowl, and let them stew gently. When done remove the 
onion and parsley, lay the pieces of fowl neatly on a dish, 
stir into the sauce, off the fire, a couple of yolks of egg, 
strained and beaten up with the juice of a lemon, pour it 
over the pieces of fowl, arranging the mushrooms round 
them. 

Roast Hare. — Clean, thoroughly wash, and truss the hare ; 
lard the back and thighs and stuff the hare with forcemeat ; 
cover the back with thin slices of fat bacon, roast before a 
clear fire, basting frequently with butter. Just before it is 
done remove the bacon, sprinkle with salt, and serve with 
good gravy and red currant jelly. 

Forcemeat. — Boil the liver of the hare for a few minutes, 
mince it very small, and then pound it to a paste in a mortar 
slightly rubbed with garlic, with equal parts of veal and fat 
ham or bacon ; pass them through a wire sieve and return 
them to the mortar. Work into the paste thus obtained a 
fourth of its bulk of butter, and about the same quantity of 
bread crumbs soaked in milk or in stock, with the yolks of 
one or more eggs, according to quantity. Add some minced 
parsley and, according to taste, pepper, salt, spices, and 
powdered sweet herbs. 

Potatoes Soufflees. See No. 10. 
E 2 



52 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Jerusalem Artichokes. — Wash tliem well, peel and shape- 
them to a uniform size, throw them into boiling salted water, 
and let them boil from fifteen to twenty minutes ; drain them 
at once thoroughly, put them on a dish, and serve with the 
following sauce poured over them : Mix over the fire l^oz. of 
butter with a tablespoonful of flour, add half a pint of boiling 
water, white pepper, and salt to taste ; stir till the sauce 
thickens, then take the saucepan off the tire, and stir in the 
yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon and 



strained. 

EicE Souffle. See No. 7. 



No. 23. FEBRUARY. 

Lobster Soup. 

Croustades of Game. 

Fillets of Beef with Onion Sauce. 

Koast Saddle of Mutton. 

Potato Snow. Brussels Sprouts. 

Stewed Celery. 

Mousseline Pudding. Orange Tartlets. 



Lobster Soup. — Pick out all the meat from a lobster, 
pound it in a mortar with an equal quantity of butter until a 
fine orange-coloured pulp is obtained ; to this add pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg to taste. Take as much bread 
crumbs as there is lobster pulp, soak them in stock, then 
melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, amalgamate with it a 
heaped tablespoonful of flour ; mix the lobster pulp with the 
bread crumbs, and put both into the saucepan, stir well, and 
add more stock until a puree is obtained, rather thinner in 
consistency than the soup should be. Put the saucepan on 
the fire, stirring the contents until they thicken and boil ; 
draw it then on one side, and carefully skim off super- 
fluous fat, then strain the soup through a hair sieve, make it 
boiling hot, and serve with small dice of bread fried in 
butter. 

Croustades of Game. — Peel 21b. of potatoes, boil them ten 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 63 



minutes in water, strain off the water, and add a couple of 
ounces of butter and a little salt, cover them up, and leave 
them to steam till thoroughly done, then stir into them the 
yolks of three eggs and a little grated nutmeg, and keep 
stirring them on the fire for five minutes. Then pass them 
through a sieve, pat them into a paste, and flatten them on a 
marble slab to the thickness of an inch and a half. When 
the paste is thoroughly cold, cut it out into cylinders with a 
plain round cutter 2in. in diameter, then egg and bread-crumb 
each croustade ; mark it on the top with a smaller cutter so 
as to form a cover, and fry them in hot lard until they are a 
gold colour ; remove the top, take out the best part of the 
inside with the handle of a teaspoon, taking great care not to 
damage the outside, fill up each croustade with puree of game 
and serve. 

Puree of Game. — Take the remnants of three roasted snipe, 
or any other game, cut them in pieces, and put them into a 
saucepan with half an onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, a small 
piece of celery, a couple of cloves, a little piece of mace, some 
whole pepper, and a large pinch of salt ; press the whole down 
tight, and pour in just enough common stock or water to 
cover the contents. Let the whole boil for a couple of hours, 
strain the liquor, and put it by. Take half a pound of lean 
"beef, chop it up, and pound it in a mortar with all the flesh 
that can l)e picked out of the pieces of snipe, then pass the 
whole through a hair sieve, moistening now and then with 
some of the above liquor. Lastly, heat the puree, correct the 
flavouring if requisite, and it is ready. 

Fillets of Beef. — Take a piece of the undercut of the 
sirloin, cut it into neat fillets (pear shape), sprinkle them with 
pepper and salt, and cook them in butter in a tin in the oven. 
Do no overdo them ; add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, 
and, when dissolved, turn the fillets over in it. Cut some 
potatoes to the size of olives, and toss them in butter till done, 
and of a golden colour. Dress the fillets with the potatoes in 
the centre, and the following sauce under : 

Onion Sauce. — Boil some onions in milk, with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg. When quite done pass them through a sieve. 
Put some butter and flour into a saucepan; when the butter is 
melted and well mixed with the flour put in the pulp of the 



54 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



onions, and add either milk or cream, stirring the sauce, on 
the fire, until it is of the desired consistency. 

KoAST Saddle of Mutton. See No. 20. 

Potato Snow. — Boil some potatoes in their skins. When 
they are cooked peel them and pass them through a coarse 
hair sieve into a vegetable dish, with a few small pieces of 
butter in it. The dish must be very hot, and the operation 
must be conducted quickly, not to allow the potatoes to get 
cold ; wipe the lim of the dish, and serve quickly. 

Brussels Sprouts a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Trim them 
neatly, and wash them in several waters. Put them to boil in 
plenty of salted water, and when almost done strain and dry 
them in a cloth ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, toss 
them in this until done, adding some minced parslej', a 
sprinkling of pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon. 

Stewed Celery. — Trim the roots and cut to the same 
length (about six inches) three heads of celery ; wash them 
carefully, tie them together with string. Parboil them a few 
minutes, and drain them. Put them into a saucepan with an 
onion, a blade of mace, some w^hole pepper, salt, and sufiicient 
boiling water to cover them. Let them boil till nearly done, 
then drain them ; melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, and 
mix with it a dessertspoonful of flour, and as much of the 
water in which the celery was boiled as is wanted to make the 
sauce, a good quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, with pepper- 
and salt to taste ; stir it over the fire, and simmer gently till 
done. Pour over the celery and serve. 

Mousseline Pudding. — Four ounces of pounded sugar, four 
ounces of fresh butter, the rind of one lemon and the juice of 
two, with the yolks of ten eggs, to be mixed together in a 
saucepan and stirred on a slow fire until quite hot ; then strain 
the mixture into a basin, and amalgamate lightly with it, as 
in making a souffle, the whites of the eggs whisked to 
a stiff froth. Pour into a well-buttered mould, and steam for 
twenty minutes. Serve with jam sauce under (apricot or red 
currant jelly). The water should boil when the pudding is 
put in to steam, but on no account after. 

Orange Tartlets. — Make a short paste with one white and 
three yolks of egg, an ounce of sugar, a little milk, an ounce 
of Ijutter, a pinch of salt, and flour quantum suff. Work it 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 55 



lightly, roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, 
line some small patty-pans with it, fill them with uncooked 
rice to keep their shape, and bake them in a moderate oven 
till done. Peel off the thin rind from a number of oranges, 
make a thick syrup by boiling some loaf sugar in a little 
water ; let the orange rind infuse in this for a little time, but 
not boil in it. With a sharp knife remove from the oranges 
every vestige of any kind of rind, core them as you would 
apples so as to get rid of the pips, cut them in half length- 
wise, lay them in a tin, pour the syrup over them, and put 
them in the oven to get quite warm. Empty the tartlets of 
the rice, put a half orange into each, pour a little of the syrup 
over, and again put them into the oven to keep hot till the 
time of serving. 



No. 24. MARCH. 

Spring Soup. 

Grilled Salmon and Tartare Sauce. 

Quenelles of Rabbit. 

Stewed Fillet of Beef. 

Seakale. 

Eggs an Gratin. 

Apricot Toast. 



Spring Soup (a la Jardiniere). — Cut out, with a crimped 
vegetable scoop, equal quantities of carrots and turnips into the 
shape of small olives, cut up a similar quantity of small 
sprigs out of a cauliflower, cut some French beans into 
diamonds, some celery into round pieces with a round cutter, 
and have some very small onions ; about equal quantities 
of all. Boil each vegetable separately in salted water, 
with a small piece of butter, till they are cooked but not 
overdone ; strain them on a hair sieve, and throw a little cold 
water over them. At the time of serving put all the vege- 
tables into a saucepan with a pint of well-flavoured clear 
stock ; when it is on the point of boiling add more stock 



66 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



according to the quantity of soup required, a few sprigs 
of chervil, and serve. 

Grilled Salmon — Tartare Sauce. — Have the salmon cut 
in slices, not less than three-quarters of an inch thick ; lay 
these in a marinade composed of salad oil, slices of onion, 
parsley, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a few cloves, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Let them remain in this a couple of hours, 
turning them over occasionally ; then grill them on a verj' 
clear fire, and serve. 

Tartare Sauce. — Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, 
with salt and mustard to taste, and stir olive oil into them 
one tablespoonful at a time ; after each tablespoonful of oil 
put in one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Keep on doing 
this until the sauce is of the desired consistency, then 
add pepper, the least bit of cayenne, and a couple of 
shallots or onions, or a few pickled gherkins chopped very 
finely. 

Quenelles of Kabbit. — Take some of the white meat of 
an uncooked rabbit and pound it in a mortar ; mix loz. of 
butter with a handful of flour in a saucepan, add enough 
water to make a thick paste, and let it come to the boiling 
point, then put it by to cool. Take of this paste half the 
quantity you have of meat, and of butter half the quantity 
you have of paste ; mix all in a mortar thoroughly, add the 
yolks of two eggs and one whole egg, salt, pepper, spices, and 
powdered sweet herbs to taste ; work well together and pass 
it through a sieve ; lastly stir in half a gill of cream. Shape 
the mixture into quenelles, place them in a buttered sauce- 
pan, leaving a clear space on one side, and put in a good pinch 
of salt in that space, pour in a sufficient quantity of boiling 
water to cover the quenelles, and leave them to poach for ten 
minutes, then drain them carefully on a cloth, and serve 
them in a circle round a tomato puree. 

Tomato Puree. — Mix a dessertspoonful of potato flour in 
a wineglassful of water ; add this to the contents of an 8d. 
bottle of French tomato sauce {conserve de tomates), add pepper 
and salt to taste, put the whole into a saucepan on the 
fire with half a pat of fresh butter, and stir until it 
thickens. 

Stewed Fillet of Beef. — Take 31b. or 41b. of the under- 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 57 



cut of the sirloin, trim off the fat and the thin skin next to 
it, lard it finely with fat bacon, and tie it up with string ; 
put a slice of bacon into a saucepan, on this place the fillet 
larded side uppermost, surround it with a couple of carrots, 
an onion cut in pieces, a ))unch of sweet herbs, a piece of 
celery and some parsley ; add whole pepper, salt, and two or 
three cloves ; moisten with a little good stock, and set the 
saucepan on a moderate fire to stew till the l^eef is well done. 
Strain off the sauce, free it absolutely from fat, thicken it 
with a little butter and flour mixed together on the fire. 
Serve the fillet on the sauce, and garnish the dish with pota- 
toes tossed in butter till a golden brown, and with carrots 
and turnips cut into proper shapes, and stewed either with 
the fillets, or boiled separately in stock. 

Seakale. See No. 12. Serve on slices of toast, with white 
sauce in a boat. 

White Sauce. — Melt loz. of butter, and add to it a 
dessertspoonful of flour, with salt and white pepper to taste ; 
stir on the fire for a couple of minutes, then put in a little 
more than a tumblerful of boiling water, keep on stirring for 
ten minutes, but do not let the sauce boil. At the time of 
serving stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, beaten up 
with the juice of a lemon, and strained. 

Eggs au Gratin. — Cut some hard-boiled eggs in slices, 
and lay them on a well-buttered dish, with grated Parmesan 
cheese, black pepper, and the least bit of powdered nutmeg ; 
sprinkle some baked bread crumbs over all, put the dish in 
the oven, and serve as soon as the contents begin to colour. 

Apricot Toast. — Take a tin of preserved apricots, turn 
out the juice into a saucepan, add loz. of sugar and a glass 
of white wine, boil it up. Put in the apricots and simmer 
for a few minutes. Cut out of the crumb of a milk loaf some 
rounds a little larger than the apricots. Fry them a pale 
yellow in fresh butter, drain and arrange them in a circle on 
a dish with a piece of apricot on each round, concave side 
uppermost ; put a kernel in the centre of each, pour the 
syrup well over, and serve with some whipped cream in the 
centre of the dish. 



58 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 25. APRIL. 

Lettuce Soup. 

Ked Mullet with Italian Sauce. 

Chicken with Tarragon. 

Roast Leg of Lamb. 

New Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Cheese Souffles. 

Blancmange, Gooseberry Fool. 



Lettuce Soup (Potage a la Puree de Laitues). — Boil 
some lettuces in salted water ; when quite done drain them 
well, and pass them through a hair sieve. Mix a small piece 
of butter with a tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan, add a 
little stock, then the puree of lettuce, let it boil for a minute 
or so, add as much stock as is necessary to make the soup, 
season it with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and make it 
hot. At the time of serving stir in, off the fire, the yolks 
of two eggs beaten up with a few drops of lemon juice and 
strained, then add half a pat of fresh butter. 

Red Mullet with Italian Sauce. — Wipe each fish quite 
dry, and lay it on a sheet of note paper well oiled with salad 
oil ; sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little minced parsley on the 
fish, and a little lemon juice ; fold up the paper neatly, and 
broil them on a gridiron ; take them out of the paper, and 
lay them carefully on a dish ; pour the following sauce over 
them and serve : Fry in a little salad oil a couple of shallots 
very finely minced, then add a wineglassful of sherry, half a 
dozen mushrooms finely minced, and as much brown (Espag- 
nole) sauce as may be required. Lastly put in a little finely 
chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice. Let the sauce 
gently simmer for a quai ter of an hour, and, having skimmed 
off the fat, pour it over the fish. 

Brown Sauce (Espagxole). — Butter slightly a gallon sauce- 
pan, put a layer of slices of onion at the bottom, over this 
21b. of lean veal, lib. of beef, and |lb. of ham, all cut in small 
pieces ; add half a pint of gravy stock. Put the saucepan on 
the fire, stirring the contents frequently. When the meat is 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 59 



well-coloured add one carrot cut in small pieces, one bay 
leaf, some parsley, thyme, and marjoram, one or two cloves, a 
little whole pepper and salt to taste ; then put in as much 
more stock as will well cover the contents of the saucepan. 
Let the whole boil gently for about three hours, and strain 
the liquor through a tammy. Put into a saucepan |^lb. of 
butter and 2oz, of flour, stir on the fire till the two are well 
mixed, and are of a light brown colour ; then gradually add 
the strained liquor boiling hot. Set the saucepan at the side 
of the fire, and let it simmer for one and a half hours, carefully 
skimming the contents from time to time. Lastly, turn out 
the sauce into a basin, and if not wanted immediately let it be 
stirred every Ave or ten minutes till quite cold. In a good 
larder it will keep several days, but it should be warmed 
eveiy day in hot weather. 

Chicken with Tarragon, See No. 14. 

Roast Leg or Lamb. See No. 3. 

New Potatoes. See No. 3. 

Asparagus. See No. 14. Serve with the following sauce 
in a boat : Three parts of olive oil, one of tarragon vinegar, a 
little mustard, plenty of pepper and salt to taste, beaten up 
with a fork until perfectly amalgamated. 

Small Cheese Souffles. — Melt half an ounce of fresh butter 
in a saucepan, stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; when the 
two are well amalgamated, put in a small quantity of milk 
and about 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture 
on a slow fire until it assumes the appearance of thick cream, 
but be careful not to let it boil ; then add some white pepper ; 
mix thoroughly, and, if required, add a little salt ; keep on 
stirring the mixture at a very moderate heat for about ten 
minutes ; take the saucepan off the fire, and stir the contents 
occasionally until quite cold ; then stir into them the yolks of 
three eggs, beaten up with a little milk and strained, and 
finally the whites of five eggs whisked to a stiff froth. 
Half fill some small paper cases with the mixture, put them 
into the oven and bake until done — from ten to fifteen 
minutes. 

Blancmange. — Take half a dozen bitter almonds and 8oz. 
or 9oz. of sweet almonds, blanched and peeled, pound them in 
a mortar, with a little orange-flower water ; when reduced to 



60 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



a paste add rather less than one pint of milk, pounded loaf 
sugar to taste, and a little moi e orange-flower water. Strain 
the mixture through a cloth, squeezing it well into a basin con- 
taining eight or nine sheets of best French gelatine dissolved 
in a pint of water; mix well, put into a mould set on ice ; turn 
it out just before serving. 

Gooseberry Fool. — Stew a quantity of young gooseberries 
with a little water and plenty of sugar. When reduced to a 
pulp, pass them through a sieve, stir in gradually half a pint 
of cream, sweeten to taste, and when cold it is ready. 



No. 26. MAY. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Salmon au Gratin. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. 

Lamb Cutlets with Asparagus. 

Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach. 

Roast Chicken. Salad. 

Fondue. 

Mousseline Pudding. Chartreuse of Apricots. 



Tapioca Soup. — Take from 31b. to 41b. of shin of beef, cut 
off ^Ib. of lean, and put what is left into a stewpan, add four 
quarts of cold water and a large pinch of salt ; when boiling 
skim it well, and put in one large carrot, one turnip, two 
large onions, four or five cloves, a few peppercorns, any 
trimmings of leeks or celery ; leave it to boil gently four or 
five hours, skim off the fat, strain it through a cloth into a 
basin, leave it to cool ; cut the lean meat very small, pound it, 
and work into it one whole egg, a little salt, and any trim- 
mings of cooked veal or fowl, a few trimmings of uncooked 
carrot, onion, and celery ; pour in the stock, stir it over a 
quick fire until it boils, leave it to boil from ten to fifteen 
minutes, strain through a napkin into a clean stewpan, when 
it boils, and to one quart of stock add one tablespoonful 
of tapioca, leave it to boil nearly half an hour, stirring it 
occasionally until the tapioca is cooked sufficiently. 



niACTICAL DINNERS. 61 



Salmon au Gratin. — Take two slices of salmon, about an 
inch thick, lay them in a buttered tin, having first sprinkled 
them on both sides with pepper and salt, put a few pieces of 
butter on them, and over all a sheet of buttered paper. Place 
the tin in the oven for a quartei of an hour, then take out the 
slices, lay them on a dish, pour the butter over them, and 
sprinkle them all over with grated Parmesan cheese, and a 
very few fine baked bread crumbs on the top. Place the 
dish in the oven for ten minutes, and serve in the same 
dish. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. — Trim a couple of sweetbreads, soak 
them half an hour in tepid water, then parboil them for a few 
minutes, and lay them in cold water ; when quite cold take 
them out, dry them, and lard them quickly with tine strips of 
bacon. Put a slice of fat bacon in a stewpan with some 
onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and 
spices to taste, and a small quantity of good stock ; lay the 
sweetbreads on this, and let them gently stew till quite done, 
basting the top occasionally with the liquor. When cooked, 
strain the liquor, skim off superfluous fat, reduce it almost to 
a glaze, brown the larded side of the sweetbreads with a 
salamander, and serve with the sauce over them. 

Lamb Cutlets with Asparagus. — Trim the cutlets neatly, 
egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in butter a light 
brown, drain and arrange them in a circle on a dish. Take a 
bundle of asparagus, cut off the heads in half-inch lengths, 
and cut off, to the same length, as much of the stalks as is 
edible, boil them and the heads separately in salted water, 
then toss them in separate saucepans with butter, pepper, and 
salt, lay the pieces in the centre of the circle of cutlets, with 
the heads on the top of them. 

Fricandeau of Yeal with Spinach. See No. 2. 

EoAST Chicken, — Procure if possible chickens with a whole 
breast-bone, truss them neatly, and let them be carefully 
singed ; put an onion, and a piece of salt butter equal to it in 
bulk, inside each chicken ; tie a piece of buttered paper or a 
slice of bacon over the breast, and roast at a moderate fire, 
basting frequently with butter. Time of roasting about half 
an hour. About ten minutes before they are done remove 
the papei or bacon, and sprinkle them freely with salt. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Serve with plain gravy in a boat, not in the dish ; garnish 
with thin slices of broiled bacon rolled up. 

Plain Gravy. See No. 14. 

Bread Sauce. See No. 14. 

Fried Bacon. — Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon, cut 
off the rind, and trim them. Put them into a frying pan on 
the fire, and turn them often until quite hot ; then roll up 
each slice, and garnish the dish. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Fondue. See No. 6. 

MoussELiNE Pudding. See No. 2.3. 

Chartreuse of Apricots. — Take a tin of preserved apricots, 
turn out the contents into a saucepan, add 6oz. of sugar, half 
a pint of water, and a glass of wine ; let them boil up ; strain 
off the syrup, take out the kernels and remove the outer skin 
carefully from the apricots, and leave them to get cold. Add 
to one pint of the syrup sixteen sheets of the best French 
gelatine steeped in a little water, boil up the whole, and 
clarify with three whites of eggs ; have two plain moulds, 
one about an inch and a quarter more in diameter than the 
other, pour a very little jelly at the bottom of the larger 
mould, and place in it a layer of slices of apricots prepared as 
above, and a few split kernels ; cover this with more jelly, 
but only put enough to get a smooth surface ; lay this on ice 
to set. When it is quite firm put the small mould inside the 
large one, taking care to place it exactly in the middle, so that 
the vacant space between the two moulds be of the same 
width all round. In this vacant space dispose slices of 
apricots and the rest of the kernels, filling up the interstices 
with the jelly until all the space is filled up. Place the mould 
upon ice; whip a pint of cream with ^oz. of dissolved isinglass 
and some of the apricot syrup, which must be added to it a 
very little at a time, or the cream will not rise to a froth. 
When the cream is ready and the jelly set, remove the inner 
mould by pouring warm water into it, and fill up the inner 
space of the chartreuse with the cream ; set it on ice for an 
hour, turn out and serve. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 63 



No. 27. JUNE. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber. 

Whitebait. 

Veal Quenelles with Truffle Sauce. 

Chicken with Tarragon. 

Fillets of Beef with Carrots. 

Eoast Quarter of Lamb. 

New Potatoes. 

Green Artichokes. 

Aspic of Lobster. 

Cheese Tartlets. 

Chartreuse of Strawberries. Cherry Tartlets. 

Genoise Pastry. Empress Rice. 

Ice Pudding. 



ASPARA.GUS Soup. See No. 13. 

Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber. See No. 2. 

Whitebait. See No. 15. 

Veal Quenelles. See No. 15. 

Trupfle Sauce. — Take half a pint of brown sauce (See 
No. 25), put into it three or four good-sized truffles coarsely 
chopped, and a liqueur glass of sherry. Let the sauce simmer 
half an hour, add a little stock if reduced too much, skim and 
serve. 

Chicken with Tarragon. See No. 12. 

Fillets of Beef with Carrots. — Take a piece of the 
undercut of the sirloin, cut it into neat fillets (pear shape), 
sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and cook them with a 
little butter in a tin in the oven. Do not let them be over- 
done; add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and when 
dissolved turn the fillets over in it. Serve in a circle round 
some 

New Carrots. See No. 3. 

Roast Quarter of Lamb. — Let the fire be clear, but not 
too fierce. Cover the joint with greased paper, and baste it 
frequently. Half an hour before serving remove the paper 



64 PKACTICAL DINNERS. 



and baste the joint with butter and lemon juice, lastly 
sprinkle a little flour and salt over it. Time of roasting from 
two to two and a half hours. 

Mint Sauce. See No. 3. 

New Potatoes. See No. 13. 

Green Artichokes with White Sauce. — Take four green 
artichokes, cut each into eight quarters, and trim off all that 
is not eatable from them, laying each piece in cold water with 
a lemon squeezed in it to prevent their turning black. Boil 
them in salted water, with the juice of a lemon, till nearly 
done. Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a saucepan, mix 
with it a tablespoonful of flour, add as much water as will 
make sufficient sauce, then pepper, salt, and a little powdered 
nutmeg to taste ; lay the artichokes in this, and when quite 
hot stir in, off the fire, the yolks of two or three eggs strained 
and beaten up with the juice of a lemon. 

Lobster Mayonnaise. — Cut the flesh of one or two lobsters 
into convenient pieces. Pour into a border mould a layer, a 
quarter of an inch thick, of light-coloured aspic jelly just 
melted ; when it begins to set, arrange round it a portion of 
the pieces of lobster and a few tarragon leaves, filling up 
gradually with aspic. Put the mould in a cold place ; when 
the border is set turn it out on a dish, and fill the centre with 
shred lettuce, mixed with the remainder of the lobster slightly 
seasoned with oil, tarragon vinegar, pepper, and salt. Heap 
the mixture well up, and mask it with mayonnaise sauce laid 
on very evenly ; then ornament both the heap of salad and the 
top of the mould with truffles in slices, the trimmings chopped 
up, lobster spawn, hard-boiled eggs in slices, quarters, or 
chopped up — yolks and whites separately — and with capers, 
stoned olives, tarragon, chervil, and garden cress finely 
minced. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — Carefully strain the yolks of two eggs 
into a basin, place it in a cool place, or, if necessary, on ice ; 
add a teaspoonful of salt, mix well ; then proceed to pour in, 
a few drops at a time, some salad oil, without ceasing to stir the 
mixture. When one tablespoonful of oil is well incorporated 
with the yolks of eggs, put in, in the same manner, a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; keep on adding oil and vinegar 
in these proportions until you get a sauce the consistency of 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 65 



very thick cream ; then add white pepper to taste, and more 
salt if necessary. 

Cheese Tartlets. See No. 3. 

Chartreuse of Strawberries. — Take a quart of calves'- 
foot jelly, well flavoured with lemon peel alone. Take a 
quantity of fine strawberries free from stalks, and cut in half 
lengthwise. Warm the jelly sufficiently to pour out. Have 
two plain moulds, one about an inch and a quarter more in 
diameter than the other ; pour a very little jelly at the 
bottom of the larger mould, and place in it a layer of straw- 
berries, cover them with more jelly, but only put enough to 
get a smooth surface ; lay this on ice to set. When it is quite 
firm, put the small mould inside the large one, taking care to 
place it exactly in the middle, so that the vacant space be- 
tween the two moulds be of the same width. In this vacant 
space dispose strawberries prepared as above, filling up the 
interstices as you go on with jelly until the whole of the space 
is filled up. Place the mould upon ice, whip a pint of cream 
to a froth, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little water, 
mix it with rather more than a cupful of strawberry juice 
sweetened to taste, and obtained by mashing the fruit and 
pressing it through a tammy. Add this to the whipped cream 
a little at a time. When the cream is ready and the jelly set, 
remove the inner mould by pouring warm water into it, and 
fill up the inner space of the chartreuse with the cream. Set 
it on ice for an hour, turn out, and serve. 

Cherry Tartlets. — Make some paste with one white and 
four yolks of eggs, 4oz. of sugar and 6oz. of butter, a pinch of 
salt, a pound of flour, and a little water, work it lightly, roll 
it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, line some patty 
pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them in 
a moderate oven till done. Take a pound of cherries, remove 
the stalks and stones, and stew them with plenty of powdered 
loaf sugar, and a little water, adding a few drops of cochineal. 
When quite done remove the rice from the tartlets, fill each 
with stewed cherries, put them in the oven till quite hot, 
and serve; or they may be allowed to get quite cold, and 
so served. 

Genoise Pastry. See No. 4. 

Empress Rice. See No. 5. 



QQ PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Ice Pudding. — Take one pint and a half of clarij&ei syrup 
and the strained juice of three lemons. Put the mixture in 
the freezing pot, and when nearly frozen add essence of citron 
to taste, and one ounce of pistachio nuts blanched and split 
in half lengthwise ; finish freezing, put into a mould, and lay 
it on ice till wanted. 



No. 28. JULY. 

HIGH TEA. 



Cold Braised Beef. 

Mayonnaise of Lobster. 

Chaudfroid of Chicken. 

Aspic of Soles. 

Stuffed Eggs. Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Cheese Sandwiches. Lettuce Salad. 

Fruit Salad. Pine Apple Jelly. 

Almond Pastry. Pistachio Cake. 



Cold Braised Beef. — Take a piece of rump or round of 
beef, about 81b. or 101b., tie it up with string, and put it into 
a stewpan just large enough to hold it, with the following 
ingredients : ^Ib. of ham or bacon sliced, a calve's foot cut up 
into small pieces, an onion and two carrots sliced, a clove of 
garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a head of celery (when 
in season), a few cloves, whole pepper, and salt to taste. Add 
half a tumbler of white wine or a liqueur glass of brandy, 
and about a pint of cold stock or water. Place a piece of 
buttered paper over all, put on the lid close, and simmer 
gently for four or five hours. If practicable, a few hot 
cinders should be kept on the lid. When done take out the 
piece of beef and put it under a weight till quite cold, then 
trim the joint neatly, glaze it with some of the gravy reduced 
for the purpose, and garnish it with the rest, which will be a 
stiff jelly. 

Mayonnaise of Lobster. See No. 27. 

Chaudfroid of Chicken. — Roast two large fowls, with a 
piece of buttered paper tied over their breasts so that they 
shall not take colour. When cold carve them neatly, taking 
the fillets from breasts, and carving the wings and legs into 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 67 

neat joints ; remove the skin from each piece; break up the 
carcases, and put them, with the trimmings, into a saucepan 
with sufficient well-flavoured white stock to cover them, and 
with a couple of shallots, two or three cloves, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a wineglassful of 
white wine. Let the whole boil gently for two hours. Strain 
the liquor, and free it absolutely from fat. Reduce it on the 
fire, and add to it, if necessary, a little uncoloured aspic jelly 
in a liquid state ; then stir in, off the fire, the yolks of one or 
two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon. Dip each 
piece of fowl in this sauce when it begins to get cold, so that 
each piece be thickly coated with it all over. When quite cold 
arrange the pieces on a dish, putting the legs underneath and 
the best pieces on the top. Ornament with slices of truffles 
.and chopped-up aspic jelly. 

Savoury Jelly (Aspic). — Pack into a stewpan a couple of 
calves' feet chopped in small pieces, a few slices of ham, and the 
carcase of an old fowl, with a couple of onions and two carrots 
cut in slices, a head of celery, one shallot, some parsley, sweet 
herbs, and spices, whole pepper, and salt to taste; fill up 
with common stock, and set the whole to simmer gently 
for three or four hours ; strain off the liquor into a basin, and 
when cold carefully remove all fat. Put the jelly into a 
saucepan on the fire, and when it is melted add as much 
■sue colorant or caramel as may be required to give it a 
proper colour, then whisk into it the whites of two eggs and 
a wineglassful of tarragon vinegar ; let it come to boiling 
point, and strain it through a jelly bag ; if not quite clear 
warm it again and strain a second time. 

Aspic of Soles. — Take half a dozen fillets of soles, put them 
in a buttered tin, with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon ; 
cover the tin with a sheet of buttered paper, and put it 
into the oven just long enough to cook the fillets ; take 
them out of the tin and put them under a weight until 
cold. Clean and wash some fillets of anchovies ; have a 
little parsley very finely minced, cut the fillets of soles 
in rounds the size of a penny, make a layer in a plain mould 
of very pale aspic jelly, on this, when it begins to set, dispose 
in some sort of pattern the fillets of anchovies and the pieces 
of sole, sprinkling each with a little parsley; fill up the 

F 2 



68 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



interstices with aspic jelly, and keep on adding layer upon 
layer of soles and anchovies until the mould is full, put it by 
to set, on ice if necessary, and turn it out when wanted. 

Eggs Stuffed. — Take half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, cut 
them in half crosswise, remove the yolks, and cut a small 
piece off each half egg, so as to make them stand upright. 
Take six anchovies, bone, and wash them clean, pound them in 
a mortar with an ounce of butter, the yolks of the eggs, 
pepper, and a little tarragon finely chopped, fill up the whites 
with this mixture, pile them up on a dish, and serve. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, 
remove the pips, and fill the inside with a mixture of fine 
bread crumbs, grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt in due 
proportions. Place a small piece of butter on each half tomato, 
dispose them in a well buttered tin, and bake half an hour. 
^Vhen quite cold, pile up on a dish, and serve. 

Cheese Sandwiches. See No. 9. 

Lettuce Salad. See No. 19. 

Fruit Salad. See No. 4. 

Almond Pastry. — Pound 3oz. of almonds, |-lb. of butter, 
2oz. of loaf sugar, with a little rosewater till it becomes a 
thick paste. Spread it on a buttered tin, divide it into eight 
pieces, bake in a slow oven. When cold put a spoonful of 
preserve on each piece, and cover with whipped cream. 

Pineapple Jelly. — Take a tin of preserved pineapple, pound 
the contents in a mortar, add 6oz. of sugar and half a pint of 
water ; boil the whole for a quarter of an hour, then strain 
through a napkin, add the juice of a lemon and a pint of 
clarified calve's foot jelly. Pour into a mould, and when set 
turn it out by dipping the mould in warm water. Pieces of 
pineapple may be put in the jelly. 

Pistachio Cake. — Take of finely-powdered sugar the weight 
of eight eggs in their shells, of potato flour that of two eggs, 
and the same weight of pistachio nuts blanched and skinned. 
Beat up the sugar and the yolks of the eggs well together 
with an egg whisk or with a fork, until the mixture assumes 
a white creamy appearance. Sprinkle in (beating the mixture 
all the time) half the potato flour, and add the whites of four 
eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Then put in, in the same 
manner, the rest of the flour, the remaining four whites beaten 
to a froth, and lastly the pistachio nuts beaten up to a paste 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



in a mortar. Bake in a slow oven. Meanwhile put the whites 
of two eggs into a basin with a little lemon juice and some 
glace sugar, well work the mixture with a wooden spoon, and 
as it gets thin keep on adding more sugar until you get a 
smooth paste of the consistency of butter. Lay the icing 
evenly on the cake with a palette knife, put it in the oven for 
a minute to set the icing, ornament it quickly with strips of 
angelica and preserved cherries, and put it at once in a cold 
place to cool. 

No. 29. AUGUST. 

Water Souchet of Soles. 

Boudins of Salmon, 

Fried Sweetbreads. 

Roast Ducks with Stewed Peas. 

Tomato Salad. 

Eggs au gratin. 

Compote of Fruit. 

Meringues with Cream. 



Water Souchet of Soles. — Take a number of small 
soles, fillet them, and cut the fillets into convenient pieces. 
Put the bones and all the trimmings into a saucepan, with 
some whole pepper, half a dozen roots of parsley cut up small, 
a handful of parsley leaves, a blade of mace, and salt to 
taste ; cover with cold water, and let the whole boil for a 
couple of hours. Strain the liquor, put in it the pieces of 
fish, with a few parsley roots finely shredded, let it boil ten 
minutes, then add some minced parsley ; boil five minutes 
longer. Serve in a deep dish, with enough liquor just to 
cover the fish, garnish with lemon cut in quarters, and send 
up brown bread and butter with it. 

Boudins of Salmon. — Take equal quantities cold boiled 
salmon and bread crumbs. Put the salmon, finely flaked 
and picked free from bone and skin, into a mortar ; pound 
it, pass it through a sieve, and return it to the mortar, then 
work into it half its bulk of butter, the bread crumbs soaked 
in milk and squeezed dry ; season with pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg ; then work in sufficient eggs, in the proportion of 
two yolks to one white, to bind the mixture. Put it into 



70 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



buttered moulds, and steam it for half an hour in a saucepan^ 
full of boiling water. Serve with Dutch sauce. 

Dutch Sauce. See No. 12. 

Sweetbread Fried. — Trim a couple of sweetbreads, soak 
them in water for an hour, then parboil them for five minutes 
in salted water, drain, and put them into a stewpan with two 
slices of fat bacon, an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and a small quantity 
of stock ; let them braise gently. When sufficiently cooked, 
put them between two dishes with a weight over, and leave 
them to get quite cold; then cut them in slices an inch 
thick. Beat up two tablespoonfuls of dissolved butter with 
the yolks of two eggs, a pinch of salt, and some warm water. 
Add as much flour as will make the batter of the required 
consistency ; keep on beating the mixture until it is perfectly 
smooth, and lastly add the white of one or two eggs whisked 
to a froth. Dip the slices of sweetbread into this batter and 
fry them in hot lard until of a golden colour. Serve with 
plenty of fried parsley and quarters of lemon. 

EoAST Ducks. See No. 15. 

Stewed Peas. — Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a 
saucepan, then add one and a half pints of young peas, 
pepper and salt to taste; a couple of small onions (whole), a 
small bunch of parsley, and half a head of lettuce, tied up 
together, and a pinch of sugar. Toss on a slow fire till the 
peas are cooked, then remove the parsley, lettuce, and onions, 
and serve with a little finely minced parsley mixed in the 
peas. 

Tomato Salad. See No. 20. 

Eggs au gratin. See No. 24 

Compote of Fruit. — Take equal parts of red currants, 
white currants, raspberries, and very ripe cherries. Remove 
all the stalks, the stones from the cherries, and pick the 
currants one by one ; sprinkle plenty of powdered lump 
sugar over the fruit, add a wineglassful of the best French pale 
brandy, or more according to the quantity of fruit ; toss them 
lightly until the sugar is all dissolved. Serve within a border- 
of sponge cake. 

Sponge Cake. — Take of powdered lump sugar the weight 
of six eggs in their shells, and take half that weight of potatO' 
flour ; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat 



PKACTICAL DINNERS. 71 



up the latter with the sugar, adding the grated rind of one 
lemon. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix the two 
together, and incorporate with the mixture, quickly and 
effectually, the potato flour, beating it all the time with the 
egg whisk. Pour the mixture in a buttered border mould, 
and bake it in the oven until done. When cold turn it out 
and trim it to make it stand even. 

Meringues. — Whisk some whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
mix with them, with a spoon, quickly and thoroughly, some 
loaf sugar finely powdered, in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful for each white of egg used ; then place a sheet of 
white paper on a meringue board, and with a tablespoon lay 
out the mixture on it in heaps about the size of an egg, and 
about two inches apart, taking care to make them all as 
nearly as possible of the same size, and evenly shaped. 
Strew a little powdered sugar over them, shake off what does 
not stick to the meringues, and at once place the board into a 
moderate oven. When the meringues have assumed a straw 
colour, and are hard to the touch, take them out, detach them 
from the paper carefully, and either scoop out the inside or 
press it in with a teaspoon ; then replace them in the oven on 
a baking sheet to dry for half an hour or so. The oven must 
be very " slack," and it is best to leave the door of it open 
during this part of the operation. When the meringues are 
cold have ready some whipped cream flavoured as you may 
fancy, fill the hollow of each meringue with it, and join them 
in pairs by sticking together the under side of each, and 
serve. 



No. 30. SEPTEMBER. 

Eice Soup. 

Ked Mullets. 

Beef Olives. 

Roast Partridges. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Cheese Straws. 

Greengage Tartlets. 



Rice Soup. — Pick and wash a handful of rice, boil it in 
salted water till the grains just burst ; drain the water off. 



72 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and leave the saucepan at the side of the fire, covered with a 
damp cloth. At the time of serving, put as much rice as is 
wanted into the saucepan in which the soup (well flavoured 
and clarified stock) is being made hot, and as soon as it boils 
send it up to table. Grated Parmesan cheese to be handed 
round with it. 

Red Mullet (Broiled). — Wipe each fish quite dry, and lay 
it on a sheet of notepaper well oiled with salad oil ; sprinkle 
pepper, salt, a little minced parsley and a little lemon juice 
on the fish ; fold up the paper neatly, broil on a gridiron, and 
serve in the paper. 

Beef Olives. — Cut thin slices of steak 2in. by 6in., put on 
each at one end a piece of well flavoured pork sausage meat 
the size of a pigeon's egg, roll up each olive tightly and 
neatly, and tie it up with a piece of thread. Fry them in very 
hot butter until they begin to take colour, then take them 
out, remove the string from each, and lay them by. Fry 
some onions a gold colour in butter, add a very little flour, 
sweet herbs, a few mushroom trimmings, pepper and salt 
quant, suff., and moisten with some very good gravy or stock , 
let the sauce boil, then strain it, and carefully lay the olives 
in it to simmer till done and ready to be served. The sauce 
should cover them in the saucepan. Serve with the sauce 
over. 

Roast Partridges. See No. 6. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, 
remove the pips, and fill the inside with a mixture of bread 
crumbs, pepper, and salt, in due proportions ; place a small 
piece of butter on each half tomato, and lay them close 
together in a well-buttered tin. Bake in a slow oven 
about half an hour and serve. They may be eaten hot or 
cold. 

Cheese Straws. — Make a paste with 6oz. of flour, 4oz. of 
butter, 3oz. grated Parmesan cheese, and as little water as 
possible ; season it with salt, pepper, and cayenne according to 
taste; roll it out thin, cut it in narrow strips, brush them 
over with a little yolk of egg diluted with water ; bake in a 
moderate oven, and serve hot. 

Greengage Tartlets. — Make some short paste with 2oz. of 
sugar, 2oz. of butter, the yolks of four eggs, a little water, a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 73 



pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff. ; work it lightly, and roll 
it out to the thickness of one-eighth of an inch. Line some 
patty pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their 
shape, and bake them in a moderate oven till done. Stew a 
quantity of greengages, previously stoned, with a little sugar 
and water; when quite done remove the rice from each 
tartlet, and fill it with some of the stewed greengages. To be 
served cold. 



No. 31. OCTOBER. 

jMaccaroni Soup. 

Soles a la Lyonnaise. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. 

Fillets of Beef Chateaubriand. 

Potatoes Soufflees. 

Bloaters on Toast. 

Souffle of Rice. 



Maccaroni Soup. See No. 9. 

Soles a la Lyonnaise. — Twist a number of fillets of soles 
each into a knot, and cook them in the oven in a buttered tin, 
with a sheet of buttered paper over them. Meanwhile boil 
the trimmings of the soles with a carrot, a piece of celery, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, a couple of 
cloves, and stock or water quant, suff. When they have boiled 
about an hour, strain the liquor. Slice an onion finely, fry it 
a golden colour in butter, add a little flour to it, and as much 
of the above liquor as is wanted. When the sauce boils, add 
a little minced parsley, and the butter out of the tin in which 
the fillets have been cooked. Arrange them in a dish, pour 
the sauce over, and serve. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. — With a column cutter cut a 
quantity of long round pieces, about half an inch in diameter, 
out of turnips and the red part of carrots, then cut these into 
slices an eighth of an inch thick. Be careful to have all these 
pieces, which should be like very small counters, of uniform 
shape. Boil them separately in salted water with a pinch of 
sugar ; do not let them be overdone, and turn them out on a 



74 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



sieve to drain quite dry. Boil a cabbage or any kind of 
greens in salted water, and when quite done drain and press 
out all the water from them. Take a couple of partridges, 
cut up the breast and wings of each into four or six neat 
joints, and put them aside. Cut the carcases into several 
pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of ham, 
sweet herbs, spices, pepper and salt to taste, some of the 
trimmings of the carrots, and a couple of shallots. Cover the 
whole with good stock, and let it simmer a couple of hours ; 
then strain the liquor, and lay in it the pieces of breast and 
wings to simmer gently till they are cooked. Oil a plain 
round mould with fine salad oil, then cut a round of kitchen 
paper to fit the bottom, and a long strip to go round the side 
of the mould. Oil the paper, and fit it well into the mould. 
Line the bottom with the pieces of carrots and turnips in 
circular rows, making each piece overlap the other a little in 
the same row, as well as the piece next to it in the next row. 
Lay two rows of carrot and two of turnip alternately. Use 
the point of a larding or of a trussing needle to place the 
pieces in position, and press them lightly with the fingers as 
you go on. When the bottom of the mould is finished, pro- 
ceed to build up the sides with alternate rows, on the same 
principle and in the same way. Let all the pieces be 
uniformly pressed into position, and be careful to place them 
regularly. Having finished the sides, take some of the 
cabbage or greens, and line the bottom and the sides of the 
mould with it, pressing it in carefully, and leaving a kind of 
well in the middle. Into this place the pieces of partridge, 
with a little of the gravy they have been cooked in, packing 
them carefully, and filling the space between each piece with 
greens — packing them, in fact, as you would glass in a 
hamper. Fill up the mould with cabbage pressed lightly 
down, put a piece of paper on the top, and set the chartreuse 
to steam for half an hour. In the meantime put the gravy 
on the fire to reduce a little. Put a piece of butter in a 
saucepan, mix with it a little flour, and when it begins to 
colour stir in the gravy, and when the chartreuse is turned 
out the sauce is to be poured on the dish, but not over the 
chartreuse. The chartreuse being steamed, take the mould 
out of the saucepan, take away the piece of paper which is on 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 75 



the top, invert a dish on the mould, and turn it up gently. 
Let the mould so remain for a few minutes, and then, holding 
it in place with one hand, drain off the water that will be in 
the dish ; then gently take off the mould, and with the utmost 
care proceed to remove the paper from the chartreuse bit by 
bit. Just before pouring in the gravy wipe off with a cloth 
any further moisture which may have oozed out on the 
dish. 

Steak Chateaubriand. See No. 17. 

Potatoes Soufflees. See No. 10. 

Bloaters on Toast. — Parboil three or four bloaters just 
long enough to allow the skin to come off easily, Kemove it, 
and take out the meat in fillets (four to each fish). Have 
some slices of well-buttered toast of a proportionate shape to 
the fillets, lay one fillet on each and trim them all to the same 
size. Eub each fillet over with some butter, sprinkle a slight 
dast of cayenne and black pepper over, put them in the oven 
to get quite hot, and serve. 

Souffle of Eice. See No. 7. 



No. 32. NOVEMBER. 

Lentil Soup. 

Haddock and Caper Sauce. 

Curried Rabbit. 

Grenadins of Beef. 

Maccaroni au Gratin. 

Ginger Pudding. 



Lentil Soup. — Take one quart of well-flavoured stock, 
cold and free from fat, mix it gradually with three or four 
tablespoonfuls of lentil flour. Put it on the fire, let it boil 
ten minutes, add a dust of pepper, and serve with bread 
sippets fried in butter. 

Haddock. See No. 11. Serve with 

Caper Sauce. — Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
add a tablespoonful of flour ; when the two are well amalga- 
mated add pepper and salt to taste, and rather less than a 
pint of boiling water ; stir the sauce on the fire until it 



76 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



thickens, and add a good allowance of capers, either whole 
or coarsely chopped, and, removing the saucepan from the 
fire, stir into the sauce the yolk of an egg beaten up with 
the juice of half a lemon and strained. 

Curried Rabbit. — Put into a saucepan two ounces of 
butter and a couple of onions finely sliced ; add a quarter of 
a pound of bacon cut in thin strips, and a rabbit cut up 
in neat pieces. Toss the whole on the fire until the pieces 
of rabbit are slightly browned, then sprinkle over them a 
heaped tablespoonful of curry powder and as much flour ; 
moisten with two cupfuls of stock, add salt to taste, and let 
the curry simmer for about an hour. Lay the pieces of 
rabbit on a dish within a border of plain boiled rice, skim 
the sauce, stir into it off the fire the yolk of an egg beaten 
up with the juice of half a lemon, and pour it over the rabbit 
and serve. 

Grenadins of Beef. — Cut some rump steak in slices a 
little more than half an inch thick, trim them all to the same 
size in the shape of cutlets, and lard them thickly on one 
side with fine lardoons of bacon fat. Lay them out, the larded 
side uppermost, in a flat pan, and put into it as much 
highly-flavoured rich stock or gravy as will come up to the 
grenadins without covering them. Cover the pan, and place 
it in the oven to braise gently for an hour. Then remove 
the cover, baste the grenadins Avith the gravy, and let them 
remain uncovered in the oven till the larding has taken 
colour ; they are then ready. Take equal quantities of carrots 
and turnips cut into the shape of olives, also an equal quantity 
of small sprigs of broccoli. Boil all these vegetables in salted 
water, then melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a table- 
spoonful of flour, stir in sufficient milk to make a sauce, 
add peppei, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put all the 
vegetables into this sauce, of which there should ])e just 
enough to hold them together ; toss them gently in it till 
quite hot. Dress them in the middle of a dish, round them 
dispose the grenadins in a circle, and, having removed the 
superfluous fat from their gravy, put this round the grenadins, 
and serve. 

Maccaroni au Gratin. See No. 18. 

Ginger Pudding. — Pick and wash ilb. of Patna rice, and 
put it to boil with one pint of milk ; when thoroughlj^ done 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 77 



turn it out into a basin. Take a Is. 6d. bottle of preserved 
ginger, drain off the syrup, and mince the ginger quite finely, 
add it to the rice, and work it well with a spoon for some 
time. Beat up half a gill of cream with the yolks of six and 
the whites of three eggs ; strain this into the mixture, and 
keep on stirring it for some time longer, then pour it into a 
buttered mould, and steam it for one hour and a half ; strain 
the ginger syrup, warm it, add a glass of brandy to it, and 
pour it on the dish on which you turn out the pudding. 



No. 33. DECEMBER. 

Gravy Soup. 

Turbot with Lobster and Dutch Sauce. 

Fillets of Rabbit. 

Larks in Cases. 

Braised Turkey. 

Eoast Sirloin of Beef. 

Brussels Sprouts. Potato Croquettes. 

Plum Pudding. 

Mince Pies. 

Chartreuse of Oranges. 

Stewed Pears. 



GrRAVY Soup. — Take from 41b. to 61b. of shin of beef, cut off 
Pb. of lean, and put what is left into a saucepan, add four 
quarts of cold water and a large pinch of salt ; when boiling, 
skim it well, and put in two carrots, one turnip, three large 
onions, five or six cloves, a few peppercorns, and any trim- 
mings of leeks and celerj' ; leave it to boil four or five hours, 
skim off the fat, strain it through a cloth into a basin, leave 
it to cool ; cut the lean meat very small, pound it, and work 
into it two whole eggs, a little salt, and any trimmings of 
cooked veal or fowl, a few trimmings of uncooked carrot, 
onion, and celery ; pour in the stock, stir it over a quick fire 
until it boils, leave it to boil from ten to fifteen minutes, strain 
through a napkin into a clean stewpan, let it come to the boil, 
and serve. 



78 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Boiled Turbot. — Lay the fish in the kettle with plenty of 
cold water, the juice of two or three lemons, a good bunch of 
parsley, and salt to taste. Place the kettle on the fire, and 
directly the contents approach boiling point draw it aside and 
let it simmer till the fish is quite done. An ordinary-sized fish 
will be done shortly after the water boils. Lift up the fish 
carefully, let the water drain off, and serve garnished with 
quarters of lemon and with parsley. 

Lobster Sauce. — Take a hen lobster, pick out the meat, and 
break it into pieces, not too small ; pound the shell of the 
loljster and the spawn to a paste, with some butter pass 
it through a sieve; make one pint of melted butter, put 
the meat from the lobster into it, add a dust of cayenne, and 
when the sauce boils stir into it the lobster butter that has 
come through the sieve, and half a pint of cream. 

Dutch Sauce. See No. 12. 

Fillets of Rabbit. — Take the fillets of two or three rabbits, 
lard them with strips of bacon, and just before they are 
wanted put them in a tin in the oven with plenty of butter, a 
sprinkling of salt, and a buttered paper over them. Take 
some of the flesh of the rabbits, and pound it to a pulp with a 
few mushrooms in a mortar. Mix loz. of butter with a 
handful of flour, and add enough water to make a thick 
paste, let it come to boiling point, then put it by to cool. 
Take of this paste half the quantity there is of meat, and of 
butter half the quantity there is of paste, mix all very well in 
a mortar, then add the whites of two and the yolks of three 
eggs, with pepper, salt, and spices to taste, work well to- 
gether, pass through a wire sieve, and stir in half a gill of 
cream. Shape this forcemeat into quenelles, and place them 
in a well-buttered saucepan, leaving a clear space on one side, 
put a good pinch of salt in that space, pour in sufficient boiling 
water to cover the quenelles, and leave them to poach for ten 
minutes, then drain them carefully on a cloth. Arrange the 
fillets in a circle on a dish alternately with the quenelles, 
over a puree of tomatoes, and place button mushrooms, 
previously boiled in salted water and lemon juice, in the 
centre. 

Tomato Puree. — Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
and mix it with a tablespoonful of flour, and the contents of a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 79 



large-sized bottle of conserve de tomates ; mix well, add 
pepper and salt to taste, and a small bunch composed of 
garlic, bay leaf, a spiig of thyme, another of marjoram, and 
some parsley. Keep the 2}uree hot until it is wanted, then 
remove the bunch. 

Larks in Cases. — Bone the larks skilfully, put the livers 
on one side, and set the bones and trimmings to boil in some 
good stock, broth, or even water, with carrots, onions, parsley, 
pepper, salt, a few cloves, a bay leaf, and a few pieces of ham 
or bacon. When well reduced strain this gravy and put it by. 
Cut up the larks' liveis, as also some fowls' livers, all in 
small dice ; do the same with half their quantity of bacon. 
Fry a few sliced shallots a light yellow in plenty of butter, 
then put in the liver and oacon with minced parsley, pepper, 
and salt, and a little powdered spices. Toss the whole on the 
fire for a few minutes, then turn it out on a sieve and pass it 
through while hot. Have some paper cases ready oiled, put a 
layer of this farce in each, then a moderate-sized piece in each 
lark, roll up the birds neatly, and place one in each case with 
a thin slice of fat bacon over it. Bake them in the oven not 
longer than ten or fifteen minutes. At the time of serving 
thicken the gravy by mixing a little flour with some butter, 
and then adding the gravy to it. Fill the cases with gravy, 
and strew a little finely minced parsley over each. The 
pieces of bacon may be removed or not at pleasure before 
serving. 

Braised Turkey. — Truss the turkey as for boiling ; stuff it 
with truffle and chestnut stuffing. Line the bottom of a 
braising pan with slices of bacon ; lay the turkey on these, 
and place more slices of bacon on the top of it. Put in two 
carrots and two onions cut in slices, and sweet herl^s, parsley, 
bay leaf, a clove of garlic, and whole pepper, and salt to taste; 
moisten with some stock and a tumblerful of sherry. Lay a 
round of buttered paper on the top, put on the lid, and braise 
with a moderate fire (under and above) for about four hours, 
then serve with the gravy strained and freed from excess 
of fat. 

Truffle and Chestnut Stuffing. — Remove the outer skin 
from a quantity of chestnuts, set them to boil in salted water 
with a handful of coriander seeds and a couple of bay leaves. 



80 rRACTICAL DINNERS. 



When nearly done drain off the water, and remove the inner 
skin of the chestnuts. Mince 111), of fat bacon and a couple 
of shallots, give them a turn on the fire in a saucepan, then 
put in lib. of the chestnuts (boiled and peeled), and fib. of 
truffles, both cut up in moderate-sized pieces; add pepper, 
salt, and spices to taste, a little powdered thyme and mar- 
joram ; give the mixture another turn or two on the fire and 
it is ready. 

EoAST SiELOiN OF Beef. — Cut off most of the flap and trim 
the joint neatly. Have a clear, brisk fire well built up. 
Place the joint close to it for the first half -hour, then move it 
further off. Baste frequently. When nearly done sprinkle 
the joint well over with salt. Put a small quantity of water 
in the dripping pan, then pour off the gravy, free it effectually 
from fat, and pour it ovei the joint in the dish. Time of 
roasting about three hours for a 101b. to 121b. sirloin. Garnish 
with potato croquettes. Serve horseradish sauce in a boat. 

Potato Croquettes. — Take six boiled potatoes, pass them 
through a sieve ; add a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt 
to taste, and some chopped parsley ; work into this mixture 
the yolks of three or four eggs, then fashion it into the shape 
of balls or corks, roll them in bread crumbs, and fry in hot 
lard. 

Brussels Sprouts. See No. 21. 

Horseradish Sauce. — Grate a quantity of horseradish, boil 
it in sufficient water to give it the consistency of sauce, add a 
pinch of salt and two or three tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar, then stir in off the fire a gill of cream beaten up 
with the yolk of an egg. 

Plum Pudding. — Take 6oz. of finely chopped suet, 6oz. of 
stoned raisins, 3oz. of sultanas, 6oz. of picked and washed 
currants, half a pound of peeled and chopped apples, 4oz. of 
moist sugar, 3oz. of grated bread crumbs, 3oz. of flour, half an 
ounce of blanched and two bitter almonds grated, half an 
ounce of spices, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger, 3oz. of 
chopped mixed peel, half a pint of milk, two wine glasses of 
brandy, and six eggs. Beat up the eggs and spices well 
together, mix the milk with them by degrees, then the other 
ingredients, working them to a smooth paste. Dip a cloth 
into boiling water, put it on a sieve, flour it, tie the pudding 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 81 



well up in it, and boil in plenty of water from ten to twelve 
hours. If made the day before, boil ten hours the first day, 
when wanted plunge it into boiling water, and boil for three 
hours more ; pour half a pint of warm brandy in the dish, 
set light to it as it is put on table ; serve also brandy butter 
in a sauce boat. 

Brandy Butter. — Take three-quarters of a pound of fresh 
butter and beat it to a cream, add a quarter of a pound of 
finely sifted sugar, add very slowly a wine glass and a half of 
brandy, and continue beating till well mixed. 

Mince Pies. — Mince, very finely, some beef suet, and of 
this take l|lb. : pick some currants ; stone and chop finely 
some Malaga raisins, and take l|lb. of each. Peel and core a 
quantity of apples, and weigh out l|lb, of these, mince them 
also finely, and mix these four ingredients in a basin, adding 
to them lib. of moist sugar, ^Ib. of mixed, orange, citron, and 
lemon, candied peel, also finely minced. Squeeze the juice of 
a lemon in the mixture, and, lastly, put in half the thin rind 
of it, chopped as finely as possible. Work the mixture with 
a spoon for a little time ; put half a teaspoonful of salt into 
half a tumblerful of brandy, with powdered mixed spice and 
ginger, according to taste ; add this to the mince, work it a 
little more to get it well mixed, and put it by in a covered 
jar. It should remain seven or eight days before being used, 
and it will keep for several weeks. To make the pies prepare 
some paste as follows : Take 21b. of the finest pastry flour 
and the same weight of fresh butter. Work the butter in a 
napkin till it is well freed from water. Place the flour on 
the pastry slab in a heap, make a hole in the middle of it, put 
in it the yolks of four fresh eggs, freed from the speck, two 
pinches of salt, the juice of half a lemon, and the fourth part 
of the butter cut up in very small pieces ; work the paste as 
quickly as possible with the fingers of one hand, adding as 
much moderately-tepid water as will make the paste smooth, 
and of the same consistency as the i emaining l^lb. of butter. 
Beat the latter out into a flat square piece an inch in thick- 
ness ; roll out the paste to four times the size of the piece of 
butter, lay this in the centre, fold the paste over on each 
side, and roll out again to three times its original size ; then 
fold over two sides only of the piece of paste, and roll it out 

G 



82 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



again as before. Repeat this operation twice, cover the paste 
with a woollen cloth, and let it rest for half an hour. The 
operation of rolling out and folding up the paste is called 
" giving a turn." After the paste has rested, two more turns 
are to be given to it, and it will be ready. Butter slightly a 
number of patty pans, take a piece of the paste, roll it out to 
the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and line the pans with 
it. Put a wineglassful of brandy into the mince, stir it well, 
and put a small quantity of it into each pan ; brush the paste 
round with the white of an egg, and put on a cover of paste 
rolled out to about one-third of an inch thick. Press the 
edges well together, brush the top with cold water, strew 
finely-powdered sugar over, and bake about half an hour. 

Chartreuse of Oranges. — Make a very clear orange jelly 
with a pint and a half of water, six oranges, and sugar to taste, 
a wineglassful of sherry, ard an ounce and a half of isinglass. 
Divide two or three oranges into quarters, and with a sharp 
knife carefully remove from each quarter every particle of 
skin of any sort. Have two plain moulds, one about an inch 
and a quarter more in diameter than the other. Pour a little 
jelly at the bottom of the larger mould, and place in it a layer 
of orange quarters prepared as above (if too thick they should 
be split in two lengthwise) ; cover them with more jelly, but 
only put enough to get a smooth surface. Lay this on ice to 
set. When it is quite firm put the small mould inside the 
large one, taking care to place it exactly in the middle, so 
that the vacant space between the two moulds be of the same 
width. In this vacant space dispose prepared orange quarters, 
filling the interstices with jelly, until the whole of the space 
is filled up. Place the mould upon ice, and proceed to whip a 
pint of cream with half an ounce of dissolved isinglass and some 
sweetened orange juice, which must be added to it a very 
little at a time, else the cream will not rise into a froth. 
When the cream is ready and the jelly set, remove the inner 
mould by pouring warm water into it, and fill up the inner 
space of the chartreuse with the cream. Set it on ice for an 
hour, turn out, and serve. 

Stewed Pears. See No. 7. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 83 



No. 34. JANUARY. 

Game Soup. 

Croustades of Oysters. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. 

Roast Pheasant. Endive Salad. 

Fondue. 

Vanilla Cream. 



Game Soup. — Take the remnants of any kind of game not 
high, put them in a saucepan with an onion, a carrot, two or 
three cloves, a small piece of mace, a bay leaf, some parsley, 
whole pepper, and salt to taste. Cover the whole with veal or 
poultry stock, and set the saucepan to boil gently for a couple 
of hours. Strain off the soup and set it to boil again, then 
throw in an ounce of raw beef or liver coarsely chopped, let it 
give one boil, and strain the soup through a napkin. If not 
quite clear, the clarifying process must be repeated. A very 
small quantity of sherry may be put in before clarifying. 

Croustades of Oysters. See No. 9. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. — Stone a quantity of French 
olives, and parboil them ; fry a sliced onion to a golden colour 
in butter, add a little flour, and when that is coloured add as 
much stock (free from fat) as will make sufficient sauce, with 
whole pepper, salt, and very little powdered spice to taste. 
Let the sauce boil, then strain it, skim it, add the olives, and 
let the whole gently simmer till wanted. Cut the fillets 
three-quarters of an inch thick from the underside of a 
sirloin of beef, trim them neatly, sprinkle pepper and salt 
over, and fry them in butter on a sharp fire. Serve with the 
olives and sauce round them. N.B. The fillets may be cut 
from a piece of rump steak, but in that case they should be 
half the thickness, and cooked in a tin in the oven, with 
plenty of butter, and a buttered paper over them. 

Roast Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Endive Salad. See No. 21. 

Fondue. See No. 6. 

Vanilla Cream. — Boil a stick of vanilla in a pint and a 
G 2 



84 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



half of milk, with sugar to taste. Beat up the yolks of eight 
eggs, pour the flavoured milk on them, and keep on stirring 
in a hain marie until the custard thickens. Melt nine sheets 
of the best French gelatine in a little milk, add this to the 
custard. Whisk to a froth half a pint of cream, mix quickly 
with the custard, put into a mould, place it in a cold place or 
on ice to set, and at the time of serving dip the mould in hot 
water, and turn out the cream. 



No. 35. FEBRUARY. 

Brunoise Soup. 

Codfish au Gratin. 

Braised Leg of Mutton. 

Stewed Celery. 

Sir Watkin Wynn's Pudding. 



Brunoise. See No. 20. 

Codfish au Gratin. — Bub a dish slightly with garlic, butter it, 
lay on it some boiled codfish picked out in flakes, and perfectly 
free fi'om bones. Pour on it a small quantity of milk, season 
with pepper and salt, add a sprinkling of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and cover it all over with baked bread crumbs. Put 
the dish in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour. Brown the 
top if necessary with a salamander, and serve. 

Braised Leg of Mutton. — Take a small leg of mutton, 
trim it close of all superfluous fat, saw the shank bone short 
off, make an incision where it joins the other bone, bend it in, 
and tie up the leg with string. Line the bottom of a braising 
pan, just large enough to hold all the ingredients, with slices 
of fat bacon ; place the leg on this, add two onions stuck with 
half a dozen cloves, three carrots cut in pieces, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, whole pepper and salt to taste ; pack all these 
things round the leg, put a couple of slices of bacon on the 
top of all, and set the pan with the lid on, on the fire for about 
fifteen minutes. Be careful it does not catch, then pour in 
enough cold common stock or water just to cover over the 
contents, put a piece of buttered paper on the top, then the 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 85 

lid, and, having placed some hot embers on that, set the whole 
to braise on a gentle fire for about three and a half hours. 
Strain off a small portion of the liquor, free it from fat, 
reduce it on the fire not quite to a glaze, place the leg in the 
dish, pour the reduced liquor over it, and round it a stiff 
puree of dried haricot beans. 

Haricot Bean Puree. — Soak a pint of Haricots de Soissons 
in cold water for twelve hours, throw away that water, and 
put them into a saucepan with three pints of cold water, a 
head of celery, a small onion stuck with three cloves, a bay 
leaf, a sprig of parsley, some whole pepper, and salt to taste. 
Let them boil till the beans are quite tender, then strain off 
the water, and pass them through a hair sieve. Put the puree 
in a saucepan, and work into it, on the fire, an ounce or more 
of butter, moistening if necessary with a little of the liquor in 
which the beans were boiled. 

Stewed Celery. — Trim and cut to the same length a 
number of heads of celery, split them in two lengthwise, tie 
them in bundles with thread, and parboil them for ten minutes 
in salted water. Drain them, and arrange them in a saucepan 
over slices of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of 
onions, pepper and salt to taste, and a blade of mace. Add 
enough stock just to cover the contents, and simmer gently 
till the celery is quite tender. Having removed the string, 
dispose the celery neatly on a dish ; take some of the stock in 
which it has been stewed, remove all fat from it, add a small 
piece of fresh butter, pour it over the celery, and serve. 

Sir Watkin Wynn's Pudding. — 6oz. chopped lemon peel, 
4oz. beef suet chopped fine, 4oz. white bread crumbs, one 
tablespoonful of flour, 3oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. apricot jam, a 
small liqueur glass of maraschino or of cura9oa, one table- 
spoonful of milk, three fresh eggs. Mix all together, pour 
into a buttered shape, and steam three hours. Apricot jam 
sauce to be served under the pudding. 

Apricot Sauce. — Put half a pot of apricot jam into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of water and a glass of sherry; boil, 
strain, and serve. 



86 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 36. FEBRUARY. 

Spinach Soup. 
Salt Fish (Spanish Fashion). 
Boiled Fowls with Onion Sauce. 
Roast Plovers. 
Russian Salad. 
Apple Fritters. 



Spinach Soup. — Pick and wash quite clean a quantity of 
spinach. Put it in a saucepan with salt quant, stiff., and 
when quite done squeeze all the moisture out of it, and pass 
it through a hair sieve. Dilute the pulp thus obtained with 
as much well-flavoured stock as will make it of the right 
consistency ; make it boiling hot, add a dash of pepper, and 
at the time of serving put a pat of fresh butter in the soup 
tureen. 

Salt Fish (Spanish Fashion). — Boil, in plenty of water, a 
piece of salt fish that has been in soak for at least twenty- 
four hours. When sufficiently boiled to allow of it, pick out 
all the flesh in small flakes, and put it by. Slice very finely 
a couple of onions, fry them in salad oil till they begin to 
colour ; add an 8d. bottle of tomato sauce, a dash of pepper, 
and the fish. Let the whole simmer on a very slow fire for 
a couple of hours, shaking the saucepan occasionally. 

Boiled Fowls. See No. 7. 

Golden Plover Roasted. — Pluck, singe, and remove the 
gizzard, but nothing else. Tie a thin slice of bacon over each 
bird ; put them to roast at a brisk fire over slices of toasted 
or fried bread laid in the dripping pan, one for each bird ; 
baste well with butter ; remove the bacon just before serving, 
and sprinkle the birds with salt. When done lay them on 
the toast, serve with plain white sauce in a boat, and garnish 
with cut lemon. 

Plain White Sauce. — Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt to taste ; mix 
well, then add milk, and keep on stirring till the sauce 
acquires the desired consistency. 

Russian Salad. See No. 13. 



PBACTICAL DINNERS. 87 



Apple Fritters. — Peel three large apples, core them with a 
column cutter, and cut them across in slices rather less than 
half an inch thick ; put them in a flat dish with half a tumbler 
of brandy, and strew plenty of powdered loaf sugar over them ; 
let them remain covered for a couple of hours, then take each 
piece separately, dip it in batter so that it is well covered 
with it, and fry a golden colour in plenty of hot lard. Lay 
the fritters in front of the fire, and when all are done pile 
them up on a napkin, shake plenty of powdered loaf sugar 
over them, and serve. 

Frying Batter. — Beat up one tablespoonful of brandy, one 
of olive oil, and a little cold water, with the yolk of one egg ; 
add a pinch of salt, then work in sufficient flour to make, 
with the addition of more water, as much batter as will be 
wanted for the above. It should be of the consistency of 
thick cream. Just before serving whisk the whites of two 
eggs to a froth, and mix them lightly but effectually with 
the batter. 



No. 37. MARCH. 

Croute au Pot. 

Sole a la Colbert. 

Croquettes of Fowl. 

Koast Fillet of Beef. 

Potato Chips. Seakale. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Bakewell Pudding, 



CRofjTE AU Pot. See No. 1. 

Sole a la Colbert. See No. 6. 

Croquettes of Fowl. — Take of the breast of a roast fowl 
two parts, of boiled tongue one part, and of truffles one part. 
Mince all these very finely, and mix them together. Melt a 
piece of butter in a saucepan, stir a little flour into it, then 
put in the above mixture, and moisten with a small quantity 
of stock ; add some finely minced parsley, pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg to taste. Stir it on the fire for a few minutes ; then 
stir in, off the fire, the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Spread out this 
mince (which should be pretty stiff) on a marble slab, and 
when it is nearly cold, fashion it into small portions in the 
shape of balls or of corks. Dip each in a beaten-up egg, and 
then roll it in very fine baked bread crumbs ; repeat this 
operation after the lapse of an hour, and after a similar 
interval fry the croquettes, in hot lard, to a golden colour. 
Serve on a napkin with plenty of fried parsley. 

Roast Fillet or Beef. See No. 5. 

Potato Chips. — Peel a raw potato, then pare it as apples 
are peeled, let the parings be as nearly as possible the same 
thickness, and let them be as long as possible. Dry them 
thoroughly in a cloth, put them in the frying basket, and 
plunge it in boiling hot lard. When the chips are a golden 
colour drain them well in front of the fire, sprinkle fine salt 
over them, and serve round the beef. 

Seakale. See No. 24. 

Scotch Woodcock. — Wash, scrape, and chop very finely 
five or six anchovies, toast a couple of slices of bread, butter 
them while hot, and then spread the anchovies on them; 
make a sauce with a quarter pint of cream and the yolks of 
two eggs, beat well together, and put them into a saucepan 
over the fire ; do not let it boil, but stir the sauce till it 
thickens ; then pour it over the toast, and serve very hot. 

Bakewell Pudding, — Line a tart dish with puff paste, 
place over it a variety of preserves in thin layers, to which 
add some strips of candied lemon ; then fill it three-parts full 
with the following mixture : ilb. of clarified butter, ^Ib. of 
pounded sugar, four yolks and one white of egg, 2oz. of sweet 
and one or two bitter almonds, blanched and pounded. Mix 
up these ingredients well together, put them on the preserve, 
bake in a moderate oven. When cold strew over it some fine 
sugar. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 89 



No. 38. APRIL. 

Spring Soup. 

Salmon with Cucumber. 

Lamb Cutlets and Spinach. 

Koast Chicken. Salad. 

Asparagus. 

Ramakins. 

Gooseberry Tart. 

CofEee Ice Pudding. 



Spring Soup. See No. 2. 

Salmon with Cucumber. See No. 2. 

Lamb Cutlets. — Take a neck of lamb, divide it into cutlets, 
trim them neatly, dip them in liquefied butter, sprinkle them 
with pepper and salt, and broil them in a double gridiron in 
front of a brisk fire; dispose them in a circle on the dish 
round a pyramid of Spinach. — Pick and wash perfectly clean 
two or three pounds of spinach, put it into a saucepan with a 
little water, and let it boil till quite done. Turn it out on 
a hair sieve to drain, throw the water away, and pass the 
spinach through the sieve. Put a good lump of butter into 
a saucepan with a pinch of flour, mix well, add the spinach, 
pepper and salt to taste, and a little milk ; stir well and 
serve. 

Roast Chicken. See No. 26. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Asparagus. See No. 25. 

Ramakins. See No. 4. 

Gooseberry Tart. See No. 3. 

Coffee Ice Pudding. — Pound 2oz. of freshly roasted coffee 
in a mortar, just enough to crush the berries, without reducing 
them to powder. Put them into a pint of milk with 6oz. of 
loaf sugar, let it boil, then leave it to get cold, strain it on 
the yolks of six eggs in a double saucepan, and stir it on the 
fire till the custard thickens. When quite cold work into it 
a gill and a half of cream whipped to a fi'oth. Freeze the 
mixture in the ice pot, then fill a plain ice mould with it, and 
lay it in ice till the time of serving. 



90 PKACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 39. MAY. 

Consomme a la Royale. 

Salmon with Fennel Sauce. 

Epigrams of Lamb and Asparagus. 

Roast Veal. Salad. 

New Potatoes. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Neapolitan Cake. 

Iced Gooseberry Fool. 



Consomme a la Royale. See No. 3. 

Salmon with Fennel Sauce. See No. 13. 

Epigrams of Lamb, See No. 17, and serve with asparagus 
in the centre of the dish. Take a quantity of small asparagus 
(sprue), cut the edible part into pieces three-eighths of an 
inch long, throw them into boiling salted water, and let them 
boil for five or ten minutes, drain and toss them in a 
saucepan with plenty of butter and a sprinkling of pepper. 

Roast Veal. — Take from 41b. to 61b. of the best end of the 
neck of veal, trim it neatly, and joint the cutl<^ts. Put it to 
roast at a very moderate fire, and baste it plentifully every 
ten minutes, first with butter and then with its own gravy. 
It will take one hour and a half to two hours. During the 
last quarter of an hour bring the joint nearer to the fire, and 
sprinkle it plentifully with salt. Serve with the gravy over, 
carefully strained and freed from fat, and with the juice of a 
lemon and a small piece of fresh butter added to it. 

Lettuce Salad. See No. 4. 

New Potatoes. See No. 3. 

Cheese Omelet. See No. 5. 

Neapolitan Cake. — Take of powdered lump sugar the 
weight of twelve eggs in their shells, and take half that 
weight of potato flour ; separate the whites from the yolks of 
the eggs, beat up the latter with the sugar, adding the grated 
rind of one lemon. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix the 
two together, and incorporate with the mixture, quickly and 
effectually, the potato flour, beating it all the time with the 
egg whisk. Pour into a plain mould, buttered. Bake in a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 91 

quick oven until done. When cold cut the cake in horizontal 
slices half an inch thick. Make a strong syrup by boiling 
lib. of sugar with half a pint of water, add to it a little more 
than :flb. chocolate, grated. Stir the mixture on the fire 
until it becomes perfectly smooth. Spread half the slices 
of cake with apricot jam, and half with the above chocolate 
icing. Arrange the slices one over the other, so as to form 
the cake again. Trim the slices neatly, and ice the cake 
completely over with the chocolate icing. This must be 
done quickly, and the icing should be kept hot, for it soon 
sets. Ornament the cake with bonbons or sweetmeats, which 
must be put on before the icing has time to cool. 

Iced Gooseberry Fool. — Pick one quart of quite young 
gooseberries, and put them in a jar with a very little water 
and plenty of sugar. Put the jar in a saucepan of boiling 
water till the fruit be quite tender, beat it through a 
colander, and then add gradually 1 pint of cream, put it on 
ice, and stir it about until it is quite cold without being 
actually frozen. 

No. 40. JUNE. 

Carrot Soup. 

Soles with White Sauce. 

Veal Cutlets and Maccaroni. 

Roast Quails. 

Green Peas. 

Cheese Biscuits. Watercress Butter. 

Breadcrumb Pudding. 

Cream Tartlets. 



Carrot Soup. — Cut out some new carrots in the shape of 
olives, or any fancy shape of that size. Boil the trimmings 
with some good stock, so as to give it a strong flavour of 
carrots. Toss the cut carrots in butter, with a pinch of sugar 
and pepper and salt, moistening with some stock till the}^ are 
cooked and almost glazed. Pour the carrot-flavoured stock 
over, and serve. 

Fillets of Soles with White Sauce. — Take the fillets of 



92 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



two soles, tie them in knots, and boil them in milk with an 
onion, some whole pepper, a blade of mace, and salt to taste, 
till done. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a table- 
spoonful of flour, mix well ; add some of the milk in which 
the tillets were boiled, stir till the sauce thickens, pour over 
the fillets, and serve. 

Veal Cutlets with Maccaroni. — Dip the veal cutlets in 
liquefied butter, then roll them in equal parts of Parmesan 
cheese and breadcrumbs, and pepper and salt to taste. When 
the breadcrumbing is quite set, dip the cutlets in egg, and 
again cover them with Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs. 
Let them stand for a couple of hours, then fry them a light 
colour in butter. Boil a small quantity of maccaroni in the 
usual way, dress it with some butter and plenty of tomato 
sauce into which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, and 
sprinkle it freely with Parmesan cheese. Lay the maccaroni 
in the middle of the dish, the cutlets round, and serve. 

Roast Quails. See No. 4. 

Green Peas. See No. 15. 

Cheese Biscuits. — Have a little pulf, or short paste ready, 
and sprinkle over it a little cayenne, and as much grated 
Parmesan cheese as the dough will take ; double up the 
paste, roll it out rather thin, and cut it with a round paste 
cutter, glaze with egg, arrange on a floured tin, and bake in a 
sharp oven till of a light yellow colour. 

Watercress Butter. See No. 14. 

Breadcrumb Pudding. — Make a quantity of breadcrumbs 
by rubbing the crumb of a stale loaf through a fine wire 
sieve ; put a pint of milk and an ounce of fresh butter into a 
saucepan on the fire, with sugar to taste, and the thin rind of 
a lemon, cut if possible in one piece ; when the milk boils 
strew breadcrumbs into it until a thick porridge is obtained ; 
turn it out into a basin. When cold remove the lemon rind, 
and stir in one by one the yolks of four eggs, mix well, then 
stir in the whites of two eggs beaten up to a stiff froth and a 
small quantity of candied citron peel cut very thin. Have a 
plain mould, buttered and breadcrumbed very carefully all 
over, pour the composition into it, and bake it about half an 
hour. Serve cold, with a compote of any kind of fruit round it. 

Cream Tartlets. — Make a short paste with one white and 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 93 



three yolks of egg, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of butter, a 
pinch of salt, and flour quoAit. suff. ; work it lightly, roll it 
out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line some patty 
pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their shape, 
and bake them in a moderate oven till done. Remove the 
rice, and fill the tartlets with jam, or with stewed fruit, and 
at the top put a heaped spoonful of whipped cream. 

Whipped Cream. — Sweeten half a pint of cream with some 
loaf sugar which has been well rubbed on the outside of a 
lemon, and then pounded. Put it into a perfectly clean cold 
bowl, and add to it the l)eaten-up white of an egg. Take 
a perfectly clean cold whisk, and whip the cream to a stiff 
froth in a very cool place, or over ice. As the froth rises, lay 
it on a hair sieve in a cool place to drain. 



No. 41. JULY. 

Barley Soup. 

Red Mullets in Paper. 

Whitebait. 

Beans and Bacon. 

Roast Ducks and Peas. 

Cream Cheese. Watercress. Olivei Biscuits. 

Salad of Strawberries. 

Cherry Tart. 



Barley Soup (Creme d'Orge). — Boil half-pint of pearl 
barley in a quart of white stock till it is reduced to a pulp, 
pass it through a hair sieve, and add to it as much well- 
flavoured white stock as will give a puree of the consistency 
of cream ; put the soup on the fire, when it boils stir into it, 
off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with a gill of cream ; 
add half a pat of fresh butter, and serve with small dice of 
bread fried in butter. 

Red Mullets in Paper. See No. 3. 

Whitebait. See No. 15. 

Broad Beans and Bacon. — Choose young beans, boil them 
in water with a goodly piece of bacon, and a sprig or two of 
savory. When they are done, put the piece of bacon on a 



94 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



dish, drain the beans, toss them for a minute in a saucepan 
with plenty of minced parsley and some butter, and put them 
round the bacon. 

Roast Ducks. See No. 15. 

Stewed Peas. See No. 29. 

Salad of Strawberries. — Pick the stems from a quantity 
of sound strawberries, put them in a dish with powdered 
sugar to taste, and a wineglassful of pale brandy to every 
punnet of strawberries. 

Cherry Tart. — Take ^Ib. of flour, rub into it 2oz. of butter 
and 2oz. of powdered sugar, and the beaten-up yolk of an egg 
with a pinch of salt, and enough milk or water to make the 
flour into a paste, roll it out thin, about 2in. larger than the 
pie dish it is to cover ; put l^lb. of cherries picked from their 
stalks (stoned, if preferred) into a pie dish with a small 
quantity of moist sugar ; cut a strip from the paste, moisten 
the edge of the dish with the paste brush and lay the strip on 
to it, moisten the strip of paste ; put on the cover, press the 
edges together, trim them neatly, and ornament the border ; 
sprinkle the paste with water, cover it with powdered loaf 
sugar, and bake about half an hour. The top of tart when 
cooked may be brushed over with the white of an egg beaten 
up with a little finely-powdered sugar ; it must then be put 
into the oven for a few minutes just to take colour. 



No. 42. AUGUST. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Sole au gratin. 

Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. 

Quails in Cases. 

Roast Grouse. 

Salad of French Beans. 

Cheese Tartlets. 

Apricots with Rice. 

Pine Apple Cream Ice. 



Green Pea Soup. — Boil one pint of green peas in water 
with salt, a slice of onion, a sprig of paisley, and a few leaves 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 95 



of mint. Wten cooked drain off the water, and pass the peas 
through a hair sieve. Dilute the puree to the proper con- 
sistency with some good stock, perfectly free from fat. At 
the time of serving make it quite hot, put a piece of fresh 
butter the size of a walnut into it, and serve with small dice 
of bread fried in butter ; add a few drops of spinach greening 
if the colour is not bright enough. 

Sole au gratin. See No. 1. 

Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. — Cut the cutlets out 
of a piece of the best end of a neck of mutton. They should 
be less than half an inch thick, and neatly trimmed, with not 
too much fat left on them. Give them a few blows with the 
bat, and grill them on or in front of the fire, which should be 
clear and fierce, so that each cutlet be full of juice when cut. 
Sprinkle with salt, and arrange them in a circle on the dish, 
overlapping each other : pour some tomato sauce in the centre. 

Tomato Sauce. See No. 15. 

Quails in Cases. — Bone some quails, and divide each one 
in two ; put the livers on one side, and set the bones and 
trimmings to boil in some good stock, broth, or even water 
with carrots, onions, parsley, pepper, salt, a few cloves, a 
bay leaf, and a few pieces of ham oi bacon. When well 
reduced, strain this gravy and put it by. Cut up the 
quails' livers, and a piece of calf's liver, in small dice ; do 
the same with half their quantity of bacon. Fry a few 
shallots a bright yellow in plenty of butter, then put in 
the liver and bacon with minced parsley, pepper, and salt, 
and a little powdered spices. Toss the whole on the fire for a 
few minutes, then turn out on a sieve and pass the mixture 
through while hot. Have some paper cases ready oiled, put a 
layer of this " farce " into each, then a moderate-sized piece 
into each half quail ; roll it up neatly, and place it in its case 
with a thin slice of fat bacon over it. Bake them in the 
oven not longer than ten or fifteen minutes. At the time of 
serving thicken the gravy mentioned above by mixing a little 
flour with some butter, and then adding the gravy to it. 
Fill with gravy, and strew a little finely-minced parsley over 
each case. The pieces of bacon may be removed oi not at 
pleasure before serving. 

Roast Grouse. — Pick, draw, singe, and truss the birds, 



96 PKACTICAL DINNERS. 



tying a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast. Roast at a 
brisk fire, baste frequently ^vith butter, and remove the 
bacon a few minutes before the bii d is done ; serve with fried 
breadcrumJ)s and bread sauce and plain gravy in boats. 
Time of roasting fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Feied Breadcrumbs. See No. 9. 

Bread Sauce. See No. 6. 

Gravy. See No. (5. 

Salad of French Beans. See No. 5. 

Cheese Tartlets. See No. 3. 

Apricots with Rice.— Pare some apricots, and cut them in 
halves ; simmer them in a syrup for half an hour, then drain, 
and arrange them when cold on a dish round a shape of rice 
made as follows : Boil three tablespoonfuls of rice, picked and 
washed clean, in a pint of milk, with sugar to taste, and a 
piece of vanilla ; when quite done put it into a basin to get 
cold. Make a custard with a gill of milk and the yolks of 
four eggs ; when cold mix it with the rice. Beat up to a fioth 
a gill of cream, with some sugar and a pinch of isinglass dis- 
solved in a little water ; mix this very lightly with the rice 
and custard; fill a mould with the mixture, and set it on ice. 
When moderately iced turn it out on a dish, and serve. 

Pine Apple Cream Ice. — Take one pine apple and slice it 
small, pound it in a mortar, and over it pour a hot syrup made 
with ilb. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water, boiled and 
skimmed; mix well together, then pass through a tammy. 
When the mixture is cold add to it gradually one pint of 
cream whipped to a froth, then freeze in the ordinary way. 



No. 43. SEPTEMBER. 

Grouse Soup. 

Fillets of Soles with Tarragon Sauce. 

Braised Fillet of Beef with Maccaroni. 

Roast Partridges. 

Aubergines au gratin. 

Potato Pudding. 

St. Honore. 



Grouse Soup. — Chop up the remains of two roast grouse ;: 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 97 



put them into a saucepan with an onion and a carrot cut in 
pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Fill up the saucepan with sufficient common 
stock to covei the contents ; let the whole boil till the meat 
comes ofP easily from the bones ; strain off the liquor ; pick 
all the meat from the bones ; pound it in a mortar, pass it 
through a wire sieve, and add the liquor to it. Amalgamate 
in a saucepan a piece of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, 
add the soup to it, let it come to boiling point, then stir in 
(off the fire) the yolks of a couple of eggs with or without 
lemon juice, according to taste. Serve with very small dice of 
bread fried in butter. 

Fillets of Soles with Tarragon Sauce. — Twist a number 
of fillets of soles each into a knot, and cook them in the oven 
in a buttered tin with a sheet of buttered paper over them : 
dress them in a circle on a dish, and pour over them the 
following sauce : 

Tarragon Sauce. — Melt a large piece of butter in a sauce- 
pan, amalgamate with it a tablespoonful of flour, and stir in 
half a pint of milk ; add pepper and salt and plenty of tarragon 
leaves finely chopped, and stir the sauce a few minutes over 
the fire. 

Braised Fillet of Beef with Maccaroni. — Take 31b. or 
41b. of the undercut of the sirloin, trim off the fat and the 
thin skin next to it, lard it finely with fat bacon, and tie it up 
with string. Put a slice of bacon into a saucepan, on this 
place the fillet^ larded side uppermost, surround it with a 
couple of carrots and an onion cut in pieces, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and some parsley add whole pepper, salt, and 
two or three cloves. Moisten with a little good stock and 
some tomato sauce. Set the saucepan on a moderate fire 
with some embers on the lid. When the meat is done, strain 
off the sauce, free it absolutely from fat. Dress some boiled 
maccaroni with this sauce, some cheese and butter ; garnish 
the beef with it, and brown the larding with a red-hot 
salamander. 

Roast Partridges. See No. 6. 

Aubergines (Egg-Plant Fruit) au Gratin. — Peel and cut 
them in slices lengthwise ; arrange them in layers on a well- 
buttered tin (previously rubbed with garlic). Put between 

H 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



each layer a sprinkling of fine bread crumbs, chopped parsley, 
sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste. Pour over them some 
liquefied butter ; add a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese 
and a few baked bread crumbs. Bake in the oven and brown 
with a salamander. 

Potato Pudding. — Boil four large potatoes, and pass them 
through a sieve ; stir into them powdered loaf sugar to taste, 
and the yolks of two or three eggs ; add a few drops of essence 
of lemon, then the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth ; mix 
quickly and well ; pour into a plain mould buttered and 
breadcrumbed, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
Serve with the following sauce in a boat or on the dish : 

Sweet Sauce. — Beat up the yolks of four eggs with four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; add a tumblerful of sherry 
and a liqueur glass of brandy ; put the mixture in a jug ; 
place this in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and froth 
up the sauce with a chocolate mill. 

St. Honore. — Make a stiff, short paste with flour, butter, 
eggs, and water ; roll it out flat, cut out a round about Gin. 
in diameter, and place it on a baking sheet. Make some 
choux paste as follows : Put about a pint of water into a 
saucepan with a few grains of salt, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, and as much sugar, with plenty of grated lemon 
peel. When the water boils, throw gradually into it sufficient 
flour to form a thick paste ; then take it off the fire, let it 
remain ten minutes, and work into it three or four eggs. 
When cold, put this paste into a biscuit bag, and press out a 
roll of it all round the disc of short paste, uniting the two 
ends neatly together. Then on another baking sheet press 
out a number of balls the size of a walnut ; put the two sheets 
in a moderate oven until the paste is baked to a good colour. 
Then stick with white of egg all these balls quite close together 
on the top of the roll of choux paste. In the case so pre- 
pared place a layer of jam or stewed fruit, and over it some 
whipped cream well heaped up in the centre. The roll and 
border of choux balls may be, or not, glazed with sugar at the 
time of baking. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 99 



No. 44. OCTOBER. 

Game Soup, 

Turbot with Dutch Sauce. 

Oyster Kromeskys. 

Grenadins of Beef. 

Roast Pheasant. 

Watercress Salad. 

Cheese Pudding. 

Apple Souffle. Tipsy Puddings. 



Clear Game Soup. — Cut up in convenient pieces either a 
calf's foot or a cow heel. Pack them in a saucepan with 
the remnants of two or three birds (grouse, partridges, 
woodcocks, &c.), a small piece of ham, an onion, two carrots, 
a piece of celery, some parsley, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
whole pepper, cloves, mace, and salt to taste. Fill up with 
cold water, and let the whole simmer for three hours ; then 
strain the liquor and set it to boil again. When boiling, 
throw in an ounce of raw beef or liver coarsely chopped, a 
liqueur-glassful of sherry, and after a couple of minutes 
strain the liquor through a napkin and serve. 

TuRBOT WITH Dutch Sauce. See No. 33. 

Oyster Kromeskys. — Parboil a dozen oysters in their own 
liquor, remove their beards, strain the liquor, and cut up the 
oysters in small dice ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, 
stir in a pinch of flour, add the oyster liquor, the chopped 
oysters, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated nutmeg, and 
ti pinch or two of chopped parsley ; take the saucepan off the 
fire, and stir in the yolk of one egg with the juice of half a 
lemon. When the mixture is quite cold, divide it into twelve 
portions, cut some slices of parboiled fat bacon as thin as 
possible to the size of l^in. by 2|in. ; wrap each portion tightly 
in one of the slices of bacon. When they are all done, dip 
them in batter, and fry them in plenty of hot lard to a light 
brown colour. Drain well from fat in front of the fire, and 
serve with fried parsley. 

Frying Batter. See No. 36. 

Grenadins of Beef. See No. 32. 
H 2 



100 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



EoAST Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Watercress Salad. — Pick out a quantity of nice sprigs of 
watercress, turn them over in a mixture of three-parts olive 
oil and two-parts tarragon vinegar, with salt q.s. ; then put 
them round the bird or serve separately in a bowl. 

Cheese Pudding. — Melt half an ounce of fresh butter in a 
saucepan, stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; when the two 
are well amalgamated, put in a small quantity of milk and 
about 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture on 
a slow fire till it assumes the appearance of thick cream, but 
be careful not to let it boil ; then add some white pepper ; 
mix thoroughly, and, if required, add a little salt ; keep on 
stirring the mixture at a very moderate heat for about ten 
minutes ; take the saucepan off the fire, and stir the con- 
tents occasionally until quite cold, then stir in the yolks of 
three eggs beaten up with a little milk and strained, and 
finally the whites of five eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Put 
the mixture into a pudding dish, and put it in the oven at 
once. Serve quickly as soon as the pudding has risen, and 
the top is well browned. 

Apple Souffle. — Boil some apples with very little water, 
plenty of lump sugar, and a few cloves or a little cinnamon, 
until reduced to a marmalade, then pass it through a 
hair sieve. Mix a very little potato flour with a gill of 
milk ; stir it over the fire until it thickens ; add the yolks 
of four eggs, and as much of the apple marmalade as vnll pro- 
duce a mixture of the proper consistency; work it well so 
as to get it of a uniform smoothness, then add the whites of 
six eggs whisked to a stiff froth, mix them in quickly with 
the rest, pour into a plain mould, and put it into the oven at 
once. It will take twenty minutes to cook. 

Tipsy Puddings. — Beat up for about ten minutes four eggs, 
freed from the speck, with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar ; then 
gradually incorporate with them 4oz. of the finest pastry 
flour. Warm some dariole moulds and prepare them as 
follows : Put some liquefied fresh butter in the mould, turn 
it round in all directions to get it evenly buttered, pour off 
superfluous butter, and before it has time to cool put some 
glace sugar (loaf sugar very finely sifted) into it, turn it over 
so as to get a coating of sugar all over, then tap the mould 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 101 



gently on the table to get rid of all the sugar that does 
not adhere to the butter. When all the moulds are thus 
prepared fill them evenly with the composition, and bake for 
twenty or twenty-five minutes in a slow oven, turn out the 
puddings, trimming the tops if necessary. Melt three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar in half a tumbler of old 
rum, dispose the puddings on a dish, and with a spoon pour 
the sweetened rum over each in turn. Strew some minced 
pistachio nuts ovei the top of the puddings, i)lacing a pre- 
served cherry on each, and serve cold. 



No. 45. NOVEMBER. 

Oyster Soup. 

John Dory. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. 

Rib Steak with Bordelaise Sauce. 

Spinach. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

Eggs au Gratin. 

Marmalade Pudding. 

Charlotte Russe. 



Oyster Soup. — Take 2oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of 
flour, mix over the fire, and add one quart of fish stock ; when 
it boils add two dozen oysters, blanched in their liquor, each 
cut in two or three pieces ; add also the strained liquor, some 
grated nutmeg, a small quantity of minced parsley, pepper 
and salt to taste. Stir in at the last, off the fire, the yolks of 
two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon, and 
strained. 

Stuffed John Dory. — Pick out all the flesh from a raw 
whiting, pound it with an equal bulk of breadcrumbs soaked 
in milk, a piece of butter, a small onion or a shallot blanched, 
pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste ; mix the whole very 
well, and work it into a paste with the yolks of one or two eggs. 
Lift up the flesh from the backbone of a good-sized John 
Dory, stuff it with the above composition, and tie it up with 
string ; lay it in a buttered tin with a tablespoonful of minced 



102 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 

shallots, a couple of bay leaves, some whole pepper, and salt 
to taste ; pour in enough stock and white wine in equal parts 
to cover the fish, place a sheet of buttered paper over it, and 
put the tin in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour, 
more or less, according to the size of the fish. Remove the 
string, and serve with some of the liquor strained and 
thickened with a little butter and flour. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. See No. 31. 

Rib Steaks, Bordelaise Sauce. — Take a rib of beef, remove 
the bone, and cut the meat into two steaks, trimming them 
neatly. Take a marrow bone, break it, remove the marrow in 
one piece, blanch it for a minute in hot water, and put it intO' 
the oven to keep it warm. Broil the steaks, and serve them 
over some Bordelaise sauce, placing on each the marrow, cut 
in slices and brushed over with a little thin glaze. 

Bordelaise Sauce. — Mince finely two or three shallots, 
blanch them for a few minutes, press out the water from 
them, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of white 
wine, let them lioil twenty minutes, then add two cupfuls of 
Spanish sauce (See No. 25), a dust of pepper, and some 
parsley finely minced ; let the sauce give a boil or two, and 
it is leady. Well -flavoured gravy, thickened with browned 
flour and butter, may be used instead of Spanish sauce. 

Spinach. See No. 38. Serve garnished with 

Fried Sippets. — Cut out of a loaf slices a quarter to three- 
eighths of an inch thick, shape them into triangles or arrow- 
heads all of a size, put some butter in a frying pan, and when 
quite hot lay the sippets in it. Turn them frequently, adding 
more butter as it is wanted, and taking care that they are all 
fried to the same golden colour. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. — Slice an onion finely, and fry 
it in butter till it begins to take colour, add four or five cold 
boiled potatoes cut in slices three-eighths of an inch thick,. 
salt and pepper to taste, and keep shaking the saucepan till 
they are quite hot, and begin to brown. Beef dripping, if 
properly clarified, may be used instead of butter. 

Eggs au gratin. See No. 24 

Marmalade Pudding. — Take ^Ib. of bread crumbs, 6oz. of 
beef suet very finely chopped, mix the two together with 
three tablespoonfuls of marmalade, three tablespoonfuls of 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 103, 



loaf sugar, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, and a 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, then gradually stir into the 
mixture three eggs beaten up ; pour into a plain mould, and 
steam it for three and a half hours. Serve with 

Marmalade Sauce. — Mix half a pot of marmalade with a 
cupful of water, warm it on the fire, add a liqueur glass of 
brandy, and pass the sauce through a tammy. 

Charlotte Russe. — Line a plain mould with Savoy biscuits, 
carefully cut to fit exactly; brush over the inside (very 
lightly) with the white of an egg, set it on ice. Beat up half 
pint of rich cream with loz. of isinglass (previously dissolved 
in sufficient water just to cover it). Sweeten to taste, and 
flavour it with two liqueur glasses of noyau and the juice of 
half a lemon. Pour this into the mould, and cover it with a 
slice of sponge cake cut exactly the size. Ice it, and turn it 
out very carefully. 



No. 46. DECEMBEK. 

Chestnut Soup. 

Fillets of Sole with Bechamel Sauce. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

Potatoes. Brocoli. 

Roast Snipe. 

Celery Salad. 

Roquefort Cheese. 

Fried Plum Pudding. Orange Salad. 



Chestnut Soup. — Remove the outer skin from a number of 
chestnuts (carefully excluding any that may be the least 
tainted), put them to boil in salted water, with a handful of 
coriander seeds and a couple of bay leaves. When thoroughly 
done, remove the inner skin, and pound the chestnuts in a 
mortar, adding a little stock (free from fat) now and then. 
When a smooth paste is obtained, fry an onion in butter to a 
light colour, add the chestnut paste, and sufficient stock to 
get the soup of the desired consistency; add, according to 
taste, salt, and a little sugar, as well as pepper, then pass the 
whole through a hair sieve, and serve. 



104 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Fillets of Soles with Bechamel Sauce. — Take some fillets 
of soles, tie each in a knot, and boil them in milk, with an 
onion, whole pepper, and a blade of mace, till done. Put into one 
pint of milk two or three mushrooms, an onion, and a carrot, 
cut into pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, whole pepper and 
salt to taste, a few cloves, and a little mace ; let the whole 
gently simmer for one hour. Put an ounce of butter into 
a saucepan, and mix it with a tablespoonful of flour ; strain 
the flavoured milk into the saucepan, stir on the fire until it 
thickens, add one gill of cream, pour over the fillets, and serve. 
Roast Saddle of Mutton. See No. 20. 
Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Brocoli with White Sauce. — Pick out all the green leaves 
from a couple of brocoli, and cut off the stalks close. Put 
them head downwards into a saucepan full of boiling salted 
water. When done, pick them out into sprigs, and arrange them 
head downwards in a pudding basin, which must have been 
made quite hot. Press them in gently, then turn them out 
dexterously on a dish, and pour over them the following 
sauce, boiling hot : Melt l|oz. of butter in a saucepan, mix 
with it a tablespoonful of flour, and then add half a pint of 
boiling water ; stir till it thickens ; add salt and white pepper 
to taste ; then take the saucepan off the tire and stir in the yolks 
of two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lemon and strained. 
Roast Snipe. — Trim, but do not draw the birds, wrap each 
in a thin slice of fat bacon, and roast about ten to fifteen 
minutes at a brisk fire. Baste frequently with butter, keeping 
a piece of toast in the dripping pan. Serve on the toast. 

Celery Salad. — Take the inner and tenderest stalks of 
three heads of celery, cut them in strips an inch long and 
about the thickness of young French beans. Rub the salad 
bowl slightly with shallot, or even garlic. Mix the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
one of tarragon vinegar, the least bit of flour of mustard, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Add the celery to this sauce, turn 
it well over, garnish with the hard-boiled whites, and if at 
hand a couple of truffles (fresh, not preserved), either minced 
or sliced. 

Fried Plum Pudding. — Cut some rather thick slices from a 
plum pudding, fry them in butter just long enough to warm 
them, and serve with the following sauce over : 



rKACTICAL DINNERS. 105 

Plum Pudding Sauce. — Beat the yolks of two new-laid 
-eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, two of sherry, 
and two of brandy ; mix all well together, put them into a 
saucepan, and stir over the fire till the mixture thickens. 

Orange Salad. — Peel eight oranges with a sharp knife, so 
as to remove every vestige of skin from them ; core them as 
you would core apples, and lay them whole or cut in slices 
in a deep dish; strew over them plenty of powdered loaf 
sugar; then add a large wineglassful of pale brandy; keep 
the dish covered close till the time of serving. 



No. 47. JANUARY. 

Game Soup. 

Brill with Shrimp Sauce. 

Braised Loin of Mutton. 

Potatoes Soufflees. 

Eoast Hare. Salad. 

Cream Cheese. Oat Cake. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Orange Jelly. 



Game Soup, Thick. — Take the carcases and what is left of 
a couple of roast partridges, chop it all up in small pieces, 
and put it to boil in a saucepan with some onions and carrots, 
pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs, filling up the saucepan with stock. When the whole 
has boiled about three hours, strain off the liquor, and pick 
out all the meat you can. Pound it in a mortar, with about 
half its bulk of bread crumbs soaked in some of the liquor, 
then pass this through a hair sieve, and add the liquor to 
what comes through. Warm this and correct the flavour, if 
necessary, by the addition of pepper, salt, and spices. Strain 
the yolks of two eggs and beat them up with half a glass of 
sherry. Stir this into the soup off the tire, and serve with 
small dice of bread fried in butter. N.B.— This soup may be 
made with remnants of any kind of game. 

Brill. Shrimp Sauce. See No. 20. 



106 PKACTICAL DINNERS. 



Braised Loin or Mutton. — Bone and trim off from a loin 
of mutton all superfluous fat, lard the thin part, and roll it 
round, tying it with string ; lay the joint in a stewpan over 
some slices of fat bacon, add whole pepper and salt to taste, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a couple of sliced carrots, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs ; moisten with stock, and let it braise 
gently for an hour or so. When done strain the gravy, free 
it from fat, pour it over the joint in the dish, remove the 
string, and serve garnished with carrots a la Nivernaise. 

Carrots a la Nivernaise. — Cut the red portion of some 
carrots to the shape of olives, parboil them in salted water, 
drain off the water, toss the carrots in butter, with a pinch of 
salt, add pepper and a little sugar, moistening with a little 
stock till they are cooked. Take them out, reduce the stock 
to a glaze, toss the carrots in this till wanted. 

Potatoes Soufflees. See No. 10. 

Boast Hare. — Truss a hare for roasting ; carefully skin 
the ears and tail, and prop the ears up with a skewer into an 
erect position. Prepare some stuffing as follows : Take the 
crumb of a penny loaf rubbed finely, ilb. of chopped suet, 
a little fresh butter, some parsley, sweet herbs, and lemon 
peel chopped up finely ; season with pepper, salt, and a little 
nutmeg. Remove the gall from the liver, chop the liver very 
finely, and mix it with the other ingredients, adding at the 
same time the yolks of two eggs and a glass of red wine. 
Fill the cavity with the stuffing, and sew or skewer it up; 
then roast the hare before a sharp fire for about an hour, 
according to size, basting it constantly either with butter or 
with butter and milk (one pint of milk to ^Ib. of butter). 
When done, give it a final basting with butter ; sprinkle with 
salt and dredge with flour. Serve on a hot dish with gravy 
under, and with gravy and red currant jelly served separately. 

Endive Salad. — Wash two heads of endive, drain them 
thoroughly, and cut them up. Wash and cut up in small 
dice one head of celery. Work to a smooth paste in a basin 
the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, one teaspoonful of mustard, 
white pepper and salt to taste, and the least bit of cayenne ; 
add by degrees three dessert-spoonfuls of cream, one of 
tarragon vinegar, and one of plain vinegar; stir till quite 
smooth, add the salad, work it well, and garnish with pickled 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 107 



gherkins, hard-boiled eggs, and beetroot. N.B. The salad 
should be mixed just before serving. 

Apple Charlotte. — Cut from a household loaf a number of 
slices of uniform thickness (quarter to three eighths of an 
inch) ; butter a pie dish and all the slices of bread ; line the 
pie dish with the slices of bread; fill it up with layers of 
apples cut up very small, placing between each layer a little 
apricot jam, some grated lemon rind, and plenty of brown 
sugar. Cover the dish up with slices of bread buttered 
as above, and bake it till the bread is well browned. 

Orange Jelly. — Make a syrup with one pint of water and 
lib. of loaf sugar, boil it with the thin rind of four oranges 
and two lemons, skim it carefully and add the juice of eight 
eranges, let it boil about twenty minutes ; skim, and add the 
juice of a lemon, and either one pint of calvesfoot jelly, or 
sixteen sheets of the best French gelatine dissolved in half a 
pint of water, and clarified with whites of eggs. Peel a couple 
of sweet oranges, removing every particle of skin of both 
kinds, core them to get rid of the pips, and cut them in thin 
slices in such a way as to get rid of the pellicle round each 
quarter. Proceed to fill the mould, disposing pieces of oranges 
in it in a symmetrical fashion; when set, turn out the jelly 
in the usual way. 



No. 48. FEBRUARY. 

Cock-a-leekie Soup. 

Fish Croquettes. 

Veal Cutlets with Mushrooms. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

Mashed Potatoes. Seakale. 

Roast Wild Ducks and Bigarade Sauce. 

Gruyere Sandwiches. 

Ginger Pudding. 



Cock-a-leekie. — Cut up an old fowl into joints, and cut as 
many small fillets as possible from the breast ; put these aside. 



108 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and place the rest of the fowl in a saucepan, with a couple of 
carrots, a piece of celery, some parsley, a bay leaf, a sprig of 
thyme, whole pepper and salt to taste ; add enough common 
stock (cold) to cover the fowl, and set it to simmer for two or 
three hours ; meanwhile clean half a dozen leeks, parboil 
them, and throw them into cold water, then squeeze the water 
out of them, and cut them in lengths of l|in. ; put them in a 
saucepan, with the prepared stock carefully strained, and let 
them boil an hour and a half, then add the fillets of fowl, and 
when these are done serve. The leeks must be thoroughly 
done. 

Fish Croquettes. — Take some remnants of boiled turbot, 
pick out the flesh carefully, and mince it not too finely. Melt 
a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a little flour and some hot 
milk. Stir on the fire until the mixture thickens, add pepper 
and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and some chopped parsley, 
lastly the fish ; and as soon as the mixture is quite hot turn 
it out on a dish to get cold. Fashion it into the shape of corks, 
roll them in a beaten-up egg, and then in baked bread crumbs ; 
repeat the process in an hour's time, fry them in hot lard, and 
serve with fried parsley. 

Veal Cutlets with Mushrooms. — Take a small neck of 
veal, divide it into cutlets, with a bone to each ; trim them all 
neatly in the same manner as mutton cutlets. Take a piece 
of rather lean bacon, cut it in slices one-eighth of an inch 
thick, and trim each slice to the size of the cutlets ; sprinkle 
the veal cutlets with pepper and salt, and fry them on both 
sides in butter till done. Fry the bacon separately. Arrange 
the cutlets and bacon alternately in a dish, sprinkle them 
freely with minced parsley and thyme, and in the middle 
place the mushrooms cooked as follows : Take the trimmings 
of the veal, a carrot, a couple of shallots, parsley, and sweet 
herbs, pepper and salt to taste ; put the whole into a saucepan 
with three-quarters of a pint of common stock, and two or 
three sprigs of parsley, and let it boil for an hour, strain the 
liquor, thicken it with loz. of butter kneaded with a little 
flour ; add two dozen preserved button mushrooms previously 
tossed in lemon juice; simmer all well together till the 
mushrooms are cooked. 

Eoast Saddle of Mutton. See Xo. 20. 



PRACTICAL DIXNBRS. 109 



Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Seakale, See No. 24. 

Roast Wild Duck. — Roast at a very brisk fire not longer 
than fifteen, or at most twenty minutes. Baste frequently 
with butter, and sprinkle freely with salt at the time of 
serving. Serve with 

BiGARADE Sauce. — Pare off as thin as possil^le the yellow 
rind of two Seville oranges ; cut it into very thin shreds, and 
boil them in water for five minutes. Melt a piece of butter in 
a saucepan, add to it a tablespoonful of flour, and stir until it 
begins to colour ; add a gill of stock, pepper and salt to taste, 
the juice of the oranges, and a good pinch of sugar; then put 
in the boiled rinds, stir the sauce until it boils, and serve. 

Gruyere Sandwiches. See No. 28. 

Ginger Pudding. See No. 32. 



No. 49. MARCH. 

Clear Soup with Poached Eggs. 

Mashed Salt Fish. 

Stewed Chickens. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef. 

Yorkshire Pudding. Horseradish Sauce. 

Potatoes. Spinach. 

Cheese Toast. 

Mocha Pudding. Rhubarb Tartlets. 



Clear Soup with Poached Eggs. See No. 7. 

Mashed Salt Fish (Brandade de Morue). — Take some 
salted codfish that has been soaked for at least twenty-four 
hours. Boil it in plain water, drain it, carefully pick out all 
the skin and bones, and separate the flesh into small flakes. 
Put the flakes into a basin, and work them with a fork until 
every flake is broken into little pieces. Rub a saucepan 
freely with garlic, put the fish and a small quantity of fine 
salad oil into it, stir well with a fork. Place the saucepan on 
a very slow fire, and never cease stirring the contents ; pour 



110 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



into it salad oil and milk alternately, in the smallest possible 
quantities, but continuously, until the mixture assumes the 
appearance of a thick creamy paste. Season with white 
pepper, add some lemon juice, and never leave off stirring, 
for it is upon the thoroughness of this operation that the 
success of the dish depends. Serve piled on a dish, with 
bread sippets fried in butter. 

Ste^-ed Chickens (Poulets Sautes). — Slice a couple of 
onions and fry them in oil or butter with a fowl cut up as for 
fricassee. When the pieces of fowl have taken colour, 
moisten with three or four tablespoonfuls of French tomato 
sauce, and as much stock free from fat as may be necessary 
to make enough gravy ; add half a dozen button mushrooms 
cut in half, some minced parsley, pepper, salt, and powdered 
spices to taste, and let the whole simmer till done. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef. See No. 33. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Make a thin batter, as for frying, 
with a pint of milk and some flour ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a little nutmeg grated fine. The batter should be 
perfectly smooth. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and the 
whites of two with one or two teaspoonfuls of brandy, and 
strain them into the batter. Beat it well with a fork for 
some minutes, then pour the mixture, to the thickness of an 
inch, into a tin buttered freely, and put it into the oven. 
When the pudding is set lay it, in the tin, slanting in front of 
the fire under the beef which is roasting, and when the top is 
well browned take the pudding out of the tin, and expose the 
underside of it to the action of the fire. When done cut it up 
in diamond-shaped pieces, and garnish the joint with them. 

Horse Radish Sauce. See No. 33. 

Potatoes. See No. 13. 

Spinach. See No. 38. Serve garnished with slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, and fried sippets of bread. See No. 45. 

Cheese Toast. — Grate some rich cheese, add pepper to 
taste, a beaten egg, and sufficient milk to make it of the 
consistency of thick cream. Warm the mixture on the fire, 
and when quite hot pour it over some slices of hot buttered 
toast ; serve immediately. 

MocHA Pudding. — Beat up the yolks of four eggs with ^Ib. 
of powdered loaf sugar, add gradually 2oz. of flour and 2oz. 



PKACTICAL DINNEES. Ill 



of potato flour ; lastly, the whites of four eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth. When the whole is well mixed, put it in a 
buttered plain mould and bake. Turn out the cake when 
done, and when it is quite cold cover it evenly all over with 
the following icing, ornamenting it with piping of the icing 
pushed through a paper cone. This last operation must be 
done with care lest the heat of the hand warm the icing. 
When the cake is finished it should be put in a cold place, or 
on ice till the time of serving. The Icing. — Take half a 
pound of fresh butter and a quarter of a pound of powdered 
loaf sugar, and beat them to a cream in a l)owl, adding drop 
by drop, during the process, half a teacupful of the strongest 
coffee that can be made. 

Ehubarb Tartlets. — Make a short paste with one white 
and three yolks of egg, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff. ; work it lightly, 
roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line 
some patty-pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep 
their shape, and bake them in a moderate oven till done. 
Kemove the rice, and fill the tartlets with rhubarb stewed 
with plenty of sugar and a dash of lemon juice, and at the 
top put a heaped spoonful of whipped cream. 

Whipped Cream. See No. 40. 



No. 50. MARCH. 

Consomme of Soles. 

Fried Whiting. 

Fillets of Mackerel with Italian Sauce. 

Turbot. Lobster Sauce. 

New Carrots a la Creme. 

Ravioli aux Tomates. 

Apples with Rice. 

Baba au Rhum. 



Consomme of Soles. — Remove the fillets from a pair of 
soles, cut them out with a cutter in pieces the size of a penny. 



112 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Put the bones and all the trimmings of the soles in a 
saucepan with one quart of cold Avater, a large handful of 
parsley, a piece of celer}-, one onion, two or three cloves, a 
blade of mace, and pepper and salt to taste. Let this boil 
slowly from three to four hours, carefully skim and strain 
the liquor ; then put it on the fire again, and when it boils 
put in the cut pieces of soles. When they are cooked take 
them out, put them in the soup tureen with a little chopped 
parsley, and, having strained the liquor once more, pour it 
over and serve. 

Fried Whiting. — Flour the fish, and, having shaken the 
flour from them, brush them carefully all over with egg 
beaten up with pepper and salt ; then bread crumb with fine 
bread crumbs, and fry, in plenty of lard, to a light colour ; 
sprinkle with fine salt ; serve with fried parsley and cut 
lemon. 

Fillets of Mackerel; Italian Sauce. — Split a couple of 
mackerel, remove the bone, cut off the head and tail, and 
trim the four halves into a dozen fillets ; remove the skin 
from each ; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and set them 
to cook with plenty of butter in a saute pan, or in a tin in the 
oven. Put all the bones and trimmings of the fish to boil for 
an hour in a saucepan, with an onion, a carrot, some parsley, 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and cloves to taste, and a little 
water ; then strain it. Fry in oil three or four shallots 
finely minced, and as many mushrooms, until they are a 
light brown ; then add three tablespoonfuls of wine vinegar, 
mix well, and let it reduce by one-third. Add the above 
liquor and a little chopped parslej', and dish up the fillets with 
this sauce. 

TuRBOT AND LoBSTER Sauce. See No. 33. 

New Carrots. — Trim a quantity of the smallest new 
carrots that can be obtained, and boil them in salted water. 
When done drain off the water. Melt loz. of butter in a 
saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoonful of flour, pepper, salt, 
grated nutmeg, a pinch of powdered sugar, and a small 
quantity of cream ; put in the carrots, simmer gently a few 
minutes, and serve. 

Ravioli aux Tomates. — Make a firm paste with flour, eggs, 
and a little water. Roll it out in sheets as thin as possible ; 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 113 

cut them out in rounds about 3in. diameter, put on each a 
morsel of the stuffing described below; fold them over and 
turn up the edges, thus forming tiny rissoles. Let them dry 
for a couple of hours, then put them carefully in boiling 
salted water, to boil for twenty minutes. Drain them and 
dress them with tomato sauce and Parmesan cheese. The 
stuffing : Boil some spinach, pass it through a sieve and 
squeeze out effectually all moisture from it ; mix with it half 
its bulk of fresh curd, or the same quantity of bread crumbs 
soaked in cream, season with grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, 
and grated Parmesan cheese. 

Baba au Rhum. — Take lib. of finely sifted flour, 4oz. of 
raisins stoned, 4oz. of currants, 8 eggs, 4oz. of pounded 
sugar, 4oz. of fresh butter, a liqueur glass of brandy, and 
loz. of German yeast. Dissolve the yeast in half a pint 
of tepid milk, strain, and mix with it a large handful of the 
flour, working it lightly with the fingers of one hand to form 
a light soft dough. Put this, which is called the " sponge," 
into a deep basin, cover it with a cloth, and leave it in a 
warm place to rise — this will take one and a half to two 
hours. Just before the sponge is ready place the remainder 
of the flour on a pastry slab in a heap, make a hollow in the 
centre, break the eggs into it, add a good pinch of salt, the 
butter just warmed, the sugar, and the brandy ; work all 
lightly together with the fingers of both hands, beating the 
mixture so as to beat the air into it ; then work in the sponge 
in the same way, and lastly the raisins and currants. Place 
the paste in a large mould, well buttered, and put it in a 
warm place to rise. The mould should be sufficiently high to 
allow the baba rising. When it has well risen bake it in a 
moderate oven for about a couple of hours. Serve hot with 
the following sauce in a boat : Boil a pot of any kind of jam 
wnth half a pint of water and a few lumps of sugar ; strain, 
and add one gill of rum or more. 

Apples with Rice. — Put half a pound of Patna rice into 
a saucepan with a quart of water. Leave it on the fire till 
the water boils, strain off the water, add one pint of milk, 
white sugar to taste, and the thin rind of a lemon. When 
the rice is quite done, and has absorbed all the milk, remove 
the lemon rind, and work into it the yolks of three or four 

I 



114 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



eggs. Peel and core half a dozen apples, simmer them, till 
quite done, in a strong syrup of sugar and water, with the 
thin rind of a lemon and two or three cloves. Take part of 
the syrup and reduce it almost to caramel. Arrange the 
apples on a dish with the rice in a border round them, pour 
the reduced syrup over the apples, and garnish them with 
strips of angelica and candied cherries, then serve. 



No. 51. APRIL. 

Barley Soup. 

Croustades of Oysters. 

Red Mullets in Papers. 

Green Artichokes. 

Poached Eggs and Spinach. 

Turbot with Wine Sauce. 

Asparagus. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Empress Rice. Salad of Oranges. 



Barley Soup. — Cut up in small pieces carrots, turnips, 
onions, leeks, and celery in equal quantities ; toss them in plenty 
of butter for half an hour; add two heads of lettuce finely 
shredded, parsley, chervil, and a sprig of marjoram; put in 
two quarts of boiling water, pepper, salt, a few cloves, and a 
pinch of sugar ; let the whole simmer for a couple of hours, 
then strain the liquor through a cloth. Boil one pint of 
pearl barley, in one quart of this stock, till it is reduced to a 
pulp, pass it through a hair sieve, and add as much more 
stock as will be required to make the puree of the consistency 
of cream ; put the soup on the fire, when it boils stii into it, 
off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with a gill of cream ; 
add half a pat of fresh butter, and serve with small dice of 
bread fried in butter. 

Croustades of Oysters. See No. 9, 

Red Mullets in Papers. See No. 30. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 115 



Green Artichokes. See No. 27. 

Poached Eggs and Spinach. — Fill a shallow saute-pan with 
water and salt quantum stiff. ; add a little vinegar, a few 
peppercorns, and some leaves of parsley. When the water is 
on the point of boiling (it should never be allowed to boil), 
break two or more eggs into it (according to the size of the 
pan), and put on the cover. When done, take them out care- 
fully, brush them clean on both sides with a paste brush, and 
cut each egg with a round fluted paste cutter, so as to get 
them of a uniform shape. ' Serve on a puree made as follows : 
Pick and wash perfectly clean 21b. or 31b. of spinach, put it 
into a saucepan with a little water, and let it boil till quite 
done, turn it out on a • hair sieve to drain, squeeze the water 
out, and pass the spinach through the sieve. Put a good 
lump of butter into a saucepan, fry it a light brown, add a 
pinch of flour, mix well, put in the spinach, pepper and salt 
to taste, and a little milk, stir well, dispose the spinach on a 
dish, laying the poached eggs on the top of it, and a border 
of fried sippets round it. 

TuRBOT WITH Wine Sauce. — Lay the turbot on a shallow 
tin or pan plentifully buttered, with slices of onion, some 
parsley, a few mushrooms, pepper, salt, a couple of bay leaves, 
and a few cloves, and enough white wine and water to come 
up to, but not over, the fish; put a piece of buttered paper 
over the fish, and place the tin in the oven to bake for about 
an hour and a half, basting the fish frequently with the liquor. 
When done strain some of the liquor, thicken it with some 
browned butter and flour, add some grated nutmeg, and stir 
in, oflt the fire, the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the 
juice of a lemon, slip the fish on a dish, pour the sauce over 
and serve. 

Asparagus. See No. 25. 

Cheese Omelet. See No. 5. 

Empress Rice. See No. 5. 

Salad of Oranges. See No. 46. 



I 2 



116 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 52. MAT. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Fillets of Soles a la Venitienne. 

Whitebait. 

Italian Croquettes. Lamb Cutlets. 

Roast Chickens. Salad. New Potatoes. 

Cheese Souffle. 

St. Honore of Gooseberries. 

Diplomatic Pudding. 



Clear Soup with Asparagus. — Cut up to the size of peas 
the head or tender part of two dozen of small asparagus, 
called sprue. Boil them in salted water, drain them well, and 
pour over them as much of the following stock as may be 
necessary : Cut into small pieces the remains of a couple of 
roast fowls, bones and all, put them into a saucepan with a 
pound of knuckle of veal and a piece of lean ham, cover with 
water, add salt to taste, and put the saucepan on the fire, 
skimming all the scum that rises ; just before it begins to boil 
put in three or four carrots, two or three onions, a head of 
celery, some thyme, parsley, marjoram, a bay leaf, a few 
cloves, and whole pepper to taste ; then place the saucepan at 
such a distance from the fire as will let the contents simmer, 
but not boil. In about four hours strain the liquor through 
a napkin, effectually free it from fat, and clarify it with raw 
meat, or with the white of an egg. 

Fillets of Soles a la Yenitienne. — Take the fillets of 
a pair of soles, tie them in knots, put them in a tin with 
plenty of butter, pepper, and salt, and a buttered paper over. 
Put the tin in the oven just long enough to cook them, 
arrange them on a dish, and pour the following sauce over 
them. Boil for an hour the trimmings of the soles with a 
couple of mushrooms, some white stock, an onion, some 
parsley, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Strain 
the liquor into a saucepan, into which a piece of butter and 
some flour have been mixed ; add lemon juice to taste, and 
enough parsley juice and finely minced parsley to give the 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 117 



sauce a good green colour. Let the sauce come to the boil, 
stirring it well all the time, and it is ready. 
Whitebait. See No. 15. 

Italian Croquettes.— Pound in a mortar l^lb. of lean beef, 
add 6oz. of breadcrumbs, wetted and squeezed dry in a cloth, 
add 3oz. of butter ; mix well. Then take |oz. each of citron 
peel finely minced, of chocolate grated, of pine kernels, of 
sugsir, and loz. of Parmesan cheese grated, add pepper, salt, 
and the least bit of powdered cinnamon or nutmeg, and mix 
all these ingredients with the meat in the mortar, then 
gradually mix in three or more eggs, so as to form a compact 
paste. Spread a little flour on the table, put the paste on it, 
and form it into balls the size of a Tangerine orange. Have 
a saucepan with plenty of lard boiling hot, and fry the balls 
in this a couple of minutes, then lay them all in a saute- 
pan, pour over them some well-flavoured tomato sauce, and 
let them simmer gently about half an hour. 

Lamb Cutlet, with Carrots. — Trim the cutlets neatly, egg 
and breadcrumb them, and fry them in lard, a light brown 
colour ; drain and arrange them in a circle on a dish, placing 
in the centre some new carrots, prepared as follows : 
New Carrots. See No. 3. 
Roast Chicken. See No. 26. 
Salad. See No. 19. 
New Potatoes. See No. 13. 

Cheese Souffle. — Melt half an ounce of fresh butter in a 
saucepan, stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; when the two 
are well amalgamated put in a small quantity of milk and 
about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mix- 
ture on a slow fire till it assumes the appearance of thick 
cream, but be careful not to let it boil ; then add some white 
pepper ; mix thoroughly, and, if required, add a little salt ; 
keep on stirring the mixture at a very moderate heat for 
about ten minutes ; take the saucepan off the fire ; and stir 
the contents occasionally until quite cold ; then stir into them 
the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little milk and 
strained, and finally the whites of five eggs whisked into a 
stiff froth. Put the mixture into a souffle dish, and put it 
into the oven at once. Serve quickly as soon as it has risen 
and the top is well browned. 



118 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



St. Honore of Gooseberries. See No. 43. Place a ayer 
of stewed gooseberries in the case, and over it some whipped 
cream well heaped up in the centre. The roll and border of 
choux paste may, or not, be glazed with sugar at the time 
of baking. 

Diplomatic Pudding. — Decorate a plain mould with a lining 
with currants and pistachio nuts, and fill the outer part with 
jelly ; when the jelly is set remove the lining by putting a 
little warm water in it ; make a custard with a pint of milk 
and foui yolks of eggs, flavour the milk with vanilla, add ^oz. 
of isinglass, stir it into the custard when hot ; break up one 
or two sponge cakes and macaroons, cut up a few dried fruits, 
put a layer of each until the mould is full, pour in the custard,^ 
leave it in a cool place until wanted, then dip the mould into 
tepid water, turn it out on a dish and seive. 



No. 53. JUNE. 

Nouilles Soup. 

Flounder "Water Souchet. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Yeal Cutlets with Maccaroni. 

Beefsteak with Bearnaise Sauce. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Cheese Fritters. 

Chocolate Cream. 



Nouilles Soup (Consomme aux Nouilles). — Make a paste 
with the yolks of four eggs, the white of one, a pinch of salt, 
the least drop of water, and as much of the finest flour as will 
give a very stiff paste. When worked quite smooth roll it out 
as thinly as possible without breaking it ; then cut out each 
sheet of paste into strips or lozenges, and spread them out to 
dry on a cloth. In two or three hours' time throw the nouilles 
into some fast-boiling, well-flavoured clear stock, and serve as 
soon as sufficiently done, grated Parmesan cheese being handed 
round with the soup. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 119 



Flounder Water Souchet. — Take a number of small 
flounders, trim off heads and tails, and cut the fish into 
convenient pieces. Put all the trimmings into a saucepan, 
with some whole pepper, half a dozen roots of parsley cut up 
small, a handful of parsley leaves, a blade of mace, and salt 
to taste ; cover with cold water, and let the whole boil for a 
couple of hours. Strain the liquor, put in it the pieces of 
fish, with a few parsley roots finely shredded; let it boil 
ten minutes ; then add some parsley leaves, washed and 
picked ; boil five minutes longer. Take up the fish carefully, 
strain out the parsley leaves and roots, lay them on the fish in 
the dish, add enough liquor just to cover the fish; garnish 
with lemon cut in quarters, and serve with brown bread and 
butter. 

Lobster Croquettes. — Mince the flesh of a lobster to the 
size of small dice, season with pepper, salt, spices, and as 
much cayenne as will rest on the point of a trussing needle. 
Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, mix with it a table- 
spoonful of flour, then the lobster, and some chopped parsley ; 
moisten with a little stock until the mixture looks like minced 
veal ; then stir into it (off the fire) a couple of yolks of eggs, 
and put it by to get cold. When nearly so shape it into the 
form of corks, egg them, and roll them in baked breadcrumbs. 
After the lapse of an hour egg and breadcrumb them again, 
taking care to preserve the shape. After a little time fry 
them a light colour in hot lard. 

Yeal Cutlets. See No. 40. 

Beefsteak ; Bearnaise Sauce. — Broil a piece of rumpsteak 
in the usual manner, and serve with a lump of the following 
sauce on it : Put three or four shallots and a little garlic, 
with some allspice roughly pounded, and a little mace, into a 
saucepan with a tumblerful of water, and half that quantity 
of tarragon vinegar ; let the whole boil till reduced to a 
tumblerful ; strain the liquor, and let it get cold. Strain the 
yolks of three or four eggs, mix gradually with them sufii- 
cient of the above liquor to make it of the right consistency, 
with salt to taste and 2oz. of fresh butter. Stir the mixture 
over a slow fire until it thickens ; then add a small quantity 
of tarragon finely minced, and it is ready. 

Asparagus Salad. — Scrape the end of each head with the 



120 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



back of a knife, and tie them in small bundles of a dozen 
heads each ; cut off all the part of the asparagus which 
cannot be eaten, and jDut them in a panful of fast-boiling 
water, with plenty of salt, and in about ten minutes they will 
be done. Drain them and leave them to get cold ; then dis- 
pose them on a dish previously rubbed with a little shallot, 
and pour over them the following sauce : Strain the yolks of 
two eggs into a basin, mix with them a teaspoonful of salt, 
and then, without ceasing to stir, pour in, drop by drop, four 
tablespoonfuls of oil and one of French white vinegar, adding 
the vinegar at intervals during the process of pouring the 
oil. Lastly, stir in a little pepper ; garnish the dish with 
slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Cheese Fritters. See No. 15. 

Chocolate Cream (Bavaroise), — Mix the yolks of six eggs 
with 2oz. of pounded loaf sugar and 2oz. of grated chocolate, 
add one pint of milk ; set the mixture on the fire in a 
double saucepan, the outer one filled with hot water, and 
keep stirring till the cream thickens ; dissolve in a little milk 
four sheets of the best French gelatine, add this to the cream 
and strain it into a basin ; put this on ice, stirring till the 
mixture begins to set, then add one pint of well-whipped 
cream. Put a mould in the ice, pour in the cream, cover it 
with ice, and, when quite set, turn it out and serve. 



No. 54. JULY. 

Rice and Sorrel Soup. 

Fried Gudgeon. Stuffed Red Mullet. 

Mutton Cutlets and Peas. 

Roast Chicken, Salad. 

Tomatoes au Gratin. 

Gorgonzola Cheese. 

Strawberry Tartlets. Caramel Custards. 



Rice and Sorrel Soup. — Boil some rice in water: when 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 121 



iialf done drain ofE all the water, and finish cooking the rice 
in some clear stock ; then add according to taste more or less 
sorrel finely shredded, boiled in salted water until done, and 
strained. 

Fried Gudgeon. — Take a quantity of newly caught gud- 
geon, not too large, wipe them dry, cut off their heads and 
fins, flour them effectually, shake off superfluous flour, and 
fry them in plenty of hot lard ; serve with lemon cut in 
quarters. 

Stuffed Eed Mullet. — Remove the gills of the mullets ; 
make an incision from the throat half-way down the belly of 
the fish, and do not remove any of the inside, but the small 
gut which will come away in pulling out the gills. Take 
some fine bread crumbs, add to them a fourth of their bulk of 
shallots and the same quantity of mushrooms, both minced as 
finely as possible and lightly fried in butter ; then add some 
parsley and sweet herbs finely chopped ; season with pepper 
and salt, and make the mixture into a paste by working a 
pat of butter or more into it and the yolk of one egg ; stuff 
the mullets with this, pack them up securely in buttered 
paper, and grill them on a cleai fire or bake them in a 
buttered tin. 

Mutton Cutlets and Peas. — Lay the cutlets, ready 
trimmed, into a saucepan, with some butter and pepper 
and salt. Cook them on a brisk fire, taking care to turn 
them as soon as one side is done, and not to overcook them. 
Boil some peas in plenty of water, and as fast as possible, 
with salt to taste and a small bunch of mint. Do not cover 
the saucepan. When done, remove the mint, strain off the 
water, and give the peas one toss in a saucepan, with a piece 
of butter, a sprinkling of pepper, and a pinch of sugar. 
Serve with the cutlets round them. 

Roast Chicken. See No. 26. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Tomatoes au Gratin. — Dip the tomatoes in hot water, and 
peel them ; cut them in half, and remove the pips. Rub a 
baking tin with garlic, butter it, lay the tomatoes in it side by 
side, and fill each half with the following composition : Two 
parts bread crumbs, one part mushrooms finely minced, a 
little parsley chopped fine ; pepper and salt to taste. Put a 



122 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



small piece of butter on each half tomato, bake for ten or 
fifteen minutes, and serve. 

Strawberry Tartlets. — Make some short paste with 2oz. 
of sugar, 2oz. of butter, the yolks of four eggs, a little water, 
a pinch of salt, and flour quant, suff. ; work it lightly, and roll 
it out to the thickness of one-eighth of an inch. Line some 
patty -pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their 
shape, and bake them in a moderate oven till done. Remove 
the stalks from some strawberries, add some syrup made with 
sugar and a little brandy or sherry. Empty the tartlets of 
the rice, fill each with the strawberries. Put them in the 
oven to get warm, and serve. 

Caramel Custards. — Put a handful of loaf sugar in a 
saucepan, with a little water, and set it on the fire until it 
becomes a dark brown caramel. Then add more water 
(boiling) to produce a dark liquor like strong coffee ; beat up 
the yolks of six eggs with a little milk, strain, add one pint of 
milk, sugar to taste, and as much caramel liquor (cold) as 
will give the mixture the desired colour. Put the mixture 
in a bain-marie, and stir it on the fire as an ordinary 
custard until it thickens; pour into custard glasses and 
serve. 



No. 55. AUGUST. 

Rice and Pea Soup. 

Sole with Ravigote Sauce. 

Veal and Tomato Sauce. 

Beefsteak a la Parisienne. 

Vegetable Marrow stuffed. 

Greengage Tart. 



Rice and Pea Soup. — Pick and wash in tepid water a 
couple of ounces of rice. Put it to cook in a pint of white 
stock ; when thoroughly done, add another pint of stock or 
more, with a handful of young peas boiled in it. * Stii into 
the soup, off the fire, half a gill of cream, with the yolk of an 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 123 



egg strained and beaten up with it. Add white pepper and 
salt to taste if required. 

Sole with Kavigote Sauce. — Lay a sole in a well-buttered 
tin, add pepper and salt, put a piece of buttered paper over it, 
cook in the oven until done, drain and serve with the follow- 
ing sauce over : 

Ravigote Sauce. — Take equal parts of parsley, chervil, 
garden cress, and tarragon ; mince them very finely. Rub a 
saucepan with'shallot, melt a piece of butter in it, add a little 
flour, mix thoroughly, than add stock quant, stiff.,' pepper, 
salt, a glass of white wine, and the herbs. Let the sauce 
come to the boil, then throw in a small pat of butter, a 
squeeze of lemon, and serve. 

Yeal with Tomato Sauce. — Take a piece of breast of 
veal, cut it in pieces an inch square, toss them in a saucepan 
with some olive oil till they begin to take colour; add a 
shallot finely minced, some French tomato sauce, pepper and 
salt to taste, and some minced parsley ; let the whole simmer 
gently by the side of the fire, shaking the pan occasionally, 
for about half an hour. 

Beefsteak a la Parisienne. — Take a piece of rumpsteak 
about three-quarters of an inch thick. Trim it neatly, and 
beat it with the cutlet bat, sprinkle it with pepper, dip it in 
oil, and broil it over a clear fire. Turn it after it has been on, 
the fire a minute or two, and keep turning it until done ; 
eight or ten minutes will do it. Sprinkle with salt, and 
serve with a small quantity of finely minced parsley and a piece 
of butter mixed together, and placed over or under the steak. 
Garnish with fried potatoes. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. — Pound to a paste in a 
mortar, slightly rubbed with gailic, equal parts of veal and 
of ham; then pass them through a wire sieve, and return 
them to the mortar. Work into the paste thus obtained a 
fourth of its bulk of butter, and about the same quantity of 
bread crumbs, with the yolks of one or more eggs, according 
to quantity. Add some minced parsley, and, according to 
taste, pepper, salt, spices, and powdered sweet herbs. Cut 
in half, lengthwise, a couple of' average-sized vegetable 
marrows ; take out the inside, fill each half with the stuffing, 
and wrap it up in a piece of thin paper well buttered and tied 



12-i PRACTICAL DINNERS. 

with string ; lay them all close together in a buttered tin, 
cover this up with a plate or another tin, and put it into the 
oven. When you judge the marrows are quite done, take 
them carefully out of the papers, and lay them on a dish, 
and serve with a small quantity of well-flavoured clear gravy 
or some tomato sauce poured over them. 
Greengage Tart. See No. 18. 



No. 56. SEPTEMBER. 

Poor Man's Soup. 

Fried Eels. 

Stewed Beef a la Napolitaine. 

Eoast Partridges. 

French Beans. 

Ramakins. 

Pineapple Toast. 



Poor Man's Soup. — Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 
three large onions, shred fine, and fry them a pale brown 
colour, add half a tablespoonful of flour, stir for a few minutes, 
but do not allow the mixture to -darken ; then add one quart 
of common stock previously flavoured with carrots, turnips, 
celery, leeks, and parsley boiled in it, stir until the soup boils, 
and season it to taste with pepper and salt. Peel one or two 
potatoes, cut them into small dice, and put them to boil with 
the soup. Cut some crust of bread in long pieces the size, and 
half the length of French beans, dry them in the oven, and at 
the time of serving throw them into the soup, then stir into 
it off the fire the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little 
milk, and strained. 

Fried Eels. — Wash some eels, and cut them up in pieces 
three or four inches long. Score the thicker pieces across, dry 
them, flour them all well, and fry in hot lard ; or they may be 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 125 



dipped in beaten-up egg and bread-crumbed. Garnish with 
quarters of lemon and fried parsley. 

Stewed Beef a la Napolitaine. — Take a piece of fresh silver- 
side, make two or three holes in it, and insert in each a piece 
of bacon rolled in powdered sweet herbs and pepper. Tie up 
the meat with string carefully. Take a piece of the fat of 
bacon, mince it with a meat chopper, adding to it a clove of 
garlic, an onion, some parsley, thyme, and marjoram. AVTien 
the whole is finely minced and well amalgamated, put it into 
a saucepan with the meat, and keep turning the latter until 
it is browned on all sides, then moisten with plenty of French 
tomato sauce diluted with a little stock, add salt to taste, and 
let the meat stew slowly till done. Remove the string and 
serve with boiled maccaroni, dressed with the sauce, round 
the meat. 

Roast Partridges. See No. 6. 

French Beans : Sauce Blanche. — String the beans, but do 
not cut them. Boil them in plenty of water, salted to taste ; 
melt a large piece of butter in a saucepan, add a pinch of 
flour, stir well, then add a little water ; put in the beans, and 
stir in, off the fire, the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up with 
the juice of a lemon, and strained. 

Ramakins. See No. 4. 

Pineapple Toast. — Take a small tin of preserved pineapple 
and a stale sponge cake ; cut the sponge cake in slices half an 
inch thick, and trim them and the pineapple to the same 
shape. Fry lightly the slices of cake on both sides in butter. 
Arrange on a dish, in a circle alternately, a slice of cake and 
one of pineapple, take as much syrup out of the tin as may 
be necessary, add to it a glass of sherry or liqueur glass of 
brandy ; pour this over the dish, and serve cold. 



126 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 57. OCTOBER. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Baked Gurnet. 

Croquettes of Game. 

Mutton Cutlets. Mashed Potatoes. 

Haricot Beans with Tomato Sauce. 

Gruyere Cheese. 

Semolina Souffle. 



Puree or Vegetables. — Boil in some stock with a bunch 
of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, any com- 
bination of such vegetables as carrots, turnips, potatoes, 
parsnips, leeks, onion, peas, Jerusalem artichokes, &c. 
When thoroughly done pass the whole through a fine hair 
sieve. Mix in a saucepan a piece of butter and a little flour, 
then add a little of the puree, and when this is well mixed 
add the rest. Finish by stirring in, off the fire, a couple of 
yolks of eggs strained and beaten up with a little milk. 
Serve with or without tiny sippets fried in butter. — N.B. The 
above is one way of making use of the trimmings of vege- 
tables produced by cutting them up with fancy cutters. 

Baked Gurnet. — Take some fine bread crumbs, add to 
them, a fourth part of their bulk of shallots and the same 
quantity of mushrooms, both finely minced and lightly fried 
in butter ; then add some chopped parsley and sweet herbs ; 
season with pepper and salt, and make the mixture into a 
paste by working into it the yolks of one or two eggs, a pat 
of butter, and a little milk. Stuff the fish with this, and 
truss it with pack thread. Butter a baking dish, dispose 
upon it an onion and a carrot cut in slices, a few sprigs of 
parsley, two or three cloves, and some whole pepper and salt 
to taste. Lay the fish on this, then add a good half-pint of 
stock and a wineglassful of white wine, cover the fish with a 
sheet of buttered paper, and bake it from half to three- 
quarters of an hour, according to the size. Baste it now and 
then during tne process with its own liquor. When done, 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 127 



strain the liquor into a saucepan in which a piece of butter 
has been mixed with a tablespoonful of flour, add a little sue 
colore to give the sauce a good colour, and as soon as it is 
boiling hot pour over the fish and serve. 

Croquettes of Game. — Pick out fi'om the remnants of any- 
roast white game a quantity of meat from the breast, mince 
it all finely, and put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter 
previously melted and amalgamated with a pinch of flour; 
add pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir well, and 
add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice 
of a lemon, and strained. Spread out this mince (which 
should be pretty stiff) on a marble slab, and when it is nearly 
cold fashion it, in breadcrumbs, into small portions in the 
shape of balls or of corks. Dip each in beaten-up egg, and 
then roll it in very fine baked bread crumbs. Let the 
croquettes rest a while, then fry them in hot lard to a golden 
colour. Serve on a napkin with plenty of fried parsley. 

Mutton Cutlets. See No. 19. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Haricot Beans with Tomatoes. — Take a quantity of fresD 
haricot beans, being careful to get them all of an age. Boil 
them in plenty of salted water. Drain when done, and add to 
them as much tomato sauce as they will take, and also some 
finely minced parsley. 

Tomato Sauce. See No. 15. 

Semolina Souffle. — Set a pint of milk, sweetened to taste, 
to boil, with either a pod of vanilla or the thin rind of a lemon 
to flavour it. When it boils strew in some fine semolina (a 
very small handful will do) with one hand, stirring with the 
other by means of a spoon until the mixture assumes the 
appearance of thin porridge. Let it cool, then woik in, one 
by one, the yolks of six eggs, and, lastly, the whites of eight 
whisked to a stiff froth. Pour into a mould, bake, and serve 
immediately. 



128 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 58. NOVEMBER. 

Shrimp Soup. 

Fried Sole. 

Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. 

Eoast Plover. Celery Salad. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Omnibus Pudding. 



Shrimp Soup. — Take one pint of shrimps, pound them in a 
mortar with the juice of half a lemon and a piece of butter 
equal in weight to them. When quite a smooth paste, pass it 
through a sieve, and add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. 
Tak€ as much bread crumbs as there is shrimp pulp, soak 
them in stock ; melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, amalga- 
mate with it a heaped tablespoonful of flour, mix the shrimp 
pulp with the bread crumbs, and put both into the saucepan ; 
stir well, and add more stock until a puree is obtained, rather 
thinner in consistency than the soup should be. Put the 
saucepan on the fire, stir the contents till they thicken and 
boil, draw it then on one side, carefully skim off superfluous 
fat, strain the soup through a hair sieve, make it boiling hot^ 
and serve. 

Fried Sole. — Clean and skin the fish, and dry it thoroughly 
in a cloth ; dip it in an egg, beaten up, and then strew it on 
both sides with very fine bread crumbs, taking care that it 
is evenly covered with a very thin layer of them. Let the 
fish rest for an hour or two, then have read}'- in the frying- 
pan boiling hot fat in sufficient quantity to fairly float it ; 
put in the fish, which will be cooked in five or ten minutes, 
according to size, and should be skilfully turned over once 
during the operation. When taken out of the fat, the fish 
should be laid on blotting paper before the fire in the screen, 
in order to drain all fat from it. Serve with fried parsley 
and cut lemon. 

Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. — Take a piece of rump- 
steak, cut it in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, and trim 
them to a uniform shape the size of a mutton cutlet ; melt 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 129 



plenty of butter in a baking tin, lay the fillets in this, and let 
them stand in a warm place for an hour or two ; then take 
them out, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and fry them 
in some very hot butter, turning them to let both sides take 
colour. Melt an ounce of butter and mix it with a table- 
spoonful of flour, moisten with some good stock, free from fat, 
in suflficient quantity to make as much sauce as is wanted ; 
add a little sue colorant, or a little glaze, and about twenty 
button mushrooms (either whole or cut in half) neatly 
trimmed and washed. Let the sauce boil till the mushrooms 
are quite done ; add the juice of half a lemon, pour the 
sauce on a dish, heap the mushrooms in the centre, and 
dispose the beef fillets round them. 

Roast Plovers. See No. 36. 

Celery Salad. See No. 46. 

Cheese Omelet. See No. 5. 

Omnibus Pudding. — Take 6oz. of fine flour, 6oz. of fresh 
suet shred finely, 6oz. of raisins stoned, 4oz. of treacle, 4ozi 
of milk. Mix well, put into a buttered basin, tie a cloth over, 
and boil from three to four hours. Serve with 

Brandy Sauce. — Mix a tablespoonful of potato flour or 
arrowroot with a little cold water, then add as much water 
as will make enough sauce, with powdered loaf sugar to taste, 
and keep it on the fire until the sauce thickens ; put into it 
at the time of serving as much brandy as may be necessary. 



No. 59. DECEMBER. 

Carrot Soup. 

Twice Laid. 

Stewed Ducks with Olives. 

Beefsteak with Anchovies. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Cheese. 

Rum Omelet. 



Carrot Soup. — Boil some carrots in salted water ; when 
thoroughly done, drain them and pass them through a hair 

K 



130 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



sieve ; mix the pulp thus obtained with as much stock as will 
make it of the desired consistency ; add pepper and salt and 
a pinch of sugar. Having melted about an ounce of butter, 
mix with it a tablespoonful of flour, then gradually add the 
carrot puree ; let it come to the boil, skim off superfluous fat, 
and serve with dice of bread fried in butter. 

Twice Laid. — Take lib. of the remnants of boiled codfish, 
remove all skin and bone, taking care to leave the fish in nice 
pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, when melted add 
half a tablespoonful of flour ; stir it on the fire two or three 
minutes, pour in a gill of milk, add salt and pepper to taste, 
and a little nutmeg ; stir until the sauce boils. Take two 
hard-boiled eggs, cut each into eight pieces ; put them into 
the sauce with the fish and about lib. of mashed potatoes ; 
mix all lightly together, dish it up high on a plate, put it 
into the oven to brown, ornament with some slices of hard- 
boiled egg, and serve. 

Duck Stewed with Olives. — Truss it with an onion inside, 
and its legs tucked in, as fowls are trussed for boiling. Mince 
a couple of ounces of fat bacon, put them into a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter, and when this is melted put in the duck 
breast downward ; when it begins to colour turn it over, 
moisten with a little stock, add pepper and salt, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and let it stew gently till done — about an hour. 
Meanwhile, stone and parboil a quantity of olives, mix a little 
butter and flour on the fire till it browns, add as much of the 
liquor (strained and skimmed of fat) in which the duck was 
stewed, as may be wanted for sauce, put in the olives, let them 
boil a short time, then dish up the duck with the sauce over, 
and the olives round it. One or two tablespoonfuls of Spanish 
sauce (see No. 25) added to the sauce are of course an im- 
provement. 

Beefsteak with Anchovies. — Bone, clean, and wash a few 
anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a piece of butter, 
and, when reduced to a smooth paste, put the mixture in a 
lump on a broiled steak at the time of serving. 

Fried Potatoes. — Pare some potatoes so as to give each the 
form of a cylinder, then cut each cylinder in slices the eighth 
of an inch thick. By this means all the pieces of potato 
will be the same size. Dry them thoroughly in a napkin ; 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 131 



put them in the frying basket, and plunge it in boiling-hot 
lard; shake the basket continually, and as soon as the 
potatoes have acquii ed a light yellow colour turn them out on 
a cloth in front of the fire and sprinkle them with fine salt. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Cheese. — Wash them well, 
peel and shape them to a uniform size, throw them into boil- 
ing salted water, and let them l)oil fifteen to twenty minutes, 
drain them at once thoroughly, put them on a dish, and serve 
with the following sauce poured over them : Mix over the fire 
If oz. of butter, with a tablespoonful of flour, add half a pint of 
boiling water, white pepper and salt to taste ; stir till the 
sauce thickens ; then add two tablespoonfuls or more of grated 
Parmesan cheese, let the sauce give one more boil, and it is 
ready. 

Rum Omelet. — Make a plain sweet omelet with four whites 
and six yolks of eggs. When cooked strew sugar over, and, 
instead of glazing it, pour a wineglassful of hot rum over it, 
and set it alight as it is being put on the table. 



No. 60. JANUARY. 

Nouilles Soup. 

Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms. 

Grenadins of Beef. 

Roast Wild Duck. 

Celery Salad. 

Potato Pudding. 



Nouilles Soup. See No. 53. 

Fillets of Soles. See No. 16. 

Grenadins of Beef. — Cut some rumpsteak in slices a little 
more than half an inch thick, trim them all to the same size 
in the shape of cutlets, lard them on one side thickly, but 
finely, with fat bacon. Lay them out, the larded side under- 
most, in a saucepan, with plenty of butter, and fry them for 
five minutes, or until the larding is coloured, turn them over 
carefully with a palette knife, and sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt. When they have fried five minutes longer add a 

K 2 



132 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



small piece of glaze, dissolved in a wineglassful of boiling- 
stock, and keep the grenadins in the pan till wanted, then 
arrange them in a circle round a heap of 

BrusseLvS Sprouts. — Trim them neatly one by one, wash 
them, and then boil them in plenty of salted water. Mean- 
while melt an ounce of butter, and mix it with a table- 
spoonful of flour ; add pepper and salt and a little nutmeg, 
then moisten with a tumblerful of cold milk, stirring on the 
fire till the same thickens. Into this sauce put the sprouts 
the moment they are cooked and effectually drained from the 
water they were boiled in. Keep them warm in the saucepan 
till wanted. There should not be too much sauce, but only 
enough to keep the sprouts together. 

EoAST Wild Duck, See No. 48, 

Celery Salad. See No. 46. 

Potato Pudding. See No, 43. 



No. 61. JANUARY. 

Celery Soup. 

Gurnet with Caper Sauce. 

Game Croustades. 

Stewed Rumpsteak. Mashed Potatoes. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Cream. 

Cheese, 

Savarin with Rum Sauce, 



Celery Soup (Consomme au Celeri). — Put into a saucepan 
the carcase and other remnants of a roast fowl, with a piece 
of ham or bacon, and a couple of heads of celery (reserving a 
few of the best pieces to be sliced finely, boiled in stock, and 
served in the soup). Fill up with stock and let it simmer two 
or three hours, then strain, clarify with white of egg or a 
little raw meat, and serve with celery as above. 

Gurnet with Caper Sauce, — Place the fish trussed with 
pack-thread in a fish kettle full of cold water, well salted ; 
when the water comes near boiling point draw the fish kettle 
aside, let it simmer gently till the fish is quite done, lift it up 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 133 



to drain, then lay it on a dish ; pour plenty of brown caper 
sauce over it. 

Caper Sauce. — Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of flour, and stir well on the fire until the 
mixture assumes a brown colour ; add rather less than a pint 
of stock, free from fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little 
Worcester sauce. When the sauce boils, throw in plenty of 
capers, let it boil once more, and it is ready. 

Game Croustades. — Boil a quantity of rice in salted water 
till done. Strain off the water, put the rice in a saucepan, 
and keep moistening with as much milk or stock as it will 
absorb ; add a handful of Parmesan cheese and a little pepper. 
When the rice is thoroughly done, or rather overdone, spread 
it out evenly to the thickness of about 2in. on a slab or dish. 
When quite cold, cut out with a 2in. patty cutter as many 
" rounds " as the layer of rice will admit. Beat up an egg, 
roll each " round " or " croustade " in it, and then cover it 
well with bread crumbs, repeating the operation if necessary. 
Make an impression with a smaller patty cutter on the top of 
each croustade, dispose them carefully in the frying basket, 
and plunge it into very hot lard. When the croustades have 
taken a good colour, drain them, and, lifting the cover (formed 
by the impression of the smaller cutter), scoop out the rice 
from the inside of each croustade with a teaspoon. Fill them 
quickly with the following puree, and serve : 

Puree of Game. — See No. 23. 

Stewed B,umpsteak. — Take a piece of rumpsteak an inch 
thick, fry it in butter on both sides, add enough hot stock just 
to cover the steak, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to 
taste, two carrots sliced, and a dozen very small onions. 
Cover the saucepan, and let the contents simmer very gently 
for about two hours. Mix a piece of butter and some flour in 
a saucepan on the fire, add the best part of the liquor in which 
the steak has been stewing, put in a little Worcester sauce 
and mushroom ketchup. Lay the steak on a dish, the carrots 
and onions round it, and pour the sauce over. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Cream. — Wash them well, 
peel and shape them to a uniform size; throw them into 
boiling salted water, and let them boil fifteen to twenty 



134 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



minutes ; drain them at once thorouglily ; put them on a dish 
and serve with the following sauce poured over them : Mix 
over the fire l^oz. of butter, with a tablespoonful of flour ^ 
add half a pint of boiling water, white pepper, and salt to 
taste ; stir till the sauce thickens, then take the saucepan off 
the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a 
gill of cream. 

Savarin au Rhum. — Take one pound of fine sifted flour, 
four ounces of pounded loaf sugar, half a pound of fresh 
butter, eight eggs, and one ounce of German yeast. Dissolve 
the yeast in rather less than half a pint of tepid milk, strain 
it, and work into it so much of the flour as will produce a 
soft dough, roll this into a ball, place the remainder of the 
flour into a deep basin, lay the ball of dough on it, cover up 
the basin, and leave it in a warm place until the ball of dough 
(the sponge) has risen. Now add the sugar, the butter (just 
liquefied), the eggs, and a pinch of salt, and work the mixture 
lightly with the fingers until a smooth paste is obtained- 
Butter plentifully a large plain bolder mould (Savarin mould), 
mince some blanched almonds, not too fine, and strew the 
mould with as many of these as will stick to the butter, then 
pour in the cake mixture, which should not fill the mould 
more than three parts full. Place the mould, covered up, in 
a warm place, and when the cake has well risen bake it in a 
moderate oven for about one hour and a half. Before turning 
the cake out of the mould, stab the top of it (which will be 
the bottom when the cake is turned out) with a knife in 
several places, and pour all over it a mixture of two parts of 
old rum and one of very sweet syrup, so as to soak it well,, 
but not too much, to the depth of an inch ; then turn it out 
on a dish and serve. It may be eaten either hot or cold. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 135 



No. 62. FEBBUABY. 

Pea Soup. 

Codfish with Cream, 

Chicken Rissoles. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. 

Celery on Toast. 

Risotto. 

Apple Tart. 



Pea Soup. — Soak a pint of split peas in water for twelve 
hours, drain off the water, put the peas into a saucepan with 
three pints of cold water, a piece of bacon (about ^Ib.), two 
sprigs of dried mint, a bay leaf, some parsley, an onion stuck 
with two or three cloves, some whole pepper and salt to taste. 
Let the whole boil three hours, then pass the puree through a 
hair sieve, make it hot again, and serve with dice of bread 
fried in butter. 

Codfish with Cream. — Pick out carefully in flakes all the 
flesh from the remnants of some boiled codfish ; melt a piece 
of butter in a saucepan, and add to it a large pinch of flour 
and a gill of milk or cream, with pepper, salt, and grated 
nutmeg to taste, also the least bit of cayenne ; stir well, put 
in the fish, and gently shake it in this sauce until quite warm, 
If the composition be too dry add a little milk or cream ; 
then add, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a 
little milk and serve. 

Chicken Rissoles. — Mince very finely some remnants of 
fowl free from skin, add an equal quantity of ham or tongue, 
as well as a small quantity of truffles all finely minced ; toss 
the whole in a saucepan with a piece of butter, mixed with a 
pinch of flour ; add white pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste, 
as well as a little minced parsley ; .stir in, off the fire, the yolks 
of one or two eggs, beaten up with a few drops of lemon 
juice, and lay the mixture on a plate to cool. Make a paste 
with some flour, a little water, two eggs, a pinch of salt, and 
two or three of sugar ; roll it out to the thickness of a penny 
piece, stamp it out in round pieces three inches in diameter ; 



136 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



put a piece of the above mince on each, then fold them up, 
fastening the edges by moistening them with water. Trim 
the rissoles neatly with a fluted cutter, dip each one in beaten- 
up egg, and fry a golden colour in hot lard. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. — Take a piece of rump steak, 
cut it in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, and trim them 
into shape. Melt plenty of butter in a baking tin, lay the 
fillets of beef in this, and let them stand in a warm place for 
an hour or so ; then sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and 
fry them in some very hot butter, turning them to let both 
sides take colour. Stone a quantity of olives, and parboil 
them. Fry some onions a brown colour in butter, add a little 
flour, and when that is coloured, as much stock as you want 
sauce, with pepper, salt, and spices to taste. Let the sauce 
boil, then strain it, add the olives, and serve when quite hot, 
the fillets in a circle round them. 

Celery on Toast. — Trim the roots, and cut to the same 
length (about six inches) three heads of celery, wash them 
carefully, tie them together with stiing, parboil them a few 
minutes, and drain them. Put a layer of bacon in a saucepan, 
lay the celery on this, with an onion and a carrot sliced, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a blade of mace, or a few 
cloves ; fill up with enough stock just to cover the celery, and 
let it gently simmer till done. Take some of the liquor well 
freed from fat, thicken it with a little flour and butter ; pour 
it on a dish. Have ready a number of slices of bread cut to a 
uniform shape, and fried in butter ; arrange them on the 
sauce, disposing a head of celery on each. 

Risotto. — Fry in a saucepan, with |^lb. of butter and a pinch 
of salt, an onion finely minced ; when it is of a golden colour, 
strain off the onion, and add the rice, 2oz. or 3oz., carefully 
picked and washed ; stir well, moisten with stock or broth 
carefully freed from fat, boiling hot, keep on adding this in 
small quantities as fast as the rice will absorb it ; add during 
the process a pinch of saffron. When the grains begin to 
burst, add plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and it will be 
ready as soon as the rice is quite done. 

Apple Tart. — Lay a disc of puff paste on a round tin, and 
place a strip of paste all round it as for an ordinary jam tart. 
Spread on the inside a layer of apple marmalade 



TRACTICAL DINNERS. 137 



Peel and core some apples, cut them in slices iin. thick, trim 
all the slices to the same shape, dispose these slices over the 
marmalade, overlapping each other, and in some kind of 
pattern ; strew plenty of sugar over, and bake in a quick oven 
till the apples are a good colour. 



No. 63. MARCH. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Broiled Haddock. 

Fillets of Rabbit. 

Rolled Neck of Mutton. 

Turnips with Cream. 

Ramakins. 

Orange Fritters. 



Yermicelli Soup. — Boil a couple of ounces of fine vermi- 
celli in a pint of stock free from fat, to which add a good 
pinch of salt. When cooked (in ten or fifteen minutes), drain 
them, and put them into the soup tureen, containing a quart 
of well-flavoured clear stock, boiling hot ; grated Parmesan to 
be served with it. 

Haddock (Broiled), — Split the fish open, wipe it dry with 
a cloth, rub it with salad oil, and flour it, then broil over a 
clear fire; meanwhile knead an ounce of butter with the juice 
of half a lemon, pepper and salt to taste, and a little parsley 
blanched, squeezed dry, and very finely minced ; put this butter 
on a hot dish, the fish over, and serve. 

Fillets of Rabbit. See No. 33. 

Rolled Neck of Mutton. — Take a piece of the best end of 
a neck of mutton, with a sharp knife remove the skin, taking 
with it as much meat as possible from the bones except the 
fillet, which is to form the cutlets ; saw off the bones, divide 
the cutlets, trim them, and gather all the meat from the 
trimmings and the bones. Lay the best pieces on the skin 
with a few pieces of bacon, pound the rest in a mortar, with 



138 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



any other trimmings of raw or cooked meat that may be at 
hand, a small piece of butter, half an onion, some sweet herbs, 
pepper, and salt. Pass this through a sieve, and spread it on 
the skin, fold up half an inch of both the long sides, then roll 
up the skin tight from one of the narrow sides, tie it up with 
thread several times round. Fry an onion with a little bacon 
fat, put in the meat, turn it round once or twice, and when it 
has taken colour moisten with a very little stock, and let it 
simmer till done. Remove the string, and serve with the 
sauce strained over it. With the cutlets another dish can be 
made in the ordinary way. 

Turnips with Cream.— Take small new turnips, peel and 
boil them in salted water, drain them thoroughly ; melt loz. 
of butter in a saucepan, add to it a dessertspoonful of flour, 
pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of milk or 
cream ; put in the turnips, simmer gently a few minutes, and 
serve. 

Ramakins. See No. 4. 

Orange Fritters. — Peel carefully a couple of oranges so as 
to remove every vestige of the white part of the rind, core 
them, cut them in slices, roll in glace sugar, dip in batter, and 
fry in very hot lard ; drain, and serve strewn with sugar. 



No. 64. APRIL. 

Italian Paste Soup. 

Boudins of Fish. 

Lamb Cutlets and Cucumber. 

Chicken a la Milanaise. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Maccaroni Soufile. 



Italian Paste Soup. — Cut up in small pieces lib. of lean 
veal, put it into a saucepan with a couple of onions, two or 
three carrots, cut in slices, and a large piece of butter. 
Shake the saucepan on the fire until the contents have become 
a good colour, moisten with half a pint of common stock (hot) 
and keep on stirring over the fire for some time longer, 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 139 

adding during the process half a pound of ham cut up small. 
Then take the saucepan off the fire, and when the contents 
are cold pile up on them a small knuckle of veal chopped up, 
bones and all, into small pieces ; fill up the saucepan with 
common stock (cold) and add parsley, sweet herbs, spices, 
pepper and salt, in due proportions. Set the saucepan to 
simmer gently by the side of the fire for about three hours, 
then strain the liquor. When cold free it absolutely from 
fat, and to every quart of liquor add the white of an egg 
whisked to a froth, keep on beating the liquor on the fire at 
intervals, and as soon as it boils strain it through a fine 
tammy or a napkin. Boil half a cupful of small Italian 
paste in some ordinary stock free from fat, strain it care- 
fully, then put it into the clear stock or consomme made as 
above. 

BouDiNs OF Fish. — Take the raw flesh of either whiting, 
flounder, plaice, or pike ; pound it in a mortar, and pass it 
through a sieve. Put half a pint of water into a saucepan 
with a pinch of salt, and a small piece of butter, when it boils 
stir into it enough flour to make a thick paste ; when cold take 
of this paste half the quantity there is of fish, and take 
of butter half the quantity there is of paste; thoroughly 
amalgate the whole in the mortar, season with pepper, salt, 
and grated nutmeg, work in one or two spoonfuls of white 
sauce (Bechamel), and lastly as many eggs, in the proportion 
of two yolks to one white, as will bind the mixture. Butter 
some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, and steam 
them in a stewpan half full of water for fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Then turn them out, and serve with white sauce 
(Bechamel). 

Lamb Cutlets and Cucumber. — Trim the cutlets neatly, egg 
and bread-crumb them, and fry them to a light brown colour 
in lard ; drain and arrange them in a circle on a dish, placing 
in the centre some cucumbers prepared as follows : Cut up a 
large cucumber in rounds an inch long, cut each round into 
four quarters, remove the seeds and rind, and trim each 
piece to a uniform shape ; then let them remain in salted 
water for a couple of hours ; drain them, throw them into 
boiling salted water, and when they are nearly cooked strain 
and put them into cold water, there to remain till wanted. 



140 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



At tlie time of serving, take the pieces out of the water, and 
put them into a saute-pan with a piece of butter, some parsley 
finely minced, and a sprinkling of white pepper ; shake them 
gently till quite warm, and they are ready. 

Chicken a la Milanaise. — Truss a fowl as for boiling, 
putting an onion inside it, lard it with bacon, and put it to 
braise in a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, 
sweet herbs, spices, pepper and salt to taste ; moisten with 
stock, and during the process of cooking frequently baste 
the breast of the fowl with the liquor. Boil in plenty of 
salted water ^Ib. of rice, picked and washed clean ; when the 
grains begin to burst drain off the water, cover the rice with 
a cloth, and let it remain by the side of the fire until quite 
dry. Take equal parts of the liquor in which the fowl is 
braising, and tomato sauce, work these into the rice with 
plenty of grated Parmesan cheese until it becomes of the 
requisite consistency. Make a border with rice round the 
dish, lay the fowl in the middle, with a little of the gravy 
free from fat under it, hold a salamander over the breast, to 
give the larding a colour and serve. 

Cauliflower Salad. — Boil a cauliflower in salted water 
till tender, but not overdone ; when cold cut it up neatly in 
small sprigs. Beat up together three tablespoonfuls of oil 
and one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, with pepper and 
salt to taste ; rub the dish very slightly with garlic, arrange 
the pieces of cauliflower on it, strew over them some capers, 
a little tarragon, chervil, and parsley, all finely minced, and 
the least bit of dried thyme and marjoram powdered. Pour 
the oil and vinegar over, and serve. 

Maccaroni Souffle. — Break up about an ounce of small 
maccaroni or vermicelli into very small pieces, throw it into 
fast-boiling salted water, let it boil twenty minutes, then 
drain off the water and put the maccaroni into half a pint of 
milk, with sugar to taste and a piece of cinnamon ; let it boil 
till it has absorbed all the milk. Put it by to get cold, work 
into it the yolks of four eggs and the whites of six whisked 
to a stiff froth. Pour into a plain mould, bake, and serve 
immediately. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 141 



No. 65. MAY. 

White Soup (a la Reine). 

Prawn Kromeskys. 

Fillets of Veal with Italian Sauce. 

Roast Neck of Mutton. Potatoes Maitre Hotel. 

Salmon Mayonnaise. 

^ Cheese Tartlets. 

Russian Jelly. ' 

Baked Fritters (Choux a la Creme). 



White Soup. — Remove the flesh from the remnants of a 
couple of roast or boiled fowls, taking care to exclude all the 
skin ; add half the quantity of bread crumbs soaked in white 
stock free from fat, pound in a mortar, adding pepper, salt, 
and a little nutmeg. Pass the whole through a hair sieve, 
add as much white stock to the result as soup is wanted, 
warm it without letting it boil ; stir into it, oft' the fire, the 
yolks of two eggs, strained, and beaten up with half a tumbler 
of cream. 

Prawn Kromeskys. — ^Mince finely a number of prawn tails, 
toss them in butter on the fire, adding a pinch of flour, a little 
white stock, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and lastly the 
yolk of an egg beaten up with some lemon juice. Spread out 
the mixture to cool, divide it into portions, wrap each into 
a piece of damped white wafer, dip in batter, and fry. 

Fillets of Veal with Italian Sauce. — Cut from a piece of 
leg of veal some neat fillets, three-eighths of an inch thick, 
sprinkle them on both sides with pepper and salt, and lay 
them flat in a tin with plenty of salad oil. Put the tin in the 
oven just long enough to cook the fillets, then drain and 
arrange them in a circle on a dish, with the following sauce 
in the middle : Fry in a little salad oil a couple of shalots, 
minced fine ; when they are a pale straw colour, add two or 
three mushrooms and a little parsley, minced in the same 
manner ; then moisten with enough stock and white wine in 
equal parts to make the sauce, add pepper and salt to taste, a 
clove of garlic, some sweet herbs, and a bay leaf tied up in a 
bunch. Let the sauce boil half an hour, and remove the 



142 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



bunch. Melt a piece of butter, add a little flour to it, then 
the sauce, stir it well on the fire, and it is ready. 

EoAST Neck of Mutton. — Take a piece of the best end of 
neck, trim off all superfluous fat, saw off the chine, wrap up 
the joint in a piece of oiled paper. Roast it at a brisk fire, 
basting frequently. When it has roasted half an hour remove 
the paper, sprinkle the joint freely with salt, and put it nearer 
the fire, and as soon as it has taken a good colour it is ready. 
Time of roasting must necessarily vary according to the 
nature of the fire, the size of the joint, and the taste of those 
for whom it is cooked for eating meat overdone or underdone. 
No hard and fast rule can be given for the time of roasting. 

Potatoes. See No. 13. 

Mayonnaise or Salmon. — Cut out of the remnants of a 
boiled piece of salmon some neat cutlets or collops, all the 
same size, dip them in a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of 
oil, one of tarragon vinegar, with salt and pepper to taste, well 
beaten up. Thoroughly wash, and then shake out the water 
from some cabbage lettuces, shred the outer leaves very 
finely, and lay them on the dish for a foundation ; on this 
dispose the salmon scollops in a circle, and overlapping each 
other. Trim the hearts of the lettuces, and cut them into 
four, five, or six " quarters," according to their size, all the 
quarters to be of a uniform size. Have some garden cress 
well freed from water. Make outside the circle of salmon, 
and resting on the foundation, a circle of lettuce quarters on 
end, and cress alternately so as to completely hide the founda- 
tion. In the middle of the circle of salmon make a star of 
lettuce quarters and cress, in the centre of which place a 
round slice of beetroot, cut with the fluted paste cutter, and 
with a round hole in the middle. In this fix half a hard- 
boiled egg with the edges vandyked, and the yolk replaced 
with capers. Then on each salmon collop place any small 
device cut out of beetroot or white of egg, and with one or 
more capers on it according as the device requires it. Lastly, 
make a border outside all with hard-boiled eggs (cut in 
half transversely, and then each half cut in four or five 
quarters) alternately with beetroot cut into the same shape. 
A mayonnaise sauce to be served separately in a boat. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. See No. 27. 



PEACTICAL DINNERS. 143 



Cheese Tartlets. See No. 3. 

Russian Jelly. — Take nine sheets of the best French 
gelatine, soak them in a little more than a pint of hot water. 
When dissolved add sugar to taste, the juice of one lemon, 
the whites of two eggs beaten up to a froth, and two liqueur 
glasses of Cognac, whisk on the fire till the whole Ijoils ; 
place the thin rind of the lemon at the bottom of the jelly 
bag, pour the mixture over, and when it has passed out clear 
and is almost set, whisk it with an egg whisk until it assumes 
the consistency of white of egg whisked to a froth. Fill a 
mould with the frothed jelly, press it well down, and place it 
in a cool place or on ice to set. 

Baked Fritters (Choux a la Creme). — Put about one pint 
of water into a saucepan, with a few grains of salt, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and as much sugar, with plenty of 
grated lemon peel. When the water boils throw gradually into 
it sufficient flour to form a thick paste, then take it off the fire, 
let it remain ten minutes, and work into it three or four eggs. 
Butter a baking dish, and lay the paste upon it in neat little 
heaps, about one tablespoonful to each ; bake a good colour in a 
moderate oven ; take them out, sprinkle powdered loaf sugar 
over them, and put them in again for a few minutes ; make 
an incision in the under side of each, and insert some French 
custard (creme a choux). 

Creme a Choux. — Take a pint of milk, mix smoothly with 
a little of it one tablespoonful of potato flour, the yolks of six 
eggs, and pounded loaf sugar to taste ; then add the rest of 
the milk, and any flavouring you may fancy. Cook it au bain- 
marie, and never cease stirring till the cream is done and 
xjuite thick. When cold it is ready for use. 



144 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 66. JUITE. 

Pot au Feu and Bouilli. 

Baked Trout. 

Roast Fowl. Fried Potatoes. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Maccaroni Pudding. 



Pot au Feu. — Take a piece of fresh silverside of beef 
weighing 61b., and about |lb. of bones, tie up the meat neatly 
with string, and put both into a six-quart saucepan ; fill it up 
with sufficient water to come well over the meat and ))ones, 
and set it on the fire ; remove carefully with a skimmer 
the scum that will rise as the water gets warm, but do not 
allow it to boil. Add at intervals during the process about a 
pint of cold water in small quantities ; this will have the 
effect of checking the ebullition, and will help the scum 
to rise. When the scum is all removed, put in about loz. of 
salt, a small handful of whole pepper and allspice, one onion 
stuck with a dozen cloves, one onion toasted almost black 
before the fire or on the hob, one leek, and three carrots 
of average size cut in two-inch lengths, two turnips of 
average size each cut in four, and a bouquet garni, i.e., two 
bay leaves, two or three sprigs each of thyme and marjoram, 
a clove of garlic, and a small handful of parsley, all tied 
together into a small faggot. The above vegetables should 
not be put in all at once, but gradually, so as not to check 
the gentle simmering of the pot au feu, which should be 
now skimmed for the last time, and placed by the side of the 
fire to simmer gently for at least four hours. According 
to the season, all or some of the following vegetables may 
be added : A head of celery cut in two-inch lengths, a 
couple of tomatoes, a couple of parsnips, a handful of chervil. 
At the time of serving, strain the broth and skim off all the 
fat, add the least bit of sugar (not burnt sugar) and more 
salt if necessary ; make the broth boiling hot, and pour 
it into the soup tureen over small slices of toasted bread, 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 145 



adding, according to taste, a portion of the vegetables cut 
in thin slices. 

BouiLLi. — Having rerpoved the string from the meat uf^ed 
to make the pot au feu, serve it garnished with a wall of 
cabbage prepared as follows : Cut off the stalk close, and 
remove all the outer leaves, from a cabbage. Cut it in four 
pieces, and lay them in cold water with a handful of salt for 
two or three hours. Drain and throw them into plenty of 
fast-boiling salted water, let them boil uncovered about 
twenty minutes, and turn them out on a sieve to drain. 
Shred them not too finely, and toss them in a saucepan with 
plenty of butter; add pepper and salt, grated nutmeg and 
powdered mixed spice; moisten with some cream, and let 
the whole simmer till the cabbage is quite done. 

Baked Trout. — Put inside the fish a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, into which a due quantity of salt, 
powdered pepper, and minced parsley have been worked. 
Lay it in a baking dish plentifully buttered, sprinkle pepper 
and salt over it, then lay a piece of oiled paper on the fish, 
and bake it in a moderate oven for about half an hour, more 
or less according to the size of the fish. Serve garnished 
with quarters of lemon. 

Koast Fowl. See No. 26. 

Fried Potatoes. See 'No. 69. 

Cauliflower Salad. See No. 64. 

Maccaroni Pudding. — Put four ounces of vermicelli, with 
a small stick of cinnamon, into a pint and a quarter of boiling 
milk sweetened to taste. Let the whole boil till the mac- 
caroni have absorbed all the milk ; remove the cinnamon, 
and put them into a bowl to get cold ; then work in one by 
one the yolks of four eggs freed from the speck, and the 
whites of two eggs whisked to a froth. Butter and bread- 
crumb a plain mould, using very fine bread crumbs ; put 
the mixture into it, and bake about twenty minutes ; then 
turn out, and serve the pudding with wine sauce or with 
jam sauce. 



146 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 67. JULY. 

Rice Cream Soup (Creme de Eiz aux Pois). 

Stewed Eels (Matelote). 

Croustades of Chicken. 

Roast Neck of Mutton. Potatoes. 

Artichoke Bottoms. 

Cheese Tartlets. 

Jam Omelet. 



Rice Cream Soup. — Pick and wash in tepid water a couple 
of ounces of rice. Put it to cook in a pint of white stock ; 
when thoroughly done, add another pint of stock or more, 
with a handful of young peas boiled in it. Stir into the soup, 
off the fire, half a gill of cream, with a yolk of egg strained 
and beaten up with it. Add white pepper and salt to taste 
if required. 

Matelote op Eels. — Take a couple or two of skinned eels, 
cut them up in pieces 2in. long, flour, and fry them a light 
brown in butter. Melt a quarter of a pound of butter, mix 
with it a tablespoonful of flour, add half a pint of stock and 
the same quantity of claret or Burgundy, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two or three shallots, whole pepper, cloves, and salt to 
taste, and the least bit of cayenne pepper. Let this sauce 
boil a quarter of an hour, strain it over the eels in a saucepan, 
add a few button mushrooms, and let the whole stew gently 
for half an hour. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve. 

Croustades of Chicken. — Cut the crumb of a loaf of bread 
into slices two inches thick, and then, with a round paste 
cutter about two inches in diameter, cut out of each slice as 
many pieces as possible. With another paste cutter, about 
one and half inches in diameter, make a mark on one side of 
•each cylinder of bread crumb. AYhen all are ready, fry them 
a golden colour in very hot lard. A deep frying pan should 
be used, and plenty of lard, so that the croustades fairly swim 
in the fat. When done, lay them in front of the fire to drain, 
and afterwards remove the cover (marked with the smaller 
paste cutter), and with the handle- of a teaspoon scoop out all 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 147 



the inside of each croustade. Mince finely some remnants of 
roast or boiled chicken, free from skin, &c. ; add an equal 
quantity of ham or tongue, as well as a small quantity of 
truffles or mushrooms, also finely minced. Toss the whole in 
a saucepan with a piece of butter, mixed with a pinch of 
flour ; add white pepper, salt, and powdered spice to taste ; 
moisten if necessary with a little white stock. Stir in, off 
the fire, the yolk of an egg, beaten up with the juice of half a 
lemon ; fill the croustades with this mince, put a button mush- 
room on the top of each, cover them with a sheet of oiled 
paper, put them into the oven to get thoroughly hot, and serve. 

EoAST Neck of Mutton. See No. 65. 

Potatoes Plain Boiled. — Pick them as nearly as possible 
all of a size ; wash them quite clean. Fill a saucepan to the 
height of about one inch with cold water, put an inverted 
saucer in it, and on this put the potatoes with a small handful 
of salt ; put a wet cloth (four or five folds) over all, and leave 
the lid of the saucepan lifted on one side. Put the saucepan 
on the fire, and let it boil half an hour, then draw it on one 
side till the time of serving. 

Artichokes, — Parboil the artichokes for ten minutes in 
water, with vinegar or lemon juice and salt to taste. Take 
them out, cutting off all the leaves, and removing the 
" choke," trim them neatly in the shape of diminutive patty- 
pans. Lay them in a saucepan with plain white stock, and 
let them simmer gently till done. Drain them on a cloth. 
Arrange them on their dish, and pour over them some white 
sauce, made as follows : Mix in a saucepan l|oz. of butter and 
a tablespoonful of flour, stir in half a tumblerful of white 
stock Or even hot water, add pepper and salt to taste, then 
stir in, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the 
juice of a lemon and strained. 

Cheese Tartlets. See No. 3. 

Jam Omelet. — Beat up the whites of four, and the yolks of 
six eggs, with a very small pinch of salt. Put a piece of 
fresh butter in the omelet pan, and directly it is melted pour 
in the eggs. As soon as they are set, fold up the omelet, 
inserting within the fold as much apricot or other jam as will 
lie in it. Turn out the omelet neatly on its dish, cover it 
with powdered sugar, and glaze it with a red-hot salamander. 

L 2 



148 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 68. AUGUST. 

French. Beans Soup. 

Ked Mullets with Tomatoes. 

Pickled Steak. Potatoes. 

Cauliflower with White Sauce. 

Cream Cheese. 

Tapioca Souffle. 



French Beans Soup. — String some French beans, boil 
them in salted water, and when done drain and cut them in 
lozenges. Make some well-flavoured clear stock boiling hot, 
add the beans to it, and serve. 

Eed Mullets with Tomatoes. — Butter a baking dish plenti- 
fully, lay in it side by side half a dozen red mullet, sprinkle 
them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then add about 
five or six tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, cover the whole 
with a sheet of oiled paper, and bake for about half an hour, 
serving in the baking dish. 

Beefsteak Pickled. — Lay a steak in a pudding dish with 
slices of onions, a few cloves, whole pepper, salt, a bay 
leaf, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, and some parsley ; 
add oil and tarragon vinegar in equal parts, just to come up 
to the steak, and let it steep in this for about twelve hours, 
turning it occasionally ; then take it out of the pickle, and fry 
it slightly on both sides in butter; add the whole of the 
marinade (pickle), a little common stock, and let the steak stew 
gently till thoroughly done. Strain some of the liquor, free 
it absolutely from fat, reduce it a little on the fire, pour 
over the steak, and serve with 

Puree of Potatoes. — Boil some potatoes and pass them 
through a sieve ; put them into a saucepan with a piece of 
butter, some milk, and some well-flavoured white stock, until 
they become of a consistency between pea soup and pease 
pudding ; flavour them to taste with pepper, salt, and grated 
nutmeg ; work them well for a short time, and serve. A clove 
of garlic laid in the saucepan with the potatoes for a few 
minutes is an improvement. 

Cauliflower with White Sauce. — Pick out all the green 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 149 



leaves of two small cauliflowers, and cut off the stalks close. 
Put them head downwards in a saucepan full of boiling 
salted water ; when done pick them out into sprigs and arrange 
them, head downwards, in a pudding basin, which must have 
been made quite hot ; press them in gently, then turn them 
out dexterously on a dish, and pour over them the following 
sauce, boiling hot : Melt l|oz. of butter in a saucepan, mix it 
with a tablespoonful of flour, and then add half a pint of 
boiling water ; stir till it thickens ; add salt and white pepper 
to taste ; then take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the 
yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lemon, and 
strained. 

Tapioca Souffle. — Soak a tablespoonful of tapioca in water 
for a couple of hours, set it to boil, adding powdered loaf 
sugar to taste, and milk till the mixture is of the consistency 
of porridge ; flavour it with grated lemon peel, work in when 
cold the yolks of three, and the whites of four or five eggs 
whisked to a stiff froth ; then pour quickly into a souffle 
tin, and bake till it has well risen ; serve immediately. 



No. 69. SEPTEMBER. 

Semolina Soup. 

Baked Soles. 

Italian Croquettes (Polpette). 

Boast Partridges. Fried Potatoes. 

Broiled Mushrooms. Curried Eggs. 

Stewed Pears. 



Semolina Soup. — Have a quart of well-flavoured stock 
boiling fast on the fire. Take in one hand some of the 
coarsest semolina that can be procured, and slowly strew it 
in the stock, which is to be continuously stirred with a spoon 
held with the other hand. One handful will be sufficient for 
the above quantity of stock, but more may be used according 
to the thickness the soup is desired to be. Keep on stirring 
for a few minutes, when the soup will be seen to thicken, and 
it is then ready. Parmesan cheese may be served with it. 



150 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Baked Soles. — Butter a baking dish, lay a couple of sole& 
on it, add pepper and salt to taste, pour sufficient white wine 
and common stock, free from fat, in equal parts, to cover the 
fish well. Put a piece of buttered paper on the top, and bake 
for twenty minutes. Melt loz. of butter in a saucepan, and 
mix with it a tablespoonful of flour ; strain into this the 
liquor in which the soles were cooked, add a little more stock, 
or water, if necessary, and stir on the fire till the sauce 
thickens. Throw in some finely-minced parsley, pour over the 
sole, and serve. 

Italian Croquettes (Polpette). See No. 52. 

EoAST Partridges. See No. 6. 

Fried Potatoes. See No. 37. 

Broiled Mushrooms. — Choose fine large ones, pick and 
remove the stalk, peel, and then broil them over a clear fire ; 
put them on a dish, with the hollow side uppermost. Beat up 
a piece of butter with some finely-chopped parsley, pepper, 
salt, and a little lemon juice ; put a small piece in the hollow 
of each mushroom, and serve. 

Curried Eggs. — Cut a couple of onions in slices, and fry 
them to a light golden colour in plenty of butter, add one 
tablespoonful of curry powder and a sprinkling of flour; 
moisten with a cupful of stock, and simmer gently for ten 
minutes; then add six hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, simmer 
for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Stewed Pears. See No. 7. 



No. 70. OCTOBER. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. 

Sea Bream with Sharp Sauce. 

Italian Olives (Brasciolette). 

Chicken a la Marengo. 

Haricot Beans with Italian Sauce. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Apple Pudding. 



Vegetable Marrow Soup. — Remove the seeds from two or- 



PKACTICAL DINNERS. 151 



three vegetable marrows, cut them into convenient pieces, 
and put them to stew in a saucepan with a small quantity 
of stock, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste. When 
quite done pass them through a hair sieve. Take two pints 
of this pulp and one pint of milk, boil them together for half 
an hour, then gradually mix them with 2oz. of butter which 
have been previously amalgamated in a saucepan with an 
ounce of flour. Let the whole come to boiling point, then 
serve. 

Sea Bream: with Sharp Sauce. — Put into a deep dish, or 
baking tin, a marinade of oil, vinegar, onions, thyme, bay leaf, 
pepper, salt, and a few cloves; lay a good-sized sea bream in this 
for some hours, basting it occasionally ; then cover it with oiled 
paper, and put the dish or tin in the oven till the fish is done 
(about thirty minutes). Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, 
mix with it a good pinch of flour, strain the marinade into 
this, add a little stock, then one shallot and a little parsley 
chopped very finely ; let the sauce boil, add more pepper and 
salt if necessary ; pour it over the fish and serve. 

Brasciolette. — Take a piece of rump steak freed from fat, 
skin, and gristle, mince it finely and pound it to a paste. 
Grate some bread crumb and mix with it pepper, salt, spices, 
and chopped parsley to taste. Take some lean bacon and cut 
it in thin strips, an inch wide. Spread out the meat paste 
to the thickness of half an inch. Cut it into squares about 
two and a half by four and a half inches. Put a strip of 
bacon on each square, with a small piece of butter, and four 
or five pine cone kernels (pignoli). Strew over a little bread 
crumb prepared as above, and roll up tight on the table each 
brascioletta in meat paste, then roll it between the palms of 
the hands. When they are all done, pack them up close in 
one layer in a well-buttered baking tin. Strew plenty of the 
prepared bread crumbs over them, and some little bits of 
butter. Bake in a quick oven. Look at them frequently, 
and when the brown gravy shows on the top they are done. 
They should not in any case be baked longer than fifteen 
minutes. They may be served plain, or with some tomato 
sauce poured over them. 

Chicken a la Marengo. — Cut up an uncooked fowl as for 
a fricassee, and fry the pieces in olive oil, with a bruised clove 



152 PKACTICAL DINNERS. 



of garlic, pepper, salt, and a buncli of sweet herbs. Take 
three tablespoonfuls of the oil used in frying the fowl, add 
some minced mushrooms, a little shallot and parsley, also 
finely minced, a glass of white wine, as much stock (free from 
fat) as you want sauce, pepper and salt to taste. Let the 
sauce boil a few minutes ; dish up the pieces of fowl, pour 
the sauce over, and serve. 

Haeicot Beans — Italian Sauce. — Soak them in cold water 
for at least twelve hours, then put them into a saucepan with 
plenty of fresh cold water, an onion stuck with cloves, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, and set them to boil ; do not put in 
any salt until the beans are almost done, and during the pro- 
cess of cooking put in, at intervals, half a tumblerful of cold 
water. Fry in butter some finely-chopped onions till they 
become of a golden coloui , add a little ham and one or two 
mushrooms finely minced ; moisten with some good stock ; 
put in a clove of garlic, a few cloves, pepper and salt to 
taste, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some parsley. When 
the sauce has simmered about an hour, add one glass of white 
wine, a squeeze of lemon, and let it simmer five minutes 
more ; then melt a piece of butter, add a very little flour to 
it, gradually mix the sauce with it, stir well on the fire, 
remove the gailic, thyme, parsley, and pour it over the beans, 
which should be drained quite dry. 

Parmesan Omelet. See No. 5. 

Apple Pudding. — Make a paste with equal quantities of 
sifted flour and finely chopped suet, a pinch of salt, and a 
little water. Roll it out thin into a large piece, place this 
over a well-buttered basin, and push it in so as to line the 
basin with it, cut it off all round so as to leave enough to fold 
up ; roll out the trimmings to such a size as to cover the top 
of the basin. Pare, core, and slice a quantity of good sound 
apples. Put them in the basin with brown sugar to taste, 
and either some chopped lemon peel, two or three cloves, or a 
little grated nutmeg ; add a small piece of fresh butter, pack 
the apples tight in, put on the cover of paste, turn up the 
edges and press them down, tie a floured pudding cloth over, 
and put the basin into a saucepanful of boiling water, which 
should come well over the pudding. Boil from two or three 
hours according to size. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 153 



No. 71. NOVEMBER. 

Cabbage Soup. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Braized Partridges. 

Maccaroni Pie. 

Celer}^ with White Sauce. 

Cheese. 

Oranges Meringued. 



Cabbage Soup. — Take half a Savoy cabbage, shred it very 
finely, and set it to boil in stock free from fat and well 
flavoured ; parboil a teacupful of rice, and when the cabbage 
has boiled for ten minutes, throw it in to finish cooking with 
the cabbage ; when both are thoroughly done, put in a 
handful of grated Parmesan cheese and serve. 

Boiled Codfish. — See No. 22. 

Braized Partridges. — Truss two birds as for boiling, and 
lard their breasts very finely with fat bacon, put them into a 
small braizing pan over a couple of slices of bacon, add two 
small onions stuck with half a dozen cloves, two carrots, cut 
in pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 
a cupful of stock, and one of white wine ; place a buttered 
paper over all, and braize them gently for two hours, keeping 
a few hot embers on the lid of the pan. Serve with their 
own liquor, strained, and well freed from fat. 

Maccaroni Pie. — Take a piece of gravy beef, cut in small 
pieces, put it into a saucepan with an onion sliced, and a 
piece of butter ; toss it on the fire till the onion and the 
pieces of meat are browned ; then add a glass of white wine, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot cut in pieces, spices, pepper, 
and salt to taste, a few mushrooms, and a fair allowance of 
tomato sauce. Let the whole simmei for a couple of hours, 
then strain, and skim off superfluous fat. Put the boiled 
maccaroni into a saucepan with a piece of butter, plenty of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and as much of the sauce or gravy 
as it will absorb ; toss it on the fire a little while, and put it 
by till wanted. Make a smooth and stiff paste with lib. of 
fine flour, 5oz. of fresh butter, two or three yolks of eggs. 



154 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



2oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt, and tepid water quant, suff. 
Roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, and line 
with it a plain round mould previously buttered, uniting the 
joints carefully with white of egg. Have ready some very 
small fillets of breast of chicken, just cooked with butter in a 
covered tin in the oven, some cooked ham or ox tongue cut in 
dice, some truffles, mushrooms, and cockscombs, cut in con- 
venient pieces, and cooked in the gravy used to dress the 
maccaroni. Fill the lined mould with all these things in 
judicious proportions, letting the maccaroni, of course, pre- 
dominate, and adding during the process a little more sauce 
or gravy and a due allowance of Parmesan cheese ; cover up 
the mould with a disc of the paste, unite the edges very 
carefully, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. 
Turn out the mould carefully and serve. 

Celery with White Sauce. — Trim and cut to the same 
length (about 6in,) three heads of celery, wash them care- 
fully, tie them together with string : put them in a sauce- 
pan, with an onion, a blade of mace, some whole pepper, salt, 
and sufficient boiling water to cover them. Let them boil 
till quite done, then drain them, remove the string, and serve 
with the following sauce over them : Melt an ounce of butter 
in a saucepan, and mix with it a dessertspoonful of flour, 
add as much of the water in which the celery was boiled as is 
wanted to make the sauce ; put salt to taste, and stir in, off 
the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up Avith the juice of a 
lemon, and strained. 

Oranges Meringijed. — Put half a pound of Patna rice into 
a saucepan with a quart of water. Leave it on the fire till 
the water boils ; drain off the water, add one quart of milk, 
4oz. of white sugar, a,nd the thin rind of a lemon. When the 
rice is quite done, and has absorbed all the milk, let it get 
cold, and, having removed the lemon rind, work into it the 
yolks of three or four eggs. Peel off the thin rind of a 
number of oranges : make a thick sp'up by boiling some loaf 
sugar in a little water, and let the orange rinds infuse in this 
for a short time, but not boil in it. With a sharp knife 
remove from the oranges every vestige of the remaining, or 
white part of the rind, core them as apples are cored, so as 
to get rid of the pips ; cut them in half, dispose them in a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



155- 



dish on a layer of the rice, and make a small wall with it 
round them. Pour the syrup over the oranges. Beat up the 
whites of three eggs to a froth, add a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered loaf sugar, cover the dish with this froth, sprinkle 
powdered sugar over, and bake about twenty minutes in a 
slack oven. 



No. 72. DECEMBER. 

Gniocchi Soup. 

Skate with Black Butter. 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon. 

Cauliflower with Tomatoes. 

Ham Omelet. 

Apple Fritters. 



Gniocchi Soup. — Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 
one pint of water and a pinch of salt ; when the water boils 
stir with a spoon and throw in gradually (with the other 
hand) as much flour as will make a stiff paste that will not 
stick to the spoon ; then add 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 
mix well, and, removing the saucepan from the fire, work into 
it two or three eggs. Kext put the paste into a biscuit 
forcer, and as it is forced out cut it off in even lengths of 
one inch, letting them dro^i into some well-flavoured stock 
boiling on the fire. A few minutes' poaching will cook the 
gniocchi, but expedition is necessary, so that the first that is 
cut off may not be overdone by the time the last is cut off. 
The knife used should be dipped now and then in hot water, 
else the paste will stick to it. 

Skate with Black Butter. — Boil some crimped skate in 
salted water, with some vinegar in it. Put a large piece of 
butter into a saucepan, and leave it on the fire until the 
butter becomes of a dark brown colour, but do not let it burn ; 
then throw in some finely-chopped parsley, a wineglassful of 
tarragon vinegar, a little salt, and some powdered white pepper. 
Serve the sauce in a boat piping hot, with the fish on a napkin. 



156 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Stewed Kidneys. — Skin and parboil some sheep's kidneys, 
cut them in slices, and toss them in a saucepan with some 
butter ; add pepper and salt to taste, and a slight dredging of 
flour. When the flour is well amalgamated with the butter, 
moisten with a little stock or broth, add a glass of sherry, a 
little minced parsley, a few drops of Worcester sauce. Let 
the whole simmer (not boil) for a few minutes, and serve. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon. — Place a number of 
untrimmed mutton cutlets in a saucepan over some slices of 
bacon, with some onions, carrots, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, 
and spices to taste, moisten with a very little stock, or even 
water, and let the cutlets braise gently till done ; then lay 
them out flat between two plates with a weight over them, 
and when they are cold cut the bones short off and trim the 
cutlets neatly. Strain the gravy they were braised in, 
and having removed all fat from it put it on one side. Mince 
equal quantities of shallots and of mushrooms. Fry the 
shallots a light gold colour in butter, add the mush- 
rooms with pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and minced 
parsley, moisten with a little of the strained gravy, add a 
squeeze of lemon, and put this mince by to get cold. Cut 
some pieces of white paper into the shape of a heart, and large 
enough when folded in two to inclose each cutlet ; oil each 
piece of paper with fine salad oil. Cover each cutlet on both 
sides with a thin coating of the mince, inclose them in their 
respective papers, and broil them just long enough to make 
them quite hot, or they may be made hot in the oven. 

Cauliflower with Tomatoes. — Pick out all the green 
leaves from a cauliflower, and cut off the stalk close. Put it 
stalk upwards into a saucepan full off boiling water, with salt 
and a piece of butter ; let it boil (not too fast) till done. 
Take it up carefully, and put it on a sieve to drain. Mix a pinch 
of flour and a piece of butter in a saucepan ; add a bottle of 
French tomato sauce, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix well, 
and when the sauce is quite hot stir into it a yolk of egg 
beaten up with a little cold water, and strained. Pour the 
sauce on a dish, and place the cauliflower in the middle. 

Ham Omelet. — Beat up three or foui eggs with a heaped 
tablespoonful of ham or bacon, half lean and half fat, cut up 
to the size of a very small dice ; add pepper to taste, and salt 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 157 



if necessary. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a 
frying pan ; as soon as it is melted pour in the omelet mixture, 
and, holding the handle of the pan with one hand, stir the 
omelet with the other by means of a spoon. The moment it 
begins to set cease stirring, but keep on shaking the pan for 
a minute or so ; then with the spoon double up the omelet 
and keep shaking the pan until the under side of the omelet 
has become of a golden colour. Turn it out on a hot dish and 
serve. 

Apple Fritters. See No. 36. 



No. 73. JANUARY. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Oyster Kromeskys. 

Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Plover Fillets. 

Yeal Cutlets a la Milanaise. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

Potato Duchesses. Laver. 

Cardoons with Marrow. 

Cheese Souffles. 

Orange Cream. Mince Pies. 



Tapioca Soup. See No. 26. 

Oyster Kromeskys. See No. 44. 

Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. — Put into a saucepan full of 
water a bunch of parsley, an onion, a blade of mace, some 
whole pepper, and salt to taste. When the water boils throw 
in eight fillets of soles, each tied up in a knot, and let them 
boil till done. Serve with 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. — Melt a couple of ounces of butter 
in a saucepan, mix thoroughly with it two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, add half a pint of hot water, white pepper and salt to 
taste, and stir until it thickens ; if too thick add more hot 
water. Mince very finely a handful of parsley, knead it with 
half an ounce of butter, add this to the sauce with the juice 
of half a lemon, stir it well on the fire, and serve. 



158 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Plover Fillets. — Take three plovers, and out of the breast 
of each skilfully cut two fillets, lay them in a buttered tin, 
sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and cover them with a 
buttered paper. Cut up the carcases, and put them in a 
saucepan with a piece of bacon and a little butter, an onion, 
and a carrot, sliced ; toss them on the fire for five minutes, 
moisten with stock, add a few mushroom trimmings, and let the 
sauce simmer for a couple of hours ; strain off the liquor, 
and, having carefully removed all fat, thicken it with a little 
butter rolled in flour, adding at the time of serving a few 
drops of lemon juice. Put the tin containing the fillets in the 
oven for a short time, just to set them ; then turn them into 
the sauce, and keep them quite hot until the time of serving ; 
arrange a neat border of sippets, fried in butter, round a dish, 
dispose the fillets in the centre, and pour the sauce over. 

Yeal Cutlets. See No. 40. 

EoAST Saddle of Mutton. See No. 20. 

Potato Duchesses. — Take half a dozen potatoes, boil 
them, pass them through a sieve, and work into them in a 
bowl one gill of cream and the yolks of three eggs ; add 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste, and some parsley finely 
chopped. When they are well mixed and smooth, take them 
upbytablespoonfuls,roll each into a ball, flatten it, and flour it 
slightly. Lay them all in a saute pan with plenty of butter 
melted, and cook them slowly. Turn them over when one 
side is done, and serve hot as soon as both sides are coloured. 

Laver. — Put the laver in a saucepan (enamelled) with a 
lump of butter and the juice of a lemon ; stir on the fire till 
quite hot, and serve. When practicable, it is best to serve it 
in the saucepan itself, or on a hot-water dish, so as to insure 
its being quite hot. 

Cardoons with Marrow. — Take a tin of preserved cardoons, 
open it, draw off the liquor, and lay the cardoons in a stew 
pan with enough well-flavoured stock to cover them. Let 
this remain on the fire just long enough to warm the cardoons 
through. Procure some large pieces of beef marrow by getting 
the butcher to break the bones for you. Lay the marrow in a 
saucepan with cold water and salt for about an hour ; then 
pour off the water, and replace it by fresh salted water. Put 
the saucepan on the fire ; as soon as the water boils take the 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 159 



saucepan off the fire, and let the marrow remain in the water 
till wanted. Fry in butter some well-shaped sippets of bread ; 
cut up the marrow in the same manner, and place a piece of it 
on each sippet. Dispose these round a dish. Pour some 
brown sauce (see No. 25), reduced almost to a glaze, in the 
middle. Lay the cardoons on it, and serve. 

Cheese Souffles. See No. 25. 

Orange Cream. — Make a custard with the yolks of eight 
eggs, 4oz. of pounded sugar, a quart of milk, and the thin 
rind of two oranges. Stir it in a bain-marie till it thickens- 
Dissolve loz. of gelatine in a little warm water, and add to it 
the juice of one orange, add this to the custard, strain, put 
it into a mould and place it on ice to set. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 



No. 74. JANUARY. 

Brunoise Soup. 

Boiled Codfish with Dutch Sauce. 

Veal Cutlets with Maccaroni (a la Milanaise). 

Koast Wild Duck. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Ginger Pudding. 



Brunoise. See No. 20. 
Boiled Cod Fish. See No. 22. 
Dutch Sauce. See No. 12. 
Yeal Cutlets. See No. 40. 
EoAST Wild Ducks. See No. 48. 
Brussels Sprouts. See No. 23. 
Ginger Pudding. See No. 32. 



160 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 75. FEBRUARY. 

Haricot Bean Soup. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms. 

Red Mullets with Italian Sauce. 

Turbot with Dutch Sauce. 

Poached Eggs and Spinach. 

Cauliflower with Cheese. 

Maccaroni with Tomatoes. 

Mousseline Pudding. 

Jam Tartlets. Pineapple Toas^. 

Chocolate Cream. 



Haricot Bean Soup. See IN'o. 11. 

Lobster Croquettes. See No. 53. 

Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms. See No. 16. 

Eed Mullets with Italian Sauce. — Wipe each fish quite 
dry, and lay it on a sheet of note paper well oiled with salad 
oil, sprinkle pepper and salt on the fish, and a little lemon juice. 
Fold up the paper neatly ; broil on a gridiron ; when done on 
both sides, take the fish out of the paper and lay them care- 
fully on a dish, pour the following sauce over them and serve : 
Fry in a little salad oil a couple of shalots, very finely minced, 
and then add a wineglassf ul of sherry, half a dozen mushrooms 
finely minced, and as much vegetable stock as -rnsij be required. 
Lastly, put in a little finely-chopped parsley and a little lemon 
juice. Let the sauce gently simmer for a quai-ter of an hour, 
and, having skimmed off all the fat, pour it over the fish. 

TuRBOT with Dutch Sauce. See No. -33. 

Spinach and Poached Eggs. See No. 51. 

Cauliflower with Cheese (au Gratin). See No. 17. 

Maccaroni with Tomatoes. — Put into a large saucepan 
plenty of water salted to taste ; when the water boils fast, 
throw in the maccaroni, broken into convenient lengths, but 
not too short ; stir frequently. When the maccaroni is done 
to taste, pour in a jugful of cold water, and strain the mac- 
caroni quite free from any water. According to its size, 
maccaroni takes from twenty to thirty minutes to cook it, 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 161 



should not be done too much. Dress it with plenty of 
Parmesan cheese, fresh butter, and the following sauce : 

Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, 
add the contents of a 6d. or 8cl. bottle of pure tomato sauce ; 
mix well, and then put in pepper and salt to taste, and a small 
bunch composed of a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a sprig of 
thyme, another of marjoram, and some parsley. Keep the 
sauce hot until it is wanted to dress the maccaroni, the bunch 
of herbs being removed. 

MoussELiNE Pudding. See No. 23. 

Jam Sauce. — Mix half a pot of jam with a cupful of water, 
warm it on the fire, add a wineglassful of sherry, strain, and 
pour round the pudding. 

Jam Tartlets. — Take some puff paste, roll it out half an 
inch thick, and line some patty pans with it. Cut some 
rounds out of the bottom of a stale loaf an inch in diameter 
less than the patty pans, put one in each pan exactly in the 
middle, and press it down ; bake in a quick oven until the 
paste has well risen — about fifteen minutes. Eemove the 
pieces of bread, and fill each tartlet with either apricot, straw- 
berry, or currant and raspberry jam. 

Pineapple Toast. See No. 56. 

Chocolate Cream. See No. 53. 



No. 76. MARCH. 

Poor Man's Soup. 

Sole au Gratin. 

Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. 

New Potatoes. 

Mayonnaise of Fowl. 

Marmalade Pudding, 



Poor Man's Soup. See No. 56. 

Sole au Gratin. See No. 1. 

Mutton Cutlets. See No. 42. 

Tomato Sauce. See No. 33. 

New Potatoes. See No. 13. 

Mayonnaise of Fowl. — Carve skilfully a roasted fowl into 

M 



162 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



small joints, and trim each of them neatly ; put them into a 
basin with a good sprinkling of pepper and salt, and some salad 
oil, tarragon vinegar, a couple of slices of onion, and two or 
three cloves ; let them remain in this for a couple of hours, 
turning them over occasionally. Make a foundation of shred 
lettuce on a dish, dispose on it the pieces of fowl heaped up, 
and mask them with Mayonnaise sauce. Cut some hearts of 
cabbage lettuce into quarters, dispose them round the pieces 
of fowl, with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, beetroot cut 
in small oblong squares, and olives boned, all arranged in 
some sort of order or pattern. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. See No. 27. 

Marmalade Pudding. See No. 45. 



No. 77. AFBIL. 

Croute au Pot. 

Sole with Ravigote Sauce. 

Braized Loin of Mutton. Turnips. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Cheese Straws. 
Caramel Pudding. 



Croute au pot. See No. 1. 

Sole Ravigote Sauce. See No. 55. 

Braized Loin of Mutton. See No. 47. 

Glazed Turnips. — Cut some new turnips into the shape of 
orange quarters or small pears. Parboil them for five or ten 
minutes in salted water. Drain them thoroughly, then place 
them in a well-buttered saucepan, sprinkle them with plenty 
of powdered loaf sugar, put the saucepan on the fire, and as 
soon as they begin to colour, moisten with a small quantity of 
clear stock, add a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and pepper 
and salt ; let them stew gently until done. 

Cauliflower Salad. See No. 64. 

Cheese Straws. See No. 30. 

Caramel Pudding. — Put a handful of loaf sugar in a 
saucepan with a little water, and set it on the fire until it 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 163 



becomes a dark brown caramel, then add more water (boiling) 
to produce a dark liquor like strong coffee. Beat up the 
yolks of six eggs with a little milk ; strain, add one pint of 
milk (sugar to taste) and as much caramel liquor (cold) as will 
give the mixture the desired colour. Pour it into a well- 
buttered mould ; put this in a l^ain marie with cold water ; 
then place the apparatus on a gentle fire, taking care that the 
water does not boil over. One hour's steaming will set the 
custard, which then turn out and serve. By using the white 
of one or two eggs in addition to the six yolks, the chances of 
the pudding not breaking are made more certain. 



No. 78. MAY. 

Italian Paste Soup. 

Salmon with Caper Sauce. 

Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. 

Roast Fillet of Beef. 

New Potatoes. 

Asparagus. 

Parmesan Omelet. 

Potato Souffle. Gooseberry Fool. 



Italian Paste Soup. See No. 64. 

Salmon Fillets, Caper Sauce. — Take a piece of salmon 
four inches thick, remove the bones and skin carefully, cut it 
in slices half an inch thick, and flatten each on the chopping 
board with a cutlet bat or common chopper dipped in water. 
From these slices cut as many neatly-shaped fillets of a 
uniform shape as is possible. Place them quite flat on a 
well-buttered baking tin, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, 
and ten minutes before they are wanted put them into the 
oven with a sheet of buttered white paper over them. Serve 
arranged in a circle, with the following sauce in the centre. 

Caper Sauce. See No. 14. 

Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers. See No. 64. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. See No. 26. 
M 2 



164 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Roast Fillet of Beef. See No. 5. 

New Potatoes. See No. 3. 

Asparagus. See No. 25. 

Parmesan Omelet. See No. 5. 

Potato Souffle. — Pass a couple of boiled potatoes through 
a sieve, work into them the yolks of four eggs and powdered 
loaf sugar to taste ; add enough essence of vanilla to flavour 
the mixture well, then the whites of six eggs beaten up to a 
stiff froth ; pour into it a souffle tin, bake twenty minutes, 
and serve. 

GrOOSEBERRY FooL. See No. 14. 



No. 79. MAT. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Grilled Mackerel. 

Fricandeau with Sorrel. 

Boiled Ham and Peas. 

Eggs au Gratin. 
Gooseberry Pudding. 



Asparagus Soup. See No. 13. 

Grilled Mackerel. See No. 5. 

Fricandeau. See No. 2. 

Puree of Sorrel. — Pick and wash a quantity of sorrel, put 
it into a saucepan with a little watei and some salt ; when 
thoroughly done drain off all the moisture and pass the sorrel 
through a haii sieve. Amalgamate a piece of butter and a 
tablesj^oonful of flour in a saucepan on the fire, put in the 
sorrel and stir well for some minutes ; then add peppei and 
salt to taste, and the yolk of one egg beaten up with a little 
cold stock and strained. 

Boiled Ham. — Soak the ham in water from twenty-four to 
forty-eight hours, changing the water two or three times, 
wash thoroughly clean, and trim it ; then put it into a boiler 
filled with cold water (a bottle of sherry added to the water 
is a great improvement), add carrots, celery, onions, garlic, 
parsley, thyme, marjoram, bay leaves, cloves, and mace — the 
proportions of these may be regulated by the size of the ham 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 165 



and the skill or taste of the cook. Bring it gradually to the 
boil, skim carefully, and simmer from four to six hours. 
Remove the skin, glaze the ham, and ornament the knuckle 
with a paper frill. 

Stewed Peas. See No. 29. 

Eggs au Gratin. See No. 24 

Gooseberry Pudding. — Make a paste with equal quantities 
of sifted flour and finely chopped suet, a pinch of salt, and a 
little water ; roll it out thin into a large piece, place this ovei 
a well buttered basin, and push it in so as to line the basin 
with it, cut it off all round so as to leave enough to fold up ; 
roll out the trimmings to such a size as to cover the top of 
the basin. Pick some gooseberries, and put them in the basin 
with plenty of brown sugar ; put on the cover, turn up the 
edges, and press them down ; tie a floured cloth over, and 
put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, which should 
well cover the pudding. Boil two or three hours. 



No. 80. JUNE. 

Green Pea Soup. 
Whitings au Gratin. 

Boudin of Veal. 

Roast Chicken Salad. 

Green Artichokes Stuffed. 

Cream Cheese. 

Rice Souffle. 



Green Pea Soup. See No. 42. 

Whitings au Gratin. See No. 10. 

Boudin of Veal. — Put half a pint of water into a stewpan, 
with a pinch of salt and a small piece of butter ; when it boils, 
stir into it enough flour to make a thick paste ; put it by to get 
cold. Take equal parts of this paste and veal suet, carefully 
picked; pound them first separately, then together in a 
mortar, with a piece of boiled onion more or less, according to 
taste. Pound some lean veal, and of this take as much as 
there is paste and suet. Work the whole together in a 
mortar, seasoning the mixture with pepper, salt, and spices 



1(56 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



to taste. Pass the whole through a sieve, work in as many- 
whole eggs as will bind the mixture, put it into a buttered 
mould, steam for an hour and a half. Serve over a puree of 
tomatoes. 

Tomato Puree. See No. 24. 

Roast Chicken. See No. 26. 

Salad. See No. 4. 

Green Artichokes Stuffed. — Trim off the top of the 
leaves of the artichokes, boil them for twenty minutes in 
salted water with the juice of a lemon ; drain them thoroughly ; 
take some anchovies, bone and wash them clean, then mince 
them finely with a small quantity of garlic, add some 
powdered thyme and pepper and salt ; open out the leaves of 
each artichoke without detaching them, insert a small quan- 
tity of this mixture between each leaf ; tie up each artichoke 
with thread, place them close together in a tin, pour plenty of 
olive oil over them, lay a piece of oiled paper on the top, and 
set them in the oven for about half an hour. Remove the 



threads before serving. 
Rice Souffle. See No. 7. 



No. 81. JULY. 

Bonne Femme Soup. 

Salmon au Gratin. 

Lamb Cutlets and Peas. 

Roast Quails. French Bean Salad. 

Parmesan Souffle. 

Cherry Tartlets. 



Bonne Femme Soup. See No. 4 
Salmon au Gratin. See No. 26. 
Lamb Cutlets. See No. 16. 
Stewed Peas. See No. 29. 
Roast Quails. See No, 4, 
French Bean Salad. See No, 5, 
Parmesan Souffle, See No. 52. 
Cherry Tartlets. See No. 27. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 167 



No. 82. JULY. 

Rice Soup. 

Grilled Trout. 

Grenadins of Beef. 

Aspic of Lobster. 

Genoise Pastry. 

Fruit Salad. 



Rice Soup. See No. 30. 
Grilled Trout. See No. 17. 
Grenadins of Beef. See No. 32. 
Aspic of Lobster. See No. 27. 
Genoise Pastry. See No. 4. 
Fruit Salad. See No. 4. 



No. 83. SEPTEMBER. 

Maccaroni Soup. 

Baked Gurnet. 

Yeal Quenelles with Tomato Sauce. 

Fillets of Beef and Carrots. 

Roast Partridges. 

Greengage Tartlets. 



Maccaroni Soup. See No. 9. 
Baked Gurnet. See No. 57. 
Veal Quenelles. See No. 15. 
Fillets of Beef. See No. 27. 
Carrots. See No. 47. 
Roast Partridges. See No. 6. 
Greengage Tartlets. See No. 30. 



168 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 84. OCTOBEB,. 

Julienne Soup. 

Sole au Gratin. 

Rump Steak. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

Roast Partridges. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Cheese Tartlets. 

Apricot Omelet. 



Julienne Soup. — Cut some carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, 
and celery into shreds ; boil the leeks and celery in salted 
water until quite done. Put a piece of butter the size of an 
egg into a stewpan, place it on the fire ; when melted throw 
in the cariots and turnips, stir it over the fire five minutes, then 
throw in the onions ; fry all together until they begin to colour ; 
stir the whole time ; drain off the butter, and put in about a 
gill of clear stock ; let it boil quickly until reduced to a glaze, 
then add as much clear stock as you require soup ; let it boil 
ten minutes very gently, skim off the fat, throw in the leeks 
and celery, a few leaves of tarragon, and a little chervil, salt 
to taste, and a small piece of white sugar ; let it come to the 
boil, and serve. 

Sole au Gratin. See No. 1. 

Rump Steak. — Take a piece of rump steak about three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Trim it neatly, and beat it with the 
cutlet bat, sprinkle it with pepper, dip it in oil, and broil it over 
a clear fire. Turn it after it has been on the fire a minute or 
two, and keep turning it until it is done ; eight or ten minutes 
will do it. Sprinkle with salt, and serve with a small quantity 
of finely minced parsley and a piece of butter mixed together, 
and placed over or under the steak. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. See No. 45. 

Roast Partridges. See No. 6. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Take as many tomatoes as there will 
be people to eat them ; cut a circle off the top of each, and 
with a small spoon remove all the pips, which put on one 
side ; then make a stuffing of shallots, mushrooms, and bread 
crumbs, in the proportion of ten shallots and half a pound 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 169 



of mushrooms for every ten tomatoes. Mince the shallots, 
separately, very small, and toss them in a saucepan with some 
butter. When cooked add the mushrooms, also cut up small, 
with parsley, salt, pepper, and enough bread crumbs to make 
a good thick paste. Squeeze the tomato pips, and with 
the juice moisten the stuffing, after which divide the latter 
into as many portions as there are tomatoes, inserting one into 
the hollow of each tomato ; then re-cover the tomatoes with 
the circles cut off the top ; place them in a dish large enough 
to contain all, near one another, pour over them two table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, bake in the oven for half an hour, and 
serve. 

Cheese Tartlets. See No. 3. 

Apricot Omelet. See No. 1. 



No. 85. NOVEMBER. 

Celery Soup. 

Soles in Cases. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. 

Eoast Pheasant. 

Batavian Endive Salad. 

Cheese Pudding. 

Apple Tart. Cabinet Pudding. 



Celery Soup. See No. 61. 

Soles in Cases. — Take two parts finely minced mushrooms, 
one part shallots and parsley in equal proportions, also finely 
minced; toss them in plenty of butter for a few minutes, 
adding pepper and salt to taste, and put the mixture aside. 
When cold spread a thin layer of it on each fillet, roll them 
up, and cook them between two buttered plates in the oven. 
Have ready some paper cases, place one rolled fillet in each, 
then fill up the case with white sauce, and place a button 
mushroom on the top of each, and keep quite hot till time of 
serving. Sauce : Take two parts of butter and one of flour, 
mix the two thoroughly in a saucepan on the fire, add enough 



170 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



veal stock to get the sauce of a proper consistency, add a few 
button mushrooms ; let the sauce boil for ten minutes ; stir 
in, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice 
of half a lemon. 

Fillets of Beep with Olives. See No. 62. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. See No. 31. 

EoAST Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Salad. See No. 21. 

Cheese Pudding. See No. 44. 

Apple Tart. See No. 62. 

Cabinet Pudding. — Butter a mould and ornament it at the 
bottom and sides, in some sort of pattern, with dried cherries, 
raisins, and candied peel. Fill up the mould with alternate 
slices of sponge cake and ratafias or macaroons ; then poui 
over all as much as the mould will hold of a custard made 
with eight eggs and a pint of milk, and sugar to taste, well 
flavoured with lemon or vanilla. The custard should be 
allowed to get cold before pouring it in. Steam the pudding 
for an hour and a quarter, and serve with 

Wine Sauce. See No. 21. 



No. 86. DECEMBER. 

Clear Game Soup. 

Turbot Tartare Sauce. 

Stewed Beef. 

Eoast Turkey. Boiled Ham. 

Mashed Potatoes. Brussels Sprouts. 

Cheese. 

Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. 

Cura^oa Jelly. Yanilla Cream. 

Charlotte E-usse. Tipsy Puddings. 



Game Soup. See No. 34. 

Turbot. See No. 33. 

Tartare Sauce.. See No. 17. 

Stewed Beef. See No. 56. 

Turkey, Roast. — Pick, draw, singe, and truss ; place a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 171 



couple of onions and ilb. of salt butter inside the turkey, 
and roast before a moderate fire, keeping for the first hour a 
piece of buttered paper tied over the breast ; baste frequently 
with butter and lemon juice. When nearly done sprinkle 
freely with salt. Time of roasting, two, to two and a half 
hours, according to size. 

Boiled Ham. See No. 79. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Brussels Sprouts. See No. 21. 

Plum Pudding. — Take lib. of best Yalentia raisins, stoned 
and cut in half ; lib. of best currants, rubbed in a damp cloth 
and then in a dry one, all stalks and rough bits being 
picked from them, after which sprinkle them with flour 
slightly, to prevent them from clinging together in lumps; 
lib. of nicely-shred beef suet, chopped so finely as to look like 
flour ; lib. of brown moist sugar, freed from all lumps, not the 
crystallised; lib. of finely-grated bread crumbs, off a stale 
loaf ; ilb. of candied peel, mixed orange, citron, and lemon ; 
the rind of a fresh lemon, cut thin, so as not to touch 
the white skin, and chopped very fine ; a good pinch of 
salt ; a dessert spoonful of spices, well pounded with a 
pestle in a mortar — viz., cloves, whole allspice, cinnamon, 
very little mace, half a nutmeg grated, and a little 
ginger ; one wineglassful of brandy ; eight eggs, and a little 
flour, not more than six or seven moderate-sized dessert 
spoonfuls ; no milk, as that would ruin the pudding. The 
pudding is mixed thus : Have a large pan or bowl, to give 
plenty of room for stirring, and place the five articles in 
pounds round it, thus : raisins, sugar, currants, siuet, and 
bread. If placed in this order, the mixing is greatly faci- 
litated. Stir them round from the centre until all are well 
mixed together ; then add the candied peel, cut up into 
small pieces, and sprinkled all over; then the fresh lemon- 
peel and the mixed spice, stirring after each sprinkling, the 
spoonful of salt over all. Then break and take the speck out 
of four eggs, and beat them separately; sprinkle them in a 
state of froth over the mixture in the bowl and stir again. 
Now add four dessert-spoonfuls of flour, stirring it in, and 
then add the brandy ; always stir the ingredients as lightly as 
possible, lifting it, and breaking any close heavy lumps. 



172 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Cover the bowl over, and leave it in a cool dry place for one 
night. "\Yhen required for use beat up the other four eggs, 
and add two or three spoonfuls of flour. Judge when there 
is sufficient flour by the ingredients adhering together lightly, 
not in heavy lumps. Have water ready boiling, and dip the 
pudding cloth (which should be a sound new one) into it; 
place it, when wrung as dry as possible, in a bowl, dredge it 
with flour, and drop the pudding into it in light spoonfuls 
do not press them together, as that makes the pudding 
heavy ; then gather up the cloth, a very small portion at a 
time, as small gathers make the pudding a nicer shape. 
Have a yard of new tape to tie it with, and leave plenty of 
room for the pudding to swell ; it should be tied tight enough 
to prevent the water from getting in. The pudding should 
be kept boiling for eight hours, and care taken that it does 
not set to the bottom of the pan. Place a stout stick (a 
broom handle will do) across the top of the copper, and 
fasten a loop of strong string to the pudding to sling it over 
the stick, which, besides ensuring no setting to the bottom, 
makes the pudding a nice plump shape at the top ; but it 
must be closely watched, that the water does not boil away 
and leave the pudding uncovered ; plenty of boiling water 
chould be kept ready in case this should happen. To serve 
the pudding, crushed loaf sugar should be piled on the top 
to imitate snow, and also over the sprig of berried holly that 
is stuck in it ; and, when desired, flaming spirit may be added 
in the dish. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 

CuRACOA Jelly. — Take two calves' feet, chop them into 
convenient jDieces, and put them into a saucepan with rather 
more than two quarts of cold water ; set the saucepan on the 
fire; directly the water boils throw it away, and wash the 
pieces carefully ; then put them on again with two quarts of 
cold water, and let them boil slowly for three hours, removing 
the scum carefully during the process ; then strain the liquor 
into a basin, and when quite cold and set, take off all the fat, 
and wash the top of the jelly with a little hot water, so as to 
get rid of every vestige of fat. Put the jelly in a saucepan 
on the fire ; directly it is melted add sugar to taste, the juice 
and the thin rind of one lemon, and the whites of three eggs 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 173 



whisked to a froth. Beat up the mixture till it boils. Place 
the thin rind of a lemon at the bottom of a jelly bag, and pour 
the mixture over it. The bag should have been previously- 
rinsed in boiling water, and the first half-pint of jelly that 
comes through must be returned to the bag. If the jelly does 
not come out quite clear, the operation of straining must be 
repeated. Add sufficient dry Cura^oa to the clarified jelly 
to flavour it well. Fill a mould with it and place it on ice 
to set. 

Vanilla Cream. See No. 34. 

Charlotte Eusse. See No. 45. 

Tipsy Puddings. See No. 44. 



No. 87. JANUARY. 

Oxtail Soup. 
Brill with Shrimp Sauce. 

Fried Smelts. 

Chickens with Tarragon. 

Pork Cutlets with Sharp Sauce. 

Eoast Sirloin of Beef. 

Brocoli. Potatoes. 

Eoast Wild Duck. Stewed Celery. 

Anchovy Toast. 

Sir "Watkin WjTin's Pudding. Apple Compote. 

Chocolate Genoise. Orange Jelly. 



Oxtail Soup. — Take a couple of ox tails, divide them at the 
joints, and put them into a saucepan with three quarts of cold 
water, and salt to taste. Let it come gently to the boil, 
removing carefully the while any scum that rises. Add 
gradually the following vegetables, cut in convenient 
pieces : Three or four carrots (according to size), one small 
turnip, two onions stuck with half a dozen cloves, about 
twenty peppercorns, half a head of celery, a bay leaf, and 
some parsley. Put in a few drops of sue colorant, and let the 
soup boil very gently four or five hours. Strain the liquor, 
and remove all fat from it. Serve with the pieces of ox-tail, 
omitting the largest ones. 



174 PRACTICAL DIXNERS. 



Brill with Shrimp Sauce. See No. 20. 

Fried Smelts. — Let them be carefully floured, and fry them 
in plenty of hot lard. When done drain them well in front of 
the fire, sprinkle them all over with very fine salt, and serve 
with fried parsley and lemon cut into " quarters." 

Chicken with Tarragon. See No. 12. 

Pork Chops. See No. 21. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef. See No. 33. 

Brocoli. See No. 46. 

Potatoes. See No. Q"?. 

Roast Wild Duck. See No. 48. 

Stewed Celery. See No. 35. 

Anchovy Toast. See No. 11. 

Sir W. Wynn's Pudding. See No. 35. 

Apple Compote. See No. 21. 

Genoise Pastry. No. 4. 

Orange Jelly. See No. 47. 



No. 88. JANUARY. 

Lentil Soup. 

Boiled Haddock with Egg Sauce. 

Hashed Mutton. Mashed Potatoes. 

Seakale. 

Fig Pudding. 



Lentil Soup. — Wash a quantity of large lentils in cold 
water. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, 
two onions stuck with cloves, a blade of mace and a bay 
leaf tied together. Let them boil until done, adding at 
intervals small quantities of cold water. Strain ofi the water 
and pass the lentils through a sieve. Dilute them, with 
vegetable stock, or with the liquor in which they were boiled, 
to the consistency^ of a puree. Make it quite hot, add a pat 
of fresh butter and the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a 
little water and strained. Serve with sippets of bread fried 
in butter. 

Boiled Haddock. No. 11. 

Hashed Mutton. — Mince an onion and fry it in butter to a 



PEACTICAL DINNERS. 175 



browii colour, add a tablespoonful of flour, stir well, pour in 
enough stock or broth to make the sauce, with a dash of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and spice« to taste. Let the sauce give 
a boil, then strain it, and when cold put in the slices of meat, 
well trimmed of any outside parts, and a good allowance of 
pickled gherkins cut in slices. Let the whole get w^arm by 
gentle simmering, and keep it hot till wanted for table. 
Serve garnished with fried sippets. Cut out of a loaf slices 
from a quarter to three-eighths of an inch thick, shape them 
into triangles or arrow-heads all of a size ; put some butter in 
a frying pan, and when quite hot lay the sippets in it. Turn 
them frequently, adding more butter as it is wanted, and 
taking care that they are all fried to the same light golden 
colour. A readier way, but producing not so nice a sippet, is 
to lay the pieces of bread in the frying basket, and dip it in a 
saucepan full of boiling fat. They must afterwards be laid in 
front of the fire to drain. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. IL 

Seakale. See No. 24. 

Fig Pudding. — Take ilb. of finely grated bread crumbs, 
|lb. of finely chopped figs, 3oz. of white sugar, 6oz. of finely 
chopped suet, with grated nutmeg to taste. Put the figs in a 
teacupful of warm milk near the fire until thoroughly soaked, 
then add the other ingredients ; mix well, put into a mould, 
and boil for four hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

Wine Sauce. See No. 21. 



No. 89. MARCH. 

Bouillabaisse. 

Turbot with Dutch Sauce. Fried Smelts. 

Maccaroni with Tomatoes. 

Green Artichokes. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Parmesan Fondue. 

Baked Fritters and Custard. 

Apple Charlotte. 



Bouillabaisse. — Take several kinds of fish, such as 



176 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



whitings, gurnets, John dorej, turbot, and cut them in 
pieces the size of an egg ; mince an onion, a small piece of 
garlic, one tomato, a few sprigs of parsley ; put the whole in 
a saucepan with half a tumbler of the finest olive oil, a pinch 
of pepper, and one of mixed spice. When the onions are 
slightly coloured, add the fish, salt quant, suff., and a very 
small pinch of powdered saffron ; then fill up with sufiicient 
boiling water to come up to, but not cover, the fish. This 
done, let the bouillabaisse boil fast for twenty minutes, or 
until the liquor be reduced by one-fourth. Then serve the 
fish on one dish, and the liquor on another over thick but 
small slices of bread. 

Turbot. See No. 33. 

Fried Smelts. See No. 87. 

Maccaroni with Tomatoes. — Put some fine olive oil into a 
saucepan with an onion cut into dice, then thrown into cold 
water and squeezed dry in a cloth ; add, or not, a clove of 
garlic, and let it remain on the fire, shaking it occasionally, 
till the onion is almost melted away ; then add parsley, mar- 
joram, thyme, pepper, and salt. Take a piece of " conserva '* 
(tomato pulp dried in the sun to the consistency of damson 
cheese), cut it in pieces the size of a pea, put in the pieces a 
few at a time, always stirring the contents of the saucepan. 
The " conserva " must be fresh and soft ; if it is old and 
tough it must first be softened by kneading it with a little 
water. When sufficient " conserva " has been put in, moisten 
with water a spoonful at a time, until there is enough sauce. 
Let the whole simmer some ten minutes longer ; then strain, 
remove superfluous fat, and the sauce is ready. Dress the 
maccaroni with it and with Parmesan cheese. French tomato 
sauce may be used in lieu of "conserva." The maccaroni 
should be boiled as follows: Put into a large saucepan 
plenty of water salted to taste ; when the water boils fast 
throw in the maccaroni, broken into convenient lengths, 
but not too short ; stir frequently. When the maccaroni is 
done to taste, pour in a jugful of cold water, and strain the 
maccaroni quite free from any water. According to its 
size, maccaroni takes from twenty to thirty minutes to 
cook ; it should not be done too much. 

Green Artichokes. See No. 27. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 177 



Cauliflower Salad. See No. 64. 
Parmesan Fondue. See No. 6. 
Baked Fritters. See No. 65. 
Apple Charlotte. See No. 47. 



No. 90. MARCH. 

Spring Soup. 

Fillets of Mackerel with Italian Sauce. 

Mutton Cutlets with New Carrots. 

Eoast Chicken. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Bakewell Pudding. 



Spring Soup. See No. 2. 
Fillets of Mackerel. See No. 50. 
Mutton Cutlets. See No. 19. 
New Carrots. See No. 3. 
EoAST Chicken. See No. 26. 
Cheese Omelet. See No, 5. 
Bakewell Pudding. See No. 37. 



No. 91. APRIL. 

Lentil Soup. 

Red Mullet with Olives. 

Minced Yeal and Poached Eggs. 

Mutton Cutlets. 

Cauliflowers au Gratin. 

Yenus Pudding. 



Lentil Soup. See No. 88. 

Red Mullet with Olives. — Make a paste in a basin with 
bread crumbs soaked in milk, and squeezed dry, butter, 
minced parsley, pepper, salt, and spices to taste ; add a yolk 
of egg to it, and when it is worked to a smooth consistence, 

N 



178 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



stuff the mullets with it, and put them to cook in the oven in 
a tin, with plenty of olive oil, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Fry some shallots in oil till they are a gold colour ; stir in a 
little flour, and as much well-flavoured stock as you want 
sauce ; add spices, pepper, and salt to taste ; then strain it, 
and add a quantity of olives previously stoned and parboiled. 
Let them simmer in the sauce for a short time ; then serve 
with the mullets. 

Minced Yeal. — Take some remnants of roast or braised 
veal, trim off all browned parts, and mince it very finely. 
Fry a shallot also finely minced in plenty of butter ; when it 
becomes of a light straw colour add a large pinch of flour and 
a little white stock, then the minced veal with chopped 
parsley, and pepper and salt to taste, as well as a little grated 
nutmeg. Mix well, and add more stock if necessary, letting 
the mince get hot very gradually by the side of the fire. 
When quite hot stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg and the 
juice of half a lemon beaten up together. Serve with sippets 
of fried bread round it, and three or four poached eggs on the 
top. 

Mutton Cutlets. See No. 19. Serve round a heap of 

Potatoes Sautees. — Take some cold boiled potatoes, cut 
them in slices, and put them in a saucepan, with plenty of 
butter or clarified beef dripping, salt, plenty of pepper, and 
some finely minced parsley ; keep turning them over till they 
are a light brown. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. See No. 17. 

Venus Pudding. — Take a quart mould, butter it well, and 
ornament it with candied ginger cut in slices ; make a rich 
custard with the yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs, 
a pint of cream, and loaf sugar to taste, then dissolve loz. of 
gelatine in sufiicient milk to fill up the mould when added to 
the custard ; when cold add a glass of rum or sherry ; pour 
the mixture into the mould, and place it on ice to set. 
Before adding the gelatine put aside a little of the custard 
for sauce, add some ginger syrup to this, and serve cold with 
the pudding. 



TRACTICAL DINNERS. 179 



No. 92. MAY. 

Sevignc Soup, 

Sole au Gratin. 

Fricandeau with Sorrel. 

Camembert Cheese. 

Rice Souffle. 



Sevigne Soup. See No. 14. 
Sole au Gratin. See No. 1. 
Fricandeaux of Veal. See Nos. 2 and 79. 
Rice Souffle. See No. 7. 



No. 93. JUNE. 

Maccaroni Soup. 

Salmon Cutlets. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. 

Fillets of Beef with Anchovy Butter. 

New Potatoes. 

Green Artichokes. 

Small Cheese Souffles. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Genoise Pastry. 



Maccaroni Soup. See No. 9. 

Salmon Cutlets. See No. 2. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. — Take a pair of calf's sweetbreads 
quite fresh, wash them, and put them into a large stewpan 
full of cold water, with a little salt ; let them boil ten 
minutes, remove them with a slice into a large basin of cold 
water ; when quite cold put them on a cloth to dry, and lard 
them neatly with finely cut bacon. Place them into a stewpan 
with young carrots, onions, thyme, parsley, and a bay leaf, a 
little salt and pepper, and cloves ; add half a pint of stock. 
Put them to stew gently for one hour and a half, basting 
them with the stock occasionally to prevent their getting 

N 2 



180 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



dry. Place them on a dish, strain the gravy into a small 
basin, remove the fat, pour round the sweetbread, and serve. 

Fillets of Beef — Anchovy Butter. — Take a piece of the 
undercut of sirloin of beef, trim off , the fat neatly, and the 
skin next to it ; cut it across the grain into slices l^^in. thick, 
sprinkle them with pepper, dip them in oil, and broil over 
a clear fire, sprinkle with salt, and serve very hot in a dish 
with a piece of anchovy butter on each, made as follows : 
Bone, clean, and wash a few anchovies, pound them in a 
mortar with a piece of butter to a smooth paste. Serve with 
them New Potatoes. See No. 3. 

Green Artichokes. See No. 67. 

Cheese Souffles. See No. 25. 

Gooseberry Fool. See No. 14. 

Genoise Pastry. See No. 4. 



No. 94. JULY. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Salmon with Tartare Sauce. 

Croquettes of Fowl. 

Yeal Cutlets with Italian Sauce. 

Tomatoes au Gratin. 

Cherry Tart. 



Green Pea Soup. See No. 5. 

Salmon, Tartare Sauce. See No. 24. 

Croquettes of Fowl. See No. 37. 

Yeal Cutlets. — Take a small neck of veal, divide it into 
cutlets with a bone to each ; trim them all neatly in the same 
manner as mutton cutlets. Take a piece of rather lean bacon, 
cut it in slices one-eighth of an inch thick, and trim each 
slice to the size of the cutlets ; sprinkle the veal cutlets with 
pepper and salt, and fry them on both sides in butter till well 
done. Fry the bacon separately. Arrange the cutlets and 
bacon alternately in a circle on a dish over the following 



PEACTICAL DINNERS. 181 



sauce : Put into a saucepan a small piece of butter and six 
shallots finely minced, fry them until they begin to colour, 
strain off the butter, and add two tablespoonf uls of white wine 
vinegar. Leave the saucepan on the fire until the vinegar is 
almost dried up, taking care that the shallots do not burn ; 
then put it aside. Into another saucepan put a piece of 
butter and a teaspoonful of flour, mix well on the fire ; then 
add half a tumbler of stock, two or three cloves, half a dozen 
crushed peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and salt to 
taste; let this simmer half an hour, then strain into the 
saucepan with the shallots, throw in a little chopped parsley, 
and when the sauce boils up it is ready. 

Tomatoes au Gratin. — Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, 
remove the pips, and fill the inside with a mixture of bread 
crumbs, grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt, in due 
proportions ; place a small piece of butter on each half 
tomato, and lay them close together in a well-buttered tin. 
Bake in a slow oven about half an hour and serve. 

Cherry Tart. See No. 15. 



No. 95. AUGUST. 

Tomato Soup. 

Grey Mullet with White Sauce. 

Stewed Mutton Cutlets. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. 

Cheese Fritters. 

Plum Tart. 



Tomato Soup. See No. 6. 

Grey Mullet. See No. 18. 

Mutton Cutlets Stewed. — Cut a quantity of carrots, 
turnips, and potatoes, all to the size of olives. Trim some 
cutlets, and toss them in butter, with a sprinkling of pepper 
and salt till they begin to colour ; put them in a stewpan with 
the carrots, about a pint of stock (free from fat), a spoonful 
of French tomato sauce, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and let 
them stew gently for fifteen minutes, then add the potatoes, 



182 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and lastly the turnips ; let the whole stew gently till meat 
and vegetables are quite done ; add a piece of butter rolled in 
flour, a small piece of glaze, and more pepper and salt. 
Remove the sweet herbs, and serve the cutlets round the 
vegetables, with as much of the gravy as is required. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. See ISTo. 55. 

Cheese Fritters. See No. 15. 

Pluji Tart. — Stone some plums and stew them for an hour, 
with plenty of sugar and half a tumblerful of water. Make 
a short paste with the white of one, and the yolks of three 
eggs, an ounce of butter, an ounce of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
a little water, and flour quant, suff. Eoll it out to the thick- 
ness of a penny piece, line a flat mould with it, uniting the 
joints with white of egg, fill it with rice and bake it. When 
done remove the rice, jDut in it the stewed fruit, and serve. 



No. 96. SEFTEMBEH. 

Grouse Soup. 

Fried Eels. 

Stewed Steak. Mashed Potatoes. 

Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. 

Beignets Soufiies. 



Grouse Soup. See No. 43. 

Fried Eels. See No. 56. 

Stewed Steak. See No. 61. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. — Parboil a couple of mode- 
rate-sized marrows, cut in four lengthwise, drain them 
carefully, and dispose them on a well-buttered dish, previously 
well-rubbed with shallot or slightly rubbed with garlic. 
Sprinkle plenty of grated Parmesan over them, pepper and 
salt, and grated nutmeg ; put a few pieces of butter on the 
top, and over all a good sprinkling of very fine baked bread 
crumbs. Bake about twenty minutes, and serve in the dish. 

Beignets Souffles. See No. 9. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 183 



No. 97. OCTOBER. 

Quenelle Soup. 

Brill with Shrimp Sauce. 

Croquettes of Game. 

Mutton Cutlets with Spinach. 

Braised Beef with Maccaroni. 

Roast Pheasant. 

Russian Salad, Fondue. 

Venus Pudding. Vanilla Cream. 

Orange Jelly. Apple Charlotte. 



Quenelle Soup. See No. 21. 
Brill. See No. 20. 
Croquettes of Game. See No. 57. 
Mutton Cutlets. See No. 1. 
Braised Beef. See No. 43. 
Roast Pheasant. See No. 9. 
Russian Salad. See No. 13. 
Fondue. See No. 6. 
Venus Pudding. See No. 91. 
Vanilla Crea^i. See No. 84. 
Orange Jelly. See No. 47. 
Apple Charlotte. See No. 7. 



No. 98. OCTOBER. 

Soup with Custard (Consomme a la Royale 

John Dory with Caper Sauce. 

Chicken Kromeskys. 

Fricandeau with Spinach. 

Roast Pheasant. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Caramel Pudding. 

Apple and Quince Tart. 



Soup with Custard. See No. 3. 



184 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



John Dory. See No. 14. 

Chicken Kromeskts. See No. 3. 

Fricandeau. See No. 2. 

EoAST Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Cauliflotter Salad. See No. 64. 

Caramel Pudding. See No. 2. 

Apple and Quince Tart. — Lay a disc of puff paste on a 
round tin, and place a strip of paste all round it as for an 
ordinary jam tart. Spread on the inside a layer of quince 
marmalade a quarter of an inch thick. Peel and core some 
apples, cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick, trim all 
the slices to the same shape, dispose these slices over the 
marmalade, overlapping each other, and in some kind of 
pattern ; strew plenty of sugar over, and bake in a quick oven 
till the apples are a good colour. 



No. 99. DECEMBER, 

Soup with Custard. 

Fillets of Soles a la Bechamel. 

Eoast Turkey. 

Boiled Ham. 

Mashed Potatoes. Brussels Sprouts. 

Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. 

Orange Jelly. Charlotte Russe. 



Soup with Custard. See No. 3. 

Fillets of Soles. See No. 46. 

Roast Turkey. See No. 86. 

Gravy. See No. 6. 

Boiled Ham. See No. 79. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Brussels Sprouts. See No. 23. 

Plum Pudding. — Take |lb. of stoned Valencia raisins, |lb. of 
well-cleaned currants, l^oz. of flour, ^Ib. of beef suet (chopped 
very fine), lib. grated bread crumbs, 2oz. of moist sugar (as 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 185 



' dark as possible), half a nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of 
ginger, 2oz. of candied peel, and the rind of a small lemon, 
peeled as thin as a wafer. Chop all very small, and mix the 
ingredients well with a wineglassful of Marsala, and four 
eggs, well beaten up. Cover over with a plate and let it 
stand all night. In the morning stir it well again, add a 
4ittle milk, and put in two three or sixpenny pieces, which 
should be well washed before putting in. When well stirred, 
put the pudding into a well-buttered and floured cloth (a new 
one well scalded), taking care to leave room for it to swell ; tie 
it up tightly and boil for six hours, a week or so before it is 
wanted, and at least four hours the day the pudding is to be 
eaten. It can be served simply sprinkled well over the top 
with powdered white sugar and with a sprig of holly in the 
centre, or with the following sauce : 

Pltjm Pudding Sauce. — Beat up together ^Ib. of butter, 
four teaspoonfuls of brown sugar, one egg, and one wine- 
glassful of wine. Boil it up once, and serve immediately. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 

Orange Jelly. See No. 47. 

Charlotte Russe. See No. 45. 



No. 100. DECEMBER. 

Gravy Soup. 

Codfish with Oyster Sauce. 

Game Kromeskys. Stewed Kidneys. 

Braised Beef a la Jardiniere. 

E/Oast Turkey. 

Spinach. Potato Snow. Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Anchovy Toast. Stilton Cheese. 

Plum Pudding. 

Mince Pies. 

Pine Apple Jelly. Chocolate Cream. 



Gravy Soup. See No. 33. 

Cod's He.ad and Shoulders. — Tie up the head several 



186 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



times over with string, and lay the fish in plenty of hot water 
very much salted ; let it gently simmer for about fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and, so soon as the skin begins to crack, raise 
up the fish on the strainer over the water, and let it drain 
well; then brush it over lightly with olive oil, remove the 
string, and serve, garnished with lemon, and with oyster sauce 
in a boat. 

Oyster Sauce. See No. 22. 

Game Kromeskys. — Pick out all the meat from the remnants 
of any kind of game, pound it in a mortar with a little butter, 
and pass it through a hair sieve ; put it into a saucepan with 
a little butter, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, give it a turn 
on the fire, then take it off ; stir in, off the fire, the yolk of 
one or two eggs and some lemon juice. Spread out the 
mixture to get cold, and divide it into very small portions. 
Cut some slices of bacon as thin as possible, and to the size 
of ll^in. by 2^in., place on each slice a teaspoonful of the 
mince, and roll it up neatly in the bacon ; beat up together 
the yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of brandy, one of 
olive oil, and four or five of cold water ; incorporate with this 
about three tablespoonfuls of flour and a good pinch of salt ; 
keep on beating the mixture for a little time, then add as 
much water as will make it of the right consistency. When 
ready to use this batter, stir into it quickly the whites of two 
eggs beaten up to a froth. Dip each kromesky in it, and fry 
them a light colour in hot lard. 

Stewed Kidneys. See No. 72. 

Braised Beef with Vegetables (a la Jardiniere). — Put 
in a stewpan a layer of slices of onion, and over this a layer 
of slices of fat bacon half an inch thick ; on this place a piece 
of round of beef 81b. or 101b. weight, neatly tied up with 
string ; set the saucepan on the fire for twenty minutes, and 
turn the beef over once or twice during the process, then add 
a cupful of wine (red or white), a couple of carrots, and an 
onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt 
to taste, and a few cloves. Lastly, fill up the saucepan with 
just enough common stock to come up to the top of the piece 
of beef; cover the pan close, and braise it for four or five 
hours, keeping a few hot cinders on the lid. Serve with its own 
gravy, freed from fat, and strained, and round it small heaps 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 187 



of any dressed vegetables in season, e.g., carrots, Brussels 
sprouts, glazed turnips, &c., or a mixture, say, of carrots and 
turnips cut into the shape of small olives, and very small 
sprigs of brocoli parboiled, and then tossed in white sauce, 
made in the following way : Put into half a pint of milk two 
or three mushrooms, one onion, and a carrot, cut into pieces, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, whole pepper and salt to taste, a few 
cloves, and a little mace ; let the whole gently simmer for 
half an hour. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan, and mix 
with it a tablespoonful of flour, then strain the flavoured 
milk in the saucepan, and stir on the fire until it 
thickens. 

Turkey, Egast. — Pluck, singe, draw, wipe thoroughly, and 
truss a fine turkey, stuff it with plain forcemeat or chestnut 
stuffing, pack it up in some thin slices of fat bacon, and 
over that a sheet of buttered paper, roast before a clear 
fire, basting frequently with butter. A quarter of an hour 
before it is done remove the paper and slices of bacon. 
Sprinkle with salt just before serving; garnish with pork 
sausages, and serve with a boat of gravy. Time of roasting, 
two or three hours, according to size. 

Forcemeat. — Pound to a paste in a mortar slightly rubbed 
with garlic, equal parts of veal and fat ham or bacon, then 
pass them through a wire sieve, and return them to the 
mortar. Work into the paste thus obtained a fourth of its 
bulk of butter, and about the same quantity of bread crumbs, 
soaked in milk or in stock, with the yolks of one or more 
eggs according to quantity. Add some minced parsley and 
pepper, salt, spices, and powdered sweet herbs to taste. 

Chestnut Stuffing. — Remove the outer skin from a quan- 
tity of chestnuts ; set them to boil in salted water, with a 
handful of coriander seeds and a couple of bay leaves. When 
nearly done drain off the water, and remove the inner skin of 
the chestnuts. Cut up ^Ib. of butter into small pieces, mix 
it with the chestnuts when cold, together with an onion finely 
minced. Sprinkle the mixture with pepper and salt and a 
little powdered spice to taste, and stuff the turkey with it. 

Sausages. — Prick them lightly with a fork or trussing 
needle, and fry them in butter or lard, turning them frequently 
until thoroughly cooked. 



188 PRACTICAL DINNEES. 



Spinach. See No. 45. 
Potato Snow. See No. 23. 
Jerusalem Artichokes. See No. 22. 
Anchovy Toast. See No. 11. 
Plum Pudding. See No. 33. 
Mince Pies. See No. 33. 
Pineapple Jelly. See No. 28. 
Chocolate Cream. See No. 53. 



No. 101. DECEMBER. 

Quenelle Soup. Sevigne Soup. 

Turbot with Tartare Sauce. Pried Smelts. 

Supreme of Fowls. Mutton Cutlets (a la Reforme). 

Maccaroni Timbales. Fillets of Eabbit with Liver Sauce. 

Boiled Turkey with Celery Sauce. Tongue. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. Spinach. Potato Croquettes. 

Roast Pheasants. Watercress Salad. 

Fondue of Cheese. 

Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. Maraschino Jelly. 

Diplomatic Pudding. Genoise Pastry. Chestnut Cream. 



Quenelle Soup. See No. 21. 

Sevigne Soup. See No. 14 

Turbot. See Nos. 33 and 17. 

Smelts. See No. 87. 

Supreme of Fowls. See No. 13. 

Mutton Cutlets (Cotelettes a la Reforme). — Take the 
whites of four hard-boiled eggs, ^Ib. of cooked tongue, and 
one small bottle of truffles ; cut them all in long narrow 
strips, and put tkem into a small stewpan. Mince together 
the trimmings of the eggs, tongue, and truffles ; beat up 
three eggs in a basin with a little salt, dip each cutlet in 
this, and press an equal quantity of the above mince on 
both sides of it; dip it again in the egg, bread-crumb it 
carefully, and flatten it with a cutlet bat. Fry in oil on a 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 189' 



slow fire about ten minutes. While the cutlets are being 
fried melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a teaspoonful 
of flour, and stir on the fire until it begins to colour ; then 
add a gill of good stock, three cloves, four peppercorns, a 
sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a bay leaf, and a little salt. 
Let the sauce boil half an hour, skim off the fat, add a wine- 
glassful of sherry, and strain it on the garnish of long 
narrow strips mentioned above. Dish up the cutlets in a 
circle, with the garnish in the centre. 

TiMBALE OF Maccaroni. — Take |lb. of Naples maccaroni, 
boil it until quite soft, drain it on a cloth, cut it in pieces 
a quarter of an inch long, well butter a dozen dariole moulds, 
line them with buttered paper, then with the maccaroni 
placed endwise, so as to give the appearance of honeycomb 
when turned out. Make a paste thus : put a gill of water, a 
small piece of butter, and a little salt into a stewpan to boil ; 
when boiling throw into it a tablespoonful of flour, stir for 
a few minutes, then stir in one egg, turn it on to a plate until 
wanted. Take a pound of veal cutlet, all lean, pound it in a 
mortar, and add to it half its bulk of the above paste, 
and a quarter of it of butter, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg 
to taste, mix all together, add one whole egg and three 
yolks, pass it through a wire sieve, stir in a gill of white 
stock or milk, fill up the moulds with this, and steam them 
for half an hour. Turn them out carefully on a bed of 

Truffle Sauce. — Rub a saucepan with a shallot, melt a 
piece of butter in it, add a very small quantity of flour and 
the trimmings of some trufiles chopped coarsely; moisten 
with some good stock, free from fat, and a little white wine, 
season with pepper, salt, and the least bit of nutmeg. Let 
the sauce simmer about ten minutes, and it is ready. 

Fillets op Rabbit, See No. 33. Serve with 

Liver Sauce. — Take the livers of any kind of poultry, 
rabbits, or hares, scald them, and mince them flnely. Melt a 
piece of butter in a saucepan, add a little flour to it, and a 
small quantity of minced shallots. Let the whole fry for a 
minute or two, then add gravy stock in sufiicient quantity to 
make a sauce, a small pinch of powdered sweet herbs and 
pepper, spices and salt to taste. Put in the minced livers and 
a glass of port wine. Let the sauce boil for twenty minutes. 



190 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



and at the time of serving add a small piece of fresh butter 
and the juice of half a lemon. 

Turkey (Boiled). — Wash the turkey in tepid water, and 
rub it all over with lemon juice ; then put it into a saucepan 
full of boiling water, with a large piece of butter, a couple of 
onions, a head of celery, some sliced carrots, a bunch of 
parsley and sweet herbs, whole pepper, mace, cloves, and salt 
to taste. Let it boil slowly, and remove carefully any scum 
that may rise. Serve with celery sauce. 

Celery Sauce. — Boil two or three heads of celery in salted 
water, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and some whole pepper 
and salt to taste ; when thoroughly done, pass them through 
a hair sieve. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, mix a 
tablespoonful of flour with it, then add the celery pulp, stir, 
and dilute to the proper consistency with milk or cream. 

Boiled Tongue. — Soak it for several hours, put it into cold 
water with a bunch of savoury herbs, bring it gradually to 
the boil, and then simmer for two or three hours till quite 
tender. Serve with a frill round the root. 

EoAST Sirloin oe Beef. See No. 33. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. See No. 61. 

Spinach. See No. 45. 

Potato Croquettes. — Pass some cold boiled potatoes 
through a sieve. Make them into a paste with the yolk of an 
egg or a whole egg, according to quantity ; add pepper and 
salt to taste and a little minced parsley. Fashion the paste 
into round balls the size of a nut by rolling them in bread 
crumbs. Dip them in egg beaten up, and again roll in bread 
crumbs. Fry in hot lard, and serve with fried parsley. 

EoAST Pheasants. See No. 9. 

Watercress Salad. See No. 44. 

Fondue. See No. 6. 

Plum Pudding. See No. 86. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 

Maras'chino Jelly. — Add sufficient maraschino to a pint of 
clarified jelly, made either with gelatine or with calves' feet; 
pour it into a mould, and place it on ice to set. At the time 
of serving dip the mould in hot water and turn out the 

jelly. 

Genoise Pastry. See No. 4. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 191 



Chestnut Cream. — Peel about twenty sound chestnuts, 
and parboil them in slightly salted water until the inner skin 
comes off easily. Pound them in a mortar, and pass them 
through a fine sieve. Soak l^oz. of gelatine in half a pint of 
milk, add six sweet almonds blanched and bruised, the thin 
rind of half a lemon, and sugar quant, suff. Let the whole 
come to the boil, and then put it by to cool a little, and strain 
this on the chestnut puree, mixing the two very thoroughly ; 
add a wineglassful of dry cura9oa, and lastly, half a pint of 
cream ; mix thoroughly, pour into a mould, set it on ice to 
set, and turn it out on a bed of cream whipped with sugar to 
a froth. If the cream put into the mixture is previously 
whipped it is an improvement. 

Diplomatic Pudding. See No. 52. 



No. 102. DECEMBER. 

Oysters. 

Game Soup. Lobster Soup. 

Soles in Cases. Red Mullet. 

Grenadins of Beef. Sweetbreads. 

Braised Turkey. Potatoes Duchesses. 

Roast Woodcock. 

Russian Salad. Celery on Toast. 

Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. 

St. Honore of Pears. Macedoine of Fruit. 

Cheese Souffles. 



Oysters. — Put from four to six oysters before each guest 
on a plate, with a lemon quartered, and with the uppei shell 
replaced over each oyster. Serve thin slices of brown bread 
and butter and cayenne with them. 

Game Soup. See No. 44. 

Lobster Soup. See No. 23. 

Soles in Cases. See No. 85. 

Red Mullet. See No. 91. 

Grenadins of Beef. See No. 32. 

Sweetbreads. See No. 78. 



192 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Braised Turkey. See No. 33. 

Potato Duchesses. See No, 73. 

Roast "Woodcocks. — RemoYe the gizzard from each bird, 
truss and wi'ap the birds in bacon, and roast them at a brisk 
fire, basting them continually with butter. Place a slice of 
toast in the dripping pan to catch the trail, and serve the 
birds on that toast. Plain white sauce to be served in a boat 
with them. Time of roasting, ten to fifteen minutes. 

White Sauce. See No. 36. 

EussiAN Salad. See No. 13. 

Celery. See No. 62. 

Plum Pudding. See No. 86. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 

St. Honore. See No. 43. 

Stewed Pears. See No. 7. 

Fruit Macedoine. — Take equal quantities of fruit — straw- 
berries, stoned cherries, apricots, greengages — preserved in 
syrup. Strain off the syrup, reduce it, if necessary, and when 
cold add a wineglass or more, according to taste and quantity 
of fruit, of pale brandy. Put the fruit into a glass dish, 
arrange it in some symmetrical manner, and pour the 
brandied syrup over. 

Cheese Soupfles. See No. 25. 



No. 103. NOVEMBER. 

Game Soup. 

Turbot with Tartare Sauce. 

Larks in Cases. 

Timbales of Yeal. 

Grenadins of Beef with Olives. 

Eoast Pheasant. 

Endive Salad. 

Yenus Pudding. 

St. Honore of Apricots. 

Russian Jelly. 



Game Soup. See No. 44. 
Turbot. See No. 86. 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 193 

Larks in Cases. See No. 33. 

TiMBALES OF Veal. — With a column cutter cut out of 
turnips and the red part of carrots a number of long round 
pieces rather less than three-eighths of an inch in diameter. 
Cut these pieces into slices about one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Be careful to have all these pieces, which should be like 
very small counters, of uniform shape. Boil them separately 
in salted water with a pinch of sugar ; do not let them be 
overdone, and turn them out on a sieve to drain quite dry. 
Take a number of dariole moulds, butter them thickly, and, 
using a trussing needle for the purpose, line them with the 
pieces of carrots and turnips in alternate rows by pressing 
them gently against the buttered bottom and sides. When they 
are all done, fill the moulds with the following composition : 
Put half a pint of water into a stewpan, with a pinch of salt 
and a small piece of butter ; when it boils stir into it enough 
flour to make a thick paste ; put it by to get cold. Take 
equal parts of this paste and veal suet, carefully picked ; 
pound them first separately, then together in a mortar, with a 
piece of boiled onion, more or less, according to taste. Pound 
some lean veal, and of this take as much as there is paste 
and suet. Work the whole together in a mortal , seasoning 
the mixture with pepper, salt, and spices (one of which 
should be nutmeg) to taste. Pass the whole through a sieve, 
work in as many whole eggs as will bind the mixture. Place 
the moulds into a stewpan with hot water, and a piece of paper 
over them, and steam them for about half an hour. Turn 
them out very carefully on a dish, and pour under them a 
sufficient quantity of the following sauce : Put into a pint of 
milk two or three mushrooms, one onion, and a carrot cut 
in pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, whole pepper and salt to 
taste, a few cloves, and a little mace ; let the whole gently 
simmer for about an hour. Put an ounce of butter into a 
saucepan, and mix with it a tablespoonful of flour ; then 
strain the flavoured milk into the saucepan, and stir on 
the fire until it thickens. Finish l)y stirring in a gill of 
cream. 

Grenadins of Beef. See No. 22. 

Roast Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Salad. See No. 21. 





194 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



Yenus Pudding. See No. 91. 
St. Hoxore. See No. 43. 
Russian Jelly. See No. 65. 



No. 104. JANUARY. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Salmon Cutlets. 

Sweetbreads. 

Stewed Fillet of Beef. 

Gorgonzola Cheese. 

Chartreuse of Strawberries. 

Tipsy Puddings. 



Asparagus Soup. See No. 52. 

Salmon Cutlets. See No. 78. 

Sweetbreads. See No. 26. 

Stewed Fillet of Beef. See No. 24. 

Chartreuse of Strawberries. See No. 27. 

Tipsy Puddings. See No. 44. 



No. 105. MARCH. 

Haricot Beans Soup. 

Mashed Salt Fish. 

Fried Soles. 

Turnip Tops and Poached Eggs. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Savoury Omelet. 

Cheese. 

Pancakes. 



Haricot Beans Soup. See No. 11. 
Salt Fish (Brandade). See No. 49. 
Fried Soles. See No. 58. 

Turnip Tops and Poached Eggs.— Take a quantity of turnip 
tops, picked clean and washed, put them into a saucepan with 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 195 



a little water. When thoroughly done put them on a hair 
sieve to drain. When all the water has thoroughly drained 
from them, pass them through the sieve. Mix -in a saucepan 
a tablespoonful of flour with about loz. of butter, add the 
turnip-top puree, stir well, put in pepper and salt to taste, and 
serve hot in a dish garnished with fried sippets of bread, and 
lay on the top half a dozen poached eggs. (See No. 7.) 

Stewed Potatoes. — Rub a saucepan with a clove of garlic, 
put 2oz. of butter into it, and when it is melted add six 
potatoes, peeled, and cut in quarters. Put in a little hot 
water, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of grated 
nutmeg, some minced parsley, and the juice of half a lemon 
Let the whole stew slowly till the potatoes are quite done. 

Savoury Omelet. — Beat up three or four eggs with one 
dessertspoonful of parsley very finely minced, half a clove of 
shallot, also finely minced, pepper and salt to taste. Put a 
piece of butter the size of an egg into a frying pan ; as soon 
as it is melted pour in the omelet mixture, and, holding the 
handle of the pan with one hand, stir the omelet with the 
other by means of a spoon. The moment it begins to set, 
cease stirring, but keep shaking the pan for a minute or so ; 
then with the spoon double up the omelet, and keep shaking 
the pan until one side of the omelet has become a golden 
colour, and it is ready. 

Pancakes. — Mix a pint of milk with as much flour as will 
make a thin batter, add a liqueur glass of pale brandy, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt ; then add four eggs, 
and beat all together till quite smooth. Warm a perfectly 
clean small frying pan, put into it a piece of butter the size 
of a cobnut, and as soon as, by tilting the pan, the butter 
has been made to spread all over it, pour into it a ladleful of 
the batter; again tilt the pan quickly so as to spread the 
batter evenly all over it, and directly the batter is well set, 
run a knife round the pancake and turn it over for a minute ; 
then roll it up and put it into the screen or the oven to keep hot 
while the next pancake is cooked in the same manner ; serve 
on a napkin, with lemon quarters as a garnish. By using lard 
instead of butter the process of frying pancakes is rendered 
somewhat easier. 



2 



196 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



No. 106. DECEMBEB,. 

Palestine Soup. Gravy Soup. 

Boiled Codfish and Oyster Sauce. Fried Smelts. 

Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. Chicken Croquettes. 

Beef Olives. Salmis of Partridges. 

Roast Turkey. 

Eoast Sirloin of Beef. 

Mashed Potatoes. Brocoli. Brussels Sprouts. Stewed Celery, 

Roast Pheasants. 

Bloaters on Toast. 

Plum Pudding. 

Tipsy Cake. Meringues. 

Punch Jelly. Pineapple Cream. 

Mince Pies. 



Palestine Soup. See No. 10. 

Gravy Soup. See No. 33. 

Codfish. See No. 22. 

Oyster Sauce. See No. 22. 

Fried Smelts. See No. 87. 

Mutton Cutlets. — Trim off all superfluous fat from each 
cutlet, dip them in an egg beaten up with a little oil, some 
pepper and salt, then bread-crumb, and let them rest for a 
couple of hours. Fry them in plenty of butter, or lard, to 
a light brown colour. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, 
and pour some tomato sauce (puree) in the centre. 

Tomato Sauce. See No. 33. 

Chicken Croquettes. See No. 37. 

Beef Olives. See No. 30. 

Salmis of Partridges. — Take three partridges, wrap them 
round with bacon, slightly roast them, and put them by to 
get cold ; then remove the bacon, and carve from each bird 
the wings, breast, and legs, trimming each piece neatly and 
removing the skin from it. Take all the trimmings and put 
them into a saucepan with the carcases chopped up, an ounce of 
ham, a couple of shallots, an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a few cloves, the least bit of cayenne, and whole pepper 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 197 



and salt to taste ; add a wineglassful of claret and as much 
common stock as will cover the contents of the saucepan. 
Set this to boil for a couple of hours, strain off the liquor, and, 
when quite cold, put the pieces of partridges into it, and let 
the whole get quite hot as slowly as possible. Then melt a 
piece of butter, in another saucepan, mix a small quantity of 
flour with it, adding a little of the sauce and the juice of half a 
lemon ; turn this into the salmis. Dress the pieces of par- 
tridge in a heap, pour the sauce over, and serve with bread 
sippets fried in butter. 

B,OAST Turkey. See No. 100. 

Forcemeat. — Take one part of finely shredded suet and two 
parts of bread crumbs, season with pepper, salt, powdered 
spices, sweet herbs, and finely minced parsley ; mix all well 
together, then add as many eggs as will bind the ingredients 
together into a stiff paste. 

GrRAVY. See No. 6. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef. See No. 33. 

Mashed Potatoes. See No. 11. 

Brocoli. See No. 46. 

Brussels Sprouts. See No. 21. 

Celery. See No. 35. 

Roast Pheasant. See No. 9. 

Bloaters on Toast. See No. 31. 

Plum Pudding. — Weigh out 21b. of the best beef suet 
chopped as finely as possible^, and l|lb. of bread crumbs — 
made by rubbing pieces of stale household bread through a 
wire sieve; put these, with l|lb. of flour, into a large bowl, 
and work them well with the hand until perfectly mixed. 
Pick some currants and stone some raisins with the greatest 
care. Take 21b. of each and mix them into the bowl, then 
take |lb. of mixed peel, chop it up small and mix it with the 
rest; lastly mix in l^lb. of "foot" sugar. Continue woiking 
the mixture with the hand for some minutes, and put it by. 
Put fourteen fresh eggs into a bowl (breaking each into a cup 
first to ascertain that it is fresh and to remove the speck), 
add to them grated nutmeg, powdered ginger, and powdered 
allspice, according to taste, and a large pinch of salt ; then 
stir in half a pint- of milk ; beat all up together, and pour it 
gradually into the other bowl, working the whole mixture 



198 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



with the hand for some time. If the mixture be too stiff add 
more milk, and continue to work it with a wooden spoon for 
at least half an hour. Scald two pudding cloths, spread each 
in a bowl and dredge them well with flour. Divide the 
composition into two equal parts, put each in its cloth and 
tie it up. To boil the puddings place two inverted plates 
in saucepans filled with water, and when the water boils fast 
put each pudding into its saucepan. Let them boil six 
hours, keeping the saucepans full by adding more water as it 
is required, and taking care that it never ceases boiling. 
Then take the puddings out, and hang them up till the next 
day, when the cloth of each pudding should be tightened and 
tied afresh, and three hours' boiling as in the first instance 
will make them ready for table. Serve with a sprig of holly 
stuck on the top, and plenty of brandy poured round the 
pudding, and set alight outside the dining room door. 

Tipsy Cake. — Take a stale sponge cake, cut the bottom of 
it so as to make it stand even on a glass dish. Make 
numerous incisions in it with a knife, and pour over it half a 
pint of sherry and a glass of brandy; let the cake soak 
these all up. Blanch, peel, and slice some sweet almonds, and 
stick the cake all over with them. Blanch, chop, and pound 
in a mortar ^\h. of sweet almonds, moistening with a ttle 
orange-flower water to prevent their oiling, add one pint f 
milk and the yolks of six eggs, sweeten to taste with pounded 
loaf sugar. Stir over the fire till the custard thickens, but do 
not let it boil. Keep stirring now and then till it is quite 
cold, then pour it round the cake. Garnish the dish with 
crystallised fruit, and it is ready. 

Meringues. See No. 29. 

Punch Jelly. — Take two calves' feet, chop them into 
convenient pieces and put them into a saucepan with rather 
more than two quarts of water, set the saucejDan on the fire ; 
'directly the water boils throw it away, and wash the pieces 
of feet carefully, put them on again with two quarts of 
cold water, and let them boil slowly for three hours, re- 
moving the scum carefully during the process ; then strain 
the liquor into a basin, and when quite cold and set, take off' 
all fat and wash the top of the jelly with hot water so as to- 
get rid of every vestige of fat. Put the jelly in a saucepan on 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 199 



the fire ; directly it is melted add sugar to taste, the juice and 
rind of a lemon, and the whites of three eggs whisked to a 
froth. Beat up the mixture till it boils. Place the thin rind 
of a lemon at the bottom of a jelly bag, and pour the mixture 
over it. The bag should have been previously rinsed in 
boiling water; and the first half pint of jelly that comes 
through must be returned to the bag. If the jelly does not 
come out quite clear, the operation of straining must be 
repeated ; add sufficient rum to the clarified jelly to flavour it 
well, pour into a mould and place it on ice to set. At the 
time of serving dip the mould in hot water, and turn out the 

jelly. 

Pineapple Cream. — Take a tin of preserved pineapple, 
pound the contents in a mortar, add 6oz. of sugar and half a 
pint of water; boil for a quarter of an hour, and press it 
through a tammy. Dissolve seven sheets of the best French 
gelatine in a little milk ; whip to a froth one pint of cream. 
Mix the gelatine with the pineapple pulp, then quickly work 
into it the cream. Pour the mixture into a mould, and put it 
upon ice to set. When wanted, dip the mould in hot water, 
and turn out the cream. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 



No. 107. DECEMBER. 

Oysters. 

Game Soup. 

Boiled Turbot with Dutch Sauce. 

Croustades of Lobster. 

Grenadins of Beef. 

Larks in Cases. 

Braised Turkey and Truffle Sauce. 

Koast Woodcocks and Snipes. 

Russian Salad. 

Cheese Fondue. 

Plum Pudding. 

Chartreuse of Oranges. 

Nougats. Mince Pies. 



Oysters. See No. 102. 
Game Soup. See No. 44. 



200 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



TuRBOT. See No. 33. 

Croustades of Lobster. — Make some bread croustades 
(See No. 9) and fill them with the following mixture: Mince 
the flesh of a hen lobster to the size of small dice, season 
with pepper, salt, and spice, and as much cayenne as will 
rest on the point of a trussing needle. Pound some of 
the spawn with an ounce of butter, pass it through a hair 
sieve. Take another ounce of butter, melt it in a saucepan 
with a teaspoonf ul of flour, add a very small quantity of white 
stock and the flesh of the lobster; when the mixture is 
thoroughly hot put in a pinch of finely minced parsley, the 
juice of half a lemon, and the butter which was pounded with 
the spawn. 

Grenadins of Beef. See No. 32. 

Larks in Cases. See No. 33. 

Braised Turkey. See No. 33. 

Truffle and Chestnut Stuffing. See No. 33. 

Truffle Sauce. See No. 101. 

EoAST Woodcock and Snipes. See No. 102. 

White Sauce. See No. 36. 

EussiAN Salad. See No. 13. 

Fondue. See No. 6. 

Plum Pudding. See No. 86. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 

Chartreuse of Oranges. See No. 33. 

Small No [J gats. — Blanch a pound of almonds, and cut them 
lengthwise into thin narrow pieces, lay them on a dish in 
front of the fire, or in the oven (with the door open), to get 
perfectly dry ; melt in a sugar boiler |lb. of loaf sugar ; when 
the sugar is a rich brown put in the almonds, mix them well 
but carefully together, and you will have a soft paste, which 
will harden when cold. Make some small moulds very hot ; 
slightly but thoroughly oil them with oil of sweet almonds, 
put some of the mixture in one of them, and, with the handle of 
a teaspoon previously oiled, spread it out so as to completely 
line the mould; trim the edges, and when cold turn out 
the nougats. Having made a number in the same way, serve 
them with sweetmeats inside each. The nougats should be 
very thin. Any kind of mould, large or small, may be used, 
but the work must be done quickly, for the sugar soon 
becomes too stiff to be spread into position. 



PllACTICAL DINNERS. 201 



No. 108. DECEMBER. 

Celery Soup. 

Baked Sea Bream. 

Fricandeaii with Spinach. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. 

Roast Turkey and Chestnut Sauce. 

Endive Salad. 

Brocoli with Cheese. 

Snow Eggs. Apple Tartlets. 

Plum Pudding. 

Mince Pies. 



Celery Soup (Thick White). — Boil four heads of celery in 
salted water, with an onion, a blade of mace, and some whole 
pepper. When quite done strain off the water, pass the celery 
through a hair sieve, and dilute the pulp with white stock 
free from fat. Put the soup into a saucepan on the fire, 
when it boils stir into it, off the fire, a gill of cream beaten up 
with the yolk of an egg. Correct the seasoning if needful by 
adding more salt and a little sugar. Serve with or 
without bread sippets fried in butter. 

Baked Sea Bream. See No. 70. 

Fricandeau. See No. 2. 

Fillets of Beef with Olives. See No. oL 

Roast Turkey. See No. 100. 

Chestnut Sauce. — Remove the outer skin from a number 
of chestnuts (carefully excluding any that may he the least 
tainted), put them to boil in salted water with a handful of 
coriander seeds, and a couple of bay leaves. When thoroughly 
done remove the outer skin and pound the chestnuts in a 
mortar, adding a little stock (free from fat) now and then. 
When a smooth paste is obtained fry an onion in Ijutter to a 
light colour, add the chestnut paste and sufficient stock to 
get the sauce of the desired consistency ; add salt and pepper 
to taste, pass through a hair sieve and serve. 

Endive Salad. See No. 21. 

Brocoli with Cheese. — Boil two or three heads of 
brocoli previously well washed and trimmed, in plenty 



202 PRACTICAL DINNERS. 



of water, with a due quantity of salt, for about ten 
minutes. Try the stem with a thin iron skewer, and the 
moment it is soft remove the saucepan from the fire, and 
put the brocoli to drain on a hair sieve. When cold cut 
them up neatly, and carefully f)lace the roughest pieces flat 
on a well -buttered dish, so as to form a sort of foundation ; 
sprinkle this with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg, and 
cover it well with grated Parmesan cheese ; dispose the 
remaining and best pieces on the top ; add more pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg ; cover with grated Parmesan ; add a few baked 
bread crumbs, and pour over all a little liquefied butter. 
Bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve. 
Eubbing the dish slightly with garlic is a great improvement. 

Snow Eggs. — Whisk the whites of six eggs, with a little 
powdered lump sugar, to a stiff froth ; set one quart of milk, 
sweetened to taste, to boil ; drop the egg froth in it by 
tablespoonfuls ; a few seconds will cook them ; take them out, 
and put them on a sieve to drain. When all the egg froth is 
cooked, strain what is left of the milk ; let it get cold, and mix 
gradually with it the yolks of the eggs with any flavouring 
that is liked. Put the vessel containing this into a sauce- 
panful of water, and keep stirring on the fire until the custard 
thickens. To serve, pile up the whites on the dish, jDour the 
custard round them, and sprinkle the top with " hundreds 
and thousands." 

Apple Tartlets. — Peel, core, and halve some large apples^ 
trimming them so as to get them all of one size ; drop them as 
they are done into cold water, with the juice of a lemon 
squeezed into it, to prevent their turning brown. Have 
ready a syrup (made with lib. of sugar and 1 quart of water) 
boiling hot, put the apples into this, with the thin rind of a 
lemon and 2 or 3 cloves. As soon as they are cooked (great 
care must be taken that they do not break), take them out 
and leave them to get cold, then set the syrup on the fire 
to reduce. Make some short paste with 2oz. of sugar, 2oz. of 
butter, the yolks of four eggs, a little water, a pinch of salt 
and flour quant, suff., work it lightly and roll it out to the 
thickness of one-eighth of an inch. Line some patty-pans 
with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their shape, and 
bake them in a moderate oven till done. Remove the rice 



PRACTICAL DINNERS. 203 



and place on each tartlet half an apple, the concave side 
uppermost, pour a little of the reduced syrup into each tartlet, 
and lastly, put a piece of guava or currant jelly in the cavity 
of each apple. 

Plum Pudding. See No. 8(5. 

Mince Pies. See No. 33. 



INDEX 



SOUPS. 



Asparagus, clear . . , 

„ thick .., 

Barley (creme d'org 

Bonne Femme 
Brunoise 
Cabbage ... 
Carrot 

,, 
Cauliflower 
Celery, clear 
„ thick 
Chestnut . . . 
Chicken {consomme de volaille) 
Clear, with poached Eggs 

,, (d la Boyale) 

Cockaleekie 

Croiite au pot 

Fish (Bouillabaisse) 

„ (consomme de Soles) 
French Beans... 
Game Soup, clear 

„ „ thick 

Gniocchi 

Gravy 

Grouse 

Haricot Beans 
Italian (Minestrone) 

„ "Paste" 
Julienne 

Lentil 

Lettuce 
Lobster 
Maccaroni 



Dinner Page 

52 116 

13 28 

41 93 

51 114 

4 8 

20 45 

71 153 

59 129 

40 91 

15 34 

61 132 

108 201 

46 103 

17 39 

7 16 

3 5 

48 107 

1 1 

89 175 

50 Ill 

68 148 

34 83 

44 99 

47 105 

72 155 

33 77 

43 96 

11 24 

19 43 

64 138 

12 26 

84 168 

88 174 

32 75 

25 58 

23 52 

9 19 



206 INDEX. 








Dinner 


Page 


Mulligatawny 


... 22 ... 


... 49 


Mutton Broth 


8 ... 


... 18 


Nouilles 


... 53 ... 


... 118 


Oxtail 


... 87 ... 


... 173 


Oyster 


... 45 ... 


... 101 


Palestine... 


... 10 ... 


... 22 


Pea 


... 62 ... 


... 135 


„ (Green) 


5 ... 


... 11 


55 JJ 


... 42 ... 


... 94 


Poor Man's 


... 56 ... 


... 124 


Pot-au-feu 


... 66 ... 


... 144 


Quenelles 


21 ... 


... 47 


Eice 


... 30 .... 


... 71 


„ Cream , 


... 67 .... 


,.. 146 


„ Crecy 


... 16 ..., 


,.. 36 


„ and Pea 


... 55 ..., 


... 122 


„ and Sorrel 


... 54 .... 


.. 120 


Semolina 


... 69 .... 


.. 149 


Sevigne ... 


14 ..., 


... 31 


Shrimp 


... 58 .... 


.. 128 


Sorrel 


... 18 .... 


... 41 


Spinach 


... 36 .... 


... 86 


Spring 


... 24 .... 


55 


jj 


2 .... 


3 


Stock, clear 


3 .... 


6 


„ ,, (consomme) 


1 .... 


1 


5, to clarify 


1 .... 


2 


„ white 


... 14 .... 


.. 31 


Tapioca 


26 .... 


.. 60 


Tomato 


6 .... 


13 


YegetaMe (Puree de Legumes) 


... 57 .... 


.. 126 


Vegetable Marrow ••• ... 


... 70 .... 


.. 150 


Vermicelli 


... 63 .... 


.. 137 


White (a la Rcine) 


... 65 .... 


.. 141 


FISH. 






Brill, Shrimp Sauce 


20 .... 


.. 45 


Codfish with Cream 


... 62 .... 


.. 135 


„ Dutch Sauce 


74 .... 


.. 159 


,5 au gratin 


... 35 .... 


.. 84 


„ Oyster Sauce 


... 22 .... 


.. 50 


• „ saute 


9 .... 


.. 20 


Cod's Head and Shoulders 


... 100 .... 


.. 185 


Eels, fried 


56 .... 


.. 124 


,, stewed (matelote) 


... 67 .... 


.. 146 


Fish Boudins 


... 64 .... 


.. 139 


„ Croquettes 


... 48 .... 


.. 108 


„ twice laid 


... 59 .... 


.. 130 


„ (Salt) mushed [Brandade de 3Iorue) ... 


... 49 .... 


.. 109 



INDEX. 



207 



Fish (Salt) Spanish fashion . 

Flounder souchet 

•Gudgeon, fried 

iOurnet, baked 

„ Caper Sauce ... 

Haddock, broiled 

„ Caper Sauce ... 

„ Egg Sauce ... 

-John Dory, Caper Sauce 

„ stuffed 

Lobster, Croquettes ... . 
„ Croustades 
„ Mayonnaise ... 

Mackerel, grilled 

,, Italian Sauce 
Mullet (grey), White Sauce. 
„ (red), broiled 
,, „ Italian Sauce . 

?? 55 55 55 

„ „ with Olives 
„ „ in Papers 
„ „ stuffed ... 
,, „ with Tomatoes 

•Oysters 

„ Croustades 
,, Kromeskys 
Prawn Kromeskys... 
Salmon, boiled. Fennel Sauce 
„ Boudins 
„ Croquettes 
„ Cutlets with Cucumber 
„ Fillets, Caper Sauce 

„ au gratin 

„ grilled, Tartare Sauce 

„ Mayonnaise 

Sea Bream, Sharp Sauce 
Skate with Black Butter 

;Smelts, fried 

Sole, aspic 

,, baked 

„ fried 

„ „ d la Colbert .. 

,, au gratin 

„ d la Lyonnaise 

„ d la Mattre d'Hotel 

„ d la Ravigote 

„ water souchet 

„ (fillets of), d la Bechamel 

„ (fillets of) in cases 



Dinner Page 

36 86 

53 119 

54 121 

57 126 

61 132 

63 137 

32 75 

11 24 

14 32 

45 101 

53 119 

107 200 

27 64 

5 11 

50 112 

18 42 

30 72 

25 58 

75 160 

91 177 

3 6 

54 121 

68 148 

102 191 

9 20 

44 99 

65 141 

13 28 

29 69 

4 9 

2 3 

78 163 

26 61 

24 56 

65 142 

70 151 

72 155 

87 174 

28 67 

69 150 

58 128 

6 13 

1 2 

31 73 

73 157 

55 123 

29 69 

46 104 

7 17 

85 169 



208 INDEX. 



Dinner Page 

Sole (fillets of) fried 21 47 

„ ,, with Mushrooms 16 36 

„ „ ft la Venitienne 52 116 

„ ,, Tarragon Sauce 43 97 

White Sauce 40 91 

Trout, baked 66 145 

„ broiled 17 40' 

Turbot, Dutch Sauce 33 78 

Lobster „ 33 78 

„ Tartare „ 86 170 

„ Wine ., 51 115 

Whitebait 15 34 

Whiting, fried 50 112 

„ Dutch Sauce 12 26 

„ au gratin 10 22 



BEEF. 

Boiled {Bouilli) 66 145- 

BTSbised {a la jardiniere) 100 186 

,, with Maccaroni 43 ....... 97 

„ to eat cold 28 66 

Croquettes 9 20 

(Italian) PoZi^effe 52 117 

Fillet, roast 5 12 

,, „ with Brussels Sprouts 10 23 

stewed 24 56 

Fillets, with Anchovy Butter 93 180 

„ Carrots 27 63 

„ Chateauhriand 17 40 

„ with Mushrooms 58 128 

„ „ Olives 34 83 

„ „ Onion Sauce 23 53 

„ Potatoes 12 27 

„ ,, Vegetables 7 17 

Grenadins with Brussels Sprouts 60 131 

„ Olives 22 50 

., Vegetables 32 76 

OHves 30 72 

„ (Italian) Brasciolette 70 151 

Sirloin, roast 33 80 

§teak, with Anchovy Butter 59 130 

„ with Bearnaise Sauce 53 119 

„ a la Lyonnaise 84 168 

„ with dUves 62 136 

„ d la Parisienne 53 123 

„ (pickled) 68 148 

„ (Rib) a la Bordelaise 45 102 

„ stewed 61 133 



INDEX. 



209 



stewed 



„ {cila Napolitaine) 

Tongue 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Cutlets, Lamb, with Asparagus 

„ Carrots 

„ Cucumber 

„ Peas 

„ Peas 

„ Spinach 

Mutton, with Carrots 

,, ,, French Beans 

„ Oj la Maintenon 

,, with Peas 

„ „ Potatoes mashed 



„ „ oL la reforme 

„ „ with Spinach ... 

„ „ stewed 

„ „ with Tomato Sauce 

}S 35 5J 55 53 

Epigrams of Lamb with Peas 

,5 35 55 35 Asparagus ., 
Hashed Mutton 

Kidneys, stewed 

Leg of Lamb, roast 

„ Mutton, braised 

Loin of „ „ 

Neck of „ „ 

„ „ roast 

„ „ rolled 

Quarter of Lamb, roast 

Saddle of Mutton, roast 



PORK. 



Bacon, fried 

Chops, Sharp Sauce 
Ham, boiled 



VEAL. 



Boudin 

Breast, with Tomato Sauce . . 

Croquettes 

Cutlets with Italian Sauce . . 
„ Maccaroni 



Dinner Page 

21 48 

56 125 

101 190 

26 61 

52 117 

64 139 

16 37 

14 32 

38 89 

90 177 

19 44 

72 156 

54 121 

57 127 

91 178 

101 188 

1 2 

95 181 

42 95 

106 196 

17 40 

39 90 

11 25 

88 174 

72 156 

3 7 

35 84 

47 106 

6 14 

65 142 

63 137 

27 63 

20 46 

26 62 

21 47 

79 164 

100 187 

80 165 

55 123 

10 22 

94 180 

40 92 



210 



INDEX. 



Cutlets witli Mushrooms 

„ „ Peas 

Fillets with Italian Sauce 
Fricandeau with Spinach 
5, ,5 Sorrel 

Minced 

Neck, roast 

Quenelles 

Sweetbreads, fried 
„ stewed 

Timbales 



Chicken, braised, with Tarragon 

,, Chaudfroid 

„ Croustades 

„ fricassee 

„ Kromeskys 

,, d la Marengo 

,, d la Milanaise 

,, roast 

„ Eissoles 

„ stewed (saute) 

„ with 

Duck, with Olives 

„ roast 

„ (wild), roast 

Fowls boiled, with Onion Sauce 
„ braised with Maccaroni 

„ croquettes 

,, Mayonnaise 

„ Supreme 

Game Croquettes 

„ Croustades (Potato) 

(Rice) 
„ Kromeskys 
Grouse, roast... 
Hare, jugged ... 
,, roast ... 

Larks in cases 

Partridges, braised 

,, Chartreuse of 

„ roast 

„ Salmis of ... 

Pheasant, roast 

Plover, roast 

„ fiUets 



Dinner Page 

48 108 

4 9 

65 141 

2 4 

79 164 

91 178 

39 90 

15 34 

29 70 

26 61 

93 179 

103 193 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

14 32 

28 m 

67 146 

22 51 

3 6 

70 151 

64 140 

26 61 

62 135 

49 110 

Tarragon 12 27 

59 130 

15 35 

48 109 

7 17 

16 37 

37 87 

76 161 

13 29 

57 127 

23 52 

61 133 

100 186 

42 95 

20 45 

47 106 

22 51 

33 79 

71 153 

31 73 

6 14 

106 196 

9 20 

36 86 

73 158 



INDEX. 



211 



Quails in cases ... • 

,, roast 

Eabbits, curry of , 

„ fillets of, with Tomato Sauce 

„ „ „ Liver „ 

„ Quenelles of 

Snipe, roast 

Turkey, boiled 

„ braised ... 

„ roast 

Venison, hashed ... 
Woodcock, roast . . . 



SAUCES. 



Apricot ... 
Bdarnaise 
Bigarade 
Bordelaise 
Brandy . . , 

„ butter 
Bread 

Brown Sauce 
Caper, brown 

„ white. 
Celery . . . 
Chestnut 
Dutch ... 

Egg 

Fennel . . . 

Horseradish 

Jam 

Liver 

Lobster ... 

Mattre d'Hotel 

Marmalade 
Mayonnaise 



(Espagnole) 



butter 



Mint 
Onion 

,, 
Oyster . . . 
Plum Pudding 

Ravigote , 

Salad Dressing 

Sharp 

Shrimp , 



Dinner Page 

42 95 

4 9 

32 76 

33 78 

101 189 

24 56 

46 104 

101 190 

33 79 

86 170 

100 187 

18 42 

102 192 

35 85 

53 119 

48 109 

45 102 

58 129 

33 81 

6 14 

25 58 

14 32 

32 75 

101 190 

108 201 

12 27 

11 25 

13 29 

33 80 

75 161 

101 189 

33 78 

73 157 

5 12 

45 103 

16 37 

27 64 

3 7 

7 17 

23 53 

22 50 

46 105 

99 185 

55 123 

12 27 

21 48 

20 45 



212 



INDEX. 



Sweet 
Tarragon... 
Tartare . . . 



Tomato 



„ (Puree) 
Truffle 

5? 

Wine 

WMte (Bechamel) ... 
„ (Saiice blanche) 

53 55 55 

„ plain 



VEGETABLES 

Artichokes (Green), stuffed 

„ „ with White Sauce 

„ „ Bottoms 

„ (Jerusalem), with Cheese .. 
„ Cream .. 
„ „ „ White Sauce 

Asparagus, with Mayonnaise Sauce 
„ „ Salad Sauce 

„ „ White Sauce ... 

„ Salad 

Aubergines (Egg Plant Fruit) au gratin 

Beans (broad) and Bacon 

„ (French) au beurre 

„ „ Salad of 

„ „ with White Sauce 

„ (Haricot) with Italian Sauce . 

„ „ Puree of 

„ with Tomato Sauce 

Brocoli with Cheese 

„ „ White Sauce 

Brussels Sprouts d la Mattre d' Hotel. 

„ „ sautes 

„ „ with White Sauce . 

Cardoons with Marrow 

Carrots cl la Nivernaise 

„ (new) with Cream 

„ „ rlla Mattre d' Hotel 

Cauliflower au gratin 

„ Salad 

„ with Tomato Sauce ... 
„ „ White Sauce ... . 

Celery Salad 

stewed 



Dinner Page 

43 98 

43 97 

17 40 

24 56 

15 35 

24 56 

33 78 

27 63 

101 189 

21 49 

14 33 

18 42 

24 57 

36 86 

80 166 

27 64 

67 147 

59 131 

61 133 

22 52 

16 37 

25 59 

14 33 

53 119 

43 97 

41 93 

18 42 

5 12 

56 125 

70 152 

35 85 

57 127 

108 201 

46 104 

23 54 

21 48 

60 132 

73 158 

47 106 

50 112 

3 7 

17 41 

64 140 

72 156 

68 148 

46 104 

35 85 



INDEX. 



213 







Dinner 


Page 


Celery 


stewed with Cheese 


23 ... 


... 54 




on Toast 


62 ... 


... 136 




with White Sauce 


71 ... 


... 154 


Endive Salad 


21 ... 


48 






47 ... 


... 106 


Laver 


.'' 


73 ... 


... 158 


Lettuce Salad 


4 ... 


9 






19 ... 


... 44 


Mushrooms 


69 ... 


... 150 


Peas a 


VAnglaise 


15 ... 


35 


„ Puree oi 


17 ... 


40 


„ stewed 


29 ... 


... 70 


Potatoes, boiled 


67 ... 


... 147 




Chips 


37 ... 


... 88 




Croquettes 


33 ... 


80 






101 ... 


... 190 




Duchesses 


73 ... 


... 158 




fried 


59 ... 


... 130 


35 


d la Lyonnaise 

mashed 


45 ... 

11 ... 


... 102 
... 25 




Puree of 


68 ... 


... 148 




Salad 


1 ... 


2 




sautdes 


17 ... 


... 40 


" 




91 ... 


... 178 




Snow 


23 ... 


... 54 




Soufflees 


10 ... 


... 23 




stewed 


105 ... 


.... 195 




(new) sauUes 


3 .. 


7 




„ a la Mattred' Hotel ... , 


13 .. 


.... 30 


Seakale, Salad Sauce 


12 .. 


27 




White Sauce 


24 .. 


57 


Sorrel, 


Purdeoi 


79 .. 


.... 164 


Spinach 


49 .. 


.... 110 


,j 


with Poached Eggs 


51 .. 


.... 115 


Tomatoes baked 


30 .. 


72 




,, au gratin 


94 .. 


.... 181 






54 .. 


.... 121 


" 


Salad of 


20 .. 


.... 46 




stuffed 


8 .. 


.... 19 






28 .. 


.... 68 




" 


84 .. 


.... 168 


Turnips with Cream 


63 .. 


.... 138 




qlacds 


77 .. 


.... 162 


Turnip Tops with Poached Eggs 


105 .. 


.... 194 




„ Salad of 


11 .. 


25 


Vegetable Marrow with Cheese 


19 .. 


.... 44 




„ fried 


6 .. 


14 




„ au gratin 


96 .. 


.... 182 




„ stuffed 


55 .. 


.... 123 




Salad (Eussian) 


13 .. 


30 


Watercress „ 


44 .. 


.... 100 



214 



INDEX. 



SAVOURIES: CHEESE, 
MACCARONI, &C. 



EGGS, 



Cheese Biscuits 

„ Fondue 

„ Fritters 

„ (Maccaroni) 

„ (Potato) 

„ Pudding 

„ Souffle 

„ Souffles (small) 

„ Straws 

„ Toast 

„ Tartlets 

Eggs curried 

„ au gratin 

„ stuffed 

55 55 

Maccaroni with Cheese . . . 
au gratin 

Pie 

Timbales 
with Tomatoes 



Omelet, Cheese 

„ Ham 

„ Savoury 

„ Eamakins 

Ravioli with Tomato Sauce ... 

Eice (Savoury) 

{Risotto) ... 

Sandwiches, Gruyere 

Scotch Woodcock 

Toast, Anchovy 

„ Bloaters on 

„ Bombay 



Apples with Eice . 

55 55 55 

Apricots „ „ 

Baba 

Blancmange ... . 
Cake (Neapolitan). 

„ (Pistachio) . 

„ (Eice) ... . 

„ (Sponge) 

„ (Tipsy)... . 



Dinner Page 

40 92 

6 15 

15 35 

2 4 

16 37 

44 100 

52 117 

25 59 

30 72 

49 110 

3 7 

69 150 

24 57 

7 18 

28 68 

8 19 

18 43 

71 153 

101 189 

75 160 

89 176 

(Lasagnes aux Tomates) 10 23 

5 12 

72 156 

105 195 

4 10 

50 112 

12 28 

62 136 

9 21 

37 88 

11 25 

31 75 

21 48 

11 25 

50 113 

42 96 

50 113 

25 59 

39 90 

28 68 

14 33 

29 70 

106 198 



SWEETS. 



INDEX. 




215 




Dinner 


Page 


Charlotte, Apple 


. ... 6 ... 


... 15 


^j J, 


. ... 47 ... 


... 107 


„ Russe 


. ... 13 ... 


... 31 


„ „ 


. ... 45 ... 


... 103 


Chartreuse, Apricot 


. ... 26 ... 


62 


„ Orange 


. ... 33 ... 


... 82 


„ Strawberries 


. ... 27 ... 


... 65 


Compote, Apple 


. ... 21 ... 


... 49 


„ Apricot 


. ... 10 ... 


... 24 


Fruit 


. ... 29 ... 


... 70 


„ „ (Mac^doine) 


. ... 102 ... 


... 192 


Cream, Chestnut 


, ... 101 ... 


... 191 


„ Chocolate 


. ... 53 ... 


... 120 


„ Orange 


. ... 73 ... 


... 159 


„ Pineapple 


. ... 106 ... 


... 199 


Ice 


. ... 42 ... 


... 96 


„ Vanilla 


. ... 34 ... 


... 83 


Custards (Caramel) 


54 ... 


122 


Eggs (Snow) 


108 ... 


... 202 


Fritters, Apple 


36 ... 


... 87 


„ haked {Choux Oj la Greme) 


65 ... 


... 143 


,, Orange 


63 ... 


... 138 


plain (Beignets Sounds) 


. ... 9 ... 


... 21 


Fruit Salad 


4 ... 


... 11 


Gooseberry Fool 


14 ... 


... 33 


„ ,j 


25 ... 


... 60 


„ iced 


39 ... 


... 91 


Ice, Lemon Water 


16 ... 


... 38 


Jelly, Curagoa 


86 ... 


... 172 


„ Maraschino 


101 ... 


... 190 


„ Orange 


47 ... 


... 107 


„ Pineapple 


28 ... 


... 68 


„ Punch 


106 ... 


... 198 


„ Eussian 


65 ... 


... 143 


Meringues 


29 ... 


... 71 


Mince Pies 


33 ... 


... 81 


Nougats 


107 ... 


... 200 


Omelet, Apricot , 


1 ... 


3 


,, Jam 


67 ... 


... 147 


„ Eum ... ., 


59 ... 


... 131 


Oranges, meringued 


71 ... 


... 154 


Salad of 


46 ... 


... 105 


Pancakes 


105 ... 


... 195 


Pastry, Almond 


28 ... 


... 68 


„ Genoise 


4 ... 


... 10 


Pears, stewed , 


7 ... 


... 18 


Plums, puree of 


5 ... 


13 


Pudding, Albert 


21 ... 


... 49 


„ Apple 


70 ... 


... 152 


„ Bakewell 


37 ... 


... 88 



216 



INDEX. 



Pudding, Bread Crumb 

„ Cabinet 

„ Caramel 

„ Coffee Ice 

„ Diplomatic ... 

• » Fig 

„ Ginger 

„ Gooseberry ... 

„ Ice 

„ Maccaroni 

„ Marmalade ... 

„ Mocha 

„ Mousseline ... 

„ Omnibus 

,. Potato 

„ Plum 



„ fried 

„ Sir Watkin Wynn'i 

Sponge 

Tipsy 

,, Venus 

Rice, Empress 

St. Honore 

„ of Apricots 

„ of Gooseberries ., 

„ of Pears 

Savarin 

Souffle, Apple 

„ Maccaroni 

„ Potato 

„ Eice 

„ Semolina 

„ Tapioca 

Strawberry Salad 

Tart, Apple 

„ „ and Quince 

„ Cherry 

5J » 

„ Gooseberry 

„ Greengage 

„ Plum 

Tartlets, Apple 

„ Cherry 

„ Cream 

„ Gooseberry 

„ Greengage 



Dinner Page 

... 40 92 

... 85 170 

2 5 

77 162 

.. 38 89 

,.. 52 118 

.. 88 175 

.. 32 76 

.. 79 165 

.. 27 66 

.. 66 145 

.. 45 102 

.. 49 110 

.. 23 54 

.. 58 129 

.. 43 98 

.. 33 80 

.. 86 171 

.. 99 184 

.. 106 197 

.. 46 104 

.. 35 85 

.. 16 38 

.. 44 100 

.. 91 178 

5 12 

.. 43 98 

.. 103 194 

52 118 

.. 102 192 

., 61 134 

44 100 

.. 64 140 

78 164 

7 , 18 

.. 57 127 

.. 68 149 

41 94 

.. 62 136 

.. 98 184 

.. 15 36 

.. 41 94 

3 7 

.. 18 43 

.. 95 182 

.. 108 202 

.. 27 65 

.. 40 92 

.. 13 30 

.. 30 72 



INDEX. 



217 



Tartlots, Jam 

„ Orange 

„ Raspberry and Currant 
„ Ehubarb... 
„ Strawberry 
Toast, Apricot 

„ Peach 

., Pineapple ... 



SUNDRIES. 



Batter, frying 
Bread Crumbs, fried 

,, Sippets „ 
Butter, Gascony ... 

„ watercress 
Cream, whipped 
Creme a Choux 
Forcemeat 



Gravy, plain ... 
Icing, Chocolate 
Jelly, Aspic . . . 
Purde of Game 
Rice, boiled ... 
Stuffing, Chestnut 

,, Truffle and Chestnut 
Yorkshire Pudding 



Dinner Page 

75 161 

23 54 

17 41 

49 Ill 

54 122 

24 57 

20 46 

56 125 

36 87 

9 20 

45 102 

20 46 

14 33 

40 93 

65 143 

22 51 

100 187 

106 197 

6 14 

4 11 

28 67 

23 53 

12 28 

100 187 

33 79 

49 110 



1887. 



CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



RELATING TO 



g^wjglingt S^atmjg, CnjcM, ^'^trnxn^f ^^rteiwg, '§mtmQr 



USEFUL FOR 



COUNTRY GENTLEMEN, 

TEAYELLERS, ETC., 



PUBLISHED BY 

HORACE COX, 

"THE FIELD" OFFICE, 346, STEAND, LONDON, W.C. 



*#* Orders for any of the folloioing worJcs, loith postage 
stamps or post-offi.ce order {payable at the Money Order Office, 
369, Strand) for the amount, should be sent to Horace Cox, 
Publisher, at the above address, or they may be obtained by 
order of any booJcseller. 



PREFACE 



T BEG to call the attention of Country Gentlemen, 
Travellers, Sportsmen_, Farmers, &c._, to tlie 
works quoted in this catalogue, as ^viitten by authors 
who are well known and trusted as authorities in 
their respective branches of knowledge. These 
books are well illustrated by competent artists, and 
I think I may say that everything has been done 
that could be to make them complete. 

HOEACE COX, 

Publisher. 



A 

CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

HORACE COX. 

Second Edition, Greatly Enlarged. 

Boyal 4ito., bevelled hoards, gilt edges, price 15s. 



Natural History and Practical Management. 

BY 

W. B. TEaETMEIEE, F.Z.S., 

{Member of the British Ornithologists' Union.) 
Author of "The Natural History of the Craites," &c. 

Illustrated with numerous full-page engravings drawn from Life by T. W. WOOD. 



CONTENTS. 



The Natural History of the Pheasants, Habits, Food. Structure, &c. ; Manage- 
ment in Preserves and in Confinement, with detailed descriptions of the Different 
Species adapted for the Covert and the A\iary, and an account of their Diseases 
and Transport. 

Notices of the Second Edition. 

From Yarrell's " British Birds," fourth edition.—" For further details, as well 
as for instructions as to the management of pheasants, both in the covert and the 
aviaiy. and the disorders to which they are liable, the reader is referred to Mr. 
Tegetmeier's excellent work, to which the editor is under great obligations." 

From the Pall Mall Gazette. — " This new and sumptuous edition contains so 
large an amount of fresh matter that it may be regarded, practicallj', as another 
work. In its own way, it is quite exhaustive. Illustrated by admirable and life- 
like full-page illustrations. On the technical details of rearing and preseiwation, 
Mr. Tegetmeier will be foimd a thoroughly trustworthy and scientific guide." 

From the Daily Telegraph.— '■'■ Both in its description and practical aspects, the 
treatise is admirable." 



THE field" office, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS 



Now ready, swper-roijal S-uo., jprice d62 2s. 

YACHT ARCHITECTURE, 

DIXON KEMP, 



By 



Associate Institute Naval Architects (Member of the Council). 



THIS WOEK enters into the whole subject of the laws which govern the resis- 
tance of bodies moving in water, and the influence a wave form of body and 
wave Imes have u23on such resistance. It also deals comprehensively with the 
subject of STEAM PROPULSION as applied to yachts. An easy SYSTEM for 
DESIGNING is provided, and every necessary calculation is explained in detail. 
The latter part of the work is devoted to YACHT BUILDING, and engravings are 
given of every detail of construction and fitting, including laying off, taking bevels, 
&c. The List of Plates (exclusively of over thirty devoted to the elucidation of the 
text, and nearly two hundred woodcuts) exceeds flfty. and comprises the LINES of 
some of the most CELEBRATED YACHTS AFLOAT by the most successful 
builders and designers. 

Summary of Chapters. 

Chap. 

I. — Displacement, Buoyancy, and Centre of Buoyancy explained. 

II.— Proportions of Yachts and Tonnage Rules ; Rules for Freeboard, Depth, &c. 

III.— Stability as influenced by the Proportions, Form, Weight, and Ballasting 

of Yachts ; their Centres of Gravity and Buoyancy. Profusely Illustrated. 

IV. — The Motions of Yachts among Waves as influenced by their Forms and 

Proportions. 
V. — Lateral Resistance, and the adjustment of its centre in relation to the 
Centre of Eifort of the Sails. 
VI. — Power to Carry Sail ; the Impulse of the Wind as a Propelling Force ; 

Apportioning Sail for Speed ; Speed Formulae, &c. 
VII.— The Action of the Rudder and Steermg Efficiency. Proportions of 

Rudders, &c. 
VIII.— Resistance of Vessels moving in Water. The Wave Lme Theory; the 
Stream Line Theory; the Wave Form Theory. Mr. Froude's Admiralty 
Experiments, clearly defining the exact influence of Form on Speed. 
IX.— Resistance Experiments ^ith Models. 
X.— The Wave Form in Theory and Practice. The Forms of many celebrated 
Yachts analysed. 
XI.— Steam Yachting. The Boiler, Engme, Indicator, &c., practically explamed 
at great length. 
XII. — Propulsion by Steam. The action of the screw propellor and all the 
conditions which influence propulsion by steam explained, with 
numerous practical examples. 
XIII.— Rules and Formulae in use for determining the Displacement, Stabilitj-, 

and other qualities of a yacht fully explained. 
XIV. — Working Examples for making all the necessary Calculations concerning 
a Yacht, every sum being given in detail. 
XV.— Yacht Designing : being a complete system for putting into effect the Art 

of Designing Yachts by Scientific Methods. 
XVI.— Laying OIT, Making Moulds, Taking Bevels, &c.; Taking Off a Yacht's 
Lines, &c. 
XVII. — Yacht Building : Giving detailed examples for constructing yachts, with 
numerous plates and engravings of the various parts of the vessel, 
including two large coloured lithographs on a half inch scale giving 
' sectional views of a 40-tonner, complete with all her fittings, &c. 

XVIII.— Spars and Blocks. Rules for fixing upon their lengths, girths, &c. Sizes 
of block, cordage, &c. ^^____ 
XIX.— Ballasting. 
Appendix.— Contains much information concerning small yachts, various useful 
tables, &c. 

*' THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 



FIFTH EDITION. GREATLY ENLARGED. 

Super-royal Svo., with Seventy -Jive full-page Diagrams, price 2ots, 

A MANUAL 

OF 

YACHT AND BOAT SAILING. 

BY 

DIXON KEMI^, A.I.N.A., 

Author of "Yacht Designing." 

(The Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty have ordered this work to be 
supplied to the Libraries of the ships of the Royal Navy.) 

Third Edition. Price 7s. Gd., by post 7s. lOd. 

FIGURE SKATING; 

BEING 

THE THEORY AND PEACTICE OF THE ART AS DEVELOPED 
IN ENGLAND, 

WITH 

A GLANCE AT ITS ORIGIN AND HISTORY. 

Bt H. C. VANDEEVELL and T. MAXWELL WITHAM . 

(Members of the Lmidon Skating Club). 



There are thousands of skaters who attain a small amount of skill in Figure 
Skating, and there stop, because they neither know what to do or how to do it. A 
reference to this, the acknowledged Text Book on Figure Skating, will solve any 
difficulty that may have stopped progress for years. 

Fourth Edition. In jjost Svo., limp cloth, gilt, price 2s. Gd., by post '2s. Sd. 

THE ART OF SKATING; 

WITH 

ILLUSTRATIONS, DIAGRAMS, AND PLAIN DIRECTIONS FOR THE 

ACQUIREMENT OF THE MOST DIFFICULT AND GRACEFUL 

MOVEMENTS. 

By GEORGE ANDERSON (" Cycles"), 

Vice-President of the Crystal Palace Skating Club, and for many years President 
of the Glcisgow Skating Club. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 6 



A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS 



ILLUSTRATED WITH FULL-PAGE ENGRAVINGS DRAWN PRINCIPALLY FROM 
LIFE BY HARRISON WEIR. 

In Imperial Ato., levelled hoards, gilt edges, price 18s. 
THE 

CATTLE OF GREAT BRITAIN: 

BEING 

A SERIES OF ARTICLES 

ON THE 

VARIOUS BREEDS OF CATTLE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, 
THEIR HISTORY, MANAGEMENT, &c. 



Edited by J. COLEMAN, 



Editor of the Farm Department of " The Field," and formerly Professor of Agriculture 
at the Royal Agi'icultural College, Cirencester. 



CONTENTS. 



THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF GATTLE. 

Chap. 
I.— Introductory. 

II. — Breeding and General Manage- 
ment. 
III.— Principles of Feeding— Nature 
and Value of Different Kinds 
of Food. 
IV. — Buildings, and the Manufacture 

of Manure, 
v.— Dairy Management, the Milk 
Trade, &c. 



By 



THE VARIOUS BREEDS OF CATTLE. 

ENGLISH GEOUP. 

Chap. 

VI.— Shorthorns. By J ohn Thornton. 

VII.— Herefords. By Thomas Duck- 
ham, 
yill.— Devons. By Capt. Tanner 
Davey. 

IX.— The Longhorns. By Gilbert 

Muri-ay and the Editor. 

X.— Sussex Cattle. By A. Heasman. 

XI.— Norfolk and Suffolk Bed Polled 
Cattle. By Thomas Fulcher. 



SCOTCH GKOUP. 
Chap. 

XII.— Polled Galloway Cattle. 
Gilbert Murray. 
,, Polled Angus or Aberdeenshire 
Cattle. By " Scotus." 
XIII.— The Ayrshire Breed of Cattle. 

By Gilbert Murray. 
XIV.— West Highland Cattle. By 
•lohn Eobertson. 

WELSH AND lEISH GEO DP. 
Chap. 

XV.— The Glamorgan Breed of Cattle. 
By Moi-gan Evans. 
XVI. — Pembrokeshire or Castlemartin 
Cattle. By Morgan Evans. 
XVII.— The Anglesea Cattle. By Mor- 
gan Evans. 
XVIII.— The Kerry Breed of Cattle. By 
E. 0. Pringle. 

CHANNEL ISLANDS GEOUP. 



Chap. 
XIX.- 

XX.- 



XXI. 



-The Aldemey Breed of Cattle. 

By "An Amateur Breeder." 
-The Breton Breed of Cattle. 

By J. C. W. Douglas and 

Others. 
-The Guernsey Breed of Cattle 

By " A Native." 



" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 



ILLUSTRATED WITH FULL-PAGE ENGRAVINGS DRAWN PRINCIPALLY FROM 
LIFE BY HARRISON WEIR. 

In Itnperial 4fo., bevelled hoards, gilt edges, price 18s. 
THE 

SHEEP AND PIGS OF GREAT BRITAIN 



A SERIES OF ARTICLES 

ON TUE VARIOUS 

BREEDS OP SHEEP AND PIGS OP THE UNITED KINGDOM, 
THEIR HISTORY, MANAGEMENT, &c. 

Edited by J. COLEMAN, 

Editor of the Farm Depai-tment of " The Field," and formerly Professor of Agi-icultui-e 
at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. 



CONTENTS, 



SHEEF. 



THE GENERAL MANAGEWIENT OF SHEEP. 

Chap. 
I.— Introductory. 
II. — Management of Ewes up to 

Lambing. 
III.— Preparations for and Attention 

during Lambing. 
IV.— Management from Birth to 

Weaning, 
v.— From "Weaning to Market. 
VI.— On Wool. 

THE BREEDS OF SHEEP. 

Chap. 
I. — Leicester Sheep. By the Editor. 
II.— Border Leicesters. By John 
Usher. 
III.— Cotswold Sheep. By the Editor. 
IV. — Long-Wooled Lincoln Sheep, 
v.— The Devon Long-Wools. By 
Joseph Darby. 
VI.— Komney Marsh Sheep. By the 

Editor. 

VII.— Southdown Sheep. By the Editor. 

VIII. — The Hampshire, or West Country 

Down Sheep. By E. P. Squarey. 

IX. — Shropshire Sheep. By the Editor. 

X. — Oxfordshire Down Sheep. By 

Messrs. Druce and C. Hobbs. 



Chap. 
XL— The Koseommon Sheep. By 
R. 0. Pringle. 
XII.— Negrette Merino Sheep. 
XIII. — Exmoor Sheep. 
XIV.— The Blackfaced or Scotch 

Mountain Sheep. 
X v.— Cheviot Sheep. By John Usher. 
XVI.— Dorset Horned Sheep. By 
John Darby. 
XVII.— Welsh Mountain Sheep. By 
Morgan Evans. 
XVIIL— The Radnor Sheep. By Morgan 
Evans. 
XIX.— Herdwick Sheep. By H. A. 
Spedding. 

XX.— Sheep Farming in Queensland. 
By John Sidney. 



Chap. 
I. — General Management of Pigs. 
II.— The Berkshire Pig. By the Editor. 
HI.— Black Suffolk Pigs. 
IV.— Large White Pigs. By the Editor, 
v.— Small White Pigs. By the Editor. 
VI.— Middle-bred White Pigs. By the 

Editor. 
VII.— The Black Dorset Pig. By A. 
Benj afield. 



THE field" office, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



FIFTH EDITION. 

Be-ivritten, loith additions and new full-page Engravings. In one 
volume, bevelled hoards, gilt edges, ;price 15s. 

THE 

DOCS OF THE BRITISH ISLANDS: 



A SERIES OP ARTICLES 



THE POINTS OP THEIR VARIOUS BREEDS, 



THE TEEATMENT OF THE DISEASES TO WHICH 
THEY AEE SUBJECT. 

KEPEINTED FKOM "THE FIELD" NEWSPAPER. 

By J. H. WALSH, 

" Stonehenge," Editor of " The Field." 
(WITH THE AID OF SEVERAL EXPERIENCED BREEDERSA 



CONTENTS. 
General Management. 



Book 
I. — Management of Dogs in Health. 
II. — Drugs Commonly Used for the 
Diseases of Dogs, and their Modes 
of Administration. 



Book 

III. — The Ordinary Diseases of the Dog 

and their Treatment. 
IV.— Judging at Dog Shows and Field 

Trials. 



Sporting Dogs. 



Book 

•I.— Dogs Used with the Gun. 



Book 

II.— Hounds and their Allies. 



Non-Sporting Dogs. 



Book 

I.— Watch Dogs. 
II.— Sheep and Cattle Dogs. 



III.— Terriers (other than Fox and Toy). 
IV.— Toy Dogs. 



" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 



THIS WORK CONTAINS ABOVE 700 PAGES, AND NEARLY 400 
ILLUSTRATIONS, 

New and cheaper Edition, with additions, price 30s., hy post Sis. 4d., 
cloth gilt. 

Shifts and Expedients 

OF 

CAMP LIFE, TRAVEL, and EXPLORATION. 

BY 

W. B. LORD AND T. BAINES. 

{Royal ArtiUerij.) (F.R.G.S.) 



CONTENTS. 



Introduction. ^^ap. 

Chap. -^v.- 

I. —Outfit to take abroad. XVI.- 

II._Boats, Baf ts,and Makeshift Floats 
III —Working in Metal. XVII.- 

IV.— Huts and Houses. 

v.— Extempore Bridges and Make- XVIII.- 
shifts for Crossing Kivers and , 
Ravines. XIX. 

"VI.— Timber and its Utilisation. 
VII.— Sledges and Sledge Travelling. 
VIII.— Boots, Shoes, and Sandals. XX. 

IX. — Waggons and other Wheeled 

Vehicles. XXI. 

X. — Harness and Pack Animals. 
XI.— Camels. 
XII.— Cattle Marking. XXII. 

XIII.— Water, and the Sap of Plants. XXIII. 
XIV.— Camp Cookery. 



-Fish and Amphibious Animals. 

-Poisoned Weapons, Arrows, 
Spears, &c. 

-Tracking, Hunting, and Trap- 
ping. 

-Palanquins, Stretchers, Ambu- 
lances, &c. 

-On Sketching and Paintuig 
under the Ordinary Difiacul- 
ties of Travel. 

-The Estimation of Distances, 
and Hints on Field Observing. 

-Hints to Explorers on Collect- 
ing and Preserving Objects 
of Natural History. 

-Ropes and Twines. 

-Bush Veterinary Surgery and 
Medicine. 



Extract from the Introduction. 



Like two voyagers returned from a long cruise in far-off seas, we throw together 
our joint gleanings in many lands. These do not consist of jewels, gems, gold, or 
furs ; no piles of costly merchandise do we lay at the reader's feet as offerings from 
distant climes, but simply the experiences of two roving Englishmen who have 
"roughed it." By those who have to pass through a campaign, travel wild 
countries, or explore httle known regions, shifts must be made, and expedients of 
many kinds had recourse to, of which the inexperienced in such matters would but 

little dream In our travels and adventures we have not been associated, the 

paths trodden by us being widely separated. Whilst one was exploring the wilds 
of North Australia, the other was dwelling in a canvas-covered hole in the earth 
before Seba.stopol. The scenes chanse; Southern and Tropical Africa is visited 
by the late Australian traveller, whilst the Crimea, with its rugged hills and wild 
ravines, is exchanged for the jungles of Central India by the other. 



THE field" OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



10 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

IN TWO VOLUMES, 

IDemy 8vo., pi-ice 15s. eacli, "by post 16s., 
THE 

MODERN SPORTSMAN'S 
GUN AND RIFLE, 

INCLUDING 

Came and Wildfowl Guns, Sporting and Match Rifles 
AND Revolvers. 



VoL L — Game and ^Vildfo\vl Guns. 
VoL IL— The Rifle and Revolver. 



By J. H. WALSH, 

'• Stonehenge," Editor of " The Field," 
Author of " Dogs of the British Islands," " The Greyhound," " British Rural Sports," tt 



PRESS OPINIONS ON VOLUME I. 

" A perusal of Mr. "Walsh's book has forced upon us the conclusion, one that will 
be shared by nearly every reader, that it is indisputably the standard work on the 
subject, and is likely long to remain so— a position it richly merits. Sportsmen 
will anxiously look forward to the second volume of the work, for there is every 
reason to anticipate that the same high standard will be maintained, and that the 
rifle will receive as complete an exposition as the ' Game and Wild Fowl Gvms.' 
We are only fulfillmg a duty to the public when we say that no man connected in 
any way with guns or gunnerj' should be without a copy of Mr. Walsh's masterly 
volume.'''— The Birmingham Daihj Gazette, Nov. 21, 1882. 

" It will be seen that the work contains a variety of hints which may be useful to 
intending purchasers of guns, so that we can confidently recommend an intelligent 
glance through it as likely to save money and prevent disappointment."— ^a^wrcfay 
Review. 

" Taking the work as a whole, the sportsman will find in it much information on 
guns, shot, and kindred topics." — Pall Mall Gazette. 

" The most complete work that has yet been written on sporting guns."— 
iS^ James's Gazette. 

" For breadth of view and completeness this treatise could hardly be excelled. 
It has, moreover, the advantage of reporting authoritatively on the very latest 
improvements, both as regards weapons and powder and shot, all which objects 
of a sportsman's consideration seem to be susceptible of indefinite progress." — 
Daily News. 

'• With such a guide as this, all who appreciate sport will be able to enjoy it 
fully, and, what is of importance, will be able to avoid much of the danger 
attending the use of imperfect weapons.— T/^e Era. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX.'i 11 

Demy Ato.. icith 12 full-page illustration,^, some of ichich contain Portraits of 
Sporting Celebrities, and2i vignettes, price £1 Is., bp post £1 2s. 

SPORTING SKETCHES 

WITH 

PEIT A'ND PENCIL. 

BY 

FRANCIS FRANCIS and A. W. COOPER. 



CONTENTS. 

The First of September. Rabbit Shooting. 

A Day in a Punt. Reaching. 

Mark Cock ! Grouse Shooting. 

Trouting. Salmon Fishing, 

Long Tails and Short Ones. Snipe Shooting. 

Paying the Pike. Grayling Fishing. 

Croim 4to., printed on toned paper, price 25s., by post 26s. 
THE 

ANNALS OF TENNIS 

BY 

JULIAN MARSHALL. 



This work will be found very complete, and. it is thought, justly entitled to take its 
place as the standard work on Tennis. It has cost its author much laborious 
research ; and, independently of its great value to tennis players and all lovers of 
the game, it is trusted, from the vast amount of curious lore it contains, the volume 
will be found not unworthy of a place on the shelves of the scholar. The author, 
himself a well-known amateur, is fully competent to speak -with authority on the 
game, having had the opportunity of studying the play of the best Continental, in 
addition to that of the best English, masters, and, therefore, may be taken as a safe 
guide by learners. 



CONTENTS 

I. — Tennis Abroad. 
II. — Tennis in England. 
III. — The Court and Implements 



IV. — The Laws and their History, 
v.— The Game. 
VI. — Appendix. 



THE field" office, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



12 



A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



A PRESENTATION VOLUME FOR CLUBS. 



4to., bevelled hoards, gilt edges, (500 'pages), with appropriate 
illustrations, price One Guinea, by post £1 2s, 4(J. 

THE 

ENGLISH GAME OF CRICKET: 

COMPRISING A DIGEST OF ITS 

ORIGIN, CHARACTER, HISTORY, AND PROGRESS, 

TOGETHER WITH 

AN EXPOSITION OF ITS LAWS AND LANGUAGE. 



CHARLES BOX, 

Author of "The Cricketers' Manual," "Reminiscences of Celebrated Players," Essays on 
the Game, " Songs and Poems," " Theory and Practice of Cricket," &c. 



CONTENTS 



Chap. 

TO y Introductory. 
VI.) 

Glances at the Past and Present State of 
County Cricket. 
VII.— Middlesex. 
VIII.— Public School Matches. 
IX.— Kent. 
X. — Hampshire. 
XI. — Surrey. 
XII.— Sussex. 
XIII.— Nottinghamshire. 
XIV.— Yorkshire. 



Chap. 

XV.— War^-ickshire and Derbyshire. 
XVI.— Gloucestershire. 
XVII. — Lancashire and Leicestershire. 
XVIII.— The Eastern Counties. 
XIX ) 
XX' I I'^t^rcolonial Matches. 

XXI.— School and Village Matches. 
XXII.— Curiosities of Cricket. 
XXIIL— Cricket Grounds. 
XXIV. — Laws of the Game. 

XXV.— Poems, Songs, and Ballads. 
XX VI.— Glossary of Words and Phrases. 
Postscript. — Shakespeare and Cricket 
— An Enforced Dissertation. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 



" The most complete and interesting work on cricket ever published. No expense 
has been spared in making that which is really useful a very handsome volume."— 
BelFs Life. 

" We welcome with heartiness a writer like Mr. Charles Box, who has so 
pleasantly united in the splendid volume before us the old order (of cricket) with 
the new." — Sportmg and Dramatic News. 

" This work will prove interesting to all lovers of cricket."— y/mes. 

" The volume is a very handsome one indeed, destined, doubtless, to become an 
authority on the essentially ' English Game of Cricket.'" — Moiming Post. 

"The best work on cricket that has yet come under our notice." — Nottingham 
Journal. 

"A handsome and well got-up volume, the author being the man of all others 
qualified and in a position for compiling such a work. — Kent Herald. 



THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX.. 



13 



Large post 8vo., price 8s. 6d., hy post 9s. 

BY LAKE AND EIVER: 

AN ANGLER'S EAMBLES IN THE NORTH OF ENGLAND 
AND SCOTLAND. 

Author of ''A Book on Angling," etc. 
Second Edition, large post 8vo., price 5s., hy post 5s. Sd. 

By FRANCIS FRANCIS. 

Author of '• A Book on iVngling," " By Lake and Eiver," " Hot-Pot," &c. 



Chap. 

v.— The Pike. 
VI.— Trout Fishing ^vith Bait. 
VII.— Fly Fishing for Trout. 



CONTENTS 

Preface. 

Chap. 
I.— The Art of Angling. 
II.— Mid-Water Fishing. 

III.— Surface or Fly Fishing. i VIII.— Trout Flies. 

IV.— The Gudgeon, the Pope or Ruff, i IX.— Grayling Fishing, 
the Bleak, the Roach, the Rudd, 1 X.— Salmon Fishing, 
the Dace, the Chub, the Barbel, { XI.— Salmon Flies, 
the Bream, the Carp, the Tench, i XII.— On Tackle Making, 
the Perch. : Addenda. 

Post 8vo., in cloth, price 5s., hy post 5s. 4cL 

MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS 
By Francis Francis, 

Author of " A Book on Angling," '• By Lake and Eiver," "Angling," &c 



contents. 

A Christmas Reverie— The First Day of the Season— A Strange Fishing Match — 
The Poacher — The Banker — Reminiscences of an Angler; or, Justices' Justice — 
Christmas in the Fisherman's Snuggerj^— St. May Fly— Catching Tartars — 
Under the Boughs. " Now and Then " — Reminiscences of an Angler, '• Farmer 
Gumshun" — Bankers and Tinkers — The Pleasures of Grayling Fishing — Will 
Whistle — An Angler's Christmas Yarn — Reminiscences of an Angler, - Squaring 
the Keeper '■— A Week on the Brattle— A Storm on the Brawle— White Trout and 
Salmon Fishing in Gahvay— Reminiscences of an Angler. •' Anglers' Miseries " 
— Sam Coventry — Piscatory Prosings " De Omnibus Rebus," &c. — Chcwton Pike. 

"THE field" OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. d 



14 



A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



Demy 8vo., luith folding plates and full-page illustrations printed on 
toned paper, price 21s., hy post 21s. 9d. 

MODERN WILDFOWLING. 



LE^VIS 

" WlLDFOWXER 



BY 

CLEMENT, 



CONTENTS. 



Punting. — Introduction. 
Chap. 

I.^ Muzzle-loading Punt Guns 
11.^ (Flint, Percussion and Copper 
III.) Tube Ignition. 
IV.) 

V. )- Breechloading Punt Guns. 
VI.i 

VII. — Loading Punt Guns. 
VIII. — Aiming and Firing Punt Guns. 
X.— The Setting of Punt Guns. 
XI.— Kecoil and After-recoil Appa- 
ratuses. 
XII. 
XIII. 

•^y ! Punts. 

XVl'. 

XVII. . 
XVIII.— Launching Punts and Canoes. 

XIX.— Punting Accessories. 
XX. ^ 
^^H Punting. 

XXIII.) 

XXIV.— My First Single-handed Punt- 
ing Trip. 
XXV.) Amateur and Professional 
XXVI. J Puntsmen. 



Chap. 

XXVII 

XXVIII 

XXIX 

XXX 

XXXI 

XXXII, 

XXXIII 

XXXIV 

XXX^' 

XXXVI 

XXXVII 

XXXVIII, 

XXXIX 

XL, 

XLI, 

XLII 

XLIII 

XLIV. 

XLV. 

XL VI. 
XLVII. 

XLVIII. 



Shoulder Guns. 

.—Flapper Shooting. 
.—Inland Duck Shooting. 
. — Sailing to Fowl. 

•j- Decoying to the Gmi. 

.— Decojing in America. 

. — American Blinds. 

.—American Canvas - back 
Shooting. 

.—Shore Shooting. 

. — Flighting. 

.} Curious Wildfowl and Sea- 

,j fowl Shooting Expedients. 

.—Close Time and Wildfowl 
and Sea-fowl Acts. 

.— '• Wildfowler's" Table of 
Loads. 

— Nettmg Plovers and Snipe 
Snaring. 

—Snaring and Hooking Sea- 
fowl on the Continent. 

—Decojing into the '• Pipes." 

—Flight Ponds and Eock 
Fowling. 

— Concluding Eemarks. 



OPINIONS OF THE PEESS. 

" An excellent work indeed, and full of capital illustrations, is ' ilodern Wild- 
fowling; ' to recommend it aright I should have, if I were clever enough, and it did 
not already exist, to invent the famous phrase, 'a book no gentleman's library 
should be without." "—Truth, March 17, 1881. 

'• This book deals not only with the various modes of approaching or decoying, 
and killing wildfowl of all kinds, but enters into minute details upon the construc- 
tion of punts, both single and double handed : sails ; punt guns, muzzle-loading as 
well as breechloading; recoil apparatus: and shoulder guns of all patterns, -v^ith 
the varjing loads required for different bores. In addition to this are several 
chapters devoted to a narration of the adventures of the author while in pursuit of 

wildfowl, both at home and abroad— which are very pleasant reading 

With the addition of a good index, sportsmen will have in this work a capital i^ade 
meciiin on the art of wildfowling.— r/ze Zoologist for November, 1880. 



THE field" office, 346. STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 15 

Second Edition. Large post 8vo., price 7s. Gd., by post 8s. 
THE 

"IDSTONE" PAPERS. 

A SERIES OF ARTICLES AND DESULTORY OBSERVATIONS ON 
SPORT AND THINGS IN GENERAL 

BY 

"IDSTOnSTE," 

Or " The Field." 
CONTENTS. 



Chap. 

XVI.— Brown in the Country. 
XVII.— The Earthstoppers' Feast. 
XVIII.— The White Snipe. 
XIX. — Swans and Eagles. 
XX.— The Philosophy of Missing. 
XXI. — Shooting in Aldemey. 
XXII.— Shirkers. 
XXIII.— Our Black Heath. 
XXIV.— Traps and Calls. 
XXV.— Northward. 



Chap. 

I. — Agricultural Labourers. 
II.— The Rough Rider. 
III.— The First of May. 
IV.—'- Strictly Confidential." 

V. — Shooting Dress. 
VI.— Some Old Portraits. 
VII. — Dens and Sanctums. 
VIII.— The Rat-catcher. 
IX.— Early Morning in London. 
X.— The Earthstopper. 

XL— The Shooting Pony. I XXVI.— A Bnght October. 

XII.— Whistle and Whip. | XXVIL— Varied Shooting. 

XIIL— Old Traps and Spring-guns. XXVIII.— The End of the Season. 
XIV.— Tom Frere the Hard-riding XXIX.— On Beating for Game. 

Farmer. XXX. — Land Valuers and Stewards. 

XV.— Expecting Brown. i XXXL— Snipe Shooting. 

This work is admirably adapted for use as a Sporting Tourist's 
Handbook, while it is of absorbing interest to the general reader. 

Large pos^t 8t;o., 'price Qs. 6cZ., hy pof<t 6s. lOd. 



LIFE, SCENERY, AND SPORT IN NORWAY. 

BY 

Rev. M. R. BARISARL>, B.A. 

Author of *' Sport in Norway and Where to Find It," '-Life of Thorvalsdeu," 
and Translator of '• Private Life of the Old Northmen," and a '• Summer in 
Iceland," &c. 



THE FIELD" OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



16 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

Just puhlished, 8vo., pp- 463, ivith 32 illustrations, price 16s., by post 
16s. lOd. 

ESSAYS 

ON 

SPORT AND NATURAL HISTORY. 
By J. E. HARTING. 



CONTENTS, 



Shooting — Hawking — Fishing — Training Hawks — Lark Mirrors — Plover 
Catching — Fishing with Cormorants — Decoys — The Irish Wolfhound — The Badger 
—Wild Turkeys— The Great Bustard— Seals— Wild Swans, &c. 

Thirty-eight Essays: concluding with Practical Hints on Bird Preserving for 
the use of Travellers and Collectors. 



In demy 8vo., price 3s. 6d., hy post 3s. 9d. 

HINTS ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HAWKS. 

By J. E. HARTING, 

Author of^'^A Handbook of British Birds " " Essays on Sport and Natural History." 
Large post 8vo., price 6s., hy post 6s. 4-cl. 

RAMBLES AFTER SPORT; 

OR, 

TRAVELS AWD ADVENTURES IN THE AMERICAS AND AT HOME. 
By "OLIYER north." 



CONTENTS. 

A Week's Duck Shooting at Poole — That Sheldrake — Quail Shootmg in California 
— Bear Hunting in Mexico — Bear Shooting in California — My First Elk — My Last 
Bear — Bound Cape Horn. Valparaiso. Santiago — AndacoUo. Lima, Panama, 
Jamaica — Comitry Sports and Life inChile^ — Shooting in Chile — Two Days' Fishing 
in Chile — " Toling" for Docks in California — Up the Sacramento — The White Elk 
of Astoria — Sport in the Coast Eange Mountains. 



In large post 8vo., limp cloth, price 2s. 6d., hy 'post 2s. 8d. 

<OOIjOI^^3DO : 

ITS 

AGEICULTUEE, STOCKFEEDING, SCENERY, AND SHOOTING. 

By S. NUGENT TOWNSHEND, J. P. 

("St. Kames.") 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX- 17 

Now ready, VOLUME I. {containing Parts I., II., and III.), in 

crown Svo., red cloth, ])rice 6s., hy post 6s. 6d. 

THE 

HUNTING COUNTRIES 

OF 

ENGLAND, 

THEIR FACILITIES, CHARACTER, AMD REQUIREMENTS. 

A GUIDE TO HUNTING MEN. 

By ^'BROOKSB Y/' 



CONTENTS. 

PART I.— Introduction— The Belvoir— The South Wold— The Brocklesby— 
The Burton and The Blankney— The Fitzw-ilham — The Quorn— The Cottesmore— 
The Puckeridge— The Okl Berkeley. 

PART II.— The North Warwickshire— The Pytchley— The Woodland Py tehley 
— The Atherstone — The Billesdon or South Quorn — The Meynell — The Bicester and 
Warden Hill Hunt— The Heythrop— The Old Berkshire— The South Oxfordshire— 
The South Nottinghamshire— The East Kent— The Tickham— The Vine— The 
South Berkshire— Mr Garth" s— The H. H.— The Tedworth— Lord Ferrers'— The 
Warwickshire. 

PART III.— The Dulverton- The Stars of the West— Mr. Luttrell's— Lord 
Portsmouth's- The Essex and the Essex Union— The Hertfordshire— The Whaddon 
Chase— The Vale of White Horse— The Cheshire and South Cheshire— The Black- 
moor Vale — The Cambridgeshire — The Duke of Grafton's — The Holderness — The 
Oakley— The North Herefordshire— The Duke of Buccleuch's— The Tynedale— 
Lord Percy's — The Morpeth — The Eufford. 

Also now ready {VOLUME II.). 

PART IV.— The Badsworth— The Southdown— The East Essex— The Bram- 
hani Moor — The East Sussex — The Essex and Suffolk — The York and Ainstj^ — Lord 
Fitzwilliam's — The Crawley and Horsham — The West Kent — Sir Watkin Wynn"s 
—The Hursley— The Hambledon— Lord Coventry's— The Grove— The West Norfolk 
— The Bedale — Lord Zetland's — The Craven — The Surrey Union. 

PART "V.- The Old Surrey— Mr. Richard Combe's— The Burstow— The Hur- 
worth- The Cattistock— The Suffolk— The Shropshire- The Earl of Eadnor— Capt. 
Hon. F. Johnstone's — The South Dui-ham — The Worcestershire — The Ledbury — 
The South Herefordshire— The South Staffordshire— The North Staffordshire— the 
Duke of Beaufort's— The Cots wold— The Dumfriesshire— The Albrighton— The 
North Cotswold. 

PART VI.— Lord Middleton's— The Sinnington— The Wheatland— The United 
Pack— The Chiddingfold — Lord Fitzhardinge's — Hon. Mark Rolle's — South-and- 
West Wilts — Lord Portman's — The Cleveland — The North Durham — Braes of 
Derwent — The Radnorshire and West Hereford — The Monmouthshire. 
Each. Part is published separately, price 2s. 6d. 

In One Map, bound in red cloth, mottnted on. canvas, size 'loin, by 'l^MLjprice 4s. Gd., 
by post -is. Sd. ^BP^ 

"THE FIELD" HUNTING MAP 

(printed in colours), 

GIVING THE NAMES AND DISTRICTS OF EACH PACK OF HOUNDS FROM 
CARLISLE TO LAND'S END. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



18 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

Noxv ready, royal 8vo., 'price 10s. Qd., by post lis. 

HORSE BREEDING RECOLLECTIONS. 

BY 

COUNT G. LEHNDORFF, 

Containing : 

Notes on the Breeding of Thoroughbreds — Tn-breeding and Out- 
crossing — Pedigrees of all the Principal Sires — and Genealogical 
Tables of Celebrated Thoroughbreds. 

Post 8vo., price 7s. 6d., hy post Ss. 

MOSS FROM A ROLLING STONE; 

MOORISH WANDERINGS AND RAMBLING 
REMINISCENCES. 

BY 

" Sarcelle'' of " T/ie Field,'' dr., Author of " The Diamond Diggings, of South Africa.^* 
In One Volume, large post 8vo. tcith Maps, price Gs.. by post 65. Ad. 

THE DIAMOND DIGGINGS OF SOUTH AFRIGA. 

A PERSONAL AND PRACTICAL ACCOUNT. 

BY 

" Sarcelle," of " The Field." 



CONTENTS. 

Part I Part 

I. — General Account of the Fields. IV. — My Diary at the Diggings. 

II.— Eoutes to the Fields. | V.— The Gold Fields. 

III. — Sketches of Life and Character on the Fields. 

Price 5s. cloth, hy post 5s. 4(Z. 

A Yeap of Liberty ; of, Salmon Angling' in Ireland, 

By W. PEARD, M.D., LL.B. 

"THE field" office, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 19 

Third Edition. Large post Sw. price 7s. 6d. cloth, by post Is. \0d. 

FACTS AND USEFUL HINTS 

RELATING TO 

FISHING AND SHOOTING: 

TO WHICH IS ADDED 

A LIST OF RECIPES FOR THE MANAGEMENT AND CURE 

OF DOCS IN DISEASE. 

Edited by I. E. B. C, 

Editor of " The Gamekeepers and Game Preserver's Account Book and Diary," &c 



FISH I NG. 

Baits— Fish— Fish Hatching— Flies and Fly Making— Flights— Floats— Gut— Lines 
—Miscellaneous— Nets— Ponds and Streams— Eods— Wading Boots— Wax. 

SHOOTING. 

Birds and Beasts — Breeding — Coverts — Deer— Dogs— Ferrets— Foxes— Guns- 
Kennel— Miscellaneous— Nets— Preserving — Rabbits— Rifles— Traps— Vermin. 

APPENDIX. — Diseases of Dogs. 
In post 8vo,, with Illustrations, price ds. 6d. 

THE PRACTICAL MANAGEMENT OF FISHERIES. 

a book for proprietoes and keepers. 
By Francis Francis, 

Author of " Fish Culture," " A Book on Angling," " Reports on Salmon 
Ladders," &c. &c. &c. 



CONTENTS. 



Chap. Chap. , ^ . , „ 

I.— Fish and Fish Food. VI.— On the Eeanng of Fry and 

II.— How to Grow Fish Food and how the Conduct of Ponds, Stews, 

to Make Fishes' Homes. i &c. 



III.— On the Management of Weeds and 
the Economy of Fishing. 

IV.— The Enemies of Trout and how to 
Circumvent them, 
v.— The Artilicial Incubation of Ova. 



VII. — Some Hatcheries. 
VIII.— Coarse Fish. 
IX.— On Salmon and Trout Ladders 
and Passes. 
Appendix.— Notes, <fec. 



Price 2s. 6d. by post 2s. M. 

GAME REGISTER, 

GIVING AN ACCOUNT OF EACH HEAD OF GAME KILLED. AND HOW 

DISPOSED OF. 

Containing also Divisions for Registering Sporting Engagements and 

General Observations. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



20 



A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



Now read.y, quarto, price 5s., by post 5s. Qd. 
THE 

GAMEKEEPER'S AND GAME PRESERVER'S 

i[cc0UJit B00k anb IBtarg. 

By I. E. B. C, 

Editor of " Facts and Useful Hints relating to Fishing and Shooting," " The 
Angler's Diaiy," <fec. 



ITS SECTIONS COMPRISE- 



The Shooting and its Guardians. 
Memoranduji of Agreement. 
Eeceipts and Payments. 
Vermin Diary— 

General Summary. 

Poultry Diary— 

Receipts and Payments. 
General Balance Sheet. 

Pheasant Diary— 

Receipts and Expenses. 
General Balance Sheet. 



Dog Diary— 

Kennel Names, Ages, "Value, &c. 
Kennel Occupants at the beginning of 

each Quarter of the Tear. 
Produce Register— Bitches. 
Stud Register. 
Pedigrees. 

Receipts and Expenses. 
General Balance Sheet. 

Game Diary— 

Total Summary of the Season. 
Produce of the Beats or Coverts. 
Tenants, &c., to whom Game should be 

given. 
Inventory of Appliances, &c. 

Stock Valuation. 



General Balance Sheet for the Year. 



In handy pocTcet size, price Is. 6d., by post Is. 7d. 

THE GAMEKEEPER'S SHOOTING MEMORANDUM BOOK 

FOR THE 
KEGISTEETXG OF GAME SHOT, MEMORANDA OF SALE, &C. 

By I. E. B. C, 

Editor of "Facts and Useful Hints relating to Fishing and Shooting," " The Game- 
keeper's and Game Preserver" s Account Book and Diary," &c. 



Croicn 8vo., price 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9cZ. 

PUBLIC SHOOTING QUARTERS 

IN ENGLAND, WALES, SCOTLAND, IRELAND, AND ON THE 
CONTINENT. 

By "W I LD FO WLE R," 

Author of " Shooting and Fishing Trips."' '' Modern Wildfowling," "Table of 
Loads," &c. 



" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 21 

Third Edition, Enlarged and Eevtsed. 
Large post 8vo., v:ith Illustrations, price 5s. cloth, hy post bs. 4:d. 

THE COUNTRY HOUSE: 

A COLLECTION OF USEFUL INFOEMATIOX AND RECIPES, 

Adapted to the Country Gentleman and his household, and of the greatest utility 
to the housekeeper generally. 

By I. E. B. C, 

Editor of "Facts and Useful Hints relating- to Fishing and Shooting," and "The 
Gamekeeper's and Game Preserver's Account Book and Diary." 



Published Annually. In post 8vo., pries Is. Gd., hy post Is. Sd. 

THE ANGLER'S DIARY 

AND 

TOURIST FISHERMAN'S GAZETTEER 

CONTAINS 

A Record of the Rivers and Lakes of the World, to which are added a List of 
Rivers of Great Britain, with their nearest Railway Stations. 

Also Forms for Registering the Fish taken during the year; as well as 
the Time of the Close Seasons and Angling Licences. 

By I. E. B. C, 

Editor of " The Gamekeeper's and Game Preserver's Account Book and Diary," &c. 

Third Edition. Infcap. Svo., price Is., hy post Is. Id. 

WILD BIRDS' PROTECTION ACT, 1880, 

WITH COSIMENTS ON THEIR RESPECTIVE SECTIONS 

Explanatory of their bearing as regards owners and occupiers of land, sportsmen, 
bird catchers, bird dealers, <fec.; together with Notes on the Birds named in the 
Schedule, their pro\'incial names, &e. 

An accurate exposition of and commentary on the recent measure, and will 
dispel many misconceptions of its scope." ' — Quarterly Review. 

'A capital annotated edition of the Act." — Sattirday Review. 

" You have not the book of riddles about you, have yoxx'i"— Merry Wives. 
Price 5s-, hy post 5s. 3(Z. 

WHETSTONES FOR WITS;" 

OR 

DOUBLE ACROSTICS. 

-^ir A7■^I^IOTJS lEI ^^ IsT ZD s . 
Edited by "CRACK." 

"THE field" OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



(( 



22 A CATALOGUE OF BOOK 

Second Editiqn. In demy 8vo., price 10s. 6d., hy post lis. 

ESTATE MANAGEMENT: 

A PEACTICAL HANDBOOK FOR LANDLORDS, STEWARDS. 
AND PUPILS, 

WITH A 

LEGAL SUPPLEMENT BY A BARRISTER, 

ALSO 

Ecnmt ^ig^t from a iLantil0rtf*s' \Baint af Witin. 
By CHARLES E. CURTIS. 



CONTENTS 

Chap. I Chap. 

- - vin.) 



L— Letting and Leases. 
II. — Fai-m Valuations. 
III.— Forestry. 
IV.— Underwood. 



yy" ,- Eepairs and Materials. 

x!— The Blights of Wheat and other 
Cereals. 



V. — Fences. ' XI. — Accounts. 

VI.— Grasses suitable for "Woods and XII.— Useful Rules of Arithmetic and 

Plantations. | Mensuration. 

VII.— The Home Farm. 



In croivn Svo., price Is. 

CATECHISM OF ESTATE MANAGEMENT. 

SECTION I. 

LETTING AND LEASES. 

BY 

CHAS. E. CURTIS, F.S.L, 

Professor of Estate Management at the College of Agriculture. Principal of the 
School of Estate Management, Author of " Estate Management," <fcc. 

In croicn Svo., v:ith Thirteen full-page Plates, price 2s. 6d., hy 
post 2s. 9d. 

The Swimming Instructor: 

A TREATISE ON THE ARTS OF SWIMMING AND 
DIYING. 

By WILLIAM WILSON. 

Author of '-Swimming, Diving, and How to Save Life," -'The Bather's Manual," 
" Hints on Swimming." 

*' THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 23 

SECOND EDITION, Greatly Enlarged (with Illustrations and Plans of Silos). 
Just published, price 6s., hy post 6s. 6d. 

S Z L O S 

FOR 

PEESERVINa BEITISH FODDER CROPS STORED 
IN A OREEN STATE. 

Notes on the Ensilage of Grasses, Clovers, Vetches, &c. 

COMPILED AND ANNOTATED 

BY THE 

S■U■B-EX)ITOI^ OIP "the IFIIEXjZD.'' 

CONTENTS. 
Introductory. — Cattle-feeding v. corn-growing; previous information on the 

storage of green fodder in pits ; silos in ancient and modern times. 
CHAP. 

I. — Summary of Practice. 

II. — Crops for the Silo. — Grasses, clovers, lucerne, vetches, maize, green rye 
and oats, spurrey, buckwheat, comfrey, roots and miscellaneous crops. 

III.— The Various Kinds of Silos.— Earthern pits and other simple forms of 
silos ; barn and other converted silos ; specially constructed silos of stone, 
brick, concrete, wood, &c. ; ensilage stacks and barrels. 

IV. — Cost of Silos. — Estimation of capacity; cost of British silos, specially 
constructed; converted buildings ; patent silos of concrete slabs, slate, 
and wood; French silos; relative capacity and cost of silos and hay 
barns; roofs. 
V. — Filling the Silo.— Mixture of di-y material with green fodder ; influence 
of wet weather ; chopping up the fodder ; slow v. quick filling ; curbs or 
super-silos ; the use of salt ; trampling down the fodder. 

VI.— Covering and Closing the Silo.— Straw and other materials ; the cover- 
ing boards ; closing the doorway. 
VII.— Weighting the Silo.— Amount of weight to put on; consequences of 
insufficient pressure; expression of juice from the fodder; mechanical 
arrangements for pressure ; cost of apparatus. 
YIII. — Opening the Silo. — Precautions to be taken in uncovering the silage, and 
removing the weights. 

IX.— Effect of Ensilage on Fodders.— Fermentation in the pit; advantages 
and losses produced by fermentation; reduction in weight and altered pro- 
portion of constituents of silage, resulting from excessive fermentation. 
X.— Feeding Qualities of Silage.— Effect of amount of moisture in diluting 
the nutrient matters; comparative money value of green fodders and 
silage ; results of feeding experiments on the condition of the animals 
and the production of milk and cream ; silage for horses, sheep, <fec. 

XL— Effect of Silage on Dairy Produce.— Complaints of bad flavour in 
milk and butter; causes of conflicting reports. 
XII.— Cost of Haymaking v. Ensilage.— Differences of cost of the process 
under various conditions. 

Just published, price 6d., hy post Id. 

SHORT NOTES ON SILO EXPERIMENTS AND PRACTICE, 

(Extracted from '• Silos; or Preserving British Fodder Crops.") 
" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



24 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

Noiv ready, xtrice Qd. 

HAEVESTING CROPS INDEPENDENTLY 
OF WEATHEE: 

Practical Notes on the Neilson System of Harvesting. 

By "AGRICOLA," 

And other Contributors to " The Field." 

In crown 8'yo., 'price 2s. 6d., hy post 2s. Sd. 

MANURES: 

THEIE EESPECTIVE MEEITS FEOM AN ECONOMICAL 
POINT OF VIEW. 

Author of " Guano : its Origin, History, and Virtues," " The Potato and its Cultivation," &c. 



CONTENTS. 

PART. I. — Definition of the Word "Manure" — Nature's Modes of Applying 
Fertilisers— History— Classification. 

PART II.— The Value of Ploughing Down Green Crops— Weeds— Sea-weed— 
Straw— Sawdust— Tanners' Bark— "Wood Ashes— Peat— Rape Cake— Hemp- 
Poppy, Cotton, and Cocoa-nut Cakes — Bran — Malt Dust — Brewers' Grains — Coal — 
Soot — Charcoal. 

PART III.— Dead Animals— Fish— Blood— Animalised Charcoal— Bones— Horn 
— Woollen Rags, Hairs, Feathers, &c.— Night-soil— Farmyard Manure— Guano. 

PART IV.— Salts of Ammonia— Salts of Magnesia— Salts of Potash— Salts of 
Soda — Common Salt — Lime and its Compounds — " Ooze." 



In crown 8vo., price 2s., hy post 2s. 2d. 

THE POTATO AND ITS CULTIVATION, 

Author of " Guano : its Origin, History, and Virtues," "Manures : their Respective 
Merits &c. 



CONTENTS, 



Derivation — History — Constituents — Varieties — Sprouting — Soils — Planting — 
Manures— Earthing up— Disease— Scab— Storing— Forcing— Producing New 
Varieties — Substitutes for the "Potato" — Miscellaneous Information. 



THE field" OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 



25 



Demy Sfo., i^/7ce 35. Gd., by post 3s. 9c?., Illustrated icith several Diagrams. 
THE 

PRACTICAL SURVEYOR -. 

A TREATISE UPON SURVEYING. 

SPECIALLY ARRANGED FOR THE GUIDANCE OF PUPILS, STEWARDS, 
THE SCHOLASTIC PROFESSION, AND INTENDING EMIGRANTS. 

By THOMAS HOLLOWAY. 



CONTENTS. 



C}iap. 
II 



The Man and his Outfit. 
•The Chain — Cautions to Be- 
ginners — Best Figure for Chain 
Surveying. 

111. — Boundaries. 

IV. — Setting-out Lines by the Eye and 
passing Obstructions. 
V. — Division of the Circle and Use of 
Box Sextant — Chain Angles 
Condemned — Cross Staff Con- 
demned — The Optical Square 
— Measuring Inaccessible Dis- 
tances. 

VI.— The Theodolite — Setting-out 

Lines with the Theodolite. 
VII. — Reduction of the Measure of Un- 
dulating Ground to Horizontal 
Measures and Table of Vertical 
Angles. 
VIII. — Measuring Lines — The Offset 
Staff and taking Offsets. 

IX. — To prove the Correctness of Ob- 
servations taken with the Sex- 
tant—Single Fields Measured 
with the Chain and Optical 
Square, so that the Areas can 
be directly Calculated. 
X.— To Set-out a Right Angle with 
the Chain — Figures of the Lines 
of Measurement best adapted 
to Irregular Fields 

XI. — Equalising Boundaries, and 
Drawing a Triangle equal to a 
given Figure. 
XII. — Computation of Areas of Irre- 
gular Fields. 



Chap. 

XIII. — Example of a Survey of several 
Fields together, and the Field 
Book. 
XIV.— Reference Numbers to Maps— 
To put Detached Buildings 
in correct Positions on a Plan 
by Means of Unmeasured 
Lines — Lines Measured on 
the Work — Making Stations. 
XV. — Plotting — Selection and Ma- 
nagement of Paper — Inking 
in. 
XVI.— Surveys made for the purpose 
of Dividing Land into Stated 
Quantities. 
XVII. — Setting-out Allotments and 
Building Plots. 
XVIII. — Angles and Bearings, and Use 
and Adjustment of Circular 
Protractor. 
XIX. — Traverse Surveys. 
XX.— Trespass. 

XXI.— Quality Lines— Superstructures 
and Works Underground — 
Harvest and Coppice Work 
— Reducing Plans from a 
Large Plan to a Small One. 
XXII.— To Copy a Map— Colouring, 
Penmanship, <fec. 
XXIII. — Commencement of a Parish 
Survey — Surveying to a Scale 
of Feet. 
XXIV.— Town Surveying. 
XXV.— Testing the Accuracy of a 
Survey — General Remarks. 
XXVI.— In Memory of the Past. 



Price &d., hy post 7d. ; or 2s. 6d. the half-dozen. 

"The Field" Duplicate Judging Book 

Facilitates the work of the Judges at Poultiy and other ShoAvs, by a vei-y simple 
method of entering and preserving a duplicate judging list. 



THE field" office, 346, STRAND W.C. 



26 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

Second Edition. In Three Parts, large post Sro., i^rice 5s., hij 2}ost 5s. id.., each. 
THE 

FARM, GARDEN, AND STABLE. 

By I. E. B. C, 

Editor of " The Gamekeepers and Game Preserver's Account Book and Diary." 



Part I.— The Farm. 

Cattle — Crops — Daiiy — Diseases — Fencing — Food for Stock — Manures — 
SEscellaneous — Pigs — Sheep — Soils — Weeds — Woods. 

Part II.— The Garden. 

Flowers — Fruit — Houses — La^vns — Manures — Miscellaneous — Seeds — Trees and 
Shrubs — Vegetables — Vermin — Weeds. 

Part III.-The Stable. 

Carriages— Diseases— Feeding— Harness, &c.— Miscellaneous— Stable Management. 

Published Annually. In large post 8vo. 
THE 

KENEL CLUB STUD BOOK: 

CONTAINING A COMPLETE 

RECORD OE DOG SHOWS AND FIELD TRIALS, 

WITH 

Pedigrees of Sporting and Non-Sporting Dogs. 

Vol. I., from 1859 to 1873, price 12s. 6d., by post 13s. 

Price 10s. 6d., by Post 10s. lOd. each — 

Vol. IL, 1874; Vol. III., 1875; Vol. IV., 1876; Vol. V., 1877 

Vol. VI., 1878 ; Vol. VII., 1879 ; Vol. VIII., 1880 ; Vol. IX., 1881 ; 

Vol. X., 1882 ; Vol. XI., 1883 ; Vol. XII., 1884; Vol. XIIL, 1885. 

Vols. VIII. to X. are also published in Four Parts. 

Demy 8vo., price Is., hy post, Is. Id. 

THE EARLY MATURITY OF LIVE STOCK 

By HENRY EVERSHED, 

"Writer on Agriculture in the "Journal of the Eoyal Agricultural Society of 
England," '• The Field," " Quarterly Review," &c. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C, 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 



27 



Published Annually. Demy 4to., price Is., by post Is. 2d. 

Til mmi kimmm 

AND SPORTSMAN'S ILLUSTRATED CALENDAR FOR 1887. 



Articles on the following Subjects are included in the List of Contents : 

NOTES ON THE PAST RACING SEASON. 

YACHT RACING IN 1886. 

LIST OF HUNTS, THEIR MASTERS, &c. 

FIELD TRIALS WITH POINTERS AND SETTERS IN 1886. 

DOG SHOWS AND CANINE MATTERS IN 1886. 

THE MOST SUCCESSFUL JOCKEY. 

THE BLOOD OF OUR THOROUGHBRED HORSES. 

COUNTY CRICKET IN 1886, with Tables of Averages, &c. 

THE AUSTRALIAN CRICKETERS' TOUR OF 1886. 

FERRETS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 

SWIMMING IN 1886. 

EXTRAORDINARY SCORES AT BILLIARDS IN 1886. 

HOCKEY; Hints to Players. 

THE GOLFING GREENS OF THE WORLD. 

DEFLECTION OF BULLETS BY THE ROTATION OF THE 

EARTH. 
ATHLETICS IN 1886 (with Tables of Amateur and Professional 

Performances, the best on Record). 
STALLIONS FOR BREEDING BLOODSTOCK AND HUNTERS 

(List of about 300 Stallions, with their Pedigrees, and Fees for 

Thoroughbred and Half -Bred Mares). 

Also Summaries, Tables, Recipes, &c., viz.. 



Angling close seasons 

Antiquity of the drag hunts 

Athletic championships 

Beagles, packs of 

Bicycling, best times on record 

Biggest dog, the 

Boat-races, Oxford and Cambridge 

Cambridgeshire winners 

Canker in dog 

Cesarewitch winners 

Close seasons for game 

Cricket on cocoa-nut matting 

Derby winners 

Dog clubs, list of 

Fairs fur horses, &c. 

Foxhounds, packs of 

Fox stratagems 

Game, legal season for killing 

Golfing greens of the world 

Harriers, packs of 



Huntsmen, changes of 
Jumping records 
Oaks winners 
Otter hounds, packs of 
Prolific pheasants 
Kaces of 1887 , dates of 
Racquets, Schools challenge cup 
Rheumatism in horse 
Running, best times 
St. Leger winners 
Skating, best times on record 
Tennis, University matches 
Terms, University and Legal 
Tricycling perfcjnnances 
University athletic sports 
University boat-races 
Universitj- racquet matches 
University tennis matches 
Walkmg, best times. 



THE field" office, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



28 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



Second Edition. Price 2s. 6cl., hy post 2s. 8d. 

OUR COMMON INSECTS: 

FIRST STEPS TO ENTOMOLOGY. 

Fourth Edition. In demy 410., on toned paper, and in fancy cover, price 2s., 
by post '2s. 2d. 

THE BOOK OF DINNER SERVIETTES; 

CONTAINING 

A NEW INTEODUCTION ON THE DECOEATION OF DINNER TABLES, 
AND GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR FOLDING THE SERVIETTES. 

There are Twenty-one different kinds given, with Ninety-two Woodcuts Illustrative 
of the various Folds required, and the Serviettes complete. 

Just published, price 5s., by post 5s. 2d. 

"COMBINED FIGURE SKATING;" 

Being a collection of 300 combined figures, as skated by the Skating Club, London, 
the Wimbledon Skating Club, etc., illustrated bj' 130 scaled diagrams, showing the 
correct direction of every curve executed by the skater, and the recognised amount 
of circling round the centre; together with a progressive series of alternate 
" calls." The figures are named in accordance with the revised system of nomen- 
clature and rules for combined figure skating, compiled by the Skating Club, 
London, Sept. 11. 1882. Diagrams of the combined figures in the first and second 
class tests of the National Skating Association are included. 

By Montagu S. F. Monier-Wiluams and Stanley F. Monier-Williams 

{Members of the Wimbledon Skating Club). 
Noiv ready, post free, 6d., cloth gilt.. 

RULES OF THE GAME OF HOCKEI 

AND OF 

THE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION. 

Price 6d., hy post, 6|d. 

THE Tli^^IMIES: 

Rules and Bye-Laws as to Boating, Fishing, tlie Use of Steam 
Launches, &c. 

By C. E. GODDARD, Solicitor. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 



29 



In crown Svo., itrice 5s., by jwst 5s. 4d. 

OB, 

THE ARTS OF ROWING AND TRAINING. 



EDWIN DAMPIER BRICKWOOD 

(EX-AMATEUR CHAMPION OF THE THAMES). 



CONTENTS. 



ROWING. 
Chap. 
I. — Introduction : Past and Present 
Condition of Boat-racing. 
II. — Eaeing Boats : Their History and 

Fittings. 
III.— The SHding Seat : Its Invention, 

Adoption, and Theory. 
IV. — How to Use an Oar, and Sculls. 
V. — Faults and Errors : What to avoid. 
VI.— Steering : Co.xswain and Non- 
coxswain. 
VII.— Teaching Beginners. 
VIII.— Coaching for Races, and Selec- 
tion of Crews. 
IX.— The Varieties and Conduct of 

Boat-races. 
X. — The Laws of Boat-racing. 



Chap. 
XI.— The Qualifications of Ama- 
teurs. 
XII.— Boat Clubs : Their Organisation 
and Administration. 
XIII.— Historical Records, A.D. 1715 to 

1838. 
XIV.— Historical Records, A.D. 1839 to 

1855. 
XV.— Historical Records, A.D. 1856 to 
1875. 

TRAINING. 

XVI.— Its Principles. 
XVII.— Its Practice. 
XVIII. — Prohibitions, Ailments, &c. 
Appendix.— Rules for Betting. 
Index. 



Published Annually. Price Is., by post Is. Id. 



THE ROWING 



ALMAMACK AND 
COMPANION. 



OARSMAN'S 



Edited by E. D. BRICKWOOD 

(EX-AMATEUR CHAMPION OF THE THAMES), 

Author of "Boat-Racing; or, the Arts of Rowing and Training.' 



CONT 

A Calendar with Space for Memoranda 
and High Water Table, with a Table 
of Tidal Observations. 

The Definition of an Amateur. 

Record of all Regattas and Principal 
Club Races, with a copious Index. 

A Review of the Rowing Season. 

An Itinerary of the River Thames from 
Oxford to Putney, sho\ving all the 
points of interest, with Hotels, &c. 



ENTS. 

A Rowing Directory. 

The Lengths of the different Racing 

Courses. 
The Laws of Boat-Racing. 
Henley Regatta Rules. 
Metropolitan Amateur Regatta Rules. 
The Rule of the Road on the River. 
Thames Navigation Rules. 
Tables of Winners of all the principal 

Races and Regattas, 



THE field" OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



30 



A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 



Noiv ready, price 2s. 6cZ., by post 2s. 8d., in limp cloth. 
"pABBITS for PROFIT aud RABBITS for POWDER. 

-'-^ A Treatise upon the New Industry of Hutch Eabbit Farming in the Open, 
and upon Warrens specially intended for Sporting purposes; with Hints as to 
their Construction, Cost, and Maintenance. By E. J. Lloyd-Price. 

"DEPORTS on SALMON LADDERS, with Original 

-^ ^ Drawings, Plans, and Sections. By Francis Francis. In post 4to.. price 
2s. Gd., by post 25. 7d. 

A MANUAL of the LAW of SALMON FISHERIES in 

-*--*- ENGLAND and WALES, with a copious Index. By Spencer Walpole, 
one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Salmon Fisheries. Price 2s. 6rf., by post 2s. 8d. 

A TABLE of CALCULATIONS for use witli the "Field'' 

-^^-*- Force Gauge for Testing Shot Guns. Also an Illustration and Description 
of the Apparatus. In demy 4to., ijrice '2.'t. (id. 

nPHE RULES of PIGEON SHOOTING. Published by 

-^ Special Permission, the Hurhngham Club and the Gun Club Eules of Pigeon 
Shooting. Second Edition. Bound together in cloth, gilt edges, price 6d., by 
post 7d. 

rpHE COURSING CALENDAR, for the Autumn Season 

-*- 1886, contains Eeturns of all the Public Co arses run in Great Britain and 
Ireland. A revised List of Addresses of Coursing Secretaries. Public Coursers, 
Judges. Slippers, and Trainers, with List of Waterloo Cup Winners, Greyhound 
Sales, &c. Edited by C. M. Browne (" Eobin Hood '"). Price 10s. Gd. 

rpKE LAWS of LAWN TENNIS, as adopted by the 

-*- Marylebone Cricket Club and the All England Croquet and Lawn Tennis 
Club. Entered at Stationers" Hall. Price Gd., by post G^d. 

Nou- ready, price Qd., hy x>ost 7d. 
ALL ENGLAND LAWN-TENNIS CLUB REGULA- 

-^-^ TIONS for the SIANAGEMENT of LAWN-TENNIS PRIZE MEETINGS, 

1885. 

'T'HE " FIELD " LAWN TENNIS UMPIRES' SCORE- 

-■- SHEET BOOK (with instructions for the use of Umpires). Adapted for 
the use of Umpires and Players, as used at the Championship Meetings. Price 6c?., 
by post G^d. 

'T'HE "FIELD" LAWN TENNIS CALENDAR for 

-*- 1886. Containing the Laws of Lawn Tennis ; List of Secretaries and their 
Addresses; Summary of the Season. 1885; On the Making of Tennis Lawns and 
Cinder and Gravel Courts; with Full Eeports of all Tournaments and Club 
Matches of the Season 1884. Edited by B. C. Eveleigh (of the " Field "). Price Is., 
by post Is. od. 

'T'HE ITALIAN SYSTEM of BEE KEEPING; bein^ an 

-■- Exposition of Don Giotto Ulivi's Economical Frame Hives and Honey 
Extractor. By Arthur J. Danyell, late Capt. H.M. olst Eegiment. With Illustra- 
tions. Price Is., by post Is. Id. This pamphlet contains practical, directions for 
the making and utiUsation of frame hives, costing less than 2s. each, and a centri- 
fugal honey extractor costing 5s. or 6s. 

" THE FIELD " OFFICE, 346, STEAND, W.C. 



PUBLISHED BY HORACE COX. 31 

In 410., printed on toned paper, with plates, price 5s., by j^ost 5s. 4d. 

THE QUEEN LACE BOOK: 

AN 

Historical and Descriptive Account of the Hand-made 
Antique Laces of all Countries. 



This work contains the whole of the series of articles on Antique Point Lace 
which have been published in '• The Queen." It will prove an invaluable guide 
and book of reference to ladies interested in Antique Lace, and, with its highly 
ornamental embossed cover, will form a handsome ornament for the drawing-room 
table. 

ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS OF THE CLASSICS. 
Post 8ro., 540 pages, price 7s. 6d. 

HALF-HOURS with GREEK and LATIN AUTHORS. 

FROM VARIOUS ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, WITH 
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES. 

By G. H. JENNINGS and W. S. JOHNSTONE, 

Authors of a "A Book of Parliamentai-y Anecdote." 

In post Svo., price 5s., by post 5s. id. 

THE BARB AND THE BEIDLE: 

A 

HANDBOOK OF EQUITATION FOR LADIES, 

AND 

MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION IN THE SCIENCE OF RIDING FROM THE 

PREPARATORY SUPPLING EXERCISES ON FOOT TO THE FORM 

IN WHICH A LADY SHOULD RIDE TO HOUNDS. 

By "VIEILLE MOUSTACHE." 



Handsomely bound in cloth, price 3s. 6d., by post 3s. dd. 

ACTING CHARADES FOR OLD AND YOUNG. 

BY 

Author of "The Enchanted Toasting Fork,"' itc. 

In i^aper cover, jvice 6d. 

'' TECE Q,TJEE:N~ " EyEOirES. 

By " THE G. C." (Author of " Round the Table"). 
" THE QUEEN " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



32 A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS. 

Now Ready, Price One Shilling ; hy Post, Is. 2^d. 

THE QUEEN ALMANAC, 

AND 

LADY'S CALENDAR for 1887. 



AMONG ITS CONTENTS WILL BE FOUND 

A CHROMO-LITHOGRAPH PLATE OF DESIGNS 

FOR FISHBONE WORK, PRIMROSE WALL PINCUSHIONS, HEDGEHOG, 

KELLS, AND GUIPURE EMBROIDERY, &C. 

TWO COLOUEED PLATES OF NOVELTIES IN KNITTING 

AND CEOCHET. 

Specimens of China and Pastel Painting ; Smocks and Smocking Patterns ; New 
Designs for Macrame Lace; Arrangements of Flowers for Posies, in Baskets, and 
on Stands; Feather and Beadwork; Sno-vv^ake Embroidery ; Leatlier and Kibbon 
Work ; Suggestions for Ornamentmg Miscellaneous Furniture. 

' AND PORTRAITS OF THE FOLLOWING: 

The Crown Prince and Crown Princess ! The late Miss Philp. 

of Germany. Mme. Edmond Adam. 

Maria Christina. Queen Eegent of Spain, j Mrs. Cleveland. 

and Infanta Maria de las Mercedes. j The late Mr. Kandolph Caldecott. 
Prince Albrecht of Prussia. The late Mr. Bouverie Goddard. 

Princess Albrecht of Prussia. | The late Duke of Abercom. 

Alphonso XII.. the late King of Spain. The late Field-Marshal Lord Strath- 
The Crown Prince and Crown Princess | nairn. 

of Portugal. j Miss Dorothy Dene. 

Louis II., the late King of Bavaria. I Mme. Jane Hading. 

Dom Fernando II., the late King of j The late Abbe Franz List. 

Portugal. The late Mr. Joseph Maas. 

The late Miss M. Darley Mutrie. 

ALSO 

Children's Indoor and Outdoor Costumes, also Millinery; Fashionable Mantles and 

Hats; Winter Costumes and Bonnets: Brides and Bridesmaids' Dresses and 

Posies ; Pages' Costumes and Girls' Frocks for Weddings ; Fancy Costumes for 

Ladies and Children; Suggestions for Pictorial Cards, <fcc. 

Full information is given relating to — The Eoyal Family : the Koyal Household ; 
the Government ; British and Foreign Ambassadors ; Lord Lieutenants of Counties 
in the United Kmgdom: Irish and Scotch Representative Peers: Peers who are 
Minors ; Peeresses in their own right ; Alphabetical List of the Surnames of the 
Peers Temporal: Complete List of the House of Peers, with their Surnames and 
Titles, and the Titles of their Eldest Sons; Jewish Calendar : Bank of England; 
Post Office Regulations; Eclipses in 1887; List of Charities, Associations, &c. ; 
Obituary of Ladies of Distinction during the Past Year. 

RECIPES FOR Soups, Fish, Entrees. Sweets, Breakfast 
Dishes, and Savouries. 

'* THE QUEEN " OFFICE, 346, STRAND, W.C. 



3-^fiiiiiiiii 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



(Sept., 18^6, 20,000) 

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY. 



One volume allo^\^l^t a time, and obtained only by 
card ; to be kept 14 daysTuLJievcn days in the case of fiction 
and juvenile books puhli^^W within one year) without fine ; 
not to be renewed; to beWe^lainied by messenger after 21 
days, who will collect 20 c^l^^esides fine of 2 cents a day, 
includintj Sundays and holi^t^: not to be lent out of the 
borrower's household, and nu#Tk be transferred; to be re- 
turned at this Hall, ^f 

Borrowers finding this boolyi^tilated or unwarrantably 
defaced, are expected to report i\Vnd also any undue delay 
in the delivery of books. ^^ 

*;**No claim can be established^ccause of the failure of 
any notice, to or from the Library ,^J^ugh the mail. 



The record telow must not be made or\Jj|*d by borrower. 



or\^*d 



