Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



I 



IP 



7'. 



si 



■ 

j 



/ / 



/ 



,/ 



// 



/ fcorayi- 









i 

1 



j 



»\ 






\ 



\ 






\ 



<&*- i" 



THE 




KIRMESS 




COOK-BOOK. 



The " Kirmess " may charm with its hours of delight, 

With its radiant young dancers entrancing the sight, 

But the vision will vanish, *t will last but a day; 

The picture so lovely fades surely away. 

Not so with our " Cook-Book." This friend, tried and true, 

Will ever be near you, in " broil " or in " stew," 

With its " whips " for your foes, and its u kisses "for friends; 

So for former bad cooking you now make amends, 

As you buy for yourself , or you buy it for others, 

Remembering the help it will be to all mothers, 

And the " Union" long-waiting, expectant, alert, 

Shall have its well-merited, well-earned " dessert." 



BOSTON : 

women's educational and industrial union. 1 

1887. ' 



boston: 
Alfred Mudge & Son, Printers, No. 24 Franklin Street. 

1887. 



o 






PREFACE. 



The following receipts have been collected from the 
members of the Women's Educational and Industrial 
Union and their friends, and have all been used and 
are recommended by them. The names of contributors 
have been given, as far as they would allow. Receipts 
from other cook-books have been acknowledged, as far 
as known, but nearly all have been so changed by per- 
sons using them as to be practically new receipts. The 
book contains many receipts that have long been in use 
in families, and hints about cooking common things 
which it is believed will be found useful by cooks and 
housekeepers. 



\ 



BREAD. 



" Here is bread which strengthens man's heart, and therefore 

called the staff of life. 1 



»> 



White Bread. 

To each quart of flour, add one teaspoonful of 
salt, one third of a cup of home-made yeast, or one 
half of a compressed yeast cake, lard the size of a 
walnut. Mix with as much warm water or milk as 
it will readily take up. Knead till it snaps, like 
elastic, from the sides of the pan, let it rise in a 
warm place over night, in the morning knead for 
a few minutes, using no more flour, put it into the 
baking pan, and let it rise from half to three quar- 
ters of an hour, then bake. 

Mrs. M. H. E. 

Brown Bread. 

Two cups of graham meal, one cup of Indian meal, 
one cup of rye meal, one cup of molasses, two cups 
of sour milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Steam five hours. 

Mrs. De L. Shepue. 



6 



Excellent Brown Bread. 

One heaping cup of Indian meal, one heaping cup 
of rye, one heaping cup of graham, one cup of sour 
milk, one cup of sweet milk, two thirds cup of mo- 
lasses, one egg f heaping teaspoonful of soda, salt. 
Steam four hours, set in oven fifteen minutes. Rai- 
sins are a nice addition. 

Mrs. A. S. 

Bye Bread. 

Baked in earthen cups. Two cups of rye meal, 
two cups of milk, one cup of sugar, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one half teaspoonful of salt. 
Fill the cups one third full. Bake half an hour. 

Mrs. C. L. Hallett. 

Bannock. 

Three cups of oat meal, two cups of flour, salt, 
small piece of butter; moisten with water; roll thin. 

Mrs. A. S. 
Sweetbreads. 

Six eggs, one quart of flour, one pint of milk, one 
cup of sugar,, one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
three teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. Gem pans 
should be very hot. Bake twenty or twenty-five 

i minutes. 

Mrs. F. S. 

i 

i 



Tessie's Wheaten Biscuit. 

{From a Contraband.) 

M ake a quart of flour short with butter and lard, 
wet with cold water, and make pretty stiff. Put on 
a wopden block or board, beat out thin, sprinkle with 
flour, then fold up and repeat the beating (with mal- 
let or pestle), " till it begins to go pop, pop, pop, — 
it '11 crack mos' like a whip, — then you know it 's 
done." Cut into thin biscuits and bake. 

Breakfast or Tea Rolls. 

Three cups of milk, one half cup of butter and 
lard mixed, one half cup of sugar, one third cake of 
compressed yeast. Heat milk, butter, and lard 
together; when cool dissolve yeast and add milk. 
Put three pints of flour in a mixing bowl, make a 
hole in the centre? and gradually stir in milk un- 
til a thin batter or sponge is formed. Sprinkle flour 
over the top and set to rise. When risen, which will 
be in about two hours, mix and knead, adding more 
flour if necessary. When light, roll out. quite thin 
and cut with a small cutter. Put a small piece of 
butter in the centre of each roll, fold across the mid- 
dle, pinch across the fold with thumb and forefin- 
ger, raise until very light and bake in a quick oven. 



8 



If wanted for breakfast, set sponge early in the 
evening and mix just before bedtime. 

Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

Massasoit House Waffles. 

One quart of milk, one small cup of yeast, one 

fourth of a tablespoonful of salt. Flour sufficient 

to make rather a thin batter. In the morning add 

five well-beaten eggs and one quarter of a pound of 

melted butter. 

Mrs. C. F. B. 

Bread Griddle Cakes. 

Take a large coffee-cup of crumbs from pieces of 
bread that have been dried like rusks, pour over it 
twice as much milk or water, and let it stand all 
night. In the morning, add half a teacup of flour 
in which is mixed a teaspoonful of baking powder, 
two well-beaten eggs, and milk*emough to make a 
batter to fry. Beat the whole together thoroughly. 

Mrs. M. B. Scudder. 

Berry Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, a piece of butter the size of an 

e gg? two eggs, five cups of flour, one cup of sour 

milk, one fourth of a teaspoonful of soda, about a 

pint of berries. Sweet milk and no soda may be 

used. 

Mrs. M. R. Watson. 



9 



Squash Cakes. 

One cup of squash, one third cup of sugar, one 

cup of milk, one third cup of butter, one teaspoon of 

soda, two of cream tartar, two and one half cups 

of flour; bake in rings. 

Mrs. Augustus Sampson. 

Buns. 

Three cups of sweet milk, one cup of yeast, flour 
to make a thick batter; set this sponge over night. 
In the morning add one cup of sugar, one half cup 
of melted butter, one half a nutmeg, one saltspoon 
of salt, flour enough to roll like biscuit ; knead 
well, and let rise five hours. Roll one half inch 
thick, cut in round cakes, and lay in rows some dis- 
tance apart, in buttered baking pans. 

Let stand one half hour, then bake ; when done, 

brush over with white sugar and the white of an egg. 

Add currants, if required. 

Mrs. H. S. 

Sweet Muffins. 

One egg^ one half cup of sugar, one cup of milk, 

one and one half cups of flour, one half teaspoonful 

of soda, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, on§ 

tablespoonful of melted butter, Have the pan hot, 

Bake in a hot qven. 

Mrs. C. L. H. 



10 



Mount Vernon Corn Muffins. 

One cup of milk, one cup of flour, one cup of 
corn meal, tablespoonful of melted butter, one half 
cup of sugar, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. Beat vigorously. 

Mrs. M. B. Scudder. 

Graham Muffins. 

One half cup of sugar, one egg f one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one pint of milk, three full tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, equal parts of graham 
and wheat flour. Make a stiff batter. 

Mrs. G. T. Perkins. 

" Rich and rare were the gems " — 
Indian Meal Gems. 

Eight tablespoonfuls (even full) of Indian meal, 

pour on enough boiling water to make a batter about 

as thick as for griddle cakes, two cups of milk, two 

cups of sifted flour, four eggs, beaten separately; 

put these in last. Pretty hot oven required. Bake 

from twenty to twenty-five minutes. The gem pans 

must be heated first. This rule makes about two 

dozen. 

Mrs. C. W. E. 



11 



St. Charles Indian Bread. 

Beat two eggs very light; mix alternately with 

them one pint of sour milk or buttermilk, one pint 

of fine Indian meal ; add one tablespoon of melted 

butter. Dissolve one tablespoon of soda in a small 

portion of the milk, and add to the mixture the 

last thing. Beat very hard, and bake in pan in 

a quick oven. 

Mrs. H. Scudder. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON. 



" And then to breakfast with what appetite you have." 



" The turnpike road to people's hearts , I find, 
Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 



Omelet. 

Six eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of 

butter, one tablespoonful of flour. Mix the flour in 

half the milk, and melt the butter in the other half. 

Beat the eggs separately, and mix the beaten yolks 

with the milk, butter, and flour. When ready for 

the spider, stir in the whites very lightly without 

mixing ; when cooked, fold over like a turnover and 

serve hot. 

Mrs. J. E. 



12 



Baked Omelet. 

Five eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful of melted 

butter, a tablespoonful of flour dissolved in cold 

water, a teaspoonful of salt; mix together, then add 

three gills of hot milk Butter a dish or pie plate. 

Bake twenty minutes. 

Miss M. C. 

Omelet Corn Cake. 

A coffee-cup of granulated Indian meal, a cup 
and a half of sour milk, two eggs, a tablespoonful 
of sugar, a tablespoon, heaping, of butter, and a 
teaspoonful of soda. Mix the eggs in the meal, 
then add the other ingredients, the soda last, beat- 
ing all the while very thoroughly. Bake in a quick 

oven, and serve at once. 

Mrs. M. E. York. 

Spider Corn Cake. 

Three quarters cup of corn meal and one quarter 
cup of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one half tea- 
spoonful of salt, scant one half teaspoonful of soda, 
one egg, one cup of sweet milk, one half cup of 
sour milk, one tablespoonful of butter, scant tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, to be dissolved in half the 
sweet milk. Mix the meal, flour, sugar, salt, and 
soda together. Beat the egg, add half the sweet 



13 



milk and all the sour milk ; stir this into the dry 

mixture. Melt the butter in a hot spider and pour 

the mixture into it. Pour the remaining half cup of 

sweet milk (containing the cream tartar) over the 

top, but don't stir it. Bake twenty minutes in a hot 

oven. 

Mrs. M. 

Corn Cake without Eggs. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of granulated corn 
meal, one half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one half teaspoonful of salt, pint of sour milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda. (This is delicious.) 

Mrs. Dora Bascom Smith. 

Huckleberry Cake. 

One cup of sour milk, one half teaspoonful of 
soda, one cup of sugar, two eggs, butter the size 
of a large egg, a little salt, a quart of berries. Flour 
to make as stiff as for pound cake. For breakfast, 
cut in even pieces, split and buttered. 

Mrs. Caroline Kennard. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Boil eggs hard, then take shells off and cut them 

in halves, and take out yolks, leaving the two white 

cups to fill. Mix yolks with pepper, mustard, salt, 

and oil, and lay it back into the white. 

Mrs. S. K. Harwood. 



14 



French Toast. 

Spread slices of hot, dry toast with roast beef or 

chicken gravy, pile them up and set in oven till 

gravy is absorbed. Serve hot. An excellent 

breakfast or lunch dish. 

Mrs. A. A. F. 

Round Clams, or Quahaug Cakes. 

Take two dozen medium size quahaugs, wash in 
cold water, drain, chop fine. Make thin batter of 
one egg f flour, tablespoonful of water, a pinch of 
soda, stir together, and fry in thin cakes, in hot fat. 

Miss L. M. B. 



Hashed and Browned Potatoes in Cream. 

One pint of cold boiled pototoes cut in dice, one 

half pint of cream, one half pint of grated bread 

crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt, one half teaspoon- 

ful of pepper, one tablespoonful of butter. Sprinkle 

salt and pepper on the potatoes, and put in a gratin 

dish, and pour on the cream and dot with half the 

butter, then sprinkle on the bread crumbs and dot 

with the remainder of the butter, and cook in a hot 

oven for fifteen minutes. 

Miss Annie Dodge. 



15 



Hashed Turkey. 

Stir a piece of butter rolled in flour in one half 

cup each of cream and veal gravy till it boils; mince 

cold roasted or boiled turkey, put in the sauce, add 

grated lemon peel, a little white pepper ; cook all a 

very little, and serve hot. 

Mrs. A. A. F. 

Economy. 

Chop fine any cold meat, add half as much bread 
crumbs, one egg, a little spice or savory, as is pre- 
ferred ; mix and fry like griddle cakes or in sausage 

form. 

Mrs. M. B. Scudder. 

" Indeed, a rich and savory stew V is, 
And true philosophers methinks, 
Who love all sorts of natural beauties, 
Should like good victuals and gooa drinks." 

East India Curry. 

Ingredients : One cocoanut, one chicken, one 
quart of milk, curry powder, salt, butter, ginger-root, 
garlic, and flour. 

Heat the milk after adding to it the cocoanut, 
grated very fine. Let it simmer gently ten or fifteen 
minutes; cut the chicken into rather small pieces, and 
cook in a large tablespoonful of butter with a little 
water, until done. Strain the milk and add to it a 



16 

small piece of grated ginger-root, and a very small 
piece of garlic, with salt and one tablespoonful of 
curry powder. (Curry powder varies in strength, so 
that this amount may be too much or too little. It 
will require once using it to find out.) Thicken the 
milk to the consistency of thick pea soup, with flour ; 
then add the cooked chicken and let it simmer about 
ten or fifteen minutes. One red pepper chopped fine 
is an improvement, but not necessary. To be eaten 
with Chutney Sauce (Major Grey's India Chutney is 
best), or Bombay Duck. Serve with boiled rice, 
in a separate dish. Meat of any kind, fish, lobster, 
shrimps, and hard-boiled eggs may be used in place 
of chicken. Curry is excellent warmed over. Serve 
this with boiled rice. Rice should be boiled so that 
it shall have every grain separate. To a teacup- 
ful of rice, after being washed, pour on boiling water, 
about one quart; let it boil hard fifteen minutes, 
drain it off, and let it cook fifteen minutes longer. 
It should be cooked in a double boiler to prevent 

scorching. 

Mrs. J. D. B. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until 
| the meat can easily be picked from the bones. 

\ Manage to have about a pint of liquid when done. 



17 



Pick the meat from the bones in fair-sized pieces, 
removing all gristle, skin, and bone. Skim the fat 
from the liquor, add an ounce of butter, a little pep- 
per and salt, and half a package of gelatine. Put 
the cut-up chicken into a mould wet with cold water. 
When the gelatine has dissolved, pour the liquor hot 
over the chicken. Turn out when cold. The gela- 
tine should be dissolved in a very little cold water, 

and the hot liquor added to it. 

Mrs. L. J. 

Jellied Chicken. No. 2. 

Boil two small chickens until tender, remove all 
skin and bones, leaving the pieces as large as possi- 
ble ; put bones and skin back into liquor and boil 
down to about one and one half pints, season with 
salt, pepper, and very little butter ; if there is much 
fat on the liquor, skim it off. Dissolve one half box 
of gelatine in one half pint of cold water, add to 
boiling liquor. Put chicken into the liquor, after 
straining it (the liquor), and let it boil for a few min- 
utes. Slice three boiled eggs and place in rows in 
the bottom of a deep dish, then turn the liquor into 
it; it will be ready for the table in a few hours if 
put in a cool place ; garnish the platter with parsley. 

Mrs. A. F. Codman. 



18 



Jellied Tongue. 

The day before needed get four pounds of veal. 

Boil to jelly and strain. Boil a tongue and put into 

mould. Cut hard-boiled eggs in slices, take out the 

yolks, and place the rings around the tongue. Pour 

the jelly over it, and set away to harden. This is a 

pretty dish. 

Mrs. J. 

Fish Pudding (Sicedtih Dish). 

One half cup of rice, three eggs, one quart of 

milk, one half cup of butter, one tablespoonful of 

sugar, two teacups of chopped salt fish, pepper. 

Scald the rice, then boil it in the milk ; when 

cooked, stir in the butter ; let it cool. Beat the eggs 

well and stir them in the rice ; add sugar ; pepper to 

taste. Have the fish cooked and chopped fine, and 

mix all. Bake in a loaf bread pan ; butter the pan 

thoroughly and have some bread crumbs, which are 

quite brown, sprinkled thickly around the sides and 

on the bottom of the pan ; pour in the mixture, and 

cover the top thickly with crumbs and a few bits of 

butter. Bake an hour and a half. It will turn out 

on a platter like a loaf of bread. Serve with 

melted butter. 

Miss Harkanson. 



19 



Creamed Halibut. 

Three or four pounds boiled halibut. Put in a 
buttered baking dish in alternate layers the fish, cut 
fine, and the following sauce : one quart of milk, 
one small onion, cut fine, one teaspoon of salt, one 
half teaspoon of pepper; boil. Stir in while boil- 
ing one heaping tablespoon of flour dissolved in 
water ; boil one half hour ; add one fourth pound of 
butter, strain, add less than a suspicion of nutmeg. 
Cover the bottom of the baking dish with the sauce, 
then a layer of fish, with pepper and salt ; when the 
dish is full, cover with cracker crumbs and bits of 
butter. Brown in the oven. A few drops of lemon 

in each layer of fish improves it. 

Mrs. A. Lee. 

Fried Smelts. 

Wipe the fish carefully with a dry cloth after they 
have been well cleaned. Dip them in milk, then 
roll them in finely powdered cracker crumbs, next in 
a well-beaten egg with a saltspoonful of salt and a 
quarter of a saltspoonful of black pepper, and then 
again in the cracker crumbs ; fry them in enough 
smoking hot fat until they are a golden brown. Take 
them from the fat in the frying basket, or with a 



20 



skimmer ; lay them on a napkin on the dish in rows, 

with a few cuts or quarters of lemon on the sides of 

the dish. 

Mrs. F. A. Crocker. 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

One quart of nice oysters, thoroughly washed and 

drained through the colander ; put in a spider over 

the fire, stirring constantly, till they swell and begin 

to curl. Then skim out, leaving all the juice that 

has cooked out of them in the pan on the fire ; to 

this add a pint and a half of rich cream and milk, 

butter size of an egg, and one dessertspoonful of 

flour mixed with two of corn starch, and a little 

water; salt to taste. Let all boil (stirring fast), 

until it is like a thick, rich cream, then strain 

through a fine sieve on to the oysters, and serve. 

This is a nice dish the second day, warmed and 

poured on toast. 

Mrs. H. S. Wade. 

Spiced Mackerel. 

One dozen medium sized mackerel, cleaned with- 
out cutting open, one half teacup of salt, one table- 
spoon of ground cloves, one tablespoon of ground 
allspice, one half tablespoon of pepper. Pack in jars 
and cover with cold vinegar. Bake six hours in a 

moderate oven. 

Mrs. F. L. S. 



21 



Lobster. 

To be served in the shell. 

The meat of a lobster, chopped fine, to be heated, 

with one tablespoon of melted buttter, two of milk, 

pepper and salt. The shell of the lobster should 

make two dishes to hold this. Cream sauce over 

the top and coral grated over it; ornament with 

claws. 

Mrs. A. S. 

Fried Bluensh. 

Take eight thin slices of salt pork ; Vhen nicely 

browned, lay on a platter and serve with fish. After 

washing the fish and drying with a cloth, remove the 

back-bone, cut in small pieces, roll in Indian meal, 

lay in hot fat, flesh down, brown on both sides ; serve 

hot. 

Miss L. M. B. 

Fowls for Soup and Fricassee. 

Boil them four hours or more. When they are 
nicely parboiled, take out the second joint, breast, 
and other large pieces for a fricassee ; cut the rest of 
them in fine pieces, remove the bones and fat, then 
return them to the water in which they were boiled ; 
add rice, vermicelli, and onion. When they have 
been cooked nearly four hours, add one pint of milk, 



22 



salt and pepper* Fry the large pieces in butter, and 
take a little of the water to make the gravy. 

Mrs. E. W. L. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Two spoons of cream, one spoon of oil, yolks of 
two eggs, mustard and sugar to suit your taste. 
Chop the ham very fine and stir in the above mix- 
ture. Remove the crusts from bread one day old, 
cut it in small squares and put the mixtures between 

the pieces. 

Mrs. E. W. L. 

Scalloped Lamb. 

Boil the fore-quarters of lamb in as little water as 

possible till the meat will drop from the bones. 

Chop the meat and fill a deep dish ; make a thick, 

rich, well-seasoned gravy, of the liquid in which the 

meat was boiled, and pour over the chopped lamb. 

Put bread crumbs thickly over the top with pieces 

of butter, and bake three quarters of an hour. It is 

better to boil the lamb the day before it is needed, 

that the fat may be taken from the liquid. The 

lamb can be taken from the bones, as it is easier to 

do it while it is hot. It should be kept covered and 

chopped the next day. 

Mrs. Harvey Scudder. 



23 



Fillet of Beef. 

For eight persons allow three pounds of beef; cut 

it in slices about three quarters of an inch thick, 

sprinkle slices with salt, pepper, and flour, and broil 

over a bright fire for seven minutes; place in a warm 

dish and pour hot Bearnaise sauce around the meat; 

serve at once. 

Miss Annie Dodge. 

Bearnaise Sauce. 

The yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, one half teaspoonful of salt, one fifth teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
one teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and tarra- 
gon, one teaspoonful of onion juice. Put the butter 
into a hot cup and stir until smooth and creamy; put 
the yolks of eggs, salt, and pepper into a small sauce- 
pan and beat with the Dover beater until eggs be- 
come light, then add the butter in three parts, beat- 
ing each time until the mixture is smooth ; add the 
vinegar and beat again ; chop tarragon and parsley 
and have it ready for use. Place the saucepan con- 
taining the sauce in another of boiling water, and 
cook for three minutes, beating constantly with an 
egg-beater ; take from the fire at the end of that 



24 



time, and add the chopped tarragon and parsley. Of 

course, when tarragon is out of season, parsley must 

suffice. Serve at once. 

Miss Annie Dodge. 

Beef Loaf . 

Chop very fine three pounds of uncooked beef, 
and three fourths of a pound of raw salt pork, Roll 
one dozen crackers ; add one half of the crackers to 
the beef, with two eggs. Season with salt and pep- 
per ; mix all thoroughly and form into a solid loaf. 
Cover with the remaining crumbs and bake one hour. 

Eat cold. 

Mrs. C. F. B. 

To Flavor Cold Lamb. 

To give a delicious flavor to lamb which is to be 

eaten cold, put in the water in which it is boiled 

whole cloves and long sticks of cinnamon. To one 

leg of lamb allow one small handful of cloves, two 

or three sticks of cinnamon. If the lamb is to be 

roasted, boil the cloves and cinnamon in water, and 

baste the lamb with it. 

Mrs. H. S. 

To Roast Veal. 

Take a piece suitable for baking, cut gashes an 
inch long, and put in bits of salt pork cut in tjiin. 



25 



slices ; cook in a slow oven about two hours ; when 

done melt butter the size of an egg and pour over 

the top. This is delicious. 

P. G. 

Sweetbreads. 

Trim them carefully, then soak them in cold water, 
afterwards put them into boiling water. Boil ten 
minutes. Flour carefully, then add pepper and 
salt and fry in butter. Make a nice gravy, season 
with wine and clove, and put in the dish over the 
meat. Use the water you boil them in for the gravy. 

Mrs. William Thacher. 

To Prepare Bits of Cold Beef. 

Chop the meat not very fine. Take crackers or 
bread crumbs, add a piece of butter, pepper, salt, 
and other seasoning. Pour over this hot water. 
Mix with the chopped meat, make into balls and fry 

brown. 

Mrs. William Thacher. 

To Use Cold Roast Beef. 

Chop it or cut in thin slices, add a little chopped 

pork and sliced onions; fry this mixture in water 

and fat. 

Mrs. E. W. L. 



26 



Mutton Boll. 

Cut bone from a loin of mutton, make a stuffing 
of bread crumbs, salt, sage, pepper, and a little 
water, same as for turkey; spread stuffing on, and 
roll up mutton. Skewer each end and tie ; roll 
firmly round the middle. Roast one and a half hours 
or two hours. Baste often. Nice cold. 

Mrs. H. S. Wade. 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Cut into small pieces, lay them in salt and water 
for twenty minutes, then wash well, put them on the 
fire and boil tender ; drain off the water and add 
fresh water, a small onion chopped fine, a little pars- 
ley, a few drops of lemon, a little butter, salt, and 
pepper, and stew gently. The gravy may be thick- 
ened a little. 

Mrs. J. H. S. 

Plymouth Succotash. 

Three or four pounds of nice corned beef, a fowl, 
a quart of small white beans, throe or four quarts of 
hulled corn ; soak the beans over night, change the 
water, then boil to a pulp. Cook the meat and 
fowl until tender, in plenty of water ; then remove ; 
put in the corn, and let it boil up. About half an 



27 



hour before dinner stir in the beans, adding salt if 
needed. It is an improvement to cook with the 
meats a carrot or two, a nice turnip, and a few pota- 
toes. The fowl is a modern addition, and is not 
essential. This succotash is seldom seen out of the 
Old Colony. It is a Plymouth custom to prepare it 
for Forefathers' Day, and it has always held the 
place of honor at the public dinners of that day. 

Abby Morton Diaz. 



" Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day" 



SOUPS. 



" One sip of this 
Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight. 
Beyond the bliss of dreams. Be wise and taste" 



Oyster Soup. 

Take one quart of oysters, and with the liquor 
cook very slowly ten minutes. Have ready to add one 
quart of hot milk ; add a little pepper, salt, and a piece 
of butter two inches square. Serve immediately. 

Miss L. M. B. 



28 



Tomato Soup. 

Skim and strain one gallon of stock made from 

nice fresh beef ; take three quarts of tomatoes, 

remove the skin and cut out hard centre ; put through 

a fine sieve, and add to the stock; make a paste 

of butter and flour, and when the stock begins to 

boil, stir in half a teacup, taking care not to have it 

lumpy ; boil twenty minutes, seasoning with salt and 

pepper to taste. Two quarts of canned tomatoes 

will answer. 

Mrs. Reid. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Boil three pints of shelled peas in three quarts of 

water ; when quite soft, mash through a colander, 

adding a little water to free the pulp from the skins ; 

return pulp to the water in which it was boiled ; add 

a head of lettuce, chopped, and half a pint of young 

peas ; boil half an hour ; season with salt and pepper, 

and thicken with two table spoonfuls of butter rubbed 

into a little flour. Serve with bits of toasted bread. 

The soup when done should be as thick as cream. 

Some omit the lettuce. 

Mrs. C. R. A. 

Mulllgatawney Soup. 

Slice six large onions and two heads of celery; fry 

in a little butter till colored ; add basil and sweet 



29 



marjoram, three tablespoonfuls curry powder and 

four quarts of stock ; thicken moderately with flour 

rubbed in butter ; let it boil gently and rub through a 

sieve. Cut two chickens and fry lightly, throw them 

in the soup and let them simmer an hour, skim and 

season with salt and lemon juice. Serve with it rice 

boiled dry. 

Mrs. E. S. D. 

Julienne Soup. 

Two quarts of clear stock, half pint of carrots, half 
pint of turnips, quarter pint of onions, half a head of 
celery. Cut all vegetables in strips about one and 
one quarter inches long, blanch them a few moments 
in boiling water, let them simmer in the soup until 
tender ; season with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. F. S. L. 

Lobster Soup. 

One can of lobster, one quart of milk, one pint of 

soup stock, cayenne pepper, and butter. Boil the 

milk and soup stock, roll two soda crackers fine, let 

this cook until the crackers thicken it, then add the 

butter the size of an egg and the lobster chopped 

very fine ; boil three minutes ; add a little salt and 

cayenne pepper. 

Mrs. J. H. E. 



30 



VEGETABLES. 



" Oh, green! oh, glorious! Oh, herbaceous treat! 
1 T would tempt a dying anchorite to eat." 



Spinach. 

Take from the leaves of spinach all the stocks. 
Shake them out well, and put them in a saucepan 
without water, and a little salt. They throw out 
water enough to boil themselves. When tender 
throw them into a colander and pound them through 
the holes; one might cook a bushel of spinach at 
once, and put in a mould, and cut it off as wanted. 
The French sometimes make a stack of it. It is bet- 
ter for standing, and should be heated with salt and 
butter and served with bits of toast. 

An old French abbe* was in the habit of putting a 
padlock on the spinach pot, that he might not be 
defrauded of the flavor of the old spinach. 

Mrs. H. Scudder. 

Cauliflower. 

Use two or three cauliflowers. Six pounds of 
cauliflower, all but the outside leaves, four good-sized 
onions ; place on the fire to scald only ; place in 
sieve to drain, one quart of vinegar, boiled and 



31 



poured over the drained cauliflower. Mix three 
quarters of a good- sized box of mustard, one half tea- 
spoon of pepper, one teacup of oil, one teacup of 
vinegar. This mixture to be smoothly beaten and 
added to the cauliflower, when cool from the hot 
vinegar. . The cauliflower absorbs the dressing, so it 

is necessary to have yW7 measures. 

Mrs. S. H. 

Fried Cabbage. 

Cut the cabbage very fine, on a slaw-cutter, salt and 
pepper, stir well, and let stand five minutes ; have an 
iron kettle smoking hot ; drop one tablespoonful 
of lard into it, then the cabbage, stirring briskly, 
until quite tender ; send to the table immediately. 
One half cup of sweet cream and three tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, the vinegar to be added. 

Mrs. F. S. 

Potato Puff. 

Take two cups of cold mashed potatoes, and stir 

into it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beaten 

to a cream before adding anything else ; then put 

with this two eggs, whipped very light, and a teacup 

of cream or milk, salting to taste. Beat all well ; 

pour into a deep dish and bake in a quick oven until 

brown. If properly mixed, it will come out of the 

oven light and puffy. 

Mrs. M. R. W. 



32 



Potatoes for Breakfast. 

Slice a pint of cold boiled potatoes. Put into a 

frying pan a piece of butter the size of a small egg, 

and when it melts stir in an even tablespoonful of 

flour, which cook a moment, and then pour in a 

coffee-cup of milk, add salt and pepper, stir with an 

egg whisk until it boils, then mix in the potato slices; 

when they are thoroughly hot they are ready to be 

served. 

Mrs. W. E. Bowditch. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

The potatoes may be boiled (cold) or raw ; they 

should be cut in slices ; fill a deep dish with them, 

with a little finely cut onion through them. A nicdy 

seasoned cream sauce should be poured over them so 

that it will rise to the top. Bread or cracker crumbs 

over the top with small pieces of butter thickly 

spread. This dish should cook three quarters of an 

hour slowly. 

Mrs. Fanny Scudder. ^ 

Roast Potatoes. 

A nice way to prepare potatoes for breakfast is 

to cut cold boiled ones in square pieces, and dip 

them in beaten egg 9 and put them on a buttered pie 

plate in the oven. When they are hot and brown, 

send them to the table. 

Mrs. A. S. 



> 



33 



Escaloped Potatoes. 

Slice raw potatoes very thin, lay them in a baking 
dish, with pieces of butter; salt and pepper them, 
squeeze the juice of one onion on them, add one 
and one half cups of milk, and bake one hour. 

Mrs. E. W. L. 



Baked Beans. 

Every Yankee housekeeper knows how to bake 
beans, but I will give my way for the rest of man- 
kind. Pick over a quart of pea beans ; wash and 
soak over night in plenty of cold water. In the 
morning put into a kettle on the back of stove, pour 
on a teakettleful of boiling water and let them stand 
twenty minutes. Prepare half a pound of fat pork 
Put into a cup one even teaspoonful of dry mustard, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of mo- 
lasses, mix well and fill the cup with boiling water. 
L Pour over the beans which have been placed in the 

I pot, with pork in the centre. Fill the pot with boil- 

! ing water, cover, and bake eight or ten hours. 

f Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

To dress Macaroni. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni till tender. 
Thicken one half pint of boiling milk to the consis- 



34 



tency of cream, add one half a tablespoonful of 
butter, one half teaspoonful of mustard, a little pep- 
per and salt; stir into this one fourth pound of 
v grated cheese. Boil all a few minutes ; then drain 
the macaroni and stir it into the sauce. 

Mrs. C. W. E. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 

One half pound of macaroni, one quart of toma- 
toes, one half teacupful of grated cheese, one table- 
spoonful of lard, salt and pepper to taste. Take a 
quart of tomatoes either fresh or canned, and mash 
them through a fine sieve, add a tablespoonful of 
lard, and salt and pepper to taste, and let it simmer 
two hours or more, until it pours thick. Pour boil- 
ing water over half a pound of macaroni, salt it and 
let it boil twenty minutes ; drain off the water, cover 
the bottom of the dish with a layer of macaroni, 
sprinkle with cheese and moisten with the sauce ; 
continue until all the material is used. 

Mrs. M. H. Emerton. 

Italia's Pride. 

t 

One pint of cold boiled macaroni, one pint of 
stewed tomatoes, one pint of finely chopped beef or 
mutton, one onion minced very fine and fried in one 



35 



spoonful of butter, one cup of bread or "cracker 
crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful 
of pepper. Butter a two-quart pudding dish ; put a 
layer of crumbs at bottom, then a layer of mince 
meat, one of tomato, and one of macaroni, sprink- 
ling each with the seasoning. Alternate in this way 
until the dish is full. Put one small cup of boiling 
water to the fried onion, and after making a layer 
over the top of the rest of the crumbs, pour it over 
them. Dot with tiny bits of butter, and bake till 
well browned ; this may be in fifteen minutes, but if 
the oven is only moderate, will require half an hour. 

Mrs. W. E. Bowditch. 

Mock Oysters. 

Original Receipt, 

Six ears of uncooked corn ; two eggs ; two table- 
spoons of cream ; two tablespoons of flour ; a little 
salt and pepper ; scrape or cut the corn from cob, 
beat the eggs to a froth, and add all the other ingre- 
dients ; have frying pan, with one half butter and 
one half beef drippings ready, and drop the mixture 
from a large spoon ; flatten so as to be about one half 
inch thick ; fry about fifteen minutes ; to be eaten 

hot. 

Mrs. M. L. Barrett. 



36 



Green Corn Fritters. 

Take a dozen ears of ripe corn, and with a sharp 
knife cut the kernels lengthwise ; scrape all the in- 
side into a dish (leaving the hulls on the cob), add 
one cup of milk and two well-beaten eggs, a little 
salt, and flour enough to make a delicate batter ; 
drop into hot lard and fry a light brown. (To be 
eaten with pepper and vinegar, if preferred.) 

Mrs. J. E. 
Rice with Turnip. 

One teacupful of rice, one small-size yellow tur- 
nip, one egg, one tablespoonful of butter, one half 
teacupful of grated cheese. Pare the turnip, cut 
into dice one half inch square, boil till tender in 
plenty of water, then add the rice and boil hard 
twenty minutes ; pour into a dish, and add the egg, 
cheese and butter, salt to taste ; stir quickly that the 
egg may cook even through it. 

Mrs. M. H. Emerton. 

To Cook Turnips. 

Boil them whole in their " jackets." It will take 

twice as long to cook as if they were cut. Try them 

with a fork, and when tender, peel, press and mash 

it with butter. The flavor is perfect. 

Mrs. C. L. H. 



37 



SALADS. 



"And men sit doivn to that nourishment which is called supper" 



Salad Dressing. 

Boil together one and one half pints of vinegar 
and one cup of butter. Take the yolks of eight 
eggs, well beaten, one half cup of powdered sugar, 
one half cup of cream, two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of mustard and very little cay- 
enne pepper. Mix well together and turn on the 
boiling vinegar and butter. Put in bottles and cork 

tightly. 

Mrs. G. B. Clapp. 

Salad Cream (without oil). 

Two eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one 

half tablespoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of 

butter, salt and pepper to taste, put in a water bath 

and make the consistency of cream ; a little sugar if 

you like. 

Mrs. W. E. Bowditch. 

Salad Dressing. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, yolks of two raw 
eggs beaten together till smooth, then add mustard, 



38 



salt, and white pepper, then pour in oil till thick and 
smooth, stirring all the while ; thin with vinegar. 

Mrs. S. K. Harwood. 

Chicken Salad. 

Equal parts of chicken and celery chopped fine, 
or better, pulled to pieces ; mix with little salt and 
vinegar, and a little of the dressing, and pour the 
rest of the dressing over the top. 

Mrs. S. K. Harwood. 

Cold Slaw with Dressing. 

One pint of chopped cabbage, one tablespoonful 

of sugar, one half teaspoonful each of pepper and 

mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, one half cup of 

cream, sour or sweet, two hard-boiled eggs, vinegar 

to taste. 

Mrs. Dora B. Smith. 

Fruit Salad. 

Three bananas, two oranges, juice of one lemon, 

sugar to taste. 

Mrs. M. H. Emerton. 

Fruit Salad. No. 2. 

Three oranges, three bananas, one half can of 

pineapple. Put in a dish in layers, sugar between 

each, 

Mrs. A- C. Lee. 



39 



PUDDINGS. 



tt 



Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table" 



Cracker Pudding. 

If baked in a two-quart dish, take eight crackers, 
four eggs, or nine crackers and three eggs, salt and 
raisins. Butter the upper halves and break the 
under ones, as they soak more readily. Let a part 
of three pints of milk be added two or three hours 
before baking, then add the remainder with cus- 
tard. 

^ Mrs. M. R. Watson. 



Warm Day Pudding. 

One pint of milk, and enough more to dissolve one 
heaping tablespoon of corn starch, one egg ; cook in 
a double boiler until thick. To be eaten cold with 
the following sauce : Juice of two large Florida 
oranges, juice of one lemon and a little of the grated 
rind, one cup of sugar, yolk of one egg ; mix well ; 
add beaten white of one egg. (No cooking.) 

Mrs, A, C, 



40 



English Pudding. 

One and one half cups of milk, three and one 
half cups of flour, one cup of chopped raisins, one 
cup of chopped suet, one cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one 
half teaspoonful of soda. Steam three hours and a 

half. 

Mrs. C. F. B. 

Steamed Padding. 

One quart of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, sifted through the flour, piece of butter 
size of an tgg rubbed into the flour. Mix with 
sweet milk a little softer than for biscuit. Grease 
six or eight cups well, fill one third full of the batter, 
put in a spoonful of any kind of preserve or jelly, 
then more batter to fill the cups two thirds full. 

Steam half an hour. 

Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

Flour Suet Pudding. 

Pint of flour, one half cup of suet, teaspoon of 
cream tartar, teaspoon of soda, a brimming cup of 
milk. Boil one and one half hours. 

Mrs. Augustus Sampson. 



41 



Berry Pudding. 

One quart of flour before sifting, two cups of 

molasses, three pints of berries, two teaspoons of 

soda, a little salt ; boil three hours. Eat with 

sauce. 

Mrs. Augustus Sampson. 

Alma Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of milk, four cups 
of flour, two cups of raisins, one half cup of butter, 
one teaspoon of soda, one half cup of chopped cit- 
ron. Cook in tin steamer four hours. 

A. F. O. 

Troy Pudding. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one 

quarter cup of butter, one cup of chopped raisins, 

one half cup of molasses, one half teaspoonful of 

cloves, one half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one even 

teaspoonful of soda. Mix all together, and steam in 

a buttered moald two and one half hours. — Sauce, 

two cups of powdered sugar, one half cup of butter, 

one egg beaten thoroughly, one half cup of wine. 

Mrs. W. 

Steamed Plum Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one 
cup of suet chopped fine, four cups of flour, one tea- 



42 



spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, one cup 
of raisins chopped fine, one cup of currants, one 
half teaspoonful of powdered cloves, one half tea- 
spoonful of powderec^allspice, one half teaspoonful 
of powdered cinnamon. Mix the chopped suet with 
the flour ; warm the molasses and stir the soda into 
it, then add to the flour ; add all the rest and mix 
well. Steam four hours in a brown bread pan. Be 
careful that it does not stop steaming, at anytime 
before the end of four hours. To be eaten with a 
hot or cold sauce, as desired. 

Mrs. A. W. Chamberlin. 

Bellevue Pudding. 

One fourth cup of butter, one cup of molasses, all 
kinds of spice, one cup of milk, flour to make as 
thick as cup cake, one teaspoonful of soda. Steam 
three hours. Serve with foam sauce. 

Mrs. M. B. Scudder. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg y two 
and one half tablespoonfuls of butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar, one of soda, one pint of flour. 
To be eaten with hot sauce or wine sauce. 

Mrs. L. D. 



43 



Apple Pudding. 

Take the pulp of three baked apples, the white of 
one egg, one half cup of sugar ; beat thoroughly one 
hour ; make a soft custard, and put around it in a 
dish. For the soft custard take the yolk of one egg. 

Mrs. R. L. N. 

Queen Pudding. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs, one "quart of milk, 
one cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, the grated rind 
of one lemon, piece of butter the size of an egg ; the 
white use for a frosting. Mrs. L. D. 

"Never Fail" Baked Indian Pudding. 

Boil one pint milk ; stir in four tablespoons Indian 
meal dissolved in about a cup of milk ; cool slightly. 
Add one and one half pints of milk, one half cup of 
sugar, two eggs, one half cup of molasses, one half 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon of cinnamon, pinch of 
ginger. Bake in hot oven two and one half hours 
After baking half an hour, pour on without stirring 
one half cup of milk. * Mrs. A. C. Lee. 

• Snow Pudding. 

Cover one third of a package of gelatine with a 
little cold water, and when softened stir into it a pint 
of boiling water ; add one cupful of sugar or sugar 
to taste, and the juice of two lemons ; when cold 



44 



and beginning to thicken, add the well-beaten whites 
of three eggs. Beat all smoothly together, pour the 
mixture into a mould, and set it away until hard. 
Serve in the centre of a platter, with a boiled custard 
poured around, made with the yolks of three eggs, 
one pint of milk, and half a cup of sugar. 

Mrs. W. E. Bowditch. 

Strawberry Pudding. 

Line a pudding dish with slices of bread well but- 
tered. Fill up the dish with ripe strawberries, suffi- 
ciently sugared. Cover with slices of bread buttered 
on the under side. Cover the dish and bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. Turn the upper layer of 
bread and cover with a meringue made of the whites 
of three eggs and five spoonfuls of sugar. Brown in 
the oven and eat when cold. Mrs. W. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Boil one quart of milk. Scrape one ounce of 

chocolate, and mix with one cup of sugar. Wet this 

with two spoonfuls of boiling milk, and work it into a 

paste with a spoon, then stir it into the boiling milk. 

Put in six well-beaten eggs, stir three minutes and 

strain. Set it in cold water, and stir occasionally 

until cold; then stir in two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Serve in cups or glasses. 

. Mrs. M. B. Goodrich. 



45 



Pudding Sauce. 

Four tablespoonfuls sugar, two of butter. Beat 
these to a cream, and just before serving add the 
white of an egg beaten to a froth, and afterwards 
one gill of boiling water. Mrs. M. B. Scudder. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Tablespoonful butter beaten with a small cup of 

sugar; one egg well beaten, stirred into the butter 

and sugar. Pour over a little boiling water. 

• Mrs. M. B. Scudder. 

Egg Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one egg beaten to a froth, add 
four tablespoonfuls of toi/ing milk, then add wine to 
your taste. Mrs. M. R. W. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One egg, juice of half a lemon or orange, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, one cup of sugar. Beat 
the white of egg to a stiff froth, adding the sugar 
gradually, then the lemon juice, then the cream, a 
little at a time, and- the yolk of the egg, beating 
well all the time. Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

Snow Drift Sauce. 

One half a cup of butter beaten until white ; add 
gradually one cup of pulverized sugar, and beat to 
a cream ; grate some nutmeg over it, and set it where 
it will cool. Miss M. C. 



46 



PIES. 

" The daintiest last, to make the eml more nveet." 

Pastry. 

Six cups of flour, two cups of shortening (a part 

of both butter and lard preferable) ; mix the 

shortening into the flour ; add a little salt ; mix with 

ice-cold water, stirring well with a knife ; roll from 

you. When the pie is ready wet the top slightly with 

cold water either with hand or pastry brush. This 

makes very wholesome, flaky pastry. 

Mrs. M. R. Watson. 

Cream Pies. 

One cup of sugar, one egg and the yolks of three 
others, one half cup of butter, one half cup of milk, 
one half cup of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one half teaspoonful of soda. This will make 
two pies. 

Cream for the pies, — Three fourths of a pint of 
milk, one half cup of flour. Let the milk boil, mix 
the flour with a little more than a cup of sugar, put 
into the boiling milk and boil a few minutes. Beat 
the white of the eggs to a stiff froth. Flavor with 
vanilla and stir into the cream after taking from the 
fire. Mrs. H. A. Hall. 



47 



Sweet Potatoes Pies. 

Boil two medium-size sweet potatoes mashed fine, 
add one coffeecupful of milk, put it through a fine 
sieve, add one half teaspoonful nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, two eggs ; sweeten to taste. 
It looks and tastes like pumpkin pie. 

M. H. Emerton. 

Excellent Lemon Pie. 

Four lemons, nine eggs, four and one half cups of 

sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one half cup of 

water. These can be made with two crusts or with 

meringue. 

Mrs. J. P. 

Washington Pie. 

Two cups of sugar, one third cup of butter, three 
cups of flour, one cup of milk, three eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in Washington-pie plates, using raspberry or 

other jam for filling. 

Mrs. G. T. Perkins. 

Filling for Washington Pies. 

Grate three or four apples, juice of one lemon, 
one cup of sugar, two eggs. Let it boil a few min- 
utes, then add the grated rind of a lemon. This will 

fill two pies. 

M. B. Scudder. 



48 



OraDge Jelly. 

Soak for one hour one box of gelatine in enough 
cold water to cover it. Carefully remove the peel 
from one dozen sweet oranges, divide into sections, 
cutting each one partially across, to remove the 
seeds. Place in a mould. 

Pour one pint of boiling water on to the gelatine, 
add to it the juice of two oranges and one pound of 
granulated sugar, and a very small pinch of salt. 
Pour this over the oranges. When cool remove 

from the mould and serve. 

Mrs. Corra Osborn. 

Lemon Marmalade. 
Slice one dozen lemons very thin. Add three 
pints of cold water to each pound of fruit. Let it 
stand twenty-four hours. Boil until tender. Pour 
into an earthen dish, and on the following day 
weigh it, and to every pound of fruit add one and 
one half pounds sugar. Boil one half hour. 

Mrs. A. J. R. 

Mince Meat for Pies, which will keep for Months. 

A beef tongue weighing six pounds, the vein of a 
round of beef, six pounds. Boil these six hours 
Then skin the tongue, and chop them very fine. Five 



49 



pounds of beef suet, chopped very fine, five pounds 
of stoned raisins, three pounds of dried currants, 
one and one half pounds of citron, four pounds of 
brown sugar, one pint of New Orleans molasses, one 
quart of brandy, one quart of cooking wine, one half 
a cup each of salt, cinnamon, allspice, and cloves, 
three nutmegs, one tablespoonful of mace, the grated 
rind of three lemons, the rind of three oranges, 
finely cut. Mix this well, with the hands, in the 
porcelain-lined preserving kettle, and let it stand all 
night. In the morning, if it has absorbed all the 
liquid, use sufficient of the water in which the meat 
was boiled to make it very soft and moist. Pack it 
closely in two large stone jars, and pour brandy over 
the top. When it is used, chop half as much apple 
as you have meat, and sweeten it sufficiently. 

Mrs. C. L. Hallett. 

Receipt for a Pleasant Day. 

Take some jolly children, — 

The more you take the better, — 
Add a generous measure 

Of frolic, fun, and twitter ; 
Mix with these some soap bubbles, 

A kitten and a bow-wow, 
Till the ferment rises to 

An appetizing pow-wow. 



50 

Stir the mixture well 

And sweeten it with kisses, — 
The only sweetning cheap and 

Unadulterated this is. 
Flavor it with song, 

And finish it with dances, 
And you will have a dish 

That soul and sense entrances. 
However dark the clouds 

Or lowering the weather, 
They '11 be uplifted, and you, too, 

And exeunt all together. 



Mrs. H. W. S. 



CAKES. 



"As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last. 11 



Wedding Cake {four large loaves). 
Two and one half pounds of sugar, two and one 
half pounds of butter, two and one half pounds of 
flour, two and one half pounds of currants, three 
pounds of raisins, one and one half pounds of figs, 
one and one half pounds of citron, two dozen eggs, 
one gill of brandy, one gill of molasses, one ounce 
of clove, one ounce of mace, one ounce extract of 
lemon, one and one half ounces of nutmeg, one and 



51 



one half teaspoons of soda. Bake three and one 
half or four hours. 

Frosting. — Whites of ten eggs, three pounds of 
frosting sugar, one and one half ounces of gum- 
arabic. 

Mrs. G. B. Clapp. 

Black Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one and 
one half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar rubbed in the flour, two thirds of a cup of but- 
ter or lard melted (if lard is used put in a little 
salt), one half cup of milk, one half cup of cocoa- 
nut, one half cup of raisins, one fourth teaspoonful 
of powdered clove, one half teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, one half teaspoonful of powdered 
allspice. Add a little grated nutmeg and citron, cut 
fine, if wished, and one half teaspoonful of soda 

dissolved in a little of the milk. Mix all together. 

Mrs. A. W. Chamberlin. 

Children's Cakes. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup molasses, two thirds 
of a cup of butter, two eggs, one cup of milk, five 
cups of flour, a very little clove, cinnamon, and nut- 
meg, one heaping teaspoon of saleratus. Fruit 
chopped very fine can be added. Bake in small, 

round tins. 

Mrs. M. L. Barrett. 



Scant three fourths of a cup. of butter, one and 
one fourth cups of powdered sugar, two cups of flour, 
whites of six eggs, juice of half a lemon, one fourth 
of a teaspoonful of soda. Cream the butter, then 
gradually add flour with soda sifted through, stirring 
lightly with tips of the fingers until smooth. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth, add sugar and lemon juice ; 
mix lightly with flour and butter. Bake in paper- 
lined pans, in moderate heat, forty minutes. Very 

nice frosted. 

Mrs. Ei.len S. Coffin. 

Lady Cake. 

half of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
p of cold water, three cups of flour, one tea- 
ul of cream of tartar, one half of a teaspoon- 
soda. 

Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

White Mountain Cake. 

ee cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of sugar, one 
of butter, one cup of milk, three eggs, two 

onfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of 
Cream the butter, add sugar and cream 
and mix thoroughly. Beat the whites and 



53 



yolks separately, add them, and when well beaten 

add the milk and flour. When well mixed add the 

soda dissolved in a little milk. 

Mrs. G. T. Perkins. 

Old-fashioned Pound Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, ten eggs, one glass of brandy. 

Mrs. B. 

Raised Dough Cake. 

Two pounds of raised dough, one pound of soft 
brown or white sugar, one half pound of butter, one 
glass of brandy, one glass of wine, one and one half 
pounds of raisins and citron, with cloves and nut- 
meg to suit tastes. 

Mrs. F. A. Crocker. 

Cheap Fruit Cake. 

Sugar, milk, butter, molasses, each one cupful ; 

three of raisins, four of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 

spice, one teaspoonful of soda ; frost with white 

frosting. 

Mrs. A. A. H. 

Almond Cake. 

Original Receipt. 

One and one half cups of sugar, two thirds cup 
of butter, one half cup of milk, one half cup of 



54 



water, two heaping cups of flour, one teaspoonful 

of cream tartar, one half teaspoonful of soda, 

one and one half teaspoonfuls of extract of peach, 

two eggs, one quarter of a pound of almonds. 

Blanch almonds, and cut into pieces ; sprinkle 

thickly over cake ; dip hand in cold water and press 

the nuts down ; sprinkle powdered sugar over ; put 

a thin paper over cake, as this cake takes quite a 

hot oven to bake it nicely. 

Mrs. M. L. Barrett. 

Dough Cake. 

One cup of light dough, one cup of sugar, half a 

cup of butter, two eggs, half a cup of buttermilk, 

half a teaspoonful of soda, one cup of raisins chopped 

fine, one cup and a half of flour, half a teaspoonful 

of cinnamon, a little nutmeg. 

Miss M. C. 

Andover Fruit Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of water, five cups of flour, six 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins, 
one pound of currants, half a pound of citron. Cin- 
namon, clove, and nutmeg, one teaspoonful each. 

Bake slowly one hour. 

Mrs. M. L. Barrett. 



55 



Walnut Cake. 

Whites of four eggs beaten to a froth, one and one 
half cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a cup of 
milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of Royal 
baking powder, one pint of chopped walnuts. 

Mrs. A. A. F. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, a 

little butter, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one 

half teaspoonful of saleratus, a little salt. Spread 

with jelly and roll while hot. 

Mrs. S. K. Harwood. 

Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 

one cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; 

scant one half teaspoonful of cream tartar, scant one 

fourth teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of lemon 

juice, one cup of flour. 

Mrs. L. F. W. 

Nantucket Sponge Cake. 

Weigh eight eggs (unbroken), take their weight of 
flour and half their weight of fine sugar ; break the 
yolks of the eggs in the sugar, and add a tablespoon- 
ful of cold water ; beat very thoroughly; then add the 



56 



whites, beaten to a stiff froth ; then add the flour all 
at once, stirring very lightly ; bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. M. E. York. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

Original Receipt. 

Five eggs, two thirds tumbler of sugar, fine granu- 
lated, one half tumbler of flour, one quarter tea- 
spoon of ammonia, one half lemon, juice and rind, one 
half teaspoon of cream tartar stirred into flour; 
sift flour five times ; beat yolks and one half sugar 
very light ; beat whites to stiff froth and add remain- 
der of sugar ; add beaten yolks and sugar to this ; 
stir in the flour very lightly; add the ammonia 
last; bake in a shallow tin without greasing. 

Frosting. — White of one egg beaten stiff ; add one 
and one half cups of confectioners' sugar, and beat 
until smooth ; add sugar by teaspoonfuls, just before 
putting on cake, which must be cool ; add one table- 
spoonful of boiling water, stirring it in very quickly. 
This is delicious, substituting orange in place of 

lemon. 

Mrs. M. L. Barrett. 

Fremont Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, four cups of 



57 



flour, two eggs, two cups of stoned and chopped 
raisins, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk, 
one half cup of citron cut fine, nutmeg and cinna- 
mon. Cream butter, add sugar, eggs, molasses, and 
spices, then flour, in which the fruit has been well 
mixed, and milk alternately. Bake one hour in 

moderate oven. 

Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

White Iiemon Cake. 

One cup of fine granulated sugar, one heaping cup 

of flour, one third cup of butter beaten with two 

thirds of the sugar, the remaining third of sugar 

beaten with the eggs, the whites of five eggs, half 

the grated rind of a lemon, one teaspoonful of cream 

tartar mixed well in the flour. Put all together and 

add lastly one half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 

tablespoonful of cold water ; if very stiff add another 

spoonful of cold water. Bake in a moderate oven 

till brown on top. 

Mrs. A. W. Chamberlain. 

Feather Cake. 

Two eggs, one and one half cups of flour, one cup 

of sugar, butter the size of a large egg f one half cup 

of milk, one half teaspoonful of cream tartar, one 

quarter teaspoonful of soda, salt to taste. Flavor 

with lemon or orange. 

Mrs. B. 



58 



Angel Cake. 

Eleven eggs, one cup and a half of granulated 

sugar, one cup of flour (scant), one teaspoon of 

cream tartar, sifted three times in flour; vanilla, 

whites beaten stiff ; stir very little, after putting in 

flour. Do not grease the pan ; do not take from pan 

until cold ; bake in very slow oven one hour ; do not 

allow it to brown until baked three quarters of an 

hour. 

Mrs. Harvey Scudder. 

Empire State Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs, 
one cup of sour milk, one cup of raisins, chopped, 
three and one half cups of pastry flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, nutmeg to taste. Bake in two loaves, or 
large sheet, or cups. Very nice. 

Mrs. Dora B. Smith. 

Tumbler Cake. 

One half tumbler of butter, one and a half tum- 
blers of brown sugar ; two eggs, one tumbler of sour 
milk, one half tumbler of molasses, one tumbler 
of raisins, chopped, three scant tumblers of flour, 
one scant teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of clove, 
one half teaspoon of cinnamon, one quarter teaspoon 



59 



of allspice, one teaspoon of nutmeg ; mix spices with 

ilour ; mix soda in sour milk ; leave out a little flour 

for raisins. 

Mrs. J. H. Q. 

Doughnuts. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar, one egg, butter the size of an egg. Cream 
the butter, add sugar and cream tartar, and- 
thoroughly mix ; add the egg and beat for a few 
minutes, then the milk, and lastly the soda ; use 
flour enough to mould ; handle as little as possible. 

Mrs. G. T. Perkins. 

Square Cake. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three 

and one half cupfuls of flour, one large cup of 

milk, five eggs, the whites of two being left out, 

two teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder. Beat 

the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the 

eggs well beaten, then the milk, then the flour, in 

which the baking powder has been well mixed, then 

one teaspoonful of nutmeg! This makes two sheets ; 

frost one, and for the other cut slices of dark fruit 

cake into pieces an inch square and set edgwise quite 

thick together when it is in the baking pan. 

Mrs. P. J. Andkuw. 



60 



Cider Cake. 

Four eggs, half pound of butter, cup and a half 
of sugar, one pint of cider, two and a half pounds of 

flour, half teaspoonful of soda ; bake in a moderate 

oven. 

Miss M. C. 

Loaf Cake. 

One half pound of butter, three fourths pound of 
sugar, one and one half pounds of flour, half pint of 
milk, three eggs, one and one half teaspoonfuls of 
soda, chopped raisins or currants, flavor with nut- 
meg or clove ; a tablespoonful of brandy and citron 

is a great improvement. 

Mrs. J. H. 

Nut Cake. 

One and a half cups of sugar, half cup of butter, 
two cups of flour, whites of four eggs, well beaten, 
three fourths of a cup of milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream tartar, half teaspoon of soda, one cup of nut 
meats chopped and stirred in. 

Mrs. M. B. Goodrich. 

Buttercup Cake. 

Whites of three eggs, one half cup of butter, one 
half cup of milk, one cup of sugar, one and one half 
cups of flour, one and one half teaspoons of baking 



61 



powder, one half teaspoon of vanilla. For the frost- 
ing, yolks of three eggs, ten tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, one half teaspoon of vanilla. 

Mrs. M. B. Goodrich. 

Cream Cakes. 

One pint of hot water, add one half pint of butter, 
stir in while boiling one pint of flour; when cool, 
stir in gradually eight eggs well beaten ; drop into 
pans covered with white paper ; rub top of each cake 
with beaten egg^ before baking. Bake twenty-five 
minutes. 

Cream for filling. — Boil one pint of milk, stir in 

two cups of sugar, one cup of flour, four eggs 

beaten. 

Mrs. A. F. O. 

Scotch Short Cake. 

One half pound of currants dredged with flour ; 

even teaspoon of cinnamon and nutmeg mixed. 

One quart of flour mixed with one half pound of 

powdered sugar, one half pound of melted butter, 

one glass of brandy ; knead and roll an inch thick ; 

put the spice in the brandy ; cut into squares in the 

pan before baking ; bake light brown. Will keep six 

months. 

Mrs. A. C. Lee. 



62 



Lemon Tarts. 

The juice of one lemon with some of the grated 
peel, one egg, one cup of sugar ; stir until it boils 
in a kettle of water ; sugar and lemon together. 

Mrs. M. R. Watson. 

Frosting. 

Two cups of sugar ; cover with boiling water and 
cook until it threads ; beat whites of two eggs stiff ; 
turn melted sugar to it slowly ; stir constantly until 
cool and spread on cakes ; press halves of the walnuts 

in the frosting on top of cake. 

Mrs. H. S. 

Vanilla Wafers. 

One cup of sugar, two thirds of a cup of butter, 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful vanilla, one and one half teaspoonful cream 
tartar, two thirds of a teaspoonful of soda, flour to 
roll very thin. This rule makes one hundred and ten. 

Mrs. J. Q. 
Wine Chips. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of soda in three fourths of a cup of boiling 
water, one half a glass of wine, one teaspoonful of 
ginger, flour to roll ; cut like cookies ; bake. 

Mrs. A. C. L. 



63 



COOKIES AND GINGERBREAD. 

Cookies. 

Six cups of flour, one and one half cups of butter 
rubbed into the flour, two cups of sugar, three eggs, 
a little nutmeg, one quarter of a teaspoonful of soda. 
Roll very thin. Sift over sugar before baking. 

Mrs. H. A. Hall. 

Sugar Cookies. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one egg, one 
cup of milk, one even teaspoonful of soda, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, flour enough to roll {about six 
cupfuls) . Roll thin ; sift granulated sugar over and 
give one more roll. Bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. Ellen S. Coffin. 

Cookies. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar beaten 
lightly, add two eggs, six tablespoonfuls of milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, five cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful caraway seed. 

Mrs. J. E. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One cup of molasses heated and poured over one 
half a cup of butter, one and one half teaspoons of 



64 



ginger, one teaspoon of soda ; stir the mixture till it 

foams; flour to roll very thin; place apiece of the 

dough on tin sheets and roll out very thin ; mark 

with fork ; cut off edges and bake in a quick oven ; 

cut in squares and take from tin immediately and 

cool on sieve. 

Mrs. V. W. 

Hasty Gingerbread. 

Put into one cup of molasses one teaspoonful of 
ginger or any spice, one half a teaspoon of soda, 
and a piece of butter half as large as an egg (soften 
the butter), then add a cup of boiling water and stir 
in flour enough to make a soft batter. Put in the 
oven before the dough cools. Eat when hot. 

Mrs. Currier. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

One pint of good New Orleans molasses ; into this 

stir a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water until 

the molasses is thoroughly foaming, then add a cup 

of well-softened butter, three eggs, three scant cups 

of flour, a teaspoonful of ginger. Bake quite thin in 

square tins. 

Mrs. F. A. C. 



j 



* 



65 



New York Gingerbread. 

Six cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of molasses, two cups of milk, four 
eggs, two teaspoonf uls of ginger ; the real yellow gin- 
ger can be obtained of the leading wholesale drug- 
gists. This makes two large sheets. 

Mrs. M. L. Barret. 

Molasses Gingerbread (very nice). 
One half a cup of sugar, one half a cup of molas- 
ses, one half a cup of butter, one half a cup or more 
of milk, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
one of soda, flour to make a stiff batter ; put soda 
into molasses, add sugar, butter, and eggs and gin- 
ger ; mix well ; put cream of tartar into flour, add 

gradually with milk ; beat thoroughly. 

Mrs. J. E. 

Sugar Gingerbread. 

One half pound of butter, three quarters of a 
pound of sugar, one pound of flour, five eggs, one 
half spoonful of soda, ginger to taste. Bake thin. 

Mrs. J. E. 



66 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 



" And have their palates both for sweet and sour." 



" // is a most sharp sauce." 



Hot Sauce. 

An appetizing hot sauce for meats is made by 

taking one can of tomatoes, and adding to it two 

onions chopped fine, a bit of cayenne pepper, a 

teaspoonful of cinnamon, cloves and salt. Boil 

for twenty minutes ; then take from the fire and 

add a large cupful of strong vinegar. 

Mrs. C. L. H. 

Piccalilli. 

Chop one peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle salt 

over them and let them stand over night. In the 

morning pour off the liquid and prepare. Two 

quarts of vinegar, one and a half pints of brown 

sugar, one half pint of whole white mustard seed, three 

tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one tablespoon- 

ful of ground mustard, two tablespoonfuls of salt, 

one tablespoonful of ground cloves, one tablespoon- 

ful of whole allspice, four chopped peppers, three 

chopped onions; mix all together and stew gently 

until the tomato is quite tender. 

Mrs. F. C. 



67 



Sweet Pickled Peaches or Pears. 

Seven pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, 

one and a half pints of vinegar ; make a syrup of the 

vinegar and sugar, stick one or more cloves in 

each peach, and put them in the boiling syrup, 

with two spoonfuls of cinnamon in a bag, and boil 

a very little. Put up in glass jars. 

Mrs. J. E. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

Three hundred small cucumbers. Let the cucum- 
bers stand three days in strong salt and water ; then 
wash them well and put them in weak vinegar three 
days, — about half water and vinegar ; cover them 
closely with cabbage leaves ; after this drain them 
well, then have the best vinegar and boil in it a 
mixture of allspice, horse-radish, ginger-root, and 
pepper corns ; put in each stone jar a small piece of 
alum. Tie up in a little flannel bag a small quan- 
tity of these same spices and lay on the top of the 
pickles in the jars. Pour over them lightly, keep in 
a cool place, look at them daily for a while ; if any 
mould appears, skim off, and then boil vinegar and 
pour back over the pickles ; use very small cucumbers 
and all as nearly of a size as possible: 

Mrs. F. A. C. 



68 



Tomato Ketchup. 

Four quarts sifted tomatoes, one pint of vinegar, 
one half cup of sugar, four teaspoonfuls of salt, six 
red peppers, three tablespoonfuls of whole allspice, 
three tablespoonfuls of whole mustard, two teaspoon- 
fuls of whole cloves, one tablespoonful of mace. 
Simmer five or six hours ; strain and bottle. 

Mrs. G. B. Clapi*. 

Pickled Red Cabbage. 

Cut fine a large, fresh, red cabbage. Pack in a 
stone jar in layers ; sprinkle each layer with salt. 
Tie up in a bag of thin muslin two tablespoonfuls of 
whole black pepper, two tablespoonfuls of whole 
cloves, two tablespoonfuls of stick cinnamon, a 
dozen blades of mace, if you have it. Boil spice ten 
minutes in two quarts of vinegar. Pour on cabbage ; 
cover close. Ready for use in two days. 

Mrs. A. C. Lee. 

Tomato Pickle or Piccalilli. 

To one peck of green tomatoes add four or six 
onions, both cut in slices, one half pint of white mus- 
tard seed, one half ounce of cloves, one half ounce 
of allspice, one half dozen of peppers (green), and 
salt to season ; add one or two cups of sugar, cover 



69 



the whole with vinegar, and boil three or four hours. 

Put up in glass jars. 

Mrs. J. E. 

Spiced Strawberries. 

Seven pounds of strawberries, three and one half 
pounds of brown sugar, one and one half pints of 
^ vinegar, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of stick cin- 

namon. Place berries and spices in alternate layers 
in a deep bowl. Boil sugar and vinegar three min- 
utes ; pour this over the fruit while hot. The next 
day drain off the liquor and boil it three minutes ; 
pour it over the berries. The third day boil all 

together over a slow fire half an hour. 

Mrs. B. 

Chipped Pears. 

Eight pounds of pears, eight pounds of sugar, two 

ounces of ginger root, one tumbler of cold water ; mix 

sugar and fruit together. Juice and rind of four 

# lemons ; soak ginger for an hour, and wash off in hot 

water; chop fine and add to the rest. Boil the whole 

two hours. 

Mrs. M. F. 

Spiced Citron. 

Eight pounds of citron, four pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar. Make a syrup of the sugar and vin- 
egar ; steam or boil the citron until tender ; add a few 



70 



cloves to the syrup ; then put in the citron and boil all 
together until thoroughly cooked. 

Mrs. R. K. Varnev. 

Grape Sweetmeats. 

Remove grapes from the stem, weigh them, sepa- 
rate pulp from skin, put them in separate dishes. 
Simmer pulp till seeds are removed. Strain until 
nothing remains but the seeds. Take equal quan- 
tity of sugar with weight of grapes, and add to the 
pulp. Place over the fire. When hot add the 

• 

skins. Cook about an hour, until tender and clear. 

Mrs. V. \V. 

Jellied Apple. 

Fill a quart bowl with thinly sliced apples in 

layers with sugar. Add one half cup water. Cover 

with a saucer weighted. Bake slowly three hours. 

Let stand till cold. Turn out. Eat with cream or 

boiled custard. 

Mrs. A. L. 

Preserved Pineapple. 

Grate the fruit, weigh three quarters of a pound 

of granulated sugar to one pound of fruit. Boil 

twenty minutes. 

Mrs. C. L. H. 



71 



Strawberry Preserve. 

Three quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit. Make a syrup of the sugar with water enough 
to prevent its burning ; boil the fruit fifteen min- 
utes. 

Mrs. C. L. H. 



SWEETS 



Orange Trifle. 

One pint cream whipped stiff, yolks of three 
e gg s > one CU P powdered sugar, one half package 
of gelatine soaked in one cup of cold water, juice 
of two sweet oranges, grated rind of one orange, 
one cup of boiling water. Mix juice, rind, sugar, 
and gelatine together. If the gelatine has not 
dissolved, set all over the fire and stir until clear. 
Strain this, and add the beaten yolks ; heat quickly 
in a farina boiler, stirring constantly, lest the yolks 
curdle (should they curdle, strain again through a 
coarse flannel). Set aside until cold and slightly 
stiff; then whip in the feathered cream. Wet a 

mould, pour this in it and and set on ice. 

Mrs. E. W. L. 



72 



Tutti Frutti. 

A stone jar (with cover) 

Awaits the libation 
Of arrack poured over. 

One bottle its ration. 
Of fruit in its season, 

Pineapple, raspberry, 
The peach with its bloom on, . 

As well as the cherry, 
And strawberries rosy, 

One pound you will take, 
And in kitchen so cosy 

This rich compound make. 
But of sugar three quarters 

In weight will be best, 
And one of your daughters 

Will stir this with zest. 
For a day or two after 

Each fruit is immersed, 
With cheer and with laughter, 

This may be rehearsed, 
Eat this fruit by itself, 

Better still with ice cream, 
In a dish of old delf, 

'T is a poem — a dream. 

Mrs. H. L. Hallett 



73 



Ice Cream. 

Three pints of milk, one quart of cream, one 

tablespoonful of flour, two cups and a half of 

sugar. Let the milk come to the boiling point, 

then stir in the flour (previously mixed thin with 

milk) and sugar. Cool it ; add the cream and a 

^ tablespoonful of vanilla. Freeze. 

Mrs. C. L. H. 



BEVERAGES. 



" C°ff ee > which makes the politician wise, 
And see through all things with his half-shut eyes." 



Coffee made with Cold Water. 

Put the required proportions of cold water and 

coffee into a granite coffee pot, cover closely and 

let it stand over night. In the morning let it just 

come to the boiling point, and serve at once. It 

needs no straining or clearing. 

Miss Devereux. 

Two or three egg shells contain albumen sufficient 
to clear one quart of coffee. 

The more finely coffee is ground, the stronger will 

be the extract. 

Mrs. L. 



74 



Steamed Coffee. 

Another way of preparing coffee is to put one 
tablespoon to every person ; turn on as many cups 
as tablespoonfuls of hot boiling water; set into a 
kettle of hot water and let steam twenty minutes. 

P. G. 
Coffee with Egg. 
A very delicious and nourishing food for invalids 
can be made by preparing a rather strong cup of 
coffee, with the milk and sugar boiled in ; pour it, 
while boiling hot, over an egg that has been thor- 
oughly beaten. 

Mrs. De L. Sheplie. 

Baker's Breakfast Cocoa. 

Into a breakfast cup put a teaspoonful of the 

powder, add a teaspoonful of boiling water, and mix 

thoroughly ; then add equal parts of boiling water 

and boiled milk, and sugar to the taste. Boiling 

two or three minutes will improve it. 

W. B. 

Baker's Cocoa Shells. 

Take a small quantity of cocoa shells (two ounces), 
pour upon them three pints of boiling water; boil 
rapidly thirty or forty minutes ; allow it to settle, and 
strain, and add cream or boiled milk and sugar at 
pleasure. W. B. 



Vo 



Plain Chocolate. 

Scrape one ounce (one of the small squares) of 

Baker's chocolate fine ; add to this two tablespoon- 

fuls of sugar, and put into a small saucepan with 

one tablespoonful of hot water. Stir over a hot fire 

for a minute or two, until it is perfectly smooth and 

glossy, and then stir it all into a quart of boiling 

milk, or half milk and half water; mix thoroughly 

and serve immediately. If the chocolate is desired 

richer, take twice as much chocolate, sugar and 

water. Made in this way, chocolate is perfectly 

smooth and free from oily particles. If it is allowed 

to boil after the chocolate is added to the milk, it 

becomes oily and loses its fine flavor. 

Maria Parloa. 

Egg Lemonade. 

For one glass take the juice of half a lemon, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, half a cup of water. Put in a 
Mason jar, and break into it one egg whole ; cover 
closely and shake thoroughly. Mrs - Norris. 

Gruel. 

One heaping teaspoon of Indian meal, one heap- 
ing teaspoon of flour dissolved in a little milk ; stir 
into one cup boiling water ; add salt to taste ; boil a 
few minutes (half an hdur is better) ; add one cup of 
milk. Serve when hot. Mrs. A. L. 



76 



HINTS. 



All canned fruits should be cooked after taking 
them from the cans. Add sugar, and boil up once 
or twice and set away to cool for lunch or tea. 

Onions should be first boiled in milk to be mild 
and odorless. 

A cup of strong coffee will remove the odor of 
onions from the breath. 

Boiled cabbage is much sweeter when the water 
is changed while boiling. 

Rub rusty flatirons with bee's wax and lard. 

Salt should be eaten with nuts. 

Put a fresh slice of bread into the cake box, renew 
it occasionally; it will keep the cake moist for a 
long time. 



t 



77 



t 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Four tablespoons = £ gill. 
Two gills = \ pint. 
Two pints = I quart. 
One half gallon = \ peck. 
Four gallons J bushel. 
Four quarts = i gallon. 
A common-sized tumbler holds half a pint. 
A common-sized wineglass holds half a gill. 
One quart of sifted flour = i pound. 
One quart of corn meal = i pound, 2 ounces. 
One quart of closely packed butter = 2 pounds. 
One quart of powdered sugar = 1 pound, 7 ounces. 
One quart of granulated sugar = 1 pound, 9 ounces. 
' A bit of butter, size of an egg, weighs about two ounces. 



78 



EPILOGUE. 



Lives of all good cooks remind us 
We can be good cooks ourselves ; 

So that all our friends shall find us 
With well-laden pantry shelves. 

Cooking that shall make each mother 
Think she has not taught in vain. 

Over father, brother, lover, 

Like a queen good housewives reign. 



■* 



t 



C. I. D. 



4 
4 



x. 


INDEX. 






i 


PAGES 


% 


Breads 5-1 1 


w 


Breakfast and Luncheon 






1 1-27 




Soups 






27-29 




Vegetables .... 






30-36 




Salads 






37-38 




Puddings 






39-45 




Pies 


• 




46-49 




Cakes 






50-65 




Gingerbread and Cookies 






63-65 




Pickles and Preserves . 






66-71 




Sweets .... 






• 71-73 




Beverages 






• 73-75 


* 

r 


Hints .... 
Weights and Measures . 






76 

77 



i 



t 



i 

\ 



•J 



i 



I 

-4 



VI 



v 






