
f/At/u- 



^v^. 




J. 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 






, 



Whose registered trade mark is "AX BILLY," 

Keeps one of the best CASH GROCERY STORES 

in California. 






He Finest Butter in He State. 



=g, ^ 



In fact, AX BILLY 



0F 



If you AX BILLY, 



You get the BEST and Pay LESS for it 

Than some other fellow would charge. They 
all say it pays to 



FRANK E. SMITH 





Silverware, * Spectacles, * Eyeglasses * and 
OPBRA GLASSES. 



FINE WATCH REPAIRING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. 



No. 98 South First Street, San Jose. 




QUICK*MEAL! 

LEADS ALL COMPETITION. 



yffHE burners of the "QuiCK MEAL" 
^ Stoves are not operated by a Needle 
Valve, but by a "Switch Valve," 
which, when closed, shuts off the gas- 
oline from the screw threads entirely, 
thereby making leaks impossible. But 
the distinctive feature of the " QUICK 
MEAL" the "taking point" which 
gives it the advantnge of all other 
stoves will never be changed i. e., 
the simplicity and ease with which it 
can be opened, closed and regulated. 
There are no thumb screws to turn, to 
burn the fingers with and to confuse people. The patent lever valve is a 
"dead open and* shut." When the little knob is pushed over to the word 
"Open," it is open, and when it is pushed to the word "Closed," it is closed, 
and no mistake. That is all there is to it. No one can use it wrong. Our 
Patent Safety Tank Attachment, with which all the " QUICK MEAL" are fur- 
nished, has been so improved and perfected that it not only necessitates the 
extinction of every light, but no burner can be relit before the "Filler Cap" 
has been properly closed. The fittings and finish of the Stoves are of the best. 




The Strong Point in the "QUICK MEAL" is the Simplicity 

of the Lever Handles -with -which the 

Stove is operated. 



AQKNT, 4 



152 South First Street, 



JOSE. 



TEMPERANCE 









WRITTEN BY 



IT/PS, A* lecFy (T, C)rr)ifr) ; 



FOR THE BENEFIT OF 



ALL HOUSEKEEPERS. 



SECOND EDITION. 



SAN JOSE, CAL.: 

MERCURY BOOK AND JOB PRINTING OFFICE. 
1887. 



"All things that are both great and small, 
One glorious author formed them all. 
This thought may all repining quell 
What serves our purpose, serves us well," 



PRKKACK. 



"Up with the temperance banner! 

And let it float on high! 

Our sacred watchword, duty. 

Our motto, victory." 



A Temperance Cook Book is one of the great necessities of tbe 
age. There should be nothing in our eatables to awaken the ap- 
petite of the reformed, and we certainly want nothing to cultivate 
a taste for intoxicating drinks in the young. With this view, I 
bring this, my second volume before the public, as a guide and 
assistant to all housekeepers not claiming superiority over the 
many cook books already in the market only so far as liquor and 
extravagance is concerned. Most of the cook books are made up 
of recipes to expensive for common cooking, and lack explana- 
tions, which the housekeeper sadly needs in arranging her cook- 
ery. This want I have supplied by explaining minutely every 
recipe, showing just how all the ingredients should be put to- 
gether, and have adopted measures instead of weights as far as I 
could, so that any person using them cannot fail to cook well if 
the rules are strictly followed. 

Having had years of experience in cooking, I feel competent 
to offer this book as the long-needed help to housekeepers. There 
are many valuable recipes in it, which I have selected and tried 
with good results. 

In submitting this work to the judgment of the public, the 
writer indulges the hope that the protracted labor and unremit- 
ting care she has bestowed upon it have resulted in the produc- 
tion of a cook book which will be found to answer the purpose 
for which it is intended. 

SAN JOSE, CAL., May 1st, 1887. 



PRINTED AT THE 

MERCURY STEAM BOOK AND JOB OFFICE, 
SAN JOSE, CAL. 



The delicate and proper blending of savors is the chief art of 
good soup making. There is no dish, perhaps, which comes to the 
table that gives such general satisfaction as well prepared soup. 
Put the meat into cold water, and let it heat slowly. This dis- 
solves the gelatine, allows the albumen to distngage, and the 
scum to rise, and diffuses the savory part of the meat. But if the 
soup is over a hot fire the albumen coagulates and hardens the 
meat, prevents the water from penetrating, and the savory part 
from disengaging itself. Thus the broth will be without flavor, 
and the meat tough. Allow about two tablespoonfuls of salt to 
four quarts of soup, where there are many vegetables, and one 
and a half where there are few. If more water is needed, use 
boiling water, as cold or lukewarm spoils the soup. Soup should 
never be suffered to stand in any vessel, (tin, copper or iron), 
to get cold, but if not to be used at once, pour it off while hot in- 
to a shallow, well glazed earthen dish. It should be strained 
before putting away. Soup is much better to be allowed to cool, 
and used the second day, as then all grease can be removed. A 
shank bone should be well cracked (that the marrow may be 
extracted), put on to cook in cold water, allowing a full quart 
for every pound of beef, and by a very gradual heat come to a 
slow simmer, which should be kept up for five or six hours. Soup 
on no account should be allowed to boil, except for the last fifteen 
minutes, to cook the vegetables in finishing. Do not add the salt 
until the meat is thoroughly done, as it has a tendency to harden 
the fibers and restrain the flow of juices. Thickened soups re- 
quire more seasoning nearly double the quantity used for thin 
soups. Stock made from meat without bone or gristle, will not 



6 SOUPS. 

jelly, but will taste very much like good beef tea. Never boil 
vegetables with it, as they will cause it to become sour. An eco- 
nomical soup-stock may be made of steak or roast beef bones, 
adding a piece of fresh meat, or none at all, and allowing it to 
simmer at least five hours; strain, remove all the fat the next day, 
and it will be ready for use. 



BEEF SOUP. 

Six pounds of lean beef. The shin is a good piece for this pur- 
pose. Have the bone well cracked, carefully extracting the mar- 
row, every bit of which should be put into the soup. Six quarts 
of water. The stock must be prepared the day before the soup 
is needed. Put the beef, bones and all with the water, in a close 
vessel and set it where it will heat gradually. Let it boil very 
slowly for six hours at least, only uncovering the pot once in a 
while to see if there is danger of the water sinking too rapidly. 
Should this be the case, replenish with boiling water, taking care 
not to put in too much. During the seventh hour, take out the 
meat and set the soup away, closely covered, until next morning. 
About an hour before dinner, remove the cake of fat from the sur- 
face of the stock, set the soup over the fire, and throw in a little 
salt to bring up the scum. When this has been skimmed off 
carefully, put in your vegetables. These should be : Two carrots, 
three turnips, one-half head of white cabbage, one pint of green 
corn or dried shaker corn, soaked over night, one head 
celery, one quart to-natoes. These should be prepared for the 
soup by slicing them very small, and stewing them in barely 
enough water to cover them, until they break to pieces. Cook 
the cabbage by itself in two waters throwing the first awaj r . 
The only exception to the general dissolution, is in a single car- 
rot, which should likewise be cooked alone and whole, until thor- 
oughly done, and set aside to cool, when the rest of the vegeta- 
bles, with the water in which they were boiled, are added to the 
soup. Eeturn the pot to the fire with the vegetables and stock, 
and boil slowly for half an hour from the time ebullition actually 
begins. Strain, without pressing, only shaking and lightly stir- 
ring the contents of the colander. The vegetables having been 



SOUPS. 7 

added with all their juices already cooked, much boiling and 
squeezing are not needed, and only make the soup cloudy. Cut 
the reserved carrot into dice and drop into the clear liquor after 
it is in the tureen; also, if you like, a handful of vermicelli, or 
macaroni which has been boiled tender in clear water. The sea- 
soning of this excellent soup is a matter of taste. Some use only 
salt and white pepper. Others like with this a few blades of mace, 
and boil in the stock a handful of sweet herbs. Send to the ta- 
ble very hot, and have the soup-plates likewise heated. 

AMBER SOUP, OB BOUILLON. 

This soup is served at almost all company dinners. There can 
be no better choice, as a heavy soup is not then desired. 

Ingredients: A large soup-bone (say two pounds), a chicken, 
a small piece of ham, one onion, two sprigs of parsley, half a 
small carrot, half a small parsnip, one stick of celery, three 
cloves, pepper, salt, a gallon of cold water, whites and shells of 
two eggs, and caramel for coloring. Let the beef, chicken and 
ham boil slowly for five hours; add the vegetables and cloves, to 
cook the last hour, having first fried the onion in a little hot fat, 
and then in it stick the cloves. Strain the soup into an earthen 
bowl and let it remain over night. Next day remove the cake of 
fat on the top, take out the jelly, avoiding the settlings, and mix 
into it the beaten whites of eggs with the shells. Boil quickly for 
half a minute; then, placing it on the hearth, skim off carefully 
all the scum and whites of the eggs from the top, not stirring 
the soup itself. Pass this through the jelly bag, when it should 
be quite clear. The soup may then be put aside, and reheated 
just before serving. Add then a large tablespoonful of caramel, 
as it gives it the rich color, and also a slight flavor. Of course, 
the brightest and cleanest of kettles should be used. This soup 
is to be served in cups at dinner parties. 

To MAKE CARAMEL FOR COLORING BROTH. 

Put into a porcelain sauce-pan, say half a pound of sugar and 
a tablespoof ul of water. Stir it constantly over the fire until it 
has a bright, dark-brown color, being very careful not to let it 
bnrn; then add a teacupful of water and a little salt. 



8 , SOUPS. 

MOCK-TURTLE, OK CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

One large calf's head, well cleaned and washed; four pig's feet, 
well cleaned and washed. This soup should be prepared the day 
before it is to be served. Lay the head and feet in the bottom of 
a large pot, and cover with a gallon of water. Let it boil three 
hours, or until the flesh slips easily from the bones. Take out the 
head, leaving in the feet, and allow these to boil steadily while 
you cut the meat off the head. Select with care, enough meat to 
till a teacup, and set it aside to cool. Remove the brains to a sau- 
cer and also set aside. Chop the rest of the meat with the tongue 
very fine, season with salt, pepper, powdered marjoram and 
thyme, a teaspoonful of cloves, the same of mace, half as much 
allspice, and a grated nutmeg and return to the pot. When the 
flesh boils from the bones of the pig's feet, take out the latter, 
leaving in the gelatinous meat. Let all boil together slowly with- 
out removing the cover, for two hours more; take the soup from 
the fire and set it away until the next day. An hour before din- 
ner, set on the stock to warm. When it boils, strain carefully 
and drop in the meat you have reserved, which, when cold, should 
be cut into small squares. Have these all ready, as well as the 
force meat balls. To prepare these, rub the yolks of five hard- 
boiled eggs to a paste, in a wedgewood mortar or in a bowl, with 
the back of a silver tablespoon, adding gradually the brains to 
moisten them; also a little butter and salt. Mix with these two 
eggs beaten very light; flour your hands and make this paste in- 
to balls about the size of a pigeon's egg. Throw them into the 
soup five minutes before you take it off the fire; stir in a large 
tablespoonful of browned flour rubbed smooth in a little cold 
water, let it boil up, and finish the seasoning by adding the juice 
of a lemon. It should not boil more than half an hour on the 
second day. Serve with sliced lemon. Some lay the slices on 
top of the soup, but the better plan is to pass to the guests a 
small dish containing several slices. 

WHITE SOUP Very nice. 

Take a knuckle of veal, one carrot, one turnip, one onion, and 
boil four hours. Before taking it up, stir in a tablespoonful of 
ground rice, wet up with cold water. Strain through a seive, 



SOUPS. 

always. Next day, half an hour before dinner, put it over the 
iire; just before serving, take half a pint of cream, one-half of 
milk, and pour, or rather mix, with three small eggs, beaten. 
Add this to the soup, stirring rapidly. Lift immediately from 
the fire. Season with salt and pepper before adding the eggs 
and cream. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Fry one chicken, when cut up, to a light brown, and also two 
slices of bacon. Pour on to them three quarts of boiling water. 
Add one onion and some sweet herbs, tied in a rag. Simmer 
them gently three hours and a half. Strain off the liquor, take off 
the fat, and then put the ham and chicken, cut into small pieces, 
into the liquor. Add half a teacupfulof okra, cut up; if dry, the 
same quantity; also half a teacupful of rice. Boil all half an hour, 
and just before serving add a dozen oysters, with their juice. 
Okra is a fine vegetable, especially for soups, and is easily culti- 
vated. It is sliced and dried for soups in winter. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Take two chickens (old ones are best) and prepare them as you 
would for roasting, filling them with a bread dressing, and put 
them in a pot with boiling water to cover them. Simmer them 
slowly till they are tender enough to run a fork through easily, 
then you can put them in the oven and brown them for the table. 
Take the water the chickens have been boiled in and stir in a 
pint of prepared noodles. Season with pepper and salt. 

ITALIAN SOUP. 

Put into three pints of boiling water the remains of a cold fowl, 
or a piece of cold roast beef, or a ham bone; add one handful of 
Lima beans; one quart of tomatoes with their skins off; one tea- 
cupful of rice, and two onions sliced and fried a good brown; one 
large spoonful of butter; pepper and salt to taste. Let the soup 
boil about twenty minutes; then cut off the corn from three cobs 
and add to the soup. This soup requires about three-fourths of an 
hour to make, and is very nice. The fried onion is absolutely nec- 
essary. A few sliced Irish potatoes can be added. 



10 SOUPS. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Take six pounds of beef, and put it into four quarts of water, 
with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, and a head of celery. 
Boil it down three or four hours slowly, till there are about two 
quarts of water, and let it cool. Next day take off the grease, 
without shaking the sediment, and pour it off into the kettle, 
half an hour before dinner (leaving the sediment out), and add 
salt to suit the taste, a pint of macaroni, broken into inch pieces, 
and a tablespoonful and a half of tomato catsup. 

BOUILLON. 

Six pounds beef, six quarts of water, pepper and salt to taste. 
Take a piece of round or next to the neck, wash clean and put it 
into the kettle with the water. Simmer it all day till there are 
about two quarts of soup, and let it cool. Next day take off the 
grease and pour the soup into a clean kettle, leaving the sediment 
out; add salt and pepper to suit the taste. Let it come to a boil, 
and serve in cups. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Two ox-tails, one onion, two carrots, one stock of celery, a lit- 
tle parsley, and a small cut of pork. Cut the ox-tails at the 
joints, slice the vegetables, and mince the pork. Put the pork 
into a stew-pan. When hot, add first the onions; when they be- 
gin to color, add the ox-tails. Let them fry a short time. Cut 
them to the bone, that the juice may run out in boiling. Put 
both the ox-tails and fried onions into a soup-kettle, with four 
quarts or cold water. Let them simmer for about four hours; 
then add the other vegetables with three cloves stuck in a little 
piece of onion, and pepper and salt. As soon as the vegetables 
are well cooked, the soup is done. Strain it. Select some of 
the joints (one for each plate), trim them, and serve them with the 
soup; or, if preferred, the joints may be left out. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Take the feet, neck, pinions, and giblets of two fowls, and 
add a pound and a half of veal, and a slice of lean ham. Pour 
on three quarts of cold water, and boil gently till the meat is 



SOUPS. 11 

very soft. Strain off the liquor, and when cold, take off the fat. 
Cut the giblets and meat into half -inch pieces; add a tablespoon- 
ful of flour with one of butter, and some of the soup to thin it. 
Then put into the soup the butter and meat, with some sweet 
herbs tied in a bag, with salt to your taste. Boil it half an hour 
and serve. 

VENISON SOUP. 

Three pounds of venison. What are considered the inferior 
pieces will do. One pound of ham or salt pork, one onion, one 
head of celery. Cut up the meat; chop up the vegetables, and 
put on with just enough water to cover them, keeping on the lid 
of the pot all the while, and stew slowly for one hour. Then add 
two quarts of boiling water, with a few blades of mace and a doz- 
en whole peppers. Or, should you prefer, a little cayenne. Boil 
two hours longer; salt and strain. Return the liquor to the pot; 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter, thicken with a tablespoonful of 
browned flour wet into a smooth thin paste, with cold water; add 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire or other pungent sauce. 

HARE OK RABBIT SOUP. 

Dissect the rabbit, crack the bones, and prepare precisely as 
you would the venison soup, only putting in three small onions 
instead of one, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Hare which are too 
tough to be cooked in any other way, make excellent game soup. 
Also the large gray squirrel of the Middle and Southern States. 

RICH VEAL SOUP. 

Take three pounds of the neck of veal, cut it in pieces and put 
it with the bones (which must be broken up), into a kettle with two 
quarts of water. Stew it till the meat is done to rags, and skim 
it well; strain it and return to the kettle. Blanch and pound to 
a smooth paste a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and mix 
them with the yolks of six hard boiled eggs mashed smooth, and 
a pint of cream, which must first have been boiled or it will cur- 
dle the soup, and let it boil afterwards about three minutes, stir- 
ring all the time. Lay in the bottom of the tureen some slices 
of toast, pour the soup on it and send it to the table. 



12 SOUPS. 

TOMATO SOUP. (No. 1.) 

Six pounds of beef (shank bone is the best), sixteen medium- 
sized tomatoes, one onion, four potatoes. Put the meat over to 
boil at seven o'clock A. M. (if you wish your dinner at one o'clock). 
Add the onion when you put the meat on to boil. At ten o'clock 
put in your tomatoes and potatoes nicely sliced. At twelve 
o'clock take out the meat, chop up enough to thicken the soup 
and put back into the kettle to boil. Half an hour before din- 
ner strain all through a colander; put back into the kettle, season 
with salt and pepper to suit taste; give the soup a lively boil. Put 
in a tureen and send to the table. 

MEATLESS TOMATO SOUP. (No. 2.) 

One quart tomatoes, one of water; stew till soft; add teaspoon- 
ful soda, allow to effervesce and add a quart of boiling milk, salt, 
butter, and pepper to taste, with a little rolled cracker; boil a few 
minutes and serve. 

TURNIP SOUP. 

Knuckle of veal, well cracked; five quarts of water. Cover 
closely and stew gently for four hours, the day before the soup 
is wanted. On the morrow, skim off the fat and warm the stock 
gradually to a boil. Have ready an onion and six large winter or 
a dozen small summer turnips, sweet marjoram or thyme minced 
very finely. Put these into the soup and let them simmer to- 
gether for an hour. Strain, return to the fire and add a cup of 
milk, in which has been stirred a tablespoonful of butter. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper; let it boil up once, stirring all the 
time, as is necessary in all soups where milk is added at the last, 
and remove instantly, or it will scorch. 

VEGETABLE OYSTER SOUP. 

Three dozen oysters pared and sliced thin; cook in one quart 
of water one hour; add pepper, salt and butter to taste. Let the 
soup boil fifteen minutes longer; then add one quart of rich milk; 
let it come to a boil; add three tablespoonfuls of rolled cracker. 
Serve hot. 



SOOTS. 13 

CORN SOUP. 

One-lialf dozen ears of corn, and with a sharp knife score each 
row of grains, then with the back of the knife scrape out the niilk. 
Have a quart of boiling water, put in the cobs and let them boil 
a few minutes, just to give the soup the sweetness of the cob. 
Lift them out and pour in the scraped corn, and let it boil ten or 
fifteen minutes, then add a pint of milk, a piece of butter about 
the size of an egg, let it just come to a boil; season with pepper 
and salt. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Four pounds of beef, or a knuckle of veal, to which you may 
add a pound of bacon. Cut them in pieces and put them in the 
soup-kettle with a sprig of mint and five quarts of water. Boil 
moderately fast and skim it well. When the meat boils to pieces, 
strain it out and put to the liquor a quart of young green pease. 
Boil them until they are entirely dissolved, and have thickened 
the soup and give it a green color. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak a pint of white beans over night. Then put them on the 
fire, with three quarts of water; one onion fried or sauted in a 
little butter; two potatoes, partly boiled in other water; a small 
cut of pork, one red pepper, a small piece of cabbage, and salt. 
Let it all boil slowly for four or five hours. Pass it through a col- 
ander. Return the pulp to the fire. Put into the tureen croutons 
of bread, cut in half inch pieces, and fry brow r n on all sides in a 
little butter. Pour the soup into the tureen and serve hot. Some 
add broth, celery, one or two cloves and carrot to bean soup. A 
little mustard added to bean soup makes a pleasant change. Some 
add cream at the last moment. Or, a very good bean soup can be 
made from the remains of baked beans the brown baked beans 
giving it a good color. Merely add water and a bit of onion; boil 
it to a pulp, and pass it through a colander. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP Dried. 

One gallon of water, one quart of split pease soaked over night, 
one pound of salt pork, cut into bits an inch square, one-half 



14 SOUPS. 

pound beef. Put over the fire, and boil slowly for two Lours, or 
until the quantity of liquor does not exceed two quarts. Pour in- 
to a colander, and press the pease through it with a wooden or 
silver spoon. Return the soup to the pot, adding- a small head 
of celery, chopped up, a little parsley, or, if prefered, summer 
savory or sweet marjoram. Have ready three or four slices of 
stale bread, which have been fried in butter until they are brown; 
cut into slices and scatter them upon the surface of the soup after 
it is poured into the tureen. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Two quarts of water, five medium-sized potatoes, one fourth 
of a head of cabbage, three medium-sized onions, yolks of two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of sweet milk, piece 
of butter the size of an egg. Put the water into a kettle, pare, 
wash and slice the potatoes, chop the onions, and cut the cabbage 
very fine; put them all into the kettle, and boil till tender; then 
mash all together, fine. Add more water if needed; beat the 
yolks very light and add them to the milk, with the flour previ- 
ously rubbed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Stir this 
into the boiling soup. Butter, pepper, and salt to taste. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Four pounds lamb, from which every particle of fat has been 
removed, one pound of veal, one slice of corned ham. five quarts 
of water. Cut up the meat, cover it with a quart of water, and 
set it back on the range to heat very gradually, keeping it cover- 
ed closely. At the end of an hour, add four quarts of boiling 
water, and cook until the meat is in shreds. Season with salt, 
sweet herbs, one chopped shallot, teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, and when these have boiled in the soup for ten minutes, 
strain and return to the fire. Have ready about a third of a 
pound of vermicelli, which has been boiled tender in clear water. 
Add this; boil up once, and pour out. In all recipes in which 
ham is mentioned as seasoning, reference is made to corned, not 
smoked pork. The smoke imparts an undisguisable, and to many, 
an unplesant flavor, especially to delicate soups and ragouts. 



SOUPS. 15 

OXION SOUP. 

Put into a sauce-pan butter size of an egg. Clarifyed grease, 
or the cakes of fat saved from the top of stock, or soup. When 
very hot, add two or three large onions, sliced thin; stir, and cook 
them well until they are red; then add a full one-half teacup ful 
of flour. Stir this also until it is red, watching it constantly 
that it does not burn. Pour in about one pint of boiling water; 
add pepper and salt. Mix it well and let it boil a minute; then 
pour it into the soup-kettle, and place it at the back of the range 
until almost ready to serve. Add then one and a half pints of 
boiling milk, and two or three well mashed boiled potatoes. Add 
to the potatoes a little of the soup at first, then more, until they 
are smooth, and thin enough to put into the soup-kettle. Stir 
well and smoothly together; taste, to see if the soup is properly 
seasoned with pepper and salt, as it requires plenty, especially 
of the latter. Let it simmer a few moments. Put pieces of toast- 
ed bread in the bottom of the tureen. Pour over the sojup, and 
serve very hot. 

RISH SOUPS. 



OYSTER SOUP. (No. 1.) 

Drain the oysters from the liquor and strain the liquor. Put in 
the stew-kettle a teacupful of hot water and a quart of rich new 
milk. When it comes to a boil turn in the oysters, and when hot 
again, add the strained liquor. Take a large lump of butter a 
good tablespoon!' ul and press it in a tablespoonful of flour to 
thicken it. Stir this into it and let it just come to a boil. You 
may add a blade of mace or a little grated nutmeg; also, a head 
of celery cut into small pieces, if you have it. 

OYSTER SOUP. (No. 2.) 

One quart of oysters, one quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one pint of water. Strain the liquor from the oysters, 
add to it the water, and set it over the fire to heat slowly in a 
covered vessel. When it is near boiling, skim off thoroughly; 
season with pepper and salt, and pour in the milk (which should 



16 SOUPS. 

be heated to a boiling- point in a separate vessel), after which, stir 
constant!}-. When the soup again nears the boiling point, add 
the oysters, and let them stew until they "ruffle," on the edge. 
This will be in about five minutes. Then put in the butter and 
stir well until it is melted. When the soup is ready to serve, add 
a little rolled cracker. Serve with sliced lemon and crackers. 
The crowning excellence in oyster soup is to have it cooked just 
enough. Too much stewing ruins the bivalves, while an under- 
done oyster is a flabby abomination. The plumpness of the 
main body and ruffled edge are good indices of their right con- 
dition. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Thirty clams, two quarts of water, one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, two eggs. If you cannot buy the clams al- 
ready opened, put them in a large pan or tray, and pour boiling 
water over them. This will open the shells. Take them out as 
fast as they unclose, that you may save all the liquor they con- 
tain. Drain off this and put it over the fire, and when it comes 
to a boil, put in the clams, chopped up fine, boil three minutes, 
add the milk, which has been heated to scalding (not boiling), in 
another vessel. Boil up again taking care the soup does not 
burn, and put in the butter, pepper, salt, and the eggs. Then 
serve without delay. If you desire a thicker soup, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour to a little cold milk, and put in with the pint 
of hot milk. 

CATFISH SOUP. 

Six catfish, in average weight half a pound apiece, one-half pound 
of salt pork, one quart of sweet milk, two eggs, one head of cel- 
ery, or a small bag of celery seed. Skin and clean the fish and 
cut them up. Chop the pork into small pieces. Put these to- 
gether into the pot with two quarts of water, chopped sweet herbs, 
and the celery seasoning. Boil for an hour, or until the fish and 
pork are boiled to pieces; strain it, return it to the sauce-pan 
and add the milk, which should be already hot; next the eggs, 
beaten to a froth, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut; boil 
up once, and serve with dice of toasted bread on top. 



SOUPS. 17 

CODFISH SOUP. 

Boil a teacupful of codfish (shredded fine) in three pints of wa- 
ter for twenty minutes, add three tablespoonfuls of butter mixed 
till smooth with one heaping tablespoonful of flour and a little 
hot water; boil up once, add two pints of milk, let boil, add three 
beaten eggs, serve with bread dice; or, when served in a tureen 
add one poached egg for each person. 

STOCK FOB SOUPS OR GRAVIES. 

Put two knuckles of shins of veal or beef and two onions into 
eight quarts of water. Boil two hours. Strain into a stone jar 
and keep in a cool place. When cold, take off the fat. Nice to 
put into vegetable soups, gravies or meat pies, of any kind. 

To CLEAR SOUP. 

Let it cool; then beat up the whites of three eggs; stir them in- 
to the cold soup with the broken shells of the eggs; set the soup 
off the fire and keep stirring until the scum rises. Let it boil 
four or five minutes, then take it off; set it aside until it settles, 
then strain it and serve hot. 

NOODLES FOR SOUPS. / 

I I 
Beat up two eggs, add a pinch of salt, and flour to make it very 

stiff; knead about ten minutes. Koll out into a sheet so thin as 
to be almost transparent, rub it with flour and let it stand an 
hour to dry; then roll it up like a scroll, and begining at one end 
shave it down fine as you would a head of cabbage for slaw; 
shake them up with more flour and put them into the soup. 
Boil ten minutes. 

X. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS" FOR SOUPS. 

One teacupful of beef marrow, four eggs, a little chopped par- 
sley, three tablespoonfuls of sweet rnilk. Rub the marrow to a 
cream; add the beaten eggs, season with pepper and salt, add 
the milk, and bread crumbs enough to make into little balls the 
size of a pigeon's egg. Let them stand half an hour before 
boiling; boil ten minutes in beef soup. 



18 SOUPS. 

SOUP DUMPLINGS. 

One-half teacupful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, yolks 
of four eggs. Beat the butter and yolks of the eggs to a cream; 
season with salt and lemon peel if you like; make them into a 
soft paste and drop them into the soup with a spoon. These are 
nice for potato soup. 

CALF'S LIVER DUMPLINGS. 

Grate two pounds of liver, rub three tablespoonfuls of butter 
to a cream, add six well beaten eggs; add this to the liver, season 
with garlic, marjoram, pepper and salt, and a little lemon peel; 
add bread crumbs enough to make into dumplings. Let them 
stand one hour before cooking. Boil ten minutes. If you do 
not like any of the seasoning, you can leave them out and season 
to taste. 



FISH. 



Fish are good and fresh if the gills are red, the eyes full, and 
the body of the fish firm and stiff. As soon as possible after fish 
are caught, remove all scales (these may be loosened by pouring 
on hot water), and scrape out entrails and every particle of blood 
and the white skin that lies along the back bone, being careful 
not to crush the fish more than is absolutely necessary in clean- 
ing. Kinse thoroughly in cold water, using only what is neces- 
sary for perfect cleanliness, drain, wipe dry, and place on ice un- 
til ready to cook. To remove the earthy taste from fresh water 
fish, sprinkle with salt, and let stand over night, or at least a few 
hours, before cooking; rinse off, wipe dry, and to completely ab- 
sorb all the moisture, place in a folded napkin a short time. 
Fresh water fish should never be soaked in water except when 
frozen, when they may be placed in ice-cold water to thaw, and 
then cooked immediately. Salt fish may be soaked over night 
in cold water; if very salt, change it. Fish should always be 
well cooked, being both unpalatable and unwholesome when un- 
derdone. For boiling, a fish-kettle is almost indispensable, as it 
is very difficult to remove a large fish without breaking from an 
ordinary kettle. The fish-kettle is an oblong boiler, in which is 
suspended a perforated tin plate, with a handle at each end, on 
which it is lifted out when done. From this tin it is easily slip- 
ped off to the platter on which it goes to the table. When no fish- 
kettle is at hand, wrap in a cloth, lay in a circle on a plate, and 
set in the kettle. "When done the fish may be lifted out gently 
by the cloth and thus removed to the platter. In frying by dip- 
ping into hot fat or drippings (or olive oil is still better), a wire 
basket, in which the fish is placed and lowered into the fat, is a 



20 FISH. 

great convenience. One of the most essential things in serving 
fish, is to have everything hot, and quickly dished, so that all 
may go to the table at once. Serve fresh fish with squash and 
green pease, salt fish with beets and carrots, salt pork and pota- 
toes with either. In cooking fish, care must be taken not to use 
the same knives or spoons in the preparation of it and other food, 
or the latter will be tainted with the fishy flavor. In boiling fish, 
allow five to ten minutes to the pound, according to thickness, 
after the water begins to boil. To test, pass a knife along a bone, 
and if done, the fish will separate easily. Kemove the moment 
it is done, or it will become "woolly" and insipid. 

Fish is made firmer if a little salt and vinegar is added to the 
water in which it is boiled. The water should be cold when the 
fish is put in, except in the case of salmon, when the water should 
be hot, to preserve the rich color. Garnishes for fish are parsley, 
sliced beets, fried smelts (for turbot), lobster coral (for boiled 
fish). 

WHITEFISH STEAMED. 

After cleaning the fish, salt it and wrap it in a clean white cloth 
and steam one hour. Dressing: Take a teacupful of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir to a cream. Pour over this one 
pint of boiling water and let it come to a boil. Stir in two hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine, pour the dressing over the fish and 
serve. 

BAKED FISH. 

Take a fish weighing five pounds after cleaing; salt it. Make 
a dressing of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, summer savory, and a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, 
and add about half a pint of water. Bake one hour and a half. 

CREAM GRAVY FOR BAKED FISH. 

Have ready in a sauce-pan a cup of cream, diluted with four 
tablespoonfuls of hot water lest it should curdle in heating in 
which has been stirred carefully two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and a little chopped parsley; heat this in a vessel, set 
within another of boiling water; add the gravy from^he dripping- 
pan in which it was baked; boil up once to thicken, and pour 
over the fish. 



FISH. 21 

FRIED FISH. 

Clean thoroughly, cut off the head, and, if large, cut out the 
backbone, and slice the body crosswise into five or six pieces; dip 
in Indian meal or wheat flour, or in a beaten egg, and then in 
bread crumbs (trout and perch should never be dipped in meal), 
put into a thick bottomed skillet, skin side uppermost, with hot 
lard or salt pork (never in butter, as it takes out the sweetness 
and gives a bad color), fry slowly, and turn when a light brown. 
Fish should not be put in to fry until the fat gets boiling hot. It 
is necessary to observe this rule. Serve with tomato sauce or slices 
of lemon. 

To BOIL FISH. 

Place in an iron kettle with salt cold water. Add a little 
vinegar or lemon juice, boil gently so as not to break the fish. 
Remove from the water as soon as done, and drain thoroughly. 
A little onion, parsley, carrots or cloves, with other seasoning, 
adds to flavor and appearance. Serve with drawn butter sauce 
with hard boiled eggs sliced. 

FKIED SMELTS. 

Any small fish may be cooked after this recipe. Wash a pound 
of small fish in cold salted water; draw them at the gills without 
splitting them, and wipe them on a dry towel; have ready over 
the fire a frying kettle, half full of fat; dip the fish first in milk, 
then in cracker or bread crumbs, then in beaten egg, and again 
in the crumbs; when the fat is smoaking hot put in the fish, as 
many as will float, and fry them until they are golden brown; 
take the fish from the fat with a skimmer; lay them on brown 
paper for a moment to free them from grease ; sprinkle them with 
salt and serve them hot. 

BKOILED SHAD. 

Any medium-sized fish may be broiled this way: After the 
shad has been scaled and washed in cold water, split it down the 
back; remove the back-bone and entrails and lay the fish between 
the bars of a double wire gridiron which has been well buttered; 
expose the inside to the fire until it is brown and then brown 



22 FISH:. 

the skin; when the fish is brown on both sides lay in a hot plat- 
ter without breaking it; spread over it a tablespooiiful of butter; 
season it with a saltspoonful of salt and quarter of a saltspoonful 
of pepper, and serve it hot. Chop a tablespoonful of parsley; 
mix it with a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon' 
juice, a saltspoonful of salt and quarter of a saltspoonful of pep- 
per; use this to dress the broiled fish. 

BAKED SALMON, TROUT OR PICKEREL. 

Clean thoroughly, wipe carefully, and lay in a dripping-pan 
with water enough to prevent scorching (a perforated tin sheet 
or rack fitting loosely in the pan, or several muffin-rings may be 
used to keep the fish from the bottom of the pan, and the fish 
may be made to form a cin.-le by tying head and tail together); 
bake slowly, basting often with butter and water. When done, 
have ready a cup of sweet cream into which a few spoonfuls of 
hot water have been poured, stir in two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter and a little chopped parsley, and heat in a vessel of boil- 
ing water; add the gravy from the dish and boil up once to thick- 
en. Place the fish in a hot dish, and pour over the sauce. Garnish 
with a wreath of crimson nasturtium-blooms and dainty sprigs 
of parsley, on the edge of the dish. 

BOILED SALMON. (Fresh.) 

Wrap the fish, when you have washed and wiped it, in a clean 
linen cloth not too thick baste it up securely, and put it in 
a fish-kettle. Cover with cold water in which has been melted 
a handful of salt. Boil slowly, allowing about quarter of an 
hour to each pound. When the time is up, rip open the cover 
of the cloth and test the salmon with a fork. If it penetrates 
easily, it is done; if not, hastily pin up the cloth and cook a lit- 
tle longer. Skim off the scum as it rises to the top. Have ready 
in another sauce-pan a pint of cream, or half milk and half cream 
will do, which has been heated in a vessel set in boiling water; 
stir into this a large spoonful of butter, a little 'salt and chopped 
parsley, and a half gill of the water in which the fish was boiled. 
Let it boil up once, stirring all the while, or what is better, do 
not remove from the inner vessel. When the fish is done, take 



FISH. 23 

it instantly from the kettle, lay it an instant upon a folded cloth 
to absorb the drippings; transfer with great care, for fear of 
breaking, to a hot dish, and pour the boiling cream over it, re- 
serving enough to till a small sauce-boat. Garnish with curled 
parsley and circular slices of hard-boiled yolks leaving out the 
whites of the eggs. After serving boiled salmon with cream sauce 
you will never be quite contented with any other. If you can- 
not get cream, boil a pint of milk and thicken with arrowroot. 
It is not so nice, but many will not detect the difference. 

BOILED SALMON-TROUT. 

Clean, wash, and dry the trout; envelop in a thin cloth fitted 
nearly to the shape of the fish, lay within a fish-kettle covered 
witli salted water (cold), and boil gently half an hour or longer, 
according to the size. When done, unwrap and lay in a hot dish. 
Pour around it cream sauce made as for baked salmon-trout only 
of course, with the omission of the fish gravy and serve. 

BAKED SALMON. 

AVash and wipe dry, rub with pepper and salt. Lay the fish 
upon a grating set over your baking-pan, and bake, basting it 
freely with butter, and, towards the last, with its own drippings 
only. Should it brown too fast, cover the top with a sheet of 
white paper until it is cooked. When it is done, transfer to a hot 
dish and cover closely; add to the gravy a little hot water thick- 
ened with cornstarch, wet, of course, first with cold water, a 
tablespoonful of tomato sauce, and the juice of a lemon. Boil 
up and serve in a sauce-boat, or you may serve with cream sauce 
made as for boiled salmon. Garnish handsomely with alternate 
sprigs of parsley and the bleached tops of celery, with ruby bits 
of currant jelly here and there. This is a fine dish for a dinner 

party. 

CREAM PICKEREL. 

The pickerel ranks next to trout among game-fish and should 
be cooked in the same manner. Reserve your largest pickerel 
those over three pounds in weight for baking, and proceed with 
them as with baked salmon-trout, cream gravy and all. If you 
cannot afford cream, substitute rich milk, and thicken with rice 



24 FISH. 

or wheat flour. The fish are better cooked in this way then any 
other. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Take a piece of halibut weighing five or six pounds, and lay it 
in salt and water for two hours. Wipe dry and score the outer 
skin. Set in the baking-pan in a tolerably hot oven and bake an 
hour, basting often with butter and water heated together in a 
sauce-pan or tin-cup. When a fork will penetrate it easily it is 
done. It should be of a fine brown. Take the gravy in the drip- 
ping-pan add a little boiling water should there not be enough 
stir in a tablespoonful of walnut catsup, a teaspoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, the juice of a lemon, and thicken with browned 
flour previously wet with cold water. Boil up once and put into 
sauce-boat. There is no finer preparation of halibut than this, 
which is, however, comparatively little known. Those who have 
eaten it usually prefer it to boiled or broiled. If you have any 
fish left, save it until the next morning. Pick out as you would 
cod, \vith an equal quantity of mashed potato, moisten with the 
sauce, or with milk and butter if you have no sauce; put into a 
skillet and stir until it is very hot. 

STURGEON STEAK. 

Skin the steaks carefully and lay in salted water (cold), for an 
hour, to remove the oily taste, so offensive to most palates. Then 
wipe each steak dry, salt, and broil over hot coals on a buttered 
gridiron. Serve in a hot dish when you have buttered and pep- 
pered them, and send up garnished with parsley, and accompa- 
nied by a glass dish containing sliced lemon. Another nice way 
to cook sturgeon is to prepare it as the above; then dip it in 
beaten egg, then bread crumbs, and fry brown. 

STEWED CODFISH. 

Soak pieces of codfish several hours in cold water, pick fine, 
and place in skillet with water; boil a few minutes, pour off wa- 
ter and add fresh, boil again and drain off as before; then add 
plenty of sweet milk, a good-sized piece of butter, and a thicken- 
ing made of a little flour (or cornstarch) mixed with cold milk 



FISH. 25 

until smooth like cream. Stir well, and when done take from the 
fire, and add the yolks of three well beaten eggs; stir quickly 
and serve. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Take a fresh codfish, two and a half pounds in weight, four 
medium-sized potatoes, four small onions, two slices of fat salt 
pork. First, cut the pork quite fine, put it in your kettle and 
let it fry brown. Cut the fish in pieces of an inch thick, and 
two inches square, remove all the bones possible. Cut the pota- 
toes and onions also fine, put all in a kettle in layers, alternately, 
cover with hot water, cook thirty minutes; then add one pint of 
rich sweet milk, pepper and salt to taste. Serve hot. 

CODFISH PIE. 

Take a piece of codfish, soak over night in plenty of water. 
In the morning simmer until tender. When done, remove all 
the bones, and chop fine. Take one bowlful of fish, one and one- 
half bowlful of mashed potatoes, one bowlful of thick cream, 
one-half teacupful of butter, pepper to taste. Mix all well to- 
gether, and brown nicely in the oven. 

CODFISH HASH. 

Prepare the fish as in the above recipe. Take one bowlful of 
fish, one and one-half bowlful of chopped potatoes, one bowlful 
of thick cream, two eggs, well beaten, butter and pepper to 
taste. Brown in the oven. Very nice for breakfast. 

TURBOT. 

Take a fine, large whitefish, steam till tender. Take out the 
bones and sprinkle with pepper and salt. For the dressing, heat 
one pint of milk and thicken with two-thirds of a cupful of flour. 
When cold, add two well beaten eggs and half a teacupful of 
butter. Put in the baking-dish a layer of fish, then a layer of 
sauce till full. Season with onions, parsley and thyme. Cover 
the top with bread crumbs, and bake one-half hour. 

BOILED CODFISH. 
Soak over night, put in a pan of cold water, and simmer two 



26 FISH. 

or three hours. Serve with drawn butter, with hard-boiled eggs 
sliced on it. Codfish is also excellent broiled. After soaking 
sufficiently, grease the bars of the gridiron, broil, and serve with 
bits of butter dropped over it. This is a nice relish for tea. 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 

After freshening, wrap in a cloth and simmer for fifteen min- 
utes; remove, lay on it two hard-boiled eggs sliced, pour over it 
drawn butter, and trim with parsley leaves. Boiling salt fish 
hardens it. 

CODFISH BALLS. (No. 1.) 

The first and most important thing to be remembered is, have 
the ingredients cooked on the day you wish them to be eaten. 
Put your codfish to soak the night before, then simmer (not boil), 
until tender. Have the potatoes freshly cooked and hot. When 
the fish is done, take out all the bones and pull every lump, 
no matter how small, apart, until it is light and feathery. Mash 
the potatoes until they are perfectly smooth; add a little cream 
or milk and the whites of four eggs and a little pepper. Mix all 
together, and make into round balls; dip in the yolks of four 
well beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard like 
doughnuts. They will not. absorb the fat, but will immediately 
crisp a beautiful brown; turn them over and in a moment they 
are done. Great care must be taken to have the lard boiling hot. 
Remember, the beauty is to have them fine and white inside, like 
a cream-puff. If rightly made, they are delicious, and far supe- 
rior to the heavy, butter-soaked articles, usually termed codfish 
balls. 

CODFISH BALLS. (No. 2.) 

Prepare the codfish as in number one. Take one and one-half 
coffeecupfuls of the codfish, two cups of freshly mashed potatoes, 
three well beaten eggs; season highly with pepper and a little salt; 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, and put in last. Take a tablespoon- 
ful of the batter at a time and fry in hot lard like doughnuts. 



FISH. 27 

SHELL-RISH. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters from the liquor. Have ready some finely rolled 
crackers or corn-meal into which sprinkle some pepper and salt. 
Have ready in the frying-pan equal quantities of butter and lard; 
dip the oysters into the fine crackers or corn-meal, and fry a light 
brown. Another way: Make a batter in the proportion of two 
eggs to a cup of cream, dip the oysters into the batter, then into 
the crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. Or, you may make 
the batter a little thicker and omit the cracker crumbs. Fry in 
hot lard and butter mixed a light brown. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters from their liquor. Put them on the fire with- 
out any water or liquor and cook them till nearly done. Then 
drain them from the liquor that has been drawn. To one quart 
of oysters, add one-half pint of sweet cream or new milk, a lump 
of butter the size of an egg, and yolk of one egg. Season with 
pepper and salt to suit your taste, and thicken with a spoonful of 
flour. Stew all together until the egg and flour are cooked. 
The butter, yolk, and flour should be beaten together and made 
smooth before stirring into the oysters. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters from the liquor; butter the bottom and sides 
of a deep dish. Use bread crumbs instead of crackers; they are 
better. Place in the bottom a layer of oysters, bits of butter 
strewn over them, a little salt and pepper, just a shade of nut- 
meg, and so make each layer till the dish is full, having bread 
crumbs and butter on the top. Bake half an hour. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Take a quart of large, fine oysters, pick them from the liquor. 
Heat in the skillet a large piece of butter almost to boiling, turn 
into it the oysters without the juice. When they are heated 
through and have begun to swell, and the ruffles stand out, stir 



28 FISH. 

into them a paste made of a piece of butter the size of an egg 
and a large tablespoonful of flour. Let it cook a minute or two 
longer, then serve. 

FULTON MARKET STEW. 

Butter a baking-dish; take a quart of the largest saddle rock 
oysters, take them from the liquor and lay them in the dish with 
bits of butter, salt and pepper, to your taste. Bake them ten 
minutes in a hot oven. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor, and thicken with a small 
lump of butter pressed in a tablespoonful of flour. Line the 
sides and bottom of a deep dish with paste; turn a small teacup 
bottom upwards in the center of the dish. It will hold the juice, 
and prevent the paste from becoming heavy . Pour in the oysters 
with the liquor, put on the top crust, and bake twenty minutes. 

BROILED OYSTERSI 

Dry large, selected oysters in a napkin, pepper and salt, and 
broil on a fine folding wire broiler, turning frequently to keep 
the juice from wasting. Serve immediately, in a hot dish, with 
little pieces of butter on them ; or, pepper a cup of dry bread 
crumbs; dry one quart of oysters in a napkin, dip each in butter 
previously peppered, roll well in the crumbs, and broil over a 
good fire from five to seven minutes. Serve immediately in a hot 
dish with butter, pepper and salt. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Wash and drain one quart of select oysters, put in pan and 
place in steamer over boiling water, cover and steam until 
oysters are plump Avith edges ruffled; place in a heated dish with 
butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Put oysters in a sauce-pan, add a little milk and part of the 
liquor from the oysters; season with pepper and salt, a bit of 
lemon rind, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir together, 



FISH. 29 

and let simmer for a few minutes, and put in shells which have 
been previously made of puff-paste baked in patty pans. They 
may be served hot or cold. If hot, the shells should be warmed 
before adding the oysters. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Turn them into a colander to drain ; pick them out one by one 
with a fork and put them in a spider as many as will lay on the 
bottom to cook. Season with salt and pepper; when the edges 
are curled take them out, put on a platter; be very careful not to 
burn them. The juice that is in the spider turn into a bowl and 
save; continue the same till all are cooked. Strain and measure 
the juice and add as much cider vinegar, a few pieces of mace, a 
tablespoonful of whole pepper, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, and let it boil five minutes; then can them up in glass jars. 

CREAM OYSTERS ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

Put into your inner sauce-pan a cup of hot water, another of 
milk, and one of cream, with a little salt. Set into a kettle of 
hot water until it boils, when stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and a little salt, with white pepper. Take from the fire and add 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of arrowroot or cornstarch, wet 
with cold milk. By this time your shells should be washed and 
buttered, and a fine oyster laid within each. Use clamshells; 
you will find them more roomy and more manageable, because 
more regular in shape. Range these closely in a large baking- 
pan, propping them with clean pebbles or fragments of shell, if 
they do not seem inclined to retain their contents. Stir the 
cream very hard and fill up each shell with a spoon, taking care 
not to spill any in the pan. Bake five or six minutes in a hot 
oven after the shells become warm. Serve on the shell. Some 
substitute oyster liquor for the water in the mixture, and use all 
milk instead of cream. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Pick the meat from a boiled crab and cut in fine bits; add one- 
third as much bread crumbs, two or three chopped hard boiled 
eggs, and lemon juice; season with pepper, salt, and butter, or 



30 FISH:. 

cream. Clean the shells nicely and fill with the mixture; sprinkle 
over with bread crumbs and small bits of butter, and brown in 
the oven. Lobsters may be prepared in same way, and served in 
silver scallopshells. Or, boil one pint of milk, and thicken with 
one tablespoonful cornstarch mixed in a little cold milk; season 
with pepper and salt, and pour over the picked-up lobster; put 
in baking-dish, and cover with bread crumbs and a few pieces of 
butter, and brown in the oven. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Chop fifty clams, peel and slice ten raw potatoes, cut into dice 
six onions and half a pound of fat salt pork, slice six tomatoes (if 
canned use a coffeecupful), add a pound of pilot crackers; first, 
put pork in bottom of pot and try out, partially cook onions in 
pork fat, remove the mass from pot, and put on a plate bottom 
side up; make layers of the ingredients, season with pepper and 
salt, cover with water and boil an hour and a half, adding 
chopped parsley to taste. 

To BOIL A LOBSTER. 

Lobsters and crabs should be boiled as soon as caught. The 
most humane way to kill them is to drop them in a kettle full of 
boiling water. Choose a lively one, not too large, lest he should 
be tough. Put a handful of salt into a pot of boiling water, and 
having tied the claws together, if your fish merchant has not al- 
ready skewered them, plunge him into the prepared bath. Boil 
from half an hour to an hour, as his size demands. When done, 
tarke him out and lay, face downward, in a sieve to dry. When 
cold, split open the body and tail, and crack the claws to extract 
the meat, throwing away the "lady-fingers" and the head. 

To PREPARE A CRAB. 

Drop in boiling water and boil ten minutes, dip the head in first, 
that kills it at once. The nippers and tenlaches are broken off, 
the shell broken open and the meat lifted out. Nothing is thrown 
away but the head, and stomach which lies close to the head. 
The liquor in the body is used for soup. 



MEATS. 



To SELECT MEAT. 

In buying beef, select that which is of a clear, cherry-red color 
after a fresh cut has been for a few moments exposed to the air. 
The fat should be of a light straw color, and the meat marbled 
throughout with fat. If the beef is immature, the color of the 
lean part will be pale and dull, the bones small, and the fat very 
.white. High-colored, coarse-grained beef, with the fat a deep 
yellow, should be rejected. In corn-fed beef the fat is yellowish, 
while that fattened on grasses is whiter. In cow beef the fat is 
also whiter than in ox beef. Inferior meat from old or ill fed 
animals has a coarse, skinny fat and a dark red lean. Ox beef is 
the sweetest and most juicy, and the most economical. 

In selecting veal, take that which is firm and dry, and the joints 
stiff, having the lean a delicate red, the kidneys covered with fat, 
and the fat very white. If you buy the head, see that the eyes 
are plump and lively, and not dull and sunk in the head. 

In choosing mutton, take that which is bright red and close 
grained, with firm and white fat. The meat should feel tender 
and springy on pressure. Notice the vein in the neck of the fore 
quarter, which should be a fine blue. 

Lamb is good at a year old, and more digestible than most im- 
mature meat. The meat should be light red and fat. 

Great care should be taken in selecting pork. If ill fed or dis- 
eased, no meat is more injurious to the health. The lean must 
be fine-grained, and both fat and lean very white. The rind 
should be smooth and cool to the touch. If clammy, be sure the 
pork is stale and reject it. If the fat is full of small kernels, it 
is an indication of disease. In good bacon the rind is thin, the 



32 MEATS. 

fat firm and the lean tender. Busty bacon has yellow streaks in 
it. Hams are tried by sticking a knife in them. If when drawn 
out it has no bad odor, the hain is good. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron well greased with 
beef suet, over hot coals; when done on one side have ready the 
warm platter with a little butter on it, lay the steak, without 
pressing it, upon the platter, quickly place it on the gridiron, 
and cook the other side. "When done to liking, put on platter 
again, spread lightly with butter, season with salt and pepper, 
and place where it will keep warm (over boiling steam is best) for 
a few moments, but do not let the butter become oily. Serve on 
hot plates. Many prefer to sear on one side, turn immediately 
and sear the other, and finish cooking, turning often. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK. 

When the means to broil are not at hand, the next best method 
is to heat the frying-pan very hot, put in the steak, let it remain 
a few moments, loosen with a knife and turn quickly several 
times; repeat this and when done transfer to a hot platter. Salt, 
pepper, and put over it bits of butter. This way of frying is both 
healthful and delicate. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED ix ONIONS. 

Fry brown four slices of salt pork; when brown, take out the 
pork and put in six onions, sliced thin. Fry about ten minutes, 
stirring all the while; then take out all except a thin layer, and 
upon this lay a slice of steak, then a layer of onions, then steak, 
and cover thick with onions. Dredge each layer with pepper, 
salt, and flour. Pour over this one cupful of boiling water, and 
cover tight. Simmer half an hour. When you dish, place the 
steak in the center of the dish, and heap the onions around 
it. Serve the same vega tables as for broiled steak. 

BOILED BEEF. 

Take a piece of sirloin or round of beef, wash it clean and put 
it on to boil in two quarts of warer; salt it and boil till tender. 



:MEATS. 33 

"When nearly done, pare some potatoes and let them steam with 
the meat. When half done, boil down the liquor and put in a 
piece of butter, and brown the meat and potatoes. When nice- 
ly browned, take them out and pour into the gravy one pint of 
boiling water, and thicken with flour paste. This makes a very 
nice dish for dinner. 

MOCK DUCK Very fine. 

Take flank or round steak. Pound and sprinkle it with pep- 
per and salt. Make a tilling of sweet-breads. To prepare the 
sweet-breads, soak them over night in salt and water. In the 
morning put them in fresh water and par-boil them ; chop them 
fine and make a dressing of one pint of bread-crumbs, two soda 
crackers rolled fine, two eggs well beaten. Season with cayenne, 
black pepper, and salt, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Put 
in the sweet-breads and moisten with one cup of cream or milk ; 
stir all the ingredients well together, spread them on the meat, 
roll it up, and sew it tight. Put it into a pot and pour on a 
quart of boiling water, add a tablespoonful of butter. Boil one 
hour, then take it out and put it in the roast-pan with the water 
in which it has boiled, and bake until nicely browned, basting 
frequently. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and pour over 
the meat. 

ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Never wash the meat, but if necessary, wipe with a damp cloth, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour; if not fat, put three or four 
pieces of butter the size of a hickory-nut on it; put in a dripping- 
pan without water, letting it rest on a wire frame or some small 
sticks to keep it from the pan; baste and turn it often, baking 
from fifteen to twenty minutes for every pound. Make the pud- 
ding, to eat like vegetables with the roast, as follows: One pint 
of milk, take three eggs, three cups of flour, teaspoonful of salt, 
stir to a smooth batter, pour into the dripping-pan, half an hour 
before the meat is done. Cut into square pieces, and put around 
the beef. It should be a fine brown. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 
Six pounds of the round of fresh beef. In the absence of a 



34 MEATS. 

larding needle, use carving steel to make holes all through the 
piece an inch or two apart. The piece of meat should be six inch- 
es thick. Cut pieces of pickled pork the size of a dice, square, 
and two inches long, and stick them into these holes. Then nib 
the beef both sides with pepper, salt and ground cloves, mixed. 
Having heated some fresh lard in your pot, fry a medium-sized 
onion in it quite brown. Lay the meat in this and pour around it 
as much boiling water or stock as will almost cover it. Have a 
close lid to the pot, and stew slowly at least three hours. Tie a 
bunch of bay leaves in a cloth and throw them in when you first 
put in the meat. About an hour before it is done, pour in two 
tablespoonfuls of red tomato catsup or Chili sauce, or a large tea- 
cup of canned tomatoes; one or two carrots or turnips, or both, 
is by some considered an improvement. When the meat is taken 
out, add a little water and flour to make the gravy. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF. 

Wash a piece of beef weighing ten pounds; put it into two 
gallons of cold water; when it comes to a boil, skim carefully., 
and boil very slowly, six hours. Some boil all kinds of vegetables 
in the same pot; but there is one objection to this method; you 
lose the distinctive flavor of each vegetable, and the beef is flavored 
with the vegetables, which is very unpleasant when it is cold. 
The vegetables to serve with corned beef are beets, turnips, cab- 
bage, parsnips, carrots and potatoes. When the beef is simply 
for one hot dinner, the part of the beef is not of so much con- 
sequence; but when it is to be pressed, there should be care taken 
in the selection of the peice to boil, the brisket, the flank, and 
the part of the libs, are the best parts to press. Boil as before 
directed and take out the bones, lay the meat on a large platter, 
and place a tin sheet upon it; on the sheet place a weight, and 
set it in a cool place. When ready to use, trim the edges, and 
use the trimmings for meat hash. This makes a nice dinner ^\ith 
baked potatoes, squash, and macaroni. 

To COOK A FILLET OF BEEF. 

The fillet is the under side of the loin of beef, the steaks cut 
from this part are called Porterhouse steaks. After it is trimmed 



MEATS. 35 

and larded, put it into a small baking-pan, in the bottom of 
which are placed some chopped pieces of pork, and beef suet; 
sprinkle some salt and pepper over it and put a large ladleful of 
hot stock into the bottom of the pan, or it may be simply basted 
with boiling water. Half an hour (if the oven is very hot as it 
should be) before dinner, put it into the oven, baste it often, 
supplying a little hot stock if necessary. 

To MAKE THE MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Take a ladleful of stock, free from grease, from the stock-pot; 
add to it part of the juice from the can of mushrooms; thicken it 
with a little flour and butter mixed; add pepper, salt, a few drops 
of lemon juice; now add the mushrooms, let them simmer a few 
minutes. Pour the sauce over the fillet of beef, and serve. 

BREAKFAST STEW. 

Cut three-fourths pound of cold roast beef into small pieces, 
heat slowly with half a pint of cold water, one tablespoonful of 
Chili sauce, a teaspoonful of salt, and half ateaspoonful of pep- 
per. Rub two tablespoonfuls of flour with some butter and a lit- 
tle of the hot gravy, add to the beef, let it cook until the flour is 
done, and then serve with bits of dry toast. 

BOILED SALT TONGUE. 

Soak the tongue over night; in the morning put it on to boil 
in six quarts of cold water, and boil slowly six hours, if the 
tongue is large; if not, five hours will answer. Take it from the 
boiling water and throw it into cold water, and peel the skin off. 
Set it away to cool. For dinner, use the same vegetables as for 
cold corned beef. The roots will make a nice hash. 

DRIED BEEF. 

The most common way of serving dried beef, is to shave it into 
thin slices or chips, raw; but a more savory relish may be made 
of it with little trouble. Put the slices of uncooked beef into a 
frying-pan with cold water, to freshen it; set it over the fire for 
ten minutes; when it comes to a boil, drain off the water and pour 



36 MEATS. 

some milk on the beef say to a pint of chipped beef, one quart 
of sweet milk. Thicken it with one-half cup of corn-starch or 
flour, a little butter and pepper, two well beaten eggs. Serve 
with baked potatoes for breakfast or supper. Fried ham is very 
nice prepared in this way. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut in thin slices and place on a platter, pour on boiling water 
and immediately pour it off (sealing the outside, taking away the 
unpleasant flavor and making it moi-e palatable); have ready in 
the skillet on the stove, some hot lard or beef drippings, dredge 
the liver with flour nicely seasoned with pepper and salt, put in 
skillet, placing the tin cover on, fry slowly until both sides are 
dark brown. 

LARDED LIVER. 

Lard a calf's liver with bacon or ham, season with salt and pep- 
per, tie a cord around the liver to keep it in shape, put in a kettle 
with one quart of cold water, a quarter of a pound of bacon, one 
onion, chopped fine, and one teaspoonful of sweet marjoram; let 
simmer slowly for two hours, pour off gravy into gravy dish, and 
brown liver in kettle. Serve with the gravy. 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Drain, dredge in flour, broil on a greased gridiron for ten min- 
utes; season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve on very hot 
dishes. In buying tripe, get the "honey-comb," as it is the best. 

FRIED TRIPE. 

Dredge with flour, or dip in egg or cracker crumbs, fry in hot 
butter, or other fat, until a delicate brown on both sides, lay it 
on a dish, add vinegar to the gravy, and pour over the tripe (or 
the vinegar may be omitted, and the gravy added, or the tripe 
may be served without vinegar or gravy). Or make a batter by 
mixing gradually one cup of flour with one of sweet milk, then 
add an egg well beaten and a little salt; drain the tripe, dip in 
batter and fry in hot drippings or lard. Salt pork and pig's feet 
may be cooked by the same rule. 



MEATS. 37 

SPICED BEEF. 

Take a piece of beef from the fore quarter, weighing ten or 
twelve pounds. Take one pint of salt, one teacupful of molas- 
ses or brown sugar, one tablespoonful ground cloves, allspice 
and pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of pulverized saltpetre. Place 
the beef in a deep pan; rub with this mixture. Turn and rub 
each side twice a day for a week. Then wash off the spices; put 
in a pot of boiling water, and as often as it boils hard, turn in a 
teacupful of cold water. It must simmer for fire hours on the back 
part of the stove. Press under a heavy weight till it is cold. 
You can use the pickle again, first rubbing into the meat a hand- 
ful of salt. This is good to pickle tongue also. 

STOCK. 

The liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, trimmings 
of fresh meat, poultry, shank bones, roast beef bones, any pieces 
the larder may furnish; crack the bones, put all into the soup 
pot, cover with cold water, and simmer gently six hours; skim 
carefully and strain; when cold, remove the fat from top. Put 
the stock over the fire and boil down until it is almost a thick 
jelly. This is used to glaze a roast fillet of beef; or to add when 
you cook beef a la mode. 

To ROAST A FILLET OF BEEF. 

Lard it, and bind it carefully to the skewer with a small wire; 
cover the fillet with sweet salad oil and a little lemon juice. Put 
it into a hot oven; baste it frequently; five minutes before tak- 
ing it away from the fire, glaze the fillet three times with a glaz- 
ing brush. When the fillet is carved at table, the little juice 
which falls into the dish should be poured over each of the 
slices. 

BOILED MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Have ready a pot of boiling water, and throw in a handful of 
salt; wash a leg of mutton and rub salt through it. If it is to be 
rare, cook two hours, if well done, three hours or longer, accord- 
ing to size. Boil a pint of milk, thicken with flour well blended, 
add butter j salt, pepper and two tablespoonfuls of capers, or mint 



3g MEATS. 

sauce if preferred. Another way : Boil in six quarts of water. 
In a few minutes a scum will rise, \\liich must be skimmed off 
carefully. Throw in a handful of whole black pepper, add salt 
and boil till done. Serve with caper sauce. 

POT ROAST. 

A nice way to cook a leg of mutton, lamb, or veal, is in this, 
way: Put into a pot one pint of boiling water, put in the meat, 
and steam two hours, then add salt and pepper, steam till tender, 
add some butter, and brown in the pot. Put it on a platter and 
serve it with the gravy, thickened with a little flour. 

FRIED MUTTON CHOPS. 

For this dish the dainty French chops that are at once so deli- 
cious and so expensive need not be used. The large, coming 
further down the leg and resembling cutlets more than chops are 
quite as good. Beat them hard with the flat of a hatchet, crush- 
ing the bones, dip each first into beaten egg, then into cracker 
crumbs. Have ready plenty of boiling hot lard or drippings in 
a flying-kettle. Test it with a piece of bread, and if this browns 
almost instantly the fat is in proper condition. Fry the chops a 
good brown, remove with a skimmer and place on a hot platter, 
and serve hot. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

This is a favorite dinner-company dish, generally arranged in a 
circle, around green pease. They should be neatly trimmed, the 
bones scraped, then rolled in a little melted butter, and carefully 
broiled. When done, rub more butter over them and season with 
pepper and salt. Slip little paper, ruffled, over the ends of the 
bones. They may be served with a centre of almost any kind of 
vegetables, such as a smooth hemisphere of mashed potatoes or 
spinach, or with beans, cauliflowers or stuffed baked tomatoes, 
or with a tomato sauce. 

LEG OF MUTTON ROASTED. 

A leg of mutton intended for roasting can be kept much longer 
than for boiling, but must be wiped very dry, and dusted with 



MKATS. 39 

flour and pepper. Cut off knuckle, remove thick skin, and trim 
off piece of thick flank. Put a little salt and water into dripping- 
pan, baste joint for short time with it, then use gravy from meat 
itself, basting eveiy ten minutes. A leg of mutton, if too large, 
can be divided, and knuckle boiled. By placing a paste of flour 
and water over part cut off, to keep in gravy, it can be roasted, 
by which means two roast dinners can be had from one joint. 

ROAST LAMB. 

The fore and hind quarter of lamb are used for roasting. Rub 
on a little butter, salt and pepper; put a pint of water into the 
dripping-pan, and a little lard or butter, allow about fifteen min- 
utes to a pound; baste often. Lamb is to be cooked thoroughly. 

The following is a very excellent sauce for roast lamb : Pick, 
wash and shred fine, some fresh mint, put on it a tablespoonful 
of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar; or, chop some hard 
pickles to the size of capers and put them to a half pint of melted 
butter, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. 

MUTTON A LA VENISON. 

Take a leg of mutton and lard it well with strips of salt pork; 
insert deep slits in the meat, which has been previously rolled in 
pepper and cloves; bake two hours or according to the size of the 
roast, basting frequently while in the oven. About an hour before 
serving, spread over it currant jelly. Return to the oven and 
brown. 

SAUTED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim the superfluous fat, and the skin from chops; heat a fry- 
ing-pan until the chops siss, on being put into it; put the chops 
into the hot frying-pan, and brown them quickly, first on one 
side then on the other, and then move the pan away from the hot 
part of the stove, and finish cooking the chops to the desired 
degree. Chops fried in this way are juicy and nicely flavored; 
when they are done put them on a hot platter, season with salt, 
pepper and butter; serve them hot. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Prepare the dressing as for fowls. In the place where the bone 
has been removed, put in the dressing. Tie the fillet around 



40 MEATS. 

with a white string, in order to keep it in shape and compact, as 
it will look better so, and can be carved more readily. The string 
should be removed before sending to the table. Roast the veal 
in an oven, without water in the pan. Veal should be thoroughly 
done, but it takes longer time to even heat it through, than any 
other kind of meat. A fillet of ordinary size will require, cer- 
tainly, three hours' roasting. Baste frequently with butter. Just 
before it is done, sprinkle over a little flour, and rub over some 
butter. This will give a frothy appearance to the meat. Serve 
with sliced lemons. 

VEAL STEW. 

Cut four pounds of veal into strips three inches" long and an 
inch thick, peel twelve large potatoes, cut them into slices an 
inch thick, then spread a layer of veal on the bottom of the pot, 
and sprinkle a little salt and a very little pepper over it, then put 
a layer of potatoes; then a layer of veal seasoned as before. Use 
up the veal thus, and over the last layer of veal put a layer of 
slices of salt pork, and over the whole a layer of potatoes. Pour 
in water till it rises an inch over the whole, and cover it as close 
as possible; heat it fifteen minutes and simmer it an hour. Ten 
minutes before taking up, put in butter the size of an egg, stir in 
a thin batter made of two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Fry brown four slices of salt pork. Take them up, and add to 
the fat two large tablespoonfuls of lard or drippings. Have 
ready thin slices of veal (they are best cut from the leg). Season 
with salt and pepper. Dip them in an egg, which has been well 
beaten, then into cracker crumbs, and fry a light brown. Put 
on a hot platter and serve with the pork. To make the gravy: 
Add a teacupful of sweet milk to the gravy in the pan; stir in a 
tablespoonful of flour, previously wet in cold water, boil five min- 
utes and serve with the cutlets. 

VEAL TERRAPIN. 

Take some nice cold roast veal (from the fillet or loin), and cut 
it into small mouthfuls; put it into a stew-pan; have ready a 



f MEATS, 41 

dressing of six hard boiled eggs, minced fine, a small teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of 
cayenne pepper, half pint of cream. If you cannot conveniently 
obtain cream, substitute a tablespoonful of butter. All the in- 
gredients for this dressing must be thoroughly mixed, then pour 
it over the veal and give the whole a hard stir. Cover it and let it 
stew over the fire for about ten minutes. Fresh venison is excel- 
lent cooked in this manner; so, also are ducks, pheasants, par- 
tridges or grouse, making a fine dish for company. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of uncooked veal, one-fourth pound of salt pork 
(less will answer if butter is used), three eggs, three Boston 
crackers, one and one-half teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of pepper; use powdered sage, thyme, or sweet marjoram if you 
like. Chop the meat and pork very fine, add the beaten eggs 
and the rolled crackers, with the rest of the ingredients. Press 
hard into a pudding-dish, and bake two hours. Slice thin, gar- 
nish with parsley, and eat cold. 

VEAL KOLL. 

Two pounds of pork steak; three pounds of veal, chopped fine; 
ten crackers, rolled; one tablespoonful of thyme, summer savory, 
or parsley; six eggs; salt and butter. Mix thoroughly. Bake 
one hour, then spread eggs and crackers over it and put in to 
brown. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads should be soaked in cold water for an hour as 
soon as they come from the market, as they do not keep well; cut 
through each, draw a piece of salt pork through the incision, 
and put on to boil in salt water or soup-stock until thoroughly 
done; take off, place in cold water for a few minutes, remove the 
little pipes and skin, and put away in a cold place until ready to 
cook for the table. When wanted, season with salt and pepper, 
roll in bread crumbs, and fry in a frying-pan, or like doughnuts, 
in hot fat. Serve with green pease, or with a gravy made by 
pouring a cup of milk thickened with flour into the frying-pan. 



42 MEATS. , 

Or prepare as for frying', slice thin, sprinkle over grated nutmeg- 
and chopped parsley, dip into a batter made of one cup of milk, 
one egg one cup of flour, a pinch of salt, and a half teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder, and fry like fritters, 

CROQUETTES. 

One sweetbread, two coffeecups of chopped chicken, one cup 
of bread crumbs; pour on boiling water enough to moisten them. 
Add the yolks of two eggs, stir over the fire till quite stiff, and 
set away to cool. Chop three teaspoonfuls of parsley, 'three of 
thyme, three of onions, one of mace, one of nutmeg, salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste; add one-fourth pound of butter; then 
beat in the mixture two eggs; mix well with the hand; shape like 
pears; dip in beaten egg then in bread-crumbs and fry in hot 
lard, a light brown. 

SWEETBREADS PATTIES. 

Take three large sweetbreads. When you have washed them, 
and removed all bits of skin and fatty matter, cover with cold 
water, and heat to a boil. Pour off the hot water, and pour on 
cold water, enough to cover them nicely, and stew till tender. 
When done, season with salt, butter, black and a very little cay- 
enne pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Add one cup of thick 
cream. They are now ready for use. For the patties, make a 
good puff-paste, and bake as you would tarts. Before you put 
them in the oven, brush them over with the yolk of an egg. 
They should be baked the day before you want to use them. 
Have your sweetbreads hot, and fill your patties just before 
sending them to the table. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 
/> 
Allow eight sweetbreads to a can of mushrooms. After they 

are par-boiled and trimmed, cut them up in pieces and stew till 
tender; cut up the mushrooms and stew in their liquor for twenty- 
minutes, then add to the sweetbreads a coffeecupful of cream, 
pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. Serve hot. Sweet- 
breads broiled and served with a dressing of green pease, makes 
a delicious dish. 



MEATS. 43 

SWEETBREADS WITH TOMATOES. 

Take two large sweetbreads, par-boil and remove the skin. Put 
them into a sauce-pan with half a pint of water, salt and pepper 
to taste. Stew slowly. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a small 
piece of butter, to which you may add a very little nutmeg, if 
YOU like. Stir this into the sweetbreads after stewing them for 
one-half hour. Set the sauce-pan in the oven and brown the 
sweetbreads on the dish. Pour the gravy into one-half pint of 
stewed tomatoes, thickened with one dessertspoonful of flour and 
a little piece of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Strain it 
through a small wire sieve into the stew-pan. Let it come to a 
boil and stir till done. Pour it over the sweetbreads and send to 
the table hot. 

CROQUETTES OF CALF'S BRAINS. 

Wash the brains very thoroughly until they are free from mem- 
branous matter and perfectly white. Beat them smooth; season 
with a pinch of powdered sage, pepper and salt. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of fine bread crumbs moistened with milk, and a beaten 
egg. Roll into balls with floured hands, dip in the beaten egg, 
then in cracker crumbs, and fry in butter or veal drippings. 
These are nice with boiled spinach. 

BOILED HAM. 

Have a coarse hand brush for cleaning hams, as it is impossi- 
ble to get them clean by simply washing them. Cover with cold 
water, add one-half teacupful of molasses, and simmer slowly. 
A ham weighing twelve pounds, will require five hours boiling. 
After it is boiled, take off the skin and rub it all over with an egg, 
then strew bread crumbs over it; baste with butter, and set it in 
the oven until it is baked a light brown. A ham has an excellent 
flavor if boiled as follows : Before cooking, soak in vinegar and 
water, then boil in water with two heads of celery, two or three 
turnips, same of onions (if wished), and a handful of sweet herbs; 
put the ham in cold water and let it heat very gradually; allow 
an hour's boiling to every four pounds. 



44 MEATS. 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut the ham in slices of medium thickness, place on a hot grid- 
iron, and broil until the fat flows out and the meat is slightly 
browned, take from the gridiron with a knife and fork, drop into 
a pan of cold water, then return again to the gridiron, repeat 
several times, and the ham is done; place on a hot platter, add a 
few lumps of butter and serve at once. If too fat trim off a part; 
it is almost impossible to broil the fat part without burning, but 
this does not impair the taste. Pickled pork and breakfast ba- 
con may be broiled in the same way. 

FRIED HAM. 

Place the slices in boiling water and cook till tender; put in a 
frying-pan and brown, and dish on a platter; fry some eggs by 
dipping gravy over them till done, instead of turning; take up 
carefully and lay them on the slices of ham. This is a tempting 
dish, and if nicely prepared, quite ornamental. 

FRICATELLI. 

Chop raw fresh pork very fine, add a little salt, plenty of pep- 
per, and two small onions, chopped fine, half as much bread as 
there is meat, soaked until soft, two eggs; mix well together, 
make into oblong patties, and fry like oysters. These are nice 
for breakfast; if used for supper, serve with sliced lemon. 

ROAST SPARE-RIB. 

When you put it in the oven cover it with a greased paper un- 
til it is half done. Remove it then, dredge with flour. A few 
minutes later, baste once with butter, and afterwards, every little 
while, with its own gravy. This is necessary, the spare-rib being 
a very dry piece. Just before you take it up, strew over the sur- 
face thickly with fine bread crumbs seasoned with powdered sage, 
pepper and salt, and a small onion minced into almost invisible 
bits. Let it cook five minutes, and baste once more with butter. 
Skim the gravy, add a half cupful of hot water, thicken with 
browned flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, strain, and pour 
over the meat in the dish. 



"MEATS. 45 

To ROAST A FILLET OR LEG OF VEAL. 

Cut off the shank bone of a leg of veal, and cut gashes in what 
remains. Make a dressing of chopped raw salt pork, salt, pepper 
sweet herbs and bread crumbs, or use butter instead of pork. 
Stuff the opening in the meat with the dressing, put in a baking- 
pan with water, just enough to cover it, and let it bake, two hours 
for six pounds. 

PORK CHOPS, 

Kemove the skin, trim them, and dip first in beaten egg, then 
in cracker crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, minced onion and 
a little sage. Fry in hot lard or drippings twenty minutes, turn- 
ing often. The gravy of this dish is usually too rich or fat to 
accompany the meat. Pork cutlets are cooked in the same way. 
Send apple-sauce to the table with them, and season with tomato 
catsup. 

PORK PIE. 

Make a crust as for chicken pie. Take the rind and chine-bone 
from a loin of pork, chop it fine, season with pepper, salt and 
powdered sage, and fill your pie. Put on the top crust, fasten 
the edges well, nib the top over with the yolk of an egg, and 
bake it two hours with a paper over it, to prevent the crust from 
burning. 

To ROAST A PIG. 

Take a pig that weighs from seven to twelve pounds, and as 
much as six weeks old. Wash it thoroughly outside and inside. 
Take any fresh cold meat, and twice as much bread as you have 
meat. Chop the bread by itself, and chop the meat and pork 
fine and mix all together, adding sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 
half a teacupful of butter, and one egg. Stuff the pig with it, 
and sew it up tight. Take off the legs at the middle joint. Put 
it into a dripping-pan with cross-bars or a grate to hold it up, 
and with the legs tied, and pour into the pan a pint of boiling 
water and set it in the oven. As soon as it begins to cook, swab 
it with salt and water, and then in fifteen minutes do it again. 
If it blisters it is cooking too fast; swab it, and diminish the 
heat. It must bake, if weighing twelve pounds, three hours. 



46 MEATS. 

When nearly done, rub it with butter. When taken out set it 
for three minutes in the cold, to make it crisp. Take the gravy 
which has run from the meat, chop the liver, brains, and heart 
small, and put them to it, (boil them before chopping, till ten- 
der,) and put in a stew-pan with some bits of butter, dredge in 
flour, give it one boil,, and serve in a gravy-boat. 

To SWEETEN SALT PORK. 

Cut as many slices as will be required for breakfast; cut them 
on the evening previous, and soak till morning in sweet milk 
and water; then rinse till the water is clear, and fry. The pork 
will be found nearly as nice as fresh pork. 

SALT PORK COOKED IN BATTER. 

Dip slices of salt pork in batter made with one egg, one cup 
of sweet milk, flour enough to make a batter as thick as that of 
griddle cakes. Fry in hot lard to a rich brown. 

SOUSED TRIPE. 

Cut the tripe into squares, and lay them in an earthen pot, and 
pour over them boiling vinegar, enough to cover, in which 
a blade of mace, a dozen whole cloves, and a stick of cinnamon 
has been boiled. It will be ready for use in twelve hours, and 
will keep for several weeks. Soused tripe may be either broiled, 
fried plain, or in butter. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

This is made of the head, ears, and tongue. Boil in salted 
water till the meat drops from the bones; chop it like sausage 
meat. Season the liquor with salt, pepper, sage, sweet marjoram, 
a little powdered cloves, and one-half a cup of strong vinegar. 
Mix the meat with it, and while hot tie it in a strong bag and 
keep a heavy stone upon it until cold. 

SOUSE. 

Cleanse pigs' ears and feet and soak them a week in salt and 
water, changing the water every other day. Boil till tender. 



MEATS. 47 

"When cold put on salt, and pour on hot spiced vinegar. Fry 
them in lard. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine some cold dressed ham. To one quart of chopped 
ham, add a teaspoonful of chopped pickle, one of mustard, a little 
pepper. To three quarts, beat one teacupful of butter to a 
cream, and then add the ham and seasoning. Spread on thin 
slices of bread. 

SANDWICHES. 

Rub one tablespoonful of mustard into one-pound of sweet 
butter; spread on thin slices of bread; cut boiled ham very thin, 
and place in between two pieces of the bread. 

TRAVELING LUNCH. ^J 
v 

Sardines chopped fine; also a little ham; a small quantity of 
chopped pickles; mix with mustard, pepper, catsup, salt, and 
vinegar; spread between bread nicely buttered. To be like jelly- 
cake, cut in slices crosswise. Will keep fresh some time. 

MIXED SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine cold ham, tongue, and chicken; mix with two quarts 
of the meat one-half cup of melted butter, one of made mustard 
the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a little pepper; spread on 
bread cut thin. Or take equal quantity of ham and beef chopped 
fine, and to two quarts of meat, add two tablespoonfuls of butter 
or salad oil, teaspoonful of mustard, a little cayenne pepper. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

To twenty -five pounds of chopped meat, which should be one- 
third fat and two-thirds lean, put twenty spoonfuls of sage, 
twenty-five of salt, ten of pepper, and four of summer savory. 

To TRY OUT LARD. 

Take what is called the leaves, and take off all the skin, cut it 
into pieces an inch square, put it into a clean pot over a slow fire, 
and try it till the scraps look a reddish brown, taking great care 



48 MEATS. 

not to let it burn, which would spoil the whole. Then strain it 
through a strong cloth, into a tin pan, and let it cool; then pack 
in a stone jar. Never put hot lard into a crock that you intend 
keeping it in, as it causes it to become rancid. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF, POKE, TONGUES, OR HUNG BEEF. 

Mix, in four gallons of water, a pound and a half of sugar or 
molasses, and of saltpetre two ounces. If it is to last a month 
or two, put in six pounds of salt; if you wish to keep it over the 
summer, use nine pounds of salt. Boil all together gently, and 
skim, and then let it cool. Put the meat in the vessel in which 
it is to stand, pour the pickle on the meat till it is covered, and 
keep it for family use. 

Once in two months boil and skim the pickle, and throw in two 
ounces of sugar and half a pound of salt. 

When tongues and hung beef are taken out, wash and dry the 
pieces, put them in paper bags and hang in a dry, warm place. 
In very hot weather, rub the meat well with salt before it is put 
in the pickle, and let it lie three hours for the bloody portion to 
run out. Too much saltpetre is injurious. 

To CURE HAMS. 

Make a pickle of salt and water, with one ounce of saltpetre 
and half a pint molasses or one-fourth pound brown sugar for 
each ham of ordinary size; pack hams as closely as possible in 
barrel, sprinkle on a little salt, and pour over them the pickle, 
boiling hot. Let them remain two weeks, take out, drain a few 
days, and smoke according to taste. Corn-cobs or sawdust are 
best for this purpose. To keep hams after curing, wrap in brown 
paper, and place in a tight bag so as to secure from flies. 

CRUST FOR MEAT PIE. 

One quart of flour, three tablespoonfuls of lard, two cups of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of Equity 
baking-powder. Work up very lightly and quickly, and do not 
get it too stiff. 

POTATO CRUST. (For Meat Pies.) 



MEATS. 49 

of melted butter, a well beaten egg, two cups of sweet milk; 
beat all together until very light. AYork in enough flour to en- 
able you to roll out in a sheet not too stiff. It looks very nice 
brushed over with beaten whites of eggs before it goes to the ta- 
ble. 

DRESSING FOR POULTRY OR MEATS. 

One quart of bread crumbs, four soda crackers, four eggs, one- 
half teacupful of nice fresh lard, one teaspoonful of pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. Roll the crackers very fine, 
add them to the bread crumbs, and moisten this with one teacup- 
ful of milk; beat the eggs very light and add them; put in 
the rest of the ingredients. You can use butter instead of lard, 
but lard makes the dressing much lighter. The dressing must 
be so soft that you will have to dip it with a spoon when you fill 
your fowls or meats. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY. 

Three pints of bread crumbs, one cup of suet chopped fine, two 
eggs, giblets of turkey, sage, salt, and pepper. Boil the giblets 
till well done, chop very fine, add the bread crumbs and the suet, 
add milk enough to moisten the dressing, season it highly, then 
add the well beaten eggs. It is now ready for the turkey. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY AND CHICKENS. 

Soak half a pound of bread (with the crust cut off), in cold 
water, then squeeze it dry. Put three tablespoonfuls of butter 
into a stew-pan, and when hot, stir in a small onion, minced, and 
brown slightly; then add the bread with three tablespoonfuls of 
parsley, chopped fine, half teaspoonful of powdered thyme, a lit- 
tle grated nutmeg, pepper, salt and a cupful of stock. Stir it 
over the fire until it leaves the bottom and sides. Mix in two 

eggs. 

APPLE DRESSING. 

Take two cupfuls of the pulp of tart apples which have been 
baked or steamed; add three coffeecupfuls of bread crumbs, 
some powdered sage, a finely-shred onion, and season with cay- 
enne pepper. This is a delicious dressing for roast geese, ducks, 
etc. 



50 MEATS. 

POTATO DRESSING. 

Take two-thirds bread and one-third boiled potatoes, grated, 
butter the size of an egg, salt, one egg, and a little ground sage. 
Mix thoroughly. Very nice for wild clucks and geese. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING. (For turkey or goose.) 

Boil the chestnuts and shell them ; then blanch them and boil 
until soft; mash them fine, and mix with a cupful of sweet cream; 
add a pint of bread crumbs, pepper and salt to taste. Or add 
to two cups of prepared chestnuts one cupful of veal gravy, two 
slices of chopped bacon or three tablespoonfuls of butter, yolks 
of three eggs, one teaspooiiful of lemon peel and one of salt, one 
teaspoonful of mace or nutmeg, ground. Flour the inside of the 
turkey and put in the dressing. 

DRESSING FOR DUCKS AND GEESE. 

Two onions, two teacupfuls soaked and squeezed bread, eight 
sage leaves, one tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt, one egg, a 
little piece of pork, minced. Chop the onions and fry them in a 
saute-pan, before adding them to the other ingredients. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 



DRAWN BUTTER. 

Beat one cup of butter and two tablespoonluls of flour to a 
cream, then stir into it one pint of boiling water. Set it into 
a dish of boiling water and let it melt, and heat until it begins 
to simmer, and it is done. Never simmer it on coals, as it fries 
the oil and spoils it. Be careful not to have the flour in lumps. 
If it is to be used with fish, put in chopped eggs and nasturtions, 
or capers. If used with boiled fowl, put in oysters while it is 
simmering, and let them heat through. 

HOLLAND SAUCE. 

Pour four tablespoonfuls of vinegar into a small stew-pan, and 
add some pepper-corns and salt; Let the liquor boil until it is 
reduced to half; let it cool; then add to it the well beaten yolks 
of four eggs, butter the size of an egg, more salt if necessary, 
and a very little nutmeg. Set the stew-pan on a very slow fire, 
and stir the liquid until it is about as thick as cream. Then 
remove it. Put the stew-pan into another of hot water, keep at 
the side of the fire. Work the sauce briskly with a spoon, or 
with a whisk, so as to get it frothy; add a piece of butter half 
the size of an egg. When the sauce has become light and smooth, 
it is ready for use. This sauce is used for boiled fish, asparagus 
and cauliflower. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

To a half pint of drawn butter sauce add the inside of a lemon, 
chopped (seeds taken out), and the chicken liver boiled and 
mashed. Very fine for boiled fowl. 



52 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

Two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, one stick of cinnamon, 
one blade of mace, two spoonfuls of grated white bread, ten 
tablespoonfuls of water; stew ten minutes; serve in dish with 
venison steak. 

SHRBTP SAUCE. 

Wash clean one-half pint of shrimps, put them in the stew-pan 
with one spoonful anchovy liquor, one teacupful of drawn butter. 
Boil up for five minutes, toss it up and pour into sauce-boat. 

CRAB SAUCE. 

One crab boiled and cold, four tablespoonfuls of milk, one tea- 
cupful of drawn butter, cayenne, mace and salt to taste. Make 
drawn butter as usual, and stir in the milk. Pick the meat from 
the crab, chop fine, season with cayenne, mace, and salt to taste. 
Stir into the drawn butter, simmer three minutes, but do not 
boil. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Before proceeding to make the sauce, break up the coral of the 
lobster and put on a paper in a slow oven for half an hour, then 
pound it in a mortar and sprinkle it over the boiled fish when it 
is served. To prepare the sauce itself, chop the meat of the tail 
and claws of a good sized lobster into pieces, not too small. 
Half an hour before dinner, make one-half pint of drawn butter 
sauce. Add to it the chopped lobster, a pinch of coral, a small 
pinch of cayenne pepper and a little salt. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Six anchovies, a teacupful of drawn butter, three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Soak the anchovies in cold water two hours; 
pull them to pieces, and simmer in just enough water to cover 
them, for half an hour. Strain the liquor into the drawn but- 
ter, boil a minute, add the vinegar, heat gradually to a boil, and 
stew five minutes longer. Serve with boiled fish. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 53 

CHILI SAUCE. ^ N 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, six onions, one 
pint of vinegar, one cupful of sugar, six red peppers, two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one-half table- 
spoonful cloves. Chop the whole very fine and simmer the mix- 
ture until it is thick; then bottle and seal. Set in cool place and 
it will keep good. Or if you wish it clear you can boil it till you 
can put the mixture through a colander. When strained, add 
the spices, simmer for an hour, then bottle and seal. 

IMITATION WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown sugar, four cups 
of vinegar, three large onions, two teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper 
one teaspoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, 
nutmeg, allspice, and one teaspoonful of mace. Simmer till the 
onions are thoroughly done, then strain and bottle for use. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

One dessertspoonful olive oil, melted butter, or cream, one of 
ground or prepared mustard, two tablespoonfuls grated horse- 
radish, one of vinegar, one teaspoonful of sugar and a little salt, 
stirred and beaten together until thoroughly mixed. Serve with 
cold meats. When made with oil or melted butter, and not with 
cream, this will keep two or three days. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Stew ten tomatoes with three cloves, and pepper and salt, for 
fifteen minutes (some add a sliced onion and sprig of parsley), 
strain through a sieve, put on the stove in a sauce-pan in which 
a lump of butter the size of an egg and a level tablespoonful of 
flour have been well mixed and cooked; stir all until smooth and 
serve. Canned tomatoes may be used as a substitute. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Boil four white onions till tender, mince fine; boil half pint of 
milk, add butter half size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste, 
and stir in minced onion and a tablespoonful of flour which has 
been moistened with milk. 



54 SAUCES AXD CATSUPS. f 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pour hot water over one quart of cranberries; when cool 
enough pick them over, the good will be bright red; put them in- 
to a sauce-pan with a teacupful of water. Stew slowly, stirring 
often until they are thick like marmalade. They require at least 
an hour and a half to cook. When you take them from the fire, 
add two cups of sugar, which have been heated very hot in the 
oven. If sweetened while cooking, the color will be dark. Put 
through a colander into a mould wet with cold water. When 
firm, turn into a glass dish. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core, and slice some ripe tart apples, stew in water enough 
to cover them until they break to pieces. Beat up to a smooth 
pulp, and stir in a good lump of butter, and sugar to taste. If 
you wish, you can add a little nutmeg. Serve with roast pork or 
fresh pork cooked in any way. 

TOMATO CATSUP. (No. 1.) 

One gallon of tomatoes, four tablespoonfuls each of salt, and 
black pepper, three tablespoonfuls of mustard, one-half table- 
spoonful of allspice, four pods of red pepper. All ingredients 
should be :nade fine; simmer slowly in a porcelain kettle, in 
sufficient sharp vinegar to have two quarts of catsup, after sim- 
mering three or four hours, and strain through a wire sieve. Those 
who like it may add two tablespoonfuls of juice of garlic after 
the simmering is over and the ingredients are somewhat cool. 
This is superior to West India catsup; is an excellent remedy for 
dyspepsia; may be used in a week but improves much by age. 

TOMATO CATSUP. (No. 2.) 

Boil tomatoes thoroughly, strain them, and to two gallons to- 
matoes, add six tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of cap- 
sicum, one and one-half black pepper, three tablespoonfuls of 
mustard, two tablespoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, one quart of 
best vinegar. Boil slowly three or four hours. Bottle and seal. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 55 

TOMATO CATSUP. (No. 3.) 

One gallon of tomatoes thoroughly boiled and strained, one 
pint of vinegar, six tablespoonfuls of salt, three tablespoonfuls 
of mustard seed, ground fine, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 
three tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
and the same of allspice. Simmer as in the above recipe. 

TOMATO CATSUP. (No. 4.) 

One gallon of tomatoes boiled and strained, one pint of vine- 
gar, two coffeecupfuls of brown sugar, one teaspoonful each of 
cayenne and black pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, four table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, two onions, chopped very fine. Boil 
down thick and seal for use. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Two quarts of mushrooms, two tablespoonfuls of salt. Lay in 
an earthen dish, in alternate layers, the mushrooms and salt; let 
them lie six hours, then break into bits. Set in a cool place 
three days, stirring thoroughly every morning. Measure the 
juice when you have strained it, and to every quart allow half an 
ounce of allspice, the same quantity of ginger, half a teaspoonful 
of pounded mace, and teaspoonful of cayenne. Put into a stone 
jar, cover closely, set in a sauce-pan of boiling water over the 
fire, and boil five hours, hard. Take it off, empty into a porce- 
lain kettle, and boil slowly half an hour longer. Let it stand all 
night in a cool place, until settled and clear. Pour off carefully 
from the sediment, and bottle, filling the bottles up to the 
mouth. Dip the corks in melted resin. The bottles should be 
very small, as it soon spoils when exposed to the air. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Choose young walnuts, tender enough to be pierced with a pin 
or needle. Prick them in several places, and lay in a jar with a 
handful of salt to every twenty-five, and water enough to cover 
them. Break them with a wooden pestle, and let them lie in the 
pickle a fortnight, stirring twice a day. Drain off the liquor in- 
to a sauce-pan, and cover the shells with boiling vinegar to ex- 



56 SAUCES AND CATSUTJS. 

tract what juice remains in them. Crush to a pulp, and strain 
through a colander into the sauce-pan. Allow to every quart an 
ounce of black pepper, and one of ginger, half an ounce of 
cloves, and the same of nutmeg, beaten fine. Put in a pinch of 
cayenne, a shallot, minced fine, for every two quarts, and a thim- 
bleful of celery seed, tied in a bag for the same quantity. Boil 
all together for an hour if there be a gallon of mixture. Bottle 
when cold, putting an equal quantity of the spice into each 
bottle. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Three dozen cucumbers and eighteen onions peeled and chop- 
ped very fine; sprinkle over them three-fourths pint table salt, 
put" the whole in a sieve, and let it drain well all night; add a 
teacupful of mustard seed, half a teacupful of ground black pep- 
per, mix well, and cover with good cider vinegar. Seal tight. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Four pounds of nice fully ripe currants, one and a half pounds 
of sugar, tablespoonful ground cinnamon, a teaspoonful each of 
salt, ground cloves and pepper, pint of vinegar; Stew currants 
and sugar until quite thick, add the other ingredients and bottle 
for use. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Nine pounds of gooseberries, five pounds of sugar, one quart 
of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one and a half each 
allspice and cloves. The gooseberries should be nearly or quite 
ripe. Take off the blossoms, wash and put them in a porcelain 
kettle, mash thoroughly, scald and put through the colander, add 
sugar and spices, boil fifteen minutes, and add the vinegar cold; 
bottle immediately before it cools. Ripe grapes prepared by 
same rule, make an excellent catsup. 

OYSTER CATSUP. 

One quart of oysters, one tablespoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
of cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of mace, two teacups of cider 
vinegar. Chop the oysters and boil in their own liquor, with the 
vinegar, skimming the skum as it rises. Boil three minutes, 



SAUCES .VXD CATSUPS. 57 

and strain through a hair sieve; return the liquor to the fire, 
add the pepper, salt and inace. Boil fifteen minutes more, and 
when cold, bottle for use and seal tightly. 

NASTURTIUM SEED. 

Take the green seed after the flower has dried off. Lay in salt 
and water two days, in cold water one day; pack in bottles and 
cover with scalding vinegar, seasoned with mace and white pep- 
per-corns, and sweetened slightly with white sugar. Cork, and 
set away four weeks before you use them. They are an excellent 
substitute for capers. 

CURRY POWDER. 

(This is the genuine East India recipe). Take of fennel seed, 
cummin seed and coriander seed each four ounces with two ounces 
of caraway seed; dry them before the fire, then grind and sift 
them, add to this two ounces of ground turmerac and the same of 
black pepper, one ounce of ground ginger, and half an ounce of 
cayenne pepper. Mix well and keep dry and well stopped. 

FIXE FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Take a quarter of a pound of the best, yellow mustard, pour 
over it enough vinegar and water, equal parts of each, to make 
a very thin paste ; add a pinch of salt, and a bit of calamus root, 
not larger than a small pea. Set it on the stove, and while it 
boils, stir in a tablespoonful of flour. Let it boil for twenty 
minutes, stilling constantly. Just before it is done stir in a 
small teaspoonful of honey. When cool, put it in bottles and 
cork very tight. This is the recipe for the real French mustard, 
for which a very high price is paid. 

HOW TO MIX MUSTAKD. 

In mixing mustard for the table care should be taken that the 
water has been previously boiled and become nearly cold; by 
using hot water its essential qualities are destroyed, and it be- 
comes flat; or by mixing with raw cold water it is liable to fer- 
ment; neither should vinegar be used. Only one day's supply 
should be mixed at a time; if any is left over, throw it away. 



58 SAUCES ANn CATSUUS. 

In mixing, stir thoroughly until every dry particle has disappear- 
ed and the mass becomes oily and of the consistency of thick 
cream. Good, fresh-mixed mustard is not only an appetizing- 
condiment and table luxury, but is valuable as a remedy for dys- 
pepsia. 

To PREPARE HORSERADISH FOR WINTER. 

Have a quantity grated while the root is in perfection. To a 
coffeecup of grated horseradish, two tablespoonfuls white sugar, 
half teaspoonful salt, and a pint and a half cold vinegar; bottle 
and seal. 

KITCHEN SALT. 

An article that will be found useful for all persons, and a per- 
fect treasure when you have an inexeprienced cook, or one who 
does not season well. Take two teacupfuls of fine salt, the same 
of sugar, and one-half a cup of black pepper if you like a 
good deal of pepper you may take a whole cup. Mix thoroughly. 
Use for seasoning soups, hashes, etc. 

CELERY SOY. 

One peck of tomatoes boiled; one teacupful of salt; one-half 
teacupful of fine white pepper; one teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per; four onions chopped fine; one pound of sugar. Boil one 
hour, and just before removing from the fire add a quart of good 
sharp vinegar. When cold, add a half cupful of celery seed, 
rolled; two tablespoonfuls ground cloves and allspice. Let stand 
one night; then press through a sieve, and bottle closely. 



POULTRV. 



Do not feed poultry tlie day before killing; cut off the head, 
hang iap by the legs, as the meat will be more white and whole- 
some if bled freely and quickly. Scald well by dipping in and 
out of a pail of boiling water, being careful not to scald so much 
as to set the feathers and ?nake them more difficult to pluck; 
place the fowl on a board with the head towards you, pull the 
feathers away from you, which will be in the direction they nat- 
urally lie (if pulled in a contrary direction the skin is likely to 
be torn), be careful to remove all the pin-feathers with a knife or 
pair of tweezers; singe, but not smoke, over blazing paper; put 
one tablespoonful of alcohol in a saucer, light it with a match 
and singe the fowl; place on a meat-board, and with a sharp knife 
cut off the legs a little below the knee, to prevent the muscles 
from shrinking away from the joint, and remove the oil-bag above 
the tail; take out crop, either by making a slit at the back 
of the neck or in front (the last is better), taking care that every 
thing pertaining to the crop or windpipe is removed, cut the 
neck-bone off close to the body, leaving the skin a good length 
if to be stuffed; cut a slit three inches long from the tail up- 
wards, being careful to cut only through the skin, put in the 
finger at the breast and detach all the intestines, taking care 
not to burst the gall-bag (situated near the upper part of the 
breast-bone, and attached to the liver; if broken, no washing can 
remove the bitter taint left on every spot it touches); put in the 
hand at the incision near the tail, and draw out carefully all in- 
testines; trim off the fat from the breast and at the lower incision; 



GO POULTRY. 

split the gizzard and take out inside and inner lining (throw 
liver, heart, and gizzard into water, wash well, and lay aside to 
be cooked and used for gravy); wash the fowl thoroughly in 
several waters (some wipe carefully without washing), hang up to 
drain and it is ready to be stuffed, skewered, and placed to roast. 
To make it look plump, before stuffing, flatten the breast-bone 
by placing several thicknesses of cloth over it and pounding it, 
being careful not to break the skin, and rub the inside well with 
salt and pepper. Stuff the breast first, but not too full or it will 
burst in cooking; stuff the body rather fuller than the breast, 
sew up both openings with strong thread, and sew the neck over 
upon the back or down upon the breast (these threads must be 
carefully removed before sending to the table). Lay the points 
of the wings under the back, and fasten in that position with a 
skewer run through both wings and held in place with a twine; 
press the legs as closely towards the breast and side bones as pos- 
sible, and fasten with a skewer run through the body and both 
thighs. Rub over thoroughly with pepper and salt, place in a 
pan and lay on slices of pork, or fat taken out of the fowl, and 
dredge well with flour, and place to roast in an oven rather hot 
at first, and then graduate the heat to moderate until done, to 
test which insert a fork between the thigh and body; if the juice 
is watery and not bloody it is done. If not served at once, the 
fowl may be kept hot without drying up, by placing over a skillet 
full of boiling water set on top of stove or range), and inverting 
a dripping-pan over it. In roasting a turkey, allow fifteen min- 
utes' time for every pound. Some steam turkey before roasting, 
and a turkey steamer may be easily improvised by placing the 
dripping-pan containing the turkey, on top of two or three pieces 
of wood laid in the bottom of a wash boiler, with just enough 
water to cover the wood; put on the lid, which should fit tightly 
on the boiler, and as the water boils away, add more. Add the 
liquor in the dripping-pan to the turkey when placed in the oven 
to roast (do not use the water from the boiler). Boil the giblets 
until tender in a separate dish, and add them, well chopped, to- 
gether with water in which they were cooked, to the gravy. 

The garnishes for turkey and chicken are parsley, slices of 
lemon, fried sausages and force-meat balls. 



POULTRY. 61 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Prepare as directed above. For dressing, see page 49; or, 
mince a dozen oysters and stir into the dressing, and if you are 
partial to the taste, wet the bread crumbs with the oyster liquor. 
The effect upon the turkey meat, particularly that of the breast, 
is very pleasant. In stuffing the turkey be sure to leave room 
enough for the dressing to swell. After you have filled the tur- 
key, sew it up with strong thread. This and the neck string are 
removed when the fowl is dished. In roasting, if the fire is 
brisk, allow about ten minutes to a pound, but it will depend 
very much upon the turkey's age whether this rule holds good. 
Rub the turkey with salt and pepper, and spit it; baste often 
with the drippings and flour, and occasionally with butter, fif- 
teen minutes before dishing baste with butter, and dredge on a 
little flour; this will give it a frothy appearance. Roast to a fine 
brown, and if it threatens to darken too rapidly, lay a sheet of 
white paper over it until the lower part is also done. If the 
turkey is very large, make a paste of flour and water into a stiff 
dough, roll it out one-half inch thick, roll up the turkey in it, 
pinch the ends well together; put it into a dripping-pan and 
bake slowly; baste every' ten minutes. Half an hour before the 
turkey is done take it out of the crust and brown it. If the 
gravy is too fat, skim it before making the gravy. To make the 
gravy. Boil the heart, gizzard, liver and neck in two quarts of 
water two hours; take them out and chop very fine, and put them 
back again ; thicken with one spoonful of flour wet with cold 
water, season with pepper and salt. Let this simmer one hour 
longer, and when you dish the turkey turn the drippings into 
the gravy. Boil up once and send to the table. 

To Bon, TURKEY. 

Make a dressing of bread crumbs, to which you may add a 
few large oysters (if you like); pepper, salt, herbs to your taste. 
Wipe the inside of the turkey with a dry cloth and fill with this 
dressing. Make a paste of flour and of water, and cover it, or 
you may scald a cloth and rub it with flour, and wrap the turkey 
in it; this will keep it white in boiling. A few spoonfuls of milk 
in the water also adds to the whiteness. Have the water boiling 



62 POULTRY. 

hot when you put the turkey in; boil very slowly; it will take 
from two to two and one-half hours to cook it. Make a gravy of 
drawn butter, with a few stewed oysters and their juice. 
Chickens may be prepared in the same way. 

To Bone A TURKEY. 

For this purpose your knife must be very sharp. A knife with 
a short, sharp pointed blade is best; a turkey weighing nine or 
ten pounds is best, and it must be fresh killed so that the skin 
on the joints has not dried. Cut down the back from the neck 
to the oil bag. Scrape the meat from the bones till you come to 
the shoulder blade. Scrape the meat from the shoulder blade, 
then give it a quick twist forward to break it from the first wing 
joint. Push the first wing joint up, and with your knife cut the 
tendons and muscles attached to this joint. Then scrape the 
meat from the bone down to the elbow joint. Sever the joint, 
keeping the blade of the knife close to the bone. Scrape the 
meat from the bone down to the back till you come to the hip 
joint. Take the leg in your hand, twist it forward to help you 
cut the tendons of the hip joint. Scrape the meat from the thigh 
bone down to the drum stick, at which point cut the joint. 
Then continue to scrape the meat off the hip bone till it is all 
off. Then cut the back bone in front of the extremity, leaving 
that on to give it a shape. Proceed in the same way with other 
side. This you see leaves in the two end bones of the wing and 
the drum sticks. After both sides are finished, scrape the meat 
carefully from both sides of the breast bone. This will leave 
only the neck, which cut off after leaving about three inches in 
the turkey. Lastly, remove the merry thought, and the turkey 
is ready for filling. 

FILLING FOE BONED TURKEY. 

Two pounds of sausage meat, a can of oysters (without the 
liquor), a pint of fine bread crumbs, pepper and salt, sweet mar- 
joram, thyme, celery seed; any or all of these herbs and a can of 
champignons, and some boiled chestnuts, add to its flavor. Sew 
up the places in the wings and legs that have been accidentally 
cut in dissecting. Have a darning needle with a long thread of 



POULTRY. 63 

strong darning cotton; begin at the back bone and fill and sew 
up to the neck, shaping it as you go, with a broad band of mus- 
lin. Roast to a fine brown color. Serve hot or cold. 

BONED TURKEY. 

Boil the turkey in as little water as possible, until the bones 
can easily be separated from the meat; remove all the skin, 
slightly mixing the light and dark parts; season with salt and 
pepper. Take the liquor in which the turkey was boiled, having 
kept it warm. Pour it on the meat, mix well. Shape it like 
a loaf of bread. Wrap it in a cloth, or put it into an oval-shaped 
dish, and press with a heavy weight, for a few hours. Shave thin. 
A spoonful of flour and butter branded together, and stirred 
into the water for boiling is an improvement. 

ESCALLOPED TURKEY. 

Moisten bread crumbs with a little milk, butter a pan and put 
in it a layer of crumbs, then a layer of chopped (not very fine) 
cold turkey seasoned with salt and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, 
and so on until pan is full. If any dressing or gravy has been 
left, add it. Make a thickening of one or two eggs, half a cup of 
milk, and quarter cup butter and bread crumbs; season and spread 
it over the top; cover with a pan, bake half an hour and then let 
it brown. 

ROAST CHICKENS Excellent. 

Dress and stuff the chicken; lay it in a tin steamer; set it over 
a pot of boiling water and steam (covered closely) from one and a 
half or two hours according to size; then roast a nice brown, bast- 
ing frequently with hot water and butter. One-half hour in a hot 
oven is sufficient. Boil the gizzard, liver, heart, in a sauce-pan; 
when done chop them fine and add them with the water in which 
they were boiled to the gravy in the baking-pan; thicken with a 
little flour and season to taste. I have cooked chickens in this 
way for years, and they are delicious. The toughest old fowl has 
to succumb to this kind of treatment. An old turkey served in 
the same way is just as tender as a young one. 



64 POULTRY. 

BAKED SPRING CHICKEN. 

After cleaning the chicken nicely, put it in a dripping-pan, salt 
and pepper it, put plenty of butter on it, and water enough to 
keep it from burning; put it in a hot oven and bake till done. 
Take the chicken upon a platter, make a cream gravy; if you can- 
not get cream milk will answer. Pour one pint of cream into the 
dripping-pan in which the chicken was baked, thicken with one- 
half teacup of flour, previously stirred to a smooth paste, let it 
come to a boil, pour the gravy over the chicken, and serve. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Boil two fowls weighing ten pounds till very tender, mince 
fine, add one pint of cream, half a pound of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste; shape oval in a jell}' glass or mould. Fry in lard 
like doughnuts, until brown. 

STEWED CHICKENS. 

Cut up the chickens into small pieces, cover with water and 
stew gently till thoroughly done, adding a little salt. Make a 
rich gravy of two tablespoonfuls of flour, made smooth in one- 
half teacupful of milk, and add yolk of one egg. Make a paste 
of biscuit dough; roll out, and cut into squares, and bake alight 
brown; lay the squares on a dish and pour the chickens over. 
An excellent breakfast dish. 

CHILI COLORAD. 

Take two chickens; cut up as if to stew; when pretty well 
done, add a little green parsley and two onions. Take half a 
pound of pepper pods, remove the seeds, and pour on boiling 
water; steam for ten minutes; pour off the water, and rub them 
in a sieve until all the juice is out; add the juice to the chicken; 
let it cook for half an hour; add a little butter, flour and salt. 
Place a border of rice arouud the dish before setting on the 
table. This dish may also be made of beef, pork or mutton; it 
is to be eaten in cold weather, and is a favorite dish with all peo- 
ple on the Pacific coast. 



POULTRY, 65 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up two chickens, put them in stew-kettle with barely 
enough water to cover them. "When the chicken is boiled tender, 
make the gravy of two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour, 
and the yolk of an egg mixed smoothly together, and stir into the 
water the chicken was stewed in. Line the sides of a deep dish 
with paste, lay in a small teacup bottom upwards. Put in the 
stewed chicken with the gravy, and add if you like, some oysters, 
three or four hard boiled eggs. Put on the top cover, and bake 
in a moderate oven. Pigeon or veal pie may be made in the 
same manner. 

CHICKEN Pox-PiE. 

Cut up a good sized chicken in all its joints; (one a year old 
is the best for this purpose), have ready a smooth pot, put in the 
chicken with cold water enough to cover; salt, and boil it till 
tender. Half an hour before the chicken is done, make the fol- 
lowing crust: One quart of flour, teaspoonful of salt, three tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking powder, rubbed through the flour, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, sweet milk enough to make a 
soft dough (as you would make biscuit dough); roll it out on a 
moulding-board to about the thickness of an inch, cut in square 
pieces, put them in the steamer and steam half an hour over the 
chicken. When done, thicken the chicken broth with flour paste, 
season it with pepper and butter, put the chicken on a large plat- 
ter with the dumplings on top, and pour the gravy over all. Pot- 
pie steamed is much nicer than to boil it in the pot with the 
chicken. It never fails to be nice and light. 

BKOILED CHICKENS OR QUAILS. 

Cut chicken open on the back, lay on the meat board and pound 
until it will lie flat; lay on a gridiron, place over a bed of coals, 
broil until a nice brown, but do not burn. It will take twenty 
or thirty minutes to cook thoroughly, and it will cook much bet- 
ter to cover with a pie tin held down with a weight so that all parts 
of the chicken may lie closely to the gridiron. When the chicken 
is broiling, put the liver, gizzard and heart in a stew-pan and boil 



66 POULTRY. 

in a pint of water until tender, chop fine and add flour, butter, 
pepper, salt, and stir a cup of sweet cream to the water in which 
they were boiled; When the chicken is done, dip it in the gravy 
while hot, lay it back on the gridiron a minute, put it in the gravy 
and let it boil for half a minute, and send to the table hot. Cook 
quails in the same way. 

BALTIMORE FRY, 

Joint the chickens, wash them clean and put them into cold 
water; take out and salt them, roll each piece in flour, and fry in 
hot drippings or salt pork fat, almost enough to cover them, put 
on a tight fitting cover, and fry slowly to a fine brown. When 
done, put it on a platter, set it in the oven while you prepare the 
gravy. To the drippings left in the spider add a bowlful of thick 
cream, let it boil up, add a little flour thickening, boil five minutes, 
then put it in the gravy-boat and serve it with the fried chicken. 

FRIED GUMBO. 

Cut up two young chickens, and fry in skillet; when brown, 
but not scorched, put in a pot with one quart finely chopped 
okra, four large tomatoes, and two onions chopped fine; cover 
with boiling water, boil very slowly; and keep the kettle tightly 
closed; add boiling water as it wastes, and simmer slowly three 
hours; season with salt, pepper, and a little butter and flour rub- 
bed together; serve with boiled rice. 

CURRIED DISHES. 

Chickens and veal are most suitable for curries. Boil the meat 
till tender, and separate the joints. Put a little butter in a stew- 
pan with the chickens, pour on a part of the liquor in which the 
meat was boiled, nearly enough to cover it, and let it stew twenty 
minutes more. Prepare the curry thus : For four pounds of meat, 
take a tablespoonful of curry powder, a teacup ful of boiled rice, 
a tablespoonful of flour, and another of melted butter, a teacup- 
ful of the liquor, and half a teaspoonful of salt; mix them, and 
pour them over the meat and let it stew ten minutes more. Rice 
should be boiled for an accompaniment. 



POULTKY. 67 

JELLIED CHICKEN. (No. 1.) 

Cut up two chickens, boil till tender, in water to cover. Take 
out, remove skin and bones, season the liquor (one and a half 
pints) with butter, pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon; 
add a quarter of a box dissolved gelatine, put the chicken in the 
liquor, boil up once, and pour in mould. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. (No. 2.) 

Dress one large chicken, cut it in joints, wash it clean, put on 
to boil. Be careful to remove all the skuni that rises, salt and 
pepper it well, boil till it falls off from the bones. Boil six eggs 
hard ten minutes will cook them, take them from the boiling 
water and drop them into cold water; take the shells off and lay 
nicely on a plate. Take out the chicken, pick the meat from the 
bones, and chop it fine. Strain the liquor through a sieve and 
boil it down to a coffeecupful. Take a sponge cake pan, put a 
layer of the meat on the bottom of the pan, then lay your eggs in 
and put another layer of meat on top of the eggs, then pour on 
the liquor. Be sure you take off all the fat before you pour it 
over the chicken. Set it away to get cold, then slice nicely for 
tea or dinner. 

CHICKEN OK VEAL CKOQTJETTES. 

Two chickens, chopped fine, or three and one-half pints of 
ground veal, one nutmeg, grated, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
of salt, two small onions, chopped fine as possible, two level tea- 
spoonfuls sweet marjoram, two of thyme, or basil, one-half tea- 
spoonful of cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of celery seed, 
one and one-half pints of thickened milk, two eggs, well beaten 
into the mixture. Mix all well, then make into pear-shaped balls 
and dip into beaten egg, then into bread crumbs. Have ready 
some boiling lard, and fry the croquettes a light brown. 

KOAST GOOSE. 

Clean and wash the goose not forgetting to put a spoonful of 
soda in next to the last water rinse out well, and wipe the in- 
side quite dry. Add to the usual dressing of bread crumbs, pep- 
per, salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter, a large sized onion, 



68 POULTRY. 

chopped fine, a tablespoonful of chopped sage, the yolks of two 
eggs, and some bits of fat pork. Stuff the body and craw, and 
sew up. It will take fully two hours to roast, if the fire is quick. 
Cover the breast until it is well done, with white paper, or a paste 
of flour and water, removing this when you are ready to brown. 
Make a gravy as for roast duck. Serve with cranberry or apple 

sauce. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Clean, wash and wipe the duck very carefully. To the usual 
dressing add a little sage (powdered or green), and a minced shal- 
lot. Stuff and sew up as usual, reserving the giblets for the 
gravy. If the fowl is tender it will not require more than an 
hour to roast. Baste well. Make a crust of flour and water and 
spread over the duck, and roast half an hour. Before it is done, 
take the crust off and brown. Skim the gravy before putting in 
the giblets and thickening. The giblets should be stewed in a 
very little water, then chopped fine, and added to the gravy in 
the dripping-pan, with a chopped shallot and a spoonful of 
browned flour. Serve with currant or grape jelly. 



Birds should be carefully plucked or skinned, drawn, wiped 
clean, and all shot removed. Game should not be washed, un- 
less absolutely necessary for cleanliness. With care in dressing, 
wiping will render them perfectly clean. If necessary to wash, 
do it quickly and use as little water as possible. The more 
plainly all kinds of game are cooked, the better they retain their 
fine flavor. They require more brisk fire than poultry, but take 
less time to cook. Their color, when done, should be a fine brown 
color. Broiling is a favorite method of cooking game, and all 
birds are exceedingly nice roasted. To broil, split down the back, 
open and flatten the breast by covering with a cloth and pound- 
ing; season with pepper, and lay the inside first upon the gridiron; 
turn as soon as browned, and when almost done, take off, place 
on a platter, sprinkle with salt, and serve at once. The time re- 
quired is usually about twenty minutes. To lard game, cut fat 
salt pork into thin, narrow strips, thread a larding-needle with 
one of the strips, run the needle under the skin, through, so that 
the ends of the strips exposed will be of equal length. The 
strips should be about one inch apart. Many prefer tying a piece 
of bacon on the breast instead. Pigeons should be cooked a long 
time as they are usually quite lean and tough, and they are better 
to lie in salt water half an hour, or to be par-boiled in it for a few 
moments. They are nice roasted or made into a pie. 

Squirrels should be carefully skinned and laid in salt water a 
short time before cooking; if old, par-boil. They are delicious 
broiled, and are excellent cooked in any way with thin slices of 
bacon. Venison requires more time for cooking than beefsteak. 



70 GAME. 

The haunch, neck, shoulder and saddle should be roasted; roast 
or broil the breast, and fry or broil the steaks. 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor. Before 
roasting them, guard against this by par-boiling them with a 
small carrot, peeled, put within each. This will absorb the un- 
pleasant taste. An onion will have the same effect, but unless 
you use it in the dressing, the carrot is preferable. 

The garnishes for game are fresh or preserved barberries, 
currant jelly, sliced oranges, and apple sauce. 

KOAST DUCK. 

Par-boil, as above directed; throw away the carrot or onion, 
lay in fresh water half an hour; stuff with bread crumbs seasoned 
with pepper, salt, sage and onion, and roast until brown and ten- 
der, basting for half the ti:ne with butter and water, then with 
the drippings. Add to the gravy, when you have taken up the 
duck, a tablespoonful of currant jelly and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Thicken with browned flour, and serve in a tureen. 

STEWED DUCK. 

Par-boil ten minutes, when you have drawn them, and put in 
a raw carrot or onion. Lay in very cold water for half an hour; 
cut into joints, pepper, salt and flour them. Have ready some 
butter in a frying-pan, and fry them a light brown; put them in 
a sauce-pan and cover them with gravy made of the giblets, neck 
and some bits of lean veal; add a minced shallot, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, salt and pepper; cover closely, and stew half an 
hour, or until tender. Take out the ducks, strain the gravy 
when you have skimmed it, put in half a cup of cream or rich 
milk, in which an egg has been beaten, thicken with browned 
flour, add a tablespoonful of vinegar and the juice of half a lem- 
on, beaten in gradually, so as not to curdle the cream. Boil up 
and pour over the ducks. 

QUAILS PAK-BOILED AND BAKED. 

Tie a thin slice of bacon over the breast of each bird; cover it 
closely, and set it on top of the range, letting the birds steam 
ten or fifteen minutes. This plumps them. Then take off the 



GAME. 71 

cover and the pork, and put the birds into the oven, basting them 
often with butter. Brown them and serve with currant jelly. 

BROILED QUAILS. 

Split them at the back. Broil, basting them often with butter, 
over a hot fire. As soon as the quails are done, add a little 
more butter, with pepper and salt, and place them for a moment 
into the oven to soak the butter, Serve them on thin slices of 
buttered toast, with a little currant jelly on top of each quail. 

SNIPE. 

Snipe are best roasted with a piece of pork tied to the breast, 
or they may be stuffed and baked. 

FRIED WOODCOCK. 

Dress, wipe clean, tie the legs, skin the head and neck, turn the 
beak under the wing and tie it; fasten a piece of bacon over it, 
and immerse in hot fat for two or three minutes. Serve on toast. 
Another favorite way is to split them through the back and broil, 
basting with butter, and serve on toast. 

KOAST PIGEONS. 

Clean, wash and stuff as you would chickens; lay them in rows, 
if roasted in the oven, with a little water in the pan to prvent 
scorching. Unless they are very fat, baste with butter until they 
are half done; afterwards in their own gravy. When done, take 
them out on a platter, add one cupful of milk to the gravy, thick- 
en with flour, and pour over the pigeons. 

BROILED PIGEONS. 

Young pigeons are rightly esteemed a great delicacy. They 
are cleaned, washed, and dried carefully with a clean cloth, then 
split down the back, and broiled like chickens. Season with 
pepper, salt, and plenty of butter in dishing them. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Cut the pigeons into four pieces each. Par-boil them for ten 
minutes, while you prepare a puff-paste. Put in the bottom 



72 GAME. 

some shreds of salt pork or ham; next a layer of hard boiled 
eggs, buttered and peppered; then the birds; sprinkle with pep- 
per and minced parsley, squeeze some lemon juice upon them, 
and lay upon the breasts a piece of butter rolled in flour; cover 
with slices of egg, then with shreded ham; pour in some of the 
gravy in which the pigeons were par-boiled, and put on the crust 
(use no under crust), leaving a hole in the middle. Bake over an 
hour. Quail pie is made in the same way. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Clean and wash verv carefully, then lay in salt and water for 
an hour; rinse the inside with soda and water, and stuff with a 
force-meat, made of bread crumbs and chopped salt pork, season 
with pepper. Sew up the birds, and put on to stew in enough 
cold water to cover them, and allow to each a slice of fat bacon 
cut into narrow strips. Season with pepper and a pinch of nut- 
meg; boil slowly in a covered sauce-pan until tender; take them 
from the gravy and lay in a covered dish to keep warm; strain 
the gravy, add the juice of a lemon and tablespoonful of currant 
jelly; thicken with browned flour. Boil up and pour over the 
pigeons. 

RABBITS. 

Eabbits, which are in the best condition in midwinter, may be 
fricasseed like chicken, in white or brown sauce. To make a pie, 
first stew till tender, and make like chicken pie. To roast, stuff 
with a dressing made of bread crumbs, chopped salt pork, thyme, 
onion, and pepper and salt, sew up, rub over with a little butter, 
or pin on it a few slices of salt pork, add a little water in the pan 
and baste often. Serve with mashed potatoes and currant jelly. 

VENISON The Shoulder. 

This is, perhaps, the most distinguished venison dish. Make 
rather deep incisions, following the grain of the meat, from the 
top, and insert pieces of pork about one-third of an inch square, 
and two inches long; sprinkle over pepper, salt, and a little flour. 
Roast or bake the venison before a hot fire or in a hot oven, 
about two hours for an eight pound roast; baste often. Serve a 
currant jelly sauce, in the sauce-boat. 



GAME. 73 

REED BIEDS. . 

Cut sweet potatoes lengthwise; scoop out in the center of each 
a place that will fit half the bird. Put in the birds, after season- 
ing them with butter, pepper, salt, tying the two pieces of potato 
around each of them. Bake them. Serve them in the potatoes. 
Or they can be roasted or fried in boiling lard like other birds. 

COUPLETS OF QUAIL OK PIGEONS. 

"With a sharp-pointed knife, carefully cut the breast from 
quails or pigeons. At the small end of each breast stick in a bone 
taken from the leg, and trimmed. The breasts should now resem- 
ble cutlets. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over each one, dip 
it in melted butter, and roll it in flour, or sifted cracker crumbs. 
Put the cutlets one side until ready to cook, as they should be 
cooked only just before sending them to the table, They should 
then be fried in a saute pan in hot butter. They may be served 
without further trouble in a circle with a center of green pease, 
which makes a most delicious dish for a company dinner course. 
However, there is a more elaborate way of finishing them, as fol- 
lows : Put the carcasses into some cold water with very small 
pieces of salt pork and onion, sufficient only to produce the slight- 
est flavoring. Simmer this about an hour, strain, thicken with 
a little browned roux, and season it with a little pepper and salt. 
As soon as the livers are done, take them out, mash, and moisten 
them with a little of the sauce. Prepare little thin pieces 
of toast, one for each breast; butter, and spread them with the 
mashed livers. Turn the cutlets over in this sauce, and use the 
little of it that remains for dipping in the pieces of toast. Serve 
the cutlets on the toast, in a circle, with a center of pease. 

BOAST HAUNCH VENISON. 

If the outside be hard, wash off with lukewarm water; then 
rub all over with fresh butter or lard, cover it on the top and sides 
with a thick paste of flour and water, nearly half an inch thick, 
lay upon this a large sheet of thin, white wrapping paper, well 
buttered, and above this, thick foolscap paper; keep all in place 
with greased pack-thread; then put in to roast, with a little 
water in the dripping-pan. Pour a few ladlefuls of butter and 



74 GAME. 

water over the meat, now and then, to prevent the paper from 
scorching. If the haunch is large, it will take at least five 
hours to roast. About half an hour before you take it up, re- 
move the papers and paste, and test with a skewer to see if it is 
done. If this passes easily to the bone through the thickest part, 
set it down to a more moderate fire, and baste every few minutes 
with melted butter; dredge with flour to make a froth, and dish. 
It should be a fine brown by this time. Twist a frill of fringed 
paper around the knuckle. 

For gravy, put into a sauce-pan a pound or so of scraps of raw 
venison left from trimming the haunch, a quart of water, a pinch 
of cloves, a few blades of mace, half a nutmeg, cayenne and salt 
to taste; stew slowly to one-half the original quantity; skim, 
strain and return to the sauce-boat when you have rinsed it with 
hot water; add three tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and thicken with browned flour. Send to 
the table on a platter. Serve with currant jelly. Venison steak 
and pie are cooked the same as beef. 

LEG OF VENISON. 

"Wash a leg of venisdn and make an incision, and draw with 
salt pork. Put it in a crock and pour on it one pint of vinegar. 
Let it remain in this four days. It must be kept in a cool place. 
Turn it over every day. Take it out of the crock, put it in a 
dripping-pan, season with salt, pour on half of the vinegar the 
meat was soaked in, add six bay leaves, and one onion, cut fine, 
lemon peel sliced, six whole peppers, three cloves. Bake till 
done; baste often with melted butter; add half a pint of sour 
cream, and bake three hours. 



J "LILY WHITE" will make your Bread Light, 



b 

& 
H 

fn 






?H 

Q 



K 


O 

H 



-. - tl^lll - 



To INSURE SUCCESS, 

USE OUR 




ALL FIRST-KLAffi KR08ERS KEEP IT. 



'I/// 
"Victor 



" 




White Rose" 

"LosGatos" 



We Respectfully call your Attention 
to these Brands. 



made from Carefully Delected and 
thoroughly Cleaned Wh.eat. 



SAN JOSE, CAL. 



..() 
'g^-j 





QD 



O 
fo 

B 



rf- 



CD 

W 





M 



"Los Gatos." "Drifted Snow." 



CO. 




Jleuo YOF!^ JfuFnitoe Go 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

Js&a&tv&. 



The Largest Stock:. The Latest Designs. 

13T The Lcrwest Prices. 



We have always carried a distinctively different stock from any other store 
in this city, and customers appreciating the new and beautiful will find with us 
many articles not to be seen elsewhere. 



Every Article with us is Guaranteed to be Good of its 
kind. Xo "Cheap John" Goods can 

be found in our Store. 



t 3ttatiufacfur a I 



- f-AND SELL 

BEST CHEAP BED LOUNGE 

la t&e> state of. 



A. cordial invitation is extended to all to visit our -wai-e 
rooms and inspect our stock. 



^EEW IOM FMi 



VoL 



SALADS. 



CHICKEN SALAD. (No. 1.) 

The yolks of six eggs well beaten, one-half pint of melted but- 
ter, or same of olive oil, three tablespoonfuls of mixed mustard, 
salt to taste, two teaspoonfuls of celery seed; mix thoroughly, then 
add three-fourths of a pint of strong vinegar. Place over fire, 
stir constantly until it becomes thick like boiled custard. Turn 
the mixture over the chickens which have been chopped (not very 
fine). Just before serving, add four heads of chopped celery. 
If not very strong with spice, add more mustard and cayenne 
pepper. This is enough for one turkey or three small chickens. 
This same dressing makes an excellent mixture for sandwiches, 
if used with finely chopped boiled ham or tongue. 

CHICKEN SALAD. (No. 2.) 

One chicken (for ten persons), yolk of one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of mustard, one large tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Beat all together and 
add salad oil, a few drops at a time, until so stiff as to resist the 
beater. Add a little vinegar to thin it, then add more oil, and so 
proceed until you have sufficient quantity, and it must be very 
stiff. Now add the juice of one-half or one lemon, enough to 
thin just a little. About an hour before needed, chop the chick- 
en and mix with equal quantity of celery. Pour over a thin dress- 
ing of two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one tablespoonful oil, a little 
salt and black pepper. Drain off and mix with one-half of the 
mayonnaise dressing; then spread the rest over the top and 
garnish with hard boiled eggs sliced. 



76 SALADS. 

CHICKEN SALAD. (No. 3.) 

This is made with equal quantities of chicken and celery. 
Turkey is equal to two chickens, and four bunches of celery makes 
an ordinary dish of salad. A pint of chicken and a pint of cut 
celery is a good rule. Steam or stew the chickens till tender 
and thoroughly done, so that the bones will pick out. Use 
only the meat of the breast and thighs, leaving out the neck 
and wings. Cut it up with scissors, do not on any account use 
the hash knife. Wash, and with a knife exit the celery in pieces 
the size of dice. Prepare the dressing thus: Put the uncooked 
yolks of two eggs into a clean cold soup plate, beat them with a 
wooden fork one minute; then add one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoonful of mustard. 
Work these well together and then add, drop by drop, a half pint 
of olive oil. Yon must stir rapidly and steadily in one direction 
while adding the oil; a reverse motion may curdle it. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and put in a cool place until serving 
time. When ready to serve, mix celery and chicken, dust lightly 
with salt and pepper, add a cup of whipped cream to the dress- 
ing, pour it over the chicken and celery, mix carefully, dish, and 
garnish with the white celery tops. 

CHICKEN SALAD. (No. 4.) 

The white meat of a boiled or roasted chicken, or turkey, three- 
fourths the same bulk of cut celery. Two hard boiled eggs, one 
raw egg, well beaten, one teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and 
made mustard, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of white 
sugar, one-half teacup of vinegar. Mince the meat well, remov- 
ing every scrap of fat, gristle, and skin; cut the celery into bits, 
mix them, and set aside in a cool place while you prepare the 
dressing. Rub the yolks of eggs to a fine powder, add the salt, 
pepper, and sugar, then the oil, grinding hard and putting in 
but a few drops at a time. The mustard comes next; and let all 
stand together while you whip the raw egg to a froth. Beat this 
into the dressing, and pour in the vinegar spoonful by spoonful, 
whipping the dressing well as you do it. Sprinkle a little salt over 
the meat and celery; toss it up lightly with a silver fork; pour 
the dressing over it, tossing and mixing until the bottom of the 



SXLADB. 7? 

mess is as well saturated as the top; turn into the salad bowl, and 
garnish with whites of eggs (boiled) cut into rings, and sprays of 
bleached celery tops. 

YKAL SALAD, 

Boil veal until tender, chop fine, take equal quantity of veal, 
celery or cabbage, and stir into it a salad dressing; put in a shal- 
low dish and garnish with slices of lemon and celery. Boiled 
ham chopped and seasoned and served in the same way, makes a 
very nice salad. For the dressing, take the yolks of four raw eggs, 
two-thirds of a cup of oil, red pepper, salt, and mustard to taste, 
juice of two lemons, and last of all, one cup of thick cream. If 
the dressing is for chicken salad, use the oil or fat from the chick- 
en instead of sweet oil. Be sure to put in the cream just before 
sending to the table. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Take cold steamed salmon, cut into pieces two inches long, place 
in a dish and season with salt, pepper, a very little oil, and plenty 
of vinegar, some parsley, and a little onion, cut up; then cover, 
and let stand two or three hours. Serve the dish with lettuce 
leaves, place the slices of salmon on the leaves and pour over the 
mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. 



'oo 



LOBSTER SALAD. 

One fine lobster, boiled, and when cold picked to pieces, or 
two small ones, one cup of best salad oil, one-half cup of sweet 
cream, whipped light, one lemon the juice strained one tea- 
spoonful of mustard wet up with vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, four 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat eggs, 
sugar, salt, mustard, and pepper until light, then add very grad- 
ually the oil. When the mixture is quite thick, whip in the 
lemon. Beat five minutes before putting in the vinegar. Just 
before the salad goes to the table, add half the whipped cream to 
this dressing, and stir well into the lobster. Line the salad 
bowl with lettuce leaves, put in the seasoned meat, and cover 
with the rest of the whipped cream. This salad deserves its 
name. 



7g SALAD!?, 

HAM SALAD. 

Cut up small tits of boiled ham, place in salad-bowl with the 
heart and inside leaves of a head of lettuce. Make dressing as 
follows: Mix in a sauce-pan one pint sour cream as free from 
milk as possible, and half pint good vinegar, salt, a s-inall piece 
of butter, sugar, and a small tablespoonful of mustard mixed 
smooth; boil, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, stirring 
carefully, as for float, until it thickens to the consistency of 
starch, then set in a cool place or on ice, and when cold pour it 
over the salad and mix well. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

Two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one of cream, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of mustard. Beat the eggs well, add sugar, salt and mustard, 
then the vinegar, lastly cream. Place the bowl in a basin of 
boiling water and stir until it thickens, no longer. Cool and use 
when needed. 

RED MAYONNAISE, 

To give bright color to mayonnaise, lobster coral pounded to a 
powder and rubbed through a sieve, then thoroughly blended, or 
juice from boiled beets. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Arrange about a pint of any cold fish , previously shreded and 
freed from bones, on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves. Cover the 
fish with a sardine dressing; over this arrange six sardines split, 
having the ends meet at the center. Around the dish place thin 
slices of lemon and a wreath of parsley or young lettuce leaves. 

SARDINE DRESSING. 

Pound in a mortar until perfectly smooth the yolks of four hard 
boiled eggs and three sardines, freed of bones. Add this to either 
of the above and you have an excellent fish dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD. 
Twelve medium-sized tomatoes, peeled and sliced, four hard 



SALADS. 79 

boiled eggs, one raw egg, well beaten, one-half teaspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of white sugar, and two of made 
mustard, one tablespoonful of olive oil, one teacupful of vinegar, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Hub the yolks to a smooth paste, add- 
ing by degrees the salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and oil. Beat 
the raw egg to a froth, and stir in lastly, the vinegar. Peel the 
tomatoes and slice them a quarter of an inch thick; then set the 
dish on the ice, while you are making ready the dressing. Stir 
a great lu:up of ice rapidly in the dressing until it is cold; take 
it out, cover the tomatoes with the mixture and set back on the 
ice, until you send to the table. This salad is delicious, especi- 
ally when ice cold. 

HERRING SALAD. 

Soak over night three Holland herrings cut in very small pieces; 
cook and peel eight medium potatoes, and when cold chop with 
two small cooked red beets, two onions, four sour apples, some 
roasted chopped veal (about one quart), three hard-boiled eggs; 
mix with a sauce of sweet oil, vinegar, stock, pepper and mustard 
to taste. A tablespoonful of thick sour cream improves the sauce, 
which should stand over night in an earthen dish. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Prepare the dressing as for tomato salad ; cut the celery into 
bits half an inch long, and season. Eat at once, before the 
vinegar injures the crispness of the vegetables. 

CELERY SLAW. 

One-half head of cabbage; one bunch of celery; two hard- 
boiled eggs, all chopped fine. Mix with it two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar, two of mustard, one-half of pepper and salt. Moisten 
with vinegar. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Two or three heads of white lettuce, two hard-boiled eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of olive oil, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar, one-half teaspoouful of French mustard, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, four tablespoonfuls of sharp vinegar. 
Rub the yolks fine, add the sugar, salt, mustard and oil. Let 



80 SALADS. 

them stand five minutes, and then beat in the vinegar. Cut the 
lettuce up with a knife and fork, a chopper would bruise it; 
put into a dish, add the dressing and mix by tossing with a silver 
fork. 

LETTUCE PLAIN. 

Pull the leaves apart and wash carefully each leaf for fear of 
insects; arrange nicely on a flat dish, and ornament with hard- 
boiled eggs, sliced round, and cover with vinegar and sugar if 
you like. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One cup vinegar, six tablespoonfuls milk, three tablespoonfuls 
butter, two eggs, well beaten, one tablespoonful mixed mustard, 
one teaspoonful of black pepper, one tablespoonful sugar, one 
tablespoonful of salt. Put it on the stove and boil twenty min- 
utes. Pour it on a half head of cabbage, chopped fine. 

LOBSTER SALAD DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of mixed mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, 
black and red pepper to season well; yolks of two raw eggs, one 
pint of sweet oil, well mixed with the eggs, a little at a time, one 
wineglassful of vinegar, well mixed, a little at a time; as you are 
mixing the oil with the vinegar, dissolve the yolks of two hard, 
boiled eggs with a cruet of vinegar; mix this with the above, add 
one tablespoonful of cream. At the last, use the whites of the 
boiled eggs chopped with the lobster. 

DRESSING FOR LETTUCE. 

One-half pint of very strong vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one tablespoonful of mustard. Cook well and add one 
tablespoonful of butter. Let it get cold. "When wanted for use, 
take a tablespoonful of it and add nice thick cream. 

CABBAGE SALAD OR COLD SLAW. 

Shave a head of white cabbage very fine. For one quart of 
slaw, take the yolks of three eggs, beat them well, stir into them 
one tumbler and a half of good vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of loaf 



SALADS, 81 

sugar, piece of "butter the size of a walnut, one teaspoonful of 
mixed mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together with 
the yolks, and put into a stew-pan. When boiling hot, add the 
cabbage, and stew five minutes. Toss it frequently from the 
bottom with a silver fork. Dish the slaw and set it where it will 
become perfectly cold on ice if possible. Add one coffeecupful 
of thick cream just before serving, stirring it with a silver fork. 
If the vinegar is very strong, use less in proportion. 

CRKAM CABBAGE. 

One-half cup of white sugar, one-half cup of good vinegar, one 
cup of thick cream, one teaspoonful of salt, piece of butter the 
size of an egg, a little cayenne pepper. Stir all together, except 
the creani, put the mixture into a sauce-pan, and stir until it 
boils; then add the cream, and let it boil. Pour it over the cab- 
bage while hot. The cabbage should be shaved very fine. 

POTATO SALAD. (No. 1.) 

One-half dozen baked potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, one- 
fourth of a medium-sized onion, one-half dozen sprigs of parsle}', 
one-half cup of sour cream, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one- 
half teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste. Chop the parsley, onion and egg very fine; add 
the potatoes, and chop coarsely; put all in an earthen dish, add 
the seasoning, vinegar and cream ; stir all well together, and let 
stand two hours. 

POTATO SALAD. (No. 2.) 

Two cups of mashed potato, rubbed through a colander, three- 
fourths of a cup of chopped cabbage, white and firm, two table- 
spoonfuls cucumber pickle, also chopped, yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs, pounded fine. Mix all well together. 

DRESSING. 

One raw egg, well beaten, one saltspoonfiil of celery seed, one 
teaspoonful of -white sugar, one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
one teaspoonful of flour, one-half teacupful vinegar, salt, mustard 
and pepper to taste. Boil the vinegar and pour it upon the egg, 



82 SALADS. 

sugar, butter, and seasoning; wet the flour with cold vinegar, 
and beat it into this. Cook the mixture, stirring until it thick- 
ens, when pour, scalding hot, upon the salad. Toss it with a, 
silver fork, and let it get very cold before eating. 

POTATO SALAD. (No. 3.) 

Boil four potatoes; when cold, cut in slices; add three new on- 
ions and two bunches of celery, chopped fine; also whites of two 
hard-boiled eggs. Serve with a mayonnaise sauce. Do not use 
mealy potatoes for salads. 

SHRIMP SALAD, 

This may be made either of the canned or fresh shrimps. If 
the latter are used, the shells must be cracked and the meat 
picked out carefully. In either case they must be cut rather fine 
with a sharp knife. Heap upon crisp lettuce leaves, and pour 
over them a mayonnaise dressing. Crab salad is made the same 
as lobster salad. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put the uncooked yolk of an egg into a cold bowl; beat it well 
with a silver fork; then add two saltspoonfuls of salt, and one 
saltspoonful of mustard powder; work them well a minute be- 
fore adding the oil; then mix in a little good oil, which must be 
poured in very slowly (a few drops at a time) at first, alternated 
occasionally with a few drops of vinegar. In proportion as the 
oil is used, the sauce should gain consistency. When it begins 
to have the appearance of jelly, alternate a few drops of lemon 
juice with the oil. When the egg has absorbed a gill of oil, fin- 
ish the sauce by adding a very little pinch of cayenne pepper 
and one and a half teaspoonfuls of good vinegar; taste it to see 
that there are salt, mustard, cayenne and vinegar enough. If 
not, add more very carefully. These proportions will suit most 
tastes; yet some like more mustard and more oil. Be careful not 
to use too much cayenne pepper. When ready to serve add half 
a cup of whipped cream, if you like. The cream makes it whiter 
and thinner. By beating the egg a minute before adding the oil, 
there is little danger of the sauce curdling; if by chance it should 



S MADS. 83 

curdle, half a teaspoonful of the unbeaten white of an egg, or a 
few drops of vinegar, will often restore the smooth consistency. 
Be careful not to use too much, or it will make the sauce thin. 
The dressing 1 liquifies as soon as mixed with vegetables or meat; 
therefore it should be made stiff enough to keep in shape until 
used. Never mix the dressing with the meat or fish until ready 
to serve, and then only part of it, and spread the remainder over 
the top. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
one saltspoonful each of pepper and salt, one teaspoonful of 
grated onion. First, mix the pepper and salt, then the oil and 
onion, and then the vinegar. When well mixed, pour over the 
salad. Mix all together, and serve. 

MAYONNAISE OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil cauliflower in water, add a little salt and butter; let it get 
cold; season with salt, pepper, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar 
and one of oil. Let them remain for an hour. When ready to 
serve, pile them on a dish to a point; then mask them with a 
mayonnaise sauce. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

All kinds may be made by using cold boiled pease, string 
beans, cauliflower, asparagus tops, beats or celery, cutting not 
too small and using any of the salad dressings according to taste. 
Nothing need be wasted. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart of oysters, one small bunch of celery, one raw egg, 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs, two tablespoonfuls of best olive 
oil, one teaspoonful of sugar, one saltspoonful each of pepper, 
salt and made mustard, half a cupful of vinegar. Whip the raw 
eggs light with the sugar and the oil. Rub the yolks of the 
boiled eggs to a paste with the salt, pepper and mustard, add the 
beaten raw egg and oil, and beat in the vinegar, a few drops at a 
time. Drain the liquor from the oysters and cut them with a 
sharp knife into small pieces. Cut the celery into half inch 



84 SALADS. 

lengths. Chopping bruises it. Put oysters and celery into a 
salad dish, mix with it half of the dressing and pour the rest over 
it. Garnish with celery tops and stoned olives. 

Lettuce and dice of cold boiled potatoes and cold boiled beets. 
Potatoes piled in the center, beats next, and lettuce around the 
edge of the dish. Serve with French dressing. This makes a 
very fine salad. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Two hours before dinner, slice on a slaw-cutter four full-grown, 
but not yellow, cucumbers; salt and let stand in an earthen dish. 
Half an hour before dinner, drain in a colander. While they 
are draining, peel and slice two onions and fry in a spoonful of 
lard. Beat together the yolk of an egg, half a teacupful of sweet 
cream and two tablespoonfuls of water. Put the drained cucum- 
bers in a porcelain kettle with the onion, pour on the beaten 
mixture, dredge over a little flour, add half a teacup of sharp 
vinegar. Boil up five minutes. Serve hot. 

To FRINGE CELERY FOR GARNISHING. 

Cut the stalks into two inch lengths; stick plenty of coarse 
needles into a cork; draw half of the stick of each piece of 
celery through the needles. When all the fibrous parts are sepa- 
rated, lay the celery in some cold place to curl and crisp. 



VEOKTABLKS. 



EULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Have them as fresh as possible. Stale and withered ones are un- 
wholesome and unpalatable. Summer vegetables should be cook- 
ed the same day they are gathered, if possible. Pick over and 
wash well, cutting out all decayed or unripe parts. If you boil 
them, put a little salt in the water. Cook them steadily after you 
put them on. Be sure they are thoroughly done. Hare vegeta- 
bles are neither good nor fashionable. Drain well. Serve hot. 
Vegetables should never be washed until immediately before pre- 
paring them for the table. Lettuce is made almost worthless rn 
flavor by dipping it in water some hours before it is served. Po- 
tatoes suffer even more than any other vegetable through the 
washing process. They should not be put in water till just ready 
for boiling. All vegetables are better pooked in soft water, pro- 
vided it is clean and pure; if hard water is used, put in a small 
pinch of soda. 

Never split onions, turnips and carrots, but slice them in rings, 
cut across the fiber, as they thus cook tender much quicker. 

Always add both salt and a little soda to the water in which greens 
are cooked, as soda preserves the color. 

A little sugar added to turnip, beets, pease, corn, squash and 
pumpkin is an improvement, especially when the vegetables are 
the common kind. 

A piece of red pepper, the size of a fingernail, or a piece of 
charcoal, dropped into meat or vegetables, when first beginning 
to cook, will aid greatly in killing the unpleasant odor. Eemem- 
ber this for boiled cabbage, greens, beans, onions and mutton. 



86' VEGETABLES. 

BOILED POTATOES With the Skins. 

Wash the potatoes clean and put them on to boil in eold water, 
with a pinch of salt. Have them of uniform size, and cook stead- 
ily until a fork will pierce easily to the heart of the largest; then 
pour off the water, every drop; sprinkle with salt and set back 
on the range, a little to one side, with the lid of the pot off; let 
them dry three or four minutes, peel quickly, and serve in an un- 
covered dish. 

BOILED POTATOES Without the Skins. 

Pare very thin. The glory of a potato is its mealiness, and 
much of the starch, or meal, lies next to the skin, consequently 
is lost by slovenly paring, which, likewise, defaces the shape. 
Wash in cold water; have ready a pot of boiling water, slightly 
salted, drop in the potatoes, and keep at a rapid boil until tender. 
Drain off the water, sprinkle with fine salt, and dry as just 
directed. 

To Bon. NEW POTATOES. 

.If very young, rub the skin off with a rough towel; if almost ripe, 
scrape with a blunt knife. Cover with cold water, slightly salted, 
boil half an hour, drain, salt and dry for two or three minutes. 
Send to the table plain. Or, pour over them a pint of sweet cream 
or rich milk, let it come to a boil, put in a spoonful of butter; 
if you use milk, season with salt and pepper, and thicken with 
half teacupful of cornstarch, previously stirred to a paste; give 
it all a good boil, and serve immediately. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Every one thinks she can make so simple a dish as that of mash- 
ed potatoes; but it is the excellence of art to produce good mash- 
ed as well as good boiled potatoes. In fact, I believe there is 
nothing so difficult in cookery as to properly boil a potato. 
Prepare and boil as for plain, put into a hot crock or basin, 
which can be placed at the side of the fire, one-half cup of rich 
milk or cream, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and let them get hot. When the potatoes are done, 



VEGETABLES. 87 

drain and mash them, add the hot milk; then work them a few 
minutes with a fork, and serve them immediately. Do not rub 
egg over, and bake them; that ruins them. Much depends upon 
mashed potatoes being served at table hot, and freshly made. 
One of the secrets of good mashed potatoes is the mixing of the 
ingredients all hot. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Be very particular to wash every part of the potato clean, as 
many persons eat the skin; bake in a quick oven until tender, 
say three-quarters of an hour to an hour, if of good size. There 
is such a difference in ovens, that each one must learn for herself 
what the time will be for each. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Take two coffeecupfuls of cold mashed potato, and stir into it 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beaten to a white cream, 
before adding anything else. Then put with this two eggs, 
whipped very light, and a teacupful of cream, or nice milk, salt 
it to taste, beat all well, pour into a deep dish, and bake in a 
quick oven until it is nicely browned. If properly mixed it will 
come out of the oven light, puffy and delectable. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Prepare the potatoes as you would for mashed potatoes; when 
done, mash very fine and season with butter and salt; beat in two 
eggs till very light, shape them into little balls, as large as wal- 
nuts, let them get perfectly cold, dip them in beaten egg, then 
in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard, like doughnuts. Be very 
particular to have the lard boiling hot or they will not be nice. 
Brown a light brown, and serve at once. 

SlLVERTHOBN POTATOES. 

Boil as you would for plain potatoes; be sure to have them per- 
fectly cold before chopping; chop them as fine as a common 
sized bean (no finer); to one quart of potatoes add one coffeecup- 
ful of thick cream. You can double the quantity as many times 
as you like. Have ready a spider, put in your potatoes, pour 



88 VEGETABLES. 

over them the cream, season with salt and pepper, warm them up 
quickly, and serve at once. If you have no cream, you can use 
milk and plenty of butter, but they are not so nice as when 
mixed with cream. The beauty of these potatoes is to have them 
chopped evenly and warmed quickly; never let them stand a min- 
ute on the stove after they are ready; if you do, they are spoiled. 
The neshannock potato is the best for this purpose. 

BROWNED POTATOES White. 

Peel some large, ripe potatoes, and one hour before a roast of 
beef is removed from the oven, put the potatoes in the dripping- 
pan, sprinkle some salt over them, baste them often with the 
gravy to prevent scorching, drain them on a sieve for five min- 
utes, and lay them about the meat in the dish. Sweet potatoes 
are very nice cooked in this way. 

BBOWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil the potatoes till tender, but not too done; drain off the 
water and take off their skins, cut them in half and fry them in 
plenty of butter or nice beef drippings. Sprinkle a little sugar 
over them and brown nicely. Irish potatoes are very fine cooked 
in this way; only omit the sugar. 

FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL POTATOES. 

Take large, fair potatoes, bake until soft, and cut a round piece 
off the top of each, scrape out the inside carefully, so as not to 
break the skin, and set aside the empty cases with the covers. 
Mash the inside very smoothly, working into it, while hot, some 
butter and cream about half a teaspoonful of each for every po- 
tato season with salt and pepper, with a good pinch of grated 
cheese for each; work it very soft with milk, and put into a sauce- 
pan to heat, stirring to prevent burning; when scalding hot, stir 
in one well beaten egg for six large potatoes. Boil up once, fill 
the skins with the mixture, replacing the caps, return them to 
the oven for three minutes; arrange upon a napkin, in a deep 
dish, the caps uppermost; cover with a napkin, and eat hot. If 
you like, you can omit the eggs and put in a double quantity of 
cheese. 



VEGETABLES. 89 

POTATO RIBBON. 

Pare, and lay In ice water for an hour. Choose the largest and 
soundest potatoes you can get for this dish. At the end of an 
hour, pare with a small knife, round and round in one continu- 
ous curling strip. There is also an instrument for this purpose, 
which costs but a trifle, and will do the work deftly and expedi- 
tiously. Handle with care, fry a few at a time, for fear of en- 
tanglement, in lard, like fried cakes; drain, and serve in cornuco- 
pias, for dinner or tea parties, 

SARATOGA POTATOES, 

Pare, wash, and slice some raw potatoes as thin as wafers. 
This can be done with a sharp knife, although there is a little in- 
strument for the purpose, to be had at the house-furnishing 
stores, which flutes prettily as well as slices evenly. Lay in ice 
water for half an hour. Put in the water a small piece of alum. 
Wipe dry in two cloths, spreading them upon one, and pressing 
the other upon them. Have ready some boiling lard, as you 
would for fried cakes; fry a light brown. To dry off the fat, take 
from the frying-kettle as soon as they are brown, with a perfor- 
ated skimmer, put in a colander and shake for an instant, 
and sprinkle salt over them. They should be crisp and free from 
grease. Another way: Pare the potatoes and quarter them 
lengthwise, and fry as before. They are very nice cooked in this 
way. 

LYOXNAISE POTATOES. 

Two and a half cups of cold, boiled potatoes, two tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped onions, one teaspoonful of minced parsley, but- 
ter size of an egg. Slice the cold boiled potatoes; put the butter 
into a sauce-pan, and when hot, throw in the onion; fry to a 
light color; add the sliced potatoes, which turn until they are 
thoroughly hot, and of light color also; then mix in the minced 
parsley and serve immediately, while they are hot. The potato 
slices should be merely moistened with the butter dressing. 

POTATO PIE. 
Take about twenty good sized potatoes and six onions; pare 



0(J VEGETABLES. 

the potatoes and peel the onions. If you put the onions In cold 
water they will not make your eyes smart. Slice the potatoes 
and onions very thin, and put them in cold water to soak for 
half an hour; have ready an earthen dish, and put in a layer of 
potatoes then a layer of onions; season with pepper, salt and 
butter, and so on till the dish is full. Put in a little water, beat- 
four eggs and pour over the top; have ready a good puff-paste 
and put it over the pie; bake two hours in a slow oven. 

A NICE WAY TO PREPARE POTATOES. 

The potatoes are sliced thin, as for frying, and allowed to re- 
main in cold water half an hour. The slices are then put into a. 
pudding dish, with salt, pepper, and some milk about half a 
pint to an ordinary pudding dish. They are then put into an 
oven and baked for an hour. "When taken out, a lump of butter 
half the size of a hen's egg is cut into small bits and scattered 
over the top. Those who have never eaten potatoes cooked thus 
do not know all the capabilities of that esculent tuber. The slic- 
ing allows the interior of each potato to be examined, hence its 
value where potatoes are doubtful, though poor ones are not of 
necessity required. The soaking in cold water hardens the slices, 
so that they will hold their shape. The milk serves to cook them 
through, and to make a nice brown on top; the quantity can only 
be learned by experience; if just a little is left as a rich gravy, 
moistening all the slices, then it is right. In a year of small and 
poor potatoes, this method of serving them will be very welcome 
to many a housekeeper. 

STRING BEANS. 

Break off the tops and bottoms and "string" carefully; then 
pare both edges with a sharp knife, to be certain that no remnant 
of the tough fiber remains; cut "the beans into pieces an inch 
long, wash in cold water, drain them, and put into a sauce-pan 
of boiling water, with a pinch of soda; boil quickly till tender. 
Boil a little bacon with them ; it mellows the rank taste you seek 
to remove by boiling. When done, season with butter and pep- 
per; if you use bacon, they will need no more salting; add milk 
and thicken with a tablespoonful of cornstarch. Dish, and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 91 

LIMA BEANS. 

Let them boil ten minutes, drain off the water, then add boil- 
ing water, sufficient to cook done. Pour on sweet cream, accord- 
ing to the amount of soup desired, and season with pepper and 
salt. If sweet milk is used, add a small piece of butter. 

GREEN CORN Boiled. 

Choose young sugar-corn full grown, but not hard; test with 
the nail; when the grain is pierced, the milk should escape in a 
jet, and not be too thick. Clean by stripping off the outer leaves, 
turn back the innermost covering carefully, pick off every thread 
of silk, and recover the ear with the thin husk that grew next 
the corn; tie at the top with a bit of thread, and put into boiling 
water, salt, and cook fast for half an hour, or longer in proportion 
to size and age. Cut off the stalks close to the cob, and send to 
the table whole. 

SUCCOTASH. 

This is made of green corn and Lima beans. Some substitute 
string or butter beans. Have a third more corn than beans. 
Split the kernels through the center and scrape out the corn, and 
shell the beans; put them over to cook, with a little salt pork and 
a pinch of soda to keep them green; boil half an hour before 
you put the corn in, then stew till tender, stirring often to pre- 
vent burning. "When done, season with salt and pepper, add one 
coffeecupful of cream, and serve. You can use butter and milk 
if you cannot get cream. 

DELICATE SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of Lima beans (after they are shelled), one quart of 
scraped corn, one cup of thick cream. Boil the beans ten min- 
utes, drain off and put more boiling water over them, when nearly 
done, add the scraped corn; boil five minutes, then season with 
salt and pepper, and add the cream. 

GREEN CORN CAKES. 

Mix a pint of grated green corn with a teacupful of flour, half 
a teacupful of milk, half a teacupful of melted butter, one egg, 



92 VEGETABLES. 

a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Drop on a buttered 
pan by the spoonful and bake or fry (best fried) for ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Six ears corn, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat the 
yolks very light, grate the corn off the cob, season with salt and 
pepper, mix with the yolks, then add the flour. Whisk the whites 
to a froth and stir in with the batter; put two dessertspoonfuls 
at a time into a pan of hot lard and fry a light brown. 

FRIED CORN. 

Grate twelve ears of corn, add one tablespoonful of flour, a lit- 
tle milk, butter and salt, three well beaten eggs. Make into 
small cakes, and fry a light brown.' 

CORN CUSTARD. 

Cut corn from the cob, mix it not too thinly with milk. Add 
two or three beaten eggs, pepper and salt to taste. Bake half an 
hour. To be served as a vegetable. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash, but do not touch with a knife before they are boiled. 
If cut while raw, they bleed themselves pale in the hot water. 
Boil till tender; when done, rub off the skins, slice round if 
large, split if young, mix a great spoonful of melted butter, five 
of vinegar, pepper and salt, heat to boiling, and pour over the 
beets. Another nice way is to make drawn butter gravy, with 
half teacupful of vinegar, and pour over the beets just before 
serving. 

GREEN PEASE. 

The Champion and Marrowfat pease are the best. Shell and 
put them on to cook in cold water, salt them, and put in a piece 
of soda the size of a pea to keep them green; cook from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Market pease are greatly improved by 
the addition of a small lump of white sugar. When done, season 
with butter and pepper, add one coffeecupful of nice thick cream, 
or nice rich milk, butter and salt to taste. If you use milk, 



YEGETABLES. 93 

tMcken it with one tablespoonful of cornstarch; dish and serve. 
To FBY EGG PLANT. 

Pare the egg plant, and cut in slices half an inch thick. Let 
it lie in cold salt water for an hour or more. Have a dish of 
beaten yolk of an egg, and one of cornmeal. Dip the slices first 
in the egg, then in cornmeal, and fry light brown, in a skillet of 
liot lard and butter mixed. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT, 

Take a full grown egg plant, cut it in two lengthwise. Take all 
the inside out leaving the skin about half inch thick. Chop fine. 
Mix about as much bread crumbs as egg plant; salt and pepper 
to taste, and one teaspoonful of sugar. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a skillet; when hot put in the mixture and let cook ten 
minutes; then return to the shells and put in the oven and bake 
an hour. Serve hot, 

OYSTER PLANT, 

Wash, and scrape the plant, put in boiling water with salt in 
it; when tender, cut into pieces an inch long, dip in batter made 
of an egg, niilk, flour and salt, and fry in hot lard like fried cakes. 
Parsnips are very nice cooked in this way. 

ESCALOPED SALSIFY. 

Scrape the roots thoroughly, and wash clean in cold water. 
Cut into rings and boil three minutes; drain, and pour on more 
hot water, enough to cover them. Boil till tender; season with 
pepper and salt. Put in a basin a layer of salsify, then a layer of 
bread or cracker crumbs, some butter, then another of salsify 
and crumbs, and so alternate till the dish is full; let the last layer 
be of crumbs, put some butter on top and fill up with rich milk. 
Bake twenty minutes, in a hot oven. 

To BOIL SPINACH. 

One peck is enough for four persons. Pick it over very care- 
fully it is apt to be gritty; wash in several waters, and let it lie 
in the last half an hour, at least; take out with your hands, shak- 



04 VEGETABLES, 

ing each bunch well, and put into boiling water, with a little salt; 
boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. When tender, drain thor- 
oughly, chop very fine, put in a sauce-pan with a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, and pepper to taste; stir until very hot, turn 
into a hot dish and shape nicely; slice some hard boiled eggs and 
lay on top. 

Or, rub the yolks of four eggs to a powder, mix with butter, 
and when your mould is raised, spread smoothly over the flat top; 
cut the whites into rings and lay them on the yellow surface. 
This makes- a very pleasant dressing for the spinach. 

SPINACH, A LA CREAM. 

Boil and chop very fine, or rub through a colander; season with 
pepper and salt; beat in, while warm, three tablespoonfuls melted 
butter (this is for a large dish); then put it into a sauce-pan and 
heat, stirring constantly. When smoking hot, add three table- 
spoonfuls of cream and a teaspoonful of white sugar; boil up 
once, still stirring, and press firmly into a hot bowl. Turn into 
a hot dish, and garnish with sliced boiled eggs laid on top. 

BAKED PARSNIPS. 

Put four thin slices salt pork in a kettle with two quarts cold 
water, wash and scrape parsnips, and if large halve or quarter, 
and as soon as water boils place in a kettle, boil about half an 
hour, remove meat, parsnips, and gravy to dripping-pan, sprinkle 
with a little white sugar, and bake in oven half an hour, or 
until they are a light brown, and the water is all fried out. Add 
a few potatoes if you like. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Par-boil or steam large parsnips, and then cut in slices length- 
wise. Sprinkle each with a little flour, pepper and salt. Fry in 
equal parts of butter and lard. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Strip off the outer leaves, and cut the stalks close to the bot- 
tom. Wash well and lay in cold water two hours. Immerse in 
boiling water, the stalk ends uppermost, with an inverted plate 



VEGETABLES. 95 

upon them to keep them down. Boil an hour and a half, or un- 
til very tender; arrange upon a dish, the tops up, and pour drawn 
butter over them. 

ASPARAGUS. 

The green tops of this vegetable are very tender, and should 
not be cooked so long as the white part, which is hard. Cut off 
the tops as far down as they are tender and lay them in cold water. 
Then take the white part and pare off the hard part and cut in 
pieces about an inch long. Put them on to boil, and when nearly 
done, Avhich will be in about half an hour, add the green tops 
and boil ten or fifteen minutes longer. Lay slices of toast in the 
bottom of the dish, drain the asparagus from the water. Season 
with butter, pepper and salt, and pour over the toast, and it is 
ready to serve. 

BAKED SWEET POTATO. 

Wash and scrape the potatoes, then split them lengthwise. 
Steam them half an hour, then put them into a pan with lumps 
of butter, pepper and salt. Sprinkle thickly with sugar and bake 
a nice brown. Hubbard squash may be cooked in the same way. 

BAKED CORN. 

To one quart of corn use one teacupful of cream, a lump of 
butter^the size of an egg, and some salt. Bake slowly one and 
one-half hours. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Loosen the skins by pouring boiling water upon them; peel 
and cut them up, extracting the cores or hard part of stem end, 
and removing all unripe portions. Stew in a sauce-pan (tin or 
porcelain) half an hour, when add salt and pepper to taste, a tea- 
spoonful of white sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter; stew 
slowly fifteen minutes longer, just before dishing, thicken with 
a little grated bread. Another nice way to prepare tomatoes is 
to put a quarter as much green corn as you have tomatoes in the 
sauce-pan when it is first set on the fire, and stew gently. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 
Slice large, firm tomatoes without peeling. Dip in egg and 



96 VEGETABLES. 

cracker crumbs, with pepper and salt; fry in lard and serve hot. 
The slices must not be very thin. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Take large, smooth tomatoes, cut half an inch thick, leaving 
on the skin. Lay them on a wire broiler over a clear bed of coals. 
Have a dish with butter, pepper, salt, and a little sugar; and as 
they are done drop them into it. Lay the whole in a dish over 
toast, and serve. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Make a dressing with the crumbs of a small loaf, to which add 
three ounces of butter, two small onions chopped fine, with pep- 
per and salt to taste. Mix well. Then take eight or ten large 
tomatoes (do not take off the skins), divide transversely, take 
out the seeds and fill with the dressing. Place the halves to- 
gether again, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in a pan 
with a lump of butter on each, and bake in a quick oven. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 

Put in a buttered baking-dish a layer of bread or cracker 
crumbs, season with bits of butter, then a layer of sliced tomatoes 
seasoned with pepper, salt and sugar if desired, then a layer of 
crumbs, and so on till the dish is full, finishing with the crumbs. 
Bake from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Run a quart of stewed ripe tomatoes through a colander, place 
in a porcelain stew-pan, season with butter, pepper and salt, and 
sfcgar to taste; cut slices of bread thin, brown on both sides, but- 
ter, and lay on a platter, and just before serving, add a pint of 
good sweet cream to the stewed tomatoes, and pour them over 
toast. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Do not pour boiling water upon them. It impairs the flavor 
and destroys the crispness. Pare with a very sharp knife, slice 
and lay in a glass dish; season with pepper, salt and vinegar, 
stirring a piece of ice rapidly around in the dressing before pour- 



VEGETABLES. 97 

ing it over the tomatoes, and set them in a refrigerator until 
wanted. Ice is a great improvement to the tomatoes. 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Cut up a small head of cabbage coarser than for slaw. Put in 
a sauce-pan and pour on boiling water, scalding till it is tender. 
Pour off the water and add half a teacupful of milk, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, a tablespoonful of flour, made smooth 
in the butter, pepper and salt. Stir and let it cook five minutes, 
till the cabbage is quite done. 

CABBAGE SPROUTS. 

Pick over carefully, lay in cold water, slightly salted, half an 
hour; shake in a colander and drain, and put into boiling water, 
keeping at a fast boil until tender. A piece of pork seasons 
them pleasantly. 

DELICATE CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm white cabbage fifteen minutes, changing the water 
then, for more from the boiling teakettle. When tender, drain 
and set aside until perfectly cold. Chop fine, and add two well 
beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt, three 
tablespoonfuls of rich milk or cream. Stir all well together, and 
bake in a buttered pudding-dish until brown. Eat very hot. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Wash the squash clean; it is the best plan to pare them unless 
they are extremely tender; tie them in a clean cloth, and put 
them into a pot of boiling water, and boil rapidly half an hour; 
take up and squeeze them well, turn into a hot dish, season with 
plenty of butter, salt and pepper, and serve at once. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Winter squash is best steamed and baked. The Hubbard 
squash is the best for this purpose. Crack it with a hatchet or 
axe, and take out all the seeds, cut it into square pieces, wash it 
and wipe it dry, put it in a steamer and steam till tender. When 
done, scrape it out of the shell, and season with salt, pepper and 



98 VEGETABLES. 

butter, put in a hot dish, smooth the surface nicely, dot it with 
pepper, and send to the table. 

BEET GREENS. 

"Wash young beets very clean, cut off tips of leaves, looking 
over carefully to see that no bugs or worms remain, but do not 
separate roots from leaves; fill dinner pot half full of salted boil- 
ing water, add beets, boil from half to three-quarters of an hour; 
take out and drain in colander, pressing down with a large spoon, 
so as to get out all the water. Dish, and dress with butter, pep- 
per, and salt if needed. Serve hot with vinegar. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Beets retain their sugary' delicate flavor much better by baking 
instead of boiling; turn often in the pan while in the oven, using 
a knife, as a fork will cause the juice to flow; when done, remove 
skin, slice, and season with butter, pepper and salt; or if for 
pickle, slice into good cold vinegar. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Break off the green leaves, cut off the stock close at the bottom ; 
if large, divide it into quarters, put it in cold water and let it lie, 
not more than an hour; then put it in boiling milk and water 
milk makes it white with one teaspoonful of salt. Skim while 
boiling. When the stalks are tender, take it up; have ready a 
teacupful of cream gravy, made of one cup of milk, piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, thicken with one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, salt and pepper to taste, and pour it over the cauliflower. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil until tender, chop into neat clusters, and pack the stems 
downward in a buttered pudding-dish; beat up a cupful of 
bread crumbs to a soft paste with two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and three of cream or milk, season with pepper and salt, 
braid with a beaten egg, and with this cover the cauliflower. 
Cover the dish closely, and bake six minutes in a quick oven, 
brown in five more, and serve, very hot, in the same dish in which 
they were baked. 



VEGETABLES. 99 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER French dish. 

Boil until tender, and put in a buttered, shallow earthen dish, 
season with salt and pepper, and pour over drawn butter sauce; 
grate cheese thickly over it; brown in the oven. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Cut the cabbage very fine, on a slaw cutter, if possible; salt 
and pepper, stir well, and let stand five minutes. Have an 
iron kettle smoking hot, drop one tablespoonful lard into it, then 
the cabbage, stirring briskly until quite tender; send to the table 
immediately. One-half cup of sweet cream, and three tablespoon- 
fuls vinegar the vinegar to be added after the cream has been 
well stirred, and after it is taken from the stove, is an agreeable 
change. When properly done, an invalid or babe can eat it 
without injury, and there is no offensive odor from cooking it. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Take a large, fresh cabbage and cut out the heart; fill the va- 
cancy with stuffing made of cooked chicken or veal, chopped very 
fine and highly seasoned and rolled into balls with yolk of an 
egg. Then tie the cabbage firmly together (some tie a cloth 
around it), and boil in a covered kettle two hours. This is a de_ 
licious dish and is useful in using up cold meats. 

OKRA AND TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice six or eight tomatoes, take same amount of ten- 
der sliced okra, and one or two sliced green peppers; stew in a 
porcelain kettle fifteen or twenty minutes, season with butter, 
pepper and salt, and serve. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

When new and tender, they will boil in one hour, but after the 
month of October they will require two hours. Cut off the tops 
and tails, and skin them. Put them into water before peeling 
them and they will not effect the eyes. Lay in cold water half 
an hour, boil them in a porcelain kettle, with enough boiling 
water to cover them, cook fifteen minutes, then drain off all the 



100 VEGETABLES. 

water and recover them with more from the boiling teakettle. If 
you have milk plenty, half an hour before they are done, turn a 
quart into the water in which they are boiling. This makes them 
white, and is said to prevent, in a measure, the disagreeable odor 
which always follows their being eaten. Dish them whole, and 
season with a little salt, pepper and butter. Or, make a drawn 
butter gravy, or cream gravy, and pour over them. 

ROASTED ONIONS. 

Wash and skin very large Bermuda onions; lay in cold water 
an hour; par-boil in boiling water half an hour, drain, and while 
hot, extract the hearts, taking care not to break the outer layers. 
Chop the inside thus obtained very fine, with a little cold fat 
pork or bacon; add bread crumbs, pepper, salt and mace, and 
wet with a spoonful or two of cream; bind with a well beaten 
egg, and make into a smooth paste; stuff the onions with this, 
put into a dripping-pan with a very little hot water, and simmer 
in the oven for an hour, basting often with melted butter. When 
done, take the onions up carefully, and arrange the open ends 
uppermost, in a vegetable-dish; add the gravy in the dripping- 
pan, the juice of half a lemon, four tablespoonfuls of cream or 
milk, and a little browned flour, wet with cold milk. Boil up 
once, and pour over the onions. 

TURNIPS. 

Wash, peel, cut in slices, and place in ketlle, and keep well 
covered with water; boil from half to three-quarters of an hour, 
or until you can easily pierce them with a fork; drain well, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and butter, and mash fine. Do not boil 
too long, as they are much sweeter when cooked quickly. Tur- 
nips may be cut up and baked. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Grate eight raw Irish potatoes, add salt, two well beaten eggs, 
and half a cup of flour; roll in cakes with a spoon, and fry in 
butter. 



VEGETABLES. 101 

FRIED RAW POTATOES. 

~\Yash, peel, and slice in cold water, drain in a colander, and 
drop in a skillet prepared with two tablespoonfuls melted butter 
or beef drippings, or one-half of each ; keep closely covered for 
ten minutes, only removing to stir with a knife from the bottom 
to prevent burning; cook another ten minutes, stirring frequently 
until done and lightly browned. Sweet potatoes are nice pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

FRIED BANANAS, 

Peel and slice the bananas, sprinkle with salt, dip in thin bat- 
ter, and fry in butter. Serve at once, 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Pour one pint boiling water over one-half pound of macaroni, 
let stand half an hour, drain, and put in a custard kettle with 
boiling milk to cover, cook till tender, drain, add a tablespoon- 
ful butter, and a teacupful of cream, and season with salt and 
pepper; grate cheese over the top and serve. 

MACARONI, 

Boil macaroni in salt and water, until very tender; then put 
butter in bottom of the dish, next a layer of macaroni, then 
chopped parsley, well beaten egg, and ham, chopped very fine, 
pepper and salt, and so on until the dish is filled. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

MACARONI AS A VEGETABLE. 

Simmer one-half pound of macaroni in plenty of water till 
tender, but not broken; strain off the water. Take the yolks of 
five and the whites of two eggs; one-half pint of cream; white 
meat and ham, chopped very fine; three tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese; season with salt and pepper; heat all together, stirring 
constantly. Mix with the macaroni; put in a buttered mould, 
and steam one hour. It is quite as good baked. 

BAKED MACARONI. 
Boil half a pound of macaroni until quite soft; put it into a 



102 VEGETABLES, 

vegetable-dish with a little mustard, pepper and salt, a small 
piece of butter, and some grated cheese. Bake ten or fifteen 
minutes, 

MACARONI PUDDING To eat with Meat. 

Simmer a quarter of a pound of macaroni in plenty of water, 
until it is tender. Strain off the water, and add a pint of milk 
or cream, an ounce of greated cheese, and a teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix well together, and strew over the top grated cheese and 
crumbs of bread. Brown it well, in baking, on the top. It will 
bake in a quick oven in half an hour. It is appropriate to be 
eaten with boiled ham, or beef a la mode, or forms a course by 
itself, after meat. 

ITALIAN MACARONI. 

Place two pounds of beef, well larded with strips of salt pork, 
and one or two chopped onions, in a covered kettle on the back 
of the stove, until it throws out its juice and is a rich brown; 
add a quart of tomatoes seasoned with pepper and salt, and allow 
this mixture to simmer for three hours. Take the quantity of 
macaroni desired and boil in water for twenty minutes, after 
which .put one layer of the boiled macaroni in the bottom of a 
pudding dish, cover with some of the above mixture, then a layer 
of grated cheese, and so on in layers till the dish is filled, hav- 
ing a layer of cheese on the top; place in the oven an hour, or 
until it is a rich brown. 

How TO BOIL RICE. 

Bice should be carefully picked over, washed in warm water, 
rubbed between the hands, and then rinse several times in cold 
water till white. Put one teacupful in a tin pan or porcelain ket- 
tle, add one quart boiling water and one teaspoonful of salt the 
boiling water, makes the kernels retain their shape better than 
when cold water is used. Boil till the water boils out, then add 
hot milk enough to cover it; let it simmer on the back of the 
range till it is dry. Cooked in this way each kernel will be whole . 

SOUTHERN RICE. 
The Southern rice cooks much quicker, and is nicer than the 



VEGETABLES. 103 

Indian rice. Pick over the rice, and wash in cold water. Soak 
it in plenty of cold water four hours; pour off the water; to a 
pint of rice, put three quarts of boiling water, and teaspoonful 
of salt. Boil twenty minutes. Each grain will be separate from 
every other. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Choose button mushrooms of uniform size. Wipe clean with 
a wet flannel cloth, and cut off the stalks. Put into a porcelain 
sauce-pan, cover with cold water and stew gently fifteen minutes. 
Salt to taste; add a tablespoonful of butter, divided into bits and 
rolled in flour. Boil three minutes, stir in three tablespoonfuls 
of cream, whipped up with an egg, stew two minutes without 
letting it boil, and serve. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Peel the finest and freshest you can get; score the under side 
and cut the stems close. Put into a deep dish and anoint well, 
once in a while, with melted butter. Salt and pepper, and let 
them lie in the butter an hour and a half. Then broil over a 
clear, bright fire, using an oyster gridiron, and turning it over as 
one side browns. Serve hot, well buttered, pepper and salt, and 
squeeze a few drops of lemon juice upon each. 

BOILED HOMINY. 

Soak the hominy over night in cold water. Next day put it 
into a pot with at least two quarts of water to a quart of hominy, 
and boil slowly three hours, or until it is soft. Drain in a col- 
ander, put it in a vegetable dish, and stir in butter, pepper and 
salt. The hominy gritz is cooked in the same way; stir often, as 
this is apt to stick. It should be as thick as mush, and it is gen- 
erally eaten at breakfast, with sugar, cream and nutmeg. 

FRIED HOMIXY. 

Put a good lump of butter in a frying-pan, and heat it; turn in 
some cold boiled hominy, and cook until the under side is 
browned. Place a dish up side down on the frying-pan, and up- 
set the former, that the brown crust may be uppermost. Eat 
with meat. 



104 VEGETABLES. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Put a quart of water over the fire to boil. Stir a pint of cold 
milk with one pint of cornmeal, and one teaspoonful of salt. 
"When the water boils, pour in the mixture gradually, stirring all 
well together. Let it boil an hour, stirring often to prevent 
burning. When fold, slice, and dip in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard like doughnuts. 

BOSTON BEANS. 

Three pints of beans, put to soak over night in tepid water. In 
the morning put them in a large pan in some clear water, and 
let them stand on the back of the stove. Be sure not to let them 
boil, for that would break the beans; the beauty is to keep them 
whole; if they reach the boiling point pour in some cold water. 
Let them soak in this way till noon, then wash them clean, and 
put them in the bean pot with a pound of salt pork, which has 
been par-boiled and scored, two even tablespoonfuls of molasses; 
salt and pepper to taste. Cover them with boiling water, and 
set them in the oven to bake; add water if needed, and keep 
them covered until done. 



BRBAD. 



The mysteries of " panification," as the scientific cooks term 
bread-making, are few and simple, but require more attention 
and judgement than any other branch of cooking. One rule I 
would advise every housekeeper to establish from the very be- 
ginning, and that is, never to allow poor flour to be used for any 
purpose whatever, especially for bread-making, for unless this 
one article be of the best quality, baking after baking will prove 
but failures, and a vexation of spirit to the ambitious baker. 

Bread-making seems a simple process enough, but it requires 
a delicate care and watchfulness, and a thorough knowledge of 
all the contingencies of the process, dependent on the different 
qualities of flour, the varying kinds and conditions of yeast, and 
the change of seasons; the process which raises bread successfully 
in winter making it sour in summer. There are many little things 
in bread-making which require accurate observation, and, while 
valuable recipes and well-defined methods in detail are invaluable 
aids, nothing but experience will secure the name merited by so 
few, though earnestly coveted by every practical, sensible house- 
keeper "an excellent bread-maker." Three things are indispen- 
sable to success good flour, good yeast, and watchful care. To 
tell good flour: It should be dry, elastic, and odorless. To de- 
tect bad flour: If, in handling the flour, you discover a heavi- 
ness, like that of ground plaster; if, in squeezing a handful 
tightly, you discover that it retains the imprint of palm and 
fingers, and rolls back into the tray a compact ball, it is bad, and 
not fit to use. 

Novices in bread-making, and many who should have learned 
better by long experience, fall into a sad mistake in the consist- 
ency of the dough. It should be mixed as soft as it can be hand- 



106 BREAD. 

led. Bread will rise sooner, and lighter, be more digestible, and 
keep fresh much longer, if this rule is followed. Kneed your 
bread faithfully, and from all sides until it rebounds like India- 
rubber after a smart blow of the fist upon the center of the mess. 
Half an hour will be sufficient for working. The second point of 
importance in bread-making is the yeast; and herein are more fail- 
ures than can be attributed even to poor flour, for a wise house- 
keeper will insist upon having fine flour, when, perhaps, she 
will not be so careful with her yeast, and will, either from care- 
lessness or ignorance, utterly fail. I say ignorance, because so 
many, even experienced housekeepers, are constantly asking the 
question: "How do you judge yeast? By what means can you 
tell whether it is lively, as you term it?" My answer is, by taste 
and smell. If good, the taste if a little is touched to the tongue, 
will be rather biting, not sour by any means, but quick and some- 
what pungent; while the odor is that of weak ammonia, or fresh 
ginger beer, and the color the opposite to "leaden," a clear, yel- 
lowish-white; if sour, blue and lifeless, like unleavened buckwheat 
batter; empty the jar, and at once make a fresh supply, with 
rising from some other source. I have gone into all the details, 
for I feel that it is because of the neglect of small things that so 
many fail in cooking, as in everything else. 

HOP YEAST. 

There are many varieties of yeast hop, potato, milk, salt, corn- 
meal, etc., but the one old recipe, which 1 have used for years, 
has, I believe, no equal. It is this: 

Take eight good sized potatoes, peel and slice into cold water, 
put three coffeecupfuls of loose, or half cake of pressed hops in- 
to a thin bag, tie securely and boil for half an hour in three quarts 
of water, with the potatoes. When soft, remove the potatoes, 
mash them into paste with one pint of flour, adding one teaspoon- 
ful of ground ginger, one-half teacupful of salt and the same of 
brown sugar; when cool, beat in one large cup of yeast, or two 
cakes of leaven, soaked in tepid water. Cover closely and place 
in a warm place to "rise" for twenty -four hours, when turn into 
jars which can be closed air tight, but do not fasten down the 
cover, or cork tightly until it has ceased to "work," lest the bot- 



BBEAD. 107 

ties be broken. (I have used the Mason self -sealing glass jars 
for several years past, and nothing can be better for keeping yeast 
pure and sweet). Place the jars, after tightening the lids, in a 
cool place. This yeast will keep four weeks in winter, but in 
summer it should be made weekly. 

YEAST Self -Working. 

I said I never used any but the above recipe for years, but I 
have a few times in niy life been so situated that my yeast ran 
out, and I had no opportunity of obtaining any from other sources, 
in which case I have made the following with perfect success: 

Take two handfuls of good hops, which tie in a bag and boil 
in one gallon of soft water for an hour or more. Allow it to 
cool and with it make a batter of three coffeecups of flour, beat- 
ing until perfectly smooth, and gradually adding half a pound 
of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of ginger, and one handful of 
salt. Put into a shallow vessel, cover lightly and place in a con- 
stantly and uniformly warm spot for two or three days. On the 
fourth morning, peel a dozen potatoes, par-boil them, and grate 
into the batter, and allow to stand another day, stirring occasion- 
ally. Then put into jars and fasten the covers securely, placing 
in a cool celler or refrigerator. This yeast will remain sweet for 
a length of time, and is excellent. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Boil one cupful hops in a sack in two quarts water for fifteen 
minutes, remove sack with hops, add five good sized Irish pota- 
toes, peeled and grated raw, one cupful of white sugar, one table- 
spoonful salt, and one of ginger; stir occasionally, and cook from 
five to ten minutes, and it will boil up thick like starch; turn in- 
to a jar, and when just tepid in summer, or quite warm in winter, 
add one-half pint good yeast (always save some to start with); 
set jar in a large tin pan, and as often as it rises, stir down until 
fermentation ceases, when it will be quite thin. Cover closely, 
and set away in a cool place and it will keep two weeks. When 
yeast smells sour, but does not taste sour, it is still good; if it 
has no smell it is dead. One cupful will make six good loaves. 



108 BREAD. 

KCBS OB FLOUR HARD YEAST. 

This is better than hard yeast made with Indian. Take two 
quarts of best home-brewed yeast, and a tablespoonful of salt, 
and mix in wheat flour, so that it will be in hard lumps. Set it 
in a dry, warm place (but not in the sun) till quite dry. Then 
leave out the fine parts to use the next baking, and put up the 
lumps in a bag, and hang it in a dry place. In using this yeast, 
take a pint of the rubs for six quarts of flour, and let it soak from 
noon till night. Then wet up the bread to bake next day. Brew, 
er's and distillery yeast cannot be trusted to make hard yeast. 
Home-brewed is the best, and some housekeepers say, the only 
yeast for this purpose. This recipe is very convenient, especi- 
ally for hot weather, when it is difficult to keep yeast. 

N. B. When you wish to use the liquid yeast in either of the 
recipes, pour off the beer that rises on the top of the yeast, shake 
the jar well, pour out what yeast you want to use, and pour the 
beer back on the yeast. The beer keeps the yeast sweet. 

WHITE BREAD SPONGE Potato. 

Three good sized potatoes, boiled, and mashed fine while hot, 
two quarts of patato water, one pint of sweet milk, one cupful 
of fresh yeast, one tablespoonful of fresh lard, and the same of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Peel the potatoes, and 
wash them clean, put them on to boil in cold water; when done, 
mash them fine and put them through the colander with the po- 
tato water; when cooled down to blood warmth, stir in the flour 
as thick as for griddle cakes, add the yeast and sugar, beat well 
ten minutes, cover lightly if the weather is warm, more closely in 
winter, and set to rise over night in a warm place. In the morn- 
ing, before mixing the bread, be very particular to have the 
bread sponge and flour warm. In winter I always warm my flour 
in the oven, and set the bread sponge in a pan of hot water, stir- 
ring it so as not to scald it. Bread will rise much quicker if this 
rule is observed. The real secret of bread-making is, not to get 
it chilled, and have it rise as soon as possible. Having your 
sponge and flour ready, add the shortening and salt to the 
flour, working them in. The question of quantity of flour is a 
delicate one; it requires judgment and experience. Various 



^brands of flour are 8O unequal with respect to the quantity of 
.gluten they contain, that it is impossible to give any invariable 
Tule on this subject. The safest way is to add the flour gradually, 
Be careful not to get your bread too stiff, I have seen some, 
*when mixing bread, put in so much flour at one time that it be- 
came stiff and hard like a bullet. This spoils it Bread should 
"be mixed thoroughly, and the flour put in gradually. The next 
Tule to be observed is to work in all the flour you are going to 
*ise, in the first mixing. When you make out your bread into 
loaves, no flour should be used, as, if thoroughly worked in the 
iirst mixing, it will be smooth and will not stick. The safest 
way is to add the flour in gradually, and when you have it in 
manageable shape, take it out of the bread-dish, lay it on the 
moulding-board and knead half an hour without stopping. After 
kneading, take a hash-chopper and chop or gash the whole mess, 
double it together, and again use the chopper; continue this for 
fifteen minutes, by which time the air-bubbles will all have been 
opened, and the dough in a proper condition to rise. Form it 
into one large ball, place it in a bread-pan, well floured, and 
press the fist down in the center- cover with bread-blanket and 
towel, and place behind the stove to rise, taking care it is not in 
a draught of cold air. When light, turn it out on the moulding 
board and divide it into loaves; work and chop each a few minutes 
until a smooth loaf is formed, put into well greased pans, and let 
it rise till light; prick each loaf with a fork, and place in a well 
heated oven. The oven should be hot enough to form a crust on 
the bread as soon as possible when first it goes in, and moderate 
towards the last. Bake three-quarters of an hour, and when 
done, wrap in a bread-cloth, placing the loaves against the mould- 
ing-board, on the back of the table until cool, when put into 
tin or wooden boxes; keep the bread towels around each loaf. 

VIENNA BKEA.D. 

Sift in a tin pan four pounds of flour, bank it up against the 
sides, and pour in one quart of warm milk and water, and mix 
into it enough flour to form a thick batter; then quickly and 
lightly add one pint of milk, in which is dissolved one table- 
spoonful of salt, one-half cake compressed yeast; leave the remain- 



110 BRTTAIT, 

der of the flour against the sides of the pan, cover with a cloth, 
and set it in a place free from draught for three quarters of am 
hour; then mix in the rest of the flour until the dough will leave 
the bottom and sides of the pan, and let it stand two and a half 
hours. Finally, divide the mess into one pound pieces, to be 
cut, in turn, into twelve parts each. This leaves them in square- 
pieces about three and one-half inches thick; take them up and 
fold over in the center, then lay them on a dough-board to rise 
for half an hour, when, they are put into a hot oven and baked 
ten minutes, 

BREAD, 



Take about two-thirds of a common milk pan of sour milk., 
scald it and pour off the whey, to use in place of water. When 
this is cooled, stir in flour and one teacupful of yeast, let stand 
over night. Make as other bread, 

GRAHAM BREAD. (No. 1.) 

One quart of potato water, one teacupful of yeast, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one half teacupful of New Orleans molasses. 
Set the sponge as you would for white bread, or on baking day 
take one quart of the bread-sponge, and add the molasses and 
salt; work in enough Graham flour to make a thick batter (just 
beyond the point of stirring with a spoon), pour it into greased 
pans and let it rise even with the pans; when light, bake in a mod- 
erate oven. When nicely browned, cover the bread with pans of 
equal size, and bake slowly till done, it will take one hour to 
bake if the loaves are large. The secret in making this 
bread is in having good flour. Use good Graham flour, and you 
will have sweet, light bread. It should be of a rich, yellowish 
white tinge, have an oily feeling under pressure, and roll off 
from the hand in feathery flakes. Bad Graham flour will be sticky, 
blue, plaster-like, and, like "white" flour, -when squeezed in-the 
hand, forms a tough ball. Make according to directions, and 
you cannot fail. 

BROWN BREAD. (No. 2.) 

The sponge for this is the same as for white bread, which hav- 
ing risen, put into the pan, or kneading bowl, three quarts of 



BREAD. Ill 

Graham flour, one quart wheat and one pint of cornmeal, a hand- 
ful of salt and the sponge, into which stir one tablespoonful of 
molasses, merely to impart a general sweetness to the flour, not 
by any means rendering the bread what might be called sweet. 
Make as stiff as in number one. It should be made over night, 
as it requires long rising. Make into loaves and bake each one 
in a separate pan, well greased. Bake in a moderate oven, and 
for a long time, allowing an hour for a quart-pan loaf. If rightly 
made and baked this delicious bread will amply repay for the 
trouble, and should be found on every table where there are 
children, and dyspeptics especially. 



CORN BREAD. (No. 1.) 

One quart of boiling water, stir in corn meal enough to make 
a thick mush, boil twenty minutes stirring often; when cool 
enough so as not to scald the sponge, add one quart which has been 
set over night for white bread. Add one-half cup of brown 
sugar, add two teaspoonfuls of salt, then sify in white flour till 
the mixture is as stiff as you can stir with an iron spoon. Put 
it in pans and let it get very light it must be even with the pa*ns 
before baking; place in a hot oven and bake an hour. This 
amount makes two medium sized loaves. 

CORN BREAD. (No. 2.) 

Four cups of sour milk, four cups of Indian meal, two cups of 
white flour, one heaping teaspoonful of soda and the same of salt. 
Add the soda to the milk, dissolved in a little warm water, next 
the molasses, then the salt, flour and Indian meal. Stir well, 
put it in a steamer and steam three hours. Be very careful to 
have the wa^er boiling all the time. Add a half cup molasses. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (No. 1.) 

One pint of Indian meal, one pint of rye, or Graham flour will 
do, one and one-half pints of sweet milk, three-fourths of a cup 
of .molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, and the same of salt. 
Steam five hours constantly, after which take it from the steamer 
and set it in the oven, about fifteen minutes, to dry off. Eat 



112 BKEAD. 

warm. There are steamers for this purpose, which you can get 
at any tin store. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (No. 2.) 

On quart of Graham flour, and the same of corn meal, one 
cup of sponge, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and the same of salt. Pour enough boiling 
water on the cornmeal to moisten it nicely; when cool, add the 
bread sponge (from white bread), molasses, butter and salt; dis- 
solve the soda in a tablespoonful of hot water, and add it with 
the rest of the ingredients. Stir in the Graham flour, with a 
spoon, until quite thick; butter a large, round tin pan, and put 
in the bread; let it rise; when light enough, steam two hours in 
a steamer. "When done, dry it in the oven a few moments. This 
makes a large loaf. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (No. 3.) 

One cup of sour milk, one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of 
molasses, one and a half corn meal, and the same of rye flour, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, and the same of salt. Steam 
three hours. 

FRENCH KOLLS. 

Set a sponge with one pint of milk, made sufficiently warm to 
melt one cup of butter; one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of white sugar, pulverized, and one small teaspoon- 
ful of soda, in sufficient flour to make a batter; beat briskly for 
ten minutes, adding four tablespoonfuls of lively yeast; cover 
warmly for several hours, or until the flour on top cracks, then 
add flour to form a soft dough, which knead u^il perfectly 
smooth; or better still, chop or gash as before described, until 
all the air-bubbles disappear; make into rolls, let them get light, 
bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven; rub over the 
crust with a piece of butter; cover with a damp towel for a few 
moments, to soften the crust. These are the French rolls which 
have been enjoyed in the cafe in Paris and our own Centennial, 
and if properly made will be quite as delicious to the taste, and 
beautiful to the sight. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. . 113 

SPLIT ROLLS. 

One pint sweet milk, one cup bread sponge, three eggs, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, and a 
little salt. Heat the milk, add the sponge and the rest of the in- 
gredients, mix well, let rise and when light, roll out about one- 
fourth of an inch thick. Cut out with a biscuit cutter; butter 
the under cake and put the upper on top. Rise again, and when 
light, bake. 

EASTERN BUNS Hot Cross. 

Three cups of sweet milk, one cup of yeast, flour to make 
a thick batter. Set this sponge over night. In the morning, 
add one cup of sugar, one-half cup of melted butter, one-half 
nutmeg, one saltspoonful of salt, flour enough to roll out like 
biscuits. Knead well and set to rise for five hours. Roll one- 
half inch thick, cut into round cakes, and lay in rows in a but- 
tered baking-pan. When they have stood half an hour, make a 
cross upon each with a knife and put instantly into the oven. 
Bake to a light brown, and brush over with a feather or soft bit 
of rag, dipped in the white of an egg, beaten up stiff with white 
sugar. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Take enough sponge to make one loaf of bread, put in two 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one well beaten egg, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg; knead well, let it rise, then roll it out 
as thick as you would for cookies; spread with butter, sugar and 
cinnamon; roll it as you would a sheet of music, cut into pieces 
an inch long; put each one flat in the pan, and let them get 
light; bake in a moderate oven half an hour. Serve cold or hot. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

One pint new, sweet milk, one teacupful of yeast, one teacup- 
ful of shortening (half butter, half lard), whites of four eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, one tablespoonful of white sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger-root, grated. Stir the butter, lard and sugar 
together for haltan hour, add this to the milk, which should be 
luke-warm, then put in the yeast, and make a batter as you would 



114 BKEAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

for griddle-cakes, and let it rise over night. In the morning, add 
a little salt, the whites of the eggs, and ginger-root; mix stiff, as 
for bread, and work fully an hour; let it rise till light, turn it out 
on a moulding board, and roll it out half an inch thick; cut in. 
narrow strips half a yard long; spread each strip with butter, 
commence at one end and roll as you would a sheet of music, 
forming it into a half circle. As fast as you make them, put in- 
to a dripping-pan very carefully, so that they do not touch each 
other. When they are all made out, let them rise till light, rub 
the tops with egg and bake in a hot oven. These are the real 
Vienna rolls. 

NICE SANDWICH ROLLS. 

Late in the evening make a rather stiff potato sponge (see page 
108), and in the morning mix in as much flour as will make a soft 
dough; knead well, and let it rise; when sufficiently light, knead 
down again, repeating the operation two or three times. Re- 
member not to let the dough become sour by rising too light. 
Mould into common sized loaves, place in your dripping-pan to 
rise, and bake very carefully, so as to secure the very lightest 
brown crust possible. On taking the loaves out of the oven, roll 
them in a cl<5th lightly wrung out of water, with a large bread- 
blanket folded and wrapped around all; let cool three or four 
hours, cut lengthwise of the loaf (do not use the outside piece), 
spread lightly with good, sweet butter, then cut in slices not 
more than a quarter of an inch thick, or just as thin as possible, 
using for this purpose a very thin, sharp knife; lay on cold, 
boiled ham, cut in very thin shavings, roll up very carefully and 
place where it will not unroll. Treat each slice in the same man- 
ner, always spreading the bread with butter, before cutting. 
These sandwiches are very fine if properly made, but they require 
great care, experience and good judgment. Serve on an oblong 
platter, piled in pyramid style, row upon row; they will resemble 
nicely rolled dinner napkins. They must be made and served 
the same day. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

One-half cup of white sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of yeast, whites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, sixteen cup- 



WREAEFAST AND TEA CAKES. US 

iuls of flour, four cupfuls of boiled milk. Melt the butter, have 
the milk blood- warm, and mix like bread; set in a warm place 
and rise over night; in the morning, add the beaten whites of 
the eggs, and sugar; shape into long rolls, rise one hour, and 
take half an hour, 

POTATO BISCUIT, 

Two teacupfuls of mashed potatoes, one pint of sweet milk, 
one teacupful of yeast, one teacupful of shortening, half lard and 
half butter, one tablespoonful of salt, and two of white sugar. 
Boil the potatoes; when done, drain, mash fine and beat with a 
silver fork ten minutes, till very light, then add the hot milk; 
^vhen luke-warm, add the yeast and flour. Let it rise over night. 
In the morning, beat the shortening and sugar to a cream, add 
the salt, make into a stiff dough and let it rise again; when light, 
make into round biscuit; put into a dripping-pan and let them 
get light before baking. Bake a delicate brown color. If rightly 
made they are delicious. 

VIRGINIA BISCUIT, 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls (or 
nearly a quarter pound) of lard. Rub the lard well into the flour, 
and mix into a stiff dough with equal parts of sweet milk and 
water if no milk convenient, water alone will answer. Work 
the dough till smooth, then pound it for ten or fifteen minutes 
with the rolling-pin, or work with a patent bread worker. Roll 
out till less than a quarter of an inch thick, cut with a biscuit 
cutter, and bake quickly. These biscuit are unsurpassed, when 
properly made, and particularly good for invalids. 

VIRGINIA WATER BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, rather more than a quar- 
ter pound of lard rubbed into the flour, and mixed with milk and 
water; the dough must not be stiff as for the above. Work till 
smooth, but do not beat. Then flour your bread, board and roller 
well, and cutting off a small piece of dough -as for pie-crust- 
roll as thin as possible almost to transparency and cut into 
shapes; bake quickly. This recipe is excellent for tea. To make 



116 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

a more ornamental dish they may be baked in wafer-irons. Let 
the dough be soft as pie-crust, and be sure to roll very thin. 

MARYLAND BREAD. 

One quart flour, four eggs, one cup of butter, half a cup yeast, 
one teaspoonful sugar, four medium sized potatoes, and salt. 
Mix and work well about eleven o'clock if for supper. It will 
be too soft to work after it has risen; bake in muffin tins, or drop 
with a spoon in cakes on the biscuit pan. Let it rise the second 
time before baking. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

Graham biscuit are made like Graham rolls, only moulded out 
into round balls, and put in a pan close together; let them get 
light, and bake in a moderate oven. Before you take them out, 
rub them over with sweetened water. Serve hot or cold. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

Cut off a piece of dough, when making Graham bread, and 
work in a tablespoonful of butter; make into long, narrow rolls, 
and allow them to rise for two hours; then, with a sharp knife, 
score each one longitudinally, and rub melted butter over the 
surface of each one. Bake in a moderate oven, quickened tow- 
ards the last; cover closely with a clamp towel for five minutes, 
and send to the table covered with a napkin. 

BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of fresh lard, one 
pint of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder. Rub the baking-powder and salt into 
the flour, and sift all together before they are wet, put in the 
shortening, rub into the prepared flour quickly and lightly, then 
pour in the milk. Work out the dough rapidly, kneading with 
as few strokes as possible; handling the dough too much injures 
the biscuit. If properly made, the dough will have a rough sur- 
face, and the biscuit be flakey. The dough should be very soft; 
roll out lightly, one inch in thickness, cut into cakes and bake 
in a very hot oven. Serve immediately. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 117 

SOUR CREAM BISCUITS. 

One quart of flour, two cups of sour cream, one teaspoonful 
of soda, one of cream-tartar, and one of salt. Dissolve the soda 
in a little warm water, add it to the cream, rub the salt and cream- 
tartar through the flour. Mix quickly, working only enough to 
get the mess together. Eoll then, cut with a small cutter, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

DRIED RUSK. 

One pint of warm milk, two eggs, one-half teacupful of butter, 
one-half teacupful of yeast, one teaspoonful of salt. Set a sponge 
with these ingredients leaving out the eggs, and stirring in flour 
until you have a thick batter. Early next morning add the beaten 
eggs, and flour, enough to enable you to roll out the dough; let 
this rise in the bread bowl two hours. Roll into a sheet nearly 
an inch thick, cut into round cakes and arrange in the baking-pan, 
two deep; lay one upon the other. Let these stand half an hour, 
and bake. If you like, divide the biscuits, and pile one upon 
the other closely together in the pan. Set, when the fire is de- 
clining, in the oven, leaving them in till morning. Put in as 
many as you like in a deep dish and pour over some nice thick 
cream, let them soak till very soft, take out and drain and sprinkle 
powdered sugar over them; you can put them in a muslin bag and 
hang in a cool, dry place. They are very nice for luncheon and 
sick folks. 

RUSKS. 

One pint of sweet milk, two-thirds of a pint of white sugar, 
one cup of butter, one cup of yeast, four eggs, one grated nut- 
meg. Heat the milk luke-warm, add the yeast and the beaten 
eggs; stir in flour, as for griddle-cakes, and let it rise over night. 
In the morning, add the butter and sugar, mix as for biscuit, let 
it rise; make into round balls; and put close together in a pan, 
and let them get light again; egg the tops, and bake in moder- 
ate oven till done. 

PUFFETS. 

One quart of flour, one pint of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, a piece of 



118 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

butter the size of an egg, three eggs, two tablespooufuls of white 
sugar. Beat the butter, sugar and the yolks of eggs, till very 
light; add the milk and flour, with the baking-powder; lastly, 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in gem-pans, 
in a quick oven. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of melted butter, one and one-half cups sweet 
milk, one-half cup of sugar, one-fourth of a cake of compressed 
yeast, or one-half of home-made, three eggs; season with nutmeg 
or cinnamon. Mix as stiff as you would pound cake; set to rise 
over night, with all the ingredients well stirred in. In the morn- 
ing, add teaspoonful of salt, stir well and put in a well greased 
dripping-pan; set to rise. In the same bowl you have stirred the 
cake, put one-half teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoonf ul of sugar; 
rub well together, and when the cake is light, brush it over with 
a pastry brush with melted butter, strew over the sugar crumbs, 
and if you like, some blanched almonds, or sprinkle with cinna- 
mon. Bake in a hot oven. Serve with coffee for breakfast. 

DROP BISCUITS. 

Three cups of sweet milk, four cups of flour, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, one teaspoonful of salt. Sift the flour, mix 
through it three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Pour 
the milk on the flour, beating hard until you have a soft batter; 
add the butter, melted. Pour into greased gem-pans Bake in 
quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN. (No. 1.) 

One cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of yeast, one-half cup 
of butter, one-half cup of sugar, two eggs, three cups of flour. 
Butter a square cake-pan and let it rise over night. Bake for 
breakfast. 

SALLY LUNN. (No. 2.) 

One quart of flour, four eggs, one-half cup of melted butter, 
one cup of warm milk, one cup of warm water, one-half cup of 
yeast, one teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, 
add the milk, water, butter, and salt; stir the flour to a smooth 



BKEAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 119 

batter, and beat the yeast in well. Mix it up in the morning if 
wanted for tea. When light, stir down, and pour into a well 
buttered mould, and let Sally rise again. Bake steadily from 
three-quarters to one hour. Eat hot. 

SALLY LUNN Without Yeast. 

One quart of flour, one-half pint of milk, two eggs, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Bake twenty minutes. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

Two cups of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two eggs, and an 
even teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs separately and well, add 
the whites last, and beat all well together. Bake in gem-pans or 
cups; heat them on the range very hot, so that when you half 
fill the cups with the batter they will brown. Bake in a very 
hot oven; if the gem-pans have been properly heated, and the oven 
hot as it should be, they will bake in five minutes. When baked 
serve immediately. For Graham gems use half Graham flour. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

One pint of sweet milk, five tablespoonfuls of flour, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, six eggs, leaving out the whites of 
three. Bake in buttered cups half filled, twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. For Sauce: Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, 
add one coffeecup of pulverized sugar, and the juice of two 
oranges; turn the puffs from the cups on a platter and cover with 
the sauce just before sending to the table. 

MOLLY PUFFS. 

One cup of Indian meal scalded; when it cools add two cups 
of rye flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of brown sugar, and a 
teaspoonful of Equity baking-powder. Fry them, dropped from 
a spoon, in boiling lard. 

GRAHAM GEMS. (No. 1.) 

One pint of Graham flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda and one 
of salt, rubbed well into the flour, add two teacups of sour milk, 



120 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

beat well, and heat the gem-pans very hot, so they will brown 
the minute you put them in. Bake in a very hot oven five minutes. 
Corn Gems are made in the same way. 

GKAHAM GEMS. (Xo. 2.) 

Two cups of sweet milk or water, one cup of wheat flour, three 
cups of Graham flour, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, lump of but- 
ter the size of an egg, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-pow- 
der, one egg. Beat the butter, egg and sugar together, until 
light; add the milk, next the flour, with the baking-powder; 
have your gem-pans very hot, and bake in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

i 

One and a half pints of Graham flour, one-half pint of wheat 
flour, pint cup three-fourths full of sour milk; add sour cream, 
until full, soda to sweeten, a little molasses and salt Bake in 
hot gem-pans. 

JOHNNY CAKE. (No. 1.) 

One teacupful of sweet milk, one teacupful buttermilk, one 
teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, enough meal to enable you to roll it into a sheet, half an 
inch thick. Spread upon a buttered tin, or in a shallow pan, 
and bake forty minutes. As soon as it begins to brown, baste it 
with a rag tied to a stick and dipped in melted butter. Repeat 
this five or six times until it is brown and crisp. 

JOHNNY CAKE. (No. 2.) 

One-half cup of white sugar, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
two eggs, three teaspoonfuls Equity baking-powder, one cup of 
white flour, one pint of sweet milk, two cups of cornmeal. Beat 
the butter, sugar and eggs well together, add the flour with the 
baking-powder, next the milk and corn meal; bake in shallow 
pans, in a hot oven; when done, cut into square pieces and 
serve hot. 

AN EXCELLENT CORN BREAD. 

One pint of white cornmeal, one teaspoonful of dried saleratus, 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 121 

one-teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, beaten light, one pint of sour 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter. Stir the saleratus and salt 
into the meal, add the eggs, then the milk and butter; beat about 
five minutes, and put in about half an inch thick in the pans, 
and bake. 

CRUMPETS. 

Four cups of warm milk, two-thirds of a cup of yeast, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water, four cups of flour. Set 
these ingredients, except the butter and soda, as a sponge, over 
night. In the morning, add the melted butter, with half cup of 
flour, to prevent the butter from thinning the batter; stir in the 
soda, half fill the muffin-rings with this mixture, and let them 
stand twenty minutes, or until light, before baking. If you like 
them sweet, you can add a teacupful of white sugar. 

CORXMEAL CRUMPETS. 

One quart of Indian meal, one quart of boiled milk, one-half 
teacup of yeast, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of lard, or butter, or half and half, one saltspoon- 
ful salt. Scald the meal with the boiling milk, and let it stand 
until hike-warm. Then stir in the sugar, yeast, and salt, and 
let it rise five hours. Add the melted shortening, beat well, put 
in greased muffin-rings, set these near the fire for fifteen minutes 
and bake. Half an hour in a quick oven ought to cook them. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. 

One and one-half cups of sweet milk, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Equity baking- 
powder, flour enough to make a smooth batter. Bake in muffin- 
rings in a hot oven. Add teaspoonful of salt. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of white sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, one cup of flour, two cups of cornmeal, three eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Stir the butter 
and suo-ar to a cream, add the beaten eggs, then the flour with 



122 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

the baking-powder; beat ten minutes; add the milk and corn- 
meal; bake in muffin-rings or jam-pans, in a very hot oven. This 
recipe makes a very nice Johnny cake. 

i 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 

Two and one-half cupfuls of fine hominy, four cupfuls of sour 
milk, four eggs, one-half cup of butter and lard mixed, three 
tablespoonf uls of white sugar, one and one-half coffeecupfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of soda. Beat the hominy smooth, stir in 
the milk, then the butter, sugar and salt, next the eggs, well 
beaten; add the soda, dissolved in a little hot water, and stir in 
the flour. Bake in muffin-rings, in a hot oven. They are deli- 
cious if rightly made. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

One cup of cold, boiled rice, one pint of flour, two well beaten 
eggs, one quart of milk, one tablepoonful of lard or butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and two of Equity baking-powder. Beat 
hard, put in muffin-rings, and bake quickly. 

CORNMEAL CAKES. 

To one quart of mush, add, when hot, one-half cup unmelted 
lard, salt it well when luke-warm, add one-half cup of yeast; make 
this at noon, and at night add a small teaspoonful of soda, and 
knead in wheat flour as for biscuits. In the morning, mould in- 
to biscuits, and let them rise in the pan before baking. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

One cup of sweet cream, and the same of sweet milk, one pint 
of flour, three eggs, one tablespoonf ul of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful of Equity baking-powder and the same of salt, one 
tablespoonful of white sugar. Beat the eggs very light, the yolks 
and whites separately; add the milk to the yolks, put in the salt, 
shortening, and flour, and lastly the whites of the eggs, stirring 
lightly. Bake immediately, in well greased rings, half filled with 
the batter. Your oven should be hot, and the muffins sent to the 
table as. soon as they are taken up. You can use buttermilk in- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 123 

stead of cream by adding one-half teaspoonful of soda to the 
buttermilk, and one teaspoonful of Equity baking-powder to the 
flour. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Three cups of Graham flour, one cup of white flour, one quart 
of sweet milk, three-fourths of a cup of yeast, one tablespoonful 
of lard or butter, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Set to rise over night; in the morning, put in muffin- 
rings and let them get light before baking, bake twenty min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM CAKES. 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, beaten together, 
then the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, two-thirds of a cup of 
sweet milk, one cup of Graham flour, then the beaten whites of 
eggs, add one more cup of Graham flour, with one teaspoonful 
of Equity baking-powder. Bake in muffin-rings or jam-pans in a 
hot oven. 

SPANISH BUNS Nice with coffee. 

Two and one-half cups of brown sugar (dark brown preferred), 
three-fourths of a cup of sour milk, three-fourths of butter, two 
eggs, the yolks of six more, one teaspoonful of cloves, one-half of 
a teaspoonful extract of lemon or vanilla, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one-half tablespoonful of nutmeg, 
four cups of flour. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
beaten eggs, spices and the milk with the soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water, next the flour; stir well and bake in patty-pans or 
drop them on buttered pans and bake in a hot oven. When done, 
if you like, frost with boiled frosting. 

WAFFLES AND GRIDDLE CAKES. 

If you have not used your griddle or waffle-iron for some time, 
wash it with soap and water, wipe it dry, and rub hard with salt. 
Heat it, and grease it with fat, salt pork tied to a fork. Do not 
put on more grease than is necessary to prevent the cakes from 
sticking. In putting cakes on to griddle, be careful to form them 
a regular round shape, and put on only one at each dip, and so 



124 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

as not to spill between the cakes. Always lay hot cakes and 
waffles on a hot platter as soon as baked. 

WAFFLES. 

One quart of sour or buttermilk, two eggs, one quart of flour, 
one tablespoonful of molasses or brown sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls of melted shortening, teaspoonful of salt. I make waffles 
that are called delicious, with sour or buttermilk, and like every 
thing el.se, there is a little secret about making them. The flour 
is stirred into the milk over night and beaten ten minutes. In 
the morning, put in the molasses or brown sugar; the shortening, 
if made of sour milk; if made of buttermilk they will be short 
enough. Add the well beaten eggs, and a teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in a little warm water. Have the irons very hot on 
both sides, grease them thoroughly, and put in a thin layer, else 
they will swell and run out. When I think one side browned, I 
turn over the irons, and in a minute after peep in to see if both 
sides are done. Serve hot with maple syrup. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint of flour, one pint of sweet milk, two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, one teaspoonful of salt, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter; put in the whites of the eggs 
just before baking. Bake in waffle-irons. 

RISEN WAFFLES. 

One quart of warm, sweet milk, in which has been melted two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Beat into this one saltspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, one-half teacup of home-made yeast. 
Mix them at noon to rise for tea, at night to rise for breakfast. 

RlCE AND CORNMEAL WAFFLES. 

One cupful of cold, boiled rice, one-half cup of white flour and 
the same of cornmeal, two eggs, well beaten, and milk to make a 
soft batter; one tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Beat the 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 125 

mixture smooth before baking. Be especially careful in greasing 
your irons for these waffles, as for all which contain rice. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

One quart of sweet milk, one cup of boiled rice, three eggs, 
three cups of rice flour, one teaspoonful of salt and one of Equity 
baking-powder. Have the rice freshly cooked, add the well beat- 
en yolks, next the milk with part of flour, then the beaten whites 
with the rest of flour. Stir quickly, and bake at once in waffle- 
irons. 

RICE "WAFFLES. Very Fine. 

Eight eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), one quart of 
sweet milk, one teacupful of rice, boiled and mashed, teaspoou- 
ful of salt, three cups of flour. Bake in hot waffle-irons. 

GEE AM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One-half cup of sour cream, two cups of sweet milk, two eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, one-half teaspoonful 
soda. Add the soda to the cream, next the milk, the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten light, and flour, with the baking-powder, enough to 
make a thin batter; beat ten minutes, then add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; bake at once, on a hot griddle, and 
serve with thick cream. 

SOUR MILK OR BUTTERMILK CAKES. 

One quart of sour or buttermilk, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
eggs, beaten separately, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
little hot water, flour enough to make a thin batter. Beat the 
batter hard, ten minutes, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and bake immediately. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One quart of sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls of yeast, one 
tablespoonful of melted lard, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Add all the ingredients to the milk, excepting the eggs and lard, 
make a good batter, and set over night. In the morning, add 
the lard and eggs, well beaten, and bake at once on a hot griddle. 



126 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

DELICIOUS HOT CAKES. 



One quart flour, small half cup yeast, a little salt; mix to a thin 
batter with warm milk; in the morning, add one teaspoonful of 
yeast powder, stir briskly for a moment. When fried they are 
as light as a feather. 

VELVET CAKES. 

One pint of thick cream, one pint of new milk, three eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, very stiff, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one quart of rice flour, or enough to make a good batter. 
Mix the beaten yolks with the milk, add the salt, rice flour and 
the whites of the eggs; stir very lightly, and bake immediately. 

HOMINY CAKES. 

Two cups of fine hominy, boiled and cold, one cup of white 
flour, one quart of sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. Beat the hominy 
well, add the milk, salt and soda, then the flour, lastly, the eggs; 
bake at once. 

OATMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cupful of boiled oatmeal, one cupful of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful Equity 
baking-powder. Sift the baking-powder into the flour, add water 
to make a batter the consistency of buckwheat cakes. Beat well, 
and bake immediately. 

CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. (No. 1.) 

Soak three-fourths of a pint of meal over night in two cupfuls 
of sour milk, and one of sour cream. In the morning, add one 
pint of flour, a little salt and two eggs; soda to sweeten the 
mixture. Bake immediately. 

CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. (No. 2.) 

Two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of cornmeal, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one quart of sour milk. Beat the yolks very- 
light, add the milk with the soda, stir in the flour and cornmeal; 
lastly, the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake im- 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 127 

mediately, on a griddle. Graham griddle cakes may be made iii 
the same way. 

EICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint of sweet milk, one cup of flour, one cup of boiled 
rice, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Have the rice freshly cooked and add it to 
the milk; stir in the flour with the baking-powder; put in the 
whites of the eggs just before baking the cakes. They are very 
fine. 

GRAHAM CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of brown flour, one cupful white flour, three cup- 
fuls sour or buttermilk, one full teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one heaping tablespoonful of lard, three eggs, 
beaten very light. If you use sweet milk, add two teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder. Bake as soon as they are mixed. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of warm water, one-half cup of yeast, one table, 
spoonful of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix in enough 
buckwheat to make a pretty stiff batter, let it rise over night. In 
the morning add the soda, thin it with sweet milk to the right 
consistency, and fry on a hot griddle. If you have them every 
morning, .save a little batter to raise them with, instead of using 
fresh yeast every time. Do not make your cakes too small. 
Buckwheat cakes should be of generous size. 

BREAD PANCAKES. 

One quart of sour milk, two cupfuls of stale bread crumbs, one 
cupful of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt. Soak the bread in 
the milk; when soft, run it through a colander, add the soda, 
with the rest of the ingredients; beat well, and fry slow on a 
griddle. 

FRITTERS. 

One pint of sweet milk, four eggs, one quart of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls Equity baking-powder, sifted together. Serve hot 
with maple syrup. 



128 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Beat six eggs till quite light, then stir in one teaspoonful salt, 
one tablespoonful of fine, white sugar, and the grated rind and 
juice of half a lemon, one pint of milk, two cupfuls of chopped 
apple, two and one-half cupfuls of flour. Stir all well together, 
mix well into a batter, and fry. 

SCARBOROUGH Purrs. 

Take one pint of new milk, and boil it. Take out one cupful, 
and stir into it flour enough to make a thick batter. Pour this 
into the boiling milk. Stir and boil until the whole is thick 
enough to hold a silver spoon standing upright. Then take it 
from the fire, and stir in six eggs, one by one. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and less than a tablespoonful of butter. Drop 
them by the spoonful into boiling lard, and fry like doughnuts. 
Grate on the outside, sugar and spice. 

GOLDEN SLICES. 

Beat four eggs, add half a teacupful of rich, sweet milk, half 
teaspoonful of salt; cut some bread into slices (dry bread will 
do), dip it into the mixture, and fry in butter or lard. When 
brown on one side, turn it over. 



Raised pies should have a quick oven, well closed up, or they 
will fall in at the sides. No pie should have water put in it till 
the minute it goes into the oven, as it makes .the crust bad, and 
is almost certain to make the pie run. Light paste requires a 
moderate oven, but not too slow, as that will tend to make it 
soggy. A quick oven will catch and burn it, and not give it time 
for what is called the second rising. Butter or lard for pastry 
should be sweet, fresh, and solid. "When freshly made butter 
can not be had, work well two or three times in cold, fresh water. 
A teacupful of lard to a quart of flour is a good rule. It makes 
a good common crust. This quantity will make two large pies. 
If you wish to save sugar in the use of gooseberries, rhubarb, 
etc., you can add a little soda without in the least affecting the 
flavor, if you do not use too much. For an ordinary sized pie, 
or pudding, use as much as would cover a five cent piece. If you 
W T ash the upper crust with milk, just before putting them into 
the oven, they will bake a beautiful brown. To prevent the juice 
of pies from soaking into the under crust, beat an egg well, and 
with a bit of cloth dipped into it, rub over the crust before fill- 
ing the pies. To keep pies from running out at the sides, dampen 
the under crust at the edge before putting on the upper, then 
free the edge of the under crust from the tin and pinch both to- 
gether with a knife. 

G-OOD PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

Take one heaping quart of sifted flour, and mix into it two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream-tartar. Add two cups of good sweet lard; 
mix into all of the flour two-thirds of the lard, mixing it quickly 



130 PIES. 

and lightly into the flour, one teaspoonful of salt; dissolve one 
teaspoonful of soda in a small cupful of ice-cold water, and stir 
into the flour with a spoon, using only just enough water to stick 
the flour together. Flour your board and take out just enough 
of the dough for the under crust of one pie; roll out without 
kneading. Do not touch it with the hand more than you can 
avoid; roll the under crust thin; cover all your tins first; fill 
them, take one-fourth of the remaining dough, spread over a lit- 
tle of the reserve shortening, 'hedge it over with flour, lap it over 
like a turn-over, twice, roll again same way; twice rolling in this 
way is sufficient. As soon as your pies are all covered, set them 
at once into the oven. This amount will make four common 
sized pies. If properly made, and the crust is hard and not 
heated by handling, it is excellent, and much better than if more 
shortening is used. 

FRENCH PUFF PA&TE. 

One quart of sifted flour, two teacupfuls of butter, one egg 
use yolk only, ice water. Chop half the butter into the flour, 
stir the beaten egg into half cup of ice water, and work the flour 
into a stiff dough, roll out thin, baste with one-third of the re- 
maining butter, fold closely, roll out again, and so on until the 
butter is used up. Roll very thin, and set the last folded roll in 
a very cold place for ten or fifteen minutes, before making out 
the crust. Wash with beaten egg while hot. This paste is very- 
nice for oyster pates, as well as for fruit pies. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One heaping quart of sifted flour, two teacupfuls of fresh but- 
ter, half pint of ice water. Proceed as in the above. 

CRUST FOR TARTS AND PATES. 

One quart of flour, two cups of butter, one egg, the yolk only. 
Wash the butter, dry, and melt in a vessel set in another con- 
taining boiling water, stirring gently all the while to prevent . 
boiling; take off the salty scum from the top, and when almost 
cold, beat it up, little by little, with the egg, which should be 
previously whipped light. When these are thoroughly com- 



PIES. 131 

binecl together, work in the flour, roll out twice, sprinkling 
lightly with flour before you fold it up; let it stand folded ten 
minutes, in a cold place, and make out for tarts. Bake, before 
you fill them, and brush over with a beaten egg while hot. 

POTATO CRUST. 

One teacupful of cream to six good sized potatoes, boiled and 
mashed fine, add salt, and flour to roll; must be handled as little 
as possible. 

APPLE PIE. (No. 1.) 

One quart of stewed apples, one pint of cream, sugar to taste, 
four eggs, nutmeg. Put the apples through the sieve when done, 
add the cream and beaten eggs, season to taste. Bake with one 
crust. When done, frost the top. Peach pies are even more de- 
licious made in this manner. 

APPLE PIE. (No. 2.) 

Pare, core and slice ripe, tart, winter apples; line your dish 
with a good crust, put in a layer of fruit, and sprinkle light brown 
sugar over it, grate on a little cinnamon or nutmeg, lay on more 
apples till the dish is full; cover with a puff paste, and bake. 
Sift powdered sugar over the top before sending to the table. 

NICE APPLE PIE. 

Make a good crust, and line your pie-dish nicely with it, pare 
and quarter some nice, tart apples, lay them in rows in the pie- 
dish, and sprinkle sugar over them to your taste, you must 
make them pretty sweet season with a few bits of butter for 
each pie, and nutmeg or cinnamon to taste; bake, without upper 
crust, till done. Eat warm. 

KISS-ME-QUICK PIE. 

One cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of water, one tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch, one teacupful of sugar, two eggs, piece of butter 
the size of hickorynut, one cupful of chopped raisins, one-half 
cup of chopped dates. Let the water and milk come to a boil, 
stir in the cornstarch, butter and sugar, let it cool, beat the yolks 



132 PIES. 

of the eggs very light, and stir them in; line a pie-plate with a 
good crust, turn in the material, and bake. When done, beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add one tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, and spread over the top; let it brown slightly, 
and serve cold. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Stone one pound of raisins, add one cupful of sugar, and one 
cupful water. Set them on the stove and let them simmer slow- 
ly till they are plump. Let this cool before making into pies. 
Make a good pie paste and put in the mixture ; strew over the top 
a little flour, and cover with a top crust. Bake in a hot oven. 

LEMON PIE. (No. 1.) 

One cupful of sugar, half a cup of sweet cream, two small lem- 
ons, two eggs; if you have no cream use milk; in that case, add 
one tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
very light, add sugar and beat again, then the juice of both the 
lemons and the grated yellow rind of one. Line your pie-tin with 
crust, add the cream to the mixture just before putting in the 
oven. Bake until the custard is firm; draw to the front of the 
oven, spread evenly over the top a merringue of the whites of the 
two eggs, beaten stiff with two tablespoonfuls of pulverized su- 
gar; return to the oven until it sets. To be eaten cold. Use no 
cornstarch, and no more milk than directed. 

LEMON PIE. (No. 2.) 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of flour, the 
same of cornstarch, one large lemon or two small ones. Beat the 
yolks with the rest of the ingredients, as for cake, till very light, 
then add milk enough to fill the pie. Boil like custard. Bake 
the crust and pour in the mixture. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, add a little sugar, and spread this over the pie. 

LEMON PIE. (No. 3.) 

In the first place, I make a good paste and line a pie-plate with 
it; then, before it is put in the oven, cover the crust with a plate, 
bottom side up, to prevent it from puffing up. When the crust 



PIES. 133 

is done, remove the plate, and put in the following mixture: 
Two large lemons or three small ones, one coffeecupful of sugar, 
one-half cup of cornstarch, two eggs, one pint of boiling water, 
piece of butter the size of a hickorynut. Dissolve the cornstarch 
in a little cold water, and stir it into the boiling water; add the 
butter and sugar and boil three ininutes, stirring all the time; 
set it off the stove and let it get cold; then add the rind and juice 
of the lemons, and the yolks of the eggs, well beaten; beat the 
mixture well and fill the shells with it; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, add half a cup of powdered sugar, frost the 
pie, and place it in the oven to set the icing. Eat cold. Lemon 
pie made in this way is delicious. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Grate the yellow rind of one fresh orange, take the juice and 
pulp of two large oranges, add to them one cupful of sugar and 
the beaten yolks of three eggs; mix one cupful of milk with the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; bake in puff paste. 

CHESS PIE. 

Five eggs, three-fourths cup of butter, one cupful of sugar, 
and flavoring. Beat the yolks and sugar together, until they are 
a perfect froth. Beat the butter until it is a creamy froth also. 
Now quickly add them together, flavoring with a little extract of 
vanilla. Bake in a crust. As soon as done, have ready the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, sweetened with a little sugar, 
and flavored with a few drops of the extract. Spread this over 
the tops of the pies, which return to the oven to receive a delicate 
color. The secret of the pies, not becoming heavy, is in cutting 
them, and distributing them on the plates as soon as they are 
cooked, and still hot; that if they are allowed to cool without 
cutting them, they will fall. This is rather strange, but never- 
theless it seems to be true. 

CUSTAJID PIE. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, four eggs, five tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, a pinch of salt, flavor to your taste. Beat the yolks 
and sugar very light, add the milk and the whites of eggs, beaten 



134 PIES. 



to a stiff froth; mix well, and pour into shells. When done, 
grate nutmeg on top. You can change this pie by adding rolled 
walnuts, hickorynuts, or almonds to the custard before baking. 
This quantity makes two good sized pies. 



PKACH BUSTARD PIE. 

Cover a pie-dish with bottom crust, pare and halve some ripe, 
fresh peaches; cover the bottom of the dish with them, filling 
each half with sugar; make a custard of one pint of inilk, three 
eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour this custard over the 
pie and bake in a moderate oven. 

CREAM PIE. (Xo. 1.) 

One pint of milk, one-half cap of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
cornstarch, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, yolks of three 
eggs, one-half teacup of sweet cream. Boil the milk, mix the 
other ingredients well together, and add to the boiling milk; 
bake the crust first, then pour in the custard; spread over the top 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, with one-half tea- 
cupful of powdered sugar; flavor with lemon, and brown slightly 
in the oven. 



so 2.) 



CREAM PIE. (X 

One pint of sweet cream, one tablespoonful of flour, sugar to 
taste; flavor with nutmeg; whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Line a good sized pie-dish with paste, fill with the cream 
and bake in a slow oven. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One and one-half teacups of grated cocoauut two teacupfuls 
powdered sugar, one-half teacup butter, one teaspoonful of nut- 
meg, one tablespoonful of rose water, one cup of milk, one lemon, 
juice and rind. Cream the butter and sugar, and when well 
mixed, beat very light with the milk and rose water, add the 
cocoanut, lastly, the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in open shells. Sift powdered sugar over them, and serve 
cold. 



PIES. 135 

PEACH PIE. 

Stew nice, ripe peaches, when you have pared and stoned them, 
mash them smooth, and season to taste; fill the crust and bake 
till done. Spread over the pie a frosting made by whipping the 
whites of four eggs to a stiff froth; ^sweeten with a little powdered 
sugar, beat very stiff, flavor with vanilla, and set in the oven un- 
til the frosting is "set." Serve cold. Apple pie is very nice 
made in this way. It should be made of nice, tart apples. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE. 

Sweeten with white sugar, one teacupful of very thick, sweet 
cream, made as cold as possible without freezing, and flavor with 
lemon or vanilla to taste; beat until as light as eggs for frosting, 
and keep cool until the crust is ready. Make a nice puff paste 
and line the pie-plate; bake the crust as for lemon pie; when cold 
put in your cream, and put bits of currant jelly over the top. 
This will make two pies. 

COCOAXUT CUSTARD PIE. 

One quart of new milk, three eggs, well beaten, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one pint of grated cocoanut, must be fresh. 
Bake like custard pie. 

PUMPKIN PIE. (No. 1.) 

Select a nice, yellow pumpkin (dark yellow is best), cut it up 
into squares and pare it, wash it well and put it into a kettle 
with water enough to keep it from burning, stew till tender, then 
let it simmer till all the water boils out of it; watch it closely, or 
it will burn. For a good sized pumpkin it will take nearly one 
whole day to cook it. Brown the pumpkin a little towards the 
last. For one pie, take two-thirds of a cup of pumpkin, strained, 
one pint of new milk, two eggs, one teaspoouful of ginger, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, pinch of 
salt, one-half teacup of sugar. Double this recipe for as many 
pies as you like. Half cream and half milk make excellent pies. 



136 PIES. 

PUMPKIN PIE. (No. 2.) 

Stew the pumpkin as in No. 1, mash and pass through a sieve, 
adding, while warm, a good lump of butter; to every quart of 
pumpkin add two quarts of milk, nine eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately, sugar to taste, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful ground cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger. Bake in a hot oven until set, and a nice 
brown. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Squash pie is made like pumpkin pie, except one egg is added 
for each pie. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. 

"Wash nice, tart dried apples, and simmer all day in a small 
quantity of water, on the back of the range; let them stand until 
the next morning, till you are ready to make the pie; pass them 
through the sieve, add sugar to suit taste. Line the pie-plate 
with under crust, put in the apples, sprinkle over with cinnamon; 
put narrow strips of crut, laid in a network, over the top. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Parboil, skin and slice crosswise, firm sweet potatoes, sprinkle 
thickly with sugar, scatter among them a few whole cloves, and 
cover with more slices. Fill the dish in this order, put a table- 
spoonful of melted butter in each pie, pour in a little water, cover 
with crust and bake. 

PIEPLANT PIE. 

Mix half a teacup of white sugar and one heaping teaspoonful 
of flour together, sprinkle over the bottom crust, then add the 
pieplant, cut up fine; sprinkle over this another half teacup of 
sugar and heaping teaspoonful flour; bake fully three-quarters of 
an hour in a slow oven. Or, stew the pieplant, sweeten, add 
grated rind and juice of a lemon, and the yolks of two eggs, and 
bake and frost like lemon pie. 

YlNEGAR PlE. 

One egg, one heaping tablespoonful flour, one teacupful sugar; 



PIKS. 137 

beat all well together, and add one tablespoonful sharp vinegar, 
and one teacupful of cold water; flavor with nutmeg and bake 
with two crusts. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line the dish with a good crust, and fill with ripe, sour cherries, 
sweeten to taste, sprinkle a little, flour on top, and season as you 
like; cover with a nice puff paste, and bake. Plum, gooseberry, 
raspberry, huckleberry, and currant pies are made in the same 
manner. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Half bake the crust, then put in cherries and the following 
cream: Beat the yolks of three eggs, and one tablespoonful of 
cornstarch, one cup of cherry juice, and sugar to suit the taste. 
Beat the whites to a veiy stiff froth, and stir in. Flavor with 
vanilla, and bake long enough to cook the custard. 

MAPLE SUGAR PIE. 

One cup of grated maple sugar, add two well beaten eggs, a 
little salt, and as much cream as your pie will hold. 

TOMATO PIE. 

Slice green tomatoes, and stew in a thick syrup of sugar and 
lemon juice. Grate in the yellow rind of a lemon. When trans- 
parent, spread evenly over the bottom of a pie-plate that has 
been lined with paste. Spread strips of pastry across the pie, 
and bake. 

GOOSEBERRY TART. 

Put one pint of sugar, to one of fruit, adding just enough 
water to prevent from burning. Cook till it begins to jelly; 
then spread over shells, already baked. Serve cold. 

GREEN CURRANT PIE. 

Line an inch pie-dish with good pie crust, sprinkle over the 
bottom two heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour (or one of cornstarch) mixed; then pour in one pint of green 
currants, washed clean, and two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly; 



138 PIES. 

sprinkle with four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add two 
tablespoonfuls cold water; cover and bake fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

Line a pie-dish with good pie crust, sprinkle over the bottom 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar; pour in one pint of currants, 
sprinkle with five heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one soda 
cracker, rolled fine, cover with upper crust, and bake slowly half 
an hour. Or, mash one cup of ripe currants, one of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls water, one of flour beaten with the yolks of two 
eggs; bake, frost the top with beaten whites of the eggs and two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and brown in the oven. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Two coffeecups of mealy, sweet potatoes, the firm yellow ones 
are best, one-half teacup of butter, three-fourths teacup of white 
sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one lemon, juice 
and rind. Parboil the potatoes, and grate them when cold; if 
grated hot they are heavy and sticky; cream the butter and sugar, 
add the yolks, spice and lemon; beat the potatoes in by degrees, 
and until light; lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs with a cupful 
of thick cream; bake in pie-dishes lined with good paste, without 
upper crust. Irish potato pie may be made in the same way. 

MINCE MEAT. (No. 1.) 

Six pounds of beef (the round is the best piece). Put it on to 
boil in hot water enough to cover it; salt it and take off the scum 
as it rises; let it boil until tender, take from the fire, and let it 
stand over night to get thoroughly cold; pick bones, gristle, or 
stringy bits from the meat, chop very fine, mincing at the same 
time two pounds nice beef suet; seed and cut four pounds raisins, 
wash and dry five pounds of currants, slice thin one pound of 
citron, chop some tart apples; take one-third meat and two-thirds 
of apples, mix all the ingredients in a large pan, add two ounces of 
cinnamon, one of cloves, one of ginger, three nutmegs, the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, and five pounds of sugar, one quart of 



PIES. 139 

boiled cider, one pint of currant or grape juice (canned when 
grapes are turning from green to purple), one pint of molasses, 
and if you have any syrup left from sweet pickles, add some of 
that; two pounds of French prunes stoned and cooked before add- 
ing. Put all in a porcelain kettle and simmer all day on the 
back part of the range. You can double this recipe, and can it 
up in glass jars for the next year, and you will find the mince- 
meat greatly improved as well as convenient. 

The above is a good formula to use, but, of course, may be 
varied to suit different tastes or the material at hand. If too rich, 
add more chopped apples. Good preserves, marmalades, spiced 
pickles, currant, or grape jelly, canned fruit, dried cherries, and 
strong green tea, may be used. The mince meat is better to stand 
several days, before baking into pies, as the materials will be 
more thoroughly incorporated. 

MINCE MEAT. (No. 2.) 

One bowlful each of chopped meat and suet, six bowlfuls 
of apples, two pounds of raisins, four pounds each of currants 
and sugar, one quart of boiled cider, one pint of molasses, one 
tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of black pepper, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, two of 
allspice, one of mace and nutmeg, one-half pound of citron if 
you like. Mix the mince meat well and boil it all day on the 
back of the range. When you make the pies add one lemon to 

six pies. 

EICH MINCE MEAT. (No. 3.) 

Boil beef tongue until tender (pickled); when cold chop it fine, 
and add to it two pounds of zante currants, twelve large apples, 
chopped fine, two pounds of suet, chopped fine, two pounds of 
raisins, four pounds of sugar, the grated rind of one and the juice 
of two oranges, a cupful each of strawberry and raspberry jam, a 
cupful of quince preserves, two cupfuls of strong, green tea, 
three-fourths pound of citron, shreded fine, two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cinnamon, one tablespoonful of nutmeg. Moisten it 
with the spiced vinegar from the sweet peach pickle jar, add the 
juice and grated rind of four lemons. Mix all together well, and 
simmer slowly for three hours on the back of the range. 



140 PIES. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Six soda crackers, rolled fine, two cupfuls of cold water, one 
cupful of molasses, same of brown sugar, one-half oup of vinegar, 
one cupful of boiled cider, one and one-half cupfuls of melted 
butter, one cupful of raisins, seeded and chopped, one cupful of 
currants, two eggs, one tablespoonful cinnamon and allspice 
mixed, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, cloves, salt, and black pepper. 
This quantity will make four pies. 

JELLY PIE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of jelly, 
six eggs. Cream the butter and sugar till very light, add the jelly 
and the well beaten eggs; bake in open shells; makes four pies. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

Four eggs, one teacupful of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, one-half cup of molasses, one cupful of cream; season 
with nutmeg. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the mo- 
lasses and cream, lastly, the well beaten eggs. Bake in open 
shells. 

TRANSPARENT PIE. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs, add a teacupful of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, which has been stirred to a cream; season 
with nutmeg. Bake in open shells. When done, beat the whites 
with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over the top and re- 
turn to the oven, till a pale brown. Makes two pies. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



In making puddings, always beat ths- eggs separately, straining 
the yolks, and adding the whites the last thing. If boiled milk 
is used, let it cool somewhat before adding the eggs. When 
fruit is added, stir it in the last. Kaisins are better if put in hot 
water two or three minutes, until they become plump. Puddings 
are either baked, boiled or steamed. Rice, bread, custard and 
fruit puddings require a moderate heat; batter and cornstarch, 
a rather quick oven. Always bake as soon as made. For boiled 
puddings, use either a tin mould, muslin bag, or a bowl, with 
a cloth tied over it; grease the former well on the inside with 
lard or butter, and, in boiling, do not let the water reach quite 
to the top. A bag that is used for boiling puddings should be 
made of thick cloth. Have plenty of water in the pot, boiling, 
when the pudding goes in. Wring the bag out of boiling water, 
flour the inside well, pour in the pudding, and tie securely, leav- 
ing room to swell; place in a kettle, with a saucer at the bottom 
to prevent burning. Have a tea-kettle of boiling water on hand 
to add to it as it evaporates. The pudding should be frequently 
turned, if boiled in a bag. When the pudding is done, give 
whatever it is boiled in, a quick plunge into cold water, and turn 
out at once; serve immediately. As a general rule, boiled pud- 
dings require double the time for cooking that a baked one does. 
Steaming is safer than either boiling or baking, as the pudding 
is sure to be light and wholesome. In making sauces, do not 
boil after the butter is added. In place of wine or brandy, flavor 
with the juice of the grape, or any other fruit, prepared in its 
season, for this purpose, by boiling and bottling, and sealing 



142 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

while hot. Pudding-cloths should never be washed with soap, 
but in clear, clean water, dried as quickly as possible, and kept 
dry and out of dust. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Put over the fire, in a porcelain kettle, one quart of new milk, 
and when it comes to a boil, put in a teaspoonful of salt, and stir 
in a teacup of flour and two well beaten eggs; let it boil one 
minute, then stir in another teacup of sifted flour, boil two min- 
utes, and serve with sugar and cream. 

KICE PUDDING. 

One teacupful each of boiled rice, raisins, and sugar, one quart 
of sweet milk, four eggs, one-half teaspoon of salt, and one of 
nutmeg. Beat the butter, sugar and eggs together till very light, 
add the milk, next the rice, raisins and seasoning; bake one hour 
in a slow oven. 

BAKED RICE. 

Pick and wash one coffeecup of rice, put in a dish that will 
hold two quarts and a pint, cover with fresh milk, add two- thirds 
of a cup of white sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, and one of cinna- 
mon; set this in the oven, and stir once in half an hour; after it 
has baked two hours, stir in milk enough to fill the dish, and bake 
one hour longer. Serve with sugar and cream. 

SNOW BALL PUDDING. 

Two teacupfuls of rice, two quarts of milk, one pint of water. 
Boil the rice in the water, and when the water is absorbed, add 
the milk; let it boil till tender; stir to prevent burning; put in 
a teaspoonful of lemon essence just before taking off; when done, 
put it in teacups, and let it remain until cold, then turn it 
out on a dish and pour over it a custard made of the yolks of 
four eggs, boiled over hot water; let it get cold before you pour 
over the balls. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, with a little sugar 
and juice of a lemon, and place on top of each ball, with a little 
jelly in the center. It can be moulded in a large dish if wished. 




PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 143 

RICK PUDDING One of the best. 

One cupful of boiled rice (better if just cooked, and still hot), 
three cups of milk, three fourths of a cup of sugar, a tablespoon- 
ful of cornstarch, two eggs; add flavoring." Dissolve the corn- 
starch first with a little milk, and then stir in the remainder of 
the milk ; add the yolks of the eggs and the sugar beaten together. 
Now put this over the fire (there is less risk of burning in a cus- 
tard kettle), and when hot add the hot rice. It will seem as if 
there were too much milk for the rice; but there is not. Stir it 
carefully until it begins to thicken like boiled custard, then take 
it off the fire and add the flavoring, say extract of lemon. Put 
it into a pudding-dish and place it in the oven. Now beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add a little sugar and fla- 
voring. Take the pudding from the oven when colored a little, 
and spread the froth over the top and return it to the oven for a 
few minutes to give it a delicate coloring. 

EICE CUP PUDDING. ,- 

Pick and wash two teacupfuls of rice, boil in water till tender, 
then add "one pint of milk, let it boil, thicken with two table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, fill your cups half full with the pudding, 
fill up two-thirds full with cold, sweet milk, beat the whites of 
four eggs to a stiff froth and put a spoonful on each cup; set it 
in the oven and brown slightly. Serve in cups, hot. 

QUEEN OF EICE PUDDING. 

Take one teacupful of rice, boiled soft, put it into one pint of 
milk (hot is best), then add the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, 
and bake. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the 
juice of one lemon and one cupful of pulverized sugar. Prepare 
this just before your pudding is done. When baked, pour into 
a dish and set in the oven a few minutes to dry. 

DELICATE PUDDING, 

Two eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, one-half cup of sugar, one 
cupful of flour, before it is sifted, one teaspoonful of extract of 
lemon, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, two even teaspoonfuls of 



144 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

Equity baking-powder. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, then put 
sugar and milk together, add the egg and flour, sifted, with the 
baking-powder. Steam thirty minutes over a hot fire, being very 
careful not to jar it. Serve with whipped cream or lemon sauce. 

CORNSTAKCH PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, except enough to wet three tablespoonfuls 
of cornstarch, place in a tin pail, set in kettle of boiling water; 
add the yolks of four eggs, beaten, half a cup of sugar, the corn- 
starch and a little salt; let it boil until it thickens; when cool, 
flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla; pour into a pudding-dish, 
beat the whites of the eggs, add half a cup of sugar, flavor with 
extract of lemon, and place it in the oven to brown. 

MOUNTAIN SNOW PUDDING. 

Three soda crackers, rolled fine, one pint of sweet milk, yolks 
of two eggs, flavor to taste. Bake half an hour. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, add one cup of sugar, flavor with lem- 
on, pour over the pudding, and put it in the oven until a delicate 
brown. 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

The yolks of three eggs and white of one, to which add two 
tablespoonfuls each of sugar, butter, and flour. Beat all smooth- 
ly together, add half a pint of milk; butter two tins or pie-dishes, 
and bake in a slow oven twenty minutes. When you take them 
out, place one on top of the other, and serve with any nice sauce. 

QUEEN or PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cupful of 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, well beaten, the grated rind of one 
lemon, and a piece of butter the size of an egg; bake till done; 
then spread over the top currant or other jelly. Beat the whites 
of the eggs with one cup of sugar and the juice of a lemon, spread 
over and brown nicely. Serve with sweetened cream. Best cold. 
You may, in strawberry season, substitute fresh berries for pre- 
serves. 



BADGLEY & BEHRENDT, 



MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN' 




HALL BUILDING, 



32 NORTH FIRST STREET, 

SAN JOSE, CAL'A. 



TIN ROOFING AND ALL KINDS OP JOBBING DONE. 



W. S. RICHARDS & CO. 



NO. 24 

North First 

STREET. 




MUSIC 
HALL 

Build titq. 



Recognizing the growing demand 
for IJecorated Table \Vare, we have 
secured the exclusive control of the 
follo\ving named decorations of well- 
Icnown \Vare, w^hich we can sell by 
the piece, or in sets, as desired: 

Bro.uyi Indus, 



ootc's Burslcm Bro-ur-ti Tournou, 

*****'-+--* ** - -:* , -7- |K* t^'^v - ' 



V VV V A. * * W W i VI 

I ff---** -- - 



WE ARE HEADQUAFiTERS FOR 



JUSTLY CELEBRATED 



/iyv/) 77/f 



NOVELTIES IN CROCKERY AND GLASS. 






r V * 



FOR Ann UTKRIKIR 

fe:iW PK0VBS ITS JIERIT BY USB. a - 

MRS. ALBERT WILLSON, 

General Agent for the Pacific Coast, 

GILROY. Santa Clara Co., Cal. 

for Rates and Agency. Send $1 for One Month's Treatment. 



J. P. JARMAN & G0B 

tvall ap^p. 



, OIU^S, Y^RjXI.SJlES, 

Windo'w Shades, Artists' Materials, Picture Frames, Etc. 




Staple and Fancy Dry Goods, 



19 SOUTH FIRST ST. 




WHOLESALE MANUFACTURER OF 

COFFEES, SPICES, FLAVORING EXTRACTS, 

Jamaica Ginger, Lemon Sugar, Cream Tartar, Soda, Saleratus, Etc. 

SAN JOSE, CAT!,. 
Patronize Home Industry. TAKE NO OTHER. 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR HUNK1INS' GOODS. 




IMPORTER OF AND DEALER IN 
!), 






TRUNKS, VALISES, ETC. 



]Sos, 114 and 116 South First Street, 

SAN JOSE, CAL. 



-4-MANN & AIKEN.4- 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 



S 6>T 



FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC FRUIT, 



S 6J 



^ Candy, Tobacco, Etc. 



Opposite Postoffice, -SAN JOSE, 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 145 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak six tablespoonfuls of tapioca in one pint of cold water 
over night. Next morning, drain off the water and put the tapi- 
oca in a baking-dish, adding a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a very- 
little nutmeg, one cup of sugar, juice of two and grated rind of 
one lemon, add one quart of water, put it in the oven and bake 
till quite clear. If you choose you can put sliced apples through 
the pudding. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 



>oak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water over night, put 
the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk and boil half an hour. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with a cup of sugar, add three table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream, stir in and boil ten minutes longer, pour 
into a pudding dish, beat whites and stir in three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Put this over the top, sprinkle cocoanut over all, and 
brown for five minutes. 

STEAMED TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one cup of tapioca ic milk over night; add one quart of 
milk, one cup of white sugar, two eggs, butter the size of an egg, 
one cup of raisins, season with nutmeg. Steam two hours. 

OBAXGE PUDDING. 

Peel and slice six oranges, take out all the seeds, put the slices 
in a pudding-dish, in alternate layers with the sugar; make a soft 
custard of one pint of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 
one-half cup of sugar, yolks of three eggs. Boil the milk, put 
in the sugar and yolks of eggs when warm; when it comes to a 
boil, stir in the cornstarch; let it get cold and pour over the 
oranges; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and put over 
the top, brown in the oven, and serve. Or, line the bottom of a 
pudding-dish with stale sponge cake; slice over the cake six 
oranges; make a boiled custard of one quart of milk, five eggs, 
leaving out the whites of four, beat to a stiff froth, adding the 
sugar, put on top of the pudding, and bake it in the oven until 
brown. 



146 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

BREAD PUDDING. (No. 1.) 

One quart of grated bread crumbs, one quart of milk, 
yolks of four eggs well beaten, butter size of an egg, one cup of 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of extract of lemon; mix all well together and bake. 
Beat the whites of the eggs with a cupful of powdered sugar, 
flavor with one teaspoonful of extract of orange or lemon, cover 
the pudding with it, and bake until a light brown. 

BREAD PUDDING. (No. 2.) 

One quart of sweet milk, two cups of fine bread crumbs (stale 
and dry), four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, nutmeg 
to taste, one-fourth teaspoon of soda, dissolved in hot water. 
Beat the yolks very light, and, having soaked the bread crumbs 
well in milk, stir with the yolks, then add the butter and season- 
ing, with the soda, lastly the whites of the eggs. Bake to a fine 
brown, and eat hot, with pudding sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Take six slices of bread and butter them; take a pudding-dish 
and fill it with alternate layers of bread and fruit, raisins or cur- 
rants; when the dish is full, make a good custard of one quart of 
milk, four well beaten eggs, one cup of sugar, and spices to suit 
taste; pour this over the pudding, and bake in a slow oven till 
done. It is very nice made with cherries, gooseberries, or any 
other kind of fruit. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of sugar and one of milk, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, two eggs, three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of Equity 
baking-powder, one teaspoonful of salt. Hub the butter and su- 
gar together, beat in the yolks, then the milk and salt, the beaten 
whites, alternately with the flour and baking-powder; bake or 
steam in a buttered pudding-dish. Serve with liquid sauce. 

PORCUPINE PUDDING. 

Make a sponge cake, and after it is baked, put it in a deep 
dish, and pour over it a boiled custard, made of the yolks of 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 147 

four eggs, and a quart of sweet milk; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, add half a cup of powdered sugar, spread this 
over the pudding, and set it in the oven to dry; then take a cupful 
of blanched almonds and stick them into the frosting as thickly 
as possible. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare six large apples, take out the cores, lay them in a baking- 
dish, fill the holes with sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg. Make a 
rich custard, pour it over the apples. Bake one half hour, and 
serve with sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Cover one-half of a package of gelatine with cold water, and 
when softened, stir into it a pint of boiling water; add one cup- 
ful of sugar, or sugar to taste, and the juice of two lemons; when 
cold and just beginning to thicken, add the well beaten whites 
of three eggs. Beat all lightly and smoothly together, pour the 
mixture into two moulds, and set it away in a cold place until 
cold. Serve in the center of a platter, with a boiled custard 
poured around, made with the yolks of three eggs, one 'pint of 
milk, and half a cup of sugar. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one cupful of suet, and one of brown 
sugar, two eggs, one-half pound of figs. Wash the figs in warm 
water, dry in a cloth; chop suet and figs together, add the other 
ingredients, also some nutmeg, grated. Boil three hours in tin 
pudding form, in a pot of water, and serve with hard sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Five pints of sweet milk, half a pint of sago, four eggs, one 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt, one grated lemon, one pound 
of seeded raisins. Einse the sago in cold water, add to it one 
quart of milk, and boil till it thickens like starch, then take from 
the fire and mix with it the rest of the ingredients, beating the 
eggs well. Bake three-fourths of an hour. Add one teacupful 
of sugar. 



148 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

CRACKER PLUM PUDDING Excellent. 

Take four Boston soda crackers, two and a half pints of milk, 
six eggs. Make a very sweet custard, and put into it a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Split the crackers, and butter them very thick. Put 
a layer of raisins on the bottom of a large pudding-dish, and 
then a layer of crackers, and pour on a little of the custard when 
warm, and after soaking a little, put on a thick layer of raisins, 
pressing them into the crackers with a knife. Then put on an- 
other layer of crackers, custard, and fruit, and proceed thus till 
you have four layers. Then pour over the whole enough custard 
to rise even with the crackers*. It is best made over night, so 
that the crackers may soak. Bake from an hour and a half to 
two hours. During the first half hour, pour on, at three differ- 
ent times, a little of the custard thinned with milk, to prevent 
the top from being hard and dry. If it browns fast, cover with 
paper. 

ORANGE HOLEY POLEY. 

Make a light biscuit dough, as for apple dumplings or valise 
pudding, roll in an oblong sheet, lay sweet oranges, peeled, sliced 
and seeded, thickly all over it; sprinkle with white sugar, and 
roll up closely, folding down the end to secure the syrup. Steam 
one hour. Serve with lemon sauce. Any other fresh fruit, ber- 
ries or preserves may be used in the same way. It is delicious 
made with fresh peaches. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Line a deep pudding-dish with crust, made as for biscuit; stone 
some cherries and fill the dish full; pour on half a pint of water 
and two cupfuls of sugar; put a layer of crust on top, cover it 
tight and let it steam on top of the stove one hour. Peaches or 
apples can be made in the same way. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cup of chocolate, one quart of milk, which has 
not been skimmed, let it boil, then set it to cool; beat until very 
light and thick, add the yolks of four eggs, with one cup of su- 
gar; flavor delicately with vanilla; put it in a baking-dish and 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 149 

bake slowly. To make meringue: Beat up the whites till they 
stand alone, add four tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, flavor with 
vanilla or lemon; then the pudding is again cooled; put the mer- 
ingue over the top, and brown slightly. This quantity is enough 
for six persons. 

PABADISE PUDDING. 

One quart of bread crumbs, a little salt, some grated nutmeg, 
three eggs, beaten very light, three apples, minced very fine, 
half a lemon, juice and grated rind, one cupful chopped raisins. 
Mix all together, boil one hour and a half. Serve with any hot 
sauce. 

SPONGE PUDDING Very fine. 

One quart of milk, one cupful of flour, one cupful of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, twelve eggs. Put the milk in a pan over 
boiling water; mix the flour with some of the cold milk, to a 
smooth paste; when the milk boils, stir this in and let it cook ten 
minutes; set it off the fire, and add the sugar and butter; let this 
get perfectly cold before adding the eggs; then add the well beat- 
en yolks and beat hard; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and stir them in last, lightly; put in well buttered pudding-dish t 
set in a pan of hot water, and bake one hour in a good oven. 
Serve with sweet cream. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, scalded; stir into it cornmeal till it is half 
as thick as mush; take it off the stove, add two cupfuls New Or- 
leans molasses, salt and spices to taste, one cupful of suet chop- 
ped fine, one quart of cold milk, and three well beaten eggs. 
Put it in the oven and bake slowly four hours; when the pudding 
is crusted over, throw in, one by one, two cupfuls of raisins. I 
usually use one cupful of molasses and one of brown sugar, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, teaspoonful of allspice, and four of 
cinnamon. 

ITALIAN PUDDING. 

Separate the whites and yolks of four eggs; with the yolks 
make a boiled custard (with a pint of milk, and sugar to taste). 



150 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

Set one-third of a box of gelatine to soak a few minutes in a lit- 
tle cold water, then dissolve it with three-fourths of a cup of 
boiling water. When the custard has cooled, add the gelatine 
water, and the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; flavor 
with vanilla, stir all together, and put it into a mould. It will 
settle into three layers, and is a very pretty pudding, looking 
much like charlotte russe. Serve with whipped cream. 

COENSTAKCH PUDDING. 

One pint of rich milk, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one- 
half cup sugar, whites of three eggs, a little salt and flavoring. 
Serve with boiled custard made of the yolks of the eggs. Mould 
the custard. To make a cocoanut pudding, add half a cocoanut, 
grated; put into a mould. Serve with whipped cream around 
it, or, a sauce of boiled custard, made of the yolks of the eggs. 
Chocolate pudding: With still the same recipe for a cornstarch 
pudding, first, flavor the whole with vanilla, take out one-third 
of the white pudding; to the remainder, add one-half teacup of 
grated chocolate, dissolved with a little milk. Put half of the 
chocolate pudding in the bottom of a mould, which has been wet 
in cold water; smooth the top; next make a layer with the white 
pudding (the third taken out), smooth it also; next, the remain- 
der of the chocolate pudding. Serve with whipped cream or 
boiled custard; or the one-third portion of the pudding may be 
flavored with half a bar of chocolate, and placed in the center of 
the two layers of the white. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

One quart milk, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a 
teaspoon of salt, one tablespoonful of butter, three pints of stale 
sponge cake; one cupful each of raisins, chopped citron and cur- 
rants. Have a little more currants than of the other fruit. Beat 
the eggs, sugar and salt together, and add the milk. Butter a 
three pint basin mould, sprinkle sides and bottom with fruit and 
put in a layer of cake. Again sprinkle in fruit and put in more 
cake, and so on, and pour on the custard. Let the pudding stand 
two hours and steam one and one-fourth hours. Serve with liquid 
sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 151 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Grate one pound of cocoanut, mix one cup of sugar with one 
pint of cream, adding two tablespoonfuls of rose water. Then 
stir in gradually one pint of rich milk. Beat to a stiff froth the 
r whites of eight eggs, and stir them into the milk and sugar, a 
little at a time, alternately with the cocoanut; add a teaspoonful 
of nutmeg and cinnamon. Put the mixture into a deep dish and 
set it in a skillet of boiling water, and bake twenty minutes, or 
until set. When cold, dust sugar on top and serve without sauce. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups of Graham flour, one-half coffeecup of 
molasses, one-fourth cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one egg, 
one even teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup each of currants and 
raisins, salt, and spices to suit taste. Steam three hours. Serve 
with liquid sauce. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

One pint of molasses, two-thirds cup of suet, chopped fine, 
three and one-half cups of flour, one pint of cranberries, put in 
uncooked, two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one of soda, spices 
to suit the taste. Boil four hours in a bag or mould; can be 
steamed if preferred. 

CORNMEAL PUDDING. (No. 1.) 

One pint of buttermilk, one cup of chopped suet, one cup of 
molasses, two cups of cornmeal, two eggs, one-half cup of raisins, 
one teaspoonful of soda, salt and spices of all kinds, one tea- 
spoonful of Equity baking-powder. Steam two hours. 

SICILY PUDDING. 

The whites of eight eggs, beaten very lightly; one pint of sugar, 
beaten gradually into the whites; add the juice of two or three 
lemons and the grated rind of one lemon, one tablespoonful of 
flour. When mixed, beat all together very hard. Pour into a 
baking-dish, and place this in a pan of boiling water, and bake 
fifteen minutes, to a light brown. Serve cold with cream. 



152 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

CORNMEAL PUDDING. (No. 2.). 

Two quarts of sweet milk, three eggs, one and a half cupfuls of 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, one tablespoonful of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a nutmeg, a little cinna- 
mon bark, one cupful of raisins, or one pint of tart, sliced apples. 
Put the milk on the stove and let it come to a boil; while boil- 
ing, stir in the cornmeal and flour, dissolved in half a cup of cold 
milk; boil this ten minutes (be careful not to scorch it), let cool, 
and add your eggs, beaten very light, the sugar, raisins and 
spices. Nice tart apples give the pudding an excellent flavor. 
Bake till done. 

SUET PUDDING. (No. 1.) 

One-half cup milk, one-half cup molasses, one cupful raisins, 
one and one-half cups flour, one-half cup chopped suet, one-half 
teaspoonful soda, put into the molasses before mixing the other 
ingredients. Steam three hours. 

SUET PUDDING. (No. 2.) 

Two-thirds cup of suet or butter, one cupful each of molasses, 
brown sugar, and sweet milk, three eggs, one cupful each of rai- 
x. sins and currants, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream-tartar, three cupfuls of flour. Chop the suet very fine, add 
the molasses and sugar, and stir well together; add one cupful 
of flour with the cream- tartar, and stir in well; then the eggs, 
well beaten, the milk with the soda, the rest of the flour, spices 
to suit taste, and lastly, add the fruit, well floured, and stir in 
lightly. Steam three hours. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

Eight eggs, two cupfuls of white sugar, one nutmeg, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one quart of rolled crackers, one quart of sweet milk, one 
pound of currants, two of raisins, one-fourth of citron, piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Prepare the fruit the day before you 
wish to make the pudding; pick over and stone the raisins; wash 
and dry the currants; slice the citron very fine; pour the milk 
over the crumbs, beat the eggs very light, and add them with the 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 153 

sugar; next add the spices and butter; lastly, the fruit. Bake 
slowly three hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

^x STEAMED PLUM PUDDING. 

One cupful each bread crumbs, molasses, brown sugar, suet, 
currants and sweet milk; two cups each of flour and raisins, one- 
fourth^cup each candied lemon and orange peel, one-half cup of 
citron, chopped fine, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one-half 
tablespoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of mace, one nutmeg, 
one teaspoonful of allspice, two large teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
teaspoonful of ginger. Soak the bread crumbs in cold water, 
add the milk and molasses, with the soda, the sugar, the suet, 
chopped fine, next the spices and the fruit, rolled in one cup of 
the flour, mix well, then add the rest of the flour with teaspoonful 
of salt. Put in a well greased mould, and steam three hours. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One quart of seeded raisins, pint of currants, half pint of cition, 
chopped fine, quart of apples peeled and chopped, a quart of fresh 
and nicely chopped beef suet, a heaping quart of stale bread 
crumbs, eight eggs beaten separately, pint of brown sugar, grat- 
ed nutmeg, teaspoonful of salt; flour fruit thoroughly from a 
quart of flour, then mix remainder as follows: In a large bowl 
or tray put the eggs with the sugar, nutmeg and milk, stir in the 
bread crumbs and suet, one after the other until all are used, 
adding enough flour to make the fruit stick together, which will 
take about all the quart; dip pudding-cloth in boiling water, 
dredge on inside a thick coating of flour, put in pudding and tie 
tightly, allowing room to swell, and boil from three to four hours, 
in a good sized pot with plenty of hot water, replenishing as 
needed, from tea-kettle. When done, serve with any pudding 
sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. (No. 1.) 

One quart of flour, three tablespoonfuls of butter, one large 
cup of sour cream, or very rich loppered milk, one egg, two table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar, one teaspoonful each of salt and soda. 
Or, you can use sweet milk, and three teaspoonfuls of Equity 



154 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

baking-powder. Roll out, and lay one sheet of paste upon the 
other and bake until done. While warm not hot separate 
these. They will corne apart easily, just where they were joined. 
Lay upon the lower a thick coating, several deep, of straw- 
berries; sprinkle powdered sugar among them; cover with the 
upper crust. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. (No. 2.) 

Before making the cake, have the berries in and crearn for 
spreading in readiness. Pick out a dozen or more of the finest 
berries and reserve them to ornament the top of the cake; put the 
rest in layers, with sugar and a little lemon juice, cover them 
and let them stand at least one-half hour. Take a coffeecujp- 
ful of thick, sweet cream, whip it with an egg-beater, till stiff, 
and sweeten to taste. For the cake, take two cupfuls of sour 
cream, a beaten egg, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of soda; 
put one teaspoonful of baking-powder in the flour and sift in 
sufficient to make a stiff batter, pour into four jelly cake pans, 
spread evenly and bake quickly. Spread the cakes with butter 
and put plenty of berries in the layers between them; spread 
some of the thick whipped cream on each layer of berries, but 
reserve enough to lay over the top a thick coating. On this 
arrange the fresh berries that were saved out, in clusters or other- 
wise. This dish is beautiful as well as delicious. 

ORANGE SH-JRTCAKE. 

One pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, 
sifted through the flour, with one teaspoonful of salt, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, rubbed through the flour; beat one egg 
in a coffeecup and fill it up with sweet milk and stir into the flour, 
roll it out on the moulding board into two cakes, and lay one cake 
upon the other and bake until done. In the first place, before 
making the cake, slice the oranges very thin in a deep bowl and 
put plenty of sugar over them, and let them stand while you are 
making the cake. When the cake is done, separate the two pieces, 
and spread thickly with orange, also put a layer on top of the 
cake. Or if you wish you can frost the top. Serve with orange 
sauce. Blackberry shortcake is made in the same way. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 155 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make the crust as for biscuit, cut off enough for one dumpling 
and fill it with nice, tart, sliced apples; pinch well and shape in- 
to a round ball, and steam three-fourths of an hour over a kettle N/ 
of water. They are much nicer steamed than boiled. Serve 
with sugar and cream. Or you can bake them till they are crust- 
ed over, and pour over them a sauce made as follows: One pint 
of boiling water, one cup of sugar, piece of butter the size of an 
egg; boil this sauce five minutes, then pour it over the dumplings; 
bake, and when one side is browned, turn them over, and brown 
on the other side. This forms a nice sauce for the dumplings. 
Apricots, peaches, or any other tart fruit or preserves, are very 
nice made in this way. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Take one quart of flour, four tablespoonfuls melted lard, half 
teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder; 
mix as for biscuit, with either sweet milk or water, roll thin, and 
line a pudding-dish; mix three tablespoonfuls flour and two of 
sugar together, and sprinkle over the crust; then put in nicely 
sliced peaches and sprinkle over them one cupful of sugar; wet 
the edges with a little flour and water mixed, put on the upper 
crust, press the edges together, make two openings by cutting 
two incisions at right angles an inch in length, and bake in a 
quick oven half an hour. Plums, apples, or any kind of fresh 
or canned fruit, can be made in the same way. 

BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Three eggs, one cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one heaping teaspoonful of Equity bak- 
ing-powder. Mix like cake, and fill four tins as for jelly cake. 
Cover the top layer with frosting. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups of flour, one cupful of milk, two eggs, 
and a little salt; bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, in patty 
pans. Serve with sauce. 



156 SAUCES. 

SAUCHS. 



FOAM SAUCE. 

One cupful of powdered sugar, butter size of an egg, half pint 
of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspooiiful of cornstarch, pinch of 
salt. Beat the butter and sugar to a light cream, boil the milk 
in a custard kettle; stir in the cornstarch and the yolk of the 
egg, mix together, and let it thicken, then pour it over the but- 
ter and sugar. Just before sending to the table, beat in the 
white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth. It makes it nicer to use 
two eggs and currant jelly. 

CABINET PUDDING SAUCE. 

Yolks of four eggs, beaten very light, one lemon, juice and 
grated rind, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one cupful of sugar. Rub the butter into the sugar, add 
the yolks, lemon and spice; beat ten minutes, put in a good glass 
of grape juice, still stirring hard. Set within a sauce-pan of 
boiling water, and beat while it heats, but do not let it boil. 
Serve with a pudding. 

VINEGAR SAUCE. 

One cupful of brown sugar, one and a half cups of water, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter, a few drops of 
essence of lemon, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, or one of cornstarch. Beat butter, sugar, corn- 
starch, lemon and vinegar to a cream; pour the water, boiling, on 
them, and let it boil five minutes. Nice with sweet pudding. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One pint of sweet milk, one cupful of white sugar, half a cup 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of comstarch. Stir all to a cream, 
pour on the milk, boiling hot, stir briskly and let it come to a 
boil. Nice for roley poley pudding. 

PLAIN CREAM SAUCE. 

One pint of cream, one cup of sugar; flavor with nutmeg. This 
sauce is nice for minute pudding. 



SAUCES. 157 

SAUCE FOB PLUM PUDDING. 

Cream half pound of sweet butter, stir in three-quarters pound 
brown sugar, and the beaten yolk of an egg; simmer for a few 
moments over a slow fire, stirring almost constantly; when near 
boiling, add half pint bottled grape juice and serve after grating 
a little nutmeg on the surface. 

HARD SAUCE FOB CHBISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One coffeecupf ul powdered sugar, one-half cup butter, one tea- 
spoonful of cream-tartar, white of one egg. Beat all together 
till very light, flavor with lemon, or anything you like, put it in 
a saucer and smooth neatly, set it in a cool place, on ice if pos- 
sible, and serve with plum or any other pudding. Slice nicely, 
and when you dish the pudding, lay a slice of the sauce on top. 

SAUCE FOB BEEAD PUDDING. 

Two eggs beaten very light, one large cup of sugar, five table- 
spoonfuls of boiling milk, one-half teaspoonful of cornstarch, 
one teaspoonful of nutmeg, or, one teaspoonful of mace, one 
tablespoonful of butter. Rub the butter into the sugar, add the 
beaten eggs, and work all to a creamy foam; wet the cornstarcli 
with milk, and put it in next, with the spice; finally, put in the 
milk, a spoonful at a time, stirring all the while; set within a 
sauce-pan of boiling water, let it get very hot, but not boil; stir 
it all the time while in the water. This is a good sauce for bread 
or any other simple pudding. 

MAPLE SUGAR SAUCE, 

Melt over a slow fire, in a small teacup of hot water, half a 
pint maple sugar; let it simmer, removing all scum; add four 
tablespoonfuls of butter mixed with a level teaspoonful of flour, 
and one of grated nutmeg; boil five minutes, and serve. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

One cup of powdered sugar, one large orange, or two small 
ones, yolk of one egg. Grate the peel, squeeze in the juice, 
and add the beaten yolk; beat all together twenty minutes. This 
sauce is nice for orange shortcake or stale cake pudding, or any 
other kind. 



WEIQHTS AND MEASURES. 



1 quart of sifted flour (well heaped) weighs 1 Ib. 

3 coffeecupfuls sifted flour (level) weighs 1 Ib. 

4 teacupfuls sifted flour (level) weighs 1 Ib. 
1 quart unsifted flour weighs 1 Ib. 1 oz. 

1 quart of sifted Indian meal weighs 1 Ib. 4 oz. 

1 pint of soft butter (well packed) weighs 1 Ib. 

2 teacupfuls of soft butter (well packed) weighs 1 Ib. 
1J pints of powdered sugar weighs 1 R). 

2 cofFeecupfuls powdered sugar (level) weighs 1 Ib. 

2f teacupfuls powdered sugar (level) weighs 1 Ib. 

1 pint of granulated sugar (heaped) weighs 14 oz. 

1 coffeecupfuls of granulated sugar (level) weighs 1 ft. 

1 pint of coffee "A" sugar weighs 12 oz. 

If coffeecupfuls coffee "A" sugar (level) weighs 1 Ib. 

1 pint of best brown sugar weighs 13 oz. 

2^ teacupfuls of best brown sugar (level) weighs 1 Ib. 

3| teacupfuls of Indian meal (level) equals 1 quart. 

1 tablespoonful (well heaped) of granulated coffee "A" or best 

brown sugar equals 1 oz. 

2 tablespoonfuls (well rounded) of powdered sugar, or flour, 

weighs 1 oz. 

1 tablespoonful (well rounded) of soft butter weighs 1 oz. 
Soft butter size of an egg weighs 2 oz. 

2 teaspoonfuls (heaping) of flour, sugar or meal, equal one heap- 

ing tablespoonful. 

LIQUIDS. 

16 large teaspoonfuls are J pint. 
8 large teaspoonfuls are 1 gill. 
4 large teaspoonfuls are | gill. 
2 gills are pint. 
2 pints are 1 quart. 
4 quarts are 1 gallon. 
10 good sized eggs are 1 3>. 
A common sized tumbler holds ^ pint. 




iied in ttie Great Santa Clara Ya. 



reading 3ournal of Central and Sotithcrn Cal f a. 



1'AILY MKKCUKV. 
IV r Annum (by mail) in advance 
.^ix Months " 

Three Months " " " 
I'fr Month, delivered by carrier 



WEEKLY MERCURY. 

.$600 Per Annum (in advance) 

Six Months " . . i 



300 



50 



Three Months 



Sample Copies sent Free to any Address. 



HMitor riinl 



JOSH, 



( 'oiiut-c-U-d \vi1li 1}ie MKRCTJKY is one olllic 

FINEST AND MOST COMPLETE JOB OFFICES 

IX XHE STATE. 



ALL KINDS OK BOOK and JOB 

in ar\ Artistic 
.\r LD\V Rates. 



-/>. E - "l'I IK JT~^ ^ 

' 




Published in the Great Santa Clara Valley, 



leading ^oui'aal of Central and Soutluni CaTa. 



DAILY MKKCrKY. 



WEEKLY .MKKc:rk\. 



Pel Annum (by mail), in advance ...... $6 oo Per Annum (in advance) 

Six Months " ..... 3 oo r .. . ..... 



Three Months 

1'cr M<mth, delivered by carrier 



3 
i 50 



Six Months 
Three Months 



Sample Copies sent Free to any Address. 



Editor arid P-uVjlissl 1^-1 



with the ."VIKRCTJRY i one of the 



FINEST AND MOST COMPLETE JOB OFFICES 

IN XHE STATE. 



A I, I. KIXUS OR BOOK arid JOB I'HIX'J IX(i 
K .vecuted in an Artistic 
At Lo\v Rates. 



When going to make pies or cakes (or do any other baking), 
the first thing to be done is to build your fire, and get the oven 
just right. Let the heat of the oven be regular and moderate. 
The next thing is to put yourself in order; secure the hair in a 
net, or other covering, to prevent any from falling, and brush the 
shoulders and back to be sure none are lodged there that might, 
blow off; make the hands and finger-nails clean; (you should use 
separate towels when cooking), roll the sleeves up above the 
elbows, and put on a large, clean, white linen apron, which you 
should have especially for that purpose. Get your ingredients 
together; in warm weather it is best to place eggs in cold water 
for a few minutes, as they will make a finer froth; be sure your 
eggs are fresh, as stale ones will not make a stiff froth; have 
the flour sifted, sugar rolled, yolks of eggs well beaten (beat 
them till they cease to froth, and are thick, as if mixed with flour), 
set the whites away in a cool place until you are ready for them, 
then beat them vigorously, in a cool room, till they will remain 
in the dish when turned upside down. Grease the pans with 
fresh lard, which is much better than butter; line the bottom 
with paper, using six or eight thicknesses, if the cake is large, 
greasing the top one well. (In some ovens, however, fewer thick- 
nesses of paper would be needed on the bottom, and, in some, 
the sides also should be lined with one or more thicknesses). 
Use none but the best materials for making cake. Be very par- 
ticular to stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and beat the eggs 
well. Cakes are often spoiled because this rule is not followed. 
All kinds of cakes are better for having the whites and yolks of 
the eggs beaten separately. In winter, soften but do not melt 
the butter. Never add fruit till ready to bake, and in .aised 



160 CAKE. 

cake, spread it on top only a little below the surface, or it will 
settle to the bottom. Never stir cake in tin; the stone china wash- 
bowls are very good for this purpose. You can often find odd 
ones at the crockery stores. Have the dishes cool that you are 
going to beatfthe eggs in. Use none but silver or wooden spoons 
to stir the cake. In using milk, note this: That sour milk 
makes a spongy, light cake; sweet milk, one that cuts like pound 
cake; remember, that with sour milk, soda alone is used; while 
with sweet milk, baking-powder or soda and cream-tartar are to 
be added. In recipes where milk is used, never mix sweet and 
sour milk, as it makes cake heavy, even when either alone would 
not do it. Butter in the least degree strong, spoils cake. An 
oven, to bake cake well, must have a good heat at the bottom, 
and not too hot on the top, or the cake will be heavy. For layer 
cake, you want a quick oven; if too slow, your cake will run over. 
Streaks in the cake are caused by unskillful mixing, too rapid or 
unequal baking, or a sudden decrease in the heat before the cake 
is quite done. As these recipes have all been proved, if they fail 
to make good cake, the fault is in the baking. Never move the 
cake, if possible, while baking, as it is liable to fall. If it browns 
too fast, put a paper on top. Cake should rise to full height be- 
fore the crust forms. Never place cake in a draught or take it 
out of the pan when first taken from the oven. Many fail to 
have good cake because they do not take pains, and are too lazy 
or careless to beat the eggs well. Cream the butter and sugar, 
and measure the ingredients. The mixing and baking have oft- 
entimes as much to do with success as the recipe. 

Most women in making fruit cake think it quite incomplete 
without wine or brandy, but it can be made equally as good by 
substituting one cupful of cold, strong, green tea. The flavor of 
tea is excellent in mince pie and fruit cake. 

To facilitate the operation of seeding raisins, pour warm water 
on a few at a time, and take out the seeds with your fingers. This 
will not injure the fruit or cake. When you cut the citron, slice 
it thin, and do not leave the pieces too large, or they will cause 
the cake to break apart in cutting. Currants should be prepared 
for use as follows: Wash in warm water, rubbing well, pour off, 
and repeat until the water is clear; drain them in a sieve, spread 



CAKE. 1G1 

on a cloth, and rub dry; pick out bad ones, dry carefully in a 
cool oven, and set away for use. 

The best way to put in fruit is to sprinkle flour over it, then 
put in a layer of cake at the bottom, half an inch thick, then a 
layer of fruit, taking care that it does not touch the sides of the 
pan, and thus dry up; then a little more cake, then another layer 
of fruit, and thus till the cake is three inches thick (not more), 
and let the top layer be cake. Always dissolve soda or saleratus, 
in warm (cot hot water), as milk does not perfectly dissolve it, 
and thus there will be yellow specks made. Hot water kills the 
life out of it. 

To save repetition in cake recipes, I give below a formula which 
will be well to follow in making all kinds of cake in which butter 
is ueed. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the spices if ^r-. ^ 
any are to be used, next the yolks of the eggs, then part of the 
flour with the baking-powder or cream-tartar, next the milk in 
which soda has been added, if soda is used, then the remaining 
flour with the whites of the eggs added alternately, and if fruit 
is used, let that always be the last thing. Be sure to flour the 
fruit well before adding it. 

In making all kinds of delicate cake, rub the butter to a cream 
add the sugar gradually, next part of the flour with the baking- 
powder or cream-tartar, next the milk with the soda, if any is 
used, then the rest of the flour, and beat hard fifteen minutes; 
add the whites of the eggs just before putting it in the oven. 
There is a great "knack" in beating cake; don't stir it, but beat 
thoroughly, bringing the batter from the bottom of the dish at 
every stroke; in this way the air is driven into the cells of the 
batter instead of out of them, but the cells will be finer if beat- 
en more slowly at the last. Remember, the motion is always 

upward. 

ICING. ^ 

Three teacupfuls of powdered sugar, whites of four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream-tartar, one tablespoonful of cold water, 
flavor to taste. Put the whites of the eggs in a clean, cool, stone 
china dish, and add the sugar, with cream-tartar, and beat half 






162 CAKE. 

an hour, or until the icing is of a smooth, fine, and firm texture. 
If not stiff enough, put more sugar. If you season with lemon 
juice, allow, in measuring your sugar, for the additional liquor. 
The lemon juice, or cream-tartar whitens the icing. Add the 
water last. When you frost the cake, pour the icing, by the 
spoonful, on the top of the cake, and near the center of the 
surface to be covered. If the loaf is of such a shape that the 
icing will settle of itself to its place, it is best to let it do so. 
If you spread it, use a broad bladed knife, dipped in cold water. 
If it is thick with sugar, one coat should be enough. 

FROSTING TO BE MADE IN THREE MINUTES. 

One heaping teacupful of sugar, to one egg, or one pound to 
the whites of three eggs; beat the whites until they are slightly 
foaming, only; as soon as the sugar and eggs are thoroughly 
stirred together, flavored with a little lemon, the icing is done. 

FROSTING WITH GELATINE. 

Dissolve one tablespoonful of gelatine in six tablespoonf uls of 
boiling water, strain and thicken with powdered sugar and flavor 
with lemon or with anything you like; beat till very white. This 
is enough to frost two cakes. This icing will not crumble in cut- 
ting and is very nice. 

BJILED FROSTING. 

Whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, two teacupfuls of 
granulated sugar, one-half cup of hot water; boil sugar briskly 
for five minutes or until it "ropes" from the end of the spoon, 
turn while hot upon the beaten eggs, and stir until cold. Add 
one-half teaspoonful of citric acid and flavor to taste. If you 
like, add half pound sweet almonds blanched and pounded to 
a paste, and it will be found very nice. This amount will frost 
the top and sides of two large cakes. 

To BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Pour boiling water on them, slip their "coats" off, and throw 
them in cold water, to prevent them turning yellow; when pound- 
ed, moisten with whites of eggs, rose water, or orange flower 
water. 



CAKE. 163 

ALMOND ICING Very fine. ^ . 

Beat up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth; add one pound 
of blanched almonds, pounded tine, with a little rose water, then 
mix in by degrees, five teacupfuls of powdered sugar; put it on 
the cake very thick, and when nearly dry, cover with plain icing. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two sticks of chocolate, grated, one-half cup of sweet milk, 
one tablespoonful cornstarch, one teaspoonful vanilla. Boil 
two minutes, sweeten to taste, and add the vanilla. 

To COLOR ICING. 

To color a delicate pink, use strawberry, currant or cranberry; 
or the grated peeling of an orange or lemon moistened with the 
juice and squeezed through a thin cloth, will color a handsome 
yellow. 

FURIT CAKE. (No. 1.) 

One and one-half pounds of flour, one and one-half pounds of 
sugar, one and one-half pounds of butter, two pounds of currants, 
two pounds of raisins, one-half pound of citron, one-half ounce 
each of mace, cloves and cinnamon, twelve eggs, one cupful of 
molases, one cupful of strong coffee, one teaspoonful of soda. 

FRUIT CAKE. (No. 2.) 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of butter, 10 eggs, one 
pound of flour, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, 
one-half pound of citron, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful cloves, 
and one of allspice, one cupful of boiled cider, two teaspoonfuls 
Equity baking-powder. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. (No. 3.) 

Four cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of butter, one cupful cold, 
strong green tea, eight cupfuls of flour, one-half pint sour cream, 
eight eggs, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, and 
two of almonds, one-half pound of citron, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, one teaspoonful saleratus, one lemon, two grated nutmegs, 
one cupful molasses. 



164 CAKE. 

WEDDING CAKE Very fine. 

Four pounds of flour, four pounds of sugar, three pounds of 
butter, forty eggs, five pounds of stoned raisins, three pounds 
currants, one pound of citron, chopped, one ounce of mace, half 
ounce of nutmeg, six teaspoonfuls of rose water, one tablespoon- 
ful of oil of lemon, four teaspoonfuls of baking-powder or two 
ounces of ammonia, well dissolved. Beat the butter and sugar to 
a cream, whisk the whites and yolks of eggs separately, then mix 
and add the flour, gradually; last, the spices, fruit and ammonia. 
Beat well and bake six hours. 

FROSTING FOR WEDDING CAKE. 

Three and one-half pounds double refined sugar, whites of 
twelve eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, then add the sugar, add a 
little potato starch, gradually, add the juice of one lemon. 
Beat well, spread with a knife. Ornaments may be made of the 
frosting by putting a little into a paper funnel and squeezing it 
through in designs upon the cake, after the plain coat has well 
set. 

FRUIT CAKE. (No 4.) 

Three cupfuls of granulated sugar, two cupfuls of butter, one- 
half cup of molasses, four and one-half cupfuls of flour, five eggs, 
three pounds of raisins, one and one-half of currants, one-half 
pound of citron, one teaspponful of Equity baking-powder, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, allspice, nutmeg and mace, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon. 

BLACK CAKE. (No. 5.) 

Yolks of eight eggs, one cupful of butter, two of granulated 
sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, three pounds of raisins, two of 
currants, half of them chopped, one and one-half pounds of 
citron, one-half pound each dates, figs, and almonds, one cupful 
of molasses, six cupfuls of flour browned if you wish the cake 
very dark, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, allspice, cloves, one 
nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 



CAKE. 165 

FRCTT CAKE. (No. 6.) 

One and one-half pounds of floor (browned), one and one-half 
pounds of sugar, one and one-fourth of batter, two pounds of 
raisins, two of currants, one pound citron, two nutmegs, one-half 
pint of molasses, one half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cloves, and one of cinnamon, ten eggs, three taMespoocfuls 
of rose water. Bake three hours. 

EVEBY DAY FBOT CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful molas- 
ses, six cupfuls flour, one cupful sour cream or milk, four eggs, 
one heaping teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins, one pound 
of currants, one-fourth pound of citron, nutmeg, cloves and mace, 
one tablespoonful of each. 

RUTH'S CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, one-half cup butter, one capful sour milk, 
one teaspoonful soda, one-half nutmeg, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, one cupful chopped raisins, two and one-half cupfuls flour, 
a little salt. 

No NAME CAKE. 

One scant cup of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, one-fourth 
cup inilk, one cupful molasses, three cupfuls flour, two eggs, one- 
half teaspoouful of soda, one cupful currants, one-half pound of 
citron, one and one-half pounds of seedless raisins, one teaspoon- 
ful each cloves and cinnamon, one-half nutmeg; add more fruit 
if you wish. Bake in bread pans from two to three hours, 

COLD WATER CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls brown sugar, three cupfuls 
flour, one cupful cold water, three eggs, well beaten, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful cloves, one nutmeg, one table- 
spoonful cmiiamou, one cupful raisins or currants. 



COFFEE CAKE, (No, 1,) 

Two cupfuls brown sugar, one cupful butter, one cupful mo- 
lasses, one cupful strong coffee, as prepared for the table, four 



166 CAKE. 

eggs, one teaspoonful saleratus, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two 
teapoonfuls cloves, one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, one pound 
of raisins, one pound of currants, four cupfuls of flour. 

COFFEE CAKE. (No. 2.) 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, one cupful molass- 
es, one pound of raisins, one teaspoonful each of soda, cinnamon 
and allspice, one-half nutmeg, three eggs (it can be made with 
one or two eggs). Sift the soda in the molasses. Excellent. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Four and one-half cupfuls of flour, three cupfuls of sugar, one 
and one-half cupfuls butter, one cupful of sour milk, four eggs, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus, two teaspoonfuls each of cloves, 
nutmeg, and cinnamon, one pound of raisins, one pound of cur- 
rants, one-fourth pound of citron. 

MOUNT VERNON CAKE. 

One and one-fourth pounds of white sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, one and three-fourths pounds of flour, six eggs, one pint 
of sour cream, one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in water and 
strained; rind of two lemons, juice of one lemon, one nutmeg, a 
little mace, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one-half 
pound of citron. Cream the butter and sugar well together, add 
the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, then the cream and flour, al- 
ternately, then the beaten whites of the eggs. Have the fruit 
floured, and stir this in last of all. Bake about two and one-half 
hours, and cover with buttered paper while baking. 

NUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, three cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of cold water, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder, three cupfuls kernels of hickorynuts or 
white walnuts, carefully picked out, and added last of all. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Four and one-half coffeecupfuls of sifted flour, three coffeecup- 
fuls of sugar, one and one-half cupfuls of butter, one teacupful 



CAKE. 167 

of cream or sour milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, four eggs, 
one tablespoonful each cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, one pound 
each of fruit and citron. 

PORK CAKE. 

One pound of fat, salt pork, one pint of boiling water, one 
pint of New Orleans molasses, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one 
pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one-half pound of al- 
monds, one teaspoonful each of allspice and nutmeg, one table- 
spoonful of saleratus, six cupfuls of flour. Chop the pork very 
fine, and pour over it the boiling water; when cold, add the mo- 
lasses and sugar, then the saleratus and spices, next the flour; 
blanch and chop the almonds, and add them with the rest of the 
fruit. 

OLD HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE 100 years old. 

Four pounds of dried and sifted flour, two pounds of butter, 
two pounds of sugar, three gills of distillery yeast, or twice the 
quantity of home-brewed, half an ounce of nutmeg, and two 
pounds of fruit. A quart of milk. Rub the butter very fine into 
the flour, add half the sugar, then the yeast, then half the milk, 
hot in winter, blood warm in summer, then the eggs, well beaten, 
and the remainder of the milk. Beat it well, and let it stand to 
rise all night. Beat well in the morning, adding the sugar and 
the spice. Let it rise three or four hours, till very light. Put 
the cake in buttered pans, and put in the fruit as directed previ- 
ously. If you wish it richer, add a pound of citron. 

LOAF CAKE. 

One pint new milk, two pounds of flour, one pint of sugar, 
three-fourths pint of butter, one and one-half pounds of raisins, 
seeded and chopped, five eggs. Make a thick batter over night, 
by warming half of the milk. Stir into it one teacupful of good 
potato yeast. In the morning it will be very light; stir into this 
yeast the balance of the milk, warmed, then the sugar, and but- 
ter, melted, then the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; lastly, the rai- 
sins. Keep the cake warm while making it. This will make two 
common sized loaves. Let them stand until they are light. Bake 
in a slow oven about one hour, or until done. 



1G8 CAKE. 

CONNECTICUT LOAF CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of sweet milk, one cupful of yeast, four cupt'uls 
of powdered sugar, three eggs, two cupfuls of butter, two pounds 
of raisins, three nutmegs, one large spoonful cinnamon. Warm 
the milk, add the yeast, and two cupfuls of sugar; stir this to a 
thick batter; when light, add the eggs, well beaten, two more 
cupfuls of sugar, the butter, nutmeg and cinnamon. Having 
seeded your raisins, flour them well, and put them in the last 
thing. This makes four good loaves. After standing until light, 
in the tins, bake in a moderate oven; when done, frost. 

BREAD CAKE. 

On baking day take from your dough, after its second rising, 
three cupfuls of dough; add two cupfuls white sugar, one cupful 
of butter, creamed with the sugar, four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in warm water, two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, 
one cupful of currants, washed and dredged, one cupful of chop- 
ped raisins, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
citron, if you like. Beat the yolks very light, add the creamed 
butter and sugar, the spice, milk, soda and dough; stir till well 
mixed; put in the beaten whites, and lastly, the fruit; beat hard, 
put in two buttered pans, let it get light, and bake till done. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Soak three cupfuls of dried apples over night, chop them rath- 
er coarsely, add two cupfuls of black molasses, and boil half an 
hour. Do not use the water the apples were soaked in. When 
cold, add four eggs, one cupful of butter, one cupful of very 
brown sugar two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
allspice, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of gin- 
ger, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful saleratus (not soda), one 
cupful raisins, one cupful of currants, three cupfuls of flour. 
Bake in moderate oven; when done, frost. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

WHITE PART. One and one-half cupfuls of white, powdered 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two and 



CAKE. 169 

one-half cupfuls of flour, whites of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder. Flavor to taste. 

DARK PART. One cupful of very dark sugar, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sour milk, two and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, yolks of four eggs. Butter your mould, 
and put in the dark and light batter in alternate tablespoonfuls. 

GROOM'S CAKE. 

Ten eggs, beaten separately, one pound each of butter, white 
sugar and flour, two pounds of almonds, blanched and chopped 
fine, one pound of seeded raisins, half pound of citron, shaved 
fine. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, then 
the well beaten yolks; stir all till very light, and add the chopped 
almonds; beat the whites stiff and add gently with the flour; take 
a little more flour and sprinkle over the raisins and citron, then 
put in the cake-pan, first a layer of cake batter, then a layer of 
raisins and citron, then cake, and so on till all is used, finishing 
off with a layer of cake. Bake in a moderate oven two hours. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One pound of butter and one of sugar beaten to a cream, one 
pound flour, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, nine eggs, 
one and a quarter pounds of almonds before they are cracked, 
half pound citron, half pound raisins; beat the yolks light, add 
sugar and butter, then the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, and the 
flour, reserving a part for the fruit, and lastly, the nuts blanched, 
cut fine and mixed with fruit and the rest of the flour. This is 
very delicious, and will keep for months. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, four cupfuls of 
flour, five eggs, one large lemon, one cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus. Kub the butter and sugar to a cream, 
then stir in the yolks of the eggs, well beaten; dissolve the sale- 
ratus in the milk, and add that next; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, and stir them in alternately with the flour; lastly, 
add the juice and grated rind of the lemon. Bake at once. 



170 CAKE. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, two and one-half coffeecups of sugar, 
four and one-half coffeecups of flour, two grated cocoanuts, 
one coffeecup of sweet milk, whites of seven eggs, three small 
teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Reserve a handful of 
the cocoanut for frosting. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, scant three-fourths of a cup of butter, one 
and one-fourth cup of sugar, one teaspoonf ul of Equity baking- 
powder. Mix the baking-powder well with the flour, and pass 
it through the sieve four times. Beat the butter to a light cream, 
and add the flour to it stirring it in gradually with the ends of the 
fingers, until it is a smooth paste. Beat the whites of six eggs to 
a stiff froth, and mix in them the pulverized sugar; now stir the 
egg and sugar gradually into the flour and butter, and mix it 
smoothly together with the egg- whisk; as soon as smooth, put it 
in the oven, the heat of which should be moderate at first. Mix- 
ing cake in this way makes it very fine grain. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup of butter, two cupf uls of powdered sugar, one 
cupful of sweet milk, one of cornstarch, two of flour, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Mix corn- 
starch, flour, baking-powder together, add to butter and sugar 
(which has been stirred to a cream), alternately with the milk; 
lastly, add the whites of seven eggs; flavor to taste. Never fails 
to be good. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, beaten stiff, small cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of pulverized sugar, three-fourths cup of sweet milk, 
small teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, or 
three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, three and one-half 
cupfuls of flour. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
milk and soda, then one-half the eggs, two cups of flour, then the 
rest of the eggs with the cupful of flour, in which the cream-tar- 
tar has been well mixed. Makes two loaves. 




A??!^ 

.M^miHissi , WHITE OAKE. 

C" 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cup of butter, whites of four 
eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, three small 
^teaspoonfuls of baking-powder sifted into the flour. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the milk and flour, a little at a 
time, add the whites last. All cake should be well stirred before 
the whites of the eggs are added. Never fails. 

CORNSTARCH CAKE. Very nice. 

One cupful of butter, two of powdered sugar, two cupfuls of 
flour, one of cornstarch, whites of seven eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder, cup sweet milk. Flavor as you like. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Whites of five eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, one-half cupful of 
butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, two and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, one teaspoonful of bitter 
almond, three cupfuls of flour. 

SNOW BALL CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, whites of three eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Equity baking-powder. Flavor with lemon. Bake in 
one loaf; when done frost. 

FEATHER CAKE. (No. 1.) 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, three 
cupfuls of flour, melted butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar. Flavor with lemon or 
nutmeg, 

FEATHER CAKE. (No. 2.) 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup milk, 
two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, 
two whole eggs, and yolk of one more. Keserve the white for 
frosting. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten 
yolks, next the milk, then the flour with the baking-powder; 
lastly, the whites of the eggs. Bake, and frost. 



172 CAKE. 

POUND CAKE Excellent. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-fourths pound 
of butter, ten eggs, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of mace. Cream 
half of the butter with the flour, add the spice, beat the yolks un- 
til very light, add the sugar, then the beaten whites and the rest 
of the flour, alternately. When this is thoroughly mixed, put all 
together and beat steadily for half an hour. If properly made, 
and baked, this is a delicious cake. 

CENTENNIAL POUND CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, leaving out three yolks. Beat separately. Three- 
fourths pound of butter, one pound of sugar. Sugar and butter 
worked together with the hand. Then add the yolks, next the 
flour, lastly, the whites. Flavor with rose, lemon or vanilla. 

BAKER'S POUND CAKE. 

One and one-fourth pounds of butter, one and one-fourth of 
sugar, ten eggs, one-half ounce of ammonia, dissolved in one 
pint of milk. Season with lemon, mace and cinnamon. Add 
raisins and fruit to taste, flour to stiffen. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar, one pound of flour, half pound of 
butter, whites of sixteen eggs, teaspoonful of Equity baking- 
powder, sifted thoroughly with the flour; put in moderate oven 
with gradual increase of heat. When baked, frost with boiled 
icing while both cake and icing are warm. 

GOLDEN POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths pound of flour, ten ounces 
of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of Equity 
baking-powder, yolks of sixteen eggs. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Two teacupfuls of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one quart of 
flour, six eggs, two cupfuls of sour cream or milk, one grated 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of soda, 



CAKE. 173 

dissolved in warm water, and strained into the milk just before 
adding the latter into the cake. Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the yolks whipped light, then the cream and spice, next the flour, 
then the rose 'and a double handful of citron, cut in strips and 
floured, then the beaten whites. Stir all well and bake in a loaf 
or card. 

HICKORYNUT CAKK. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one cupful of new milk, 
four cupfuls of flour, whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls of hickory- 
nut kernels, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, three teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder. Add the nuts last. 

NUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, three cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of cold water, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder, two cupfuls of kernels of hickorynuts, 
or white walnuts, carefully picked out, and added last of all. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Whites of twelve eggs, one cupful of butter, two cupfuls of 
sugar, two pounds of almonds, one pound of citron, one cocoa- 
nut, one lemon, juice and grated rind, orange peel and rose water, 
three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, five cups of flour. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs to a froth, with twc cups of 
powdered sugar, beat the whites of the eggs, and stir into the 
yolks and sugar; add gradually, one quart of sifted flour, with 
three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, half pound of 
blanched almonds, pounded, with rose water, beat well and add 
three tablespoonfuls of thick, sweet craam; bake in long tin pan 
and frost. 

QUEEN CAKE. 

Beat one pound butter to a cream, with a tablespoouful of rose 

water then add one pound of fine white sugar, ten eggs beaten very 

ight, one and one-fourth pounds of flour, beat the cake well to- 




174 CAKE. 

gether; then add one half pound of shelled almonds, blanched 
and beaten to a paste; bake one hour in a good oven. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. (No. 1.) 

One pound of powdered sugar, fourteen ounces of flour, seven 
ounces of butter, three tablespoon fuls of sweet milk, whites of 
sixteen eggs, two small teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, 
flavor with bitter almonds or rose water. First, mix butter and 
sugar, then milk, then flour and eggs, alternately, and add 
baking-powder last. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. (No. 2.) 

Whites of twelve eggs, three cups of powdered sugar, small 
cup of butter, a cup of sweet milk, four small cups flour, half 
cup of corn starch, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, 
flavor with rose, or almond. 

LADY CAKE. 

One pound of powdered sugar, three-fourths of a pound of 
sifted flour, six ounces of butter, the whipped whites of ten eggs. 
Flavor with bitter almonds, and bake in square, not very deep 
tins. Flavor the frosting with vanilla. The combination is very 
pleasant. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three and one-half cups of flour, three small tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
whites of eight eggs, beaten stiff. 

GOLD CAKE. 

The same as Silver Cake using the yolks. 

CUP CAKE. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, three-fourths of 
a cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda 
two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar; flavor with lemon. Beat the 
butter and sugar, to a cream, add the beaten yolks, next the milk 
with the soda dissolved in it, the flour with the cream-tartar. Beat 



CAKE. 175 

fifteen minutes and add the whites just before baking. If made 
according to rule, this cake will be equal to rich pound cake. 

BEAUTIFUL CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, whites 
of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, flavor 
with almond. Bake in one loaf. By using the yolks with one 
more egg and one cupful of currants, made like the white cake, 
you will have two loaves of beautiful cake. When baked, frost. 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Make a batter as for white cake, take out one teacupful, add to 
it five tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, moisten with milk, 
and flavor with vanilla; pour a layer of the white batter into the 
baking-pan, then drop the chocolate batter with a spoon in spots, 
and spread the remainder of the white batter over it. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

WHITE PART. Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cupful of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking- 
powder, three cupfuls of flour, one lemon. 

PINK PART. Made the same as the white, except use pink sugar 
(which can be bought at the confectioner's), and one-half pound 
of raisins. Put the raisins in the sugar. Put the pink part all 
in the center of the pan, and the white on the outside. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat six eggs, yolks and whites together, two minutes, add 
three cupfuls of sugar and beat five minutes, two cupfuls of flour 
with two teaspoonfuls cream-tartar and beat two minutes, one and 
one-third cupful of cold water, with one teaspoonful of saleratus 
dissolved in it and beat one minute. The grated rind and the 
juice of half a lemon a little salt, add two more cupfuls of flour 
and beat another minute. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of powdered sugar, one-half pound of 
flour, juice of half a lemon, with the rind grated. After all the 



176 CAKE. 

ingredients are ready, the sugar and flour, sifted, the lemon peel 
grated, the half lemon squeezed, and the tins buttered. The 
success of this cake is in the beating of the eggs. Two persons 
should beat them, at least half an hour, one beating the whites 
and the other the yolks and half the sugar together. Next cut 
the yolks into the whites, then stir in lightly the remainder of 
the sugar, then the flour and lemon, by degrees. The oven heat 
should be rather moderate at first. Much of the success depends 
upon this, as the latter should be evenly heated throughout, be- 
fore it begins to rise. When baked, spread over the cakes a 
wafer thickness of icing. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, beat three minutes, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, beat two minutes, one-half cup cold water, two cupfuls of 
flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, a little 
salt and flavoring. 

SCROLL CAKE. 

Seven eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of Equity 
baking-powder, two cupfuls of flour; flavor with lemon. Beat 
well together, and bake. 

FIFTH AVENUE CAKE. 

Whites of ten eggs, one cupful of powdered sugar, one cupful 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, juice of one 
lemon. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Whites of twelve eggs, four cupfuls of powdered sugar, one 
tablespoonful of bleached butter, three cupfuls of flour, or two 
cupfuls of flour and one-half cup of cornstarch, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. 
To bleach butter, put it in cold water and wash it till very white. 

GERMAN CAKE. 

Nine eggs, beaten separately, one cupful of sugar, the rind and 
juice of one lemon, two cupfuls of grated, stale, white bread, one 
cupful blanched almonds, chopped fine. Bake in a slow oven. 



CAKE. 177 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar (fine 
crushed, rolled fine), one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful each of 
Equity baking-powder and vanilla. Measure sugar and flour, 
before sifting, then sift sugar once, and the flour four 
times, adding baking-powder the last time. Bake in a very slow 
oven without butteiing the pan. When it is done turn the pan 
upside down, resting the corners on something so that the air can 
reach it while cooling. The eggs must be beaten quickly, and 
have no water in them. Do not let them stand a minute; 
have sugar and flour ready before beating. Bake forty minutes. 
Keep a pint dish of hot water in the oven, while baking. Do not 
open the oven, at least twenty minutes after being put in. Avoid 
janing the oven while the cake is baking. Use a new pan to bake 
the cake, and use this dish for no other purpose. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of eleven eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, one and one-half 
cupfuls of granulated sugar, sift four times, one cup of flour, 
pinch of salt, flavor to taste, one teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 
Sift the flour, add the cream-tartar, sift again, sift the flour and 
sugar twice more, then add sugar lightly to beaten eggs, then the 
flour very gently, then the flavoring. Beat the whole all the time 
until put into the oven, bake moderately forty minutes. You 
can bake it in a loaf, or in two shallow pans, and put between, 
boiled icing. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE, 

Two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one cupful of butter, one cup- 
ful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder, whites of six eggs. Bake in jelly-pans, 

and frost. 

ICING. 

Whites of four eggs, and three teacupfuls of powdered sugar, 
whipped together for half an hour; flavor with lemon, and add 
one teaspoonful of cream-tartar; put between layers and on top. 
Or, you can make boiled icing. You can make a yellow cake the 
same as the above recipe, only using the yolks of the eggs; bake 



178 CAKE. 

the same, and put it together alternately, first the yellow, then 
the white. It looks very pretty when cut. The two together 
will make two loaves. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cupfuls of white, powdered sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, 
one whole egg, and the yolks of three, one cocoanut. Bake in 
jelly-pans. To prepare cocoanut, cut a hole through the meat, 
at one of the eyes in the end of the nut, draw out the milk, pound 
the nut well on all sides, to loosen the meat, crack, take out the 
meat, wipe dry, and set the pieces in the heater, or in a cool, 
open place, over night, or for a few hours, to dry; then grate. 
Make a boiled icing, put a handful of cocoanut into the frosting, 
and put between the layers of the cake; frost the top and sides, 
and sprinkle thickly with cocoanut. 

WHITE COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one small cupful of butter, whites of 
seven eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, one 
cupful of cornstarch, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, 
Frost, and prepare cocoanut as in above recipe. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One and one-half cupfuls powdered sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, yolks of three eggs, and whole one, three cupfuls of flour, 
one cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking- 
powder. Bake in jelly-pans. 

THE ICING. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, and add the grated rind and juice 
of two large or three small oranges; (be careful they are not bit- 
ter), thicken it with powdered sugar; put this between the layers 
of the cake, and ice it nicely on the top and sides. Any kind of 
white cake with the yellow icing, makes a beautiful contrast. 

ORANGE CAKE. 
One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful 



CAKE. 179 

of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of Equity 
baking-powder, five eggs, leaving out the whites of two. Bake 
in jelly-pans. Between the layers spread a frosting made of the 
whites of two eggs, one pound of sugar, and juice of two oranges. 
Grate the rind into the cake. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cup of butter, five eggs, one- 
half cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. Bake in jelly-pans. 

FOB CUSTARD. One-half cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of oornstarch, one cupful sweet milk; flavor to taste. 

WHITE CUSTARD CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cupful 
sweet milk, Avhites of six eggs, three cupfuls of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder; bake in jelly-pans. 

CUSTARD. One pint of sweet milk, yolks of four eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one-half cup of sugar. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-half cup of butter, three 
cupfuls of flour, three-fourths cup of sweet milk, whites of five 
eggs, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder; bake in deep 
jelly-pans. 

Make Caramel as follows: Two coffeecupfuls of granulated 
sugar, one coffeecupful of cream (if you cannot get the cream use 
milk), one spoonful butter wash all the salt out of the butter as 
it curdles the milk. Boil fifteen minutes; stir all the time while 
boiling. Set off and stir till it begins to thicken, spread between 
the layers, and frost all over the outside with a thick coating of 
the caramel. For chocolate caramel, boil ten minutes, and add 
four sticks of grated chocolate. 

WHITE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, two cupfuls of powdered sugar, two-thirds 
cup of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, three cups of flour, three 
teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder; bake in jelly-pans. 



180 CAKE. 

To prepare the chocolate, beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, add four sticks of chocolate, eighteen teaspoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of cream-tartar, beat well, and 
when the cake is done, put between layers, and frost the top. 

YELLOW CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup very full of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three cup- 
fuls of flour, two-thirds cup of sweet milk, five eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Bake in four jelly-pans. 
Make boiled icing, and add four sticks of grated chocolate, first 
dissolved in a little cold water; put between layers and on top. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

The whites of eight eggs, two cups of sugar, one of butter, 
three cupfuls of flour, one of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the 
sugar, and beat until light; add the milk, then the flour and 
beaten whites. When well beaten, divide into two equal parts, 
and into half grate five sticks of sweet chocolate. Bake in layers, 
spread with custard, and alternate the white and dark cakes. For 
custard for the cake, add a teaspoonful of butter to two teacup- 
fuls of milk, and let it come to a boil; stir in two eggs beaten 
with one cupful of sugar, add tablespoonful of cornstarch, dis- 
solved in a little milk. Frost with white icing on top and sides. 

CEEAM CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten light, one cupful of sugar, one of flour, 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking- 
powder. Bake the cake in a deep jelly-pan, let it cool, then cut 
through the center, and put in the custard cold. Custard for the 
cake; one cupful of milk, two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, three 
teaspoonfuls of flour, one of cornstarch; flavor as you like. Frost 
the top and sides with chocolate icing. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, three eggs, one and one-fourth cup- 
fuls of sugar, one-half cup of milk, two and one-half cupfuls of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Take one 



CAKE. 181 

cupful of this mixture and put in one jelly-pan, and another 
cupful in another pan, and bake. These are for the top and 
bottom of the cake. While these are baking, add to what is left 
in the bowl one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, 
and two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one cupful of chopped seed- 
ed raisins. When this is baked, put it between the other two 
with just enough jelly to make them stick. Roll in a napkin 
till cold. 

SPICK CAKE. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of 
sour cream, three cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, three 
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two of allspice, two of cloves, one 
nutmeg. Bake like jelly cake, and put together with frosting or 
jelly. Frost the top and sides with white icing. Add five eggs. 

HlCKORYNUT OR ENGLISH WALNUT CAKK. 

One pound of granulated sugar, one half pound of butter, one 
teacupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, juice of one 
lemon, and four eggs, three cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of 
rolled hickorynuts or English walnuts, added with one cupful of 
currants and raisins. Bake in jelly-pans in a quick oven. Put 
together with boiled icing, ice the top and sides also. 

FIG CAKE. 

SILVER PART. Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
two-thirds cup of milk, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder, thoroughly sifted, with three cupfuls 
flour; ptir butter and sugar to a cream, add the milk and the flour, 
and last the whites of the eggs. 

GOLD PART. One cupful of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking- 
powder, sifted in two cups of flour, yolks of seven eggs, well 
beaten, and one whole egg, one teaspoonful of allspice and two 
of cinnamon; bake the white in two long pie-tins. Put half the 
gold in a pie-tin, and lay on one pound halved figs (previously 
sifted over with flour), so that they will just touch each other; 
put on the rest of the gold, and bake. Put the cakes together 



182 CAKE. 

with frosting while warm, the gold between the white ones, and 
cover with frosting. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, three eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Bake in jelly-pans. 

JELLY FOR CAKE. One cup of white sugar, one egg, one lemon, 
the rind grated, one tablespoonful of butter. Beat all together, 
and boil three minutes; let it get perfectly cold before using. 
Spread between the layers, and frost the top and sides. 

ALMOND CAKE. (No. 1.) 

Two cupfuls of powdered sugar, two and one-half cupfuls of 
flour, half cup of milk, one-fourth cup of butter, whites of eight 
eggs, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. For custard 
take three-fourths pint of rich sour cream, yolks of three eggs, 
beaten well with the same quantity of sugar, one and one-half 
pounds of almonds, blanched and pounded in a mortar very fine; 
add the beaten yolks to the cream, and beat until as thick as 
sponge-cake, then add the whites and almonds; flavor with 
vanilla. Spread thick between the layers; frost the top and sides. 

ALMOND CAKE. (No. 2.) 

One-half cup of butter, two cupfuls of powdered sugar, three 
cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, four eggs, or the 
whites of six, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. 

THE CREAM. One-half pint of thick, sweet cream, whites of 
three eggs, one pound of almonds, blanched and pounded to a 
paste. Set the sauce-pan, containing the cream, into a pan of 
boiling water, and when the cream comes to a boil, stir in the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, add the almonds and one-half cup 
of sugar; let it get cold, then flavor with vanilla; spread this 
between the cake, and frost the top and sides. 

VARIETY CAKE. 

Make a batter, as for cocoanut cake; bake five layers in jelly- 
tins; make frosting of the whites of three eggs, two cupfuls of 
powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, 



CAKE. 183 

with frosting for the first layer mix rolled English walnuts, 
with that for second layer mix fine-sliced figs, for the third with 
walnuts, for fourth with figs, and on the top and sides spread the 
plain frosting, with grated cocoanut thickly over it. 

DREAM CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of pulverized sugar, half cup of butter, beaten to 
a cream; add half cup of sweet milk, two and a half cups of flour, 
two and a half teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder in the flour, 
whites of eight eggs; it is baked in three layers; each layer 
should be about inch and a half thick when baked. The frost- 
ing for the bottom layer is flavored with lemon, the next layer 
with vanilla, and the top layer and sides are frosted, and the top 
layer is thickly covered with cocoanut and is flavored delicately 
with a few drops of rose water. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Beat one cupful of butter to a cream, add one and a half cup- 
fuls of flour, and stir very thoroughly together; then add one cup- 
ful of cornstarch, one cupful of sweet milk, in which three tea- 
spoonfuls of Equity baking-powder have been dissolved; last, 
add the whites of eight eggs and two cupfuls of sugar well beat- 
en together; flavor to taste, bake in sheets, and put together 
with icing. 

MlNNEHAHA CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, half cup of butter, whites of six eggs, 
or four whole eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, two and one-half 
cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. 
Bake in three layers. For filling, make boiled icing and add to 
it two cupfuls of stoned raisins, chopped fine, and place between 
the layers and over the top. 

PRISON CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one cup- 
ful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, whites of eight eggs, 
three teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. 

DARK PART. One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of dark brown 



184 CAKE. 

sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of sour milk, four cup- 
fuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, yolks of eight eggs, one 
pound of currants, one pound of raisins, all kinds of spices; bake 
in jelly-pans. When cold, put together with the following icing : 
The white of one egg, thoroughly beaten, the grated rind of two 
and the juice of three lemons, and powdered sugar enough to 
make a thick frosting; then put together, first dark, then light, 
with frosting between, on top and sides. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, beaten separately, one cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of flour, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, two teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder. Beat the sugar and yolks of the eggs till 
thick, add the water and flour, with the baking-powder; lastly, 
the whites of the eggs. Bake in layers, and make the cream as 
follows: One-half pint of sweet milk, one-half teacup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of cornstarch; flavor to taste. When the milk 
comes to a boil, stir in the yolk and cornstarch, previously wet 
with a little cold milk; boil three minutes, take it off the fire, add 
the sugar and the beaten white; let it get cold before putting 
between the layers. Add one egg. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

If the directions for making this cake are carefully observed, 
there will be no such thing as a failure in making it. The eggs 
are not beaten separately, and the faster the cake is put together 
the better it will be. Take two coffeecupfuls of granulated sugar, 
two teacupfuls of sifted flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Equity 
baking-powder, pinch of salt; into this break six eggs, beat all 
well together, turn into tins, and bake in a quick oven to a light 
brown; when done, turn out on a moulding-board, and spread 
with jelly; roll carefully, and wrap each roll in a clean napkin. 

COCOANUT BALLS. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, three-fourths 
cup of milk or water, whites of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder; flavor with lemon, Bake in square pie- 
pans. When the cakes are done and cold, cut into square pieces. 



CAKE. 185 

FROSTING. Two cupfuls of sugar, eight tablespoonfuls of water; 
boil until it "ropes" from the end of the spoon, turn while hot 
upon the beaten whites of two eggs, beat well, and use it hot; 
dip the cake first into the icing then into grated cocoanut. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, two and one-half cupfuls of flour, two- 
thirds cupful of sweet milk, four eggs. Put three teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder into the flour before adding it to the 
other ingredients. Beat the eggs and sugar as for sponge cake, 
then add the milk and flour, with a little salt. For frosting, 
whites of two eggs, two cupfuls of powdered sugar, to which add 
the juice and grated rind of two oranges, and put together. 
This is a very accommodating cake when butter is scarce; can be 
used for any kind of layer cake, or it is very nice baked in a loaf. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. ^ 

Make a good sponge cake, bake half an inch thick in jelly-pans, 
and let them get perfectly cold; take a pint of very thick, sweet 
cream, beat until it looks like ice cream, add one cupful of sugar 
and flavor with vanilla; blanch and chop a pound of almonds, 
stir into the cream, and put very thick between each layer. 

LITTLE GOLD CAKES. 

The yolks of eight eggs, three cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of 
sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; flavor to taste. Bake in small 

fluted pans. 

RICE CAKES. 

Take four pounds of flour, one pound of ground rice, two 
pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, ten eggs, one-half pint of 
cold water, one-half ounce of ammonia, dissolved in the water, 
and added immediately to the other ingredients before mixing, 
flavor with lemon, wash with beaten egg and dust with broken 
sugar on top before putting in the oven. 

ALMOND CAKES. 
Whites of eight eggs, beaten to a froth, stir into them one 



186 CAKE. 

pound of powdered sugar, for half an hour, one-half pound of 
almonds, chopped, and flour sufficient to make a thick dough. 
Drop on buttered tins dusted with flour. Put in cinnamon to 
suit the taste. 

SPONGE DKOPS. 

One and one fourth pounds of sugar, nine eggs, one ounce of 
ammonia, one-half pint of sweet milk; flavor with lemon; one 
pound of flour. Drop on buttered pans and bake in a hot oven. 

SHREWSBURRY CAKES. 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of 
butter, eight eggs, one pint of milk, one and one-half ounces of 
ammonia, lemon to taste. Drop on tins and bake. 

CITRON CAKES. 

Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, then together, 
with one-half pound white powdered sugar; stir one-half hour; 
one-fourth pound of chopped citron, and the same of chopped 
almonds; flour enough for thick dough, and bake like the above. 

LEMON JUMBLES. 

One egg, one teacupful of sugar, one-half teacup of butter, 
three teaspoonfuls of milk, juice of two small lemons, and the 
grated rind of one, one level teaspoon of cream-tartar, one-half 
(small) teaspoon of soda. Mix into a soft dough, handle as little 
as possible, roll very thin cut into round cakes and bake in a quick 
oven. 

NEW YEAR'S COOKIES. 

One and one-fourth pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one- 
half pint of cold water, three and one-fourth pounds of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water, four tablespoon- 
fuls caraway seed, sprinkled through the flour. Rub the butter, 
or, what is better, chop it up in the flour; dissolve the sugar in 
the water; mix all well with the beaten eggs, cut with a round 
mould, and bake quickly. Keep in a cool, dry place, in a stone 
crock. They are very nice. Add two eggs. 



CAKE. 187 

LEMON COOKIES. 

One pint of granulated sugar, one cupful of butter, one quart 
of flour, four eggs, leave out the white of one, three teaspoonfuls 
of Equity baking-powder, juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Beat the sugar, butter and eggs to a cream; add the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, sift the baking-powder with the flour, 
mix together, and mould as lightly as possible. After cutting 
the paste into cakes, wash the tops with the white of an egg, 
beaten to a froth, and sprinkle over with granulated sugar, and 
bake. 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

Two cupfuls of white sugar, one of sour cream, one teaspoon- 
ful each of soda and nutmeg, one egg, piece of butter the size of 
an egg, little salt. Beat the sugar and egg to a cream, add the 
butter and cream, next the nutmeg, and mix in flour enough to 
make a soft dough; roll out, cut into cakes, and bake in a hot 

oven. 

GOOD COOKIES. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of nice fresh lard, two eggs, 
well beaten, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream -tartar. Stir lard and sugar to a cream, 
add the beaten eggs, the milk with soda, the cream-tartar with 
the flour; flavor to taste; mix very soft, and bake quickly. 

SUGAB COOKIES. 

One pound of granulated sugar, three-fourths of a pound of 
butter, one-half pint of buttermilk, one-half ounce of soda, 
flour to make very soft. Eoll thin and bake in a hot oven. 

SAND TABTS. 

One pound of sugar, two pounds of flour, three-fourths pound 
of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, yolk of one egg. Cut in 
diamonds, wash the top with white of egg, sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon. Bake quickly. 

EXCELLENT JUMBLES. 
One cupful of butter, two of white sugar, one cupful of sweet 




188 CAKE. 

cream, one teaspoonful of soda, one egg, little nutmeg. Flour 
enough to stiffen so as to bake in rings. 

RING JUMBLES. 

Three coffeecupfuls of powdered sugar, two cupfuls of butter, 
four eggs, beaten separately, flour enough to make a soft dough, 
tablespoonful of rose water. Paper a pan, and with a spoon, 
form rings of the dough, leaving a hole in the middle. Bake in 
a hot oven. 

LADY'S FINGEKS. 

Two coffeecupfuls of powdered sugar, ten eggs, one quart of 
sifted flour, flavor with lemon, pinch of salt. Beat eggs and sugar 
as light as for sponge cake; sift in with flour one teaspoonful of 
baking-powder, and stir slowly. Drop upon white paper, in long 
narrow cakes; bake in a very hot oven. They are nice dipped in 
chocolate icing. When done, spread with jelly, and put together. 

ALMOND CHEESE CAKES. 

Take one-half pound of sweet almonds, blanch and put them 
in cold water. Take them out and wipe them dry; beat them in 
a mortar, fine, and quickly drop in a few drops of rose water to 
prevent oiling; add one and one-half cupfuls of powdered sugar, 
and the grated rind of one lemon, the yolks of eight eggs. Beat 
the whole mixture together until it becomes white and frothy; 
butter small patty-pans, cover with puff paste, and fill them 
with this mixture; grate sugar over them, and bake in a gentle 
oven. Serve cold. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKES. 

One-fourth pound of butter, yolks of two eggs and white of 
one, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, one-half pound 
of loaf sugar. Beat the eggs light, melt the butter, and put it in 
last. Make and bake like almond cheese cakes. 

BUTTER BISCUIT. 

One cupful of sugar, one small cupful of butter, one egg, one- 
fourth teaspoon of soda, one-half of cream-tartar, flour to roll 
them nicely. Bake quickly. 



CAKE. 189 

ALMOND JUMBLES. 

Two cupf uls of powdered sugar, three cupfuls of flour, one-half 
cup of butter, one cup of sour milk, five e*ggs, one tablespoonful 
of rose water, three-fourths pound of blanched and chopped 
almonds, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water. 
Cream butter and sugar, stir in the beaten yolks, the milk and 
flour, the rose water and the almonds; lastly, the beaten whites. 
Drop in rings, on buttered paper, and bake quickly. You may 
substitute grated cocoanut for almonds. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 

One-half pint of boiling water, two-thirds cup of butter, five 
eggs, two cupfuls of flour. Boil water and butter together; while 
boiling, stir in the flour, and boil five minutes; take it off the fire, 
and when it gets cold, add the eggs, beaten separately, and stir 
with the hand to a smooth paste. Grease a dripping-pan, and 
drop a tablespoonful of this mixture for each cake; rub the top 
of each cake with the white of an egg, beaten to a froth. Bake 
in a hot oven twenty minutes. They will be hollow inside. 

THE CREAM. One pint of sweet milk, two eggs, one-half cup 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of cornstarch. Let the cream come 
to a boil, then stir in the cornstarch and the yolks of the eggs, 
well beaten; boil two minutes, set off, add the sugar, and the 
whites, beaten to a stiff froth; flavor with lemon. Cut off the 
tops of the cakes and fill them with the cream. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cupful of hot water, one-half cup of butter. Boil to- 
gether, and while boiling, stir in one cupful of flour; let it boil 
three minutes, set it off the stove and let it get perfectly cold, 
then stir in three eggs (not beaten). Stir with the hand to a 
smooth paste, drop a dessertspoonful on a buttered tin. Bake 
in a hot oven, and when cold fill with the above cream, and sift 
powdered sugar over them. 

CRULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS. 

To fry doughnuts use one-third suet, to two-thirds lard. Of 
course, the suet must be, like the lard, of the very nicest and 



190 CAKE. 

sweetest kind. I find good beef drippings, such as one saves 
from roasts, to be very nice for this purpose. Not only are the 
doughnuts better flavored, when fried in this way, but I find that 
it is also an advantage in the way of economy, as the lard and ' 
tallow so used together will fry many more cakes than an equal 
quantity of lard will as the latter prevents fat-soaking. Fat- 
soaked doughnuts have always been a great horror to me, and I 
have noticed the making of them to be the failure of many in- 
experienced cooka. The great cause of the trouble is that the fat 
is not boiling hot when the cakes are put in. When the cakes 
do not rise to the surface within a few seconds after they are put 
in, then the fat is not hot enough and yet you must never let the 
fat be so hot as to emit a blue smoke or your cakes will be dark- 
colored and bitter. But in this, as in everything else, practice 
makes perfect. 

RAISED CONNECTICUT DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint of sweet milk, four eggs, one teacupful each lard 
and yeast, one teaspoonful each cinnamon, salt, and nutmeg, two 
cupfuls of white sugar. Warm the milk, add the lard and yeast, 
stir as thick as griddle-cakes; set over night. In the morning, 
add the beaten eggs, with the rest of the ingredients, and mix 
like biscuit dough; when light, cut with a small, round cutter, 
and let them stand on the moulding-board till light; fry in hot 
lard, and roll in powdered sugar, when done. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Three cupfuls of sweet milk, one cupful of yeast, flour to make 
a thick batter. Set this sponge over night. In the morning, 
add one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, nutmeg or 
cinnamon to taste, one saltspoonful of salt, flour enough to roll 
out like biscuits. Knead well and set to rise. W T hen light roll 
out and cut into cakes, and let them get light and fry in hot lard. 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sweet milk, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of buttermilk, one-half cup of sugar, one small teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, even teaspoonful 



CAKE. 191 

of Equity baking-powder, two eggs, well beaten. Mix very soft, 
season with nutmeg. Fry in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS Very fine. 

One cupful of powdered sugar, one pint of sweet milk, three 
teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder, two eggs, piece of butter 
the size of an egg, one-half nutmeg. Beat the sugar, butter 
and eggs together till very light, add the milk and flour, with the 
baking-powder; mix very soft, roll out an inch thick, cut with a 
round cutter, not larger round than a walnut, with a hole in the 
center. You can get one made at any tin shop for a trifle. The 
beauty of the doughnut is to have it in shape like a ball. Fry 
in hot lard, and when done, roll in powdered sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mix by sifting two or three times, two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
Equity baking-powder, with one quart of flour; beat two eggs 
with one coffeecup of sugar, adding a teacupful of new milk (or 
better, if at hand, half milk and half cream), and season with 
nutmeg. Mix all together, reserving a little flour for rolling out. 
Fry in hot lard. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

One teacupful of sour cream, two of buttermilk, two of sugar, 
three eggs, one teaspoonf ul each salt, soda, and cinnamon. Flour 
to roll out rather soft, cut into strips and twist. Fry immediately. 

CRULLERS. (No. 1.) 

Four eggs, six heaping tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls each of melted butter and sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of Equity baking-powder. Flavor with lemon. Mil these in- 
gredients well, then add flour enough to roll soft, cut into narrow 
strips, braid in fancy shapes and fry immediately. If the whole 
is carefully done, the crullers will come out very light-colored 
and nice. 

CRULLERS. (No. 2.) 

Three eggs, one-half pint of buttermilk, two cupfuls of sugar, 
one cupful of butter, half a nutmeg, teaspoonful of cinnamon, 



192 CAKE. 

teaspoonful of salt, flour enough to make them roll nicely. 
Beat the eggs separately. Roll out, cut into shapes, and fry in 
hot lard. 

CKUIXERS. (No. 3.) 

Six eggs, one coffeecupful sugar, six tablespooufuls melted 
butter, four of sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda in the milk, two 
teaspoonfuls cream-tartar in the flour, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
half of a small nutmeg (or any other seasoning), flour to roll out; 
fry in hot lard. If the lard is not fresh and sweet, slice a raw po- 
tato, and fry before putting in the cakes. 

NOTHINGS. 

Three well beaten eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, flour enough 
for a very stiff paste. Roll out, and cut into very thin cakes and 
fry like crullers; put two together with jam or jelly, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 

MOONSHINES. 

Two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat the eggs very light, add the butter and salt, beat five min- 
utes; mix very stiff, roll out in a thin sheet, cut in square pieces 
with a knife, slit in six bars; pass two knitting-needles under 
every other strip, spread the needles as far apart as possible, and 
with them, hold the moonshines in the fat until a light brown. 
Only one can be fried at a time. They are very nice to set on the 
table for a tea party. 

COMFITS. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls 
of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of lemon, pinch of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of Equity baking-powder. Fry in hot lard. Dip 
in by the spoonful. 

TRIFLES. 

One quart of flour, one cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls of Equity baking- 
powder, one egg, and sweet milk sufficient to make it rather stiff. 
Make and fry like moonshines. 



CAKE. 193 

GINGER BREAD. 

Ginger bread and cakes require a moderate oven; snaps a quick 
one. Snaps will not be crisp if made on a rainy day. If cook- 
ies or snaps become moist in keeping, put them in the oven and 
heat them for a few minutes. Always use New Orleans or Porto 
Kico molasses, and never syrups. Soda is used to act on the 
"spirit" of molasses. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One cupful each of molasses, brown sugar, and sweet milk, 
one small cup of butter, three eggs, three cupfuls of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one of soda, one teaspoonful each 
of ginger and cloves. Bake in two shallow pans. 

SOFT GIXGER BREAD. 

One cupful of brown sugar, one of molasses, three-fourths of 
a cupful of cold water, three cupfuls of flour, one-half cup of 
shortening, one egg, three teaspoonfuls of soda. Bake in a large 
dripping-pan. One teaspoonful of ginger. 

GINGER BREAD Very nice. 

One cupful each molasse, brown sugar, and sour cream, three 
cupfuls of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful each of soda, cin- 
namon, and ginger, one-half teaspoon of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder. Bake as the above recipe. 

THE BEST OF GINGER BREAD. 

One cupful of New Orleans molasses, three tablespooufuls of 
brown sugar, nine tablespoonfuls of melted butter, or nice drip- 
pings, three teacupfuls of flour, one cupful of boiling water, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon and 
ginger. Set the molasses and sugar on the stove, in a tin pan, 
and let it come to a boil; put in the melted butter, next the boil- 
ing water with the soda, next the spices and flour; beat all the 
lumps out, and put in the oven as soon as you can. The secret 
in making this ginger bread is not to get it too stiff. You must 
use judgment in regard to flour, as some flour thickens more 
than others. 



194 CAKE. 

HARD GINGER BREAD. 

Five pints of flour, two coffeecupfuls of butter, one quart of 
molasses, half pint of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of soda; mix 
the milk, molasses, and flour together, melt and add the butter; 
roll out on the sheets. To make it glossy, rub over the top, just 
before putting into the oven, one well beaten egg. 

SPONGE GINGER BREAD. 

One cupful of sour milk, one of molasses, one-half cup of 
butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of 
ginger, three cupfuls of flour; put butter, molasses and ginger 
together, make them quite warm, add the milk, flour, eggs and 
soda; bake as soon as possible. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of butter or lard, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of soda, dissolved in 
three tablespoonfuls of boiling water, one egg; mix very soft. 

GINGER COOKIES -Extra fine. 

Five eggs, two cupfuls of New Orleans molasses, two cupfuls 
of brown sugar, two cupfuls of butter, two teaspoonfuls of soda, 
dissolved in one tablespoonful of hot water, one tablespoonful 
of ginger. Beat the eggs very light, then stir in the rest of the 
ingredients, turn into the flour and mix hard enough to roll nicely. 
I usually use one cupful of butter and one of lard. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, one of molasses, one cupful of 
butter, one tablespoonful ginger, one teaspoonful of alum, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda, one cupful of boiling water. Dissolve the 
alum in the hot water. Mix rather stiff, roll out little thicker 
than sugar cookies; bake in a quick oven. This recipe makes 
nice, hard ginger bread, such as bakers make. 

MOLASSES JUMBLES. 

One cupful of melted butter, two cupfuls of molasses, one cup- 
ful of- cold water, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two eggs, one table- 



CAKE. 195 

spoonful of ginger. Make them thick enough to drop from a 
spoon. Bake in a hot oven. 

GINGER DROP CAKES. 

One cupful each of molasses, brown sugar, lard, and sour milk, 
four and a half cupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful each of cinna- 
mon and soda, one teaspoonful each of ginger and cloves. Drop 
by the spoonful on tins, and bake in a hot oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. (No. 1.) 

One pint of molasses, one cupful each of brown sugar and but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger. Set 
the molasses on the stove and boil hard five minutes. Set it off, 
let it get cold. While the molasses is cooling, rub the butter 
and sugar to a cream, then add it to the molasses, with the soda 
and ginger. Make into a stiff dough, roll very thin, cut into 
round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. (No. 2.) 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of 
boiling water, in which dissolve one teaspoonful of soda; mix all 
the ingredients well together, add one teaspoonful each of ginger 
and allspice, and last of all add two-thirds cup of melted butter; 
mix stiff enough to roll nicely; roll very thin, cut into round 
cakes, and bake in a hot oven. 

BAKERS' GINGER SNAPS. 

One quart of New Orleans molasses, two and one-half teacup- 
fuls of brown sugar, two teacupfuls of lard, well packed, two 
tablespoonfuls of soda, one tablespoonful of cloves, two table- 
spoonfuls of ginger. Mix the ingredients well together, and 
knead in flour until very hard. Work them as you would bread, 
half an hour, or until the dough cracks. Koll very thin, and cut 
as small as a silver dollar. You can get the cutter ?uade at any 
tin shop, for a trifle. The cutter should be made so as to cut ten 
at one time. Bake in a hot oven. When they are all baked, let 
them get cold, then put them in a stone jar. 



196 CAKE. 

GINGER NUTS. 

Six pounds of flour, one pound and a quarter of butter, rub- 
bed into the sugar, one pound and three-quarters of sugar, one 
quart of molasses, four ounces of ginger, one nutmeg, and 
some cinnamon. The dough should be stiff, and kneaded hard 
for a long time. Cut into small cakes. They will keep good, 
closely covered in a stone jar, for many months. 

SUPERIOR GINGER CAKES. 

Four eggs, one cupful of sour milk, one quart of molasses, one 
cupful of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of lard, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, one even tablespoonful of soda, beaten 
into the molasses. The eggs and sugar should be beaten as for 
cake; the butter worked into the flour; after working the ingre- 
dients thoroughly, handling the dough as little as possible. Flour 
the board and rolling-pin well, as the dough should be as soft 
as can be handled. Koll a quarter of an inch thick; cut into 
cakes and bake in a quick oven. 

GINGER" SNAPS. 

One large cupful of butter and lard mixed, one coffeecupful 
of brown sugar, one cupful of molasses, one-half cup of cold 
water, one tablespoonful each of ginger, and cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm 
water. Flour for pretty stiff dough. Roll very thin and bake 

quickly. 

CRISP GINGER SNAPS. 

One pint of molasses, one cupful of lard, and a little salt, three 
tablespoonf uls of vinegar. Heat all together and after removing 
from the stove, add one even tablespoonful of soda and one table- 
spoonful of ginger. When cool, mix in enough flour to make it 
stiff. Roll very thin; bake quickly. 



CONFKCTIONKRY. 



To PREPARE SUGAR FOR CANDIES. 

Put a coffeecupful of water for each pound of sugar, into a 
porcelain kettle, over a slow fire. Put in, for each pound, say 
half a sheet of isinglass, and half a teaspoon of gum arabic, dis- 
solved together. Skim off all impurities, and flavor to your taste. 
All sugar for candy is prepared thus, and then boiled till, when 
drawn into strings and cooled, it snaps like glass. A little hot 
vinegar must be put to loaf sugar candy, to prevent its being too 
brittle. Candies made thus, can be colored with boiled beet 
juice, or saffron, and it can be twisted, rolled, and cut into any 
form. It can have almonds, cocoanut, hickorynuts, Brazil, or 
peanuts, sliced, or chopped and put in. It can be flavored with 
vanilla, rose, lemon, orange, cloves, cinnamon, or anything you 
please. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One cupful of granulated sugar, one cupful of molasses, one- 
fourth cup of water, piece of butter the size of an egg. Boil 
hard, stir all the time. Try it by dipping a little in water. 
When done, let it get cool enough to handle, and pull until it 
becomes white. If you wish, put in a cupful of hickorynut 
meats; pour on buttered pans, and let it get cold. 

IOE CREAM CANDY. 

Put three cupful s of white sugar in an iron kettle with little 
less than half a cup of vinegar, or the juice of one large lemon, 
one and a half cupfuls of water, and butter the size of a hick- 
orynut. Do not stir the ingredients, but put over a hot fire and 



198 CONFECTIONERY. 

boil, until dropping in a little water, it will be quite hard; add 
flavoring just as it is done; pour into buttered plates; pull as 
soon as it can be handled. If you want taffy, do not boil quite 
so long. This recipe makes splendid chocolate candy, by merely 
adding a cupful of grated chocolate when you first put it on to 
boil. If you do not pull it, you will have chocolate caramels. 
It is very nice when pulled. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cupful molasses, one-half cup of sugar, one-third cup of 
milk, two and one-half squares of chocolate, butter size of a small 
egg. Grate the chocolate fine, and boil until stiff; pour into 
buttered pans to cool; before cold, mark off in little squares. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

INSIDE. Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of water, one and a 
half tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

OUTSIDE. Half a pound of chocolate. Directions : For inside, 
mix the ingredients, except the vanilla; let them boil from five 
to eight minutes; stir all the time. After this is taken from the 
fire, stir until it conies to a cream. When it is nearly smooth, 
add the vanilla and make the cream into balls. For outside, 
melt the chocolate, but do not add water to it. Roll the cream 
balls into the chocolate while it is warm. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Dissolve half a pound white gum arabic in one pint of water, 
strain, and add one-half pound of fine sugar, and place over the 
fire, stirring constantly until the syrup is dissolved and all of the 
consistency of honey. Add gradually, the whites of four eggs, 
well beaten. Stir the mixture until it becomes somewhat thin 
and does not adhere to the finger. Flavor to taste with vanilla, 
and pour into a tin slightly dusted with powdered starch, and 
when cool, divide into small squares. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Three pounds A coffee sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
half a teaspoon of cream-tartar, and the same of extract of lemon; 



CONFECTIONERY. 199 

add only enough water to dissolve the sugar; boil without stir- 
ring, till it will easily break when dropped into cold water, and 
when done, add the lemon; pour into a well buttered dripping- 
pan a quarter of an inch thick, and when partly cold, mark off 
into small squares. 

CREAM WALNUTS. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds cup of water. Boil without stir- 
ring until it will spin a thread; flavor with vanilla. Set off into 
dish with little cold water in ; stir briskly until white and creamy. 
Have walnuts, shelled; make cream into small, round cakes with 
your fingers; press half a walnut on either side, and drop into 
sifted granulated sugar. For cream dates, take fresh dates, re- 
move stones, and fill center of dates with this same cream. Drop 
into sugar. 

HOARHOUND CANDY. 

Boil two ounces dried hoarhound in a pint and a half of water 
for about half an hour, strain, and add three and a half pounds 
of brown sugar; boil over a hot fire until sufficiently hard; pour 
out in flat, well greased tins and mark into sticks or small squares 
with a knife, as soon as cool enough to retain its shape. 

CANDIED POPCORN. 

Put into an iron kettle one tablespoonful of butter, three of 
water, one teacupful of white pulverized sugar. Boil until ready 
to candy, then throw in three quarts of nicely popped corn. Stir 
briskly till candy is evenly distributed over corn. Take kettle 
from fire, stir until it is cooled a little and you have each grain 
separate and crystalized with sugar, taking care that the corn 
does not burn. Nuts of any kind can be prepared in the same 

way. 

KISSES. 

Beat the'whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir into them half 
a pound of powdered sugar; flavor with lemon or rose; continue 
to beat until very light, then drop, half the size of an egg, and a 
little more than an inch apart, on well buttered letter paper; lay 
the paper in a dripping-pan and place in a hot oven. Bake till a 
light yellow ; a little ammonia makes them light. 



200 CONFECTIONERY. 

MERINGUES. 

Whites of six eggs, nine ounces of powdered sugar, one-half 
pint of cream (whipped), three ounces of sugar with the cream, a 
slight flavoring of vanilla. Whip the eggs to a very stiff froth; 
add three drops of vanilla, and mix in the sugar, by turning it 
all over the eggs at once, and cutting it together very carefully. 
Sprinkle sugar over a tin platter, and on it place a tablespoonful 
of this mixture at convenient distances apart; smooth the tops 
and sprinkle a little sugar over them. The secret in making 
the?n is in baking. Put them in a moderate oven and let the 
doors be open, for thirty-five minutes. They should not be al- 
lowed to color during that time. They should be in the oven 
three-fourths of an hour. Brown slightly toward the last. While 
warm, scoop out the inside and fill with whipped cream, and 
stick two of them together. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Prepare the almonds the day before you make the cakes, by 
blanching them in boiling water, stripping off the skms, and 
pounding them, when perfectly cold, a few at a time, in a mortar, 
adding from time to time, a little rose water; when beaten to a 
smooth paste, stir into a pound of sweet almonds, one tablespoon- 
ful of essence of bitter almonds; cover closely, and set away in a 
cold place until the next day. Then to a pound of meats allow 
one pound of powdered sugar, the beaten whites of eight eggs, 
one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Stir the sugar and whites of the 
eggs lightly together, then whip in gradually the almond paste. 
Line a baking-pan with buttered white paper, drop the mixture 
upon the pan, being careful not to drop them too close to each 
other or they will run together. Sift powdered sugar thickly 
upon each, and bake in a hot oven. Try the mixture first, and 
if not thick enough, beat in more sugar. In baking macaroons 
and kisses, use washed butter for greasing the tins, as lard or salt 
butter gives an unpleasant taste. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, BTC. 



A good rule for custard is five eggs to a quart of milk, and a 
tablespoonful of sugar to each egg. A small pinch of salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold milk, 
and added to the custard, improves it very much. Creams and 
custards that are frozen, must have at least one-third more sugar 
than those which are not to undergo this process. In heating 
the milk for custards, do not let it quite boil before adding the 
yolks. Take the scalding milk from the fire, and instead of 
pouring the beaten eggs into it, put a teaspoonful of the milk to 
them, beating well all the while, adding more milk as you mix, 
till you get it all in. Eeturn all to the fire, and scald until the 
mixture is of the right consistency. Fifteen minutes should 
thicken a quart. Stir constantly. Custards are much nicer and 
lighter if the yolks and whites are beaten separately, the latter 
stirred in at the last. 

To WHIP CREAM. 

First, let the bowl and the whisk be not only scrupulously 
clean, but let them be cold. If a whisk has been hanging in the 
hot atmosphere of a kitchen, it is not fit to whip cream with. 
The whisk as well as the bowl should be rinsed in cold water be- 
fore they are used. The old fashioned osier whisk is preferable 
to a tinned one. Let the operation be carried on in the pantry, 
or in a room where there is no fire, and when the weather is hot, 
place the bowl on ice, or in a larger bowl containing cold water. 
As to the mode of whipping, the whisk should be held lightly in 
the hand, and we know no better expression to describe the way 
to work than that the whisk should be used in a playful manner. 



202 CUSTARDS, CKEAMS, ETC. 

Some cooks will put into the cream a small quantity of gelatine, 
dissolved in milk, or the white of an egg, or a pinch of gum 
tragacanth, all of which will, no doubt, help the frothing. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

One quart of sweet milk, five eggs, pinch of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch; flavor with lemon. Set the milk on top 
of the stove in a clean vessel, then separate the eggs, beat the 
whites into a stiff froth; when the milk is scalding hot, slip the 
whites on top of the milk, turning them gently, so that they will 
not cook, then lift them out on a plate; whip up the yolks, with 
one cup of sugar, stir the scalding milk into the eggs gradually; 
set it on the stove, and let it come to a boil; add the salt and the 
cornstarch, stirring all the time the milk is scalding. The very 
moment it comes to the boiling point, lift it off if it boils it will 
curdle flavor to taste with lemon or vanilla; let it get cold, put 
it in a glass dish, and put the froth on top. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

One quart of sweet milk, four eggs beaten separately, five table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, mixed with the yolks, nutmeg and vanilla. 
Scald but not boil the milk; add by degrees to the beaten yolks, 
and when well mixed, stir in the whites; flavor, and pour into 
a deep dish, or custard cups of white stone-china. Set these in 
a pan of hot water, grate nutmeg upon each and bake until firm. 
Eat cold, from the cups. 

STEAMED CUSTARD. 

Make the same as for baked, and steam until they are firm in 
the center. 

CREAM CUSTARD. 

One pint of cream, one pint of milk, one cupful of sugar, one- 
half cup of cornstarch, whites of four eggs. Boil the milk and 
cream together, and while boiling, add the sugar and cornstarch, 
dissolved in a little cold milk; add the whites of eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth; just before you take it off, stir them lightly; boil 
five minutes after you put in the cornstarch. Flavor with lemon, 



CTJSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 203 

almond, vanilla or raspberry. It is nice to pour into cups, hav- 
ing a few drops of different flavor in each. You can mould it in 
a mould. Serve cold with cream. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 

Mix one egg with a cupful of fresh ground coffee, and pour on 
it a pint of boiling water; boil five minutes, pour in a cupful of 
cold water, let it stand ten minutes, pour it off clear into a sauce- 
pan, add a pint of cream, and boil; beat eight eggs, yolks and 
whites separately; beat the yolks and one cupful of sugar till 
very light, and pour the boiling mixture over this, Stirling it well. 
Set the whole in boiling water, and stir till it thickens; then add 
the whites, and stir lightly. Put in cups, and serve cold. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

Three tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one quart of sweet milk, one 
egg, and the yolks of three more, one cupful of white sugar. 
Soak the tapioca in the milk for two hours, then boil till tender; 
add the sugar and the beaten eggs, remove it from the fire, and 
make a frosting of the reserved whites of eggs; spread over the 
top, and place in the oven to brown slightly. Serve cold. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Pare and slice six good sized apples, steam until tender, then 
rub them through a colander, and set where they will get ice cold. 
When cold, add the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup- 
ful of sugar, and the whites of four eggs. Beat all to a froth, 
and serve immediately, in a deep glass dish. Dot with currant 
jelly, and eat with cream. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Fill a deep glass dish half full of soft custard, and then heap 
up with apple snow. Make the custard with yolks of eggs. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Two sections of chocolate, one quart of sweet milk, one cup- 
ful of sugar, yolks of six eggs, one tablespoonful of cornstarch. 
Beat the chocolate and starch smooth in separate cups with milk, 



204 CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 

and boil the rest of the milk. Add the chocolate and starch, and 
last of all, the eggs, stirring constantly, until the mixture is 
smooth. It is to be eaten with white cake, made with the whites 
of the eggs. 

WHIPPED SYLLABUBS. 

One pint of rich, sweet cream, one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
one cupful of currant jelly, vanilla or other extract, one large tea- 
spoonful. Sweeten the cream, and when the sugar is thoroughly 
dissolved, beat to a stiff froth; lastly, stir in the jelly and season- 
ing, carefully. Serve at once, heaped in glasses, and eat with 
cake. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whites of four eggs, one cup and a half of cream; flavor with 
vanilla. Whip all together to a stiff froth, put it in a glass dish, 
dot it with currant jelly, and serve with cake. 

FRUIT WHIPS. 

Fill a glass dish one-third full of any kind of preserved berries, 
and fill up with whipped cream. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

One pint of cream, one pint of milk, or, use one quart of milk 
if cream cannot be had, eight eggs, one-half box of gelatine, 
soaked in a little cold water; flavor with vanilla. Put the cream 
and milk in a custard kettle, set it on the stove, and when the 
cream comes to a boil, stir in the gelatine, the well beaten yolks 
of eggs, with one cupful of sugar; stir all the time till it thick- 
ens like custard, set it off and stir in lightly the whites of the 
eggs. Put it in a glass dish, and set in a cool place. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

To one -half box of gelatine, take one and one-half pints of 
cold water; dissolve over the fire, then add one pound of white 
sugar, rind of two and juice of three lemons. Boil all together 
for a few minutes. When nearly cold, add the whites of three 
eggs, beaten to a froth. Beat all well together, then set it in a 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 205 

cool place. When it begins to thicken, stir thoroughly; let 
stand again and beat as before. The oftener this is repeated the 
whiter it will become. Pour into moulds; serve with cream. 
One-half this recipe is enough for six persons. 

FRENCH ICE CREAM. 

One quart of sweet cream, yolks of four eggs, one-half ounce 
of gelatine, one small cupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of va- 
nilla, or bitter almond extract. Soak the gelatine in just water 
enough to cover it, for an hour. Strain, and stir into a pint of 
the cream made boiling hot. Beat the yolks with the sugar, and 
add the boiling mixture, beaten in a little at a time. Heat until 
it begins to thicken, but do not actually boil; remove it from the 
fire, flavor, and while it is still hot stir in the other pint of cream, 
whipped to a stiff froth. Beat this whip, a spoonful at a time, 
into the custard until it is the consistency of sponge cake batter. 
Dip a mould in cold water, pour in the mixture, and set on the 
ice to form, 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

First, line the moulds with sponge lady-fingers you can get 
them at the bakery, and, if fresh, are very nice, and saves much 
trouble pack them around the sides of the mould, which should 
be about as deep as the fingers are long, so that they will keep in 
place firmly; stick them together with jelly. Second, pour a 
teacupful of boiling water over half a box of gelatine, and dis- 
solve it thoroughly. Then take oce pint of thick cream from the 
ice, and whip it until it thickens; then pour in briskly, the gela- 
tine, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, the whites of seven eggs, 
beaten to a froth, and one teacupful of powdered sugar; fill the 
mould to the top of the lady-fingers, and put in a cool place. 
This will fill two good sized moulds. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE Very fine. 

One pint of whipped cream, one-half ounce of gelatine, dissolved 
in one gill of hot milk, whites of two eggs, one small teacupful of 
powdered sugar; flavor with bitter almond and vanilla. Mix the 
cream, eggs, and sugar; flavor, and beat in the gelatine and milk 



206 CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 

last. It should be quite cold before it is added. Line a mould 
with slices of sponge cake and fill with the mixture. Set upon 
the ice to cool. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One ounce of gelatine, one pint of sweet milk, one of cream, 
four eggs, sugar to taste; beat the sugar and yolks of eggs to- 
gether until very light, boil the gelatine in the milk, and strain 
over the eggs and sugar; whip the cream, which must be very 
cold, to a nice froth and add to the above; flavor with vanilla. 
Line the dish you wish to serve it in with sponge cake, and pour 
the mixture in; then set it on ice till wanted. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE Very nice. 

One pint of whipped cream, two eggs, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, one-half box of gelatine dissolved in a little cold water. 
Beat the sugar and yolks of eggs together until light, boil the 
gelatine in the milk and strain over the eggs and sugar; whip the 
cream and whites <oi eggs to a nice froth, and add to the custard; 
add the flavoring. Line the dish with sponge cake and pour in 
the mixture; set it in a cold place. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Soak in cold water one ounce of gelatine; take three sticks of 
chocolate, mix in a pint of cream, adding the soaked gelatine. 
Put all over the fire, and boil slowly until the whole is melted; 
then take off the fire, and let it cool. Take the yolks of six and 
the whites of four eggs, beat very light, and stir gradually in the 
mixture in turn with one coffeecupful of sugar. Simmer the 
whole over the fire, but do not let it boil; then take it off, and 
whip to a strong froth; line the moulds with sponge cake, and 
set it on ice. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

One-half box of gelatine, one quart of sweet milk, three eggs, 
one-half cup of sugar. Boil the milk and stir in the dissolved 
gelatine, the sugar beaten up with the yolks of eggs; boil until 
as thick as soft custard, remove from the fire and stir in the whites 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 207 

of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor to taste. Set in a 
cold place to harden. Serve on a platter with whipped cream 
around it. 

Moss BLANCMANGE. 

Free from pebbles and sea-weeds, and wash in several waters, 
one cupful of Irish moss (get that which is not pressed), let it soak in 
cold water one hour, then tie it in a muslin bag, and put it in a 
tin pail, with three quarts of sweet milk; set the pail in a kettle 
containing hot water, and boil thirty minutes; stir occasionally 
after it comes to a boil, and press the bag between the sides of the 
pail, and the spoon, to get all the glutin; stir in a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a cup of sugar, and flavor with anything you please. 
Turn into moulds, and set away to cool. Serve with cream and 
sugar. 

CHOCOLATE BLANCMANGE. 

Half a box of gelatine, soaked till dissolved, in as much water 
as will cover it, four sticks of grated chocolate, one quart of 
sweet milk, one cupful of sugar; boil milk, sugar and chocolate 
five minutes, add gelatine, and boil five minutes more, stilling 
constantly; flavor with vanilla, and put into moulds to cool, and 
eat with cream. For a plain blancmange, omit the chocolate. 

NEAPOLITAN BLANCMANGE. 

Heat one quart of sweet milk to boiling; stir in one ounce of 
gelatine that has been soaked in one cupful of milk for an hour, 
and three-fourths of a cup of sugar. When the gelatine is dis- 
solved, strain it through a muslin bag. Divide into four portions, 
allowing one cupful for each. Wet one large tablespoonful of 
chocolate with a little boiling water; put this in one portion, and 
set on the fire, stirring until very hot, but do not let it boil. 
Mix with the second portion the yolk of one egg, beaten very 
light, and heat as above. Color the third with cochineal or cran- 
berry juice. Wet a mould, and put the white in, and, when 
cold, put in the pink, then the yellow, then the chocolate. Set 
in a cold place. Loosen, by dipping the mould in warm water 
for a second. 



208 CUSTARDS, CKEAMS, ETC. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Soak one package of gelatine in one-half pint of cold water 
for one hour, add the juice of three lemons, two pounds of sugar, 
one quart of boiling water; when all are dissolved, add one pint 
of orange juice. Strain carefully, and set on ice till ready for 
use. Eight large oranges usually make it. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Two ounces of gelatine, three coffeecupfuls of sugar, the juice 
of five lemons, some orange peel, stick cinnamon, or other flavor- 
ing, and soak together for one hour in a pint of cold water. 
Add to this after the gelatine is thoroughly soaked, three pints 
of boiling water, and stir until the gelatine and sugar are all dis- 
solved, and then strain through a jelly bag. Pour into moulds 
and set aside to cool. The moulds should be first wet with a lit- 
tle white of egg and water, to prevent the jelly from sticking to 
them when being turned out. Be sure that the gelatine is per- 
fectly soaked before pouring on the boiling water, even though 
it should take a longer time then above stated. It is better to 
make the jelly the day before they are to be used, in order that 
they shall have plenty of time to harden. In warm weather, use 
a little more gelatine, or less water. A beautiful color can be 
given to the jelly by adding a small quantity of burnt sugar. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

After picking two pounds and one-half of strawberries, squeeze 
them through a colander; add six ounces of sugar to the juice; 
when the sugar is dissolved, add half a box of gelatine, soaked 
as before described. Place it on the ice, stir it smooth when it 
begins to set, then stir in a pint of cream, whipped. Put it in a 
mould and serve with fresh strawberries around it. 

Q 

PEACH CREAM. 

Cut eighteen fine peaches into small pieces, and boil them with 
half a pound of sugar. When they are reduced to a marmalade, 
squeeze them through a sieve or colander. Then add half of a 
package of gelatine and a glassfull of good cream. Stir it well, 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 209 

to make it smooth, when it is about to set, then add the pint of 
cream, whipped, then mould it. It makes a still prettier dish to 
serve halves or quarters of fresh peaches, half frozen, around the 
cream. 

FREEZING CREAM. 

In freezing cream, the ice and salt must be well mixed. The 
patent freezers are the best in use; they will freeze the cream 
perfectly smooth in ten minutes, beating it like whipped cream. 
The bottom of the pail is covered with ice, pounded very fine by 
putting it into an old thick bag, and pounding it with flat of an 
axe, till there are no pieces larger than a walnut; set the pail con- 
taining the cream into a freezer, and .fill in, with a spoon, two- 
thirds of pounded ice to one-third of coarse salt, adding first a 
layer of ice, then one of salt; when all is packed even to the top 
of the pail, turn the crank a hundred times, then lift off the cov- 
er, and pour in a quart of boiling water from the teakettle. The 
philosophy of this is, that the quicker the ice and salt melts, the 
sooner the cream freezes. Fill up again with ice and salt in the 
same proportions as before. Turn the crank fifty times one way, 
and twenty -five the other way, which only serves to scrape it 
from the edge of the pail. When it turns very hard, it is frozen 
sufficiently. Open the cover carefully, so as not to let the salt 
water drip in; scrape down the sides, pull out the dasher, put a 
cork into the cover where it came out, take out the pail, pour out 
all the ice, salt and water, set back the cover, and begin to pack 
over as fast as possible. This must be done unless the cream is 
to be eaten in an hour or two, for the melting ice and salt be- 
comes warmed from the atmosphere, and will not keep it frozen. 
To freeze in a common wooden pail, with a tin pail to hold the 
cream, the same operations are repeated in the packing; in freez- 
ing, the tin pail should be turned around rapidly, keeping the 
cream constantly agitated, and every five minutes the sides of the 
pail must be thoroughly scraped down with a broad bladed 
knife. Cream cannot be frozen as smoothly in this manner, but 
a respectable article can be produced, but with much more troub- 
le than if a patent freezer is used. If you wish to put it into 
moulds, fill them as soon as you take out the beater; pack them 
down well, or they will not look smooth when taken out. Lay 



210 CUSTARDS, CKEAMS, ETC. 

the moulds in ice and salt for three hours, and when ready to 
dish, dip them in warm water for an instant; wipe, and turn the 
moulds on an ice cream dish, remove gently, and serve at once. 

ICE CREAM. 

Three quarts of new milk, scalded. While boiling, add six 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, dissolved in cold milk, five coffee- 
cupfuls of lump sugar, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten sep- 
arately, and added just before taking off the fire; add a piece of 
butter the size of an egg; strain through a sieve and flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. To this put two quarts of cream, whipped to 
a froth, make it pretty sweet, as much of the sweetness freezes 
out. Pineapple, strawberry, raspberry and all other kinds of 
cream, may be made in the same way, allowing one quart of juice 
of any of the fruit named, to a gallon of cream. Some object to 
cornstarch, in this case use arrowroot; it makes a very much 
smoother cream then when it is all made of eggs. 

NICE ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of rich milk, three tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, 
the whites of six eggs, or three whole ones, two coffeecupfuls 
of sugar, flavor to taste. Boil the milk, thicken it with the arrow- 
root, add the sugar and pour the whole upon the eggs. When 
cold, freeze. 

EGOLESS ICE CREAM. 

Five pints of milk, three teacupfuls of sugar, four tablespoon- 
fuls of arrowroot; wet the arrowroot with a little cold milk, 
scald the milk by putting it in a tin pail and setting it in a pot 
of boiling water, let boil and stir in the sugar and arrowroot; 
strain, let cool, flavor and freeze. 

ICE CREAM Very fine. 

Boil one teacupful of arrowroot mixed smooth with milk, and 
two quarts of milk; when cold, add two quarts of cream, and the 
whites of five eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with the cream, flavor to 
taste, four coffeecupfuls of sugar, and freeze. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 211 

ICE CREAM Made of Cream. 

Two quarts of pure cream, one pound of powdered sugar, 
whites of four eggs. Flavor to taste. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, two teacupfuls of powdered sugar, yolks 
of six eggs, white of one egg, zest of lemon, a piece as large as 
a nickel cent, one bar of chocolate. Scrape the chocolate very 
fine, and put it with the eggs and sugar; stir or beat until the 
mixture is complete, and add the cream by degrees. Pour into 
a milk boiler, and stir until the cream is thick enough to stick to 
the spoon; then pour the contents into an earthen dish, and set 
it in a very cold place. The boiling of the cream is of great im- 
portance, and requires particular attention, especially when no 
milk boiler is at hand, and the cream is boiled over an open fire. 
In this case, as soon as the cream begins to stick to the spoon, 
the pan must be immediately withdrawn. The flavoring should 
be added after the cream is boiled. Before freezing, it is best to 
pass it through a hair sieve. 

BISCUIT GLACE. 

One and one-half pints of cream, four ounces of macaroons, 
six ounces of white sugar, the grated rind of one orange, and the 
juice of two. Beat the cream on ice until it hangs to the 
beater, then add the sugar, oranges, and the macaroons (grated 
and put through a sieve). Freeze like ice cream, and afterward 
put into moulds. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

Is made the same as chocolate, using coffee instead of chocolate. 
Tie two coffeecupfuls of fresh, ground coffee in a piece of thin 
muslin, and boil in the milk for half an hour, then take it out 
and make as before directed. 

LEMON ICE Very fine. 

FOR THE SYRUP. Take twelve pounds of white sugar, twelve 
pints of water, one egg, beaten to a froth, and a piece of lemon 



212 CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 

peel; boil this ten minutes, and bottle this syrup up, and when 
wanted for use, take one pint of clarified sugar to one quart of 
ice water, and the juice of four lemons; strain it through a sieve, 
and freeze as you would cream. Currant, strawberry, pineapple, 
orange, or raspberry ice, is made the same way, using one pint of 
juice, one of clarified syrup, and one pint of ice water. You can 
double this recipe as many times as you like. 

ORANGE ICE. 

One and one-half pints of water, one pint of sugar, juice of 
eight oranges, juice of two lemons, whites of four eggs, beaten 
very light. Grate a little orange peel, boil the sugar and water 
together fifteen minutes, pour over the eggs, boiling hot, stirring 
all the time; then add the juice, which must be strained. When 
cool, freeze. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Take one box gelatine, and dissolve it in about one teacupful 
of cold water; three pints of sweet milk, two and one-half tea- 
cupfuls of sugar. Boil^ and when boiled, dip out as much of the 
hot milk as will finish dissolving the gelatine. When all is dis- 
solved, pour in the rest of the milk and boil ten minutes; when 
cold, but not stiff, stir in six bananas, which have been previous- 
ly broken up with a silver fork. Mix well, and set away on ice. 
An hour before dinner, the next day, take a quart of rich cream, 
sweeten to taste, flavor with vanilla, and whip to a stiff froth. 
Put the mixture you made the day before in the bottom of a glass 
dish, and put the whipped cream on top. 

ORANGE SUFFLES. 

Cover the bottom of a large glass dish with sliced oranges, 
strew over them some powdered sugar, then a thick layer of co- 
coanut, in alternate layers, till the dish is full, heaping cocoanut 
on top. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

One pint of orange juice, put to it the well beaten yolks of six 
eggs, and the whites of four; beat these well together, and add 



CUSTABDS, CREAMS, ETC. 213 

to it one pound of fine sugar; set it over a slow fire, keep stirring 
it all one way, and when it is nearly boiling, take off the cream 
and let it get cold, then freeze. 

KIPE FRUIT FOR DESSERT. 
ORANGES 

May be put on whole, in fruit baskets, or the skin may be cut 
in eighths, half way down, separated from the fruit, and curled 
inward, showing half the orange white, the other yellow. 

APPLES. 

Wash and polish with a clean towel, and pile in a china fruit 
basket, with an eye to agreeable variety of colors. 

PEACHES AND PEAKS. 

Pick out the finest, handling as little as possible, and pile upon 
flat dish, or a cake basket, with bits of ice between them, and 
ornament with peach leaves, or fennel sprigs. Send around 
powdered sugar with the fruit, as 'many like to dip peaches and 
pears in it after paring and quartering them. 

ICED FRUIT. 

Take fine bunches of currants on the stalk, dip them in well 
beaten whites of eggs, lay them on a sieve and sift powdered 
sugar over them, and set them in a warm place to dry. 



DRINKS. 



COFFEE. 

Mocha and old Java are the best, and time improves all kinds. 
Dry it a long time before roasting. Roast it quickly, stirring 
constantly, or it will taste raw and bitter. When roasted, sprink- 
le a little powdered sugar^over the coffee just before it is done 
roasting; the sugar forms an air tight coating over each berry, 
and thus preserves the caffeine till the coffee is ground. Put it 
in a tin can, with a tight fitting lid, as you retain, by so doing, 
the life and essence of the berry. 

To MAKE COFFEE Boiled. 

One tablespoonful of coffee for each person, white of one egg, 
and crushed shell of same. The best way to make a real delicious 
cup of coffee, is to grind the berry in the mill just before you 
wish to use it, not as some people do, the night before. It should 
not be ground to a fine powder, but into fragments a little larger 
than a mustard seed. Have the kettle of water boiling; mix the 
coffee well, and add enough cold water to thoroughly moisten it; 
place in a well scalded coffee boiler, pour in half the quantity of 
boiling water needed; roll a cloth tightly and stop up the nose 
or spout, thus keeping in all the coffee flavor. If you want to 
have the coffee clear, let it come to a gradual boil, and the coffee 
will be as clear as crystal; let it boil five minutes, then place on 
the back part of the stove or range where it will only simmer for 
ten minutes longer. When ready to serve, add the remainder of 
the boiling water, and serve with rich cream. Or, take fresh, 
new milk, set it in a pan or pail, where it will slowly simmer but 



DRINKS. 215 

not boil, nor reach the boiling point; stir frequently, to keep the 
cream from separating and raising to the top, and allow to sim- 
mer until it is rich, thick, and creamy. Serve hot. 

To MAKE COFFEE Without Boiling. 

There are so many patent coffeepots for this purpose, and the 
directions sold with them, that I do not need to explain; but you 
can make one equally as desirable, and more simple. Make a 
sack of fine flannel, as long as the coffeepot is deep, and a 
little larger than the top; bend a piece of small, but rather stiff 
wire in a circle, and slip it through a hem made around the top 
of the sack, bringing the^ends together at the opening left at the 
top of the side seam. Having put the coffee in the, sack, lower 
it into the coffeepot, with the ends apart slightly, and push it 
down over the top of the pot; the top of the sack will then be 
turned down a little over the outside of the pot, a part of it 
covering the "nose," and keeping in all the aroma. When the 
sack, with the coffee in it, is in its place, pour boiling water over 
the coffee, close the lid tightly, and let simmer (not boil) from 
fifteen minutes to half an hour. In pouring for $he table, raise 
the sack off the nose but do not lift it off the pot. This makes 
good coffee, without eggs to settle it. 

COITEE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

For six cups of coffee, of fair size, take one cup of sweet cream, 
whipped light, with a little sugar; put into each cup the desired 
amount of sugar, and about a tablespoonful of boiling milk; pour 
the coffee over these, and lay upon the surface of the hot liquid, 
a large spoonful of the frosted cream, giving a gentle stir to each 
cup before serving. This is known to some as meringued coffee, 
and is an elegant French preparation of the popular drink. 

COFFEE FOR ONE HUNDRED. 

Take five pounds of roasted coffee, grind, and mix with six 
eggs; make small muslin sacks, and in each place a pint of coffee, 
leaving room for it to swell; put five gallons of boiling water in 
a large coffee xirn, or boiler, having the faucet at the bottom; put 



216 DRINKS. 

in part of the sacks, and boil two hours; five or ten minutes be- 
fore serving, raise the lid and add one or two more sacks; and if 
you continue serving several times, add fresh sacks at regular in- 
tervals, taking out, from time to time, those first put in, and fill- 
ing up with boiling water, as needed. In this way the full 
strength of the coffee is secured, and the fresh supplies impart 
that delicious flavor consequent on a few moments boiling. To 
make coffee for twenty persons, use one and one-half pints of 
ground coffee, and one gallon of water. x 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

Filter instead of boiling the coffee, allowing one tablespoon- 
ful of ground coffee to each person, and one for the pot; put a 
quart of cream in a custard kettle, or pail, set in boiling water 
and put it where the water will keep boiling; beat the white of 
an egg to a froth, and mix well with three tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk; as soon as the cream is hot, remove from the fire, add the 
mixed egg and milk, stir together briskly for a minute, and serve. 
The less time the coffee is cooked the more coffee is required, but 
the finer the flavor. Some cooks do not boil the coffee at all; 
they say that -the aroma evaporates, and only leaves the bitter 
flavor. 

ITALIAN CHOCOLATE. 

One quart of sweet milk, yolks of three eggs, well beaten, four 
squares of German chocolate. Set the milk on the stove in a 
basin within another of boiling water; sweeten it to taste, and 
when it comes to boil, pour into cups, and make a frosting of the 
whites of eggs; put on top, and serve hot. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate to each pint of water, as 
much milk as you have water, sweeten to taste. Put on the water 
boiling hot; rub the chocolate smooth in a little cold water, and 
stir into the boiling water; boil twenty minutes, add the milk, 
and boil ten minutes more, stirring frequently. 

PREPARED COCOA. 

One quart of boiling milk, two ounces of prepared cocoa, one 
quart of milk. Make as you do chocolate, only boil nearly an 



DRINKS. 217 

hour before you add the milk, and afterwards heating almost to 
boiling. Sweeten to taste. 

TEA. 

If you wish to keep the flavor of tea, never use the tin teapot 
which has come into such general use, because the earthen pots 
split and break so soon. You can use an earthen pot a lifetime 
if, instead of setting it on the top of a hot stove, you set it in a 
tin dish in which there is hot water. The best tea is made by 
mixing equal quantities of green and black together. If it is the 
good, old fashioned green tea, you must put it to draw, not boil, 
in a thoroughly scalded teapot. If "English breakfast," or best 
black tea, the water must not only be boiling, at the very mo- 
ment of pouring it on, but the tea must actually boil for at least 
five or ten minutes. One teaspoonful of tea to one cupful of hot 
water, is the usual allowance for each person. Freshly boiled, 
soft water, is best for either tea or coffee. Always have a water 
pot of hot water on the waiter, with which to weaken the tea if 
desired. 

ICED TEA. 

Prepare the tea in the morning, making it stronger than usual; 
strain, and pour into a clean, stone jug, or glass bottle, and set 
in the ice chest until ready for use. Drink from goblets, without 
cream. Serve ice, broken in small pieces, on a plate nicely gar- 
nished with well washed grape leaves. Iced tea may be prepared 
from either green or black, alone, but it is considered an improve- 
ment to mix the two. 

CKEAM NECTAR. 

Two ounces of tartaric acid, four quarts of boiling water, six 
pounds of white sugar, whites of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls each 
of lemon, pineapple, essence of wintergreen, vanilla, ginger, or 
any other flavoring extract one chooses. Boil all together in a 
porcelain kettle, for ten minutes; take from the fire, add the 
whites of the eggs, stirring them in while you count three hun- 
dred, slowly; strain, add the essence, when taken from the fire, 
and bottle tightly. When desired for drink, measure two table- 
spoonfuls of it into half a tumbler of ice water, add to it one- 



218 DEINKS. 

third of a teaspoonful of soda, stir up, and drink as soon as it 
foams. This makes a delicious drink, and is not expensive. All 
farmers should have it on hand. 

LEMONADE. 

Roll six lemons well, slice thin, in an earthen vessel, put over 
them two teacupfuls of white sugar; let it stand fifteen minutes, 
add one gallon of water, and lumps of ice, pour into a pitcher, 
and serve. 

CUBBANT ICE WATEB. 

Press the juice from ripe currants, strain it, and put a pound 
of sugar to each pint of juice. Put it into bottles, cork and seal 
it, and keep it in a cool, dry place. When wanted, mix it with 
ice water for a drink. Or put water with it, make it very sweet, 
and freeze it. Freezing always takes away much of the sweetness. 
The juice of other acid fruits can be used in the same w r ay. 

SAKSAPABILLA MEAD. 

One pound of Spanish sarsaparilla. Boil it in four gallons of 
water for five hours, and then add enough water to make two gal- 
lons. Add sixteen pounds of sugar, and ten ounces of tartaric 
acid. To make a tumblerful of it, take half a wineglass of the 
above, and then fill with water, and put in half a teaspoonful of 
soda. 

TEMPERANCE GINGER WINE. 

Two drachms of essence of ginger, two drachms essence of cap- 
sicum, one and one-half pounds of loaf sugar, three-fourths ounce 
tartaric acid. Pour five quarts boiling water over the sugar and 
acid; when cold, add the essences, and stir well before bottling. 

HARVEST DRINKS. 

"Very fine drinks for summer are prepared by putting strawber- 
ries, raspberries, or blackberries into good vinegar and then 
straining it off, and adding a new supply of fruit till enough 
flavor is secured. Keep the vinegar bottled, and in hot weather 
use it thus. Dissolve half a teaspoonful or less of saleratus, or 
soda in a tumbler, very little water, till the lumps are all out. 



DRINKS. 219 

Then fill the tumbler two-thirds full of water, then add the fruit 
vinegar. If several are to drink, put the soda, or saleratus into 
the pitcher, and then put the fruit vinegar into each tumbler, and 
pour the alkali water from the pitcher into each tumbler, as each 
person is all ready to drink, as delay spoils it. 

JELLY DRINKS. 

When jams or jellies are too old to be good for table use, mix 
them with good vinegar, and then use them with soda or salera- 
tus, as directed above. 

SUMMER BEVERAGE. 

Ten drops of oil of sassafras, ten drops of oil of spruce, ten 
drops of oil of wintergreen, two quarts of boiling water, poured 
on to two great spoonfuls of cream-tartar. Then add eight 
quarts of cold water, the oils, three gills of distillery yeast (or 
twice as much home-brewed), and sweeten it to taste. In twenty- 
four hours, bottle it; it is a delicious beverage. 

STRAWBERRY Acm. 

Take three pounds of ripe strawberries, two ounces of citric 
acid, and. one quart of spring water. Dissolve the acid in the 
water and pour it on the strawberries, and let them stand in a 
cool place twenty-four hours. Then add to the liquid its own 
weight of sugar, boil it three or four minutes (in a porcelain ket- 
tle, lest metal may effect the taste), and when cool, cork it in bot- 
tles lightly for three days, and then tight and seal them. Keep 
it in a dry and cool place, where it will not freeze. It is very de- 
licious for the sick, or for the well. 

EASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Fill a stone jar with ripe raspberries, cover with the purest 
and strongest vinegar, let it stand for a week, pour the whole 
through a sieve or strainer, crushing out all the juice of the ber- 
ries; to each pint of this vinegar, add one and a half pounds of 
lump sugar and let it boil long enough to dissolve, removing 
scum which may arise; then remove from the fire, let cool, bottle 
and cork tightly. Two tablespoonfuls of this vinegar, stirred in- 



220 DRINKS. 

to a tumbler of iced water, makes a delicious drink, or a little 
soda may be added. 

GRAPE SYKUP. 

Squeeze the grapes; be careful not to crush the seeds, for that 
would impart a bitter flavor to the juice. Boil it down to a thin 
syrup, bottle, and seal tight. This is nice to flavor sauces, pud- 
dings, fruit cake and mince meat. One tablespoonful of this 
syrup in a glassful of water, makes a nice summer drink. 

ORANGE OR LEMON SYRUP. 

Put a pound and a half of white sugar to each pint of juice, add 
some of the peel, boil ten minutes, then strain, bottle, and cork 
it tightly. Makes a fine beverage, and is useful for flavoring pies, 
puddings, etc. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

Squeeze the juice from nice, ripe strawberries, and put one tea- 
cupful of sugar to each pint of the juice; boil to a thin syrup, bot- 
tle, and seal hot. Nice for flavoring pudding, sauce and mince 
pies. Blackberries, raspberries, currants, quinces, plums, and 
any kind of fruit may be prepared in the same way. 

CHILDREN'S DRINKS. 

There are drinks easily prepared for children, which they love 
much better than tea and coffee, for no child at first loves these 
drinks till trained to it. As their older friends are served with 
green and black tea, there is a white tea to offer them, which 
they will always prefer, if properly trained, and it is always 
healthful. 

WHITE TEA. 

Put two teaspoon fuls of sugar into half a cup of good milk, 
and fill it with boiling water. 

COFFEE. 

Crumb bread, or dry toast, into a bowl, put on plenty of sugar 
or molasses, put in one-half milk and one-half boiling water. To 
be eaten with a spoon, or drank if preferred. Molasses for 
sweetening is prefrred by most children. 



BOILED EGGS. (No. 1.) 
Put them on in cold water, and when it has boiled the e&gs 

' OO 

will be done, the whites being soft and digestible, as they are 
not when put on in boiling water. 

BOILED EGGS. (No. 2.) 

Put the eggs in a dish without breaking the shells, pour boiling 
water over them and let them stand in it away from the fire for 
from five to eight minutes; this is better than boiling rapidly 
on the stove, as it cooks them through without hardening the 
whites too much. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Eggs which are to be broken into water, should not be broken 
into boiling water, as the motion destroys their shape, but let 
the water be hot as possible, without boiling, and let them stand 
several minutes on the back of the stove; they will then be soft 
but firm all through. Season with salt, pepper and butter. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break eight eggs into a well buttered dish, put in pepper and 
salt, bits of butter, and about four tablespoonfuls of sweet cream ; 
set it in the oven and bake about fifteen minutes; serve very hot. 

RUMBLED EGGS. 

Beat up three eggs with a spoonful of fresh or washed butter; 
add a tablespoonful of cream or fresh milk; put in a sauce-pan 
and keep stirring over the fire for five minutes; serve on toast. 



222 EGGS. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat eight eggs very light, prepare a skillet with one table- 
spoonful butter, and when hot, pour in the eggs; season with 
salt and pepper; stir constantly until done, and serve. 

PUFF OMELET. 

Stir into the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three, beaten 
very light, one tablespoonful of flour mixed into a teacupful milk, 
with salt and pepper to taste; melt a tablespoonful of butter in 
a pan, pour in the mixture and set the pan into a hot oven; when 
it thickens, pour over it the remaining whites of eggs well beaten, 
return it to the oven and let it bake a delicate brown. Slip off 
on a large plate and eat as soon as done. 

NICE OMELET. 

Four eggs, six soda crackers, teaspoonful of salt. Roll the 
crackers very fine, add enough milk to moisten nicely, add the 
well beaten yolks, and the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
just before cooking; fry on a buttered griddle, spread on in thin 
cakes; when the under side is brown, then roll up. 

OMELET. 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one tablespoonful 
of sweet milk to each egg. Do not salt and pepper until done. 
If you like you can add chopped ham or finely chopped parsley. 

A FINE OMELET. 

One teacupful of bread crumbs, soak it in all the milk it will 
absorb, no more, mix into a smooth paste, then add the yolks of 
four well beaten eggs with a little salt, add the whites last, beat- 
en to a stiff froth, set the pan on the fire, put in a tablespoonful 
of butter, let it get very hot, pour in the pan and move about for 
a moment; if the oven is hot when the omelet is formed under- 
neath, set the pan in the oven for five minutes, or until the top 
is set; then double half over, and serve. The advantage of this 
omelet is, that it keeps plu v np and tender till cold, so that five 
minutes of waiting does not turn it into leather, the great objec- 
tion to omelets generally. 



PRESERVING-. 



* 

Cleanse the cans thoroughly, and test to see if any leak or are 
cracked. In buying stoneware for canning purposes, be sure that 
it is well glazed, as fruit canned in jars or jugs imperfectly glazed, 
sometimes become poisonous. Never use defective glass cans, 
but keep them for storing things in a pantry, and in buying 
them, take care that they are free from flaws and blisters, else the 
glass will crumble off in small particles when subjected to heat. 
Self -sealers are very convenient, but the heat hardens the rubber 
rings, which are difficult to replace, so that in a year or two they 
are unfit for use. In using self-sealing cans, the rubber ring 
must show an even edge all around, for if it slips back out of sight 
at any point, air will be admitted. On opening tin cans, remem- 
ber to pour all the fruit out into an earthen or glass dish. Al- 
ways select fresh fruits, that are firm and in good condition; 
stale fruits are apt to become sour and cause fermentation, and 
no jar or can could keep them. Persons make a mistake when 
they attempt to put up inferior fruits. Berries, plums, and 
cherries need not be boiled over ten or fifteen minutes, using 
sugar to make them palatable. Large fruits, such as peaches 
and pears, are in the best condition to can when not quite fully 
ripe, and should be put up as soon as possible after picking; use 
only the best sugar in the proportion of half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of good fruit, varying the rule, of course, with the 
sweetness of the fruit. In making jellies, be careful that none 
of the seeds of the fruit fall into them, neither squeeze too tight, 
or the jelly, instead of being clear, will be clotty and discolored. 
The best pots or kettles for preserving, are earthen, or else those 
lined with porcelain. Above all, do not use copper or brass, 



224 ('\NNING AND PRESERVING. 

for besides running the risk of being poisoned, you give the pre- 
serves a bad color and taste. Keep the preserves in a cool, dry 
place, for no matter how much or what kind of sugar you use, if 
you keep them where it is hot or damp, they will become candied. 
Always seal them while hot, as by this means you do not seal air 
in; but if they are allowed to get cold before sealing, they will 
not keep so well. 

PEACHES AND PEARS. 

After paring and coring, put among them sufficient sug^- to 
make them palatable for present eating, let them stand a while to 
dissolve the sugar, not using any water; then heat to a boil, and 
continue the boiling, with care, from twenty to thirty minutes, 
or sufficiently long to heat through, which expels the air. Have 
ready a kettle of hot water, into which dip the cans long enough 
to heat them, then fill in the fruit while hot, and seal them im- 
mediately. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

This method is not, I believe, geneially used, but it merits. I 
thjnk, attention. You will find this a nice Way of canning peach- 
es, if the recipe is carefully followed, as the lye leaves no taste or 
smell, and does away with the labor of paring. Put a fire-shovel 
of wood ashes into a kettle, and make a strong lye; strain into 
another kettle, and have it boiling, on the stove; put a dozen 
or more peaches into the lye, have a pan in readiness, also a skim- 
mer; let them remain in the lye about two minutes, take out and 
pour cold water over them immediately; the skins will then slip 
off easily, leaving the peach in its natural shape; put them in a 
jar as fast as they are done; make a strong syrup of white sugar, 
and pour over them, filling the jar to the brim; then put on the 
lid, but do not fasten down tightly, at first; set the jars in a 
boiler of cold water, placing small pieces of wood at the bottom 
to prevent them from cracking; let them come slowly to a boil, 
continue boiling until cooked, then fasten the covers tightly, and 
when the water is cool, take out and put in a dry, cool, dark 
place. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING. 225 

CANNED GRAPES. 

Take a basket of grapes, press the pulp into a vessel/ throw 
the skins into another, being careful to keep them separate. 
When you have pulped as many as you wish to preserve at one 
time, put the pulp on to boil, let them boil till just soft, and rub 
through a colander, in which the seeds will remain. Measure 
and replace in the kettle; measure the skins, and put them in the 
kettle with the pulp ; for every quart of fruit add one-half coffee- 
cup of sugar, and cook until the skins are soft. Fill stone or 
glass jars with the jam, while boiling hot, and seal immediately. 
If a silver spoon is placed in a glass jar before pouring in the 
fruit, they will not break. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Fill glass jars with fresh, whole strawberries, sprinkled with 
white sugar in the proportion of half pound of sugar to a pound 
of berries; lay the covers on lightly, stand them in a wash boiler, 
rilled with water to within an inch of the tops of the cans. (The 
water must not be more than milk warm when the cans are placed 
in it). When it has boiled fifteen minutes, draw to the back of 
the stove, let the steam pass off, roll the hand in a towel, lift out 
the cans, and place on a table. If the berries are well covered 
with their juice, take a tablespoon and fill up the first can to the 
very top of the rim from the second, wipe the neck, rub dry, 
and screw the top down firmly. 

CANNED PI.UMS. 

Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, prepare a syrup 
allowing a gill of pure water and half a coffeecup of white sugar 
to every three quarts of fruit. When the sugar is dissolved, and 
the water warm, put in the plums; heat slowly to a boil, and let 
them boil five minutes, not fast, or they will break badly; till up the 
jars with plums, pour in the scalding syrup, and seal quickly. 

CANNED BAKED PEARS. 

Select nice pears, wash them clean, wipe dry with a clean cloth, 
put them in a baking-pan and bake till done. Have ready a syrup 
made with one quart of water and one pint of white sugar, put 



226 CANNING AND PRESERVING. 

in as many of the baked pears as you think the can will hold, 
let them boil up once, and can quickly. Pears are very fine put 
up in this way. 

CANNED BERRIES. 

Pick out stems or hulls if any if gathered carefully the berries 
will not need washing put in a porcelain kettle, on the stove, 
adding a small teacupful of water to prevent burning, at first. 
When they come to a boil, skim well, add sugar to taste, let boil 
five minutes, fill the jars, and seal tight. Currants, gooseberries, 
blackberries, and raspberries may be canned in the same way. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

The tomatoes must be fresh and not over-ripe; pour over them 
boiling water, let them stand a few minutes, drain off, remove the 
skins, and slice crosswise into a porcelain kettle, cutting out all 
the hard or defective portions; cook well in their liquor, skim off 
the scum as it rises, and stir with a silver or wooden spoon ; have 
the cans ready and fill with the tomatoes; wipe the moisture from 
the tops with a cloth, put on and secure the covers. Keep in a 
dry, dark, cool place. 

To CAN TOMATOES WHOLE. 

Take thick meated, good solid tomatoes, not too ripe, scald 
and take off the skins, put them in a pan and pour boiling water 
over them, let them stand on the stove till they are well scalded 
and the water comes to a boil. Have the cans warm, put in the 
tomatoes, and seal securely. They will slice like fresh tomatoes. 

PRESERVED TOMATOES. 

The small, round tomatoes, either red or yellow (called the 
button tomato)j are the best for preserving. Having measured 
the tomatoes, allow, to every quart, one quart of the best brown 
sugar, the juice and the grated rind of two lemons. Put them 
in a preserving kettle, uncovered, and add gradually, the sugar. 
Boil the tomatoes and sugar slowly for an hour or more; when 
done, take them off the fire, and seal tight, in glass jars. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 
First take out the stones, then pare them. To every pound of 



CANNING AND PRESERVING. 227 

peaches, allow one-third of a pound of sugar. Make a thin syrup, 
boil the peaches in the syrup till tender, but not till they break. 
Put them into a bowl, and pour the syrup over them. Put them 
in a dry, cool place, and let them stand two days. Then make a 
new, rich syrup, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
one of fruit. Drain the peaches from the first syrup, and boil 
them until they are clear, in the last syrup. The first syrup 
must not be added, but may be used for any other purpose, as it 
is somewhat bitter. The large, white clingstones are the best. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Pare and quarter the quinces, boil in enough water to keep 
them whole. When they are tender, take them out, and to each 
pound of quince, add one pound of granulated sugar. Let 
them stand in the sugar until the next day, when you will find 
the syrup as light and clear as amber. Put them in the kettle 
and let them boil twenty minutes. Done in this way they never 
get hard. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. Very rich. 

Pare and halve the quinces, and take out the cores; to each 
pound of fruit, after it is thus prepared, put a teacupful of water; 
put them into a preserving kettle, over the fire, cover, and let 
them boil gently, until a broom splint will pierce them, then take 
them from the water with a skimmer, on a flat dish; fold a napkin 
over them. To the water in which they were boiled, put one 
pound of white sugar to each pound of quince; stir it until the 
sugar i dissolved and hot, then put in the quinces, let them boil 
gently, until they are clear and the syrup is thick; cut one open; 
if it is not one color all the way through, let them boil longer, 
until they are so. Put them into a stone jar, let the syrup cool, 
settle for a few moments, then turn it over the fruit; next day 
cover them with a clean cloth and put on the cover. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Rub the quinces with a clean cloth, cut them into quarters. 
Put them on the fire with a little water, and stew them till they 
are sufficiently tender to rub them through a sieve. When strain- 
ed, put a pound of brown sugar to a pound of the pulp. Set it 



228 CANNING AND PRESERVING. 

on the fire, and let it cook slowly. To ascertain when it is done, 
take out a little and let it get cold, and if it cuts smoothly it is 
done. Crabapple marmalade is made in the same way. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Gather the fruit early, as soon as fully ripe, as the pulp soft- 
ens, and the juice is less rich if allowed to remain long after 
ripening. Never gather currants, nor other soft small seed fruit, 
immediately after a rain, for preserving purposes, as they are 
greatly impoverished by the moisture absorbed. I give the fol- 
lowing recipe for jelly, which never fails, and only requires half 
the usual quantity of sugar: Weigh the currants without taking 
the'trouble to remove the stems; do not wash, but carefully re- 
move leaves, and whatever may adhere to them. To each pound 
of fruit, allow half the weight of granulated, or pure loaf sugar. 
Put a few currants in a porcelain lined kettle, and press them 
with a potato masher, or anything convenient, in order to secure 
sufficient liquid to prevent burning; then add the remainder of 
the fruit, and boil freely for twenty minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally to prevent burning. Take out and strain carefully through 
a three-cornered bag, of strong, close texture, putting the liquid 
in either earthen or wooden vessels -never in tin, as the action 
of the acid on the tin materially affects both color and flavor. 
When strained, return the liquid to the kettle, without the 
trouble of measuring, and let it boil thoroughly for a moment or 
so, and then add the sugar. The moment the sugar is entirely 
dissolved, the jelly is done, and must be immediately dished, or 
placed in glasses. It will jelly upon the side of the cup as it is 
taken up, leaving no doubt as to the result. The recipe is gopd 
for all kinds of jelly. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Take fine, ripe quinces, wash, and rub them with a cloth until 
perfectly smooth. Remove the cores, cut them into small pieces, 
pack them tightly into your kettle, pour cold water on them un- 
til it is on a level with the fruit, but not to cover it; boil till very 
soft, but not till they break. Put into a jelly bag do not squeeze 
but let it drip. To a pint of liquor, use three-fourths of a pound 



CANNING AND PRESERVING. 229 

of sugar. Boil the liquor twenty minutes, then add the sugar, 
which has been heated in the oven, boil five minutes longer, and 
it is done. Crabapple jelly is made in the same way. 

TRANSPARENT MARMALADE. 

Take some Sicily oranges, cut them into quarters, take out the 
pulp, put it into a basin, take out all the seeds and skin; put the 
peels into a little salt and water, leave them to soak all night, 
then boil them in a good quantity of spring water until they are 
tender; cut them into shreds, and put them in the pulp. To 
every pint of it put one pound of loaf sugar, made fine, and boil 
them gently together for twenty minutes; if it is not perfectly 
clear, simmer it for some minutes longer, stirring it gently all the 
time; when cold, put it in jelly glasses and seal. 

RASPBERRY JAM. (No. 1.) 

To a pound of fruit, take a pound of the best white sugar. 
Boil the sugar to a thick syrup, then put in the fruit, and let it 
simmer fifteen minutes, then take out the fruit on a large platter 
and boil the juice till it is as thick as honey. Put back the 
berries and simmer ten minutes longer, then put them in jelly- 
glasses or seal in fruit jars. Currant, blackberry, and strawberry 
jam is made in the same way. , 

RASPBERRY JAM. (No. 2.) 

To every quart of raspberries allow a pound of best loaf sugar, 
powdered. Put them together in the kettle, taking off the scum 
carefully; when- no more scum rises, ?nash and boil them to a 
smooth thick marmalade. When cold, put it up in tumblers and 
cover them with rounds of double tissue paper, then with white 
paper. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Take fine, large sour cherries, not very ripe; take out the stems 
and the s(ones, save whatever juice runs from them. Take an 
equal weight of white sugar, make the syrup of a teacupful of 
water for each pound; set it over the fire, until it is dissolved, 
and boiling hot, then put in the juice and cherries, boil them 



230 CANNING AND PRESERVING. 

gently until clear throughout; take them from the syrup with a 
skimmer, and spread them on flat dishes to cool; let the syrup 
boil until it is rich, and quite thick; set it to cool and settle; put 
the fruit into jars or pots, and pour the syrup over; let them re- 
main open until the next day, then cover them like jelly. Sweet 
cherries are improved by the addition of a pint of red currant 
juice, and half pound of sugar, to four pounds of cherries. 

CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL. 

Boil the rinds from thick skin oranges or lemons, in plenty of 
water, until tender, and the bitterness is out; change the water 
once or twice, if necessary. Clarify half a pound of sugar with 
a cupful of water for each pound of peel; when it is clear, put 
in the peels, cover them, and boil until clear, and the syrup al- 
most a candy; then take them out, lay them on an inverted sieve 
to dry; boil the syrup with additional sugar, until the sugar can- 
dies around them, then take them on a sieve, and put them in a 
warm oven; when perfectly dry, pack them in a wooden box with 
tissue paper. 

FIG PRESERVES. 

Gather fruit when fully ripe, but not cracked open; place in a 
perforated wire basket, ana dip for a moment into a deep kettle 
of hot and moderately strong lye, then wash in clean cold water. 
Make the syrup in the proportion of one pound of sugar to one 
of fruit, and, when the figs are well drained, put them in the 
syrup and boil until well cooked; remove, boil syrup down until 
there is just enough to cover fruit; put fruit back in syrup, let, 
all boil, and seal up while hot in glass jars. 

PRESERVED CITRON OR WATERMELON HINDS. 

Boil the citron in water until it is clear and soft enough to be 
easily pierced with a fork; take out, put in a nice syrup of sugar 
and water, and boil until the sugar has penetrated it. Take out 
and spread on dishes to dry slowly, sprinkle several times with 
powdered sugar, and turning until it is dried enough. Pack in 
jars or boxes, with sugar between the layers. Nice for cake. 



PICKLES. 



The first thing in pickling is to avoid that most pernicious 
practice of putting pickles in copper or brass vessels to make 
them a handsome green color, for that can be much better done 
by pouring the vinegar on hot instead of cold; and the action of 
the chemical vinegars that are made now, upon copper or brass 
kettles, produces the most frightful poisons. Use none but the 
best cider vinegar. A small lump of alum, dissolved and added 
when scalding pickles the first time, renders them crisp and ten- 
der, but too much is injurious. The nicest way to put up pickles 
is bottling, sealing while hot, and keeping in a cool, dark place. 
Never put up pickles in any thing that has held grease of any kind. 

CHOW CHOW Very fine. 

Two guarts of onions, two quarts of green cucumbers, three 
quarts of green tomatoes, two small cabbage heads, one quart of 
vinegar, one pound of French mustard, one and one-half ounce 
of turmeric, four cups of brown sugar. Chop the onions, cab- 
bage, cucumbers and tomatoes fine; sprinkle a teacupful of salt 
over them and let it stand over night. In the morning, drain in 
a colander and then put in a porcelain kettle; add the mustard 
and turmeric, dissolved in the quart of vinegar, the sugar and 
three more quarts of vinegar. Boil until done, then seal in glass 

jars. 

GHERKINS. 

This is the way to put up cucumbers to have them remain firm 
without using poison to accomplish it: Wash your cucumbers 
in clean, cold water, put them in a porcelain kettle with just 



232 PICKLES. 

enough water to cover them, adding sufficient salt to season. 
Let them remain on the stove until hot but not boil; then take 
them out and drain until perfectly diy. Put them in bottles and 
cover them with boiling vinegar of the best quality, to which has 
been added some red pepper, some mustard seed, a little horse- 
radish, and sugar just to suit the taste. Cucumbers prepared in 
this way, if good vinegar is used, will keep a whole year if prop- 
erly sealed up. 

To PICKLE NASTURTIONS. 

Take green nasturtions fresh from the vine; put them in salt 
and water for one day; then drain in a napkin. Put them in 
glass jars, and cover with strong vinegar; keep the bottles closely 
corked. Are equal to capers, with roast lamb. 

OIL PICKLE CABBAGE. 

Trim and quarter six heads of good cabbage; boil in vinegar 
and water until a broom splint can be passed through them. 
Prepare a paste of one-half pint of best sweet oil, one pound of 
white mustard, one-half pound of black mustard, one quart of 
chopped horseradish, one ounce of celery seed, one ounce of tur- 
meric, one teacupful of brown sugar. Put down one layer of 
cabbage; then cover with the above mixture, and alternate in this 
way, covering each layer with good vinegar. 

GREEN TOMATO SOY. 

Two gallons of green tomatoes, sliced without peeling, twelve 
good onions, also sliced, two quarts vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of salt, two tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, two tablespoonfuls 
of black pepper, ground, one tablespoonful of allspice, one table- 
spoonful cloves. Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring 
often, lest they should scorch. Put up in small glass jars. This 
is a most useful and pleasant sauce for almost any kind of meat 
and fish. 

To PICKLE CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut the cauliflowers into little flowerets of equal size; throw 
them into boiling, salted water; place them at the back of the 



PICKLES. 233 

range, and when they are just about to boil, take them off and 
drain them. Put them into jars; boil enough vinegar to cover 
them well, seasoning it with one ounce each of nutmeg, 
mustard seed, and half an ounce of mace to three quarts of vine- 
gar. Pour this hot, over the cauliflowers, adding a little sweet 
oil the last thing, to cover the tops. Seal tight, in glass jars. 

To PICKLE FIFTY MANGOES. 

Salt, cabbage, horseradish, one pint of mustard seed, white 
and black mixed, two quarts of onions, two pounds of brown 
sugar, cloves, mace, allspice, one-half pint of olive oil, cider vine- 
gar. Put mangoes in strong brine for two weeks, then soak in 
fresh water one day; simmer one day in vinegar, well protected 
with cabbage leaves; cut up cabbage as for cold slaw, add one-half 
pint grated horseradish, the mustard seed and oil; slit mangoes, 
take out the seeds, fill them, sew carefully together and put in- 
to jars, with spices, sugar and some mustard seed; pour over the 
mangoes hot; put three quarts of onions, in brine for a day, then 
put in with the mangoes. Cover jars with papers saturated with 
olive oil, and tie up with soft oil cloth. 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one-half peck of ripe tomatoes, one- 
half dozen onions, three heads of cabbage, one dozen green and 
three red pepers. Chop them any size you choose, then sprinkle 
half a pint of salt over them ; put them into a coarse cotton bag. 
Let them drain twenty-four hours, put them into a kettle, with 
three pounds of brown sugar, half a teacupful of grated horse- 
radish, one tablespoonful each of ground black pepper, ground 
mustard, white mustard, mace, and celery seed. Cover all with 
vinegar, and boil till clear. 

WALNUT PICKLE. 

Gather the walnuts when they are full grown. They 
should be soft enough to be pierced all through with a needle. 
Prick them all well through. The nuts should be freshly gathered 
and soaked for three days in a solution of common salt which 
is strong enough to float an ordinary hen's egg. Change the 



234 PICKLES. 

brine and let them soak three days longer. When drained from 
the salt solution, they should be exposed to the sun for one or 
two days, turning them at intervals till black all over. Then place 
them in the jar you intend to keep them in and pour over them 
boiling vinegar in which the spices have been boiled. The spices 
should be, one ounce of whole black pepper, one-fourth ounce of 
mace, one and one-half ounces of bruised ginger, six pints of 
vinegar. This will be sufficient for one hundred large walnuts. 

GHERKINS. 

Select small gherkins, wash well and put them in a jar, strew 
them with salt, and cover with water; put on a lid to keep them 
under brine; let them stand in the brine twenty-four hours, rinse 
in cold water; drain them while you prepare the vinegar. Take 
wine vinegar enough to cover them, put in porcelain kettle, to 
scald, add sliced onions to flavor slightly. A small quantity of 
white sugar, cloves, allspice and mustard seed, to suit taste. 
When it comes to boil pour over the pickles. Put in bottles or 
glass jars with alternate layers of horseradish and grape leaves. 
If the vinegar is not very strong pour off after two days, scald 
and replace. Sprinkle a little alum over the top to keep them 

crisp. 

PICKLES. 

Salt pickles down dry for ten days, soak in fresh water one day; 
pour off water, place in a porcelain kettle, cover with water and 
vinegar, and add a teaspoonful of pulverized alum; let stand on 
the back of the stove and simmer (not boil) all day; wash and 
put in a jar with cloves, allspice, pepper, and horseradish; boil 
fresh vinegar and pour over all; in two weeks they will be ready 
for use. These pickles are always fresh and crisp. 

PICKLED GKAPES. 

Take ripe grapes, remove all imperfect and broken ones; divide 
the bunches, as they will pack more closely; put in an earthen 
jar a layer of grapes, and then one of green grape leaves. To 
four quarts of vinegar take two pints of white sugar, one ounce 
of stick cinnamon, one-half ounce each of cassia and whole cloves. 
Let the vinegar, spices and sugar all boil together a few minutes, 



PICKLES. 235 

arid when quite cold, pour over the grapes. By pouring on the 
vinegar cold, you avoid cracking the grapes, and they retain their 
natural form and color, as long as they last. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

Seven pounds of plums, three pounds of sugar, one ounce each 
of cinnamon and cloves, one quart of vinegar. Put in a jar a 
layer of plums and a layer of spice; boil the sugar and vinegar, 
and pour it over the plums three days in succession, and the 
fourth day boil spices and all together. They will keep for 
years. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take bright yellow cucumbers, firm but not soft; pare and cut 
them in strips, and, after removing the seeds, put them in a weak 
brine for twelve hours; pour off the brine, and scald them in alum 
water until clear; wash in cold water and drain. To one gallon 
of vinegar, take three and one-half pounds of sugar, one stick of 
cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace. Boil, and pour over the cucum- 
bers; repeat two or three times, then bottle. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Seven pounds of white, good sized peaches, four pounds of 
white sugar, one pint of good vinegar. Pare the fruit and stick 
three cloves in each peach. Boil and skim the vinegar till clear. 
Put a few peaches at a time into the syrup, until the vinegar has 
penetrated them thoroughly fifteen minutes, perhaps. Put the 
peaches into a large stone jar, boil the syrup until quite thick, 
and pour it over the peaches, hot; add four sticks of cinnamon 
to the boiled syrup, if agreeable. In about a week, pour off the 
syrup, and boil it down until there is only sufficient to cover the 
peaches well. You can seal them in glass jars if you prefer. 

PICCALILLI. 

Equal parts of cucumbers, onions and cabbage, chopped fine; 
sprinkle salt over them, and let them stand all night. Put the 
onions by themselves. In the morning, drain and wash the on- 
ions if you do not wish them to taste very strong. Prepare the 



236 PICKLES. 

vinegar the same as for pickled peaches. Mix all together and boil 
one hour, or until it looks clear. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds of ripe, red currants, three pounds of white sugar, 
one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, and cloves, 
one-half pint of good vinegar. Boil the currants, then put in 
the vinegar, sugar, and the rest of the ingredients. Then boil 
half an hour longer, and put into jars. You can spice plums, 
gooseberries, grapes and cherries in the same way. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Six pounds of fruit, three of raisins, three of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls allspice, two of cinnamon, and 
one of cloves. 

WATERMELON RIND PICKLES. 

Peel the outter rind from ten pounds of the melon. Put the 
pieces, cut in such fashion as you may fancy, into the preserving 
kettle, well covered with water; then lay on dishes to drain and 
cool. Throw away the water, and make a pickle of one pint of 
very strong cider vinegar; add three pounds of sugar, one ounce 
each of stick cinnamon, cloves, and three pieces of ginger root. 
Boil to a thick syrup, then put in the rinds and boil till clear; 
put them in a jar, boil the syrup till it is as thick as honey, then 
pour over the rinds and let them stand a day or so, then again boil 
the syrup and rinds, and seal in glass jars, while hot. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

One-half peck of green tomatoes, one dozen white onions, 
slice thin, and sprinkle with salt; let stand over night, drain in a 
colander, then put in a porcelain kettle; cover with vinegar and 
water equal parts, boil one hour, then drain. Take one and one- 
half gallons of vinegar, three pounds of sugar; boil and skim, 
then add one-half teacup of French mustard, one ounce each of 
ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, black pepper, and turmeric. 
Mix to a smooth paste with water, and stir into the vinegar while 
boiling. Use stone jars; put in a layer of pickles, and then a 
cup of the mixture. They are ready for immediate use. 



HYGIBNK. 



Donated by MRS. P. A. LYON, M. D., of Santa Cri 



In furnishing food for invalids, purchase the very best and pre- 
pare with the utmost care. No pains should be wanting in cook- 
ing even the simplest dishes, and they should be served in a 
style to please the fastidious taste of the invalid. Avoid variety 
and excess in quantity. 

Be sure to use the daintiest and whitest of napkins, and bring 
into requisition the heir-looms of silver and china. 

Frequently the relish for the best repast is lost by its being 
served in a slovenly manner. It should ever be remembered, 
too, that fresh cut flowers are not only a delight to all, but aid 
to a forgetfulness of pain. Even a green leaf upon a waiter, in- 
dicates that effection as well as duty prompted the hand in its 
labor. 

Every nurse and cook in preparing food for invalids should 
study to furnish that which is suitable to the needs of the patient. 
The time may come when all cooks will consider health and 
strength more than catering to the capricious tastes of per- 
verted appetites. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of half a lemon, one teaspoonful white sugar, one goblet 
water. Grate in a little rind if desired. 

HOT LEMONADE 

Is made the same way, only using hot water. Is good for colds 
and biliousness 



238 HYGIENE. 

ORANGE WHEY. 

The juice of one orange to one pint sweet milk. Heat slowly, 
until curds form, strain and cool. Good drink after confinement. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

White of one egg, one tablespoonful pulverized sugar, juice of 
one lemon, one goblet of water. Beat together. Very grateful 
in inflammation of lungs, stomach and bowels. 

GUM ARABIC WATER. 

One teaspoonful gum arabic, one goblet cold water; stand un- 
til it dissolves. Flavor with juice of lemon, orange or any other 
kind of fruit. 

JELLY WATER. 

Sour jellies dissolved in water make a pleasant drink for fever 
patients. 

OATMEAL TEA. 

Two tablespoonfuls raw oatmeal to one quart cold water, stand 
two hours in a cool place, then drain off as it is wanted. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till it is extremely brown 
and hard, but not black. Put it in a bowl of cold water, and 
cover tightly. Let it stand an hour before using. 

SAGO MILK. 

Three tablespoonfuls sago, soaked in a cup of cold water one 
hour; add three cupfuls boiling milk, sweeten and flavor to taste. 
Simmer slowly half an hour, eat warm. Tapioca milk is made in 
the same way. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed to a pint of boiling water; 
let it stand until cool, then strain and add the juice of two lem- 
ons and two tablespoonfuls of honey. Invaluable for coughs and 
suppression of urine. 

TAMARIND WATER. 

One tumbler of tamarinds, one pint of cold water. Turn water 
over tamarinds, and let it stand one hour; strain before using. 
Currant or cranberry jelly can be used similarly. 



HYGIENE. 239 

BEEF TEA. 

One pound of lean beef cut into small pieces, put into a bottle 
without a drop of water, cover tightly, and set in a pot of cold 
water; heat gradually to a boil, and continue boiling steadily for 
three or four hours, until the meat is like rags and the juice all 
out. Salt to taste. 

KICE GRUEL. 

Two tablespoonfuls rice, one quart cold water; stetp slowly 
one hour; strain through a gravy strainer; add a little cream and 
salt. Gruel from rice flour: Wet one tablespoonful flour, stir 
into boiling water; cook five minutes. 

CORN TEA. 

Parch common corn until browned through, grind, and pour 
on boiling water. Drink with or without cream. Excellent for 
nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. 

WHEAT OR BARLEY COFFEE. 

Brown wheat or barley thoroughly, and gi'ind. Take two 
tablespoonfuls, mix with the white of an egg, pour over one quart 
of boiling water. When it comes to a boil, set it on the back 
part of the stove and steep slowly fifteen minutes. A nourishing 
drink and a good substitute for tea and coffee. When made right 
it is very palatable. 

BRAN GRUEL. 

Boil half an hour one pint of bran of white wheat, in three 
pints of water. Strain through a gravy strainer and add a little 
salt. This is a good gruel for fevers and inflammations. Makes 
a good drink by thinning and adding lemon juice. 

CORNMEAL GRUEL. 

One tablespoonful finely sifted cornmeal wet in cold water. 
Have one quart of boiling water in a gruel pan, dip a spoonful of 
this thin, cold. batter into the water, stir, let it boil up, and then 
add another spoonful, and so on until the gruel is of the right 
consistency. Let it boil briskly twenty minutes or more. Salt 
to taste. Graham gruel is made in the same way; can be strained 
or not, as desired. 



240 HYGIENE. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Sift two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal in one quart of boiling wa- 
ter. If the meal is coarse, boil one hour and strain through a 
gravy strainer. 

BAKED MILK. 

Put half a gallon of milk in a jar and tie it down with writing 
paper. Let it stand in a moderate oven eight or ten hours. It 
will be like cream, and is good for consumptives and invalids 
generally. 

BUTTERMILK POP. 

Put one quart of buttermilk in the milk boiler; when nearly 
boiling, add two tablespoonfuls flour, which have been rubbed 
with one teaspoonful of milk. Stir until boiling. Good for 
nervous dyspepsia. I knew a man who lived on buttermilk pop 
only, for six months, and cured himself of dyspepsia. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

In one quart of water, boil the dark meat of half a chicken, 
with a tablespoonful of rice or barley; skim off the fat; use as 
soon as the rice is well done. When taken up, add a few narrow 
strips of bread, toasted not too brown. 

BROWNED RICE. 

Browned boiled rice eaten with boiled milk is excellent in sum- 
mer complaint. 

EICE CREAM. 

Thicken a pint of new milk with rice flour to the consistency of 
cream, sweeten, and flavor to taste. Beat the whites of two eggs 
to a stiff froth, put a half ounce of gelatine to half a pint of cold 
water; when well soaked, place over the fire until the gelatine is 
dissolved; when cool, beat to a froth with an egg beater; mix 
with the egg. This is excellent in inflammation of the bowels. 

SAGO JELLY. 

Soak five tablespoonfuls sago in half a pint of cold water thir- 
ty minutes, then add one cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice; pour over three cups boiling water; boil the whole 
in a farina boiler one hour; pour into moulds; when cold, turn 
out and serve with fruit juice. 



HTGIENE. 241 

CRACKED OR BOILED WHEAT. 

In two quarts boiling water, stir one pint of cracked wheat, 
half teaspoon of salt. Use a farina boiler or double kettle, and 
cook three hours without Stirling. When done, mould in dishes. 
Eat cold, with fruit sauce or cream and sugar. The rolled wheat 
is preferable. Not being able to procure it ready prepared, one 
can crack wheat in an ordinary coffee mill. 

OATMEAL MUSH. 

Coarse oatmeal should be cooked like rolled wheat. If desir- 
ed warm for breakfast, can be left in a granite farina boiler over 
night and heated in a few minutes. DD not soak oatmeal over 
night, or try to cook it sufficiently in the morning. Fine oatmeal 
can be made in a mush like Indian meal, and be ready for the 
table in forty minutes. 

OATMEAL AND GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mix equal parts of fine Irish oatmeal into a thick batter, with 
equal parts of milk and water, fill hot gem-pans and bake with 
a brisk heat. Very sweet and tender. 

BROWN GEMS. 

Mix with water equal quantities of rye and Indian meal, 
beat it to a cream , perhaps ten or fifteen minutes, bake in thin 
cakes in hot ge-n-pans. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Take three cupfuls of entire wheat flour, or Graham made 
from white wheat, two cupfuls of cold water, half cup of milk. 
Omit salt. Heat Jem-pans very hot on the top of the stove, fill 
them even full with the batter, place on the grate of a very hot 
oven. Let them remain ten minutes, then bake thirty minutes 
on the bottom of the oven. The "Acorn" gem-pans are essential. 
These are small, round, deep iron pans. Notice, three things are 
necessary for good gems: The best Graham flour, very hot pans 
and oven, and the "Acorn" gem-pans. No beating is required. 
These conditions observed, the gems will be as light as sponge 
cake. They can be eaten warm or cold, but are best heated over 
in a quick oven. They make excellent toast and puddings. 



242 HYGIENE. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Take one pint of new milk, one pint Graham flour or entire 
wheat flour. Stir together and add one beaten egg. Can be 
baked in any kind of gem-pans or muffin-rings. Salt must not 
be used with any bread that is made light with eggs. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Stir Graham flour in boiling water slowly, until it makes a 
thick batter. Set on the back part of the stove ten minutes and 
turn into the dish. To be eaten with fruit juice or cream and 
sugar. 

BOILED RICE. 

Put two cups of rice to three pints of boiling water, half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cook in a farina boiler four hours. It is said 
the Japanese do not put rice in water to cook it. Simply expose 
it to steam in a steamer several hours. 

GRIDDLE CAKES FROM "SHORTS." 

Shorts, or middlings, are obtained in grinding wheat, between 
the fine flour and bran. These are rich in gluten and prepared 
in the same way, make cakes equal to buckwheat. 

MILK TOAST. 

Heat six slices of Graham bread in the oven; toast an even 
brown over coals. Boil one pint of milk and half a cup of cream. 
Thicken with one teaspoonful of cornstarch; half a teaspoonful 
salt. Pour over the toast and serve hot. 

FIG ROLLS. 

One quart of Graham flour, one cupful of chopped figs, enough 
sweet milk to make like biscuit dough. Roll into long rolls and 
bake in a dripping-pan, in a hot oven. 

EGGS POACHED IN MILK. 

Take one cupful of milk, half a cup of water; when boiling 
break in six eggs. Cook slowly and serve on toast. A lady 
told me she cured herself of nervous headaches by eating 
an egg every morning cooked in this way. The milk prevents 
the poisonous effect of the sulphur in the egg and the nerves get 
decided nutriment. 



HYGIENE. 243 

POACHED EGGS. 

In a skillet of salted boiling water, place muffin-rings. Drop 
the eggs in them and let them stand ten minutes without boiling. 
Remove the rings and the eggs will be nicely moulded and evenly 
cooked. 

GRAHAM CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, half cup of sweet cream, one 
cupful of Graham flour, one teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Bake in a deep tin, adding currants and chopped raisins, and 
baking in small cake tins makes a nice children's cake. 

To BOLL POTATOES. 

Put into cold water, well covered, and boil quickly. When 
done just enough to stay on a fork, held perpendicularly, pour 
off the water, return to the fire, shake in the kettle and evapo- 
rate the steam. Serve at once, hot. For mashing, use a four- 
tined fork, or wire masher. Season delicately. Do not mash to a 
paste. No pepper. 

CABBAGE. 

A royal vegetable when properly cooked. Shave fine, put into 
boiling water, just enough to cook and leave juicy. Cover tight- 
ly; cook fifteen minutes; thicken with a little white flour. and 
milk; thin with milk enough to make rather juicy, and serve hot; 
is much sweeter without salt. One beaten egg with the last milk. 
Some put in a little vinegar. Onions prepare same as above. 

PARSNIPS. 

Pare and slice, cook until tender, but not broken, and season 
same as cabbage. If wanted to fry, or bake, do not thicken but 
remove from juice while a little hard. In cooking cabbage, par- 
snips and onions, have just water sufficient to cook them and 
leave a little juicy. 

CRACKED WHEAT PUDDING. 

In a deep pudding dish put layers of cold cooked cracked 
wheat, and tart apples sliced thin with two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of raisins. Fill the dish, have the 
wheat last, add cupful of cold water. Bake two hours. 



244 HYGIENE. 

CARROTS. 

Pare, split fine, and cut into half inch pieces; cook from two 
to three hours; season with rnilk. Delicious with or without a 
little salt. 

POP CORN*. 

Excellent food especially for dyspeptics. Take always at meals. 
Corn well roasted and ground fine, also makes a rich dressing 
for mushes, with milk or cream. 

ORANGES. 

For food, should be pared with a sharp knife, removing only 
the yellow of the rinds, leaving the white pulps; slice, and 
sprinkle with sugar, and let stand half an hour. The pulp is 
mucilaginous and modifies the acid and is nutricious. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Pare tart apples, core with a corer or small knife. Place them 
in pans, and fill cavities with sugar. Bake in a slow oven until 
tender. If sweet apples are used, it is better not to pare; sugar 
not needed. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Take a stone jar, and fill it with alternate layers of pears (with- 
out paring) and a little sugar, until the jar is full, then pour in 
as much water as the jar will hold. Bake in a moderate oven 
three hours. 

BAKED PIE-PLANT. 

Cut two pounds of pie-plant into a pudding dish, sprinkle over 
it half cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of flour, or what is 
better half a cup of rolled bread crumbs. Add water, until the 
pie-plant is two-thirds covered. Bake in a quick oven, thirty or 
forty minutes. This method of preparing pie-plant removes the 
medicinal taste, and makes an acceptable spring dish. 

PEACHES A LA STRAWBERRIES. 

Ripe peaches cut in small pieces, with soft, mild eating apples, 
in the proportion of three peaches to one apple, mixed with 
sugar, and left to stand two or three hours, makes excellent mock 
strawberries. 



RRAQMBNTS. 



The subject of "wasting" is one to which I wish to call atten- 
tion. There are so many housekeepers who never think of utiliz- 
ing the fragments which have been left after a meal, but throw 
them into the swill-tub. Now any thrifty, sensible housekeeper 
can, with proper care and judgment, manufacture these bits into 
numberless nice and palatable dishes, which will be a great sav- 
ing, and perhaps add many a dollar to her supply of "pin money." 
Never throw away even a crumb of bread, but save it and put it 
with other pieces. If you have a loaf of bread about to mold, 
cut it into thin slices, place all together in a dripping-pan and 
place in the oven to dry, and you will find that when pounded 
and rolled, it will be very nice for dressing, puddings, griddle- 
cakes, and croquettes. Keep in a covered box, or in a paper sack 
tied securely, and hang it in a dry place. It is much more 
economical to prepare meats with a dressing of some kind, since 
they "go so much further." Save all the fat from soups, and 
boiled or roasted meats. The fat from beef, pork and poultry, 
keep for shortening or frying, and from ham, mutton and soups, 
in which vegetables were boiled, for soap grease. To clarify 
drippings, boil them a few minutes and then cut in a raw potato 
and let it cook for five minutes, then drop in a pinch of saleratus, 
and strain. If all the drippings are taken care of, it will be a 
great saving in a family. 

HASH. 

There is nothing worse for the health, or for the palate, than a 
poor hash, while a good hash is not only a favorite dish in most 
families, but an essential article of economy and convenience. 
Do not make hash or any other dish greasy. It is a mistaken idea 



246 FRAGMENTS. 

to think that fat and butter in large quantities are necessary to 
good cooking. Butter and oils may be melted without .changing 
their nature, but when cooked they become much more indigesti- 
ble and injurious to weak stomachs. Cold meat of any kind will 
do, but corned beef is best; always remove all surplus fat and 
bits of gristle, chop fine, place in a dripping-pan, season with 
salt and pepper, dredge with a little flour, and pour in at the side 
of the pan enough water to come up level with the hash, place in 
oven and do not stir; when the flour is a light brown, and has 
formed a sort of crust, take out, add a lump of butter, stir it 
through several times, and you will have a delicious hash. Or, 
place in hot skillet with just enough water to moisten, add a little 
butter or some nice beef drippings, stir often until warmed 
through, cover and let stand on a moderately hot part of the stove 
fifteen minutes. When ready to dish, run the knife under and 
fold as you would an omelet, and serve hot. 

How TO Fix TOUGH BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut off the tough ends of the beefsteak, or any other kind 
of meat may be cooked in the same way. Chop the meat, while 
raw, very fine, heat a skillet very hot and grease it with butter, 
put in your meat, and stir all the time while cooking. This 
should be done over a quick fire, three minutes will cook the 
meat. Season with butter, pepper and salt. You can serve it 
plain or on toast. Another way : Chop fine and broil on a hot 
gridiron, season with salt and pepper. Or, brown in a very hot 
skillet, dredge in a tablespoonf ul of flour, pour over a teacupf ul of 
boiling water, stir well and put over nicely toasted bread on a plat- 
ter ; poach some eggs if you like and put one on each slice of toast. 

MEAT PIE. 

Take bits of bone, gristle, and pieces of meat which are not 
nice for the pie, cover them with water, simmer gently for a long 
time; strain off the gravy so made, thicken it with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and a small piece of butter, previously rubbed to- 
gether. If you have plenty of gravy, save a part of it to serve 
in a tureen. Cut the cold meat into small square pieces, lay it in 
a baking-dish (without an under crust), with alternate layers of 



FRAGMENTS. 247 

meat and parboiled potatoes, sprinkle a little flour over the top; 
add enough gravy to cover the meat; bake half an hour in a slow 
oven. A little onion finely minced, is an improvement; or, a few 
spojnfuls of cooked tomatoes. Veal pie may be made in the 
sa-ne way. 

FRICASSEED BEEF. 

Cut from the steak, the end pieces. Heat the skillet very hot, 
grease it, and brown the meat on both sides, then pour boiling 
water over and cover tightly, cook until tender, let the water boil 
out. Put in a piece of butter the size of an egg, let the meat 
brown again, then put on a platter and make a nice brown gravy 
and serve with the meat. 

HAM TOAST. 

Mix with one tablespoonful of finely chopped or grated ham 
the beaten yolk of an egg and a little cream and pepper; heat 
over the fire, and then spread the mixture either on hot buttered 
toast or on slices of bread fried quite crisp in butter; serve very 
hot. You can double this recipe, as many times as you like. 

MUTTON DINNER. 

Three pounds of mutton, cut in small pieces, (if you skin mut- 
ton it looses the strong flavor). Put on the stove in cold water; 
when half done put in a teacupful of rice, pepper and salt to taste. 
Have water enough for soup, make a nice biscuit crust and steam. 
Serve with potato salad and apple pie. 

CHEAP OYSTER SOUP. 

One pint of cooked tomatoes, one teacupful of codfish; pick 
fine, add three pints of water, boil twenty minutes, add a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one pint of fresh milk, and a little rolled cracker. 

VEAI, STEAK, 

Take some scraps, or stringy parts of veal, two or three slices 
of pork, chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste. Let this stew 
in water, until the juice is extracted. Strain the broth, thicken 
with a teaspoonful of flour, worked with a tablespoonful of butter, 
and one of French mustard; let simmer slowly. Broil the cut- 
lets or fry them; drop into the gravy and stew ten minutes. 



248 FRAGMENTS. 

A NICE DISH FOR DINNER OR SUPPER. 

Take cold beef or veal, chop fine, and season with salt and 
pepper; have ready hot mashed potatoes, seasoned as for the table 
and put in a shallow baking-dish, first a layer of meat, then a 
layer of potatoes, and so on, till the dish is full; smooth over top 
of potatoes, and make little holes in which place bits of butter. 
Bake until a nice brown. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Chop fine some cold beef, beat two eggs, and mix with the 
meat; add a little milk, butter, salt and pepper; make into rolls 
and fry. A very nice dish for breakfast. 

CALF'S HEART AND TONGUE. 

You can buy these for a trifle, and they are nice for dinner or 
tea, if cooked in the following way: Wash clean, and put on to 
boil in cold water, salt well and boil till tender. Some vinegar 
and one tablespoonful of the following spices : Whole black pep- 
per, allspice, and three bay leaves. Put in your meat, and if 
you prepare it in the morning, it will be ready for tea. Slice 
very thin and serve cold. 

PARKER TOAST. 

Take stale bread and cut into small, square pieces; make a bat- 
ter as follows: One cup of sour milk, one egg, half a teaspoon 
of soda, flour enough to make like griddle cakes, a little salt. 
You can use sweet milk with baking powder. Dip in the bread, 
and fry in nice drippings or lard. Serve with syrup for break- 
fast. 

CROQUETTES. 

Take some stale bread and pour on cold water enough to moist- 
en it. Season with salt and pepper, add two well beaten eggs, 
make into little oval balls, roll into flour or cornmeal, and fry in 
hot lard or nice drippings, enough to cover them. Serve with 
roast beef. 

MINT VINEGAR. 

Put into a wide mouthed bottle, fresh, clean mint leaves, 
enough to fill it loosely, then fill up the bottle with good vinegar; 



FRAGMENTS. 249 

after it has been stopped close for two or three weeks, it is to be 
poured off clean, into another bottle, and kept well corked for 
use. Serve with lamb or any cold meat. 

TURKEY DRESSING. 

Ask for sausage for dressing. Get one can of trufles and one 
can of chestnuts, chop fine and mix the sausage, salt and pep- 
per to taste; chop two small onions very fine and mix well. The 
dressing will be very good without the trufles and chestnuts, if 
prefered, but of course not so nice. 

A NICE WAY TO PREPARE A SHIN OF BEEF. 

Crack the bone well, put it in a stew-kettle, and just cover it 
with water. When it simmers, begin the skimming, and when 
the water looks clear, add a bunch of sweet herbs, or if the flavor 
is not liked, one dozen berries of black pepper, the same of all- 
spice; stew very gently until the bones slip easily from the meat; 
take out, remove bones, and chop the meat fine, skim off the 
grease from the liquor in the pot, and return the chopped meat 
to it; season highly with salt and pepper, and a little powdered 
sage if liked; pour in pans, and set in a cool place. This is nice 
sliced for tea or for breakfast, fried in nice drippings, or you can 
mix it with bread or cracker crumbs; make into little cakes and 
brown in the oven. Or you can make croquettes or hash of the 
meat; they are excellent. Another nice way to save bits of cold 
meat is to drop them in a jar of vinegar; at the end of the week 
you will have enough for a batch of mince pies or spiced beef. 

How TO MAKE NICE GKAVY. 

It is not fashionable to have gravy made for roast beef or mut- 
ton, as the juice of the meat is preferred, which, on the plate, is 
mixed with catsup or whatever is preferred. Almost any kind of 
meat liquor or soup stock, from which all fat has been removed, 
may be made into nice gravy, by simply adding a little seasoning 
and thickening; if browned flour is used, the gravy will require 
but little cooking, but, when thickened with raw flour, it must 
cook until thoroughly done, or the gravy will taste raw. All 
gravies should be well stirriedover a hot fire, they must be quick- 
ly made, and must boil, not simmer. 



250 FRAGMENTS. 

A CRUMB OF BREAD. 

When you are cutting bread for the table, save all the crumbs , 
and at the end of the week, you will have enough for a bread 
pudding or bread griddle cakes. 

GREEX CORN PUDDING. 

One and one-half ears of green corn, one cupful of sweet milk, 
one egg, piece of butter the size of a walnut, pepper and salt to 
taste. Scrape the corn from the cobb and boil it until done, let 
it get cold then add the milk with the rest of the ingredients, 
and bake a light brown color. 

"WHEAT JEMS. 

Two cups of sour or buttermilk, one egg, one even teaspoon- 
ful of soda, baking-powder and salt, one pint of flour. Heat 
the jem-pans very hot, fill with the batter and bake in a hot oven. 

OMELET. 

Four eggs, three-fourths of a cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon - 
ful of flour. Beat the yolks well, add the flour and milk, and 
steam over hot water till thick like custard. Beat the whites to 
a stiff froth and mix all together; butter a dish and pour in the 
omelet and bake in the oven to a light brown. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Put into a well buttered pie-dish a layer of finely grated bread 
crumbs; then a layer of apples pared and sliced fine, a little 
sugar and grated nutmeg; then another layer of bread crumbs, 
and so on, till the dish is full, taking care to have a layer of bread 
crumbs on top. Bake nearly an hour. The pudding should be 
covered during part of the time it is baking. Serve with sugar 
and cream. It is also very nice made with marmalade or any 
kind of jam instead of apples. 

HOXEY VINEGAR. 

Two pounds of strained honey, one gallon of water; put it in a 
jug, and let it stand in a warm place for six weeks, to ferment; 
then pour it off into a clean jug, and set it away for use. 



FRAGMENTS. 251 

APPLE JAM. 

When your apples are in danger of spoiling, make them into 
jam in the following manner: Pare and core them, chop them 
fine, and measure equal quantities of apples and sugar. Make a 
good clear syrup of sugar, and add the juice of three lemons and 
a few pieces of ginger root. Boil till the apples are clear and 
yellow. Put in jars or seal in cans. 

BAKER'S YEAST. 

Take a few hops between the fingers, say an ounce or so, and 
put in a sauce-pan with a quart of water; boil a few minutes and 
strain off; then after removing all the hops, return the liquor 
and put in two or three medium sized potatoes. Boil until quite 
done; again drain off the liquor, and add a tablespoonful of flour; 
mash the potatoes well with it; then return the liquor, and add a 
teaspoonful of sugar; mix the whole together; have it about the 
consistency of batter. Put in a bottle (clean glass) and cork it 
tight. Shake two or three times a day, keep covered and in a 
warm place for two days, when it will be observed that bubbles 
are now and then seen to rise to the top, and the top looks creamy. 
Do not shake any more, but tie the cork down; the next day you 
can make the regular hop yeast with hops, potatoes and a little 
malt, which will give you a regular baker's yeast, pure and fresh, 
which must be renewed every ten or twelve days. Try it; it is 
very fine. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Boil and mash thoroughly, through a colander, your tomatoes, 
which must be ripe. To every gallon of tomatoes, add one quart 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one of cayenne 
pepper, one of ground allspice, one of ground cloves, four of salt, 
four of mustard seed, two of ground cinnamon. Boil hard four 
hours. Put it on the back of the stove and leave till the next 
morning, then bottle. The older it is the better. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cupful of raisins, two-thirds cup of butter or suet, one- 
half cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown sugar, one cupful 
of sour or buttermilk, one even teaspoonful of soda, three cups 



252 FRAGMENTS. 

of flour, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt; steam three hours. 
Serve with vinegar sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Twelve Boston crackers, one quait of sweet milk, one cupful 
each suet, molasses, raisins, and currants, spices to taste. Steam 
in pudding mould three hours. 

GREEN MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of 
butter, two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream-tartar. Makes a nice layer or loaf cake. 

COOKIES Very nice. 

One large tablespoonful each of butter and lard, one cupful of 
sugar, nearly three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonf uls of Equity 
baking-powder, all rubbed together, then add one-half cupful of 
sweet milk, one egg, roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of sour cream or milk, if you 
use milk, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, one cupful of 
seeded and chopped raisins, two cupfuls of sifted Graham flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, three eggs. Bake in a loaf. 

"\VHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one of butter, one of raisins, 
one of currants, three cupfuls of flour, one-half cup of sweet 
milk. Citron, mace and cinnamon to taste, two teaspoontuls of 
Equity baking-powder. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, 
one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three teaspoonfuls Equity 
baking-powder; flavor with almonds or lemon. Made with the 
whites of four eggs is nice for cocoanut cake, or with the yolks 
for chocolate cake; three cupfuls of flour. Been in use for fifteen 
years. 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

SOUPS 6 

Amber or Bouillon 7 

Beef Soup 6 

Bouillon 10 

Bean Soup 13 

Corn Soup 13 

Giblet Soup 10 

Green Pea Soup 13 

Hare or Rabbit Soup 1 1 

Italian Soup 9 

Mock-Turtle or Calf s Head 8 

Macaroni Soup 10 

Meatless Tomato Soup 12 

Noodle Soup 9 

Okra Soup 9 

Ox-Tail Soup . 10 

Onion Soup 15 

Potato Soup 14 

Rich Veal Soup 1 1 

Split Pea Soup 13 

To make Caramel .or Coloring.. 7 

Turnip Soup 12 

Tomato Soup 12 

Venison Soup 1 1 

Vegetable Oyster Soup 12 

Vermicelli Soup 14 

White Soup 8 

FISH SOUPS 15 

Clam Soup 16 

Catfish Soup 1 6 

Codfish Soup 17 

Oyster Soup No. I 15 

Oyster Soup No. 2 15 

Stock for Soup or Gravy 17 

To Clear Soup 17 

Noodles for Soup i? 

Force-meat Balls for Soup 17 

Suet Dumplings 18 

Calf's Liver Dumplings 18 

FISH 19 

Baked Fish 20 

Broiled Shad .. 21 



PAGE. 

Baked Salmon Trout 22 

Broiled Salmon 22 

Broiled Salmon Trout 23 

Baked Salmon 23 

Baked Halibut 24 

Boiled Codfish 25 

Boiled Salt Mackerel 26 

Cream Pickerel 33 

Codfish Pie 25 

Codfish Hash 25 

Codfish Balls No. I 26 

Codfish Balls No. 2 26 

Cream Gravy for Baked Fish .... 20 

Fried Smelts 21 

Fried Fish ... 21 

Fish Chowder 25 

Sturgeon Steak 24 

Stewed Codfish 24 

Turbot 25 

To Boil Fish 21 

Whitefish Steamed 20 

SHELL FISH 27 

Broiled Oysters 28 

Cream Oysters on Half Shell.. . 29 

Clam Chowder 30 

Deviled Crab 29 

Escaloped Oysters 27 

Fulton Market Stew 28 

Fricasseed Oysters 27 

Fried Oysters 27 

Oyster Pie 28 

Oyster Patties 28 

Pickled Oysters 29 

Stewed Oysters 27 

Steamed Oysters 28 

To Boil a Lobster 30 

To Prepare a Crab 30 

MEATS 31 

Broiled Beefsteak 32 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. . 32 

Boiled Beef 32 

Beef a la Mode 33 



254 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Boiled Corned Beef 34 

Breakfast Stew 35 

Broiled Tripe 36 

Boiled Mutton, Caper Sauce. ... 37 

Boiled Ham 43 

Boiled Salt Tongue 35 

Broiled Ham 44 

Croquettes 42 

Croquettes of Calf's Brains ... 43 

Dried Beef 35 

Fried Beefsteak 32 

Fried Liver 36 

Fried Tripe 36 

Fried Mutton Chops 38 

Fried Ham 44 

Fricatelli 44 

Head Cheese 4 6 

Ham Sandwhiches 47 

Larded Liver 36 

Lamb Chops 38 

Leg of Mutton Roasted 38 

Mock Duck 33 

Mutton a la Venison 39 

Mixed Sandwiches 47 

Pot Roast 38 

Pork Pie 45 

Pork Chops 45 

Pickle for Beef 48 

Roast Beef with Yorkshire 33 

Roast Lamb 39 

Roast Veal 39 

Roast Spare Rib ..... 44 

Spiced Beef 37 

Stock 37 

Sauted Mutton Chops 39 

Sweet Breads Patties 42 

Sweet Breads with Mushrooms. . . 42 

Sweet Breads with Tomatoes. ... 43 

Salt Pork Cooked in Batter 46 

Soused Tripe 46 

Souse 46 

Sandwiches 47 

Sausage Meat 47 

To Select Meat 3! 

To Cook a Fillet of Beef 34 

To Roast a Fillet of Beef 37 

To Roast a Fillet of Veal 45 

To Roast a Pig 45 

To Sweeten Salt Pork 46 

To Try Out Lard 47 

To Cure Hams 48 

Traveling Lunch 47 

Veal Stew 40 

Veal Cutlets 40 

Veal Terrapin 40 



PAGE. 

Veal Loaf 41 

Veal Roll 41 

Veal Sweetbreads 41 

Crust for Meat Pie 48 

Potato Crust 48 

Dressing for Poultry or Meats 49 

Dressing for Turkey 49 

Dressing for Turkey and Chicken 49 

Apple Dressing 49 

Chestnut Dressing 50 

Potato Dressing 50 

Dressing for Ducks and Geese.. 50 

SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 51 

Anchovy Sauce 52 

Apple Sauce 54 

Cranberry Sauce 54 

Crab Sauce 52 

Cucumber Catsup 56 

Currant Catsup 56 

Curry Powder 57 

Celery Soy 58 

Chili Sauce 53 

Drawn Butter 51 

Fine French Mustard 57 

Gooseberry Catsup 56 

Holland Sauce 51 

Horseradish Sauce 53 

How to Mix Mustard 57 

Imitation Worcestershire Sauce. . 53 

Kitchen Salt 58 

Lobster Sauce 52 

Lemon Sauce 51 

Mushroom Catsup 55 

Nasturtium Seed 57 

Oyster Catsup 56 

Onion Sauce 53 

Shrimp Sauce 52 

Sauce for Venison 52 

Tomato Sauce 53 

Tomato Catsup No. I 54 

Tomato Catsup No. 2 . . 54 

Tomato Catsup No. 3 55 

Tomato Catsup No. 4 55 

To Prepare Horseradish 58 

Walnut Catsup 55 

POULTRY 59 

Boned Turkey 63 

Broiled Chickens or Quails 65 

Baked Spring Chicken 64 

Baltimore Fry 66 

Chicken Croquettes 64 

Chili Colorad 64 . 

Chicken Pie 65 



INDEX. 



255 



PAGE. 

Chicken Pot Pie 65 

Curried Dishes 66 

Chicken or Veal Croquettes .... 67 

Escaloped Turkey 63 

Filling for Boned Turkey 62 

Fried Gumbo 66 

Jellied Chicken No. I 67 

Jellied Chicken No. 2 67 

Roast Turkey 61 

Roast Chickens 63 

Roast Goose 67 

Roast Duck 68 

Stewed Chicken 64 

To Boil Turkey 61 

To Bone Turkey 62 

GAME ... 69 

Broiled Quails 71 

Broiled Pigeons 71 

Couplets of Quail or Pigeons.... 73 

Fried Woodcock 71 

Leg of Venison 74 

Pigeon Pie 71 

Quails Parboiled or Baked 70 

Roast Duck 70 

Roast Pigeons 71 

Rabbits 72 

Roast Haunch of Venison 73 

Reed Birds 73 

Stewed Duck 70 

Snipe 71 

Stewed Pigeons 72 

Venison The Shoulder 72 

SALADS 75 

Chicken Salad No. i 75 

Chicken Salad No. 2 75 

Chicken Salad No. 3 76 

Chicken Salad No. 4 76 

Celery Salad 79 

Celery Slaw 79 

Cabbage Salad 80 

Cabbage Salad or Cold Slaw .... 80 

Cream Dressing 78 

Cream Cabbage 81 

Cucumber Salad 84 

Dressing for Lettuce 80 

Dressing 81 

French Dressing 83 

Ham Salad 78 

Herring Salad 79 

Lobster Salad 77 

Lettuce Salad 79 

Lobster Salad Dressing 80 

Lettuce Plain . . 80 



PAGE. 

Mayonnaise Sauce 82 

Mayonnaise of Cauliflower 83 

Oyster Salad 83 

Potato Salad No. I 81 

Potato Salad No. 2 Si 

Potato Salad No. 3 82 

Red Mayonnaise 78 

Salmon Salad 77 

Sardine Salad 78 

Sardine Dressing 78 

Shrimp Salad 82 

Tomato Salad 78 

To Fringe Celery 84 

Veal Salad 77 

Vegetable Salad 83 

VEGETABLES 85 

A nice way to prepare Potatoes. . 90 

Artichokes 94 

Asparagus 95 

Boiled Potatoes (skins on) 86 

Boiled Potatoes ( skins off) 86 

Baked Potatoes 87 

Browned Potatoes (white) 88 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 88 

Boiled Beets 92 

Baked Parsnips 94 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 95 

Broiled Tomatoes 96 

Baked Tomatoes 96 

Beet Greens 98 

Baked Beets 98 

Baked Cauliflower 98 

Baked Cauliflower, French dish.. 99 

Boiled Onions 99 

Boiled Macoroni 101 

Baked Macroni loi 

Broiled Mushrooms 103 

Boiled Herring 103 

Baked Corn 95 

Boston Beans 104 

Corn Oysters 92 

Corn Custard 92 

Cabbage Sprouts 97 

Cauliflower 98 

Delicate Succotash 91 

Delicate Cabbage 97 

Escaloped Tomatoes 96 

Escaloped Salsify 93 

Fifth Avenue Hotel Potatoes 88 

Fried Corn 9 2 

Fried Parsnips 94 

Fried Tomatoes 95 

Fried Cabbage 99 

Fried Raw Potatoes loi 



256 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Fried Bananas 101 

Fried Hominy 103 

Fried Mush 104 

Green Corn (Boiled) 91 

Green Corn Cakes 91 

Green Pease 92 

How to Boil Rice 102 

Italian Macaroni 102 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 89 

Lima Beans 91 

Mashed Potatoes 86 

Macaroni lol 

Macaroni as a Vegetable 101 

Macaroni Pudding 102 

Okra and Tomatoes 99 

Potato Puff 87 

Potato Balls 87 

Potato Ribbon 89 

Potato Pie 89 

Potato Cakes loo 

Rules for Cooking Vegetables... 85 

Raw Tomatoes 96 

Roasted Onions loo 

Silverthrone Potatoes 87 

Saratoga Potatoes -. 89 

String Beans 90 

Succotash 91 

Stuffed Egg Plant 93 

Spinach a la Cream 94 

Stewed Tomatoes 95 

Stewed Cabbage 97 

Summer Squash 97 

Stuffed Cabbage 99 

Southern Rice . . . , 102 

Stewed Mushrooms 103 

To Boil New Potatoes 86 

To Fry Egg Plant 93 

To Boil Spinach 93 

Tomato Toast 99 

Turnips loo 

Winter Squash 97 

BREAD 105 

Brown Bread no 

Boston Brown Bread No. r in 

Boston Brown Bread No. 2 112 

Boston Brown Bread No. 3 112 

Corn Bread No. I in 

Corn Bread No. 2 in 

Graham Bread 1 10 

Hop Yeast 106 

Potato Yeast 107 

Rubs or Flour Hard Yeast 108 

Superior Bread 1 10 

Vienna Bread 109 



PAGE. 

White Bread Sponge 108 

Yeast, Self Working 107 

BREAKFAST AND TEACAKES. 113 

Apple Fritters 128 

An Excellent Corn Bread 120 

Breakfast Rolls 114 

Biscuit 116 

Breakfast Puffs 119 

Buckwheat Cakes 127 

Bread Pan Cakes 127 

Cinnamon Rolls 113 

Coffee Cake 118 

Crumpets 121 

Corn Muffins 121 

Cornmeal Caumpets 121 

Cornmeal Cake 122 

Cream Muffins 122 

Cream Griddle Cakes 125 

Cornmeal Griddle Cakes No. I. 126 

Cornmeal Griddle Cakes No. 2.. 126 

Died Rusk 117 

Drop Biscuits 118 

Delicious Hot Cakes 126 

Eastern Buns, Hot Cross 113 

French Rolls 112 

Flannel Cakes 125 

Fritters 127 

Graham Biscuit . . . . 116 

Graham Rolls 1 16 

German Puffs 119 

Graham Gems No. I 119 

Graham Gems No 2 1 20 

Graham Muffins 120 

Graham Muffins 123 

Graham Cakes 123 

Graham Cakes 127 

Golden Slices 128 

Hominy Cakes 126 

Hominy Muffins 122 

Johnny Cake No. I 120 

Johnny Cake No. 2 120 

Maryland Bread 116 

Molly Puffs 119 

Nice Sandwich Rolls 114 

Oatmeal Griddle Cakes 126 

Potato Biscuit 115 

Puffs 117 

Rusks 117 

Rice Muffins 122 

Risen Waffles 124 

Rice and Corn Meal Waffles 124 

Rice Waffles 125 

Rice Waffles, Very fine 125 

Rice Griddle Cakes 127 



INDEX. 



257 



PAGE. 

Split Rolls 113 

Sour Cream Biscuits 117 

Sally Lunn No. I 1 18 

Sally Lunn No. 2 1 18 

Sally Lunn, without yeast . 119 

Spanish Buns 1 23 

Sour or Buttermilk Cakes 125 

Scarborough Puffs 128 

Vienna Rolls 113 

Vienna Buscuit 115 

Virginia Wafer Buscuit 115 

Velvet Cakes 126 

Wheat Muffins 121 

Waffles and Griddle Cakes 123 

Waffles 124 

Waffles 124 

PIES 129 

Apple Pie, No. I 131 

Apple Pie, No. 2 131 

Crust for Tarts and Pates 130 

Chess Pie 133 

Custard Pie 133 

Cream Pie, No. I 134 

Cream Pie No. 2 134 

Cocoanut Pie 134 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 135 

Cherry Pie 137 

Cherry Pie 137 

Dried Apple Pie 136 

French Puft Paste 130 

Good Plain Pie Crust 129 

Gooseberry Tart .... 137 

Green Currant Pie 137 

Jelly Pie 140 

Kiss-me quick Pie 131 

Lemon Pie, No. I 132 

Lemon Pie, No. 2 132 

Lemon Pie, No. 3 132 

Maple Sugar Pie 137 

Mince Meat, No. I 138 

Mince Meat, No. 2 139 

Mock Mince Pie 140 

Molasses Pie 140 

Nice Apple Pie 131 

Orange Pie . 133 

Potato Crust'. 131 

Peach Pie 135 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 1 135 

Puft Paste 130 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 2 136 

Pie Plant Pie 136 

Peach Custard Pie 134 

Raisin Pie 132 

Ripe Currant Pie 138 



PAGE. 

Rich Mince Pie 139 

Squash Pie 136 

Sweet Potato Pie 136 

Sweet Potato Pie 138 

Tomato Pie 137 

Transparent Pie 140 

Vinegar Pie 136 

Whipped Cream Pie 135 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 141 

Baked Rice 142 

Bread Pudding, No. I 146 

Bread Pudding, No. 2 146 

Bread and Butter Pudding 146 

Bird's Nest Pudding 147 

Baked Indian Pudding 149 

Baked Plum Pudding 152 

Blackberry Shortcake 155 

Cornstarch Pudding 144 

Cornstarch Pudding 150 

Cottage Pudding 146 

Cherry Pudding 148 

Chocolate Pudding 148 

Cabinet Pudding 150 

Cream Tapioca Pudding 145 

Cocoanut Pudding 151 

Cracker Plum Pudding 148 

Cornmeal Pudding, No. I 151 

Cornmeal Pudding, No. 2 152 

Christmas Plum Pudding 153 

Delicate Pudding 143 

Delicious Pudding 144 

Fig Pudding 147 

Graham Pudding 150 

Italian Pudding 149 

Minute Pudding 142 

Mountain Snow Pudding 144 

Orange Roley Poley 148 

Orange Pudding 145 

Orange Shortcake 154 

Porcupine Pudding 146 

Paradise Pudding 149 

Poor Man's Pudding 151 

Peach Cobbler 155 

Puff Pudding 155 

Queen of Rice Pudding 143 

Queen of Puddings 144 

Rice Pudding 142 

Rice Pudding 143 

Rice Cup Pudding H3 

Snow Ball Pudding 142 

Steamed Tapioca Pudding 145 

Snow Pudding 147 

Sago Pudding 14? 

Sponge Pudding 149 



258 



INDEX. 



Sicily Pudding 151 

Suet Pudding, No. I 152 

Suet Pudding, No. 2 152 

Steamed Apple Dumplings 155 

Steamed Plum Pudding 153 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. I .... 153 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2. ... 154 

Tapioca Pudding 145 

SAUCES 156 

Cabinet Pudding Sauce 156 

Foam Sauce 156 

Hard Sauce 157 

Maple Sugar Sauce 159 

Orange Sauce 157 

Plain Cream Sauce 156 

Sauce for Bread Pudding 157 

Sauce for Plum Pudding 157 

Vinegar Sauce 156 

White Sauce 156 

Weights and Measures 158 

CAKE 159 

Almond Icing 163 

Almond Cake 1 73 

Angel Food 177 

Angel Cake 177 

Almond Cake No. I 182 

Almond Cake No. 2 182 

Almond Cakes 185 

Almond Cheese Cakes 188 

Almond Jumbles 189 

Boiled Frosting 162 

Black Fruit Cake 163 

Black Cake 164 

Bride's Cake 168 

Baker's Pound Cake 172 

Bride's Cake No. I 174 

Bride's Cake No. 2 1 74 

Beautiful Cake 175 

Berwick Sponge Cake ' 175 

Boston Cream Cake 189 

Butter Biscuit 188 

Baker's Ginger Snaps 195 

Chocolate Icing . 163 

Coffee Cake No. i 165 

Coffee Cake No. 2 166 

Clove Cake 166 

Connecticut Loaf Cake 168 

Cornstai ch Cake 171 

Centennial Pound Cake 172 

Cup Cake 1 74 

Cocoanut Cake 1 78 

Cocoanut Cake 1 70 

Custard Cake 179 



PAGE. 

Caramel Cake 179 

Chocolate Cake 180 

Cold Water Cake 165 

Cream Chocolate Cake 180 

Cream Sponge Cake 184 

Cocoanut Balls 184 

Citron Cakes 186 

Crullers and Doughnuts 189 

Cream Puffs 189 

Cream Doughnuts 191 

Crullers No I 191 

Crullers No. 2 191 

Crullers No. 3 192 

Comfits 192 

Crisp Ginger Snaps 196 

Dried Apple Cake 168 

Delicate Cake 171 

Dream Cake 183 

Doughnuts 191 

Doughnuts 191 

Every Day Fruit Cake 165 

Excellent Jumbles 187 

Frosting to be made 162 

Frosting with Gelatine 162 

Fruit Cake No. i 163 

Fruit Cake No. 2 163 

Fruit Cake No. 4 164 

Frosting for Wedding Cake 164 

Fruit Cake No. 6 165 

Feather Cake No. I 171 

Feather Cake No. 2 171 

Fifth Avenue Cake 176 

Fig Cake 181 

Gold Cake 1 74 

Groom's Cake 169 

Golden Pound Cake 172 

German Cake 1 76 

Good Cookies 187 

Ginger Bread 193 

Ginger Bread 193 

Ginger Bread (very fine) 193 

Ginger Cookies 194 

Ginger Cookies (extra fine) 194 

Ginger Cookies 194 

Ginger Drop Cakes 195 

Ginger Snaps No. I 195 

Ginger Snaps No. 2 195 

Ginger Nuts 196 

Ginger Snaps 196 

Hickorynut Cake 173 

Hickorynut or English Walnut.. 181 

Hard Ginger Bread 194 

Icing. ... 161 

Imperial Cake 169 

Icing 177 



INDEX. 259 



PAGE. 

Ice Cream Cake 185 

I.oaf Cake 167 

Lemon Cake 169 

Lady Cake 174 

Little Gold Cakes 185 

Lemon Jumbles 186 

Lemon Jelly Cake 182 

Lemon Cookies 187 

Lady Fingers 188 

Lemon Cheese Cakes 188 

Mountain Cake 166 

Maible Cake No. 1 168 

Marble Chocolate Cake 175 

Minnehaha Cake 183 

Molasses Jumbles 194 

Moonshines ' 192 

No N ame Cake 165 

Nut Cake 176 

Nut Cake 166 

Nothings 192 

New Year's Cookies 186 

Old Hartford Election Cake... . 167 

Orange Cake 1 78 

Orange Cake 178 

Orange Cake 185 

Pork Cake 167 

Pound Cake 172 

Prison Cake 183 

Plain Doughnuts 190 

Queen Cake 173 

Ruth's Cake 165 

Ribbon Cake 180 

Roll Jelly Cake 184 

Rice Cakes *. 185 

Ring Jumbles 188 

Raised Connecticut Doughnuts. . 190 

Raised Doughnuts 190 

Spice Cake 166 

Snow Cake 1 70 

Snow Ball Cake 171 

Silver Cake 174 

Sponge Cake 1 75 

Sponge Cake 1 76 

Scroll Cake 176 

Spice Cake 181 

Snow Cake 183 

Sponge Drops 186 

Shrewsbury Cakes 186 

Sour Cream Cookies 187 

Sugar Cookies 187 

Sand Tarts 187 

Soft Ginger Bread 193 

Sponge Ginger Bread 194 

Superior Ginger Cakes 196 

To Blanch Almonds 162 



PAGE. 

Trifles 192 

To Color Icing 163 

The Best of Ginger Bread 193 

The Icing 178 

Vaiiety Cake 182 

Wedding Cake 164 

White Cake 170 

White Cake . 1 70 

White Cake 171 

White Pound Cake 172 

Washington Cake 172 

White Fruit Cake 173 

Watermelon Cake 175 

White Sponge Cake 1 76 

White Mountain Cake 177 

White Cocoanut Cake 178 

White Custard Cake 179 

White Chocolate Cake 179 

Yellow Chocolate Cake 180 

CONFECTIONERY. ... 197 

Almond Macaroons 200 

Butter Scotch 198 

Chocolate Caramels 198 

Chocolate Creams 198 

Cream Walnuts 199 

Candied Pop Corn 199 

Hoarhound Candy 199 

Ice Cream Candy 197 

Kisses 199 

Molasses Candy 197 

Marshmallows 192 

Meringues 200 

To Prepare Sugar for Candy. . . . 197 

CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. . . 201 

Apple Snow 203 

Apple Float 203 

Apples 213 

Baked Custard 202 

Biscuit Glace 211 

Banana Cream 212 

Cream Custard 202 

Coffee Custard 203 

Chocolate Custard 203 

Charlotte Russe 205 

Charlotte Russe 205 

Charlotre Russe 206 

Charlotte Russe 206 

Chocolate Charlotte Russe 206 

Chocolate Blancmange 207 

Chocolate Cream 211 

Coffee Ice Cream 211 

Eggless Ice Cream 210 

Fruit Whips 204 



260 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

French Ice Cream 205 

Freezing Cream 209 

Italian Cream . 204 

Italian Cream 206 

Ice Cream 210 

Ice Cream 210 

Ice Cream made of Cream 211 

Iced Fruit 213 

Lemon Spouge 204 

Lemon Jelly 208 

Lemon Ice 211 

Moss Blancmange 207 

Neapolitan Blancmange 207 

Nice Ice Cream 210 

Orange Jelly 208 

Orange Ice 212 

Orange Suffles 212 

Orange Cream 212 

Oranges 213 

Peach Cream 208 

Peaches and Pears 213 

Ripe Fruit for Dessert 213 

Steamed Custard 202 

Snow Custard 202 

Strawberry Cream 208 

To Whip Cream 201 

Tapioca Custard 203 

Whipped Syllabubs 204 

Whipped Cream 204 

DRINKS 214 

Coffee 214 

Coffee with Whipped Cream .... 215 

Coffee for One Hundred 215 

Chocolate 216 

Cream Nectar 217 

Currant Ice Water 218 

Children's Drinks 220 

Coffee 220 

Grape Syrup 220 

Harvest Drinks 218 

Italian Chocolate 216 

Iced Tea 217 

Jelly Drinks 219 

Lemonade 218 

Orange or Lemon Syrup ^220 

Prepared Cocoa 216 

Raspberry Vinegar 219 

Sarsaparilla Mead 218 

Summer Beverage 219 

Strawberry Acid 219 

Strawberry Syrup 220 

To Make Coffee (Boiled) 214 

To Make Coffee (without Boiling) 215 

Tea . 217 



PAGE. 

Temperance Ginger Wine 218 

Vienna Coffee 216 

White Tea 220 

EGGS 221 

A Fine Omelet 222 

Boiled Eggs No. I 221 

Boiled Eggs No. 2 221 

Baked Eggs 221 

Nice Omelet 222 

Omelet 222 

Poached Eggs 221 

Puff Omelet 222 

Rumbled Eggs 221 

Scrambled Eggs 222 

CANNING AND PRESERVING 223 

Canned Peaches 224 

Canned Grapes 229 

Canned Strawberries 225 

Canned Plums 225 

Canned Baked Pears 225 

Canned Berries 226 

Canned Tomatoes 226 

Currant Jelly 228 

Candied Orange or Lemon Peel. 230 

Fig Preserves 230 

Peaches and Pears 324 

Preserved Tomatoes 226 

Preserved Peaches 229 

Preserved Quinces 227 

Preserved Quinces, very rich .... 227 

Preserved Cherries 229 

Preserved Citron or Watermelon. 230 

Quince Marmalade 227 

Quince Jelly 228 

Raspberry Jam, No. I 229 

Raspberry Jam, No. 2 229 

Transparent Marmalade 229 

PICKLES 231 

Chow Chow 23 1 

French Pickles 236 

Gherkins 231 

Green Tomato Soy 232 

Oil Pickle Cabbage 232 

Pickles 234 

Pickled Grapes 234 

Pickled Peaches 235 

Piccalili 235 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles 235 

Spiced Plums 235 

Spiced Currants 236 

Spiced Currants 239 

To Pickle Nasturiums 232 



INDEX. 



261 



PAGE. 

To Pickle Cauliflower 232 

To Pickle Fifty Mangoes 233 

Tomato Pickles 233 

Walnut Pickles 233 

Watermelon Rind Pickles 236 

HYGIENE 237 

Beef Tea 239 

Bran Gruel 239 

Baked Milk 240 

Buttermi Ik Pop 240 

Browned Rice 240 

Brown Gems 241 

Boiled Rice 242 

Baked Apples 244 

Baked Pears 244 

Baked Pie Plant 244 

Corn Tea 239 

Cornmeal Gruel 239 

Chicken Broth 240 

Cracked or Boiled Wheat 241 

Cabbage 243 

Cracked Wheat Pudding 243 

Carrots 244 

Egg Lemonade 238 

Eggs Poached in Milk 242 

Flaxseed Lemonade 238 

Fig Rolls 242 

Gum Arabic Water 238 

Graham Gems 241 

Graham Muffins 242 

Graham Mush 242 

Graham Griddle Cakes 242 

Graham Cake 243 

Hot Lemonade 237 

Jelly Water 238 

Lemonade 237 

Milk Toast 242 

Oatmeal Tea 238 

Oatmeal Gruel 240 

Oatmeal Mush -241 

Oatmeal and Graham Gems. ... 241 

Oranges 244 

Orange Whey 238 

Parsnips 243 

Poached Eggs 243 



PAGE. 

Popcorn 244 

Peaches a la Strawberry 244 

Rice Gruel 239 

Rice Cream 240 

Sago Milk 238 

Sago Jelly 240 

Toast Water 238 

Tamarind Water 238 

To Boil Potatoes 243 

Wheat or Barley Coffee 239 

FRAGMENTS 245 

A nice Dish for Dinner 248 

A Nice Way to Prepare 249 

A Crumb of Bread 250 

Apple Charlotte 250 

Apple Jam 251 

Beef Croquettes 248 

Baker's Yeast 25 1 

Cheap Oyster Soup 247 

Calf's Heart and Tongue 248 

Croquettes 248 

Cookies (very nice) 252 

Delicate Cake 252 

Friccasseed Beef 249 

Green Corn Pudding. . 250 

Green Mountain Cake 252 

Graham Cake 252 

Hash 245 

How to Fix Tough Beefsteak. . . 246 

Ham Toast 247 

How to Make Nice Gravey 249 

Honey Vinegar .... 250 

Meat Pie 246 

Mutton Dinner 247 

Mint Vinegar 248 

Omelet ... 250 

Parker Toast 248 

Suet Pudding 25 1 

Suet Pudding 252 

Turkey Dressing 249 

Tomato Catsup 251 

Veal Steak 247 

Wheat Gems 250 

White Fruit Cake . . 252 



