!i 







jVI^?mSAbis 



I 






f 



oXv % li C| o/dx/ 




43 







mr/z-fy 



V-^.UU,v y. 



^ 



jut 






JUL 6 

NOV 20 



Third Edition, in crown 8vo. with 8 full-page Coloured Plates and 
2,^ Woodcuts, price p, 6d. 

COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING; 

A MANUAL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY FOR 
LARGE AND SMALL FAMILIES. 

By Mrs. HENRY J^E EVE. 



' We can but hope that this book, which is both a manual for the 
givers of dinner parties and a recipe-book for cooks, and is adapted 
to all sorts and conditions of diners, may not only lead to a consider- 
able extension of culinary knowledge, but induce those who have 
gained that knowledge to practise what they know.' — Observer. 

* It is impossible within the space of a notice to point out all the 
merits of this book, or to give in anything like detail the various points 
advocated by Mrs. Reeve ; but we can heartily recommend her Cookery 
and Housekeeping as one of the best, as it is certainly one of the least, 
technical books ever written on household and kitchen economics.' 

Bell's Life in London. 

* Bears the signs of a careful endeavour to get as far on the road to 
culinary perfection as possible. Mrs. Reeve has evidently made a 
serious study of domestic economy and the food of households, and her 
book is not a mere compilation tossed together without experience or 
counsel.'— Daily Telegraph. 

* If I had only had this book when I first marHed^ what a number of 
foolish mistakes and ignorant extravagances I should have been spared! 
was the exclamation of a lady, now an experienced and most successful 
housekeeper, as she looked through Mrs. Reeve's cookery-book. The 
book is deserving of great praise, both in its arrangement and treat- 
ment, in which it differs greatly from most books of its class, and we 
think it will be found most practicable and reliable in the way the 

scheme is carried out Mrs. Reeve need not fear that the 

publication of this book will be deemed presumptuous ; it will, on the 
contrary, be found most helpful, as it amply fulfils the intention v/ith 
which it was undertaken.'— Spectator. 

London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 



ENTREES 



^y THE SAME AUTHOR. 
Price One Shilling. 

SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 

London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 



ENTREES A LA MODE 



BY 

MRS DE SALIS 

AUTHORESS OF 'SAVOURIES X LA MODB' 



^ Noro good digestion wait on appetite 
And health on both'' — Macbeth 



SECOND EDITION 






LONDON 

L O N G M A N. S; ;'x RE .E,N, : A l}:p, C O. 

1887 

All rights reserved 



PRIN-TFD BY 

^OTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STEBET SQUARE 

LONDOK 



PREFACE. 



The success which has attended * Savouries a la 
Mode ' has emboldened me to offer to the public 
the present little volume of * Entrees.' These 
recipes I have collected (both in England and 
France) from all the best schools of cookery, 
personal experiences, and cordons bleux. 

As in ' Savouries a la Mode,' many of the 
recipes are entirely original ; and I trust that 
lovers of gastronomy will find some amongst the 
number which they can both relish and recom- 
mend. 

The rage for novelty in plats for the table is so 
great, that to produce appetising dishes has be- 
come quite a fine art, as it is a sine qua non that 
the eye as well as the palate should be satisfied. 

Perhaps some of my readers will say that a few 



vi PREFACE. 

of the dishes are expensive. Those that are so 
are intended more for epicurean feasts, but the 
majority will be found to be within reach of all. 

Although I have endeavoured to describe the 
recipes as simply as possible, some of the terms are 
necessarily technical, my book being not so much 
intended for the use of novices as for those who 
already know something of the art. 

HARRIET A. de SALIS. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 



Indian Puffs. 

Talmouses a I'lndicnne. 

Pick a pint of fresh shrimps (or buy half a pint 
of picked shrimps, which should be soaked for six 
hours to remove their saltness). Mince the shrimps 
small, and mix them with some clarified butter, 
seasoned with a dessert-spoonful of curry paste and 
a saltspoonful of salt. 

Have ready some thin paste, which should be 
rolled out very thinly and divided into pieces 
nearly three inches square. Put on each a little of 
the shrimp mixture, and fold them over into three- 
cornered shapes, wetting the edges and pressing 
them to make them stick together ; these should 
now be fried in hot fat till of a nice light brown 
colour. 

They should be dished up on a serviette and 
sent very hot to table garnished with fried parsley. 



Lobster Cutlets. 

Cotelettes de Homard. 

Remove all the flesh from a hen lobster, and 
cut it up into small pieces. Take the coral from 
the lobster, dry it, and pound it in the mortar with 

B 



2 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

an ounce of butter, then pass it through a hair sieve. 
Put one ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter 
into a stewpan, and mix them well over the fire ; 
add one gill of water and boil well. Then put in 
the coral butter, one tablespoonful of cream, a little 
salt and cayenne. I\Iix well, then add the lobster, 
and turn all out on a plate to cool ; shape into 
cutlets, ^g^ and bread-crumb each, and fry in a 
saucepan in plenty of fat. Dish the cutlets in a 
circle on a serviette, and ornament with fried parsley. 
A small piece of claw should be stuck into the end 
of. each cutlet to resemble a bone. 



Lobster Quenelles a la Belle Vue. 

Quenelles de Homard a la Belle Vue. 

Cut up two lobsters very finely, and make some 
panada^ with some crumb of bread soaked in 
white stock, and let it cool. Pound the lobsters 
and pass through a wire sieve ; add half the 
quantity of the panada, season with salt, pepper, 
and a small pinch of nutmeg and nepaul pepper. 
Mix thoroughly in the mortar with a gill of cream 
and one <^%^ (the white and yolk beaten separately). 
Poach them in boiling water, drain them, and dish 
them up in a circle with some hoUandaise sauce 
in the centre and round them. 

Little Lobster Souffles. 

Petits Souffles de Homard. 

Put two ounces of flour into a stewpan with 
two ounces of butter and the coral of a hen lobster 

' See under Panada. 



ENTRtES A LA MODE, 3 

(which has been well pounded), a tiny dust of 
cayenne, a saltspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy, three yolks of eggs, and half a 
pint of milk. Mix all these ingredients well together 
over the fire till they boil ; then mince up the 
flesh of the lobster and add it to the boiling mix- 
ture ; with a tablespoonful of boiling cream whip 
the whites of the three eggs till very stiff. Mix 
all these ingredients well together and fill little 
paper cases (or china cases'). Put on the top of 
each a small piece of butter, and bake in a quick 
oven for ten minutes. 

If paper cases are used they should be oiled 
and dried before the souffle mixture is put in. 



Oyster Cutlets. 

Cotelettes aux Huilres, 

Mix about half a pound of veal with the 
same weight of large stewing oysters ; chop all 
very finely, and then pound them together in a 
mortar, adding two ounces of finely chopped 
veal suet, and three tablespoonfuls of bread- 
crumbs which have been soaked in the liquor 
from the oysters ; season with a little salt, white 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Now 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs and mix 
thoroughly, pounding it a little more, and make it 
up into the shape of small cutlets. Fry them in 
butter, after dipping them in ^g^ and bread- 
crumbs. 

Drain them well and send to table very hot. 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley and slices of lemon 
cut into fancy shapes, 

B 2 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Oyster Patties. 

Bouchees aux Huitres. 

Make some puff paste, roll it out very thin, 
line some little dariole moulds with it, fill them 
with barley or rice to keep their shape, bake them 
in a brisk oven till cooked. Crush some vermicelli 
on a board with a rolling pin, turn out the pastry 
cases from the moulds, brush them over with white 
of ^gg, and roll them in the vermicelli. Take out 
the rice and fill in an oyster mixture made of 
oysters and button mushrooms (two oysters to one 
small mushroom) all cut into dice ; warm them in 
a little white sauce into which a little anchovy 
sauce and lemon juice have been added. Make 
some little paste handles to imitate baskets and 
put them across ; cover the top with fried parsley 
and serve very hot. Allemande sauce may be used 
instead of the white sauce. 



Orlys of Oysters. 

Orlys aux Huitres. 

Blanch some large oysters, press them slightly 
between two dishes till cold, then slit them open 
— without quite severing them. Squeeze a 
little lemon juice inside, and fold the oysters to- 
gether again. Dip them in some frying batter,* 
and fry in hot fat till they are crisp. Drain, and 
pile them up high on a napkin or paper, and gar- 
nish with fried parsley. 

D'Uxelles sauce may be served with them. 

* See Frying Batter. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 



Prawn Curry. 

Kari aux Crevetles. 

Take four ounces of butter ; put it into a 
saucepan, and slice into it two onions. Fry them 
till brown over a slow fire, then remove the onions 
into another dish. Have the prawns picked, and 
rub one and a half tablespoonful of curry powder 
over them and put them into the melted butter, 
and stew over a slow fire until the meat becomes a 
light brown. Add as much mutton gravy as will 
cover the prawns ; season with a little salt, then 
stew over a slow fire, and when the gravy has 
become thick, add a coffee-cupful of cocoa-nut 
milk or cream, and the juice of a lemon. Mix the 
whole together, and serve hot. Garlic or green 
ginger may be added, according to taste. A 
dessert-spoonful of sweet chutnee is an improve- 
ment. 

Indian Patties. 

Tartelettes a I'Orient. 

Line some small patty-pans with good paste 
very thinly, and fill them with rice or barley (so 
that they may be kept hollow), and bake them for 
ten minutes ; then take out the rice or barley. 
Blanch twelve good-sized oysters and cut off the 
beards ; squeeze a little lemon juice over each. 
Take one and a half ounce of butter, melt it ; fry 
a shalot, and add half a teaspoonful of flour, one 
teaspoonful of curry powder, the liquor from the 
oysters, a little cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Cook this mixture over the fire ; then 
add half a gill of cream and a cooked carrot cut up 



6 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

\x\ dice ; fill the cases with this mixture, and put on 
the top of each case one oyster. Cover with a 
buttered paper and heat up in the oven. 



Beef Olives. ' 

Olives de Boeuf. 

Take one and a half pound of fillet of beef; 
cut it into pieces of three inches long and one inch 
thick ; beat them out with a wet cutlet bat. 

Chop up all the trimmings of the beef, and 
mince with them two ounces of suet, a teaspoonfal 
of parsley and a saltspoonful of thyme and marjo- 
ram. Mix them all well together with three 
ounces of bread-crumbs, the grated rind of a lemon, 
a saltspoonful of salt and pepper, and one ^^%, 
Farce each piece of beef with this mixture, roll it 
up, and tie it round with a piece of string. Put 
these olives (as they are called) into a stewpan, 
with one pint of brown sauce, and stew slowly for 
fifty minutes. Cut the string before serving, and 
dish with a puree of spinach in the centre and the 
strained sauce around. 



Fillets of Beef \ la Bearnaise. 

Filets de Boeuf a la Bearnaise. 

Take a piece of the undercut of the sirloin ; cut 
it into neat fillets, sprinkle them with pepper and 
salt, and cook them with a little butter on a tin in 
the oven, but do not let them be overdone ; add a 
piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and when dis- 
solved turn the fillets over it. Cut some potatoes 
into small balls, fry in butter till they are done, and 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 7 

of a golden colour. Dress the fillets round the 
potatoes heaped up in the middle of the dish, with 
the following sauce over the fillets : Rub a sauce- 
pan with a clove of garlic, and put into it four shalots 
with a tumblerful of water, and half that quantity of 
tarragon vinegar ; let the whole boil till reduced to 
one tumblerful ; strain the liquor, and let it get cold. 
Take the strained yolks of three eggs and mix 
gradually with the above liquor, add salt to taste 
and two ounces of fresh butter. Stir this mixture 
over a slow fire till it thickens, then add a teaspoon- 
ful of finely-minced tarragon. 



Fillets of Beef Grenadines, with Mushrooms 
and Poivrade Sauce. 

Filets de Boeuf Grenadines aux Champignons. 

Cut a piece of fillet in slices three-quarters of 
an inch thick, and trim them to a pear shape about 
three and a half inches long and three inches wide. 
Lard these with fat bacon, and put these grenadines 
into a saute-pan with some brown sauce and a gill 
of Madeira or Marsala ; put the pan over the fire, 
and when the grenadines are done glaze them and 
dish them in a circle. Fill the centre wuth a 
pyramid of small mushrooms mixed in poivrade 
sauce. 



Fillets of Beef Grenadines k la Financi^re. 

Filets de Bceuf Grenadines a la Financiere. 

This dish is cooked like the preceding, only 
that the centre is filled with financiere ragout, 



8 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

composed of equal quantities of sliced truffles, 
foie gras, cockscombs, mushrooms, and chicken 
quenelles, over which is poured a brown sauce into 
which mushrooms and bits of ham have been 
stew^ed and reduced, and then strained through a 
tammy. 



Fillet of Beef a la Grande-Bretagne. 

Filet de Boeuf a la Grande-Bretagne. 

Take a couple of pounds of nice fillet of beef, 
cut it into neat round slices, lard them, and then 
slit them nearly in half. Make a farce of horse- 
radish sauce and macaroni, and place some of this 
mixture into the slit in each fillet. Glaze them 
and let them saute till done, serve them arranged 
in a circle, w^ith potato straws in the centre, and a 
good rich brown sauce round. 



Fillet of Beef ^ la Mirabeau. 

Filet de Bceuf a la ]\Iirabeau. 

Take one pound of fillet of beef, broil it nicely 
but not too much ; have in readiness some maitre 
d'hotel butter made thus — three ounces of butter, 
one dessert-spoonful of minced parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and a little pepper and 
salt to taste : work all these ingredients into a pat 
and let it get cold. After broiling the fillet, place 
a piece of maitre d'hotel butter as big as a walnut 
on the top and garnish round with six filleted 
anchovies, eight turned olives, and bouquets of 
watercress arranged alternately. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 9 

Fillet of Beef a la Pompadour. 

Filet de Boeuf a la Pompadour. 

Trim off the fat and skin of three pounds of 
fillet of beef, and cut it into neat pieces about half 
an inch thick ; fry quickly in butter. Skin three 
tomatoes and cut them in slices, put them on a 
baking dish with some pieces of fat cut into rounds, 
and let them stand in an oven for four minutes. 
Dish the fillets in a circle on a croustade of baked 
potatoes, put a piece of fat and a tomato on 
each fillet, and also a small piece of maitre d'hotel 
butter ; put in the centre some macaroni a la spar- 
ghetti and sprinkle over it some grated Parmesan 
cheese ; pour round some half-glaze and garnish 
with croutons of fried potato. 

Fricandeau of Beef Palates. 

Fricandeau de Palais de Boeuf. 

Take three ox-palates, soak them four or five 
hours to disgorge in a pan of lukewarm water, 
then put them into a stewpan with clean water, 
and set them on the fire ; whilst they are hard 
scrape off the skin till they are white and clean. 
Cut them into square pieces, lard them, fry them a 
nice brown and put them on a sieve to drain. 

Put a good half-pint of good beef gravy into a 
stewpan with a spoonful of port wine, half a spoon- 
ful of browning, an anchovy, a shalot, a piece of 
horse-radish, and eight drops of lemon. 

Boil, and strain through a sieve, put it with the 
palates into a stewpan and stew for half an hour. 

Serve up with thick gravy thickened well with 
flour and butter ; serve mushrooms round the diih. 



lo ENTREES A LA MODE. 



PolpettL 

Take two tablespoonfuls of very finely chopped 
cold roast beef, a dessert-spoonful of the under-fat 
of the sirloin also very finely chopped, one table- 
spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, the yolks and 
whites of two eggs beaten separately, the juice and 
peel of half a lemon, and pepper and salt to taste. 

Mix all well together, make up into balls, roll 
in fine bread-crumbs, and fry them ; drain well, and 
serve on a folded napkin. 



Cutlets a la Berne. 

Cotelettes a la Berne. 

Braize some mutton cutlets cut from the best 
end of neck of mutton, then make some good onion 
sauce into which a gill of cream has been mixed ; 
dip the cutlets in it, let them stand till cold, then 
^gg and bread-crumb them over, and fry a light 
brown colour. Dish in a crown (en couronne) and 
serve a piece of potato in the centre. 

Cutlets k la Bretonne. 

Cotelettes a la Bretonne. 

Trim some cutlets from the best end of a neck 
of mutton ; tgg, bread-crumb, and fry them. Boil 
half a pint of haricot beans and four onions with 
an ounce of butter, season with pepper and salt, 
and stir over the fire. When hot pass through a 
hair sieve, then add one gill of white sauce. Dish 
the cutlets in a circle, and put the puree in the 
centre, pouring round a thin brown sauce. 



ENTREES A LA MODE. xx 

Cutlets h. la Fridal. 

Cotelettes a la Fridal. 

Take equal parts of ready boiled Spanish 
onions and potatoes and pass them through a 
sieve, then put them into a saucepan with a large 
piece of butter, and season with salt and plenty of 
black pepper ; add a little milk or cream ; stir well, 
and as soon as the mixture is quite hot pile it up 
on a dish within a circle of broiled or sauteed 
mutton cutlets. 

Italian Mutton Cutlets. 

Cotelettes de INIouton a I'ltalienne. 

Trim some cutlets from the best end of a neck of 
mutton ; cut off all superfluous fat. Lay them for 
a iQ\Y minutes in a marinade of salad oil and 
minced savoury herbs, then mask them with a 
seasoning made of som.e button mushrooms finely 
chopped. 

Some bread-crumbs, minced parsley and 
savoury herbs, of each a tablespoonful. Reduce 
all these to powder. Shred a shalot and mince 
half d teaspoonful of lemon peel. After the cutlets 
are masked with this, dip them in ^gg and fry a 
nice colour. 

Make a good gravy in the frying-pan by 
browning a little more butter, with a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, moistened with half a pint of white stock, 
adding a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, one of 
mushroom ketchup, and a dessert-spoonful of tar- 
ragon vinegar. When boiled and thick enough, 
dish the cutlets in a circle, and pour the sauce 
around them. 



12 ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Braized Mutton Cutlets a la Jardiniere. 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Jardiniere. 

Cut the cutlets from the best end of a neck of 
mutton three and a half inches long, and lard the 
lean part of the cutlets with alternate strips of fat 
bacon and tongue ; the strips should be about 
one and a quarter inch long, quarter-inch thick. 
Put the cutlets into the stewpan with sufficient 
white stock and ]\'Iirepoix sauce to cover them ; 
simmer till the cutlets are done, then drain, and 
press them between two dishes till cold. 

Skim the fat off the gravy, strain, and reduce 
it. Trim the cutlets when they are cold, and warm 
them up in the reduced gravy ; dress them in a 
circle round a croustade with a piece of lettuce 
between each cutlet — the lettuce having been cooked 
in stock and cut out in the shape of leaves. 

Fill the croustade with carrots and turnips cut 
in half-inch balls, and an equal quantity of small 
heads of cauliflowers and Brussels sprouts mixed 
in Bechamel sauce. 

Cutlets a la Juive. 

Cotelettes a la Juive. 

Cut up a quarter of a pound of fat bacon and 
fry it for five minutes, adding one pound of calf's 
liver, one small carrot, one small onion, a bayleaf 
and a bouquet garni, one shalot, one clove of garlic, 
and twelve peppercorns. 

When the liver is quite cooked, put all into a 
mortar and pound well, and pass all through a wire 
sieve. 



ENTRIES A LA MODE. 13 

Trim about seven mutton cutlets ; cook them 
in a saute-pan, and press them between two dishes 
till cold. Mask them on one side with the foie 
gras or liver stuffing ; cover each one with a piece 
of pig's caul, put them in the oven to get hot, then 
brush over with glaze. Dish in a circle on spinach, 
and pour a little half-glaze round, and a macedoine 
of vegetables in the centre ; and serve. 



Mutton Cutlets k la Maintenon. 

Coteleltes de Mouton a la Maintenon. 

Take a neck of mutton and cut it into cutlets, 
leaving two bones to each cutlet ; remove one of 
them and flatten and trim the cutlets ; split them 
in two with a knife without separating them at the 
bone ; spread some thick d'Uxelles sauce inside, 
refold the cutlets, and broil them for four minutes 
on each side ; put a layer of financiere ' garnish 
on the dish ; lay the cutlets on it. Pour over 
some d'Uxelles sauce, and serve in the centre 
cockscombs and truffles. 



Neapolitan Cutlets. 

CGtelettes a la Napolitaine. 

Trim some cutlets taken from the best end of a 
neck of mutton. Egg and bread-crumb them, and 
fry them in olive oil. Dish them on a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Make a white sauce, and stir into it some strips 
of truffles, tongue, and macaroni in equal quantities. 
Boil the macaroni before putting it into the mix- 

^ See Financiere Garnish. 



14 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

ture. Place this in the centre of the cutlets, and 
pour a gill of good brown sauce round and serve. 



Mutton Cutlets a la Parmesan. 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Parmesane. 

Cut some cutlets and trim them. Mix equal 
quantities of grated Parmesan cheese and fine 
bread-crumbs. Dip the cutlets into a good rich 
brown sauce, then into the bread and Parmesan, 
theii into beaten yolk of ^g^, into which a little 
salt and very finely chopped parsley and chives 
have been mixed, and then dip them a second 
time into the bread and Parmesan. Then fry 
them, and serve them in a crown with sparghetti 
macaroni in the middle, pour tomato sauce over 
it, and sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 



Mutton Cutlets a la Portugaise, 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Portugaise. 

Cut and trim some neat cutlets from the best 
end of a neck of mutton, cut the bone short and 
scrape it clean ; season with pepper and salt, and 
strew over them chopped parsley and shalot. Fry 
them slightly, adding a couple of bayleaves and a 
small bit of garlic about the size of a pea. Take 
the cutlets out and keep each one in buttered 
paper, covering the cutlets with forcemeat ; broil 
them on a gridiron over a slow even fire. 

Make a gravy in the frying-pan, add a dessert- 
spoonful of vinegar, a small teaspoonful of anchovy 
sauce, with salt and pepper. Pour it round the 
cutlets and serve hot. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 



Mutton Cutlets a la Proven^ale. 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Proven^ale. 

Take three pounds of the best end of neck of 
mutton and cut it into cutlets, one bone in each 
cutlet ; fry them, and press them till cold between 
two plates ; make half a pint of white Soubise 
sauce, put it in a saute-pan, add six mushrooms 
chopped fine, one shalot, one small onion, half a 
clove of garlic, a little pepper and salt to taste. 
When this has cooked about ten minutes, stir in 
the yolks of three eggs, and cook well, also one 
tablespoonful of parsley ; this paste must be masked 
on one side of the cutlet only. Sprinkle over each 
cutlet a httle browned bread-crumb in which one 
teaspoonful of Parmesan cheese has been grated. 
Put them in the oven to get hot through ; dish 
them up, and serve them with rich brown piquante 
sauce. 



Reform Cutlets. 

Cotelettes a la Reforme. 

Take some best end of a neck of mutton, cut 
it into neatly trimmed cutlets ; then take a carrot 
cut in strips and place it in a stewpan to cook ; 
then chop up small four gherkins, four mushrooms, 
four truffles, and put them in a stewpan and keep 
them warm in a bain marie ; egg and bread-crumb 
the cutlets ; mix with the bread-crumbs two lean 
slices of ham chopped fine, a little pepper and salt to 
taste. Fry them in butter, and arrange them on a 
dish in a circle. Put the vegetables in the centre 
of the cutlets and the whites of two hard-boiled 



l6 ENTRIES A LA MODE. 

eggs cut into small strips. Make half a pint of 
poivrade sauce and when it is boiling add one 
tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, one glass of port 
wine, and a little cayenne pepper ; let it boil ten 
minutes, strain before using and pour round the 
cutlets. 



Mutton Cutlets en Robe de Chambre. 

Cotelettes de Mouton en Robe de Chambre. 

Cut some neck cutlets and stew them in broth, 
with a very little salt and a bunch of herbs, quite 
slowly ; when cooked skim the fat, pass the liquor 
through a sieve, place it back in the saucepan and 
reduce it to a glaze ; glaze the cutlets. Have 
prepared a panada made of beef suet, two eggs, 
a little salt and pepper, a dessert-spoonful of 
parsley, three onions, and seven or eight mush- 
rooms, which have been well pounded in the 
mortar ; beat all up together with a little cream. 
Roll each cutlet in this forcemeat, cover with 
bread-crumbs, lay them on a baking-tin, and put 
them in the oven till they are of a golden brown, 
the oven must not be too hot ; serve with clear 
eschalot sauce. 



Mutton Cutlets k la Soubise. 

Cotelettes de jMouton a la Soubise. 

Lard the cutlets with strips of fat bacon and 
tongue ; the strips should be about an inch and a 
quarter long and a quarter of an inch thick. 

Put the cutlets in a stewpan with sufficient 
good white stock to cover them, simmer till the 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 17 

cutlets are done, then drain and press them between 
two dishes till cold. 

Skim the fat off the gravy, strain it through a 
sieve and reduce it. Arrange the cutlets in a 
circle and fill the centre with Soubise sauce. 



Lamb Cutlets Superlative. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Princesse. 

Trim and shape some neck cutlets, dip them 
in clarified butter into which a tablespoonful of 
the essence of mushrooms has been poured. 

Place them on ice to set the sauce, then egg 
and bread-crumb them, and fry them in the usual 
way ; serve in a circle, with heads of asparagus or 
green peas in the centre. 

Good white sauce should be handed in a boat 
with this dish. 

This dish may be served cold, but without the 
white sauce. 



Lamb Cutlets with Lamb Sweetbreads 
en Blanquette. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau au Ris de Veau en Blanquette. 

Cut the cutlets as usual, fry them in butter, 
drain and glaze them, and serve them standing on 
a circle of mashed potatoes. Steep some small 
sweetbreads in cold water, bleach, drain, and trim 
them, cook them in white braise, drain, and cut 
them into scallops and mix them in some Alle- 
mande sauce, and fill the inside of the potato 
border with the blanquette of sweetbreads. 

C 



1 8 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

Lamb Cutlets Sautdes with Cockscombs 
and Truffles. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau Sautees de Crete de Coq et Truffes 
en Demi-deuil. 

Trim two necks of lamb into cutlets without 
clearing the end of the bones, season with salt and 
pepper, put them in a saute- pan and fry them in 
clarified butter ; drain and dish them round a 
croustade, lean part uppermost, putting a slice of 
truffle the same size and shape as the cutlet between 
each. 

Fill the croustade with cockscombs, pour some 
veloute sauce over them, and arrange a border of 
truffles cut into balls round the top of the croustade. 



Pork Cutlets a I'Epicure. 

Cotelettes de Pore a I'Epicure. 

Take some nicely-trimmed pork chops from a 
small loin, and have two ounces of butter melted 
in a saute- pan, stir into it a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped sage, 
and a teaspoonful of finely-minced shalot. Mix 
all these thoroughly, and move them about for a 
minute, then add a little salt and pepper and two 
well-beaten eggs. Dip the cutlets first into this 
mixture, then into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and 
let them stand for ten minutes. Melt a little 
butter in the frying-pan ; fry the cutlets in it, and 
when done enough arrange the cutlets en couronne 
with either small whole tomatoes in the centre or 
else mashed turnips or parsnips. Good brown 
sauce should be served round the base. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 19 



Savoury Pork Cutlets. 

Cotelettes de Pore a la Financiere. 

Melt in a saucepan with a closely-fitting lid 
two ounces of butter, and throv/ into it a table- 
spoonful each of chopped parsley and sage, a pinch 
of thyme, three bay leaves, and eight allspice. 

Stir over the fire for a minute, then add a glass 
of light wine and a pound of properly trimmed 
pork cutlets. Cover the saucepan closely and let 
the contents steam for a quarter of an hour. Take 
the cutlets up, drain them, and dip them first into 
beaten Q.g^ and afterwards into finely-grated bread- 
crumbs. Fry quickly and serve them in a circle. 
Strain the sauce from the cutlets, skim it, and add 
a tablespoonful of lemon-juice to it, thicken it 
with a very small portion of flour, strain it, and 
then mix in a teaspoonful of mustard, and pour it 
into the centre of the cutlets. 



Pork Cutlets, Sauce Robert. 

Cotelettes de Pore au Robert. 

Take two pounds of nicely-trimmed pork cut- 
lets, and lay them in a deep dish. Put a glass of 
vinegar, a glass of sherry, two bay leaves, a bunch 
of parsley, a small piece of thyme, three shalots, 
and eight peppercorns into a stewpan. 

Let these ingredients boil up. 

Then turn the mixture into a basin and when 
quite cold pour it over the cutlets. Let them lie 
in the mixture twelve hours, turning them three 
times. When required, drain and dry them and 
boil them over a clear fire till well cooked ; then 



20 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

glaze them and serve them in a circle or crown 
and pour Robert sauce over them. 



Veal Cutlets a la V^nitienne. 

Cotelettes cle Veau a la Venitienne. 

Take two pounds of veal cutlet and cut it into 
rounds the size of five-shilling pieces. Braise these 
and then press them between two plates. Have 
ready some farce made of four ounces of sausage- 
meat, with which cover one side of each cutlet ; 
then dip each into a mixture of scraped tongue 
and minced truffles. Put the cutlets in a stewpan 
with some good brown sauce, and let them cook for 
a few minutes ; take them out, arrange in a circle, 
strain the brown sauce around them, and fill in the 
centre with strips of tongue, gherkins, and hard- 
boiled white of ^^^. 



Veal Saute a la Primrose. 

Veau Saute a la Primrose. 

Take a pound of veal cutlet ; cut it up into 
small cutlets the size of a florin. Put two ounces 
of clarified butter into a saucepan, with three 
onions, one shalot, two ounces of bacon, all cut 
into small dice ; add a bouquet garni of herbs, in- 
cluding a bay leaf. Fry these all together for 
about a quarter of an hour ; add a tablespoonful of 
corn flour, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
and a pint of gravy. Let this all simmer for about 
an hour, remove the herbs, dish up and pour over it 
the sauce in which it has been cooked and strew 
over it a tablespoonful of grated tongue and the 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 21 

same of grated and dried parsley. Chicken may 
be cooked in this way. 



Cream of Veal. 

Crenie deVeau. 

Take a pound of fillet of veal, pound it in a 
mortar with an equal part of milk panada. Well 
mix, then stir in the beaten yolk of one egg and 
the whipped whites of two, and sufficient cream to 
make it into a paste ; add a little pepper and salt 
to taste. Place this in well-buttered dariole moulds, 
which have been previously decorated with strips 
and pieces of truffle and tongue stamped in differ- 
ent devices. Steam for an hour — be sure and do 
not let it boil. Turn out and serve with either 
tomato sauce or a puree of spinach. 

Fillet of Veal k la Moderne. 

Filet de Veau a la Moderne. 

Take one pound of fillet of veal and cut and trim 
from it some cutlets neatly in rounds the size of a 
five-shilling piece, fry them in butter but do not 
let them brown. Mask them with a farce made of 
four minced mushrooms and two shalots which 
have already been fried ; let all remain in the 
butter over the fire a few moments, then add one 
gill of white sauce ; let them saute in it for three 
minutes, then add two yolks of Qgg and lastly a 
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, stirring well until the 
sauce is thick. Dish in a circle on a border of 
mashed potato and pour the sauce over and 
around it. 



22 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

Tendons of Veal a la Proven(;:ale. 

Tendons de Veau a la Proven^ale. 

Take two pounds of the breast of veal and cut 
it into pieces about two inches square, slice two 
onions and add a small bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
and a clove of garlic, all chopped fine. 

Put these into a large stewpan with four ounces 
of salad oil, one saltspoonful of salt, and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Place the stewpan on the fire 
(a slow fire), and if possible put a little lighted 
charcoal on the cover ; let this simmer for two 
hours, stirring frequently ; add half a pint of stock 
and two tablespoonfuls of coarsely minced parsley, 
then boil for five minutes and pile the tendons up 
on a dish and pour the sauce over and serve. 

Blanquette of Veal with Mushrooms. 

Blanquette de Veau aux Champignons. 

Roast a fillet of veal ; when cold cut it into 
scollops an inch and a half round and a quarter of. 
an inch thick; slice a quantity of mushrooms equal 
to one-fourth of that of veal, cook them and warm 
up the veal scollops and mix both in some Alle- 
mande sauce. 

Dish the veal in a pyramid alternately with 
the mushrooms. 

Veal Cutlets a la Dreux. 

Cotelettes de Veau truffes a la Dreux. 

Cut and trim the cutlets neatly from a neck of 
veal, saw off the bone, leaving the cutlets four 
inches long ; lard through the lean part with quarter- 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 23 

inch strips of tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, mixing 
the colours alternately. Put the cutlets in the 
saute-pan with half a pint of Mirepoix sauce and 
three gills of white stock, cover with a round of 
buttered paper, close the lid, and put it on the fire 
till the cutlets are done, then drain and press them 
between two dishes. Strain the gravy through 
a sieve, free it of fat, and reduce it to a half-glaze, 
and pour on to the cutlets ; dish them in a circle 
and serve a sorrel puree in the centre. 



Fricandeau of Veal. 

Fricandeau de Veau. 

Neatly trim a nice piece of fillet of veal, lard it 
thickly with bacon on one side. Place in a large 
stewpan a layer of slices of bacon, then some 
carrots and onions cut into slices, with a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to taste ; lay 
the piece of veal in the middle and moisten it with 
about a pint of stock. Let the meat stew gently 
for three or four hours, basting the top occasionally. 
Then strain off the gravy and put it into a small 
saucepan, skim off all superfluous fat, add to it a 
little butter mixed smoothly w-ith a small quantity 
of flour, and let the gravy reduce nearly to a glaze, 
when it can be poured over the meat (the top of 
which having been previously browned with a 
salamander) and serve with a border of spinach. 

Baked Ravioles. 

Ravioles au Gratin. 

Take a quarter of a pound of veal, six ounces 
of butter, three ounces of sausage meat, four ounces 



24 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

of beef marrow, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, 
mince all up very finely, season with salt and 
pepper and pound in a mortar ; add a handful of 
spinach which has been blanched, boiled, drained, 
and warmed in butter, a quarter of a pound of 
York cheese, which must be squeezed in a cloth so 
as to extract all the milk, pound again, stir in two 
yolks of egg, whip up the whites and add them 
to it. 

Make some thin paste as for rissoles, cut into 
small squares, fold them over a little of the force- 
meat, and poach in boiling stock for five minutes ; 
drain and arrange them on a fireproof dish, sprinkle 
them over with grated Parmesan cheese, moisten 
with stock, and brown in the oven. 



Croquettes of Calf's Brains. 

Croquettes de Cen-elles. 

Wash the brains thoroughly till they become 
white ; remove the skin and fibres, then pound 
them till smooth in a mortar. Season with pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of white sugar. Add two ounces 
of milk, panada, a beaten Qgg, and a teaspoonful of 
flour ; leave it to get quite cold before rolling the 
mixture into balls, then dip in beaten egg and 
bread-crumbs, and fry a pale colour. 

Oyster sauce or sauce piquante should be served 
with this dish. 

Calfs Ears a I'ltalienne. 

Oreilles de Veau a I'ltalienne. 

Scald, scrape, and drain the ears ; place them 
in a saucepan lined with bacon. Cover with slices 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 25 

of bacon, moisten with equal quantities of stock 
and white wine ; add some peeled slices of lemon 
(taking care there are no pips), a bouquet of mixed 
herbs, one carrot, one turnip, two onions, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Cook 
over a slow fire. Make a stuffing with bread- 
crumbs, milk, and one ounce of grated Gruyere 
cheese. Heat until sufficiently thick ; stir in four 
yolks of ^^^ and a lump of butter the size of a 
walnut. Fill the calf's ears with this, dip them into 
melted butter, sprinkle them over with bread- 
crumbs and grated Gruyere cheese, then brown in 
the oven and serve. 



Calf's Feet Fritters. 

Beignets de Pieds de Veau. 

Boil two calf's feet as for jelly, but do not let 
them stew till they fall to pieces, but while they 
are still firm take them out of the stock, split them 
open, remove the bones (which you return to the 
stock for sweet jelly), and lay the coverings of 
them flat in a dish to get cold. Then cut them 
into small cutlet-shaped pieces, dip each into 
batter, and fry a light colour. Drain them well 
from the fat, pile high on a dish, and pour either 
tomato sauce around or a sauce composed of half 
a pint of stock, two tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar, one of chutnee, a little salt, a lump of 
sugar, and sufficient browning to give it a good 
colour. Thicken with corn-flour, and boil the sauce 
well before serving. 



26 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

Calf's Head, Sauce Piquante. 

Tete de Veau, Sauce Piquante. 

Take half a calf s head, wash and clean it well, 
remove the brains, and put them in a stewpan ; 
cover with cold water, and add one carrot, one 
onion, two sticks of celery, two tablespoonfuls ot 
flour, one gill of vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful 
of salt. Skim well while boiling ; let it simmer 
two hours and serve with the following sauce : 
two shalots, one onion, one carrot, four mush- 
rooms, and one teaspoonful of parsley, all minced 
very fine and put into a stewpan with a gill of 
vinegar. Let all this boil till quite reduced, then 
add one pint of brown sauce, and pour this over 
the head. Roll up a few slices of bacon, and serve 
round alternately with slices of the tongue. 

The brains should be minced and cooked in a 
white sauce, and served separately. 

Calf's Tongue with Tomato Sauce. 

Langue de Veau aux Tomates. 

Trim and scald the tongue, and leave it till 
cold ; lard it with bacon, and then simmer it in a 
stewpan for four hours in stock seasoned with a 
bouquet garni — two carrots, two onions, and three 
cloves. When done, split the tongue in half, skin 
it, and serve covered with tomato sauce. 

Sweetbreads in Cases. 

Ris de Veau en Papillotes. 
Blanch, trim, and braise two sweetbreads. 
When done, drain and place them on a dish ; cover 



ENTRIES A LA MODE. 27 

them with d'Uxelles sauce as soon as cold. Fold 
each sweetbread in two very thin slices of ham, 
and wrap them up very carefully in oiled sheets of 
paper. Broil on the gridiron, and when a good 
colour serve them. 



Sweetbread Croquets. 

Croquettes de Ris de Veau. 

Take some blanched throat-sweetbreads ; trim, 
and cut them into dice-shaped pieces. Mince an 
equal quantity of mushrooms, and mix both to- 
gether in some stiffly reduced Allemande sauce, 
and put them on a dish to cool. Strew a paste- 
board with bread-crumbs, divide the forcemeat into 
the shape of balls, dip them in some eggs beaten 
up with oil, salt and pepper, and roll them on the 
bread-crumbs. 

Fry these croquettes in hot fat till they are 
crisp and of a pale brown colour ; drain them on a 
cloth and sprinkle them with salt ; arrange them 
on a napkin or a dish, and garnish with fried 
parsley. Tomato, Perigueux, or poivrade sauces 
are often served with this dish. 

Lobster and foie gras croquets are made in a 
similar manner. 

Sweetbread Cutlets. 

Cotelettes de Ris de Veau. 

vSoak the sweetbreads in salt and water to 
cleanse them. Plunge them into boiling stock, 
and let them boil rapidly till done. 

Place them on a drainer, and leave them to get 
cold. Trim off all superfluous fat and gristle, and 



28 ENTRIES A LA MODE. 

mince them with some thick sHces of cooked 
ham. 

For twelve cutlets use the grated rind of one 
lemon, the white of one egg, and the yolks of two 
well beaten, a little pepper and salt to taste, and 
a couple of small onions chopped fine ; well mix 
and form into cutlets ; ^^^ and bread-crumb them 
some hours before they are wanted. Dish with 
peas in the centre. 

Should tinned peas be used, the tin should be 
opened several hours before they are wanted. The 
tin should be stood in a saucepan of boiling water, 
which should be allowed to boil for quite an hour, 
with a piece of fresh mint stuck in the middle. 
Drain, add butter, pepper, salt, and sugar. 



Sweetbreads a la Financiere. 

Ris de Veau a la Financiere. 

Prepare and blanch four heart-sweetbreads ; 
when blanched place them between two baking- 
sheets to press them, placing a weight on the top ; 
lard them and put them in a small saute-pan with 
half a pint of good stock ; sprinkle with a little 
salt and half a teaspoonful of burnt sugar. Reduce 
the stock till it thickens, then add half a pint more 
stock ; baste the sweetbreads constantly with gravy 
to glaze them. When they are of a slight brown 
colour, they are done. Arrange the sweetbreads in 
a circle or on a croiistade in a circle ; place a large 
cockscomb and a truffle between each sweetbread 
and fill the centre with financiere ragout. This 
dish can be dressed with green peas in the centre, 
or with a macedoine of vegetables cooked in some 
veloute sauce. The sweetbreads can also be larded 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 29 

(pique is the proper term) with alternate strips of 
truffles and asparagus instead of bacon. 



Sweetbreads with Oysters. 

Ris de Veau aux Huitres. 

Quarter the sweetbreads after they have been 
soaked and blanched, and put them in a stewpan 
with a little white stock and the strained liquor of 
two dozen oysters ; some mignonette, pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg to taste. 

Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, stir 
and thicken it with flour. When the sweetbreads 
are stewed enough add the gravy ; then after a few 
minutes add the oysters ; stew till the oysters are 
heated through and plumped, but it must not boil 
or the oysters will harden. Just before serving, 
add a wineglassful of cream. The sweetbreads 
are sometimes larded with strips of truffles. 



Sweetbreads k la Supreme. 

Ris de Veau a la Supreme. 

Take two plump sweetbreads, put them into 
salt and water and bring them to the boil, and put 
them between two plates to flatten them ; trim them 
and cut off all the gristle underneath, then cook 
them in half a pint of good stock, with some carrot 
and turnip cut small. Bring them to the boil, then 
simmer for twenty minutes ; when done, drain and 
dish them up and serve with the following sauce : 
Take one and a half ounce of butter, one of 
Vienna or pastry flour, and cook well together ; 
when cooked, stir in a gill of good white stock, add 



30 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

half a grain of mace, four drops of lemon juice, and 
a good gill of cream ; boil all well together, then 
add some white button mushrooms already cooked 
in white sauce, and let all boil together for five to 
ten minutes. 



Chicken a la Bonne Femme. 

Poulets a la Bonne Femme. 

Cut up the fow^s into joints, warm four ounces 
of chopped carrots and the same quantity of onions 
in some butter. When brown, put in the pieces of 
chicken, season with salt and pepper, and saute 
over the fire for ten minutes. Now add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and stir well for five minutes ; 
then take a tumblerful of stock, a wineglass of 
white wine, a pinrh of sweet herbs, and half a pound 
of peeled tomatoes — carefully extracting all the 
pips — and add these to the chicken. Cook over a 
slow fire for twenty-five minutes, add one pound 
of mushrooms, peeled and cut up to the size of a 
shilling ; leave all on the fire for ten minutes, take 
out the herbs and replace them with a heaped-up 
tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley. Dish up 
in a pyramid and pour the sauce and vegetables 
over them. 

Boudin of Chicken and Truffles. 

Boudin de Volailles aux Trufifes. 

Put half a pint of water into a stewpan with a 
pinch of salt and an ounce of butter ; when it 
boils stir into it enough flour to make a thick paste ; 
put it by to get cold. Take the flesh from a fowl 
and pound it in a mortar ; add half its bulk of the 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 31 

above paste, and half that quantity again of butter 
then salt, pepper, a small piece of shalot, and nut- 
meg to taste. 

Mix the whole in the mortar, and work into this 
mixture one whole ^^^ and the yolks of three. 
Pass the whole through a sieve and work in a gill 
of cream. 

Take a mould, butter it well (or several small 
ones) ; cut truffles in slices, stamp them in any 
shape and arrange them against the moulds in 
pretty devices. Half fill the mould or moulds, tie 
a piece of paper on the top, place in a stewpan 
half full of water and steam for fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Turn out carefully and serve with truffle 
or tomato sauce. 



Chicken Cannelons. 

Cannelons a la Poulette. 

Mince some cooked fillets of chicken or game, 
a few truffles and mushrooms, and mix the whole 
in some reduced AUemande sauce. 

Roll out some puff paste to about |^-inch thick. 
Moisten the edges with a brush dipped in water. 
Place equal pieces of this mixture on the paste, 
which should be cut into pieces two inches by one. 
Enclose each portion with paste ; press the edges 
together, and roll these cannelons on the board to 
a cork shape ; fry them, drain, and dish up with 
fried parsley. 

Chartreuse a la Mikado. 

Cut two small beetroots or two small carrots 
about a quarter of an inch thick, peeling their outer 



32 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

skin with a plain round cutter, then with a smaller 
cutter remove their centres. Place these rings into 
a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them 
and let them cook till tender ; then take them out 
and drain them and pour cold water upon them 
till they are cool, and then let them dry. Fill 
these rings with a farce made of chicken or veal 
composed as follows : Pound four ounces of the 
white meat, four ounces of panada,^ four ounces of 
cooked ham or sausage meat, one and a half ounce 
of butter, a little pepper and salt, to which add 
two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, four eggs ; mix 
all well together and pass through a fine sieve, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of cream and blend 
well together. After stuffing all the beet or carrot 
rings with this farce, take some truffles and cut 
them in little fancy shapes and blanch some 
pistachio kernels ; press the truffles on one half of 
the centre of the rings and the pistachio kernels on 
the other, and place them in a saute-pan and poach 
them, being careful to put enough boiling water in 
on the side of the pan to cover the vegetables, 
and watch the water come to the boil ; leave in the 
pan for ten minutes, then drain them on a sieve. 
Butter a plain round tin mould lined with buttered 
paper and arrange these farced rings round the 
mould, smooth another layer of farce all round, 
smoothing it vyith a hot spoon, and then fill up 
the centre with neat little slices of cooked chicken, 
ham, mushrooms, truffles ; cover over with more 
farce and steam the Chartreuse for three-quarters 
of an hour ; turn out, remove the paper, and serve 
with mushroom sauce round it. 

* See under ' Panada.' 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 33 

Chicken Cream. 

Creme de Volaille. 

Pound the breast of an old chicken in a mortar 
add half a pint of double cream while pounding 
and pepper and salt to taste. Pass the mixture 
through a hair sieve and work in another half- pint 
of cream. Garnish a plain mould with truffles, 
tongue, and pistachio nuts ; pour in the mixture, 
and steam for an hour very slowly. Serve with 
truffle or mushroom sauce, or a puree of ham 
sauce ; the remainder of the chicken will make soup. 

Cigarettes a la Reine. 

Make a forcemeat with the cooked white meat 
of chicken, chopped truffles, and white sauce. This 
forcemeat must be solid enough when cold to be 
placed in thin paste rolled to the length and 
breadth of a cigar. The rolls are lightly coated 
with very fine bread-crumbs and fried a golden tint. 
They should be sent up on a napkin arranged in 
crossbars two and two. 

The forcemeat can be made also of lobsters, 
shrimps, oysters, and game, and for a savoury a 
mixture of mushrooms and oysters. 

Fricassee of Chicken. 

Fricassee de Poulet. 

Cut Up a chicken into neat joints, keeping the 
skin on each piece, cut off the drumsticks ; steep 
the pieces in cold water one hour, drain and put 
them into a stewpan with a quart of water, a large 
onion with two cloves stuck in it, a small pinch of 

D 



34 ENTRIES A LA MODE. 

pepper, a fagot of sweet herbs, and a pinch of 
salt. Boil and skim, then simmer on side of fire 
for half an hour. 

When the chicken is done, drain it in colander 
and let it cool for a few moments. 

Put three ounces of butter and three ounces of 
flour in a stewpan, stir over fire for five minutes 
without browning, add the liquor the chicken has 
been boiled in and the liquor from some mush- 
rooms ; let this sauce come to the boil, and then let 
it simmer for half an hour. Put the pieces of 
chicken into a saute-pan, strain over them half 
a pint of the sauce and warm over a slow fire. 
Thicken the remainder of the sauce with the yolks 
of three eggs and one ounce of butter, then strain 
through the gravy strainer. 

Dish up chicken as follows : — Put two pieces of 
the back in the centre ; on them lay across, one 
above the other, first the feet, then the two pieces 
of neck, and lastly the two pinions ; against each 
side of this square lay the two legs and wings, and 
on the top the two pieces of the breast. Pour the 
sauce over and garnish with mushrooms. 

Chicken Fritters. 

Fritot de Poulet. 

Cut up a cold roast chicken into joints and 
soak for an hour in vinegar seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and chopped minced herbs ; drain them 
dry in a cloth and dip into batter, to which two 
whipped whites of eggs have been added, fry in 
melted butter, and serve garnished with fried, 
parsley. Or cut up the chicken as above and soak 
for an hour in olive oil seasoned with slices of lemon, 



ENTRIES A LA MODE. 35 

onions, a few sprigs of parsley, a pinch of pepper 
and salt ; drain, and sprinkle them with flour, and 
fry a good colour ; dish up in the shape of a 
pyramid, cover with tomato sauce, and garnish with 
fried parsley. 



Chicken a la Hollandaise. 

Poulet a la Hollandaise. 

Take out the breast-bone of a large but young 
fowl, and fill up the space with a forcemeat made 
of'half a pint of bread-crumbs, one and a half ounce 
of finely shred suet, a small parboiled onion, a 
dozen oysters bearded and cut in halves, pepper 
and salt, and an Qgg to bind. Make a batter as for 
fritters, and when the fowl has roasted half its time 
pour the batter over, and when dry pour more 
until it is thickly coated and of a nice brown colour. 
Cut up into neat pieces as for fricassee, and serve 
with melted butter and lemon pickle. 

Chicken a la Marengo. 

Poulet a la Marengo. 

Cut up a chicken into joints and cook it in 
olive oil and a little salt ; put in the legs before 
the other pieces, as they take longer to cook. 

When a good colour and nearly done, add a 
bouquet of mixed herbs, pepper, a dozen mush- 
rooms and some slices of truffles ; place the 
chicken on a dish and add some oil drop by drop 
to some Italian sauce, stir the whole time ; when 
warm, pour over the chicken and garnish with fried 
eggs and sippets of fried bread, then squeeze a little 
lemon over all. 



36 ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Chicken Quenelles. 

Quenelles de Volaille. 

Remove the skin from the meat of a chicken, 
cut it into small pieces. Put into a saucepan a gill 
of water, a pinch of salt, and a small piece of 
butter. When boiling stir in as much flour as will 
form a paste. When it is cooked and smooth, put 
it away to get cold, then take half the quantity of 
butter that you have of chicken, and half the 
quantity of paste you have of butter. Put the 
paste into a mortar, pound it well, then add the 
butter, pound it again, then add the chicken, and 
pound all again for ten minutes ; add one whole 
egg and the yolks of three, salt, pepper, and a little 
grated nutmeg. Work all well together, pass 
through a wire sieve, and stir in half a gill of cream. 
Shape the quenelles with two table-spoons, place 
them in a well-buttered saute-pan, leaving a clear 
space on one side. Put a good pinch of salt in 
that space, then pour in sufficient boiling water to 
cover the quenelles, and leave them to poach for 
ten minutes. Drain them carefully on a sieve, and 
serve with tomato or mushroom sauce. Have some 
dried parsley and tongue rubbed through a sieve 
and scatter some alternately on each quenelle. 

Chicken Rissoles k la Marguerite. 

Rissoles a la Reine Marguerite. 

Have a gill of Supreme sauce, half a chicken 
minced, half a sweetbread, six truffles, and six 
mushrooms all minced and mixed into the Supreme 
sauce. When hot, stir in the yolks of three eggs. 



ENTRJ&ES A LA MODE. 37 

Let it thicken, and then pour it on a dish to get 
cold, and make it up into rissoles. Egg, bread- 
crumb, and fry in clarified butter, which must be 
very boiling. Dish them in a pyramid on a napkin ; 
serve with fried parsley. 



Chicken Rissoles. 

Croquettes de Volaille. 

Mince finely the remains of a fowl ; add an 
equal quantity of ham, tongue, and a few truffles, 
all minced finely. Toss all in a saucepan with a 
piece of butter, size of walnut, mixed with a pinch 
of flour ; add a little salt and pepper, and a little 
minced parsley. Stir in off the fire the yolks of 
two well-beaten eggs beaten up with a few drops 
of lemon, and lay the mixture on a plate to cool. 
Make a paste with flour and a little water, two 
eggs, a pinch of salt, and two or three grains of 
sugar. Roll it out to the thickness of a penny 
piece, stamp it round three inches in diameter, put 
a piece of mince on each, and fold over, moistening 
the edges with water and pressing them down 
Dip in beaten Ggg, and roll in crushed vermicelli 
and fry a golden colour. 

Sweetbreads and calf's brains are equally good 
made into rissoles. 

Chicken a la Romaine. 

Poulet a la Romaine. 

Truss a fowl for boiling. Place it in a large 
stewpan with four or five table-spoonfuls of good 
salad oil, a pinch of salt, a few cloves, a leek, and 
a bouquet of herbs. When the oil is perfectly hot, 



38 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

put in the chicken and let it cook very slowly, 
turning it every now and then, so that all parts 
may be equally cooked. When cooked it should 
be of a delicate brown colour. 

Strain out all the vegetables and herbs, and 
pour off some of the oil ; remove the fowl and keep 
it hot. Add to the remaining oil a few spoonfuls 
of tomato sauce and a little stock. Stir well, and 
stew for about ten minutes. Have ready some 
macaroni well boiled, and cut into pieces one and 
a half inch in length. Heat the macaroni in the 
sauce. Pour the sauce round the fowl and serve. 



Scallops of Chicken a la Financi^re. 

Ballotine de Poulet a la Financiere. 

Bone the legs of a chicken. Take half a pound 
of veal, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon ; pound 
it, then pass it through a sieve ; add to this two 
tablespoonfuls of minced tong^ue, half a dozen 
truffles, and half a dozen button mushrooms, the 
yolks of two eggs, a little salt, and a little less of 
cayenne. Mix all well together, and stuff the legs 
of the fowl with this, sewing them up neatly. 
Wrap them in a buttered paper, put them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter and some 
carrots, turnips, and a shalot cut up ; then add 
three-quarters of a pint of brown stock. Put the 
stewpan in the oven, baste well, and cook gently 
for an hour. When cooked, cut them in slices and 
dish up on spinach. Make a sauce of half a pint of 
brown sauce, one gill of sherry, six drops of lemon, 
three mushrooms chopped, and truffles ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Boil up quickly and pour round 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 39 

the chicken, putting cockscombs, truffles, and pieces 
of tongue in the centre. 



Chicken Souffle. 

Souffle de Volaille. 

Pound the white meat of a boiled chicken 
(about three ounces) as fine as possible, and mix 
with it half a pint of milk, three well-beaten eggs, 
a little bruised onion, pepper, salt, a trifle of 
cayenne and mace. Put the whole into a well- 
buttered mould, tie it down with a cloth, steam it 
like an ordinary custard pudding. It should be 
kept quite upright, and when turned out on the 
dish pour some clear well-seasoned brown gravy 
round. Button mushroom? or minced truffles can 
be added in mixing the pudding. 

Rabbit or sweetbreads may be used instead of 
chicken. 

Stuffed Pullet. 

Poularde en Tortue. 

Bone the pullet, stuff with forcemeat made with 
minced veal, Qgg, ham, onions, foie gras, and mush- 
rooms. First warm the veal, onion, and ham in 
melted butter, then add the mushrooms and foie 
gras, moisten with stock and boil. Stir in two 
yolks of eggs and a teaspoonful of lemon juice 
before taking off the fire. Season with a little salt, 
pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg. After stuffing the 
fowl with this mixture, sew it up, turn the skin of 
the neck half over the head and cut off part of the 
comb, which will give it the appearance of a turtle's 
head. Blanch and singe four chicken's feet ; cutoff the 
claws, and stick two where the wings ought to be, 



40 EXTR^ES A LA MODE. 

and two in the thighs, so as to look like turtle's feet. 
Stew the pullet with a little ham, onions and carrots 
tossed previously in butter, moisten with stock, skim 
occasionally. When done, cut the string where it 
is sewn, lay it on its back in a dish, garnish the 
breast with sliced truffles cut in fancy shapes, and 
place a crayfish tail to represent the turtle's tail. 

Veloute sauce may be handed with this dish. 

This dish may be eaten cold and garnished with 
aspic. 

Chicken a \m Suisse. 

Fritot de Pouletgfa la Suisse. 

Take the remains of a cold chicken. Cut it 
into neat joints. Salt and pepper these rather 
highly, and strew over them finely chopped onion 
and parsley. Cover them with oil, and squeeze 
over them the juice of a lemon. Turn the pieces 
every now and then, and let them remain till they 
have imbibed the flavour, then dip the pieces in a 
batter made of four ounces of flour, with as much 
milk added as will make a thick batter. Stir into 
it half a wine-glassful of brandy and an egg, the 
white and yolk beaten to a froth. This batter 
should rest for an hour in a warm place before 
using. 

Fry the pieces of chicken in this batter, and 
send it up piled high on a dish garnished with fried 
parsley. 

Tartlettes of Chicken. 

Bouchees de Volaille. 

Take the breast of a cooked chicken — about six 
ounces — and cut it into very small pieces. Mince 
two ounces of lean ham, one truffle, and six mush- 
rooms, and stir this mixture into a gill of white 



ENTRIES A LA MODE. 41 

sauce. Butter nine small moulds, line them neatly 
with this mixture. Smooth it well over with a hot 
wet knife. Fill in with the minced chicken. Coat 
them neatly over the top with the quenelle meat. 
Steam them for twenty minutes. Dish on a circle 
of mashed potato ; pour good white sauce over and 
round them, and serve peas or French beans in the 
centre. 



Timbale of Chicken k la^hampenoise. 

Timbale aMChamper 



:en a i 

LHSham 

W 

1 fWr 



Simmer a slice of h^Bm a slewpan till nearly 
cooked. Cut it up ii^tol^^ dice, and put it back 
into the saucepan with fSor chopped mushrooms, 
four truffles, and an ounce of butter ; add a little 
corn-flour to thicken it ; moisten with half a pint of 
stock and a gill of sherry. Reduce this ; skim off all 
the fat, then add some finely-minced breasts and 
fillets of chicken, six small gherkins, a sprig of 
parsley, and six anchovies which have been soaked 
in milk ; warm them over a slow fire, but do not let 
them boil. When done, pour into a fancy mould 
lined with light puff paste. Bake ; turn out, and 
serve very hot, garnished with crisped parsley. 

Timbale of Chicken a la Pompadour. 

Timbale de Poulet a la Pompadour. 

Take some plain dariole moulds ; line them 
with macaroni which has been parboiled in milk 
and water, and cut it into lengths sufficiently long 
to line the moulds. Cut up the meat of an un- 
cooked fowl very small. 

Make a panada of two and a half ounces of 



42 ENTREES A LA MODE, 

flour, two ounces of butter, and one gill of good 
stock, one saltspoonful of salt, and a sprinkle of 
mignonette pepper. Stir over fire till well cooked 
(but not sticky) ; then place it in a mortar and well 
pound it with the chicken and two eggs well 
beaten, and pound all together till it is well mixed, 
then rub it through a sieve. Add a little more salt 
and pepper and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Fill 
the moulds three-quarters full with this mixture. 
Place them in a saucepan (with buttered paper on 
the top) with water, which bring to the boil, and 
then let them simmer for twenty minutes. The 
macaroni should be placed in the moulds in honey- 
comb fashion, in two rows, with ham and truffles 
laid on the top in fanciful patterns. They take to 
steam three-quarters of an hour. 

The sauce for this dish is made with three 
mushrooms, one ounce of ham, ashalot, all minced, 
and one ounce of butter. Fry these over the fire, 
with a small bayleaf, then add four tomatoes and 
boil for twenty minutes ; reduce, and rub through 
the sieve, and boil up again for five minutes, and 
serve round the tartlets. 



Little Cases a la Belle-Isle. 

Petites Caisses a la Belle Isle. 

Oil some little paper cases on the outside ; put 
them on a plate to dry with the tops downwards, 
and leave them till required. Cut up the breast or 
leg of a fowl to about the size of a shilling (sweet- 
breads or brains may be used) ; add five cooked 
button mushrooms, two truffles, and a little tongue ; 
cut up and put these into a saucepan. Reduce 
half a pint of veloute sauce with a gill of cream till 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 43 

it is as thick as good cream, then pass it through a 
sieve, and mix half of it with the preparation in the 
stewpan, and steam it till it is quite hot ; partly fill 
the oiled paper cases with the mixture, and on the 
top put a teaspoonful of the other half of the 
veloute sauce, and decorate the top with some 
stamped-out truffles and grated tongue. This can 
be made as a cold entree, and must then be gar- 
nished with chopped aspic and croutons of aspic 
placed on the top of each case, each crouton being 
surmounted by a truffle. 

Boudin of Rabbit a la Richelieu. 

Boudin de Lapin a la Richelieu. 

Cut all the meat off a rabbit ; pound it, pass it 
through a sieve^ and stir it into some baked potatoes 
which have been mashed ; season with pepper and 
salt and a little minced fried onion ; pound well 
together. Make some forcemeat with breasts of 
chicken, pickled tongue, truffles, and thin German 
sauce ; roll into the shape of a pudding, cover with 
a thick layer of the pounded rabbit, and lay in a 
stewpan on a buttered drainer; poach it in hot stock 
— be careful not to let it boil. Broil over hot 
cinders ; when a good colour, dish and cover with 
Perigueux sauce. 

Fillets of Rabbit with Cucumber Sauce. 

Filets de Lapin aux Concombres. 

Cut two cucumbers into thin slices, and soak them 
in vinegar with pepper and salt and a bayleaf for 
two hours ; then half roast the rabbit, take the skin 
off, and fillet it. Make a sauce of white stock and 
put the pieces of rabbit into it, with the cucumber, 



44 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

until it is quite done. Arrange the pieces of rabbit 
in a circle, and put the cucumber in the middle, and 
pour the sauce over the fillets. Fried sippets should 
garnish this dish. 



Grenadines of Rabbit. 

Grenadins de Lapin. 

Take the whole length of the backbone of a 
rabbit with the fillet attached to each side. The 
bone is then divided into sections about two inches 
thick, and the pieces are neatly trimmed to a 
circular shape. These pieces must be larded and 
braised with buttered paper over them like a fri- 
candeau. Dress with spinach in the centre and 
brown sauce round. The grenadines should stand 
by themselves in the dish, and not overlap, as in 
cutlets. 

Rabbits a la Vdnitienne. 

Les Lapins a la Venitienne. 

Cut up a rabbit,lard all the large joints, and braise 
in a stewpan with some slices of veal, a tumbler- 
ful of white wine, half a tumblerful of salad oil, 
three heads of garlic, salt and pepper to taste. 
Place the lid on the stewpan and cook over a 
moderate fire ; when done, dish up the pieces of 
rabbit in a pyramid, press the sauce through a 
strainer and pour over them. 

Boudins of Hare. 

Boudins de Lievre. 

Fillet a hare, pound the fillets in the mortar 
and pass through a fine sieve ; take double the 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 45 

quantity of butter and bread-crumb, which has 
been soaked in stock and dried in a cloth ; pound 
all thoroughly together. Add to this a trifle of 
mixed spice, salt, pepper, two minced shalots, 
and a dessert-spoonful of parsley, stir in three 
yolks of an ^^^ and the whites of two, whipped 
up ; roll up this forcemeat into several little pud- 
dings and poach them in boiling water. When 
done, drain them and place them on a meat board 
sprinkled with flour, moisten the puddings with 
melted butter ; bread-crumb and brown in the 
oven ; when a good colour, serve with red-currant 
jelly sauce. 

Civet of Hare. 

Civet de Lievre. 

Cut the hare into neat pieces, and wipe them ; 
take half a pound of bacon, cut it into strips and 
fry in a saucepan ; then add the hare and let it 
saute about ten minutes. 

Add half a pint of port wine, a bouquet garni, 
and a dozen mushrooms ; let this simmer gently 
one hour, then add half a pint of brown sauce and 
twenty button onions which must be blanched ; 
let all simmer again for half an hour, remove the 
bouquet garni, and add one gill of tomato sauce, 
half a gill of glaze, and one table-spoonful of 
Chutney, Serve in a pyramid with fried croutons 
round. 

Chartreuse of Partridges. 

Chartreuse aux Perdreaux. 

Roast two partridges. Cut rounds of turnips 
and carrots about the size of a florin, blanch them 
in boiling water for five minutes, drain and boil in 



46 ENTRIES A LA- MODE. 

some good soup with a little pepper, salt, and 
sugar till done. Next glaze the vegetables by 
reducing the liquor — the carrots take longer to do 
than the turnips ; butter a plain mould, place a 
round of paper at the bottom and a piece of paper 
all round the inside ; lay a piece of the carrots and 
turnips alternately till the mould is lined. 

Have ready some cabbage well washed and 
cut into four pieces, and which has been stewed 
with some bacon and stock and allowed to simmer 
for three hours, drain in a colander, then put in a 
stewpanover a brisk fire to expel all moisture, season 
with pepper. When quite dry roll the cabbage 
on a cloth, then cut them into pieces two inches 
long and one and a half inch wide, and set them 
in a stewpan, then glaze them in game stock ; 
when done, place a layer of this cabbage in the 
mould, cut up the partridges and place four fillets 
on the cabbage ; make another layer of cabbage, 
and then more partridge, till the mould is full ; 
warm the contents in the bain-marie, and turn 
the Chartreuse out ; garnish round the bottom 
with alternate carrots and turnips, cut in fancy 
shapes, and French beans. Place some turnips 
cut in rings round the top of the Chartreuse, and 
stand a Brussels-sprout in each ; fix a cup cut out 
of a carrot in the centre, and fill with French beans; 
serve round it Espagnole sauce. 

Braised Partridges a la Cussy. 

Perdreaux a la Cussy. 

Bone a brace of partridges except the thigh 
bones and legs ; stuff them with a forcemeat com- 
posed of minced mushrooms, cockscombs, and 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 47 

tomatoes, which have been boiled ; sew up the 
birds to their own shape. Put into a braising-pan 
a slice of ham with two onions, one carrot, a bou- 
quet of mixed herbs, the partridge bones, a little 
salt and pepper ; moisten with half a pint of stock 
and a claret-glassful of claret. When the vege- 
tables get soft, add the partridges, cover them with 
buttered paper and simmer over a slow fire with 
hot coals on the braising-pan ; when done, dish up 
the birds, pass the sauce through a fine strainer, 
skim off the grease, reduce it, add a few sliced 
truffles and pour over the birds. 



Partridge Souffl6. 

Soufifle de Perdreaux. 

Roast two partridges, remove all the meat from 
the bones, and put it into a mortar and pound well 
with two ounces of cooked rice, one ounce ot 
butter, a little pepper and salt, and one gill and a 
half of glaze. Pass all this through a hair sieve, 
and add the yolks of four eggs, and then the whites 
of two eggs whipped to a stiff froth ; put into a 
mould and bake in a quick oven. Serve with a 
good gravy round, made from the bones and trim- 
mings, and thickened with butter and corn-flour. 

A puree of spinach may be served round it. 



Partridge a la Toussenel. 

Perdreaux a la Toussenel. 

Take a brace of partridges, stuff them with the 
livers of the birds minced up together with butter and 
some truffles which have been cooked in champagne ; 



48 ENTRIES A LA MODE. 

wrap each bird up in a figleaf or vineleaf, and over 
these place a sheet of buttered paper. 

Then put the birds on the spit and roast till 
about three-fourths cooked ; then take off the spit 
and under the four members of each bird spread a 
mixture of bread-crumb worked into a farce with 
pepper, butter, parsley, shalot, and grated nutmeg. 
Replace birds on spit and let them finish roasting, 
basting them continually alternately with broth and 
champagne. These drippings, to which the grated 
peel of one lemon and the juice of a Seville orange 
are added, form the sauce to be served with it. 

Fillets of Pheasants with Quenelles. 

Filets de Faisans avec Quenelles. 

Trim and cook some fillets of pheasant, put 
them in a buttered saute-pan, and cover them with 
buttered paper and fry them ; make some pheasant 
quenelles the size of olives. 

Dish the fillets round a croustade and fill it 
with the quenelles of pheasant ; pour some Es- 
pagnole sauce over all. A few truffles might be 
added, and placed alternately inside with the 
quenelles. 

Pheasant Purde en Croustade. 

Puree de Faisan en Croustade. 

Take the fillets of two pheasants, cut them in 
two lengthwise, trim them as much as possible 
in the shape of a pear, lard them with bacon, 
and put them in a buttered saute-pan. 

Roast the remaining portions of the pheasants, 
and, when cooked and cold, tear off with a fork all 



EXTREES A LA MODE. 49 

the meat, chop it, then pound it in a mortar with 
one ounce of butter. Moisten this with Espagnole 
sauce reduced with stock. 

Garnish a croustade with the puree, lay the 
fillets in a circle on the top of the croustade ; fill up 
the remainder of the puree in the centre. Glaze 
the fillets and serve with truffles and cockscombs at 
the base of the croustade. Three silver skewers 
each garnished with a cockscomb and truffle 
should be stuck at distances in the centre of the 
puree. 

Salmi of Pheasant. 

Salmi de Faisan. 

Roast a pheasant. When cold cut it up and 
trim the pieces, and put them in a stewpan with 
half a pint of Marsala and half a pint of Mirepoix 
sauce. Reduce it to one-half and add three- 
quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce ; simmer 
and reduce further for an hour. Skim off the fat, 
strain the sauce, and pour half of it on to the pieces 
of pheasant in the stewpan ; warm them without 
boiling. Arrange them in a pyramid on a dish, 
and garnish with fried croutons, and serve the re- 
maining sauce in a boat. 

Pigeons a la Princesse. 

Take one quarter of a pound of bacon cut up 
in pieces (frying the bacon first), half a pound of 
chicken liver cut up in small pieces, and fry in the 
same pan after the bacon. Add a small clove of 
garlic, a small shalot, a bay leaf, half a carrot, and 
half a turnip ; salt and pepper to taste. Stew this 
over fire, and, when cooked, pound it all together 

E 



50 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

with a few mushrooms in a mortar, and pass it 
through a w^ire sieve. Take two pigeons and stuff 
them with this forcemeat. Place them in stewpan 
with carrots and turnips ; let them stew till tender, 
well basting them with their owm stock. 

Serve with rich Espagnole sauce on a croustade 
of potato. 

Fillets of Pigeons a la Moderne. 

Filets de Pigeons a la Moderne. 

Take two pigeons, fillet and bone them. 
Season wath a little pepper, salt, and parsley. 
Place the fillets in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, and saute them lightly ; then take them 
out and press them till cold. Mask the fillets over 
with a farce made wn'th poultry livers in this manner: 
Take about half a pound of livers ; cut them small 
and put them in a frying-pan with a thick slice of 
fat bacon, a finely minced shalot, a pinch of salt 
and pepper, a bay leaf, and a bouquet garni. Saute 
this over the fire with a little clarified butter, then 
pound it in a mortar and pass it through a fine 
sieve, and mix w^ith the yolk of one ^^^ ; after 
masking the fillets wath this, ^g% and bread- 
crumb them, and fry them in clarified butter till of 
a pale golden colour. Dish on a border of potato, 
with a puree of spinach in the middle, and tomato 
butter around. 

Pigeon Cutlets a la Sicilienne. 

Cotelettes de Pigeon a la Sicilienne. 

Take half a dozen pigeons and bone them with 
the exception of the leg, and cut each bird into 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 51 

two, so that the meat attached to each leg will 
form a cutlet. Scald the feet, cut the nails, and 
peel off the outer skin. Put these cutlets into a 
saute-pan, having seasoned them with a little pepper 
and salt, and saute them for three minutes, then 
place them in the oven for five minutes. Press 
them when done between two plates ; when cold, 
mask them over with a pur^e of tomato and mush- 
rooms, in which aspic jelly has been mixed (equal 
parts of each). 

Bread-crumb these cutlets and dip into well- 
beaten ^gg. Place the cutlets in a saute-pan with 
clarified butter, and fry till a nice golden colour. 
Dish up on a croustade of potato and Parmesan, 
and serve with mushrooms in the centre and 
Espagnole sauce all round. 



Pigeons a la Tartare. 

The pigeons, should be trussed as for boiling ; 
flatten them with the cutlet bat as thin as possible, 
without breaking the skin. Season them with 
pepper and salt ; dip them in clarified butter, and 
cover them with bread-crumbs. Broil them on a 
gridiron, turning them often. Make a sauce of a 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, a shalot, two 
spoonfuls of pickles, and a boned anchovy. Mince 
them all finely and separately, and squeeze over 
them the juice of a lemon ; add half a spoonful of 
water, six spoonfuls of oil, and a little pepper. 
Mix all well together, and, just as it is to be served, 
rub in a spoonful of mustard. 

Put the sauce into the dish and the pigeons 
over, and serve. 



C2 ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Quails en Cerises with Truffles. 

Cailles en Cerises truffees. 

Bone eight quails entirely, open them and 
sprinkle them with salt, and spread a layer of 
chicken forcemeat inside. Turn some truffles to a 
ball shape, place one in each quail, and fold it to 
enclose the truffle. 

Tie up each quail in a piece of cloth like a 
pudding ; braize them in Marsala and Mirepoix 
sauce. 

Put some pate de foie gras forcemeat in a border 
mould, poach it, and turn it out on a dish, and fill 
the centre with sliced truffles. Drain the quails ; 
wipe and place them all round the border, resting 
partly on it, and partly on the truffles ; pile up 
more truffles in the centre. Glaze the quails and 
border, and serve Espagnole sauce with it. 

Quails au Delice. 

Cailles au Delice. 

Bone some quails and stuff them as in pre- 
ceding recipe. Let them stew in well-flavoured 
white stock. When cooked, let them get cold, 
then mask them with a rich white sauce into which 
half a pint of aspic jelly has been stirred. 

Decorate them with truffles cut in leaves and a 
few pistachio nuts. Serve on a circle of whipped 
aspic. 

Quails a la Financiere. 

Cailles a la Financiere. 

Put six quails in a stewpan, cover them with 
slices of fat bacon, pour in one gill of brown sherry 



ENTRJSES A LA MODE. 53 

and half a pint of Mirepoix sauce, and simmer till 
the quails are cooked. 

Fill a plain border mould one and a quarter 
inch high with chicken forcemeat,* poach it and 
then turn the border out ; fill the centre with foie 
gras, truffles, cockscombs, and chicken quenelles 
mixed in financiere sauce. 

Drain the quails and place them half on the 
border and half on the ragout, the legs towards the 
centfe ; put a cockscomb between each quail and 
a large truffle in the centre ; glaze the border and 
quails with a brush dipped in glaze. Serve finan- 
ciere sauce with it. 

Quails a la Jubilee. 

Cailles a la Jubilee. 

Bone some quails and lard them with bacon 
and truffles, stuff them with equal parts of 
sweetbread and oysters ; roll them up in buttered 
paper and cook them in the oven in enough Saumur 
orChablis to cover them ; glaze them, and dish them 
on a farce border of potato and watercress pounded 
together. Serve a puree of chestnuts in the middle, 
or an Espagnole sauce, to which some oyster liquor, 
a little cayenne, the piece of a lemon, and two or 
three mushrooms are added ; boil these up to- 
gether till reduced, then pass through a tammy, 
and add a glassful of Saumur or Chablis and serve. 

Quails a la Lucullus. 

Cailles a la Lucullus. 

Have six boned quails ; cut up three ounces of 
bacon and put it into a saute-pan, let it cook for a 
* See * Chicken Forcemeat,' p. 89. 



54 ENTREES A LA MODE, 

few minutes, then add twelve chicken or game livers, 
one shalot, twelve white peppercorns, a small bou- 
quet garni, and six cloves. Let all this cook care- 
fully, pound all in the mortar, and pass through a 
hair sieve ; then add four chopped truffles. Stuff 
each quail into shape with this mixture, butter 
some paper quail-cases, put a quail into each case 
with a few drops of salad oil on each, and put them 
in the oven for ten minutes. Make a sauce of the 
bones of the quails, add a table-spoonful of glaze 
and a gill of brown sauce ; let this all boil well, 
then strain and mix in a large table-spoonful of 
minced truffles ; put a table-spoonful of this sauce 
over each quail, straining the grease off first. 

Fillets of Teal and Anchovies. 

Filets de Sarcelles aux Anchois. 

Fillet the teal after roasting them about three- 
quarters done, lay them on a tin or china fireproof 
dish which has been buttered and sprinkled with 
grated Parmesan cheese ; place a fillet of anchovy 
on each piece, moisten with fish stock, sprinkle 
with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, 
then bake in the oven ; squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over them before serving. 

Instead of baking them they can be put on the 
gridiron and a salamander held over the fillets. 

Ortolans in Cases. 

Ortolans en Caisses. 

Take as many paper cases as there are ortolans, 
oil them and put them in the oven for a few seconds. 
Put a table-spoonful of very thick Perigueux sauce 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 55 

in each case, place an ortolan on it, cook them in 
the oven and pour over some Perigueux sauce. 
Dish them on a fried bread socle, cut so as to 
receive the quails in two rows one above the other. 

Croustade of Ortolans a la Proven9ale. 

Croustade d'Ortolans a la Provengale. 

Take eight ortolans and eight large and even- 
sized truffles. Make a hole in the centre of each 
truffle large enough to contain one of the ortolans ; 
line this hole with a little chicken forcemeat. 

Cut off the necks and legs and remove the 
gizzards of the ortolans, and season them slightly 
with salt and pepper ; place an ortolan breast 
uppermost in each truffle, put them in a stewpan 
and cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, pour 
in half a bottle of Marsala and the same quantity 
of Mirepoix ; close the stewpan, and simmer for 
twenty-five minutes ; drain the truffles and pile 
them up in a fried bread croustade. Strain the 
gravy and reduce it one half, add one pint o 
Espagnole sauce, reduce both till sauce coats the 
spoon, strain, and serve in a boat. 

Croustade of Larks. 

Croustade de Mauviettes. 

Bone and stuff eighteen larks with foie gras, 
cook them in the oven, basting well with Espa- 
gnole sauce ; when cooked, have ready a croustade 
of bread glazed with ^^'g, and mount the larks on 
it in two rows, brushing them over with demi- 
glaze ; in the centre serve brov/n m.ushroom 
sauce, or a macedoine of vegetables ; or tomatoes 



56 EXTREES A LA MODE. 

whole may be served in the centre. One of the 
very small tomatoes put on every other top lark 
makes a very pretty garnish. 



Larks in Paper Cases. 

Mauviettes en Caisses. 

Make some forcemeat, and put a layer of it 
half an inch thick at the bottom of as many paper 
lark cases as required. Place a bound and stuffed 
lark on this, fill in with more forcemeat, and bake 
in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes ; skim 
lightly any fat from the top, and pour in some 
Perigueux sauce. The forcemeat should be made 
of chicken livers and grated bacon placed in a 
saute-pan with pepper, salt, and fried for four 
minutes, and when cold pounded in a mortar, then 
pressed through a hair sieve. Truffles cut up and 
put into the forcemeat is a great improvement. 

Larks au Gratin. 

Mauviettes au Gratin. 

Bone twelve larks, sprinkle them with salt and 
spread a layer of foie gras forcemeat inside ; put a 
round truffle in each and wrap the quail well round 
the truffle. 

Take a border mould two inches deep, line it 
with paste and put a layer of foie gras forcemeat 
an inch thick at the bottom ; set the quails all 
round the mould on the forcemeat. 

Cut a round piece of bread, cover it with a thin 
slice of fat bacon, and put it in the centre of the 
circle formed by the quails on the forcemeat. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 57 

Place a paste cover on the top of the croustade, 
and pinch the edges together ; brush the top over 
with ^^'g and bake in oven. 

When done, take the croustade out of the 
mould, cut out the cover and the piece of bread, 
wipe all the hollow with a cloth to absorb all the 
fat, and fill up with a ragout of cockscombs and 
truffles, and pour in some half-glaze and glaze the 
croustade and serve. 

Salmi of Snipes. 

Salmi de Becassines. 

Remove the trail of six snipe and roast them ; 
when done, cut them up, remove the skins when 
they are cold, and put the pieces in a buttered 
saute-pan. 

Pound the trimmings and bones in a mortar 
and put them into a stewpan with two shalots, a 
clove, a bouquet of fine herbs, and half a pint of 
claret ; reduce it one-half, and add three-quarters 
of a pint of Espagnole sauce. 

Simmer by side of fire for half an hour, skim- 
ming constantly ; strain through a hair sieve into 
a stewpan, and reduce it again till it coats the spoon. 

Pour a little sauce over the snipe in the saute- 
pan and warm them without boiling, pile the pieces 
in a pyramid on the dish, and garnish with croutons 
spread with the snipes' trail chopped and mixed 
with some foie gras. 

Fillets of Woodcock a la Proven^ale. 

Filets de Becasse a la Provengale. 

Fillet a woodcock and soak in olive oil, seasoned 
with salt, coarse black pepper, mixed spice, and a 



58 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

pounded head of garlic. Place the bones in a 
stewpan with enough olive oil to cover them, a 
sprig of parsley, a head of garlic, four shalots, a 
laurel leaf and three cloves. When brown, add a 
dessert-spoonful of flour, a tumblerful of white 
wine, and a pint and a half of stock ; reduce this 
one-half and pass through sieve. Toss the fillets 
in warm oil ; when done, place them round an 
entree dish v/ith a fried sippet between each. Stir 
a little lemon juice into the sauce and pour over the 
fillets. 



Turkey a la Marquise. 

Gateau de Dindon a la Marquise. 

Cut the breast of a turkey into as many long 
fillets as possible, and trim them into long narrow 
shapes, getting larger at the base. Lard half of 
them with lardons of truffle, and make a stuffing 
composed of six ounces of panada, four ounces of 
tongue, and four of finely-minced oysters ; pound 
all these together, adding one and a half table- 
spoonful of veloute sauce, a little mignonette, 
pepper, salt, and three eggs. Pass all through a 
sieve, then mask the fillets which have not been 
truffled with the panada. Smooth it well over with 
a knife dipped in hot water, and put on each 
fillet some pistachio kernels cut into fancy shapes ; 
press them well on to the farce. Place the fillets 
on a buttered tin and set them in the oven for 
eight minutes. Then place buttered paper inside 
a mould and place the fillets alternately round the 
sides as close together as possible. Line all the 
inside with more of the farce and fill up the centre 
with Brussels sprouts, with a puree of chestnuts over 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 59 

them, and let all steam for an hour. After the 
water boils turn out and serve oyster sauce round 
the fillets. 

Turkey a la Financiere. 

Medaillons de Dindon a la Financiere. 

Take two turkey's legs, keeping the skin on 
them ; remove the bones ; season with a little mig- 
nonette, pepper, and salt. Make a stuffing of ten 
ounces of lean ham, six ounces of fresh pork ; 
mince the meat finely, pound it and pass it through 
the sieve. Add to it two or three oysters, two 
truffles, and a couple of ounces of veal, two cooked 
livers, all chopped fine ; mix well together with the 
yolks of two eggs, a trifle of cayenne, a pinch of 
pepper and salt. 

Fill up the turkey legs with this preparation, 
sew them up, and cover each leg in buttered paper. 
Take a stevvpan and put into it two ounces of 
butter, a slice of fat bacon, two sliced onions, some 
celery leaves, a carrot, and a bouquet garni and six 
peppercorns. Place the legs on the top, cover the 
pan, and let all fry gently for a quarter of an hour. 
Then add a gill of white stock and braise for an 
hour, basting well all the time. When done, remove 
paper and cotton, glaze them, and cut them in 
slices half an inch thick. Dish on a croustade of 
potato and garnish with a macedoine of vegetables 
in centre and sausage-meat balls and a puree of 
chestnuts round. 

Rissoles of Cockscombs and Truffles. 

Croquettes de Cretes de Coq aux Truffes. 

Scald and clean a dozen large cockscombs, 
boil them in thin white sauce. When nearly cold 



6o ENTRIES A LA MODE. 

cut them into dice and mix them with chopped 
truffles which have been boiled in sherry, and 
moisten with the white sauce. 

Roll out some puff paste, cut into pieces about 
four inches in diameter, bake for a few minutes so 
as to brown them on one side, lay a spoonful of 
the cockscomb and truffles in the centre of each 
piece of paste, moisten the edges with egg ; fold 
them together and press gently to make them 
stick, dip each rissole into beaten e^gg seasoned with 
salt and pepper ; fry in boiling fat. Dish up in a 
pyramid and garnish with fried parsley. 



Little Croustades a la Whitstaple. 

Petites Croustades a la Whitstaple. 

Take four ounces of fresh butter and rub half a 
pound of Vienna flour into it ; add one yolk of an 
G:gg and a pinch of salt ; thoroughly mix, and make 
into a paste with cold water ; roll it out, and then 
line some little fluted tin cups with it ; cut out some 
little rounds of paper, and butter them, and place 
inside the paste. Bake them for about twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven, then remove the paper 
and fill these with a mixture of oysters bearded and 
scalded in their own liquor and cooked in Bechamel 
sauce with two or three slices of sweetbread. Mask 
over with some rich white sauce made with cream ; 
then take half a pound of lean bacon and two ounces 
of fat bacon, and pound, and pass through a tammy, 
and mix with it a little pepper and salt, a squeeze of 
lemon, the yolk of one ^gg, and a table-spoonful of 
cream. Mask the tops of the cases over with a 
knife, ornament the edges with little pieces of 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 6i 

truffle, and sprinkle each croustade with finely- 
minced truffles. Cook in the oven for a quarter of 
an hour with buttered paper, and serve. 



Foie Gras Fritters a la Chevreuse. 

Beignets de Foie Gras a la Chevreuse. 

Boil some semolina in sufficient stock to form a 
paste. When cold, line some tartlet moulds with 
it to a thickness of about a quarter of an inch. 

Mix an equal quantity of foie gras cut into dice 
with some chopped truffles ; season with pepper 
and salt. Fill the moulds with the mixture, cover 
over with semolina and close the fritters thoroughly. 
Turn them out of the moulds ; ^%^, breadcrumb, and 
fry them in hot fat ; drain and dish the fritters on 
a napkin. Garnish with fried parsley and serve. 

Foie Gras Scallops with Truffles. 

Escallopes de Foie Gras trufifes. 

Cut some foie gras into scallops. Put them in 
a saute-pan with a little clarified butter ; season 
with salt and pepper, and mix them in Madeira 
sauce with sliced truffles. Mount them on a crou- 
stade when cooked. 

Liver Cake. 

Gateau de Foie. 

Take some very fresh calf's or lamb's liver, and 
an equal quantity of boiled bacon (the fat) ; pound 
all together in a mortar with a little pepper, salt, 
and parsley. 

Cut some onions into very small pieces, which 



62 ENTRIES A LA MODE. 

fry. Cut also some lean bacon into small pieces, 
and mix with the liver. 

Next mix the whites and yolks of three eggs 
(beaten separately), and incorporate thoroughly. 

Fill a plain mould and steam for about one 
hour. Turn out and serve with a rich brown sauce 
and button mushrooms. 



Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Toniates Farcies. 

Take some small ripe tomatoes ; cut out the 
cores and the pips, skin them, and make a mixture 
of a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, pepper, salt, 
and a small minced eschalot, and mix into this 
some boned anchovies shredded very fine, and 
some finely minced chicken, and fill up the to- 
matoes with this mixture. 

Take some hard-boiled eggs and cut them into 
slices, and cover these with chopped tarragon and 
chervil. Place some mustard and cress on the 
bottom of the dish, lay slices of ^^^ on the top of 
it, and place a tomato on each slice of egg. 

Tomato Souffld. 

Souffle aux Tomates. 

Take six good-sized tomatoes, one ounce- of 
flour, two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy, two whole eggs, the whites 
beaten up to a stiff froth, a quarter of a pint of 
boiling cream. 

When the cream boils, stir in the flour, pre- 
viously mixed smoothly with a little cold milk. 
When it boils up again, take it from the fire, and 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 63 

stir into it the butter, anchovy, and the eggs. 
Lastly, stir in the tomatoes, add a few drops of 
cochineal and half the butter. Beat it up well, and 
put it in a small souffle dish or small ramequin 
dishes, bake in a sharp oven, and serve immediately. 
A little finely chopped pistachio nuts strewn on 
the top makes a pretty garnish. 



Tomato Cutlets. 

Cotelettes aux Tomates. 

Cut some tomatoes in two roundzvays ; ^g% and 
bread crumb them, introducing a little grated 
parsley and Parmesan in the bread-crumbs. Fry 
in clarified butter till of a pale colour. Dish in a 
crown with a broiled mushroom between each 
cutlet. Serve mayonnaise sauce or ^g% sauce in 
the centre. 



Tomatoes a la St. Jacques. 

Tomates a la St. Jacques. 

Remove the cores and pips from some rather 
large tomatoes, and dust the insides with a little 
pepper and salt. Make half a pint of white mush- 
room sauce, and warm up in it some nice, small, 
white button mushrooms, which have been slightly 
sauteed in lemon and butter. Add a little finely 
minced parsley. Fill each tomato with this mix- 
ture. Sprinkle on the top a few bread-crumbs 
mixed with Parmesan and a small piece of butter. 
Set them on a buttered tin and bake in a quick 
oven for twelve minutes. Garnish with a little fried 
parsley. 



64 ENTREES A LA MODE, 



Marrow Patties. 

Bouchees de Moelle. 

Take a fresh marrow bone and cut into pieces 
the size of a wahiut ; put it into a stewpan with 
cold water and a teaspoonful of salt. Place over a 
fire, and after boiling for one minute pass at once 
through a hair sieve. 

Line the patty pans with thin light paste. 
Take one tablespoonful of parsley, thyme, and 
chives, chop them fine, add the grated rind of a 
quarter of a lemon, one tablespoonful of cream, a 
little lemon juice, salt and pepper. Beat well 
together. 

Place some marrow into each of the pans, and 
add a little of the savoury cream, and bake in a 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Pile up on the 
top of each patty very small croutons fried of the 
palest gold colour. Strew fine parsley over the 
croutons very slightly. 

Mushroom Creams. 

Creme de Champignon. 

Take one pound of mushrooms ; peel them and 
soak them in lemon for a few hours, then mince 
them well. Make some panada ; melt two table- 
spoonfuls of the mushroom puree. Pound this 
mixture in the mortar with a dessert-spoonful of 
lemon juice and a very small piece of shalot. 
Work in the yolks of three eggs and the whites of 
two well whipped and a gill of cream ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Pass through a sieve, then butter 
several small dariole moulds, half fill them with the 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 65 

mixture. Tie buttered paper round each, which 
should stand two inches above the moulds, and 
place them in a saucepan of water and steam them 
for an hour. 



Vegetable Marrow Stuffed. 

Moelle Vegetale farcie. 

Cut a good-sized vegetable marrow in half 
lengthways ; take out the seeds and fill with a 
mixture of very finely minced cold mutton or 
chicken, veal or lobster. Dredge a little flour over 
it. Season with pepper, salt, a little finely chopped 
onion, and bind together with yolk of Q.g^. Tie 
the two halves together with some fine packthread, 
and stew it till tender in good flavoured stock. 
When done, take it out of the stock, which must 
be thickened with the yolks of two eggs. Pour 
this sauce over the vegetable marrow, having 
previously removed the string, and serve. 



66 



CHAUDFROIDS, OR COLD ENTREES. 
Lobster Cutlets in Aspic. 

Cotelettes de Homard en aspic. 

Make the cutlets as in the recipe for preceding 
lobster cutlets, p. i. Have some good aspic jelly, 
and when nearly cold mask each cutlet with it. 
Let them get cold ; dish them in a circle, and serve 
in the centre a macedoine of vegetables in mayon- 
naise sauce. 

Salmon Cutlets. 

Cotelettes de Saumon. 

Take half a pound of boiled salmon, and cut it 
up into small pieces to the size of very small dice. 
Take one and a half ounce of butter, and put it 
with the salmon in the mortar. Pound them well 
together, then pass this mixture through a sieve ; 
scrape it carefully off the sieve and make it into a 
pat. Now place in a stewpan one ounce of flour 
and half an ounce of butter. Mix well together, 
then add one gill of milk, and put it on the fire 
and stir the mixture till it boils and thickens, after 
which add one table-spoonful of cream, and stir till it 
boils again. A little salt and pepper and a few grains 
of cayenne should now be added, after which pour 
out on to a plate, and let this mixture stand till it 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 67 

IS cold. When it is gtiite cold, fill some moulds in 
the shape of shells, and poach them. When done, 
turn them out to get cold. Cut some cucumber, 
peeling it partly, to look as if carved in stripes, in 
pieces an inch long. Stand these all round a dish, 
and mount a shell of salmon on each. Make small 
quenelles of lobster, which place on the top of the 
escallops. P'ill centre with salad and mayonnaise 
sauce, and arrange aspic and hard-boiled eggs 
around as garnish. 



Salmon Rolls. 

Cassolettes de Saumon. 

Take a quarter of a pound of pastry, roll it 
very thinly, and line six tin dariole moulds with it. 
Fill these with raw barley and bake. When done 
remove the barley and let the pastry cases get cold. 
Cut a quarter of kippered salmon into six thin 
slice ; on each slice spread a little Chutney and 
some French mustard. Then roll up the slices 
of kippered salmon, each in greased paper, and 
bake for ten minutes ; remove the papers and let 
the fish get cold. Place a roll of salmon into each 
pastry case ; melt half a pint of aspic jelly and 
pour sufficient over the fish in each case to cover 
it and let it get cold ; lay little strips of cucumber 
and broken aspic on the top. 



Mutton Cutlets Truffled. 

Cotelettes de Mouton truffees. 

Take the best end of a neck of mutton; bone it 
and mince the meat very finely ; take a quarter of 

F 2 



68 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

a bottle of truffles, cut them into thin but large 
pieces. Then put one ounce of butter in a stew- 
pan and put it on the fire. When it is melted stir in 
one ounce of flour, and mix it to a smooth paste ; 
add one gill of stock and stir all together until it 
boils and thickens. Move the saucepan to side of 
fire and stir in half a gill of cream ; then take a 
lemon and strain in a teaspoonful of it, season with 
pepper and salt, then put in the minced mutton 
and truffles, and stir till all are well mixed together. 
Turn the contents of stewpan on to a plate, and 
lay it to get cool. When the mixture is cold we 
form it into cutlets, then glaze them and mount 
them en couronne and serve with a macedoine of 
vegetables in the centre in mayonnaise sauce, with 
a border of whipped aspic all round, and garnished 
with alternately a piece of endive and watercress. 



Mutton Cutlets k la Pompadour 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour. 

Take some mutton cutlets, saute or braise them 
in stock with vegetables in it very carefully. Take 
some tomato sauce and an equal part of aspic 
jelly; mix well together, and when nearly cold 
mask the cutlets with it, and if necessary let them 
stand on ice till cold. Lay the cutlets all one way ; 
cut truffles into patterns of stars and kites, and 
ornament them with it. Serve in the centre a 
macedoine of vegetables with mayonnaise sauce, 
and garnish with finely cut aspic and tomatoes 
round. 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 69 



Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Russe. 

Cotelettes Chaudfroid a la Russe. 

Take the best end of a neck of mutton, cut it 
into cutlets, leaving a bone to each. They must 
not be very much trimmed ; braise them for an 
hour in the oven, then take them out and press 
them till cold, trim the cutlets neatly, and then dip 
them in glaze till they look smooth ; when cold 
mask them with nearly cold aspic. Now take 
some aspic jelly, chop it up and place it on an 
entree-dish ; arrange the cutlets on the aspic all 
standing the same way ; fill in the centre with a 
macedoine of mixed vegetables into which some 
mayonnaise sauce has been well stirred ; cut some 
beetroot into neat shapes and mix in last. A 
border of aspic cut like croutons should be 
placed round as garnish alternately with slices of 
cucumber ; small frills of paper should be put on 
the ends of the cutlets. 

Lamb Cutlets in Aspic. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau a I'Anglaise. 

Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it and 
trim it into small neat cutlets ; season with pepper 
and salt, place them in a saute-pan and lightly fry 
them, put them to press between two plates, and 
when cold mask them over thickly with white 
sauce, into which stir two table-spoonfuls of aspic 
and one table-spoonful of mint sauce ; garnish 
each one with truffle cut in the shape of small 
kites. Dish up in the form of a crown with 
chopped aspic round and balls of truffle dotted in 



70 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

and out. Pour in the centre cucumber cut very- 
thin, with mayonnaise sauce. 



Lamb Cutlets en Belle- Vue. 

Cotelettes d'Agneau en Belle-Vue. 

Take as many cutlets as there are well-shaped 
bones from two necks of lamb, and lard them with 
tongue or ham ; lard level with the cutlet. 

Braise the cutlets with carrots, turnips, onions, 
celery, and fine herbs, on a layer of bacon, in a pint 
of stock for about an hour and a half, covering close 
all the time. Let them absorb the stock till nearly 
cold, then press each cutlet between two plates ; 
trim neatly, then set them in aspic in a large 
shallow dish so that each cutlet has a thin mask of 
jelly on both sides. A cutlet cutter dipped into 
hot water must then be used to stamp each cutlet 
out of the aspic. Dish in a circle, fill the centre 
with a macedoine of vegetable soaked in mayon- 
naise sauce, and garnish with broken aspic jelly. 



Sweetbreads au Montpellier. 

Ris de Veau au Montpellier, 

Cook some sweetbreads ; cut them into shapes 
of cutlets ; have some aspic jelly, dip each cutlet 
into the aspic before it is quite set. Arrange the 
cutlets round on aspic chopped and heaped up on 
the dish ; fill the centre with asparagus heads and 
serve mayonnaise around it ; garnish with crou- 
tons of aspic, red and white alternately. 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 71 



Chaudfroid of Chicken. 

Chaudfroid de Volaille. 

Put half a pint of white sauce into a stewpan 
to boil and stir well with a wooden spoon till the 
sauce is reduced to one gill, add one gill of 
cream and stir again till it just boils, then pass the 
contents through the sieve ; next stir into it two 
table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly. 

Now take a cold roast chicken, and cut it up 
the same way as for carving, taking care that the 
pieces are all one size ; remove the skin and neatly 
trim each piece. Take these pieces of chicken 
and dip them in the sauce, covering them well over. 
Place these pieces on a drainer, and let them rem.ain 
till the sauce is set over each piece. Chop some 
aspic very fine, lay it in a circle round the dish, 
and arrange the pieces of chicken on it. The centre 
should be filled in with mixed vegetables, all mixed 
together with two table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise 
sauce. 



Pork Cutlets a rAmericaine. 

Cotelettes de Pore a rAmericaine. 

Cut some pork cutlets and mix equal portions 
of tomato sauce, aspic jelly, and Robert sauce. 
When nearly set mask the cutlets with it ; arrange 
en couronne and fill centre with very small toma- 
toes heaped up in a pyramid, and garnish round 
with croutons of aspic and capers mingled in 
with it. 



72 ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Chicken Salad a la Carlton. 

Salade de Volaille a la Carlton. 

Cut a cold fowl into neat fillets, and mask them 
with a mixture made with one table-spoonful of 
finely minced capers, two ounces of cooked ham, 
three hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a sieve, a 
little minced tarragon and chives, and two sardines 
and one anchovy rubbed through a sieve, all stirred 
in mayonnaise sauce and aspic : about a table- 
spoonful of each. When this has set, line a border 
mould with aspic jelly. Ornament the chicken fil- 
lets with little strips of beetroot and cucumber 
arranged like trellis-work. Place the prepared fil- 
let round the mould on a layer of aspic ; add a little 
more aspic till the border mould is full. Fill the 
centre with a salad composed of cucumber cut into 
dice, peas, French beans, which have been cooked 
till tender. Pour over it some thick mayonnaise 
sauce, and set the mould on ice. Dip the mould in 
warm water and turn out. Garnish with whisked 
aspic and sprigs of chervil or watercress. 

Ballotines of Chicken with Aspic. 

Eallotines de Volaille en Aspic. 

Bone a chicken ; add some little strips of tongue 
and truffles to some pate de foie gras ; stuff the 
chicken with it, and shape it into long rolls two 
and a half inches in diameter. Put the chicken in 
a pudding-cloth, tying it at each end. Boil this in 
some Mirepoix sauce, and when done let it cool ; 
then drain and untie it, and cut it across in six 
pieces. Then tie up each ballotine in cloths again 



ENTREES A LA MODE. JZ 

separately till cold, when they can be untied, 
trimmed, and glazed. 

Make a round rice socle and cover it with ravi- 
gote sauce ; stand five of the ballotines on end on 
this, and place the sixth on the top in the centre ; 
place a star cut out in red aspic jelly on the top of 
it, and decorate each of the others on the top with 
a truffle. Garnish all the spaces between with red 
chopped aspic, and place aspic croutons all round 
the base. 



Aspic of Fillets of Chicken. 

Filets de Volaille en Aspic. 

Take the mould and pour in a little aspic jelly 
to the depth of a quarter of an inch. When this is 
set, cut some shapes of hard-boiled eggs, truffles, 
gherkins, and beetroot ; arrange these in patterns 
round the mould ; pour in some nearly liquid aspic 
jelly gently, and put it on the ice to freeze. Arrange 
fillets of chicken previously cooked, skinned, and 
cut in a good shape, neatly all round. Pour in 
as much more of the aspic as will set the chicken, 
then put round and over the chicken some mayon- 
naise, and over this more cold aspic. Fill up 
the mould with liquid aspic and put it to freeze. 
Turn out and serve with whisked aspic and endive 
as a garnish round it. 



Chicken a la Princesse, 

Poulet a la Princesse. 

Braise a chicken. Cut the fillets of the breast 
into as many cutlets as is required for the dish. 



74 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

Make some white sauce, add a gill of cream and a 
table-spoonful of aspic. Mask the cutlets on one 
side with the white sauce, let them get cold, and 
then mask them on the other side. Chop up some 
aspic and place it at the bottom of an entree dish ; 
when set, put the cutlets all one way on the dish, and 
then cover them with aspic. When cold, cut them 
out with a knife dipped into boiling water, and dish 
them on a circle on a foundation of aspic. Serve 
with Russian salad in the centre and croutons of 
aspic round. 

Cold Glazed Fillets of Partridge. 

Chaudfroid de Perdreaux. 

Roast the partridges, and fillet them. Pound 
the remainder of the meat on the bones in a 
mortar with six truffles and a quarter of a pound 
of mushrooms ; simmer the bones in half a pint of 
]\Iarsala. Season with the truffle trimmings, three 
shalots, and a bayleaf Let it remain on the fire 
till it is reduced to a third of the quantity. Rub 
through sieve, add two table-spoonfuls of clear good 
stock to it, stir half this sauce into the panada, mix 
it thoroughly in a saucepan till it boils, pass through 
tammy and leave till cold. Place the fillets round 
the dish en couronne with a slice of truffle cut the 
same shape between each. Fill the centre with the 
puree, cover the whole with the remainder of the 
sauce and garnish with cut aspic jelly. 

Aspic a la Financi^re. 

Take some scallops of foie gras, dip them in 
Espagnole chaudfroid sauce, and let them cool. 
Also take some cockscombs, truffles, and button 



EA'TREES A LA MODE. 75 

mushrooms ; dip all into the chaudfroid sauce and 
let them cool. 

Set a plain mould on the ice ; put in a thin 
layer of aspic jelly. When it is set, decorate with 
a pattern of truffles and hard-boiled white of egg. 

Garnish the mould with some of the foie gras 
scallops, mushrooms, and cockscombs ; always place 
the cockscombs point downwards. Fill the mould 
up gradually with aspic jelly and the rest of the foie 
gras, etc. Set it in ice, then turn the aspic out. With 
chopped aspic and truffle, garnish all round. 

Chaudfroid of Woodcocks. 

Chaudfroid de Becasses. 

Truss three woodcocks, wrap and roast them in 
buttered paper. When cold, cut them up and dip 
each piece in some chaudfroid sauce in which the 
trail of the woodcock has been mixed. 

When cold, dish the pieces in a decorated 
border of aspic jelly, filling in chopped aspic in the 
centre. 

Chaudfroid of Larks. 

Chaudfroid de Mauviettes. 

Bone a dozen larks, stuff each one with a small 
piece of pate de foie gras with some finely chopped 
truffles, and roll the larks round the forcemeat to a 
round shape. 

Butter a dozen dariole moulds and place a lark 
in each mould, breast downwards. Put the moulds 
in a saute-pan with a little water, and cook the 
larks in the oven. When cold, turn them out, wipe 
them, and dip each into some chaudfroid sauce 
made of Espagnole sauce, and put them on a dish 



76 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

to cool. Arrange these in tiers against a pile of 
chopped aspic. With chopped aspic between the 
larks and croutons of jelly garnish around. 

Quails may be cooked, dipping them into a 
white chaudfroid sauce, and ornamenting each quail 
with truffles and pistachio nut cut into shapes. 

Larks in Aspic. 

Des Mauviettes en aspic. 

Bone and stuff a dozen larks with pate de foie 
gras forcemeat ; bake them in the oven and dip 
them into glaze. 

Have a dozen small dariole moulds ; put a 
little aspic at the bottom to the thickness of a 
quarter of an inch, and when just set put in a lark. 
Place on ice a few moments, then fill up with liquid 
aspic and put on ice. Turn out, and on the top of 
each strew pistachio kernels chopped very fine, and 
insert two legs and feet of the lark, to stand up 
as in a pigeon pie. Or a round fancy mould may 
be used hollow in the centre. In the top ornaments 
put a little aspic jelly, and when nearly cold, put 
in alternately chopped yolk of ^g^ and chopped 
pistachio kernels. Add a little cool liquefied aspic, 
and when nearly set, place larks all the way round, 
and fill up with aspic. Turn out when cold and 
garnish with chopped aspic sprinkled with pistachio 
kernels minced fine. 



Galantine of Quails. 

Galantine de Cailles. 

Bone half a dozen quails. Take the livers, chop 
them finely with a minced sweetbread, two or three 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 77 

ounces of grated ham, a little chopped parsley, a 
minced shalot, pepper and salt. Bind this force- 
meat together with the yolk of an &gg. 

Divide the forcemeat equally, and spread half 
of it upon the birds, which should be open, skin 
downwards. Lay upon each a slice of cold tongue, a 
spoonful of chopped truffle, and then the rest of the 
forcemeat. Roll each bird in a piece of old napkin. 
Lay the birds side by side, and put with them the 
bones and trimmings, a little pepper and salt, an 
onion stuck with cloves, and a piece of knuckle of 
veal or a calf's foot. Cover with nicely flavoured 
stock, and let the quails simmer gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Take the saucepan from fire, 
and let the birds remain in the liquor till nearly 
cold. Drain them, take off napkins, and brush 
them over with glaze. Boil the sauce quickly to a 
jelly, and strain and clear it with white of eggs. 
Boil a pound of rice in a quart of water slightly 
salted, until quite tender. Drain out all liquid 
and beat well till smooth, and press it into a plain 
round mould. When it is cold and stiff, turn it out 
and brush it over with butter, and set the quails in 
an upright position on it. Garnish with the jelly 
cut into dice around it. 



Mould of Pheasant a la Russe. 

Pain de Faisan a la Russe. 

Thinly line a plain oval mould with aspic jelly. 
When set, mask it all round with a brown sauce 
made thus : Take half a pint of aspic jelly, two 
table-spoonfuls of brown sauce flavoured with a 
little game gravy, half an ounce of glaze, a table- 
spoonful of Marsala wine, and a saltspoonful of 



;8 ENTREES A LA MODE, 

sugar. Place this in a saucepan and boil it till it 
is reduced, carefully skimming the whole time ; 
then pass through a sieve and use. 

Next fill up the mould with a puree of pheasant 
made of six ounces of pounded cooked pheasant 
mixed with two good table-spoonfuls of brown 
sauce, a little game gravy, half a pint of aspic 
jelly, and half a pint of sherry or Marsala. Pass 
all this through a sieve, and when cool pour it 
slowly and gently into the mould. When suf- 
ficiently cold or iced, turn it out on to a silver dish. 
Fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables in 
mayonnaise sauce ; sprinkle over the vegetables 
the white of a hard-boiled ^gg, which has been run 
through the sieve, and on the top of that sprinkle 
a little chopped truffle. 



ENTIiEES A LA MODE, 79 



SAUCES. 



Brown Sauce. 

Take six mushrooms washed and peeled, one 
carrot, one shalot, and one small onion. Cut up 
into a stewpan and fry them in two ounces of 
butter till it becomes a good brown ; then stir in 
one and a half ounce of flour, and lastly pour in 
one pint of brown stock. Let it boil ten minutes, 
and skim it ; season with pepper and salt ; strain, 
and pour over the dish for which it is intended. 

B^arnaise Sauce. 

Sauce Bearnaise. 

Chop up four shalots and put them in a stewpan 
with half a gill of vinegar and half a gill of tarragon 
vinegar, and boil till reduced to a table-spoonful ; 
then add some white sauce, mixing it well. Add 
three yolks of egg, one at a time, whisking each one 
well in before adding another, and on no account 
let it boil. When the eggs are in, remove the 
stewpan from the fire and whisk two ounces of 
butter in small pieces, taking care that each piece 
is dissolved before adding the rest, as if the butter 
is added too quickly the sauce will oil. Strain it, 
and it is ready for use. 



8q entrees a la mode. 



Bechamel or White Sauce. 

Put two ounces of butter and an ounce and a 
half of flour into a stewpan ; when well mixed, add 
one pint of white stock, and stir till it boils ; then 
add six mushrooms washed and peeled. Let the 
sauce boil up again, and simmer for twenty minutes 
with the lid half on, to throw up the butter, which 
skim off as it rises. Strain the same through a 
tammy into another stewpan. Stir in now half a 
pint of cream and the strained juice of half a 
lemon, and let it boil well from three to five minutes. 
Pour it into a basin, and stir while it cools. 

It may be made for ordinary use with merely 
cutting up one small carrot, one stick of celery, 
one shalot, and putting them in a stewpan with a 
bayleaf and some peppercorns. Let them all 
simmer for a few minutes, but not to brown them. 
Mix two ounces of butter and one and a half 
ounce of flour together. Add the vegetables, 
whisk in a pint of milk, and let it boil for ten 
minutes. Then strain, reheat it, and add one gill 
of cream. 



Bordelaise Sauce. 

Reduce a quarter of a pint of Sauterne to half 
the quantity with one pinch of mignonette pepper, 
and one table-spoonful of shalots previously 
blanched and chopped ; add half a pint of Espa- 
gnole sauce. Reduce for six minutes, and put in 
one table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Skim and 
strain. 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Black Butter. 

Beurre Noir. 

Warm some butter in a frying-pan until a dark 
brown colour. Pour it into a basin, aid leave till 
cold. Cook a little vinegar in the same frying-pan, 
reduce and add to the cold brown butter ; warm 
in a saucepan. Season with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 



Chateaubriand Sauce, 

Melt a little glaze in a little white wine, stir in 
some Spanish sauce, and thicken it with maitre 
d'hotel sauce. 



Chaudfroid Sauce (White). 

Put together a quarter of a pint of bechamel 
sauce, a gill of cream, half a pint of aspic jelly, and 
boil till reduced a quarter part, keeping it well 
skimmed ; run through sieve and use. Brown 
chaudfroid sauce is made with Espagnole sauce 
instead of the bechamel. 



Cucumber Sauce. 

Sauce aux Concombres. 

Take two young cucumbers ; slice them rather 
thickly, and fry them in a little butter till they are 
lightly browned. Dredge them with pepper, salt, 
and simmer them till tender in as much white sauce 
as will cover them. 

G 



82 ENTREES A LA MODE, 

Dutch Sauce. 

Sauce Hollandaise. 

Make half a pint of melted butter and put it 
with the yolks of four or five eggs into a stewpan. 
Stand it in a saucepan of hot water, and whisk it 
well over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil, 
as it will curdle and be spoilt. Season to taste 
with salt and cayenne, and at the last stir in two 
table-spoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Sauce a la d'Uxelles. 

Take two table-spoonfuls of chopped mush- 
rooms, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the 
same quantity of chopped shalots, a head of 
garlic, a little scraped bacon, a bayleaf, a bouquet 
garni, a pinch of mixed spice, salt and pepper. 
Warm up in fresh butter, moisten with white wine, 
reduce it, and pass it through a sieve. Stir into it 
a little white thickening-, and serve with either 
chicken or game entrees. 



'!=>> 



Eschalot Sauce. 

Put six shalots in a stewpan with one small 
baj'leaf, one small sprig of thyme, one sprig of 
parsley, one gill of white stock. Reduce to a 
glaze, then add one pint of meat gravy. Simmer 
for ten minutes and strain for use. 

Sauce a la Financiere. 

Boil three or four table spoonfuls of minced raw 
ham, some truffle trimmings, mushrooms, a bouquet 



ENTREES A LA MODE, 83 

of mixed herbs, and three whole black peppercorns 
in equal quantities of stock and white wine. Reduce 
to half the original quantity, clear off all grease, 
and pass through a tammy. Stir some stock into 
a little brown thickening in a separate saucepan. 
Reduce, add the previously made sauce, and 
serve. 

Ham Sauce. 

Cut up a pound of boiled ham into dice. Pound 
in a mortar, moisten with stock, add a table- 
spoonful of Soubise sauce, and the same quantity 
of Espagnole sauce, and pass through a tammy and 
stir in one pint of stock ; stir in a tumblerful of 
light wine and a lump of fresh butter when it is 
ready to serve. 

Italian Sauce. 

Sauce a I'ltalienne. 

Simmer a lump of butter as big as two eggs in 
a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, one table-spoonful of chopped shalots, 
and the same quantity of minced mushrooms. 
Add half a bottle of white wine. Reduce the 
sauce and moisten with a tumblerful of veloute 
sauce and half a tumblerful of stock. Boil over a 
quick fire, skim off all grease, and as soon as the 
sauce is thick enough, take it off the fire and keep 
it warm in a bain-marie. 



Marinade of Wine or Vinegar. 

Melt a lump of butter in a saucepan. Add 
some thin slices of onion and carrot, a laurel leaf. 



84 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

a head of garlic, parsley, and pepper ; moisten with 
stock, and a third of the quantity of vinegar or 
wine. Boil, pass through a tammy, and keep until 
required. 

Madeira Sauce. 

Take half a pint of brown stock, a table-spoonful 
of flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, 
a little salt and pepper to taste, and a glass of 
Madeira, and cook it till it thickens and is done. 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Put in a basin the yolk of one eg -, one pinch 
of salt, and a small pinch of mignonette pepper. 
Stir with a wooden spoon, and pour in drop by 
drop about three ounces of best olive oil, carefully 
mixing the whole time. Every now and then add 
a teaspoonful of vinegar, till all the oil is used. 

Green Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Prepare as for the usual mayonnaise, and chop 
up two table-spoonfuls of chervil, tarragon, and 
cress, and add to the mayonnaise sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

Sauce aux Champignons. 

Trim and wash the mushrooms. Make a white 
sauce, add the juice of a lemon, put in pepper and 
salt, and cook the mushrooms in it. If brown 
mushroom sauce is desired, add a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup or glaze to the white sauce. 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 85 



Pdrigueux Sauce. 

Cut three-quarters of a pound of raw ham into 
dice, put them in a stewpan with one ounce of 
butter, one shalot, one sHced onion, one pinch of 
mignonette pepper. Fry till the onion is of a light 
brown colour, and pour in half a pint of Marsala. 
Reduce it one half, and add half a pint of Espagnole 
sauce, half a pint of white stock, and a table- 
spoonful of chopped truffles previously cooked in 
Marsala. Simmer for twenty minutes, skim, and 
strain it into another stewpan, and reduce it till it 
coats the spoon, and serve hot. 

Sauce Piquante. 

Wash and cut up one shalot, half a carrot, three 
mushrooms, and fry them till brown in one ounce 
of butter, then stir in half an ounce of flour and 
half a pint of brown stock. Then add a sprig of 
thyme, a bayleaf, and one table-spoonful of Harvey 
sauce, and let it simmer for twenty minutes ; then 
add a trifle of salt, cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls 
of vinegar, and strain through a tammy. 

Poivrade Sauce. 

Shred and wash the following vegetables : one 
head of celery, two carrots, two onions, one shalot, 
one clove of garlic, one turnip, two leeks, three 
tomatoes ; then put them in a stewpan with a 
quarter uf a pound of lean ham and two ounces of 
butter. Fry them, but not very brown. Add half 
a pint of vinegar, and let it boil till quite reduced ; 
then stir in three ounces of flour and three pints of 



86 EXTREES A LA MODE. 

stock. Add a bouquet garni, six cloves, and 
twenty-four peppercorns, with a trifle of pepper 
and salt. Stir well and simmer gently one hour. 
Pass through a sieve, and it is ready for use. 

Portuguese Sauce. 

Sauce Portugaise. 

Simmer two and a half ounces of fresh butter 
in a saucepan with one yolk of egg, a little lemon 
juice, salt, and black pepper to taste ; stir till the 
sauce is quite hot, take it off the fire, and stir until 
it thickens. This sauce must be made just before 
serving. 

Ravigote Sauce. 

Take equal quantities of white wine and stock 
and reduce it. Season with chopped tarragon, 
chervil, and chives, some lemon juice, and salt and 
pepper to taste ; stir the sauce till quite thick over 
a quick fire, but do not let it boil. 



Sauce Robert. 

Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
in a saucepan, and fry in it two moderate-sized 
onions finely chopped. When they are lightly 
coloured pour over them a wineglassful of vinegar, 
and simmer for four minutes. Stir into it a table- 
spoonful of flour, half a pint of stock, a quarter of a 
teaspoon ful of Liebig's extract, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and the .same of salt. Stir the 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 87 

sauce over the fire for twenty minutes ; add a 
table-spoonful of mustard, a teaspoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. A spoonful 
of port should be added at last. 



Spanish Sauce. 

Sauce Espagnole. 

Cut up some slices of ham, a little veal, and 
some trimmings and giblets of fowl. Place a lump 
of butter, well mixed with fine flour, in a saucepan ; 
stir over a quick fire, till a good brown colour, 
moisten with stock, a tumblerful of white wine, and 
the juice of a lemon. Simmer by the side of the 
fire for several hours ; pass through a tammy, clear 
off all grease, and thicken with a little meat glaze. 



Soubise Sauce. 

Peel some onions ; blanch them, drain, and put 
them in a stewpan with some pale stock to cover 
them ; simmer gently till the onions are done ; then 
reduce with the same quantity of white sauce as there 
is onion, add a little pepper and salt, pass through 
a tammy and serve. 



Supreme Sauce. 

Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a 
stewpan. When melted, add twelve white pepper- 
corns, a few parsley stalks, then stir in two ounces 
of fine flour. Cook it over the fire, stirring all the 



88 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

time, for ten minutes, then add one pint and a half 
of white stock ; stir again till it has well boiled ; 
add the juice of half a lemon and a little salt, and 
any trimmings of mushrooms which maybe handy; 
then add half a pint of cream. Pass through a 
tammy and serve. 

Tartare Sauce. 

Take two eggs, and put the yolks In one basin 
and the whites into another, as they are not wanted. 

Stir the yolks just to break them, add a salt- 
spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and 
a table-spoonful of French vinegar. Pour in, drop 
by drop, a gill of salad oil. When all is well mixed. 
stir in a teaspoonful of ready-made mustard or 
tarragon vinegar. 

Take a small bunch of parsley, and put it into 
a small saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt 
and soda, for two seconds. Dry it thoroughly by 
squeezing it in a cloth, then chop it on a board 
finely — there should be about a teaspoonful. Take 
a few capers or gherkins, chop them up finely — there 
should be a table-spoonful. Put all these ingre- 
dients into the sauce and mix them well. 



Veloute Sauce. 

Prepare the same as Spanish sauce, but the in- 
gredients must not brown. Add a little flour, 
moisten it with stock, season with pepper and salt 
and a bouquet of mixed herbs. When cooked, pass 
through a sieve, and keep it in a covered jar until 
required. 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 89 

Villeroi Sauce. 

Warm some fresh butter, stir in a little flour and 
white stock ; add an onion stuck with cloves, some 
chopped ham, mushroom trimmings, and a bouquet 
of mixed herbs. 

Boil for twenty-five minutes, pass through a 
sieve. Thicken with yolks of ^g^ and cream, and 
serve. 

Russian Salad. 

Salade a la Russe. 

Wash and trim twelve anchovies, and cut them 
small. Cut some carrots and turnips with a small 
vegetable scoop into small shapes, and blanch and 
cook them in water with a little salt. 

Boil asparagus heads, peas, and French beans ; 
drain them, and when cold put all into a basin with 
mayonnaise sauce. Caviar and olives may be added. 

Montpellier Butter. 

Beurre Montpellier. 

Take half a pound of mixed chervil, tarragon, 
chives, and cress, pick them and wash them in boiling 
water for a few seconds ; drain them and press the 
water out ; then put this mixture in a mortar with 
three hard-boiled yolks of eggs, three well-washed 
anchovies, one ounce of gherkins, one ounce of capers, 
a pea of garlic, a little salt and pepper ; pound all to- 
gether and pass through a hair sieve. Put it into 
the mortar again with one pound of butter, one 
table-spoonful of oil, and a dessert-spoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar ; add a little green colouring. Pound 
ail together, and make into a pat. 



90 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

Forcemeats. 

Forcemeats are made of equal parts of panada 
and stock with sufficient meat, poultry, or game 
(whichever is required), and pounded in a mortar 
and passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, and spice according to taste, and a little of 
the sauce which is to be served with the dish ; then 
add a little cream, and poach it in water. 

Aspic Jelly. 

Take a calf's foot and chop it into eight pieces, 
and put them into cold water and wash them well. 
After that put them into a stewpan with sufficient 
water to cover them, and let boil ; as soon as 
the water boils, take the pieces of calf's foot out 
and wash them again in cold water. Then put 
them back into the stewpan with a pound of knuckle 
of veal, which must be cut into small pieces. Pour 
three-quarters of a pint of water on these and bring 
it to the boil ; skim it carefully. Now add a little 
salt, fifteen peppercorns, half a clove of garlic, one 
shalot, one sprig of thyme, and a sprig of parsley, 
one onion, and half a head of celery, one carrot, 
and a turnip — of course all these must be peeled 
and washed — add also two sprigs of tarragon, one 
chervil, and a bayleaf Let all boil gently for five 
hours, then strain off liquor through a sieve into a 
basin. When it becomes perfectly cold, skim off 
all fat with a spoon. Take a clean cloth, wring it 
out with hot water, and rub it lightly over the jelly 
stock, and then take a dry cloth to dry it. Peel a 
lemon very thinly and put it into the stewpan ; 
squeeze the juice out through a strainer, and whip 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 91 

the whites of two eggs to a slight froth. Put these 
and the egg-shells into the stewpan with the stock, 
one glass of sherry, and a dessert-spoonful of Chili 
vinegar. Whisk this all together till it boils. Then 
take a spoon and skim it carefully, and let the 
stewpan stand by the side of the fire for half an 
hour to form a crust. Then take a clean jelly-bag ; 
make it hot and strain the stock through it. If not 
clear the first time, strain it a second time. 



Mayonnaise Jelly. 

Put one quart of melted white meat jelly in a 
saute-pan with one table-spoonful of oil, one of 
vinegar, one pinch of mignonette pepper. Whip 
briskly for ten minutes, and put the mayonnaise on 
ice ; whip it well till it sets ; then melt the jelly and 
repeat the whipping on the ice till it sets again ; 
strain through, a tammy cloth, and then it will be 
ready for use. 

Panada. 

Panada is made from crumb of bread, or rolls, 
with as much boiling stock poured over it as it will 
absorb. When moist, beat it with a fork ; add 
whatever seasoning is required, put the bread into 
a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and stir it over 
a gentle fire till it is dry and smooth and leaves 
the saucepan with the spoon. When cool it is 
ready for use. 

Croustades of Potatoes. 

Boil potatoes ; rub them through sieve ; mix 
with a little butter and milk. Mould them in a 



92 ENTREES A LA MODE. 

border mould : turn out and brush over with white 
of ^^g. If required a brown colour, they must be 
brushed over with the yolk and put in the oven a 
few minutes. 

Ragout Financiere. 

Take a slice of ham, the bones and trimmings 
from game or poultry (about two pounds altogether), 
and stew these with half a pint of water. After 
bringing the liquor to the boil, simmer very gently 
for half an hour. Put now into the stewpan an 
onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a 
sprig of thyme, a bayleaf, a carrot cut in pieces, 
two or three sticks of celery, a little pepper and 
salt, and three pints of boiling water. Bring to the 
boil, and then let it simmer very gently without the 
lid for two hours. Then strain, add a few drops 
of lemon juice and a teaspoonful of mushroom 
ketchup, and it will be ready to use. 

Socles. 

Wash one pound of rice ; put it in a stewpan 
with half a gallon of water and a little salt ; boil 
on a very slow fire. When the rice is done, pound 
it in a mortar, and mould it to the required shape. 

For hot dishes, the socle should be egged over 
and put in the oven to colour it. 

For cold dishes, spread the rice over with Mont- 
pellier butter. 



INDEX. 



Aspic a la financiere, 74. 

— jelly, 90 

— of fillets of chicken, 73 



Beef fillets a la Bearnaise, 6 

a la Grande-Bretagne, 8 

a la Mirabeau, 8 

a la Pompadour, 9 

grenadines, 7 

a la financiere, 7 

— olives, 6 

— palates, fricandeau of, 9 



Calf's brains, croquettes of, 24 

— ears a I'ltalienne, 24 

— feet fritters, 25 

— head, sauce piquante, 26 

— tongue, tomato sauce, 26 
Chartreuse a la Mikado, 31 
Chaudfroid a la Pompadour, 68 

— a la princesse, 'j'^ 

— a la Russe, 69 

— of chicken, 71 

— of lamb cutlets en Belle Vue, 
70 

in aspic, 69 

— of larks, 75 

— of mutton cutlets truffled, 6^ 

— of partridge, 74 

— of pork a I'Americaine, 71 

— of woodcock, 75 
Chicken a la bonne femme, 30 

— a la Hollandaise, 35 

— a la Marengo, 35 



Chicken a la Romaine, 37 

— a la Suisse, 40 

— ballotine of, with aspic, 72 

— boudin of, with truffles, 30 

— cannelons, 31 

— cream, 33 

— fillets of, in aspic, 73 

— fricassee of, 33 

— fritters, 34 

■ — quenelles of, 36 

— rissoles, 2)7 

a la Marguerite, 36 

— salad a la Carlton, 72 

— scallops of, 38 

— souffle, 39 

— tartlettes of, 40 

— timbale a la Champenoise, 41 
a la Pompadour, 41 



FoiE gras fritters a la Chev- 
reuse, 61 

scallops, with truffles, 61 

Forcemeats, 90 



Hare, boudins of, 44 
— civet of, 45 



Indian patties, 5 
— puffs, I 



Lamb cutlets, sautees, with 
cockscombs, 18 



94 



ENTREES A LA MODE. 



Lamb cutlets superlative, 17 
• — - with sweetbreads en blan- 

quette, 17 
Larks au gratin, 56 

— croustade of, 55 

— in aspic, 76 

— in paper cases, 56 

Little cases a la Belle-Isle, 42 

— croustades a la Whitstaple, 
60 

— lobster souffles, 2 
Liver cake, 61 
Lobster cutlets, I 
in aspic, 66 



Mayonnaise jelly, 91 
Montpellier butter, 89 
Mutton cutlets a la Berne, ! 

a la Bretonne, 10 

a la Fridal, 1 1 

a ritalienne, ii 

a la jardiniere, 12 

a la Jui\-e, 12 

a la Maintenon, 13 

a la Napolitaine, 13 

a la Parmesan, 14 

a la Portugaise, 14 

a la Provencale, 15 

a la Reforme, 15 

a la Soubise, 16 

— en robe de chambre, 16 



Orlys of oysters, 4 
Ortolans in cases, 54 
Oyster cutlets, 3 
— patties, 4 



Panada, 91 

Partridge a la Toussenel, 47 

— braised, a la Cussy, 46 

— chartreuse of, 45 

— fillets of, cold glazed, 74 

— souffle, 47 
Pheasant, fillets of, 48 



Pheasant, mould of, a la Russe, 

— puree en croustade, 48 

— salmi of, 49 
Pigeons a la princesse, 49 

— cutlets of, a la Sicilicnne, 50 

— fillets of, a la moderne, 50 

a la Tartare, 51 

Polpetti, 10 

Pork cutlets a I'Americaine, 7 1 

a I'epicure, 18 

sauce Robert, 19 

savoury, 19 

Potatoes, croustades of, 9 1 
Prawn curry, 5 
Pullet, stuffed, 39 



Quails a la financiere, 52 

— a la Jubilee, 53 

— a la Lucullus, 53 

— au delice, 52 

— en cerises, with truffles, 52 

— galantine of, 76 



Rabbit a la Yenitienne, 44 

— boudin of, a la Richelieu, 43 

— fillets of, with cucumber 
sauce, 43 

— grenadines, 44 
Ragout financiere, 92 
Ravioles, baked, 23 

Rissoles of cockscombs and 

truffles, 59 
Russian salad, 89 



Salmon cutlets, 66 
in aspic, 66 

— rolls, 67 

Sauce Bearnaise, 79 

— bechamel, 80 

— black butter, 81 
- — Bordelaise, 80 

— brown, 79 

— Chateaubriand, 81 



INDEX. 



95 



Sauce, chaudfroid (white), 8l 

— cucumber, 8 1 

— Dutch, 82 

— d'Uxelles, 82 

— eschalot, 82 

— Espagnole, ^^ 

— financiere, 82 

— ham, 83 

— Hollandaise, 82 

— Italian, 83 

— Madeira, 84 

— marinade, 83 

— Mayonnaise, 84 
green, 84 

— mushroom, 84 

— Perigueux, 85 

— piquante, 85 

— poivrade, 85 

— Portugai.se, 86 

— ravigote, S6 

— Robert, 86 

— Soubise, 87 

— Spanish, %"] 

— supreme, 87 

— Tartare, 88 

— veloute, 88 

— Villeroi, 89 
Snipe, sahni of, 57 
Socles, 92 
Sweetbread croquettes, 27 



Sweetbread cutlets, 27 
Sweetbreads a la financiere, 28 

— a la supreme, 29 

— au Montpellier, 70 

— in cases, 26 

— with oysters, 29 



Teal and anchovies, fillet of, 54 
Tomatoes a la St. -Jacques, 63 

— souffles, 62 

— stuffed, 62 

Turkey a la financiere, 59 

— a la marquise, 58 



Veal, blanquette of, and mush- 
rooms, 22 

— cream of, 21 

— cutlets a la Dreux, 22 
a la Venitienne, 20 

— fillet of, a la moderne, 21 

— fricandeau of, 23 

— saute a la primrose, 20 

— tendons of, a la Proven9ale, 
22 

Vegetable marrow, stuffed, 65 



Woodcocks a la Proven^ale, 57 



PPINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREF.T SQUARE 

LONDON 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 675 3 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



u 



