Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



IRADCUFFE COLLEGE UBBARYI 



U^ 



WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Gift of 

Edna L. Stantl&l 





^ L04.Jt~^ 



THE FRANCO-AMERICAN COOKERY BOOK; 
OR, How TO Live Well and Wisely Every 
Day in the Year. Containing over 2,000 
Recipes. By Felix J. D£li£e, Caterer of the New 
York Club ; Ex-Chef of the Union and Manhat- 
tan Clubs. Large octavo, half leather . $4.00 

A new Treatise, containing 365 different Bills of 

Fare, giving concise instructions how to properly 

prepare and serve all kinds of domestic and foreign 

culinary provisions in every way for each succeeding 

season, and mostly convenient for private families, 

clubs, restaurants, hotels, etc., etc. 

" This may be termed a perfect dictionary of cookery, and it is 
prepared by a gentleman most eminently qualified for the im- 
portant work which he has accomplished. — Woman's yournal^ 
Boston. 

^^ In form, print, and value to economical taste it is, without 
doubt, the best book of cookery ever issued from the American 
press." — Globe^ Boston. 

" The most extensive work on cookery printed in this country." 
—Post^ Pittsburg. 

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, Publishers, 
New York and London. 






Quick Cookin 



A BOOK OF CULINARY HERESIES 



FOR THE BUSY WIVES AND MOTHERS OF 

THE LAND 



BY 

ONE OF THE HERETICS 

\ 

\ 





Now^ good digestion wait on appetite^ 




A nd health on both ! 




— Macbeth, Act iii., Scene iv. 




« 


4 * 


NEW YORK AND LONDON 




G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 


%>\t limcluxbocktr Jicss 




1888 






COPYRIGHT BY 

FLORA HAINES LOUGHEAD 
1887 



Press of 

G. P. Putnam's Sons 

New York 



Bi 



PREFACE. 



This Hand-book of Cookery contains 630 
recipes, tested and vouclied for by an ex- 
perienced cook, 340 of which, if prepared 
according to the directions, can, severally 
or in groups, be made ready for the table 
in from five to fifteen minutes, and 250 of 
which require from fifteen to forty minutes, 
or, rarely, an hour's time. The few re- 
maining dishes, which consume more time 
and are distinctly segregated from the rest, 
are nevertheless greatly abridged, and so 
planned as to require the least possible 
attention. 

The editor is aware that this cook-book 
is a revolutionary production. It flies in 
the face of the accepted tradition that the 
woman who stands most faithfully over 
the cook-stove is best deserving of canoni- 



6 PREFACE. 

zation. It lays tlie axe to old superstitions, 
whicli would have us believe that certain 
elaborate ceremonies and rights are essen- 
tial to the successful evolution of certain 
dishes. It throws down the gauntlet to 
the leaders of modern cooking-schools, who 
claim to elevate the character of the hum- 
blest homes and advance the interests of 
economy, by the elaboration of simple 
materials and cheap articles of food into 
numerous fancy dishes, prepared with 
infinite labor. " Quick Cooking " declares 
that ihei'e is iw waste in the Tcitchen so 
much to he deplored as wasted time. Un- 
like any other cook-book, its leading prin- 
ciple is to economize labor and time, at the 
same time securing to its disciples a wide 
choice of appetizing fare. 

Whether the hours thus saved to the 
busy housewife shall be devoted to rest, 
self-improvement, to out-door recreation, to 
the training of her children, or to the dis- 
charge of other and more pressing cares, is 
left to her own decision. 



PREFACE. 7 

The editor assumes that " Quick Cooking " 
will be consulted chiefly by tired and over- 
worked wives and mothers, who constitute 
by far the larger number of the house- 
keepers of the land. But even where 
there is a servant or two in the household, 
the book should be a welcome acquisition, 
for time saved to the servant is help gained 
to the mistress. The girl who discharges 
her kitchen duties quickly and methodically 
can help to clear the mending basket, tend 
the baby, look after the older children, and 
make herself useful in a variety of ways. 

Not the least important discovery arising 
from the experiments leading to the collec- 
tion of recipes which make up "Quick 
Cooking," is the determination of the sur- 
prising amount of time required for many 
common dishes. Few women have the 
faintest idea of the amount of time they 
give to the preparation of various articles 
of food. Many apparently simple dishes 
have been ruled out from this book, be- 
cause of the extravagant time they con- 



8 PREFACE. 

sume, when contrasted with the results 
achieved. 

As an instance of the direful waste of 
time of which I speak, I am tempted to 
quote a recipe I lately saw in one of the 
newspapers, attributed to one of our fa- 
mous teachers of cookery. The dish is 
called " Frozen Pudding," and the instruc- 
tions for making it read as follows : 

" Steep six bitter almonds, bruised, and the 
peel of a lemon (pared very thin) in a pint 
of milk on the stove, at almost boiling 
point, until the flavor is well drawn out; 
add one ounce of gelatine and a pinch of 
salt; stir till gelatine is dissolved; strain 
and return to the saucepan; add half a 
pint of thick cream and five ounces of 
sugar ; let it all just boil ; stir in quickly 
the yolks of six eggs well beaten ; set the 
saucepan in boiling water and stir till 
thick, but be careful not to let the eggs 
curdle ; pour it out and stir till nearly cold, 
then mix two and a half ounces of candied 
cherries and two ounces of citron cut small, 



PREFACE, 9 

or three ounces of preserved ginger and one 
ounce of pistache nuts blanched ; pour the 
pudding into an oiled mould and pack in 
ice. If ginger is used, serve the ginger 
syrup as a sauce; if cherries, use cherry- 
syrup or currant jelly mixed with syrup for 
sauce; boil together half a cup of water 
and a cup of sugar to make the syrup." 

It is safe to venture that the preparation 
of this one article of dessert, which is by no 
means the most elaborate advanced by 
modem cookery schools, and which is no 
more delicate or appetizing than many of 
our ten-minute recipes, would consume a 
whole forenoon of the ordinary woman's 
time. 

It is quite possible that by close study 
and experiment the instructions might be 
so far disregarded as to produce the same 
results in less than -half the time, but it is 
left to the decision of all intelligent people 
whether any article of dessert, which will 
be eaten in ten minutes by an ordinary 
family, justifies half a day's hard toil. 



SOME PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS. 



In order to accomplish the cooking for 
an ordinary household quickly and easily, 
there are other considerations quite as 
important as the directions for making the 
dishes themselves, and the editor of this 
book requests all consulting it to conform, 
as far as possible, to the following sug- 
gestions : 

Be Systematic. — No matter how your 
kitchen or pantry may be constructed, see 
that all ingredients commonly used in 
cooking are gathered into the smallest possi- 
ble compass and always in place. Model 
your cooking arrangements after those of a 
steamer's galley, the most compact and 
eflScient kitchen in existence. If you have 
not a patent meal chest with different com- 
partments, and a sliding cake-board, have a 



II 



12 SOME PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS. 

solid bin, of just the right height, con- 
structed for your flour, and let your mould- 
ing board, inverted, form the cover. Back 
of this and beside it have shelves placed, 
and on these range your little sacks of 
meal, your baking powder, soda, sugar, salt, 
cornstarch, flavoring extracts, eggs, lard, 
spices, rolling-pin, cake cutters, mixing 
dishes, and mixing spoons, eg'g beater, 
scoops, graters, choppers, baking dishes, 
and pastry knife. The time saved by this 
simple arrangement — which any woman 
who can handle hammer and nails can eas- 
ily contrive for herself — ^is simply astonish- 
ing, and probably comprises from one half 
to three fourths of the time she spends in 
cooking, when perpetually running hither 
and thither to hunt up needed ingredients, 
and then to replace them. 

Learn to be versatile in action. — Do 
not stand perpetually over your range, but 
when a dish is once upon the stove or in 
the oven, prepare any others that may be 
desired, after our quick recipes. In baking. 



SOME PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS. 1 3 

roasting, or any of the longer processes, 
calculate the time dishes can safely be left 
without attention, and rest, amuse your- 
self, or attend to other waiting duties. 

Always use the best materials. — Fresh 
eggs, pure milk, sweet butter and lard, the 
best brands of baking powder, the purest 
spices and extracts, will insure unvarying 
success. Inferior materials destroy the 
chemical conditions under which various 
ingredients unite, and lead to frequent and 
mortifying failures. 

Provide yourself with handy utensils. 
— A few dollars, intelligently expended, 
will provide the busy worker, hampered by 
old-fashioned methods, with utensils which 
will save many hours of time in a single 
week. The following should be regarded 
as indispensable : a patent sieve, which is 
a combined scoop and measuring dish, and 
which costs but fifty cents; a press and 
vegetable strainer, which mashes potatoes, 
strains gravies, presses out jelly, prepares 
all sorts of vegetables for the table, and 



14 SOME PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS. 

performs a variety of other useful services 
instantaneously, and which also costs but 
half a dollar ; a little nutmeg grater which 
works with a crank, a patent egg beater, 
a potato slicer and patent chopper, and 
combined apple peeler, corer, and slicer. 
An old coflfee cup, tea cup, pint bowl, table 
spoons, tea spoons, knife, fork, and mixing 
spoons, should always be kept ready at 
hand. In fact, the smaller compass within 
which the cook keeps all her cooking uten- 
sils and standard ingredients, her flour, 
meal, flavoring extracts, spices, shortening, 
etc., the easier and more expeditiously will 
she turn off her work. 

It would require slight effort to induce 
dealers and manufacturers to take upon them- 
selves, for an almost inappreciable charge, 
many little tasks which now come upon our 
cooks. Whenever a steady demand arises 
for shelled peas, string beans, and Lima 
beans ready for the pot, fish ready cleaned, 
fowls thoroughly cleaned and trussed for the 
oven, our dealers will hasten to supply it. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 

FIVE TO FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

I. Ambrosia. 

Peel and slice nice fi*esh oranges. Ar- 
range in alternate layers with grated or 
desiccated cocoa-nut, sprinkling with sugar 
each layer of oranges. 

2. Creamed Apples. 

1 quart apple sauce. 
1 cupful cream. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

Mix the cream, sugar, and whites of eggs 
together, and pour over the apples when 
cold. 

27 



28 QUICKEST DISHES, 

3. Apple -Foam. 

1 quart of apple sauce, strained. 

3 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

6 heaping tablespoonf uls powdered 
sugar. 

Beat together five minutes ; serve with 
cream or rich milk. 

4. Fried Apples. 

Core nice ripe apples, cut into slices 
about a third of an inch thick, and fry in 
butter on a hot frying-pan, browning them 
delicately on both sides. 

5. Broma. 

Put even quantities of milk and water 
to boil. For every cupful allow one even 
tablespoonful of broma and half a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Moisten the broma and 
sugar with just as little of the warm milk 
and water as is required to dissolve it, and 
. pour into the boiling liquid, stirring until 
it recommences to boil, when it is ready 
for the table. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 29 

6. Baking-Powder Biscuits. 

4 level cupfuls flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of the best bak- 
ing-powder (=3 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
the second quality and 4 of third-class 
powder). 

^ cupful melted butter or lard, or (pref- 
erably) sweet cream. 

1 flowing cupful water or milk. 

^ teaspoonf ul salt. 

Run the baking-powder through the 
sieve with the flour, to mix it thoroughly. 
Stir in the milk or water and shortening, 
knead lightly on the cake-board, roll out 
about half an inch thick, and cut into bis- 
cuits. Bake on a slightly buttered pan in 
a hot oven for ten minutes. With all the 
ingredients close at hand, the biscuits can 
be made ready for the oven in less time 
than it takes to describe the process. 

If rolled very thin, cut small, and baked 
in a very hot oven, they will bake in five 
niinutes, and a skilful cook can place them 
on the table within ten minutes from the 
time she first touches the flour. 



30 QUICKEST DISHES. 

7. Bananas, Fried. 

Cut in two lengthwise; dip in a paste 
composed of 

2 eggs. 

1 level cupful flour. 

\ cupful water. 

\ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot 
water. 

Fry in boiling lard to a delicate brown. 

8. Banana Fritters. 

Peel the fruit and slice it down the mid- 
dle. Dip in syrup, dredge with flour, and 
fry in hot lard. 

9. Banana Tarts. 

Fill shells of puff paste, baked to a deli- 
cate brown, with sliced bananas, lightly 
sugared and covered with whipped cream. 
Prepare the cream by two minutes' beating 
with a good egg-beater. 

For the pastry, see "Remarks" under 
" Puff Paste," No. 509. 



Q UICKEST DISHES, 3 1 

10. Beefsteak, Broiled. 

Much advice is frequently given about 
how to make a tough beefsteak tender, but 
the best advice is never to buy a beefsteak 
unless it is juicy and tender, and then have 
it cut the blessed medium of three quarters 
of an inch. Season with pepper and salt, 
and place in a wire gridiron over glowing 
coals. As soon as it begins to splutter re- 
move it quickly and lay it for a moment 
upon the warm platter, that the juices which 
have started to flow may be preserved in 
the form of gravy. Repeat the process as 
soon as the other side has been presented 
to the fire. Return it to the fire and cook 
it until done, browning nicely on both 
sides. 

II. Beefsteak, Broiled in Dry Pan. 

When it is inconvenient to present the 
steak directly to the fire, it may be placed 
in a very hot frying-pan without any grease, 
turned quickly, and served in precisely the 



32 QUICKEST DISHES. 

same manner as the steak broiled over 
coals, and it will be found to be little, if at 
all, inferior to the latter in flavor. 

12. Beefsteak and Mushrooms. 

Boil the mushrooms in milk for eight 
minutes, then season, add a tablespoonful 
of butter, and thicken with a little browned 
flour. Lay the broiled beefsteak, which 
has been broiling meanwhile, on a platter, 
and pour the mushrooms and sauce over it. 

13. Beet and Cabbage Pickles. 

Equal quantities of raw cabbage and cold 
boiled beets, chopped fine. To each quart 
add one heaping teaspoonful salt, half a 
teaspoonf ul black pepper, a little cayenne 
pepper, half a cupful of grated horseradish, 
and one cup of sugar. Cover with vinegar. 

14. Buttermilk Porridge. 

1 pint buttermilk heated to scalding 
point in double boiler. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 33 

2 tablespoonfuls flour, moistened with 
cold water. 

Boil one minute. 

15. Buckwheat Cakes (with Baking 

Powder). 

2 level cupfuls buckwheat flour. 
2 cupfuls water. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls syrup. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter or lard. 
1 level teaspoonf ul salt. 
Beat up smooth, and fry on a buttered 
griddle. 

16. Buttermilk Biscuits. 

4 level cupfuls sifted flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 2 cup 
fuls of buttermilk. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Mix quickly together, knead into a com- 
pact mass, cut with biscuit-cutter, and bake 
ten minutes in a hot oven. 



34 QUICKEST DISHES, 

17. Baked Cabbage. 

Cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, stir 
in a little cream, and bake for eight min- 
utes in a hot oven. 

18. Caramel Coloring. 

2 cupf uls boiling water. 

2 cupf uls sugar. 

Put all of the sugar into half of the 
water, and boil it down until it turns black. 
Then add the remainder of the water, and 
stir until the thickened, candy-like sub- 
stance is completely dissolved. 

This caramel coloring is often required 
in cooking, and is indispensable for rich 
black fruit-cake. Properly bottled up, it 
can be kept for any length of time. 

19. Celery Salad. 

2 cupfuls fine-cut white celery. 

2 cupfuls chopped cabbage. 

Season with pepper, salt, and a little 
sugar, and cover with a mayonnaise (No. 
164) or HoUandaise sauce (No. 279). 



QUICKEST DISHES. 35 

20. Cheese Biscuits. 

1 level cupful flour. 

\ cupful softened butter. 

2 cupfiils grated cheese. 

Knead together with the hands, roll out 
thin, cut into small biscuits, and bake six 
minutes in a quick oven. 

21. Cheese Sandwiches. 

2 cupf uls of grated cheese. 

2 mashed yolks of hard-boiled eggs. 

A small lump of melted butter. 

1 tablespoonful mayonnaise (recipe No. 

164). 

Spread between thin slices of buttered 

bread. 

22. Cheese Souffl6s. 

1 cupful grated cheese. 

6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepsr 
rately. 

2 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 

Mix the ingredients together, adding the 
whites last. Bake in small paper cases, ten 
minutes in a moderate oven. 



36 QUICKEST DISHES. 

23. Cheese Fondu. 

1 cupful dry bread crumbs, moistened 
with fresh milk. 

2 cupf uls grated cheese. 

3 eggs, beaten. 

A small lump of butter, pepper and salt. 

Mix carelessly together, place in a but- 
tered dish, and bate ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 

24. Chicken Croquettes. 

One pound of cold boiled chicken, 
chopped fine, one half pound of cold boiled 
rice or two cups of bread crumbs, a cupful 
of grated cheese, one small onion and a lit- 
tle parsley chopped fine ; spice with cinna- 
mon and cloves, and season with salt, pep 
per, and a little thyme. Mix with the 
beaten yolks of five eggs, then form into 
small balls, dip into beaten egg, roll in 
cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

25. Chicken Croquettes, with Potato. 

To each pound of boiled chicken, chopped 
fine, take a cupful of mashed potatoes, one 



J 



QUICKEST DISHES. 37 

^gg? a little celery chopped fine, and season 
with mustard, sweet marjoram, and salt and 
pepper. Moisten with the liquor in which 
the fowl has been boiled, adding a little 
milk. Make into balls, dip into beaten 
eggs, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry a nut- 
brown in boiling lard. 

26. Chicken Croquettes, with Mushrooms. 

Half a pound of cold boiled chicken, 
chopped fine, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and a teaspoonful of flour. Add half 
a cupful of meat or chicken broth, season 
with salt, pepper, and a bit of nutmeg, and 
stir over a hot fire for five minutes, adding 
four chopped mushrooms at the last mo- 
ment, and while still hot stirring in two 
beaten yolks of eggs. Form into little 
balls, dip into a beaten egg, roll in bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

27. Chicken Patties. 

Chop fine cold boiled or roast chicken, 
moistening well with boiled milk, thickened 



38 QUICKEST DISHES. 

with a little com-starcli, and seasoned with 
butter, salt, and pepper. Distribute in heap 
ing tablespoonfuls, in small gem pans lined 
with puff paste, which have previously 
been baked eight minutes in a quick oven. 
Set in the oven again and brown for two 
or three minutes. 

28. Chicken Salad. 

Strip the meat from the bones of cold 
chicken, and shred it with the fingers. 
Mix with celery cut fine, the chopped 
whites and mashed yolks of several hard- 
boiled eggs; stir into this a stiff mayon- 
naise dressing made after recipe No. 164 ; 
press into a shape, and slice when cold. 

29. Chocolate Cream. 

\ box gelatine, previously dissolved in 
cold water. 

3 cupf uls boiling milk. 
1 small cupful sugar. 
\ cupful chocolate. 
Vanilla flavoring. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 39 

Stir the gelatine, sugar, and chocolate 
into the boiling milk, add the flavoring, and 
pour into a mould. 

Serve with cream or milk. 

30. Chocolate Icing (Boiled). 
\ cupful sugar. 
4 tablespoonfuls water. 

2 beaten eggs. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls grated choco- 
late (or two heaping tablespoonfuls cocoa 
or broma). 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Boil the sugar, water, and chocolate to- 
gether two minutes, then stir in the eggs- 
whipping the mixture with a fork, and boil 
for a couple of minutes more. 

This icing is very smooth and cuts nicely. 

When there is no fire the following icing 
will be convenient to make : 

Same (Uncooked). 

3 whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
1 cupful powdered sugar. 

\ cupful cocoa or broma. 
Vanilla flavoring. 



40 QUICKEST DISHES. 

31. Chocolate Pudding. 

3 full tablespoonf uls of com-starch. 

1 quart of milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of chocolate. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Scald the milk in a double strainer. Dis- 
solve the chocolate in one tablespoonful 
boiling water, add the corn-starch to this, 
stir some of the boiling milk into the mix- 
ture, a spoonful at a time, until the com- 
starch is dissolved; then stir the whole 
into the boiling milk until it thickens. 
Serve with a little cream or sAveetened 
milk. 

32* Chocolate Corn-Starch Pudding. 

1 quart boiling milk. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls corn-starch, dis- 
solved in warm milk. 

\ cup chocolate dissolved in boiling 
water. 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 scant cup sugar. 
Pinch salt. 



\ 



QUICKEST DISHES. 4I 

Put all the other ingredients into the 
boiling milk, stirring until it thickens. 
Sei've cold, with cream or milk. 

33. Breaded Chops. 

Veal-, lamb", or mutton-chops may be 
easily breaded with little outlay of time 
or labor, if the housewife will follow 
the suggestions laid down elsewhere, and 
provide herself with a supply of cracker- 
dust, or once a month reduce her stale 
bread and waste crackers to crumbs, creat- 
ing a supply to be drawn upon at will. 

Season each chop, then dip into a beaten 
egg well seasoned, roll in the crumbs, drop 
into boiling lard, and fry to a rich golden- 
brown. 

34. Chops (Veal, Lamb, or Mutton) Broiled. 

Season with salt and pepper, and if 
veal, smear the outside with a little butter. 
Place in a wire boiler over a bed of glow- 
ing coals, turn frequentlj^, until thoroughly 



42 QUICKEST DISHES. 

done, whicli will take from five to ten 
minutes' time, according to the heat. 

Chops Breaded and Broiled. 

(See Cutlets, No. 76.) 

35. Clams^ Breaded. 

Dip the clams in beaten egg^ highly sea- 
soned, roll in crumbs, and fry to a delicate 
brown in lard or in a buttered frying-pan. 

36. Clam Chowder. 

Fry a couple of sliced onions in a little 
salt pork at the bottom of the kettle. Put 
in a layer of thinly sliced potatoes, then a 
layer of clams, and lastly a layer of broken 
crackers, seasoning each layer as it is put 
in the kettle. Pour slowly in Just sufficient 
water to cover, and boil for ten minutes. 
A little Worcesterahire sauce will improve 

it. 

37. Clam Fritters. 

Chop the clams coarsely, mix in a thick 
batter of milk, flour, eggs, pepper and salt, 
drop into hot lard, and fry a golden brown. 



_..j 



QUICKEST DISHES. 43 

38. Steamed Clams. 
Lay the soft clams in the inner dish of a 
mush-boiler, without any liquid to them, 
and cook five minutes. Serve in their 
shells, with a Bechamal sauce, No. 272. 

39. Clam Stew. 

Cook the meat in its own juice, with a 

few tablespoonf uls of water added, for five 

minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and 

butter, thicken with a little flour, and serve 

on toast. 

49. Cocoa. 

Set equal quantities of milk and water to 
boil together. The quantity of cocoa al- 
lowed to each cup depends much upon its 
strength and flavor, but ordinarily two even 
tablespoonfuls will make three nice cups. 
Add a veiy little sugar, dissolve thorough- 
ly in the smallest possible quantity of boil- 
ing water, add it to the milk and water, 
and let it boil up once, constantly stirring it. 

Note. — The great fault of tyros in preparing cocoa or 
chocolate, is either in making it too weak or not thoroughly 
cooking the cocoa, thus making either a very insipid or rank 
drink. 



44 QUICKEST DISHES. 

41. Cocoanut Drops. 

2 cupf uls desiccated cocoanut. 

\ cupful fine crushed or powdered sugar. 

1 white of egg, beaten stiff. 

Mix together and drop on buttered paper. 
Bake ten minutes. 

42. Cocoanut Layer-Cake. 

For layer-cake see recipe No. 145. 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

8 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar. 
1 cupful prepared cocoanut, moistened 
slightly with hot milk. 

43. Golden Cocoanut Pudding. 

Yolks of four eggs, and white of one, 
beaten. 

\ cupful powdered sugar. 

1 pint sweet milk. 

6 tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut. 

Bake fifteen minutes. Remove from 
oven, cool a little, and cover with a me- 
ringue made from the whites of three eggs 
beaten to a froth, with three tablespoonfuls 



QUICKEST DISHES. 45 

powdered sugar. Brown tliree minutes in 
hot oven. • 

44. White Cocoanut Pudding. 

Whites of 5 eggs whipped to a froth. 
\ cupful powdered sugar. 
5 tablespoonf uls grated cocoanut. 
1 cupful of sweet milk. 
Stir together and bake for ten minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve with cream or milk. 

45. Codfish Balls. 

Equal quantities of boiled codfish, minced 
fine, and mashed potatoes, beaten together 
with two or three eggs and a little butter. 

Fry in hot lard or butter. 

46. Codfish PuiTs. 

Make up codfish balls after foregoing 
recipe, place in a buttered gem pan, butter 
the tops, and bake in a hot oven. 

47. CoflTee (the Good Old-fashioned Way). 

Be sure to have good coffee, freshly- 
roasted, freshly ground, and very coarsely 



46 QUICKEST DISHES. 

ground (old government Java is generally- 
preferred by epicures, but Mocha and a 
mixture of Java and Kio also have their 
patrons). Allow four heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of ground coffee to one quart of water. 
Put the water in the coffee-pot, and when 
it is boiling briskly put in the coffee, 
which has been previously moistened with 
cold water. Boil one minute, then dash in 
half a cupful of cold water, and let it stand 
still in a warm place for three minutes be- 
fore serving. 

48. French Drip Coffee. 

Allow six tablespoonf uls of ground coffee 
to every quart of water. Place the coffee 
in the perforated dish inside of the pot, 
pour the water slowly through it, repeating 
the process several times. 

The chief advantage of this process is 
that the liquid coffee, not having the 
grounds in it, can be kept at the boiling 
point without deteriorating. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 4/ 

49. Coflfee— Other Ways. 

Some people make a very nice quality 
of coffee by suspending the coffee in a 
muslin bag inside of the pot, a process 
similar to the French process, and even 
more perfect. 

A very common practice is to stir up a 
white of egg with the ground coffee before 
putting it into the pot. Some cooks use a 
whole ^^^^ while others believe they clarify 
the coffee by simply placing an egg-shell in 
the coffee-pot. 

50. Coffee Cream. 

\ package gelatine, dissolved in cold 
water. 

\ cupful strong liquid coffee. 

\ cupful sugar. 

1^ cupfuls sweet cream. 

Mix the coffee, sugar, and gelatine to 
gether, and bring to a boil. When slightly 
cooled stir in the cream. Pour into a 
mould, previously dipped in cold water. 
Serve with cream or milk. 



48 QUICKEST DISHES. 

51. Coffee Jelly. 

1 package gelatine, soaked in 1 pint cold 
water. 

1 quart boiling coffee. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Put the gelatine and sugar into the cof- 
fee, and bring to a boil. Strain into a wet 
mould. 

52. Cold Meat and Bread Crumbs. 

Cold meat, seasoned and chopped fine, 
laid in a shallow earthen baking-dish, and 
covered with bread crumbs well seasoned 
with a beaten egg and a little milk. Brown 
in a hot oven for five minutes. 

53. Corn Oysters. 

2 cupfuls cold-boiled or canned sweet 
corn, grated or chopped fine. 

2 beaten eggs. 

\ cupful flour. 

\ cupful cream or milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 49 

Pepper and salt. 

Drop in spoonfuls on a buttered frying- 
pan. Serve hot. 

54. Corn Batter-Cakes. 

2 cupfuls corn-meal. 
1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 

2 cupfuls milk. 
2 eggs, beaten. 

2 tablespoonf uls melted butter or lard. 
\ teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 tablespoonf ul syrup or molasses. 
Beat all together untU smooth. Drop in 

spoonfuls on a hot, buttered griddle. 

55. Corn-Meal Bannocks. 

2 cupfuls corn-meal, thoroughly wet with 
sufficient boiling milk to bring it to the 
consistency of stiif mush. 

2 eggs, beaten. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful cream. 



50 QUICKEST DISHES. 

Make into flat cakes and fry in butter, 
or into balls and brown in hot lard. 

56. Corn-Meal Drop-Cakes. 

2 cupf uls corn-meal moistened with scald- 
ing water, and quickly cooled below scald- 
ing point. 

1 cupful flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
2 eggs. 

i cupful milk. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Drop into hot lard, and fry a delicate 
brown. 

57. Corn-Meal Mush Fried. 

Cut cold mush into thin slices and fry 
crisp in lard or butter. 

The mush will look nicer and be less dis- 
posed to stick to the frying-pan if it is 
rolled in flour before frying. 

58. Corn-Meal Mush Breaded. 

Cut cold corn-meal mush into thin slices, 
dip into beaten e^g^ strew with bread or 



QUICKEST DISHES. 5 1 

cracker crumbs, drop into boiling lard, and 
fry to a delicate brown. 

59. Corn-Meal Mush in Batter. 

Cut cold corn-meal mush into slices, using 
a wet, thin-bladed knife, dip into beaten 
egg, roll in flour, drop into hot lard, and 
fry to a nice brown. 

60. Corn-Starch Custard. 

# 

1 quart boiling milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, dissolved in 
a little warm milk. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

6 tablespoonfuls sugar, vanilla, or rose 
flavoring. 

Stir the other ingredients into the boiling 
milk until it thickens. 

61. Corn-Starch and Cocoanut Pudding, 

1 quart boiling milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 
4 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

\ cup grated cocoanut. 



52 QUICKEST DISHES, 

A pinch of salt. 

Moisten the corn-starch with a few spoon- 
fuls of the hot milk, then mix with the 
yolks of eggs, the cocoanut, and salt, and 
stir into the boiling milk until it thickens. 

When slightly cool cover the top with a 
meringue made of the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff with half a cupful powdered sugar, 
and sprinkle the top with cocoanut. 

62. Every-Day Cookies. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls baking-powder. 

1 teacupful milk. 

2 eggs, beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 
Mix briskly. 

Roll out thin, cut in any shape desired, 
and bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 

63. Rich Cookies. 

1 cupful melted butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 53 

4 heaping cupfuls flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 

2 eggs, beaten, 
Flavoring. 

Mix all the ingredients together, reserv- 
ing a little flour to roll out. 

Roll thin, sprinkle with sugar and ground 
cinnamon, cut out and bake about eight 
minutes on a buttered baking pan in a hot 
oven. 

64. Crabs. 

Drop into boiling water for fifteen min- 
utes, drain and serve with pepper and salt, 
catsup or chow-chow. 

65. Crab Salad. 

Take equal quantities of the meat of 
boiled crabs and minced cabbage. Shred 
the clam meat and mix with the cabbage 
then pour over it a mayonnaise (No. 164), 
and serve in the crab shells lying on sea 
kale, if it can be procured, if not, on lettuce 
leaves. 



54 QUICKEST DISHES. 

66. Cracked- Wheat Pudding. 

2 cupf uls cracked- wheat musli. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 beaten eggs. 
\ cupful sugar. 

A handful of raisins or currants. 
Bake twelve minutes. 

67. Cracked- Wheat and Apricot Pudding. 

1 cupful dried apricots. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupf uls milk. 
2 beaten eggs. 

Stir the above into one quart of cracked 
wheat, boiled in water ten minutes before 
taking from the stove. Serve with cream 
or milk. 

By cooking a double quantity of cracked 
wheat for breakfast, this dish will be pre- 
pared with little outlay of time or labor. 

68. Croutons. 

The slices of stale bread left on the ta- 
ble may be broken into convenient pieces 



QUICKEST DISHES, 55 

and toasted in the oven until brown. A 
large quantity of these may be prepared 
at a time, and will be found very conven- 
ient for use in many ways, in soups, with 
asparagus, in breading meats, making pud- 
dings, etc. 

69. Cucumbers (boiled). 

Pare the cucumbers, cut into slices half 
an inch thick, boil in salted water with a 
little dash of vinegar, for twelve minutes, 
then serve with HoUandaise sauce (279) 
or drawn butter (275). 

70. Gravied Cucumbers. 

3 large cucumbers pared and sliced thin. 
Butter the ske of au egg. 
^ cupful soup stock or meat gravy. 
1 rounded tablespoonful flour. 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 
6 hard-boiled eggs. 

Put the eggs to boil, then prepare the 
cucumbers and stew with the butter in a 



$6 QUICKEST DISHES, 

covered dish for two minutes, rub in the 
flour, add the stock and seasoning, and 
cook five minutes longer, then add a few 
spoonfuls of cream. Remove the shells 
from the boiled eggs and cook a minute in 
the gravy, when they will be ready to 
serve. 

71. Cucumber Salad (fresh). 

Peel the cucumbers and slice them sev- 
eral hours before they are to be eaten, 
sprinkle with salt and put in a cool place. 
When ready for use drain carefully, pour 
a little vinegar over them, and sprinkle with 
pepper. 

This process deprives the cucumber of 
its crispness, but imparts to it a most deK- 
cate flavor, and in this state, observation 
teaches us, it can be eaten without com- 
punction by the most unfortunate dys- 
peptic. 

72. Cucumber Catsup. 

A dozen large ripe cucumbers, with the 
seeds removed, grated and drained in a 



QUICKEST DISHES. 57 

colander. To the pulpy residue add three 
chopped onions, a couple of green peppers, 
one tablespoonf ul of salt, and a quart of the 
best vinegar. 

Boil together five minutes. 

73. Currant Jam. 
Stem the currants, wash and bring to a 
boil. Add an equal quantity of sugar and 
boil two minutes. The less boiling, the 
richer and clearer the color. 

74. Boiled or Baked Custard. 

1 pint boiling milk. 

1^ cupfuls sugar. 

6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar and flavor- 
ing, and stir into the boiling milk until it 
thickens. Pour out into custard cups. 

The same recipe may be used for baked 
custards, in which case the ingredients 
should be stirred into the cold milk and 
baked fifteen minutes in cups set in a drip- 
ping pan with boiling water in the bottom. 



58 QUICKEST DISHES, 

75. Custard Fritters. 

Cut cold custard into slices half an inch 
thick, dip in beaten eggs, roll in cracker 
crumbs, and fry to a delicate brown on 
a buttered pan or in hot lard. 

Serve with cream or milk or any pudding 
sauce. 

76. Cutlets and Chops, Breaded and Broiled. 

Breaded cutlets or chops (No. 33) can be 
broiled by placing them in a sheet of greased 
paper, in a wire broiler over a bed of hot 
coals, and removing the paper at the last, to 
allow them to brown. 

77. Del Monte Pudding. 

One quart of milk boiled in double 
steamer. 

Into this, when boiling, put yolks of five 
eggs, beaten. 

Three tablespoonfuls corn-starch, dis- 
solved in cold water. 

Six tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Stir until it thickens. Pour into a dish 



QUICKEST DISHES, 59 

and spread over it a layer of preserved 
fruit, and a meringue made of the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth, with a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar to each ^^^. 

78. Devilled Meat. 

Take slices of cold fowl or any raw meat, 
make little cuts in the sides with a knife, 
and smear with the following sauce : 

1 tablespoonful olive oil. 

1 teaspoonful vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

A little cayenne pepper. 

Lay the slices of meat in a wire broiler 
and brown nicely, then lay on a hot dish 
with a little butter in the bottom. 

79. Dyspeptic Pudding. 

One pint graham flour. 

A pinch of salt. 

One quart apple-sauce, thinned with boil- 
ing water. 

Boil together ten minutes. Serve with 
cream or milk and sugar. 



6o QUICKEST DISHES. 

80. Baked Eggs. 

Break the eggs carefully into a buttered 
baking-disli, being careful not to disturb 
the yolks, sprinkle with pepper and salt 
and little lumps of butter. Bake in a hot 
oven four minutes or until the yolks are 
set. 

81. Eggs Baked with Bread Crumbs. 

Cover a buttered baking-dish with a 
thick layer of bread crumbs, hollowing 
little places, into each of which break an 
egg. Season with pepper and salt, cover 
with a layer of bread crumbs, and bake 
five minutes. 

82. Egg Dumplings. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

2 eggs. 

\ cupful milk. 

1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 

Beat the materials up together, adding 
the baking powder at the last. When this 
is well stirred in, drop in small tablespoon- 



QUICKEST DISHES. 6 1 

fuls into boiling water or soup. Boil ten 
minutes, closely covered. 

83. Escalloped Eggs. 

A layer of bread or cracker crumbs, mois- 
tened with milk and laid in a shallow bak- 
ing dish. Over these a layer of hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced and dipped in flour. Cover the 
whole with a layer of bread crumbs, pour 
over the dish a cupful of meat broth or 
melted butter, and bake four minutes in a 
hot oven. 

84. Eggs on Foam. 

Beat the whites of eggs stiff, with a lit- 
tle salt, spread out on a flat earthen baking- 
dish, make little hollows, and lay the yolks 
into them. Bake three minutes in a quick 
oven. 

85. Fried Eggs. 

Put a lump of butter in a hot frying-pan, 
and when it has melted, drop in the eggs ; 
, fry three minutes, season with pepper and 
salt, and lift out in a skimmer. 



62 QUICKEST DISHES. 

86. Eggs, Fried with Bacon. 
Fry thin slices of bacon until the fat is 
crisp. Remove from the frying-pan, drop 
eggs in the fat which has been tried out in 
frying. Serve in the same platter. 

87. Fried Eggs with Black Sauce. 

Fry the eggs in butter, as directed in 
No. 85. Then fry a piece of butter the 
size of an egg until it turns black, season 
with salt and pepper, add a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and pour over 
the eggs. 

88. Glazed Eggs. 

Dilute a spoonful of glaze in a half cup 
f ul of boiling water, pour into a hot bak- 
ing-dish, and while still at boiling heat break 
into it half a dozen eggs, taking care to 
keep them in nice form. Bake in a hot 
oven five minutes. 

89. Egg Loaf. 

Cover any desired number of hard-boiled 
eggs, removed from the shell, with a layer 



QUICKEST DISHES. 63 

of bread crumbs mixed with the crumbed 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Season with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle a few bread- 
crumbs over the top, moisten with a little 
melted butter, and brown in a hot oven 
five minutes. 

90. Poached Eggs. 

Break into a cup, one at a time, and pour 
gently into boiling water, so as not to break 
them out of shape before they have set. 

If it is desired to make them particu- 
larly symmetrical, pour into open tin rings 
held in the water. 

Remove, one at a time, with a perforated 
skimmer, as soon as the whites have set. 
Season wdth pepper and salt. 

91. Poached Eggs with Vegetables. 

Take green peas, string-beans, asparagus, 
or any cold-boiled vegetable of delicate 
flavor. Heat gently in the oven, and lay 
upon them several nicely poached eggs. 



64 QUICKEST DISHES, 

92. Egg Rolls. 

Four eggs, yolks and whites beaten sep- 
arately, two cupfuls of milk, half a cupful 
of flour, one teaspoonf ul of salt. Fry like 
large griddle-cakes, sending them to the 
table in rolls on a platter. 

93- Eggs Scramble. 

5 beaten eggs. 
5 tablespoonfuls milk. 
\ level teaspoonful salt. 
A little pepper. 

Fry in a buttered frying-pan, stirring 
from the bottom while they are cooking. 

94. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus. 

Proceed as for plain scrambled eggs 
(No. 93), stirring in some tender ends of 
asparagus left over from dinner. 

^ 

95. Scrambled Eggs with Green Peas. 

Proceed as with ordinary scrambled eggs 
(No. 93), stirring in a few spoonfuls of 
boiled peas. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 65 

96. Scrambled Eggs with String-Beans. 

Proceed as with ordinary scrambled eggs 
(No. 93), stirring in several spoonfuls of 
boiled string-beans left over from dinner. 

97. Eggs and Cheese. 
Into a buttered baking-disli put on layers 
each of bread crumbs, grated cream cheese, 
and hard-boiled eggs, sliced. Finish the 
top with a layer of bread crumbs ; break . a 
few eggs into some little hollows, and bake 
five minutes in a hot oven. 

98. Egg Loaf and Onion. 

Put half a dozen eggs on to boil hard. 
Mince a couple of large onions, and simmer 
five minutes in butter, the size of an egg, 
and half a cup of cream. 

Into a buttered baking-dish put first a 
layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of the 
onion, then a layer of the hard-boiled eggs, 
sliced ; then a layer of bread crumbs, sea- 
soning each with pepper and salt. Pour 
the hot cream over the top, and brown five 
minutes. 



66 QUICKEST DISHES. 

99. Eggs on Toast. 

Toast bread to a nice brown on both 
sides in a wire toaster. Butter, and lay one 
poached or soft-boiled %^^ upon each slice, 
seasoning with pepper and salt. 

100. Egg-Plant, Boiled and Fried. 

Slice cold boiled egg-plant half an inch 
thick, dip into beaten egg, well seasoned, 
then into bread or cracker crumbs, and fry 
brown in a hot buttered frying-pan. 

loi. Egg-Plant Croquettes. 

Take cold mashed egg-plant, mix with but- 
ter, salt, an egg for every cupful, and a little 
flour. Ball with plenty of flour on the 
hands, drop into hot lard, and fry three 
minutes. 

102. Fried Eels. 

Buy the fish ready skinned and dressed, 
with the bone removed. Cut into short, 
thin strips, dip each piece into a beaten 
egg, roll carefully in crumbs, drop into hot 
lard, and fry to a nice brown. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 6/ 

103. Fairy Butter. 

1 cupful softened butter. 

\ cupful powdered sugar. 

Yolks of five hard-boiled eggs. 

1 teaspoonful rose-water 

Stir together and run through the vege- 
table-press a couple of times. Serve with 
pudding or any delicate cake. 

104. Farina Mush. 

1 quart of boiling water. 

4 heaping teaspoonfuls farina. 

\ tablespoonful salt. 

Stir the farina slowly into the boiling 
water, and cook for fifteen minutes in a 
double boiler, without stirring. 

105. Farina Pudding. 

1 quart boiling milk. 
1 cupful farina. 

1 yolk of ^^^^ and 2 whites, beaten sep- 
arately. 

\ cupful sugar. 



68 QUICKEST DISHES, 

Stir the farina and sugar into the boiling 
milk, cool below the scalding point, then 
stir in the eggs. Serve cool, with jelly or 
fruit syrup. 

io6. Fish, Boiled. 

If a large fish, cut into thick slices. Tie 
up in a cloth, and put in cold water, well 
salted, and with a little vinegar in it. Let 
it come to a boil, and then boil from five 
to ten minutes. A small onion placed in- 
side the fish will add piquancy to the 
flavor. This recipe will apply to all fresh 
fish, except salmon. 

107. Fish, Broiled. 

Take any small or medium-sized fresh 
fish, split down the back and remove the 
backbone. Brush over with melted butter 
or lard, season well, and broil in a wire 
toaster ten minutes. Serve with cold fish- 
sauce. No. 8. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 69 

108. Cold Sauce for Fish. 

\ cupful softened (not melted) butter. 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

\ teaspoonful pepper. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Stir the other ingredients into the butter 
and set it in a cool place to harden. Serve 
sliced, on the fish. 

109. Fish ^ la Cr6me. 
Put a quart of milk on the stove to boil. 
Boil the fish five minutes in water, then 
shred the meat apart, removing bones. 
Make a thick cream sauce of the milk, 
thickened with three tablespoonfuls of 
flour, well seasoned with salt, pepper, a 
little thyme or parsley, a small onion, and 
a large tablespoonful of butter. Put alter- 
nate layers of the cream and fish in a pud- 
ding-dish, covering the top with sauce and 
a light sprinkling of bread or cracker 
crumbs, and, if there is a little stale cheese 
at hand, a little of this grated. Brown in 
a quick oven for five minutes. 



yo QUICKEST DISHES. 

1 10. Fish Croquettes. 

Separate cold boiled or baked fish from 
the bones, chop fine, season, and mix with 
one egg, a teaspoonful of flour, and tea- 
spoonful of milk. Press into balls, dip in a 
beaten eggj then roll lightly in dry crumbs, 
and fry in a little butter. A nice gravy 
may be made by boiling together the bones, 
tail, and an onion, with a cupful of water. 

Ill, Fish Salad. 

Shred fine the boned meat of boiled fresh 

fish, mix with an equal quantity of fine-cut 

lettuce or cabbage, a little celery, and a 

minced onion. Pour over it dressing No. 

288. 

112. Force Meat Balls. 

Chop fine cold boiled or roast meat, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and a little melted 
butter, ball up with flour on the hands, and 
f ly in hot lard to a nice brown. 

113. Minced Fowl Pie. 
Chop fine cold turkey or chicken and 
moisten with gravy. Place in a shallow 



QUICKEST DISHES, 71 

earthen baking-dish, cover with pie-crust 
and bake ten minutes. 

114. Fried Bread in Batten 
Cut thin slices of yeast bread, dip into a 
batter composed of one cup of flour, two 
eggs, half a cup of sweet milk, and a tea- 
spoonful salt ; fry in hot lard to a delicate 
brown, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and 
garnish with jelly. 

115. Meat Fritters. 
Cut cold rare meat into thin slices, 
moisten each with a few drops of vinegar, 
and grate a little nutmeg over them. Dip 
each slice in a batter made of two eggs 
beaten up with two tablespoonf uls of milk, 
one tablespoonful of flour, and pepper and 
salt. Fry in a buttered pan to a nice 
brown on both sides. 

116. Strawberry Fritters. 
1 cupful of cream. 

1 level cupful flour. 

2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 



72 QUICKEST DISHES. 

• 

2 cupfuls strawberries. 

A pincli of salt. 

Stir until the flour is out of sight, then 
stir in the strawberries. Roll in flour, drop 
in boiling fat, and fry to a nice brown. 

117. Frog's Saddles, Breaded. 

Dip in a beaten %^g^ (well seasoned), roll 
in cracker or bread crumbs, drop into boil- 
ing lard, and fry to a delicate brown. 
Serve on buttered toast. 

118. Frog's Saddles, Broiled. 

Brush over with butter, season with 
pepper and salt, and broil in a wire broiler. 

119. Fresh Fruit Pies. 

Fill ready-baked pastry shells (see " Re- 
marks," Puff Paste, No. 509) with ripe 
raspberries, blackberries, or strawberries, 
sugar well, and heat in the oven without 
cooking th,e fruit. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 73 

120. Fruit Syrup (for hot cakes and 

puddings). 

2 cupfuls tart fruit juice. 
1^ cupfuls sugar. 

1 level teaspoonf ul corn-starch, dissolved 
in water. 

121. Gems (of white flour). 

2 grounded cupfuls flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 
\ teaspoonful salt. 

1^ cupfuls milk. 

Bake in buttered gem-pans five minutes 
in a hot oven. 

122. German Toast. 

To each egg, well-beaten, add one spoon- 
ful milk. Season with salt and pepper. 
Dip slices of bread into this mixture, and 
fry in butter on a moderately hot griddle. 

123. Ginger Snaps. 
4 cupfuls sifted flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
1 scant teacupful milk. 



74 QUICKEST DISHES. 

2 eggs, beaten slightly. 
1^ ounces ground ginger. 

3 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 

Mix all together, work the dough a little 
with the hands, then roll out very thin, 
sift a little powdered sugar over the top, 
cut out, and bake about ten minutes in a 
hot oven. 

124. Graham Cakes. 

1 cupful graham flour. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 heaping teaspoonf ul baking powder. 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 cupful Zante currants. 

Bake in gem pans for ten minutes. 

125. Graham Gems (with Baking Powder). 
1 cupful graham flour. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoonf ul baking powder. 

1 cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

A little salt. 



QUICKEST DISHES, /S 

Mix quickly together, drop in buttered 
gem-pans, and bake from seven to ten 
minutes in a hot oven. 

126. Graham Short-Cake. 

2 cupf uls graham flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

1^ cupfuls sweet cream. 

KoU out in two large cakes about haK 
an inch thick. Lay one in a buttered tin, 
brush over the top with melted butter, and 
lay the other cake upon it. Bake ten min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

When the cakes are taken up, lift off the 
upper one and spread sugared strawberries, 
raspberries, blackberries, or apple-sauce be- 
tween and over the cakes. 

127. Graham Wafers. 

2 cupfuls graham flour. 

1^ cupfuls cold water. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Knead and roll as thin as possible. Cut 



j6 QUICKEST DISHES, 

in small squares and bake five minutes in 

a hot oven 

128. Granula. 

Crumb cold corn bread, brown bread, 
graham bread, and white bread together, 
brown in oven, and serve with cream or 
milk. 

129. Bran Gruel. 

\ cupful clean bran. 
1 pint boiling water. 
Salt to taste. 

Boil ten minutes, then strain. Add a 
little orange or lemon juice, if desired. 

130. Smoked Haddock. 

Brush over with melted butter, season 
with pepper, put in a wire broiler, and 
roast to a nice brown. 

131. Baked Halibut. 

Scald with boiling water, drain, brush 
over with melted butter, sprinkle with 
pepper, dredge lightly with flour, and bake 
in a quick oven eight or ten minutes. 



QUICKEST DISHES, J J 

132. Ham Loaf. 

1 cupful cold boiled ham, minced. 

1 cupful bread crumbs. 

6 eggs. 

Mix the ham and bread-crumbs together, 
lay on a buttered baking-dish, with little 
hollows in the top, into which break the 
eggs, one by one. Bake four minutes in a 
hot oven. 

133. Potted Ham. 

Take the ragged remnants of sweet meat 
left on a ham bone, allowing a pound of 
fat to two pounds of lean. Mince the lean 
meat, then pound to a paste with the fat, 
season with cayenne, and pack in a small 
jar with melted butter over the top. 

134. Ham Sandwiches. 

Chop fine some boiled ham, mix well 
with a mayonnaise dressing made after 
recipe No. 164, and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 



78 QUICKEST DISHES. 

135. Ham on Toast. 

Pare off the crust from one end of a loaf 
of bread, cut off thin slices, spread each 
thickly with butter, thin bits of cold boiled 
ham, a little mustard, and grated cheese. 
Lay one on top of the other, skewer to- 
gether, and brown in a hot oven for five 
minutes. 

136. Hash. 

To equal quantities of cold roast or 
boiled meat and cold potatoes add sufficient 
onions to give piquancy, chop fine, season 
with salt and pepper, place in a buttered 
frying-pan, cover closely, and fry cautiously 
for ten minutes, until a crisp, brown crust 
has formed on the bottom. Invert the dish 
over the pan and serve with the crust up. 

137. Hash Puffs. 

Form mashed potatoes into a paste with 
one or two eggs, roll out with a little flour, 
and cut saucer-shape. Lay upon these 
cold minced meat, well seasoned, fold like 



QUICKEST DISHES, 79 

a turnover, and bake five minutes in a hot 

oven. 

138. Quickest Icing. 

1 cupful pure powdered sugar. 

2 whites of eggs. 
Flavoring. 

Stir all together quickly until the sugar 
is out of sight, then spread upon the cake. 

139. Icing for Cakes. 

3 whites of eggs. 

1 cupful pure powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

Flavoring of any kind. 

Beat two of the whites stiff, then add 
the sugar, the remaining white, the lemon 
juice, and flavoring ; beat only until 
smooth, then spread it over the cake, first 
dredging a little flour over the top of the 
cake to keep the frosting from running. 

140. Boiled Sugar Icing. 
1 cupful pure powdered sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 

Put on the stove and stir until it com- 



80 QUICKEST DISHES. 

mences to be opaque, then pour over the 

cake. 

141. Jelly Roll. 

Bake thin sheets of sponge cake on but- 
tered paper. Remove the paper by moist- 
ening it slightly, spread the cake with 
jelly, roll it up and cut in transverse slices. 

142. Kidneys — Breaded. 
Slice half an inch thick, dip in a beaten 
egg, highly seasoned with salt and pepper, 
roll in crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or on 
a hot buttered frying-pan. 

143. Kidneys Broiled. 

Slice half an inch thick, season with salt 
and pepper, roll in flour, and cook in a wire 
broiler. 

144. Lady Fingers. 

\ cupful sugar. 

2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately. 

1^ cupful sifted flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls water. 

Beat all together until the flour is out of 



QUICKEST DISHES, 8 1 

sight, press through a lady-finger tube or 
paper cornucopia into the proper shapes out 
upon a pan lined with paper. Dredge with 
powdered sug&r in a perforated holder 
with a top no larger than a pepper box, 
that the sugar may not be scattered on the 
paper. Bake five minutes in a quick oven. 

145. Layer Cake. 

Model for a quick cake. 

2 eggs. 

1 teacupful sugar. 

2 heaping teacupfuls flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 scant teacupful milk. 

2 spoonfuls melted butter. 

Throw all the ingredients into a mixing 
dish and beat vigorously together for five 
minutes. Bake in four thin sheets in jelly- 
cake tins for about five minutes in a hot 
oven. 

This cake is an excellent model for all 
ordinary layer cakes. The truth is there 
is little difference in the composition of 



82 QUICKEST DISHES, 

nice common cake and this same recipe, 
with all its ingredients multiplied by two 
or three or four, or measured in different 
ways, or with imperceptibly slight varia- 
tions, will be found in almost any standard 
cook books, under a dozen or two different 
names. There is no use and less mercy in 
confusing the housekeeper by such tricks. 
It is, therefore, submitted as a reliable model. 

146. Lemon Blanc-Mange. 

1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful corn -starch, moistened 
with cold water. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Bring to a boil, stirring constantly ; pour 

into moulds to cool. 

147. Lemon Butter. 

\ cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Grated rind and juice of three lemons. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 



QUICKEST DISHES 83 

Stir briskly upon the stove until the 
mixture thickens, when it should be at 
once removed. 

148. Lemon Toast. 
Yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and 
mixed with a cup and a half of sweet milk. 
Dip slices of bread into the mixture, and 
fry slowly to a delicate brown. Meanwhile 
beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, 
add half a cup of sugar, the juice of one 
lemon, a cup of water, bring to a boil and 
serve with the toast as a sauce. 

149. Egg Lemonade. 

1 white of egg, beaten stiff. 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
1 glass of water. 
Juice of one lemon. 

A delicious drink at any time, but espe- 
cially cooling in fever. 

150. Lettuce. 
Pick over the leaves carefully and throw 
them into cold water fifteen minutes before 



84 QUICKEST DISHES, 

sending to tlie table. When they are nice 
and crisp remove them from the water to a 
clean cloth, fold the cloth over and wring 
it, then pull the leaves apart with the fin- 
gel's, or, bunching it in the left hand, slice 
it down with a knife in the right hand. It 
should never be chopped, as that will turn 
it black. Serve with pepper, salt and vine- 
gar, with sugar and vinegar, or with may- 
onnaise dressing (No. 164) according to the 
individual taste to be pleased. 

151. Liver, Broiled. 

Cut into thin slices, brush over with a 

little melted butter, season with pepper 

and salt, and toast to a nice brown on both 

sides. 

152. Liver, Fried. 

Cut in thin slices, drain, roll in meal or 
cracker crumbs, and fry to a nice brown in 
hot lard or in a buttered frying-pan. 

153. Liver, Stewed. 
Scald for five minutes, then cut into 
small pieces, and stew until tender. Drain 



QUICKEST DISHES. 85 

off all the liquid but lialf a cupful, season 
with butter, pepper, and salt, thicken with 
a little flour, and serve upon toast. 

154. Lobster Bisque. 

1 cupful lobster meat. 

2 cupf uls boiling water. 
Butter the size of a walnut. 

1 heaping tablespoonful flour. 

2 cupfuls milk. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

Set the milk on the stove to heat ; boil 
half of the lobster five minutes in the 
water ; while it is boiling melt the butter 
in a stew-pan and rub the flour into it, then 
pour in the milk and the water, carefully- 
pressing out and discarding the boiled lob- 
ster. Bring to a boil, drop in the remain- 
der of the lobster meat, and remove from 
the stove. 

Like many other dishes, this is lengthy 
in description, but quick in execution, to, 
those who have their materials always at 
hand. 



86 . QUICKEST DISHES, 

155. Lobster, Broiled. 

Get the lobster meat in as large pieces 
as possible, brush over with melted butter, 
season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle 
a little dust over. Broil in a wire-broiler 
over a nice bed of coals. Serve plain or 
with Tartar sauce. 

156. Lobster Chowder. 

To any given quantity of lobster, chopped 
fine, take one cup of milk and a pounded 
soda-cracker for every pound of the meat, 
a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. 
Bring the liquid to a boil and put in the 
lobster, which should only be scalded a 
couple of minutes. 

157. Lobster Croquettes. 

Shred the meat, moisten lightly with 
salad oil, add one third the quantity of 
bread crumbs, grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper 
and salt. Form into small balls and fry to 
light brown, in boiling lard. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 8/ 

158. Lobster Salad. 

To save time and trouble use canned 
lobster, when it can be procured in nice 
condition. Arrange in alternate layers 
with lettuce cut fine, interspersing with 
the mashed yolks and chopped whites of 
cold-boiled eggs. Pour over the whole a 
mayonnaise dressing, recipe No. 164. 

A very pretty table decoration may easily 
be made of this dish by arranging upon 
a platter or in a large salad bowl, with a 
fringe of dark green lettuce or celery leaves 
about the border, the brighter red portions 
of the lobster thrown into relief against 
these, the inner circle being composed of 
chopped lettuce, upon which are grouped 
the golden yolks of hard-boiled eggs, dusky 
green olives and, if procurable, lobster 
claws and horns. 

159. Lobster Soup. 

Into one quart of milk and one pint of 
water drop the finely chopped meat of a 
large lobster. Season with butter, salt, 



88 QUICKEST DISHES, 

and red pepper, and thicken with a table- 
spoonful of flour. Boil ten minutes. 

i6o. Baked Macaroni. 

Put boiled macaroni in a buttered baking- 
dish, cover with bread crumbs, wet the top 
with a little melted butter, and brown five 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

i6i. Macaroni Rissoles. 

Form cold macaroni and cheese into little 
balls, dip in a beaten ^^^^ roll in crumbs, 
and fry to a nice brown in hot lard. 

162. Salt Mackerel, Boiled. 

Divide into sections, each about the al- 
lowance for one person, put into cold water 
on the range, and bring to a boil. 

If the fish is very salt, it will be neces- 
saiy to put it to soak several hours before 
cooking. 

163. Salt Mackerel, Broiled. 

Split the fish lengthwise, lay into cold 
water, and bring to a boil. Drain off the 



QUICKEST DISHES, 89 

water, place the pieces in a wire broiler, and 
brown over hot coals. Brush over with a 
little butter and send to the table. 

164. Mayonnaise Dressing. 

One quarter of a teaspoonful of ground 
mustard with just sufficient water to dis- 
solve it, the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
With the left hand pour into this, drop by 
drop, the purest olive oil, furiously stirring 
the mixture with the right hand all the 
time, until it becomes so stiff the dish can 
be inverted without spilling, then stir in a 
sparing tablespoonf ul of vinegar, and pep- 
per and salt to taste. 

Every one who attempts to make a 
mayonnaise dressing, which, by the way, is 
rated as the highest accomplishment of 
many epicures, should keep in mind the 
old Spanish proverb, which declares that 
for the proper concoction of a mayonnaise 
four persons are needed : a spendthrift for 
the oil, a miser for the vinegar, a counsellor 
for the salt, and a madman to stir it. 



90 QUICKEST DISHES. 

165. Minute Pudding. 

5 heaping tablespoonf uls flour. 

3 beaten eggs. 

1 half cupful milk. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Beat all together and stir into one pint 
of boiling milk, removing from the stove as 
soon as it thickens. 

Serve with transparent sauce, recipe 
(No. 290) or with sweetened milk. 

166. Mushrooms, Broiled. 

Arrange the mushrooms, the hollow side 
up, in a wire broiler, sift a little salt and 
pepper and a light shower of flour over 
them. Lay a tiny piece of butter in each 
one. Brown the under side by holding the 
broiler, without inverting it, over a bed of 
glowing coals. 

167. Mushrooms, Fried. 

Soak a few minutes in salt and water, 
then fry slowly in butter, seasoning with 
salt and pepper. Lay them upon a dish 



QUICKEST DISHES, QI 

with the hollow side up, and pour over 
them the gravy formed of the butter and 
the juice of the mushrooms. 

i68. Mushroom Loaf. 
Boil mushrooms in a little water and 
butter for five minutes ; then arrange in 
a deep, buttered baking-dish alternate lay- 
ers of mushrooms and bread crumbs, sea- 
soning each with pepper and salt, and 
pouring over the whole the liquor in which 
the mushrooms have been cooked. Bake 
eight minutes in a quick oven. 

169. Mushrooms, Stuffed. 
Wash and remove the stalks from six 
large mushrooms. Simmer a minced onion 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter for five 
minutes, add a half cupful of water, one 
cupful of bread crumbs, the mushroom 
stalks minced fine, pepper and salt. Sim- 
mer together three or four minutes, then 
dip gently into the hollow of the mush- 
rooms, sprinkling some dry crumbs over the 
top and brown in a hot oven five minutes. 



92 QUICKEST DISHES. 

170. Mushrooms on Toast. 

Peel, and heat carefully in hot butter. 
Season with pepper and salt and serve on 
buttered toast. 

171. Muskmelon Salad. 

Cut into thin slices, sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt, and stir gently in a small 
quantity of vinegar and sweet oil, beaten 
together. 

172. Made Mustard. 

Dissolve three tablespoonf uls of mustard 
in boiling water; add one tablespoonf ul 
of olive oil, stirred in drop by drop, one 
half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and two teaspoonf uls of vinegar. 

173. Mutton Chops, Fried. 

Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a 
hot frying-pan, season the chops with pep- 
per and salt, and fry to a nice brown on 
both sides. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 93 

174. Noodles (for soup or stewed 

chickens). 

1 heaping cupful flour. 

1 egg- 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

Mix with the least possible quantity of 
milk, keeping the dough as stiff as it is possi- 
ble to handle it and to roll it out. Divide in- 
to four lumps and roll very thin, and cut into 
long strips by folding the thin sheet over 
several times and cutting through it with a 
sharp knife. The narrow slice thus ob- 
tained will separate into long ribbons when 
shaken up together. Throw them into 
the boiling liquor, cover closely, and boil 
briskly for five minutes. 

175. Fried Noodles. 

Prepare the dough after the foregoing 
recipe : cut one half into strips half an inch 
broad and boil for five minutes in salted 
water, then drain carefully and lay on a 
dish. Cut the remainder into narrow 
strings and fry in butter to a deep golden 



94 QUICKEST DISHES, 

brown. Strew these over the boiled ones, 
which will be a pale corn-color, and we 
have a pretty as well as appetizing dish. 

176. Oatmeal Griddle Cakes. 

2 cupfuls oatmeal mush. 
\ cupful flour. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 
Milk or water enough to make a thin 
batter. Fry on a hot griddle. 

177. Oatmeal Mush, Fried Plain. 
Take cold oatmeal mush and form into 
cakes half an inch thick, dredge with flour, 
and fry crisp on either side. 

178. Oatmeal Mush, Fried in Batter. 

Cut cold oatmeal mush into slices about 
one third of an inch thick, dip into a 
beaten %^^^ roll in bread-crumbs or cracker- 
dust, and fry to a golden brown in hot lard. 

179. Omelet. 
4 eggs, slightly beaten. 
4 tablespoon fuls milk. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 95 

Pepper and salt. ^^tx^ ^ ^ 

Beat up quickly together, and pour into 
a hot buttered frying-pan. Loosen the 
edges with a thin knife as it begins to 
thicken, but do not stir it, and while the 
top is yet wet, fold it up. 

180. Baked Omelet. 

4 eggs, beaten separately. 

4 tablespoonfuls sifted flour. 

1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 

4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 teaspoonf ul sugar. 

1 scant teaspoonful salt. 

Beat into a stiff batter, adding the whites 
of eggs at the last moment. Pour into a 
buttered baking-dish and bake twenty min- 
utes in a hot oven, covering it over the first 
fifteen minutes. 

181. Bread Omelet. 

4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately. 

1 cupful bread-crumbs, soaked in milk. 




96 QUICKEST DISHES. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain off any superfluous milk from the 
bread-crumbs, stir in the beaten yolks, add 
salt and pepper, and the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Fry in a buttered pan, setting 
it into the oven for one minute to finish. 

182. Cheese Omelet. 

Make the omelet after directions in No. 
179, stirring into the mixture a half cupful 
of grated cheese. 

183. Cracker Omelet. 
2 cupf uls rolled soda crackers. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 
\ teaspoonful salt. 

Stir together and fry slowly ten minutes 
in a buttered frying-pan, covered closely. 

184. Omelet Custards. 

6 eggs. 

1 cupful cream. 

Pepper and salt. 

Beat well together, pour into buttered 



QUICKEST DISHES, 97 

cups, set these in a shallow pan of boiling 
water, and cook ten minutes in a hot oven. 

185. French Omelet. 

\ cupful boiling milk, with one table- 
spoonful of butter dissolved in it, poured 
over 

\ cupful bread-crumbs. 

Cool a little and add 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately. 

Fry in a buttered pan. 

186. Fruit Omelet. 

« 

Make a plain omelet, after No. 179, and 
just before taking up place some fresh, su- 
gared berries on top, or stewed dried fruit, 
and roll up with it. 

187. Ham Omelet. 

Make an ordinary ^^^ omelet (No. 179), 
and when it begins to set at the bottom, 
strew cold boiled ham, minced fine, over 
the top, and fold up with it. 



98 QUICKEST DISHES. 

i88. Jellied Omelet. 

4 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Powdered sugar and jelly. 

Beat the eggs lightly, add the milk, and 
beat lightly again, then f ly in a buttered 
pan, moderately heated and tightly cov- 
ered ; when the egg begins to set on top, 
loosen at the opposite edges with a thin 
knife, roll toward the centre, lift carefully 
out, dredge with powdered sugar, and cross 
with slices of jelly. 

If there are any stewed mushrooms left 
over, we have the following savory five- 
minute breakfast dish : 

189. Mushroom Omelet. 
Make an ordinary egg omelet (No. 179), 
and when it begins to set at the bottom, 
strew the top with stewed mushrooms, cut 
fine, and roll them up in it. 

190. Onion Omelet. 

Mince an onion and boil five minutes, 
while it is boiling beat up an ordinary 



QUICKEST DISHES. 99 

omelet (No. 179), pour it into a buttered 
frying-pan, and when the bottom is set, 
strew the minced onion, well drained, over 
the top, and roll up with it. 

191. Oyster Omelet. 
1 dozen raw Eastern oysters. 
3 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Pepper and salt. 

Beat the eggs and milk together, season, 
and pour into a buttered frying-pan. As 
soon as it begins to " set," imbed the oysters 
in the top, and, w]:iile the omelet still looks 
a little wet on top, turn over one half upon 
itself, concealing the oysters from sight, and 
serve piping hot. 

192. Parsley Omelet. 

Make an omelet after directions in No. 
179, and adding a heaping tablespoonful 
of minced parsley. 

193. Potato Omelet. 

Make a plain omelet after recipe No. 
179, and, just before rolling it up, lay 



lOO QUICKEST DISHES. 

several spoonfuls of maslied potato, nicely 
seasoned, on top. 

194. Rice Omelet. 

1 cupful cold boiled rice. 
3 beaten eggs. 
\ cupful sweet milk. 
Salt and pepper. 

Stir together and fry in a hot buttered 
frying-pan, stirring until it is done. 

195. Smoked-Beef Omelet. 

Chop fine half a cupful of smoked-beef, 
simmer in water five minutes. Make ready 
an omelet after No. 179, and, while the top 
is still wet, lay upon it the chipped beef, 
carefully drained, and roll up with it. 

196. Sorrel Omelet. 

Wash a bowlful of sorrel, wring it in a 
cloth, chop fine and simmer five minutes in 
a frying-pan with butter the size of an egg. 

Make an omelet after No. 1 79, and, when 
the top is still wet, lay the sorrel upon it 
and fold it up. 



QUICKEST DISHES, lOI 

197. Sweet Omelet. 
6 beaten eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls cream or milk. 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
Beat together, fry in a buttered pan, and 
dredge with powdered sugar on taking up. 

198. Tomato Omelet. 
Make an ordinary ^^^ omelet (No. 179), 
and, wlien it is half cooked, put two or 
three spoonfuls of stewed tomatoes over 
the top, and fold up with it. 

199. Onions Fried in Lard. 

Peel large or medium-sized onions, cut 
them into thin transvei*se slices, roll them 
in flour, and fry in hot lard to a nice brown. 

200. Orange Float. 
6 sliced oranges. 
1 pint boiling water. 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

1 small cupful sugar. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 
2 whites of eggs. 



102 QUICKEST DISHES. 

• 

Arrange the sliced orange in the bottom 
of a dish, and pour over them a light cus- 
tard made by stiiring the lemon, sugar, and 
corn-starch into the boiling water until the 
mixture thickens. Spread the whole with 
the whites of eggs, beaten stiff with a little 
powdered sugar. Serve with milk or cream. 

201. Glazed Oranges. 

Peel and slice them, removing the seeds. 
Dip each slice into a plain icing, made by 
stirring 2 whites of eggs and 1 cupful pow- 
dered sugar together with a spoon, and dry 
on pointed stick, stuck upright in a bowl 
of sugar. 

202. Orange Honey. 

2 large oranges. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 

8 eggs, well beaten. 

Put the juice and grated rind of the 
oranges into a saucepan, add the sugar and 
butter, and heat it over the fire until it 



QUICKEST DISHES, IO3 

commences to simmer, then add the eggs, 
and stir briskly until it begins to thicken. 
Remove it from the fire and whisk it a few 
moments with an egg beater. 

Nice for layer cakes or for filling tarts. 

203. Orange Jelly Layer Cake. 

For layer cake see recipe No. 145. 
2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
1 cupful powdered sugar. 
6 tablespoonfuls orange juice. 

204. Orange Pudding. 

Peel and slice six large oranges, and strew 
over them a cupful of sugar. Pour over 
these a stiff custard made of one pint boil- 
ing milk, thickened with the yolks of three 
eggs, well beaten, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, dissolved in warm milk, and three 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Cover with the 
whites, beaten to a froth, with three table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar, and brown in 
the oven three minutes. 



I04 QUICKEST DISHES. 

205. Orange and Sponge-Cake Pudding. 

Over a layer of stale cake, sponge-cake 
preferred, strew sliced oranges. Pour over 
the whole a custard made of one pint boil- 
ing milk, thickened with three yolks of 
eggs and half a cup of sugar. Cover the 
top with a meringue made of the whites 
and a little sugar, and brown in a hot oven 
for three minutes. 

206. Oxford Pudding. 

1 cupful pounded crackers. 

i cupful dried currants. 

\ pound tried suet. 

1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 

Mince together with the mashed yolks 
of four hard-boiled eggs, make into small 
balls, and fry in a hot pan with a little 
butter. 

Serve with roast or stewed meats. 

207. Oyster Bisque. 

1 cupful oyster liquor. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

1 cupful oysters (J chopped fine). 



QUICKEST DISHES. I05 

Butter the size of a walnut. 

1 heaping tablespoonf ul flour. 

2 cupf uls milk. 

1 yolk of egg, beaten. 

Set the milk on the stove to heat. 

Boil the chopped oysters five minutes in 

the oyster liquor and water. While they 

are boiling, melt the butter in a saucepan 

and rub the flour into it. Then pour in 

the hot milk, stirring briskly. Strain the 

oyster liquor from the chopped oysters, 

being careful that the latter are pressed 

dry, season, bring to a boil, beat in the 

yolk of ^^^ and instantly remove from the 

fire. 

208. Oysters, Broiled. 

Drain off the liquor, which may be used 
for soup. Season, and arrange in a wire 
broiler placed over a bed of coals, brown- 
ing lightly and quickly on each side. 
Brush lightly with butter before serving. 

209. Oysters, Creamed. 
Prepare a thick gravy of cream or sweet- 
milk, together with the liquor from the 
oysters, thickened with flour and well sea- 



I06 QUICKEST DISHES. 

soned to taste. When this boils, drop in 
the oysters, then remove from the fire in- 
stantly and pour over nicely browned toast 
on a hot platter. 

210. Crambed Oysters. 

Dip each oyster in beaten egg, seasoned 
vsdth salt and pepper ; then roll quickly in 
fine cracker or bread-crumbs, also seasoned, 
and fry quickly in a little butter. 

211. Oyster Fricassee with Toast. 

Fry the oysters in a little butter, adding, 
as soon as they begin to cook, a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, mixed with the same quantity 
of melted butter. Pour over the whole 
two eggs beaten up with two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk, and, as soon as this stiffens, 
gently separate the whole from the pan, 
and lay it over a plate filled with toasted 
bread. 

212. Oysters, Fried Plain. 

Drain well, and fry in a little butter to a 
delicate brown. Season, and serve on toast. 



QUICKEST DISHES. lO/ 

213. Oysters, Fried in Batter. 

Make a batter of beaten eggs, well sea- 
soned, with the liquor from the oysters 
added, a tablespoonful of milk to each 
eggj and thickened with flour in the pro- 
portion of one tablespoonful to every three 
eggs. Drop the oysters into the batter, 
one by one, dip them out singly, filling the 
spoon with batter, drop them on a hot but- 
tered frying-pan, and fry a golden brown. 

214. Oyster Loaf. 

Into a deep baking-dish put alternate 
layers of raw oysters and bread-crumbs, 
seasoning as you go. Pour over the whole 
the oyster liquor mixed with a little milk 
and melted butter, and brown five minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

215. Oysters, Roasted. 

Rinse the shells in clear water, and 
place, closed, upon hot coals or in a hot 
oven for five minutes. Open carefully 
with a knife, allowing none of the liquor 



I08 QUICKEST DISHES. 

to escape, butter lightly, season, and serve 
with toast. 

216. Oyster Salad. 

1 cupful chopped white cabbage. 

1 cupful chopped celery. 

3 dozen fresh oysters. 

1 tablespoonf ul each of oil and vinegar. 

Boil the celery and cabbage together in 
salt water for eight minutes; drain thor- 
oughly and mix with the oil and vinegar. 
When cold, lay the oysters through it, and 
pour over all a nice mayonnaise dressing 

(No. 164). 

217. Oyster Soup. 

Take equal quantities of rich milk and 
water, proportioning the whole to the 
quantity of oysters to be cooked. The 
quantity of liquid should be at least twice 
the bulk of the oysters. Drain the water 
from the oysters and add it to the soup. 
Season to taste with a little butter, pepper, 
and salt, and add a little finely rolled 
cracker. When it boils, add the oysters 



QUICKEST DISHES, . IO9 

and remove instantly from the fire, as they 
immediately settle to the bottom and need 
only to be scalded. One minute's boiling 
will shrivel them and impair their flavor. 

By observing these directions religiously 
a very fair quality of soup can be made 
from the best brand of cove oysters by 
housekeepers who live remote from the sea- 
coast, or on the Pacific coast, where the 
native oysters are of inferior quality and 
fresh Eastern oysters are so high-priced as 
to be beyond the reach of the populace. 

218. Oysters, Steamed. 

Steam in the shells for five minutes. 
Open and serve with salt, pepper, and a 
little butter. 

219. Plain Oyster Stew. 

Boil the oysters one minute in their own 
liquor, season with salt, pepper, and a little 
butter. 

220. Dry Oyster Stew. 

Boil the oysters in their own liquor one 
' minute, season to taste, and drain before 
serving. 



no . QUICKEST DISHES, 

221. Oyster Stew with Milk. 

1^ cupfuls milk. 

1 cupful water. 

Oyster liquor. 

Butter the size of a walnut. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

\ cupful cracker crumbs. 

Bring the liquid to a boil, add the 
cracker crumbs and the oysters, boil one 
minute, and take from the stove. 

222. Oyster Stew, Fancy Stew with Toast. 

Drain the liquid portion of the foregoing 
stew into a large tureen ; then lay pieces of 
hot toast on top, and arrange the oysters on 
top of them. 

223. Oysters on Toast. 

Put slices of bread in the oven to dry 
and brown. Bring the oyster liquor to a 
boil, season with salt and pepper, drop the 
oysters in and scald for one minute, then 
pour over the toast. 



Q UICKEST DISHES. Ill 

224. French Pancakes. 

1 level cupful flour. 

2 beaten eggs. 
\ cupful milk. 

Fry on a buttered pan to a nice brown 
on both sides, spread with jelly or fruit 
jam, form into little rolls, and dredge with 
powdered sugar. 

225. Parsley, Fried. 

Dip the parsley one minute in boiling 
lard, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
drain on a cloth. 

226. Parsnips, Fried. 

Cold boiled parsnips sliced and fried to a 
nice brown in butter or lard. Season with 
pepper and salt. 

227. Parsnip Fritters. 

Two cupfuls of mashed parsnips, scant 
half cupful of flour, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, one egg, salt and pepper to 
taste. Stir together and drop by spoonfuls 



112 Q UICKEST DISHES. 

in hot lard or drippings, and fry to a nice 
brown. 

228. Parsnips, Roasted. 

Cold boiled parsnips, sliced, sprinkled 
with pepper and salt, lay in a dripping pan 
in melted drippings and roast for four or 
five minutes in a hot oven. 

229. Pineapples and Oranges. 

Arrange alternate layers of sliced oranges 
and pineapple, allowing about one third 
the quantity of pineapple that you use of 
oranges. Sprinkle with sugar, and you have 
a most healthful, palatable, and beautiful 
dish. 

Housekeepers will find economy of both 
time and purse in using the sliced pineap 
pie, packed in sugar in airtight cans, now 
to be procured at a most reasonable price 
at any first-class grocery. 

230. Pineapple Patties. 

Make small shells of puff paste, baked in 
small patty pans. Fill with pineapple cut 



Q UICKEST DISHES, 1 1 3 

into small slices, sugared, and covered with 
whipped cream, beaten to a froth with a 
common egg-beater. 

231. Ten Minutes Baked Potatoes. 
Pare and cut into slices half an inch 
thick. Bake in the same manner as if the 
skins were on, making sure that the oven 
is hot when they are put in. 

232. Potatoes, Broiled. 

Peel potatoes, cut into slices a quarter of 
an inch thick, dip in melted butter or drip- 
pings, lay in the wire broiler and broil over 
a nice bed of coals or light low blaze of 
splintered soft wood. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, touch lightly with butter, and 
serve while still hot. 

233. Potato Croquettes. 

Cold mashed potatoes, mixed with one 
spoonful melted butter, one beaten egg. 
Form into round balls, with plenty of flour 
on the hands, and fry quickly in hot lard, 
using a wire basket, preferably, removing 
them as soon as they come to a nice golden 
brown. 



ri4 QUICKEST DISHES. 

234« Dauphine Potatoes. 

Stir into cold mashed potatoes the well 
beaten yolks of two eggs, and brown in 
the oven five minutes. 

235. Potatoes d, la Hollandaise. 

Peel the potatoes, cut them into small 
wedges, and boil them in salted water. As 
soon as a fork goes through them easily, 
drain carefully, set them on the back of 
the stove with a little butter, and sei've 
with Hollandaise sauce (No. 279), prepared 
while the potatoes were boiling. 

236. Boiled Potatoes, Browned. 

Lay cold boiled potatoes in a hot drip 
ping-pan and roast in a hot oven for five 
minutes, basting with meat drippings. 

237. Potatoes and Cream. 
Fry cold boiled potatoes for two minutes 
in a little butter in a hot covered frying- 
pan. Then stir in a fresh piece of butter, 
and a little rich milk or cream over them ; 
bring to a boil and serve. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 1 1 5 

238. Mashed Potatoes in Form. 

Take cold mashed potatoes and model 
into any^ pretty form, using a knife, a 
spoon, a dish, or the hands. Glaze over 
lightly with a soft brush dipped into an 
^gg beaten together with a spoonful of 
milk, and brown in a hot oven for four 
minutes. 

239. Mashed Potato Cake. 

Fry cold mashed potatoes in a frying- 
pan, with hot drippings in the bottom. 
Cover closely, that they may be quickly 
heated through. Let them remain five 
minutes, or until a crisp golden-brown crust 
has been formed, then invert on a large 
round plate, by placing the dish above and 
quickly reversing the pan, having first run 
a thin-bladed knife around the sides of the 
latter. 

240. Mashed Potato Cakes, Fried. 

Cold mashed potatoes formed into small 
flattened balls, lightly dredged with flour, 
and fried to a light brown on both sides. 



Il6 QUICKEST DISHES. 

241. Mashed Potatoes in Mould. 

Beat up a couple of eggs and a little 
milk, and mix with cold mashed potatoes 
by passing them through the vegetable 
press together. Press into a buttered 
mould, bake ten minutes in a hot oven, 
and turn out upon a flat dish. 

242. Cold Meat and Potatoes. 

Season cold meat well and place in a 
shallow baking-dish. Cover with a layer 
of mashed potatoes, and spread over the 
whole one egg beaten up with a little milk. 
Bake five minutes in a hot oven. 

243. Potatoes and Onions. 

4 cold boiled potatoes of medium size. 

1 large onion, minced. 

Butter the size of an egg. 

Pepper and salt. 

Put the butter in a frying-pan, at a mod- 
erate heat, and simmer the minced onion in 
it for five minutes. Cut up the potatoes, 
season with salt and pepper, stir in with 



QUICKEST DISHES. • 11/ 

the onion and butter, and brown nicely 
mthout burning. 

244. Potatoes ^ la Provengale. 

1 quart cold boiled potatoes cut into 
thick pieces. 

5 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 

1 tablespoonful green onion cut fine. 

A little fresh lemon peel chopped fine. 

\ cupful butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Salt, pepper, nutmeg. 

Mix all the ingredients of the sauce to- 
gether in a hot saucepan, and warm up 
the potatoes in it. 

245. Potato Puffs. 

Mashed potatoes, seasoned, and mois- 
tened with an %^^^ or two, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, and a little milk. Place 
in a shallow baking-dish and bake four 
minutes in a hot oven. 

246. Potato Salad. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, add chopped 
onions and a little sliced celery. Pour over 
it a mayonnaise (recipe No. 164). 



Il8 - QUICKEST DISHES. 

247. Saratoga Potatoes. 

Peel and shave into thin slices with a 
potato-cutter. Kinse in cold water and dry 
with a cloth, then f ly to a nice yellow in 
hot lard. Drip carefully and sprinkle with 
salt while hot. 

248. Broiled Quails. 

Clean, cut down the back, flatten down, 
season well, dip in melted butter, and broil 
slowly over a bed of coals. 

249. Raspberry Cream. 

1 quart fresh raspberries. 

1 quart boiling milk. 

4 heaping tablespoonf uls corn-starch, dis- 
solved with warm water. 

1 small cupful sugar. 

Stir the corn-starch and sugar into the 
boiling milk until it thickens, cool a little, 
and then pour over the raspberries, first 
sugaring them lightly. Serve cold with 
cream or milk. 

Any fruit may be used in place of the 
raspberries. 



QUICKEST DISHES, II9 

250. Reed Birds, Broiled. 

Season with salt and pepper, lay in a 
wire broiler, and brown over hot coals for 
five minutes, turning once. 

251. Reed Birds, Stewed. 

Put in a hot saucepan, in melted butter 
sufficient to float them, season with salt 
and pepper, and cook for six minutes, stir- 
ring them about. 

Has^e ready some nicely browned toast, 
lay a couple of birds on each piece, and 
pour over them a gravy made by boiling 
up a half cupful of stock and a few drops 
of lemon juice or vinegar with the butter 
in the saucepan. 

252. Rennet Whey. 

1 quart sweet milk heated until near the 
boiling point. 

\ cupful prepared rennet. 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 
Strain when it is cool. 



I20 QUICKEST DISHES. 

253. Rice Balls. 

Boiled rice, set in cups to cool, and then 
turned out. Pour over these a custard 
made of 

1 pint of boiling milk. 

3 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

\ cup sugar. 

1 heaping teaspoonful corn-starch. 

Stir the other ingredients into the boil- 
ing milk until it thickens. 

254. Rice Cakes. 

One teacupful cold boiled rice, white 
and yolk of one egg, beaten separately ; 
two tablespoonfuls sifted flour, and half a 
cupful of milk, beaten together. Fry as 
batter cakes, or bake ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 

255. Rice Croquettes. 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice. 
2 eggs, well beaten. 

A little salt. 

Form into balls, dip them in beaten egg, 



Q UICKEST DISHES. 121 

roll in bread- or cracker-crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard, like doughnuts. 

256. Rice and Cinnamon. 

1 pint cold boiled rice. 

2 tablespoonf uls ground cinnamon. 
1 teacupf ul sugar. 

Moisten with a little milk, and heat to- 
gether in double boiler. 

257. Cold Meat and Rice. 

Cold meat of any sort, well seasoned and 
chopped fine. Lay in a flat earthen baking- 
dish. Place around it cold boiled rice 
moistened with milk and one beaten ^^i^^ 
and seasoned with pepper and salt. Brown 
in a hot oven five minutes. 

258. Rice and Eggs. 

Upon a buttered baking-dish spread a 
layer of cold boiled rice, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Make little hollows in 
the top, break a fresh egg into each, and 
bake four minutes in a hot oven. 



122 QUICKEST DISHES. 

259. Rice-Flour Porridge. 

2 tablespoonfuls rice-flour, moistened 
with a little cold water. 

1 quart boiling milk. 
Boil five minutes. 

260. Rice Muffins. 

2 cupf uls flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 

2 cupfuls milk. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

Stir together until smooth, adding the 
rice last. 

Bake in gem pans or muffin rings, about 
ten minutes in a hot oven. 

261. Rice Pudding. 

2 cupfuls of boiled rice. 

1 cup of milk. 

\ cupful sugar. 

Butter the size of a walnut. 

\ cupful raisins. 



QUICKEST DISHES, I23 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 

262. Rice and Raisins. 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice. 
\ cupful raisins. 

\ cupful sweet milk. 

\ cupful sugar. 

Stir together ^nd heat in double boiler. 

263. Rice Snow. 

4 cupfuls cold boiled rice. 
\ cupful powdered sugar. 
4 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
Stir together gently and serve with fresh 
or preserved small fruits. 

264. Rye Griddle-Cakes. 

Rye flour, sufficient sour milk and soda 
to make a thin batter; add a little salt. 
Pry on a hot griddle. 

Allow one level teaspoonful of soda to 
every pint of sour milk. 

Sweet milk and baking-powder can be 
substituted for the sour milk and soda if 
desired. 



J 24 QUICKEST DISHES. 

265. Mashed Rutabaga. 

Peel, cut into very thin slices, and steam 
ten minutes. Pass through a vegetable 
press with sufficient salt, pepper, and butter 
to season them. 

266. Vegetable Salads. 

Take any or all cold vegetables left over 
from a previous meal, potatoes, peas, aspara- 
gus, beets, shell or string beans ; arrange in 
attractive form and serve with mayonnaise, 
recipe No. 164 

267. Salmon Croquettes. 

1 cupful canned salmon, boned and 
picked fine. 

1 tablespoonf ul flour. 

1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 

Mix and press firmly together, form into 
balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in crumbs, 
and fry two minutes in hot fat. 

268. Salsify Croquettes. 
Mash the salsify through a vegetable 
press, with pepper, salt, a couple of table- 



J 



QUICKEST DISHES. 12$ 

spoonfuls of melted butter, one beaten egg, 
and one scant tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Ball with plenty of flour on the hands, and 
fry in hot lard to a delicate brown. 

269. Salsify, Escalloped. 

Mash fresh boiled salsify or run it 
through a vegetable press, moistening with 
milk and butter and seasoning with salt 
and pepper, as you do so. 

Lay in a baking-dish, cover with dry 
crumbs, and bake seven minutes in a quick 
oven. 

270. Baked Sandwiches. 

Cut cold meat into thin slices, season 
with pepper and salt and lay between thin 
slices of bread until you have a pile six 
inches high. Skewer together, baste with 
melted butter, and brown in a hot oven un- 
til the bread is crisp. 

271. Picnic Sandwiches. 

Chop fine half a pound of sardines, a 
pound of cold boiled ham, and a quarter 



126 QUICKEST DISHES. 

of a pound of crisp cucumber pickles, stir- 
ring into the mixture the olive oil from the 
sardine boxes. Spread between half a 
dozen thin slices of bread cut from a circu- 
lar loaf and laid one upon another, in jelly- 
cake fashion, and cut in wedges. 

272. Bechamel Sauce. 

Butter the size of a walnut. 
1 heaping tablespoonful flour. 

1 minced onion. 

A little lean ham minced. 

2 cups of milk. 
Salt and pepper. 

Set the milk on the stove to heat. 

Rub the butter and flour together in a 
hot saucepan, add the onion, the ham, and 
seasonings, and when browned a little, pour 
in the hot milk and bring to a boil. 

273. Celery Sauce. 

Boil fine chopped celery in water for 
five minutes. Drain and stir into a drawn- 
butter sauce made after recipe No. 275. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 12/ 

274. Cream Sauce. 

2 cupfuls boiling cream or milk. 

1 level teacupful sifted flour. 

\ cupful melted butter. 

\ teaspoonf ul salt. 

Mix the flour, butter, and salt together 
in a hot frying-pan, without browning, 
then pour in the boiling milk and stir until 
it is smooth. 

275. Drawn- Butter Sauce. 

A piece of butter the size of an ^^^^ 
melted in a hot frying-pan, giving it a 
slight scorch, to impart a nice golden brown 
color to the sauce. When frying, rub quick- 
ly into this a tablespoonful of flour, dilute 
with half a cupful of milk or water, and 
season with salt and pepper. 

276. Egg Sauce. 

To drawn butter, made after recipe No. 
275 and diluted with boiling milk, add 
three hard-boiled eggs, cut fine. 



128 QUICKEST DISHES, 

TTJT. Foaming Sauce. 

\ cupful butter. 

\ cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful hot water. 

Vanilla or lemon to flavor. 

Whip to a foam with egg-beater. 

278. Hard Sauce. 

1 cupful softened butter 

1 cupful fine crushed or powdered sugar. 
A little cinnamon, grated nutmeg, or li- 
quid flavoring. 

Stir briskly until it comes to a nice white 
color. 

If desirable, color a delicate pink by stir- 
ring in a spoonful of warmed currant jelly, 
cranberry juice, or blackberry jelly. Use 
cold. 

279. HoUandaise Sauce. 

4 tablespoonf uls boiling water and milk 
in equal quantities. 
\ cupful butter. 

2 yolks of eggs, well beaten. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 29 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice (or vinegar 
in default of the lemon). 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

A little grated nutmeg. 

Into the boiling milk and water put the 
salt and nutmeg and one half the butter. 
Add the beaten yolks, beating until the 
mixture thickens like cream. Remove in- 
stantly from the stove, without allowing it 
to boil, crumb the rest of the butter and 
add it, bit by bit, beating until it is all in 
and the sauce is smooth. Then stir in the 
vinegar. 

280. Horse-Radish Sauce. 

One teaspoonful mustard, one teaspoon- 
ful white sugar, half a teaspoonful salt, 
half a cupful of vinegar, poured over 
grated horse-radish. 

281. White Lemon Sauce. 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
\ cupful powdered sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 



130 QUICKEST DISHES. 

282. Mint Sauce. 
Two tablespoonfuls of mint, chopped 
fine ; half a teacupful of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of sugar. Serve cold with roast 
lamb or mutton. 

283. Mushroom Sauce. 
Peel the mushrooms, removing the lower 
portion of the stem, cut into salted water 
for a few minutes, then simmer gently in a 
little milk and water for twenty minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper, and a little 
butter, thickening with a very small quan- 
tity of flour, made smooth with a little of 
the hot liquid before stirring it in. 

284. Onion Sauce. 

Make a sauce of drawn butter after recipe 
No. 275, thin with half a cup of milk, add 
half a cupful of minced onions which have 
been previously boiled until tender, and 
scald all together. 

285. Oyster Sauce. 

Boil the oyster liquor for five minutes 
with a bit of lemon-peel and mace; re- 



QUICKEST DISHES. 131 

move these, add sufficient butter and milk 
to make the required amount of sauce, 
thicken with a little flour, add a little 
lemon Juice, season with salt and pepper, 
drop in the oysters, and remove at once 
from the stove. 

286. Parsley Sauce. 
Boil two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley in water for five minutes, then 
drain and mix with drawn butter made 
after recipe No. 275. 

287. Pudding Sauce, with Milk. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

\\ cupfuls sugar. 

Beat well together, stir into one cupful 
boiling milk, beat again, remove from the 
stove, and flavor. 

288. Sour Sauce, for Fish. 

Half a cupful of melted butter, the juice 
of one lemon, salt, pepper, and a table- 
spoonful parsley chopped fine, beaten to- 
gether with a tablespoonful of mayonnaise 
or prepared salad dressing. 



132 QUICKEST DISHES, 

289. Tartar Sauce. 

\ cupful mayonnaise (No. 164). 

\ cupful minced cucumber and onion. 

290. Transparent Sauce. 

1 pint boiling water. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. 
7 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
Butter the size of a walnut. 
Grated nutmeg. 

Mix the dry flour and sugar well to- 
gether, then stir into the boiling water, 
and add the nutmeg and vinegar. 

291. White Oyster Sauce. 

2 dozen Eastern or 4 dozen Pacific coast 
oysters, and their liquor. 

1 cupful milk. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Butter the size of a walnut. 

Bring the milk and oyster liquor to a 
boil, thicken with the flour, which has been 
rubbed smooth in a little water, drop in 



QUICKEST DISHES, I33 

the oysters, and remove at once from the 
stove. 

Serve with fish. 

292. Frankfort Sausages, Baked. 

Roll Frankfort sausages separately in 
brown paper, and bake in the oven five 
minutes. 

293. Frankfort Sausages, Boiled. 
Boil in water for five minutes and serve 

with chow-chow. 

294. Fried Shrimps. 

Shell and heat gently in a pan with a lit- 
tle butter, until the butter is melted and 
the shrimps heated through. Season with 
pepper and send to the table encircled by 
thin slices of limes. 

295. Shrimp Salad. 

Make a bed of fresh lettuce, cut fine 
with a knife. Pour over this a mayonnaise 
dressing (No. 1 64), being careful to leave a 
fringe of the fresh lettuce about the edge 



134 QUICKEST DISHES. 

of the dish and a clear place in the centre. 
Distribute the peeled shrimps over the 
wide ring covered by the mayonnaise, build- 
ing' up a little tuft of lettuce in the centre. 

296. Cold Slaw (sour). 

Ravr cabbage, chopped fine. Season with 
pepper and salt and cover with vinegar. 

297. Cold Slaw. 

Raw cabbage, chopped fine. Pour over 

it a sauce made by bringing to a boil half 

a teacupful of vinegar, one beaten egg, two 

tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a teaspoonf ul 

of salt, and butter the size of a pigeon's 

egg. 

298. Hot Slaw. 

2 cupf uls chopped cabbage. 

\ cupful boiling water. 

6 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

1 tablespoonf ul vinegar. 

1 beaten egg. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

A little pepper. 



QUICKEST DISHES. I35 

Mix the water, and seasonings together 
and bring to a boil. Stir in the beaten 
egg, whipping until it- thickens, add the 
cabbage, and simmer gently for three min- 
utes, stirring meanwhile. 

Add the vinegar the last moment, after 
it is taken off the stove. 

299. Fried Smelts. 

Buy all fish ready cleaned, if possible. 
To prepare small fish it is only necessary 
to cut off the heads, slit them open and 
wash them out, as the back bone will bake 
crisp, and can be eaten or easily removed 
when sent to the table. 

Roll in flour and fry in a little lard or 
salt pork, to a nice brown, seasoning them 
in the pan. 

300. Smoked Beef (creamed). 

1 bowlful chipped beef. 
1 bowlful warm water. 

1 bowlful cream or milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



136 QUICKEST DISHES, 

Place the beef in the water, which 
should be only lukewarm; bring it to a 
boil and boil briskly ten minutes. Add the 
cream or milk, and when it again comes to 
a boil stir in the flour, previously rubbed 
smooth in a little water, and, if milk is 
used, a small lump of butter, I'emoving 
from the stove the moment it thickens. 

301. Smoked Beef on Toast. 

Placed the desired amount of chipped 
beef in a frying-pan with a lump of butter 
and shake about until the butter has melted. 
Serve on buttered toast. 

302. Snipe. 

See Roast Woodcocks, No. 340. 

303. Snow Pudding. 

\ package gelatine, soaked for an hour 
or more in one cup cold water. 
1^ cupfuls sugar. 
4 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
4 yolks of eggs, beaten. 
Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 37 

1 pint boiling milk. 

Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. 

304. Spanish Cream. 

\ package gelatine, previously dissolved 
in water. 

1 pint boiling milk. 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Flavoring extract. 

Stir the yolks of the eggs, the sugar 
and the gelatine into the boiling milk until 
it boils up once more. Remove from the 
range and stir in the whites, beaten stiff. 
Flavor and serve with cream. 

305. Fried Squash. 
Cut cold steamed squash into thin slices 
dip each into beaten egg, well seasoned, 
and fry in a buttered-frying pan to a nice 
brown. 

306. Squash Griddle-Cakes. 
1 cupful cold boiled squash. 
1 egg, beaten. 



138 QUICKEST DISHES. 

\ cupful flour. 
2 teacupfuls sweet milk. 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking-powder. 
1 level teaspoonful salt. 
Mix well together and fry on a hot 
griddle. 

307. Strawberry Mush. 

Prepare a double quantity of oatmeal or 
cracked-wheat mush for breakfast, then 
take alternate layers of the hot mush and 
sugared berries. Cut into slices when cold 
and serve with cream. 

308. Sugared Fruits. 

Beat white of eg'g for one minute. Dip 
any small fruits into it, roll in powdered 
sugar, and dry on a sieve in the sun or in 
an open oven. 

309. Sweet-Breads, Fried. 

Scald in hot water, remove the stringy 
parts, then lay in cold salted water a few 
minutes, after which dry in a cloth ; dip in 
beaten egg, roll in crumbs, and fry in butter 



QUICKEST DISHES. I39 

to a nice brown. Serve with a sauce of 
milk, butter, and a little parsley, seasoned 
well and cooked in the same dish. If a 
mushroom can be added it will improve 
the flavor. 

310. Sweet-Breads, Broiled. 

Scald, and remove stringy parts, boil ten 
minutes, then broil in a wire gridiron, 
smearing with a little butter, as often as 
they are turned, to prevent them from be- 
coming too dry. 

311. Tapioca Cream. 

2 tablespoonf uls tapioca soaked in water 
until soft. 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately. 

1 cupfui sugar. 
1 quart of milk. 
Vanilla or lemon flavoring. 
Boil together five minutes and pour into 
moulds to cool. Serve with cream or milk. 



I40 QUICKEST DISHES, 

312. Tea. 

Into a heated, dry teapot put the req- 
uisite amount of tea leaves, and pour 
boiling water upon them. Cover closely, 
and put in a hot place to steep for five 
minutes, but on no account allow it to boil. 

313. Parched-Corn Tea. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls parched field corn, 
pounded, or com meal, browned in a dry pan. 

Boil five minutes, strain, and salt to taste. 

314. Flaxseed Tea. 

1 tablespoonful flaxseed. 
1 cupful boiling water. 
Boil five minutes, strain, add sugar and 
a little orange or lemon juice. 

315. Wheat, Barley, or Oat Tea. 

Two tablespoonfuls fresh ground graham 
flour, ground barley, or oat meal, browned 
in a dry pan; moisten with a little cold 
water, and steep in a pint of boiling water 
for ten minutes. 



QUICKEST DISHES, I4I 

316. Toast Water. 

1 glass cold water. 

1 slice hard toast (zweiback, if there is a 
German bakery at hand). 

Soak for half an hour, then press out the 
water. 

317. Tomatoes, Baked. 

Cut ripe tomatoes in two, place skins 
downward in a buttered baking-pan, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, and bake eight 
or ten minutes in a hot oven. Put a bit of 
butter in each on taking them up. 

318. Fried Tomatoes. 

Slice, dip in flour, season with pepper 
and salt, and fry on each side to a nice 
brown. 

319. Tomato Hash. 

Place in a baking-dish alternate layers 
of sliced tomatoes and chopped cold meat, 
well seasoned, and pour two beaten eggs 
over the top. 

Bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 



142 QUICKEST DISHES. 

320. Tomato Salad. 

Tomatoes peeled and sliced Pour over 
them a dressing made of a teacupful of 
vinegar, one beaten egg, one teaspoonful 
salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 
and one teaspoonful sugar. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs, in slices. 

321. Tomatoes, Stewed. 

Scald ripe tomatoes and remove the 
skins, then stew gently in a very little water 
for ten minutes. Season with salt, pepper, 
and butter. 

322. Tong^ue, Fried. 

A nice "second-day dish" of boiled 
tongue is prepared by frying slices in a lit- 
tle butter to a nice brown, and serving 
with a parsley sauce (No. 286). 

323. Stewed Tongue. 

Simmer cold boiled tongue in a sauce 
made of a little bacon, fat, or butter, salt, 
pepper, one small onion, and a little flour. 



J 



QUICKEST DISHES. I43 

324. Stewed Tongue with Tomato Sauce. 

Same as foregoing, with the addition of 
one small can of tomatoes boiled in the 
sauce. 

325. Tongue Toast. 

While bread is toasting prepare cold 
boiled tongue, minced fine, well seasoned, 
and moistened with beaten egg and a little 
cream or milk. Simmer over the fire for a- 
moment, then spread on the toast, and sen ": 
to the table hot. 

326. Tripe, Boiled. 

Cut into strips, season with pepper and 
salt, lay on a wire broiler, and brown nicely 
on both sides. Serve with a sauce made 
by mixing two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter with a few drops of lemon juice or 
vinegar and a little chopped parsley. 

327. Tripe, Fried. 

Brown a minced onion in a little butter, 
then add the tripe, pepper, and salt. Shake 
about until the tripe is heated through. 



144 QUICKEST DISHES. 

328. Tripe Fried in Batter. 

2 beaten eggs, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt. 

1 pound of tripe. 

Cut the tripe into small squares, dip in 
the ^^^^ roll in flour, drop in hot lard, and 
fry to a nice brown. 

329. Brook Trout, Broiled. 

Split open and detach the backbone. 
Dip in melted butter, season with pepper 
and salt, and broil in a wire broiler to a nice 
brown. 

330. Brook Trout, Fried. 

Scald with boiling water and remove the 
skins. Remove the backbone, dip in beaten 
egg seasoned with pepper and salt, roll in 
flour, and fry in olive oil or butter to a 
nice brown. 

Serve with a sauce, 288 or 289. 

331. Mashed Turnips. 

Peel, cut into very thin slices, and steam 
ten minutes, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and mash through a vegetable press. 



QUICKEST DISHES. I4S 

332. Venison Chops. 

Season with salt and pepper and broil un- 
til thoroughly done and a deep rich brown 
on both sides. 

Sour with currant catsup or jelly. 

333. Baking-Powder Waffles. 
4 level cupfuls flour. 
2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
4 scant cupfuls milk. 
2 whole eggs and 6 yolks well beaten. 
\ cupful melted butter. 
1 tablespoonful syrup. 

1 level teaspoonful salt: 

Beat well together, reserving one cupful 
of milk to thin with at the last. 

334. Rice Waffles. 

2 cupfuls cold boiled rice. 
2 level cupfuls sifted flour. 
\\ cupfuls milk. 

2 whole eggs and 5 yolks, beaten together. 
2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
1 tablespoonful syrup or molasses. 
By greasing the wafile irons handily with 



146 QUICKEST DISHES. 

a brusli kept in a cupful of lard, drippings, 
or melted butter always close at hand, 
having a very hot fire, and managing the 
iron deftly, two minutes will bake a single 
waffle, and enough to supply any family of 
moderate size can be made in twenty-five 
minutes. 

335. Washington Pie. 

\ cupful milk. 

3 eggs. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teacupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Beat all together three minutes, bake on 
jelly tins five minutes in a hot oven, and 
arrange in layers, with raspberry or black- 
berry jam between. 

336. Water-Cress Salad. 

Wash, pick over, and drain. Lay in a 
dish which has previously been rubbed 
with a piece of garlic, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and pour over them a light 



QUICKEST DISHES. I47 

sprinkling of vinegar into whicli a little 
olive oil has been beaten. 

337. Welsh Rarebit. 

Half a pound of crumbed cheese, quarter 
of a pound of butter, warmed and mashed 
together in a saucepan. Add four yolks of 
eggs, salt, pepper, and half a cupful of milk, 
stirring until creamy, but not allowing it 
to boil. Spread on thin slices of toast and 
brown in hot oven for two minutes. 

338. Welsh Rarebit with Eggs. 

Slices of cheese placed on thin slices of 
bread and baked in a hot oven for two 
minutes. Serve a poached egg on top of 
each. 

339. Whipped Cream. 

1 pint sweet cream. 

9 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Whip to a foam with egg-beater, skim- 
ming ofif the froth as it arises. Serve with 
chocolate, or as a separate dessert, with 
fancy confections. 



148 QUICKEST DISHES, 

340> Roast Woodcock. 

Lay in a roasting-pan with a little but- 
ter, place a piece of fat pork on top of each, 
and roast twelve minutes in a hot oven, 
basting once. 

Serve with a gravy made by rubbing a 
little flour into the fat in the bottom of the 
pan, seasoning with salt and pepper, and 
diluting with hot water. 



TWENTY MINUTES AND MORE. 

341. Almond Cake. 

2^ cupfuls flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonful baking-powder. 
8 whites of eggs, beaten stiflE. 

i cupful melted butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Put all the ingredients in a dish together 
and stir briskly until smooth. Bake in 
thin sheets, in jelly-cake tins. While the 
cake is baking, prepare blanched almonds 
by covering a few minutes with boiling 
water, meanwhile making a soft frosting of 
four whites of eggs beaten stiif with four 
tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar. Spread 
this between the layers of cake ; rub the 
almonds with a cloth to take off the skins, 
split them open, and lay about upon the 
frosting. 

149 



I50 QUICKEST DISHES, 

342. Almond Custard Pudding. 

Take a piece of stale cake, wanned 
slightly (sponge cake is preferable), stick 
blanched almonds into the crust, and pour 
over it a custard made of one pint of 
scalded milk thickened with three eggs, a 
small cupful of sugar, and flavored with 
vanilla. 

343. Angel Food. 

10 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

1 rounded cupful sugar. 

1 rounded cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

Flavoring. 

Mix quickly, and as soon as the flour is 
out of sight pour into buttered gem pans 
and bake twenty minutes. Ice when cold. 

344. Apples, Baked. 

Take nice, sound apples, examining them 
carefully to see that they are not wormy ; 
remove the core from one end, using a 
corer or a steel fork. Set them on the other 
end in a baking-dish, fill the cavities with 



K^, iiJT -J^-J >._-J^». 



--" 



QUICKEST DISHES. 151 

sugar, pour over them a little water, and 
bake for twenty minutes in an even oven. 

345. Apple Custard. 

4 cupfuls apple sauce, strained through 
patent jelly press. 

3 heaping cupfuls sugar. 

1 quart milk. 

6 eggs, well beaten 

Stir together and bake twenty minutes. 

Serve hot or cold, with cream or milk. 

346. Apple Jelly. 

Quarter sound, tart, juicy apples, with- 
out removing either peel or core. 

Boil briskly with a little water fifteen 
minutes. Strain through a bag, or by means 
of the vegetable press, running the juice a 
second time through a cloth, without squeez- 
ing to clarify it. 

To every pound of juice put three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar. Boil briskly for 
ten minutes. 

Apple jelly is a delicacy which rarely 



152 QUICKEST DISHES. 

meets the appreciation it deserves. It is 
very mu'cli like the choicest guava in flavor. 
If the cores and parings are saved from 
the apples in making apple pie, apple 
sauce, or mincemeat, several glasses of the 
nicest jelly may be made with little trouble, 
as the sweetest and best portion of the ap- 
ple is usually next to the peel. 

347. Jellied Apple Layer-Cake. 

(For Layer-Cake, see No. 145.) 

2 cupfuls apple sauce, flavored with a 
bit of a fresh lemon, run through a vegeta- 
ble strainer ; then add one beaten egg and 
\ cupful sugar, and bring to a boil in a 
double steamer. Spread while hot. 

348. Apples, Pickled. 

10 pounds sweet apples, pared and cored. 
4 cupfuls sugar. 
6 cupfuls vinegar. 

1 heaping tablespoonful ground cinna- 
mon. 

\ tablespoonful ground cloves* 



QUICKEST DISHES. I $3 

Boil together fifteen minutes, or until 
the apples begin to show signs of break- 
ing. Take out one by one, carefully, and 
pour the vinegar over them. 

349. Apple Pie. 

To make nice apple pies the apples 
should, if possible, be both tai-t and juicy, 
and sliced thin or chopped fine, without 
previous cooking. Spread on the pie crust, 
sprinkle with sugar and a little nutmeg or 
cinnamon. If the apples are nice, no further 
care beyond a good oven is needed ; but if 
the apples are too flat or insipid, a little 
ground clove will lend them piquancy and 
zest. If they are too dry, moisten with a 
very little water and add a few crumbs of 
butter before putting on the top crust. 

350. Apple Sago Pudding. 

1 cup sago so&ked overnight in 1 quart 
of water. 

3 cupfuls stiff apple sauce, sweetened 
with 1 cup sugar. 

Boil the sago until it is clear, adding a 



154 QUICKEST DISHES. 

little water to thin it, and a pinch of salt. 
Pour over the apples and eat with cream or 
milk. 

351. Apple Sauce. 

Pare and core nice, tart apples, put with 
them half their weight of sugar, and sim- 
mer twenty minutes in just enough water 
to cover them. 

The addition of a cut lemon, in boiling, 
will give a citron flavor to the sauce. 

Prepare a double quantity at a time, and 
material is ready for the five- and ten-min- 
ute dishes. No. 345-347 and 350. 

352. Apple Sauce with Meats. 

Stew nice, tart apples half an hour, in a 
little water. Run through a fruit press, 
and stir a little butter into them while hot. 

353. Artichokes. 

Boil half an hour in salted water, in- 
verting the artichoke and placing a plate 
upon them to keep them under water. 

Serve with one part of olive oil and two 



QUICKEST DISHES. 155 

parts of vinegar and a little pepper beaten 
together, and placed in individual dishes at 
each plate. 

354- Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Scrape and clean a dozen Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, boil until tender, run through the 
vegetable press with a little salt and pepper, 
put a little butter over the top, and brown in 
the oven three minutes. 

355. Asparagus. 

Cut off the tough ends and boil in well- 
salted water for about twenty minutes, or 
until a fork will penetrate the stalk without 
resistance. Too much boiling will shrivel 
it. Drain off the water, add pepper and but- 
ter, or else lay out on a hot dish and pour 
over it a sauce of drawn butter, recipe No. 
275. 

It is well to always boil an extra allow- 
ance, and thus provide material for a con- 
siderable variety of dainty dishes which 
will be found in Part I. 



156 QUICKEST DISHES, 

356. Asparagus on Toast. 

Cut the tender portion of the asparagus 
into inch lengths. Boil fifteen minutes in 
salted water, then drain off all but a few 
tablespoonfuls of water, skim out the 
pieces of asparagus and lay over slices of 
hot, dry toast. Pour over the whole a 
gravy made by dissolving a little butter in 
the water and seasoning it well. 

357. Bananas, Baked. 

Split lengthwise, lay closely together in a 
pan, sift a little ground cinnamon or nut- 
meg over them, and bake fifteen minutes, 
basting with a syrup of sugar and water a 
couple of minutes before taking them up. 

358. Banana Pie. 

Cut in slices one fourth of an inch thick, 
lay in an open crust, with a little grated 
nutmeg, a breath of ground clove, and 
some powdered sugar dredged over the 
top. Bake fifteen minutes. 



QUICKEST DISHES. ^ 15/ 

359. Roast Beef. 

Season well with salt and pepper, place 
in a pan with a little water in the bottom, 
and roast in an even oven, allowing a quar- 
ter of an hour for every pound of meat. 
Baste with the drippings once every fifteen 
minutes, and five minutes before taking up 
dredge lightly with flour. Serve with 
gravy made of the drippings, thickened 
with brown flour, into which a tablespoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce has been 
stirred. 

360. Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding. 

Place a roast of beef upon a wire or iron 
broiler laid across a dripping-pan. Three 
quarters of an hour before it is done, take 
it from the oven, drain the dripping-pan 
almost empty if much fat has accumulated, 
and place in it a batter composed of pne 
pint of milk, two cups of flour, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and four eggs, yolks and whites 
. beaten separately. Return to the oven to 
roast, allowing the drippings to fall from 



158 QUICKEST DISHES. 

the meat upon the pudding below. When 
it is taken up, cut the pudding into pieces 
and place around the meat on the platter. 

361. Beefsteak, Braised. 

Take a tough steak, unfit for broiling, 
cut thin, season with salt and pepper, and 
strew with minced onion. Roll up the 
slices and fasten with small skewers or 
cord, and lay in a covered saucepan with a 
cupful of water, and a little suet in the 
bottom. Cook in a slow oven one hour. 

362. Beafsteak, Roasted. 
A tough steak will sometimes be im- 
proved by being pounded, seasoned, 
dredged lightly with flour, placed in a 
baking-pan, and roasted in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes. Serve with a gravy made 
of the juices in the pan, thickened with a 
little flour and boiled up with a little 
water. 

363. Beets Prepared as a Vegetable. 

Boil one hour in salted water. Rub off 
the skins with a cloth, slice, pepper and 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 59 

butter, or cover with drawn butter, and 
serve while hot. 

364. Beets as a Relish. 
Boil one hour, skin, cut into slices, and 
serve with salt, pepper, and enough vinegar 
to cover them. 

365. Beet Greens. 
Young beets, roots, and tops make choice 
greens. Wash carefully, removing any 
withered leaves, and boil in salted water 
for an hour. Press out the water in a col- 
ander, sprinkle with pepper, place lumps 
of butter on top, and set in a hot oven one 
minute before serving. 

366. Blackberry Jam. 
"Wash the fruit, and to each pound put 
three fourths of a pound of sugar. Sim- 
mer together for ten minutes. 

367. Bouillon. 

Make at night or in the morning, to be used at the next 
dinner. 

1 quart soup stock. 

1 pound lean beef, cut fine. 



l6o QUICKEST DISHES. 

1 white of egg, beaten ; pepper and salt. 

Simmer the meat and stock together for 
an hour. 

Take off the cake of grease which will 
form over the top when cold. Bring to a 
boil, stir in the white of ^^^^ strain through 
cloth, and send to the table. 

368. Bread. 

The making of good yeast bread would 
not seem, at first sight, properly included 
in Quick CooKiisra, but if one will discard 
all old superstitions on the subject, it will 
be found that a large batch of delicious 
loaves can be produced by a process so 
simple and so short, considering the value 
and amount of the product, that one will 
be loath to depend upon the baker when 
they have once tried it, and it may well be 
considered one of the most economical in- 
vestments that a busy woman can make of 
her time. The editor would like to impress 
upon all women who consult this book the 
importance of supplying their tables vnth 



QUICKEST DISHES, l6l 

good, sweet, home-made bread. It forms 
the essential basis of every attractive meal, 
and without it a table seems impoverished. 
The first requisite for good bread is good 
yeast. Brewer's yeast may be used, or the 
common concentrated yeast which is sup- 
plied fresh daily at all the groceries in 
large towns, and which it will cost but two 
cents to procure by mail at any country vil- 
lage within a day's travel of the city. This 
yeast needs only to be dissolved in luke- 
warm water and put directly into the flour. 
There is, however, nothing which makes as 
sweet and wholesome bread as 

POTATO YEAST. 

12 medium-sized potatoes, pared, and 
with eyes removed. 

1 quart boiling water. 

1 teacupf ul flour. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cake moist compressed yeast. 

Boil the potatoes until tender, mash with 
a fork, or (preferably) strain through the 



1 62 QUICKEST DISHES. 

vegetable press into the yeast-jar, scald the 
flour in the water in which the potatoes 
were boiled, add the sugar, and run through 
the vegetable press into the yeast-jar. Stir 
the mixture, thin with cold water to the 
consistency of cream, and, as soon as it is 
milk-warm, stir in the yeast (compressed 
yeast, dissolved in water). Set in a warm 
place, and it will rise up, a light foam, in 
from two and a half to three and a half 
hours. If desired, it can be put at once 
into the bread, and will do its work quite 
as efficiently. Set it in a cool place, and it 
will keep a week and a half in warm 
weather, and much longer in cool weather. 

YEAST BREAD. 

8 quarts white flour (unsifted). 
\\ scant quarts milk-warm water. 
2 tablespoonf uls salt. 
2 heaping tablespoonf uls lard or butter. 
\\ pints potato yeast. 
(If the compressed yeast is to be used 
merely dissolved in water, a proportionately 



J 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 63 

larger amount of liquid must be used in 
mixing, to compensate for the loss in yeast.) 

Dissolve the salt and lard in a little boil- 
ing water (meanwhile buttering your bak- 
ing-tins), and add cold water until you have 
the requisite amount of milk- warm water 
for mixing. Have ready a large mixing- 
pan. Sift the flour into it, make a hollow 
in the centre, and pour the ingredients into 
it. If it is the second or third setting from 
the yeast, and it has a suspicion of sourness, 
a level teaspoonful of soda stinted into it 
will correct the defect. 

Stir slowly with a stout spoon, punching 
and mashing the dough as it forms until 
the flour is all gathered in. Sift a little 
flour over the top of the dough, and more 
upon the cake-board. Loosen the mass 
from the pan and let it fall upon the floured 
boai-d. 

If the hands and wrists of the worker 
are small and weak, it will be wiser to sep- 
arate the dough into two lumps. Proceed 
to knead, touching the dough lightly at 



164 QUICKEST DISHES. 

first, pulling up the sides and pressing them 
down over the top, rubbing on a little flour 
wherever it is soft and sticky. Then thump 
and press it harder, roll and pound it until 
it becomes a compact mass. 

Now the artistic kneading comes in: a 
brisk routine of pulling up the dough from 
the edges with both hands and jamming it 
fiercely down on top with both thumbs 
pressed into the lump, swinging the dough 
with a rotary motion, and repeating the 
process until a delightful spongy, satiny 
feeling beneath the hands tells that it is 
worked enough. 

Now form quickly into eight nice loaves, 
to be baked, if possible, in large single-loaf 
tins. To make the one process accomplish 
as much as possible, it is well to reserve 
some of the dough for a pan of plain bis- 
cuit, French rolls (No. 439), or buns 
(No. 374). 

Prick with a fork to keep the loaves 
from cracking while rising. Cover tightly 
with a bit of table oil-cloth or a blanket, 
and set to rise in a warm place. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 165 

In from three to four hours they will be 
ready for the oven. A rich golden-brown 
crust can be insured by brushing over the 
tops lightly with a yolk of egg beaten up 
with two or three tablespoonfuls of cream. 

Bake in a slow, even oven for one hour, 
covering with paper if there is any danger 
of burning. 

The Editor is aware that it is uttering a 
heresy to state that bread made in this 
manner can easily be kept moist and fresh 
for six days ; but this is a book of heresies. 
When taken from the oven it should be 
wrapped closely in a thick cloth — an old 
tablecloth or blanket, kept fresh and clean 
for this purpose, is the best — and allowed 
to cool. In half a day the loaves that it is 
desired to keep longest may be taken out 
and placed in a covered stone jar, in a dry 
place, and will be found to be quite as nice 
at the end of a week as when first baked. 

369. Bread-Crumb Batter-Cakes. 

Put one quart of stale bread to soak over- 
night in sour milk or buttermilk. In the 



1 

i 



1 66 QUICKEST DISHES. 

momiDg stir in one cupful of flour, enough 
additional milk to make a thin batter, a 
little salt, and one teaspoonful of soda. 

Sweet milk or water and a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder can be substituted for 
the sour milk, or the bread can be put to 
soak in warm water with a halfcupful of 
yeast to raise the cakes. 

370. Bread Pudding. 

One pint stale bread-crumbs and broken 
crusts. 

Two beaten eggs. 

One cup sugar. 

One quart of milk. 

Grated nutmeg. 

Raisins if desired. 

Stir all together, and bake for three 
quarters of an hour. 

371. Bread Pudding without Milk. 

2 cupfuls stale bread crusts, moistened 
with boiling water. 

2 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 
2 beaten yolks of eggs. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 6/ 

1 small cupful sugar. 

Bake twenty minutes; cover with a 
meringue of the whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff with two tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar. Brown in hot oven for three min- 
utes. 

372. Brown Betty. 

2 cupfuls bread-crumbs. 

4 cupfuls chopped apples. 

2 scant cupfuls sugar. 

\ cupful butter. 

Ground cinnamon. 

Arrange the apples, cinnamon and bread- 
crumbs in a deep pudding-dish, in alternate 
layers, as many as you like, beginning with 
apple and crowning the top with bread- 
crumbs. 

Strew each layer of apple thickly with 
sugar, stud it with little crumbs of butter, 
and spice well with cinnamon. 

Bake, covered over, for three quarters of 
an hour, and then uncover and brown for 
five minutes. Serve with cream. 

I am tempted to call this the most de- 



1 68 QUICKEST DISHES. 

licious and wholesome of puddings. It 
is good when it is hot and quite as good 
when it is cold ; it is even better the sec- 
ond day than the first, a virtue which off- 
sets half of the labor of preparation. 

373. Buckwheat Cakes. 

2 cupf uls warm water. 

2 cupfuls buckwheat flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls wheaten flour. 

1 tablespoonf ul syrup. 

\ cupful yeast. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix overnight for use at breakfast ; stir 
in a couple of tablespoonfuls milk just be- 
fore using. 

374. Buns. 

One pound of bread dough ; work in 
4 tablespoonfuls melted butter or lard, 
i cupful sugar. 
1 beaten egg. 
A little grated nutmeg. 
\ cupful stemmed raisins or Zante cur- 
rants. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 1 69 

Make into biscuits and set them to rise 
along with, the rest of the bread dough. 

When they are twice their original size, 
put in the oven and bake for twenty min- 
utes. Brush over the tops with a thin 
frosting made by stirring a little sugar into 
a beaten ^^<g^ and set back to brown for 
two minutes. 

375. Cabbage, Boiled. 

Boil until tender in salted water, or in the 
same pot with corned beef or ham. Press 
through a colander, add pepper and butter, 
place in the oven a couple of minutes, and 
serve. 

376. Cabbage Boiled in Milk. 
Shave up a small head of cabbage, boil 
for twenty minutes in water, then drain, 
add milk, pepper, salt, and butter, and boil 
for ten minutes more. 

377. Cauliflower, Plain. 
Boil in salted water for twenty minutes, 
drain and serve with pepper and butter, 
adding a little milk, if preferred. 



I70 QUICKEST DISHES. 

378. Escalloped Cauliflower. 

Boil for fifteen minutes in salted water. 
Then drain off the water ; separate the in- 
ner stems, arrange in a baking-dish with 
the heads up, pour over them a sauce of 
drawn butter (recipe No. 275), sprinkle 
with bread-crumbs, and bake for ten min- 
utes. 

379. Celery, Baked. 

1 cupful of celery, cut fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 
4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls gravy for basting. 

Boil the celeiy ten minutes in water. 
Drain thoroughly, mix with the other in- 
gredients, and bake in a buttered dish for 
ten minutes, basting twice with the gravy. 

380. Celery, Stewed. 

Cut into small pieces and simmer fifteen 
minutes in enough water to cover, together 
with a little minced onion. Just before 



QUICKEST DISHES, 17I 

taking up add a little salt, pepper, and but- 
ter, and thicken with a little flour. 

Celery stewed in this manner is said to 
be very soothing to the nerves. 

381. Charlotte Russe. 

2 cupf uls sugar. 

1 rounded cupful sifted flour. 

10 whites of eggs. 

1 heaping teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 
Flavoring. 

Beat the whites stiff, then add the other 
ingredients, and beat until smooth. Spread 
on buttered paper, the thinnest possible 
layer, and bake five minutes. Remove 
from the paper by moistening the latter, 
being careful not to break the cake, then 
cut into linings for small shallow cups or 
glasses, and fill with the following cream : 

2 cupfuls boiling milk. 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 

7 tablespoonfuls cream. 

5 yolks of eggs. 

\ cupful sweet wine or fruit juice. 



1/2 QUICKEST DISHES. 

Put the sugar and gelatine into the boil- 
ing milk and stir briskly until the gelatine 
is dissolved. Then stir in the beaten yolks, 
removing as soon as the mixture thickens, 
When cool add the cream, vrhipped, and 
the fruit juice. Pour into the cake cases, 
and remove them from the cups when 
ready for the table. 

382. Cherries, Pickled. 
Five pounds of cherries, boiled five min- 
utes in one quart of vinegar w^ith two 
pounds of sugar, and one half ounce each of 
cinnamon, mace, and clove, tied in a muslin 

bag. 

Skim out the fruit, and pour the scalding 

vinegar over it. 

383. Cherry Pudding. 
Stone ripe cherries, squeezing the stones 
out by pinching the fruit between thumb 
and forefinger, if a good cherry-stoner is not 
at hand, being careful to catch all the juice 
that escapes. Add three quarters the 
weight of sugar, and simmer on the back of 



1 



QUICKEST DISHES, ' I73 

the stove for fifteen minutes. Make ready 
a thick batter, prepared as for short-cake 
of flour, baking-powder, a pinch of salt, and 
milk, shortened with cream or melted but- 
ter. Spread this over the top of the pan in 
which the cherries are cooking, set in the 
oven, and bake to a golden brown. Send 
to the table inverted, with the fruit on top. 
Serve with cream. 

This very appetizing dish, which con- 
sumes half an hour's time in preparation 
and cooking, made after the above direc- 
tions, can be prepared for the table in ten 
minutes if the fruit is already preserved, in 
which case there is nothing to be done but 
to place the fruit in the bottom of a pud- 
ding-dish, spread the batter over it, and 
bake for seven minutes in a quick oven. 

Apple, peach, plum, gooseberry, rasp- 
berry, blackberry, or strawberrj^ preserves 
can be used in place of the cherries. 

384. Boiled Chicken. 

See Stewed Chicken, No. 393. 



174 QUICKEST DISHES, 

385. Boiled Chicken, Stuffed with Oysters. 

Same as foregoing, save that, before im- 
mersing in boiling water, the chicken should 
be filled with oysters, well seasoned. 

386. Chicken, Broiled. 

Cut open tender young fowls and lay 
them flat on a broiler, breaking the back- 
bone and breast. Dredge with a little 
flour and season well, moistening with a 
little melted butter. Broil over bright 
coals, turning frequently, for twenty min- 
utes. Butter lightly and set in the oven 
a few moments, when the juices, combined 
with the butter, will unite to form a deli- 
cate gravy. 

387. Chicken, Fried. 

Cut the fowl into pieces, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, roll in flour, and frj^^ in hot lard 
or butter. Serve with a gravy of rich milk 
or cream, thickened with flour, seasoned, 
and cooked in the pan in which the chicken 
has been fried, first draining off the grease. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 75 

388. Chicken, Jellied. 
Boil a fowl until tender, reducing the 
water to a pint during the process. Pick 
the meat from the bones and place in a 
mould, pouring over it a liquid made of 
the water, well seasoned, with a half oimce 
of gelatine dissolved in it. 

389. Chicken Loaf. 

The meat of one or two chickens, boiled 
tender and chopped fine. Line a mould 
with three hard-boiled eggs, thinly sliced, 
press the chicken in the centre, well sea- 
soned and moistened with the liquor in 
which it was boiled. Serve in thin slices, 
when cold. 

390. Chicken Pie. 

Stew the chickens until tender, and then 
remove some of the larger bones. Season 
with salt, pepper, and a little butter, and 
put in a mould lined with thick pastry, 
laying some small bits of pastry among the 
chicken, pouring over it the juice in which 
it has been cooked, properly seasoned, and 
cover vsdth a thin sheet of pastry. 



176 QUICKEST DISHES. 

391. Pressed Chicken. 

Remove the bones from cold boiled 
chicken, chop coarsely, season well, put 
into a bowl-shaped dish and pour over it 
the juices, boiled down to a very concen- 
trated form, pressing the meat down after 
the liquid has time to be absorbed. Slice 
when cold. 

392. Roast Chicken or Turkey. 

Dredge inside and out with a little flour, 
mixed with pepper and salt. For stufling 
see No. 570. Fill the bodies and crops of 
each fowl with the dressing, draw the skin 
together over the opening with fine cord, 
place in a pan with a little water, and bake 
from one to three hours according to the 
age of the fowl basting occasionally with 
the liquid. Make a gravy by thickening the 
juices with a little flour, dissolved in cold 
water, and add, if you like, the giblets, 
boiled and chopped fine. 

The best test by which to determine 
whether a fowl is done, is to prick the 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 77 

flesh with an ordinary steel fork. If a turn 
of the prongs causes the flesh to separate 
easily from the bones, the fowl is done. 

393. Stewed Chicken. 

Cut up the fowl and lay it in cold water 
for a few moments. Then plunge into 
boiling water, just enough to cover it; 
after it has stewed a few minutes, add a 
little chopped onion, some tiny slices of salt 
pork, and a little pepper and salt, and a 
few moments before taking it up brown a 
little flour by rubbing it into an equal 
quantity of scorched butter. Thin with a 
little water and stir into the water the 
chicken has been cooked in. A very young 
chicken will take but fifteen minutes to 
cook, while tough old ones will require an 
hour or more. Therefore avoid the old 
ones. 

394. Chicken and Oyster Pie. 

Make the top crust of a chicken pie 
loose, and on taking up, lift the crust and 
pour over the chicken small quantity of 



178 QUICKEST DISHES. 

oysters, stewed in a little thickened milk, 
according to Recipe No. 221. 

395. Chocolate Puffs. 

1 white of egg^ beaten stiff. 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar. 

2 cupfuls powdered cocoa or chocolate. 

Beat together to a stiff paste, drop on 
buttered paper and bake twenty minutes in 
a slow oven. 

396. Chowden 

One chowder recipe is a sufficient rule 
by which to prepare clam chowder, fresh 
fish chowder, salt fish, or eel chowder. 

Put first a layer of thin slices of salt 
pork; then a layer of fish, then one of 
potatoes sliced about one third of an inch 
thick. Continue the layers until the fish 
is exhausted, seasoning each with pepper 
and salt, and finish with broken crackers 
or bread crusts, cover with milk and water 
in equal quantities. Boil for half an hour, 
and disturb as little as possible in pouring 
upon the platter. 



I 



QUICKEST DISHES, 1 79 

397. Citron Cake. 

Cut citron into fine slices and shreds, 
dredge a little flour over it, and stir it in 
any nice cake dough, adding it just before 
sending the cake to the oven. 

398. Cocoanut Pie. 

1 cupful desiccated cocoanut. 

1 cupful milk. 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

Stir together and bake from twelve to 
fifteen minutes in an open pie crust. Cool 
for five minutes, then cover the top with 
a meringue made from the two whites of 
eggs, beaten stiff, with two tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar, and brown in the oven 
three minutes. 

399. Cocoanut Pudding. 
1 cupful desiccated cocoanut. 
1 cupful bread crumbs. 
4 cupfuls milk. 
4 beaten eggs. 
\ cupful sugar. 



l8o QUICKEST DISHES, 

Mix together and bake fifteen minutes 
in a hot oven; afterwards cover, if des- 
ired, with a meringue of 2 whites of eggs 
beaten stiff, with 2 tablespoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar. 

400. Codfish with Cream Gravy. 

For a moderate-sized family take half of 
one of the bricks of boneless codfish, to be 
had of all grocers, pour scalding water over 
it, then drain off and shred apart. Boil in 
milk for fifteen minutes, then thicken with 
a couple tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or 
flour, and one ^^^ lightly beaten. Pour 
over boiled or steamed potatoes. 

401. Coffee Cake. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

\ cupful melted butter. 

2 eggs. 

\ cupful sugar. 

\ cupful strong (liquid) coffee. 

1 cupful raisins. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful allspice. 



QUICKEST DISHES. l8l 

A little clove and nutmeg. 

J cupful molasses, with a scant table- 
spoonful of soda stirred into it. 

Bake thirty minutes, covered with paper, 
in a quick oven. 

402. Green Corn, Boiled. 

Put the ears into boiling salt water and 
boil for twenty minutes. 

403. Corn-Bread. 

1 cupful indian-meal. 

1 heaping cupful sifted flour. 

2 beaten eggs. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

2 cupfuls sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter or lard. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

Beat all together briskly, spread over a 
hot buttered pan or in gem pans, and bake 
in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

404. Corn-Bread. 

4 cupfuls corn-meal, scalded in 2 cupfuls 
boiling water. 



1 82 QUICKEST DISHES. 

1 pint sour milk or buttermilk. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda. 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Pour into a large, hot buttered pan and 
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

405. Corn-Meal Buns. 

1 cupful of corn-meal. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 

i cupful melted butter, 
i cupful of sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 cupful of milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Beat together briskly for a couple of 
minutes, drop in gem pans, and bake fif- 
teen minutes in a hot oven. 

406. Corn-Meal Muffins. 

2 cupfuls corn-meal. 
2 cupfuls flour. 

2 cupfuls boiling water, in which \ cup- 
ful butter is dissolved. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 83 

3 cupfuls milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder (or 3 cup- 
fuls sour milk and 1 level teaspoonf ul soda). 
2 beaten eggs. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

Scald the corn-meal with the boiling 

water, stir in the other ingredients, and 

bake twenty minutes in greased muffin 

rings, first heating them a moment in the 

oven. 

407. Corn-Meal Mush. 

4 cupfuls corn-meal. 
4 quarts of water. 

2 level tablespoonfuls salt. 

Use a mush-boiler or double steamer. 
Brush the inside of the pot with lard or 
butter, to prevent the meal from sticking 
to it. Sprinkle the corn-meal slowly into 
the boiling water, stiiring all the while. 
When it thickens, cover it over and let it 
boil for an hour. 

The above allowance is double the quan- 
tity required by any family of moderate 
size. Put away the surplus on a buttered 



1 84 QUICKEST DISHES. 

dish, pressing it together, that it may cut 
nicely when cold, and you have material 
on hand for several five-minute dishes, to 
be found in Part I. 

408. Corn-Meal Pones, 

1 pint of scalding milk ; stir into this 

1 cupful corn-meal. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 
1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Bake in gem pans, and send to the table 

hot. 

409. Corn-Meal Popovers. 

1 pint scalding milk. 
1 cupful corn-meal. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
1 level teaspoonful salt. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

Stir the corn-meal into the milk, then 
add the other ingredients, the eggs last. 
Bake in buttered gem pans twenty minutes. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 18$ 

410. Cottage Pudding. 

2 heaping cups of flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

1 cup of sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
1 beaten egg. 

Grated nutmeg. 

Bake twenty minutes. Serve with trans- 
parent sauce, recipe No. 290. 

411. Stuffed Crabs. 

Shred the meat, wet with a little salad 
oil, mix with an equal quantity of bread or 
cracker crumbs, the grated rind and juice 
of a lemon, season to taste, and mix to a 
thick paste with cream or rich milk. Re- 
place in shells, with bread crumbs scattered 
over the top, and bake for fifteen minutes. 

412. Cracked- Wheat Mush. 

1 quart boiling water. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls cracked wheat, 

1 level teaspoonf ul salt. 



1 86 Q UICKEST. DISHES, 

Put in a double boiler, and stir until it 
thickens ; then let it boil without stirring, 
for an hour. 

By preparing a double quantity, we have 
several healthful and quickly prepared 
dishes, Nos. 66 and 67. 

413. Cracked Wheat and Apple Pudding. 

2 cupfuls cracked- wheat mush. 

2 cupfuls chopped apples. 

1 cupful sugar. 

\ cupful butter. 

Ground cinnamon. 

Put alternate layers of the apple and 
cracked wheat in a pudding dish, beginning 
with the apple and finishing with the mush. 
Sprinkle each layer of apple with sugar 
and cinnamon, and strew crumbs of butter 
over it. Cover tightly and bake in a quick 
oven forty minutes, then brown for two 
minutes. Serve hot, with cream. 

If this dish is put in the oven twenty 
minutes before dinner, it will require no 
attention and can be taken out for dessert. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 18/ 

414. Cranberries. 

1 pound fruit. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 cupful water. 

Stew slowly for thirty minutes, then 
pour into a mould, and let them remain un- 
til they have become cold, when they will 
be jellied. 

415. Boston Cream Cakes. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls sifted flour. 

10 eggs. 

Soda the size of a pea. 

Boil the butter and water together, and 
while boiling stir in the flour, making a 
thick paste. Remove from the stove and 
cool, so that it will no longer scald. Then 
stir in the eggs and the soda. 

Drop in lumps the size of an ordinary 
hen's egg, on a buttered baking-pan, leav- 
ing considerable spaces between. This 
recipe will make about eighteen cakes. 
Bake in a quick oven ten minutes. 



J 



1 88 QUICKEST DISHES, 

When cold take a sharp penknife and 
make an incision in the top of each, lifting 
a bit of the crust on a hinge, like a little 
trapdoor. Fill with the following cream : 

\\ cupfuls boiling milk. 

1 scant cupful sugar. 
4 eggs, well beaten. 
Lemon or vanilla flavoring. 

Stir the other ingredients into the boil- 
ing milk, until it thickens. 

By using boiling water in first beginning 
the batter, and preparing the custard while 
the dough is cooling, the entire process 
should not consume more than twenty min- 
utes. 

The cakes should never be filled until 
they are sent to the table. 

416. Cream Sponge Cake. 

2 beaten eggs. 

J cupful sweet cream. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupfuls sifted flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 89 

Lemon essence. 

Mix together and bake in a thin flat cake 
for fifteen minutes. 

417. Cream Pie. 

3 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, 

1 cupful sweet cream. 

1 tablespoonf ul flour, first wet with a lit- 
tle cream. 

Stir together and bake in an open pie 
crust twenty minutes* 

418. Cream and Corn-Starch Pie. 

1 pint boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch dissolved in 
warm milk. 

1 beaten ^^^. 

\ cupful sugar. 

Lemon flavoring. 

Stir the other ingredients into the boil- 
ing milk until it thickens, then pour into a 
' pie crust and bake ten minutes. 



190 QUICKEST DISHES. 

419. Crystallized Fruits. 
Make a boiling syrup of two parts sugar 
and one part water. Scald the fruit in this 
from one to five minutes, according to size. 
Roll in powdered sugar, and place upon a 
sieve to dry. 

420. Cucumber Salad, Pickled. 
Wash, pare, and cut ripe cucumbers into 
strips, removing the seeds, and cut into 
dice-shaped pieces. Add to these one third 
the quantity of chopped onions, a few 
chopped peppers, and some fine cut celery. 
Cover with salt for twenty-four hours, then 
drain, cover with cold cider vinegar, and 
seal in a stone jar. 

421. Currant Catsup. 

To every pint of currant juice, take one 
pound of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar, and spice hotly with ground cinna- 
mon, clove, allspice, and pepper. Let it 
just come to a boil, then cork up in bottles. 
A most delicious sauce for meats. 

Almost any juicy and aciduous fruit — 



QUICKEST DISHES. I9I 

crab-apples or sour apples of any kind, tart 
plums, gooseberries, or even grapes — can 
be converted into a catsup made after this 
recipe. Fruit jellies can also be converted 
into catsup by diluting with a little vinegar 
and water, and spicing according to direc- 
tions. 

422. Currant Dumplings. 

Mix one cupful dried currants with ordi- 
nary baking-powder biscuit dough, (No. 6) 
leaving out the shortening. Steam twenty 
minutes and serve with transparent pud- 
ding sauce No. 290. 

423, Currant Jelly. 

Jam the currants and strain them. To 
each pint of juice take one pound of sugar. 
Bring to a boil. 

424. Spiced Currants. 

To every pound of currants picked from 
the stem take one pound of sugar and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Spice freely 
with ground cinnamon, clove, pepper, and 



192 QUICKEST DISHES, 

allspice, remembering always that cinna- 
mon is the most delicate of spices, and 
should be used most freely. 

Boil fifteen minutes. 

Serve with meats. 

425. Boiled Custard. 

2 cupf uls milk. 

^ cupful sugar. 

\ cupful sifted flour. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch. 

4 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

Butter the size of an egg. 

Flavoring. 

Bring the milk to a boil, with the butter 
in it. Then stir in the sugar, flour, and 
corn-starch mixed smooth with the eggs and 
a couple of spoonfuls of cold milk, remov- 
ing as soon as it thickens. 

Cover one half with a meringue of the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff with 4 table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar. Pour the re- 
mainder into a buttered dish, to make the 
five-minute dish on the following day. 



QUICKEST DISHES, I93 

426. Custard Cake. 
\\ cupfuls flour. 

1 cup sugar. 

3 tablespoonf uls melted butter, 

3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

2 moderate teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

Beat the eggs two minutes with an egg- 
beater, then throw in the other ingredients 
and stir until smooth. Bake in two pie 
tins, and spread between the layers and 
over the top a custard made after the fol- 
lowing recipe, prepared while the cake is 
in the oven : 

1 cupful boiling milk. 

2 eggs, beaten. 
\ cupful sugar. 
Vanilla flavoring. 

Stir the other ingredients into the boil- 
ing milk until it thickens. 

427, Floating Island Custard. 

1 quart of boiling milk. 

4 beaten yolks of eggs. 



194 QUICKEST DISHES. 

1 small cupful sugar. 

Stir the eggs and sugar into the boiling 
milk until it thickens, flavor with rose or 
vanilla. Pour into a large pudding-dish or 
custard cups. Have a meringue of the 
whites beaten stiff with 4 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar, and lay in spoonfuls over 
the top, with a teaspoonf ul of currant jelly 
on each. Serve cold. 

428. Custard Pie. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

1 cupful milk. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Vanilla or lemon flavoring, or a little 
grated nutmeg. 

Bake in an open crust about twenty 
minutes, taking care to have the oven as 
hot as it can be without scorching the pie. 

429. Delicate Cake. 

3 cupf uls flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 

10 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 95 

1 scant cupful melted butter. 
1 cupful milk. 

1 cupful corn-starcli moistened with a 
little of the milk. 

3 cupf uls powdered sugar. 

Put all the ingredients into the mixing 
dish, beat together, flavor with lemon or 
vanilla, and bake in a moderate oven. 

430.. Doughnut or Fried Cakes. 

4 level cupfuls flour. 

2 level teaspoonful baking-powder. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
\ cupful sugar. 

2 beaten eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

Throw all together and mix until smooth, 
kneading a few times with the hands at the 
last. Then press out flat with the hands, 
upon a floured cake-board. Pass the roll- 
ing-pin over it, once, then cut into thin 
strips or rings and fry in hot lard to a 
nice brown, turning over once. 



196 QUICKEST DISHES. 

431. Dried-Fruit Pudding. 

2 cupfuls bread or cracker crumbs. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 beaten eggs. 
1 cup of sugar. 

1 cupful dried fruit. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

432. Dried- Fruit Pudding with Rice. 

4 cupfuls cold boiled rice. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

2 cupfuls dried apricots, plums, pears or 
peaches. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

Arrange in several alternate layers in a 
deep pudding-dish, sprinkling each layer of 
fruit with sugar. Pour the water over the 
top, and bake 30 minutes, covered closely. 
Serve with cream or milk. 

433. Roast Duck. 

Dredge with a little flour inside and out, 
and rub salt and pepper into the flesh. Fill 
the body and crop with a stuffing — ^see 



QUICKEST DISHES. 1 97 

No. 570, — ^adding a minced onion, which has 
been fried for five minutes in butter. Lay- 
slices of onions over the fowl while it is 
roasting, but remove these when it is taken 
from the oven. 

Serve with a gravy made of the drip- 
pings in the pan, thickened with browned 
flour. 

434. Egg Plant, Mashed. 

Peel and boil in hot water until tender, 
put through a patent masher, seasoning as 
it is put in, butter the top, place in the 
oven two minutes — and serve hot. 

Boil an extra quantity, and you have on 
hand material for two excellent quick 
dishes — Nos. 100 and 101. 

435. Fruit Dumplings. 

Make a plain biscuit dough with one 
quart of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix with milk or water so that it can just 
be rolled out. Divide into small lumps; 
flatten with the hands until about haK an 



198 QUICKEST DISHES. 

inch in thickness ; lay sliced apples or any 
fresh fruit inside, or dried fruit which has 
been soaked in warm water a few minutes. 
Fold up, and steam for twenty minutes. 
Serve with a nice pudding sauce. 

436. Dyspeptic's Pastry. 

1 cupful oatmeal, scalded five minutes in 
boiling water ; then carefully drained. 

\ cupful flour. 

6 tablespoonf uls cream. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the oatmeal, flour, salt, and half the 
cream together. Then roll out and roll up 
again three times, brushing over the sheet 
every time with a soft brush dipped in 
cream. 

437- Dyspeptic's Cake. 

2 cupf uls sifted graham flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 
1 cupful brown sugar. 
\ cupful melted butter. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
8 eggs. 



QUICKEST DISHES. I99 

1 cupful dried peaches or apricots. 
Beat quickly together, putting in the 

dried fruit last. Bake slowly forty-five 
minutes. 

438. Fig Pudding. 

2 cupfuls fresh figs, chopped fine. 

1 cupful bread or cracker crumbs, moist- 
ened with hot water. 

\ cupful sugar. 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 spoonfuls melted butter. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

439. Fishy Stuffed and Baked. 

Take any fish of sufficient size, see that 
it is well cleaned and washed, and fill it 
with a stuffing made after recipe No. 570, 
substituting some sweet herbs for the sage. 

Sew it up carefully, and bake in a pan 
along with a bit of salt pork, a little but- 
ter, and a few spoonfuls of water. Bake 
half an hour in a brisk oven, basting it a 
couple of times. 



200 QUICKEST DISHES. 

Serve with a gravy made of the drip- 
pings, seasoned, thickened with a spoonful 
of flour, and diluted with a little water. 

440. French Rolls. 

In making bread save a portion of the 
dough ; have ready a small quantity of 
melted butter ; wet the fingers with this, 
and pinch off pieces of dough about the 
size of a duck's egg; work these a little 
with buttered hands ; form into a round 
ball ; flatten with a slap of the hand ; 
smear the top with melted butter, and fold 
it over upon itself, bringing the upper flap 
to within about half an inch of the edge of 
the under. Set to rise like bread. Brush 
the top of each with butter or water. 

Bake ten minutes in hot oven. 

441. Gelatine Fruit- Jelly. 

1 package gelatine, soaked in 1 pint cold 
water. 

2 lemons — the rind and juice. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 20I 

1 pint fruit- juice. 

1 quart boiling water. 

Put all the ingredients into the boiling 
water, and bring to a boil. Strain through 
a cloth. 

442. Ginger Cookies. 

4 heaping tablespoonf uls sugar. 
\ cupful melted butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 tablespoonf ul ground ginger. 

2 beaten eggs. ' 

4 tablespoonfuls water. 

4 even cupf uls sifted flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

Mix quickly, knead into a solid lump, 
roll thin, cut into shapes, and bake on a 
buttered pan, in a moderate oven. 

443. Puritan Gingerbread. 

2 quarts flour. 

1 cupful melted butter or lard. 

3 eggs, beaten. 

1 heaping tablespoonful ground ginger. 

2 cupfuls molasses. 



202 QUICKEST DISHES, 

1 rounded teaspoonful soda, 

1 pint hot water. 

A little salt. 

Stir the butter, molasses, eggs, ginger, 
and soda together. When they foam stir 
in the flonr and then the hot water. Bake 
in a thin sheet. 

444. Glaze. 

Simmer any quantity of soup stock, (the 
more the better) prepared after No. 608, 
into a sauce-pan and reduce by simmering 
until it becomes a rich chocolate brown. 
Put by and hardened this will keep indefi- 
nitely and is a very valuable material to 
draw upon for emergencies. For those 
who do not provide soup regularly, it is a 
perpetual " stock," as a piece the size of a 
walnut, dissolved in water, will make a 
plate of rich soup, and a very small quanti- 
ty will take the place of meat gravy in the 
preparation of choice sauces. 

Although glaze takes a little more time 
than stock, it is preferable in every way? 



QUICKEST DISHES, 203 

for those who do not place soup upon their 
table every day ; for whereas the boiling of 
"stock " is a daily nuisance, always usurp- 
ing a considerable portion of a small range, 
glaze, once prepared, can be kept for many 
months. 

It is because of its widespreading and 
far-reaching uses, which make its prepara- 
tion in the end, economy of time, that it is 
emancipated from the Black List and given 
place among the recipes especially com- 
mended to the hurried housekeeper. 

445. Gold Cake. 
4 yolks of eggs. 
1^ cupfuls flour, full measure. 
1 cupful powdered sugar. 
3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
\ cupful cream or milk. 
\\ tablespoonfuls baking-powder. 

446. Roast Goose. 

Prepare after the recipe for roast duck. 
The gravy will be very fat, and should be 
carefully skimmed before serving. 



204 QUICKEST DISHES. 

447. Gooseberry Jam. 

Equal quantities of half ripe gooseber- 
ries and sugar. Boil together for fifteen 
minutes. 

448. Gooseberries and Raisins. 

Add a cupful of raisins to every pound 
of gooseberries in the foregoing recipe, 
without altering the quantity of sugar, boil 
together, and we have a peculiarly rich and 
palatable preserve. 

449. Gooseberry Soy. 

Twelve pounds of ripe gooseberries, six 
pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar ; boil 
for half an hour. 

450. Graham Apple-Cake. 

1 cupful graham flour. 

1 cupful sweet cream. 

1 cupful sliced apples. 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Make a batter of the flour and water, 
pour into a pie-plate, press the sliced ap- 
ples into it and sprinkle the sugar over it. 

Bake fifteen minutes. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 205 

451. Graham Bread (yeast raised). 

2 pounds graham flour. 
2 cupfuls warm water. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

\ cupful yeast (or \ cake compressed 
yeast, dissolved in \ cupful of the warm 
water). 

Mix together, knead briskly for about 
ten minutes, then make into two loaves, and 
set to rise, tightly covered in a warm place. 
If the yeast is good they should be ready 
for the oven in less than four hours. Bake 
slowly for one hour, and five minutes be- 
fore taking up brush over the top with 
melted butter. 

452. Graham-Bread Pudding. 

2 cupfuls graham-gem or bread crumbs. 

3 cupfuls milk. 

1 teacupful sugar. 

1 beaten egg. 

Grated rind and juice of a lemon. 

Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



2o6 QUICKEST DISHES, 

GBAHAM-BREAD APPLE-PUDDIKG. 

An agreeable change can be made in 
this above simple and wholesome dessert, 
by substituting sliced apples for the lemon. 

453. Graham Crackers. 

2 cupf uls graham flour. 
1 cupful wheaten flour. 
1 cupful milk. 
\ cupful cream. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Knead, roll thin, cut into small pieces, 
and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

454. Graham Gems with Yeast. 

1 cupful graham flour. 

1 egg- 

\ cupful milk. 

A little salt. 

\ cupful yeast. 

Mix over night, beat up in the morning, 
dip into the gem pans, raise twenty minutes, 
and bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 20/ 

455* Graham Gruel. 
2 level tablespoonfuls sifted graham flour. 
1 pint boiling water. 
Salt to taste. 
Boil twenty minutes. 

Graham Pastry. 

See Pastry. 

456. Graham Pastry Cake. 

1 pound graham flour. 

2 cupfuls sweet cream. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls dried currants. 

Mix the flour, cream, and salt, roll out, 
spread with cream, repeat the process twice, 
and the last time it is brushed over with 
cream, sprinkle thickly with currants, fold 
over once, press together, and cut in small 
squares. Bake carefully. 

457- Jellied Grapes. 

4 cupfuls grapes, plucked from the stems ; 
be careful that they are not too ripe. 
8 tablespoonfuls water. 
1 cupful sugar. 



208 QUICKEST DISHES. 

1 cupful cold boiled rice. 

Strew the grapes, sugar, and rice to- 
gether in a pudding-dish, cover closely and 
simmer in slow oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve with cream or milk. 

458. Grape Marmalade. 
Mash the grapes a little, and heat slowly 
until they soften ; then put through a 
vegetable press, removing the skins and 
ends which collect in the strainer. To 
each pound of thickened juice put a scant 
pound of sugar. Cook slowly for fifteen 
minutes. 

459. Corn-Meal Gruel. 

2 tablespoonfuls sifted corn-meal, moist- 
ened with cold water. • 

1 pint boiling water. 

Boil twenty minutes ; season with salt. 

460. Oatmeal Gruel. 
1 pint boiling water. 
1 tablespoonf ul sifted oatmeal. 
Boil briskly twenty minutes, strain and 
season with salt. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 20g 

461. Gum Arabic Water (A Drink for 

Invalids). 

1 teaspoonful gum-arabic, dissolved in 
one glass of cold water, currant or raspberry 
juice, a bit of jelly dissolved in water, or 
the juice of a fresh orange or lemon, will 
make this drink palatable. 

462. Roast Hare or Rabbit. 

Clean, skin, and lard with strips of salt 
pork. Season with salt and pepper, lay in 
a baking pan with a little butter, and roast 
for an hour, basting three times with melt- 
ed butter or drippings. 

A rabbit will require from thirty to 
forty minutes only. 

463. Ice Cream. 

2 cupfuls cream. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Flavoring of any sort. 

Whip the cream a couple of minutes with 
an egg-beater, then pour into a small 
freezer, stir in the sugar, turn it briskly, 
stirring it once more, and it will be ready 
for use in a few minutes. 



2IO QUICKEST DISHES. 

464, Beef-Tea Ice Cream. 

Prepare beef tea as directed in No. 574, 
being careful to put no salt to the meat or 
juice ; then pour into a freezer or a small 
tin pail packed in ice and salt, turn briskly, 
stirring occasionally, and when it is nicely 
frozen stir in a little salt. 

This is a peculiarly grateful dish for in- 
valids in hot weather, or for fever patients. 

465. Indian Pudding. 
3 cupfuls cornmeal mush. 
2 tablespoonfuls white flour. 
5 beaten eggs. 
\ cupful melted butter. 
1 cupful molasses. 
\ cupful milk. 
Juice and rind of lemon. 
Stir smoothly together and bake half an 
hour. 

466. Steamed Indian-pudding. 

1 pint buttermilk or sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 211 

3 beaten eggs. 
1 cupful flour. 

1 cupful scalded indian-meaL 
Steam twenty minutes, serve with sauces 
after recipe No. 287. 

467. Jelly Pudding. 
1 pint bread or cracker-crumbs. 
1 quart of milk. 

4 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

1 cupful of sugar. 

Bake half an hour. When cool spread 
with jelly, and then cover the top with a 
meringue made of the beaten whites of 
eggs and a little sugar. 

468. Kisses. 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

\ cupful fine crushed or powdered sugar. 

Rose or vanilla flavoring. 

Form into shapely drops on buttered 
paper, and bake slowly for twenty minutes. 

A more fanciful dish may be made by 
forming the kisses into hollow cups and 
filling them with cubes of bright jelly or 



212 QUICKEST DISHES. 

tiny slices of oranges just as they are sent 
to the table. 

469. Lemon Cake. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

7 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
\ cupful milk. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separ- 
ately. 

1^ cupfuls sugar. 

Juice and grated rind of one small lemon. 

Beat all together vigorously for five 

minutes, and bake twenty-five minutes in 

a hot oven. 

470. Lemon Cream Pie. 

2 cupfuls cream. 
\ cupful sugar. 

1 heaping tablespoonful corn-starch, dis- 
solved in water. 

3 yolks of eggs, well beaten. 
Rind and grated juice of one lemon. 
Bake in an open crust for fifteen min- 
utes, or, if pastry is already prepared, boil | 



QUICKEST DISHES. 213 

the milk and stir the other ingredients in it 
until it thickens, then pour into the tart. 
Cover with a meringue of the whites beaten 
stiff with three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. 

471. Lemon Jelly Layer-Cake. 

For Layer Cake, see Recipe No. 155. 

1 beaten egg. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. 

1 tablespoonful water. 

1 teaspoonf ul flour. 

Mix the flour and sugar together ; then 
put in the other ingredients and bring to a 
boil in a double steamer, stirring con- 
stantly. 

472. Lemon Pudding. 
1 cupful flour. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful bread crumbs. 
\ cupful melted butter. 
3 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

2 cupf uls milk. 



214 QUICKEST DISHES, 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

Bake twenty minutes, when cool, cover 
with a meringue of the whites of eggs, 
beaten up with three tablespoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar. 

473. Lemon Corn-Starch Pudding. 

1 quart boiling milk. 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls corn-starch. 

2 whole eggs and 2 yolks beaten. 
1 cupful sugar. 

Juice and grated rind of lemon. 

Stir the corn-starch, first moistened with 
warm milk, into the boiling milk, add the 
eggs, sugar, and lemon, and stir until the 
mixture thickens. Pour into cups or moulds 
rinsed with cold water. When cold turn 
out upon a large flat dish and serve with a 
sauce made as follows : 

1 teaspoonful corn-starch. 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
J cup milk. 

Boil together. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 21$ 

474. Lemon Raisin Pie. 

Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 
\ cupful sugar. 
2 yolks of eggs, well beaten. 
2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 small cupful water. 

\ cupful chopped raisins. 

Bake in open tart and cover with a 
meringue made from the whites, beaten 
stiff, with a little powdered sugar. Brown 
in the oven three minutes. 

475. Lemon Pie. 

2 whole eggs and the yolks of two more 
well beaten. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 

\ cupful of cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls water. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch dissolved in 
water. 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

Stir all together, and bake fifteen min- 
utes in an open pastry shell. When cool, 
cover with a meringue made of two whites 



2l6 QUICKEST DISHES. 

beaten stiff, with 2 tablespoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar. Brown in the oven for three 
minutes. 

476. Liver and Onions. 
Slash a piece of liver, and push strips of 
salt pork into the slits. Put in a baking 
pan with melted butter or dripping, and 
stew with sliced onions. Roast in hot oven 
half an hour. 

477. Macaroni. 

Boil macaroni in water ten minutes, or 
until tender ; then drain and boil up once 
in milk. Drain again. Season with salt, 
pepper, and cream or butter. 

Prepare a double quantity, and a day or 
two later utilize it for the five-minute dish 
" Baked Macaroni.'' See Part I. 

478. Macaroni and Cheese. 
6 ounces macaroni. 
3 ounces crumbed cheese. 
\ teacupful butter. 
3 cupfuls milk or water. 
3 eggs. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 21/ 

Boil the macaroni twelve minutes in 
salted water. Drain and lay in a baking 
dish, mixed with the cheese, and pour over 
them the eggs, beaten up in two cupfuls of 
milk, and put it in the oven to bake. 
Thicken the remaining cupful of milk with 
a tablespoonf ul of flour ; add a little 
chopped parsley and salt, and pour it over 
the macaroni five minutes before taking it 
up. Bake fifteen minutes in all. 

Prepare an extra quantity of macaroni 
and cheese, and have Macaroni Rissoles — 
No. 161, the following day. 

479. Macaroni and Oysters. 

\ cupful macaroni, broken into small 
pieces. 

1 cupful oysters. 

1 beaten egg. 

1 cupful milk. 

Butter the size of an %^^. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

A little pepper. 



2l8 QUICKEST DISHES. 

Boil the macaroni in water fifteen min- 
utes, then drain and place in a buttered 
pudding-dish, with alternate layers of oy- 
sters. Season, pour over it the milk, but- 
ter, egg, and flour, and bake ten minutes in 
a hot oven. 



480. Macaroon Jelly-Cake. 

4 cupfuls sifted flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonful baking-powder. 
1 cupful melted butter. 
1 teacupful milk. 

5 eggs, well beaten. 

Make in two thin cakes, shaped to fill an 
ordinary rectangular biscuit tin, and bake 
fifteen minutes in a good oven. 

Make a paste of 3 cupfuls desiccated co- 
coanut, \ cupful powdered sugar, and 2 
whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Spread over 
the top in fancy bars and cords, and brown 
in the oven about eight minutes. When 
cool fill the interstices between the maca- 
roon with jelly. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 219 

481. Middling Griddle-Cakes. 

2 cupfuls warm water. 

2 cupfuls middlings. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
\ cupful yeast. 

i teaspoonf ul salt. 

Set at night, and they will be ready for 
use in the morning. 

482. "Our" Mince-Meat. 

4 pounds juicy beef, round or shoulder 
piece preferred. 

1 i pounds suet. 

25 pounds tart, juicy apples (this allows 
for waste on peels and cores). 

1 quart sharp cider. 

4 pounds sugar. 

4 pounds raisins — Sultana seedless. 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls ground cinna- 
mon. 

1 small tablespoonful ground cloves. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 

2 ground nutmegs. 

1 level tablespoonful salt. 



220 QUICKEST DISHES, 

Simmer the meat for several hours on 
the stove, in about two quarts of water, 
which must be preserved and poured into 
the mince-meat. 

Try out the suet and retain only the 
fluid fat. Chop the apples and meat sepa- 
rately, carefully removing the gristle, and 
mincing the latter very fine. Add the 
water the meat was cooked in, and the 
other ingredients, and stew gently for half 
an hour. A little sugar or a dash of sharp 
cider vinegar may need to be added, accord- 
ing to the character of the apples used. 

If the weather is moderately warm put 
it down in a stone jar, pouring liquid suet 
over the top, which will form into an 
opaque cake, excluding the air. 

Whenever the mince-meat is used, remove 
the cake of- suet, scrape off the under side, 
melt it and pour it over the mince-meat 
again. 

483. Rich Mince-Meat. 

4 pounds nice beef, stewed tender and 
minced, and 1 quart water in which it has 
been stewed. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 221 

2 pounds suet tried out. 

4 cupfuls raisins — Sultana seedless. 

4 cupfuls best Zante currants. 

2 cupfuls mixed citron. 

12 cupfuls chopped apples. 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

1 tablespoonf ul salt. 

3 pounds sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls ground cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls ground clove. 

Cider enough to make it sufficiently 
liquid. 

Brandy to taste. 

484. Scotch Mince-Meat. 

4 lbs. suet, chopped fine. 

3 lbs. chopped raisins, Sultana seedless. 
2 lbs. best Zante currants. 

1 lb. citron, chopped fine. 

\ lb. preserved lemon peel, cut fine. 
\ lb. preserved orange peel, cut fine. 
\ lb. chopped apples. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Stew gently together and add cinnamon, 
clove, and brandy to taste. 



222 QUICKEST DISHES. 

485. Mock Birds' Nest Pudding. 

Pare a dozen medium-sized apples, and 
retnove the cores by scooping them out of 
one end ^vith a sharp pen-knife or funnel- 
shaped corer, so as to place the apples close 
together in a baking-pan with, the open 
ends uppermost, pour over them a thin bat- 
ter made of one scant cupful flour, three 
beaten eggs and two cupfuls of milk, and 
bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Serve with a transparent sauce made 
after recipe No. 290. 

486. Muffins. 

3 even cupfuls sifted flour. 

1 cupful of potato yeast (or \ cake com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in 1 cupful luke- 
wann water). 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 yolk of egg, well beaten. 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

For breakfast mix all together with a 
spoon, cover closely, and let it stand over- 
night. Beat up in the morning and pour 



QUICKEST DISHES. 223 

into greased muflBn-rings, cover closely for 
twenty minutes or half an hour, until risen, 
then bake ten minutes in a quick oven. 

487. Muscat Grape Jelly. 

Take the grapes when they first ripen 
and are still a clear transparent green. 
Break them open a little and heat slowly 
in the least possible quantity of water, un- 
til they come to a boil. Stew slowly for 
twenty minutes, then drain off the juice. 

Take measure for measure of juice and 
sugar and just bring to a boil. 

488. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Boil until tender, in well salted water. 
Serve with a little of the water, boiled 
with equal quantities milk, seasoned to 
taste, thickened with flour, and a cold 
boiled egg cut fine stirred into it. 

489. Nut Cake. 
2 cupfuls flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
5 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 



224 QUICKEST DISHES. 

\\ cupfuls powdered sugar. 
\ cupful flour. 

1 cupful blanched almonds, chopped 
fine. 

Add the nuts last. 

490. Oatmeal Mush. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls oatmeal. 

4 teacupfuls water. 

1 heaping teaspoonful salt. 

Piece of butter the size of a hazelnut. 

Cook in a double steamer. Be careful 
to stir it well as it begins to thicken, then 
keep it covered and no further attention 
will be required. It is well to start the 
oatmeal cooking the night before, leave it 
on the stove and it will make itself ready 
for breakfast. 

491. Beef Omelet. 

Two pounds of tender beef, chopped 
fine, three eggs, well beaten, and a coffee- 
cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs. 
Season with pepper and salt, add a little 
melted butter, mix all well together, press 



QUICKEST DISHES. 22$ 

into a loaf, roll in crumbs, and bake forty 
minutes in a covered dish in the oven ; then 
remove the cover and brown for five min- 
utes. Slice when cpld. 

492. OnionSy Baked. 

, Lay on paper in a baking-pan, skins and 
all, and roast in a hot oven from half an 
hour to an hour, according to size, Serve 
just as they are, letting each person season 
to taste. 

This is a homely way of serving onions, 
but it is unquestionably the simplest and 
most savory manner in which they can be 
eaten. 

493. OnionSy Boiled. 

Boil in salted water until tender. Drain, 
add pepper and butter, and serve hot. 

494. Onions, Boiled in Milk. 

Boil in water until tender; then drain, 
add milk, pepper, salt, and a little butter, 
thickening with flour just as it comes to a 
boil. 



226 QUICKEST DISHES. 

495. Onions, Fried. 

Peel, slice, and place in a frying-pan with 
a little melted butter on the bottom. Cov- 
er, and cook carefully for twenty minutes, 
stirring them up from the bottom occasion- 
ally to prevent burning. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

496. How jto Eat an Orange. 

In the orange-growing regions people 
never follow the awkward custom of cut- 
ting an orange peel into sections and re- 
moving it bit by bit. An orange should 
either be peeled like an apple, first care- 
fully observing the thickness of the peel, 
and then taking pains to remove it as per- 
fectly as possible without slicing into the 
juicy portion ; or, better still, the peel 
should be cut around the middle with a 
sharp-pointed knife, and gently loosened so 
as to be turned back to either end, inside 
out ; the orange should then be cut in two 
with a thin-bladed sharp knife, either cut- 
ting straight, or in a diagonal line, and eaten 



QUICKEST DISHES. 227 

by biting into the edges, holding it by the 
mushroom-like handle of peel. 

The delicious little kum-quats, mandarins, 
and others of the " kid glove '' class, have 
a loose peel which can be cracked open 
with the hand and removed without soiling 
the fingers, while the inner sections divide 
easily without shedding their juices, and 
are not too large for a mouthful. 

497. Orange Foam Cake. 

2\ cupfuls fiour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
Grated rind and juice of IJ oranges. 
5 yolks of eggs. 

3 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

Mix all the ingredients together, adding 
the whites of eggs at the last. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

Bake in layers, spreading between them 
an orange foam made as follows : 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 



228 QUICKEST DISHES. 

1 cupful powdered sugar. 
1 tablespoonful orange juice. 

498. Orange Jelly. 

1 package gelatine, dissolved in cold 
water. 

1 pint boiling water. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pint orange juice. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Boil together five minutes, with a few 
sticks of cinnamon. Remove the cinnamon 
and pour into moulds. 

499. Orange Marmalade. 

1 dozen fine oranges. 

3 Sicily lemons. 

Cut the oranges into thin slices, and the 
lemons into halves; add one cupful of 
water, and boil gently for thirty minutes. 
Remove the lemons, and press as much of 
the juice and orange pulp as possible 
through a fruit-press. Take a cupful of 
sugar for every cupful of juice. Boil to- 
gether five minutes. 



I 






QUICKEST DISHES. 2,2^ 

500. Orange Whey, 

1 pint sweet milk. 
Juice of two oranges. 

Heat slowly until curds are formed ; 
then strain. Cool before drinking. 

501. Orange-Rhubarb Pie. 

2 cupfuls rhubarb, cut small. 

Grated rind and sliced pulp of 2 oranges. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Mix together, and bake slowly in an 
open tart. Or, better still, if the pastry is 
ready baked, boil together for twenty 
minutes, and then pour into the tart. 

502. Escalloped Oysters. 

Butter the dish or dishes in which they 
are to be baked, and make alternate layers 
of mixed bread and cracker crumbs and 
raw oysters, seasoning each layer, and fin- 
ishing with a layer of crumbs. Moisten 
the whole with the oyster liquid. Bake 
twenty-five minutes. Mixed with a little 



230 QUICKEST DISHES. 

milk and butter. This dish is the daintiest 
when baked in small individual scallops. 

503. Oysters with Macaroni and Cheese. 

Boil macaroni in salted water, drain and 
lay in a deep dish in alternate layers with 
oysters, grating a little cheese over each 
layer of macaroni, and seasoning as you go. 
Pour the oyster liquor over the whole, and 
bake fifteen minutes. 

504. Pickled Oysters. 
Drain well, and scald in a strong brine 
of salt and water. Drain again, and when 
cold place in a jar with layers of stick 
cinnamon, cloves, and small peppers be- 
tween them, and cover with scalding 
vinegar. 

505. Oyster Pie. 

Spread a rich pastry around the sides of 
a small pan or pudding-dish ; fill with raw 
oysters, seasoned and wet with the oyster 
liquor and a few spoonfuls of cream, with a 
layer of fine bread-crumbs and two hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, over them. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 23I 

Cover the whole with a thin paste, and 
bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

506. Oyster Tarts. 

Bake shells of rich paste in small gem 

pans. Scald the oysters in their own 

liquor, seasoned and spiced with a few 

whole cloves and stick of cinnamon. When 

cool, place several of the oysters in each 

shell. 

507. Parsnips. 

Pare, and boil for an hour. Season lib- 
erally with pepper, salt, and butter, and run 
through a vegetable press. 

It is well to cook a double quantity at a 
time, so as to prepare, on the following day 
or two, one of the five and ten minute 
dishes in Part I. 

508. Graham Pastry for Dyspeptics. 

1 pound graham flour. 

2 cupf uls sweet cream. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

Mix the flour with one and one half cup- 
ful of cream and the salt, then roll it out 



232 QUICKEST DISHES. 

three times, brushing it over each time 
with the cream, and rolling up tightly 
again. 

509. Puff Paste. 

1 pound of flour. 

1 rounded cupful of lard. 

1 teaspoonf ul fine salt. 

1 cupful cold water. 

1 cupful butter, made liquid with the 
least possible heat. 

Rub the lard into the flour with the 
hands ; add the salt, and stir in the water 
until the flour is all wet and adheres 
together. Then roll out with as little 
flour as possible. Dip a soft brush in the 
butter, and brush over the upper surface of 
the pastry. Begin at the further edge and 
roll the pastry up towards you. Roll it 
out again, flattening it out away from you ; 
smear with butter, and repeat the process. 
Rolled out three times in this way will 
make a very excellent pastry. Six times 
will make a fine puff paste, short and 
flaky. It is then ready. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 233 

Bake in a quick oven, watching vigilantly 
to prevent burning. 

Noi^E. — With a little management a 
week's baking of pastry can be made up in 
little more time than it takes to make a 
single pie. 

Mince pies, pumpkin pies, lemon, cocoa- 
nut, and apple pies can be made in twos, 
threes, and even fours, and if set into a hot 
oven and heated through on the day they 
are to be served (it is not necessaiy to send 
them to the table hot, unless desired) the 
pastry will taste as sweet and crisp as on 
the day it was made. 

Fruit pies are generally nicest made in 
the form of a large open tart, and this gives 
the economist of time another advantage, 
for the shell can be baked and put by to 
be crisped by a quick heating on the day 
they are to be filled and used. Small 
tarts and the lining of patty-pans can be 
prepared in the same manner. 

In making shells for fruit pies, cut a 



234 QUICKEST DISHES. 

number of narrow strips the diameter of 
the pie-plate in length, and pinch them in 
the middle, and bake at the same time. 
When the shell is filled these strips can be 
crossed over the pie, and enhance its ap 
pearance. 

510. Sweet Pastry. 

2 level cupfuls flour. 

\ cupful butter. 

1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

1 egg, beaten. 

4 tablespoonfuls water. 

A pinch of salt. 

Rub the butter into the flour, stir in the 
other ingredients, knead and roll out as thin 
as possible. 

511. Peach Butter, 

Peel peaches by scalding twenty seconds, 
and then rubbing off the peel in cold water. 
Stone the peeled fruit and cook it in a 
small quantity of w^ater until soft. Add 
an equal quantity of sugar, and stew slowly 
for ten minutes, spicing with cinnamon. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 235 

512. Pickled Peaches. 

Scald the fruit and rub off the furry 
portion of the peel. Then boil for fifteen 
minutes in a rich syruj) made of vinegar in 
the proportion of one pound of sugar to 
every pint and a half of vinegar. Seal in 
air-tight jars. 

513. Preserved Peaches. 

Pare, stone, and quarter, nice sound firm 
peaches. Steam fifteen minutes, make a 
syrup in the proportion of a pound and a 
half of sugar to every pint of water, skim- 
ming it carefully. Drop the peaches in it for 
a few seconds, then place in the cans and 
pour the scalding syrup over it. 

514. Baked Pears. 

Lay in a baking dish, pour over them a 
rich syiiip of sugar and water, and bake 
for forty minutes. 

515. Winter Pears. 

The little winter pears, which are so 
plentiful on the Pacific coast, and which 



236 QUICKEST DISHES. 

are finding their way across the " Rockies," 
are slightly insipid in their natural state, 
and need to have this deficiency supplied 
in some way. Therefore, to prepare them 
for the table, we go by the following rule : 

2 pounds of pears, pared and cored. 

1 teacupful sugar. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Lay pieces of nice stick cinnamon through- 
out the dish, cover the pears with the 
sugar, saturate this with the lemon juice. 
Let them stand at least half an hour be- 
fore using. 

516. Green Peas. 

Shelling peas is another task for which 
we must utilize the little fingers of the 
growing population. Boil from twenty to 
thirty minutes ; too much boiling destroys 
the flavor. Drain off the water, season with 
butter, pepper, and salt, simmer for a mo- 
ment, and then serve in a covered dish. 

If desired, a little milk can be added 
to peas or string beans, after the water 



QUICKEST DISHES, 237 

has been drained off, and should simply be 
brought to a boil. 

517. Piccalilli. 

Twenty pounds of green tomatoes, two 
pounds of onions, chopped fine, sprinkled 
with salt, and drained after twenty-four 
hours. Add two ounces of cinnamon, an 
ounce of mustard seed, one ounce of ground 
cloves, two teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 
two cupfuls of sugar ; cover with vinegar, 
simmer for two hours, and put away in air- 
tight jars or wide-mouthed bottles. 

518. Pickled Plums. 

Ten pounds of plums, five pounds of 
sugar, two-ounce stick cinnamon, one ounce 
whole cloves, a little mace, and one quart 
of vinegar, boiled gently together for fifteen 
minutes, after which place in air-tight jars. 

519. Pigeon Pie. 

Pigeons and quail and other small game 
birds are quickly and easily prepared for 
the table, if they are bought ready picked 



238 QUICKEST DISHES. 

and drawn, which can usually be done for 
a slight consideration. 

Split the pigeons down the back and 
then cut across. Season with pepper and 
salt, dredge with flour, and fry five minutes 
in a covered baking-pan with a little butter. 
This will give them a nice browning. Then 
add enough hot water to cover them and 
boil ten minutes on top of the stove. Cover 
the dish with pie-crust, and bake fifteen 
minutes in a hot oven. 

520. Pilaf. 

Boil a pair of young fowls after the recipe 
given (No. 384), seasoning well with cay- 
enne pepper. Have ready a platter of 
boiled rice, when the fowl is finished, pour 
it, together with the gravy, over the rice. 

521. Pine-apple Pie. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 cupfuls grated pine-apple. 
\ cup melted butter. 

5 yolks of eggs, beaten. Mix well to 



QUICKEST DISHES. 239 

gether, then stir into this one small cupful 
of cream and the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a froth. 

Bake in pie-plates lined with paste. 

522. Roast Plovers. 

Season with pepper and salt, lay a piece 
of fat pork on top of each ; place in a 
baking pan with a little butter, and roast 
twenty minutes, basting twice. Serve with 
a gravy made from rubbing a little flour 
into the juices in the pan, diluting with a 
little boiling water and seasoning to taste. 

523. Pork Sausages. 

Sausages are articles of food which no 
sensible woman will prepare when she can 
buy them from a reliable butcher. The 
formula for preparing them is to take 
twice as much lean as fat, and chop fine, 
allowing two level teaspoonfuls of salt, 
two of powdered sage, two of pepper, and 
a cup of water to every six pounds of 
meat. 



240 QUICKEST DISHES. 

524. Preserved Fruits. 
Follow directions for "Preserved 
Peaches." No. 513. 

525. Preserved Fruit Pudding. 

Take any preserved or stewed dried 
fruit, vnth a ricli syrap, place in bottom of 
pudding-dish, and spread over it a thick bat- 
ter made of two cupfuls flour, two heaping 
teaspoonf uls baking-powder, half a cupful 
of cream and half a cupful of milk. Bake 
for ten minutes, invert on platter, and serve 
hot with cream or milk. 

By covering and baking ten minutes 
longer the crust will come out steamed in- 
stead of baked. 

526. Baked Potatoes (the usual way). 

Wash, cut out any defective spots, and 
take a thin slice off from each end. This 
will hasten the process of baking by expe- 
diting the evaporation. 

For a shorter way, see No. 231. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 24I 

527. Potato Boulettes. 

Scoop little balls from the potatoes with 
a French potato spoon, and simmer in but- 
ter, in a covered dish, fifteen minutes. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

528. Potatoes Browned. 

These are simply peeled potatoes, baked 
in the pan with any meat roast, and basted 
with the meat. 

529. Mashed Potatoes. 

Peel and boil in salted water until a fork 
can be thrust through them. Put through 
a patent masher, and lay a few lumps of 
butter over the top, and set in hot oven for 
one minute. 

In boiling potatoes, and especially in 
mashing them, I should advise always pre- 
paring at least three times the amount that 
will be required for the meal. With the 
residue to work upon, we can easily make 
ready for subsequent meals, and one of the 
appetizing five and ten minute dishes. 



242 QUICKEST DISHES. 

530. New Potatoes. 

Scrape off the skins and boil or steam 
ten or fifteen minutes until tender, then 
serve with butter, pepper, and salt, or with 
cream sauce (No. 274). 

531. New Potatoes and Green Peas. 

A very agreeable dish is prepared by 
simply boiling small new potatoes with 
green peas, and serving them together. 
The potatoes should be dropped in after 
the peas have been cooking five or ten 
minutes. 

532. Potato Pudding. 

One pint of cold mashed potatoes. 
Half a cupful melted butter. 
Yolks and whites of five eggs, beaten 
separately. 

Two cupf uls of sugar. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon. 

Bake twenty minutes. 

533- Sweet Potatoes. 

See recipes for Irish potatoes. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 243 

534. Prairie Chickeos and Partridges. 

Clean tlioroughly, washing in water 
which has a pinch of soda dissolved in 
it. Fill with a dressing made after recipe 
No. 570, sewing up carefully and tying 
down legs and wings. Steam for half an 
hour, then place in a pan with a little salt 
pork or butter, and brown in the oven for 
fifteen minutes, basting twice. 

535. Quail on Toast. 

Clean carefully, cut the birds open down 
the backs, breaking the breast and back- 
bones. Season well and dredge with flour. 
Place in a pan, with a little water and but- 
ter, cover tightly and bake in a hot oven 
for ten minutes. Take them out, place in 
a frying-pan, in hot butter, and fry to a 
golden brown. Arrange slices of lightly 
buttered toast upon a platter, place the 
quail upon them, and pour over them a 
delicate gravy made of the juices collected 
in baking and frying, slightly thickened 
with flour. 



244 QUICKEST DISHES. 

536. Preserved Quinces. 

Peel and core the quinces and throw 
tliem into cold water. Make a rich synip 
of a pound and a half of sugar to every 
pint of water, and boil the fruit in it until 
it is tender. 

537. Pound Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
2 cupfuls butter. 
10 eggs. 
4 level cupfuls flour. 



538. Pumpkin 

4 cupfuls mashed pumpkins. 

1 cupful sugar. 

\ cupful milk. 

4 beaten eggs. 

\ teaspoonf ul ginger. 

1 level teaspoonful cinnamon. 

\ teaspoonful ground cloves, nutmeg, and 
allspice mixed. 

Bake in an open tart or, if the pastry is 
already prepared, bring to a boil in a mush 



QUICKEST DISHES. 245 

boUer, pour into the crust, and set it in 
the oven five minutes to brown. 

539. Roast Rabbit. 
See Roast Hare, No. 462. 

540. Rabbit, Spanish Style. 

Cut into pieces and simmer gently in a 
saucepan for fifteen minutes, moistened 
with a half cupful of stock or bit of glaze 
dissolved in half a cupful of boiling water, 
butter the size of a walnut, cayenne pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg. When the liquid 
has very nearly evaporated, add a table- 
spoonful of flour browned in a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of butter and diluted with 
a cupful of stock, two tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce. Boil together ten min- 
utes. 

541. Raisin Layer Cake. 

For cake see Recipe No. 145. 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
1 cupful seedless Sultana raisins, chopped 
fine. 



246 QUICKEST DISHES. 

542. Raisin and Nut Layer- Cake. 

(For cake see Recipe No. 145.) 

2 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
1 cupful raisins and blanched almonds, 
chopped together. 

543. Raspberry Jam. 
Mash the fruit and add an equal quantity 
of sugar. It will be greatly improved by 
the addition of a pint of currant juice, with 
a corresponding quantity of sugar, to every 
six pounds of raspberries. Boil gently for 
fifteen minutes. 

544. Rhubarb Pie. 

Prepare some stewed rhubarb cut into 
small pieces, and stewed gently with sugar 
and a little water. Pour into an open 
pastry tart. 

545. Preserved Rhubarb. 

Peel the rhubarb, cut into short pieces, 
add an even weight of sugar, and boil to- 
gether fifteen minutes, when it will be 
ready to jelly. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 247 

546. Rice, Boiled. 

Boil briskly for twenty-five minutes in a 
potful of boiling water, slightly salted. 
Take it up promptly, drain carefully, and 
serve. 

Removed from the stove at the proper 
moment, rice prepared in this fashion pre- 
sents a most attractive appearance, every 
kernel standing out by itself. If it boils a 
minute too long, the rice becomes water- 
logged and unfit to serve. 

Prepare an extra quantity in order to 
have material for the varied and excellent 
quick dishes, with boiled rice for a basis, 
to be found in Part I. 

547. Rice Bread. 

1 teacupful cold boiled rice. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

3 cupfuls milk. 

1 heaping cupful corn-meal. 
3 level tablespoonfuls flour, 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

Bake in a thin sheet forty minutes. 



248 QUICKEST DISHES. 

548. Rice Pie. 
1 pint wanned milk. 
\ teacupful rice flour, dissolved in milk. 
1 tablespoo'nf ul melted butter. 
3 eggs, well beaten, 
f cupful sugar. 
Vanilla flavoring. 
Bake in open tart. 

549. Rice Porridge. 

Parch \ cupful rice by stirring slowly in 
a dry dish over the fire. Then simmer for 
half an hour in three cupfuls of sweet milk. 

550. Rome Pudding. 
3 cupfuls chopped apples. 
1 Sicily lemon, chopped fine, the seeds 
removed. 

1 cupful sugar. 
\ cupful cream. 

Spread on a sheet of pastry, and bake 
fifteen minutes, like a pie with open crust. 

551. Rye Cake. 

2 cupfuls of rye flour. 

1 cupful wheaten flour. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 249 

1 cupful sour milk, witli 1 teaspoonf ul of 
soda stirred into it. 

\ teaspoonful salt. 

\ teacupful molasses. 

Spread out the stiff dough in a buttered 
pan and bake half an hour. 

552. Sago and Cranberries. 
1 cupful sago, soaked in water. 
3 cupf uls cranberries. 
\ cupful water. 

Boil twenty minutes, then press through 
strainer, add 1 cupful sugar. 

Bring to a boil and pour into moulds. 

553. Baked Salmon. 
Plunge into cold water for a few min- 
utes, then lay upon a gridiron across a 
dripping-pan in a hot oven, put a little 
lump of butter on each slice and bake fif- 
teen to twenty-five minutes, according to 
the size and thickness of the slices. A 
nice sauce may be made from the drippings 
by thickening with a little fiour, seasoning, 
and adding a little pungent catsup or Wor- 
cestershire sauce. 



2 so QUICKEST DISHES. 

554. Boiled Salmon. 

Take a thick slice of fresh salmon, wrap 
it tightly in a cloth, put into boiling salt 
water, and cook half an hour. Remove 
the cloth with care and serve with a cream 
sauce. 

555. Salsify (Oyster Plant) Stew. 

Scrape the outside and cut in slices about 
one third of an inch thick ; boil until ten- 
der, allowing about one hour, then drain 
off all but a few spoonfuls of water, add 
rich milk or cream, salt, pepper, and a small 
lump of butter, and thicken with a little 
flour 

Boil a double quantity of salsify, and 

you secure material for several five and ten 

minute dishes, which are much better than 

the stew, and which will be found in Part 

I. 

556. Chilli Sauce. 

6 pounds of ripe tomatoes, slice thin. 

6 red peppers. 

6 onions, chopped fine. 



Q UICKEST DISHES. 2 5 1 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1^ cupful of vinegar. 
Boil slowly for one hour. 

557. Scotch Scones. 

f cupful warm sweet milk ; butter the 
size of an egg dissolved in it. 

2 heaping cupf uls sifted flour. 
1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 
\ teaspoonful salt. 

Mix together, roll out into a stiff flat 
cake half an inch thick, and bake on a but- 
tered griddle fifteen minutes, browning on 
both sides. Split and butter while hot. 

558. Sea Kale. 
Wash thoroughly and boil twenty min- 
utes in salted water. Drain thoroughly, 
and serve with a lump of butter and a little 
pepper on top. 

559. Silver Cake. 
4 whites of eggs. 
1\ cupf uls flour. 



252 QUICKEST DISHES. 

3 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 

1 cupful powdered sugar. 

3 tablespoonf uls cream. 

1 heaping teaspoonf ul baking-powder. 

560. Spice Cake. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

3 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful sugar. 

\ cupful molasses. 

\ cupful milk, 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
\ nutmeg, grated. 

Beat briskly together until smooth, and 
bake thirty minutes in quick oven, cover- 
ing cake with paper. 

561. Spinach. 

Pick over carefully, into cold water. 
Drain and place in boiling water with soda 
the size of a pea. Boil fifteen minutes. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 253 

Season with salt and pepper, drain thor- 
oughly, press into shape, and put melted 
butter or HoUandaise sauce (No. 279) on 
top. 

562. Sponge Cake— Cheap. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 level cupfuls sifted flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
1 teacupf ul water. 
4 eggs — ^whites beaten stiff. 
Mix all together and bake in a thin sheet 
or gem pans for fifteen minutes. 

563. Sponge Cake — Standard. 

1 even coffeecupful of granulated sugar. 

6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately. 

1 level coffeecupful of flour. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together with 
egg-beater five minutes, then stir the flour 
in quickly, and bake in a quick oven about 
twenty minutes. 

Dredge the top with powdered sugar 
when hot. 



254 QUICKEST DISHES, 

564. Baked Squash. > 
Cut the squash into halves, scoop out 
the seeds, cut into strips three inches wide? 
brush over with a brush dipped in melted 
butter, and sprinkle with salt and a little 
sugar. Bake in a moderate oven twenty- 
five minutes. 

565. Squash — Mashed. 

Cut in halves, remove the seeds, steam 
for an hour, then pare quickly, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, put through a veg- 
etable press and serve with butter over the 
top. 

Reserve some of the squash without 
mashing, to make a nice quick dish on the 
ensuing day. 

566. Squash Pie. 

2 teacupfuls boiled and mashed squash. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

2 cupfuls milk. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 255 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful allspice. 
Bake in open crusts. This is sufficient 
for two pies. 

567. Preserved Strawberries. 

Weigh and cover over night, or for an 
hour or more, with three fourth the quan- 
tity of sugar, until a syrup is formed of the 
sugar and the juice. Pour this juice into 
the fruit-kettle and when it comes to a 
boil put in the strawberries. Bring these 
to a boil and seal in air-tight cans or bowls. 

568. Strawberry Shortcake. 

3 level cupfuls flour. 
\ cupful cream (or melted lard, or 
butter). 

1 teacupful sweet milk. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
A little salt, unless butter is used, in 

which case it can be dispensed with. 
Strawberries and sugar. 



256 QUICKEST DISHES. 

Mix the ingredients for the dough to- 
gether ; roll out into two thin oval sheets, 
and lay one upon the other to bake, brush- 
ing over the upper surface of the lower 
one with cream or melted butter, that they 
may separate easily. Bake in a quick oven. 
When baked, lift off the upper cake, spread 
the lower one with berries and sugar, jam- 
ming them a little ; replace the upper cake 
and cover it with the fruit, and serve. 

569. String Beans. 

No one yet has invented a process by 
which string beans can be prepared with- 
out a great expenditure of time. I can 
only suggest that in this, as in many little 
tasks, the children's small hands will prove 
as deft and helpful as the mother's. 

With the ends broken off, the " strings " 
removed, and the pod broken into pieces, 
the remainder of the process will almost 
take care of itself. Boil for one hour in 
salted water; then drain, sprinkle with 
pepper, and simmer for a few moments in 
butter. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 2$/ 

570. Nicest Plain Stuffing for Fowls, 
4 cupf uls bread or cracker crumbs. 
1 onion, minced fine. 
1 egg, beaten. 
\ cupful liot water. 
\ cupful melted butter. 
1 level teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 level teaspoonful pepper. 
1 teaspoonful sage. 
Mix all together well. 

571. Succotash. 

Boil lima beans twenty minutes; then 
add cold boiled corn cut from the cob; 
season with salt, pepper, and butter ; bring 
to a boil and serve. 

572, Tapioca Pudding. 

1 small teacupful tapioca, soaked over 
night in milk, then boiled on half hour in 

3 cupf uls boiling milk. 

Take from the stove and stir in 
1 small cupful of sugar. 

4 yolks of eggs, beaten. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Bake twenty minutes. Serve with cream. 



25 8 QUICKEST DISHES. 

573. Tapioca or Sago Milk. 

1^ tablespoonfuls tapioca or sago, thor- 
oughly soaked in a small cupful of water. 
Pour this into a cupful and a half of boil- 
ing milk ; add a little salt, and cook slowly 
for half an hour. 

574. Beef Tea. 

1 pound juicy, lean beef, cut into small 
pieces ; put in a stone bottle, cork tightly, 
and boil an hour. Press out the juice, and 
salt to taste. 

575. Iced Tea. 

Draw the tea by putting the usual allow- 
ance in cold water over night. Serve with 
a little lump of ice in each cup. 

576. Oatmeal Water. 

1 tablespoonf ul oatmeal. 

1 glass cold water. 

Mix over night, to drain oflE, and drink 
in the morning. This is said to be a very 
wholesome ante-breakfast drink for dys- 
peptics. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 259 

577. Rice- Water Tea. 

1 pint cold water. 
1 tablespoonful rice. 

Cook for half an hour ; strain and add 
milk and salt. 

578. Tamarind Tea. 

1 cupful tamarinds (shelled). 

1 cupful cold water. 

Soak thoroughly and strain. 

579. Tea Cakes. 

4 level cupfuls sifted flour, 
1 cupful melted butter. 

1 teacupful powdered sugar. 

5 beaten eggs. 

1 tablespoonful milk. 

1 cupful Zante currants. 

Form all of the ingredients into a stiff 
paste, reserving a couple of spoonfuls of 
the beaten eggs and the currants. Roll out 
thin, cut into small shapes, brush over 
with the beaten egg, and sprinkle thickly 
with the currants. Bake in a moderate 



26o QUICKEST DISHES. 

oven, with a thick paper over the pan, re- 
moving them as soon as the paste looks 

yellow. 

580. Tomatoes, Canned. 

Cut up nice ripe tomatoes and boil them 
until they are soft. Rub through a col- 
ander, add a little salt to them, bring them 
to a boil, and seal in air-tight jars. 

581. Tomato Catsup. 
Scald and strain ripe tomatoes through a 
sieve. To each quart add one tablespoon- 
ful salt, one of ground mustard, one each 
of sugar, allspice, and cinnamon, half a tea- 
spoonful each of cayenne and black pep 
per, and half a cupful of vinegar. Simmer 
slowly one hour Bottle air-tight. 

582. Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Large alternate layers of bread crumbs 
and raw sliced tomatoes, sprinkled with 
salt, pepper, and butter, in a baking-dish, 
finishing with a layer of bread crumbs. 
Moisten with a little water, cover loosely, 
and bake for half an hour. 



QUICKEST DISHES. 261 

583, Top Overs. 
Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, two cups of flour, two cups 
sweet milk, a little salt. Bake in hot gem 
pans for twenty minutes. 

584. Roast Turkey. 

(See Roast Chicken. No. 392.) 

585. Turkey or Chicken Sausage. 
Allow one pound of fat bacon to every 
two pounds of raw meat from the fowl, 
and a level teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, 
and sage. Simmer in a little water, with 
the carcass of the fowl, for an hour, then 
place in a mould and press down with a 
heavy weight. Serve in slices when cold. 

586. Fricasseed Veal. 

Put the veal in a dry kettle with a lump 
of butter in the bottom, and fry for fifteen 
minutes. Then add just enough water to 
cover the meat, and simmer slowly until 
done. Thicken the liquor with cream and 
flour, precisely as for fricasseed chicken, and 
you have a dish little inferior to the latter. 






262 QUICKEST DISHES, 

587, Roast Fillet of Veal. 

Stuff with bread crumbs, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and a little butter, moistened 
with a little boiling water, and one beaten 
egg. Dredge lightly with flour, and bake 
until done. A strip of fat laid over the 
top will make it unnecessary to baste, ex- 
cept when putting in and taking up. 

588. Veal or Beef Loaf. 

A pound and a half of meat, chopped fine, 
with two ounces of salt pork, a teacupf ul 
of bread or cracker crumbs, half a sheet of 
isinglass dissolved in half a cup of warm 
water, small tablespoonful of butter, small 
teaspoonf ul salt, a little pepper, clove, and 
nutmeg, and two beaten eggs. Mix well 
together and bake one hour. Slice when 
cold. 

589. Saddle of Venison. 

A six pound saddle of venison seasoned, 
brushed over with melted butter, and 
dredged with a little flour, will roast nicely 
in thirty minutes in a quick oven. 



QUICKEST DISHES, 263 

590. Washington Pie. 

The Father of his Country has to an- 
swer for several compounds, more or less 
digestible, which claim the authority of his 
name. The conservative "Washington 
Pie " is in reality a more wholesome edi- 
tion of the Scotch mince pie (see recipe 
No. 484). 

It consists of common pie-crust filled 
vsdth the following appetizing mixture : 

\ cupful of suet, tried out. 

2 cupfuls bread crumbs. 

\ cupful sugar. 

i cupful raisins or currants. 

1 cupful water. 

7 tablespoonfuls champagne cider or 
cider vinegar. 

1 beaten egg. 

1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

\ teaspoonful mixed spices. 

Mix all together and bake slowly in a 
square pan, with an upper and under 
crust. 

1 pound flour. 



^ 



264 QUICKEST DISHES. 

591. White Pound-Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

2 teacupfuls melted butter. 

15 whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
Flavor to taste. 



BLACK LIST. 

592. Boston Baked Beans. 

Boil a pint of navy beans for one hour, 
then drain off the water, put them in a 
covered earthen bean-pot with a small tea- 
spoonful of salt, several little blocks of 
salt pork, and a tablespoonf ul of molasses. 
Fill with water until it rises an inch above 
the beans. Set in the oven and leave them 
to bake all day or until the top layer of 
beans are dry and nicely browned. 

This departure from the old and unnec- 
essary process of soaking the beans twelve 
or twenty-four hours, will scandalize some 
New England housekeepers. But we chal- 
lenge the " Hub " itself to detect any dif- 
ference between the flavor of beans baked 

265 



266 BLACK LIST, 

after the accustomed process and the recipe 
given in Quick Cooking. 

593. Boston Brown Bread. 

2 cupfuls graham flour, 
2 cupfuls corn-meal. 
2 cupfuls white flour. 

1 cupful boiling water. 

8 tablespoonfuls New Orleans molasses. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 
1 level teaspoonful salt. 

Scald the corn-meal with the boiling 
water, then add all the other ingredients, 
stir smooth, steam for three hours, then 
turn it out and bake for half an hour. 

594. Boiled Corned Beef. 

Put into cold water and boil three quar- 
ters of an hour for every pound of beef 
up to eight pounds. When done remove 
the bones, if there are any, fold together in 
compact form, and press under a heavy 
weight. Pressing the beef enables it to be 
sliced in nice shape, and prevents the 



BLACK LIST. 267 

coarse-grained, stringy appearance which 
causes the meat to be regarded with so 
much aversion on common hotel tables. 

595. Beef Spiced. 

Two pounds of tender beef chopped 
fine, one pint of bread or cracker crumbs, 
two beaten eggs, half a cup of milk, one 
tablespoonf ul black pepper, one tablespoon- 
ful melted butter, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful mace. Press into a 
tin pan, and bake an hour and a half in a 
slow oven, basting with butter and water. 

596. Preserved Cherries. 

Stone nice ripe cherries with a patent 
stoner. To every two pounds of fioiit put 
one haK pint of water and one pound and 
a haK of sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. 

597. Chow-Chow. 
To make nice chow-chow three vegeta- 
bles alone may be regarded as indispensa- 
ble : green tomatoes, onions, and green 
peppers. To ten pounds of green tomatoes 



268 BLACK LIST, 

take six green peppers, a dozen onions, and 
proportionate quantities of cabbage, cauli- 
flower, cucumbers, or any other ingredient 
that it may be desired to add. Chop fine, 
sprinkle with salt, and let it stand for 
twelve hours. Then drain, cover with 
vinegar and boil for half an hour. Drain 
again and pack in a jar, covering with 
scalding vinegar, well spiced and seasoned, 
allowing a tablespoonful each of cinna- 
mon, mace, and allspice, a teaspoonful each 
of salt, pepper, mustard, and cloves to each 
quart of vinegar. If you do not wish the 
pickle to be too sharp and sour add a 
couple of tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

598. Cinnamon Rolls. 

Take a piece of bread dough as large as 
your two fists, and roll out as thin as pie 
pastry. Smear this well with butter, then 
sprinkle generously with sugar, sprinkle 
over enough water to make a wet paste 
of the sugar, and shake powdered cinnar 
mon over the whole until it is brown. Roll 



BLACK LIST. 269 

up precisely as for jelly roll, and set it to 
rise. When it has risen, cut it through 
with a knife, separating into pieces an inch 
or so thick. Bake in a moderate oven for 
thirty minutes. A delicious coifee cake. 

599. Potted Fish. 

Bone and sprinkle with salt, put into an 
earthen jar, arranged in layers, with a 
small bag of allspice and cinnamon and 
layer of sago between, covering the jar 
and sealing it over with an air-tight cov- 
ering of dough. Put the jar into an iron 
pot filled with cold water and boil four 
hours. Eat cold. 

600. Richest Black Fruit-Cake. 

4^ heaping cupf uls sifted flour. 

15 eggs. 

3 cupfuls butter. 

3 cupfuls brown sugar. 

4 pounds seedless raisins. 
4 pounds dried currants. 
2 pounds citron, cut fine. 




270 BLACK LIST, 

1 tablespoonful ground cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonf ul ground clove. 

1 teaspoonf ul mace. 

1 teaspoonful allspice. 

\ nutmeg, grated. 

1 tablespoonful vanilla. 

Blanched almonds, chopped, if desired. 

1^ cupfuls molasses. 

1 cupful caramel coloring. 

3 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

Bake in slack oven for three hours. 

601. Rich Fruit-Cake. 

15 eggs, whites and yolks beaten sep- 
arately. 

6 cupfuls brown sugar. 

1^ cupfuls molasses, into which \ tea- 
spoonful of soda has been stirred 

4i pounds (9 cupfuls) Sultana raisins. 

3 pounds (6 cupfuls) best Zante cur- 
rants. 

f pound citron, cut fine. 

3 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon. 

\\ teaspoonfuls ground cloves. 



BLACK LIST, 2/1 

1 teaspoonful allspice. 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

1 grated nutmeg. 

Flour enough to make a thick batter. 

Pour into pans lined with buttered paper, 
covering also with a loose sheet of heavy 
paper to prevent burning. 

Bake in a slow oven three hours. This 
cake will keep for a year if kept in. a 
closed jar. 

Although the above fruit-cake recipes 
will not, literally construed, come under 
the head of quick cooking, they are still 
deserving of a place in our collection, be- 
cause they represent an essential economy 
of time. The time of preparation may be 
reduced to less than one hour by using Sul- 
tana seedless raisins and the best and clean- 
est of Zante currants. A little oversight 
during the baking is also necessary. 

Each recipe will make six loaves, each 
the size of a large loaf of bread, and that 
these, thinly sliced, as rich fruit-cake should 
be, will serve, in a moderate family, to meet 



2^2 BLACK LIST. 

at least two dozen emergencies when des- 
sert is lacking, the time consumed in their 
preparation cannot be regarded as mis- 
spent 

602. Boiled Ham. 

Boil for two and a half hours, then re- 
move from the water, trim off the outside, 
cover with fine bread crumbs mixed with 
one teaspoonful of sugar, and roast in the 
oven for half an hour. 

603. Head Cheese. 

One pig's head, boiled, boned, and 
chopped coarsely. Season well with pep- 
per, salt, and sage. Strain the liquor in 
which it was first boiled, place on the stove 
and leave it to simmer for two hours more. 

Press and cut when cold. 

604. Hominy. 

Hominy can be procured ready cooked 
in any of our larger cities and towns, and 
made only to be warmed and served with 
milk or cream. 



BLACK LIST, 2/3 

It is such an important dish for invalids 
and dyspeptics, that when it cannot be ob- 
tained ready prepared it is often desirable 
to cook it. Therefore these directions are 
appended. 

1 quart boiling water. 

1 cupful hominy. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Cook three hours in a double boiler. 

605. Oude Sauce. 

One quart of green tomatoes, one pint of 
onions, one half pint of green peppers 
chopped fine; cover with salt for twenty- 
four hours, drain and simmer for two hours 
with one quart of vinegar, one pint of 
sugar, a little horse-radish, two tablespoon- 
fuls cinnamon, and one tablespoonful 
cloves. 

606. Sucking Pig, Roasted. 

With a sharp-pointed knife divide the 
bones of the back, detaching the ribs along 
one side, and loosen the inner joints of the 
hips and legs, being careful not to spoil the 



274 BLACK LIST. 

appearance of the pig. Wash and stufE 
with dressing made after recipe No. 570, 
and sew up. Lay a strip of pork over the 
pig and over this a greased paper ; roast in 
a hot oven for an hour and a half, basting 
two or three times during the last half 
hour. When done, serve with a gravy 
made from the juices in the pan, thickened 
with flour, and send to the table with a 
small, bright-cheeked apple in the mouth. 

607. Soups. 

Meat soups can hardly be included in 
Quick Cooking. There are, however, cir- 
cumstances under which they become indis- 
pensable to the dinner-table; as, for in- 
stance, where an invalid or dyspeptic is a 
member of the family, or where the taste 
of the head of the house imperatively 
demands them. In such cases they must 
be accepted by the overburdened house- 
wife as necessary crosses, and prepared 
with the least possible expenditure of time 
and attention. The broth of meat forms 



BLACK LIST. 275 

the basis of all good soup, and this is best 
extracted by putting the meat into cold 
water and letting it come to a boil, and 
then simmer slowly for four or five hours. 
It should then be cooled, when the fat will 
form a solid white cake on top and can 
easily be removed. 

Meat soup is always best on the second 
day. 

When a plate of soup for dinner is an 
indispensable daily requisite, the soup-pot 
must always be upon the stove, and into it 
should be put the scraps of fresh meat 
trimmed from steaks and chops, as well as 
scraps of cooked meat left upon the platter. 
Before sending to the table it should be 
strained. 

608. Consomm6 or Stock Soup. 

A knuckle of veal. 

2 pounds of beef. 

3 quarts of water. 
1 onion. 

1 turnip. 



276 BLACK LIST, 

A little celery. 

4 whole cloves. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

Simmer four hours. Cool, remove the 
cake of grease which ^vill form on top, and 
strain. 

609. Asparagus Soup. 

Boil half of the asparagus in well-sea- 
soned stock for three hours. Strain and 
add the remainder of the asparagus, cut 
into half-inch lengths. Boil for twenty 
minutes; then add half as much milk, 
thickened with a tablespoonf ul of flour. , 

610. Bean Soup. 

One pint beans, boiled in seasoned stock 
three hours, and then strained through a 
fine colander. 

611. Beef Soup. 

Fry a little beef suet to a nice brown in 
the bottom of the kettle. Then put in a 
shank of beef, covered with water below 
boiling heat ; cover the kettle closely and 
cook slowly until the meat drops from the 
bone. Strain, cool, and skim. 



BLACK LIST, 2/7 

6i2. Chicken Soup. 

Made precisely like turkey soup, with 
the substitution of chicken bones. 

613. Corn and Tomato Soup. 

Into seasoned stock put sweet green 
corn, cut from the cob, and a few tomatoes, 
putting in the cobs at the same time. Just 
before serving remove the cobs, and add a 
little milk, and bring to a boil. 

614. Mutton Soup. 

Boil a leg of mutton four hours. Season 
to taste, adding a teaspoonful of summer 
savory. 

615. Green Pea Soup. 

Boil the empty pea-pods for one hour in 
the stock. Strain and add the peas. Boil 
for half an hour, and just before serving 
thicken with a little rice flour and season. 

616. Potato Soup. 

Boil five or six potatoes, cut into thick 
slices, and just covered with water, with a 
small piece of salt pork for half an hour. 



278 BLACK LIST. 

Press througli a colander, and add milk and 
butter until the paste assumes the consis- 
tency of thick cream. Cut some dry bread 
into small dice, toast till crisp, place on 
the bottom of the tureen, and pour the 
soup over. 

A couple of chopped onions may be 
boiled in the soup. 

617. Swiss Soup. 

Beat up three eggs, a couple of table- 
spoons of flour, and a cup of milk. Pour 
slowly into seasoned stock, stirring briskly 
with a spoon. 

618. Tomato Soup. 

To two quarts of seasoned stock add a 
quart of tomatoes and a tablespoonful of 
corn-starch, dissolved in water. Boil for 
one hour. 

619. Tomato Soup Without Meat. 

Cook one quart of tomatoes for one hour 
in one quart of water ; then add a teaspoon- 
f ul of soda, first setting the vessel into a 



BLACK LIST. 279 

larger pan to prevent waste during the 
violent effervescence. Add one quart of 
hot scalded milk, and season to taste vrith 
butter or cream and salt and pepper. 
Serve with crackers. 

620. Turkey Soup. 
Cook the bones for an hour in water 
enough to cover them, seasoning vnth 
pepper, salt, and a little butter. 

621. Mock Turtle Soup. 
Boil a soup bone together with a quart 
of black turtle beans for five hours, season- 
ing with a teaspoonf ul of powdered cloves, 
salt, and pepper. Strain through a colan- 
der, pressing through enough of the pulp 
of the beans to make the soup thick and 
rich, and serve with a few slices of hard- 
boiled egg and thinly sliced lemon. 

622. Veal Soup. 

Take a joint of veal, well broken up, and 

boil for four hours. Season to taste, and 

if possible add a small quantity of rich 

milk or cream shortly before it is taken up. 



28o BLACK LIST. 

623. Vegetable Soup. 

Fry two onions to a delicate brown in 
a little melted butter, into which a table- 
spoonful of flour has been rubbed. Pour 
upon this the desired quantity of well- 
seasoned stock. Cut turnips, carrots, cel- 
ery, beets, cabbages, cauliflower, or any 
other vegetables at hand, into small pieces ; 
put them in the soup, and boil together 
for one hour. 

624. Pressed Soup Meat. 

When the bone is first removed from 
meat soups, shred off the lean meat, chop 
fine, season with catsup and spices ; pour 
over it a little of the soup ; press into a 
mould, and slice when cold. 

625. Souse (Pickled Pigs' Feet). 

Clean and scrape the pigs' feet and ears, 
boil until tender, drain and bring to a boil 
in a half gallon of cider vinegar, seasoned 
with whole black pepper, cloves, and mace. 
Ready for use in two days. 



BLACK LIST, 28 1 

626. Sweet Green Tomato Pickles. 

Twenty pounds of green tomatoes, sliced ; 
sprinkle with salt and drain twelve hours 
later. Boil for five minutes in one quart 
of water and one pint of vinegar ; drain 
and boil for ten minutes in two quarts of 
vinegar, one pound of brown sugar, quarter 
of a pound whole cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls of whole cloves, one tablespoon- 
ful each of mustard seed and of ginger, 
and a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper. This will keep for a year. 

627. Roast Leg of Veal. 

Season well, lay a strip of salt pork or 
chunk of veal fat over the top, put in a 
dish with a little water, and roast in a 
moderate oven until done. Serve with 
gravy of the drippings, slightly thickened 
with flour. 

628. Mock Venison. 

Sprinkle a leg of mutton lightly with 
powdered cloves, cinnamon, and pepper. 



282 BLACK LIST. 

Cut deep slits in it, and insert strips of salt 
pork. Koast until thoroughly done, basting 
three times an hour. Half an hour before 
taking up, smear currant jelly over it, and 
brown well. 

629. Home Made Vinegar. 

Any kind of pure fruit jelly that will not 
"set," or that has commenced to ferment, 
can be converted into nice vinegar by 
diluting . with water, pouring into a jar, 
tying a thin cloth over the top, and setting 
it in a warm place, exposed to the sun if 
possible, for six weeks. A little " mother " 
from old vinegar will hasten the process. 

Any pure fruit wine or cider can be con- 
verted into vinegar, by sweetening with a 
little sugar, and following the same process. 

630. Waffles, Yeast Raised. 

4 cupfuls fiour. 
2 cupfuls milk. 
1 scant teacupf ul yeast. 

1 heaping tablespoonful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter or lard. 



BLACK LIST. 283 

1 level teaspoonful salt. 

4 beaten eggs. 

Mix the flour, milk, and yeast together, 
and set over night. In the morning stir in 
the other ingredients, whip well, and let it 
rise for an hour. 

631. Pickled Watermelon Rind. 

Take the inner rind of a fresh water- 
melon, cut into strips, and boil for twenty 
minutes in vinegar, to every quart of which 
is added three pounds of sugar, a handful 
of stick cinnamon, one spoonful of whole 
cloves, and one of allspice. 



INDEX. 



PART I. 



JFive- to FifteenrMinute DisTies. 



1. .Ambrosia, 27. 

2. Apples, creamed, 27. 

3. Apple Foam, 28. 

4. Apples, fried, 28. 

5. Broma, 28. 

6. Baking-Powder Biscuit, 

29. 

7. Bananas, fried, 30. 

8. Banana Fritters, 30. 

9. Banana Tarts, 30. 

10. Beefsteak, broiled, 31. 

11. Beefsteak, broiled in dry 

pan, 31. 

12. Beefsteak and Mush- 

rooms, 32. 

13. Beet and Cabbage Pickles, 

32. 

14. Buttermilk Porridge, 32. 

15. Buckwheat Cakes, 33. 

16. Buttermilk Biscuits, 33. 

17. Baked Cabbage, 34. 

18. Caramel Coloring, 34. 

19. Celery Salad, 34. 

20. Cheese Biscuits, 35. 

21. Cheese Sandwiches, 35. 

22. Cheese Souffles, 35. 

23. Cheese Fondu, 36. 



24. Chicken Croquettes, 36. 

25. Chicken Croquettes, with 

potato, 36, 

26. Chicken Croquettes, with 

mushrooms, 37. 

27. Chicken Patties, 37. 

28. Chicken Salad, 38. 

29. Chocolate Cream, 38. 

30. Chocolate Icing, boiled 

and uncooked, 39. 

31. Chocolate Pudding, 40. 

32. Chocolate Corn - Starch 

Pudding, 40. 

33. Chops, breaded, 41. 

34. Chops, broiled, 41. 

35. Clams, breaded, 42. 

36. Clam Chowder, 42. 

37. Clam Fritters, 42. 

38. Clams, steamed, 43. 

39. Clam Stew, 43. 

40. Cocoa, 43. 

41. Cocoanut Drops, 44. 

42. Cocoanut Layer-Cake, 44. 

43. Cocoanut Golden Pud- 

ding, 44. 

44. Cocoanut Pudding, white, 

45. 



285 



J 86 


INDEX. 


45- 


Codfish Balls, 45. 


73. 


46. 


Codfish Puffs, 45. 


79. 


47. 


Coffee, 45. 


80. 


48. 


Coffee, French drip, 46. 


81. 


49. 


Coffee, other ways, 47. 




50. 


Coffee Cream, 47. 


82. 


51. 


Coffee Jelly, 48. 


83. 


52. 


Cold Meat and Bread 


84. 




Crumbs, 48. 


85. 


53. 


Com Oysters, 48. 


86. 


54. 


Com Batter Cakes, 49. 


87. 


55- 


Corn-Meal Bannocks, 49. 




56. 


Corn-Meal Drop-Cakes, 


88. 




50. 


89. 


57. 


Corn- Meal Mush, fried, 


90. 




50. 


91. 


58. 


Corn-Meal Mush, bread- 






ed, 50. 


92. 


59- 


Corn- Meal Mush, fried in 


93. 




batter, 51. 


94. 


60. 


Corn-Starch Custard, 51. 




61. 


Corn-Starch and Cocoa- 
nut Pudding, 51. 


95. 


62. 


Cookies, every-day, 52. 


96. 


63. 


Cookies, rich, 52. 




64. 


Crabs, 53. 


97. 


65. 


Crab Salad, 53. 


98. 


66. 


Cracked-Wheat Pudding, 


99- 




54. 


100. 


67. 


Cracked-Wheat and Apri- 






cot Pudding, 54. 


lOI. 


68. 


Croutons, 54. 


102. 


69. 


Cucumbers, boiled, 55. 


103. 


70. 


Cucumbers, gravied, 55. 


104. 


71. 


Cucumber Salad, fresh, 56. 


105. 


72. 


Cucuijiber Catsup, 56. 


106. 


73. 


Currant Jam, 57. 


107. 


74. 


Custard, boiled or baked. 


108. 




57. 


109. 


75. 


Custard Fritters, 58. 


no. 


76. 


Cutlets, breaded and 


III. 




broiled, 58. 


112. 


77. 


Del Monte Pudding, 58. 


113. 



Devilled Meat, 59. 
Dyspeptic Pudding, 59. 
Eggs, baked, 60. 
^ggs, baked with bread 

crumbs, 60. 
Egg Dumplings, 60. 
Eggs, escalloped, 61. 
Eggs, on foam, 61. 
Eggs, fried, 61. 
Eggs, fried with bacon, 62. 
Eggs, fried, with black 

sauce, 62. 
Eggs, glazed, 62. 
Egg Loaf, 62. 
Eggs, poached, 63. 
Eggs, poached, with 

vegetables, 63. • 
Egg Rolls, 64. 
Eggs, scrambled, 64. 
Eggs, scrambled, with 

asparagus, 64. 
Eggs, scrambled, with 

green peas, 64. 
Eggs, scrambled, with 

string-beans, 65. 
Eggs and Cheese, 65. 
Egg I-,oaf and Onion, 65. 
Eggs on Toast, 66. 
Egg Plant, boiled and 

fried, 66. 
Egg-Plant Croquettes, 66. 
Fried Eels, 66. 
Fairy Butter, 67. 
Farina Mush, 67. 
Farina Pudding, 67. 
Fish, boiled, 68. 
Fish, broiled, 68. 
Fish, cold sauce for, 69. 
Fish a la Creme, 69. 
Fish Croquettes, 70. 
Fish Salad, 70. 
Force-Meat Balls, 70. 
Fowl, minced, Pie, 70. 



INDEX. 



287 



114. Fried Bread in Batter, 71. 

115. Fritters, meat, 71. 

116. Fritters, strawberry, 71. 

117. Frog's Saddles, breaded, 

72. 

118. P'rog's Saddles, broiled, 

72. 

119. Fresh-Fruit Pies, 72. 

120. Fruit Syrup, 73. 

121. Gems, white flour, 73. 

122. German Toast, 73. 

123. Ginger Snaps, 73. 

124. Graham Cakes, 74. 

125. Graham Gems, 74. 

126. Graham Shortcake, 75. 

127. Graham Wafers, 75. 

128. Granula, 76. 

129. Gruel, bran, 76. 

130. Haddock, smoked, 76, 

131. Halibut, baked, 76. 

132. Ham, loaf, 77. 

133. Ham, potted, 77. 

134. Ham Sandwiches, 77. 

135. Ham on Toast, 78. 

136. Hash, 78. 

137. Hash Puffs, 78. 

138. Icing, quickest, 79. 

139. Icing, for cakes, 79. 

140. Icing, boiled sugar, 79. 

141. Jelly Roll, 80. 

142. Kidneys, breaded, 80. 

143. Kidneys, broiled, 80. 

144. Lady Fingers, 80. 

145. Layer-Cake (model), 81. 

146. Lemon Blanc-Mange, 82. 

147. Lemon Butter, 82. 

148. Lemon Toast, 83. 

149. Lemonade Egg, 83. 

150. Lettuce, 83. 

151. Liver, broiled, 84. 

152. Liver, fried, 84. 

153. Liver, stewed, 84. 

154. Lobster, bisque, 85. 



155. Lobster, broiled, 86. 

156. Lobster Chowder, 86. 

157. Lobster Croquettes, 86. 

158. Lobster Salad, 87. 

159. Lobster Soup, 87. 

160. Macaroni, baked, 88. 
i6i. Macaroni Rissoles, 88. 

162. Mackerel, salt, boiled, 88. 

163. Mackerel, salt, broiled, 

88. 

164. Mayonaise Dressing, 89. 

165. Minute Pudding, 90. 

166. Mushrooms, broiled, 90. 

167. Mushrooms, fried, 90. 

168. Mushroom Loaf, 91. 

169. Mushrooms, stuffed, 91. 

170. Mushrooms on Toast, 92. 

171. Muskmelon Salad, 92. 

172. Mustard, made, 92. 

173. Mutton Chops, fried, 92. 

174. Noodles, boiled, 93. 

175. Noodles, fried, 93. 

176. Oatmeal Griddle-Cakes, 

94. 

177. Oatmeal Mush, fried 

plain, 94. 

178. Oatmeal Mush, fried 

in batter, 94. 

179. Omelet, 94. 

180. Omelet, baked, 95. 

181. Omelet, bread, 95. 

182. Omelet, cheese, 96. 

183. Omelet, cracker, 96. 

184. Omelet Custards, 96. 

185. Omelet, French, 97. 

186. Omelet, fruit, 97. 

187. Omelet, ham, 97. 
1S8. Omelet, jellied, 98. 

189. Omelet, mushroom, 98. 

190. Omelet, onion, 98. 

191. Omelet, oyster 99. 

192. Omelet, parsley, 99. 

193. Omelet, potato, 99. 



288 



INDEX. 



194. Omelet, rice, 100. 

195. Omelet, smoked-beef, 100. 

196. Omelet, sorrel, 100. 

197. Omelet, sweet, loi. 

198. Omelet, tomato, loi. 

199. Onions, fried in lard, 

lOI. 

200. Orange Float, loi. 

201. Oranges, glazed, 102. 

202. Orange Honey, 102. 

203. Orange Jelly Layer-Cake, 

103. 

204. Orange Pudding, 103 

205. Orange and Sponge-Cake 

Pudding, 104. 

206. Oxford Pudding, 164. 

207. Oyster, bisque, 104. 

208. Oysters, broiled, 105. 

209. Oysters, creamed, 105. 

210. Oysters, crumbed and 

fried, 106. 

211. Oyster Fricassee, with 

toast, 106. 

212. Oysters, fried, plain, 106. 

213. Oysters, fried in batter, 

107. 

214. Oyster Loaf, 107. 

215. Oysters, roasted, 107. 

216. Oyster Salad, 108. 

217. Oyster Soup, 108. 

218. Oysters, steamed, 109. 

219. Oyster Stew, plain, 109. 

220. Oyster Stew, dry, 109. 

221. Oyster Stew with Milk, 

no. 

222. Oyster Stew, fancy, with 

toast, no. 

223. Oysters on Toast, no. 

224. Pancakes, French, in. 

225. Parsley, fried, iw. 

226. Parsnips, fried, in. 

227. Parsnip Fritters, in. 

228. Parsnips, roasted, 112. 



229. Pineapple and Oranges, 

112. 

230. Pineapple Patties, 112. 

231. Potatoes, baked in ten 

minutes, 113. 

232. Potatoes, broiled, 113. 

233. Potato Croquettes, 113. 

234. Potatoes, Dauphine, 114. 

235. Potatoes 4 la Hollandaise, 

114. 

236. Potatoes, boiled and 

browned, 114. 

237. Potatoes and Cream, 114. 

238. Potatoes, mashed.in form, 

115. 

239. Potato Cake, mashed, 115. 

240. Mashed Potato Cakes, 

fried, 115. 

241. Potatoes, mashed in 

Moulds, 116. 

242. Potatoes and Cold Meat, 

116. 

243. Potatoes and Onions, 116. 

244. Potatoes ^ la Proven9ale, 

117. 

245. Potato Puffs, 117. 

246. Potato Salad, 117. 

247. Potatoes, Saratoga, 118. 

248. Quail, broiled, 118. 

249. Raspberry Cream, 118. 

250. Reed Birds, broiled, 119, 

251. Reed Birds, stewed, 119. 

252. Rennet Whey, 119. 

253. Rice Balls, 120. 

254. Rice Cakes, 120. 

255. Rice Croquettes, 120. 

256. Rice and Cinnamon, 121. 

257. Rice and Cold Meat, 121. 

258. Rice and Eggs, 121. 

259. Rice-Flour Porridge, 122. 

260. Rice Muffins, 122. 

261. Rice Pudding, 122. 

262. Rice and Raisins, 123. 



INDEX, 



289 



263. Rice Snow, 123. 

264. Rye Griddle-Cakes, 123. 

265. Rutabaga, mashed, 124. 

266. Salads, vegetable, 124. 

267. Salmon Croquettes, 124. 

268. Salsify Croquettes, 124. 

269. Salsify, escalloped, 125. 

270. Sandwiches, baked, 125. 

271. Sandwiches, pic-nic, 125. 

272. Sauce, Bechamel, 126. 

273. Sauce, celery, 126. 

274. Sauce, cream, 127. 

275. Sauce, drawn butter, 127. 

276. Sauce, egg, 127. 

277. Sauce, foaming, 128. 

278. Sauce, hard, 128. 

279. Sauce, HoUandaise, 128. 

280. Sauce, horse-radish, 129. 

281. Sauce, lemon-white, 129. 

282. Sauce, mint, 130. 
2S3. Sauce, mushroom, 130. 

284. Sauce, onion, 130. 

28 5. Sauce, oyster, 130. 

286. Sauce, parsley, 131. 

287 Sauce, pudding, with 
milk, 131. 

288. Sauce, sour, for fish, 

131. 

289. Sauce, Tartar, 132. 

290. Sauce, transparent, 132. 

291. Sauce, Oyster, white, 132. 

292. Sausages, Frankfort, 

baked, 133. 

293. Sausages, Frankfort, 

boiled, 133. 

294. Shrimps, fried, 133. 

295. Shrimp Salad, 133. 

296. Slaw, cold, sour, 134. 

297. Slaw, cold, 134. 

298. Slaw, hot, 134. 

299. Smelts, fried, 135. 

3CX), Smoked Beef, creamed, 

135. 



301. Smoked Beef on Toast, 

136. 

302. Snipe, 136. 

303. Snow Pudding, 136. 

304. Spanish Cream, 137. 

305. Squash, fried, 137. 

306. Squash Griddle - Cakes, 

137. 

307. Strawberry Mush, 138. 

308. Sugared Fruits, 138. 

309. Sweet-Breads, fried, 138. 

310. Sweat - Breads, broiled, 

139- 

311. Tapioca Cream, 139. 

312. Tea, 140. 

313. Tea, parched corn, 140.^^ 

314. Tea, flaxseed, 140. ^ . 

315. Tea, wheat, barley, or 

oat, 140. 

316. Tea, toast-water, 141. 

317. Tomatoes, baked, 141. 

318. Tomatoes, fried, 141. 

319. Tomato Hash, 141. 

320. Tomato Salad, 142. 

321. Tomatoes, stewed, 142. 

322. Tongue, Fried, 142. 

323. Tongue, stewed, 142. 

324. Tongue, stewed, with 

tomato sauce, 143. 

325. Tongue Toast, 143. 

326. Tripe, broiled, 143. 

327. Tripe, fried, 143. 

328. Tripe, fried in batter, 144. 

329. Trout,brook, broiled, 144. 

330. Trout, brook, fried, 144. 

331. Turnip, mashed, 144. 

332. Venison Chops, 145. 

333. Waffles, baking-powder, 

145. 

334. Waffles, rice, 145. 

335. Washington Pie, 146. 

336. Water-Cress Salad, 146, 

337. Welsh Rarebit, 147. 



290 



INDEX. 



338. Welsh Rarebit with Eggs, 
147. 



339. Whipped Cream, 147. 

340. Woodcock, roast, 148. 



PAET n. 



Twenty Minutes and More. 



341. 
342. 

343. 
344. 
345. 



Almond Cake, 149. 

Almond Custard Pud- 
ding, 150. 

Angel Food, 156. 

Apples, baked, 150. 

Apple Custard, 151. 

Apple Dumplings (see 
Fruit Dumplings, No, 

435). 

346. Apple Jelly, 151. 

347. Apple, jellied, Layer- 

Cake, 152. 

348. Apples, pickled, 152. 

349. Apple Pie, 153. 
Apple Sago Pudding, 153. 
Apple Sauce, 154. 
Apple Sauce with Meats, 

154- 
Artichokes, 154. 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, 

155. 
Asparagus, 155. 

356. Asparagus on Toast, 156. 

357. Bananas, baked, 156. 

358. Banana Pie, 156. 

359. Beef, roast, 157. 

360. Beef, roast, and Yorkshire 

Pudding, 157. 

361. Beefsteak, braised, 158. 

362. Beefsteak, roasted, 158. 

363. Beets, as a vegetable, 158. 

364. Beets, as a relish, 159. 

365. Beet Greens, 159. 

366. Blackberry Jam, 159. 



350. 
351. 
352. 

353. 
354- 

355. 



367. Bouillon, 159. 

368. Bread, 160. 

369. Bread - Crumb Batter - 

Cakes, 165. 

370. Bread Pudding, 166. 

371. Bread Pudding without 

Milk. 166. 

372. Brown Betty, 167. 

373. Buckwheat Cakes, 168. 

374. Buns, 168. 

375. Cabbage, boiled, 169. 

376. Cabbage Boiled in Milk, 

169. 

377. Cauliflower, plain, 169. 

378. Cauliflower, escalloped, 

170. 

379. Celery, baked, 170. 

380. Celery, stewed, 170. 

381. Charlotte Russe, 171. 

382. Cherries, pickled, 172. 

383. Cherry Pudding, 172. 

384. Chicken, boiled, 173. 

385. Chicken, boiled. Stuffed 

with Oysters, 174. 

386. Chicken, broiled, 174. 

387. Chicken, fried, 174. 

388. Chicken, jellied, 175. 

389. Chicken Loaf, 175. 

390. Chicken Pie, 175. 

391. Chicken, pressed, 176. 

392. Chicken, roast, 176. 

393. Chicken, stewed, 177. 

394. Chicken and Oyster Pie, 

177. 



INDEX. 



291 



395. Chocolate Puffs, 178. 

396. Chowder, 178. 

397. Citron Cake, 179. 

398. Cocoanut Pie, 179. 

399. Cocoanut Pudding, 179. 

400. Codfish with Cream 

Gravy, 180. 

40 r. Coffee Cake, 180. 

402. Corn, green, boiled, 181. 

403. Corn-Bread, 181. 

404. Corn-Bread, 181. 

405. Corn-Meal Buns, 182. 

406. Corn-Meal Muffins, 182. 

407. Corn-Meal Mush, 183. 

408. Corn-Meal Pones, 184. 

409. Corn-Meal Popovers, 184. 

410. Cottage Pudding, 185. 

411. Crabs, stuffed, 185. 

412. Cracked - Wheat Mush, 

185. 

413. Cracked-Wheat and Ap- 

ple Pudding, 186. 

414. Cranberries, 187. 

415. Cream Cakes, Boston, 

187. 

416. Cream Sponge-Cake, 1S8. 

417. Cream Pie, 189. 

418. Cream and Corn-Starch 

Pie, 189. 

419. Crystallized Fruits, 190. 

420. Cucumber Salad, 190. 

421. Currant Catsup, 190. 

422. Currant Dumplings, 191. 

423. Currant Jelly, 191. 

424. Currants, spiced, 191. 

425. Custard, boiled, 192. 

426. Custard Cake, 193. 

427. Custard, floating island, 

193. 

428. Custard Pie, 194. 

429. Cake, delicate, 194. 

430. Doughnuts, 195. 

431. Dried-Fruit Pudding, 196. 



432. Dried-Fruit Pudding with 

Rice, 196. 

433. Duck, roast, 196. 

434. Egg Plant, mashed, 197. 

435. Fruit Dumplings, 197. 

436. Dyspeptics* Pastry, 198. 

437. Dyspeptics' Cake, 198. 

438. Fig Pudding, 199. 

439. Fish, stuffed and baked, 

199. 

440. French Rolls, 200. 

441. Fruit-Jelly, gelatine, 260. 

442. Ginger Cookies, 201. 

443. Gingerbread, Puritan, 201. 

444. Glaze, 202. 

445. Gold Cake, 203. 

446. Goose, roast, 203. 

447. Gooseberry Jam, 204. 

448. Gooseberries and Raisins, 

204 

449. Gooseberry Soy, 204. 

450. Graham Apple-Cake, 204. 

451. Graham Bread, yeast- 

raised, 205. 

452. Graham-Bread Pudding, 

205. 

453. Graham Crackers, 206. 

454. Graham Gems, yeast- 

raised, 206. 

455. Graham Gruel, 207. 

456. Graham Pastry Cakes, 

207. 

457. Grapes, jellied, 207. 

458. Grape Marmalade, 208. 

459. Gruel, Corn-Meal, 208. 

460. Gruel, Oatmeal, 208. 

461. Gum-Arabic Water, 209. 

462. Hare or Rabbit, roast, 

209. 

463. Ice Cream, 209. 

464. Ice Cream, beef-tea, 210. 

465. Indian Pudding, baked, 

210. 



292 



INDEX, 



466. Indian Pudding, steamed, 

210. 

467. Jelly Pudding, 21 r. 
46S. Kisses, 21 r. 

469. Lemon Cake, 212. 

470. Lemon Cream Pie, 212. 

471. Lemon Jelly Layer-Cake, 

213. 

472. Lemon Pudding, 213. 

473. Lemon Corn-Starch Pud- 

dinpj, 214. 

474. Lemon Raisin Pie, 215. 

475. Lemon Pie, 215. 

476. Liver and Onions, 216 

477. Macaroni, 216. 

478. Macaroni and Cheese, 

216. 

479. Macaroni and Oysters, 

217. 

480. Macaroon Jelly-Cake,2i8. 

481. Middling Griddle-Cakes, 

219. 

482. Mince-Meat, " Our" 219. 

483. Mince-Meat, rich 220. 

484. Mince-Meat, Scotch 221. 

485. Mock Birds' Nest Pud- 

ding, 222. 

486. Muffins, 222. 

487. Muscat Grape Jelly, 223. 

488. Mutton, boiled leg of, 223. 

489. Nut Cake, 223. 

490. Oatmeal Mush, 224, 

491. Omelet, beef, 224. 

492. Onions, baked, 225. 

493. Onions, boiled, 225. 

494. Onions, boiled in milk, 

225. 

495. Onions, fried, 226. 

496. Orange, how to eat an, 

226. 

497. Orange Foam Cake, 227. 

498. Orange Jelly, 228. 

499. Orange Marmalade, 228. 



500. Orange Whey, 229. 

501. Orange-Rhubarb Pie, 229. 

502. Oysters, escalloped, 229. 

503. Oysters, with macaroni 

and cheese, 230. 

504. Oysters, pickled, 230. 

505. Oyster Pie, 230. 

506. Oyster Tarts, 231. 

507. Parsnips, 231. 

508. Pastry, Graham, 231. 

509. Paste, puff, 232. 

510. Pastry, sweet, 234. 

511. Peach Butter, 234. 

512. Peaches, pickled, 235. 

513. Peaches, preserved, 235. 

514. Pears, baked, 235. 

515. Pears, winter, 235. 

516. Peas, green, 236. 

517. Piccalilli, 237. 

518. Pickled Plums, 237. 

519. Pigeon Pie, 237. 

520. Pilaf, 238. 

521. Pine-Apple Pie, 23S. , 

522. Plovers, roast, 239. 

523. Pork Sausages, 239. 

524. Preserved Fruits, 240. 

525. Preserved Fruit-Pudding, 

240. 

526. Potatoes, baked, 240. 

527. Potato Boulettes. 241. 

528. Potatoes, browned, 241. 

529. Potatoes, mashed, 241. 

530. Potatoes, new, 242. 

531. Potatoes, new, and green 

peas, 242. 

532. Potato Pudding, 242. 

533. Potatoes, sweet, 242. 

534. Prairie Chickens and 

Partridges, 243. 

535. Quail on Toast, 243. 

536. Quinces, preserved, 244. 

537. Pound Cake, 244. 

538. Pumpkin Pie, 244. 



INDEX. 



293 



539. Rabbit, roast, 245. 

540. Rabbit, Spanish style, 245. 

541. Raisin Layer-Cake, 245. 

542. Raisin and Nut Layer- 

Cake, 246. 

543. Raspberry Jam, 246. 
544 Rhubarb Pie, 246. 

545. Rhubarb, preserved, 246. 

546. Rice, boiled, 247. 

547. Rice Bread, 247. 

548. Rice Pie, 248. 

549. Rice Porridge, 248. 

550. Rome Pudding, 248. 

551. Rye Cake, 248. 

552. Sago and Cranberries, 

249. 

553. Salmon, baked, 249. 

554. Salmon, boiled, 250. 

555. Salsify, stewed, 250. 

556. Sauce, Chili, 250. 

557. Scotch Scones, 251. 

558. Sea Kale, 251. 

559. Silver Cake, 251. 

560. Spice Cake, 252. 

561. Spinach, 252. 

562. Sponge Cake, (cheap), 

253. 

563. Sponge Cake, (standard), 

253. 

564. Squash, baked, 254. 

565. Squash, mashed, 254. 



566. Squash Pie, 254. 

567. Strawberries, preserved, 

255. 

568. Strawberry Shortcake, 

255- 

569. String Beans, 256. 

570. Stuffing for fowls, 257. 

571. Succotash, 257. 

572. Tapioca Pudding, 257. 

573. Tapioca or Sago Milk, 

258. 

574. Tea, beef, 258. 

575. Tea, iced, 258. 

576. Tea, oatmeal water, 258. 

577. Tea, rice water, 259. 

578. Tea, tamarind, 259, 

579. Tea Cakes, 259. 

580. Tomatoes, canned, 260. 

581. Tomato Catsup, 260. 

582. Tomatoes, escalloped, 

260. 
5S3. Top Overs, 261. 

584. Turkey, roast, 261. 

585. Turkey (or Chicken) Sau- 

sage, 261. 

5S6. Veal, fricasseed, 261. 

587. Veal, roast fillet of, 262. 

53s. Veal or beef loaf, 262. 

539. Venison, saddle of, 262. 

590. Washington Pie, 263. 

591. "White Pound Cake, 264. 



PART in. 



Black List. 



592. Boston Baked Beans, 265. 

593. Boston Brown Bread, 

266. 

594. Beef, corned, boiled, 266. 

595. Beef, spiced, 267. 

596. Cherries, preserved, 267. 



597. Chow-chow, 267. 

598. Cinnamon Rolls, 268. 

599. Fish, potted, 269. 

600. Fruit Cake, richest black, 

269. 

601. Fruit Cake, rich, 270. 



294 



INDEX, 



602. Ham, boiled, 272. 

603. Headcheese, 272. 

604. Hominy, 272. 

605. Oude Sauce, 273. 

606. Pig, sucking-, roasted, 

273. 

607. Soups, 274. 

608. Stock or Consomme, 275. 

609. Soup, asparagus, 276. 

610. Soup, bean, 276. 

611. Soup, beef, 276. 

612. Soup, chicken, 277. 

613. Soup, corn and tomato, 

277. 

614. Soup, mutton, 277. 

615. Soup, green pea, 277. 

616. Soup, potato, 277. 

617. Soup, Swiss, 278. 



618. Soup, tomato, 278. 

619. Soup, tomato without 

meat, 278. 

620. Soup, turkey, 279. 

621. Soup, mock turtle, 279. 

622. Soup, veal, 279. 

623. Soup, vegetable, 280. 

624. Soup meat, pressed, 280. 

625. Souse, 280. 

626. Tomato Pickles, sweet 

green, 281. 

627. Veal, roast leg of, 281. 

628. Venison, mock, 281. 
629 Vinegar, home-made, 282. 

630. Waffles, yeast-raised, 282. 

631. Watermelon Rind, pic- 

kled, 283. 







8 03291 




