
fcresentefc to 

Gbe Xibran? 

of tbc 

of Toronto 



THE 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



OF THE 



/ // 

HOUSE IN WHICH WE LIVE. 



MARCUS P. HATFIELD, A.M., M.D., 

Professor Diseases of Children, Medical Department, North-ivestern University, 




" Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in 
you ? If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy ; for the temple of God 
is holy, which temple ye are." 



NEW YORK: 

CHAUTAUQUA PRESS, 
C. L. S. C. Department, 

805 BROADWAY. 
1887. 



> 

The required books of the C. L. S. C. are recommended, by 
a Council of six. It must, however, be understood that recom- 
mendation does not involve an approval by the Council, or by 
any member of it, of every principle or doctrine contained in the 
book recommended. 



RAND AVERY COMPANY, PRINTERS, BOSTON. 



Copyright 1887, by PHILLIPS & HUNT, 805 Broadway, New York. 



PREFACE. 



THE body, in this book, has been likened, in its various /\ 
parts, to a house, and it may be truthfully claimed that no^7 
other of man's dwellings has as many "modern con-_ 
veniences " as his body. There is nothing that his inge- 
nuity has yet devised for the safety and comfort of his 
home that he may not find foreshadowed, and usually bet- 
tered, in the body. Where, for instance, can you find an 
automatic steam or hot-water heater that will perform its 
work as well as the thermogenetic system of the body ? 
Where can the block or building be found that is as well 
sewered and ventilated ? Furthermore, he finds in this 
house of ours elevators, telegraphs, and telephones innumer- 
able, also pictures, photographs, library and music-rooms, 
and a dining-room from twenty to thirty feet long. But 
the best of all are the hosts of trained and uncomplaining 
servants that go with the premises ; porters, cooks, wait- 
ers, messengers, photographers, carpenters and joiners, are 
all found on the estate, and ready to work without other 
wages than food and lodgings for their life-time, and 
they never leave the property on any pretext whatever. 

Moreover, this house of ours is portable, and can be 
moved whenever we please ; and, what is more remark- 
able, this house of clay, as the theologians call it, can be 



4 PREFACE. 

* 

rented for a term of years under the most reasonable con- 
ditions. All the Landlord asks in return is that the prem- 
ises should be kept in good repair. Surely the terms are 
not hard, not difficult to comply with ; but, light and easy 
as they are, the penalties attached to non-fulfillment are 
heavy. Health is prompt and cheerful compliance with 
the terms upon which we hold our bodies. Disease is 
our. witting or unwitting breaking of them. Hence the 
absurdity of the question, " Why is not health catching 
instead of disease ? " Disease never occurs until the laws\ 
of health have been broken somewhere either by "this\ 
man, or his fatlter," by violation of personal or public I 
hygiene. This little book is designed to aid, as far as ^ 
possible, its readers to keep these laws, and in so far as it 
accomplishes this, its purpose has been fulfilled. 

M. P. HATFIELD. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 

The body a mosaic Hair follicles, number Epithelial scales Germinal 
matter Karyokinesis Protoplasm, and alcohol Blisters Hairs in court 
Cowlicks and goose-skin Care of the hair Wigs and hair-dyes Dan- 
druffFurred tongues and finger-nails Corns, scars, cartilage Areolar 
tissue, fascia Wrinkles Rameses Page 9 

CHAPTER II. 

BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 

Two hundred and forty timbers, long, flat, short, irregular Rickety 
houses and children Skull, cupola, " brain shell " Cowley's comparison, 
cubic contents and greatness Phrenology and sinuses, fourteen face bones 
and uses, seven neck bones and mechanism Atlas and axis Crooked 
backs and round shoulders, how made and how remedied Five sections to 
arms, horses', pigs', and monkeys' ; Ribs and thorax ; Body really a double 
tube, Chinaman on corsets, and Dr. Brown on fashion Backbone, thirty- 
three levers, Pott's disease, bumpers in back-bone and why shorter at night 
than in the morning, Rabbi's immortal bone Chemistry of the bones- 
Fossil soap, adipocere and Frenchman's soap Earthy part of bones, pecul- 
iar markings Growth requires twenty to thirty-five years Varieties of 
joints, and why Walking, what The uses of muscles, etymology, number, 
naming of more important groups Voluntary and involuntar}'- How dif- 
fer Necessity for involuntary Striped muscular tissue Checkers in a 
purse Delicacy of action The hand as a machine All work moving 
something Skill, exactness of muscular action Cramp, what Muscular 
sense Blind physicians, tailors, postmaster-general Wonder of walking, 
muscular growth, heat, and. exhaustion Starved, muscles Calisthenics 



6 CONTENTS. 

versus house- work Folly of laziness Blessing and necessity of work 
Paralysis Death of muscles Rigor mortis Necessity and uses of fat 
Where found Starvation Shakespeare on fat Fat globules Cellular tis- 
sue a buttery, marrow a preserve closet Page 25 

CHAPTER III. 

DINING-ROOM, COOKS, AND SCULLIONS. 

Food, what, necessary elements (15), and where used, bricks and mortar 
of house, proximate principles, groups, body chemically an egg Three 
groups of foods required Frenchman's scheme to make a body, why fail- 
ure Cooked versus raw food Teaching of teeth concerning food ; Tooth 
dyspepsia, grinders required, why two sets, parts of a tooth, enamel prisms, 
toothache, decay and candy False teeth not new Chinese tooth 
carpenters Eupepsia, what Digestive ferments Antiquity of pepsin 
Chyme, chyle, lacteals, and lymphatics, lymphatic glands Scrofula Glut- 
tony more frequent than drunkenness John Wesley's rules Adulteration 
of food Cost of food Carbonaceous foods and heat 60 

CHAPTER IV. 

THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 

Eastern irrigation Aptness of the comparison Size of the heart Daily 
work The heart pump, parts and valves Heart disease and sudden death 
Size and place of heart, apex beat, the round of circulation u Chair 
conrante," color and chemistry of blood, red rouleaux, white corpuscles, 
haematoblasts. amoeba, pus corpuscles, inflammation, Nature's surgery, 
fibriue, importance of, " Bleeders," corpuscles Swiss body-guard, numbers, 
coats of arteries, veins, intervascular spaces Fainting, blushing, vaso- 
motor system, heating the body Coagulation of the blood, fibrine, exercise 
Jenness Miller costume Tobacco heart Apoplexy 94 

CHAPTER V. 

SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 

Skin more than an elastic bag Its miles of tubing remove one half sew- 
erage of the body Relation of skin to kidneys Pope's gilded boy Water 
cures, rubber bandage, relation of perspiration to heat Fatality of burns, 
and why Lymphatics of skin Lymph spaces Tonsils and relation to 
liver Liver, what "Blue devils "Urea ashes, uric acid cinders Diabetes 



CONTENTS. 7 

Anatomy of the kidney Dropsy, catching cold, cold feet and death 
Creatin and creatinin, typhoid fever, filth diseases Ptoamines and leucoa- 
mines Effects on system, life an eddy The body's Gehenna The wisdom 
of Moses Earth closets Dangers of constipation Saint Simeon Stylites 
" Fear God," etc. Keep the body clean Importance of ventilation Black 
Hole at Calcutta Asphyxiated prayer-meetings Ranch and Adirondack 
cures Quantity of air required for adult, sleeping- rooms, body, how ven- 
tilated Principle that of latest science Cilia of air-passages How not to 
die of consumption Tidal air, its impurities, respirators Chloride of pal- 
ladium alarm Sewer-gas and diphtheria Surgical pavilions Page 128 



CHAPTER VI. 

" THE DAUGHTERS OF MUSIC, AND THEY THAT LOOK OUT AT 
THE WINDOWS." 

The tongue's box, not necessary for speech, Paul and 0. W. Holmes, 
linguals, labials, and palatals Need of soft palate Epiglottis, larynx, vo- 
cal cords, speaking machines, audiphone, clergyman's sore throat, errors 
in public speaking, John Wesley's prohibitions Turbinated bones Nasal 
catarrh, cigarette-smoking Catiline's "Keep your mouth shut" Eusta- 
chian tube, bones of the middle ear, membranes, windows, semicircular 
canals, cochlea bags, semicircular filaments, otoliths, aural staircase, rods 
of Corti, eight thousand tuning-forks Rood's resonators, sound-waves, lim- 
its of hearing Music and rods of Corti The new song and the music of the 
spheres " Eye hath not seen " Camera whose negatives are preserved 
Retina, first plate Lens, dark box, screens, diaphragm, lids, and lachrymal 
apparatus Why cry Lachrymal duct, handkerchiefs and tear jugs Red 
eyes Leah Cross eyes and remedy Muscles of lens Headache from eye- 
tire, far sight with age, spectacles, albinos, beauty and use of iris, light in 
brain, not eye Seeing stars, vitreous and aqueous humors One-eightieth 
inch retina, rods and cones Length of impression, wheel of light Light 
for reading and whence, black spots, blur, dread of light, twilight reading, 
twitching lids, eyes versus ears 163 



CHAPTER VII. 

TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 

Body in threes Nerve first telegraph cable Substance of Schwann, 
sheath, axis cylinder Plexus Ganglion a relay station Sympathetic 
nervous system " Involuntary nerves " Neurasthenia-Spinal cord, A. M. 
and P. S. roots Pile of ganglia Brain knots Brains of insects, corpus 



8 CONTENTS. 

callosum and dusty blanc-mange, ventricles, nerve cells and tubes 
Student's comparison of membranes of brain, " spider's web" " The tree of 
life" Crumpled cloths Medulla and relation to P. S. ganglia Two hun- 
dred and sixty feet per second quick as thought, 3,155,160,000 ideas 
Phosphates and thought Neuralgia Exhausted batteries Sleep, victory 
of sympathetic over cerebro- spinal Amount required Insomnia and busi- 
ness Dreams Somnambulism Mental habits, memory Soul's picture 
house vs. Pompeiian frescoes As a man thinketh so he is Mrs. Browning 
on reading Newspapers, slang and gossip, and habit White Cross 
Knights Page 185 

CHAPTER VIII. 

MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 

Mortgage with each lease Foreclosure largely optional with tenant 
Terms irrevocable, arid the best possible under the circumstances Earache 
and brain fever, diphtheria and filth The place of the doctor Faith cures 
Dr. Buckley Hercules and the wagoner The mystery of death and 
suffering Hilton on pain Saxe Holm Chinese and cholera Providence 
never does for us what we can do for ourselves G-old, silver, grain, tim- 
ber School-house to study the works of G-od Ourselves not least Neg- 
lect of body for books foolishness, since only one lease permitted Paul's 
lei,ter to the Corinthians The body a Shylock when wronged Rack-rent 
Law inflexible but just Ignorance no bar As yet in part Through a 
glass, darkly What science has to say of moth and rust Aptness of terms 
Oxidation Eremacausis Life a perpetual miracle Why Moses's bush 
a type of the body On microbes and bacteria Definition, varieties Torula 
and fermentation Sore mouth Anthrax Scarlet fever Tuberculosis 
Malaria Beale on bacteria Fascination of the subject Infinitely great 
and little Wordsworth 210 

PART II APPENDIX. 

Practical hints in regard to the care and development of the body, ac- 
cording to the methods of Dr. Anderson and Wm. Blaikie 257 

INDEX .277 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER I. 

MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 

THERE are at Rome four marvelous mosaics. Viewed 
from the pavement beneath they appear like exquisite life- 
size paintings representing the four evangelists, but with a 
nearer approach they become gigantic in their proportions, 
and it is found that their wealth of color and beauty of 
form are due to bits of colored glass and stone, so skillfully 
arranged that at a distance they produce all the effect of an 
oil-painting. 

So it is with the human body when studied beneath a 
microscope. All the beauties of color and form of this 
earthly habitation are there found to be due to a marvel- 
ous mosaic of cells whose workmanship is more exquisite 
than that of any Roman or Florentine workman. Even an 
ordinary hand-glass will reveal the ragged edges and rough 
joinings of these pictures in stone, but the finest micro- 
scope fails to show any imperfection in the finish of the 
mosaic of cells found in the body. Take for instance the 
cross section of a single human hair and the sac in which it 
is held. In what king's palace can a more beautiful piece of 
mosaic be found than this ? German patience, like divine wis- 
dom, has recently taken the time to number the hairs of our 
heads, and finds that a red head has 90,000 of these mosaics, 
a black 108,000, and two brown ones 109,000 and 140,000 
1* 



10 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 




Cross section of human hair follicle, show- 
ing outer fibrous coat, basement membrane, 
outer root sheath, polyhedral cells, inner root 
sheath, and hair itself. 



respectively, and each one finished with a dainty care im- 
perfectly shown in the cut. No wonder Paul declares that a 

woman's hair is her glory. 
What would he have said 
could he have looked 
through the modern micro- 
scope, which reveals thou- 
sands of wonders never 
dreamed of without its 
aid? And yet we take 
weary journeys to far-off 
Rome and Naples to see 
Pompeian mosaics with- 
out a tithe of the beauty 

n f t>,rA we. wmr a Twin* 
C Se we carrv about 
With US daily. 

Nor are the tissueg) or 

tapestries of the body less wonderful than those of the Gobe- 
lin factory, which cannot produce such a sack as the human 
integument, or skin. Such another bag was never elsewhere 
woven, for its fabrics are so delicate that they need to be 
kept covered with fine powder lest they should be in- 
jured. Histologists call this powder dried epithelial scales, 
and with these the whole surface of the body is dusted 
in layers of various thickness, always deepest where there is 
the greatest pressure. Hence, on the soles of the feet and 
the palms of the hands the outer layers of the skin become 
thick and horny ; but epithelial scales are found every- where 
else as well, completely covering the surface of the true 
skin, which lies beneath, and is thus protected by these 
fine white scales, softer than snow and serving a not dissimi- 
lar use. Take the blade of a penknife and gently scrape the 
back of the hand, and in a few seconds these scales may be 
found as a fine white dust on the knife blade. So light and 
impalpable is this epithelial powder that a breath carries it 
away, and fortunately so, for otherwise we should grow as 
thick-skinned as a rhinoceros. Layer after layer of these 



MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 11 

dried scales are continually falling from the surface of the 
body in larger numbers than the dead leaves of an autumn 
forest, so that epithelial scales can be found every-where that 
dust gathers, "from the tops of the highest mountains to 
the innermost recesses of the pyramids." And whence 
comes this never-ending supply of fine, branny scales ? They 
are pushed up from below by an incessant growth of new 
integument, or skin, which shoulders away the parent 
cells which produced it, and thrusts them out to die of ex- 
posure, like a pious Hindoo on the banks of the Ganges. 
Integument consists therefore of two kinds of matter: loose 
white scales on the surface of the body arid the rounder, 
moister ones beneath ; the former are dying or dead, and the 
latter are alive, and possess germinal matter. 

Germinal matter, so named by Dr. Lionel Beale, is per- 
haps the most marvelous thing in all the human body. It is, 
in a certain sense, its builder ; for there is a time when the 
body begins its existence as a transparent mass in which are 
imbedded granular points. These differ from the matter in 
which they are imbedded by the latter refusing to take a 
stain from a carmine solution, which readily tints germinal 
matter with its characteristic color. This germinal matter 
is almost as transparent as that by which it is surrounded, 
and, so far as can at present be ascertained, is perfectly 
structureless. It consists of minute points not larger than 
one fifty-thousandth of an inch in diameter, scattered or in 
groups, and always surrounded by larger or smaller quanti- 
ties of so-called formed material (matrix). This formed 
material is supposed to be the product of germinal matter, 
and, unlike germinal matter, has no more vitality than any 
other organic compound. Like other organic matter, formed 
material is subjected to the usual laws of chemistry, and is 
oxidized and changed like similar material outside of the 
body; but germinal matter resists such agents, and as long 
as it lives possesses the property of being able to project one 
part of itself in advance of the remainder. In this way 
germinal matter may travel directly through any of the tis- 



12 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



sues of the body, apparently using formed material for nutri- 
ment as it divides and subdivides. The chief work of germinal 
matter seems to be its division and subdivision; upon this 
the growth of the tissues depends, while cell walls and in- 
termediate substance (formed material) become variously 
modified and form the various parts of the body, such as 
bone, cartilage, muscle, and integument. And thus it is the 
body grows, germinal matter breaking up into smaller por- 
tions, or nuclei, as they are called, each taking a spheroidal 
portion of formed material with it, and dividing and sub- 
dividing as growth requires, often after the most intricate 
fashion, weaving itself into graceful stars, loops, rosettes, 
wreaths, etc. (such as here figured), infinitesimally small, of 
course, for they can be seen only through a microscope. 

Upon these freaks of 
motion, for such they 
seem, depend the exist- 
ence of the body; for 
these twistings and 
turnings of germinal 
matter precede its self- 
division, and upon its 
subdivison depends the 
multiplication of cells 
and all that it implies in 
the matter of growth 






F G H j j 

and decay. 
Karyokinesis, or movements of cellular proto- 

plasm. Germinal matter is 

the same thing as the protoplasm over which the scientists 
and theologians have often so unwisely fought. Protoplasm is 
not God, as some of the scientific men would have us believe, 
but, on the other hand, it as really exists as air, and is as cap- 
able of being shown in its wondrous work. Denying the ex- 
istence of protoplasm, or whatever you may prefer to call 
it, does not abolish it. It may be used unfairly as a weapon 
against revealed religion, but too many such efforts have 
failed in the past, to give the Christian any uneasiness in re- 



MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 13 

gard to the final outcome. Let him wait patiently, and he 
finds that his enemy's weapons become his best defense, as 
to-day one of the weightiest arguments against alcohol is 
framed from its effects upon this germinal or protoplasmic 
matter. 

Strong alcohol dropped on heart muscles first paralyzes, 
then kills, this germinal matter. But, it may be said, only 
dilute alcohol is used for drinking, and this, when taken into 
the circulation, quickens the heart's action. Yes, temporarily, 
as it also makes us for a time think ourselves wiser and 
stronger than any one else. " O," says Dr. Holmes, " if the 
alcoholic virtues would only wash! " But, alas! they will not, 
for the poem, the book, the lecture delivered under alcoholic 
stimulus is never taken elsewhere at its valuation. The dyn- 
amometer is pitiless in its verdict, and that says absolutely 
that these servants of ours cannot lift, pull, or do any kind 
of work as well after as before the glass of whisky that 
makes one feel that is exactly it: apparently, not really 
stronger; for physiological experimentation proves that alco- 
hol, in whatever form, diminishes the sensibility and lessens 
the contractility of germinal matter wherever it is found. 
Dip your fingers into alcohol, and after a little you will find 
them numb from the effect of the alcohol upon the germinal 
matter of the skin, for it is this germinal matter that perpet- 
ually renews the loose scales which make up the outer or 
scarf skin, which protects the sensitive nerves and tissues be- 
neath. The necessity of such protection is shown whenever 
the scarf skin is removed, either by rubbing or blistering, 
and the sensitive true skin exposed to the air. This same is 
seen in a chapped skin, which is one from which the outer 
layer of epithelial scales has been removed by cold or irritat- 
ing fluids, leaving the lower and softer layers to crack and 
bleed. This will be readily understood by a reference to the 
annexed cut, which represents the different layers of the skin 
on the tips of the fingers. The ends of the nerves and the 
blood-vessels of the skin are not well shown in the picture, 
which is simply designed to show the epidermis, or layer 



14 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

of dried scales, basement membrane, and a soft layer of gran- 
ular and germinal matter beneath, constituting the corium, 




SECTION OF THE SKIN. 

a. The epidermis. I). Two of the quadrangular papillary clumps com- 
posed of minute conical papillae, such as are seen in the palm of the hand 
or the sole of the foot. c. Deep layer of the derma, the corium. d. Tac- 
tile corpuscle. 

or true skin. Through the skin pass several miles of sweat 
glands, hereafter to be described; and in it are also imbedded 
the hairs, nails, and sebaceous glands. 

Hair is designed to form an elastic protection and adorn- 
ment for the head. Minute hairs are, with few exceptions, 
also found every-where upon the surface of the body; but 
they are, if we are to believe the evolutionists, the useless 
heritage left us by our great grandfathers, the apes. A 
fine head of hair is a gift to be proud of, whether black, 
red, or gray; for the best art of man has never yet succeeded 
in making a satisfactory substitute, and it never will until it 
succeeds in making as exquisite a hair factory as that found 
in a hair follicle. A single hair is an insignificant thing, ac- 
cording to our way of thinking, but in the biblical sense of the 
statement our hairs are all numbered ; for more care is shown 
in the arrangement of a single hair follicle than in an elab- 



MOSAICS AND TAPESTKIES. 15 

orate mosaic (page 10). First, we find a fibrous sac (A) lined 
with glassy membrane (g), inside of which are set the 
outer and inner root sheaths (d. e.f), most beautifully con- 
structed of cells containing dark points of germinal or grow- 
ing matter, and internal to this the cuticle of the hair (c), its 
cortex, or bark (#), and its marrow, or pith (a)\ for hairs 
possess marrow no less than bones. More properly, it resem- 
bles the pith of a feather, for it does not answer in any wise 
except in name to the marrow of the bones, which is largely 
fat. The fat of the hair is found in two little sacs, which 
serve a similar purpose to those found on a larger scale on 
the backs of water-fowl, located at the base of each hair 
(sebaceous glands). Man is in reality feathered, although 
Plato defined him as a "featherless biped;" but with better 
eyes he would have found that his definition was not scientific- 
ally correct, for a hair is essentially the same thing as a feather. 
They both have a central shaft, a pith, and a vane of barbs; 
but in the hair these encircle the shaft instead of being ar- 
ranged laterally as on a quill. These barbs are proportion- 
ally smaller in the hair, but still they may be felt, even when 
they cannot be seen, as is readily proven by pulling a horse 
hair the wrong way between the fingers. The barbs or 
scales of a human hair overlie each other like shingles on a 
roof, and are unlike those of other animals. Microscopists 
are able, therefore, to tell with certainty from what animal 
a hair has been taken.* 

A hair is prolonged at one end into a sharp, tapering point, 
and at the other it is expanded into a root, or bulb, as it is 
well named. Each hair bulb is set into a flask-shaped pocket 

* In the late Piper case tried in Boston the guilt of the prisoner was 
established by a single human hair adhering to the inside of the prisoner's 
coat; and Gosse relates the following more remarkable case: "The knife 
of a prisoner on trial for murder was found to be stained with blood, which 
contained a single hair. The prisoner claimed that the knife had been used 
for killing pigs ; but the microscope proved that the hair was not a pig's 
bristle, but a squirrel's hair; and as the little girl who had been murdered 
had worn at that time a squirrel boa, the chain of evidence was com- 
plete." 



16 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

or depression in the skin, very much as children thrust twigs 
into soft clay, and the bottom of each pocket is lined 
with points of germinal matter, which reproduce the hair 
continually. Sometimes nature plays strange pranks in 
planting these bulbs, and instead of planting them in regular 
rows sets them round in circles, and then their unfortunate 
owner discovers, to his great annoyance, that he is the owner 
of a " cowlick," which requires all his patience and pomatum 
to keep in subjection. Fright and cold 
may also produce, on a small scale, tem- 
porary cowlicks; for attached to the base 
of each of these hair pockets are two min- 
iature, involuntary muscles, by whose con- 
traction some of the lower animals, as the 
horse and pig, erect their hair. In man 
these muscles are only influenced by cold 
or fright, which produces that condition of 
the skin known as " goose-skin," due to the 
Longitudinal section contraction of these tiny muscles. 

T *rZ!X A hair > in its structure, is as delicate as the 

papilla, and the muscle finest feather; and while it is exceedingly 

s erector pili). ^^ and perfectly adapted for the pur . 

pose for which it was designed, it cannot be frizzled and 
burnt and broken without destroying its beauty and its life. 
A hair curls for the same reason that a shaving does; namely, 
they are both flattened cylinders. The more nearly cylin- 
drical a hair, the stiffer and straighter it becomes, as is seen in 
the Indian, while we find the opposite extreme in the negro, 
whose hair cylinders are so much flattened that they become 
kinky as wool despite the owner's eiforts to the contrary. 

The coloring matter of the hair is located in the pith, or 
central part, and its gloss is due largely to nature's pomatum 
pots, two of which are attached to the root of each hair, so 
that other dressing for the hair than a brisk brushing with a 
stiff brush is hardly ever required. 

All other applications, unless it be a little water or vaseline, 
are untidy or injurious, except in cases of diseases of the 




MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 17 

scalp, when a physician's advice should be taken instead of an 
"almanac's tonic." Patent hair dyes are especially to be 
shunned; for with very few exceptions they owe their value 
to lead salts, and these, sooner or later, produce poisoning 
and paralysis. No one in his senses was ever long deceived 
by dyed hair, although the attempt is as old as the time of the 
Pharaohs; but the Egyptians were wiser than we, for they 
shaved the obnoxious hair off from their heads and wore, in- 
stead, wigs dyed to order. Artificial hirsute abominations 
date back to Margaret of Navarre. " Margaret of Navarre," 
says history, " having through sickness lost her blonde locks, 
cut off similar ones from her plebeian subjects and wore them 
instead of her own." History repeats itself, and every town 
has its local Margarets, who borrow their coiffures or bleach 
their own locks by means of peroxide of hydrogen, and there- 
by permanently injure their hair. Gray hairs are a crown 
of glory, says an excellent authority. Moreover, as yet, 
no device has been found that will safely restore them to 
their original color. Early gray hairs and bald heads are 
part of the price that is paid for modern civilization; and 
the only way to defer the inevitable is to keep the head cool, 
occasionally washed free from dandruff with a little borax 
and water, and the hair thoroughly brushed with a stiff 
brush several times daily. 

Dandruff is simply another name for the dead, epithelial 
scales found every-where on the surface of the body; but be- 
ing confined to the head by the hair, they are apt to accumu- 
late until they become a source of annoyance to the possessor. 
Unless it arises from a diseased scalp, dandruff may be 
readily removed by washing the head with a solution of 
borax or salts of tartar, either of which readily dissolves 
these scales, but requires that the scalp should be washed im- 
mediately after with pure warm water. Similar treatment 
will remove the coating on the tongue, observed in many dis- 
ordered conditions of the system. It would be a Hibernicism 
to speak of this coating on the tongue as a dandruff of the 
mouth, but in reality both are due to a similar cause; namely, 



18 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

excessive death of epithelial cells, which in consequence ac- 
cumulate instead of being, as usual, swept away as fast as 
they die. In case of the tongue, the reason of this undue 
accumulation is congestion of the membrane lining the 
mouth, causing an increased growth of the cells on the surface 
of the tongue, which remain pasty and white or may become 
dried and colored by the disordered secretions of the mouth. 
The secretions of the mouth are as a rule diminished at such 
times, and hence are insufficient to remove the fur, which 
in protracted fevers continues to increase, unless removed, 
adding greatly to the discomfort of the sick. There is, how- 
ever, no better reason for allowing this to remain in the 
mouth than dirt elsewhere upon the surface of the body. 
It can easily be removed by scraping with the sharp edge of 
a penknife; and the mouth of a fever patient should no more 
be allowed to become unclean than his face. ^. 

The relation of a furred tongue to finger-nails may not be 
apparent unless it be remembered that the nails, like the fur 
upon the tongue, are epithelial scales packed closely to- 
gether. With proper treatment under a microscope they 
can be shown to be identical, with, however, this very great 
difference: the fur upon the tongue is dead and decaying 
matter, fit only to be thrown out of the body, while the 
nails, though hardly less vital, are admirably designed to pro- 
tect and assist the ends of the fingers and the toes. A cut- 
ting of nail, even though it be not worshiped like that taken 
from the grand Lama of Thibet, is well worth our study. 
Examine a nail under a high power microscope and you will 
discover that it is made up of a multitude of little scales, so 
closely packed together, like figs in a box, that they are firm 
and solid and give the horny appearance to the nail. Be- 
neath these we find softer, translucent cells (one fifteen- 
thousandth of an inch) which are continually growing and 
producing new nail at the root and the quick; that at the root 
pushing the nail forward and free from the end of the finger. 
The cells at the quick of the nail are so much larger than 
when they crowded together above that, to accommodate 



MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 19 

them all, the bed of the nail is grooved or thrown into ridges 
into which the nail dove-tails, and thus, like a ship on the 
ways, is directed in the way in which it should go. As long 
as the bed of the nail is uninjured it will reproduce fresh 
nail, making an entire new one in four to six months; but if 
these ridges are destroyed a straight nail can never grow on 
that finger again, although nails have been known to appear 
on a second joint when the first has been removed. 

A corn is an effort to form a nail, caused by the pressure 
of a boot upon one point of the soft tissues beneath. Press- 
ure crowds the epithelial scales into a hard horny mass coni- 
cal in shape. Its increase in size increases the pressure, 
and so on indefinitely until the pain becomes exquisite. 
Every motion of the foot seems to push upon that especial 
spot, not because that point is touched more frequently than 
usual, but simply because each touch becomes painfully ap- 
parent. Corns are the price we pay for improperly shaped 
boots; for a savage, having none, only acquires calloused, or 
generally thickened, soles. The pressure producing a corn is 
on one point, and as the result of this the corn con- 
stantly becomes worse unless it is removed by the chi- 
ropodist, and some method is devised to relieve the spot from 
pressure for the future. The proper shape for the sole of a 
shoe can be obtained by placing the stockinged foot upon a 
sheet of paper and tracing its outlines. Such a shoe may not 
be in the prevailing fashion, but it will accurately fit the foot 
and make walking a pleasure instead of a painful hobbling 
after the Chinese fashion. The feet deserve better care and 
more frequent attention than they usually get, especially in' 
the way of nightly baths and well-fitting shoes. 

Too frequent bathing is not desirable for the feeble in 
a northern climate; but a foot-bath, with mustard or salt 
if the circulation is poor, will do much to do away with cold 
feet, headache, and sleeplessness. Much of the general lack 
of enjoyment of health among well-to-do people comes from 
the clogging of the pores of the skin by an effort on its part to 
do the work of other organs. A shining, greasy, pasty-looking 



20 PHYSIOLOGY AND P!YGIENE. 

skin means this, and requires a change in the mode of living 
more fully to be discussed under secretion and excretion or 
the complexion will be irretrievably ruined in spite of all pow- 
ders and cosmetics. So dainty a piece of mosaic cannot be 
powdered, rouged, and white-leaded with impunity. The 
best cosmetics are a healthy liver, good food, fresh air, and 
frequent bathing of the face with soft water or that contain- 
ing almond meal. 

A broken skin fortunately mends itself, for germinal 
matter attends to that. If the general health of the body 
is well preserved there is a perpetual renewing, or relay- 
ing of the epithelial mosaic by these tiny, glassy points; 
moreover, when this is destroyed or injured, as by a cut or 
burn, in a very brief time these same tireless workers pour 
out a colorless glue which covers the wounded spot, and under 
which, unless the injury has been too great, a new layer forms. 
The most that the most expert surgeon can do in such cases is 
to imitate Ambroise Pare, who said of his work, " I salve and 
God heals." All that antiseptic or any other surgery can do 
is to prevent external causes hindering this healing process. 
How fibril is joined to fibril and nerve to nerve we do not as 
yet know; but it seems as if each sort of germinal matter 
reached out and joined itself to its own kind. At all events, 
somehow or other, unless irritated by the microscopic germs 
every-where floating in the air, this union takes place, and we 
have now what is known as a cicatrix, or scar, denser and firmer 
than the original tissue. It is, in fact, a seam put into the 
torn tapestries with a finer than human skill, but still a seam, 
and, like all seams, thicker and not so perfect as the original 
fabric. Still, it is vastly better than an unseemly rent, or an 
aching cut, and is the best that can be done under the cir- 
cumstances. Now, if for any reason the germinal matter is 
unable to piece together the hole, there is left a running sore, 
which when of long standing is one of the most difficult 
things in the world to heal, for the reason that the germinal 
matter at its base devotes itself to manufacturing white cor- 
puscles (pus) instead of plastic lymph. Germinal matter 



MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 21 

like men may get into bad habits, and one of these is the 
secretion of pus, or matter, as we ordinarily call it, from a 
healing surface. 

Cartilage and connective tissue next deserve our attention, 
for in them we find how germinal matter binds together the 
different parts of the body; and nowhere can we find daintier 
work than that done by germinal matter in fibro-cartilage, 
as it is called, or that gristly material which ties together cer- 
tain of the bones of the body. We find (beneath the micro- 
scope) that this unsightly material has as exquisite a design 
and finish as the finest Florentine mosaic. Or perhaps it can 
be better likened to a pictured tapestry. In fact, its name ex- 
presses as much; for it is one of the tissues of the body, and 
a tissue is something woven. These tissues are well named; 
for they possess scarcely less beauty, and more utility, than 
the famous Gobelin hangings. The anatomists call these tap- 
estries, or tissues, by various names, such as areolar, elastic, 
connective, etc., each of which has its peculiar excellence and 
beauty. The most widely used of these hangings is the 
areolar, connective tissue, so called because it is honey-combed 
with small openings, or areas, connecting with each other. 
This elastic packing fills every nook and cranny of the body, 
and encircles its every organ so completely that if in 
any way all else could be dissolved away, the connective 
tissue would still form a ghost-like model of the body 
complete in all its parts, and bearing about the same rela- 
tion to a man that skeletonized leaves do to a green tree. 
Beautiful as such a body might be, it would be as useless as 
the " baseless fabric of a dream," for all practical purposes. 
A body composed entirely of connective tissue would be as 
unsatisfactory as one composed of twine; but, rightly joined 
and fitted to the other parts, connective tissue is as invalua- 
ble as cordage on shipboard, and it is as variously modified 
to meet its various requirements as is a ship's rigging. 

Now this areolar, connective tissue, or that resembling 
honey-comb, is, like honey-comb, filled with fluid (serum). 
Like every thing else in the body, this tissue fluid which 



22 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

closely resembles the watery part of the blood has its 
duty to perform; namely, to moisten the five hundred odd 
muscles and their sheaths, which otherwise would rasp them- 
selves to pieces over each other or the bones to which they 
are attached. (The absence of this fluid, conjoined with 
wasting of the muscles, gives us the pitiable objects known 
as living skeletons, who make a scanty living by exhibiting 
themselves at dime museums. Excess of this fluid consti- 
tutes dropsy, a hardly less unfortunate condition.) 

Again, this connective tissue is not unlike the coarse paper 
laid beneath our carpets, and between the siding of a house, 
in thin, elastic sheets, serving as protection and packing for 
the odd nooks and corners that need filling up for symmetry. 
Otherwise the " form divine " would be as angular as a Vir- 
ginia rail fence. The structure of the body's sheet wadding 
(to use the name given by dressmakers to a substance similarly 
employed to help out Nature's deficiencies) varies according to 
the especial use to which it is to be put; but it is essentially a 
web of fine, wavy, white, inelastic fibers (one four-thousandth 
to one forty-thousandth of an inch in diameter), crossed by a 
greater or less number of coarser, yellow, elastic fibers, and 
according as the first or second of these predominates we 
have what is known as white fibrous or yellow elastic tissue. 
Where the first of these is used for muscle sheathing, it is 
called fascia, from the Latin word for bandage; and an ex- 
cellent name it is, for it well expresses the care with which 
these bundles of muscles are swathed. We admire the inge- 
nuity and the almost endless yards of bandaging employed 
by the Egyptians in preparing their mummies; but even 
greater care has been used in enveloping not only each limb, 
but every muscle as well, of the body. Each of these has its 
separate bandage or sheath, which differs somewhat as it 
is found near the surface of the body or deeper. The ex- 
ternal or superficial fascia lie near the surface, and consist of 
moist, loose layers of connective tissue, while that which 
lies below is often woven into intricate layers. 

Connective tissue, when long boiled, yields a transparent 



MOSAICS AND TAPESTRIES. 23 

substance known as gelatine, largely used in making artificial 
jelly. In addition the chemist finds in it a small percentage 
of inorganic salts and a large proportion of water; for connec- 
tive tissue, like all the other soft parts of the body, is com- 
posed mainly of water. More than half (sixty-one per cent.) 
of the weight of a healthy body is due to the water which it 
contains, and when this is removed by drying, or age, the 
skin naturally shrinks and wrinkles. Wrinkles are inevita- 
ble with age; but it is entirely within our power to decide 
whether they shall be lines of content and happiness or 
moroseness, for wrinkling takes place in line of the greatest 
wasting of the facial muscles. Hence, one preserver of 
the form divine proposes to obviate this by washing and 
rubbing the face up instead of down as is usually prac- 
ticed. Possibly this and chewing chamois leather, as is 
also proposed by the same artist, may put off the evil 
day; but a second fountain of youth would be required to 
prevent the wasting of fatty tissue, which sooner or later 
comes with advancing age. 

Germinal matter, like every thing else, at last loses its vital- 
ity. In early life, so long as protoplasm is supplied with 
.proper food, there seems to be hardly any limit to its powers 
of multiplication. During all these years the body con- 
stantly increases in height and weight. Then there comes a 
period when germinal matter just suffices to supply the 
waste of the body. These are the years in which the 
debtor and creditor accounts of the body in composition and 
decomposition exactly balance each other, or the sum of all 
the weights of the substances leaving the body exactly 
equal the weight of all the ingesta, or substances, including 
air, taken into the body. At last there comes a time when 
germinal matter is unable to fully repair the losses of the 
body, and then follow laxity of fiber, watery blood, and 
pallor of the face. " We all do fade as a leaf," and from 
exactly the same cause namely, failing protoplasmic activity; 
which finally by the wisdom of its Creator brings us to the 
time " when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the 



24 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease be- 
cause they are few, and those that look out of the windows 
be darkened, and the doors shall be shut in the streets, when 
the sound of the grinding is low. . . . and the almond tree 
shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and 
desire shall fail : because man goeth to his long home. . . . 
Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the 
spirit shall return unto God who gave it." 




RAMESES II. OF EGYPT. 

The only apparent exemption from the flat, " dust to dust," is found In 
the case of the Egyptian mummies, which have been preserved by the 
care of their etnbalmers for thousands of years. The most interesting of 
all these is the mummy of Rameses II., recently discovered, and identified 
by Professor Maspero, by its inscriptions, as the Pharaoh who oppressed 
the Israelites and made their lives bitter with hard bondage in mortar 
and in brick. The body is that of an old man, for Rameses " must have 
been nearly a hundred years old when he died, but even under the some- 
what grotesque disguise of mummification there is plainly to be seen an 
air of sovereign majesty, of resolve and pride." M aspsro. 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 25 



CHAPTER II. 

BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 

SYDNEY SMITH wished in hot weather to take off his 
flesh and skin and let the breezes blow through his bare 
bones, but he was a good physician as well as a witty clergy- 
man, so that a skeleton had for him none of the horrors that 
it has for those unused to its sight. It ought to call to mind 
no thoughts of " some charnel-house o'er-covered quite with 
dead men's rattling bones," but rather wonder and admi- 
ration for the divine skill which so wisely planned the 
beams and rafters of the house in which we live. A skel- 
eton literally means something dry, and such it appears to 
the majority of students of anatomy and histology, but there 
is much to be learned and remembered from even an old 
bone. There may cluster about old bones some of our hap- 
piest recollections: Bible stories of the bones of the patri- 
archs; of Joseph's bones, carried by the children of Israel 
during all their forty years of wandering; of the jawbone 
with which Samson smote the Philistines; Elisha's bones, and 
the dead man; of Tamerlane's famous pile of skulls; the bones 
of the eleven thousand virgins at Cologne, and many more. 
Geologically they have taught us all we know concerning 
the strange monsters, the Megalosaurus, Dinotherium, Cheiro- 
therium, Pliosaurus, and Pterodactyl. Of these we have but 
some bits of broken bones left, but from them the geologist 
has conjured up weirder monsters and stranger scenes than 
ever came from opium or hasheesh. Or, if you are math- 
ematically inclined, there lies before you a whole calculus of 
possible problems respecting the mechanics and building to- 
gether of these two hundred and forty timbers all fitly joined 
together by the Master-builder. Like the rest of his work, it 
2 



26 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

is well done and without haste, for it takes nearly thirty -five 
years to complete all of the bones of the body. If Flourens's 
rule is correct, that one fifth of an animal's life is occupied in 
the ossification of its cartilages, we ought to live at least one 
hundred and fifty years, but as a rule man rarely attains to the 
Psalmist's threescore and ten. Statistics on this subject have 
only been recently kept, but there is nevertheless a gratify- 
ing increase in the average life-time of man. In the sixteenth 
century the average longevity at Geneva was only 21.2 
years. In 1603 the English government found it could profit- 
ably sell life annuities based on an average expectation of life 
of 26.5 years only. Ninety-seven years later, they were 
obliged to raise this to 33.9 years to avoid loss, and again in 
1871 this was again increased to 41, so that for Englishmen 
at least the span of life is lengthening. In fact, many if not 
most of their prominent men are still hard at work at an age 
that a century ago would have been expected to have laid 
them in retirement, if not actually in their graves. 

Bancroft, Bismarck, Gladstone, De Lesseps, N. S. Davis, 
are all in years, past what was once supposed to be the age 
of efficient work, yet each of them stands to-day easily at 
the head of his particular line of work. John Quincy 
Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Brougham, Disraeli and Palmer- 
ston are all instances that a man's efficiency need not be 
measured by his years, for all of these did their best work 
when past seventy. Worry, fret and debt do more to age 
men than intellectual work. We hear much of youthful 
genius, but a careful analysis, by the late Dr. Beard, of the 
life-work of the thousand men who have been the leaders in 
the world's thought and activity shows that their greatest 
efficiency has been between forty and fifty, or, as Dr. Beard 
puts it, " the bronze age for man is between twenty and 
thirty, his golden from forty to fifty, his iron from fifty to 
sixty; but if a man in good health would forget his age he 
will be likely to run far over his seventieth year before he 
finds his mind or body burdened with years." More men 
fret out or rust out than, wear out, and the surest way to 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 27 

reach ninety years is to find engrossing work which keeps at 
exercise every faculty of mind and body. " A man may be 
old at forty, or he may be young at seventy, and there seems 
to be no surer way of growing old than determining at some 
set time to quit the active employment to which he has long 
been accustomed." 

" Nevertheless, from the elaborate tables drawn up by Dr. 
Farr it would seem there are certain very critical periods in 
life. A baby, for instance, has but one chance in five of 
growing up. The period between the tenth and the fifteenth 
years, exclusively, is that in which the death average is the 
smallest. At about thirty-five we must begin to take care 
of ourselves. At this period constitutional changes set in ; 
our hair and teeth begin to fail us ; our digestion is no longer 
what it used to be ; we lose the vigor of youth and neglect 
out-door exercise ; above all, the cares of life begin to make 
themselves perceptibly felt. It is at this time that deaths 
from suicide take a marked place in the returns of mortality, 
and there is also considerable reason to believe that habits of 
intemperance are apt to suddenly develop themselves. It 
appears, moreover, that if a man tides over his fiftieth year 
he may make tolerably certain of living to seventy, while if 
he reaches his seventy-fifth year there is very strong pre- 
sumption that he will either turn his ninetieth birthday or 
very near it." 

The growth of the human body, like that of a tree, is not 
the same for all seasons of the year, being greatest in growing 
children in June, July, and August, as proven by the careful 
examinations of the children in the Danish deaf and dumb 
institutes. 

" Each child was weighed four times a day in the morn- 
ing, before dinner, after dinner, and in the evening ; and 
was measured once. These daily records show that, contrary 
to general opinion, the increase in weight and height of the 
human body during the years of growth does not progress 
evenly throughout the year. Three distinct periods were 
observed, and smaller variations were noticeable within these 



28 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

divisions. In bulk, the period of maximum increase extends 
from August to December. A period of equipoise then suc- 
ceeds until the middle of April, and the following minimum 
period completes the year. The lasting increase in weight 
occurs during the first period ; the period of equipoise adds 
about one fourth of that increase, but this is almost entirely- 
spent during the last period. 

" The increase in height shows a similar division into peri- 
ods, but in a reverse order. In September and October a child 
grows only a fifth of what it did in June and July. Thus in 
the autumn and early winter a child increases in weight, 
while the height remains stationary. In the early summer, 
on the contrary, the weight changes but little, while the vital 
force and nourishment are directed toward an increase in 
height." 

There also is a fixed relation between weight and height, 
as proved by Dr. John Hutchinson, who collected the height 
and weight of upward of five thousand persons. The follow- 
ing table, according to his calculation, shows the relation 
which should exist between height and weight in a healthy 
person. A man measuring 



5 feet 1 incli should 
5 feet 2 inches ' 
5 feet 3 inches ' 
5 feet 4 inches ' 
5 feet 5 inches 
5 feet 6 inches ' 
5 feet 7 inches ' 
5 feet 8 inches ' 
5 feet 9 inches ' 
5 feet 10 inches 
5 feet 11 inches 
6 feet ' 


weigh 120 p 


Dunds. 

<( 

(i 

it 

(t 

1C 

u 
(( 
(( 
u 

u 


125 


133 


139 


142 


145 


.. . . 148 


155 


.. .162 


169 


174 


. 178 



Or we may very much simplify Dr. Hutchinson's table, and 
say that, as a rule, a man's weight increases at the rate of 
five pounds for every inch of height, and this rule holds good 
for all practical purposes.. 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 29 

Upon the average, boys at birth weigh a little more, and 
girls a little less, than six pounds and a half. For the first 
twelve years the two sexes continue nearly equal in weight, 
but beyond that time males acquire a decided preponderance. 
Thus, young men of twenty average about 143 pounds 
each, while the young women of twenty average 120 pounds. 
Men reach their heaviest bulk at about thirty-five, when they 
average about 152 pounds; but women slowly increase in 
weight until fifty, when their average is about 128 pounds. 
Taking men and women together, their weight at full growth 
averages about twenty times as heavy as they were on the 
first day of their existence. Men range from 108 to 220 
pounds, and women from 88 to 207 pounds. The actual 
weight of human nature, taking the averages of ages and 
conditions nobles, clergy, tinkers, tailors, maidens, boys, 
girls, and babies, all included is very nearly 100 pounds. 
These figures are given in avoirdupois weight; but the ad- 
vocates of the superiority of women might make a nice 
point by introducing the rule that women be weighed 
by troy weight like other jewels and men by avoirdupois. 
The figures will then stand: young men of twenty, 143 pounds 
each; young women of twenty, about 146 pounds each. 

According to Huxley, " The normal man's weight is 154 
pounds, namely : Muscles and their appurtenances, 68 
pounds ; skeleton, 24 pounds ; skin, 10^- pounds ; fat, 28 
pounds ; brain, 3 pounds ; thoracic viscera, 3^- pounds; ab- 
dominal viscera, 10 pounds, and blood which would drain 
from the body, 7 pounds. The heart of such a man 
should beat 75 times a minute, and he should breathe 15 
times in the same space. In 24 hours he would vitiate 
1,750 cubic feet of air to the extent of one per cent. He 
would throw off by the skin 18 ounces of water, 300 grains 
of solid matter, and 400 grains of carbonic acid gas daily; 
and his total loss for the same time ought to be 6 pounds 
of water and a little more than 2 pounds of othef 
matter." 

Each bone of the skeleton is securely wrapped in perios 



30 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

teum which looks very much like a dense sheet of bluish- 
white rubber, in which are safely packed the blood-vessels 
which nourish the bone. As it is peeled off from the bone it 
is dotted all over its lower surface with red points, which are 
the bleeding ends of these minute vessels which were torn 
into as the periosteum was stripped off. 

Bone that has been thus treated dies. And why ? Be- 
cause when its periosteum is taken away you take away its 
nourishment, and there is nothing left for the bone except 
starvation, and to have its corpse pushed out of your body 
very likely killing you in the operation; for nature's method 
for the removal of dead bone is exceedingly slow and ex- 
hausting; hence the surgeon takes great pains to open as 
early as possible a felon, lest the matter imprisoned beneath, 
the periosteum cause the death of the bone. Furthermore, 
it has been found that the periosteum not only furnishes the 
bone food and clothes at once, but, when required, a glue also, 
better than Hilton's Insoluble or Spalding's Patent. If you 
snap a bone, it is the periosteum that helps to glue it togeth- 
er again, and after it is thus glued the bone is stronger just 
there than before it was broken. There are, however, sev- 
eral practical objections to strengthening bones in this way, 
the chief of which is that the bone is very apt to be shorter 
after the operation, even though the best of doctors has had 
his fingers in its setting; so that, on the whole, it is better to 
have weaker bones than to limp. Periosteum ends just be- 
fore it comes to the joints, and for good reason this is so. In 
the joint we do not want two rough, elastic substances, full 
of blood-vessels, grinding against each other every time the 
joint is moved; so here we find periosteum replaced by what 
is known as joint cartilage. This somewhat resembles peri- 
osteum in its general appearance, but is thinner, without 
blood-vessels, and as smooth as ice. But even these polished 
surfaces would grow rough, as a creaky hinge does, if they 
were not kept oiled, so to speak. Perhaps moistened would 
be a better word, for the surfaces of the large joints are 
constantly kept slippery with a substance very like the white 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 31 

of an egg; in fact, that is just what its name, synovia (from 
the Greek), means. The joints are kept in running order by 
means of a broad band which surrounds the joint from peri- 
osteum to periosteum, from which it gets a plentiful sup- 
ply of blood; and this fine fringe is kept dripping with syno- 
via, and the blood-vessels are thus kept out of harm's way. 
The cartilages are a large, useful, and important part of the 
body. They are all elastic, tough, and flexible in a word, 
" rubbery " would describe their family characteristics. And 
so, knowing what these are, it may be easily surmised where 
you will meet with cartilage; for in this house of ours we 
find the materials are put just where their qualities are most 
needed. For instance, have you a nose that is fated every 
now and then to get a most unwelcome blow? A solid 
bone nose could have been made more ornamental, but it 
would certainly have been cracked or knocked off every time 
we fell on our faces. Nature knew very well what she waa 
about when she made the lower end of the nose of cartilage, 
so that we have, as it were, a rubber nose tacked on the end 
of a Socratic bone one; and now this nose of ours can be 
bent and tweaked and banged to a considerable degree with- 
out injury. 

Some one thinks he has discovered that all noses are bent 
to one side or the other, according as we are right or left- 
handed. This man must be a Yankee; for, arguing that if 
the continued use of a soft handkerchief can so twist the 
nose why should not an iron instrument do so still more, he 
therefore has invented an instrument to correct unhandsome 
noses. Every one, therefore, who has a nose "like flower 
atilt " which is the Tennysonian for pug or crooked nose, 
or flat, and would have an aquiline, etc., may purchase one of 
this man's machines and have his nose grow into the desired 
shape, provided he is willing to wear one of the machines 
daily as long as it can be endured. A long nose is said to 
denote, power, merit, and ability; a straight nose justice, 
seriousness, and energy; a Roman nose a propensity for ad- 
venture. A cleft nose is a mark of benevolence; a wide one, 



32 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

with an open nostril, of sensuality; a curved fleshy nose 
of domination and cruelty, and the curved thin nose 
accompanies a brilliant mind, but vain, and disposed to be 
ironical. At least so claims the author of La Science en 
Famitte, but more likely our noses betoken the characters of 
our grandfathers than our own; if they have any value at all 
in that direction. 

But to return to cartilages: some of which are bluish white, 
others are clear or glassy, while in another there are white 
or yellow fibers; but they are all cartilages. 

Of all cartilages, " glassy " or hyaline is the most interest- 
ing. It might be well named " baby bone," for bones begin 
as cartilage. Strictly speaking, a baby has no bones, only 
soft, gristly cartilages; so that the blessed baby can give itself 
with safety many a bump that would put its grandmother to 
bed with broken bones. Nature quietly works away at these 
cartilages for twenty years and more, and if you will let her 
she will make a set of bones of which you may be proud. 
You must not work against her, nor hurry her, for during all 
this time your bones are more or less flexible, and will bend 
under continued pressure. For instance, a fond mother is 
very anxious that her baby should walk; his little limbs are 
not strong enough to support him, and very soon his knees 
bend out, his toes turn in, and a bow-legged son will be the 
price the mother must pay for her foolish ambition. The 
Chinese make hideous little dwarfs for beggars by putting 
their children, when about three or four years of age, into a 
large porcelain vase, from which they are only removed at 
night and returned at morning, until they break the jar by 
their size. The child's sufferings are as horrible as they 
are while forming the useless and hideous feet of the 
Chinese ladies, which are made by binding the heel of the 
foot while small against the ankle, so that the child practi- 
cally stands on its toes. This is continued until the foot 
atrophies in this shape and the Chinese lady is left a totter- 
ing cripple, perched on the tops of her great toes. This is 
possible because the bones are first laid down as glassy car- 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 33 

tilages which can be altered by pressure. Nature takes 
her time in changing this into bone. If the work were 
all done during the first few weeks of babyhood, we should 
live either as dwarfs, or with bones so small that they would 
be lost in the muscles. But Nature can afford to wait long 
enough to properly subdivide her work. For instance, she 
proportions out the sacrum, or lower part of the backbone 
into no less than thirty-five sections, and wisely, for as yet 
she does not know what we are to be, so leaves these provi- 
sional bits of cartilage to be transformed into such bones 
as required. The time comes when rubbery cartilage will no 
longer do us for bone, and having proportioned out the work 
it goes on somewhat as follows. The microscope shows us 
that those cells which are nearest the first point of ossifica- 
tion, or the spot selected for beginning the bone-making, 
begin to be disturbed, and their nuclei (germinal matter) 
have each an internal war which results in the cell splitting 
into halves, which crowd toward the first point. But 
these halves do not get there before they have another seces- 
sion, and split again. And so these cells keep splitting, until 
that part of cartilage which is selected for making true bone 
is packed full of these split cells. The minute blood-vessels 
which have worked their way up among these cells begin to 
protect themselves by straining out through their walls a 
soft chalky substance, which fills up these cells every-where, 
except at the nuclei, which say, "thus far and no farther." 
Thus the original flexible cartilage becomes stiffened by 
the deposition of lime-salts about its points of germinal matter, 
or osteoblasts, as they are called in bone cartilage, until at last 
man possesses a perfectly formed bony skeleton, unless he 
has distorted it by carelessness or abuse. 

The skeleton is essentially an irregular conical cage, with the 
lower part of its front gone, and at its bottom a shallow basin 
(the pelvis). Attached to the top of this cage is the neck and 
skull; to its sides the limbs, upper and lower, with their long 
bones, short bones, and irregular. The long bones consist of 

a hollow shaft whose ends broaden out into flat, articulating 

2* 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



surfaces, which contain within them what is known as latticed 
bone (cancellated), a sort of spongy bone which is found 
wherever large surfaces of bone and lightness are required 
at the same time. A cross section of this latticed bone 
looks as if it were composed of a multitude of tiny bone 
needles thrown together, like jack-straws, by the merest 
chance. But nothing has been done after that fashion in 
this house of ours, not even this apparently accidental 
net-work of bone needles, for, says Dr. Jeffries Wyman, an 
excellent authority on this subject, the fibers of cancellated 
bone are " so skillfully braced that they alone would be suffi- 
cient to prove that man naturally assumes an upright position." 
Standing upright is not as simple a thing as it seems. It 
would be quite impossible in a boneless body, or in one 
where the bones are softened, as they sometimes become in a 

rare disease, when 
the whole body 
becomes a help- 
less mass of pow- 
erless muscles. 
Even when not 
diseased the long 
bones would be- 
come twisted by 
the traction of 
the muscles at- 
tached to them, 
unless their ends 
were braced and 
strengthened in the way described. The shafts of the long 
bones are even stronger, for although in their structure 
they at first seem to have but little resemblance to lattice 
bone, yet under the microscope it can be shown that dense 
ivory-like bone (eburnated) and spongy latticed bone are 
really one and the same thing except in the relative compact- 
ness of their fibers; for it is only necessary to crowd those of 
spongy bone close enough .together to convert the latticed 




Bone section showing lamellae and Haversian canals. 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 35 

bone into the compactest kind of bone tissue, such as is found 
in the shafts of the long bones. Even the densest sort of 
bones show under the microscope minute openings (Haver- 
sian canals), into which the capillary or hair-like blood-vessels 
pass to nourish the bones. Around these are placed concentric 
circles (lamellae) or layers of bone well shown in the previous 
cut. In fact, the microscopic appearance of bone may be com- 
pared to a bundle of lead-pencils, their interspaces correspond- 
ing to the lacunae and canaliculi; for a higher power microscope 
shows, in addition to the Haversian canals, between the lam- 
ellae (a) minute black lines (canaliculi), connecting irregular 
dark spots (lacunas), looking not unlike crushed insects. These 
lakes and connecting canals, for such they are, constitute the 
lymphatic system of the bones, allowing from their great num- 
ber the permeation of the entire bony system with nutrient 
lymph. Chinese ingenuity has never yet designed as intricate 
and efficient a system of irrigation as that which can be dis- 
covered in any old bone; for not only those of the human body, 
but the bones of all animals, are similarly provided. The open- 
ings in the bones of birds are longer and narrower than those of 
mammals, and the canaliculi remarkably tortuous. In the bones 
of fishes the lacunae are long and narrow, and in reptiles angular 
and with few canaliculi. Hence it is that the geologist can tell 
from a sliver of fossil bone whether it formerly belonged to 
beast, bird, fish, or one of the huge lizards which once roamed 
this earth, for, curiously enough, the bones of an immense 
iguanadon and a tiny lizard of to-day have exactly the same 
markings. 

Lacunae and canaliculi are, so to speak, the water-marks 
which enable the expert microscopist to identify with cer- 
tainty the variety of animal from which a given piece of 
bone has come. 

Science plays sad havoc with many a tradition, and one of 
these thus rudely treated is that of the bones of the eleven 
thousand virgins at Cologne. The legend says they are those 
of Saint Ursula's maidens, but the anatomist looks at them 
through his microscope and unhesitatingly declares that they 




36 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

are largely not human bones at all, but those of the lower 
animals, even chicken bones being found among them. 

As has already been said, these bone-lakes and canals 

freely communicate with the 
lymphatic vessels of the 
marrow and those of the 
Haversian canals. The lakes, 
or spider-like lacunge, are 
the original resting-places 
of the germinal matter 
(bone - cells), already de- 
scribed as being found in 
Section of bone showing canaiicuii and bone-making cartilage. These 
lacuna. bone-cells, when recent, pos- 

sess arms, or branches, which extend out into tiny canals 
communicating with it. As the bone-cells grow older these 
branches shrivel up and leave the canaiicuii open for the 
transmission of lymph. 

All of our bones are chemically alike in that they are com- 
posed of a gelatinous (organic) and an earthy (inorganic) 
part. In human bones, one third part is gelatinous and the 
remainder earthy. The organic part of bone is what gives 
it elastic- 'y, while the earthy part is added to furnish requi- 
site hare .ess and strength. The earthy salts can be entirely 
removed from a bone by soaking it in a dilute acid several 
days, w lich converts the hardest bone into a gristly, flexible 
substar 3e, which is elastic enough to permit its being tied 
into a knot. This is the part of the bone which furnishes 
soup and jellies for the thrifty housewife, and is so perma- 
nent under favorable circumstances that Dean Buckland is 
said to have entertained a dinner party with a soup made 
from the bones of an extinct mastodon. To what base ends 
may we come at last ! 

" Imperial Caesar, dead and turned to clay, 
Might stop a hole to keep the cold away." 

And less imperial we may have our poor skeletons boiled 
down to make glue, or ground to powder to convert their 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 37 

earthy phosphates into fertilizers, for chemistry acts the ogre 
in Jack the G-iant- Killer, whose threat to grind an English- 
man's bones to make his bread is fulfilled in the modern 
fertilizer factory, where bones of every description are pul- 
verized to scatter over the wheat-fields. 

For convenience in study, the bones of the body are usually 
divided into four classes; namely, long bones, short bones, 
flat bones, and irregular bones, each admirably adapted for 
its special work ; for example, the long bones of the arms 
and legs are levers designed for lifting and propelling the 
body. They are made hollow, for the reason that in this 
way is obtained the maximum amount of strength with the 
minimum quantity of material. Columns support weights 
directly in proportion to their diameter, and inversely to 
their height. Hence the heaviest bodies should have the 
shortest legs, and vice versa. As a rule we find this true. 
The balancing of the body upon the feet is no easy task, as 
every young child learns at the cost of many a hard bump. 
Standing is made the more difficult by the fact that the 
lower limbs, like the pig immortalized in nursery rhyme, are 
double-jointed yes, and treble, for there are joints at the 
thighs, knees, and ankles. For running and jumping, this 
jointing of the leg is invaluable, but it adds greatly to 
the difficulty of keeping the body upright. This can only 
be done by the antagonizing of various groups of muscles, 
one set of which acting alone will pull the body over on 
the face ; another will pull it on the back, others sideways; 
but when all of these muscles act together, the body is held 
upright, balanced exactly right. How difficult this is can 
easily be ascertained by trying to make a skeleton stand up- 
right, or even a rigid corpse, as one frozen by cold. Walk- 
ing, simple as it appears to us from constant practice, is even 
more difficult than standing. Learning to walk a tight rope, 
for an adult, is no more difficult a task than a child's first 
attempts at walking. No less than sixty-two bones are more 
or less necessary for the act, for the loss of any one of the 
bones of the legs or feet seriously cripples the process of 



38 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

alternately falling and catching one's self just in time, which 
constitutes walking. To walk we must first stand, and 
standing requires that the center of gravity must fall inside 
of the feet, for which no less than eight sets of muscles are 
required to hold the body thus perpendicular in equilibrium. 
The slightest step disarranges this nice adjustment of antag- 
onizing muscles, and the body would fall all in a heap if it 
were not that we have learned just when to catch ourselves 
before we fall, and in so doing we find ourselves a step in 
advance. 

If we look at the process a little more in detail, we shall 
find that taking even a couple of steps is not a simple mat- 
ter, for it requires, first, lifting the right foot the fraction of 
an inch from the floor; but even this little involves turning 
the body slightly on the left ankle, as a pivot, and balancing 
the body over the left foot. Now as the right foot is 
brought forward the body must be kept constantly bending 
forward, so as to keep it in equilibrium over the left foot, which 
is now the only pedestal. We cannot, however, keep on 
bending, for erelong we should fall on our faces; so just at 
the moment when the step would change into a fall which 
only means the center of gravity gets outside of the sup- 
porting foot down comes the toe of the right foot to the 
ground to act as a support. As the right foot goes down 
the left heel comes up, for the incipient fall was just bring- 
ing that left foot up from terra firma. For a second we are 
an equilateral triangle; but heel and toe are unsteady sup- 
ports, so the body transfers its weight to the left foot entire- 
ly as the latter comes down squarely to the ground, and once 
more we are one-footed. As the left is brought to place, the 
body swings slightly to the right over the right ankle, back 
again until we are nearly upright, and now the left foot goes 
forward and the whole process is reversed. So that walking, 
simple as it seems, is really a most complex series of fallings, 
balancings, rolling from side to side, and alternately growing 
taller or shorter as we make ourselves into isosceles triangles 
or rectangles. It is a curious study, not only theoretically, 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 89 

but practically; for, unlike many other things, the theory of 
walking is quite intricate, but the practice, provided you 
give your feet a fair chance, ought to be as easy as the 
swinging of a pendulum to and fro. Walking is capital ex- 
ercise, but it is hard work as well; and when practiced on 
French heels, placed near the middle of the foot, is almost 
as difficult and tiresome as walking on stilts. The French 
heel is an anatomical abomination, and utterly useless for 
walking. The only shoe fit for this purpose is one with a 
broad, low heel and a thick sole broader than the foot. 
With such shoes, and with suitable clothing, walking is with- 
in the reach of every one's purse. Even a fashionable lady 
can profit much from her shopping if she will act upon the 
rule of using the elevator in going up-stairs and walking 
down; for walking up-stairs is hard work, and sometimes 
dangerous for those with damaged heart or lungs; going 
down-stairs hurts no one. " It shakes up the anatomy, with- 
out incurring the danger of physical overexertion. This 
shaking up is good for one's internal mechanism, which it 
accelerates, especially the liver, the kidneys, and the blood 
circulation." 

Walking tied up in corsets is harder work than climbing 
up-stairs without them, for, as may be seen from the annexed 
cut, if the lower parts of the chest are allowed a chance for 
free expansion they afford ample space for breathing; but if 
tied down by a tight corset they have, as the Chinese say, 
" God's life " squeezed out of them. Of the two the Chinese 
small feet are the more sensible deformity, for they inflict no 
serious injury upon health. Argument, anatomy, and com- 
mon sense combined seem powerless against Queen Elizabeth's 
girdle of buckram, the source of more female woes unnum- 
bered than the wrath of Achilles. " It's the fashion to wear 
'em," is the invariable answer to all objections urged against 
corsets, but why, if the corset, as is claimed, is worn for sup- 
port, is not man better entitled to it than woman ? We have 
it on good authority that Adam early in his existence lost a 
rib, and his boys may reasonably be supposed to have inner- 



40 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

ited their father's deficiencies; although it is not true, as 
many Sunday-school children are taught to believe, that 




DIAGRAM OF THE RELATIONS OF THK THORACIC VISCERA TO THE WALLS OF THE 
CHEST. (BELLAMY.) 

1. Situation of pulmonary orifice. 2. Left auriculo-ventricular orifice. 3. Orifice 
of aorta. 4. Right auriculo-ventricular orifice. 5. Limit of the anterior and inferior 
border of left lung in complete expiration. 6. Ditto of right lung. 7. Limit of left 
lung in inspiration. 8. Ditto of right lung in inspiration. 9. Limit of pleura. 
10. Ditto. 11. Superior cul-de-sac of left lung. 12. Ditto of right lung. 13. Right 
auricle. 14. Right auricular appendage. 15. Left auricle. 16. Limit of diaphragm 
in complete expiration. 17. Ditto, ditto. 18. Ditto, ditto, in complete inspiration. 

men are short one rib on the side from which Eve was taken. 
All have twelve ribs on each side seven attached to the 
breast-bone and five free or floating ribs. These with the 
backbone, breast, and collar bones make the cage especially 
designed for protecting the lungs and vital jmrts within. 
Nature knew just how she wanted those parts protected ; but 
fashion comes along and would remodel nature's work ac- 
cording to its own idea. But why should not a woman have 
as good a chance to breathe as a man ? 

A backbone is a most important thing for the body. This 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 41 



"spine of tha back," as Widow Bedott called it, has been the 
wonder of the anatomists of all ages. It might have been 
made a single straight bone ; but oh ! 
what a stiff-necked generation it would 
have left us. Infinite wisdom has 
fastened together thirty-three little 
bespangled bits of bone, called verte- 
brae, which are really a series of little 
levers, closely fitting one to another, 
firm, strong, and flexible, inclosing in 
their midst the spinal cord. The spi- 
nal column is really a spring with 
four curves, which break the force of 
every jump or sudden movement 
which otherwise would shake the soft 
brains to pulp against the bony skull. 
These curves in the back-bone are 
mainly due to little cushions of carti- 
lage placed between the vertebrae. 
These cushions are called interverte- 
bral disks, and are really bags of car- 
tilage containing fluid, something as 
if each vertebra was guarded from 
shock by having a tiny water-pillow 
placed between it and its neighbor. 
A man is about a quarter of an inch 
shorter at night than in the morning. 

The reason for this is, that these little A a diagrammatic section 
,. i i . T ! ,. , ,> of the human body taken verti- 

disks shrink by continued pressure of C aii y through the median plane. 
the day and expand after a night's C.S., the cerebro-spinai nervous 
^ ,. ^ i system; JY, the cavity of the 

rest. Continued unequal pressure may nose . ^ that of tne moutn . 

tilt the Spine to One side Or the Other Al. AL, the alimentary canal 

by the thickening or thinning of one %S^SSS3 

side of these intervertebral disks, thus phragm; s.i/, the sympathetic 
producing curvature of the spine; and s^n^-Huxiey. 
one of the ways in which this is done is by the unlady-like 
trick of sitting upon one foot. It is too bony to make a 




42 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

good cushion, and is responsible for not a few crooked spines, 
as may be seen by closely watching any large audience. 
There are rickety houses, and so there are rickety children, 
or those whose bones are so soft that the body is bent all out 
of shape. Later in life these twisted bones harden, as all 
bones do with advancing age, and the result is that the body 
becomes permanently twisted and deformed. Again, this 
may happen from increased fragility of the bones, which may 
be so great as to lead to fracture from the slightest violence. 
A slight degree of this is found in all old persons. 

The boys on the streets call their heads "cocoa-nuts;" 
and this idea of the skull being a shell is as old as the early 
Danes, who called it " hierneskall " (brain shell). The skull 
is really an oval box made of eight bones, neatly dove-tailed 
together. This box shows in a beautiful manner the exqui- 
site care that has been taken to guard from all harm what 
brains have been allotted us. Architects tell us that the 
arch of the skull three arches, in fact, for the bones have each 
three layers is so put together that it will resist the greatest 
amount of pressure with the smallest weight of materials; 
and it is wonderful how hard a blow can be received on the 
head without any serious injury following. Its cushions of 
hair and movable scalp add in no slight degree to the protec- 
tion of the brain, so that it is rare that any ordinary blow 
brings us more than a bump; and if this bump is in the right 
place, according to phrenology, it will be a blessing. Science, 
however, has as yet only awarded to phrenology the Scotch 
verdict, " not proven." While it may be true that different 
functions are committed to different parts of the brain, and 
that one can often tell something of a man's character and 
way of living from the general shape of his head, yet it is in 
nowise proven that every fractional inch of protuberance 
betokens some corresponding faculty. In fact, we know that 
most of these skull markings go no deeper than the surface 
of the bone. 

There is much that we could find to interest us in this brain 
cup, for it is full of markings made by vessels and membranes; 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 43 

besides, there are passages many and various by which 
the nerves find exit, all showing the same watchful care. 
More attractive is the face, composed of fourteen of 
the crookedest bones in the body. In regard to its care it 
is scarcely necessary to say more than that it is not wise 
to attempt to retouch nature's painting. " Pearl Powder," 
said a philosopher, "is made of nothing but dirt, and 
rubbing such stuff upon the beautiful skin of a young lady 
is a dirty practice." The neck proper in all mammals, ex- 
cept two, consists of seven vertebrae, the upper of which is 
a pivot on which the head is hung, like that of a toy manda- 
rin, whose head keeps bobbing with the slightest movement. 
And so would and does ours when we get too old to properly 
use our muscles ; but ordinarily they keep the head accu- 
rately balanced on top of this pillar, on which it is hung on a 
swivel joint and a pair of rockers. In the neck are contained 
some of the most vital parts of the body. On the front of 
the neck are many large blood-vessels and the windpipe. 
When we look at their protection compared to that of the 
brain it seems very inadequate ; but at approaching danger 
the head is instinctively drawn down, and these parts, thus 
protected, as are a turtle's when he withdraws into his shell. 
The bones which would first attract your attention on the 
back are the scapulae, or shoulder-blades, which are chiefly 
placed there for sockets for the arms. They have been fre- 
quently compared to sprouting wings, but our arms and not 
our shoulder-blades are our nearest approach to wings, and 
they are not a success in that line. Some one who had plenty 
of time has made a calculation proving that, even if a man had 
wings in like proportion to those of a bird, yet his bod} r is so 
heavy that all the power which he could exert in a whole 
day would only suffice to hold him up in the air for five 
minutes. It is a discouraging prospect for all soaring Darius 
Greens, but they should console themselves with the thought 
that, though their wings are still rudimentary, their arms are 
far more wonderful. It takes thirty bones to form each of 
these instruments, which hang so lightly in the cups of the 



44 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

shoulder-blades ; but all the patent offices in the world con- 
tain no model of any thing that could fill their places. The 
plan according to which our arms have been made is the 
same as that for all vertebrates; that is, we may say the arm 
is made up of five sections: (a) upper arm, (b) fore arm, (c) 
wrist, (cl) palm, (e) finger; and the wing of a bird, the fore leg 
of a stag, and even the flipper of a whale are essentially arms. 

If we went on all fours, probably we should walk on 
the palms of our hands, as do bears. As all arms may be 
considered to be made up of analogous five sections, you 
have only to count the joints to find that the stag runs on 
the tips of his first and second fingers, while the horse has 
only a stiff middle finger left on which to prance. So that 
while all vertebrates have in a certain sense arms, it is 
also true that their hoofs and paws are a very poor substi- 
tute for hands. Our Darwinian grandfathers come the 
nearest to having a human hand, but it has only a poor 
apology for a thumb. 

As we pass down, we find the lower limbs, which hang 
droopingly from little hollows in that great dish of bone 
which, from resemblance to an old fashioned barber's basin, 
has been named the pelvis. This pelvis is a sort of a 
saddle in which we ride through the world, carried 
hither and thither by our trusty bearers, the legs. The 
cantle of this saddle is the "cuckoo-bone," which the 
learned Jewish rabbins declared was the indestructible part of 
the body. " Pound it," they said, " with heavy hammers on 
anvils, soak it for centuries in the strongest solvents, burn it 
for ages in the fiercest furnaces, it is all in vain its magic 
structure will remain." To these wild imaginings Paul re- 
plied, " Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened 
except it die," and to us the coccyx has become about as un- 
important a bone as there is in the body. 

Leaving then the bony system by the coccyx, or its extremity, 
let us turn our attention to our servants, the muscles, by which 
we are enabled to use our bony levers and joints. A muscle 
literally means a little mouse, but what the resemblance is 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 45 

would be hard to tell, unless it was supposed that the con- 
traction of a muscle resembled a mouse running beneath the 
skin. Generally, a muscle is thought of as a hideous com- 
pound of boiled beef and anatomical plates of skinned men; 
but a muscle is really more dainty and curious than a Swiss 
watch. 

Turning over the plates of an anatomy, it seems hard to 
believe this, for they seem like the contents of that human 
butcher-shop over which we shuddered in the Arabian 
Nights. There are spread out before us long muscles and 
short muscles, flat and square, penniform and bipenniform, 
this one a bag, that one a ring ; now as long as the tailor's 
muscle, and again like those of the ear, only a hair's breadth. 
They are a more motley company than Falstaff's own, and their 
names are worse. Some are named from their form; as the 
square muscle, the D shaped muscle, the two-headed, the three- 
headed, the saw muscle, etc.; others are named from their 
location, as the greater and lesser chest muscles, the temporal, 
etc. Again, they are named according to the ground they 
traverse, as the omo-hyoid, the chest, neck, and ear muscles ; 
another anatomist decides that he will name them from 
the work they do, and we have consequently flexors, ex- 
tensors, adductors, pronators, and supinators; and last of 
all comes some genius who has named them from some 
fancied resemblance or use, which last are the worst of 
all to remember. There are five hundred and twenty-seven 
muscles in all, two hundred and sixty-one in pairs, and five 
single ones. 

There is one most important division of muscles which should 
be remembered; namely, voluntary and involuntary muscles, 
or those which act under the control of our will and those 
beyond it. It is a blessed thing for us that we have these 
involuntary muscles; for we must sometimes sleep, and the 
heart, lungs, and all the functions of animal life must be 
kept at work, or we should never see the morning. They 
are tireless, uncomplaining, patient workers. To be sure, the 
involuntary muscles do not directly write books, solve prob- 



46 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



lems, paint pictures, build cathedrals, nor fire the Ephesian 
dome, but they keep the soul's home swept and garnished. 
It is a grand thing to do one's work well, no matter how 
humble it may be; indeed, we may find, in the last great day, 
that it is grander as the work grows humbler. So it may be 
that these despised muscles, which have "no sphere," are 
more to be admired than the haughtiest muscle that ever 
wagged the tongue. 

All muscles are covered with a fascia, or bandage, of 
cellular tissue. If you have ever noticed corned beef, you 
must have seen how the muscle breaks up into bundles on 
boiling; and these bundles of fibers can be separated into 
separate fibers with careful dissection. If a microscope has 
not been used you have probably not observed it, but the 
fibers and bundles are each swathed in a bandage similar to 
that which holds the muscle- itself. Now put one of these 
fibers under the microscope, and you will see that its covering 
is a transparent, elastic, membranous bag filled with a com- 
pact substance, which is striated or banded with alternate 
dark and light disks, through which are scattered cell nuclei, 
or germinal matter. In the voluntary muscles we find 
there is on the outside the fascia, which incloses in a common 
bandage bundles of fibers; then each bundle of fibers has its 
particular covering; and, lastly, we find each fiber is made 

up of contractible disks shut up 
in a common bandage. These ul- 
timate voluntary, muscular fibers 
might be compared to a pile of 
black and white checkers shut up 
striped muscular fibers and sheath, in a transparent, old - fashioned 
Klein. long purse. That comparison is, 

however, not quite exact, for we find by a higher power 
these disks are shown to be made of still smaller fibers 
running parallel to the sheath, as if the checkers were made 
of a fibrous wood. 

The involuntary muscles differ from the voluntary in that 
they are not banded or striated, have no fibrillse, and their 





BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 47 

libers have no covering, but are made up of long bands, each 
containing a rod-like bit of germinal matter. This is the 
last of the body to die, for Dr. Brown-Sequard, the French 
physiologist, nas demonstrated that, for several days after 
death, during the rigid condition which immediately fol- 
low the cessation of life, the muscles of an animal undergo 
slow, alternate contractions and elongations; and he reaches 
the startling conclusion that the muscles in rigor mortis are 
not dead, but are still endowed with vital powers, being, 
however, in a certain chemical condition which is antecedent 
and preparatory to final death. 

If the muscles did nothing but protect the vital parts 
and give form and beauty to the house in which we 
live, they might be compared to the bricks of an ordinary 
building, but they do far more than that. They both protect 
us and make us shapely, and are the "sine qua nons of all 
motion." Perhaps it would not be straining a simile to liken 
them to a company of waiting servants. Here they stand 
idle until the word comes telegraphed down the nerve, " Move 
this, or that." Take your forearm, for instance. You wish 
to bring your hand up to the body. The telegraphic office 
in the brain sends word to that group of servants we call the 
biceps muscle, "Bring up that forearm." No sooner is it 
received than each fiber recognizes the command, and, gath- 
ering itself together, pulls with might and main; and, as all 
the other fibers do the same, the whole muscle contracts or 
becomes shorter. Consequently, either the forearm must be 
raised or something will give way, as not infrequently hap- 
pens in too violent exercise, when, for reason, the arm is 
restricted in its action, as in throwing a base-ball. The 
natural result of the contraction of the individual fibers of 
the muscles is either to drag the shoulder down to the arm, 
or the arm must come toward it or break. To prevent this 
breaking there is fortunately provided a hinge-joint at the 
elbow which allows the forearm to turn on it like a door on 
its hinges; so, instead of a crash, up comes the hand in much 
less time than it has taken to describe it. 



48 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

The work of all the muscles is in its last analysis simply 
moving something, and in fact all the work done in this 
busy work-a-day world essentially consists of that. This 
something moved by the muscle may be either bone, muscle, 
cartilage, or ligament, but wherever a muscle is found there 
is a certainty that it has been placed where it is to do lifting 
of some kind or other by contraction of its muscular fibers. 
This contraction may come on involuntarily, and then it is 
said the muscle has a cramp, as many a boy has found to his 
cost when he has remained for too long a time in the cold 
water. The danger in such cases arises from the fact that a 
muscle thus involuntarily contracted loses its power of relax- 
ing itself when we wish. A succession of these cramps, at- 
tended with unconsciousness, constitutes what is ordinarily 
known as a fit, or fits. There is hardly a more distressing 
sight that ever comes to the physician's notice than an attack 
of this description, where, apparently, every muscle in the 
body is convulsed and their hapless owner thrown hither and 
thither without power to control his motions. If conscious- 
ness is entirely lost we call such an attack a convulsion ; if, 
however, consciousness is preserved, and an involuntary action 
of the muscles occurs, the disease is known as Saint Vitus's 
dance, from the saint who was supposed to have power over 
these gyrations. 

The muscles are our servants, and better ones than most 
houses are blessed with. The servant question is one of the 
most perplexing of our modern civilization, but it is not one 
which vexes the house in which we live, for its servants differ 
widely from the ordinary domestic. These muscles of ours 
never insist on having every other afternoon and half day 
every Sunday. They have no innumerable flock of cousins to 
drop in at meal-time, they are never impudent, never take ad- 
vantage of your necessities and give notice to quit because 
asked to perform a little unexpected work. On the contrary, 
they are willing and anxious to work, and ask in return only 
food, clothing, and training. The best of servants need this, 
and the muscles are no exception to the rule. Watch a baby 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 49 

giving its muscles their first instruction, and see how greatly 
they need such teaching, for the first effort of a young babe 
to put its finger into his mouth often eventuates in damage 
to its eye; but in no other way than by practice can muscles 
be educated for their seventy or eighty years of service. 

A curious as well as interesting series of experiments, made 
in France, shows approximately that the heaviest load a man 
of strength can carry for a short distance is 319 pounds; all 
a man can carry habitually, as, for example, a soldier his 
knapsack, walking on level ground, is 132 pounds an ex- 
treme load, it would seem or he can carry an aggregate of 
1,518 pounds over 3,200 feet as a day's work, under like cir- 
cumstances. If he ascend ladders or stairs, as do hod-car- 
riers, then he can carry but 121 pounds continuously, and his 
day's work cannot exceed 1,232 pounds raised 3,200 feet high. 
With regard to the effort and the velocity which a man 
can produce by pulling or pushing with his arms, it has 
been found by these experiments that, under the most favor- 
able circumstances, and for continuous work, an effect can- 
not be gained exceeding from 26.4 to 33 pounds raised from 
1.8 to 2.1 feet per second, or about one eighth horse-power. 

Climbing up stairs in all probability is a more difficult 
feat for a young child than the contortionist's feats for an 
adult, but once learned it becomes almost as easy as breathing. 
Herein is the value of education, for there is hardly any thing 
that these muscles cannot be taught if sufficient time is given 
to their education. Drawing, painting, music and sculpt- 
ure all owe their possibility to the infinitesimal contractions of 
the tiny checkers of flesh figured on page 46. So varied are 
the accomplishments of well trained muscles that many claim 
there is a sixth, or a muscular, sense which enables man to walk, 
estimate weight, and do a score of things which require other 
aid than simple touch. Many of these wonderful feats are per- 
formed, by constant practice, at last almost automatically. This 
:s largely true of the work of the musician, knitter, and teleg- 
rapher, for practice makes possible such difficult things that 
one is inclined to say that nothing is impossible to the really 



50 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

determined man. Matching Scotch plaids by a blind man would 
seem to be very near a physical impossibility, and yet there is 
well authenticated proof of a canny blind tailor doing this so 
well as to become very successful in his business. Hardly less 
wonderful are the India ink drawings made with a brush held 
in the mouth of a helpless cripple of Boston. One of the 
famous French painters had no arms, and did all of his work 
with a brush held between his toes; and there was, until 
recently, if not at present, a member of the English Parlia- 
ment without arms or legs, and yet this trunk of a man was 
so efficient that it was re-elected repeatedly to a seat in the 
House of Commons. 

A willing servant may be overworked, and this sometimes 
occurs with the muscles, as happened frequently on some of 
the fearful marches of Napoleon's army, where the soldiers 
often would drop dead from sheer exhaustion. Such cases, 
however, are rare, for the protest of a jaded muscle is usually 
too emphatic to be disregarded, as can readily be tested by try- 
ing to hold the arm out horizontally for only ten minutes. 
If there has been no previous practice, it will prove the 
hardest bit of work you have attempted in many a day, for 
the complaint of the overtasked muscular fibers is so vehe- 
ment that, unless there is a most determined will, long before 
the ten minutes are up the arm drops back to an easier posture. 
If, on the other hand, the protest is persistently disregarded, 
the muscle at length loses its power of contraction and re- 
laxation, and it becomes impossible at last to move the rigid 
muscles. Thus the limbs of East Indian fakirs become at 
last permanently fixed when, in compliance with some vow, 
they are long enough held in a single position. 

Simple inaction, then, may atrophy a muscle, or cause it to 
waste until it is unable to perform its duties. Just what the 
change is that takes place within the muscular sheath we can- 
not describe, but the fact remains that an unused muscle is 
a dying one. In the realm of the body, as in spiritual mat- 
ters, the hath nots lose even that which they have, and phys- 
ical and moral skeletons are the inevitable results. 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 51 

Manual labor is irksome both from nature and habit, but 
the law of the house in which we live is that in no other 
way can its health be preserved. The contraction of each 
tiny fibril is absolutely necessary for its cleansing from effete 
material. Otherwise the House Beautiful grows dusty and 
filthy in the hidden corners, until its occupant is poisoned by 
his own fault. As we shall learn in the chapter on sewerage, 
these effete substances have been at last properly studied, but 
their headaches, lassitude, and general malaise have been 
known since the day when bounteous harvests and man's 
natural sloth first gave him the opportunity to take his 
ease to his own hurt. Exercise is as essential to good 
health as are sweeping and dusting to good housekeeping. 
Furthermore, inaction leads to a substitution of fat instead 
of muscle. A certain quantity of fat is needed both for pro- 
tection and ornament. It rounds out the angles and arms of 
the 'English and German maidens and matrons in a way that 
makes them the envy of their less favored American sis- 
ters, of whom it might well be said, with Caesar, " Would 
they were fatter." " Sleek-headed " men and women sleep 
well o' nights, for they have a good supply of extra adipose to 
meet the wear and tear incidental to modern life, which does 
not leave them at night nervous wrecks too utterly unstrung 
even to sleep. George I. thought a woman's beauty was in 
direct proportion to her avoirdupois, and gross as was his idea 
of beauty it was preferable to the school girl's " spirituel " 
ideal. Plumpness makes its owner warmer, happier, and gen- 
erally better tempered than ninety pounds of flesh and bones, 
no matter how vivacious. So that so long as full weight 
(see tables for relation of height to weight) does not come 
from sloth, or gluttony, it should be regarded not as some- 
thing to be dreaded and lamented over, but as a surplus fund 
upon which sickness and worry may draw in times of neces- 
sity. An undue amount of fat may be safely removed by 
the methods detailed in the appendix, but the cases in which 
this is required are rare in this country. Chalk, vinegar, 
pickles, and other school girl abominations are not to be 



52 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

thought of, as they are both inefficient and dangerous. 
Properly arranged exercise and regulation of diet (see Chap- 
ter III) will do far more to reduce fat than any quack medi- 
cine. Such methods as are detailed in the Appendix should 
be adopted when the body becomes too well padded for coin- 
fort; but it should be remembered that a considerable quan- 
tity of fat is requisite for protection against cold, for a fat 
man does not dread a drop in the thermometer as does his 
thinner brother. And naturally so, for our fat friend has 
on an extra undergarment ; or, if we return to the comparison 
of the body to a house, his is well sheathed, and bound with 
felt beneath its clapboards. 

Fat is a poor conductor of heat; and hence an overheated 
person, if fat, cools slowly, and, vice versa, endures with com- 
fort an amount of cold that is exceedingly irksome to one 
thinner. The arrangement of fat in the body is as daintily 
adjusted as if the despised substance was really an object of 
value, for fat is not spread over the internal surfaces of the 
body like butter upon bread; but each tiny roll of fat has 
its own envelope and cell. Under the microscope these fat 
cells appear like a spheroidal sac, containing an amber-col- 
ored fluid; for the fats of the body are held there in a liquid 
condition, since they melt at about the same heat as good 
butter. After death they cool, or as soon as the temperature 
of the body falls below normal. On the side of each sac can 
be found, according to some observers, a tiny point of Beale's 
germinal matter, whose duty is to elaborate fat from the fat- 
making foods. Others think fat comes from a churning of 
the fatty foods in the intestines, and that the butter, so to 
speak, is drained off and deposited in these cells, which may 
be found wherever areolar tissue or that which is spongy 
and has numerous interstices affords a suitable repository. 
No amount of starvation can ever remove all the fat from 
the body, for, no matter how emaciated the body becomes, 
fat may always be found behind the eye, around the heart, 
in the brain, and about the spinal cord. In short, it may be 
said that fat may be found normally every-where in the body 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 53 

except between the air-cells of the lungs, in the lobes of the 
ears, and in the upper eyelids. 

Beside normal fat there is what is known as pathological 
fat. Normal fat is designed to pad the body, and, like a 
camel's hump, to feed it in time of need; for many a plump 
body escapes at last, hollow-eyed and exhausted, from a te- 
dious illness which it never would have survived if it had not 
been for the reserve-commissary department in its adipose 
tissue. The fat of disease is a vastly different thing, for it 
is not available fat, but fat that comes from the change of 
muscle into useless tissue. The pathologists call this fatty 
degeneration, and it is well named; for a muscle so changed 
has degenerated into a substance that is unable longer to 
properly perform its duties. If such change takes place in 
the muscles of the heart they may suddenly refuse to con- 
tract, and death inevitably result. More frequently they 
perform their work with increasing difficulty, making loco- 
motion and work almost impossible, until the same result is 
obtained. If such fatty degeneration takes place in the 
walls of a blood-vessel they may suddenly rupture and the 
person die instantly of apoplexy, or be stricken with paraly- 
sis and drag along a precarious existence for a term of years. 
It is a well-known fact that malt liquors often enormously 
fatten those who freely imbibe them; but it should also be 
remembered that this fattening is largely of the pathological 
variety, for there is in these cases not only an abnormal de- 
position of fat from the superfluous hydrocarbons taken 
(see Digestion, Chapter IV), but there is also fatty degenera- 
tion of tissue, and consequent increased liability to death 
from heart disease and apoplexy. So well known is this that 
many life insurance companies refuse to take risks on the 
lives of those who work in breweries or largely use malt 
liquors. Cuts, wounds, and bruises upon such persons from 
similar reasons are very difficult to heal, and there is no one 
upon whom a surgeon more dreads to operate than one of 
these beer-bloated objects. 

Beer, it should be remembered, cannot make muscles or 



54 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

strength. It may and does benumb the faculties, and fatten; 
but this fattening is useless, and even harmful, unless it is 
one's ambition to transform his body into adipocere after 
death. Adipocere is the name given to an ammoniacal soap 
into which the fats of the body are sometimes converted 
after death. This is especially prone to happen in the case 
of fleshy bodies buried in moist ground and excluded from 
the atmosphere. Such bodies do not putrefy, but are slowly 
transmuted into a yellowish white, cheesy substance, unctu- 
ous and soapy to the touch. Such cases are rare, and cer- 
tainly present no inducement to beer-drinking, even though 
these corpses are said to have been converted into a very fair 
variety of toilet soap by a sacrilegious Frenchman. 

Moreover, it has been clearly shown, by actual experiment, 
that even a single glass of porter diminishes muscular contrac- 
tility. A half pint of beer may make man feel as if he could 
lift a ton, but when placed on trial in the gymnasium it will be 
found that his lifting power is always less. Push it a little 
further, and the lifting power disappears entirely, for the 
man is poisoned or intoxicated; for the words mean exactly 
the same. Muscles poisoned with alcohol are always para- 
lyzed to a greater or less extent. 

Paralysis is a loss of muscular power, either temporary or 
permanent. A temporary paralysis may be produced in any 
of the voluntary muscles by striking them sufficiently hard 
across their long diameter. Paralysis, however, usually oc- 
curs in a muscle from some trouble with the nervous apparatus, 
upon which it relies for the necessary directions for contrac- 
tion. If for any reason the nerve wires become interfered 
with, the waiting muscle at the other end grows weary of 
the delay and, failing to get its fair share of the body's 
nutriment, like all other idle beings begins to waste away. 
Hence it is that a paralyzed limb is smaller than its sound 
mate; not because there is necessarily disease in the mus- 
cle, but because its disuse necessarily brings wasting. 
In a measure the same is true of every muscle disused from 
whatever cause. Hence the great need for systematic exer- 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 55 

cise for all the muscles. An unused muscle is a starved 
muscle, and starvation inevitably brings emaciation. It 
is a stingy master who starves a willing servant, and no 
one was ever better served than we by our five hundred 
odd battalions of muscular disks; but they must, to perform 
efficient work, be well fed and cared for or they soon lose 
their cunning. The foods that are necessary to build up the 
muscles will be spoken of more in detail in a succeeding 
chapter; but it should be remembered that no amount of 
food can take the place of judicious exercise. 

With our modern civilization and labor-saving machinery 
we find it necessary to resort to calisthenics, massage, and 
gymnastics to supply what is lacking in our way of living. All 
are excellent in place, and so greatly needed by the present 
generation that, by the aid of Dr. W. G. Anderson, an Ap- 
pendix has been added to this book for the purpose of giving 
specific directions for the physical development of any part 
of the body that may be deficient. The needs of such sys- 
tematic cultivation may be seen by looking over any miscel- 
laneous audience in this country. Bright eyes, intelligent 
faces, and quick wit may be met with on every side; but a 
well-developed body can hardly be found. Almost every 
vocation dwarfs or disfigures the body in some way, so much 
so that' a skillful surgeon can generally tell what a man's 
business is from the marks it leaves upon his body, unless he 
devotes some time daily to its symmetrical development. 
William Blaikie, in his How to Get Strong, claims that ten 
minutes a day, preferably either just before breakfast or at 
bed-time, is amply sufficient for this purpose; and the results 
obtained by Professors Maclaren and Anderson amply bear 
out this statement. No one is too busy to take that amount 
of time daily for the care of the body, and no investment of 
time pays better, in the hardest American sense; for, as has 
been well said by Herbert Spencer, the first requisite for 
(continued) success is that a man should be a good animal. 

This is so often forgotten in our zeal for book knowledge 
that it will bear repetition. A dilapidated body is no more 



56 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

a help to religion than any other dilapidated house to wor- 
ship in, and we may be as much to blame for the body as the 
house. Muscles are tools ready prepared for use, and they 
must be employed or they rust. How they then damage the 
body will be further explained in the chapter on Moth, Rust, 
and Microbes. Such damage is as criminal as willful misuse 
of a friend's property, and as foolish as cutting shingles from 
one's own roof for kindling wood. Fine tools deserve fine care, 
and daintier tools than muscles never yet have been designed. 
Work is not the curse laid upon Adam, for before the fall he 
was set to dress and keep the garden. It is our unwilling- 
ness to work that constitutes its grievance. Our subterfuges 
to escape from it are but another instance of our folly; for 
the greater our success in this direction the greater our un- 
happiness. 

We often learn much of the value of a substance from the 
care taken in its packing. From the great care that has 
been taken to wrap in sheathing each fiber and muscle it 
seems as if this held true of these patient servants of ours. 
First, each fiber has its own particular sheath (sarcolemma), 
in which the piles of disks are held as coins in a long purse ; 
then these sheaths are bound together into larger bundles by 
a large sheath (perimysium), and lastly, the muscles are held 
together by a loose frame-work of areolar tissue and firmer 
fascia bandages for the word really means that. It has 
been well chosen, too, for no Egyptian mummy with its mul- 
titudinous yards of linen was ever bandaged more skillfully 
than is the human body with its many fascia, superficial and 
deep. See Chapter I. Fascia rolled in a hard white cord is 
usually called tendon or sinew, which are the strings by 
which muscles are fastened to the bones. The tendons are 
exceedingly tough, and will support a weight large in pro- 
portion to their size, but once ruptured they are slow to heal. 
Ligaments, except in name, are the same as tendons and are 
designed to hold the articular surfaces of bones together 
and thus prevent their dislocation or separation. Violent 
stretching of these ligaments gives rise to what are known 



BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 57 

popularly as sprains, and which are often exceedingly slow 
to recover unless the joint is copiously bathed with hot 
water, and put as perfectly as possible at rest. Dislocations 
and fractures require the surgeon's aid. 

To one interested in mechanics, a careful study of the 
joints of the body would well repay the time spent upon it, 
for there are found in the body hinge joints (elbow), ball 
and socket (hip), wedge joints, and most of the forms of 
mortice known to the carpenter. Probably no simpler or 
more efficient piece of joining was ever designed than the 
method adopted for binding together the bones of the fore- 
arm, which are so arranged that they allow both rotary and 
angular motion. This is done by making a hinge joint in 
the expanded end of one bone (ulna) at the elbow, and 
grooving the same so that the rounded head of the second 
(radius) rolls over it like a wheel, while at the wrist the 
expansion is reversed. 

In fact, there is not a joint or a bone in the body which is 
not well worth more careful study than it is possible to give 
it in this chapter. Human and comparative osteology have 
taught us all that is known of the former inhabitants of this 
earth. Through all of them runs a general plan of structure 
and increasing perfection until we come to man, whom the 
Creator himself pronounced good. The ground-plan, so to 
speak, on which man and all animals are constructed is that 
of a double tube, and the lower the animal the more nearly 
equal and parallel are the tubes. In the anterior tube the 
lungs and abdominal organs are held, in the posterior the 
nervous system. These tubes, or cavities, in man differ widely 
in size, the anterior cavity, except in the head, where it holds 
the brain, being very much the larger, as is well shown in 
the cut on page 58. 

The larger of these cavities is bisected by a partition 
or diaphragm, which divides it into two parts; namely, 
the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Each of these cavities 
has a separate entrance, both of which can be found in the 
mouth; that leading to the thoracic cavity being known as 
3* 



58 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

the windpipe, directly behind which can be found the tube 
(oesophagus), leading to the lower or abdominal cavity. 




CROSS SECTION OF THORAX AT THE LEVEL OF THE SHOULDERS. 
Anterior or thoracic cavity, fc. Vertebral cavity. 

The thoracic cavity, or chest, as it is usually called, lies 
entirely above the diaphragm, and contains the right and left 
lungs, and between them the heart and great vessels soon to 
be described. Their approximate situation may be fixed by 
remembering that a bullet would pierce the heart if it entered 
the chest at a right angle just above the fifth rib, and to the 
middle line just above the left nipple. A wound exactly in 
the middle line would involve both the heart and great vessels, 
and if to the right would escape the heart but pass through 
the right lung. A knife thrust into the lower intercostal 
spaces would wound the base of the lung during inspiration, 
but if done during expiration the lung itself might escape 
injury. See page 40. 

The abdominal cavity, as its name indicates, is located in 
the abdomen. It is the largest cavity in the body, and en- 
tirely separated from the thorax by the diaphragm. Anat- 
omists divide the abdomen by imaginary lines into nine 
regions, which are numbered in Plate I. The upper tier 
of these, namely, 1, 4, and 7., contain some of the most 
important of the abdominal viscera; namely, the liver, 
stomach, and spleen, all of which lie directly beneath the 
diaphragm. The spleen, concerning whose uses we have 



PLATE I . 







BEAMS, RAFTERS, CUSHIONS, AND SERVANTS. 59 

much yet to learn, lies to the left of the stomach in region 
7, and is an oval body, weighing four to eight ounces, well 
supplied with blood; but what it does there is yet a mystery 
to physiologists. In regard to the stomach and liver we are 




LIVER, STOMACH, SPLEEN, AND BRANCHES OF C<ELIAC Axis. 

1. Liver. 2. Its transverse fissure. 3. Gall-bladder. 4. Stomach. 5. Esophagus. 
6. Pylorus. 7. Duodenum, descending portion. 8. Transverse portion of the duode- 
num. 9. Pancreas. 10. Spleen. 11. Abdominal aorta. 12. Coeliac axis. 

much better informed. The latter is the largest gland of the 
body, and will be more fully spoken of in Chapter V. The 
stomach lies between the spleen and liver, whose lobes par- 
tially cover the pyloric end of this irregular bag, which has 
two openings; namely, the cardiac, through which food passes 
from the O3sophagus, and the pylorus (gateway), out of which 
the food passes when prepared for digestion. The stomach, 
therefore, is the kitchen of the body, and its duties and trials 
will be discussed in the following chapter. 



60 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER III. 

DINING-ROOM, COOKS, AND SCULLIONS. 

THE kitchen is generally the least interesting place in a fine 
house, unless you expect to make it your home. Then it sud- 
denly acquires a personal interest to the good housewife not 
to be exceeded by any room in the house. Its minutest 
appointments and deficiencies, if any, are well known and 
intelligently remedied as soon as possible. So it should be 
with the culinary department of the body, for we needs must 
eat twice or thrice daily, and our comfort more largely 
depends upon the kitchen than the parlor. Many of the proc- 
esses below stairs are not appetizing to the looker-on, and 
the same may be said of digestion ; but no lady is truly mis- 
tress of her house until she thoroughly understands what 
should be done in the kitchen. Similarly we need not keep 
constantly before our eyes the hideous charts of the digestive 
organs, which, perhaps more than all other causes, have made 
the study of physiology repulsive, but the why and wherefore 
of cooking and eating should be known to all. Ignorance on 
this point destroys more infant life than all the epidemics 
combined, and to one compelled to live with a confirmed 
dyspeptic it is usually a source of regret that indigestion 
later in life is not similarly fatal. 

Dyspepsia is usually due to intemperance, not in alcoholic 
liquors alone, but in improper food, where temperance is as 
greatly needed as in regard to liquor. " Them religious," said 
a colored caterer, "eat awful." Saint Paul's injunction, 
" to knowledge, add temperance " was given not to the disso- 
lute but to the Christian Church, which must obey it or suf- 
fer many wretched hours of gloom and dyspepsia. For 
intelligent temperance, knowledge is first requisite, and this 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 61 

can only be obtained by a careful study of what changes are 
required in food to make it available for the uses of the 
body. 

Food is whatever feeds the body, and hence in its widest 
sense it includes air and water, but as ordinarily understood 
will be used here as referring only to such foods as require 
digestion in the body. 

Food ought to embrace all the elements found within 
the body, which chemists tell us are fifteen in number. These, 
according to Professor Atwater's table, exist there in the 
following amounts for a man weighing 148 pounds: 

CONSTITUENTS OP THE BODY. 

! r Oxygen 92.4 pounds. 
Hydrogen 14.6 " 

Nitrogen 4.6 
Chlorine 0.12 
Fluorine 0.02 
Carbon 33.30 

3 METALLOIDS ( Phosphorus 1.40 

I Sulphur 0.24 

Calcium 2 . 80 

Potassium . 34 

Sodium 0.12 

7 METALS 4 Magnesium 0.04 

Iron.. 0.02 



None of these elements except the gases, oxygen, hydro- 
gen, and nitrogen, and these to only a limited amount, 
exist in a free or uncombined state in the body. The free 
oxygen found in the lungs and elsewhere comes chiefly from 
inspired air, whose function will be discussed in the chapter 
on Sewerage and Ventilation. Neither it nor free nitrogen 
or hydrogen is usually considered food, although in combi- 
nation they constitute with carbon by far the most important 
part of all we eat. 

Although the body is built up of the fifteen elements 
given above, it is as impossible to nourish it with them in 
their free or elementary condition as was the crazy French- 
man's scheme of creating a man by simply revolving in a vast 



62 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

cylinder the exact quantity of each element found in a human 
body. He hoped by some happy chance that the exact num- 
ber of atoms would arrange themselves just so as to construct 
a body if he could bat keep them in revolution sufficiently 
long. That was many years ago, but as the new Adam has 
not yet appeared it is fair to conclude that the learned 
savant has failed in his experiment. 

A similar attempt to feed a man on the amount of carbon, 
oxygen, and phosphorus excreted each day would be equally 
disappointing, for the chemical elements are not food, un- 
less combined by chemical affinity. Chemical affinity, or 
chemism, is the force which holds elementary atoms together. 
Without this power in nature we should know but seventy 
substances instead of the infinite variety which we see on all 
sides. 

If our present understanding of chemistry is correct, all of 
the infinite variety of substances known to man are com- 
binations, more or less intricate, of about seventy original 
elements. By no means all of these combinations are fitted 
for food. In fact, but comparatively few are yet used, and 
these are not the simpler inorganic compounds, but more com- 
plex substances found either in the animal or vegetable king- 
dom. A body has to be built very much as a house, for no 
man takes so much free oxygen, so much carbon, and so 
much silicon to construct a brown-stone front, but utilizes 
the requisite carbon, silicon, etc., in the form of bricks, 
board, and stone, which- are complex chemical compounds. 
So with our bodies, we should starve to death if we were fed 
on powdered carbon and gaseous oxygen, hydrogen, and 
nitrogen ; but given the same substances in meat, bread, and 
butter, we laugh and grow fat. 

Huxley estimated the amount of food required daily, thus: 
lean beefsteak, 5,000 grains; bread, 6,000 grains; milk, 7,000 
grains; potatoes, 3,000 grains; butter, 600 grains; water 
about 6 pounds taken both as food and drink to supply the 
daily loss of the system. A large portion of the water required 
for the system comes from the food, as mny be seen from the 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 



63 



annexed table of Professor Atwater, which shows that even 
what we consider solid food contains from fifty to eighty 
per cent, of water. 

COMPOSITION OF ANIMAL FOODS. 
FLESH, ETC., FREED FROM BONE, SHELL, AND OTHER REFUSE. 



KINDS OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

(Italics Indicate European analysis ; 
the rest are American.) 


| 

1 


Total Nutrients. 


NUTRIENTS. 


|| 
z 5 


A 

Per i:t. 

27.2 
0.9 
9.0 
19.0 
14.5 
5.4 
18.0 
26.2 
0.8 
7.5 
38.7 
19.0 
22.4 
35.0 

4.4 
26.6 
39.1 
80.5 

2.0 
8.7 
45.6 

3.8 
0.7 
0.9 
0.2 
35.4 
6.8' 
87.5 
11.8 

0.7 
0.3 
1.2 


1 

1 

1 


A 

< 

Per ct. 

1.0 
1.3 
1.3 
1.0 
1.1 
1.5 
1.1 
1.0 
0.5 
1.3 
0.7 
0.9 
6.9 
0.7 

6.7 
2.0 
2.7 
6.5 

1.4 
1.3 
0.5 

0.7 
0.7 
0.7 
0.7 
3.9 
4.6 
2.0 
1.0 

1.3 
1.2 
1.3 


MEATS, Fresh. 
Beef, side, well fattened 
Beef, lean, nearly free from fat. . . 
Beef round rather lean . . 


Per ct. 

54.6 
76.0 
66.7 
60.0 
64.5 
69.5 
63.5 
56.5 
78.8 
72.3 
45.9 
61.8 
58.6 
49.3 

58.6 
58.1 
41.5 
10.0 

72.2 
66.2 
38.0 

87.4 
90.7 
90.3 
932 
31.2 
41.3 
9.0 
73.1 

84.2 
81.4 

78.5 


Per ct. 

45.4 
24.0 
33.3 
40.0 
35.5 
30.5 
36.5 
435 
21.2 
27.7 
54.1 
38.2 
41.4 
50.7 

41.4 
41.9 
58.5 
90.0 

27.8 
33.8 
62.0 

12.6 
9.3 
9,7 
6.8 
68.8 
58.7 
91.0 
26.9 

15.8 
18.6 
21.5 


Per ct. 

17.2 
21.8 
23.0 
20.0 
19.9 
20.1 
17.4 
16.3 
19.9 
18.9 
14.7 
18.3 
18.1 
15.0 

30.3 
13.3 
16.7 
3.0 

24.4 
23.8 
15.9 

3.4 
3.1 
4.1 
0.9 
27.1 
38.3 
1.0 
13.4 

13.8 
17.1 
19.0 


Perct. 
3.5 

4.8 
4.8 
4.0 
5.0 
2.4 
9.0 
0.5 
0.7 


Beef, sirloin, rather fat 
Beef, neck, " second cut "........ 
Beef liver . . . 


Beef tongue 


Beef heart 




Veal rather fat 


Mutton side well fattened. . 


Mutton, leg 


Mutton shoulder 


Mutton loin (chop) 


MEATS, Prepared. 
Dried Beef 


Corned Beef, rather lean 


Smoked Ham 


Pork Bacon, salted . . 


FOWL. 
Chicken, rather lean 


Turkey, medium fatness 
Goose, fat 
DAIRY PRODUCTS, EGGS, ETC. 
Cow's Milk 


Cow's Milk skiwmcd 


Cow's Milk, buttermilk . . . 


Cow's Milk, whey 


Cheese, whole milk 


Cheese, skimmed milk 


Butter 


Hen's Eggs 


FISH, ETC. 
Flounder, whole 
Haddock, dressed ... 


Bluefish, dressed . . 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



KINDS OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

(Italics indicate European analysis ; 
the rest are American. 


Water. 


Total Nutrients. 


NUTRIENTS. 


Nitrogenous 
(albuminoids^. 


4 


1 

Pt 

1 


^ 


FISH, ETC. 
Cod dressed . 


Per ct. 
82.6 

69.8 
70.6 
71.6 
63.6 

53.8 
34.5 
42.2 

87.2 


Per ct. 

17.4 
30.2 
29.4 
28.4 
36.4 

26.1 
53.8 
47.2 

12.8 


Per ct. 

15.8 
22.1 
18.5 
18.8 
21.6 

21.7 
36.4 
22.1 

6.0 


Per ct. 
0-4 

6.5 
9.5 

8.2 
13.4 

0.3 
15.8 
22.6 

1.2 


Per ct. 

3.6 


Per ct. 
1.2 

1.6 
1.4 
1.4 
1.4 
Salt 
20.1 4.1 
11.7 1.6 
10.62.5 

2.0 


Whitefish, whole 
Shad, whole 
Mackerel, average, whole 


Salmon, whole 


Salt Cod 


Smoked Herring 
Salt Mackerel 

Oysters 



VEGETABLE FOODS. 



KINDS OF FOODS. 



1 


NUTRIENTS. 


if 

If 
J5<S 

g-5 


1 


1 

1* 


I 
1 


li 


FOODS. 
Wheat-flour, average* 


Per ct. 
11.6 
13.5 

8.3 
13.0 
10.4 
13.1 
11.8 
13 5 


Per ct. 
11.1 

13.5 
8.6 
11.7 
11.9 
6.7 
8.4 
6.5 
3.3 
4.8 
15.1 
9.1 
8.3 
7.4 
13.2 
22.9 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
1.0 
1.9 
2.5 


Per ct. 
1.1 
2.0 
0.6 

1.7 

1.7 
0.8 
0.7 
1.3 
0.3 
0.6 
7.1 
3.8 
0.4 
0.4 
2.1 
1.8 
0.2 
0.4 
0.2 
0.2 
0.2 
0.4 


Per ct. 

75.4 

78.5 
68.3 
69.9 
74 
78.3 
77.8 
77.3 
84.7 
83.1 
67.2 
69.2 
77.1 
79.2 
53.7 
52.4 
20.7 
20.0 
6.0 
8.9 
4.9 
5.0 


Per ct. 
0.2 

1.2 
01 
1.9 
.6 
0.4 
0.3 
0.3 
0.1 
0.3 
0.9 
0.8 
1.3 
0,2 
3.7 
5.4 
0.8 
1.1 
0.9 
1.2 
1.8 
0.9 


Per ct. 
0.6 
1.5 

0.3 
1.8 
1.4 
0.7 
1.0 
1.1 
0.4 
0.6 
2.0 
1.6 
0.4 
0.4 
3.6 
2.5 
1.0 
1.2 
0.7 
0.8 
1.2 
0.8 


"Wheat-flour maximum* 


WliGa/t-flour minimum* 


Graham-flour (wheat) 


Cracked "Wheat 


Rye-flour 


Pearled Barley 




Buckwheat "farina " 


11.2 
10.6 
7.7 
14.5 
135 
12.4 
13.7 
15.0 
75.5 
75.8 
91.2 
87.9 
90.0 
90.4 


Buckwheat "groats" 


Oatmeal 


Maize-meal 


Hominy. 


Rice 


Beans 


Peas 


fo tatoes 


Sweet Potatoes 


Turnips 


Carrots 


Cabbage 


Cauliflower. . 



Of analyses of American flours. 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 



65 



KINDS OF FOODS. 




f 


NUTRIENTS. 


gi 

n 


\ 


1 
2 

03 * 


1 

m 

I 


4 

Is 

X 

Per ct. 
0.6 

0.6 
0.5 
0.3 
0.4 
0.8 
1.0 
1.6 
1.4 
1.8 
2.4 
2.5 
1.4 
1.1 
0.8 


FOODS. 
Melons 


Perct. 

95.2 
90.0 
84.8 
83.0 
15.1 
2.2 
32.7 
34.2 
30.0 
8.0 
8.3 
3.9 
4.9 
7.9 
13.1 


Per ct. 
1.1 

0.7 
0.4 
0.4 
1,2 

0.15 

8.9 
9.5 
8.4 
10,3 
10.7 
12.3 
10.4 
12.4 
9.0 


Per ct. 
0.6 

0.1 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
1.9 
1.4 
0.5 
9.4 
9.9 
48 
13.7 
44 
0.3 


Per ct. 
1.4 
7.3 

12.8 
12.0 
83.3 
96.7 
5; 
53 
55 
7( 
6* 
7( 
6< 
7< 
7( 


Per ct. 
1.1 

1.3 

1.5 
4.3 
0.0 
0.0 
5.5 
5.3 
).7 
).5 
*.1 
>.5 
).6 
L2 
5.8 


Pumpkins 


Apples 


Pears 


Starch 


Cane Sugo,r 


"Wheat-bread* 


Graham-bread 


Rye-bread 


Soda Crackers 


"Boston'' Crackers 


" Oyster " Crackers 


Oatmeal Crackers 


Pilot (bread) Crackers 


Maccaroni 



* From flour of about average composition. 

According to a recent French statistician, a man living for 
fifty years eats during that time 79,000 pounds of bread, 
16,000 of meat, 4,000 of vegetables, eggs, and fish, and re- 
quires 7,000,000 gallons of water; for fifty-nine per cent, of the 
entire body is composed of water, which must, therefore, be 
introduced into the system in about that proportion, in our 
foods, to keep the organism in proper working order, not 
only keeping the tissues moist and succulent, but by wash- 
ing out effete matters as well. 

Water, as the most important of the inorganic foods, 
also deserves our careful attention, not only because it 
composes the bulk of our bodies, but because it is the 
agent by which many of the ills of the house in which 
we live are brought to pass. Long ago the human body 
was defined as forty-five pounds of solid matter diffused 
through five and a half pails of water. This is not abso- 
lutely exact, but the annexed table shows that water is 
found in all of the tissues though in widely varying pro- 
portions: 



66 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

PARTS IN A THOUSAND OF WATER AND SOLIDS. (Besanez.) 

Water. Solids. Water. Solid*. 

Enamel of the teeth 2 998 Nerves 780 220 

Teeth 100 900 Blood 791 209 

Bones 220 780 Cellular tissue 796 204 

Fat 299 701 Kidneys s . 827 173 

Elastic tissue 496 504 Bile.. 864 136 

Cartilage 550 450 Milk 891 109 

Liver 693 307 Chyle 928 72 

Spinal cord 667 333 Mucus 934 66 

Skin T20 280 Lymph 983 17 

Brain 750 250 Spinal fluid 988 12 

Muscles 757 243 Saliva 995 5 

Spleen 758 242 Sweat 998 2 

If, therefore, all the water could be extracted from a body 
it would weigh less than half of what it does during life, and 
if kept from moisture it might be preserved almost indefi- 
nitely. Buckland, in his Curiosities of Natural History, 
tells the following story: 

" In the College of Surgeons is the dried body of a poor 
boy that was found bricked up in a vault in a London church. 
This boy was about twelve years of age. He was found erect, 
with his clothes on, in a vault underneath Saint Botolph's, 
Aldgate, old church, in the year 1742, and is supposed 
to have been shut in during the plague in London, in 
1665, as the vault had not been opened since that period 
till it was pulled down. This body weighs only eighteen 
pounds." 

A man loses about two quarts of water a day, about a 
quarter of which passes off by the lungs, and the remainder 
by the skin and kidneys. (See Sewerage.) 

To supply this loss we are required to drink in foods and 
liquids about one thousand pounds per year, or during an 
average life-time a man drinks up an 800-foot lake. All 
of this is not derived solely from liquids, for it is found 
in grains that are usually spoken of as dry. It abounds 
in meats, vegetables, and fruits. We obtain about thirty- 
eight per cent, of it in bread, seventy per cent, in lean meat, 
from seventy to ninety per cent, in vegetables, and even 
more in some fruits. Indeed, if we used all these in a natural 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 67 

state, there would not be need of very much additional sup- 
ply. Extra water, as we need, we derive from the earth or 
from the sky. From either source by care we may secure 
pure and most acceptable water for the needs of the body 
(see Chapter VI), but this is a different matter from pouring 
down a large amount of fluid with each meal, as is the Amer- 
ican custom. As more than one half of our food is water we 
need very little while eating, when its use is mischievous in 
that it is used as a substitute for saliva (page 78) and still 
further interferes with digestion by unduly diluting the gas- 
tric juice. Even when this is not the case large draughts of 
water in hot weather tend to produce profuse perspiration, 
and thus aggravate the very evil it is designed to relieve. 
Especially is this true in the case of ice water, whose use in- 
evitably produces dryness of the throat and desire for more, 
until the quantity seriously disables the stomach, and may 
even produce death, when taken into an over-heated system. 
Small draughts of water, slowly taken, satisfy thirst better 
than large ones quickly swallowed. In fact, thirst, or dry- 
ness of the throat, often mistaken for thirst, may be as well 
relieved by gargling the throat with hot water as by drink- 
ing it, and thirst, or the general demand of the body for 
fluid, can be relieved without drinking at all. Injection of 
fluids, or the application of water to the skin, even if it be 
salt water, will relieve if not entirely remove thirst; a fact 
well worth knowing in shipwreck. In an old book, published 
in 1769, entitled The Narrative of Captain Kennedys Losing 
His Vessel, may be found the following, bearing on this sub- 
ject: "I cannot conclude without making mention of the 
great advantage received from soaking my clothes twice a 
day in salt water and putting them on without wringing. It 
was a considerable time before I could make my people 
comply with this measure, although from seeing the good 
effects produced they practiced it twice a day of their own 
accord. To this I may with justice lay my preservation and 
that of the six other persons with me. Four persons in the 
boat who drank salt water went delirious and died." Prob- 



68 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

ably none of the readers of this will ever be driven to Captain 
Kennedy's strait, but as we must all drink, it is important that 
the water taken daily should be sufficient to keep the kidneys 
well at work and the skin moist in hot weather. Drink 
sparingly at meal-time, and drink pure water. The last is 
often the most difficult and important, for there can be but 
little doubt that typhoid and cholera are usually introduced 
into the system by means of drinking water. In case of the 
last outbreak of cholera its spread is clearly traced by Dr. Cut- 
liffe to the Hindoo pilgrims assembled at Hurdwar, a few 
miles from the spot where the Ganges escapes from the 
Himalayas, of whom a handful had come from a cholera 
district. 

On the 12th of April the three millions assembled to 
bathe and drink. "The bathing-place of the pilgrims was 
a space six hundred and fifty feet long by thirty feet wide, 
shut off from the rest of the Ganges by rails. Into this long, 
narrow inclosure pilgrims from all parts of the encampment 
crowded as closely as possible from early morn to sunset; 
the water within this space, during the whole time, was thick 
and dirty partly from the ashes of the dead brought by 
surviving relatives to be deposited in the water of their river 
god, and partly from the washing of the clothes and bodies 
of the bathers. Now, pilgrims at the bathing ghaut, after 
entering the stream, dip themselves under the water three 
times or more, and then drink of the holy water, while say- 
ing their prayer. The drinking of the water is never omitted ; 
and when two or more of the family bathe together, each 
from his own hand gives the other water to drink. On the 
evening of the next day, the 13th of April, eight cases of 
cholera were admitted into one of the hospitals at Hurdwar. 
By the 15th, the whole of this vast concourse of pilgrims 
had dispersed," carrying the cholera in every direction over 
India; it attacked the British troops along the various routes, 
it passed the northern frontier, got into Persia, and so on into 
Europe." 

If space allowed, similarly well authenticated cases of the 



DlNING-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 69 

spread of typhoid from particular wells or rivers, contami- 
nated with typhoid excreta, could be given. But these are 
not necessary, for it is so well proven that drinking water is 
often poisonous that pure water is now universally sought, 
for large cities, at some distance from them if at all possible. 
For such drinking, rain, spring, river, lake, or well w^ater is 
employed, and of these the last is usually the most objection- 
able. If it were not for the disagreeable taste which rain- 
water acquires by standing in hogsheads or cisterns it would 
undoubtedly be the best, as it is the purest, and in all cases of 
epidemic disease, where there is the least doubt about the purity 
of the water supply, filtered rain water should be used without 
regard to its taste. Spring and river water are pleasanter for 
drinking, from the fact that they usually contain carbonic 
acid gas in solution sometimes as much as one gallon to 
twenty-five of water which imparts to them a brightness 
and freshness which rain-water does not possess, for this gas 
comes mainly from the decomposition of vegetable matter in 
the earth. So long as this is the only substance found in 
solution in drinking water it does it no hurt, but rather im- 
proves, but where carbonic acid gas is found in large quantity 
with it is generally joined an excess of inorganic salts*. When 
these are found in smaller quantities than forty grains to the 
gallon the water is said to be potable, unless it contains al- 
buminoid ammonia, or foul-smelling gases. Albuminoid 
ammonia is that contained in water, not as free ammonia, but 
that which may be obtained from the nitrogenous compounds 
held in the water by heating it with a caustic alkali. Warm- 
ing water containing a considerable amount of decomposing 
matter will cause it to give disagreeable odors which other- 
wise would have escaped detection; nor should water that is 
fit for drinking give any odor when in a closed half -filled 
bottle for several days. 

" The best water for drinking," says Dr. Hunt, " is that 
which is mingled with pure air, which is free from any organic 
animal or vegetable matter, either solid or gaseous, and which 
does not hold in suspension or solution any mineral matter. 



70 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

Water is frequently colored by vegetable matters, and yet 
the amount is such as to be easily neutralized or discharged 
from the system without evil effects. It is only when veg- 
etable matter is in a state of decay that there is much risk. 
The same is true as to animal matter or excretions, which 
are in general more dangerous than vegetable matters. It is 
chiefly so when undergoing active putrefactive change, and 
especially when it contains those living vegetable micro- 
organisms which are now recognized as associated with dis- 
ease. It is found that both air and water abound with 
minute forms either of animal or vegetable life. To dis- 
tinguish them from gaseous products, they are usually 
called ' particulate,' as made up of particles. These are 
intended to be conservative of life and health by feeding 
and nourishing upon those things not needed by man and 
injurious to him. But when air and water are subjected to 
very abnormal conditions, and are continuously and extrav- 
agantly befouled, either these low forms of life multiply 
to an amount which nature cannot dispose of, or new and 
virulent forms spring up, which, getting into the system 
through air or water, give rise to specific forms of disease." 
The taste of water is not always a safe guide to its use, 
for dangerous drinking water may be cool and sparkling and 
yet defiled with privy drainings, or other impurities. Such 
water often becomes fetid by merely standing, but a better 
and a very simple test is Heisch's, which can be readily ap- 
plied in any household. It consists of simply dissolving in 
three quarters of a pint of the suspected water half a tea- 
spoonful of loaf sugar and placing the solution in a corked 
pint bottle in a warm place for a couple of days. If at the 
end of that time it is found transparent it may be considered 
fit for drinking, for if the water had contained sufficient im- 
purities to produce fermentation of the sugar, it turns the 
liquid cloudy or turbid. Furthermore, safe water for drink- 
ing ought to respond to such a color test as may be made by 
filling completely with the water a large bottle made of col- 
orless glass ; look through the water at some black object ', 



DlNING-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 71 

the water should appear perfectly colorless and free from 
suspended matter. A muddy or turbid appearance indicates 
the presence of soluble organic matter or of solid matter in 
suspension. Nor should good water give any odor when thus 
tested; empty out some of the water, leaving the bottle 
half full ; cork up the bottle and place it for a few hours in 
a warm place ; shake up the water, remove the cork, and 
critically smell the air contained in the bottle. If it has any 
smell, and especially if the odor is in the least repulsive, the 
water should be rejected for domestic use. By heating the 
water to boiling, an odor is evolved sometimes that does not 
otherwise appear. 

As a large portion of the water thus found unfit for 
drinking comes from old wells, it might be helpful in this 
connection to call the attention of the reader to the conclu- 
sions arrived at some years ago by Mr. Cutler, a chemist 
who examined the water of twenty-four wells in New Bruns- 
wick, N. J.: 

" A well may be considered as a perpendicular drain, and 
as such we can readily perceive that it becomes a receptable 
for all surface-water in its vicinity. One might suppose that 
a well dug in a sandy soil or clayey soil would be thus sub- 
ject to impurities, but when constructed through rock or 
shale it would be entirely free from such contamination. 
This, however, is not always the case, for although rock may 
form some protection, still impure waters are often found in 
wells built entirely through stone. 

"The water drawn from the surface of the well is often 
quite pure, while that drawn from the bottom is greatly 
contaminated, showing that good and bad waters may exist 
in a well at the same time, owing to the difference in their 
specific gravities. 

" Although the soil in which cess-pools are dug may be 
able to retain the sewage for a long time, still the ground 
gradually becomes saturated, and, acting as a sponge, the 
impure water is carried for many yards, until, perhaps, it 
strikes a well into which it may drain. 



72 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

" Persons living on high ground may suppose their wells 
to be free from such impurities, not knowing that the barn- 
yard or cess-pool may be one of the springs from which their 
water is obtained. 

" Wells constructed in the usual manner are particularly 
apt to contain bad water first, from drainage, as I have just 
illustrated-; and secondly, from the decay of animals or rep- 
tiles which have fallen in them. The stones lining the wells 
are so rudely put together that ample room is allowed for 
toads, snakes, snails, etc., to collect, and hence frequently fall 
into the water and perish. It is stated by well-diggers that 
generally they find at the bottom of old wells eight to six- 
teen inches of mud, containing the decaying debris of these 
unfortunate creatures. It is therefore of the utmost impor- 
tance that wells be so constructed that the water may be as 
free as possible from all drainage and contamination caused 
by the decay of small animals. 

" It is almost impossible to construct a well from which 
water known to be absolutely pure can be obtained. Hence, 
an analysis of well-water is of much importance as the only 
method of establishing the purity of the water. 

" If a water contain over forty grains of solid matter to 
the gallon, it is generally injurious to health. Such an 
amount is always suspicious, and demands investigation to 
ascertain if the matter is organic or inorganic." 

Returning to table of foods, pages 63-65, we find them 
divided into ash, carbohydrates, fat, and albuminoids, or 
(1) Albuminoid, or nitrogenous; (2) Non-nitrogenous, or 
fats, etc., the function of the first being to form and repair 
muscles, while the non-nitrogenous furnish the body's fuel. 
These fats and carbo-hydrates (sugar and starch) are hardly 
less important, for although they do not form muscle they 
are necessary for the production of heat and to fatten the 
body. They correspond in value nearly to the coal which 
the fireman shovels into the furnace of an engine, and with- 
out which it is unable to do its work. Finally, in the column 
headed " Ash," we find (3) salts, or the inorganic parts, except 



DlNING-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 73 

water, of our usual foods. These salts are mainly the 
phosphate of lime and the sulphates, chlorides and phos- 
phates of potassium and sodium, together, with smaller 
quantities of the salts of magnesium, iron, and manganese. 
Such salts are essential to the proper formation of bone, and 
if kept from the growing child it becomes rickety and 
deformed. All of them, except common salt chloride of 
sodium exist in sufficient quantities for health in our ordi- 
nary foods. There seems to be a natural and instinctive 
longing for salt by the herbivora and man, for wild animals 
will travel long distances to enjoy a salt lick, and among 
savage nations salt often brings the highest price of all com- 
modities. Physiologists tell us that salt is necessary for cell 
activity, so that this instinctive longing for salty food is 
natural, but this is not true of pepper, mustard, and other 
condiments. These are acquired tastes, and only required by 
those whose jaded appetites require a spur. 

Both foods and the human body may in their chemistry 
be compared to an egg. The comparison is good in that 
each may be divided into groups represented by the shell, 
white, and yelk of the egg. The first of these are the inor- 
ganic constituents of the body, a list of which is given 
below. 

GROUP 1, or the shell group, includes in the human body: 

1. Water. Placed first, because about ninety pounds in an 
average adult body. 

2. Gases. Oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, 
marsh gas, sulphuretted hydrogen. 

3. Salts. Sodium chloride, potassium chloride, ammoni- 
um chloride, calcium fluoride, sodium carbonate, potassium car- 
bonate, ammonium carbonate, calcium carbonate, magnesium 
carbonate, sodium phosphate, potassium phosphate, calcium 
phosphate, magnesium phosphate, ammonio-magnesium phos- 
phate, ammonio-sodium phosphate, nitrate of ammonia, am- 
monium sulphate, alkaline sulphates, calcium sulphate. 

4. Free Acids. Hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid. 

5. Silicon, iron, manganese, copper, lead. 
4 



74 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

The exact role each of these performs in the body is not 
yet definitely known ; in .fact, it is not yet even known in 
what combinations the members of the fifth group are found 
in the body. But it is known wherever cell formation takes 
place in the body there certain of the inorganic salts are 
necessary. Calcium phosphate, for instance, is not only 
necessary for the development of bone, but of all albuminoid 
tissues. Sodium chloride is always found where cell activity 
is great. The exchange of inorganic gases will be alluded 
to under the subject of respiration. 

GROUP 2 contains those compounds, analogous to the white 
of the egg found jn the human body, and known in general 
as albuminoids. They are uncrystallizable, without definite 
chemical composition, and resemble in many of their reac- 
tions the white of an egg, whence their name. The number 
of these compounds is large. They are fluid, semi-solid, and 
solid, and include such substances as seralbumen, fibrine, the 
digestive ferments, globulin, chrondrogen, ostein, keratin, and 
various pigments of more interest to the physiological chemist 
than to the general student. 

GROUP 3, the yelk group, includes the sugars and the fats 
and starchy compounds of the body ; or, in other words, 
this group embraces the non-nitrogenous carbon compounds. 

This division of the body is helpful, for the reason that it 
is about the same division as that previously adopted foi 
foods; namely, nitrogenous, carbo-hydrates, and inorganic^ 
each of whose digestion requires a different process to makv> 
them part of their most nearly resembling constituents oi 
the body. As the starchy foods (Group 2) are those first 
acted upon by the digestive fluids, it may be well to begin 
our consideration of the assimilation of foods with those 
which make up no small bulk of our every-day fare. About 
seventy per cent, of the best bread, potatoes (seventy-five 
per cent.), oatmeal, hominy, and Indian corn in less propor- 
tion, are starchy matters which require cooking and chemical 
change before they can be used in the body. Cooking bursts 
the envelopes in which the starch granules are contained. 



DlNING-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 75 

hydrates them if moisture is added, or if dry heat alone is 
employed changes white, insoluble starch to a soluble fawn, 
colored substance known as dextrine. This is the reason why 
toasted bread or cracker is more digestible than bread. 
Cooking also separates the fiber of food, and thus renders it 
more amenable to the action of the digestive fluids. Pork is 
less digestible than beef and mutton, largely because the 
fibers of the former are more compact than the latter, for if 
thoroughly cooked and properly masticated pork ranks among 
the best of our foods. 

Mastication, or, in plain English, chewing, is the first act 
in the process of digestion. For this purpose the mouth of 
an adult is provided, or ought to be, with thirty-two teeth, 
and should secrete something over a quart of saliva a 
day. The form of the teeth proves that they are to bite, 
to cut, and to grind; and hence that man is an omnivorous 
animal. If we judge from the care displayed in their struct- 
ure and their chemistry, the teeth ought to be the last part 
of the skeleton to decay. It is so after death, and ought to be 
before ; but the fact is that Americans have the worst teeth 
and the best dentists of any nation upon the face of the 
earth. A variety of dissimilar causes, such as candy, hot 
drinks, ice water, patent flour, etc., have been considered by 
different writers as the cause, but the probability is that, 
while these may be exciting causes, the real error lies in our 
ways of living. Poor teeth inevitably accompany poor 
bones and flabby muscles, and if we should return to the 
simpler and better ways of living of our grandfathers we 
should in all probability have their good teeth. But, having 
poor teeth, all the greater need of preserving them; and this 
care should begin in childhood. A tooth-brush and tooth- 
pick should be considered as indispensable to a child as a, 
handkerchief, and it should be taught to use them as dili- 
gently. The first or milk teeth should not be prematurely 
removed, but allowed to remain as long as possible, filling 
with cheap fillings if necessary to preserve the contour of the 
jaw. It should also be remembered that the six year 



76 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

molars are never replaced. They follow so closely the tempo- 
rary teeth that they are often confounded with them and 
allowed to decay under the mistaken idea that they will be 
replaced by permanent teeth later. Permanent teeth in this 
country ought to be inspected by a competent dentist every 
six months at least, in order that the beginnings of decay 
may be arrested. Waiting to attend to a carious tooth until 
forced to by toothache is very like waiting until a house is 
afire before putting insurance upon it. 

To understand why a tooth aches so violently when once 
it begins requires some knowledge of the structure of teeth. 
Pain usually implies pressure upon or poisoning of nerve 
structure. In the case of the toothache it is clearly the 
former, as a tooth is composed, from the outside, first of 
enamel, second of dentine and cementum, and in its center a 
pulp cavity designed to hold the nerve of the tooth. So long 
as the tooth remains sound the nerve rests comfortably there, 
but let the enamel once crack and allow food to find lodg- 
ment and breed bacteria (see Chapter VIII) the dentine soon 
breaks down and allows the nerve to be exposed to the air, 
or otherwise inflamed. The nerve then becomes larger and 
presses against the bony walls of its cavity until the pain 
becomes almost unbearable. But suffering does not remove 
the pain ; we are obliged to seek the dentist to extract the 
tooth which he ought to have been called upon previously to 
save. 

The enamel which covers the teeth is the hardest sub- 
stance found in the body, and so long as it remains unbroken 
it is well-nigh indestructible. The microscope shows it to 
be constructed of a multitude of hexagonal prisms, so hard 
and packed so tightly together that, like flint, they will strike 
fire. The bulk of a tooth is made up of wavy tubes of den- 
tine with cementum gluing it to the jaw, and inside of the 
tooth the pulp cavity already described. Killing the nerve 
of a tooth means introducing into this cavity some substance, 
such as arsenic, which will destroy the vitality of the nerve. 
The objection to this is that the tooth then becomes a foreign 



DlNING-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 77 

body in the gum, where it is very liable to set up in- 
flammation. In fact, such dead teeth are prone to make 
more trouble than false teeth, which, by the way. are no 
modern invention, for the Chinese, long before we ever 
dreamed of such things, whittled out of hard wood artificial 
teeth to order, as they do till to-day; their tooth car- 
penters, according to Dr. Clancy, sitting on the street 
corners to turn you out a set while you wait. False teeth 
were known to the Romans, for in one of Horace's odes he 
speaks of two belligerent hags falling into a quarrel, and in 
the excitement of the occasion the false teeth of one of them 
falls out. Gold fillings are as old as the Egyptians, for some 
of their mummies have their teeth filled with gold, and well 
filled, too, we are told. 

False teeth are better than no teeth, but it is far better to 
preserve even a poor set than to be compelled to rely on 
porcelain substitutes, for at their best they can never as 
perfectly masticate food as it should be done. Rinsing the 
mouth immediately after a meal with a dilute solution of 
common baking soda (saleratus), a pinch in half a glass of 
water, and the use of a good tooth-brush and tooth-picks 
freely in private, would save most of us many an hour's pain 
at the dentist's. In addition .it bed-time a piece of waxed 
silk ought to be drawn between the teeth, wherever food 
might gather and decay. Nature's teeth ought to serve us as 
long as we have any occasion for them. But all this requires 
more time than busy Americans think they can give to the 
care of so trivial a matter as their teeth, until at last an ex- 
posed nerve or an inflamed pulp cavity drives them to the 
nearest dentist, quoting energetically Burns's "Ode to the 
Toothache " as they go. 

A tooth is too valuable a servant to be lightly lost, so that 
if a sound one is by some mischance pushed from its socket 
it ought to be immediately replaced, and if possible held 
there, for the gums sometimes contract with sufficient firm- 
ness to hold the tooth again in place and enable it to do 
very fair work. In fact, the original method for the use of 



78 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

artificial teeth was to extract a stump and immediately insert 
a false tooth in its stead, which often was held with sufficient 
firmness to enable it to bite or grind the food according as 
it was an incisor or molar. 

The molars, like the mills of the gods, are intended to 
grind slowly and exceeding fine, for the efficiency of after 
digestion depends largely upon the smallness of the frag- 
ments of food and their thorough mixture with the fluids of 
the mouth, or insalivation, as it is sometimes called. These 
fluids come in part from the mucous glands of the mouth (see 
Chapter V) and in part from the salivary glands. Two of 
the latter are located beside the ear (parotid), two beneath 
the jaw (submaxillary), and two beneath the tongue (sublin- 
gual). Together they secrete about a quart of liquid, which 
is continually being poured into the mouth through the ducts 
leading from these glands. The ducts of the sublingual and 
submaxillary glands, near together, open into the mouth just 
beneath the tongue, while the ducts of the parotids pour 
their saliva into the mouth through openings nearly opposite 
the second of the molars of the upper jaw. With the tip of 
the tongue the saliva can be felt continually trickling out of 
these apertures, and greatly increased in quantity while 
dining, or when the mouth "waters" for something good to 
eat. 

The purpose of the saliva is twofold : first, to thoroughly 
lubricate the food so that swallowing may be easy, and 
second to bring about a chemical change in the starch of the 
food which transforms it into a variety of sugar (glucose) 
which can be utilized in the body. If for any reason this is 
not accomplished, either because the food is not finely 
enough ground by the teeth, or because the saliva is deficient 
in quantity or quality, starchy indigestion results, and hence 
for many dyspeptics bread is the most difficult thing to 
digest. Young infants have little or no saliva, and hence are 
unable to properly digest starchy food. Although small quan- 
tities may be disposed of lower down in the alimentary canal, 
the bulk of these starchy foods remains undigested and causes 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 79 

innumerable infantile colics and not a few deaths. The 
majority of patent infant foods are starchy in their nature, 
and hence evil in their effects. Milk, properly prepared, is 
the best food for babies for the reason that it contains all 
the necessary elements of food mentioned on page 73, 
namely, inorganic salts, albuminoids (casein or curd) and 
hydrocarbons in the cream and sugar of the milk. 

Let us then briefly consider the digestion in detail of a 
mouthful of milk, since it contains all the ingredients neces- 
sary for the nourishment of the body and all the essential 
varieties of food that can be found on any table. Undi- 
gested milk is poison, as many a poor baby has found to its 
cost, but properly digested it forms bone, muscle, sinew, by 
the aid of the germinal matter spoken of in Chapter I. Each 
kind of germinal matter needs its appropriate nourishment, all 
of which can be gathered from the curd, cream, and salts of 
the milk. 

First, as to the curd, which corresponds to the nitrogenous 
foods of the adult. With the latter the nitrogenous food 
requires to be reduced to small fragments by the teeth before 
it descends the esophagus, or the back stairs to the kitchen. 
Liquids escape this process, and immediately find their way 
over the epiglottis (see Chapter VI) down into the stomach, 
whose acid juices immediately clot it. If these clots are too 
large, or firm, they cause distress, but if the milk is properly 
acted upon it forms soft, fine curds, which are more digestible 
than the original milk, for they contain their nitrogenous mat- 
ter in a form to be readily acted upon by the gastric juice. Gas- 
tric juice is an acid fluid constantly secreted by glands located 
in the membrane lining the inside of the stomach. These 
are known as the peptic glands, and their duty is to prepare 
the gastric juice, or fluid, which is a colorless, watery, acid 
liquid containing from three to four parts in a thousand of pep- 
sin. Pepsin is an animal ferment, and has the remarkable prop- 
erty of transforming albuminoids into peptones. A solution of 
peptone looks very like a solution of albumen, from which it 
differs mainly in the fact that albumen is unable to pass 



80 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



through an animal membrane, while peptone can. On this 
apparently trivial fact the use of animal food depends. If 

it were otherwise all animal and 
much vegetable food would have to 
be given up, for unless it can be 
transformed into something which 
will nourish the body by passing 
into the circulation such food 
would be positively injurious. Un- 
changed albuminoids would lie like 
lead in the stomach, for albuminoid 
bodies cannot pass through the coats 
of the stomach into the blood, where 
it can nourish and supply the 
body's waste. Peptone is an hydra- 
tion of the albumen, prepared 
by the pepsin of the stomach. 
Thus peptonized, as we say, assimi- 
lation can now go on by absorption 
of the albuminoids which have been 
peptonized, which pass as peptones 
directly into the lacteals located in 
the walls of the stomach. The ex- 
act work done by the stomach was 
for a long time a mystery to the 

A, under a low power ; d, duct ; n, chemist; some esteeming it, as Hun- 
neck. Klein. ^ er sa y gj a cooking pot, others a 
mill, a churn, etc., until very recently the exact chemical 
change occurring there is found to be simply the addition 
of water to the albuminoids of the food not a mixture 
with water, for that takes place in the mouth ; but a 
chemical union, or hydration, forming the peptones already 
described. 

But all of our food is not albuminoid, and hence not 
digested in the stomach, whose fluids are only able to pep- 
tonize the nitrogenous foods. The starches have partly 
been acted upon by the saliva in the mouth, and this trans- 




PEPTIC GLANDS. 



DINIXG-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 81 

formation into glucose is further continued in the acid fluids 
of the stomach, while the remainder of the food is in from two 
to six hours converted into a thick fluid, consisting of solid, un- 
digested particles, suspended in a yellowish, disagreeably smell- 
ing liquid. This mixture is known as chyme, and is food now 
prepared for further digestion in the intestinal canal, into which 
it passes from the stomach by means of the pylorus, a purse- 
like mouth which opens when the chyme is ready for intestinal 
digestion. When in the intestines it becomes mixed with bile, 
pancreatic fluid, and the juices from the various intestinal 
glands. Each of these has some part to perform in perfect 
digestion. The bile, for instance, prevents decomposition, and 
emulsifies the fats, the pancreatic fluid completes the digestion 
of the fats, and the intestinal fluids complete the digestion of the 
albuminoids and sugars. The use of each of the digestive fer- 
ments is well shown in the following table taken from Roberts: 

TABLE OF DIGESTIVE FERMENTS. 

NAME. FUNCTION. 

1. Ptyalin, or salivary diastase, con- 1. Changes starch into dextrine and 

tained in the saliva. glucose. 

2. Pepsin contained in gastric juice. 2. In acid fluids changes albuminoids 

into peptones. 

3. Curdling ferment contained in 3. Coagulates casein. 

gastric juice. 

4. Trypsin contained in pancreatic 4. In alkaline solutions transforms 

juice. proteids to peptones. 

5. Curdling ferment found in pancre- 5. Coagulates milk casein. 

atic juice. 

6. Pancreatic diastase found in pan- 6. Changes starch into dextrine and 

creatic juice. glucose. 

7. Emulsive ferment found in pancre- 7. Emulsifies fats. 

atic juice. 

8. Bile poured into duodenum. 8. Assists in emulsifying fats. 

9. Jnvertin found in intestinal juice. 9. Converts cane sugar into inverted 

sugar. 

10. Curdling ferment found in intes- 10. Coagulates casein, 
tinal j nice. 

Digestion, then, is not as simple a thing as the proprietors 

of the patent anti-dyspeptics would have you believe. It is 

an exceedingly complex process, and any interference at any 

stage of the process produces dyspepsia, which is the Greek 

4* 



82 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

for indigestion. Eupepsia is the word for perfect digestion, 
and any variation from this constitutes dyspepsia, which may 
be of all grades from slight discomfort after eating to a 
profound wretchedness which makes life a burden. It may 
be a dyspepsia arising from failure to properly masticate 
the food from lack of teeth, or haste, and can be remedied 
only by false teeth, or greater care in eating; and unless 
this is done no amount of artificial pepsin will cure the 
difficulty. 

Pepsin, by the way, is no new remedy, for the Chinese 
from time immemorial have used a decoction of chicken 
gizzards in just those cases where the modern physician 
employs ingluvin manufactured from the same source, 
but neither pepsin, ingluvin, lactopeptin, dyspepsin, nor any 
of the vaunted panaceas for dyspepsia will accomplish their 
work without the intelligent assistance of both patient and 
physician. Chronic dyspepsia and sick headaches, which are 
probably another manifestation of the same vice, are among 
the most intractable of human ailments. No one acquires 
either without prolonged errors in eating. Gluttony causes 
as much, if a different kind, of distress as drunkenness, 
and it is a form of intemperance to which intelligent people 
are vastly more prone than indulgence in liquor. Others 
than Methodist theological students might read to profit 
John Wesley's rules on this subject, beginning with, " Are 
you temperate in all things? For instance, in food, do 
you use only that kind and that degree which is best both 
for body and soul ? Do you see the necessity of this ? Do 
you eat no more at each meal than is necessary ? Are 
you not heavy or drowsy after dinner?" It is not the 
amount of food eaten, but that assimilated, which feeds the 
body, and any excess over this is hurtful and harmful We 
possess about four millions of cooks, whose duty is to prepare 
food for us, and so excellently will they do this if we furnish 
them the proper materials that we ought to know nothing 
more of their exploits than we do of the same class of 
workers in a large hotel. Dyspepsia means a strike in the 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 83 

kitchen, and may be of any magnitude, from slight incon- 
venience to absolute starvation. Usually the first evidence 
of trouble in the human kitchen is loss of appetite, or anorexia, 
as the doctors call it. 

If now we were only wise enough to understand that a lack 
of appetite means that our cooks have been overtaxed and 
are meditating further disturbance, happy would it be for 
us and them, but, instead, we send down additional dainties 
for them to dispose of. The next thing, if we persist in 
this course, is a serious emeute below stairs, for which we are 
solely to blame; for if we had refrained from eating for a 
meal or two, as our loss of appetite counseled us to do, appetite 
would have returned at the proper time, and we should have 
been all the better for our temporary fast. Long ago old 
Dr. Dewees wrote: "I am convinced that the value of absti- 
nence in the treatment of acute disease is not fully appre- 
ciated," and every physician since has had no lack of cases 
corroborating this. Food in this country is so plentiful and 
excellent that we eat too much, and where one poor unfort- 
unate dies of starvation hundreds die of overeating. 

According to Dr. Hunt, a person engaged in hard work 
requires not more than four and a half ounces of meat, or its 
equivalent, and about twenty-six ounces or two pounds of 
well-buttered bread, or its equivalent, to efficiently perform 
his daily work ; and this is rather below than above the 
amount of meat, vegetables, etc., eaten in this country 
by those engaged in sedentary pursuits. To enable the 
digestive organs to perform this surplus work, condiments, 
sauces, and artificial aids are generally employed, to the 
permanent injury of the individual, often in the shape of 
permanently disabled kidneys. (See Sewerage.) 

Finally, there is what is known as nervous dyspepsia, a 
disease of increasing frequency in our large cities. In these 
cases the trouble seems to be not with the food, but with 
the nerves which regulate the supply of gastric juice. 
Excitement of any kind will bring a transient nervous anorexia, 
and if the excitement be long-continued this loss of appe- 



84 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

tite may become permanent. It is one form of neurasthenia, 
elsewhere spoken of (see Chapter VII), and needs similar treat- 
ment. DrugSj tonics, and stimulants, too often resorted to 
with temporary relief in these cases, are all useless until 
some method is found to restore the exhausted nervous 
system. Stimulants here are particularly hurtful, for they 
inevitably inflict permanent injury on the already weakened 
digestive organs. A glass of wine or a sip of something 
stronger in such cases will often stir up a lagging appetite, 
and enable one of these exhausted stomachs to dispose of a 
fair meal which otherwise would have gone begging. But 
such temporary relief is purchased at the price of further 
exhaustion on the withdrawal of the stimulant, which unfort- 
unately often is never withdrawn until the dyspeptic finds 
himself in worse bondage to alcohol. 

The exact relation of alcohol to food is a question that has 
long and vehemently been argued over, and is not yet fully 
settled. It can, however, be fairly said that its estimation 
as a food has gradually diminished until now even its advo- 
cates scarcely claim more than that alcoholic drinks take the 
place of food, and are of value to those wasting from disease 
or enduring great hardships. The last claim has never been 
substantiated, but, on the contrary, many facts have been 
educed which prove the exact reverse. The London Times, 
which can hardly be supposed to be prejudiced in favor of 
temperance, reports that the total abstainers on a recent 
Arctic expedition bore the terrible severities of their long 
sledge journeys better than those to whom grog was daily 
served. The experience of one of these abstainers is so much 
to the point that it is given in detail. 

" Gore, it seems, had been an abstainer until he was twenty- 
one years old, but in an unguarded moment while on the 
sledge journeys he succumbed to the temptation and persua- 
sion of his companions and took to grog. Previous to break- 
ing his pledge Gore states that he could eat as well as any 
one. In fact, after devouring his portion, he was in the 
habit of looking about for more; but no sooner had he taken 



AND SCULLIONS. 85 

to grog-drinking than he found his appetite to fail, and he 
was deprived of the refreshing sleep which he had formerly 
enjoyed. He was the only Good Templar who joined the 
expedition that was attacked with scurvy, and for this he 
was no doubt indebted to his unfaithfulness. He gave stim- 
ulants, he remarks, a fair trial, and he is now convinced that 
it was the grog which did the mischief. It may be noticed 
that the testimony of the whole ship's company doctors 
and others included is unanimous and conclusive against 
the serving out of stimulants during the day. They emphat- 
ically state that no work can be done upon the grog." 

Furthermore, the medical profession generally believe that 
alcohol is a poison, and as such produces its disturbance in 
the body; and consequently that no healthy, well-fed man 
requires or is better off for its use. So far all candid 
physicians and temperance workers can agree, but there is as 
yet an honest difference of opinion as to whether alcohol, like 
other poisonous drugs, has its rightful place among the phy- 
sician's weapons for fighting disease. The experiment is 
being fairly tried in the temperance hospitals, in which dis- 
eases are being treated without the use of alcohol in any 
form whatever. What the final verdict will be it is too early 
yet to predict; but whatever that verdict may be, it is sure 
to confirm the statement that alcohol is at best a sharp and 
dangerous tool and never to be used indiscriminately, espe- 
cially by those of a fine nervous organization. The more 
acute the nervous system, the greater the danger in using 
this seductive anaesthetic. Alcohol has some brief stimulant 
effect, but it is, in the main, an anaesthetic that is, a drug 
which lessens sensibility. 

One of the first effects of liquor is to make a man tingle 
pleasantly all over, or in other words it disturbs the innerva- 
tion of the skin, and soon disturbs its sensibility, so that the 
drunken brute hardly knows when he is kicked and beaten. 
The evil effects of alcohol upon the muscles and germinal 
matter have elsewhere been spoken of, but the great danger 
of alcoholic liquors is the effect which they have upon the 



86 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

nervous system and the inevitable loss of self-control which 
their free use entails. No well man ever needs alcohol in 
any form, and no sick one ought ever to have it except upon 
a doctor's prescription, and then only during his advice, and 
it is more than probable that both physician and patient 
would fare better without its use, except in very rare 
emergencies. 

Bread and butter are far better food than any malt liquor, 
for the latter contains only part of the elements necessary to 
feed a man, all of which may be found in bread and butter. 
Add to this one eighth meat or cheese, and you have about 
the right proportions of the three classes of food, already 
described, to form a nutritious diet. 

By nutritious food we mean it should contain those ele- 
ments that are necessary to make up a healthy body, and a 
deficiency in any one of these will bring a correspondingly 
deficient body. Chemists tell us that there are fifteen of the 
elements found in the body, namely, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, 
nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, fluorine, calcium, iron, man- 
ganese, silicon, etc., already given on page 73. Man cannot 
live on these crude elements any more than he could build 
a house of sand, clay, and water. He would starve to death 
if he were fed only on just so much of these crude materials 
as he has been in the habit of taking combined in his daily 
food ; for none of the elements except oxygen and nitro- 
gen are taken into the body in their free or uncombined 
condition. These gases (oxygen and nitrogen), as we know, 
supply the body with the air necessary for its ventilation and 
the destruction of its waste product; but they are not food in 
the sense in which we ordinarily employ the term, for food 
must be something more than a mere chemical compound. 
It must be toothsome as well as nutritious, and it must please 
the palate and the stomach, or the most scientifically con- 
structed food in the world will not long nourish or satisfy a 
human being. And herein is the great fault of the most 
of patent infant foods ; they are constructed on thoroughly 
scientific, but generally non-appetizing, principles. They 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 87 

contain exactly the amount of carbon, nitrogen, silicon, and 
lime that the scientific infant ought to take for its proper 
nourishment and growth, but, unfortunately, the average 
human baby does not like the taste of them, and will have 
none of them, and the scientific physician, sooner or later, 
has to betake himself to old-fashioned milk or make out a 
death certificate. Nevertheless, it is most emphatically true 
that food, to be nutritious and sufficient, must contain all 
these elements in their proper proportion, or there will be a 
breaking down somewhere in the " body politic." 

Less than two hundred years ago scurvy was one of the 
most dreaded diseases on all the ships in the then known 
world. Sailors, after being some time on shipboard, broke 
out with the most disgusting sores, their hair and teeth fell 
out, and their swollen and festering gums hardly enabled 
them to crunch the salt meat and stale biscuit that were 
their daily rations. Scurvy is simply the penalty of trying 
to live without fresh meat and vegetables ; and so generally 
is this now known that it has become an almost unknown 
disease, for, by law, ship-owners are obliged to furnish their 
crew with the proper preventives. 

Furthermore, food to be nutritious must not contain any 
dangerous ingredients added to it either by carelessness or 
fraud, the latter of which is one of the crying sins of these 
latter days. Hardly any thing that we eat, drink, or put on 
but is adulterated. In fact, if we believe half what the 
newspapers tell us, we take our lives in our hands every 
time that we sit at our dinner or breakfast table. 

All flour, say the public analysts, is adulterated with 
alum and terra alba until eating it is scarcely more health- 
ful than trying to digest powdered mill-stones, while the 
yeast or baking-powder with which it is raised is said to be 
a perfect chemist's shop of compounds improper to introduce 
into a human body. And then, as to butter, it is a fact that 
they turn out car-load after car-load of butter that is made 
in the packing-house, and not at the dairy. Pretty good butter 
it is too ; far better than much of the cheap stuff that is 



88 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

honestly and dirtily made from cows' milk ; for properly 
prepared oleomargarine is a nutritious and healthful article 
of diet, and one that has done much to cheapen the poor 
man's breakfast table. And yet most of us honestly confess 
that we would rather know what we are eating ; and it takes 
some little moral fortitude to use a butter that you know is 
made of beef suet. But it is not a dangerous substance, and 
it is so well made that the best expert on the subject of butter 
in the city of Chicago was deluded into buying a pail of 
pure oleomargarine for his family use, and eating it too. On 
the whole, we may count ourselves fortunate if we only find 
oleomargarine in the way of adulteration in our butter ; for 
in these latter days they have found ways of bleaching and 
disinfecting even the most rancid and unpalatable butter so 
that it may be put upon the market with any color, odor, or 
taste desired ; but all such processes are dangerous and 
hurtful to the consumer. 

Meat, fortunately, cannot be adulterated, but they do say 
that one of the largest packing firms in a modern Sodom util- 
izes for its canned meats such scraps and refuse as they 
cannot sell even to a Chicago boarding-house. Meat may be 
diseased by long standing, and produce within itself alka- 
loids that are hardly less poisonous than strychnia. This 
is apt to happen in corning beef, when it is imperfectly 
cured, so that every once in a while we read of epidemics of 
poisoning that have followed the use of tainted meats. Un- 
cooked sausages, leberwurst, etc., are especially prone to such 
changes in warm climates ; and in fact uncooked or partially 
cooked meat never should be used, except by the advice of 
a physician, for in this way tape-worms and trichina are 
introduced into the system. 

Our potatoes, perhaps, are safe, for no man has yet discov- 
ered a method of profitably making an artificial potato, 
though there was an enterprising genius that last winter put 
upon the New York market an artificial egg that had not 
the most distant acquaintance with a hen. Its shell was 
made of plaster of Paris, the white of blood albumen, and 



DINING-ROOM AND SCULLIONS. 89 

the yelk of some unknown compound, and the whole was so 
cleverly put together that thousands of them were sold when 
eggs were highest, before the fraud was suspected. Con- 
densed eggs, as they are called, are largely adulterated with 
blood albumen and colored with chromate of lead, so that 
instead of being, like eggs, a proper, nutritious, and convenient 
article of food, they are dangerous and poisonous. Several 
cases of poisoning from lemon pies made with these con- 
densed eggs are reported, and therefore desiccated eggs 
should be relegated to the oblivion they deserve. 

Bishop Asbury was in the habit of telling his young 
preachers, when they grumbled over the uncleanliness of the 
tables they were forced to put up with, that " a baked potato 
and a hard-boiled egg are always clean and nutritious articles 
of diet ; " but that was before the days of these artificial 
eggs and Saratoga chip potatoes, which are sometimes pre- 
pared, as we are told, from the refuse of the larger hotels 
North, and shipped abroad in neat boxes for foreign con- 
sumption only. 

Suppose we turn in despair to our cup of coffee. We may 
not find it much better, for the fact is that latterly not 
more than one woman in a thousand knows how to make a 
good cup of coffee. When you find the rare thousandth 
woman, she cannot do it unless she is furnished coffee to 
make it with, and I presume that a good three quarters of 
all the coffee on the market is so largely adulterated that it 
would take a competent chemist ,to find the percentage of 
coffee contained in it. It was once thought that buying the 
unbrowned coffee-berry you were sure to get a pure article, 
but in these latter days the sons of Belial have contrived 
imitations in plaster of Paris that would deceive the very 
elect, in color, form, and every thing but taste. When it 
comes to browning the berry, some Yankee has found that 
the cheap and nutritious peanut can be browned to exactly 
the same tint as the coffee bean, which, when split, it 
closely resembles, and can be put upon the market at a far 
less price. It is said, furthermore, not to have the bad 



90 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



effect of wakef ulness that belongs to the unadulterated 
coffee ; and the same may be said of chicory coffee, rye 
coffee, potato paring coffee, and all the endless variety of 
adulterations that the high price of coffee has forced upon 
the market ; and, worst of all, there seems at present to be 
no satisfactory method of recognizing these adulterations 
except the microscope in the hands of an expert. 

Sugar has fared almost as badly in the contest between 
honesty and illegitimate profits, for sugar is sold in the 
markets at a less price than it can be honestly manufactured 
from sugar-cane. Whole cargoes of white earth are brought 
from Chili for this purpose, and car-load after car-load of 
corn is worked up into glucose to adulterate syrup and mo- 
lasses, to say nothing of the more dangerous use of poisonous 
salts of tin that are used in making what is known as new 
process sugar. And so the list might be almost indefinitely 
prolonged ; and yet after all most of us are more frightened 
than hurt by these adulterations of food. They are a crying 
evil which needs the appointment of a State chemist, and 
heavy penalties for any contamination of food either from 
carelessness or fraud. But as yet the staple articles of food in 
this country are good and cheap. The per diem cost of honestly 
feeding an inmate of our State institutions is from fifteen 
to twenty-five cents. Atkinson, in a recent article on the 
subject of food, estimates that twenty-four cents daily is 
sufficient to feed an adult in this country, divided as follows: 



Meat, Ib 10 cents. 

Eggs 5 " 

Bread, J Ib 2 " 

Milk, 4 pint 5 " 

Vegetables 2 " 



Sugar and syrup 
Tea and coffee 
Salt, spices, etc 



2 cents. 
1 " 



Total... ,. 24 cents. 



So that for less than a quarter of a dollar daily the ma- 
chinery may be run and the waste repaired of the houses in 
which we live, for, as says another, " man, in a strictly ma- 
terialistic point of view, is an engine, fire-box, boiler, and fuel 
complete. The carbonaceous foods are the fuel, and muscu- 
lar contraction and heat are the power and results produced 



DlNING-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 91 

by its combustion. This combustion of food is not accom- 
panied with flame, but its results are none the less real 
in the way of heat and carbon dioxide gas which is produced 
whenever carbon is burned, whether inside or outside of 
the body. Between 1,200 and 1,300 grains of this gas, ac- 
cording to Huxley, are given off daily from the body; 
but as we do not eat charcoal directly this gas must be 
formed from the carbon in our food, in which form we consume 
nearly seven ounces of charcoal daily. A white spongy loaf 
little resembles black, brittle charcoal, but the loaf may easily 
be converted into the latter by simply letting it bake at a 
high enough temperature to drive off all of the water of the 
dough and leave its carbon only behind as a crisp, brittle 
mass, no longer fit for eating, but excellent for burning and 
keeping indefinitely unless put in the fire. In fact, pure car- 
bon is, except by heat, one of the most unalterable things in 
the world. That is why the loaves of bread baked in Pom- 
peii more than eighteen hundred years ago may be seen 
to-day in the museum at Naples, carbonized like charcoal, 
and hence almost indestructible. They will show you in 
Zurich blackened wheat, burned, long before the destruction 
of Pompeii, in one of their Swiss lake villages built on 
piles over the water. Possibly the whole village was con- 
sumed at the same time; but, be that as it may, these black- 
ened bits of grain, mixed with similarly carbonized domestic 
utensils, have been preserved under the waters of the lake 
hundreds and hundreds of years unchanged, for carbon under 
such circumstances is one of the most unchangeable of all 
substances. And fortunately it is so, for otherwise in course 
of time the letters in our books would have all faded 
away and Birmingham and its coal mines disappeared in 
thin air. 

But unchanging as is carbon outside of the body, except at a 
heat higher than the thermometer measures in the mouth, some- 
how these carbonaceous foods are oxidized within us just 
rapidly enough neither to burn us to a fever nor, in health, 
ever to leave us uncomfortably cool. We have for the house 



92 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

in which we live a perfectly regulated automatic furnace 
and engine which runs our machinery by burning the refuse 
of the body, something as the engine at a saw-mill is run by 
burning the useless slabs. If now these slabs should take 
fire and spread to the rest of the mill we have a fair com- 
parison of fever, which is an ungoverned combustion, beyond 
the control of the inhabitant of the house. Often he is to 
blame for the accumulation of refuse in the house, to remove 
which fever comes, but the conflagration once under way 
he is powerless to stay it, for the heat-regulating center, ac- 
cording to H. C. Wood, is located in the brain, but is entirely 
involuntary in its action. In fact, the physiologists are find- 
ing altogether too many of these nerve-centers for the com- 
fort of the ordinary student of physiology, and, worse than all, 
they are burdening them with such names as thermogenetic 
and thermolytic, meaning by the former heat-producing and 
by the latter heat-discharging. They have also coined an- 
other word, thermotaxy, which is used to express the adjust- 
ment of heat within the body. " The temperature of the 
body," says Dr. Macalister in the last Croonian Lectures, " is 
due to the action of a heat-generating mechanism in the body, 
the chief source of heat being changes in the muscles. The 
loss of heat is controlled by a heat-losing mechanism, mainly 
associated with vaso-motor and respiratory activity. The 
balance between heat-production and heat-loss is maintained 
by a heat-adjusting apparatus. The three mechanisms are 
successively evolved as we ascend in the animal scale. Cold- 
blooded animals have little more than a thermolytic or heat- 
losing mechanism. Infants have only the thermogenetic and 
thermolytic, there being hardly any adjusting mechanism, as is 
shown by the instability of their temperature. Fever is a 
dissolution process the last mechanism evolved, the thermo- 
taxic, gives way first, then the thermogenetic, and lastly the 
thermolytic. Or, in plainer English, the heat engine loses 
its governor and runs wild. Conversely, when the patient 
convalesces thermolysis is first restored to normal, then ther- 
mogenesis, then thermotaxy." Warming the body is a more 



DiNIXG-RoOM AND SCULLIONS. 



93 



complex process than it was once supposed, for it requires other 
and more delicate adjustments than simply swallowing so 
much food like shoveling coal into a furnace. Fortunately 
these adjustments are beyond our powers, or we should burn 
up from carelessness or freeze o' nights. Heat, like life, is 
above food, and science reiterates the biblical advice to take 
no " worry " over what we shall eat and what we shall drink, 
for if we follow the teachings of common sense we will eat 
sufficient nutritious and properly cooked food. " O fool, do 
not gormandize, neither stint yourself to a scanty allowance. 
Nature will see to it that the body is kept in repair, and that 
fuel sufficient to supply its engines will be absorbed, if you 
but follow her dictates." 




Sympathetic Ganglia and Large Vessels of the Chest. 



94 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 

IN Chapter III the preparation of food in the twenty odd 
feet of kitchen with its four million cooks has been described. 
But the best cooked food must be eaten promptly or it be- 
comes worse than useless; hence arrangements have been 
made to deliver that for the body, after it has been properly 
prepared, in the fraction of a minute. The agents by which it 
is accomplished are the villi of the intestines, the lymphatics, 
and the heart, with its arteries and veins. The chyme, already 
described (see page 81), after 'its preparation for food, is 
taken by a multitude of tiny absorbents which line the intes- 
tinal walls. Thouoii thev 

. , . , . , , T 

are identical with the lym- 
phatics, hereafter to be de- 
scribed, they are called lac- 
teals, for the reason that 
when they are filled with 
absorbed chyme, now called, 
chyle, they appear as if filled 
with milk (lac, in Latin). 
These lacteals soon unite to 
form larger trunks, which 
increase in size by aggrega- 
tion until they unite to form 
a vessel about the size of a 
goose quill, known as the tho- 
racic duct, which runs along the spinal column and at last emp- 
ties its contents into the venous circulation, near the junction 
of the left jugular and subclavian veins (see page 93), whence 
the chyle and lymph, which have been added to it, are carried 




Absorbents of the Colon. 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 95 

with the blood the round of its circulation. Lymph is chem- 
ically the same as blood serum, and circulates throughout the 
body through what are known as lymph-vessels, or the lym- 
phatic system of vessels. These are exceedingly delicate tubes, 
whose coats are so thin that the fluid they contain can be 
readily seen through their walls. The lymphatics are the 
general absorbents of the body. The lacteals are the lym- 
phatics whose especial duty is to take up the digested food 
from the intestine, for lacteals and lymphatics are identical 
in structure. All parts of the body which are supplied with 
capillary blood-vessels are also supplied with lymphatics, 
which are so numerous that could they be injected with 
quicksilver the surface of the body would appear like a mir- 
ror. Lymphatics also originate from the inner surfaces of 
all of the cavities of the body and most of its organs, except 
brain substance, the spinal cord, cartilage, tendons, nails, and 
hairs, which are destitute of lymphatic vessels and glands. 

The lymphatic glands are small, oval bodies, varying in 
size from a small pea to an almond, located along the tract 
of the lymphatic vessels. In fact, the lymphatic vessels pass 
directly through these lymphatic glands, which act appar- 
ently as filters for the lymph as it 
passes through them. As may be seen 
by the cut, they are admirably arranged 
for this purpose, the multitude of their 
divisions (trabeculce) necessitating a 
slow flow and an efficient straining of 
the lymph as it passes through. The 
lymphatic glands are numerous in the 
mesentery, groin, axilla, and neck, 
section through the Medulla where they are especially prone to en- 

of a Lymphatic Gland^ large> What are f amiliarly known as 

"kernels," are these lymphatic glands 

engorged with foreign matters. If there is a sufficient quan- 
tity of this to set up inflammation in the gland, it becomes 
enlarged, red, and tender, and may go on to form an abscess. 
If the enlargement is less, the gland may simply remain 




96 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

swollen, distinctly visible, and unless properly treated may 
continue in this condition for years, giving rise to what is 
known as scrofula (literally, pig-neck). Physicians are not 
yet agreed as to the cause of scrofula, but, what is more im- 
portant, generally agree that scrofula can be cured, provided 
it be taken in hand sufficiently early. Enlarged glands about 
the neck except those following diphtheria or scarlet-fever 
should always be considered of sufficient importance to re- 
quire medical advice ; for these enlarged glands are usu- 
ally the forerunners of other scrofulous manifestations. In 
Part II may be found some general directions for the care 
of those thus affected, which, if properly followed, will more 
than repay all time thus given, for old scrofulous ulcers and 
fistulae are among the most persistent and annoying of ail- 
ments. 

The lymphatic fluid, so named from its resemblance to 
water (lympha), circulates, or, more properly, percolates, 
through all the tissues of the body, by means of an intermin- 
able network of lymphatics, and the perivascular spaces. Thus 
all of the body is supplied both with blood and lymph by 
means of the two circulatory systems of the body; namely, 
the lymphatic and the sanguinous, or that containing the blood. 
The lymphatics differ from arteries and veins in that the latter 
unite to form trunks of increasing size, whereas the lymphatics 
pursue, as it were, an independent course, not enlarging much 
in diameter, though they freely communicate with each other. 
Moreover, the fluid which is constantly passing through the 
veins performs its circuit under the impulse of the heart's ac- 
tion, while the lymphatic fluid is propelled solely by the 
action of the walls of the lymphatic vessels, whose exact ac- 
tion is not yet definitely understood. The structure of these 
lymphatic vessels is not unlike that of the smaller veins, ex- 
cept that the lymphatics are more delicate and transparent, 
though their two coats may be recognized, and in the case of 
the thoracic duct separated. 

As may be inferred from what has previously been said in 
regard to the circulation of lymph, the lymphatic vessels 



THE WHEEL AT THE ClSTEKN. 97 

have a propulsive power of their own, the absorbents having 
been seen to contract and propel their contents with consid- 
erable power, independent of pressure or motion communi- 
cated from other parts of the body; and this motion is aided 
by the presence of valves in the course of the lymphatics, 
one or two always being found where the absorbents open 
into the veins, to prevent regurgitation of blood. 

There is much yet to be learned concerning the lymphatics 
and their contents; but we may summarize our present knowl- 
edge as follows: 

Chyle is the fluid contained in the lacteals or the lymphat- 
ics of the intestines. This fluid is transparent after fasting, 
but milky during digestion, owing to the presence of minute 
particles of fat. Chyle taken from the thoracic duct is dis- 
tinctly yellowish or pinky white in color, with a salty taste; 
and after its removal from the body forms a pinkish white 
clot, from which an opalescent fluid is squeezed out as the 
clot grows firmer. 

Lymph differs from chyle in that the former contains no 
fat, but is a watery fluid containing what are known as lymph 
corpuscles, which are probably identical with the colorless 
blood corpuscles. In fact, some believe that these corpuscles 
are formed during the passage of lymph through its vessels. 
In short we find: 

1. That lymph and chyle are substantially alike, except 
that chyle contains fat, and lymph none, or nearly none. 

2. Lymph and chyle are substantially like blood, the 
difference being only one of degree. In fact, these liquids 
are possibly rudimental blood, containing corpuscles in proc- 
ess of development into red corpuscles. The difference be- 
tween the lymph and chyle and the blood becomes less and 
less as the two former pass through the thoracic duct, or, in 
other words, as they approach the place where they are to 
be mingled with the blood. 

3. Blood, lymph and chyle agree in that they contain 
fibrine and coagulate spontaneously, although the clot of 
lymph and chyle is softer than that of blood. In this prop- 

5 



98 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

erty of spontaneous coagulation they differ from all other 
animal fluids. 

What is coagulation ? A Latin term for the process of 
clotting; a phenomenon that, fortunately for us, occurs in the 
blood whenever it is exposed to the air. In the days when 
bleeding was part of the treatment for almost every disease 
great stress was laid upon the appearance of the blood clot 
which formed in the basin wherein the blood was caught. 
Latterly it has been learned that the appearance of the clot 
is largely due to the amount of fibrine it contains, and 
that the coagulation of the blood depends upon the fibrine 
found there, or, more properly, formed there; for there is 
reason to believe that fibrine does not exist as such in the 
blood, but is formed by a chemical reaction between sub- 
stances found in the blood plasma and blood serum. 

The difference between these two fluids is this: blood 
plasma is the fluid in which the corpuscles, hereafter to be 
described, float, while blood serum is the fluid which sep- 
arates from clotted blood upon standing; or blood serum is 
blood minus the clot, or blood plasma minus its fibrine, if 
we accept the former idea that fibrine is held in solution 
in the watery part of the blood. Fibrine can readily be 
obtained in long threads by whipping fresh blood with 
twigs, but the latest teaching on the subject is that it is not 
held in solution, or only in part. It is now supposed that 
during the whipping fibrine is formed by the reaction of 
two other substances (fibrino-plastin and fibrinogen). One 
of these can be readily obtained from any serous exudate of 
the body, and can be kept indefinitely without coagulation 
unless blood serum be added to it, when clotting immediately 
takes place. 

Thus it seems proven that the coagulation of the blood 
and the formation of fibrine are caused primarily by the inter- 
action of two substances (or two modifications of the same 
substance), fibrino-plasters and. fibrinogen, the former of which 
exists in the serum of the blood and in some tissues of the 
body; while the latter is known at the present only in the 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 99 

plasma of the blood, of the lymph and of the chyle, and fluid? 
derived from them. 

Fibrine is insoluble in water, alcohol, and ether, soluble in 
dilute alkalies forming albuminates. When digested with a 
two per cent, solution of muriatic acid, fibrine is transformed 
into a semi-transparent, jelly-like mass. By the action of 
gastric juice, fibrine is converted into peptone, the change 
being a chemical one and not one of simple solution. If the 
gastric juice contains but little pepsin the products of the 
digestion of fibrine with this fluid will be precipitated by 
neutralizing the solution. By the action of pancreatic juice 
fibrine is transformed into peptone, for which see Chapter III. 
But however formed, or digested, fibrine is the most impor- 
tant element found in the blood, as regards the preservation 
of life. If it were not for this substance, in the blood or 
formed from it, the slightest nick into a blood-vessel would 
necessarily cause death; for the only reason that blood ever 
ceases to flow from such an opening is that the passage of 
the blood over the edges of the artery causes a clot of blood 
and fibrine in the wound and thus stanches the flow. Later 
the coloring matter of the blood-clot is taken up, and the 
fibrine becomes organized, as it is called, or so like natural 
tissue that it can indefinitely serve in its stead, and thus the 
gap is permanently filled. Occasionally we find persons in 
whom the process is imperfectly performed, and hence they 
are known as bleeders, because the slightest wound becomes 
a grave source of danger from their inability to check the 
bleeding originating therefrom. As trivial a matter as draw- 
ing a tooth may cost such a bleeder his life, for the oozing 
may persist from the tooth socket until death ensues from 
exhaustion. The late Duke of Albany died from a like 
trivial accident, for he was one of those in whom a scratch 
is a serious event, and so would it be with all of us if it were 
not for this property of spontaneous coagulation in blood 
exposed to the air. Blood will also coagulate within the 
veins after death, but this takes place more slowly than in 
blood drawn from the body. When from any reason the 



100 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

fibrine contracts less rapidly than usual, a white layer forms 
on the surface of the clot, consisting of fibrine and white 
corpuscles, forming what is known as the buffy coat. This 
buffy coat contracts more rapidly than the rest of the clot, 
so that a cup-like depression is found on the surface of the 
clot, which is then said to be cupped. These coagulatory 
changes are hastened by a variety of circumstances, among 
the more important of which are : 

Sex. Women's blood coagulates more rapidly than the 
blood of men, but the clot is less firm. Embryonic blood 
coagulates imperfectly. Arterial blood coagulates more rap- 
idly than venous. 

A warmth of 100 to 120 degrees F. (37.8 to 48.9 degrees 
C.) promotes coagulation. A higher temperature than this 
retards it, while a temperature of 200 degrees F. (93.3 de- 
grees C.) stops coagulation altogether, even after the blood 
has been cooled. Conversely, a cold of 40 degrees F. 
(4.5 degrees C.) entirely stops coagulation ; but coagula- 
tion will, under these circumstances, take place as well as ever 
after the normal temperature of the blood has been restored. 

Motion retards coagulation, but rest promotes it. 

The multiplication of points of contact promotes coagula- 
tion. Thus we whip blood with a bundle of twigs to coag- 
ulate the fibrine. Or, again, the blood coagulates more rapidly 
in the rough cavities of the heart than in the smooth veins 
and arteries. Conversely, coagulation is retarded by a variety 
of circumstances, some of which have already been men- 
tioned, among which are : 

(a) Cold, which, according to some experimenters, if suf- 
ficient, entirely prevents. 

(b) The addition of soluble matter to the blood. Many 
saline substances, and more especially sulphate of soda and 
common salt, the alkaline hydrates, carbonates, and acetates 
dissolved in the blood in sufficient quantity, prevent its 
coagulation ; but coagulation sets in when water is added so 
as to dilute the saline solution. The same is true of dilute 
acids, potassic and calcic nitrates, and ammonia chloride. 






THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 101 

(e) Contact with living tissue retards coagulation, while 
contact with dead or foreign tissue favors it. Thus we pass 
a thread through an aneurism to form a nucleus for coagula- 
tion and to assist the cure. Blood drawn into a basin begins 
to coagulate where it touches the sides of the basin, and a 
wire acts like a thread in an aneurism. 

(d) Large dilution with water retards, if the quantity 
used is greater than twice the bulk of the blood. 

(e) Exclusion of air retards, and certain gases apparently 
prevent entirely coagulation of the blood. 

(/) The mode of death. Thus in death by asphyxia, 
where the blood is imperfectly aerated, coagulation is re- 
tarded. According to Hunter, the same result occurs in 
death from lightning, blows on the stomach, over-exertion, 
fits of anger. 

Some little space has been given to the matter of the coagu- 
lation of the blood for the reason that the explanation of co- 
agulation in many of our text-books is imperfect, and second- 
ly because we have no more striking instance of Almighty 
foresight than the formation of these tiny white threads in 
freshly flowing blood. These soft curly bits seem a very ineffi- 
cient means to stay an alarming hemorrhage, but feeble as 
they appear they are the threads upon which life literally 
hangs, for science knows no means by which bleeding can be 
permanently arrested without the aid of these threads of 
fibrine. Fibrine and coagulable lymph, which is nearly the 
same thing, are nature's carpenters and joiners to repair. the 
breaks made in the house in which we live, which, without 
their aid, would become too dilapidated for habitation before 
its occupant had passed through childhood. No other article 
of dress wears half so long or well as the body, for none other 
of our clothes can repair themselves as does this house of 
clay. Let us look for a moment at how this is done. 

The best thing that can happen to a wound is to have it heal, 
as the surgeons say, by first intention, that is, that its edges 
shall immediately grow together after the bleeding has been 
checked. The arrest of bleeding is due, as has already been 



102 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

said, to the formation of a clot in the rough edges of the cut 
blood-vessels, whose inner coat is elastic, and retracts so as 
to form an edge for the formation of a clot. This acts as a 
plug within the bleeding vessel, if not too large, and thus 
stops the hemorrhage. If now the edges of the wound can 
be accurately brought together, in the course of an hour or 
two they become reddened and slightly swollen. This swell- 
ing is due to an interference in the circulation of blood in the 
part, which causes the exudation of plastic material through 
the walls of the blood-vessels to be described later in this 
chapter. This plastic material is like the temporary callus, 
described in connection with broken bones (see Chapter II), 
and like it glues together the sides of the wound, provided 
there is no foreign substance to interfere and the edges of the 
wound have not been bruised or otherwise injured. This is 
the result which every surgeon hopes to obtain when he care- 
fully cleanses and stitches together the edges of a fresh 
cut, whether made by himself or accident. Sometimes 
the process is so perfect that there is absolutely no scar, but 
more frequently a narrow white line can be seen after adhe- 
sion has taken place. This whiteness is due to a destruction 
of the skin as is seen also in the pits of small-pox; for true 
skin is never reproduced, but the gap filled in as best it may 
be with plastic lymph, which at first is soft and sticky as 
fresh glue, but later hardens into a tough white substance, 
known as cicatrix, the Latin name for scar. Much else of 
the body is replaced every few months, but a cicatrix is un- 
changeable, for it contains no germinal matter and hence 
remains as more or less of a deformity during life. But a 
scar is better than a gaping wound, and is the best result 
that can be hoped from a large wound, or an extensive burn, 
for if repair does not take place in this way the only thing 
that can then be done is to trust to the slower process of 
union by granulation. This is what usually happens after 
serious burns, or extensive injuries, where the edges of the 
wound are too far separated to be glued together by plastic 
lymph. In these cases we find the swelling about the neigh- 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 103 

boring blood-vessels so great that not only plastic lymph es- 
capes through their walls, but also the lymph, blood and pus 
corpuscles. Or in other words the wound is said to maturate 
and discharge pus. Beneath this pus, granulations " proud 
flesh " form in the shape of rosy red mounds that en- 
deavor by their rapid growth to fill up the gap, until on a 
level with the surrounding skin, which it at last unites by a 
cicatrix, exactly as in the case of union by first intention. 
At least that is what is sought to be done, but sometimes the 
strength of the patient gives out before the process is com- 
pleted, either from a too profuse discharge of pus, or too 
great inflammation. And what is this inflammation so 
greatly dreaded in a wound? Inflammation, according to 
our present theories, is a conflict between the white blood cor- 
puscles and minute forms of life, so tiny that they cannot be 
seen except through a microscope. These beings are known 
as microbes, and will be more fully described in Chapter VIII; 
for the present it is sufficient to remember that they lodge 
and grow in every fresh cut. Their presence there produces 
the heat, pain, and swelling of an inflaming wound, in which 
the white blood corpuscles are doing their utmost to over- 
whelm these invaders. Inflammation then is, as Mr. Sutton 
well puts it, " a battle between the microbes and the white 
blood corpuscles,; the latter are the defending army, whose 
roads and base of supplies are the blood-vessels." Re- 
cent experiments seem to show that the method adopted 
by the white blood corpuscle to dispose of its adversary is 
to envelope the attacking microbe and devour it. These de- 
vouring white corpuscles constitute the pus or matter so freely 
discharged from an inflamed wound. 

There is no more wonderful thing in our wonderful bodies 
than these same white corpuscles, or leucocytes, as they 
are sometimes called. Twenty-five hundred of them must 
be laid in a line together before they measure an inch, but 
they are undoubtedly the most truly vital parts of our bodies. 
These bits of colorless matter, which occupy only one twenty- 
five-hundredth of an inch in diameter each, are in incessant 



104: PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

movement, not only from their being carried forward by the 
current of the blood, but from independent motion of their 




Leucocytes. 

own. When watched beneath the microscope they slowly 
writhe and twist like an impatient school-boy kept in after 
school. The cut well shows these changes of form, which 
occur from movements in every part of the white corpuscle, 
contracting and dilating, like one of the lower forms of 
organisms (amoeba) which are found in stagnant water. 

While living and moving the structure of the white cor- 
puscles can be ascertained with difficulty, if at all; but by 
largely diluting blood with water or weak acetic acid the 
vitality of these moving bodies is destroyed and they swell 
up, and now they are seen to be roundish sacks with very 
thin walls which hold within them a colorless fluid contain- 
ing more or less granular matter, which is gathered together 
in an irregular form in the center. Huxley believes this cen- 
tral body is the red corpuscle, hereafter to be described, 
which is set free by the bursting of the sack of the white 
corpuscle. 

Whether these white corpuscles bear this relation to the 
red corpuscles is still under dispute. Dalton thinks there is 
no evidence of any transformation of the white corpuscles 
into the red either in man or the lower animals, while Huxley, 
as we have seen, inclines to the belief that " the red corpus- 
cle is simply the nucleus of the colorless corpuscle some- 
what enlarged, flattened from side to side, changed by the 
development within itself of a red coloring matter. ... In 
other words, the red corpuscle is a nucleus free." Others be- 
lieve the red originate in the spleen, and others think the red 
marrow of the bones converts protoplasmic marrow cells into 
red corpuscles. Nor do we know much more about the 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 105 

origin of the white corpuscles except that they possibly be- 
gin their existence as the lymph corpuscles already described. 
Where then the white corpuscle originates, or whither it is 
going, we know but little more than that it is a form of 
germinal matter, vital, moving, vigilant to beat back the in- 
visible foes with which the body is constantly assailed, and 
possibly performing other duties as well. 

According to Klein, some of these white corpuscles are 
stationed in the lymphatic glands, where they lie in wait in 
their meshes to devour inflammatory and other products as 
they are caught in the filters, but the bulk of these colorless 
corpuscles are constantly wheeling to and fro, backward and 
forward, through the blood-vessels, as it was once thought, 
aimlessly; but, if we accept Metshnikoff's theories, they are 
under arms to repel bacterial invaders. This observer 
has carefully studied the behavior of certain of the bacteria 
in the blood of the lower animals. Where it was found 
these animals were not susceptible to the diseases caused 
by bacteria, it was found that the white corpuscles en- 
veloped these lower forms of life within themselves, and 
thus prevented their multiplication, but when the white cor- 
puscles failed to do this the animal experienced the disease 
in all its virulence. If this holds true for man, our health 
and life even hang on these invisible squirming points of 
matter far more than it pleases our pride to think. They 
are our Swiss body-guards, whose ceaseless vigilance makes 
life possible, by giving up their lives in the defense of the 
house in which we live. 

But the blood has other duties than simply to patch a flaw 
and beat back bacterial invaders. The crimson color, greasy 
feel, and characteristic odor of fresh blood are known to all, 
but few have any just idea of what an exceedingly complex 
compound blood really is. " Red as blood " is one of the old- 
est of similes, but the microscope shows us that blood is in re- 
ality not red, but a colorless fluid in which float an innumer- 
able number of amber disks, which, when gathered together 
in mass, give blood its color. This color varies with the 
5* 





106 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

source from which the blood is obtained, for blood spurting 
from an artery is florid red, while that which flows from 
an opened vein is purplish 

in tint. This variation in -^ 

color is due to changes in 
each of the red corpuscles, 
whose numbers are almost 
inconceivable, for a cubic 
inch of blood contains sev- 
enty times as many red cor- 
puscles as the world does TORPUSCLES OF HUMAN BLOOD. 
inhabitants. Nevertheless, (Magnified about GOO diameters.) 

each of these is well worth A. Eed corpuscles: a, a corpuscle seen 
our careful Study beneath edgeways ; ?>, a corpuscle in an altered state, 
. *i_ ar> ising from pressure. A small spheroidal 

the microscope, where it red corpuscle, such as may be frequently met 

must be made: for the red with in the blood < is represented beside the 

larger discoidal ones. 

corpuscles are even smaller B . colorless corpuscles: a, a colorless cor- 
(one thirty-two-hundredths Puscle acted upon by diluted acetic acid, 

,, i"\ , -i -, . A showing its nucleus. 

01 an inch) than the white. 

But they are no less important to the body, for if the white 
corpuscles may be likened to body-guards, red corpuscles are 
liveried servants, ceaselessly hurrying to and fro to feed the 
germinal matter of the body. 

The French call the blood " running flesh," and aptly ; for 
flesh or muscle is made up of a multitude of stationary, 
waiting servants. In the blood we find the corpuscles taking 
the place of the muscular stria, or checkers, already described. 
These blood corpuscles are the waiters in this hotel in which 
we live, and they are kept exceedingly busy, for they are 
only given about two minutes to make their entire round. 
They start out from the lungs, as we shall hereafter see, 
very ruddy and jolly from their draughts of fresh air, but as 
they hurry onward, exchanging their surplus oxygen for ref- 
use carbonic dioxide, they at last become blue and overload 
ed, and finally stagger into the air-cells of the lungs, just in 
time to save themselves and us from death by asphyxia. So 
accurately is the whole matter arranged that a few minutes' 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 107 

delay anywhere along the line is matter of serious importance 
to all concerned. This change in the color of the blood can 
be readily shown by winding several turns of twine tightly 
about the root of a finger. In a few seconds it loses its rosy 
tint and becomes dusky and swollen. If the experiment is 
persisted in long enough, and the twine tightly enough wound, 
the finger may actually mortify, or die from lack of blood, or 
rather lack of aerated blood, for no other will feed and keep 
alive germinal matter. Aerated blood, then, differs from blue 
blood in that the red corpuscles of the former contain oxygen, 
and in the latter the oxygen is largely replaced by carbon diox- 
ide gas, which changes the tint of the red corpuscle from amber 
to blue, owing to the effect that these gases produce upon 
one of the constituents (haemoglobin) of the red corpuscle. 
Haemoglobin is an iron compound, of which there is said to 
be enough in the blood to enable a sentimental Frenchman to 
make a mourning iron finger-ring from the blood of his friend. 
Haemoglobin is the most important chemical constituent of 
the red corpuscles of the higher animals, for in man, the dog, 
pig, and ox, the red corpuscles are almost entirely pure haemo- 
globin, and in fact, solution of haemoglobin behaves almost 
exactly like blood in regard to its change of color with 
various gases. A watery solution of haemoglobin has the 
bright red color of arterial blood, and like it contains oxygen, 
so loosely held in combination that it can be removed by an 
air-pump. If a current of nitrogen, hydrogen, or carbon 
dioxide gas is sent through a solution of haemoglobin it 
loses its bright red color and takes on the hue of venous 
blood. If now this solution of haemoglobin be shaken with 
the air, oxygen is absorbed and the solution again becomes 
bright red, and the change may be indefinitely repeated. 
So then we conclude that the change in the color of the blood 
corpuscles is not due to their change in form, as was once 
taught, but is dependent on the relative oxidation of its 
haemoglobin, or blood-coloring matter. Thus, in arterial 
blood the haemoglobin is oxidized and of a scarlet color, while 
in venous blood a part of the haemoglobin is deoxidized and 



108 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

of a purple color. Possibly the physical condition of the cor- 
puscles, and also the presence of carbonic acid, may be 
elements in the case ; nevertheless, there can be but little 
doubt that the change of color is primarily, if not entirely, 
due to the oxidation and deoxidation of the haemoglobin. 

To recapitulate, the blood is to the naked eye a crimson- 
red fluid, but under the microscope it is found to be in reality 
a colorless fluid in which float a multitude of minute bodies, 
to which the name of corpuscles has been given. These are 
of various sizes and shapes, the largest (one twenty-five- 
hundredths of an inch), being known as white or colorless 
corpuscles. These are probably identical with lymph and 
pus corpuscles, whose functions have already been described. 
The red corpuscles are the oxygen carriers for the body, and 
are more numerous and smaller than the white corpuscles. 
The red corpuscles make up about one half of the bulk of 
the blood, and in shape closely resemble a microscopic muffin 
and a heavy one at that, for its top and bottom are sunken 
so as to make the edge of the muffin biconcave; hence when 
viewed edgewise they appear as rods with slightly expanded 
ends. Their transverse diameter is from one three-thousandth 
to one thirty-two-hundredth of an inch, and their consistence 
apparently about that of a stiff jelly, for if watched beneath 
the microscope the red corpuscles are found first to fluctuate 
and then to arrange themselves in piles, like rouleaux of coin, 
adhering to each other by their broad surfaces, very likely 
from the coagulation, already described, taking place in the 
blood. Great dilution of the blood causes the red corpuscles 
to swell, and solutions of certain salts cause them to lose their 
smooth outlines and become irregular or crenated, and still 
further shrinking causes them to become covered with minute 
projections something like a horse-chestnut. 

What are known as N orris's third or invisible corpuscles 
are probably simply discolored red corpuscles; but others 
which have been described as haematoblasts deserve a little 
further attention. These haematoblasts are granular matter 
more or less oval in form, paler, and about one third to one 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 109 

half the size of the red blood corpuscle, and are always found 
in the blood of man and mammals. By many they are re- 
garded simply as granular debris carried along by the circu- 
lation ; but by others (Hayem, Osier, Kemp) are thought to 
be elementary red corpuscles or intermediate forms in their 
development. Recently they have been called blood plaques, 
or plates, a term worth preserving for the sake of clearly dis- 
tinguishing them from the other varieties of corpuscles found 
in the blood. These plaques are composed of smooth, struc- 
tureless protoplasm, but whether with or without a nucleus 
is not yet determined ; and they have a remarkable tendency 
to adhere to one another and adjacent objects when removed 
from the blood-vessels. 

The origin of these blood plaques is still a matter of dispute, 
for they are variously regarded as young red blood corpus- 
cles; as derived from the red corpuscles; as de- 
rived from the white corpuscles ; as nuclei float- 
ing free in the blood; as fibrin, and, finally, as 
independent elements. It seems scarcely worth 
while to mention the evidence upon which these 
views have been founded. Suffice it to say that 
all have been carefully examined by Kemp, and 
i. Blood plaques, sufficient evidence brought against all other 

colorless and vary- theories to render them most improbable, except 
ing a little in size. 

2. Microcytes of a the one that considers the third corpuscles as 

deep red color, hsematoblasts. or young; red corpuscles. That 

3. Two ordinary , T -, 

red corpuscles, they are not due to changes produced in other 

4. A solid transiu- elements after the blood is drawn is shown by 
cent, lymphoid .,. ,, , . ., , . , 
cell or free nu- pricking the finger under osmic acid, which 

eleus - coagulates all of the other elements of the blood 

as they leave the blood-vessel and still these blood plaques 
may be shown in the fluid. Furthermore, we could scarcely 
ask for more conclusive proof than that five competent ob- 
servers have seen them circulating in the vessels of the mes- 
entery and in the uninjured vessels of the connective tissue 
of young rats. Kemp's opinion is that they are bi-concave, 
like the red corpuscles, and that they are in all probability 




110 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

incipient red corpuscles. If so, we are. a step nearer their 
origin; but we have yet much to learn concerning all of the 
various corpuscles found in the blood. 

There is a time before birth when all of the corpuscles of 
the blood are white, gradually becoming mingled with the 
red also. Later in life the red marrow of the bones gives 
oirth to marrow cells which are apparently converted into 
red corpuscles, which some think are again destroyed in the 
spleen; others that they are formed there as well. 

This, then, is about the sum of our knowledge concerning 
the origin and end of the red corpuscles, which give to blood 
its vitalizing power; for science and Moses unite in declaring 
that "blood is the life," and that our well-being and com- 
fort depend more largely upon its composition than on that of 
any other fluid of the body. Excess of red blood corpuscles 
produces vertigo, plethora, and headache ; deficiency, anaemia, 
pallor, and the listlessness so common to the school-girl of 
to-day. Pie, cake, the piano, and the bad air of a modern 
school-room are poor materials out of which to make good 
blood; and good blood is essential to health and happiness. 
Better fewer books, better less company, better less culture, 
better less almost every thing, than to start into life such 
wretched apologies for womanhood as are too many of our 
high-school graduates. It is too high a price to pay for our 
modern civilization; one that is too dearly bought even at the 
return of an occasional Jex Blake or a Frances Willard. 
As a rule it is bad living rather than mental overwork that 
is to blame for this condition of affairs; for bad air, bad 
houses, and improper food will ruin the best animal, and it 
must be remembered that a part of us is as truly animal as 
the beasts that are nightly tied up within their stalls. There 
is an efficient society for the prevention of cruelty to ani- 
mals; but there seems to be no Henry Bergh to interfere 
when a growing child abuses the animal body that is of infinite- 
ly more value to the world than many horses. Moreover, cus- 
tom and fashion have so contrived to hem in a growing girl 
that she cannot get a fair chance for a sound body without 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. Ill 

a life-long struggle with the community. " The natural des- 
tination of the woman over thirty," says Mr. William Blaikie, 
" is the sofa, a shawl, and the neuralgia. And why ? Be- 
cause until recently the modern girl was brought up in such a 
way that the brain is developed at the expense of her red 
blood corpuscles, and she comes to womanhood a bundle of 
nerves and physical degeneration. A girl has as good a 
claim to strength and health as a boy, and in general needs 
them more ; but she can acquire them in no other way 
than he does, namely, by systematic exercise. A daily half 
hour's recess, or even Saturday's shopping, cannot supply this, 
and it is especially for the growing school-girl and the 
woman of sedentary life that there can be found in Part II 
practical hints for physical culture, carefully prepared by 
one who has devoted his life to the work. Johns Hopkins 
University and a few of the more advanced of our female 
seminaries of this country have efficient classes in physical 
culture for young ladies; but such institutions are lamentably 
few and far between. A college class, however, is not neces- 
sary for this purpose. A little very simple apparatus, and 
determination and perseverance in its use for only a few min- 
utes daily, would transform many a listless being into " a 
queen and sister of the gods." Tennis, croquet, boating, 
skating, fencing, tricycling, and horse-back riding are all good, 
and if regularly practiced may be substituted for the exercises 
detailed in Part II when possible. Where these for any reason 
are impossible, walking ought to be substituted. "Every 
girl blessed with moderately good health can walk a mile or 
two every day and feel the better for it." The more confin- 
ing and monotonous one's employment the greater the need 
for daily systematic exercise, and, as Blaikie well says, no 
one can be so crowded with work that he will not be the 
better for a short walk before retiring; and the greater the 
pressure of other duties the greater and more pressing the 
need for just this outing. It requires no little resolution and 
self-control to force tired and unwilling feet from a comfort- 
able seat and a cozy fireside; but unless this is done daily, at 



112 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

some present inconvenience, the muscles grow soft and flabby, 
and the body becomes clogged with refuse. 

Fashion once in a while stumbles upon a sensible fad, and 
just now it is walking clubs for young girls. " The magnifi- 
cent girl," says the New York JVews, " who swings along at 
a four-mile gait is not only a subject for reflection, but a 
theme for admiration, congratulation, and tenderness. This 
is true American womanhood, . . . not that of Washington 
Irving's day, when flimsy dresses were in style, which, like 
Mary Anderson's classic costumes, required to be damp- 
ened overnight to make them cling closely to the form. 
Paper-soled shoes were then in general favor, and those were 
the days of meager meals and of diseased and dyspeptic 
stomachs, hesitating hearts, pinched cheeks, and fragile 
limbs. Fashionable American womanhood of the past was a 
ghost. 

"American womanhood of to-day is one of rosy cheeks, 
sparkling eyes, shoulders thrown back, firm and certain step. 
Notice how well nourished the cheeks are, how deep and 
true the inspirations, and how plump and well-rounded the 
arms, which taper down to the well- gloved hands. Is it not 
a glorious sight ? There is no chance for paper-soled shoes 
here. Broad, substantially soled button boots cover the 
handsome, muscular feet, and in place of the tawdry costume 
whose likeness is preserved for us by do/ens of old engrav- 
ings, here we have a neat and well-made cloth suit, which 
fits the owner's form to perfection. Can any thing be more 
satisfactory to the eye than this picture of honest health, of 
alert though not perhaps of subtle intelligence and womanly 
beauty ? There may be no suggestion of sentimentality here, 
nothing of what every-day novelists call poetry, and there is 
no romantic melancholy, but without any sacrifice of woman- 
liness there is grace, and, above all, there are life and 
strength." 

Fashion has committed many abominations in her day, 
and doubtless in the past deserved Dr. John Brown's wish 
that he could see her " dressed in her own crinoline, tight 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 113 

shoes, a man's tall hat, and trailing petticoats, with her taper 
waist well nipped by a circlet of nails, points inmost, and 
with all the other small torments with which she makes us 
all fools, sent drummed, hissing, and blazing out the world;" 
but it should be remembered that never before in the knowl- 
edge of the writer have fashions been as a rule so sensible 
and conducive to health and comfort as at the present time. 
Even common sense shoes and the less objectionable forms 
of corsets may be found in the wardrobes of those who 
mold the fashions, which latterly do not arise solely from 
the caprices of queens and kings' mistresses, but from well- 
paid artists and thrifty manufacturers. When these shall 
learn to cater to the demands of health as well as to the eye 
the millennium for women is not far off. One of the most 
efficient workers to this end is a Mrs. Jenness Miller, of 
Washington, whose wit and beauty have succeeded in dem- 
onstrating that dress may be both healthful and beautiful 
at the same time. The great objection to the proposed 
Bloomer and Mary Walker dress reforms was that it left its 
adherent a hideous guy among women, and consequently all 
such advice was as useless as St. Anthony's preaching to the 
fishes. When, however, it can be proven that a woman can 
be both comfortable and fashionable at the same time, sooner 
or later comfort will win the day. This is exactly what 
Mrs. Miller is striving to do, arguing that fashionable follies 
and their resulting penalties have long enough been supreme. 
" No Greek ever dreamed of wearing sandals an inch nar- 
rower than her foot, and elevated on heels three inches high 
and located somewhere near the middle of the sole. Neither 
did she ever wear a sixteen-inch corset, or fasten an uncouth 
bundle of fantastic drapery to the small of her back with 
long skirts to trail in the mud. And if women again desire 
to be beautiful after the Grecian model they must abandon 
these abominations of fashion in the shape of long skirts with 
their endless complications of loops, puffs, and a weight that 
is death to health and happiness and to prolonged usefulness. 
Science objects to the practice of lacing, steeling and swad- 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

dling for the reason chiefly that it is inconvenient, ugly, and 
a burden of sorrow to the unborn world. Science also pro- 
poses dress without ligatures or bands, steels or whalebones 
the essential thing being freedom from pressure, weight, 
and deformity. Science and sense abhor petticoats, corsets, 
and French heels." 

Mrs. Miller therefore entirely discards corsets, petticoats, 
ligatures and bands, and clothes her body after this fashion : 
Innermost is a union garment of silk or wool for winter, 
fitting closely as a jersey. Over that is worn a muslin gar- 
ment, also made to follow the form. Then leglets, or, in 
plain English, short trowsers, of material adopted to the sea- 
son and made to reach just below the knee. Over this, 
without petticoats, hangs a dress made princess fashion, of 
any material preferred, but so cut as to place no weight upon 
the hips. Thus dressed a girl would be as untrammeled in her 
motions as a boy, and with as fair a chance for life, liberty, 
and the pursuit of happiness as Miss Alcott's "Rose in 
bloom." 

Such girls and such doctors are few and far between, for 
the doctor is usually called in to repair damages after they 
have been inflicted, rather than to prevent them. The physi- 
cian's best work is not to patch up dilapidated humanity, 
but to anticipate as far as possible such tinkering and 
repairing. The Chinese pay their physicians only so long as 
they keep their patients well, and while it might be impos- 
sible to successfully adopt their custom in this country, its 
principle is sound, and is the one on which a physician should 
be employed. According to Sir Henry Thompson, more than 
half of the sickness in the world is due to preventible causes 
which it would be far wiser to employ some one to antici- 
pate rather than to cure their results. The best physician is 
not one with some 'pathy or proprietary salve, but the one 
who can best instruct his patients in regard to the care of 
their souls' houses, whose abuse inevitably brings penal- 
ties that are far more our own making than of divine 
interposition. 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 115 

For instance, a pi'incipal in one of our larger young ladies' 
high-schools found himself greatly perplexed at finding his 
opening hour largely taken up in going from room to room 
and looking after pupils who had fainted or were otherwise 
indisposed. These attacks, at first so mysterious, were soon 
found to be due to over-fatigue, both social and mental, and 
a lack of a proper breakfast before school hours. No amount 
of prayer or physic cured such cases until more sleep, ade- 
quate food, and f resh air removed their cause ; for fainting 
is not a direful disease, like the cholera, but is simply the 
blind protest of a brain not sufficiently supplied with the 
proper kind of blood. Since young ladies have given up 
living exclusively in-doors, fainting, says a recent society 
paper, has gone out of fashion; and it is a custom more hon- 
ored in the breach than in the observance. The more so 
because usually exactly the wrong thing is done for one 
found fainting. The trouble is an insufficient supply of 
blood to the brain, due to a missed beat of the heart, either 
from feebleness or some mental impression as bad news, the 
sight of fresh blood, or even a mouse; for there is no reason- 
able explanation of such antipathies. Boyle is said to have 
grown faint whenever he heard the splashing of water, 
Scaliger at the sight of water-cresses, and Erasmus notes the 
case of a clergyman who fainted whenever he heard a cer- 
tain verse in Jeremiah read. But whatever the mental im- 
pression, its direct result and the one which causes the faint- 
ness is the failure of the heart to send sufficient blood to the 
brain; consequently the first thing to be done is to remedy 
this defect. Blood, like every other fluid, flows most easily 
down hill, and the common sense thing to be done is to lower 
the head of the one fainting below that of the body; so, when 
you find the world growing black before you, lay yourself 
out as flat as you can. Smelling salts, cold air, loosening the 
clothing and forty particular friends are all good enough in 
their place, except the last who would do better to stand 
aside and let their friend have some fresh air ; but the one 
great thing to be done is to put the head of a person in a 



116 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

faint at least on a level with their heels. Fainting means 
that the supply of blood in the brain is insufficient, and of 
course the first thing to be done is to put the person in such 
a posture that blood will find its way most easily back. The 
thing usually done is to lift or set upright the victim, while 
the distracted friends crowd about and insist upon cutting 
off what little air would otherwise come to their aid. The 
recumbent position, a draft of fresh air, and a little water 
sprinkled in the face are usually all that is required in such 
cases, which are not at all alarming unless they occur in the 
course of protracted illness. 

Under such circumstances repeated faintness is alarming, 
for it betokens failing ability of the heart longer to perform 
its duties. The wonder is that this does not oftener happen, 
for the heart is the hardest worked organ of the body; day 
and night, for our entire life-time, it pumps away seventy or 
more times a minute. To be sure it drives but six ounces of 
blood with each impulse, but as there are something over a 
hundred thousand of these impulses in the twenty-four hours 
it follows that the heart lifts over twenty tons of blood a day, 
and may perform this work for seventy years or more, with- 
out a rest of longer than a fraction of a minute at any one 
time. About one quarter of the time required for each beat of 
the heart is taken for rest; that is, for say each second its first 
half is occupied in making the sound tup, the next quarter 
second makes the sound tup, and then comes a quarter of a 
second rest, provided the heart beats but sixty times a minute. 
A longer rest on the part of the heart than a quarter of a 
second brings a feeling of faintness, and if the resting con- 
tinues death ensues from heart failure, or syncope, as the 
doctors call it. 

Solomon compares the heart to the wheel at the cistern, or 
the shadoof used in Eastern lands to lift the water from a 
spring to a reservoir. The comparison is good as relates 
to the method, but poor as regards the instrument, for the 
shadoof is an inefficient pump compared to the double hand- 
ful of muscles which labor for us more incessantly than any 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 117 

engine yet invented. Solomon's comparison is the more re- 
markable from the fact that in his day the circulation of the 
blood was not understood, although the pulsation of the ar- 
teries could not have escaped the attention of the ancient 
physicians. And yet it was not until the time of William 
Harvey (1619) that work done by the wheel at the cistern 
was understood. From the influence which the emotions have 
upon the circulation of the heart it was considered by the 
ancient Jews as the seat of the passions and the intellect, 
which were then supposed to be located in the breast and 
not in the brain. The error is not strange when we remember 
that excitement of any kind increases the heart's action. Even 
the difference between standing and sitting makes a variation 
in the heart's beat sufficient to be noted by many of the life 
insurance companies. Exercise of any kind quickens the 
heart's action, and hence benefits the whole body un- 
less carried to excess. Boat-races, walking-matches, and 
foot-ball contests are dangerous when they call for violent 
work by the heart ; so too does intense excitement of any 
kind, which leads eventually to enlargement of the heart and 
feeble action. A majority of professional athletes finally 
die either from this cause or consumption, strange as it may 
appear, although there is a good reason for the latter, as well 
as the hypertrophy of the heart so often found in such cases. 
Heart disease is frequently reported as the cause of sudden 
death, which is popularly believed often to take place with- 
out warning. Such is not the case. Heart disease rarely, 
if ever, causes death without premonition, and the majority 
of cases of unexpected death, supposed to be due to heart 
disease, are found to have other causes. 

"A truer report would have a tendency to save many 
lives. It is through a report of ' disease of the heart ' that 
many an opium-eater is let off into the grave, which covers 
at once his folly and his crime ; the brandy drinker, too, 
quietly slides round the corner thus and is heard of no 
more; in short, this * report' of * disease of the heart ' is 
the mantle of charity which the politic coroner and the 



118 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

sympathetic physician throw around the graves of ( genteel 
people.' 

" At a late scientific congress at Strasburg it was reported 
that of sixty-six persons who had suddenly died, an imme- 
diate and faithful post-mortem showed that only two of them 
had any heart affection whatever : one sudden death only in 
thirty-three from disease of the heart. Nine out of the 
sixty-six died of apoplexy one out of every seven while 
forty-six more than two out of three died of lung affec- 
tions, half of them of ' congestion of the lungs,' that is, the 
lungs were so full of blood they could not work ; there was 
not room for air enough to get in to support life." 

Thus wrote Dr. W. W. Hall, some years ago, and increasing 
knowledge confirms his statement. It is furthermore proven 
that many cases of supposed heart disease are really those of 
chronic tobacco poisoning, and cease with the discontinuance 
of the weed. Tobacco's effects are chiefly expended upon 
the nervous system, which the poisonous alkaloid of tobacco 
(nicotine) affects. Tobacco has been dropped from medical 
use as too uncertain and dangerous a drug to be used with 
satisfaction, but half -grown lads persist in poisoning them- 
selves with it until at last the body tolerates it and even de- 
mands its after-soothing effects. American hurry and worry 
doubtless have done much to beget the almost universal 
use of tobacco in this country, but, whatever the fancied need, 
tobacco cannot be used without paying the penalties. These 
are that it taints the breath, over-stimulates the kidneys, and 
saturates the skin with the characteristic odor of nicotine. 
It also disorders digestion, may produce cancer, and inevi- 
tably disorders sooner or later the heart's action. This is 
chiefly shown in rapid, irregular palpitations, short breath, 
languor, and, according to Franzel, sleeplessness. In one 
case in the writer's knowledge this sleeplessness bordered 
closely on delirium tremens, although the person did not use 
alcohol in any form. Such results are slow in appearing, the 
smoker often using tobacco for years without any supposed 
bad effects until going to consult his physician for sus- 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 119 

pected heart trouble, without any idea that the use of tobacco 
has had any thing to do with the strange feelings and sudden 
pains about the heart ; he discovers their cause and he finds 
that the discontinuance of the use of tobacco brings relief 
from discomfort. And yet the habit is often so firmty 
implanted that the cessation of pain is usually the signal to 
begin anew the use of a drug that its user will freely admit 
he knows is injuring him. The fascination of tobacco, I pre- 
sume, is never fully understood by one who has never been 
addicted to its use, but as strong men truly declare that 
a breath of tobacco smoke, after years of abstinence, has 
the power to force them to walk the floor all night in 
desperate conflict with their old enemy, it can scarcely 
be less irksome to be in bondage to tobacco than alcohol. 
Tobacco does not drive men to the gallows, or peniten- 
tiary, nor as a rule make moral wrecks of them, but it 
does put its devotee under a needless bondage, and whatever 
may be said in favor of its use by the overworked professional 
or laboring man, its effects upon growing youths are unequiv- 
ocably bad. Decaisne found that in boys of fifteen it pro- 
duced, almost without an exception, anaemia, palpitation of 
the heart, and an intermittent pulse, beside stunting the 
growth. In an English public school twenty-two of the 
thirty-eight juvenile smokers examined showed similar dis- 
turbance of digestion and circulation. So clearly has this 
been proven that in France the minister of public instruction, 
and certainly not from moral reasons, prohibits the use of 
tobacco in all the government schools, and the same is true, 
if the writer is correctly informed, in our naval training 
school at Annapolis, where tobacco is again on the prohibited 
list, after the experiment having been tried of allowing its free 
use. In short, science and experience unite in declaring, first, 
that the use of tobacco is not merely an expensive and un- 
desirable habit for the young, but a positive injury, for no 
young man can ever reach his highest physical condition if 
he uses tobacco before reaching maturity (thirty-three years) ; 
and secondly, that cigarette-smoking is the most delete- 



120 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

rious form in which tobacco is used. " A cigarette-smoking 
boy will not make a strong man. He will have impaired 
digestion, small and poor muscles, irritable temper, and a 
lack of capacity for sustained effort of any kind." (Bar- 
tholow.) 

From a whiff of cigarette smoke to the size and shape of 
the heart requires one of Mark Twain's " natural and easy 
transitions ;" but before leaving the subject of the heart it 
would be well to describe a little more fully its shape and 
location. The adult heart is a hollow, muscular organ about 
the size of a man's fist, of conical shape, located between the 
right and left lungs, its apex lying about an inch and a half 
from the surface of the body. 

It is inclosed in a fibrous sac, called the pericardium, and 
lies obliquely in the chest, and so placed that a bullet pene- 
trating the breast-bone on a Iqvel with the nipple, and strik- 
ing the vertebrae at right angles with the axis of the body, 
would pass through three cavities of the heart; namely, both 
right and left ventricles and the left auricle. 

The heart's base, or broad end, is directed upward and 
backward toward the right, and corresponds to the interval 
between the fifth and eighth dorsal vertebrae. Its apex, or 
conical end, is directed forward and to the left, lying in the 
interspace between the fifth and sixth ribs, an inch to the 
inner side of the nipple, where the heart's impulse can usually 
be distinctly seen on watching the bared breast. The lungs 
cover the greatest part of the heart, especially during inspi- 
ration, when the edges of the lungs nearly meet behind the 
breast-bone, behind the lower two thirds of which the 
heart mainly lies. A thin layer of lung tissue always 
covers the roots of the large vessels, but a large part 
of the heart's surface is exposed during expiration, when 
the edges of the lungs recede from each other. The 
anterior surface of the heart is rounded and directed 
upward and forward, and is composed mainly of the 
right ventricle. The posterior surface of the heart is 
slightlv flattened, and rests upon the diaphragm ; hence the 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 



121 



heart's distress when the diaphragm is pushed upward by 
gases within the stomach. 

The heart in the adult measures five inches in length, 
three inches and a half in breadth in the broad part, and two 
inches and a half in thickness. The average weight in the 
male varies from ten to twelve ounces ; in the female from 
eight to ten ; its proportion to the entire weight of the body 
being as 1 to 169 in males ; 1 to 149 in females. The heart 
continues increasing in weight, and also in length, breadth, 
and thickness, up to an advanced period of life. This increase 
is more marked in men than in women. 

The heart is divided by 
a longitudinal, muscular 
septum, or division, into 
two lateral halves, which 
are known from their po- 
sition as the right and left 
heart, and each of these is 
again subdivided by a 
transverse wall into two 
cavities, known as right 
and left auricles and ven- 
tricles, respectively ; the 
upper cavities on each side 
being called auricles, from 
their fancied resemblance 
in shape to an ear. The lower cavities are known as the right 
and left ventricles, according to their position. The right is 
the venous side of the heart, receiving into its auricle the 
dark or venous blood of the body through the venae cavse 
which empty into it. The course of the blood from this 
point is as follows : This venous blood passes downward 
through the tricuspid valve (e, f) from the right auricle into 
the right ventricle, whence it is propelled by the contraction 
of the heart into (d) the pulmonary artery, its return into 
the auricle being prevented by means of the tricuspid valve 
just mentioned ; and its regurgitation from the pulmonary 
6 




Right Side of the Heart laid Open. 



122 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

artery back into the ventricle is similarly prevented by semi- 
lunar valves (wi) placed at the cardiac orifice of the artery. 
By the pulmonary artery the blood, still blue and venous, 
reaches the lungs, where it loses its dark color by the pro- 
cesses to be described, and now becomes bright red. Having 
been thus purified, it returns to the heart from the lungs 
through the pulmonary veins, which, however, convey arte- 
rial blood, and empties into the left auricle, well shown in 
Plate II. 

These veins, unlike the majority of the vessels which empty 
into the heart, have no valves at their openings into the left 
auricle, so that there is a slight reflux of blood toward the 
lungs, but the greater part of the blood which passes into 
the left auricle is forced by the contraction of the heart 
through the mitral valve (m. v. Plate II), which separates the 
left auricle from the left ventricle. From thence it passes 
through the semi-lunar valves, which are designed to prevent 
the regurgitation of blood back into the heart, into the aorta, 
and carried the round of the circulation, until the blood 
reaches the capillaries, hereafter to be described, from which 
it at last reaches the veins, and ultimately the venae cavae, or 
great veins which empty into the right side of the heart. 
The course of the blood through the heart has already been 
described, and if the round of the circulation seems some- 
what intricate, by reference to Plate II the matter may be 
greatly simplified and fixed permanently in the mind of the 
reader, as the arrows given in the plate indicate the direction 
of the blood currents, and their color shows whether they 
are those of arterial or venous blood. 

The heart sounds already alluded to, which can readily be 
heard by applying the ear to the bared chest, just above the 
location of the apex beat, are due to the rhythmic contrac- 
tions of the heart forcing the blood through its partitions 
and out into the general circulation. If you listen attentively 
you may be able to distinguish, first, a longish, dull sound 
which has been likened to lup, then a shorter about one 
half the duration of the first sound, called tup, and then a 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 123 

pause for the same length of time as the second sound ; then 
comes the first sound again, and so on, the first sound occu- 
pying one half the time of a heart-beat, and the second and 
the pause the other two quarters. The first, or lup, sound 
is probably produced by several causes, the second is due to 
the flapping back of the semi-lunar valves (I. v.) at the aortic 
opening (see Plate II). Sometimes these and the other valves 
in the heart become diseased, especially after or during 
rheumatism, and their owner ever after suffers from a leaky 
blood-pump, which will not allow him to run or take violent 
exercise for the remainder of his life. And yet, with care, 
many of these leaky hearts perform their duty for a surpris- 
ingly long time, and, contrary to general belief, rarely sen- 
tence their owners to sudden death. In fact, with any thing 
like reasonable care the heart is more tolerant of protracted 
work than any other organ of the body, and so long as a 
regular full pulse can be felt at the wrist the less thought 
given the heart the better. 

The pulse, or impulse given to the fingers laid over an 
artery, is due to dilatation of its elastic walls each time a 
fresh quantity of blood is forced into it. Hence it closely 
follows each contraction of the left ventricle, and counting 
the pulse gives us the number of these contractions during 
the minute. The jets of blood from a freshly cut artery 
give us the same information ; but such knowledge is dearly 
purchased, for if long persisted in it brings death from loss 
of blood. As long as the blood flowing from a wound is 
dark-colored, even though it comes freely, it need cause no 
particular alarm, for pressure over the wound will usually 
stanch the flow; but crimson spurting blood must be stopped 
at once by the surgeon, and until he comes a bandage should 
be placed around the limb between it and the heart, and 
twisted as tightly as possible by thrusting a stout fork or 
strong stick beneath the bandage, and thus twisting the 
bandage until sufficient pressure is obtained to check the 
flow of blood. Pressure is the only thing that can be relied 
upon to check arterial hemorrhage, but, intelligently used, it 



124 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

will and has saved many a life until professional aid could be 
obtained. 

Having now considered the blood and the heart, there re- 
mains but little in the way of description of the blood-vessels 
to complete the mechanism of the circulation. These blood- 
vessels are of two varieties; namely, arteries and veins. The 
former were originally called arteries, from the idea enter- 
tained by the ancients that these vessels contained only air, 
which mistake arose from the fact that the arteries are usu- 
ally found empty after death. Galen was the first to refute 
this opinion, for he was able to prove that the arteries con- 
tain blood in the living body. Except in the case of the 
pulmonary artery, they contain bright red, or well aerated 
blood. The pulmonary artery, as may be remembered, al- 
though it is called an artery, conveys venous blood from the 
heart to the lungs, whence it is returned by the pulmonary 
veins to the other side of the heart, constituting what is 
sometimes known as the lesser or pulmonary circulation, 
whose arteries and veins contain exactly the reverse of the 
blood found elsewhere in the body; that is, the pulmonary 
veins contain arterial blood, and the pulmonary artery 
venous blood. 

The arteries are round, fibrous tubes, dense in structure, 
quite strong, and elastic enough when cut to preserve their 
cylindrical form. The arteries have three coats or layers, 
and are also included in a sheath, which holds in addition 
generally a vein and nerve. Arteries give off branches 
which freely communicate one with another by means of 
larger and smaller branches. These anastomoses, as they are 
called, are found wherever great freedom in the circulation 
is required, as at the base of the brain and about the joints. 
The arteries and their branches divide and subdivide, until in 
its general contour the arterial circulation resembles an invert- 
ed tree whose common trunk would be represented by the aorta 
and its twigs by the capillaries, which are found in nearly every 
part of the body except in the nails, hairs, cartilages, and 
cornea. The capillary blood-vessels are so named because 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 



125 





in size they are about that of a hair or less (one fifteen- 
hundredth to one two-thousandth of an inch), sometimes dis- 
posed in loops, sometimes in meshes, in which 
the blood almost imperceptibly passes from the 
arterial to the venous side of the circulation. 
Just how this change is made is somewhat in 
dispute, but the following facts seem well at- 
tested. The larger arteries, as has already 
been said, possess three coats, and, as the arte- 
ries grow smaller, these coats imperceptibly 
disappear, until the capillaries have only the 
inner (endothelium) left, which, as may be 
seen from the cut, is made up of endothelial 
plates, or germinal matter set 
like tiles in a cement substance. 
These arterial twigs communicate 
with the venous capillaries either 
directly or by means of intervas- 
cular spaces, into which the cor- 
puscles pass by means of the minute 
openings between the endothelial 
plates. This always takes place in inflamma- 
tion, when these capillaries become abnormally ceils , a, adven- 
distended, and the openings between the plates Mia -~ Klem - 
so much enlarged that the white corpuscles (pus) readily pass 
through them. The veins are formed by the union of the 
venous capillaries, which are found in nearly every tissue of 
the body. These venous twigs unite to form venous trunks, 
which increase in size as they pass toward the heart by 
union with other veins on the way. In general, the veins are 
larger and more numerous than the arteries, so that the en- 
tire capacity of the venous system is much greater than that 
of the arterial. From the combined capacity of the smaller 
venous branches being greater than the main trunks, it re- 
sults that the venous system represents a cone, the summit 
of which corresponds to the heart, its base to the circumfer- 
ence of the body. In form the veins are not perfectly cylin- 



MINUTE MICRO- 
SCOPIC ARTERY. 
e, Endotheli- 
um; i, intima; 
wi, muscular me- 
dia, composed of 
a single layer of 
circular 1 y - a r - 
ranged non- 
striped muscular 



126 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

drical like the arteries, their walls being collapsed when 
empty, and the uniformity of their surface being interrupted 
at intervals by slight contractions, which indicate the posi- 
tion of the valves placed within them to prevent the back- 
ward flow of the blood. These valves are formed by a re- 
duplication of the inner and a part of the middle coat of 
the vein, and consist, therefore, of connective tissue and 
elastic fibers, covered on both surfaces by endothelium. Their 
form is semilunar. They are attached by their convex edge 
to the walls of the vein ; their concave margin is free, di- 
rectly in the course of the venous current, and lies in close 
apposition with the wall of the vein so long as the current 
of blood takes its natural course ; if, however, any regurgi- 
tation takes place, the valves become distended, their op- 
posed edges are brought into contact, and the current of 
blood is intercepted. Most commonly two such valves are 
found placed opposite one another, especially in the smaller 
veins, and in the larger venous trunks at the point where 
they are joined by small branches. 

Just above the valve the wall of the vein expands into a 
pouch, which gives a vein its knotted appearance when dis- 
tended with blood. These pouches are especially numerous 
in the veins of the legs, which are thus provided to assist the 
blood current, against gravity, toward the heart, where all the 
veins at last empty. Increasing age is apt to produce en- 
largement of these pouches (varicose veins), which become 
a serious impediment to walking, but which may be relieved 
by snug bandaging. A more serious accident is the forma- 
tion of a fibrinous clot in a blood-vesssel or the fatty degen- 
eration of their walls. Alcohol is a frequent cause of this, 
and such vessels are prone to rupture. This accident in the 
brain is apoplexy. 

There are two hundred and seventy arteries, and as many 
or more veins, all of which are of interest to the anatomist 
and surgeon; but instead of attempting a description of the 
more important of these, we give a cut illustrating the rela- 
tion of the aorta, or great artery of the body, to the other 



THE WHEEL AT THE CISTERN. 



127 



large vessels of the trunk of the body, which for further 
comparison should be studied in connection with Plate II. 




DIAGRAM OF THE LARGE VESSELS OF THE HEART AND LUNGS (FROM WILSON). 



1. Ascending aorta. 

2. Transverse portion of the arch. 

3. Thoracic or descending aorta. 

4. Arteria innominata. 

5. Right common carotid. 

6. External and internal carotids. 

7. Right subclavian artery. 

8. Axillary artery. 

9. Brachial artery. 

10. Right pneumogastric nerve. 

11. Left common carotid. 

12. Left subclavian artery. 



13. Pulmonary artery. 

14. Left pulmonary artery. 

15. Right pulmonary artery. 

16. Trachea. 

17. Right bronchus. 

18. Left bronchus. 

19. 19. Pulmonary veins. 

20. Bronchial arteries. 

21. 21. Intercostal arteries; the branches 
from the front of the aorta above and 
below the number 3 are pericardiac 
and esophageal. 



128 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER V. 

SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 

IN the preceding chapter we have briefly considered the 
composition of the blood and the mechanism of its circula- 
tion. This naturally brings us to the question, Why is the 
blood thus carried its ceaseless round ? Because if delayed 
at any one point the blood there stagnates, grows blue, dis- 
tends the tissues, and finally, by an escape of its corpuscles, 
produces death of the part. Such an accident is called in its 
earlier stages congestion, later it is known as mortification. 
Congestion happens whenever the nerves which preside over 
the circulation of any organ fail to do their duty; for each 
tiny arterial twig has its own nerve connections which regu- 
late the quantity of blood contained by contracting or dilat- 
ing the vessel as required. The pallor of fainting means that 
there has been a sudden contraction of the little vessels upon 
the surface of the body, driving the blood to the internal or- 
gans. Blushing denotes exactly the contrary, or that the 
vessels are widely dilated, from shame or other causes, and no 
longer able to contract. Congestion is a protracted blushing, 
that is, a continued dilation of the capillary blood-vessels 
from any cause, and serious in proportion to its persistence. 
Congestion of the lungs is a more frequent cause of death 
than heart disease, while transient congestion is a matter of 
every-day occurrence and of little importance, provided the 
equilibrium of circulation is soon restored. A hot fire, a cold 
walk, wet feet, all produce localized congestion, but of a kind 
that is quickly relieved if one is in health ; but if, as the doctors 
say, the system fails to react, a pair of thin shoes or a cold 
walk may prove the cause of untimely death. The late Dr. 
Durbin's rule of never allowing himself to become chilly is 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 129 

an excellent one, for one can never be sure that he is in con- 
dition to react after even a slight chilliness. Thin slippers 
may look very beautiful upon the tiny feet which peep in 
and out like mice beneath the petticoat, or the excursion 
with bare feet from the warm bed to the cold floor may be of 
but a moment's duration; but that moment may suffice to 
drive the blood from the surface of the body to your lasting 
injury. Chilliness is always a sign that something is going 
wrong within the house in which we live ; for a chill is nat- 
ure's automatic alarm, by which the sympathetic nervous sys- 
tem gives warning that the tiny blood-vessels over which 
they watch are being imposed upon. If you are wise you 
heed the warning, and at almost any personal inconvenience 
by means of hot drinks and baths bring about a reaction. If 
this is done promptly, no harm results; but if the blood-ves- 
sels have been too long contracted, instead of returning to 
their former condition they expand to an undue amount and 
now contain twice as much blood as they ought. In other 
words, you find your nose is all stopped up after catching 
cold, because its blood-vessels have crowded into them twice 
or thrice as much blood as they can conveniently hold; for 
one of the spots most liable to become chilled is the sensitive 
membrane lining the nose. The swelling renders it almost 
impossible to breathe through the nostrils, and if the conges- 
tion passes downward there is hoarseness as well. If, on the 
other hand, the cold is confined to the head, the swelling 
passes up into the bone cavities communicating with the 
nose and lined with the same mucous membrane, and there 
is headache, and we feel generally too mean to live, until 
here, as elsewhere, nature does the best thing that she can 
under the circumstances. And what is that ? Why, 
relieve the swollen blood-vessels as promptly as possible 
by allowing the excess of fluid to transude through their 
walls. 

Hence we often find the sneezing and irritation in the nose, 
of the first few hours of a hard cold, disappear as soon as 
there is an active demand for handkerchiefs. Now if we have 
6* 



130 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

sense enough to give nature sufficient time to thoroughly repair 
the errors we have committed, we are none the worse for the 
experience, which otherwise might have been pneumonia or 
something more serious, but in this country we are generally 
too much in a hurry to get thoroughly well. Some very im- 
portant sewing society engagement, or call to save the coun- 
try from impending danger by the aid of our invaluable 
advice, tempts us out, and we repeat the congestion before 
it is thoroughly well. The natural result is that we find 
ourselves at last afflicted with catarrh, or a chronic discharge 
from some one of the air passages for nature after a while 
gets tired of her repeated efforts at repair, and at last 
abandons us to our own devices and those of the physicians. 
These at best are a poor substitute for nature's original 
methods, as we find at last, to our regret, when a cold is no 
longer a trivial matter. Curiously enough, cold has, ordi- 
narily, very little, if any thing, to do with catching cold. 
Indeed, some think that the very best way to cure a cold is to 
breathe as much cold air as possible, and the colder the better; 
but there are colds and colds, and while some are, beyond 
dispute, contracted by sitting in a cold draft, there are 
other colds, and these are the more frequent ones, which are 
due to impure air and a generally clogged up system. The 
bad air produced by the modern hot-air furnace is a prolific 
source of winter colds, as are also poorly ventilated churches, 
theaters, and other places of public resort, especially if to 
the bad air be added improper diet. Any kind of food, of 
which more is taken than can be easily disposed of in the 
body, begets a susceptibility to colds which needs only some 
slight cause to fan it into an active congestion. So true is 
this that if you find an overfed child and house him in 
furnace-heated apartments all winter, no amount of care 
will prevent his having frequent colds, whereas if the same 
child be properly bathed, housed, and fed he will in the great 
majority of cases escape this affliction. At all events, what- 
ever may be the rationale of a cold, the fact remains that the 
very best treatment yet devised for an incipient cold is star- 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 131 

vation. "Feed a cold and starve a fever" has made lots of 
mischief, for whatever may be said of the treatment proposed 
for fever it certainly is most excellent for colds. The trouble 
is to induce one's friends, or even one's self, to carry out the 
prescription, You are a little feverish, achy, with a bad 
taste in your mouth, and generally feeling worse than an 
organ-grinder's monkey, when a meal is announced, and from 
force of habit, or want of something better to do, you sit 
down and force yourself to eat, although you know you do 
not need it. For a while, eating distracts your attention and 
calls it away from yourself, but shortly after the meal the 
cold grows worse than ever. In other words, the body while 
suffering from a cold very imperfectly attends to digestion 
and elimination, and any thing that increases its work in that 
direction increases our discomfort. The sensible thing to do 
when a cold is coming on is to stop eating entirely, and for 
a day or two to live on hot beef-tea and other liquids. Many 
a cold treated in this way yields most gratifyingly in a few 
hours. Indeed, if the dear people would but learn to keep 
their feet dry, their heads cool, and their bodies properly 
protected, a large share of the doctor's work would be sadly 
cut into. But the majority will not. It is too much trouble; 
it takes too much time to put on wraps. We are too indo- 
lent to carry an overcoat for emergencies. We are loth to 
deny ourselves the pleasure of eating, so we drag out a week 
of wretchedness, which might be cut short by a day or two 
of abstinence, or just as long as feverishness persists ; for a 
cold is always attended with fever. There may be a feeling 
of chilliness, but a thermometer placed in the mouth will 
register one or two degrees higher than in health. This 
fever is due to the disturbance of the capillary circulation 
already described, associated with inflammatory changes in 
the germinal matter of the skin and mucous membrane, 
which is only a turning of the skin inward to line the 
cavities of the body, for mucous membrane is the same 
three-ply tapestry found on the surface of the body. 

The lower layer of mucous membrane is the same coriuni 



132 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

that has already been described in speaking of the skin. It 
has similar fibrous tissue, vessels, and nerves, over which lies 
a thin transparent basement membrane, and on top of this lie 
epithelial scales or cells. Epithelium and endothelium are 
the poorly selected Greek names given to these wondrous 
bits of germinal matter with which the body is lined inside 
and out. The scales of the mouth are well named, for a 
scraping with a penknife from the inside of the lips shows 
beneath the microscope a multitude of flat scales not unlike 
those that may be found upon a fish. But this is not their 
only form, for elsewhere in the body they have the shape of 
columns, waving tufts, tiny spindles, goblets, chalices, and 
polygonal plates, each one placed where it can best perform 
its special work. 

The essential difference between the epithelium on the 
surface of the body and that within its cavities is that the 
former is protected by a layer of dried scales, and the latter is 
without these, being bathed constantly instead with a bland 
fluid. The rosy, glistening mucous membrane of the lips is 
exactly the same as the skin minus nature's coat of white- 
wash, for a blister that has just been drawn has about the 
same appearance as the lips. If, then, mucous membrane is 
so nearly like blistered skin, why don't we feel all raw in- 
side ? We should if it were not for a beneficent arrange- 
ment by which this membrane is kept constantly bathed in 
a bland fluid (mucus). Holding a blistered finger in milk 
will take away the smarting quicker than almost any thing 
else; so there are myriads of little sacs or mucous glands 
scattered all over the mucous membrane whose duty it is to 
keep it moistened with a thin, watery fluid, and at the same 
time wash it clean from refuse; for it must be remembered 
that mucous membrane is as constantly growing as the skin, 
and needs to be kept clean as well. Do you remember those 
days of protracted fever when your mouth was as dry as a 
chip and tasted like old leather and copperas ? That simply 
meant that the mucus was not sufficient to wash away the 
growing epithelial scales, which were left to dry and rot 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 133 

there; and no wonder your mouth tasted badly. But that 
is not all ; there is another set of glands pouring fluid into 
the mouth, and at such a time these are tainted as well- 
These are the salivary glands, already spoken of under Di- 
gestion. Their deficient and tainted secretion makes the 
mouth dry, and awakens a desire for lemonade or other 
acid. Refraining from fluid may help to cut short the in- 
flammatory trouble, but it is done at a cost of personal 
inconvenience few feel willing to submit to. Moreover, as 
recovery in these cases results from the removal, from the 
blood and fluids of the body, of the poisonous substances 
whose accumulation there produces the fever and discom- 
fort, this process is assisted by the free use of fluids. These 
stimulate the kidneys, skin, and mucous glands to increased 
action, and, as we have all learned, when the latter begin 
to act freely the fever of a cold disappears. The bad taste 
in the mouth may linger for a few days, with loss of appetite 
which means clearly that it is better to refrain from eat- 
ing until the appetite returns and the tongue cleans. Starva- 
tion usually brings both promptly to time, though in the 
case of the tongue the process may be hastened by cleaning 
off its refuse with the edge of a silver fruit-knife and scrub- 
bing up after with a little saleratus water. There is no bet- 
ter reason for leaving a dirty tongue in one's mouth than for 
neglecting to clean the teeth. It was once the fashion for 
every lady to keep on her table a tiny silver hoe with which 
to clean her tongue after dining, not wisely but too well, the 
previous evening. It was not an irrational practice, in fact 
vastly wiser than the modern plan of taking stomach or liver 
bitters when, according to the advertising almanac, you an- 
swer in the affirmative its staple questions of, " Are you dull 
and heavy in the morning ? Have you a bad taste in the 
mouth ? Is your appetite poor ? " 

These symptoms need attention ; they mean that your 
body is growing dirty, and possibly needs a spring house- 
cleaning, but that is a very different thing from putting its 
servants to sleep with alcohol, so that they will not know 



134: PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

whether the house is dirty or not. Taking stomach or 
spring bitters means exactly this. As I write there lies be- 
fore me the official analysis by the State chemist of Rhode 
Island of all such bitters on sale in that State, and there is 
not one which does not contain alcohol, the most popular 
(Hostetter's and Drake's) being stronger than brandy. A 
wine-glass of brandy twice or three times a day makes the 
drinker feel comfortable while its effect lasts, but that gone 
there is need of another ; and such is exactly the effect of 
these much-advertised bitters, which are all the more dan- 
gerous because they are taken by many who would utterly 
refuse to take liquor, and yet ignorantly take daily poor 
whisky enough to keep them just within its influence. The 
effect of alcohol upon germinal matter has already been 
noted in Chapter I. It is not necessary here to further dis- 
cuss the subject, except to say that after liquors have done 
their work within the body their alcohol is excreted through 
the lungs and kidneys. In both of these places alcohol 
works mischief. Its passage through the delicate tubes of 
the kidneys, hereafter to be described, damages their epithe- 
lium often irreparably, and the alcohol escaping through the 
lungs does no less harm, for, aside from the foul odor it 
gives to the breath, it so irritates the air passages that 
" whisky drinker's bronchitis " is a well recognized form of 
disease. 

Of minor evils a bad breath is one of the most annoying 
of troubles. Aside from that due to whisky, onions, and to- 
bacco, it betokens dirt somewhere. Dirt was happily defined 
by Palmerston as " matter in the wrong place," and there is no 
instance of worse misplaced matter than putrefying material 
coming out between rosy lips. A bad breath is thus pro- 
duced, though it is often quite difficult to find out exactly 
where the decay is taking place. Sometimes the trouble is 
with the food in the stomach; sometimes it arises from de- 
caying epithelium on the tongue, and again it comes from 
the perverted secretions of the tonsils or the nostrils. What- 
ever the source, such odors, as in all dirty houses, call for 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 135 

increased cleanliness. Cleanliness in the body means that 
all refuse must be either swept out or burned up, for if any 
residue of unused food escapes these processes, like all other 
organic matter it begins to ferment and becomes a nuisance. 
Strict search should be made for the corner in which such 
bodily nuisances originate, and these thoroughly deodorized, 
and all pains taken to prevent their recurrence; for latterly 
we are coming to believe that much of our disease comes 
from bodily filth and its results. A wonderful change has 
come in public opinion since the time of the Middle Ages 
in regard to the matter of dirt. 

The early Church so far forgot Moses's teachings on this 
subject that filth and sanctity were supposed to be necessa- 
rily associated. Like the East Indian fakirs of to-day, the 
greater their personal uncleanliness the greater the odor of 
sanctity, and other odors, doubtless, as well. There is, for in- 
stance, a Church tradition, and a most improbable one too, that 
St. James never took a bath, and a much better authenticated 
one concerning St. Anthony, whose biographer declares that 
" up to extreme age he never even washed his feet, and yet 
was healthier than those who bathe and often change their 
clothes." (No wonder he is the patron saint of erysipelas.) 
Saint Hilarion must have been a kindred spirit, for history 
relates that he never washed the sackcloth which he wore 
until it rotted off, like the rags of an Egyptian hermit 
spoken of in highest praise by St. Jerome. The last named 
saint only combed his hair on Easter Sunday, and, like St. 
Abraham of Edessa, never was known to wash his face. 
" The fourth century," says a recent writer on this subject, 
" was the religious apotheosis of dirt, not because the her- 
mits and Church had any quarrel with clean skins, but be- 
cause of the sensuous delight and comfort of bathing in hot 
climates. Bathing was one of the luxuries renounced at 
baptism, and fulminated against by various bishops and 
councils as late as the fifteenth century." 

" Like priest, like people," brought its inevitable results in 
the way of plague, black death, and the other awful epidemics 



136 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

of the Middle Ages. With our modern resources of quaran- 
tine and cleanliness, we can have no just idea of the terror 
and fearful mortality produced by these filth diseases. Black 
death, for instance, between the years 1333-1348, is believed 
to have killed upward of 45,000,000 persons. The very means 
devised by the Church to stay their progress namely, 
masses, processions, and flagellations were exactly those 
which assisted the spread of contagious diseases, for such 
they were. The general dispersion of the people from their 
filthy abodes at last brought these diseases to a close, not 
because, as was then believed, the wrath of an angry God was 
calmed, but because his creatures had ceased violating the 
unchangeable laws of health. 

Medicine is often reproached with its slow advance com- 
pared with other sciences, but it should be always remem- 
bered that medicine has made such epidemics impossible 
again. A better knowledge of the spread of contagious 
diseases, of the value of quarantine and the danger of filth 
has brought this to pass. According to Erasmus, the filth 
of the English home, in his times, must have been almost 
past endurance; for not only the hovels of the poor but the 
homes of the well-to-do had their floors of clay covered with 
rushes, instead of carpets, under which lay an unmolested 
accumulation of half-picked bones, decaying grease, stale 
beer, and other unmentionable things which need not be 
described with the particularity of Erasmus. The table 
manners of those days (1457-1536) were equally startling, if 
we may judge from some of the don'ts of the books of the 
etiquette of that time. For instance, we find that it was 
considered "uncomely to spit on the table," and "improper, 
after rinsing the mouth, to reject the water into the basin 
again," as others would wash their mouths from the same 
vessel. Handkerchiefs and forks were entirely unknown to 
Englishmen, when it was good form to hold the "joint in the 
left hand and carve with the other; after which the fingers 
should be wiped on the shirt, and not on the table-cloth." 
Small wonder that with such habits there came dreadful 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 137 

diseases like the sweating sickness, the black death, and the 
plague. The proper care of the body and our homes has 
abolished, forever, as it seems, these dread pests. Our mod- 
ern epidemics are insignificant as compared with those of 
the Middle Ages, and the most dreaded of these cholera 
could probably be practically annihilated by proper sanitary 
regulation of the pilgrim gatherings at Mecca and on the 
Ganges. (See page 68.) Public health can only be ob- 
tained by individual cleanliness, and this implies that our 
bodies, like our houses, shall be well-ventilated and clean 
outside as well as in. To be happy and well requires that 
we shall be clean, within and without. 

I. The skin must be able to perform its duties properly. 
The structure of the skin has already been described (page 
14), and does not need repetition here further than to call 
attention to the fact that it is more than an elastic bag, in 
which are held the muscles and bones. The skin is both 
a secreting and excreting organ as well. The distinction 
between a secretion and excretion is this : A secretion is a 
substance formed for further use by the body, while an 
excretion is a substance that is taken away, because useless 
or dangerous to the body. The tears, for instance, are secre- 
tions, for the reason that they are needed to wash away 
irritating substances from the eyes, while urea is an excretion 
whose continuance in the body produces convulsions and 
death. Secretion and excretion are performed mainly by 
bodies known as glands, located in various parts of the body, 
and modified in shape in accordance with the work they are 
expected to perform. We find two varieties of glands 
in the skin by which it carries off about one fourth of the 
liquid sewerage of the T^ody. The sebaceous glands have al- 
ready been described, and the other and more important of 
the glands of the skin are the sudoriferous glands, so named 
from the Latin word for perspiration. These sweat glands, 
already figured on page 14, number over two million, and 
consist of spiral tubes, each about one fourth of an inch long, 
but so numerous that they aggregate in length about two and 



138 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

a half miles. They are not uniformly distributed over the body, 
being less in number on the back and neck (four hundred to the 
square inch) and most frequent on the face, palms of the hands, 
and soles of the feet. In a bright light on a warm day the 
moisture can be seen to ooze from the open ends of these 
sweat-glands in minute drops; hence the disagreeable moisture 
of the hands in bashful persons, for the quantity of perspira- 
tion is regulated by the amount of blood in the capillaries, 
and this, as we have seen, is under the control of the nervous 
system (see Chapter VII.). 

A limited amount of perspiration always takes place even in 
the coldest weather, as may be proven by wrapping a limb for 
some time in an impermeable substance, as a piece of India 
rubber, and examining it after a few hours. Although the rest 
of the body appears perfectly dry, that beneath the rubber will 
be found moist, and if the wrapper has been kept long enough 
in place it will have a decidedly unpleasant odor from the re- 
tained excretions; or, mother words, invisible perspiration is 
constantly taking place, but is unnoticed unless its evaporation 
is prevented. Clothing in a measure does this, and hence 
is wisely laid off at night to allow this insensible perspiration 
to escape, and even then at length clothing acquires a goat-like 
odor, due to the volatile fatty acids which escape with the 
perspiration. This can be in a measure removed by baking 
the offensive clothing when it cannot be washed, but the ap- 
pearance of such odor is either proof of the need of more 
frequent bathing, or that the clothing has been worn for too 
long a time and ought to be destroyed, and fresh underwear 
and bathing employed. 

Much that goes under the name of a bath as little resem- 
bles it as the historic one prescribed for the Duke of Gloucester, 
which was thus prepared : " Five or six large sponges were first 
placed upon the floor for the duke to sit or lie upon, and a 
larger sponge was then placed in the middle of the room with 
a sheet spread over it, after which the duke, having been 
stripped, was made to sit upon the largest sponge, while an- 
other dipped in a hot decoction of herbs was to be lightly passed 






SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 139 

over the body; after which rose-water was splashed over 
him, as a rinsing. The duke was then dried by being wrapped 
in a sheet and marched off to bed to cure his troubles." This 
was the ideal bath in the times of Shakespeare, for it was for 
one of his characters that this particular bath was ordered 
and administered, to what advantage we may readily guess. A 
bath to be efficient for cleansing thoroughly the skin ought to be 
warm, and large enough in quantity to cover the whole body, 
and long enough continued to wash free the dried epi- 
dermis and sebaceous matter which clog the openings of the 
glands. 

Perfect health requires, for two reasons, that the glands of 
the skins should act efficiently: 1. The sweat-glands thus prompt- 
ly relieve the blood of any excess of liquids. How quickly this 
is done may be tested by drinking in succession two or three 
glasses of cold water on a warm day. Hardly is the last one 
swallowed before the whole surface of the body is covered 
with moisture. To produce this the absorbents of the 
stomach must have taken up the water and, via the lymphatics, 
carried it into the current of the circulation. The slight ex- 
cess of fluid was sufficient to distend the capillaries of the 
skin. This distension and thinness of the blood caused its 
watery portion to transude through the frail walls of the capil- 
lary and into the cavity of the sudoriferous tubes, from whose 
open ends it exudes upon the surface of the body in less time 
than it has taken to tell of it. Perspiration thus relieves the 
tension of the blood-vessels, and carries off dangerous sub- 
stances from the body. So important is this function that to 
coat the body with varnish or with gold leaf, as once did one of 
the popes with a slave in a triumphal procession, inevitably 
produces death, from the inability of the kidneys to carry off 
effete material : 2. But perspiration does more than this. 
Its further duty is to regulate the external heat of the body. 
Evaporation of any kind requires heat to be abstracted from 
some neighboring body. The evaporation from the surface 
of the body is carried on under the same laws as elsewhere, 
but within our own bodies we find this beautiful provision in 



140 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

regard to heat ; namely, that the warmer we become the more 
we perspire, the more we perspire the greater the evapora- 
tion of this perspiration, and hence the more rapid the cool, 
ing of the body. The sudoriferous glands, then, are a sort of 
heat regulator for the body, and so well do they perform their 
work that we have little fear of sunstroke so long as one per- 
spires freely; but when perspiration does not appear on a 
sultry day, sunstroke, or heat apoplexy, is not far off. (Sun- 
stroke, until the doctor comes, can be best treated with ice 
or cold applications to the head, and plenty of cool water 
poured over the overheated body.) A dry, branny skin is 
always to be looked upon with suspicion, for unless it can be 
made to properly perform its work it is very apt to sooner or 
later result in some obstinate skin disease or kidney trouble. 
The amount of water that may pass through the skin with- 
out injury is remarkable, as for instance at the Swansea cop- 
per furnaces, where the thermometer at the chest of the 
stoker marks 120 degrees and that at his back but 50 de- 
grees. To meet this intolerable heat he drinks freely, at least 
two or three gallons daily, and perspires accordingly 500 to 
600 gallons a year and yet is none the worse for it, but lives 
to a hearty old age. Sweating is often disagreeable, to put 
it mildly, but it is so valuable a discomfort that it is far bet- 
ter to perspire than carry about with us the pound and a half 
of dangerous material that it is designed to relieve us of 
daily. The only precautions to be observed in the matter are 
that we must not allow this effete material to gather in our 
clothes, nor ourselves to become chilled when moist with per- 
spiration. The amount of perspiration determines the fre- 
quency of bathing required, but the minimum should be a 
weekly bath, apropos of which Dr. Hunt very candidly remarks, 
" We have never known a person by nature so cleanly as not 
to be benefited by at least a weekly bath." His further sug- 
gestion that the best time for taking a bath is at night is worth 
remembering. A sponging of the neck, head, and chest on 
rising is also an excellent tonic, and as preventive of sore 
throat and colds is not sufficiently appreciated. 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 141 

A climate so changeable as ours requires woolen under- 
wear, of varying weight for different seasons of the year, as 
the only safeguard against chilling of the surface of the 
body. There is a great difference in the susceptibility of the 
skin in persons, but even the most sensitive one will tolerate 
the long-fibered woolen garment, and where this cannot be 
afforded, the lighter grades of flannels can be used with a 
muslin garment beneath. The value of such protection of 
the body can hardly be overestimated, for it keeps the skin 
gently stimulated to action and prevents the congestion of 
internal organs, which happens whenever the blood is driven 
from the surface of the body. Flannel well deserves a high 
place in the doctor's regard, for the physician who attempts 
to cure rheumatism, bowel, or kidney troubles without its aid 
has thrown away his best medicine. 

In these latter days kidney diseases have become the bug- 
bear of all intelligent readers. There is hardly a board fence 
or a religious paper that does not serve to advertise some 
one's sure cure for Bright's disease, until one is sorely tempted 
to wish that Dr. Bright had kept his discoveries secret. 
Quack almanacs and Safe Cures have gathered so rich a har- 
vest that it would almost be better for the world at large if 
they could believe with the ancient Jews that the kidneys 
were the home of the affections. The kidneys, or reins, as they 
were formerly called, are simple sacs in the lowest animals, 
but as the animal rises in the scale of organization the kid- 
neys become more intricate, until in man they are so complex 
that it is hardly possible to describe them properly without 
further illustrations than can be here used. Essentially, how- 
ever, the kidneys are clusters of sudoriferous glands which 
do their sweating inside of the body, and whose tubes bear the 
name of urinif erous tubules instead of sweat-glands. Through 
these tubes the watery portion of the blood filters through 
the kidneys, very like the perspiration on the surface of the 
body; and in fact in the older works on physiology the kid- 
neys and skin are spoken of as the common emunctories (fil- 
ters) of the body. The work of the one can in a measure 



142 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



be done by the other, as is seen in summer, when the secretion 
from the kidneys is small and that from the skin profuse, 
while in winter exactly the contrary is found. A cross sec- 
tion of a human kidney shows that it is made up of two parts, 
a cortical, or outer, and an inner, or medulla, composed of 
eight to twenty cones, the so-called pyramids, whose apexes 
point toward a central cavity, from which a tube about the 
size of a goose-quill runs to the bladder. On the apexes of 
the cones are found a multitude of minute openings which 
correspond to the opening of the sweat-glands upon the sur- 
face of the body, and through which fluid is likewise con- 
tinually passing, by filtration from the blood. The tubes 
on the skin are called sudoriferous tubes, in the kidney they 
are known as the urinif erous tubules, and if we follow up one 
of these tubules from the kidney, from its opening on the 

surface of a pyramid, we shall 
find that it terminates in a dila- 
tation not unlike those found in 
the sweat-glands. The dilatation 
in the urinary tubule is known 
as the Malpighian (from its dis- 
coverer, Malpighi) capsule (see 
figure b) , which incloses within it 
a network of capillaries (glomer- 
ulus) given off from the branches 
of the renal artery. Through this 
tuft of capillaries the liquid ref- 
use of the blood exudes and 
passes into the tubule, making its 
way down this until it at last 
reaches the bladder. The Mal- 
pighian capsule, then, is a funnel, and the glomerulus a net- 
work of delicate filters to extract from the renal blood what 
should be carried away from the body as liquid sewerage. 
The quantity of this varies considerably with the season of 
the year and the amount of liquid taken, but the total urine 
should be slightly above the amount of water taken during 




Urinary tubule. (Huxley.) 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 143 

the twenty-four hours. A persistent variation from this in- 
dicates something wrong in our plumbing department. The 
most frequent error arises from too sparing a use of water to 
avoid annoyance. Professor Vaughan says very plainly on this 
subject: " The merchant goes behind his counter, and to avoid 
frequent visits to the water-closet drinks but little water. 
The same mistake is made by ladies who are out in society 
much, and by the student who does not wish to be interrupted 
in his studies by the calls of nature ; but the result is that the 
urine becomes small in amount, strongly acid, of high specific 
gravity, and deposits urates, uric acid, or oxalate of lime 
which produce irritation of the bladder, or even gravel." 

A false squeamishness in these matters often inflicts perma- 
nent injury, for the urinary apparatus is a delicate bit of 
machinery, lined with epithelium as sensitive as that on the 
lips, and so located that when once diseased it inflicts serious 
injury upon the kidney. By reference to the cut on page 142, 
it will be seen that the entire length of the urinary tubule is 
lined with epithelium. This when diseased or removed by 
sickness allows the fibrinous part of the blood to escape into 
the tube and there solidify and form a " cast," or it may 
escape so rapidly that the person dies of exhaustion. Such 
injury to the tubules constitutes Bright's disease, apparently 
upon the increase in America, from a variety of causes, chief 
among which may be noticed mental strain and a too largely 
meat diet and exposure to cold and wet, etc. The nervous 
theory of kidney disease may not be generally accepted, but it 
is well known that the nervous system has a marked influence 
in the matter. Fright or hysteria may largely increase the 
urine, and, per contra, irritation of the nerves which supply 
the vessels of the kidney has, according to Huxley, the im- 
mediate effect of stopping the excretion of urine. And, 
lastly, any physician who has carefully watched the prog- 
ress of a chronic case of kidney trouble will tell you that 
business anxieties and responsibilities invariably aggravate 
such cases, whose only chance for permanent recovery is to 
escape from all kind of anxiety, dress warmly, and avoid a 



144 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

too largely animal diet. The latter is strongly insisted upon 
by Fothergill, and with a good show of reason, for those na- 
tions that are most largely meat-eaters are those most afflicted 
with kidney troubles. The reason given for this is as fol- 
lows: Nitrogenous foods are exuded from the body as urea. 
Meat is our most largely nitrogenous food. Excess of urea 
stimulates the kidneys to overaction. The more meat, the 
more urea, the greater the stimulation of the kidney to its 
own hurt. Next to Australia, we are the greatest meat-eaters 
on the face of the earth, and consequently, says Fothergill, 
grievously afflicted with kidney aifections. The red or white 
sediment often found in the urine is often a cause of anxiety, 
but it has no causal relation to kidney disease, and usually 
indicates, as has already been said, that sufficient water is 
not being taken to keep the drainage pipes well flushed out. 
More water generally will cure the majority of these cases, 
except where a cayenne pepper deposit persists. This means, 
where the means mentioned above have been faithfully 
tried, that more animal diet is being taken than can be 
burned up in the system. Nature's method of warming the 
body is to burn up its garbage to a soluble ash, which can 
be readily washed out of the body. This ash is known as 
area, and is so soluble that it never forms sand or gravel. 
If, however, the body's fuel is not perfectly consumed it forms 
an ash, or clinker, which cannot thus be washed away, and 
this clinker is the red sand (uric acid) just described. 

The place where the conversion of uric acid to urea ought 
to take place is in the liver, next to be described; but before 
considering this, just a word further concerning the hygiene 
of the sewage of the body. It contains substances danger- 
ous if retained in the body, for a continued failure of the 
kidneys to act invariably produces death with convulsions 
(urgemia.) Scarcely less dangerous is the retention of other 
refuse in the body. It is a slouchy servant who does not 
clean away the ashes from her kitchen stove at least once a 
day, and we are poor tenants if we cannot do as much for the 
house in which we live. Habit is second nature in this as in 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 145 

many other less important matters, and those are healthiest 
and live longest who are scrupulous in this. Its neglect 
brings a bad breath, a sallow skin, headache, and loss of ap- 
petite, as it ought, for the whole body is poisoned by the 
re-absorption of poisonous matters that ought to have been 
voided from the body. But carelessness, or some seem- 
ingly more important engagement, is allowed to interfere 
with what ought to be as faithfully attended to as washing 
the hands and face, until the house of clay bscoi^es truly 
filthy, and then comes a bilious attack. 

And what is a so-called bilious attack ? It is simply nat- 
ure's house-cleaning, and fully as inconvenient as its domestic 
namesake. One of the duties, and in the opinion of the 
writer the chief duty, of the liver is to burn up, or oxidize, 
certain substances no longer of use in the body. One of 
these is uric acid,' just mentioned, but if there is too much 
of this uric acid turned in upon the liver to be readily dis- 
posed of, the liver refuses at first to work, sulks awhile, then 
turns every thing upside down within us in its efforts to turn 
out the offending substances. This emeute we call a bilious 
attack, and it certainly efficiently accomplishes what it sets 
out to do; but one such strike begets another, and in a little 
time we find a liver prone to rebel on the slightest excuse, 
and thoroughly not to be depended upon. The liver is one 
of the worst abused and least understood organs in the body. 
The ancients thought its chief duty was to secrete black 
bile, and that black bile was synonymous with melancholy, 
for the Greeks believed that the soul resided in the liver, and 
in their language melancholy and black bile mean one and 
the same thing. We have learned that there are other causes 
for melancholy than black bile, but that there are none more 
efficient than a disordered liver. Whether we think life 
worth living depends largely upon the condition of the body's 
chemical works, for to such a factory the liver can be well 
likened. 

It lies in regions 1 and 2, figured in Plate I, and, as may 
be seen by the annexed cut, it is abundantly supplied with 
7 



146 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 




blood-vessels, so much so that the liver acts as a sort 
of siding into which are switched trains of both venous 
and arterial blood for a transfer of their freight. Much 
of this, gathered up by the veins from the stomach, 
intestines, pancreas, etc., is hurtful, and must be rapidly 

excreted or it will bring 
damage to the body. 
This the liver effects by 
working over these ref- 
use materials in such a 
way that they either be- 
come harmless or are 
transformed into new 
substances of further 
yalue. Its method of 
disposing of uric acid 
has already been spoken 
of, and the formation of 
bile is an instance of 

OF THE LITER. the second. It is one of 

a, a. Intralobular veins, Z>, h. Interlobular the triumphs of modern 
veins ' chemistry that it can ex- 

tract from useless coal-tar carbolic acid and other valuable sub- 
stances, but long before modern antiseptics were dreamed of 
the liver was patiently making, in bile, one of the most efficient 
preservatives yet discovered. But bile is more than this, for 
it not only prevents the decomposition of food, but also, as 
nature's castor oil, emulsifies fats and carries off the excess of 
carbon and hydrogen from the blood, thus purifying it. The 
failure to do this in the spring, or rather our stupidity in 
forcing the liver to dispose of the same amount of hydro- 
carbons as during the cold of winter (see page 91), brings 
on what is familiarly known as spring iever, for which our 
grandfathers were not irrationally bled. A wiser thing, 
however, is to eat such food (see Chapter IV) as shall not force 
extra work upon a liver already overtaxed with a winter's 
buckwheat cakes. These, like the Esquimaux' whale blub- 



DIAGRAM OF THE CIRCULATION IN THE LOBULES 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 147 

ber, are excellent fuel for the heat required during the win- 
ter, but when the spring brings a milder temperature they 
are as useless and harmful as it would be to keep a furnace 
running all summer; and worse than that, for the liver, so to 
speak, burns itself out in the process. It clogs like another 
furnace under the same mistreatment, and its unfortunate 
owner suffers from its smoke in the shape of a crop of boils. 
All this because we abuse one of the most important organs 
of the body, in spite of its protests in the way of headache, 
loss of appetite, and general lassitude, whose rational treat- 
ment has already been spoken of in Chapter IV. 

Moreover, there is good reason to believe that a healthy 
liver is necessary to destroy certain poisonous compounds that 
are continually being formed in the body. This was first 
proven by Drs. Schiff and Lautenbach of Geneva, who found 
that tying the portal vein the great vein which brings blood 
to the liver in the lower animals produces a tendency to 
sleep, loss of sensibility in general, slowing of the pulse, ster- 
torous respiration, and death without convulsions in a few 
hours. Ligation of the hepatic viens produced no such effect, 
wherefore Dr. Lautenbach believes that these symptons are 
due to the accumulation in the blood of a poisonous substance, 
or substances, which normally are destroyed in the liver. 
This is furthermore proven by the fact that blood taken from 
the circulation of one of the animals whose portal vein had 
been tied invariably produced toxic symptoms when injected 
into another animal ; while the same animal had remained 
unaffected when injected with blood before the ligation of 
the portal vein. Schiff was unable properly to isolate the 
poison thus produced, but considered it volatile, and antag- 
onistic in its action to nicotine, conia, and hyoscyamus. 

More recently it has been rendered more than probable that 
the poison found at such times in the blood belongs to those 
known at the present as leucomaines. Careful experiment 
proves that these leucomaines are constantly being formed in 
the body, and unless they are neutralized invariably produce 
symptoms like those described by Schiff. Selmi discovered 



148 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

some years ago certain poisonous alkaloids of putrefaction 
to which he gave the name of ptomaines. Gauthier subse- 
quently found analogous poisonous alkaloids in the living 
healthy body ; these he named leucomaines to distinguish 
them from the alkaloids of putrefaction. The leucomaines are 
being carefully studied in their relation to health by the 
French physicians, foremost among whom are M. Peter and 
Professor Bouchard. Gauthier thinks he has succeeded in 
isolating no less than five of these alkaloids from the muscular 
juice of the larger animals. These leucomaines, he believes, 
are formed in life largely by the action of oxygen. For 
instance, thought is attended with heat, and heat pro- 
duces, according to Gauthier, in the brain neurin, an alka- 
loid injurious to life ; muscular movements similarly form 
creatinine and the alkaloids mentioned above. All of the 
working organs of the body are now supposed to form these 
leucomaines; for example, according to Kossel, in the pancreas 
and spleen can be found adenine, derived from the cell nuclein. 
Adenine, when tested upon the lower animals, produces paral- 
ysis of the vasomotor system, congestion of the lungs, liver, 
and kidneys. The kidneys, if Bouchard's experiments can 
be relied upon, carry off no less than seven of these leuco- 
maines from the body, and the remainder are destroyed in the 
liver, whither they are carried by the portal circulation. 
Some of these, or others, are doubtless excreted constantly 
through the skin, for the evil effects of coating it with var- 
nish, or having it destroyed by burning, have long been 
known. Death in the latter cases results not from shock, 
but from the retention in the system of substances which are 
normally carried off through the skin. Life is then not 
merely an eddy, as Huxley describes it, but also almost a pro- 
longed suicide, for we are constantly producing these leuco- 
maines, and if they are not speedily removed or destroyed 
they produce disease and death. Health is the equilibrium 
between a proper production and elimination of toxic sub- 
stances which are prepared within the body by the action of 
its own organs ; disease is often due to accumulation of these 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 149 

poisonous materials within the body, an auto-intoxication, 
as it is called (intoxication, whether from alcohol or 
other causes, means and is poisoning). The leucomaine 
poisons are derived from digestive changes in the food in the 
intestinal canal, and from changes within the tissues them- 
selves. The contents of the intestines, according to Bouchard, 
are particularly poisonous, and their re-absorption undoubtedly 
produces what is known as the typhoid state or condition. 
Fortunately, in a sound body this rarely takes place, because 
of the disposition of the leucomaines, already spoken of. No 
wonder then that a crippled liver casts a man into gloom ; 
but it is not the liver per se that depresses the entire man, 
but the poisons that the man has generated within himself 
and is unable to carry off without the liver's aid. Truly we 
are fearfully and wonderfully made, and nowhere is this 
more perfectly shown than in the daily balance between life 
and poisoning, through which we all hope to struggle for 
seventy years or more. The wonder is not that we die, 
but that we live at all, shut in and hemmed around by 
dangers seen and unseen, not the least of which are the 
poisons we make ourselves and invisible bacteria hereafter to 
be described. Perfect sewerage is the price of health, in our 
bodies no less than in our houses, and any deviation from this 
is sure to bring its penalty. In the case of the body, as in our 
homes, one of the surest means of suspecting that something 
is out of the way is the appearance of disagreeable odors. 
Such warning we have when the breath grows fetid, as it 
always does when food decomposes in the body instead of 
being digested. This putrefaction may take place in the 
stomach, but more frequently occurs lower down in the in- 
testinal canal. The favorite location for this decomposition 
of food is the sigmoid flexure and descending colon, where 
the partially digested food is prone to lodge and by the re- 
absorption of the gases thus generated poison the breath. 
Pain and tenderness in these regions, a fetid breath, and a 
persistently sallow skin with constant weariness indicate this 
slow poisoning and call for a physician's advice, without 



150 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

which the case is prone to run into an invalidism whose 
cause is often undreamed of. (Region IX, Plate I.) 

An unpleasant breath, as has elsewhere been said, may also 
proceed from chronic disease of the lungs, nose, or throat; 
but these have other so well marked symptoms that their ori- 
gin can hardly escape one's attention. That just alluded to 
is so remote from its cause that it often passes unsuspected. 
We also find in many of these cases the tonsils endeavor to 
do extra work, and become enlarged and show cheesy masses 
in their folds. This is not diphtheria, though often treated 
as such, but a little forced energy on the part of the glands 
on the surface of the tonsils to carry off poisonous substances. 
These cheesy excretions are very prone to decompose 
and poison the breath, especially of one who has the bad 
habit of breathing through the opened mouth instead of 
through the nose as nature intended. The nasal passages are 
especially designed to warm the air passing through them be- 
fore it reaches the lungs. Indians are said to judge of a 
man's courage by his ability to keep his mouth shut, and pos- 
sibly from them, with whom he spent many years of his life, 
George Catlin derived the ideas embodied in his little pam- 
phlet, Keep Your Mouth Shut. It is capital reading, even yet. 
After many years of careful observation, among both civilized 
and uncivilized nations, Catlin came to the conclusion that 
" those who hunt about open-mouthed, like chub or trout," are 
never healthy nor long-lived. So important did Catlin es- 
teem his subject that he concludes his little book in this way: 
" If I had a million dollars I would spend it in printing four 
million of my books and distributing them to four million 
mothers, rich and poor. I would not obtain therefor any 
monument or decoration of nobility, but I would have ob- 
tained the peculiarly joyful satisfaction of knowing that I 
had left to posterity a legacy of much higher value than 
money can ever have." Catlin, in the main, was right; for, 
to say nothing of the air of vacant stupidity imparted to the 
countenance from going about with the mouth half opened, 
the practice is positively injurious. Inhalation through the 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 151 

nose warms the air and frees it from dust during its passage 
downward. Nor is it a matter of chance that there is so 
direct a passage for the air via the nose to the windpipe. 
The root of the tongue and the soft palate very materially 
interfere with free breathing through the mouth, while a 
probe carried along the floor of the nostril soon finds itself 
in an opening behind the soft palate and directly over the 
windpipe, or the tube conveying the air to the lungs. You 
can trace this tube down the neck with your fingers until it 
disappears behind the top of the breast-bone. If you were 
inside of it you would see that it divides there into a right 
and left branch, going respectively to the right and left 
lungs, where it branches and rebranches into the bronchial 
tubes (bronchioles), which finally end in little cells. The 
bronchial tubes are at first cartilaginous, or rubbery, like the 
windpipe; but as they descend this cartilage vanishes and 
the bronchioles, at last, become only soft, flexible tubes of 
muscle and mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of 
the lungs is peculiar on account of its covering of waving 
hairs ciliated epithelium which keep fanning the air in 
and out of these delicate tubes and air-cells (alveoli). These 
alveoli or air-cells (one fortieth to one seventy-fifth of an 
inch) look like a bunch of tiny grapes from the outside; in- 
side they are literally little cells opening into one another, 
whose walls are frescoed every-where with the tints of the 
smallest conceivable blood-vessels. These minute vessels (cap- 
illaries) have walls thinner than the most delicate blotting- 
paper. Through these cell walls the exchange of gases be- 
tween the blood and the air takes place under the most favor- 
able circumstances. Gases will pass through animal mem- 
branes like water through filter paper, and in these delicate 
air-cells the venous blood is separated from its necessary oxy- 
gen only by this frail partition of membrane. Through this 
carbon - dioxide quickly finds its way and diffuses itself 
through the air in the lungs, while the oxygen of the air 
unites with the haemoglobin of the blood, as already described 
(page 107), and is by it carried the round of the circulation to be 



152 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

again exchanged for carbonic acid gas. Just how or where 
this exchange is made is not yet definitely known. It re- 
quires a more intimate knowledge of physiological chemistry 
than is yet possessed; for man is the modern miracle of the 
burning bush, which is perpetually burning and yet never 
consumed. The results of this combustion are invaluable to 
us, for upon them hang our warmth and the possibility of 
living at all. Without this oxidation of disused tissues we 
should either be swathed in unbearable fat or poisoned with 
leucomaines, just described. And all this is done so quietly 
and easily that we never stop to think any thing about what 
is being done unless there is an interference somewhere in 
the process. Chemists are acquainted with more than thirty 
compounds produced by the action of the oxygen of the blood 
on the tissues, and the failure to form any one of these disturbs 
more or less the whole economy of the body. Curiously 
enough, but three of these are ordinarily excreted by the 
lungs, and these form nature's soda-water, if not in exactly the 
same proportion as that of the shops, which contains, besides the 
water, only carbon-dioxide and syrup. Respiration amounts 
finally to the air hurrying down and paying priceless oxygen 
in exchange for the vilest soda-water, compounded of water, 
carbon dioxide, and too often flavored with onions, whisky, 
or tobacco. It would be a fair criticism to say that the soda- 
water furnished by the blood is an outrageous swindle; for 
there is a great deal too much dioxide for the water, and as 
for its syrup pugh ! To tell the truth, no sooner is the 
trade made than the air seems disgusted with it, and by the 
help of the ciliated epithelium climbs up and out of the wind- 
pipe and hurries off to the plants, which are nature's verita- 
ble old junk-men, buying up all sorts of cast-off things and 
paying in precious oxygen. This trading has been going on 
ever since the first breath of life, and for all we can see must 
go on until there shall be a new heaven and a new earth. 
The best that we can do is to see that fair play is given in 
both of the trades, but to do this you must keep a sharp 
lookout on carbon-dioxide, which will play you many a mean 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 153 

trick if not well watched. Carbon, or charcoal, in its various 
forms, is one of our most useful possessions; but burn it and 
it gives rise to this colorless, transparent gas, which ought to 
be excluded from all decent society. But this gas finds its way 
in almost every- where. We use up daily about a coffee-cup 
of water and a bit of charcoal about the same size in making 
that vile mixture which was politely called soda-water, but 
which is really damp carbon-dioxide. It is a narcotic poison, 
worse than liquor; for whisky gives its poor victims at least 
a short period of happiness, while carbon-dioxide only stupe- 
fies and leaves him with a worse headache the next morning, 
or a very little more kills him. If you have any doubt of it, 
read some of those fearful stories of ignorance, such as that 
of the famous Black Hole of Calcutta, where one hundred 
and forty-six men were shut up in a room eighteen feet 
square, and in the morning one hundred and twenty-six were 
found dead and the larger portion of those remaining died 
after their release from fever contracted during that fearful 
night. But that is not the worst thing that carbon-dioxide 
ever did, for such places as the Black Hole put us on our 
guard; but there are thousands principally women who 
are slowly being poisoned to death by close rooms and bad air. 
I have often wished that this carbon-dioxide was as black as 
ink, so that we might know of its coming; but though it has 
not this cuttle-fish power, it gives no less certain warning of 
its coming if you will only watch for it. Drowsiness, head- 
ache, and the corpse-like smell of too many of our churches 
and school-rooms tell you in a most convincing way what I 
mean. It is not always the fault of the preacher or teacher 
that thoughts will wander and the head grow weary. There 
is more than one prayer-meeting which needs, instead of 
singing, "My drowsy powers, why sleep ye so? Awake 
my sluggish soul ! " to have its sexton open the windows. 
Bad air is always a poison, whether found in a church or a 
slum, and any air becomes bad air by being breathed over 
and over again. 

The crying sins of the modern house are its small sleeping- 
7* 



154 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

rooms and its lack of proper ventilation. The sleeping-room 
ought to be the largest and airiest room in the house, and 
preferably on the second floor, and heated, if possible, with 
an open grate fire. Such should always be the room selected 
for a run of fever or other protracted sickness; for in no 
other way can a room be so easily and thoroughly ventilated 
as by a draft of hot air up an open chimney. Failing this, 
two hundred and fifty to three hundred cubic feet of space 
should be supplied for each person in the room for the night, 
and provision made for removing six hundred and fifty 
cubic feet of vitiated air per hour. Less cubic contents per 
person is unsafe, and will certainly result in carbonic acid 
poisoning of a milder or severer type. Much of that which 
passes for sewer-gas poisoning is simply the result of sleep- 
ing in unventilated rooms; for Dr. Harwood says most justly 
on this subject: "The want of, wholesome air does not mani- 
fest itself on the system imperatively; no urgent sensation 
being produced, like that of hunger, there is great danger of 
mistaking its indications. The effects of the absence of pure 
air are only slowly and insidiously produced, and thus too 
frequently are overlooked until the constitution is generally 
impaired and the body equally enfeebled." 

The difficulties, however, in northern climates of efficiently 
ventilating a modern house without expensive apparatus or dan- 
gerous draughts are such that with most builders the whole 
subject is neglected, and the only resource left us is the win- 
dow. In moderate weather a room can be well ventilated by 
this, by raising the lower sash an inch or so and placing be- 
neath it a tightly fitting board. This leaves an opening be- 
tween the upper and lower sash about the middle of the win- 
dow, through which fair ventilation takes place without direct 
drafts of cold air. No thoroughly efficient and cheap method, 
so far as the writer is informed, of winter ventilation has yet 
been devised for private dwellings, although many excellent 
devices for larger edifices are in operation where a steam- 
engine and blower can be used. The best that can be done 
in an ordinary dwelling during the winter is to rely upon 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 155 

small holes bored in the upper part of the sash into which 
small bent tubes or elbows pointing upward may be inserted 
with valves to open or shut as required. But even with 
these the temperature in different parts of our living rooms 
varies too greatly for the health of children and feeble adults. 
Dr. Benjamin's careful investigations show that with a tem- 
perature of seventy-five at the level of an adult's head, the 
floor registers only fifty degrees, and this in a well built brick 
house with a warmed cellar. In similar rooms the tempera- 
ture at the ceiling was ninety, four feet from an ordinary 
window seventy, one foot from the window fifty, and at the 
window forty degrees. Or, in other words, a little child finds 
a difference of twenty-five degrees, Fahrenheit, between sitting 
in its mother's lap and playing on the floor, and between 
thirty and forty degrees from the neighborhood of the stove 
and the window, which is probably one of the reasons that 
keeping little children in bed is no small factor in their recov- 
ery from cold and the minor ailments of childhood. Thin 
shoes, even in the house, are dangerous experiments, for the 
reasons given above, and sunshine, a frequent change of 
rooms, and a free ventilation by opening the windows of the 
room just left are potent aids to long life and usefulness. 
Moreover, fresh air is not alone sufficient unless we learn how 
to properly inflate the lungs, for which purpose we must 
breathe deeply in whatever pure atmosphere we are placed. 

Up and down the windpipe a current and return current 
of air need to pass fifteen to eighteen times a minute, 
and oftener if we are children, or if for any reason respira- 
tion is imperfectly done. " As easy as breathing " is a fre- 
quent simile, but a sufferer from asthma or pneumonia tells 
a very different story. With them existence requires a ter- 
rible struggle with asphyxia the doctor's term for a lack 
of air and its resulting imperfect aeration of the blood, pre- 
viously described in this chapter. This aeration requires, 
in addition to the nose and windpipe, the aid of the lungs, 
which are continuous with the windpipe, and are inclosed 
each in a tough, closed sac, known as the pleura (plural 



156 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



plurae). The two pleurae, as may be seen from the annexed 
cut, do not meet except at one point in front. This leaves 
an interspace between them, called the mediastinum, and in 
this mediastinum are held all of the viscera of the thorax ex- 




cept the lungs. In the cavity of the pleurae we find the 
lungs, which extend from one to one and a half inches above 
the collar bones to the diaphragm, or from the root of the 
neck to the sixth and seventh ribs. The broad concave bases 
of the lungs rest upon the convex surface of the diaphragm, 
the thin lower edges of the lungs fitting accurately into the 
wedge-like space between the ribs and the diaphragm. The 
lungs are of unequal size, somewhat conical in shape, and lie 
in the right and left sides of the thorax respectively, the base 
of the right lung being considerably hollowed out by the 
bulging upward of the liver, which projects upward as far as 
the fifth rib; the base of the left lung is also concave, though 
to a less degree, by the upward projection of the stomach, 
spleen, and left lobe of the liver. The right lung is some- 
what larger and broader, owing to the location of the heart. 
The right lung weighs about two ounces more than the left 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 157 

lung, and is nearly two inches shorter than the left, owing to 
the projection upward of the liver upon that side. The right 
lung has three lobes, the left two, and both lungs hang sus- 
pended in the thoracic cavity by what is known as the root 
of the lungs. This root is a collection of blood-vessels and 
the trachea, sending a branch to each lung composed of a 
bronchial tube, pulmonary artery, bronchial arteries and 
veins, and the pulmonary nerves, lymphatics, and glands in- 
closed in a reflection of the pleura. The weight of the lungs 
is about forty ounces, and their color at birth is pinkish, 
but they grow darker with age, so that the lungs of an 
adult are slate-colored, or even darker. Lung tissue is so 
light and spongy that when it is inflated it floats on water, 
and crackles when handled, owing to the air in the inter- 
stices of its lobules. Each of these lobules contains one 
of the branches of the bronchial tubes with its terminal air- 
cells, vessels, and fibrous tissue holding them together. 
These air-cells are blind pouches in which the subdivisions 
of the bronchi terminate, and it will be remembered that the 
bronchi are branches or prolongations of the windpipe, which, 
under the name of the main bronchus, enters the lungs and di- 
vides and subdivides into smaller bronchi, right and left, un- 
til, as has been said, each of these bronchioles terminates in 
an air-cell, or alveolus, as it is sometimes called. 

The form of these air-cells is well shown on the following 
page, which gives a cross-section of one of the ultimate bron- 
chioles and its terminal vesicles. Each of these is held in a 
network of capillaries, which inclose each alveolus of the 
lungs in a sort of basketwork of blood-vessels. Each air-cell 
measures about one seventy-fifth of an inch in diameter, but 
as there are estimated to be eighteen million of these air-cells 
their combined surface amounts to more than two hundred 
square yards, or more than fifty times the extent of the 
surface of the body. Through this thin film of tissue, ex- 
posed to the air on both sides, the entire amount of blood in 
the body flows three times in a minute, requiring for its 
aeration twelve thousand quarts of air daily, which must be 




158 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

breathed in and out daily to keep the body properly venti- 
lated. This is accomplished by inspiration and expiration, as 
it is called; for breathing, simple as it 
seems, is a complex act composed of 
breathing in, breathing out, and rest- 
ing; for the lungs, like the heart, 
must have an interval for rest. Each 
inspiration ought to draw into the 
lungs thirty cubic inches of fresh air, 
and each expiration ought to send out 
about the same amount, although not 
the identical air just breathed in; for 
we never force out all of the air con- 
tained in the lungs. The average 
Air ceil (&), alveoli (c), and capacity of the lungs may be set at 
bronchiole (a). two hundred and thirty cubic inches 

of air ; thirty may be driven out by an ordinary expiration, 
so that at the close of expiration there should be two 
hundred cubic inches in the lungs. The thirty cubic 
inches that flows to and fro is known as tidal air; the two 
hundred cubic inches is divided into what is known as resid- 
ual air (one hundred to seventy-five cubic inches), which can- 
not be driven out by any force on our part, and about an 
equal amount that is known as supplemental air, or that 
which ordinarily remains in the lungs, although it can be 
driven out by forced expiration. The two hundred cubic inches 
of residual and supplementary air are those which are left in 
the lungs after expiration. Add to this the thirty cubic 
inches of tidal air drawn in by inspiration, and we find two 
hundred and thirty inches within us at the close of an ordinary 
inspiration. 

Now two hundred and thirty cubic inches of air uncom- 
fortably distend the lungs, so we ease them by expiring, or 
squeezing out, about thirty cubic inches of impure air, for only 
one seventh of all the air that is in the lungs is changed at 
each breath. The remaining two hundred inches aerate 
the blood, while the thirty cubic inches of tidal air hur- 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 159 

rying up and down the throat, may be considered the fresh 
recruits and returning on sick leave being carried away to be 
refreshed, then hurrying back to relieve the two hundred 
cubic inches of air which stand between us and death ; for as- 
phyxia results if fresh air is not speedily brought to their re- 
lief. In addition to the two hundred and thirty cubic inches 
of air tidal, residual, and supplemental in times of emerg- 
ency seventy-five to one hundred cubic inches more may be 
forced in temporarily. This is known as complemental air, 
and is invaluable to the gasping asthmatic or the sufferer in 
the last stages of chronic heart trouble. 

The importance of early increasing the amount of the sup- 
plemental air that can be taken into the lungs can hardly be 
overestimated. Writing and studying at a desk or table so 
inevitably tend to round the shoulders and hollow the chest 
that some method of counteracting this should be systemat- 
ically adopted. Indian clubs, an inhaling tube, dumb-bells, 
and mountain climbing, when possible, will do wonders in 
this direction. Singing, under a competent teacher, also does 
much to expand the chest, and if half the attention were given 
to the development and care of the lungs which is given to 
the hair, consumption might be nearly eradicated, instead of 
causing nearly a fifth of all the deaths of adults in this 
country. A sunless, unventilated house will certainly germi- 
nate the seeds of the disease whenever they are latent, or, if 
the bacterial theories of tuberculosis are correct, prepare a 
suitable ground in which the bacillus tuberculosis (see Chap- 
ter VIII) will increase and multiply, until the consumptive 
is worn out in a vain effort to expel them by coughing. And 
what is a cough? It is nature's way of clearing out the 
windpipe ; really only a spasmodic expiration. For instance, 
instead of the normal inspiration and expiration, when 
we cough we first draw in a deep inspiration these are the 
few seconds of blissful uncertainty of whether you are going 
to or not which usually precede a cough or a sneeze but 
the glottis closes while something tickles a nerve, say in the 
larynx, which grows rebellious, and instead of giving us time 



160 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

for a well regulated expiration, with a spasm it forces the 
air back through the glottis with a rush that carries the offend- 
ing crumb or mucus before it ; if not, the process is repeated 
as long as necessary. Sneezing is essentially the same, except 
that in sneezing the trouble is in the nose ; so instead of the 
air being forced out from the mouth, the soft palate and the 
back of the tongue come together and force the air out with a 
" chee-chee " through half -closed teeth and nose. 

Sighing is a prolonged inspiration, and, when not due to 
first love, like yawning is a proof of bad air or an exhausted 
nervous system. Yawning differs from sighing in that its 
prolonged inspiration is followed by a prolonged expiration, 
both of which are largely involuntary. Snoring is a flapping 
to and fro of the soft palate during sleep. With some the 
sound occurs only during inspiration, with others during 
both inspiration and expiration, and takes place during very 
profound sleep, or in those whose nervous control over the 
parts has been lessened. Laughing and sobbing are physi- 
ologically the same, for they are both spasmodic inspiration 
and expiration, and hence the ease with which the practiced 
orator will carry his auditors from one to the other. Hic- 
cough is also a spasmodic expiration due to a spasm of the 
diaphragm, or the great fan-shaped muscle which divides the 
trunk of the body into the thoracic and abdominal cavities. 
Its front edge is attached to the breast-bone, and its sides 
slope downward and are fastened to the lower six ribs. The 
diaphragm, therefore, does not form a horizontal partition, but 
arches upward in shape not unlike a policeman's helmet; but un- 
like that in that it is not stiff, but exceedingly flexible, changing 
its position with every inspiration and expiration. It is par 
excellence the muscle of respiration, assisting it like the flexible 
side of a pair of bellows. (See cut, page 40). Gaseous disten- 
sion of the stomach may press upon the diaphragm so as to 
be mistaken for heart disease. Fasting relieves this 
trouble in short order, while it will aggravate real cases 
of heart trouble, for which it is often mistaken. The dia- 
phragm may be even ruptured by distension, as happened in the 



SEWERAGE AND VENTILATION. 161 

following unique case, reported some years ago by Dr. Bren- 
ner, of a man who actually split his diaphragm in two, and 




Cut showing diaphragm from its lower side, and openings through which pass the 
vena cava (13), esophagus (12), and aorta (11). 

died from eating four plates of potato soup, "numerous" 
cups of tea and milk, followed by a large dose of bicarbonate 
of soda to aid digestion. His stomach swelled enormously, 
and tore the diaphragm on the right side, causing immediate 
death. 

But if the diaphragm is at times a source of danger, it is, 
on the other hand, invaluable for breathing and laughter. 
The real value of the latter to the body is that, as says 
another, "probably there is not a remote corner or little 
inlet of the minute blood-vessels of the body that does not 
feel some wavelet from the great convulsion produced by 
hearty laughter shaking the central man. The blood moves 
more, it conveys a different impression to all the organs of 
the body, as it visits them on that particular mystic journey, 
when the man is laughing, from what it does at other times. 
And thus it is that a good laugh lengthens a man's life by 
conveying a distinct and additional stimulus to the vital 



162 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

forces. The time may come when physicians, attending 
more closely than they do now to the innumerable subtle 
influences which the soul exerts upon its tenement of clay, 
shall prescribe to a torpid patient ' so many peals of laughter, 
to be undergone at such and such a time,' just as they do 
that far more objectionable prescription a pill, or an electric 
or galvanic shock ; and shall study the best and most 
effective method of producing the required effect in each 
patient." 

DIAGRAM OF HEART AND CIRCULATION (PLATE II). 

a. a. Yena cava, inferior and superior. 

r. a. Right auricle with orifices of the venro cavas emptying into it. 

t. v. Tricuspid valve, closing orifice between right auricle and ventricle 
of heart. 

r. v. Right ventricle of heart. 

p. a. o. Orifice of pulmonary artery. 

p. a. Right and left pulmonary arteries. 

p. v. Pulmonary veins, arising from the lungs and emptying by four 
orifices into the left auricle. 

I. a. Left auricle. 

m. v. Mitral valve, closing orifice between left auricle and left ventricle. 

I. v. Left ventricle. 

a. o. Aortic orifice. 

a. o. a. Arch of the aorta. 

a. a. Ascending aorta. 

a. d. Descending aorta, at last communicating by capillaries with the in- 
ferior vena cava, though this communication is not shown in the plate, as in 
the case of the ascending aorta. 

N. B. The course of the blood is shown by the arrows in the diagram, its 
color indicating whether it is arterial or venous. 



PL ATE II. 







THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 163 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE DAUGHTERS OF MUSIC, AND THEY THAT LOOK OUT AT 
THE WINDOWS. 

THE diaphragm, in addition to its duties described in the 
preceding chapter, greatly assists speech, the most precious 
of all of man's accomplishments. The means by which this is 
done was poetically described in Punch many years ago as 

follows : 

" The pharynx now goes up, 
The larynx, with a slam, 
Ejects a note from out the throat, 
Pushed by the diaphragm" 

a jingle that may better serve to fix the order of events in 
speech than a more technical description of speaking, or 
singing ; which differs one from the other mainly in the aid 
furnished by the lips and the tongue in speaking. 

Lips were made for other purposes than merely to be kissed; 
and in fact they are kissed too often for peace and safety, 
especially in the case of little children, who apparently have 
no rights in this matter that adults feel bound to respect. A 
kiss in Iceland, even if the lady consents, is punished with a 
fine sufficient to furnish a whole ship's crew with pilot 
jackets, and a similar or heavier penalty ought to be laid 
upon the promiscuous kissing of babies, and ladies among 
themselves. It is a foolish and nonsensical practice, and 
worse than that, dangerous, for diphtheria and worse diseases 
are thus carried about a community to the perplexity of the 
doctor and the dismay of his patient. Diphtheria is often, 
if not usually, communicated in this way, from what is sup- 
posed to be a simple sore throat. As competent authorities 
as Drs. Pepper and Jacobi believe that there are more cases 



164 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

of mild diphtheria out of bed than in, arid that the severer 
forms of the disease may be produced from these mild 
cases. The possibility of this ought to put an end to the 
indiscriminate kissing of babies, for, as it was recently well 
put in the Scientific American, " The children will not 
suffer if they go unkissed ; and their friends ought for 
their sake to forego the luxury. A single kiss has been 
known to infect a family ; and the most careful may be 
in a condition to communicate the disease without know- 
ing it. Beware, then, of playing Judas to the little 
ones." 

But osculation is not the only use to which lips can be put. 
Their sense of touch is so delicate that the blind have been 
able to read by moving their lips to and fro over an embossed 
page. The chief use, however, of the lips aside from their as- 
sistance in eating is the part that they play in speech. Cer- 
tain of the letters are known as labials, for the reason that 
they are formed by the lips, and many others cannot be 
formed without their aid. For instance, the same expira- 
tion may be made to sound either e, a, or o, according to the 
position of the lips. L, r, f , and v sounds are made by the 
tongue and lips jointly, and whispering is the voice produced 
by the vibration of the muscular walls of the lips, or, as Hux- 
ley puts it, a whisper is in fact a very low whistle. The wild 
beast of the mouth, which, according to St. James, is untamable 
" For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and 
of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of man- 
kind: but the tongue can no man tame" usually gets the 
blame of speech; but the fact is that the tongue is really the 
least important organ in speaking, and has nothing to do 
with voice at all. The distinction between the two is that 
voice is the sound produced by the vibration of elastic cords; 
speech is this sound modified by the throat, tongue, and lips. 
Voice is the music produced by the pipe-organ of the throat, 
while speech is its notes modified by the sounding-board 
of the pharynx and the various shapes the cavity of the 
mouth can be made to assume; many and various in that 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 165 

amazing " ready, spontaneous, automatic, self-sustaining flow 
of speech peculiar to our sisters, in which each develops her 
proposition without the slightest regard to what the other is 
saying." (O. W. Holmes.) 

But, useful as is the tongue, it is not absolutely indispensa- 
ble for talking. We shall see hereafter that the larynx plays 
the major part in speech. Huxley gives a long account 
of a man who had his tongue cut off clear back to the soft 
palate and yet was able to talk fluently, and pronounce 
all letters except t, d, m, s, and p, which were strangely 
changed into other consonant sounds; thus, tin was fin; dog, 
thog; cat, catf; big, pig; tack, fack or pack; dine, vine; mad, 
madf; tool, pool; do, thew; goose, gooth, etc. 

So that cutting out the tongue might no more cure a gos- 
sip than the pilgrim fathers' remedy of the ducking-stool. 
But extirpating her tongue would ruin her enjoyment of her 
neighbor's preserves, for the sense of taste is located in the 
mucous membrane of the tongue, especially in its back part. 
Much of that which passes for taste is really smell, for it is 
the odor of food which makes the mouth water. The tongue, 
like the fingers, has papillae, or ridges, scattered over it vary- 
ing in shape according to their location and duties. Three 
forms of these are known, namely, filiform, fungiform, and 
circumvallate. The filiform are long and pointed, and probably 
do little more than roughen the tongue, and thus help it to 
move the food hither and thither. In the calf these are almost 
spines, as you have appreciated if you ever happened to get your 
hand into its mouth when you were feeding " bossy " salt. 
These are the papillae which when coated give your tongue its 
furred look. (See Chapter I, page 18.) The fungiform (club- 
shaped) papillae are found here and there over the front of the 
tongue, while the fortified or circumvallate are arranged in 
the shape of the letter V at the base of the tongue. These 
latter are the chief organs of taste; but just how these little 
knobs tell us that sugar is sweet and vinegar is sour is more 
than at present is known, except that it must be done through 
the filaments of the nerves which cluster over them. We 



166 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

are very apt to confound smell with taste, so that mothers do 
a very sensible and physiological thing when they hold 
Johnnie's nose to make him take the luscious castor oil. If 
she could only keep her fingers there all day it would be all 
right; but when they are removed, then comes that awful 
corpse-like taste which must be known to be appreciated, and 
yet doubtless the Esquimaux, who guzzle train oil, would 
smack their lips over a bottle of " cold pressed." A Russian 
peasant would turn up his nose at the American idol, " pie," 
but feast like a king on raw whisky and tallow candles, and 
even our refined French brethren go into ecstasies over a dish 
of fried frogs or squirming snails. One man's meat is an- 
other's poison. There are whole families who have a horror 
of cheese. Some people cannot even take a homeopathic 
globule of mutton. There are well authenticated cases on 
record of gout always following fish, fearful sickness from 
eating strawberries, and many similar cases in regard to shell- 
fish. Strange as these may seem, we must leave them with 
the thought that they are no stranger than many other pecu- 
liarities that we inherit from our parents. 

If it be true, as some most excellent people assert, that we 
ought to pay no more attention to the food we are eating than 
if we were shoveling coal into a furnace, too much time has 
been spent on this matter of taste. So let us proceed past the 
soft palate, which hangs as a curtain before the pharynx, or 
the cavity at the top of the throat. The use of the soft palate 
is to prevent water and food from passing into the nostrils, 
which it closes as it is forced up in swallowing. Behind this 
palate curtain we find a little triangular room called the pha- 
rynx, from which we can either go up stairs by way of the sky- 
lights opening into the nostrils, or down stairs via either the 
windpipe or esophagus. The last-named route takes into 
the kitchen and dining-room, already visited (see Chapter IY) ; 
the former leads into the larynx, which different routes were 
evidently unknown to the school-boy who wrote: " A throat is 
convenient to have, especially for ministers and roosters. 
The one eats corn and crows with it; the other preaches 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 



167 



XTy 



through hisn and ties it up." If the young author had, how- 
ever, taken his stand before a looking-glass and pushed down 
the root of his tongue as far as possible, at the same time ut- 
tering the sound a-a, he could have seen why food and preach- 
ing do not travel the same route. At the top of the wind- 
pipe with a good light may be seen a yellowish-white leaf- 
like body the epiglottis moving to and fro with every 
inspiration and expiration and shutting down like a trap-door, 
or bridge, over which the food passes when we swallow. The 
larynx is essentially a triangular carti- 
laginous box, flattened behind and at the 
sides, while in front it forms a vertical 
ridge named Adam's apple, in memory 
of Eve's gift, the core of which is fabled 
to have stuck at this point. This larynx 
box is hung on a V-shaped bone and 
consists of nine cartilages, the largest of 
which is named the shield, or thyroid, 
cartilage, from its shape. On its lower 
edge it is joined to another, the cricoid, 
or seal ring, cartilage, whose seal being 
placed behind leaves a gap in front filled TRACHEA AND LARYNX. 
in only with membrane. By the aid of a ^p. Epiglottis. Cr.cricoid. 
laryngoscopic mirror, properly held in the throat, we may 
see, if we are curiously inclined, on the upper and back part 
of the seal-ring cartilage fastened two curly cartilaginous 
bits, known as the funnel (arytenoid) cartilages, to which are 
fastened tiny muscles to pull these funnel cartilages to- 
gether or apart. 

Just below these cartilages are the vocal chords proper, 
which correspond to the strings of a violin, of which the 
human pharynx represents the body, or sounding-board, for 
a violin more nearly resembles a human voice in its tones 
than any other musical instrument. Musically speaking, the 
human vocal apparatus is a combination of a reed-organ 
and the violin, of which the trachea is the pipe, and the 
pharynx and the nasal cavities the body of the violin, whose 




168 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

strings are in the larynx, which we have seen is placed 
below the epiglottis in the windpipe. These violin strings 
are known to the anatomist as vocal cords, but when we speak 
of them as such please drive out of your mind any idea that 
they look at all like violin strings or wrapping cords. On 
the contrary, if you ever have the opportunity to look with a 
small mirror (laryngoscope) properly held over the larynx, 
you will find the windpipe just below the epiglottis nearly 
closed by two, pale reddish projections, or swellings, on its 
inner surface. These do not completely come together, but 
leave a V-shaped opening between them. With an attempt 
to say Ah-a you will find these edges become nearly parallel, 
the chink narrower, and its thin edges vibrate from the cur- 
rent of air set in motion below from the lungs outward. 
The principle is that of the blade of grass held between our 
thumbs which we blow upon to make squeak. Put two 
blades of grass at a slight angle between your thumbs and 
you have, except in color, a very fair working model of the 
human vocal cords in repose. The size, shape, and relative 
position of the blades of grass are about those of a human 
glottis, or the apparatus by which we sing and talk. The 
sound produced by this grassy musical instrument is caused 
by the vibrations produced in the grass by the motion 
of the air blown upon it. These vibrations start waves of 
sound, and upon the frequency of these depends the pitch 
of our musical instrument if we may so call the grass be- 
tween our thumbs. In exactly the same way the human 
larynx is made to produce sounds by the passage of the air 
from the lungs outward. When the chords are separated 
so as to form a V-shaped chink the air passes quietly in and 
out without giving rise to any sounds ; but when the chords 
are drawn parallel and their free edges put upon the stretch, 
the passage of the breath through this narrow opening causes 
its edges to vibrate, just as it did with the blades of grass, or 
as does the reed in a pipe-organ, and similarly produces audi- 
ble sounds, or sound waves, upon which they depend; for all 
sounds depend upon vibrations of varying rapidity. If they 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 169 

are irregular and of uncertain intervals we call the result a 
noise, but if these vibrations come with regularity we pro- 
duce what is known as a musical note. This may be proven 
by holding a card against a toothed-wheel slowly rotating. 
If struck irregularly it makes only a noise, and so long as 
the wheel turns slowly we can distinguish between these 
separate noises, or in other words the vibration of the card 
is so transient and irregular that it fails to produce the 
regularity in vibration necessary to make a musical note. 
Turn the wheel faster, and hold the card against the teeth, 
and the whole character of the sound changes. It becomes 
continuous and musical, and as the machine revolves faster 
and faster, the pitch of the sound is heightened to a shriek, 
and then becomes inaudible, or in other words the vibrations 
may become so rapid as to fail to make an impression upon 
the auditory nerves, which can hear sound vibrations only 
between certain limits. The exact number of sound waves 
necessary to produce any given note has been accurately 
counted, and by a proper instrument giving these vibrations 
any given note can be reproduced. Now the number of these 
vibrations depends upon the length and tension of the string 
vibrating, and all this is regulated in our throats by the 
action of the tiny muscles guiding the vocal cords. The 
quality of a voice bass, tenor, etc. depends upon the 
relative shape of the larynx, and hence the different quality 
of male and female voices, and the inability of the gentler sex 
to sing bass. The range of a voice depends upon the differ- 
ence of tension to which the vocal chords can be subjected, 
and accuracy in singing depends upon our ability to adjust 
this tension to any point desired. No amount of training can 
give a man, or a woman, longer or shorter vocal cords, and 
hence we cannot greatly vary the natural range of voice; 
but education is all-essential to accuracy in singing. The 
differences of adjustment in the vocal cords are so slight 
and so delicate that those who cannot sing are lost in wonder, 
love and praise in the presence of an artist such as Catilani, 
whose voice is said to have been accurate to a register of 



170 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

three octaves, while their own voices can accomplish only 
three notes, and cannot certainly be depended upon for 
even those ; or, still worse, like the unfortunate boy, may get 
the credit for Sunday wood-sawing when only holding a 
private praise service in the barn. 

Speech, as has already been said, depends upon the modi- 
fication in the sounds produced by the vibrations of the vocal 
cords by the cavities of the nose and mouth. This was 
clearly demonstrated by Professor Rood, of New York, in his 
popular lectures on the voice, in which he shows a serviceable 
set of vocal cords made from a sheet of rubber. These by 
blowing through them will howl most dismally; then by 
placing this sheet of rubber in different shaped pipes, through 
which air is forced by a bellows, it can be made to utter very 
distinct sounds, and even cry out Pa-pa in a way that would 
call a loving father out of bed on the coldest winter night. 
The French dolls that say Ma-ma when squeezed are made 
on the same principle. Professor Kemplon, of Vienna, 
has further practically applied the principle so that he has 
invented a machine which speaks not only syllables, but 
whole words and sentences. A Mr. Faber has done still bet- 
ter, having invented a singing machine which runs up and 
down the scale ; and perhaps the time will come when the 
church will order a choir of these along with their organ, 
and thus put an end to those everlasting squabbles which make 
miserable the life of the music committee unless Dr. Tourjee 
brings in the millennium by congregational singing before 
that time. All these artificial singing and talking ma- 
chines are, however, cumbersome and intricate compared 
with ours, which is held in a space hardly larger than your 
two thumbs. It is, to be sure, a single pipe-organ, but Von 
Kamper has proven that with a single pipe only fourteen 
stops are necessary for speech ; namely, those represent- 
ing the vowels and 1, r, w, f, s, b, d, g, sch, which 
by the aid of the tongue, lips, and lungs can give forth an 
almost infinite variety of sounds. According to Scripture, 
our voices ought to be as " one who playeth well on an in- 



THE DAUGHTERS OP Music. 171 

strument," or u as a very lovely song of one that hath a 
pleasant voice," for there is no music so sweet as a properly 
modulated, human voice. Unfortunately, in this country the 
vocal chords seem to be generally out of tune, for the harsh, 
shrill, nasal American voice is the butt of the civilized stage. 
There is an intenseness and a " concert pitch " to the voice 
of the average American young lady that goes through the 
ears of an educated foreigner like a knife, for there is a soft- 
ness and gentle modulation to the feminine voice abroad that 
is exceedingly enjoyable. The shrillness of the average 
American voice is due in part to habit, for its high pitch can 
be lowered by carefulness, but its original cause may be 
found in the dryness of our climate as compared with Europe. 
We have, it is true, as large a rainfall, but the wind springs 
up as soon as the rain is over, and dries out the moisture from 
the atmosphere, so that cabinet work made on the other side 
of the water soon drops to pieces in America. This quality 
in the atmosphere tends to beget a restlessness which never 
fails to attract the attention of a foreigner. The same cause 
produces nasal catarrh, so frequent in this country, and sooner 
or later affects the quality of the voice also. Possibly the 
presence of ozone in our atmosphere has also something to 
do with the timbre of the American voice, for experiments 
recently carried on in Paris show that the inhalation of vari- 
ous volatile substances will change the quality of the human 
voice. Dr. Sandras found that he could in this way produce 
the characteristic voice of the drunkard and remove it tem- 
porarily at will, as well as alter -the pitch of the voice and 
its range also. " Tar- water, alcohol, ether, and the oils 
employed for this purpose are not new ; it is only their 
application which may be said to be novel. The most 
curious part of the experiments is the accuracy with which 
certain well-defined effects are said to be obtained. Thus, a 
certain number of inhalations of one kind will diminish the 
compass by so many notes, while another will confer an 
additional eight or ten ; some even limit the range to five or 
six notes." 



172 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

It is claimed by some that the quality of the Italian voice 
is due to the presence of ammonia in the air of Italy, and an 
enterprising Yankee has actually invented and patented 
an ammoniaphone, which it is hoped will transform the 
native harshness of the American voice to the sweetness 
of a Patti's. Speed the day ! but, as his progress as yet seems 
discouragingly slow, the best thing that can be done in the 
interval is to use the voice naturally and give it a fair op- 
portunity to work untrammeled. Tight collars have more 
to do with clergymen's sore throats than continuous speak- 
ing, provided the voice be used in natural speaking, not 
preaching, with its artificial intonations. During public 
speaking the neck expands an inch or more, from the surplus 
of blood required for the brain and vocal cords. At such 
a time an ordinary collar becomes too tight, and congests 
the throat and neck and head so that the unconventional 
circuit rider of the earlier day would, as he spoke, divest 
himself of cravat and collar and speak at his best with bared 
neck. 

" Women," says H. L. Hastings, " go with their necks 
bare and men keep theirs swathed and bandaged, and ten 
women have sweet voices where one man has one. A man's 
voice should be as pure as a woman's. Why is it not ? He 
is shaved and choked. God has provided a covering for 
man's throat light and soft, it clothes the neck and pre- 
serves the health ; but a man gets a sharp iron, scrapes his 
neck, ties a rag around it, takes cold, has sore throat, bron- 
chitis, and consumption, and dies." Or if it does not come 
to that he finds himself afflicted with a chronic sore throat 
and a perpetual sniffing and hawking, which makes him an 
easy prey to all of the brethren " late in the ministry " who 
have a sure cure for catarrh. Loose collars, frequent bathing 
of the neck with cold water, and the exercise of care to 
avoid getting chilled will do more for the radical cure of 
catarrh than all the inhalers ever advertised, unless the 
congestion of the nose has proceeded to chronic disease of 
the turbinated bones. 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 173 

These are two scroll-shaped bones, situated at the back of 
the nose, very light and spongy, because filled with cavities 
which communicate with the interior of the nose, and are 
lined with the same mucous membrane (ciliated). Above 
and to the front of these turbinated bones, about on the level 
with the upper part of the nose, is a delicate perforated plate 
of bone (cribriform) through which the olfactory nerve 
sends innumerable filaments to the mucous membrane of 
this and the surrounding parts of the nose. By these we are 
enabled to smell, a faculty which requires that the air con- 
taining the odorous particles must find its way up the nose 
to the cribriform plate, and there make its impression upon 
the terminal fibers of the olfactory nerve. These odors may 
pass directly up from the mouth or through the nostrils, 
where the process is assisted by sniffing, or drawing by a 
sudden inspiration, these odoriferous particles further up 
into the nose. If, however, the turbinated bones are swollen, 
as takes place in recent colds or chronic catarrh, the passage 
upward of the fragrant air is impeded and the sense of smell 
is either partially or entirely lost. 

The organs of smell are not as fully developed in man as 
in some of the lower animals, notably insects and certain 
fishes ; the shark, for instance, having no less than twelve 
square feet of olfactory organs. The faculty of scent may 
be cultivated like all other faculties, as is proven by blood- 
hounds and breeds of dogs which have been especially trained 
in this direction until it becomes an hereditary faculty. Those 
who deal in teas, coffees, perfumes, wine, and butter often 
cultivate their powers to a wonderful degree in their especial 
lines, but with the majority of people it is the least culti- 
vated of the senses, although O. W. Holmes thinks it the 
one which most powerfully appeals to memory. Professor 
Valentine has recently tested the delicacy of the sense of 
smell in regard to various odorous substances, and found 
" that a current of air containing 1-30,000 milligram of 
bromine, or 1-500,000 milligram of sulphureted hydrogen, 
or 1-2,000,000 milligram of oil of roses can be perceived by 



174 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

the sense of smell. He also determined that the amount of 
odoriferous air which must pass over the olfactory membrane 
in order to excite the sense of smell was from 50 to- 100 
cubic centimeters (one tenth to one fifth of a pint). He cal- 
culated, therefore, that the actual amount of bromine neces- 
sary to excite a sense of smell was 1-600 milligram ; of 
sulphureted hydrogen, 1-5,000 milligram ; of oil of roses, 
1-20,000 milligram (about "1-120,000 of a grain). Two recent 
experimenters, E. Fischer and F. Pentzoldt, of'Erlangen, have 
found two other substances which far exceed the foregoing 
in their capacity for affecting the olfactory nerves. These 
were mercaptan (sulphureted alcohol) and chlorphenol. They 
found that in air containing 1-230,000,000 milligram to the 
cubic centimeter of chlorphenol, and 1-23,000,000,000 mil- 
ligram of mercaptan, these substances can be appreciated, 
and it was estimated that only 1-4,600,000 milligram of 
chlorphenol and 1-460,000,000 milligram of mercaptan is 
necessary to excite a sensation of smell. There exists, there- 
fore, a substance which in so small a subdivision as 1-2,760,- 
000,000 grain, or not far from one three-billionth of a grain, is 
capable of calling out a nerve impulse. This subdivision of 
matter is quite beyond comprehension, yet the nose alone 
can appreciate it. The smallest subdivision appreciable by 
the eye through the spectroscope is 1-1,400,000 milligram of 
sodium, which is a 250 times coarser division of matter than 
the minimum of odor-exciting mercaptan. " 

Contrary to general belief, the sense of smell is more acute 
in man than in woman, for the experiments of Nicolls and 
Bailey have proved this beyond a reasonable doubt. Their 
experiments were made by means of a series of solutions of 
oil of cloves, extract of garlic, and prussic acid, which were 
successively diluted and then submitted to a number of per- 
sons of both sexes in order to classify properly their sense of 
smelling. The result showed conclusively that the sense of 
smell was generally much more delicate in males than in 
females, but that the degree of acuteness had a wide indi- 
vidual variation; thus some were able to detect one part of 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 175 

prussic acid to two million parts of water, a dilution too weak 
to be detected by any chemical test, while others of both 
sexes were unable to detect prussic acid in solutions of 
dangerous strength. 

While it is possible for disease to be introduced into the 
system through the nasal organs, as a rule they are our best 
protection against toxic vapors. Doubtless the sense of smell 
becomes weary by continued exposure to unpleasant odors, 
but fortunately most of these are disagreeable rather than 
dangerous. With rare exception those employed at work in 
the rank odors of a fertilizing factory or a fish-rendering es- 
tablishment enjoy comparatively good health, provided respi- 
ration is carried on through the nose. It may even be fairly 
questioned whether the perfume of flowers is not as mis- 
chievous as those from such factories. Says a recent writer 
on this subject, " The odors of flowers in a closed chamber 
of limited space, especially during the night, manifest them- 
selves by serious disorders, such as headache, syncope, and 
even by asphyxia, if their action is too prolonged. In nerv- 
ous persons numbness may occur in all the members, con- 
vulsions, and loss of voice; but in general only a state of som- 
nolence, accompanied by feebleness and retardation of the 
action of the heart. This state is often associated with well- 
marked dimness of vision. Among the flowers that are most 
deleterious may be mentioned the lily, hyacinth, narcissus, 
crocus, rose, carnation, honeysuckle, jasmine, violet, elder, etc. 
In addition to the danger caused by their smell should be 
mentioned their action on the air. During the night flowers 
actively produce carbonic acid, which is injurious to health. 
Majendie cites a case of death caused by a large bouquet of 
lilies which th3 sufferer, a previously healthy woman, allowed 
to remain in her bed-room while she slept. Among the more 
dangerous plants may be mentioned the walnut, the bay-tree, 
and the hemp. The action of these is well known, the latter, 
indeed, producing a kind of drunkenness. Certain drugs 
may even produce death by the inhalation of their vapors 
only ; noticeable among these are the so-called anaesthetic 



176 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

vapors, prussic and osmic acid. At a session of the French 
Academy of Sciences, some years ago, a noted French chemist 
presented to that body a small tin box containing, according 
to his statement, enough osmic acid to kill every inhabitant 
of the city of Paris provided the package was broken. The 
sense of smell is sometimes so intensified that with certain 
persons it produces the effects of intoxication, so that Pope's 

lines. 

" Die of a rose in aromatic pain 

By swift effluvia darting through the brain," 

was almost realized in the case of Grebry, the composer, and 
Anne of Austria, upon whom the odor of roses produced 
poisonous effects. There is also on record a well-authenti- 
cated case of a man falling down in strong convulsions at 
the smell of mutton, and the writer is personally acquainted 
with cases where intense nausea is produced whenever a cat 
is admitted into the room, and another Avhere similar effects 
are produced by the odor of caraway seeds. Handling 
ipecac with many druggists produces attacks closely resem- 
bling hay fever, which by the way is now generally believed 
to be excited by the microscopic pollen of certain weeds 
floating in the air. Per contra, Hahnemann, during the last 
years of his life, taught that all diseases could be cured by 
olfaction, or the smelling of certain medicated sugar glob- 
ules. Unfortunately, his hopes have not been realized, and 
the nose serves us only as an organ for the enjoyment of 
sweet odors and the utilization of pocket-handkerchiefs. 

The reason why it was necessary, as says the old song, for 
Nancy " to wipe her apron with the corner of her eye" when 
the sad news of her true lover's death came is that just there, 
on the outer side of the eye, the tear-factory, or the lachry- 
mal gland, is situated. On the outer and upper margin of 
the eye we find this gland, which is about the size of an 
almond, kept constantly at work pouring out its fluid and 
spreading it by means of seven minute canals over the surface 
of the eye. Thus the eye is kept bathed and freed from dust, 
and so important is this work done by the lachrymal gland 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 177 

that if, for any reason, it is unable to perform its duty the 
eye grows opaque and loses its sight ; so that all are not 
"tears, idle tears," though there must have been many 
such in Rome, if the Roman ladies ever filled the " tear 
jugs" which are found there in almost every tomb. Ours 
are disposed of in a much less romantic way. If there are 
too many for the eye to hold comfortably they trickle over 
the lids down the cheeks ; but ordinarily they find their way 
out by means of a couple of little passages of their own into 
the nose. If you will turn down the lid you will find near 
its inner corner a little black spot on its inner margin. Now, 
if you had a very fine silver probe you would find that it 
would enter a little canal, and, by some dexterous turnings, 
you could at last bring out this probe near the floor of the 
nostrils, and this is the course that the tears usually take; 
hence the sudden desire for a pocket-handkerchief when our 
feelings begin to melt. 

Retracing our steps, let us return to what the poets call 
" the curtained windows of the ivory palace of the soul." This 
is poetical. Facts are better expressed by saying that the 
eye is an optical instrument admirably adapted for the use 
of "those that look out at the windows." We find it amply 
protected from injury by the fluids already spoken of, the 
eyelids, and the eyebrows. The latter act as a screen, or 
as the gutters on a roof, to turn aside fluid or dust which other- 
wise might find its way into the eye. The eyebrows further- 
more contain several small muscles, which act both voluntarily 
and involuntarily to protect the eyes from harm by narrowing 
the opening over them. This is more perfectly accomplished 
by means of the eyelids, which are two movable shutters 
made to close at will over the eye. The rapid involuntary 
motion of these constitutes winking, which is designed by 
the aid of the eyelashes to beat back insects or dust which 
would otherwise find their way into the eye proper. This, 
known as the eyeball, is a round body a little more than an 
inch in diameter, made up of several layers or coatings, and 
securely lodged in its own bony chamber or orbit. In the 
8* 



178 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

back part of the orbit we find an opening through which 
the optic nerve passes down from the brain and perforates 
the back part of the eye a little to the inner side, where it 
spreads out at the back of the eyeball through a thin mem- 
brane called the retina. This is at no point more than 
one eightieth of an inch in thickness, and represents the 
sensitive plate used in a photographer's shop. The retina is 
sometimes called the third coat, or tunic, of the eye, resting 
behind on the choroid, or second coat, hereafter to be de- 
scribed, and in front lying in immediate contact with a jelly- 
like fluid known as the vitreous humor. The retina itself, 
then, is an exceedingly delicate membrane, which, under the 
microscope, can be divided into several distinct layers. At 
its back, that is, nearest to the orbit, are nerve fibers and cor- 
puscles. (See Chapter VIII). Above this we find what has 
been called the layer of rods and cones, minute, rod-like, and 
conical bodies standing perpendicularly to the plane of the re- 
tina. These rods and cones occupy the anterior quarter of the 
retina, standing above the connective tissue which binds it to 
the choroid, and placing the nerve fibers and vessels to the 
front. It should be understood, therefore, that the rods and 
cones are not really modifications of the nerve tissue, but of 
the membrane through which this is interspersed. This is 
best shown at what is known as the yellow spot (macula 
lutea, a circular depression of a yellowish color about the 
middle of the retina), near which is the point of entrance 
for the optic nerve, whence it spreads its fibers into the retina 
proper, ^.t this point of entrance the nerve fibers predomi- 
nate, and the rods and cones are absent, while at the yellow 
spot the cones are abundant and close-set, while the rods are 
scanty, and found only toward its margin. The exact use 
to which these rods and cones are applied is not definitely 
known further than that it is their function to transform the 
waves of light into the impression which we know as sight. 
This sensation takes place in the brain, for a hard blow on 
the back of the head will make us see stars, although it be 
broad daylight. 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 179 

Similarly, irritation or galvanization of the optic nerve will 
produce the sensation of light even though the eye and the 
retina are destroyed. Light, says Huxley, falling on 
the optic nerve does not excite it; " the fibers of the optic 
nerve in themselves are as blind as any other part of the 
body." But just as the delicate filaments of the ear and the 
fibers of Corti are contrivances for converting the vibration 
of the fluids of the ear, so the vibration of the fluids of the 
eye may be similarly converted into the sensation of light 
and color. " There is," says Professor Barret, " a striking 
analogy between music and color; the rate of vibration in 
sound gave rise to the gamut, and in colors the rate of vibra- 
tion in like manner gave rise to the notes forming the spec- 
trum. The colors of the spectrum showed a sequence analo- 
gous to the sequence of pitch in the gamut. Newton thought 
that there might " be a correspondence between the length of 
the spectrum colors and the vibrations of musical sounds, but 
the true relationship was between the vibrating pitch of color 
and the vibrating pitch of sound. The extreme limits of the 
spectrum embraced an octave in music. Calling red 100, the 
proportionate vibration of orange was 89, that of yellow 81, 
that of green 75, that of blue 69, that of indigo 64, that of 
violet 60, that of ultra- violet 53, and an obscure or extreme 
violet 50. The vibration of C in music corresponded to that 
of red in color, and taking C as 100, the vibration of D was 
89, that of E 80, that of F 74, that of G 67, that of A 60, 
that of B 53, and that of C 50. The vibration of unison, 
rendered visible, produced on a screen the figure of a circle, 
that of an octave formed a figure resembling 8, and combina- 
tions of figure formed by the visible reflection of intervals of 
a fourth, a sixth, etc., were proportionately complicated." 

The sensibility of the different portions of the retina to color 
and light varies very greatly. At the entrance of the optic 
nerve the retina is absolutely blind, but elsewhere light and 
color impressions have a duration of their own. About an 
eighth of a second is required for the first of these, so that 
impressions of light which follow each other more rapidly 



180 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEXE. 

than an eighth of a second are practically continuous. A 
striking illustration of this may sometimes be seen in riding 
rapidly past a board fence in which there are numerous per- 
pendicular cracks. Through each of these the eye gets but a 
passing glimpse, but these succeed each other so rapidly that 
to all appearance the fence is abolished, and we can see almost 
as plainly what is beyond it as if no fence were there. The 
excitability of the retina is, however, soon exhausted, for 
continued gazing at a bright light quickly exhausts the sus- 
ceptibility of that part of the retina upon which its rays have 
fallen. Turning now from the bright light and looking to- 
ward a light surface you find a dark spot corresponding to 
the bright one just looked upon. If the bright light be of 
one color the retina becomes exhausted for that tint only, but 
may recognize other colors. Each color has what is known 
as its complementary color, and these are those which will be 
seen in the image produced by this temporary blindness of 
the retina; for instance, if a red cross be made upon a sheet 
of white paper and steadily gazed upon for a while with one 
eye, and then this turned to look upon a page of perfectly 
white paper there will be apparently seen upon this a green 
cross of exactly the same size and shape as the red one just 
looked upon, although somewhat less distinct in outline. 

Boll, a recent observer, thinks that the ability of the retina 
to recognize hues is due to a peculiar red color, which is con- 
stantly being destroyed by the influence of light and is as con- 
stantly being regenerated by the ordinary processes of nutri- 
tion. The "vision red" or " erythopsin," as its discoverer 
names it, attains its maximum after a night's rest and sleep, 
or when an animal has been kept for some hours in darkness; 
it is soluble in solutions of the biliary acids and in glycerine, 
and probably plays a part in the production of the red reflec- 
tion from the f undus of the eye seen by the opthalmoscope. 
Possibly the loss of erythopsin constitutes the color-blindness 
whose more common form is that caused by the absence of 
perception of one of the three fundamental colors. These 
are mentioned in the order of their comparative frequency: 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 181 

namely, where the elementary sensation corresponding to red 
is wanting; next, the absence or imperfect perception of 
green ; and third, of blue or violet. It will be noticed as a 
remarkable fact that the first two colors are those now used 
to make up the entire code of railway signals, and that this 
defect for red occurs more frequently than for any other 
color. This is an item of the greatest importance in railway 
and vessel management, since red is almost always used for 
the danger signal. To add still further to the deceptive and 
dangerous character of these defects, there are quite a number 
of persons who are unable to distinguish between the pri- 
mary colors at night, while their perception or sensation of 
color by daylight is apparently perfect. Again, there is 
another defect, which is an inability to distinguish between 
or to recognize the primary colors at certain distances, vary- 
ing more or less in individuals. This was found to be the 
most difficult of all defects to detect by the ordinary tests for 
color-blindness. 

On account of the importance of color blindness, in relation 
to the danger signals on railroads and steamboats, it is usual to 
test all those wishing for employment by means of the match- 
ing various colored worsteds. Samples of various colors 
are given to the one on trial, which he endeavors to match. 
Examinations show, among men at least, one out of every 
fifty defective, and many to a degree that unfits them for 
any service requiring accuracy in the perception of colors. 
The defect is often congenital, but is also known to be 
caused by alcohol or tobacco, and by some forms of mental 
disease. 

Besides color-blindness the eye is subject to various de- 
fects inherited and acquired, such as squint, myopia, presby- 
opia. Squint or cross eyes are where their axes do not corre- 
spond, so that vision is practiced with one eye instead of two. 
Squinting is often a bad habit, which, as soon as observed, 
should be obviated by using the eyes one at a time, and look- 
ing with each in a direction opposite to that toward which 
it inclines, or using the affected eye a little from time to time 



182 PHYSIOLOGY AXD HYGIENE. 

with the finger extended over the nose as an additional 
septum to increase its height. 

Myopia, or near-sightedness, is most frequently found in 
students and school-children, and is caused by poor light, 
poor printing, either in regard to the size of the type or color 
of the paper; improper ventilation; faulty positions while 
studying; whatever tends to produce any congestion about 
the head, and lowering the vitality from any cause what- 
ever. 

Dr. Andrews says on this subject: "In early life the tis- 
sues are soft. Some eyes are believed to have a more yield- 
ing or plastic tissue than others. The extensible, sclerotic 
coat becomes stretched. The yielding occurs most at the 
rear of the eye-ball, which thus becomes elongated. So the 
retina is moved behind the best locality for focalizing. No 
doubt this exists sometimes as an inheritance or an anatom- 
ical defect. But far oftener it is a yielding caused by the 
improper use of the eye. 

" The act of accommodation of the eye is, by nature, one of 
slight but of healthy tension. But if constantly overdrawn, 
or if the tissue of the eye is flabby or not sufficiently resist- 
ant, the form is changed so as to become a serious defect. 
The child that uses the eye too early or too much in study, 
or with wrong type or books, or when the general health is 
not good, or too soon after recovery from sickness, or in 
overheated or foul air, or in too great a glare, or with defi- 
ciency of light, is too likely to give a training to the eye 
which secures for it more or less imperfection of vision." 

Some practical hints for the care of the eyes may be found 
at the close of the present chapter, in which, if space 
allowed, it would be interesting to attempt to solve the ques- 
tion whether sight, or perception of the form of external ob- 
jects, is possible in any other way than by the eyes. It would 
open a long and difficult theme for discussion, but in the 
midst of much willful deception on the part of clairvoy- 
ants and mind-readers it seems clearly proven that som- 
nambulists, or sleep - walkers, go wherever they please 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 183 

without hesitation, read and write, and give ample evidence 
of a power of perception independent of the usual organs of 
vision. Persons subject to attacks of catalepsy frequently 
show the same peculiarity. M. Despine, late inspector of 
the mineral waters of Aix, in Savoy, mentions the following 
among many other cases : " Not only could our patient hear 
by means of the palm of her hand, but we have seen her 
read without the assistance of the eyes, merely with the tips 
of the fingers, which she passed rapidly over the page that 
she wished to read. At other times we have seen her select 
from a parcel of more than thirty letters the one which she 
was required to pick out ; also, write several letters, and 
correct on reading them over again, always with her finger 
ends, the mistakes she had made ; copy one letter, word for 
word, reading it with her left elbow, while she wrote with 
her right hand. During these proceedings a thick paste- 
board completely intercepted any visual ray that might have 
reached her eyes. The same phenomenon was manifested at 
the soles of her feet, on the epigastrium, and other parts of 
the body, where a sensation of pain was produced by the 
mere touch." Persons who have become blind have also 
been known to acquire the same power, for example : Har- 
riet Martineau tells of an old lady who had been blind from 
her birth, and yet saw in her sleep, and in her waking state 
described, the color of the clothing of individuals correctly. 
In these cases, no doubt, perception is, as usual, in the brain ; 
but either all the nerves of the surface have the power of 
conveying the impressions of light to that organ, or some 
special parts of the body, as the ends of the fingers, the 
occiput, or the epigastrium, assume the office of the eyes. 

These phenomena might be explained by the heightened 
muscular sense spoken of previously. In their last analysis 
all sense perceptions are some form of touch. But the eye 
is also a well-constructed optical instrument, for without 
taking further time to describe minutely all the parts of the 
eye and it is most daintily put together please to remember 
that it is essentially a water camera. The sclerotic is the 



184 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

box, the cornea and crystalline lens are the lenses, and the 
retina the plate on which the picture falls, upside down, 
too, just as you have noticed it at the photographers ; but 
we have been so used to seeing things upside down that 
when we do see them right side up they look just the other 
way. This and some other minor defects so provoked a 
crabbed pedantic German optician, that he declared lately 
that if the eye was brought to him as an optical instrument 
he would throw it away on account of its many faults. 
If this is so, it is a great pity that he was not consulted before 
our eyes were made ; for unfortunately a poor eye cannot be 
made as good as new. Moreover, good care must be taken 
of the " blue seas," " dark pools," " lode stars," or whatever 
else the poets may call them ; these willing servants must 
not be overtaxed. Nature gives you fair warning when you 
are doing this, and just as soon as the eyes begin to feel 
tired give them rest, even if you are only two pages distant 
from the blissful marriage of the heroine. Eyes that look as 
if they were trimmed with red tape would take away half 
the charms of a Venus, to say nothing of the unlovely temper 
that it produces to have your eyes feel as if they were full of 
sticks. For all of which reasons take good care of these 
photographic galleries of yours, and above all never admit 
there a picture which you would be unwilling to see again. 
It may color the retina but for the fraction of a second, and 
then is gone, as we think forever ; but not so. Its negative 
has only been laid away in the brain, and we know not at 
what day or what hour memory's magical chemicals may 
bring it back in all its sickening realities. Finally, heed 
Dr. Lincoln's directions for the use of the eyes, which are 
so practical and useful that we copy them entire from Dr. 
Hunt's Hygiene : 

" When writing, reading, drawing, sewing, always take care 
that, (a) the room is comfortably cool, and the feet warm ; 
(b) there is nothing tight about the neck ; (c) there is plenty 
of light, without dazzling the eyes ; (d) the sun does not 
shine directly upon the object you are at work upon, or upon 



THE DAUGHTERS OF Music. 185 

objects in front of you ; (e) the light does not come from in 
front ; it is best when it comes over the left shoulder ; (f) 
the head is not bent very much over the work ; (g) the page 
is nearly perpendicular to the line of sight ; that is, that the 
line of the eye is nearly opposite the middle of the page, for 
an object held slanting is not seen so clearly ; (h) that the 
page or other object is not less than fifteen inches from the 
eye ; (i) in any case where the eyes have any defect, give up 
needlework, drawing of fine maps, and all such work, except 
for very short tasks in the moining. (J) In addition, never 
study or write before breakfast by lamplight ; (k] do not lie 
down when reading ; (I) if your eyes are aching from fire- 
light, from looking at the snow, from overwork, or other 
causes, a pair of colored glasses may be advised to be used 
for a while ; (m) never play tricks with the eyes, as squinting 
or rolling them, (w) The eyes are often troublesome when 
the stomach is out of order, (o) Avoid reading or sewing 
by twilight, or when debilitated by recent illness, especially 
fever, (p) It is indispensable in all forms of labor requiring 
the exercise of vision on minute objects that the worker 
should rise from his task now and then, take a few deep in- 
spirations with closed mouth ; stretch the frame out into the 
most erect posture, throw the arms backward and forward, 
and if possible step to a window, or open air, if only for a 
minute. 

To test for color-blindness, obtain a set of test worsteds, 
which should be spread upon a white cloth. First lay 
the green skein a little to one side, and tell the subject to 
lay alongside of the test skein all the skeins containing a 
shade of that color in any degree. Avoid naming " green " 
to him. If he throws out only shades of green or light blues 
his color sense is normal (C.S.N.) and the test is completed. 
But if in addition he throws out any shade of gray, or light 
yellow, salmon, or pink, he is color-blind. If he hesitates, 
as if in doubt about them, but yet does not throw them out, 
he probably has " feeble color sense " (C.S.F). 



186 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER VII. 

TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 

WHAT is a nerve ? If you ever watched a dentist draw 
one out you will probably remember that when it came it 
looked like nothing as much as a little snip of wet, white 
cotton thread. Very likely you were provoked that such a 
contemptible little thing should have given you so much 
pain, but if you put this thready bit of nerve beneath a mi- 
croscope you will lind it far different from any thread that 
ever came from the reels of a Clark or Coates. One of their 
fibers would look beneath such a glass like a huge, knotty 
hawser ; but this nerve is shut up in a smooth, shining 
sheath. Break into this and we find the true nerve fibers, 
which consist of tubes made of a white substance (of Pur- 
kinje), and the axis cylinder, or gray substance (of Schwann). 
This pearly gray substance is the really essential part of 
the nerve, the wire in this telegraph system, and all else 
are but accessories and packing, something like the gutta 
percha wrapped around the wires in a submarine cable. 
Hence we find that wherever we are to receive impressions, 
this gray substance of Purkinje is always on hand to receive 
and transmit these messages, pleasurable or otherwise. 

In the nerve we have been considering we have all the 
kinds of nervous matter that are known to us ; namely, the 
gray, white, and their various sheaths. But these substances 
may be arranged in very different ways. We may have a 
simple nerve fiber, or we may have a perfect whorl and maze 
of these simple nerves, looking so much like a tangled spool 
of thread that they have been called a plexus, from plexto, 
to weave. 

Again, we have nervous masses which are called ganglia, 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 



187 



knots. And such they are, for they are really gordian knots 
of the gray substance, which in these ganglia takes the form 
of brambly cells, each containing in its center a dot of our 
old friend, germinal matter. 

These ganglia, or nerve 
knots, appear to be in fact 
small brains, placed where 
most needed, and doing their 
peculiar work without troub- 
ling the greater brain, or en- 
cephalon ; thus, for instance, 
there are fifteen or twenty 
of these ganglia scattered 
through the heart, and it is 
to these that the heart car- 
ries its wants, only in rare 
and dangerous cases appeal- 
ing to the higher court of the 
brain proper for assistance. 

These ganglia, plexi, and 
simple nerve fibers are all that ^ pathetic ffanglion cel1 from man '~ 
we find in the sympathetic 

nervous system. (See cut, page 93.) Nerves, like the muscles, 
are of two kinds; namely, those which act without our knowl- 
edge, and those which give us fair warning of their troubles 
and trials. The involuntary nerves have been named the 
sympathetic, the others the cerebro-spinal system. It is the 
sympathetic system by which, when we sleep as well as when 
we are awake, we live and have our being, for it regulates 
the work of the heart and lungs and all the functions of 
mere animal life. 

The lowest forms of animals have only this sympathetic 
nervous system, the very lowest owning nothing but a single 
ganglion with two or more nerves attached. Rising in the 
scale, we next find animals with two or more of these nerve 
knots about the mouth, or arranged in pairs like the ganglia 
down the back of a caterpillar. 




188 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

But we have no right to despise those animals which have 
only nerve-knots for brains ; for to tell the truth we are all 
made after the same plan. There was a time when all this 
wonderful nervous system of ours consisted of only two 
white cords wrapped in a bit of cartilage. After a little 
there appeared on these little cords five tiny swellings, look- 
ing like beads on a string, and if you should look into the 




Cross-section of the skull and brain, made just behind the ears, showing the ven- 
tricles, corpus callosum, cerebrum, and the longitudinal and transverse sinuses. 
Rosers' Vademecum. 

brains of all the higher animals yov:. would find the same five 
swellings, somewhat enlarged, to be sure, and now we call 
them ganglia; but these same five ganglia can be detected 
in almost every cranium. In the lowest fishes they lie open, 
like eggs in the nest of a bird, but in our brains they are 
sheltered beneath an arch which we call the hemisphere of 
the brain. (See cut above, which also shows that the larger 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 189 

brain, like the rest of us, is made of two halves, so joined 
together by a strong band that they form a sort of flattened 
sphere, rough outside and smooth inside.) 

The heads into which I have had the privilege of looking 
I have found well packed with a grayish pulp which goes un- 
der the name of brains. You have all heard this compared 
to blanc-mange, but to me it always looks as if the blanc- 
mange had been allowed to get very dusty, and, to tell the 
truth, they remind one by their color and appearance of hasty 
pudding or well boiled Indian meal. 

This grayish tint is due to the same gray substance that we 
found in the nerve fiber. There it was inside, but here mainly 
on the outside (excepting the ganglia). Hence we might 
consider the brain as made up of a vast number of little star- 
like bodies (nerve-cells) held together by millions of pellucid 
threads, the same which, wrapped together in bundles, we call 
nerves, and when we cut down into this mass of connecting 
threads they look as white and creamy as the nerves them- 
selves. It is nerve matter, and, as we presently shall see, its 
office is the same as nerves every-where else ; namely, to 
carry messages. 

Few of you, I presume, will ever peep at the brain of a 
human being ; but any of you can get a very fair idea of 
its shape from the next English walnut which you crack at 
dessert. This resemblance was observed at least as early as 
the days of Cowley, who found similarity not only in shape, 
but also in its coverings to those of the brain : 

" Membranes soft as silk her kernel bind. 
Whereof the innermost is of the tenderest kind, 
Like those which on the brain of man we find, 
And which are in a seam-joined shell confined." 

And just here we must spare a moment for the three mem- 
branes which line our "seam-joined " brain-shell. These the 
anatomists have named the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the 
pia mater ; or, the harsh mother, the spider's web, and the lov- 
ing mother. Very poetical, to be sure, but the medical stu- 



190 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

dent gave us a better idea of their uses when he called them 
respectively the brain's coat, shirt, and flannel; and truly the 
dura mater coat is a good fit of the best material, for it is so 
tough, and lines the cranium so closely, that you can crack 
a skull with a hammer without tearing the dura mater. 
The spider's web shirt, as its name implies, is very delicate, 
and scarcely more than a smooth surface over which the 
tough dura mater can glide without injuring the blood- 
vessels in the pia mater. The latter is not so much a mem- 
brane as a perfect net-work of capillaries, into which larger 
blood-vessels divide and subdivide, lest by their pulsation 
they should disarrange the pulpy structure of the brain. And 
now, though these membranes have been spoken of as the 
brain's clothing, please remember that they are found not only 
around the brain, but the same three, with only slight modi- 
fications, are also stretched over the after -brain and clear 
down the spinal cord ; for the spinal cord and its fluids are 
held in a triple sack like the brain. 

And now just a word or two about that little after-brain, 
or cerebellum, which is hang on the back of the cerebrum, 
like the little " cannon-ball water-falls " with which the 
rage of false hair began. The cerebellum is hollow and fur- 
rowed and puckered, but so unlike the rest of the brain that 
it seems to have been made on a different plan. It is so 
curiously mixed gray and white nerve matter, that a cross 
section of it would make you think of marble-cake. So it 
appears as if the cerebellum was made up of three crumpled 
bags. From this bag issue four legs ; three of these unite to 
make, as we shall presently see, the most vital part of the body, 
the medulla. The whole spinal cord might be considered as 
a tail to the cerebellum, and is made up of a pile of the 
ganglia, or nerve knots, from whose sides issue thirty-one 
pairs of nerves, whose functions will be described later. 

The different parts of the nervous system have very dif- 
ferent duties. Unfortunately for physiology, most men ob- 
ject to have their brains experimented upon ; but dumb 
animals have no rights that French physiologists think them- 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 



191 



selves bound to respect ; so they have thrust red-hot needles 
through the various ganglia of pigeons' brains and noticed 
what faculties were impaired by so doing. From these ex- 
periments, and the various injuries to the human brain of 
which we have reliable accounts, it seems very probable that 
its various faculties might be mapped like a geography into 
regions of 

a Conscious thought. 

ft Smell. 

c Conscious sensation. 

d Voluntary motion. 

e Sight. 

/Forwarding house. 

g Vital point. 




THE SPINAL CORD. 

A. A front view of a portion of the cord. On the right side the anterior roots, A. 
B., are entire ; on the left side they are cut, to show the posterior roots, P.R. B. A 
transverse section of the cord. A, the anterior fissure ; P, the posterior fissure ; G, the 
central canal ; C, the gray matter, TF, the white matter ; A.R., the anterior root, P. 
B., the posterior root, Gn, the ganglion, and T, the trunk, of a spinal nerve. 

We might, too, consider the spinal cord as thirty-one little 
brains piled atop of one another, each of which has its double 
pair of nerves. Generally these spinal ganglia do their work 
without troubling the greater brain. For instance, we are 
cramped, and move to make ourselves easier without thinking 
to will any thing about it. And how do we do this ? Some- 
thing in this way : I imagine a message comes creeping up 
the " P.R." root of a spinal ganglion, saying such and such 
muscles are tired and need a change. These ganglia are 
something like a police justice in that the minor grievances 



192 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

of the body are carried to them and, if possible, disposed 
of without appealing to the brain. If, therefore, this 
"P.R." ganglia finds that the case comes within its juris- 
diction it sends its command back down the corresponding 
motor nerve, and the matter is speed ly ended. But suppose 
this"P.R." ganglion has not been sufficient for the case; we 
may have cut our finger, and the smart is not appeased by 
simply pulling the finger away from the knife-blade. The 
"P.R." ganglion has done all it could, and so it sends word 
up to the optic thalamus (see cut) by means of myriads of 
little sensory telegraph wires, which cross over almost as 
soon as they enter the cord, for the bureau for right-hand 
pains, etc., is on the left side of the brain, and vice versa. 
And now you have the information at sensation head- 
quarters, and what are you going to do about it ? That de- 
pends upon circumstances. It might remain there simply as 
a sensational pain and that be all about it. But unless you 
are deeply engrossed in something else, or very stupid, the 
word is telegraphed up to the supreme court in the region of 
conscious thought, which ought to give a verdict according 
to its best knowledge and previous experience or too often 
from caprice. For instance, it might decide that you need 
not do any thing about it, and there the matter ends ; but 
more likely it decides that the wisest thing for you to do is 
to put that finger into your mouth, or put a light bandage 
around the limb, or this, that, or the other thing ; but what- 
ever is resolved to be done is immediately telegraphed down 
to the bureau of motion usually a whole batch of commands, 
such as in the first case, where we might suppose them to be : 
stick up your finger, elevate your wrist and arm, open your 
mouth, etc. Now this whole squad of commands is hurried 
down to where the work is sorted out, and particular orders 
are sent to each muscle, whose aid will be needed in this in- 
tricate work ; for even a little thing, as moving one's finger, 
requires more servants than were necessary to move the 
king of Spain back from the fire. All this the cerebellum 
attends to, and sends each message of these crossways down 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 193 

the neck until they all come out of their appropriate motor 
nerves, so exactly in the nick of time that one might think 
thrusting your finger into your mouth had been your one 
great work since you were born. 

If you ask what these nerve messages are I must tell 
you frankly that I don't know. Many physiologists think 
them a subtle form of electricity. Possibly it may be, but I 
want to say just here that though the soul may use electricity 
to send its messages, yet the electricity is no more a soul than 
the message sent along the telegraph wires is the man who 
sends it. The materialist would have us believe, because he 
finds heat and electricity in the brain, that there is no soul 
besides these. As well believe that the click of the key 
and the fuming of the battery could send intelligent mes- 
sages across the Atlantic without an operator. We have 
been describing only our marvelous telegraphic apparatus, 
which anticipated Professor Morse by some 6,000 years.; 
but its operator hath no man seen at any time, for spirit 
must ever elude the physiologist's grasp. 

So we would do better to quit grasping after it, for at 
best we should only result in failure. But we may spend a 
few moments profitably asking how these messages are sent 
" and what will follow on their using." We say as quick as 
thought, but Professor Helmholtz has discovered that we can 
think no faster than eighty feet a second, according to the 
direction in which we would send it by which I mean that 
an order or pain cannot travel up and down a nerve faster 
than the previous mentioned rates ; whereupon some English 
mathematician, who evidently was trying to keep Satan at 
bay, sat down and figured up that we could not possibly 
entertain during a life-time more than 3,155,160,000 distinct 
ideas. Nothing like being exact. But unfortunately it does 
not follow that we all have that number of distinct ideas ; 
for we need training to think, as much as we once did to 
walk. It is a trite saying that we are bundles of habits, and 
in nothing is this more true than in our ways of thinking. 
We are very apt to think in ruts, especially as we grow 
9 



194 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

older. " For custom hath made it a property of easiness," 
and do we not all like to take our ease in our own inn ? 
Take " slang," for instance ; slang is only mental laziness, 
in using some senseless phrase in such a way that you force 
your listener to guess your meaning, providing what you say 
has any. Just now it may sound very piquant and witty, 
but that unlucky phrase will thrust its head into society 
at some time when it will make you heartily ashamed of 
yourself. And so of the thousand and one uncouth actions 
and tricks into which we fall as easily as sliding down hill. 

So let us go back to our telegraphic apparatus and ask 
what are its charges for sending messages. Why, nothing, 
you say. Are you so sure of that ? I know that nature 
posts up no tariff of so much for the first ten words, but 
nature's charges are no less certain. She is a very Shylock 
in the bonds that she makes us give for the use of these 
nerves, and gets the pound of flesh. Ask your friend who 
suffers from the neuralgia, etc., whether nature's knives are 
not keener than any made of steel. Just here I want to say 
that for those poor mortals whose bonds went forfeit by their 
parents before they were born we ought to have only the 
kindliest pity ; for they live in a prison-house of torture of 
which one in good health can have but the faintest idea. Why 
these fearful penalties have been set over against our most 
exquisite pleasures is more than I can say; but "the law 
allows it and the court awards it," so there is no use of our 
murmuring, especially as there is rarely necessity that our 
bonds should go forfeit. Each thought and sensation re- 
quires a certain expenditure of nerve influence, electricity, 
psychic force I care not what you call it, as long as 
we understand that every thought takes something from 
our nervous supply in the same way that every message 
requires electricity ; and just as the battery needs pro- 
vision for a fresh supply so must our nervous system have 
its supplies. Ample provision has been made for this. 
Sleep is nerve food par excellence, and as long as we have 
this we can laugh old Shylock nature to scorn ; for regular 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 195 

natural sleep is the solid coin with which we ought daily to 
meet his bond. How much does he demand daily ? That 
depends upon the person ; for no inflexible law can be laid 
down for every one. The old saying was, six hours for a 
man, seven for a woman, eight for a child, and nine for a 
fool ; and if that be true I am afraid that there are more chil- 
dren and fools than men and women in America. We live 
too fast, and in consequence are the most restless and irri- 
table people in the world; which simply means that the Shy- 
lock nature is letting us gradually overdraw our account, 
and some day, when we least expect it, he will have his 
forfeit, though it leaves us nervous wrecks or raving maniacs. 

There is an Italian who has invented what he calls a 
"nerve-tuner," by which he promises when we are all 
unstrung on edge, as we call it with a few twists to 
put our nerves, like the strings of a piano, back into concert 
pitch and keep them there. Thrice blessed Italian, come to 
America, and if what thou sayest be true we will greet thee 
as never was man greeted before ! But in the meantime we 
may say with Sancho Panza, " Blessed is the man that in- 
vented sleep ! " Here is no opportunity to quote the many 
beautiful tributes to sleep, or even to discuss what sleep 
is, but only to say bluntly that this matter of sleep settles 
largely what kind of men and women we are. There is a 
pleasurable excitement in the whirl of fashionable life, but 
does it pay ? For each hour thus spent we have to pay 
its full price, and nature's laws cannot be defrauded the 
twentieth part of one poor scruple. No form of battery 
can be used continuously without exhaustion. 

Sleep is nature's method of recharging aright these subtle 
batteries of ours, without which we cannot be sound either in 
mind, body, or estate ; therefore, count it among your great- 
est blessings if, like Sam Jones, you can go to bed and 
sleep. "Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights," 
may be of little value as conspirators, but they are happier 
men and better citizens than those who lie awake o' nights 
to plot and plan. In fact, it is a general and safe rule that 



196 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

when business crowds itself into your sleeping hours your 
business is pushing you, and not you your business. Beware, 
for the time is not far off when you and your business must 
part company, probably both of you crippled by your undue 
zeal. The first signal of danger being done to these exquisite 
nerve-batteries is wakefulness. You can't sleep as you used 
to, or you sleep restlessly, and dream perpetually of your 
daily vocation. Look out, or the undue tension may ruin 
irretrievably the delicate mechanism of your brain. " O, 
nonsense," you say. "I live on excitement, and don't need 
as much sleep as formerly." Nature never makes any mis- 
take. As well might you disregard the warning bell of an 
approaching locomotive as this symptom of wakefulness 
without apparent cause. You may in either case escape with 
your life, if you continue on your way without heeding the 
warning bell, but the probabilities are that you will be per- 
manently crippled from the unequal contest. America, more 
than any other civilized country, is full of men, and women 
especially, who drag out a wretched existence simply because 
they have disregarded these warnings of an overtaxed 
nervous system, and have kept on their way until they were 
tossed aside by the engine of wealth, fashion, or ambition, 
and left crippled wrecks for the rest of their lives. " O, but 
every body does so, and I must somehow, or I shall be talked 
about and pitied." Then be talked about and pitied for a 
while ; continually so, if necessary ; but, for the love of your 
own bodies and souls, don't commit suicide, for it is nothing 
less. Perhaps if only yourselves and your families were to be 
considered your suicide would be preferable, for this nervous 
exhaustion produces an irritability and waspishness that 
makes your coming more dreaded than the gout. You are 
harsh, crabbed, unreasonable, suspicious, until you hate your- 
self, and the world looks hopefully on toward your death. 
And all this solely because you will have your own way, and 
hurt yourself in spite of all that can safely be done to pre- 
vent you. 

Does it pay ? No, you say ; I know it does not, and I have 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 197 

prayed for grace to carry me through this time of trial. My 
dear madam, will you allow me kindly to say that you need 
rest fully as much as sanctification ? Perhaps I would better 
say you need rest and sanctification, for your burden is largely 
self-imposed ; so don't carry it any longer. " But," says a 
busy man, u I can't lay my burdens down. I know they are 
self imposed, but just now my affairs are in such a condition 
that it is the height of folly to neglect them." My friend, 
whoever you are preacher, teacher, doctor, over-anxious 
mother if you are getting nervous, irritable, wakeful, it is 
the height of folly to keep at what you are at present doing. 
Stop while you can, for before long stopping will be useless. 
Instead of stopping you will be stopped, or " lag superfluous 
on the stage." 

Another manifestation of nerve-tire is neuralgia, usually, 
too, an affection of the better and more finely organized half 
of humanity. Woman's greater endurance is purchased at the 
expense of a greater wear and tear of her nervous tissue. A 
man will lie down when overworked and dispirited, and groan 
off his nervous depression until he comes to a better frame of 
mind and body, while a woman under the same circumstances 
will literally go through fire and water to finish what she is 
doing, whether or not it is worth doing at all, and then go 
into nervous bankruptcy. Her nerves, so long kept at undue 
tension, now fairly shriek in agony, and we say she is a mar- 
tyr to neuralgia. And she is that, but in the same way that 
a man is a victim to bankruptcy after he hus recklessly specu- 
lated beyond his means. Neuralgia is the torture of paying 
overdrafts on our nervous system without resources to fall 
back upon. In such a plight there is no other man to do 
the walking all night, and so you needs must do it, while 
Shylock nature is cutting off her pounds of pain for the 
ducats you so lavishly squandered. Does it pay ? None of 
us who have ever been there would say so while in the 
torture, but too many of us soon forget this sharp lesson, and 
go on discounting and rediscounting our nervous paper until 
we come to that absolute nerve -penury or pauperism to 



198 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

which the doctors give the name of neurasthenia. I do not 
mean to say that every case of neuralgia is due to overdrafts 
on the nervous system, but in nine times out of ten it can 
only be cured by living within the honest limits of our nerv- 
ous system. I know that is often annoying and painful to 
one with large ambitions and small resources, but so it is 
elsewhere and every-where. Better the narrower and often 
humiliating limits of a well-preserved nervous system than 
the pinching poverty of years of neurasthenia. 

Neurasthenia literally, weakness of the nerves is a fash- 
ionable complaint in these latter days, but it truly designates 
a pitiable condition, not to be laughed at or despised by those 
more fortunate, any more than poverty elsewhere. If you 
are so broad-waisted and strong-armed that you do not know 
you have any nerves, be thankful for it; but know, neverthe- 
less, that our modern civilization has given us as one of its 
products the neurasthenic woman, whose every nerve lies 
quivering on the brink of an explosion of pain. Strong 
coffee, poor ventilation, improper food, fashionable clothing, 
the hot-air furnace, the sewing-machine, the three flights of 
stairs, and, more than all these, the worry and fret and ambi- 
tions of modern life, have stolen away the bodies and health 
of our American women. 

I have frequently walked our city streets looking through 
the crowds almost in vain for a thoroughly healthy-looking 
American girl. Bright faces, stylish dresses, graceful figures, 
intelligent and cultured countenances can be found on every 
hand, but joined to such bodies that it makes your heart 
ache for their probable futures. These girlish forms will 
make the nervous wrecks o" 7 the next twenty years, and may 
the corning doctor know how to treat them better than those 
at present on the stage! Said an exasperated physician once 
in my hearing : " Great heavens, madam, you bring me 
ninety pounds of nervous wreck, and a handful of false teeth 
and hair, and ask me to make a whole woman out of that in 
two weeks. It can't be done, madam, it can't be done." 
Alas, it can't be done, it can't be done j and if recovery 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 199 

comes at all it must come as the result of many months of 
weary watching and patient care. 

Better fewer accomplishments, better less company, better 
less excitement, better fewer books, papers yes, better less 
almost any thing than the modern city, bloodless, libel on 
God's idea of womanhood. The Creator made every thing 
good, and if we are not such as he would have us it is because 
we prefer our way to his ; and our ways not being as wise as 
his we necessarily fall into trouble. Even then the penalties 
are the lightest and best that eternal wisdom can devise to 
correct mistakes and stubbornness; but we will and we wont, 
like stubborn children, and then, in the intervals of the pain 
sent to prevent further pain, we groan out that we are fear- 
fully and wonderfully made. 

So we are ; and there is no more exquisite instance of this 
than this same nervous system, which is to us the source of 
all our pleasure and pain, chiefly given to prevent us hurting 
ourselves ; for, did you ever stop to think what great care 
has been taken to guard us from all possible harm? No 
safety deposit vault ever had half so much pains taken to 
guard its treasures as have been lavished upon the house in 
which we live. Thousands of dollars are freely spent to 
connect these safety vaults with burglar alarms and proper 
protection, but no one has ever dreamed of encasing them 
in such a net- work of protection as is found in every square 
inch of our bodies. Our burglar alarms are our nerves, and 
so complete is the entwinement of these nervous fibers about 
our bodies that if there were any way in which the rest 
of our bodies could be dissolved away from them, leaving 
the nerves intact, these would give us a complete outline of 
the whole body almost as perfect as that of the areolar tissue. 
(See page 22.) So intricate is this interlacing of these tiny 
white nerve -fibers over the surface of the body that you 
cannot thrust in the point of the finest cambric needle with- 
out touching a nerve ; for it is these alone that make us feel 
pain. Blood, bone and muscles give us no sensations when 
they are cut, for a paralyzed limb may even be amputated 



200 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

without feeling, because its nerves no longer respond to their 
usual stimuli. 

What, then, is this nervous system, which, like most of the 
other good things we enjoy in this world, is capable of mak- 
ing us exquisitely happy or wretchedly miserable ? It is made 
up, as has already been said, of at least three parts; namely, 
(1) the general office (brain), (2) automatic trunk-lines 
(spinal cord), and (3) special receiving offices, distributed 
over the whole body, so that you cannot touch one of them 
anywhere, even with a pin, without having word instantly 
sent to the general office as to where the trouble is. 

This general office we call the brain. As already said, 
when taken from the body it looks very like a bowl full of 
ill-cooked mush or blanc-mange. And yet on the way in 
which we use those two handfuls of grayish matter hang our 
destinies for all time and eternity. It would take a large 
library to hold the books that have already been written upon 
the various parts and functions of a human brain, and we 
are very far yet from knowing all that we would like to in 
the matter. Suffice it now to say that we have good reasons 
for believing that the different parts of our brains do different 
parts of our head-work. One part tells us of forms and colors, 
another of distances, another of words and thoughts, and so 
on, until a map of the brain under the present system is almost 
a short course on the mental and moral faculties of man. It 
is, in fact, an unsurpassable telephone board for all the wants, 
desires, and pleasures of man, such as nothing but infinite 
wisdom could have constructed. 

Hardly less wonderful are the automatic trunk-lines, or 
spinal cord and nerves, as they are usually called. These are 
really, as you see, a prolongation of the brain, located in the 
backbone to protect it from injury. (See cut, page 58.) In 
regard to their functions, imagine, if you can, a telegraph line 
whose wires are capable of doing their work without direction, 
and you have in brief a very good idea of the work done by the 
spinal or reflex nerves. If you look at them a little more 
closely, you will find that, like the brain, they are divided 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 201 

into two equal parts, longitudinally, one to serve each half 
of the body, and that these halves, on account of their soft, 
gelatinous composition, are wrapped in no less than three 
tough enveloping membranes, and' then the whole is inclosed 
in a bony case. Like the brain, they are made up of white 
and gray matter, the latter inside of the white and forming 
there on cross section a sort of rude letter H. From the ex- 
tremities of these H's sixty-two spinal nerves are given off and 
pass out to perform their duties through as many notches, or 
holes, in the backbone. These nerves form thirty-one pairs, 
and soon unite into a common trunk by means of a ganglion. 
Now, ganglion is a Greek word for a knot, and is used to 
denote curious little knots or swellings found every now and 
then along the course of nerves, especially where they branch 
or unite with other nerves. The use of these ganglia was 
for a long time unknown, but latterly it has been well proven 
that they act the part of subsidiary brains, and are capable of 
doing automatically less important work. They all have direct 
or indirect connection with the brain proper, and if necessary 
can communicate with it, but are capable of running very 
much of our body without any interference with it from the 
brain proper. For instance, we start off to walk. We are 
conscious of willing that our leg machinery should propel us 
forward, but once having started it we leave the rest of the 
work to the ganglionic and spinal nervous system, without 
giving any thought to it until it is time for us to will to go 
in some other direction; then we telegraph to the ganglia to 
carry us in that way, or stop, as the case may be, like the con- 
ductor and the fireman on a train. These ganglia, then, regulate 
automatically the pressure of our feet and the proper contrac- 
tion and relaxation of all the muscles necessary for locomotion 
without our giving any conscious thought to it. This they do 
by automatically regulating and controlling the proper nerve 
supply or co-ordination, as we call it. Why, for instance, does 
a babe put his spoon as often into his ear as into his mouth ? 
Because his ganglia have not yet learned to co-ordinate 
his muscles and to force them into work in harmony. And 
9* 




202 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

so it would be with us in every action requiring more than a 
single muscle, if it were not for these little insignificant knots of 

gray nervous matter. 
Alcohol takes away their 
power of co-ordination, 
and hence we see drunk- 
en men " reel to and fro 
and be at their wits' 
end" to know which 
way to lean, or how to 

sit down without hold- 
i 

Isolated ganglion cell from the anterior horn of the ing on; and the most 
human cord.-JHem. gober man in the world 

would be in like plight if it were not for these ganglia, which 
act very much like the relays, I believe they call them, on a 
telegraphic circuit, which do so much of the work of trans- 
mission without requiring a conscious operator in their stead. 
So it is with our ganglia. If it were not for them we should 
be tired to death merely trying to remember to keep alive. 
How is it that we never forget to breathe ? We certainly 
do not think to do so every time. Why, these ganglia and 
respiratory centers take the matter in hand, and we have never 
to give it a second thought until our lungs get out of repair, 
or are overtasked with an unusual amount of work. Whether 
we are sleeping or waking, busy or idle, happy or broken- 
hearted, these patient, uncomplaining servants work on and 
on and on for us, giving us leisure for improvement and the 
pursuit of happiness. The work of certain ganglia, as the res- 
piratory centers, we can increase or diminish somewhat at 
will, but we cannot entirely stop them at our volition, for we 
cannot hold our breath, voluntarily, until we choke. And 
over other of these automatic centers we have no control at all, 
as, for instance, those which regulate the heart's actions, which 
are entirely beyond our willing. The brain's function is to 
receive the messages passed into it by the nerves, and to de- 
cide from these impressions what is best to be done under the 
circumstances. This is what we call psychic force or power, 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 



203 



and its seat is located in the anterior hemispheres of the 
brain, especially in the gray matter of the cerebrum, as 
this part is called. Just behind and below the cerebrum, as 
may be seen on page 188, is the cerebellum, or little brain, and 
its prolongation, the medulla and spinal cord. In this cere- 
bellum you see a curious leaf -like arrangement, to which the 
older anatomists gave the name of the arbor vitce, or the tree of 
life ; and it is well named, for in it are the ganglia, or centers, 
which regulate our breathing, heart's beating, and all the func- 
tions which are necessary to carry on our lives. 

These are automatic, as has already been said, 
and hence, as we sometimes see, a man may live 
for years after all his powers of thinking and 
perception are gone ; for these automatic centers 
work without his will or wish. Other of these 
ganglia act reflexly, or by irritation elsewhere 
than where the results are produced; for example, 
sneezing, which is a spasmodic expulsion of air 
from the lungs, and is produced not by irrita- 
tion in the lungs, where the spasm takes place, 
but in the nose, whence the irritation is trans- 
mitted to the ganglia, whose duty it is to forci- 
bly drive the air out of our lungs when required, 
whether we like it or not ; for we can no more 
help sneezing than breathing. How does this 
impulse or irritation pass from the nose to these 
centers ? 

Their microscopic appearance has already 
been described; but we would again call to of Purkinje. This 
mind the axis -cylinder, the central tiny white cate transparent 
fiber, and around this (a. c.) we find an oily sheath, and ex- 
grayish substance that in life is probably fluid, SftJJ^JSJJ 
but after death becomes gelatinous and acts like substance of 
the rubber that is melted and poured around *^^ 
the central core of our great submarine cables, white substance 
Outside of the rubber in these cables we oftnebraln - 
have an outer sheathing, and we find a similar arrangement 




The axis, (a) 
a pale, faintly 
flbrillated band 
or cylinder the 
gray substance 



204 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

in our nervous system; for each nerve is covered over 
with a sheath, and each bundle of nerves is again covered, 
exactly as we find the cables of wires covered with par- 
affine for the use of the telegraph and telephone companies. 
The purpose of the paraffine or rubber in these is to 
prevent leakage of the electricity, as these packings and 
sheathings are non-conductors of electricity. The same is 
true of the nerve-envelopes ; in fact, their arrangement is so 
exactly like that of the best constructed electrical cables that 
we cannot help thinking that both were constructed to con- 
duct something very much alike, I know there are those that 
stoutly maintain that nerve force is not electricity; and it is 
not, in the sense that an electrical battery is the same thing 
as a live man; but nevertheless nerve force is closely allied 
to that wonderful thing that for want of some better name 
and clearer understanding we agree to call electricity. In 
these latter days they photograph with electric light, and 
perhaps something analogous takes place within the brain. 
Each of its billions of starry cells may possibly hold within 
it photographic transparencies waiting for memory's lantern 
to restore them to us with all their original beauty and color. 
Thus each of us may carry about with us a picture-gallery like 
that of blind old Niebuhr, or Louis Philippe's state china which 
was decorated with views of all the homes in which he had 
lived, and they were many and various; for if we will we may 
paint every old pot and pan with the paintings of memory and 
imagination until they are fairer than Sevres china. " Make for 
yourself nests of pleasant thoughts," says Ruskin, and the hap- 
piest man is the one whose brain is full of such pleasant resting 
nooks; but what shall we say of the man or boy who fills his 
mind with Pompeiian pictures and vile thoughts, to keep them 
there for the rest of his life. He is a vandal, or worse, who 
would defile a king's palace in this way, and still coarser if it 
is his own home. Such pictures and stories burn into mem- 
ory like a hot iron, and, unfortunately, they are so common 
that the White Cross League is needed fully as much here as 
in old England, where it originated. (See Appendix.) 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 205 

To turn to another and pleasanter subject, let us look 
briefly for a few moments at our ears; for we have in 
the body no daintier adaptation of means to ends than 
that seen in the organs of hearing. We think the telephone 
a great invention, and so it is, but it is an old one older 
than most of us think ; for unless we do so stop to think we 
forget that each of us carries about with us a pair of telephones 
better than either the Edison or the pan-electric. Our ears, 
fortunately, are not so cumbersome as a Bell instrument; but 
if we examine them carefully we shall find the same princi- 
ples underlying their construction which are employed in all 
the modern telephones. The essential parts of all of these are 
a vibrating plate and transmitting wires to carry these vibra- 
tions to some listener at a distance. Now this is essentially 
what we find our ears to be true telephones, though con- 
structed more delicately than any of those of man's make. 
Where, for instance, can you find a receiver as delicately 
fashioned as the external ear ? At its worst it is a thing of 
beauty and most admirably adapted to the purpose for which 
it was made namely, catching and conveying to the mem- 
brane of the drum of the ear as large a number as possible of 
the sounds about us. This membrane of the ear corresponds 
to the vibrating plate of the telephone, and is shaped, though 
smaller, exactly like the membranes used in the ordinary 
home-made telephone. 

These membranes are shallow cones, with the apexes 
pointing downward and inward, and cover over a cavity 
in the hard bones of the skull to which the name of the 
drum of the ear has been given, not so much to any 
fancied resemblance of its shape to a drum as to the fact 
that both ends of this cavity are covered with membrane 
very like the parchment or skin of a drum-head. This ear- 
drum has its sticks inside in the shape of three very small 
bones, to which the names of hammer, anvil, and stirrup have 
been given. These lie one upon another in such wise that the 
handle of the hammer is fastened to the apex of the cone of 
membrane which constitutes, as told you, the receiver of the 



206 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

telephone. Every time this vibrates it drives the head of the 
hammer against its small bone-anvil, and the anvil in turn 
pushes against the stirrup, and the stirrup against the mem- 
brane at the other end of the drum. These little bones thus 
constitute a short circuit to carry sounds across the air cham- 
ber of the ear and transmit them to the membrane at the 
further or inner end of the drum. What becomes of these 
vibrations there ? All sounds are due to vibrations of vary- 
ing rapidity. (See page 169.) Now, these vibrations, trav- 
eling at their peculiar rate of speed, according to their pitch, 
at last reach this further end of the drum, or the fenestra 
ovate, as it is called, and passing through its membranous 
curtain are received in some curious little canals hollowed 
out of the hardest portions of the bones of the skull. In fact, 
so snugly are they packed away there that if once inflamma- 
tion gets into these semicircular canals the pain and pressure 
are so great that it is enough to drive a man crazy and it 
has killed many a man before now and crippled more children, 
especially those recovering from scarlet fever, where earache 
is one of the things especially to be dreaded. These little 
canals, of which we have been speaking, are so curiously 
coiled and twisted upon themselves that I despair of de- 
scribing their shape to you even by a cut, picture, and dia- 
gram at the same time. Approximately they might in general 
be described as three tiny hoops and a something not un- 
like a snail-shell. These contain membranous bags filled 
with fluid, by which we are able to distinguish between 
the different qualities of sounds. How this is done is more 
ingenious in method than any telephone yet invented. 

First, the semicircular canals. Their duty is to dis- 
tinguish as to the quantity and intensity of sounds, and not 
as to their quality and pitch. This they do by wave im- 
pulses, set in motion by the moving to and fro of the 
stirrup, which, as we have already seen, takes place with 
every sound entering the ear. These semicircular canals 
are filled with a tiny water-tight sack exactly fitting it, 
one end of which is fastened to the foot-plate of the 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 207 

stirrup bone. They are filled with fluid in which float 
some bits of sand, and into which fluid project long, 
delicate filaments which cover the terminations of the 
auditory nerves. Now, every time a sound reaches the mem- 
brane of the drum it causes this to vibrate. Its vibration 
moves the hammer, the hammer moves the anvil, the anvil 
moves the stirrup, the motion of the stirrup pulls forward the 
end of the tiny bag of water fastened to it. This motion of 
the bag sets its contents into waves, and these waves cast 
these bits of sand against the sensitive filaments lining the in- 
side of the sac, and the impulse of this sand upon these fila- 
ments when transmitted to the brain along the nerves gives 
us there our perception of all soft and loud noises. Truly it 
seems a process as long as getting the maiden married in the 
house that Jack built, but really takes only the fraction of a 
second to accomplish it, but none the less wonderful on that 
account. The train of events is about the same in the "snail 
shell," except that there the vibrations pass up and down 
over something looking like a minature key-board, for on it 
are fastened a vast number of fibers, pointed at an angle 
like the keys of a piano, and striking not wires, as in a piano- 
forte, but nerve terminations. Most likely each one of these 
nerve ends, or keys, so to speak, represents a separate and 
distinct musical impression. As Huxley says, " Each fraction 
of tone which a well-trained ear is capable of distinguishing 
is represented by a separate nerve fiber." A tuning-fork or 
piano-string will, as you know, respond automatically to its 
particular notes when sounded in its neighborhood ; so it 
probably is with these fibers of Corti, which, as it would seem, 
vibrate only in unison with their particular sound; that is, 
they ought to, but the aural piano-fortes of some men are 
so badly out of tune that they can scarcely distinguish " Old 
Hundred" from "Yankee Doodle," although otherwise their 
hearing is excellent. This was always a marvel to me until 
I began to understand the different duties laid upon the dif- 
ferent parts of our ears. Unless there is some congenital de- 
fect we probably all hear alike until cultivation enables us to 



208 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

appreciate nice distinctions of sound. This reaches its high- 
est perfection in the blind, probably not because they have 
any better hearing than the rest of us, but because their mis- 
fortune makes them continually cultivate their hearing, for 
like all of our faculties it is susceptible of very great improve- 
ment under cultivation. Vocal culture trains both the 
voice and ear at once. And yet, after all, there are vastly 
more sounds that we cannot hear than those that we can. 
Audible sounds are bound between the comparatively narrow 
limits of those too low or slow in their vibrations for human 
ears and those too high or rapid in their vibrations like 
those that comes from a mosquito's shrill song in the night 
which are too fine (high-pitched) to be caught by our dull 
ears. Some day we shall have our ears unstopped, and shall 
find out by actual hearing what it is that the stars literally 
sing together, for we live in the midst of a world of melody, 
very little of which ever reaches these mortal ears. 

There is no organ we possess that we undervalue so gen- 
erally as our ears ; for, grievous as is blindness, it is really 
less of an affliction than deafness. Deafness so cuts off a man 
from the rest of the world, and, in spite of the old witticism 
to the contrary, most of us are not good company for ourselves. 
It is not good in any sense for man to be alone, and our ears 
are the most trustworthy means that we have of learning 
that there are such things as human sympathy and brother- 
hood in the world. There are more good men and women 
than we dream of, and the only way we shall ever learn to 
know them is through what we may hear them say. So let 
us take good care of our ears. They are dainty and exquis- 
ite instruments, and should not be stuffed with old cotton or 
filthy sponges under the pretense of cleaning them. A little 
soft cotton cloth gently twisted into the ear is all that ought 
ever to be used for cleaning them; for more injury, I think, is 
done by over-zealousness in this matter than by too little 
care. The external ear should of course be kept clean, but 
all poking or rubbing of the internal ear is bad, and often 
positively injurious to so delicate a piece of mechanism. 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 209 

So delicate is it that as soon as any thing goes wrong it gives 
us very positive evidence of trouble by the sharp danger- 
signal of earache. It is too positive a symptom to be 
neglected, so that various remedies are tried until relief is 
found, and usually with this comes a discharge from the ear. 
This is generally slight, and there is so often no .pain with it 
that it is considered a matter of no moment, and yet ninety 
per cent, of the cases of deafness that come to the doctors' 
hands are from this cause. Remember, no such discharge 
can ever be safely neglected all the old women in the 
country to the contrary notwithstanding. 

There is, I know, a popular prejudice to the effect that the 
stoppage of such a discharge is dangerous. Penning up foul 
matters in the delicate middle ear may lead to distressing 
headaches or even to brain-fever; but penning up such mat- 
ters within the head is a very different thing from curing the 
cause which is what should be done, and as promptly as 
possible; for the longer the delay the greater the difficulty in 
curing what, if left to itself, will certainly prove a life-long 
annoyance, if nothing more serious. 

Finally, many a poor child gets a reputation for stupidity 
when the real trouble is deafness 
not absolute deafness, but just 
enough dullness in hearing to 
make it slow to catch the teach- 
er's exact words, and consequently 
miss his thought. The removal 
' of a little hardened wax will often | | 

transform the dullest pupil into a I i|\ 

promising one, who would have I 
been misunderstood for years, un- ] '/ 

less some one had thought of sijii 

examining his ears. /I/. 

AD our thoughts, impressions, '^ 

delights, and Sorrows, Come, then, Reticulated end plate of nerve 
primarily from pressure upon tiny 
nerve-twigs, such as are here represented. More than all 




210 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

else of our bodies they are the cause of our most exquisite 
joys and sorest pain, for they are the grand inquisitors set 
to reward and punish the knights templar of the body. 

Thus far the body has been likened to a modern dwelling, 
constructed with all possible conveniences, but it is more 
than that. Truer psychology has never been reached than 
that found in the words of the apostle Paul, selected as the 
motto of this little book. The body was designed for more 
than a mere dwelling; it is a temple as well, wherein should 
dwell the knights templar of the red cross and the white. 
Of all the tales of the age of chivalry none is more poetic 
than the story of the Knights Templar, a religious order 
founded in the beginning of the twelfth century, by Hugues 
de Paiens and other French knights. It originated at Jeru- 
salem, and was designed to protect the holy sepulcher and 
the pilgrims resorting thither. The members of the order 
bound themselves to listen to the holy offices daily, and to 
practice fasting four days in the week. They were known 
as the Poor Soldiers of the Temple of Solomon, and at 
first subsisted entirely upon the scanty benevolence of the 
king of Jerusalem. Later, vast donations poured in upon 
them, and members of the most noble families in Europe 
thought themselves honored by being enrolled among the 
Knights Templar, and being allowed to wear their red cross 
upon their shoulders. 

As elsewhere, the wealth and power of the Templars at 
last wrought their destruction, for their luxury, vices, and 
arrogance finally gave their enemies, Philippe IV., and Pope 
Clement V., and Edward II., a pretext for seizing upon the 
possessions of the Knights Templar and abolishing the 
order. 

Doubtless, they had outlived their day of usefulness, and 
ceased to exist, as says another, because " they were rich and 
had nothing to do. They were an anachronism and a source 
of danger at the time of their dispersion," but they have 
left us many things worthy of remembrance and imitation. 

The great seal of the order, two knights mounted on a 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 211 

single horse, is not an inapt symbol of the tripartite nature 
of man body, soul, and spirit. The beast well represents 
the body essential for the accomplishment of work, and, 
when held in check, invaluable ; but, left unbridled, a very 
Mazeppa's steed to bear us to sure destruction. Hence the 
body is governed by two masters, mind and spirit, which 
some consider a sort of Siamese twins, but, whatever their 
exact relationship, they are the rightful governors of the house 
in which we live. We cannot live aright without their 
mutual advice and aid. A body directed solely by the mind 
becomes as polished a heathen as an educated Bramin, and one 
led by spirit alone gives rise to the vagaries of a Joanna South- 
cote. Per contra, John Wesley is an excellent illustration of 
what symmetrical development may do for man. John Wes- 
ley's spiritual insight was the marvel of his century and ours; 
but it should also be remembered that intellectually he was 
justly entitled to the fellowship which he received and held 
for many years at Oxford, while his body was so carefully 
cared for that we find him at eighty-four able to preach at 
five o'clock in the morning, and personally to attend to the 
annoying details of a church organization and publishing 
interests that in these latter days require the services of a 
board of bishops and a book committee to look after. 

Such as John Wesley, in their measure, would all men be 
if they cared alike for mind, spirit, and body. The ideal 
man should be perfectly developed in all directions, for if 
any part of man is neglected it becomes stunted and useless. 
This we all know to be true in regard to mind and body, but 
when it comes to spiritual growth we find it too often 
neglected to its everlasting injury. " The soul that sinneth 
it shall die " is as much a part of the laws of the universe as 
the fiat that we must all die. We witness the death of the 
body so often that the fact cannot be denied, but a similar re- 
sult in regard to the soul's death can be as certainly demon- 
strated. Our large cities are full of men and women whose 
souls have been dead in trespasses and sins for many years. 
There is no sadder sight on earth than a soul's corpse coffined 



212 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

in the bloated wreck of a body. Alcohol does this. It is 
one of the arch Saracens against whom the body's knights 
templar must wage incessant warfare, as well as other fleshly 
lusts which war against the soul. The culture of the mind 
and spirit belong properly to psychology, except so far as 
they influence the health of the body. And this they do in 
no small degree. Just how this is done may be difficult to 
explain without falling into materialism, but the fact remains 
that soul and body are in this world mutually dependent one 
upon another. A well-balanced mind is rarely found except 
in a sound body, and there is a whole volume of theology in 
Mrs. Prentiss's candid statement that she never was in relig- 
ious gloom except when she had eaten something that did 
not agree with her. No better, or more devoutly pious, 
woman than the author of Stepping Heavenward ever lived, 
but she was honest and clear-sighted enough to discover that 
her " experience," not religion, was largely conditioned by her 
body's health. Similarly, the health of the body is at its best 
when the mind and spirit are happily employed. For phys- 
iological reasons, if no other, a consistent, well-educated 
Christian ought to be the happiest man living, if sound in 
mind, body, and conscience, for he has learned how to use 
all his " talents " to their best advantage, and has ceased 
to take worry for the morrow. 

" Worry," far more than overwork, is the cause of the fre- 
quent ill health and the premature breaking down so common 
in our large cities. The haste to be rich, debt, and anxiety 
about money matters whiten more heads and wrinkle more 
faces than disease. Any occupation which keeps one oscil- 
lating between hope and despair inevitably disturbs the 
innervation of the body so that digestion is ruined (see 
nervous dyspepsia, page 83), and sleep becomes a lost art. 
Little wonder, then, that under these circumstances the gen- 
eral nutrition of the body fails, and the man or woman 
breaks down, it is said, of overwork. Worry would have 
been the true verdict, for, as well says the Saturday Revietu, 
" A professor may labor at the search for the absolute for 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 213 

fifteen hours a day and be all the better for it, while a third 
of that time spent in the ups and downs of the stock ex- 
change would qualify him in less than a year for the strait- 
jacket or halter. . . . Complaints of overwork are among 
the flimsiest of all excuses set up by men for the evils they 
have brought upon themselves. Very few people really 
work hard, and when they do it generally agrees with -them. 
Directly and indirectly, idleness does fifty times as much 
mischief as overwork. A vast amount of good pity is thrown 
away in the world, for when the danger really exists it may 
generally be remedied rather by redistributing the burden than 
by diminishing it." In short, the danger in overwork is gen- 
erally not in the amount of work, but in bad habits of work. 
Hurried work, work at the wrong time, and, more than both, 
worry over the future bring men to untimely disability in 
the ways already mentioned. 

The remedy for these evils may be found in systematized 
work, in " do the best and leave the rest," and, most of all, 
in the biblical advice to take no thought (worry) as to what 
we shall eat, drink, and wherewithal we shall be clothed ; 
not the least important of which is the last, for the desire to 
follow the fashions in clothing drives more into debt than 
all other causes, and debt means, except to the absolutely un- 
principled, distressing mental worry and strain. Debts are 
the most frequent causes of insanity and suicide, for nothing 
more surely upsets the whole mental balance than long-con- 
tinued and pressing debt. A mortgage, etymologically, means 
a death-grip, and too often it is literally that as well, from 
the effect that it exerts upon the health of the body by 
depriving it of hope, rest, and cheerfulness. 

How it is that the mind is able to affect the nutrition and 
health of the body we do not know, but the facts are beyond 
all dispute in many cases. Indeed, it is often possible for a 
man to be seriously injured during the excitement of battle, 
and pay no heed to it until after. Mr. J. B. Gough perma- 
nently injured his hand during a lecture, but did not dis- 
cover the fact until the close of his speaking. Such cases 



214 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

are but those of deferred or diverted attention, for no sooner 
is the excitement removed than the pain is felt. The 
same, in a measure, is undoubtedly true of the religious en- 
thusiasts of the East who prostrate themselves upon the 
ground to allow themselves to be ridden over, or thrust sharp 
skewers into their cheeks and red-hot nails into their palms 
apparently without pain. The history of all people is full 
of instances where religious excitement and the contagion 
of example have rendered enthusiasts for the time being in- 
sensible to ordinary suffering. The priests of Baal cut 
themselves with sharp stones in the frenzy of their false 
religion, as the flagellants scourged themselves in the Middle 
Ages. Similar performances may be seen at Mecca, and at 
some of the East Indian religious festivals; for, in all great 
gatherings of people little accustomed to self-control, excite- 
ment and the imitative faculty lead to strange actions. The 
same cause that induces others to gape by the suggestion of 
our yawning produces many a strange antic in those not able 
to keep the mastery over themselves. To this impulse the 
name of suggestion has been given, and to its operations we 
probably owe the phenomena of mesmerism, hypnotism, and 
the marvels of so-called clairvoyance and mind-reading. 

Mesmerism, so named from a Dr. Mesmer, who first inves- 
tigated the subject, was the term originally used for the hyp- 
notic condition, or a state of apparent sleep in which the will of 
the one mesmerized is to all intents and purposes put into the 
hands of the one producing the hypnotism. Thus hypnotized 
the victim will sing, cry, dance, preach, or pray, as the mes- 
merist wishes, until the spell is broken. Fortunately, not all 
can be thus hypnotized, and probably none can be made 
susceptible against their will. The mental mechanism of 
hypnotism has never been definitely determined, but it seems 
reasonable to believe that it is a condition of affairs in which 
the will is held in abeyance and the brain left to act solely 
by suggested thoughts. Imagine, if you please, a ship with 
its helmsman drugged but still able to stand at the wheel and 
automatically to do the bidding of some one who stands be- 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHOXES. 215 

hind him, and you have a fair comparison to illustrate this 
hypnotic condition. It is useless and harmful, for it has never 
been productive of any valuable results, and tends to weaken 
already impaired will-power, and might be utilized for actual 
crime. Experimentation in this line should be strongly dis- 
couraged, for it can bring out no new facts and may inflict 
serious injury moral, if not physical. 

Clairvoyance, beyond a doubt, is another manifestation 
of this same impulse, for, behind all the arrant fraud of the 
majority of the so-called clairvoyants, there is a power pos- 
sessed by some of following most ingeniously the suggested 
thoughts of the questioner only that and nothing more. 
A careful study of their most wonderful exploits will show, 
so far as the writer has been able to inform himself, only re- 
productions of thoughts or facts known to the one seeking the 
clairvoyant's aid. Many of these thoughts may be but dimly 
remembered, but if false, or falsely recalled, the clairvoyant 
falls into the same mistake. 

Catherine Beecher years ago carefully investigated the 
subject, and her results are the same as those obtained by 
all candid investigators. We quote her experience in her 
own words: 

"Early in December, 1844, having heard, through most re- 
liable persons, of the performances of a clairvoyant woman 
in Boston, I wrote to my family friends in various States, 
east and west, that I should go to that city on the 23d day 
of that month, and visit this woman between the hours of 9 
and 12 A. M.; and I requested them all to note down what 
they were doing at that time, and also to write a sentence and 
lay it on the mantel-shelf of their sitting-rooms. 

" I went on that day, no person in the city knowing that I 
was to be there. I went from the cars to this woman, whom 
I had never seen. None of her family knew me or I them, 
and I did not give my name. She was put in the clairvoyant 
state, and then I was left alone with her." 

Without giving in detail Miss Beecher's conversation with 
the clairvoyant, which may be found in her Letters to the 



216 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

People on Health and Happiness, it is sufficient to say that 
the clairvoyant described correctly every minute particular 
concerning certain houses and their occupants in Hartford 
with which Miss Beecher was acquainted, but entirely failed 
in a crucial test thus proposed by Miss Beecher: 

" I then asked her to look on the mantel-shelf below, and see 
if there was a paper with writing on it. She then continued 
thus: 'There is some writing pinned to the wall over the 
mantel. It is too small. It ought to be written larger. You 
told them to do this. The first words are : " The baby's name 
is " I cannot read it, it is too small.' 

" 'Try ! ' said I, with greatly excited interest. She grasped 
her hands tightly together, and shook all over, as if making 
a great effort. Then she said, ( Yes, I see it. It is written, 
" The baby's name is George" ' 

" Now every minute particular as to the people, house, and 
furniture corresponded with my past experience. But this 
matter about the writing was all concocted by herself from 
materials in my past knowledge. For the baby's name was 
not George, and there was no paper prepared as I had re- 
quested. Nor was I conscious of thinking that the child, if 
a boy, would be called George after the child that was dead. 
Indeed, I should not have supposed that this would be the 
case." 

Such mental echoes add nothing to the sum of human 
knowledge, and are dangerous from their opportunity to fraud, 
as has been over and over again proven. There may be 
honest clairvoyants and spirit-rappers, but their feats are per- 
formed under surroundings better adapted for fraud than any 
professional magician would ask. Many of the tricks of these 
so-called mediums are startling, but they have all been dupli- 
cated and excelled by those who make no pretense of any 
higher powers than sleight of hand. 

Dreams are less explicable than the clairvoyant's feats. 
The latter, deprived of the gross amount of fraud mixed 
with the larger part of them, are, when any thing more 
than fraud, the interpretation of another's thoughts into the 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 217 

medium's words. Hence it is that the hypochondriac is sure 
to find " the seventh son of a seventh son " agreeing with 
him in his own ideas of his ailments, even if unexpressed. 
Those that agree with us we are ready to adjudge wise, and 
hence the number of victims who fall ready prey to these. 
But whence come the suggestions from which originate dreams, 
and why do we dream at all ? Sleep has been defined by 
some one as the victory of the sympathetic over the cerebro- 
spinal system. Less technically, it may be said to be brain 
and body rest, produced most probably by a periodic lessen- 
ing of the supply of blood sent to the brain. Eating a 
hearty meal attracts the blood from the brain 10 assist in 
digestion, and hence the drowsiness that comes to many after 
a full meal. Perfect sleep is " sore labor's bath, balm of hurt 
minds, chief nourisher in life's feast," and should be dream- 
less, or that from which we awake without remembrance of 
having dreamed. Thought, memory, and conscience ought 
all to slumber when sleep " knits up the raveled sleeve of 
care," but too often mind and spirit labor too, while the 
wearied body is trying to sleep and we dream. 

Dreaming is, then, involuntary mental action, while the 
body is cut off from its ordinary avenues of sensation. So 
we often say and think, and yet it is more frequently true 
than we think that dreams are bodily sensations misinter- 
preted by the dazed and bewildered brain. For instance, 
Dr. O. W. Holmes says: "I once inhaled a pretty full dose 
of ether with the determination to put on record at the 
earliest moment of regaining consciousness the thought I 
should find uppermost in my mind. . . . The veil of eter- 
nity was lifted. The one great truth which underlies all 
human experience, and is the key to all the mysteries which 
philosophy has sought in vain to solve, flashed upon me in a 
sudden revelation, . . . and staggering to my desk I wrote 
in ill-shaped, straggling characters the all-embracing truth 
still glimmering in my consciousness. The words were these 
(children may smile; the wise will ponder) : * A strong smell 
of turpentine prevails throughout.'" 
10 



218 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

And why should not both children and wise men smile ? for 
the witty doctor had scribbled his ludicrous sentence while he 
was but half awakened from a grandiloquent dream, produced 
by the pungent odor of the ether. Thought works with almost 
inconceivable rapidity in the case of these suggested dreams. 
The report of a gun may between the time of its sound and 
the awakening of the dreamer give rise to a three volume 
novel in the mind of the sleeper. It is almost incredible 
what a multitude of ideas may under certain circumstances 
follow each other with surprising celerity. What books we 
have written, what orations delivered and dramas enacted in 
our minds, while we are vainly trying to grasp the idea 
that it is time to get up, or shivering from an exposed limb, 
or uncomfortable from dining not wisely, but too well. The 
last is extremely prone to produce unpleasant dreams night- 
mares, so-called, though why it is hard to say from the an- 
noyance of the undigestible food, mistaken, perhaps, by the 
half-awakened brain for the prince of darkness sitting 
astride the dreamer. Eating a light meal just before retiring 
does not interfere with sleep, provided the food is such that 
it is easily digested ; for, as has already been said, normal diges- 
tion aids sleep, and a late meal is the best treatment for the 
insomnia of night and brain workers. 

Not a little valuable literary work has been done in 
sleep. Coleridge's Kubla Khan was thus written, as was 
Tartini's DeviTs Sonata. One of Lord Thurlow's best Latin 
compositions was thus dreamed out and Cordorcet and Frank- 
lin happT men! were said to have been able to work out 
elaborate mathematical calculations after the same fashion. 
In these cases, as in the mathematical prodigies which are 
occasionally met with, the brain undoubtedly acts automat- 
ically, like one of the patent automatic adding machines. In 
the innumerable multitude of dreams it would be strange if 
some of them did not occasionally come true, and probably 
every one has had such coincidences in his own experience. 
History is full of notable examples, as the famous one of the 
Prince of Conde, who dreamed just before the battle of 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 219 

Dreux that he engaged in three battles, in which he was suc- 
cessively victorious, and that his victories would cost his 
enemies their three chief officers ; and that after these victo- 
ries he himself should be slain ; all of which was afterward 
realized exactly as dreamed. There is a copious literature on 
such realization of dreams, and of the appearance of those 
dead, about the time of their death, to dreaming friends, 
whose discussion belongs to psychology rather than physiol- 
ogy, and must be here dismissed with the thought that there 
may be " more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed 
of in our philosophy." 

The explanation of somnambulism is less difficult, for 
sleep-walking is a sort of intermediate station between 
hypnotism and dreaming. It differs from the first in that 
the actions performed are voluntary with the one perform- 
ing them, and differs from dreaming in that the acts are 
actually done, and not merely willed, as is the case in dream- 
ing. In the latter we have the combined action of the will 
and the imagination only, while in somnambulism we have the 
assistance of the voluntary muscles as well. The sleep-walker 
usually has absolutely no remembrance of what he has done; 
occasionally he will remember his performances as those of 
an unusually distinct dream, unless he is suddenly awakened 
in the midst of his actions, when he generally is unable to 
give any rational account of himself. Some of the exploits 
of somnambulists are so extraordinary that they can hardly be 
explained except upon the theory of a sixth sense, which 
takes cognizance of form and distance without sight. How 
otherwise, for instance, can be explained their perilous night 
walks with safety along the ridge of a roof where one could 
scarcely venture with his eyes wide open ? More remarkable 
are the apparently well authenticated cases of letters written, 
pictures drawn, and needle-work done accurately in the 
dark by somnambulists, who for the time were like the 
idols of Scripture, in that having eyes they see not, in the or- 
dinary acceptation of the term, and yet are able to work as 
if they were blessed with the keenest of sight. 



220 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

Another strange mental freak is that of dual existence, so 
called, in which the person thus afflicted leads a double ex- 
istence for a part of the day or week, being entirely uncon- 
scious of what was done in the other half of his existence, 
but able to take up the change of thought and work with the 
passage from one condition to another. Such cases, fort- 
unately, are rare, and, if explicable at all by physiology, are 
explained by an independent action of the two halves of the 
brain. 

Possibly these are simple cases of intermittent memory, 
from whose lapses we all suffer. It is doubtful if we ever 
forget entirely any thing which we ever thoroughly knew, 
but men differ greatly in their ability to recall desired infor- 
mation. Often the harder we try the less successful we are in 
our efforts, so that often the best way in which to accomplish 
our end is to allow the brain automatically to work out the 
problem for us. Napoleon said that his mind was a case of 
drawers, of which he could pull out or shut up any one as he 
desired; but the mental chiffoniers of many men have become 
wedged from disuse. Fortunately, the brain will coax open 
these refractory drawers if we will but give it time. Quietly, 
and unconsciously to ourselves, the lock is at last turned, and 
the desired fact lies open to our scrutiny. Such seems to 
have been the process by which Sir William Hamilton discov- 
ered the relation of quaternions. " I was walking," says 
he, "on the 15th of October, 1843, with Lady Hamilton, 
when on reaching Brougham Bridge I felt the galvanic circle 
of thought close, and the sparks that fell from it were the 
fundamental relations between i, j, and k." This is done by 
unconscious cerebration, begotten of repeated practice. 

The great value of all education lies in the fact that we can 
at last do with facility what at first was difficult and painful. 
The school-girl laboriously fingering "Days of Absence" 
may, if she please, learn to play almost unconsciously most dif- 
ficult music and keep her mind fixed upon other subjects at the 
same time. So it is with knitting, type-setting, stenography, 
or any pursuit which requires manual dexterity ; and the 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 221 

same in a measure is true of intellectual work, in which 
practice is all important. Anthony Trollope's financial success 
as a novelist was due to his invariable practice of writing 
daily twenty-five hundred words of a projected story, no 
matter where or what his surroundings were. This he did in 
the midst of a busy official life, which many another man 
would have thought more than sufficient for his waking 
hours. Thackeray, with far more genius, was always in the 
drag with his writings and finances, simply because he had 
never learned Trollope's habits of literary thrift. 

" Habit is second nature, and man is a bundle of habits." 
Habits of some kind we must have; all have some more or 
less useless and ludicrous. Schiller thought he could not 
write well unless he had the odor of rotten apples in his 
room. Dr. Johnson must touch each lamp-post as he swayed 
along the streets of London, and but who is there who 
has not some odd trick of gesture or manner that he carries 
with him through life ? The vast majority of these habits 
are formed between twenty and thirty, or, as Lord Colling- 
wood put it, " Before you are five-and-twenty you must 
establish a character that will serve you all your life;" for 
fortunately good habits become as strongly fixed as evil ones, 
of which we hear vastly more. " Habits are a necklace of 
pearls," says the Russian proverb, and such they are if they 
are habits of self-respect, self-help, industry, integrity, and 
decision. There is, says the Popular Science Monthly, " no 
more miserable being than one in whom nothing is habitual 
but indecision, and for whom the drinking of every cup, the 
time of rising and going to bed, and the beginning of every 
bit of work are subjects of express volitional deliberation. 
Full half the time of such a man goes to the deciding or re- 
gretting of affairs which ought to have been so thoroughly 
ingrained in him as practically not to exist for his conscious- 
ness at all." 

The great thing, then, in all education, is to make auto- 
matic and habitual as early as possible as many useful 
actions as we can. The more , of the details of our daily 



222 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

life we can hand over to the infallible and effortless custody 
of automatism the more our higher powers of mind will 
be set free for their own proper work." Habits, if good, are 
conservative and helpful even though they may seem ludicrous 
to others with their different ways of thinking and doing. 
Bad habits degrade by destroying little by little self-respect, 
until at last their victim is bound in chains that he finds him- 
self unable to break, for habit has wound itself about him 
until it has become an integral part of himself. 

The comfort or wretchedness of our residence in this house 
in which we live turns largely upon our habits personal, 
mental, and moral. If they are those of Peter the First, the 
man is an animal that is all. His stable may be decorated 
with all that the wealth of the Russias can buy, but after all it 
is a stable, and no amount of whitewash or outside gilding 
can make it any thing else. Nor is the body designed merely 
for a literary work-shop. A library is a more enjoyable spot 
than a menagerie, but the body was given to us for other 
purposes than mere culture. Culture is better than barbar- 
ism, but culture is not God, and men and women were born 
to worship God, not culture. The only satisfactory explana- 
tion of the body is that given by St. Paul, already quoted ; 
namely, " Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and 
that the spirit of God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the 
temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God 
is holy, which temple ye are." 

Science and revelation join hands over this declaration of 
the apostle. The body is too magnificent a piece of work- 
manship to lodge an animal. It is fit to be the temple of its 
maker. It ought to be, or it misses pitifully the end for 
which it was built, and with the failure comes the penalty. 
Whatever science may fail to corroborate in the way of rev- 
elation, it is not at the point of penalty. " Whatsoever a 
man soweth, that shall he also reap," is the emphatic teaching 
of science, and nowhere is this more pitilessly true than in 
regard to certain sins against the body. It is literally true 
that such sins bring certain destruction to those who thus de- 



TELEGRAPHS AND PHONES. 223 

file the temple of God. It would be far pleasanter to pass 
such by without mention, but their frequency forbids. Bad 
men and women, and worse pictures and books, abound for the 
avowed purpose of defiling the temple of God with worse 
than Pompeiian frescoes; and the time has come when it is no 
longer right to keep silence on temptations which menace 
even the school-boys and girls of this country. The evil can- 
not be met too early, nor too fiercely. Its aims are diabolical, 
and its results are such as to make the angels weep. The 
large majority of fallen men and women go astray before 
they are fourteen. Ignorance is not safety, for the only 
way in which this evil can be met is by conjoined effort 
mothers with daughters, and every brave, pure man and 
boy in the White Cross League. The Knights of the Red 
Cross fought to save from desecration the holy sepulcher; 
the aim of the Knights of the White Cross of to-day is 
to save from defilement the "temple of God, . . . which 
temple ye are." 

There is a touching little story in mediaeval Latin of a sick 
pauper who came to the operating room of a renowned surgeon 
of those days. The great man, who thought he could not waste 
his time on so poor a patient, turning to his assistant said, 
"Experiment on this vile body; " whereat the poor wretch 
for it was before the days of anaesthetics pleaded, " No body 
is vile for which Christ was not ashamed to die." " Corpus 
non tarn vile pro quo Christus ipse non dedignatus est more" 
might be well chosen for the motto of the modern White 
Cross Knights, who already number many thousand, although 
their organization dates back only a very few years. The 
disappearance of the knights of the age of chivalry has left 
a need of like self-sacrifice and devotion by some similar 
brotherhood. This the White Cross Knights promise to fill, 
making, if possible, social purity as binding upon man as 
woman. The White Cross obligations, as may be seen, are 
few and simple, and all true men and women should bid 
them Godspeed in their efforts to make the world better and 
purer. 



224 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEXE. 



WHITE CROSS OBLIGATIONS. 

My strength is as the strength of ten, 
Because my heart is pure. 

" I promise to treat all women with respect, and to 
endeavor to protect them from wrong and degradation. 

" I promise to endeavor to put down all indecent language 
and coarse jests. 

" I promise to maintain the law of purity as equally bind- 
ing upon men and women. 

" I promise to endeavor to spread these principles among 
my companions, and try to help my younger brothers." 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 225 



CHAPTER VIII. 

MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 

IT must not be forgotten, in our study of the human body, 
that it is a chemical compound as well as a complex piece of 
machinery; or, rather, the organs and parts of a human body, 
like every thing else material, are composed of molecules 
and subject to the laws which govern them. And what are 
these molecules ? The word means literally a little mass, 
but is used in chemistry and physics with the more exact 
meaning of a little mass composed of two or more atoms. 
" A molecule," says Tidy, " is the smallest possible cluster 
of atoms existing as a compound and capable of having 
an independent chemical action." The molecules are then, ac- 
cording to these definitions, composed of atoms, and this 
leads us naturally to inquire in what atoms differ from 
molecules. The name will help us to an answer. Atom is 
from the Greek, and means uncutable. The atom is then 
the uncutable or indivisible part of the molecule, for it is 
at least possible to think of dividing matter until its further 
division becomes in thought impossible. The results of the last 
divisions of all matter are what are called atoms. One might 
think, from the infinite variety of matter with which we are 
acquainted, that there would be an infinite variety of atoms, but 
chemists believe that there are as yet not more than seventy 
different kinds of atoms known, although these are found 
linked together in an almost infinite number of molecules. 
In the molecule the atoms are supposed to be held together 
by chemical affinity, and the molecules are influenced bv 
other forces. These molecules, or tiny groups of atoms, 
even in the firmest stone, are supposed never to be abso- 
lutely quiet, but are swaying to and fro with a motion 
10* 



226 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

varying in rapidity with their attraction or repulsion to- 
ward each other. If this attraction is strong, they constitute 
a solid in which they can be lifted together in mass ; if their 
attraction is less, but still such that they have a certain 
amount of cohesion, the molecules then form a liquid ; but if 
there is absolutely no attraction between the molecules, but 
repulsion, they constitute a gas. Heat is supposed to increase 
the repulsive powers of molecules, and hence heat will trans- 
form a liquid into a gas, as we do whenever we boil the 
water in the kettle. Cold acts in an exactly contrary way, 
for cold drives the molecules nearer together, and thus trans- 
forms liquid water to solid ice. 

The solids, liquids, and gases of the body are subject to 
the same laws of physics and chemistry as matter elsewhere, 
with the single exception of that strange thing we call 
germinal or living matter. This may be killed by heat, 
strong acids, alcohol, and a variety of other agents, but then 
it becomes dead matter and subject to the laws of dead 
matter. So long as it lives it is vital, and resists the forces 
and powers which incessantly assail it. The wonder, then, 
is not that we die, but that we are able to live, beset, as 
we are, within and without, with foes begotten of our 
own bodies. Resurrection, Hume claimed, is too great a 
miracle to be believed on any amount of testimony; but 
modern science declares that life is more marvelous than 
resurrection, for the power requisite to set the perfectly pre- 
pared machinery to running again is feeble compared with 
the intelligent foresight necessary to protect it from the 
ceaseless assaults of invisible foes. Man is in exactly this 
condition, constantly beset by an innumerable army of mol- 
ecules and microbes, which no man can see, but which are 
none the less persistent in their onslaught, until at last the 
vital tissues give up the unequal contest and die, as did 
Arnold of Winkelreid. This defeat we call death ; and we 
should discriminate, as Huxley has done, between the forms 
of death met in the body. There is : 

1. "Local death, which is going on at every moment 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 227 

and in most, if not in all, parts of the living body. 
Individual cells of the epidermis and of the epithelium are 
incessantly dying and being cast off to be replaced by others, 
which are as constantly coining into separate existence. 
The like is true of blood corpuscles, and probably of many 
other elements of the tissues. 

" This form of local death is insensible to ourselves, and is 
essential to the due maintenance of life. But, occasionally, 
local death occurs on a larger scale, as the result of injury, 
or as the consequence of disease. A burn, for example, may 
suddenly kill more or less of the skin ; or part of the tissues 
of the skin may die, as in the case of the slough which lies 
in the midst of a boil ; or a whole limb may die, and exhibit 
the strange phenomena of mortification. 

" The local death of some tissues is followed by their re- 
generation. Not only all the forms of epidermis and epi- 
thelium, but nerve, connective tissue, bone, and, at any rate, 
some muscles, may be thus reproduced, even on a large scale. 
Cartilage once destroyed is not restored. 

2. " General death is of two kinds : death of the body as 
a whole, and death of the tissues. By the former term is 
implied the absolute cessation of the functions of the brain, 
of the circulatory and of the respiratory organs ; by the 
latter, the entire disappearance of the vital actions of the 
ultimate structural constituents of the body. When death 
takes place, the body, as a whole, dies first, the death of the 
tissues sometimes not occurring until after a considerable 
interval. (See page 47.) 

" Hence it is that, for some little time after what is ordi- 
narily called death, the muscles of an executed criminal may 
be made to contract by the application of proper stimuli. 
The muscles are not dead, though the man is." 

Local death is generally painful, for its efforts are con- 
servative and look toward the repair of the injured part. 
General death, as a rule, is painless at the last, for here as 
elsewhere nature is merciful as well as just, and does the 
kindliest thing possible for our best good. Mr. Beech cr, 



228 PHYSIOLOGY AXD HYGIENE. 

when asked how he expected to feel when he came to die, 
answered, more truthfully than piously, " Stupid." And 
it is to this merciful state, whatever may be the apparent 
agony of the last moments of dissolution, that we at last 
all come. 

General death comes in one of three ways, says Bichat ; 
either death beginning at the heart, death beginning at the 
lungs, or death beginning at the head. The last is in 
reality death from failure of circulation or respiration, or 
both, from injury to the centers located in the brain. In all 
such cases there is failure, due either to the heart or lungs, 
to properly aerate the blood. Failure to obtain sufficient 
oxygen results in an undue accumulation of carbon dioxide 
in the blood, and carbon dioxide is as truly an anaesthetic, in 
poisonous quantities, as is chloroform. The poison may pro- 
duce convulsive movements most painful to witness, but their 
presence is conclusive proof that the dying man is already 
narcotized beyond pain. The "king of terrors" is most 
frightful to those who walk through the " valley of the 
shadow of death," but at last his arms are as tender and 
soothing as a mother hushing her tired child to sleep. The 
moral questions which may have been left unanswered until 
death may prove the source of the most torturing anguish, 
but at last there comes merciful oblivion. One with many 
opportunities for observation on this subject says : 

" I have talked with persons who have been poisoned, or 
who have poisoned themselves, and who may be said to have 
died, inasmuch as they have fully decided and expected to 
die. They very rarely suffered in body or mind, and they 
lost their senses as gradually as when laying their head upon 
the pillow at night. Whatever pain they had was not in going 
from but in coming back to life, which would make it seem 
that the arrowheads, directing to death, wound only those 
anxious to return. We have on record the ante-mortem 
diaries of men who, having swallowed poison with the delib- 
erate purpose of suicide, had wished to leave a record of the 
effect upon themselves of the conscious approach of death. 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 229 

Most of these diaries show the surprise of the writers at the 
total absence of the awe or fear commonly believed to be in- 
separable from such circumstances. Doubtless the deter- 
mination of self-extinction had absorbed the anticipated 
strangeness, and discounted the impressiveness and solemnity 
of the mortal occasion. It is natural to die, but hardly nat- 
ural to desire to die. To will to die is all there is of death. 
To be killed outright by a gun-shot wound must certainly be 
easy. I have seen so many men slain in battle that I am 
sure of this. I have narrowly watched officers struck when 
leading a charge. Their faces evinced startled surprise, not 
anguish, and their nervous system received such a shock that, 
before sensation could rally, they had ceased to breathe. 
To say that a man suddenly put out of life by violence does 
not know what hurts him is exactly true. He is dead with- 
out thought of death, and therefore spared all mental appre- 
hension, which is the worst part of dying. Abrupt death by 
external agencies must be very analogous to the shock from 
a Leyden jar." 

Nor is death an exception to the general law that pain is 
conservative. Pain is the alarm given us whenever the foes 
of the body are assaulting it with dangerous intent. It is the 
signal that the line of battle is giving way somewhere, un- 
der the combined pressure of earth, air, fire, and water ; for 
against all these man must incessantly fight. Hunger, fatigue, 
cold, and thirst are points at which these enemies crowd the 
closest, and where, if relief is not quickly brought, defeat is 
certain. Hunger is the irrepressible clamor for the fruits of 
the earth, which must be wrested from it at the point of the 
spade, hoe, and the knife, or we die. Fatigue is the 
inevitable result of the attraction of gravitation, that is, the 
ever-present weight of our bodies, conjoined to the atmos- 
pheric pressure of fifteen pounds to each square inch of its 
surface. So accurately is this adjusted we never notice its 
pitiless persistence until the wearied limbs at last succumb. 
Fire is at the same time man's best friend and most inexora- 
ble creditor. Fire is essential to civilization, but civiliza- 



230 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

tion demands its pound of flesh for every forfeited bond, 
and these are many, for modern society demands that man 
shall give many a pledge to fortune. Even water, without 
whose aid we must perish in a few short hours, may serve, as 
we have seen (page 70), to introduce within the camp the 
most treacherous of enemies. Gravitation, oxidation, and pois- 
oning from within and without are some of the foes against 
which this warfare must constantly be waged. To these 
must be added another, and, until recently, an unsuspected, 
foe of man the microbes ; a barbarous sort of Greek word, 
invented to name forms of life too minute to be seen except 
by means of the microscope. The part that these tiny be- 
ings play in fermentation, decomposition, and disease 'was 
little dreamed of fifty years ago. Within that time these 
tiny points, less in size as a rule than the red blood corpuscle, 
have revolutionized all our ideas and theories in regard to 
putrefaction and practical hygiene, and bid fair to do the 
same in the domain of practical medicine. 

The causes of the decomposition of the human body after 
death were vainly sought for by the ancient philosophers 
and physicists, of whom none came nearer the truth than 
Van Helmont, who attributed it to the loss of Parchee, or, as 
we now call it, vital force. He was also the first to appre- 
ciate the relation between the air and putrefaction, for an 
organic body, entirely preserved from contact with the air, 
under proper precautions, can be preserved indefinitely. 
These facts were apparently well known to the Egyptians, 
and utilized by them in the preparation of their mummies, 
and also by the Ethiopians, if we can believe Herodotus's tales 
in reference to the preservation of their dead in glass. Un- 
der ordinary circumstances exposure of a body to light, air, 
and moisture accomplishes the dissolution of its soft parts 
entirely in from two to three years, and in so far as air is 
excluded is the process delayed. This was strikingly shown 
in the bodies of the Etruscan kings found some years ago in 
their sepulchers, where they had been preserved, protected 
from the atmosphere, unchanged for hundreds of years ; but 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 231 

no sooner was air admitted than these bodies began to crum- 
ble, and in a few hours were converted into unrecognizable 
dust. The same principle was applied to the preservation of 
food by the Romans, for canned fruit has been found in 
Pompeii, but its secret was forgotten until a little more than 
a hundred years ago, when Benjamin Appert demonstrated 
that meat sealed in air-tight boxes, after being heated 
so as to expel the air, would keep for an indefinite length 
of time at ordinary temperatures. On this depends the 
modern extensive use of canned meats, for it is well known 
that, after having been heated and sealed up in air-tight 
cans, and thus protected from the atmosphere, meats will 
remain sweet and fresh as long as the receptacle remains 
air-tight. For many years it was supposed that the oxygen 
of the air was the sole cause of the spoiling of meats and 
fruits ; but it must be remembered that the oxygen of 
the air is not the sole cause of putrefaction, for it has been 
over and over again proven that, while air is apparently nec- 
essary to begin decomposition, it is not essential to its con- 
tinuance after it has once begun; and hence the failure of 
hermetically sealed coffins to prevent decomposition. The 
explanation of this is found in the fact that putrefaction 
largely depends upon microscopic microbes and germs con- 
stantly floating in the atmosphere, whose growth and multi- 
plication take place whenever they are deposited by the air 
in an appropriate soil or fluid, among the best of which are 
the fluids of the body. With a good microscope (1,200 
diameters) multitudes of microbes may be found in the mucus 
which can be scraped from the inside of the cheeks or lips, 
as spherical or oval particles with multitudes of delicate 
filaments. The numbers and rapidity of multiplication of 
these bacteria with proper food is almost incredible, for 
Cohn has shown that bacterial reduplication can arise in 
the course of about an hour. At this rate a single bacte- 
rium would produce two in one hour, these by doubling 
would increase to four in the second hour, and so on until 
in the lapse of three days the scarcely conceivable figure of 



232 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

4,772,000,000,000 would be attained. Whence do they come ? 
Formerly it was believed by spontaneous generation from 
decaying matter, for the ancients entertained the wildest 
ideas in regard to the origin of life. Virgil believed that 
bees were produced from entrails, and Lepidus that mud 
and heat would generate crocodiles. For a long time it was 
believed that certain birds grew upon trees, and that the 
flesh of a duck could give birth to an owl. Similarly, ser- 
pents were supposed to originate from the spinal cord, and 
mice to be spontaneously begotten by sawdust and old 
rags. Even in our own times there are many intelligent 
people who believe that a horsehair left in the waters of a 
brook will be transformed into the thread-like worm that 
bears its name, and that maggots are spontaneously gener- 
ated in decaying meat, although two hundred and twenty 
years ago Francesco Redi settled the question definitely. 
Like others, he had seen the maggots begotten in putrefying 
flesh, but unlike many others he observed that flies invariably 
were found also about the meat, and that they frequently 
alighted upon it. Surmising that there was some causal 
relation between these flies and the maggots, he covered 
meat with paper, and afterward with fine gauze, and found 
that no maggots were developed naturally enough, for it 
is well known to-day that maggots are the half-developed 
progeny of flies. 

These facts were soon overshadowed by the greater dis- 
coveries of Leeuwenhock, a Dutch microscropist, who discov- 
ered the yeast plant and certain animalculae, as he called 
them. He was also the first to understand that the turbid- 
ity which occurs in animal and vegetable infusions was due 
to the growth of these minute forms of life, about which 
immediately sprang up most vehement controversies. These 
at first were mainly about fermentation, for although the yeast 
plant was discovered and figured by Leeuwenhock as early 
as 1680, yet its true nature was not definitely understood 
until it was rediscovered and explained in 1836 by Cagniard 
de la Tour. 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 233 

Lavoisier and other chemists had previously studied atten- 
tively beer -yeast, or the plant which produces alcoholic 
fermentation ; but it was reserved for Cagniard de la Tour 
to demonstrate its real nature. He proved that yeast is 
composed of granules of albuminous matter, which, when 
introduced into a saccharine fluid, there grows and repro- 
duces itself. This is done by gemmation, as it is called, 
that is, by the growth of buds on the surface of the yeast 
plant. These again bud, and in turn produce new yeast 
plants. Yeast ferment is living, since the plants multiply 
themselves, and absorb oxygen, give off carbon dioxide, and 
produce alcohol from the sugar during the process. De la 
Tour furthermore proved that if the saccharine fluid does 
not contain albuminous matter fermentation still takes place, 
but the yeast plant exhausts itself in the process, and none 
remains to begin it anew elsewhere. The next question 
was, Whence came this yeast plant? for fermentation 
takes place in grape-juice whether the yeast plant be added 
to it or not. 

Becker much earlier had taught that a dead body attracts 
microscopic eggs from the air, and that these were the cause 
of its decomposition. These theories and that of an astral fire 
and the balsamic spirit of the blood, which resisted putrefac- 
tion in the living body, were considered the wild dreams of a 
theorist rather than practical realities, until Schwann, many 
years later, demonstrated that these microscopic eggs, or 
spores, as we now call them, had a definite existence, and that 
to them we owe the changes produced by fermentation and 
putrefaction. That these spores are always present in the 
atmosphere was demonstrated by allowing boiling infusions 
to communicate with the air, but in such a manner that no 
air could enter the flask without having first passed through a 
red-hot glass tube, and been thus freed from any germs that 
might float in it. In this case the air had fair pJay, in a 
chemical sense, but yet no life of any kind made its appear- 
ance, and even the chemical changes failed to set in. Ex- 
actly similar results were obtained by Schwann in experi- 



234 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

ments with grape-juice, whether previously mixed or not 
with yeast. These experiments demonstrate the fact that 
the process of putrefaction is not only analogous to fermen- 
tation, but that putrefaction cannot take place without the 
access of the living germs constantly floating in the atmos- 
phere. But he carried his experiments still further. For 
instance, he found that white arsenic (arsenious acid) and cor- 
rosive sublimate, being poisonous both to plants and animals, 
stop both putrefaction and fermentation, while extract of 
mix vomica, being destructive to animal but not to vegetable 
life, prevents putrefaction, but does not interfere with vinous 
fermentation. 

Justus Liebig published a memoir in 1848 upon the sub- 
ject of fermentative changes, in which he reviewed and 
brought into a more definite form Schwann's theory. He, 
too, considered all fermentations and putrefactions as anal- 
ogous phenomena, but considered yeast a " purely accidental 
phenomenon " in vinous fermentation, and thought its power 
of promoting the fermentative process was owing to the 
unstable albuminoid substances it contained. 

Schroeder and Dusch, in 1854, proved by an extensive 
series of experiments that the something in the air which 
enables it to start fermentative changes in boiled infusions 
of meat, etc., can be effectually removed by filtration of the 
air through cotton-wool. 

Such experiments, carried on through the first half of 
the present century, proved that the intervention of air 
was not indispensable to putrefaction, but that the contact 
of a ferment with a putrescible body was sufficient to 
bring about the decomposition of the latter. Gay-Lussac 
combated this opinion, and attempted to prove that with- 
out air or oxygen vinous fermentation could not begin, 
for, said he, grape-juice shut off from access to the air, as 
in a test tube over mercury, does not undergo fermentation; 
but if a few bubbles of air or oxygen are passed into 
it, fermentation begins, and manifests itself by the evo- 
lution of carbonic acid gas, and this gas occupies exactly 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 235 

the same volume as that of the oxygen which has been 
absorbed. 

Louis Pasteur first carefully discriminated between true fer- 
ments and the germs of ferments. Atmospheric dust is made 
up, in the greater part, of earthy matter mixed with organic 
debris; to wit, microscopic spores and infusorial eggs, which 
latter are, according to Pasteur, the prime agent in decompo- 
sition. Oxygen is not the motive agent in these decomposi- 
tions, as affirmed by Gay-Lussac, neither do the nitrogenous 
atoms of the atmosphere play the important part in decompo- 
sition, but these minute organisms which possess a frightful 
power of multiplication. Moreover, he showed that the oxy- 
gen of the air is powerless to bring about these alterations if 
the corpuscles that it usually contains are eliminated or in- 
cinerated. In 1864 the French Academy chose from itself a 
commission which repeated the experiments of Pasteur and 
proved their exactness by taking a flask filled with calcined 
air and attaching it to a tube, whereby a partial vacuum may 
be produced. By a proper arrangement blood was drawn 
from a living animal directly into such a flask without coming 
in contact at all with the air; and such blood does not under- 
go putrefaction, provided the air in the flask has previously 
been brought to a red heat. 

Further experiments conclusively proved that the develop- 
ment of putrefaction took place, not from the gaseous ele- 
ments of the air, but from something that they allowed to 
fall from them in a vertical direction, for a sterilized fluid 
placed in a flask with a long neck laid sideways did not un- 
dergo putrefaction until the neck was allowed to stand up- 
right and open to the air. To isolate this matter M. Pasteur 
forced the aspirated air through a tube filled with gun-cotton, 
which is entirely soluble in ether, and this solution showed on 
the slide of a microscope minute bodies now known to be the 
germs or ova of these lower forms of the life. There is, 
then, no such thing as spontaneous generation, but only 
growth and reproduction from these invisible spores floating 
every-where in the atmosphere. Wherever dust is found 



236 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

these microscopic germs are there also; and wherever dust 
settles, there these spores may, under favoring circumstances, 
reproduce themselves. The only way in which they can be 
entirely removed from the air is to filter it through many 
layers of cotton-wool, or to heat it sufficiently to destroy all 
these organisms. This requires a heat of at least 100 degrees 
C. (212 degrees F.), although, according to Tyndall's experi- 
ments, the same result may be at last obtained by inclosing 
air for a considerable length of time in a glass box whose 
walls are smeared with glycerine. A ray of electric light 
sent through the space within the box shows it at first full 
of the same floating motes that can be seen in the air of 
our living-rooms but little by little these subside and are 
caught and held by the sticky glycerine until at last the 
electric spark shows that the air is clear as crystal and 
absolutely moteless. The air upon the tops of high mount- 
ains is similarly free from organic germs, and hence unable 
to produce purefaction, for without germs no microbes and 
without microbes no putrefaction. It was on the mountain 
top of the Alps that Prof. Tyndall gave spontaneous gener- 
ation its final quietus, by a series of experiments worthy of 
recital here, as the advocates of spontaneous generation have 
never yet met or disproved them. Prof. Tyndall took thin 
turnip slices, barely covered them with distilled water at a 
temperature of 120 degrees, and after allowing it to stand 
four or five hours poured off the liquid, filtered it, and 
thus obtained a clear infusion. This was sucked into sixty 
small, clean, empty flasks, with long necks, projecting side- 
ways, by the process of alternately heating and cooling the 
flasks. Then the flasks were plunged into a trough filled 
with oil, and the contents made to boil. Finally, the 
neck of the flask was closed by heating the glass, and the 
flask " is lifted from the oil-bath sealed hermetically," that 
is, from the air. 

" The flasks are then taken to the Alps, seven thousand 
feet above the sea. There six of them are found to be broken, 
and the infusion within is found to be muddy. Air has en- 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 237 

tered through the broken necks, and hence this muddiness. 
Examined with a microscope the infusion is found full of 
organisms, some wabbling . slowly, others shooting rapidly, 
across the microscopic field. They dart hither and thither 
like a rain of minute projectiles ; they pirouette and spin so 
quickly round that the retention of the retinal impression 
transforms the little living rod into a whirling wheel." 

These are the bacteria. Has this multitudinous life been 
spontaneously generated in these six flasks, or is it the progeny 
of living germs carried into the flasks by the .entering air ? If 
the former be true, how does it happen that the fifty-four un- 
injured flasks are destitute of all forms of life ? Is it said 
that the air itself is the one thing needed to wake up the 
dormant infusion ? He solved the problem after this fashion: 
Twenty-three of the flasks are taken to a hay-loft, and with 
a pair of steel pliers their sealed ends are snipped off. At 
once, of course, there is an inrush of air. Then twenty-seven 
are taken to a ledge overlooking the Aletsch glacier, about 
two hundred feet above the hay -loft, from which ledge the 
mountain falls almost precipitously to the north-east for 
about a thousand feet, with the following results, given in 
Tyndall's own words ; 

" A gentle wind blows toward us from the north-east that 
is, across the crests and snowfields of the Oberland Mountains. 
We are, therefore, bathed by air which must have been for a 
good while out of practical contact with either animal or 
vegetable life. I stand carefully to leeward of the flasks, 
for no dust or particles from my clothes or body must be 
blown toward them. An assistant ignites the spirit-lamp, 
into the flame of which I plunge the pliers, thereby destroy- 
ing all attached germs or organisms. Then I snip off the 
sealed end of the flask. Prior to every snipping the same 
process is gone through, no flask being opened without the 
previous cleansing of the pliers by the flame. In this way 
we charge our twenty-seven flasks with clean, vivifying 
mountain air. 

"Now note the result. In three days every one of the 



238 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

twenty-three flasks opened in the hay-loft were invaded by 
organisms. After three weeks' exposure to precisely the 
same conditions not one of the twenty-seven flasks opened in 
the free air but is as clear as on the day it was brought from 
London. 

"What is the conclusion ? Is not the inference imperative 
that it is not the air of the loft, which is connected by a con- 
stantly open door with the general atmosphere, but something 
that is within the air that has produced the observed effects ? " 

This " something " is the microscopic spores or germs, al- 
ready described by Pasteur, and which can be seen floating 
in every ray of sunlight let into a darkened room. These 
spores or germs are produced within microscopic plants or 
animals, from which they escape by a rupture of the parent 
cell wall, and, drying, fqrm an object of such infinitesimal 
lightness that it can be carried hither and thither and every- 
where by every breath of am Any ordinary range of tem- 
perature does not affect them, but, as has been seen in Pas- 
teur and TyndalPs experiments, they can be destroyed by a 
heat sufficient to bring glass to redness. Air thus treated is 
said to be sterilized, a term that is also applied to flasks and 
other instruments similarly treated to avoid mistakes in 
studying these minute forms of life. Spores under the 
microscope are bluish, opalescent bodies, which do not readily 
take up artificial coloring matter unless their membranes 
have been previously acted upon by acids or a great heat. 
The latter is sufficient, as has already been said, to destroy 
their vitality, but unless thus treated they preserve their 
power of growth on the average about three years, although 
Pasteur claims to have kept them vital for twenty-two years 
in hermetically sealed tubes. For the growth of microbes 
from these spores it is necessary only that they should fall 
into the proper soil. Putrid meat, beef -tea, or any vegetable 
err animal infusions form excellent culture -fluids, as they Tare 
called; that is, liquids well adapted for the rapid growth and 
multiplication of these spores. Latterly, solids have been 
more largely employed for this purpose, on account of the 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 



239 



difficulty of keeping fluids free from the spores of all but one 
kind of the lower forms of life, for each of these has its own 
particular spore, or seed, and these are very apt to be found 
together. All spores closely resemble each other, but, like 
germinal matter, they only produce after their own kind, as 
certainly as a duck's egg never hatches out any thing but a 
duck. 




VARIOUS BACTERIAL FORMS. 

I. Micrococcns septicus; a, scattered; ft, in chains torula. 2. Same in zoogloea 
form. 3. Bacterium termo. 4. Same zoogloea. 5. Bact. lineola. 6. Bacillus sub- 
tilis. 7. Bacillus anthracis and blood-corpuscles. 8. Bacillus (from mouth) with 
cilium. 9. Bacillus leprae. 10. Bacilli with spores. 11. Bacillus malarias. 12. Vibrio 
serpens. 13. Spirochaete Obermeieri. 14. Spirillum volutans. 15. Sarcina. X 500. 
(Copied from Ziegler's path. Anatomic, Jena, 1882.) 

The general name of bacteria (singular, bacterium) is 
applied popularly to all forms of life produced as just de- 
scribed. At first, they were known as animalculae ; later, as 
infusoria ; at present, microbes (little lives) is their proper 
scientific name. By whatever name they may be called, they 
are essentially microscopic bits of protoplasmic matter, whose 
place in the scale of life has not been definitely settled. The 
Germans call them " spaltpilze," that is, split or divided 
fungi, and such they are in so far as they have no chlor- 
ophyl, or the green coloring matter found in plants proper. 
On the other hand, their growth is more like the algae, or sea- 
weeds, than the true fungi, but the algre have chlorophyl, so 
it is impossible to .group the microbes with them. Most 



240 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

probably microbes form a group by themselves, resembling 
the plants in their mode of growth, but like animals absorb- 
ing oxygen and excreting carbon dioxide gas. Wherever 
they belong these microbes are infinitesimally small beings, 
without nuclei or cell walls, almost colorless and structureless. 
They have no blood-vessels or nerves. They seem to be 
simple protoplasmic or germinal matter with the same power 
of self-motion possessed by the white blood corpuscles. 
Some of them have minute paddles or tails, by which they 
propel themselves with wonderful rapidity through the fluids 
in which they live, but most of them undulate and oscillate 
to and fro without any visible means of propulsion. 

So nearly colorless and structureless are the microbes that 
their study would be almost impossible without the aid of 
the coal-tar colors. The black refuse from the main of a gas- 
house is about as unlikely and unpromising an object as you 
will often meet with, to be of any real value to man. But 
chemistry is always bringing the unlikely to pass, for the 
study of a most unpromising subject often brings brilliant re- 
sults. A common ant crushed on a bit of blue litmus leaves 
a red stain, and from that red stain came the discovery of 
chloroform. The red stain is due to formic acid, from 
formic acid came formyl, and from formyl came its terchlo- 
ride, or chloroform, the best gift that ever came to suffering 
humanity. A little more than sixty years ago a chemist by 
the name of Unverdorben found a coloring matter in indigo, 
to which he gave the name aniline, from the Portuguese 
word for indigo. It was a discovery that attracted but very 
little attention, and was supposed to be of no practical use, 
as it was for the next thirty years. About that time an- 
other investigating genius, named Perkins, found the same 
substance in the coal-tar just mentioned. Very little atten- 
tion was paid to this discovery as well, until it was found 
that from aniline oil could be made a dye called alizarine, 
which could be made to take the place of madder. The dis- 
covery of alizarine has revolutionized the industry of dye- 
ing. Hundreds of acres that were formerly given up to the 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 241 

cultivation of the root from which madder was obtained are 
now utilized for the cultivation of wheat, or other foods. 
But it is not our purpose here to speak of all the changes 
that the aniline colors have wrought, but simply of their 
very great value in staining microscopic objects, especially 
these lower forms of life, which take from the aniline dyes a 
deeper tint than the surrounding tissues. In this way the 
microbes have been made distinct, and their study possible 
and exact. 

It is not our purpose here to name all the forms and vari- 
eties of microbes that have been discovered up to the pres- 
ent time. The literature on the subject is already extensive, 
and the names chosen are so largely from the Greek that 
they are not adapted for general use. Take, for instance, the 
naming of the colonies of bacteria; for example, 

1. Torula, in the form of a necklace. (Pages 224, 226.) 

2. Leptothrix, made up of bacteria clustered end to end. 

3. Mycoderma, immobile, composed of bacteria in sheets. 

4. Zoozoea, being masses of bacteria, immobile, inclosed 
in a sort of jelly which holds them together. For all these the 
simpler names of necklace, chains, sheets, and jelly would have 
answered every purpose. Three of 

these names, however, have come 
into so general use that they re- 
quire definition here, which can be 
greatly assisted by comparing these 
microbes to well-known objects. 
The first, except that it is infinitely 
smaller, closely resembles a billiard 
ball. This is the micrococcus. Next 
in order of frequence are the bacil- 
li, so named from the Latin name Bacilli and micrococci in tuber- 
, , .,, /. ^i cular deposit. 

for a rod, bacillus; for these resem- 
ble in shape an unsharpened lead -pencil, and are the most 
hardy of all the microbes. Lastly, we have the spirillae, or 
those which resemble a corkscrew in shape. The varieties 
and subdivisions of these are almost endless, but their tech- 
11 




242 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

nical names do not particularly concern us, except, perhaps, 
their further division into aerobians, or those which require 
air for their growth, and the anaerobians, or those microbes 
which flourish without the presence of oxygen. And flour- 
ish they do amazingly, for the most wonderful thing in re- 
gard to these microbes is their wonderful power of multipli- 
cation. A generation of bacteria can be begotten in a single 
hour ; or, in other words, a single bacterium may produce 
two in that time, and these again four in another hour; and 
if this rate of increase should continue for only three days, 
at the end of that time there would be 4,772,000,000,000, or 
7,500 tons. Fortunately this cannot happen, for this fearful 
rate of multiplication is cut short by their inability to obtain 
proper food; for microbes, like all other living beings, must 
have food or die. Moreover, fortunately, by their growth 
they produce compounds, such as alcohol, which are destruc- 
tive to coming generations, for otherwise the presence of a 
single bacterium would soon overwhelm us with a deluge of 
infusorial life compared to which the biblical deluge was but 
a trivial matter. 

Microbes reproduce themselves in two way ; snamely, 
by fission, or gemmation, and by the formation of spores. 
The first takes place wherever the exceedingly rapid 
growth occurs which has just been spoken of. This fission 
consists of a splitting of the animal into various segments, 
or buds, which soon dissolve partnership with their parent 
and set up housekeeping on their own account. As we have 
already seen, in the course of half an hour they themselves 
may suffer internal convulsions and split up, or send out seg- 
ments which similarly divide until their supply of food is 
exhausted. For you must know that these microbes, like 
us of larger growth, have their likes and dislikes in the way 
of diet. One microbe's food is emphatically another mi- 
crobe's poison, or at least his starvation, for some forms will 
grow and flourish in beef-tea, but absolutely refuse the dain- 
tiest raw potato; as is the case with the bacillus, which is sup- 
posed to produce consumption. The one that causes chicken 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 243 

cholera is decidedly ghoulish in its tastes, for it likes best of 
all a broth made from the chicken which it has slain. The 
bacillus of cholera morbus is not at all dainty, for }t will 
grow equally well in animal or vegetable broth, and the hay- 
tea bacillus is equally at home in old cheese. 

In these latter days the scientists have become very 
Delmonicos in providing for the taste of the microbes ; for 
instance, at Koch's laboratory they have a bill of fare set 
before them consisting of Pasteur's fluids, hay-soup, beef- 
tea, chicken - broth, putrid urine, milk, raw potatoes, old 
cheese, peptonized meat, and gelatinized blood. Surely it 
must be a dainty microbe that cannot find here something to 
its liking. But seriously, in Berlin and elsewhere, with 
almost infinite patience and painstaking precaution against 
error, these lower forms of life have been carefully studied, 
with results that have revolutionized our theories concerning 
fermentation, putrefaction, molds, parasites, and many 
forms of disease. It lies outside of our intention to attempt 
a review of all that the study of microbes has accomplished. 
But it has already repaid a thousand-fold in money all that 
the investigation has cost. In proof of this we have but 
to instance the results obtained in checking the vine and 
silk-worm diseases, which were devastating these industries 
in France. In 1853 the French silk crop amounted to some- 
thing over 50,000,000 pounds. Little by little this gradually 
decreased until it reached only one fifth of this amount, 
owing to a strange mortality which occurred in the caterpil- 
lars which produced the cocoons. This disease was found by 
Pasteur to be due to infusorial life, and by carrying out the 
precautions suggested by him it was brought to a halt, until 
the silk crop of France has again reached the proportions of 
1853. Neither have we space to speak of the results ob- 
tained in the treatment of chicken cholera, anthrax, sheep 
tag, or of the changes wrought in brewing, distilling, and 
bread-making, but in conclusion only of some of the possible 
relationships of these lower forms of life to our own bodies 
and their diseases. 



244 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

Beale and his school claim that microbes have nothing at 
all to do with the production of disease, but are simply an 
accidental accompaniment. It certainly is true that some 
of these lower forms of life are perfectly harmless to a 
healthy body. In fact, there is good reason to believe that 
certain of them actually serve as scavengers in the intestinal 
canal, there feasting and gorging themselves, like the vultures 
of the East, on what would otherwise be dangerous and 
hurtful to us. So long as they keep within their bounds 
these organisms are helpful ; but let them in any manner 
enter the blood and they produce poisonous effects. At 
least this is the present theory of many diseases, and it has 
been worked out with remarkable ingenuity and plausibility. 
In medicine, as elsewhere, the pendulum is too apt to swing 
from one extreme to the other, and just now there is an 
effort to explain almost every form of disease, from erysipelas 
to cholera, as originating from bacterial infection, and in many 
cases with apparent success. In the case of consumption, 
for instance, this has been done with so much care, and it 
explains so many features of the disease that have hitherto 
been inexplicable, that it may be taken as a fair instance of 
what is known as a bacterial disease. The infection in the 
case of consumption is supposed to be a straight rod-like 
body, discovered by Koch, of Berlin, and named by him 
bacillus tuberculosis. This rod-like body is so minute, and in 
color so closely resembles the tissues in which it is imbedded, 
that it is only by the most careful staining and manipulation 
that it can be recognized. So difficult is this that not a few 
good microscopists at first denied its existence entirely, 
claiming that Professor Koch had mistaken fat crystals and 
all sorts of other small objects for bacilli. But with wonder- 
ful patience Koch so verified his work that to-day even his 
most obstinate opponents admit that this microbe is found in 
consumptive tissues, and, so far as we now know, nowhere else. 
So generally is this admitted that, to the knowledge of the 
writer, a lady has been exiled from her home for a year and 
more solely on the evidence of a single bacillus in matter 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 245 

that was coughed up. And wisely, too, if we admit this 
theory of consumption, for the presence of this bacillus 
in the sputum indicated that it had found a lodgement 
in the lungs, and, in the natural course of events, unless 
promptly exterminated, would grow and multiply until its 
unfortunate hostess should fall a victim to its ravages. 

The origin of the disease as thus explained is that these ba- 
cilli, escaping from some other consumptive patient, become 
dried, and with other microscopic spores are carried hither 
and thither in the atmosphere until they find some suitable 
lodging-place. Probably they will not grow on the air pas- 
sage of a perfectly healthy lung any more than thrush will 
in a perfectly healthy mouth. But let either parasite find a 
mucous membrane in the proper condition for its growth, it 
will fasten and multiply there each after its own fashion. 
The consumption bacillus is one of slow growth, so that it 
may be years in producing death, but it nevertheless slowly 
multiplies at the expense of the lung in which it is imbedded, 
until at last the person dies, not so much from the presence of 
the bacillus as from the products resulting from its growth. 
If for any reason the deposit is small, or the consumptive 
changes his residence to such a climate that the microbe, 
after a struggle for existence, perishes, recovery may take 
place, as not unfrequently happens. Similar causes are given 
for cholera, malaria, hydrophobia, erysipelas, yellow and 
typhoid and all of the contagious fevers, with much plaus- 
ibility, but as yet without convincing proof. In the blood 
of measles and scarlet fever it is claimed that 
rod-like bacilli can be found, and that the in- 
oculation of these conveys the disease from 
one to another. The degree of virulence of 
the disease is explained by the behavior of 
the white corpuscles toward the invading 
bacilli. The former endeavor to bodily swal- Leucocytes de- 
low the invading microbes, if we can trust vouring bacillus. 
the description of the scientist who figured the act as 
given on this page. Given sufficient white corpuscles to 




246 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

devour the bacilli, there will be but slight fever ; given 
more bacilli, a severer attack. At least this is the theory 
of the adherents of the germ-theory of disease, but in fair- 
ness those of Dr. Beale ought also to be given. In writing 
on the subject, he says : 

" Old epithelial cells, like other old and formed tissue, or 
other dead, organic, animal, or vegetable matter, very soon 
become invaded by low vegetable organisms, which grow at 
their expense and live upon their substance. Not only in the 
substance of these cells, but upon their surface, the fungus 
germs are found, and frequently project from them, form- 
ing little collections which may be detached from time to 
time. 

"Among the hair-like epithelial processes projecting from 
the free extremities of the filiform papillae are often found 
masses which have a granular appearance under low magnify- 
ing powers; but when examined under objective magnifying 
more than three hundred diameters, will be found to consist 
of millions of spherical and oval fungi, or micrococci, grouped 
together. . . . The first question you will ask will probably be 
this: ( Do these germ -particles perform any distinct office, 
or function, in connection with the solution of food or diges- 
tion, or do they merely live and grow upon the old epithelial 
cells and the debris of the food, which must needs undergo 
change in such a solution, and at the temperature of the inside 
of the mouth ? ' We find such bodies in animals as well as 
man, and though they are found in greatest number in cer- 
tain derangements, multitudes are constantly present in the 
most healthy individuals. 

" Wherever organic matter is undergoing change and disin- 
tegration, in an organism or outside of it, at the temperature 
of man's body or some degree lower or higher than this, and 
in some cases at a much lower temperature, such organisms 
exist in a countless multitude, and grow and multiply at the 
expense of the disintegrating organic matter. At this time 
of the year (October) there is not a leaf in which you will 
not find millions of low vegetable organisms in various stages 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 247 

of development and growth. Fungus germs exist in the air 
at every part of the earth's surface at all times. Though by 
no means constantly present in precisely the same amount, 
some are always to be detected in appreciable numbers if 
the air is properly examined. Many coming into contact 
with the moist surface of the leaf about to decay find there 
a surface favorable for their development. The spores ger- 
minate, and from the surface of the tissues of the plant the 
growth easily makes its way into the substance. ... As the 
leaf grows old, substances are formed which are easily appro- 
priated by the fungi. The germs of these are present, and 
are ready to develop just at the time when the appropriate 
pabulum is formed. The fungus does not spring from the 
leaf, neither is the leaf caused to grow old by the fungus, 
and its deterioration begins before the growth of the fungus 
commences. ... In the case of the higher animals and man, 
at least, in many instances in which low organisms are asso- 
ciated with morbid processes, these last are neither the cause 
of disease nor are they produced by it. Germs, being pres- 
ent, will grow and multiply wherever the surrounding con- 
ditions become favorable. If these remain for a considerable 
time unfavorable, the germs, if present, remain quiescent and 
may at last die. 

"As it is with regard to deteriorating vegetable tissues, so 
it is with regard to decaying animal tissue. Whether the 
body be in a state of health or disease, wherever tissue is 
about to undergo chemical change, wherever decomposition 
is taking place, or is approaching, the conditions may be 
favorable for the growth and multiplication of certain low 
vegetable organisms, the germs of which are present. Long 
before the changes akin to deterioration and decay are 
ordinarily supposed to commence, even from the very earliest 
period of construction and growth, fungus germs are ever 
present, ready to grow and multiply should death and disin- 
tegration of a living particle occur. No wonder, then, that 
we find so many low organisms growing in connection with 
the old epithelium of the mouth and of the tongue, of the 



248 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

esophagus and other parts. Under certain circumstances, 
the fungi grow and multiply to a vast extent lower down the 
alimentary canal. Multitudes, as I have said, pass down 
the alimentary canal every time we swallow food or fluid. 
Such ordinary bacteria and their germs do us no harm what- 
ever. But please do not infer from what I have said that 
the putrid fluids loaded with bacteria are innocuous, or to be 
recommended. Organic matter in a state of putrefactive 
decomposition, when introduced into the alimentary canal, 
gives rise to pathological phenomena irrespective of the bac- 
teria it may contain. . . . 

"Whether it is some special bacterium which causes the 
results consequent upon the introduction of specific poison 
into the organism, or whether the active particles are of a 
totally different nature, altogether independent of bacteria 
and allied organisms, is still an open question. Some evi- 
dence has been recently adduced in favor of the hypothesis 
that there are bacteria and bacteria that the real contagious 
bacterium is an organism altogether apart from the harmless 
bodies so intimately connected with every part of every one 
of us. Further, it has been surmised that the horrible death- 
carrying bacteria of various orders have been somehow de- 
rived from the harmless form by pathological transformations, 
or developed in the course of evolutional struggles proceeding 
through the ages, or that they are the product of a constantly 
altering environment. But many new facts must be discov- 
ered and much must be learned concerning special bacterial 
phenomena before the problem can be solved." 

And to solve this problem is being waged just now most 
acrimoniously what may hereafter be known as the battle of 
the microbes. Whatever maybe its result, we shall be forced 
to confess with St. Augustine that the power of God is shown 
most in the little things. Whether these microbes prove 
eventually to be our deadliest foes, or nature's invisible 
scavengers, who injure us only when we force them to work 
where they ought not, they have already taught us much of 
practical value. A clean wound is not one which has been 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 249 

merely washed, but one protected from the presence of these 
microbes. Modern surgery in this way obtains results un- 
dreamed of by our fathers, for their best efforts were op- 
posed by invisible foes whose existence they never suspected. 
The blessings of clean streets, quarantine, and increasing 
years of life are largely the results of the patient study in 
a Parisian laboratory of the difference between tartaric and 
paratartaric acids a subject that the so-called practical man 
would have sneered at as of not the slightest earthly im- 
portance. 

As yet we know but in part, but from this partial 
knowledge, if we are wise, we have learned sufficient to con- 
vince us that this house in which we live is not a mere 
joining together of chance atoms. On the contrary, the 
greatest care has been taken in its construction and in its 
protection from injury, wherein we find the explanation of 
the mystery of pain. No truer or more beautiful words 
have ever been written on this subject than those of an un- 
known writer in Temple Bar some years ago : 

"The power which rules the universe this great, tender 
power uses pain as a signal of danger. Just, generous, 
beautiful Nature never strikes a foul blow; never attacks us 
behind our backs; never digs pit-falls or lays ambuscades; 
never wears a smile upon her face when there is vengeance 
in her heart. Patiently she teaches us her laws, plainly she 
writes her warnings, tenderly she graduates their force. 
Long before the fierce red danger-light of pain is flashed, 
she pleads with us, as though for her own good's sake, not 
ours, to be merciful to ourselves and to teach each other. 
She makes the overworked brain to wander from the subject 
of its labors. She turns the over-indulged body against the 
delights of yesterday. These are her caution signals, *'Go 
slow.' She stands in the filthy courts and alleys that we 
pass daily and beckons us to enter and realize with our senses 
what we allow to exist in the midst of the culture of which 
we brag. And what do we do for ourselves ? We ply whip 
and spur on the jaded brain as though it were a jibbing horse 



250 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

force it back into the road which leads to madness, and 
go on full gallop. 

" We drug the rebellious body with stimulants ; we hide 
the signal and think we have escaped the danger, and are 
very festive before night. We turn aside, as the Pharisee 
did of old, and pass by on the other side with our handker- 
chief to our nose. At last, having broken Nature's laws and 
disregarded her warnings, forth she comes drums beating, 
colors flyings right in front, to punish us. 

" Then we go down on our knees and whimper about it 
having pleased God Almighty to send this affliction upon us, 
and we pray him to work a miracle in order to reverse the 
natural consequences of our disobedience, or save us from the 
trouble of doing our duty." 

In other words, we thrust our fingers into the fire and then 
pray that we may not be hurt, for that in reality is what the 
so-called metaphysical and faith cures amount to. They are 
in the same line of argument as IngersolPs sneering blas- 
phemy : " Why is not good health catching, as well as 
disease ? " 

The body, like all else of the Creator's work, was originally 
" very good," and if our bodies at present are not so, then 
either we or our parents have damaged them. Why we 
should be allowed to do this we shall probably never be able 
to explain until we cease to see in part, and that which is 
earthly is done away with; but recognizing the fact, which 
is beyond dispute, what are we going to do about it ? And we 
ask the question reverently, and as one of importance, for our 
bodily ills, trivial as they may seem to others, are very im- 
portant factors in our lives for good or ill. Paul's thorn in 
the flesh did as much to make him the invincible apostle that 
he was as did Byron's club-foot to make him a gloomy, 
misanthropic cynic. Strangest of all, in these latter days we 
find good men and women who claim that Paul had no busi- 
ness with thorns in the flesh. ISTo Christian doubts the power 
of God to perform miraculous cures if it seem best to 
him, but as yet the evidence is not sufficient to warrant 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 251 

other conclusions than that the laws of Nature are allowed 
to take their course with the body just as they do with other 
material objects. No one dreams of faith being necessary to 
heal the galled back of an overworked farm-horse. Natural 
laws have to be utilized for the recovery of disease for the 
same reasons that their violation brings disease. Sickness, 
as is well said by Dr. Hunt, is "providential penalty" for 
violated law, and it is gross disrespect to the Judge of all 
to expect that these providential penalties should be annulled 
by the request of one of his petit jury. Trophimus had to be 
left sick at Miletum notwithstanding the prayers of Paul and 
himself, or the then Christian Church. And yet in these 
latter days there has grown up the strange delusion that 
with an illogical, hysterical girl or an ignorant backwoods- 
man has been placed power such as was denied Paul. 

No fairer putting of the whole case of faith-cures can be 
made than will be found in the following inductions taken 
from an article by Rev. Dr. James M. Buckley in the Century 
Magazine. 

" 1. That subjective mental states, as concentration of the 
attention upon a part with or without belief, can produce 
effects either of the nature of disease or cure. 

" 2. Active incredulity in persons not acquainted with these 
laws, but willing to be experimented upon, is often more 
favorable to sudden effects than mere stupid, acquiescent 
credulity. The first thing the incredulous, hard-headed man, 
who believes that ' there is nothing in it,' sees that he can- 
not fathom may lead him to succumb instantly and entirely to 
the dominant idea. 

" 3. That concentrated attention, with faith, can produce 
very great effects ; may operate powerfully in acute diseases, 
with instantaneous rapidity upon nervous diseases, or upon 
any disease capable of being modified by direct action 
through the nervous or circulatory system. 

"4. That cures can be wrougnt upon diseases of accu- 
mulation, such as dropsy and tumors of various kinds, with 
great rapidity, where the increased action of the various 



252 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

excretory functions can eliminate the accumulations from 
the system. 

" 5. That rheumatism, sciatica, gout, neuralgia, contraction 
of the joints, and certain inflammatory conditions, may dis- 
appear under similar mental states suddenly, so as to admit 
of helpful exercise, which exercise by its effect upon the cir- 
culation, and through it upon the nutrition of diseased parts, 
may produce a permanent cure. 

" 6. That the ' mind-cure,' apart from the absurd philoso- 
phy of the different sects into which it is already divided, 
and its repudiation of all medicine, has a basis in the laws of 
nature. The pretense of mystery, however, is either honest 
ignorance or consummate quackery. 

" Y. That all are unable to dispense with surgery where the 
case is in the slightest degree complex and mechanical ad- 
justments are necessary ; also that they cannot restore a 
limb, or eye, or finger, or even a tooth which has been lost. 
But in certain displacements of internal organs, the conse- 
quence of nervous debility, which are sometimes aided by 
surgery, they all sometimes succeed by developing latent 
energy through mental stimulus. 

" 8. All that they really accomplish can be paralleled with- 
out assuming any supernatural cause, and a formula can be 
constructed out of the elements of the human mind which 
will give as high average results as their prayers or anoint- 
ings. 

" Is there then no warrant in the New Testament for the 
ordinary Christian to pray for the sick, and is there no utility 
in such prayers ? The operation of the providence of God 
upon the minds of men and upon their bodies, through the 
order of cause and effect which he has established, has not 
come under review. The New Testament affirms that 'All 
things work together for good to them that love God.' It 
also teaches that the Spirit of God has constant access to the 
minds of men, and sets forth an all-inclusive doctrine of 
Providence, without which not even a sparrow falls. It does 
not say that prayer will always secure the recovery of the 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 253 

sick, for it gives the case of Paul, who had a thorn in the 
flesh, and who said, ( I besought the Lord thrice that this 
thing should depart from me,' but received, 'My grace is 
sufficient for thee.' 

"None can demonstrate that God cannot work through 
second causes, bringing about results which, when they come, 
appear to be entirely natural, but which would not have 
come except through special providence or in answer to 
prayer. The New Testament declares that he does so inter- 
fere ' according to his will.' 

" It was not his will in the case of Paul, and he did not in- 
terfere, but gave spiritual blessings instead. No one can tell 
when he will interfere. But prayer for the sick is one of the 
most consoling privileges, and it would be a strange omission 
if we were not entitled to pray for comfort, for spiritual 
help, for such graces as will render continued chastening un- 
necessary, and for recovery, when the thing prayed for is in 
harmony with the will of God. The belief that when the 
prayer is in accordance with the mind of God ' the prayer 
of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up,' 
is supported by many explicit promises. But as all who die 
must die from disease, old age, accident, or intentional vio- 
lence, every person must at some time be in a state when 
prayer cannot prolong his life. 

" When we or others are sick the Christian doctrine is that 
we are to use the best means at command, and to pray, 
' Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; never- 
theless, not my will but thine be done.' The prayer may 
be answered by its effect upon the mind of the patient ; by 
directing the physician, the nurse, or the friends to the use of 
such means as may hasten recovery ; or, for aught we know, 
by a direct effect produced upon the physical system, behind 
the visible system of causes and effects, but reaching the pa- 
tient through them ; then, if the patient recovers, it will seem 
as though he recovered naturally, though it may be in an un- 
usual manner. The Christian in his personal religious ex- 
perience may believe that his prayer was the element that 



254: PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

induced God to interfere and prolong life. Assuming that 
there is a God who made and loves men, none can show his 
faith irrational or unscriptural; but such testimony can be of 
no value to demonstrate to others a fact in the plane of sci- 
ence. When the time comes that the Christian is to die, he 
must then rest, even while praying for life, upon the prom- 
ise, ' My grace is sufficient for thee.' 

"The faith-healers represent God as interfering constantly, 
not by cause and effect in the order of nature, but effecting 
the result directly. Their want of superiority to those who 
are not Christians, but who use either false pretenses or natural 
laws, and their inferiority to Christ and the apostles, con- 
demn their pretensions. Nor does it avail them to say, 
c Christ would not come down from the cross when taunted 
by unbelievers.' They might, perhaps, with propriety refuse 
a test for the test's sake, though Elijah forced one. But in 
a close observation of their works the radical difference be- 
tween them and those who they say have no divine help 
should be manifest. Some of them affirm that the Mor- 
mons, Newton, and others, do their mighty works by the aid 
of devils. If so, since casting out devils was a miracle-work- 
ing power of a very low grade, it is wonderful that none of 
these persons have been able to cast out the devils from any 
of the great number who are working in this way, and thus 
demonstrate their superiority as the apostles vindicated their 
claims against Simon the sorcerer and others. 

"Faith-cure, technically so called, as now held by many 
Protestants, is a pitiable superstition, dangerous in its final 
effects. 

" It may be asked, What harm can result from allowing 
persons to believe in c faith-healing?' Very great, indeed. Its 
tendency is to produce an effeminate type of character which 
shrinks from any pain, and to concentrate attention upon self 
and its sensations. It sets up false grounds for determining 
whether a person is or is not in favor of God. It opens the 
door to every superstition, such as attaching importance to 
dreams, signs, opening the Bible at random, expecting the 



MOTH, RUST, AND MICROBES. 255 

Lord to make it open so that they can gather his will from 
the first passage they see, ' impression,' * assurances,' etc. 
Practically it gives great support to other delusions which 
claim a supernatural element. It greatly injures Christianity 
by subjecting it to a test which it cannot endure. It directs 
attention from the moral and spiritual transformation which 
Christianity professes to work a transformation which, 
wherever made, manifests its divinity, so that none who 
behold it need any other proof that it is of God. It destroys 
the ascendency of reason in the soul, and thus like similar 
delusions it is self-perpetuating, and its natural, and in some 
minds its irresistible, tendency is to mental derangement. 

" Little hope exists of freeing those already .entangled, but 
it is highly important to prevent others from falling into so 
plausible and luxurious a snare, and to show that Christianity 
is not to be held responsible for aberrations of the imagina- 
tion which belong exclusively to no party, creed, race, clime p 
or age." 



PART II -APPENDIX. 



PRACTICAL HINTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE 

BODY. 

FIRST wealth is health, says Emerson ; but health can no 
more be kept than wealth without care for its preservation. 
The more so in the case of health, for the reason that, as we 
grow older, outside cares distract us, and the body is neglected 
until damaged beyond repair. Few bodies, like few houses, 
are absolutely perfect in all their parts, but neither houses 
nor bodies should be neglected ; especially in the case of 
the body, since we are absolutely sure that it is the only one 
which will be given us for our use here, and when once 
dilapidated we must bear the consequences. Exercise is 
Nature's method of keeping this house of ours in good order, 
for if the ablest bodied man sits down, like an Indian fakir, 
to do absolutely nothing, his joints, like the East Indian 
devotee's, will become stiff and useless. And in direct 
measure as we defraud ourselves of necessary exercise shall 
we find ourselves crippled thereby. Exercise will do much 
more than keep us in good health, for when properly used it 
will repair inherited and acquired defects, and much of what 
is hereafter detailed is designed for that purpose that is, for 
body-building, as it is well called by Dr. Hunt. Wherever, 
says he, a particular organ shows a lack of development or 
vigor this is required ; but " to over-develop a set of muscles, 
as those of the arm for great lifting, does not always include 
a strengthening of the whole frame-work. It is body- 
building we need ; we are to seek such vital capacity, such 
adjustment of all the parts, as will best sustain the whole. 
Many a person loses health because there is a defect in one 



258 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

vital part even when all the rest of the system is in good 
condition. The strength of a chain is to be estimated by 
that of its weakest link, and this is too often the case as to 
the strength of the body. Where we cannot fully repair, or 
bring a person fully up to a higher standard of health, we 
can study the type of the individual, and bring him up to a 
higher standard of comfort and vigor. We use the resources 
we have to acquire more. All do not begin with the same 
capital of health, or even acquire it, but they can, at least, 
learn what their capital is, and its ability of preservation or 
increase, and live accordingly. 

" Very active exercise should not be taken just after a full 
meal. The reason of this is that the supply of vital force is 
generally diminished just before a needed meal, and that di- 
gestion itself, in its first processes, has not yet refurnished 
the system. Observation shows us that most animals incline 
to quiet immediately after eating. Active exercise before 
breakfast is not generally beneficial. No doubt it may be 
advantageous to such as have large vital force; but experi- 
ment shows that it is better, after so long a fast, to take 
some nourishment before exercise. The forms of exercise 
most to be relied upon by those in good health, and who are 
not seeking to remedy any special disability, are such as 
bring into play the most of the voluntary muscles used for a 
change of place. Walking is a specimen of natural exer- 
cise, and, like some others, has this advantage, that it also 
gives us a change of air and change of scene. On the other 
hand, stair-climbing is a form of unnatural exercise, which, 
if frequent and long-continued, is an injury to many, and I 
especially to young girls. The most uniform rule as to the/ 
extent and degree of exercise is that it shall continue until/ 
there is a feeling of glow or warmth of surface, or a slightf 
perspiration. Exercise may be carried beyond this without 
harm, as is often necessary in work, and of advantage dur- 
ing the process of growth. But the value of exercise, as 
such, is generally reached when there is glow and slight 
perspiration. A feeling of fatigue is always an indication 



APPENDIX. 2f>9 

of a needed partial or continued rest, or a change as to the 
mode of exercise." 

Full bodily development can only be secured by means of 
the systematic exercise of the parts of the body found want- 
ing. Measurements for these may be found at the close of 
the present chapter, and where deficiencies are found the 
hints herein contained, arranged from Blaikie's How to Get 
Strong, and Anderson's Physical Training, will prove helpful. 

DAILY EXERCISE FOR A BUSINESS MAN. 

Let him daily devote himself two or three minutes to the 
striking bag. Facing it squarely, with head back and chest 
well out, he should strike it a succession of vigorous blows, 
with left and right fists alternately, until he has done a hun- 
dred in all. If he has hit hard and with spirit he is puffing 
freely now, his lungs are fully expanded, his legs have a deal 
of springing about to do, and his arms and chest have been 
busiest of all. 

If, once in mid-morning and again in mid-afternoon, the 
man, right in his store or office, will exercise for two or 
three minutes with dumb-bells, not weighing more than one 
and a half to two pounds each, he will find the rest and 
change most refreshing. But in any case, whether he does 
or not, every man in this country whose life is indoors ought 
so to divide his time that, come what may, he will make 
sure of his hour out-of-doors in the late afternoon, when the 
day's work is nearly or quite done. If he must get up earlier, 
or get to his work earlier, or work faster while he does work, 
no matter. 

To BROADEN AND DEEPEN THE CHEST. 

Any thing which causes one to frequently fill his lungs to 
their utmost capacity, and then hold them full as long as he 
can, tends directly to separate the ribs, stretch the intercostal 
muscles, and so expand the chest. 

Holding the head and neck back of the vertical, say six 
inches, with the face pointing to the ceiling, and then work- 



260 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

ing with the dumb-bells at arms' length, carrying them back- 
ward, is excellent practice for the upper chest, tending to raise 
the depressed collar-bones and the whole upper ribs, and to 
make a person hitherto flat-chested now shapely and full; 
while the benefit to the lungs, perhaps formerly weak, would 
be hard to overestimate, especially in threatening phthisis. 

Steady and protracted running is a great auxiliary in en- 
larging the lung-room ; so is plenty of sparring ; so is the 
practice of drawing air slowly in at the nostrils until every 
air-cell of the lungs is absolutely full, and then holding it 
long, and then expelling it slowly, four to eight times per 
minute. 

To ENLAEGE AND STEENGTHEN THE FEONT OF THE CHEST. 

All exercises designed for the biceps tell also on the 
pectoral muscles, for the two work so intimately together 
that he who has a large biceps is practically sure to have the 
adjoining pectoral muscles correspondingly large. 

But the pectoral muscles are affected by other exercise than 
that of the biceps. Whenever the hands push hard against 
any thing, and so call the triceps muscles into action, these 
muscles at once combine with them. In the more severe work 
of the triceps, such as the dips, the strain across these chest 
muscles is very great, for they are then a very important factor 
in helping to hold up the weight of the whole body. 

Working with the dumb-bells when the arms are extended 
at right angles with the body, like a cross, and raising them 
up and down for a foot or so, is one of the best things for 
the upper edge of the pectorals, or that part next to the col- 
lar bone. 

To STEENGTHEN AND DEVELOP THE HAND. 

An admirable exercise in this direction is, when practicing 
pushing up from the floor to develop the triceps, to only 
touch the floor with the ends of the fingers and thumbs, never 
letting the palm of the hand touch it at all. This w r ill soon 
help to rectify many a hand now rather cramped and con- 



APPENDIX. 261 

tracted, besides bringing new strength and shape to the 
lingers. 

To make any particular finger strong, attach a strap to the 
bar (page 263) and placing that finger in the strap begin 
with raising a small weight from the floor until you have 
drawn your hand down to your chin ; then from day to day 
gradually increase both the weight and number, until before 
a great while you may find that you can raise an equivalent 
of your own weight. 

Just where the thumb joins the palm, and between it and 
the forefinger, on the back of the hand is a muscle which, at 
first usually small, can be developed and enlarged by any 
exercise which necessitates pinching the ends of the thumb 
and forefinger together, such as carrying a plate or other 
thin but heavy substance between the finger and thumb. 

For improving the ordinary grip of the hand, simply tak- 
ing a rubber ball in it, or a wad of any elastic material, or 
even of paper, and repeatedly squeezing it, will soon tell. 
Even simpler is it to just practice opening and shutting the 
hand firmly many times. 

EXEECISES FOR THE TEICEPS MUSCLES. 

Push with the hands against almost any heavy or solid thing 
you want to. If these muscles are small and weak, push the 
dumb-bells up over your head as much as you can daily, till 
a month's work has given them a start. For two or three 
minutes each day during that month stand facing the wall, 
and about two feet from it. Now fall against it, or rather, 
put your hands on it, about three feet apart and as high as 
your ears, and let your body drop in toward the wall till 
your chest nearly touches it, your face being held up and 
back. Then push sharply back till your body is erect again, 
and continue the movement. 

Place the hands on the floor, hold the body out at full 
length and rigid, or as nearly so as you can, and push, raising 
the body till the elbows are straight as possible, and then 
raise on stiff elbows again, and so on. If this is not hard 



262 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

enough work for the ambitious aspirant for stout triceps, 
he can vary it by clapping his hands between the dips, just 
as his face is farthest from the floor ; though in such case it 
is sometimes well to have a nose accustomed to facing diffi- 
culties. 

Place two stout chairs back to back, and then draw them 
about eighteen or twenty inches apart, and, placing one hand 
on each, holding the arms straight, lift the feet off the floor. 
Now lower till the chin is level with the hands, or nearly so, 
and then rise till the arms are straight, and then dip again, 
and so on, the knees and feet, of course, never resting on any 
thing. 

FOREARM WORK. 

Any thing which necessitates shutting the hand, or keeping 
it wholly or partly shut, such as holding any thing heavy 
in it, driving, chopping, fencing, single-stick, pulling one's 
self up with one hand or both, batting, lacrosse, polo; twist- 
ing the dumb-bells around when at arm's length, or a chair, 
or cane, or foil, or sword, or broom-handle, if the dumb-bells 
are not convenient; carrying a weight in the hand; using 
any of the heavier mechanical hand-tools all these, and 
more of their sort, will enlarge and strengthen the forearm, 
and will do much for the hand also. 

To OBTAIN A GOOD BICEPS. 

Starting with the dumb-bells down at the sides, as usual, 
raise them slowly and steadily upward in front until they 
nearly touch the shoulder technically, " curl " them hold- 
ing the head up, the neck rigidly erect, and the chest ex- 
panded to its very utmost. Now lower the bells slowly to 
the sides again, and repeat, and so continue. 

If no dumb-bell or other convenient weight is at hand 
place one hand in the other and bear down hard with the 
upper hand, holding the chest stubbornly out. Lift away 
with the lower hand, and when it reaches the shoulder lower 
it slowly to the side, and then raise again, and so continue. 



APPENDIX. 263 

Fasten a stout hook in a beam overhead and hang a pulley 
to it. Run a rope through this, at one end of which you 
can attach weights and tie the other to the middle of a thick 
cane or other bar, taking care to have the rope of such 
length in all that when the weight is on the floor the bar is 
about a foot above your head. Begin with, say, at first 
a weight of not over one tenth of your own weight. 
Grasping the stick with both hands, with their palms toward 
you, draw it downward until level with your chin, then let it 
go back; repeat, and continue till you begin to tire. If 
the weight seems too light attach another. After a few 
days with these fasten on a basket or coal-hod, and increase 
the load until, say at the month's end, it weighs over half 
of what you weigh. 

If, on the other hand, one has these muscles already strong, 
and can with ease pull himself up six or eight times, he will 
find this stick and weight an excellent affair for training 
the biceps of one arm, until it gets strong enough to pull 
him up without the other arm at all. 

Mount a ladder or a rope hand over hand ; lift any weight 
in front of you, whether a feather or a barrel of sugar; 
pick up any thing from the floor ; hold weights out in front, 
or at your side, at arms'-length ; pull downward on a rope, 
as in hauling up a sail ; hammer in short, do any thing 
which bends the elbow and draws the hand in toward the 
shoulder, thus taxing the biceps muscle ; and if the work 
is vigorous and persisted in, this muscle will erelong become 
strong and well shaped. 

To BRING UP THE MUSCLES ON THE FRONT AND SIDE OF THE 
SHOULDER. 

For these muscles holding out weights at arms'-length, 
either at the side or in front, will be found just what is 
wanted, the arms being horizontal, or the hands being held 
rather higher than that, the elbows remaining unbent. Hold- 
ing the mere weight of the hands, as in boxing, but keeping 
at it a while, keeps these muscles well occupied ; while the 



264 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

sword, or foil, or single-stick, freely plied, or the ax or bat, 
tell directly here. 

FILLING OUT THE SHOULDERS AND UPPER BACK. 

Stand erect again with the chin up and chest high (in all 
the exercises stand erect where it is possible), and have the 
dumb-bells in the hands, hanging easily at the sides. 

Now carry them slowly backward and upward, keeping 
the arms straight at the elbows, and parallel; until the hands 
are about as high as they can well go. Hold them there a 
moment, then drop them slowly to the sides. Do it again, 
and keep on until you begin to feel like stopping. 

Laying one dumb-bell down, now repeat the above exer- 
cise with the remaining one, say in the right hand, this time 
placing the left hand on the back just under the right arm, 
or on the inner portion of the triceps or upper muscle of 
the right arm. These muscles will be found vigorously at 
work, and hardening more and more the higher the bell is 
carried QV the longer it is held up. 

DEVELOPMENT ABOVE THE WAIST. 

With a pair of dumb-bells, at first weighing not over one 
thirtieth of the weight of the person using them, and grad- 
ually, as the strength increases, substituting larger ones, 
until they weigh, say, one-tenth of the person's weight, there 
is scarcely a muscle above the belt which cannot, by steady 
and systematic work of never over one half hour daily, be 
rounded and strengthened up to what it ought to be in a 
thoroughly developed, strong, and efficient person of its 
owner's sex, size, and age, if long enough continued. 

To ENLARGE AND GIVE POWER TO THE LOINS. 

All stooping over when lifting is done, as with a spade, or 
fork, or bar, whether the knees are held straight or bent, or 
lifting any weight directly in the hands, horizontal pulling, 
on a pulley-weight, rope, or oar in short, nearly every sort 



APPENDIX. 265 

of work where the back is actively employed, keeps these 
muscles thoroughly active. You cannot bend over without 
using them. 

COUNTERWORK FOR THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 

Stand erect. Now gradually draw the head and shoulders 
backward until as far past the vertical as possible. Return 
slowly to erect position. 

All work such as swinging clubs, or an axe or sledge ; 
putting up dumb-bells, especially when both hands go up 
together ; swinging by the hands from rope or bar, or pull- 
ing the body up until the chin touches the hands ; standing 
with back to pulley- weights, and taking the handles in the 
hands, and, starting with them high over the head, then 
pushing the hands far out forward ; standing two or more 
feet from the wall, and, placing the hands side by side against 
it, about as high up as the shoulders, then throwing the 
chest as far forward as possible these all do excellent serv- 
ice in bringing to these important muscles the length and 
elasticity they ought to have, and so contributing materially 
to the erect carriage of the body. All kinds of pushing with 
the hands, such as one does in putting them against any 
heavy substance and trying to push it Jbefore him, striking 
out in boxing, in fencing, or single-stick, with dumb-bells, 
or in swimming, are capital ; while the drawing of the head 
back swiftly, as in boxing, to avoid a blow, can hardly be 
surpassed as an aid in this direction. 

THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 

Lie flat on the back, as, for instance, just on awaking. 
Taking first a deep full breath, draw the feet upward, keep- 
ing the knees unbent, until the legs are vertical. Lower 
them slowly till horizontal, then raise again and continue. 
It will not take many minutes, or seconds, to bring these 
muscles enough work for one morning. 

Or, this time keeping the legs down, and first filling the 
chest, now draw the body up until you are sitting erect. 
12 



266 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

Then draw slowly back, and repeat. This will be likely to 
take even less time than did the other, but it will tell 
tremendously on these muscles. 

To DEVELOP THE LEG BELOW THE KNEE. 

The main part of the leg, below the knee, for instance, is 
composed of muscles which raise the heel. Stand erect, 
with the head high, chest out, and shoulders down, keeping 
the knees all the time well sprung back, having the feet 
about three inches apart, with the toes turned slightly 
outward. Now slowly raise the heels until they are high off 
the floor, and the whole weight rests on the soles and toes. 
Now drop slowly down. Then repeat. Next place the hand 
on the muscles of the calf, and, while at first not firm, feel 
them harden as you rise, and all doubt as to whether the 
exercise in question uses these muscles will speedily vanish. 
Continue this exercise at the same rate, keeping at it until 
you have risen fifty times. 

There remains one other prominent muscle below the 
knee, that in front, running down along the outer side of 
the shinbone. Fast walking when one is unused to it, 
especially when the, knees are held pretty straight, will 
work this muscle so vigorously as to make it sore. But a 
plain, safe, and simple exercise for it, yet one which, if 
protracted, will soon swell it into notice, and give it un- 
wonted strength and beauty, is effected by stooping down 
as low as possible, the feet being but a few inches apart, 
and the heels never being allowed to rise even a quarter of 
an inch off the floor. Lift the heels, and this muscle is at 
once relieved. 

Laying any weight on the foot, and lifting it clear from 
the ground, will also call on this muscle. Simply standing 
on one foot, first holding the other clear of the floor, and 
then drawing it up as near as possible to the front of its own 
ankle, and then opening it as wide as you /can, will be found 
a safe and reasonably effective way of bringing forward this 



APPENDIX. 267 

small but useful muscle ; while walking on the heels, with 
the toes drawn up high, is simpler yet. 

WORK FOR THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. 

Scarcely any muscles are more easily brought into action 
than these of the upper or front thigh. Stand erect, with head 
and chest high, and the feet about six inches apart. Now, 
bend the knees a little, say until the head has dropped verti- 
cally six inches. Then rise to the perpendicular again. This 
movement is very much akin to that in dancing, the latter 
being the harder of the two, because the weight is first on one 
foot, and then on the other, while in the former it is always 
on both. 

A more severe tax yet is had by holding one foot far out, 
either in front or back, and then stooping down wholly on 
the other foot. Few can do this many times, and most 
persons cannot do this at all. 

Jumping itself, either high or flat, is admirable for the 
thighs. Maclaren says that hardly any work will quicker 
bring up the whole legs ; but this, will probably prove true 
where a large number of moderate jumps are taken daily 
than where a few extreme efforts are made. 

Both fast walking and running bring vigorous action to 
these muscles ; slow walking does little for them, hence the 
number of weak, undeveloped thighs among men who do 
little or no quick foot-work. 

Hopping, which is so good for the calves, is hardly less so 
for these muscles, and is one of tLe best possible movements 
to develop them in the shortest time. 

A more moderate exercise than the running, though not 
always so available, is walking up hill. This, besides, as 
already mentioned, doing so much for the calves, tells directly 
and markedly on the thighs as well. Skating makes a pleasant 
substitute for walking during a part of the colder months, 
and, when much distance is covered daily, brings, strong 
shapely thighs. 

All lifting of heavy objects from the ground tells heavily 



268 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

on these muscles, but occasional heavy lifting tends rather 
to harden than to rapidly increase its size, protracted effort 
at lighter but good-sized weights doing the latter to better 
advantage. 

Brisk horseback-riding keeps these muscles very actively 
employed. Every sort of work which calls for frequent 
stooping down does the same. 

To ENLARGE THE UNDER THIGH. 

The muscles of the under thigh do not get nearly so much 
to do as those in front, in many persons seeming not to exist 
at all. The exercise already recommended, of pressing the 
sole of the foot hard on the ground just as it leaves it, is 
scarcely more beneficial to the muscles of the calf than to 
these ; likewise walking up hill. Fastening a weight of any 
sort, a dumb-bell or flat-iron, to the ankle, say with strap or 
towel, and raising the foot as high up backward and outward 
as possible, and repeating until tired; putting the foot in 
the handle of a pulling-weight, and frequently drawing it 
far down ; or, standing with back to the wall, and placing 
the heel against the base-board of the room, or any solid 
vertical surface, and pressing hard many times these all 
tell on the hidden under-muscle. 

To STRENGTHEN THE SIDES OF THE WAIST. 

Notice a man weak just here, and see his body sway a lit- 
tle from side to side as he walks, seeming to give at the 
waist. Were such a one to practice daily hopping straight 
ahead on one foot, and then on the other, until he could by- 
and-by cover half a mile without fatigue, he would find 
his swaying propensity fast disappearing ; and if he has been 
troubled with a feeble or unshapely waist, that will also have 
gradually changed, until at the end it has become firm and 
well-set. 

Take the long balancing pole of the tight-rope walker and 
try to walk a rope a while, or try the more simple expedient 
of walking on the railroad rail, and these muscles are at once 



APPENDIX. 269 

uncommonly busy. Notice the professional tight-rope man 
and see how strong he is here. His profession has compelled 
the continued use of these muscles. 

DAILY EXERCISE FOR WOMEN. 

And what should the girls and women do each day? 
With one-pound wooden dumb-bells at first, let them, be- 
fore breakfast, go through with the exercises already given 
to develop the chest (page 259). After six weeks or two 
months they can increase the number gradually, and if this 
does not bring the desired increase in size and strength of 
arm, chest, and back, they can try dumb-bells weighing four 
or five pounds each. 

Out of doors, either in the latter part of the morning 
or afternoon, let them, in broad, easy shoes, walk for one 
hour, not at any listless two-mile pace, but at first as fast as 
they comfortably can, and then gradually increase the pace. 
In a fortnight or more they can make sure of three miles and 
a half at least, if not of four miles within the hour, and that 
without great fatigue. 

Girls should also learn to run. Few of them are either 
easy or graceful runners ; but it is an accomplishment 
quickly learned; and begun at a short distance and at a slow 
jog and continued until the girl thinks nothing of running 
a mile in seven minutes, and that without once touching a 
heel to the ground, it will do more than almost any other 
known exercise to make her graceful and easy on her feet, 
and also to enlarge and strengthen her lungs. 

If besides these things the girl or woman will determine 
that, as much as possible of the time each day in which she 
is sitting down, she will sit with head and neck up, trunk 
erect, and with her shoulders low, and that whenever she 
stands or walks she will at all times be upright, she will 
shortly find that she is getting to be far straighter than she 
was, that she has a larger, finer chest than formerly, and that 
she can more easily fill her lungs. 



270 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



ANTHROPOMETRY. 

The question naturally arises, What should be considered 
the normal development for a healthy adult. Up to fourteen, 
girls as a rule are slightly heavier and taller than boys, but 
after that time the average boy is larger than the girl of the 
same age. As a standard of comparison, and for learning 
what parts are deficient in one desiring symmetrical develop- 
ment, we add the following table by the courtesy of the Nar- 
ragansett Chest Weight Company: 

A TABLE 

SHOWING THE PBOPEB WEIGHT, HEIGHT, AND MEASUREMENT OF A FULLY 
DEVELOPED ADULT. 



J 

m 


{ 


i 

& 


1 
o 


1 


| 


i 

I 




i 
i 


| 

1 


5ft. 


103-107 


Hi- 


32-33 


29 


a 


8 < 




15 


i 


5 lin. 


107-111 


ll* 


33-34 


29* 


*fH 


9J 




16 




5 2 " 


111-116 


12 


34-35 


30 


9 


9, 


\ 


17 


B 


5 3 


116-121 


12* 


35-36 


30* 




10 




18 




5 4 


121-127 


13 


36-37 


31 


1 


10| 




19 





5 5 


127-133 


13* 


37-38 


31* 


S ^4 


10. 




20 


<y . 

s ^ 


5 6 


133-140 


14 


38-39 


32 


11 


11, 




21 


2 
O> 


5 7 


140-147 


14* 


39-40 


32* 


g fl 


Hi 




22 


3 fl 


5 8 


147-155 


15 


40-41 


33 


03 


11 




23 


o 


5 9 


155-164 


15* 


41-42 


33* 


a 


12 




24 


a 


5 "10 


164-174 


16 


42-43 


34 




12 




25 




5 "11 


174-185 


16* 


43-44 


34* 


i 


13 




26 


a> 

a 


6 " 


185-196 


17 


44-45 


35 


I 


13j 


- 


27 


S - 



Furthermore a few explanatory words should be added as to 
the exact methods which have been agreed upon for making 
these measurements: 1. Weight, if possible, should be taken 
without clothes, but where this is impracticable the weight 
of the clothing should be learned, and subsequently deducted. 
2. Neck girth should be taken by passing the tape around 
the neck just below "Adam's Apple." (See page 167.) 

The chest should be measured by a tape embracing it so as 
to pass over the lower part of the shoulder blades, with the 



APPENDIX. 271 

arms held horizontally. Chest girth should be taken before 
and after inspiration. 

Waist should be measured at the smallest part after a nat- 
ural expiration. 

JBiceps can best be measured by bending the arm hard at 
the elbow and holding it horizontally away from the body, 
passing the tape around the greatest prominence on the arm. 

Forearm is measured by the tape being passed around the 
largest part, the fist being firmly clenched and the palm of 
the hand turned upward. 

Thigh. Stand with the feet about six inches apart, with 
the weight equally distributed on each leg, and measure the 
thigh just below the nates. 

Calf. Stand as for measurement of thigh and take 
the measurement around the most prominent part of the 
calf. 

Furthermore, in addition to the measurements already pro- 
posed, special attention should be called to the defects most 
frequently found from the disproportionate use of the various 
parts of the body; for instance, the head is drawn oftener 
forward than backward, and hence as a rule the head is held 
too far forward. For similar reasons the muscles of the right 
arm tend to pull that shoulder down, except in the case of 
left-handed people, when the reverse is true. Lack of use 
of the muscles of the back converts the shoulder-blades into 
" wings," and thin, narrow waists come from lack of use of 
the waist muscles, etc. Important as are these defects in the 
adult, they are still more so in the growing child, where they 
are more easily remediable than in the adult. 

PHYSICAL DEFECTS COMMON IN CHILDREN AND ADULTS. 

With children the most frequent of these defects, as noted 
by Dr. W. G. Anderson, are the following, concerning which 
it should be remembered that three months may possibly 
correct some, but that a year is oftener required to straighten 
round shoulders, and a longer time for a crooked spine. 
" After fifteen or sixteen years of age it is a long and 



272 PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 

tedious task, and such as no one of that age will work at 
alone," says Dr. Anderson, after his wide experience in these 
matters, and hence the very great value of class work in 
the development of children. 

(a.) Head. Droops forward. 

Carried on one side. 

(6.) Shoulders. Round, stooped, or sloping. 
Eight lower than left. 

In left-handed people the reverse is generally seen. 
The lower and inner border of the shoulder-blade is too 

prominent. 

(c.) Spine. Lateral curve of the spine between shoulders. 
(d.) Arms. The forearm larger in proportion than upper. 
(e.) Waist. Small, narrow, and weak. 
(/.) Hips. Thrown too far forward. 
(g.) Leg. Developed more than thigh. 
(h.) Thigh. Poorly developed on the back and inside. 

The exercises which have been found most helpful for the 
correction of the common defects of children are given, es- 
pecial pains having been taken to select those that can be 
performed without expensive apparatus. 

(a.) Head. To correct drooping, move the head backward 
and sideward, but not to the front. Roll the head from left 
to right backward, and throw the head to the rear as far as 
possible, keeping it level. 

(b.) /Shoulders. To elevate a depressed shoulder, raise the 
arm, rigid, to the front or side. Draw the shoulder as high 
as possible. To draw the shoulders back, raise the arms to 
the front and force them back as far as possible, for any 
motion by which the hands come together back of the body 
is a good one. Place the hands on the hips, thumbs forward 
and fingers touching back, or clasp the hands back of the 
head and force the elbows back as far as possible. To return 
protuberant shoulder-blades to their places, any motion 
whereby the hands or arms are brought together behind the 
body is helpful, as are full swinging motions of the arms 
from front to rear. 

(c.) /Spine. Any movement that will level the shoulders 



APPENDIX. 273 

will tend to cure lateral curvature and draw the shoulders to 
their proper position. 

To depress a shoulder, any movement whereby the hand is 
drawn to the side forcibly or to the front or back of the body. 

(d.) Arms. To develop the front upper arm, any move- 
ment that will bring the hand to the shoulder or the shoulder 
to the hand. 

To develop the back upper arm, any movement that will push 
the hand from the shoulder or the shoulder from the hand. 

To develop the front forearm, any movement drawing 
the palmar surface of the hand toward the elbow and clinch- 
ing the hand. 

The back forearm, opening the hand. Drawing the back 
of the hand toward the elbow. 

To develop the chest, any movement where the hands are 
drawn to the front of the body. 

(e.) Waist. Front, any movement that bends the body 
forward. 

Sides. Any movement that bends the body to one side 
will develop that side. 

Back. Bending the body backward. 

General rules: A rolling motion of the body on the hips. 
Twisting the shoulders to right or left. 

(/.) Hips. To draw the hips back, bend the body forward 
and backward. Raise each knee as high as possible. Raise 
each leg without bending the knee. 

(g.) Legs. Back. Any movement that raises the body on 
the toes. 

Front. Any movement that raises the toes. 

(h.) Thigh. Front. Any movement that pushes the heels 
from the hips or the hips from the heels. 

Back. Any movement that draws the hips to the heels 01 
the heels to the hips. 

Inside. Any movement that crosses the knees in front or 
behind. 

(i.) Ankles. The leg movements will strengthen the 
ankles. 
12* 



274 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. 



Throw the ankles apart by bending feet to the side. Give 
a rotary motion to each foot when raised from the floor. 

(/) Toes. To cure what is commonly called "pigeon 
toes," or " toeing in," keep the heel on the floor, and, raising 
the toes of the right foot, turn them forcibly to the right as 
far as possible. 

(&.) 6ViesZ.-T-Cultivation of deep inspiration is exceedingly 
valuable in all cases of rickety or scrofulous children, or when 
there is any family history of consumption. Dr. Anderson 
recommends the use of the spirometer for this purpose. 
According to Hutchinson, the chief authority on the use of 
this instrument, persons should "blow" according to their 
height. It will be seen by glancing at the tables given that 
there is a difference of eight cubic inches for each inch in 
height. 



In. height. 

48 sh< 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 


)uld bl< 


A BOY. 

cu. !n. 

>w . 70 


In. height. 

48 she 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 


mldblc 

t 

i 
t 
t 
< 
< 


A GIRL. 

cu. in. 
)w 32 


78 


40 


86 


48 


94 


56 


102 


64 


110 


72 


118 


80 


126 


88 


134 


. . 96 


142 


104 


150 


112 


158 


. 120 


166 


128 


. . 174 


136 


182 


144 


190 


152 


.... 198 


. 160 


206 


168 


214 


176 


. . . 222 


184 


230 


' 192 


238 


' 200 


246 


' 208 


254 


1 216 


. 262 


1 . .224 



Where a spirometer is not accessible excellent results may 
be obtained by the use of Julian Hawthorne's directions, 



APPENDIX. 275 

to inspire for seven steps and expire for the same time, or 
even, slow, deep inspirations and expirations (seven to eight 
per minute), through a quill or straw, are exceedingly 
valuable for the expansion of sunken chests. Such methods 
will slowly but surely broaden and deepen the chest of scrof- 
ulous, rickety, and consumptive children; and when con- 
joined with good plain diet beef, eggs, and milk and sen- 
sible clothing, will lengthen their days and build them up 
into the vigorous manhood and womanhood that it has been 
the aim of this book to inculcate as the duty and privilege of 
all tenants of the " House Beautiful." 



INDEX. 



Abdominal aorta, 59. 

Abdominal cavity, 58. 

Abdominal muscles, to develop, 265. 

Abdominal viscera, 58. 

Absorbents of intestine, 94. 

Abstinence, value of, 83. 

Adam's apple, 167. 

Adenine, 148. 

Adipocere, 54. 

Adulteration of food, 87, 88. 

Aerobians, 242. 

Air-cells, 151-158. 

Albuminoid ammonia, 69. 

Albuminoid foods, 80. 

Albuminoids of body, 74. 

Alcohol, 13. 

Alcohol as a medicine, 85. 

Alcohol as a food, 84. 

Alcohol and cold, 85. 

Alcohol and co-ordination, 202. 

Alcoholic fermentation, 233. 

Alveoli, 151. 

American voice, 171. 

Ammoniaphone, 172. 

Amount of food, 62. 

Anaemia, 110. 

Anaerobians, 242. 

Anastomoses, 124. 

Aniline colors, 241. 

Anorexia, 83. 

Anterior root of cord, 191. 

Anthrax, 243. 

Antipathies, 115. 

Antiseptic surgery, 249. 

Anvil of ear, 205. 

Aorta, 127. 

Apoplexy, 118. 

Arachnoid, 189. 

Arbor vita, 203. 

Areolar tissue, 21. 

Arm, divisions of, 44. 

Arteries, 124. 

Arterial hemorrhage, 123. 

Artificial eggs, 89. 

Arytenoid cartilages, 167. 

Asphyxia, 106, 156. 

Atoms, 225. 

Atrophy of muscle, 50. 



Audible sounds, 208. 
Auricles of heart, 121. 
Automatic centers, 202. 
Axillary arteries, 127. 

Bacilli, 241. 

Bacillus anthracis, 239. 

Bacillus leprae, 239. 

Bacillus malaria, 239. 

Bacillus subtilis, 239. 

Bacillus tuberculosis, 244. 

Backbone, 41. 

Bacteria, multiplication of, 238. 

Bacterium termo, 239. 

Bad air, 154. 

Bad breathj 134. 

Bad taste in mouth, 133. 

Basement membrane, 14. 

Bass voice, 169. 

Bathing, 135. 

Beef, chemistry of, 63. 

Beer, action of, 54. 

Biceps, to develop, 262. 

Bile, 66, 81, 146. 

Bilious attack, 145. 

Black death, 136. 

Bleached butter, 88. 

Bleached hair, 17. 

Bleeders, 99. 

Bleeding, 147. 

Blisters, 132. 

Blood, 66, 106. 

Blood clot, 98. 

Blood placques, 109. 

Blood plasma, 99. 

Blood serum, 95. 

Blushing, 128. 

Body building, 257. 

Boils, 147. 

Bones, 66. 

Bones at Cologne, 35. 

Bone cells, 36. 

Bone fertilizer, 37. 

Bone gelatine, 36. 

Bow legs, 32. 

Brachial arteries, 127. 

Brain, the, 200. 

Brain fever, 209. 



278 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. INDEX. 



Bread, chemistry of, 65. 
Breast-bone, 40. 
Bright's disease, 141. 
Bronchi, 127. 
Bronchial arteries, 127. 
Bronchioles, 151. 
Bronze age of man, 26. 
Bush, the burning, 152. 
Business men, exercise for, 259. 
Butter, adulterations of, 87. 
Buttenne, 87. 

Calcium, quantity of, 61. 
Calcium phosphates, 74. 
Camera, of the eye, 184. 
Canaliculi, 35. 
Cancellated bone, 34. 
Canned fruits, 231. 
Capillaries, 124. 
Carbo-hydrates, 72. 
Carbon, 61, 153. 
Carbonaceous foods, 91. 
Carbonates of the body, 73. 
Carbon dioxide, 73, 116, 153. 
Care of the ear, 208. 
Care of the eyes, 185. 
Care of the skin, 137. 
Carotid arteries, 127. 
Cartilage, 21, 31, 66. 
Casein, 81. 
Catalepsy, 183. 
Catarrh, 130. 
Catching cold, 129. 
Cause of sickness, 114. 
Cerebellum, 190, 192. 
Cerebro-spinal system, 187. 
Cerebrum, 188. 
Chemical affinity, 62. 
Chemistry of bones, 36. 
Chest, bones of, 58. 
Chest, to develop, 259, 260. 
Chicken cholera, 242. 
Chicken gizzards, 82. 
Chilliness, 129. 
Chinese dwarfs, 32. 
Chinese false teeth, 77. 
Chinese feet, 32. 
Chinese physicians, 114. 
Chloride of sodium, 74. 
Chlorides of the body, 73. 
Chlorine in body, 61. 
Chloroform, 240. 
Cholera, 68, 245. 
Choroid coat, 178. 
Chrondrogen, 74. 
Chyme, 81. 
Chyle, 66, 94, 97. 
Cicatrix, 102. 
Cigarette-smoking, 120. 
Cilia of microbes, 240. 



Ciliated epithelium, 151. 
Circulation, course of, 122. 
Circulation in lymphatics, 97. 
Circumvallate papillae, 165. 
Clergymen's sore throat, 172. 
Coagulation, 98. 
Coal-tar colors, 240. 
Coats of artery, 125. 
Coccyx, 44. 
Coaliac axis, 59. 
Coffee, 89. 
Cold, 229. 

Colds, treatment of, 131. 
Collar bones, 40. 
Color-blindness, 181. 
Color of hair, 16. 
Common sense shoes, 39. 
Complementary colors, 180. 
Composition of foods, 63. 
Cones of kidney, 142. 
Congestion, 128. 
Congestion of the lungs, 118. 
Connective tissue, 21. 
Constituents of the body, 61. 
Consumption, 159, 245. 
Convulsions, 48. 
Cooking, 74. 
Co-ordination, 201. 
Corium, 14. 
Corned beef, 88. 
Corpus callosnm, 188. 
Corns, 19. 
Corsets, 39. 
Cortex of kidney, 142. 
Cosmetics, 20. 
Coughing, 159. 
Cowlicks, 16. 
Cramp, 48. 
Cranium, 188. 
Cribriform plate, 173. 
Cricoid cartilage, 167. 
Critical periods of life, 27. 
Cuckoo bone, 44. 
Culture- fluids, 238. 
Curd of milk, 79. 
Curdling ferments, 81. 
Curling of hair, 16. 
Cuts and wounds, 20. 

Daily shrinking, 41. 

Dairy products, chemistry of, 63. 

Dandruff, 17. 

Dangerous water, 70. 

Dead teeth, 77. 

Deafness, 208. 

Death, modes of, 228. 

Delicacy of smell, 174. 

Dessicated eggs, 89. 

Dextrine, 81. 

Diaphragm, 57, 58, 160. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. INDEX. 



279 



Diaphragm, rupture of, 161. 
Digestion, 81. 
Diphtheria, 150. 
Dirty saints, 135. 
Division of cells, 33. 
Double tube, man, 57. 
Dress reform, 114. 
Drink, amount of, 66. 
Drinking water, 69. 
Dropsy, 22. 
Drowsiness, 153. 
Drum of the ear, 205. 
Duodenum, 59. 

Duke of Gloucester's bath, 138. 
Dura mater, 189. 
Dyspepsia, 60, 81. 

Earache, 206. 
Ears, 205. 

Earthy salts of bone, 36. 
East Indian fakirs, 50. 
Eburnated bone, 34. 
Eggs, chemistry of, 63. 
Egyptian mummies, 230. 
Elastic tissue, 66. 
Elbow joint, 57. 
Emulsive ferment, 81. 
Enamel of teeth, 76. 
Encephalon, 187. 
Endothelium, 125. 
Enlarged glands, 96. 
Epidermis, 13. 
Epiglottis, 167. 
Epithelial scales, 10. 
Epithelium, 132. 
Erythopsin, 180. 
Etruscan kings, 230. 
Eupepsia, 81. 
Excretion, 137. 
Exercise, 51, 257. 
Exercise for girls. 111. 
Exercise, time for, 258. 
Eyeball, 177. 
Eyebrows, 177. 
Eyelids, 177. 

Face bones, 43. 
Faith-cures, 251. 
Fainting, 115. 
False teeth, 77. 
Fascia, 22, 46. 
Fat, 66. 

Fat, advantages of, 52. 
Fat cells, 52. 
Fats as food, 72. 
Fatigue, 229, 258. 
Fatty degeneration, 51. 
Feathers, 15. 
Fermentation, 234. 
Fibers of Corti, 207. 
Fibrine, 74, 98. 



Fibrinogen, 98. 

Fibrinoplastin, 98. 

Fibro-cartilage, 21. 

Filiform papilla, 165. 

Filling teeth, 77. 

Filth arid sanctity, 135. 

Finger-nails, 18. 

Fingers, to strengthen, 261. 

Fire, 229. 

First intention healing, 102. 

Fish foods, chemistry of, 64. 

Fission of microbes, 242. 

Flannels, 141. 

Floating ribs, 40. 

Flour, adulterations of, 87. 

Flourens' law, 26. 

Flowers, odor of, 175. 

Fluorides of the body, 73. 

Fluorine, quantity of, 61. 

Flying, 43. 

Food, 61. 

Food as fuel, 72. 

Food, quantity of, 83. 

Foods, division of, 72. 

Foods for microbes, 242. 

Fore-arm, to strengthen, 262. 

Fossil bones, 25. 

Fowl, chemistry of, 63. 

Fractures, 57. 

Fragility of bones, 42. 

Free acids of the body, 73. 

French heels, 39. 

Fungi form papillae, 165. 

Funnels of kidney, 142. 

Furred tongue, 18. 

Gall bladder, 59. 

Ganglia, 187, 201. 

Ganglia of the heart, 187. 

Gases of the body, 61. 

Gastric juice, 79. 

Gelatine, 23. 

Gemmation, 233. 

General death, 227. 

Germinal matter, 11. 

Gilding the skin, 139. 

Globulin, 74. 

Glottis, 168. 

Glucose, 81. 

Glue, 86. 

Gluttony, 60. 

Golden age of man, 26. 

Goose-skin, 16. 

Granulation, 103. 

Gray substance of the brain, 189. 

Grip, to strengthen, 261. 

Growth of the body, 27. 

Hsematoblasts, 108. 
Hsemoglobine, 107. 



280 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. INDEX. 



Hair as evidence, 15. 

Hair dyes, 17. 

Hair follicle, 15. 

Hairs, number of, 9. 

Hammer of the ear, 205. 

Hand, to develop, 260. 

Harmless germs, 247. 

Haversian canals, 35. 

Hay fever, 176. 

Headache, 153. 

Healing of a wound, 101. 

Heart disease. 117. 

Heart sounds, 116. 

Heart, weight of, 121. 

Heat and spores, 238. 

Heat apoplexy, 140. 

Heat centers/92. 

Heat of the body, 92. 

Height and weight, 28. 

Hemispheres of the brain, 188. 

Hiccough, 160. 

High heels, 113. 

Hoarseness, 129. 

Hole, Black, of Calcutta, 153. 

How to grow old, 27. 

Hunger, 229. 

Hyaline cartilage, 32. 

Hydration and digestion, 80. 

Hydrogen, 61, 73. 

Hydrophobia, 245. 

Idiosyncrasies, 166. 

Immunity from disease, 245. 

Infant digestion, 78. 

Infant foods, 79. 

Inflammation, 103. 

Inhalation battery, 171. 

Innominate artery, 127. 

Inorganic constituents of body, 73. 

Inorganic food, 73. 

Insalivation, 78. 

Insomnia, 196. 

Integument, 10. 

Intervascular spaces, 125. 

Intervertebral disks, 41. 

Intoxication, 149. 

Inverted sugar, 81. 

Invertin, 81. 

Involuntary muscles, 46, 47. 

Iron age of man, 26. 

Iron in body, 61. 

John Wesley's questions, 82. 
Joints of the body, 57. 

Karyokinesis, 12. 

Keep your mouth shut, 150. 

Keratin, 74. 

Kidneys, 66, 141. 

Kidney disease, 141. 



Kissing, danger of, 163. 
Kitchen of the body, 60. 

Labials, 164. 
Lachrymal duct, 177. 
Lachrymal gland, 176. 
Lacteals, 80, 94. 
Lacunae of bone, 35. 
Lamellae of bone, 35. 
Leptothrix, 241. 
L'archee, 230. 
Laryngoscope, 168. 
Larynx, 167. 
Latticed bone, 34. 
Laughing, value of, 162. 
Leaky heart, 123. 
Leberwurst, 88. 
Legs, bones of, 44. 
Leucocytes, 104. 
Leucoamines, 148. 
Ligaments, 56. 
Light, sensation of, 179. 
Limit of work, 49. 
Liver, 59, 66. 
Living skeletons, 22. 
Local death, 226. 
Location of heart, 58, 120. 
Loins, to strengthen, 264. 
Long bones, 33, 37. 
Longevity, increase in, 26. 
Loose teeth, 77. 
Lower leg, to develop, 266. 
Lungs, 156, 157, 158. 
Lymph, 66, 95. 
Lymphatic glands, 95. 
Lymphatics of bone, 35. 

Macula lutea, 178. 
Maggots, 232. 

Magnesium, quantity of, 61. 
Malaria, 245. 
Malphigian capsule, 141. 
Manganese, quantity of, 61. 
Marsh gas, 73. 
Mastication, 75. 
Mastodon soup. 36. 
Measles^ 245. 
Mediastinum, 156. 
Medulla oblongata, 190. 
Medulla of kidney, 142. 
Membranes of the brain, 189. 
Membrane of the ear, 205. 
Metalloids of the body, 61. 
Microbes, 103, 230. 
Micrococcus, 241. 
Micrococcus septicus, 239. 
Microcytes, 109. 
Microscopic eggs, 233. 
Middle ear, 206. 
Milk, 66, 79. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. INDEX. 



281 



Milk, digestion of, 79. 
Milk teeth, 75. 
Mitral valve, 122. 
Molars, 78. 
Molecules, 252. 
Mouth breathing, 151. 
Mucous membrane, 132. 
Mucus, 66. 
Muscle, 45, 66. 
Muscles, number of, 45. 
Muscles, naming of, 45. 
Muscular libers, 46. 
Muscular sense, 183. 
Music and color, 179. 
Mustard, 73. 

Mutton, chemistry of, 63. 
Mycoderma, 241. 
Myopia, 182. 

Nasal inhalation, 151. 
Neck, bones of, 43. 
Nerves, 66. 
Nerve cells, 189. 
Nerve force, 193. 
Nerve structure, 186. 
Nerve tire, 197. 
Nerve tuner, 195. 
Nervous dyspepsia, 83. 
Neuralgia, 111, 197. 
Neurasthenia, 198. 
Nutritious food, 86. 
Nitrates of the body, 73. 
Nitrogen, 73. 
Nitrogen, quantity of, 61. 
Nitrogenous food, 72. 
Non-nitrogenous foods, 72. 
Norris's corpuscles, 108. 
Noses, study of, 31. 

Odor of water, 69. 

Old men, 26. 

Old bones, 25. 

Oleomargarine, 88. 

Olfactory nerve, 173. 

Optic nerve, 178. 

Optic thalamus, 192. 

Orbit, 178. 

Organic germs, 246. 

Oatnio acid, 176. 

Ossification of cartilage, 33. 

Ostein, 74. 

Osteoblasts, 33. 

Overworked muscles, 50. 

Oxygen, 73, 153. 

Oxygen and fermentation, 234. 

Oxygen, quantity of, 61. 

Packing of nerves, 203. 
Pain of dying, 228. 
Pancreas, 59. 



Pancreatic diastase, 81. 

Pancreatic fluid, 81. 

Papillaa of fingers, 14. 

Paralysis, 54. 

Parotid gland, 78. 

Patent foods, 86. 

Pearl powder, 43. 

Pelvis, 33, 44. 

Pepper, 73. 

Pepsin, 79, 81. 

Peptic glands, 79. 

Peptone, 79, 80. 

Pericardium, 120. 

Perimysium, 56. 

Perivascular spaces, 96. 

Perspiration, 138. 

Perspiration, amount of, 140. 

Pharynx, 166. 

Phosphates of the body, 73. 

Phosphorus, quantity of, 61. 

Phrenology, 42. 

Pia-mater, 190. 

Pitch of voice, 168. 

Plague, 135. 

Plethora, 110. 

Pleura, 156. 

Plexus, 186. 

Plumpness, 51. 

Pomatum, 16. 

Poor teeth, 75. 

Pork, chemistry of, 63, 75. 

Posterior roots of cord, 191. 

Potable water, 69. 

Potassium, quantity, 61. 

Potatoes, 74. 

Prespyopia, 181. 

Price of food, 90. 

Protoplasm, 12. 

Psychic force, 202. 

Ptoamines, 148. 

Pty aline, 81. 

Pulmonary arteries, 122. 

Pulmonary veins, 122. 

Pulse, 123. 

Purkinje, substance of, 186. 

Pus, 20, 103. 

Putrefaction, 231. 

Pylorus, 59, 81. 

Quarantine. 136. 

Rameses II., 24. 
Eain-water, 69. 
Red corpuscles, 104, 105, 106. 
Ked corpuscles, origin of, 110. 
Regulation of heat, 140. 
Reins, 141. 
Residual air, 158. 
Respiration, 152. 
Respiratory centers, 202. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. INDEX. 



Retina. T8. 
Ribs, n mber of, 40. 
Rickety Children, 42. 
Rigor mortis, 47. 
River water, 69. 
Rods and cones, 178. 
Root of the lungs, 157. 
Roses, odor of, 176. 
Running, 269. 

Sacrum, C3. 

Saliva, 66, 75, 78. 

Salivary diastase, 81. 

Salivary glands, 78. 

Salt, common, 74. 

Salts and coagulation, 100. 

Saratoga chips, 89. 

Sarcina, 239. 

Sarcolemma, 56. 

Sausages, 88. 

Scapulae, 43. 

Scarf skin, 13. 

Scarlet fever, 245. 

Scars, 20. 

Scent, 173. 

Schwann, substance of, 186. 

Sclerotic coat, 182. 

Scrofula, 96. 

Scurvy, 87. 

Sebaceous glands, 15. 

Secretion, 137. 

Semicircular canals, 206. 

Semilunar valves, 122. 

Sensibility of retina, 180. 

Ser-albumen, 74. 

Sewer-gas poisoning, 154. 

Sex, relation to coagulation, 100. 

Shadoof, the, 116. 

Shafts of long bones, 34. 

Shaving, 172. 

Sheep tag, 243. 

Shoulder-blades, 43. 

Shoulders, to develop, 263. 

Sick headaches, 82. 

Sighing, 160. 

Sight without eyes, 183. 

Sigmoid flexure, 150. 

Silkworm disease, 243. 

Singing, 159. 

Sinuses of the brain, 188. 

Sinews, 56. 

Six-year molars, 76. 

Skeleton, 25, 33. 

Skin, 66. 

Skull, a box, 42. 

Skull, arches of, 42. 

Slang, 194. 

Sleep 2 195. 

Sleeping-rooms, 154. 

Smelling, 173. 



Sneezing, 160. 

Snoring, 160. 

Sobbing, 160. 

Soda water, 152. 

Sodium, in body of, 61. 

Soft palate, 166. 

Sound waves, 169. 

Spaltpilze, 239. 

Speaking machines, 170. 

Speech, 164. 

Spinal column, 41. 

Spinal cord, 41, 66, 191. 

Spinal curvature, 42. 

Spinal fluid, 66. 

Spirillse, 241. 

Spirillum volutaus, 239. 

Spleen, 59, 66. 

Sponge baths, 140. 

Spongy bone, 34. 

Spontaneous generation, 232. 

Spores. 238. 

Sprains, 57. 

Spring fever, 147. 

Spring water, 69. 

Squinting, 181. 

Stairs, 39, 258. 

Stale clothing, 138. 

Standing, 34, 37. 

Starches, digestion of, 81. 

Starchy foods, 74, 80. 

Stepping, 38. 

Sterilization, 238. 

Stimulants, 84. 

Stomach, 59. 

Stomach bitters, 134. 

St. Vitua dance, 48. 

Sublingual glands, 78. 

Subclavian arteries, 127. 

Submaxillary glands, 78. 

Sudoriferous glands, 137. 

Sugar, 90. 

Sulphates of the body, 73. 

Sunstroke, 140. 

Sulphureted hydrogen, 73. 

Supplemental air, 158. 

Sweat glands, action of, 138. 

Sweating sickness, the, 137. 

Sy no vial fluid, 31. 

Sympathetic nerves, 93. 

Sympathetic nervous system, 187 

Table manners, early English, 136. 

Tactile corpuscles, 14. 

Taste, 165. 

Taste of water, 70. 

Tear jugs, 177. 

Tears, 137, 177. 

Teeth, 66, 75. 

Telephones, 205. 

Temperature and coagulation, 100. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE. INDEX 



283 



^temperature of rooms, 155. 

Tendon, 56. 

Tenor, 169. 

Thigh, to develop, 267, 268. 

Thermogenesis, 92. 

Thermolysis, 92. 

Thermotaxy, 92. 

Third corpuscles, 108. 

Thirst, 67, 229. 

Tidal air, 158. 

Tight collars, 172. 

Timbre of voice, 171. 

Thoracic cage, 40. 

Thoracic duct, 94. 

Throat, 166. 

Thyroid cartilage, 167. 

Toasting. 75. 

Tobacco heart, 118. 

Toothache, 76. 

Tongue. 164. 

Tongueiess speech, 165. 

Tonsils, 150. 

Torula, 241. 

Trachea, 127. 

Tri cuspid valve, 121. 

Triceps, to strengthen, 261. 

Trypsin, 81. 

Tunics of the eye, 178. 

Turbinated bones, 173. 

Typhoid fever, 68, 245. 

Tyndall's experiments, 237. 

Upper back, to develop, 264. 

Uraemia. 144. 

Urea, 144. 

Uriniferous tubules, 142. 

Uric acid, 144. 

Urine, 142. 

Valves in veins, 126. 
Value of pain, 249. 
Varicose veins, 126. 
Veal, chemistry of, 6S. 



Vegetables, chemistry of, 64. 

Veins, 125, 126. 

Velocity of nerve force, 193. 

Vena caya, 94. 

Ventilation, 154. 

Ventricles of the brain, 188. 

Ventricles of the heart, 122. 

Vertebrae, 41. 

Vertigo, 110. 

Vocal cords, 167, 168. 

Vocal culture, 208. 

Voice, 164. 

Voice, range of, 169. 

Volition, 192. 

Voluntary muscles, 45. 

Vibrations in ear, 207. 

Vibrio serpens, 239. 

Vision, red, 180. 

Vitality of spores, 238. 

Wakefulness, 196. 
Waist, to strengthen, 268. 
Walking, 38, 39, 111, 112. 
Water, 68, 73. 

Water proportion in body, 66. 
Water tests, 71. 
Weight and height, 28. 
Weight of dried body, 66. 
Well-water, 71, 72. 
Whisky bronchitis, 134. 
White blood corpuscles, 103. 
Wigs, 17. 
Windpipe, 151. 
Women, exercise for, 369. 
Work, 48, 56. 
Work, limit of, 49. 
Wrinkles, 23. 

Yawning, 160. 
Yellow fever, 245. 
Yellow spot, 178. 

Zoogkea, 239. 



AN IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT. 



THE CHAuryiuQUA PRESS. 



IN order to create a permanent library of useful and standard 
books for the homes of our C. L. S. C. members, and to reduce the 
expense of the Seal courses, we have organized the CHAUTAUQUA 
PRESS. 

The first issues of the Chautauqua Press will be " THE GARNET 
SERIES," four volumes in the general line of the " required readings " 
for the coming year, as follows : 

READINGS FROM RUSKIN. 

With an Introduction by H. A. BEERS, Professor of English Litera- 
ture in Yale College. 

This volume contains chapters from Ruskin on " The Poetry of 
Architecture," " The Cottage English, French, and Italian," " The 
Villa Italian," and " St. Mark's," from " Stones of Venice." 



READINGS FROM MACAULAY. 

With an Introduction by DONALD G. MITCHELL ("Ik Marvel"), 

This volume contains Lord Macaulay's Essays on " Dante," 
Petrarch," and " Machiavelli," " Lays of Ancient Rome," and 
Pompeii." 



ART, AND THE FORMATION OF 
TASTE. 

BY LUCY CRANE. 

With an Introduction by CHARLES G. WHITING of " The Springfield 
[Mass.] Republican." 

This volume contains lectures on " Decorative Art, Form, Color, 
Dress, and Needlework," " Fine Arts," " Sculpture," " Architecture," 
" Painting." 



THE LIFE AND WORKS OF MICHAEL 
ANGELO. 

BY R. DUPPA [BOHN'S EDITION]. 
With an Introduction by CHARLES G. WHITING. 



Any graduate or undergraduate of the C. L. S. C. reading the four 
volumes of the CHAUTAUQUA LIBRARY GARNET SERIES will be 
entitled to the new Garnet Seal (University Seal) on his diploma. 



These volumes are designed as much for the general market as for 
members of the C. L. S. C., and will form the nucleus of a valuable 
library of standard literature. 



PRICE OP EACH VOLUME, 75 CENTS. 
OR $3 FOR THE SET, ENCLOSED IN NEAT BOX. 



Address 

CHAUTAUQUA PRESS, 
117 Franklin Street, Boston, Mass. 



RECOMMENDED SUPPLEMENTARY READING. 

Four new volumes in the Garnet Series. 



READINGS FROM MILTON. With introduction by Bishop HENRY 

W. WARREN, D.D., LL.D $0.74 

READINGS FROM GOLDSMITH. With introduction by EDWARD 

EVERETT HALE, D.D., LL.D , .75 

ASCHAM AND ARNOLD. With introduction by JAMES H. CARLISLE, 

D.D., President Wofford College 75 

SELECTED ESSAYS OF ADDISON, With introduction by C. T. WIN- 

CHESTER, Professor of English Literature at Wesleyan University, .75 



The Entire Set in a Neat Box, $3.00, by mail, postpaid. 

" One can hardly say too much in praise of this little library." Boston 
Evening Transcript. 

" The Chautauqua Press has only to continue to publish such volumes a* 
these to fulfil its promise to provide for its students a library of choice litera- 
ture." New-York Observer. 

" The volumes are excellent, and deserve a very wide circulation. Begin- 
ners in the reading of our best literature should not fail to possess themselves 
of this GARNET SERIES, which is altogether unexceptionable, and cannot fail 
to do great good." The Beacon, Boston. 

THE NEW CAME OF MYTHOLOGY. 
Roman and Greek, 

Interesting and instructive. Contains one hundred cards, grouped into 
books of from three to six cards each, not arbitrarily, but according to a nat- 
u^al classification. This is a special feature of this game, and is a most valu- 
able aid to the memory, and to an intelligent grasp of the subject. As an 
additional feature, well-executed outline cuts are given of the chief deities, 
taken in almost every case from some famous statue or picture, Beautifully 
printed in colors and put up in a neat box. PRICE 50 cts., by mail, postpaid. 

HOME STATIONERY FOR C. L. S. C. 

Each class printed in different color, on paper of the finest quality, 
and put up in attractive style, in one and two quire boxes. 

See what High Praise it has Received. 

Hon. HENDERSON ELLIOTT, Vice-President Class of 1882, writes: "The 
designs for the various r'asses are exceedingly neat and appropriate. That 
of the class of 1882 strike me exactly, 'Pioneers' we love to be called. 
Your paper is fine and easily impressed, and the prices very reasonable." 

Rev. H. C. FARRAR, President Class of 1883, writes: " The C. L. S. C. 
paper is beautiful and worthv a large sale. I know it must make every true 
Chautauquan more thoroughly in love with the Chautauqua idea, for writing 
his C. L. S. C. letters on this paper." 

J. B. UNDERWOOD, President Class of 1884, adds his testimony in these 
words: " It will be with great pleasure that each graduate ' Invincible' must 
welcome such superb taste as displayed in that prepared for their use, and the 
writer congratulates you and the C. L. S. C. upon finally having some sta- 
tionery adapted to the home use of refined and cultivated firesides." 

Miss CARRIE HART, Treasurer Class of 1885, writes: " I am enjoying using 
it very much, and advertising it to my friends as fast as my correspondence 
will permit. It is the only C. L. S. C. stationery that has met my ideas of 
legance and beauty for home use." 

One-quire box, 60 cents ; two-quire box, $1.00, by mail, postpaid. 

CHAUTAUQUA PRESS, 117 Franklin St., Boston. 



to 



H 

o 

Q> 

s 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 





Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 






llfcl 




