



OF TORONTO 

33716^ 




w 

^ • 


^ ^ 




CO 



ENGLISH FARMING 



PRINTED BY 

SrOTTISWOOUE AXD CO., NEW-STEEKT SQUARE 

LOXDON 



THE 



PIONEERS AND PROGRESS 



OF 



ENGLISH FABMING 



BY 

EOWLAND E. PEOTHEEO 

BAEBISTEE-AT-LAW, AND FELLOW OF ALL SOULS COLLEGE, OXFORD 



LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST 16* STREET 
1888 

All right f reserved 



^ 



Hb5 
El 



PEEFACE 



Portions of the following pages have already appeared 
within the last three years, in the Edinburgh and Quar- 
terly Reviews, and my thanks are due to the Publishers 
for their permission to utilise the material which has 
been previously published in these periodicals. The re- 
cent appearance of two of the Articles on which I have 
relied will, I hope, excuse the seeming conceit of my 
references to ' Rural France ' (Edinburgh Review, October 
1887) and 'The Tithe Question' (Edinburgh Review, 
January 1888). 

The first part of the volume contains a brief sketch 
of Agricultural Progress, derived from sources so scat- 
tered or so obscure that its presentation in a connected 
form may prove of interest. In the second part, I have 
endeavoured to apply the results of history to the pre- 
sent conditions of English farming. I am fully conscious 
that the task is difficult, and that it is inadequately 
performed ; but the fact that in any Session of Parlia- 
ment, which is mainly devoted to British interests, 
Agriculture necessarily holds a prominent place, explains, 
though it may not justify, the attempt. 

R. E. Prothero. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I. 

' SELF-SUFFICING FARMING.* 

PAGE 

Light Soils the Sites of earliest Settlements — Nomadic Stage re- 
presented in ' Wild-field-grass Husbandry ' of S.W. — Farming 
of Village Commiinities : ' Garstons,' Arable Fields, Meadows, 
Hams, Pastures — Traces of System at Present Day — Manors 
imposed on Village Communities at Norman Conquest — Divi- 
sions of Land and Classes on Mediteval Manors : Tillage, 
Crops, Harvest, Implements, etc. — Progress of Agricultural 
Classes illustrated fi-om Castle Combe 1 

CHAPTER II. 

FARMING FOR PROFIT. 

Social and Agricultural Crisis at Close of Tudor Period — Self- 
sufficing Farming supplanted by Farming for Profit, Common 
by Individual Ownership, Feudal Pietainers by Rent-paying 
Tenants ; Pasture displaces Tillage, Sheep the Plough ; Com- 
mons and Open Fields enclosed — Ruin of Small Commoners 
and Labourers for Hire — Their Misery under the Tudors— 
Illustrations of Methods by which Commons were enclosed . 17 

CHAPTER III. 

THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. 

Progress in Farming — Commencement of Agricultm-al Literature : 
Fitzherbert and Tusser — Arrest of Progress during the Civil 
War — Accumulation of New Sources of Agricultural Wealth : 
Turnips, Artificial Grasses, Drainage, Emancipation of Land 
from Feudal Tenures 29 



viii ENGLISH FARMING 

CHAPTER IV. 

TURNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM. 

PAGE 
1700-60 the Golden Age of Agricultural Classes, followed by 
Period of Corresponding Adversity — Reaction during First 
Half of the Century from Pasture to Tillage, from Sheep to 
Arable Farming, from Encouragement of Wool to Bounties 
on Corn — Suffolk and Essex the Best Types of 17th Century 
Farming — Townshend's System revolutionises the Agriculture 
of Norfolk, and, through Norfolk, of England — Cultivation of 
Turnips and Clover 38 

CHAPTER V. 

BAKEWELL AND THE GRAZIER's ART. 

Improvements effected in Breed of Sheep and Cattle by Bakewell 
— His extraordinary Success with Sheep, and comparative 
Failure with Cattle — His Imitators : Ellman and Jonas Webb, 
Collin gs, Tomkins, and Quartley 48 

CHAPTER VI. 

ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE. 

Vast Tracts of Waste and Unenclosed Land ; Leases practically 
unknown; Ignorance and Prejudices of Farmers; Difficulties 
of Communication rendered almost insuperable by Condition 
of Roads ; Traditional Practices regarded as Agricultural 
Heirlooms — Early Life of Arthur Young; his Exertions to 
remove Obstacles to Progress of Agriculture .... 55 

CHAPTER VII. 

ENCLOSURES OF OPEN FIELDS AND COMMONS FROM 1770 TO 

1820. 

Second Agricultural Crisis — Enclosure of Wastes or Open Fields, 
and Consolidation of Holdings an Economic Necessity owing 
to Growth of Manufacturing Population — Impossibihty of in- 
troducing new Agricultural Methods among Open-field 
Farmers — Reports of Board of Agriculture, 1793 — Enclosure 
of Commons indispensable for increased Supply of Food, but 
often injurious to Interests of Poor 64 



CONTENTS IX 



CHAPTER VIII. 

LARGE FARMS AND LARGE CAPITALISTS — MR. COKE, 
OF HOLKHAM. 

PAGE 

Manufactures create New Markets for Food, and encourage In- 
vestments of Capital in Land — Landlords take the Lead in 
Agricultural Improvements — Wheat Growing and Stock Feed- 
ing in Norfolk — Mr. Coke, of Holkham, as the Model Land- 
lord — Holkliam Sheepshearings — Effect of War Prices on 
Ownership of Land; Disappearance of Small Freeholders and 
Consolidation of Large Estates 77 

CHAPTER IX. 

SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812-45. 

Agricultural Progress during present Century — 1812-42, a Period 
of wide-spread Ruin and Protection — Unprecedented Dearness 
of Corn maintained by heavj'- Import Duties— Distress of 
Wage-earning Population, Ruin of Landlords, Bankruptcy of 
Farmers at the Close of War — Paper-money and Resumption 
of Cash Payments aggravate Distress— Machine-breaking, In- 
cendiarism, and Agrarian Outrage — Clay Farms suffer most 
heavily — Necessity of Drainage ; Science provides necessary 
Means : Blith, Young, Elkington, Smith of Deanston, Josiah 
Parkes, Land Improvement Loans — Stimulus given to Drain- 
age by Artificial Manures — Manures ignored hj Early Agricul- 
tural Writers ; ' Nothing like Muck ' means ' Nothing but 
Muck ; ' Discoveries of Sprengel, Liebig, Lawes, Henslow, 
Odams — Agriculture revived by general Industrial Progress, 
Legislative Aid, and improved Practices and Implements of 
Farming — Good Effect upon Farming of inflated War Prices, 
illustrated from Northumberland and the Life of John Grey 
of Dilston 86 

CHAPTER X. 

SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845-73. 

Enclosure Act of 18i5 and Free Trade inau'gurate New Era of 
Intensive and High Farming — Caird's Pamphlet on High 
Farming — Period of Great Agricultural Prosperity — Its 
Causes — Characteristic of Time rather Diffusion than Inven- 



ENGLISH FARMING 

PAGE 

tion of Improved Farming Practices — Services of Chemistry, 
Geology, Mechanics, and Steam — Effect of Union of ' Science 
with Practice ' upon Farmers, and other Classes connected 
with Agriculture — Another Result of Union seen in Demand 
for Compensation for Unexhausted Improvements — Statistical 
Records of Agriculture ; Sir James Caird and Sir John Lawes 10+ 



CHAPTER XL 

AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873-87. 

New Element of Foreign Competition — Revival of old Com- 
plaints — Gold a Factor in previous Eras of Adversity or 
Prosperity, and a concurrent Cause in present Crisis with 
Foreign Competition, Reckless Trading and Over-production 
— Exceptional Demand for, and Decreasing Supply of Gold 
— Depreciation of Silver — Full Pressure of Foreign Competi- 
tion only felt after 1873— Low Prices the Problem of Modern 
Farming — Effect of Crisis on Landlords, Farmers, and 
Labourers — No True Distinction on score of Property possi- 
ble between Money invested in Land and Money invested in 
Funds — Danger of wild Theories of Land Nationalisation . 115 



CHAPTER XII. 

PEASANT PROPRIETORS. 

Peasant Proprietors the chief theoretical Remedy — Prevalence of 
Distress among the Class in France and Germany — Impossi- 
bility that Remedy can apply universally in England — Proof of 
this fi-om Example of France ; special Conditions for Success 
of Peasant Proprietary in Soil, Climate, or Domestic Indus- 
tries—Objections against French System : excessive Sub- 
division, Mortgage Debts, and scattered Parcels of Land — 
Hardships of the Life of French Peasantry — Social and politi- 
cal Advantages of System — Peasant Proprietary in France not 
the Growth of Legislation — Futility of Attempts to create the 
Class in England . 128 



CONTENTS xi 



CHAPTER XIII. 

LANDLORDS AND NATURAL GROWTH, 

PAGE 

Explanation of different Lines of Agricultural Development in 
France, Belgium, the German Empire, Austria, Russia, Den- 
mark — Paucity of Number of Landowners in England — Agri- 
cultural Progress due in England to Private Capital and Enter- 
prise — In France Government supplies Place of Landlords — 
State-directed Agriculture in France : Education, Horse-races, 
Shows, Veterinary Assistance, Drainage, Eoads, Public Works . 141 

CHAPTER XIV. 

DISTRIBUTION OF LAND. 

Number of Landlords ; of Farmers and Size of their Holdings ; 
of Agricultural Labourers — Distress not due to System of 
Land Tenure or Cultivation — Losses of Agricultm-ists counter- 
balanced by Gain of Middle and Wage-earning Classes — Mea- 
sures of Agi-icultural Relief limited by small Numbers of 
Persons directly interested in Agriculture .... 155 

CHAPTER XV. 

PROTECTION AND TITHE RENT-CHARGE. 

Protection in England at Commencement of Century, and in 
France and Germany at present Time — Improbability of Land- 
lords and Farmers obtaining Protection — Unlikely that Tithe 
Rent-charge will be reduced — Object and EiFect of Tithe 
Commutation Act of 1836 — Proportion borne by Tithe to Rent 
less in 1888 than in 1836 — Consequently no Ground for De- 
mand for Reduction of Charge — Change in Incidence of Charge 
necessary — No final Solution of Difficulty except Redemption 
— Interests of Church and State best consulted by State Collec- 
tion of the Charge, and gradual voluntary Redemption in 
better Times and at higher Prices 163 



xii ENGLISH FARMING 

CHAPTER XVI. 

LEGISLATIVE AID ; LAND LAWS, LAND TRANSFER, 
EDUCATION, RAILWAY RATES. 

PAGE 
Former Feeling of Insecurity among Landlords fostered by- 
doubtful Attitude of Legislature — Revived Confidence not 
impaired by Removal of Artificial Hindrances to Natural 
Growth of Small Owners — Reform of Land Laws and Esta- 
blishment of Land Registration — Difficulties of cheap and easy 
System of Land Transfer — Lord Halsbury"s Bill, 1887 — -Austra- 
lian and Prussian Registries — Advantages of Land Registries — 
Agricultural Education in Great Britain and Ireland compared 
with that of France, and the Austrian and German Empires- 
Technical Teaching in Agricultural Matters especially needed 
in Rural Schools — Use of Ministry of Agiiculture — Commence- 
ment of State Aid in England — Illustration of Working of Sys- 
tem in France — Unfairness of present System of Differential 
Railway Rates, especially in case of Perishable Produce— Need 
for a Board of Control 177 

CHAPTER XVII. 

FISCAL RELIEF — LOCAL TAXATION. 

During Protection Period Agricultural Land was heavily taxed 
because Consumers were heavily taxed for its Support — 
Cesmnte ratione cessat et ipsa lex — The Land Tax — The 
four old Rates before and after the Repeal of the Corn 
Laws — Increased Burden of Local Taxation in spite of Free 
Trade Prices — Comparison of Rates in 18I1 and 1885 — Enor- 
mous Growth of Local Debt — Need of Reform of Local 
Government — Suggestions for Relief of Agricultural Land from 
Local Taxation 201 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

SELF-HELP NOT PROTECTION. 

Self-Help the true Remedy — Perishable Produce the main Source 
of Farming Profits — Signs of New Departure in these Direc- 
tions — Co-operation necessary between Landlords and Tenants 
— Farmers not Free Agents in Contracts for letting and hiring 



CONTENTS xiii 

PAGE 

Land — Necessity of securing them against Rise of Rent based 
upon their own Outlay of Capital — Defects of Agricultural 
Holdings Acts of 1875 and 1883 — Proposed Scheme to secure 
them Compensation — Freedom in Contract from Antiquated 
Restrictions — Sliding Scale in Rents — Reaction apparently 
imminent from Corn-growing to Meat and Dairy Farming — 
Advantages of diversified Husbandry ..... 211 

CHAPTER XIX. 

AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS. 

Agricultural Labourers as yet the smallest sufferers from Agricul- 
tural Depression — Improvements in their Moral and Material 
Circumstances — Three Wants of their present Condition — 
Peasant Tenancies ; Means of providing necessary Cajoital — 
Good Prospects for Agricultural Labourers who become Small 
Farmers or secure regular Employment — Allotments — Proba- 
ble Dismissal of large Numbers of Labourers — No possible 
Restoration of Balance between Demand and Supply of 
Labour except Emigration 224 

CHAPTER XX. 

CONCLUSION 236 



APPENDICES 

I. Prices of Wheat 243 

II. Social Corn Laws 246 

III. Agricultural Writers of the 16th, 17th, and first half of 18th 

Centuries 248 

IV. The Corn Laws 252 

V. Enclosures 257 

VI. Questions of the Board of Agriculture, 1816 . . . . 258 

VII. Estimate of the Agricultural Population in 1688, and 

Census Returns of 1851, 1861, 1871, 1881 . . .259 



xiv ENGLISH FAEMING 

PAGE 

VIII. Production of Gold and Silver, 1851-86, &c 261 

.IX. Value of Imports of Food 263 

X. Statistics of Agriculture 264-5 

XI. The Land of England and its Products, 1688, 1771, 1808, 

1827, 1867, 1877, 1887 268 

XII. Prices of Wheat and Import Duties, if any, in France, 

Belgium, Prussia, and England 274 

XIII. Local Taxation 275 

XIV. Allotments 277 

XV. Wages of Agricultural Labourers 279 

XVI. Prices of Provisions 281 



Index 283 



PIONEEES AND PEOGKESS 

OP 

ENGLISH FARMING. 



CHAPTER I. 

SELF-SUFFICING FARMING. 

The practice of English Agriculture was in its infancy 
solely determined by the growth of population. No rota- 
tion of crops was necessary till advancing numbers limited 
the extent of the unoccupied land. While people were 
few and land was abundant, grain crops were only raised 
on light soils. Dry uplands, where the least labour told 
the most, were first cultivated ; rich valleys, damp and 
filled with forest growth, remained uninhabited. Sandy 
soils or chalky highlands are the sites of the oldest villages. 
Patches of the slopes of downs were cleared of self-sown 
beech, and sheltered dips tilled for corn ; the high ground 
behind was grazed by the flocks and herds ; the beech 
woods supplied mast for the swine. On Salisbury Plain, 
a century ago, there was no sign of human life except 
the proverbial ' thief or twain ; ' no contemporary mark of 
the hand of man but the gallows and their appendages. 
Yet here are to be found traces of numerous villao-es. The 



2 SELF-SUFFICING FARMING 

sides of tlie Wiltshire and Sussex downs are scored with 
' lynches,' terraces running horizontally, one above the 
other, along the slopes. Local tradition attributes their 
formation to spade husbandry. Marshall, in 1797, sug- 
gested, but only to reject, the operation of the plough ; 
recently Mr. Seebohm has revived the same theory. 
Whichever view of their origin is correct, they indelibly 
indicate the sites of the earliest settlements, and the 
nature of the soil first selected for tillage. 

' Wild field-grass ' husbandry is a more primitive form 
of agriculture than that practised by village communities. 
Of both systems co-ownership and co-tillage are charac- 
teristic. The essential diiference lay in this. In the com- 
mon fields of the village, pasturage and tillage are perma- 
nently separated; grass-land always remains meadow or 
pasture ; it is never broken up for tillage. Under the more 
primitive form fresh tracts of grass were successively taken 
in, ploughed, and tilled for corn. As the soil became 
•exhausted they reverted to pasture. Such a practice may 
belong to some portions of the Celtic race, or to the 
nomadic stage of civilisation, the period when ' arva per 
annos mutant et superest ager.' In 1804 Marshall traced 
the ' wild field-grass ' system in the south-western counties. 
In some districts, lords of the manor enjoyed rights of letting 
portions of the grass commons to be ploughed up, culti- 
Tated for corn, and after two years thrown back into pasture. 
And over the whole country from the Tamar to the eastern 
border of Dorsetshire he found open commons, such as the 
wide expanse of Yarcombe and the hills above Bridport, 
which from time immemorial had never known the plough, 
distinctly marked with the ridge and furrow. Other usages 
of the rural population, which a century ago were more 
peculiar to the south-west of England, suggest that in this 



SELF-SUFFICING FAEMINQ 3 

district village communities never prevailed. The culti- 
vated land is divided into little patches by the high Devon- 
shire hedge ; common parish fields can hardly be traced ; 
fewer of the inhabitants are collected into villages, more 
are scattered in single houses. The small enclosures sug- 
gest that Devonshire was never peopled by Teutonic in- 
vaders ; like Brittany, it is a country of hedges. 

On this system the permanent separation of arable land 
from pasture hardly constitutes an advance in agricultural 
practice. It was probably introduced into this country by 
a people accustomed, like the Anglo-Saxons, to a drier and 
less variable climate. Yet this alien system for centuries 
governed the cultivation of two-thirds of England. Tufts 
of trees, conspicuous in the hedgeless expanse of land by 
which they were surrounded, marked the sites of villages, 
as they still do in the high table-land of the Pays de 
Caux. Within the ' tun,' or enclosure, were the tofts and 
crofts of substantial peasants and the cottages and curti- 
lages of the cottagers, ' fenced al aboute with stikkes.' 
These were the only property held by the members of 
the township in several ownership. They were also origi- 
nally the onh" permanent enclosures. But as agriculture 
advanced, yards (' gerstuns,' or garstons) for rearing stock, 
or for the oxen which could not ' endure his warke to labour 
all daye, and then to be put to the commons or before the 
herdsman,' were enclosed in the immediate proximity of 
the village. In these enclosures, or ' happy garstons,' as 
they were called at Aston Boges, were held the village 
merry-makings, the rush-bearings, the May-games, the sum- 
merings at St. John Baptist's Eve, the public breakfasts, 
and the distribution of bread and ale in Rogation week. 

Beyond the village lay the common arable fields, in- 
cluding the driest and soundest land. These fields were 

li 2 



4 SELF-SUFFICING FARMING 

two and three, or rarely four in number. If the former, 
one field lay fallow, the other under tillage for corn, or 
beans, or peas. The dual system was, when Fleta wrote, 
generally superseded by the three-field or trinity arrange- 
ment ; yet it prevailed near Gloucester in the present cen- 
tury, and existed at Stogoursey in Somersetshire in 1879. 
From the reign of Henry III. to that of George III. the 
trinity fields received the unvarying triennial succession of 
wheat or rye, spring crops such as barley, oats, beans, or 
peas, and fallow. During this period a more scientific 
rotation was in some districts adopted. Thus at Aston 
Boges, in Oxfordshire, a fourth course was interposed. But, 
speaking generally, common field husbandry rather retro- 
graded than advanced. For the strict supervision of the 
bailiff and the reeve, or the minute observance of com- 
mon rules, was exchanged an anarchy which made the 
land, like that cf Tully Veolan, resemble in the ' unprofit- 
able variety of its surface a tailor's book of patterns.' 

Each of the three arable fields was subdivided into 
shots, furlongs, or flats, separated from one another by 
unploughed, bush-grown turf balks. These flats were in 
turn cut up into parallel strips of about an acre apiece, 
coinciding with the arrangement of a ploughed field in 
ridges and furrows. Theoretically each flat was a square 
of forty poles, containing ten acres ; in practice every 
variety of shape and admeasurement was found. But, 
though the pole from which the acre was raised varied 
from the thirteen and a half feet of Hampshire to the 
twenty-four feet of Cheshire, two sides of the flats always 
ran parallel. Thus each of the three arable fields re- 
sembled several sheets of paper, ruled with margins and 
lines. The separate sheets are the flats ; the margins are 
the headlands running down the flats at right angles to, 



SELF-SUFFICING FAEMING 5 

and across the ends of, the parallel acre stiips which 
are represented by the lines. The strips appear under 
different names. In Scotland they were called ' rigs,' in 
the north of England generally ' oxgangs,' in West- 
moreland ' dales,' and their possessors ' dalesmen,' in 
Cambridgeshire ' balks,' in Somersetshire ' landshires ' or 
' raps.' They generally contained an acre, bvit half-acres 
and even single poles or rods, called ' butts,' are found. 
Stray odd corners which did not fit in with the parallel 
arrangement of the shots were called ' crustae,' ' that is, 
pieces broken off, pightels,^ ' gores,^ fothers,"* and pykes,' 
because, as Fitzherbert explains, they were ' often brode 
in the one ende and a sharpe pyke in the other ende.' 
These strips, thus scattered over the arable fields, were 
fenced off for the separate use of individuals from seed- 
time to harvest. On Lammas Day separate use termi- 
nated and common rights recommenced ; hence the strips 
were often called Lammas lands. After harvest the hay- 
ward removed the fences, and the cattle of the community 
wandered over the fields before the common herdsman. 
Sometimes each commoner herded his own flock. Richard 
Hooker, while he held the country living of Drayton 
Beaucliamp in Buckinghamshire, was found by two of his 
former pupils, ' like humble and innocent Abel, tending 
his small allotment of sheep in a common field.' That no 
occupier might find all his land fallow in the same year, 
every one had strips in each of the three arable fields. If 

' Registry of Worcester Priory (Camden Society), p. 18a. 
- A pightel of land. Cf . Cullran, History of Hawsted, p. 77. 
' As in Kensington Gore. 
* Cf. Chaucer (Prologue, 530),— 

' A ploughman, his brothur, 
That hadde i-lad of dong ful many a fothur,' 
where the word is generally taken to mean a load. 



6 SELF-SUFFICING FAKMING 

the holding was a virgate of thirty acres, there would be 
ten acres in each field. To divide equally the good and 
bad, well and ill situated soil, the bundle of strips allotted 
in each field did not lie together, but was scattered. 

In the lowest part of the land — if possible along a 
stream — lay the ' ings,' or meadows, annually cut up into 
lots or doles, and put up for hay. These doles were 
fenced off for the separate use of individuals from Candle- 
mas to Midsummer Day : from July to February they were 
open, common pasturage. Each lot was distinguished 
by a mark, such as the cross, crane's foot, or peel. Corre- 
sponding marks were thrown into a hat or bag and drawn 
by a boy. This balloting continued up to the present 
century in Oxfordshire and Somersetshire. No winter 
keep for stock was provided ; the common field farmer 
could only fatten cattle at the wane of the summer. Then 
they had the aftermath of the meadows, the stubble or 
haulm of the arable fields. After Michaelmas they 
steadily declined, and only survived the winter in a state 
of semi-starvation. Hence worn-out oxen or aged cows 
were slaughtered in the autumn and salted for winter 
consumption. ' For Easter at Martylmas hang up a beef,' 
is the advice of Tusser. 

On the outskirts of the arable fields laj^ one or more 
' hams ' or stinted pastures, supplying superior feed. 
Brandersham, Smithsham, and Wontnersham suggest 
that special allotments were made to those who practised 
crafts of general utility. 

The poorest and most distant land of the township was 
left in its native wildness. It afforded timber for fuel or 
fencing, mast and acorns for swine, rough pasture for the 
ordinary live stock. 

The common field system, thus briefly sketched, with 



SELF-SUFFICING- FAEMING 7 

its arable, meadow, and pasture land, prevailed at some 
time or other throughout England except in the west, 
and underlies the disturbances in Skye. The following 
descrijDtion of the crofters' holdings in 1750 might have 
been written, with but few alterations, of half the vil- 
lagers in England in the eighteenth century :' — ' A cer- 
tain number of tacksmen formed a copartnery and held a 
tract of land, or township, for which they paid tribute to 
the chief, and each member was jointly and severally 
responsible. The grazing was in common. All the arable 
laud was divided into ridges, assigned annually by lot 
among the partners. Each might have a dozen or more 
of these small ridges, and no two contiguous except by 
accident ; the object being to give each partner a portion 
of the better and inferior land. The copartner appears 
to have had cotters under him, for whose work he paid.' 
In 1879, at Stogoursey, near Bridgwater, a village com- 
munity were still cultivating 600 acres of land on similar 
principles. The prevalence of the system may still be 
faintly traced in England. Turf balks and lynches record 
the time when ' every rood of ground maintained its man.' 
Irregular and regular fences, straight and crooked roads,, 
respectively suggest the wholesale or piecemeal enclosure 
of common fields. The age of the hedgerow timber some- 
times tells the date of the change. The space devoted to 
hedges by agricultural writers of the eighteenth century 
denotes the abolition of open fields, and the minuteness of 
their instructions proves that the art of making hedges 
was still in its infancy. The scattered lands of ordinary 
farms, compared with the compact ' court,' ' hall,' or 
' manor ' farm, recalls the fact that the lord's demesne was 
once the only permanent enclosure. The crowding 
' Letter to the Times, April 3, 1883. 



8 SELF-SUFFICING FARMING 

together of tlie rural population iu villages betrays the 
agrarian partnership, as detached farmsteads and isolated 
labourers' dwellings indicate the system by which it has 
been supplanted. 

The relation of manors to village communities lies 
beyond the present inquiry. Two theories explain the 
origin of manorial rights and rights of common. The 
legal theory, in its crudest form, is that the lord of the 
manor is absolute owner of the soil of his manor, and that 
all rights acquired over it by freeholders and copyholders 
are acquired against him, and originate in his grant or 
sufferance. The historical theory is that self-governing, 
independent communities of freemen originally owned 
the land in common, and were gradually reduced to 
dependence by one of their members, who became the lord 
of the soil. If the second theory is correct, the legal 
position of the lord of the manor represents a series of 
encroachments which transformed the Mark of freemen 
into the Manor of villeins, and transmuted the customary 
rights of the villagers over the wastes into I'ights of user 
over the lord's soil. Questions like the origin and anti- 
quity of manors, and the extent to which they prevailed 
before the Norman Conquest, have been to a great degree 
reopened by Mr. Seebohm's remarkable work,^ in which 
the legal theory is practically supported by an historical 
argument. But whether the relation of manors to village 
communities represented encroachments by the lord or 
advances by the serf, whether the rights of agrarian asso- 
ciations underlay or were acquired against the manorial 
rights of the feudal baron — whether, in other words, 
the land-law of the noble was becoming the land-law of 

' The English Village Communitg, London, 1883. 



SELF-SUFFICING FAKMING 9 

the people or the reverse, is here immaterial. Eoughly 
and genei'ally speaking, the immediate lordship of the 
land farmed by a village community, including the wastes 
and commons, was, after the Norman Conquest, vested in 
the lord of the manor, subject to regulated rights enjoyed 
by its members. 

During the three centuries after the Conquest the 
manorial estate consisted of three portions — the demesne 
land, the villein's land, and the commons. The demesne 
land was originally intended for the lord's personal use ; 
it was his ' board land.' It therefore constituted the smaller 
portion of the total acreage. Thus in 1222 the manors of 
St. Paul's contained 24,000 acres, of which three-eighths 
were in demesne. The demesne might be kept in hand 
and cultivated by the agricultural services of the peasantry ; 
or let off in solid blocks to tenants, who also held land in 
the common fields ; or cut up into strips and intermixed 
with other holdings of the villenage. The distinction be- 
tween the ' terra dominica ' and the ' terra villanorum ' was 
that the first, if let out, might be resumed each season at 
will, but villein land was land of inheritance alienated in 
perpetuity on payment of certain praedial services. Thus 
the lord of the manor might keep his demesne in his own 
hands, cultivating it as a home farm by the agricultural 
services of the peasantry ; or he might be a modern land- 
lord, letting it out to tenants in separate farms at an annual 
rent ; or he might throw it into the farm of the township, 
and become a shareholder with his tenants in the common 
venture of the Agrarian Association. 

The mass of the rural population lived in hereditary 
subjection, holding land by labour-rent. Of this semi- 
servile class, the villeins formed the aristocracy. The vil- 
lein proper was no ordinary servant in husbandry, but, 



10 SELF-SUFFICINa FAEMING 

like Chaucer's ploughman, had ' catel ' of his owu. He 
was obliged to contribute, at the rate of an ox for each 
half-virgate, to the manorial plough-team, which almost 
universally consisted of eight oxen. So tenacious was 
agricultural custom, that in the eighteenth century, what- 
ever the soil or the weight of the plough, few farmers 
ploughed with less than this number. Villeins were dis- 
tinguished from the inferior orders of their class by this 
obligation, and their uncertain services were gradually 
limited to boon-days or precations, and finally commuted 
for money. The continuous work of the farm fell to the 
inferior peasants, such as bordars and cottars, or actual serfs. 
The bordars were holders of a homestead, possibly a small 
croft of land near the village, and sometimes small pieces 
of the common arable fields. They aided the villein in culti- 
vating the demesne, but were not owners of oxen. Their 
obligatory services were more continuous, more trivial, and 
more servile than those of villeins. Probably in actual labour 
the serf was not worse off than the bordar, and, like him, 
he might hold land ; but .his tenure was bondage, not 
prgedial service. Out of these three orders sprang the small 
freeholder, the copyholder, and the wage-earning labourer. 
The obligations of the peasantry varied not only with 
customs, but with seasons. Their most important services 
were the autumnal and Lenten seed-ploughings. Fallows 
were broken up about Hoketide, and ploughed and dunged 
for sowing wheat and rye about Michaelmas. Land was 
ploughed for oats, barley, and peas, after Epiphany ; the 
crops sown and harrowed in March or April. The plough- 
man held the principal hale of the plough in his left hand, 
in his right a beetle to break the clods. A ' Dover-court ' 
beetle was a necessary implement upon a farm in the time 
of Tusser ; and Plot, whose ' Natural History of Oxford- 



SELF-SUFFICING FAEMING 11 

shire ' appeared in the seventeenth century, recommends 
its use after the land was harrowed. On some manors 
harrowing was one of the services which the villeins 
associated to render. But the implement was of the 
lightest and rudest description. Fleta gives the amount of 
wheat sown to the acre as two bushels, and the average 
yield at ten to twelve bushels. But, except on the best 
land, so small a seeding was rare. The quantity of seed 
for barley, oats, or rye was far greater. Probably the 
labour of sowing was performed by the bailiff himself, as, 
at the beginning of this century, it was performed by the 
farmer with his own hand.' All seed was sown broadcast, 
and the land, which was generally wet and foul, was more 
thickly seeded then than now. After the plots were sown 
and fenced, the hay ward exacted a penalty from all tres- 
passers, except messengers riding in haste. Corn was 
weeded in June, for the maxim was ancient, — 

Who weeds in May 
Throws all away. 

In the fourteenth century, on the 220 acres of Hawsted 
Manor Farm, in Suffolk, sixty sarclers or weeders were 
employed on one day at 2^. apiece. In dry weather they 
were armed with a hook and a forked stick, in wet with 
tongs. 

Nothing is more characteristic of the infancy- of farm- 
ing than the violence of its alternations. When roots and 
grasses were unknown, there was no middle course between 
incessant cropping and barrenness. The fallow was ' un 
veritable Dimanche accorde a la terre.' As with the land, 
so with its products. Feasting trode on the heels of famine. 
In the graphic language of ancient chroniclers, parents in 

* Professor Rogers, History of Agriculture and Pnces, i. 16. 



12 SELF-SUFFICING FARMINa 

1270 ate their own children when wheat rose to 33G.s. a 
quarter at the present value of money. Except in monastic 
granges, no quantity of grain was stored : a corn dealer 
was the ' caput lupinum ' of the Legislature. Few remem- 
bered to eat within their tether, or to spare at the brink 
and not at the bottom. In August 1317 wheat was 80s. 
a quarter ; in September following it fell to 6s. 8d. In 
1-557 the price of wheat was bos. 4:d. ; after harvest it 
fell to 5s. Equally variable were the employments ot 
agriculture. Months of indolence passed suddenly into 
intense labour. Harvestings in the Middle Ages were 
picturesque scenes of bustle and of merriment among the 
thousands to whom they meant the return of plenty. On 
250 acres in SuflFolk, towards the close of the fourteenth 
century, were grown wheat, oats, peas, barley, and boly- 
mong, a mixture of peas or tares, and oats. The crops 
were cut and housed in two days. On the first day appeared 
thirty tenants to perfonn their ' bederepes,' and 244 
reapers. On the second, the thirty tenants, and 239 reapers, 
pitchers, and stackers. Many of this assembly were the 
smaller peasantry on the manor ; the rest were wander- 
ing bands of ' cockers ' or harvesters, who had already 
begun to parade the country. A cook, brewer, and baker 
were hired to supply dinner at nine, and supper at five. 
Barley and oats, as well as peas and beans, were generally 
mown ; rye and wheat were reaped. But the harvest, as 
in Roman times, consisted of two operations : the first was 
to cut the ears, the second to remove part of the straw for 
thatching. But the value of the straw of thin short corn 
hardly paid for the expense of removal, and the rest of the 
stubble was either grazed, or burned, or ploughed in. 

The proportion of arable land was greatly in excess of 
grass land. The crops of the former were wheat, rye, oats, 



SELF-SUFFICING FARMING 13 

barley, beans, peas, and, in smaller quantities, flax and 
hemp. Roots or artificial grasses were entirely unknown. 
Of grain crops rye was the chief; it is the hardiest, grows 
on the poorest soils, makes the toughest straw. Rye was 
then the bread-stuff of the peasantry, as it still is in 
Northern Europe. It was generally mixed with wheat- 
flour. Bread so made was called maslin.^ It retained its 
moisture longer, and, as Moryson (' Itinerary,' temp. James 
I.) says, was used by labourers because ' it abode longer 
in the stomach and was not so soon digested with their 
labour.' Wheat and rye were often sown together. Tusser 
condemns the practice, ' lest rye tarry wheat till it shed as 
it stand; ' but it prevailed in Yorkshire in 1797 as a cure 
for mildew. By itself wheat was seldom sown. Barley 
was the drink-corn, as rye the bread-corn, of the Middle 
Ages ; drage ^ was the commonest and best sort for malting. 
Oats were extensively cultivated in the north ; but they 
were grey-awned, thin, and poor. The culture of vines is 
often quoted to prove a change of climate in the England of 
1888. But it must be remembered that wine was then 
sweetened and flavoured with honey and spices ; it was 
never drunk in its pure state ; and therefore no theory 
can be founded upon the production of a liquid which may 
have resembled vinegar in its natural state. Little manure 
was used. In arable farms all the dung produced was 
thrown on the ' infield ; ' the ' outfield ' was neglected. 
The right of folding was valuable to lords of the manor 
because their own land was thus enriched by the tenant's 
flock. Horses were scarcely used in agriculture. Oxen 

' Lat. 'mixtilio.' Harrison, ' miscellin.' Yorkshire, 1797, ' mashel- 
son.' In the ' Compleat Farmer ' (1760) it is called ' maislen ; ' but it 
is said to be ' ill-husbandry ' to grow wheat and rye together. 

- Lat. drageum, dredge : bigge ; here barley. 



14 SELF-SUFFICING FAEMING 

cost less, are shod only ou the forefeet, do more on liilly 
ground ; their gear and winter keep is less expensive : 
they are ' mannes meat when dead, while the horse is 
carrion.' 

In the Middle Ages the monks both of England and of 
France were the pioneers of agriculture, and it was through 
their influence that marshes were drained, foi^ests cleared, 
wastes reclaimed, and barren land reduced to cultivation. 
The ' strenuous idleness ' of a baronial aristocracy revolted 
from farming. This contempt for bucolic life is illustrated 
by heraldry. Sport, war, religion, supply its emblems : 
agricultural implements and products are disdained till, 
like the garb of the Washbournes, the haywains of the 
Hays, the scythe of the Sneyds, the}' have been ennobled 
by martial use. The monks studied agriculture by the 
light of Varro and Columella. But their influence was 
sometimes opposed to progress. Corn was indispensable to 
monasteries, and its growth was often compulsory on 
monastic tenants. As the natural pastures of La Brenne 
in Berri were sacrificed to the desire of grain, so the ' fat 
vale ' of Evesham was cut up into arable parcels, so small 
and scattered that no tenant could lay his holding down 
to grass. That their love of ale induced monks to compel 
the cultivation of barley where oats were more profitable 
is probably a slander. From looO onwards the relations 
of owner and occupier assume a modern aspect ; leases be- 
come common ; villenage and serfdom disappear : out of the 
Black Death and the French wars arise tenant farmers, 
copyholders, free wage-earning labourers. The first half 
of the fifteenth century most nearly realised the peasant's 
dream of Arcadia. Rural life in the preceding period 
must be studied, not in the holiday scenes of Chaucer, but 
in the realistic pictures of Laugland. Between 1389 and 



SELF-SUFFICING FAEMIXG 15 

1444 the wages of agricultural labourers doubled : harvests 
were plentiful ; beef, mutton, pork, became their food • 
sumptuary laws against extravagance of dress and diet 
attest their prosperity : the standard purity of the coinage 
was steadilv maintained, and the number of shilling's into 
which the pound was coined varied only between thirty 
and thirty-five. Fortescue attributes the success of the 
English against the French to the superiority of their diet. 
' The people,' he says, ' be wealthye, and have al thynges 
necessary to the sustenaunce of nature, wherfor thay be 
mighty, able to resyste the adversaries of the realme, and 
to bett other realmes that do or will do them wrong.' 

A concrete instance illustrates mediaeval practices and 
the progress of the labouring classes. The Domesday Sur- 
vey of the manor of Castle Combe in Wiltshire shows 
that the manor consisted of meadow, pasture, and arable 
land. The meadow was divided into strips held by the 
peasantry. The pasture, which was rough and wooded, 
was held in common. One thousand acres were under the 
plough, of which 400 acres were the lord's demesne, culti- 
vated by thirteen serfs and labour-rents ; the remainder 
was held by villeins, boors, and cottagers. The arable 
land was divided into two fields, North field and South 
field, among which were scattered twenty-five parcels of 
demesne land called ' dooles,' each comprising about four 
acres. There were no free tenants. In 1340 there were 
ten free tenants whose services were commuted for money 
payments, and who held between them 233 acres of arable 
land. The remainino" tenants were still in bondagfe. 
Fifteen were customary tenants, holding 625 acres, pai-tly 
by money rent and partly by labour services. Eleven other 
tenants held fifteen acres each by agricultural services ; but 
in addition they held crofts, for which they paid rent in 



16 SELF-SUFFICING FLEMING 

money. Eight ' Monday-men ' held cottages and curtilages 
by labour-rent. These thirty-four tenants were all bonda- 
gers, but they could always commute their labour services 
at a money value, and provide substitutes. These they 
found in one another, or in twelve tenants of cottages who 
paid fixed rents. In 1352 all the labour-rents were com- 
muted for money payments. In 1454 the ' dooles ' of 
demesne land were let to five tenants who were responsible 
for the whole rent, though in practice they seem to have 
sublet. The customar}^ tenants had increased to twenty ; 
the Monday-men to fifteen. The manor was self-govern- 
ing. The tenants elected the bailiff*, the hayward, the 
sheep-teller, who counted the stock on the commons, the 
constables, ale-tasters, and other manorial officers. They 
also composed the ' leet-jury,' which disposed of small 
criminal offences, presented tavern-haunters or common 
idlers, made bye-laws regulating the maintenance of the 
merestones or butts, the repairs of the bridge or the 
sewers, the brewing and selling of ale and beer. And all 
this was done without the intervention of a lawyer or his 
fees. 



]7 



CHAPTER II. 

FARMING FOR PROFIT. 

The end of the wars of the Roses synchronised with 
social and commercial changes which produced the first 
great agricultural crisis. Up to the Tudor period the mass 
of English land was tilled upon the plan already described, 
which foreign legislators of the nineteenth century found 
to be still prevalent on the Continent. Without discuss- 
ing further the origin of manorial rights, it may be 
repeated that at the Norman Conquest the feudal manors 
were superimposed upon agrarian communities. Hence- 
forward the land was divided into the private demesne of 
the lord of the manor, the lord's wastes, and the tene- 
mental land of the association. Rights of common were 
exercised not only over the commons, the soil of which 
was now vested in the feudal lord, but by each party re- 
spectively over the land of the other. If the lord of the 
manor farmed the demesne himself, his land was subject to 
the rights of common exercised over it by the manorial 
tenantry. If he farmed his demesne as a modern landlord, 
he multiplied retainers by letting it out in small portions 
to farmers who were often holders at the same time of 
tenemental land. If he threw the demesne into the com- 
mon stock, he made himself a partner in the joint venture 
of the agrarian association. Demesne and commonable 
land was intermixed and cultivated in minute strips. So 

c 



18 FAEMING FOE PEOFIT 

confused did the two portions become that on the estates 
of the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's three acres could 
not be found by the land registrars. For this reason 
Fitzherbert, in his ' Book of Surveying,' impresses on the 
surveyor the need of accuracy, lest ' any parcell be loste, 
or imbeselde, or encroached by one from the other.' But 
between 1450 and 1560 an agricultural revolution was 
accomplished, which may be briefly described as a change 
from self-sufficing to profit-gaining agriculture, from com- 
mon to individual ownership. 

The first steps in this change were taken when lords of 
manors enclosed their wastes, or withdrew their demesne 
lands from the agrarian partnership, or when the partners 
of village communities agreed among themselves to extin- 
guish their own common rights over the arable fields. On 
most manors three distinct rights of common pasture were 
enjoyed. ' There is commonly,' says Fitzherbert, ' a com- 
mon close taken in out of the common fields by tenants of 
the same towne, in which close every man is stinted and 
set to a certaintie how many beasts he shall have in the 
same.' This enclosure of land that it might be common 
belongs to a later date, and is comparatively unimportant. 
Secondly, common rights were exercised over the lord's 
wastes, outwoods, moors, and heaths, ' which were never 
arable land,' and the soil of which was vested in the lord 
of the manor. Thirdly, rights of common were enjoyed 
over the land that laj^ fallow in rotation and over the com- 
mon arable lands from harvest to seed-time, ' the plain 
champaign countrie,' to quote the words of Fitzherbert, 
' where their cattle lie daily before the herdsmen.' 

These are the rights of ' parcours ' and ' vaine pature,' 
which, in France, remained for centuries insuperable obsta- 
cles to agricultural progress. Upon the second and third 



FARMINa FOE, PEOFIT 19 

class of rights depended the prosperity, if not the very 
existence, of agi'arian associations ; they afforded the only 
means of keeping live stock. It may be doubted whether, 
before 1236, lords of manors could by common law enclose 
wastes subject to rights of common ; but, be this as it may, 
in that year the Statute of Merton sanctioned enclosures 
against all freeholders whose rights of common were derived 
from the owner of the soil. Fifty years later the right of 
enclosure was extended by the Statute of Westminster 
against commoners whose right was not derived from the 
lord of the manor. ' Many of the lordes,' says Fitzherbert 
at the beginning of the sixteenth century, ' have enclosed 
a great part of their waste grounds, and straightened their 
tenants of their common therein.' 

The example of the landlord was often followed by the 
principal partners of the village farm. During the same 
period numerous agreements were entered into between 
the commoners to extinguish, temporarily or permanently, 
the right to graze the arable lands from harvest to seed- 
time. ' Licenses ' were given to the tenantry ' to enclose 
part of their arable lands, and to take in new intakes or 
closes out of the commons.' Finally, lords of manors 
withdrew and enclosed their demesne lands which lay in 
the common fields, thus still further curtailing the right of 
common pasture. Fitzherbert says that, before 1530, ' the 
mooste part of the lordes have enclosed their demeyn 
landes and meadows, and kept them in severalties, so that 
their tenauntes have no common with them therein.' 

This agricultural change was accelerated by a social 
and commercial revolution. The Hundred Years' war 
maintained the external features of a system which was 
completely undennined. It is this fact which gives 
the air of hollowness and artificialit}^ to the reign of 

c 2 



20 FAEMING FOE PEOFIT 

Edward III. The feudal organisation of society was 
breaking up ; land was regarded as a source not of power^ 
but of wealth. The tendency set in strongly towards 
small convertible arable farms ; tenants withdrew from the 
common farm of the township, and exchanged their scat- 
tered strips for solid tenements of from 10 to 120 acres; 
landlords found self-farming unprofitable, and divided their 
demesnes into small holdings let on lease, when agricul- 
tural services were commuted for money, and the Black 
Death had raised the rate of wages. 

The withdrawal of the English landlord from the 
agrarian partnership exactly corresponds to the process 
which took place in the present century on the Continent. 
It was a change from common to individual ownership ; 
land was divided between the lord of the manor and the 
association ; rights of common, mutually enjoyed, were 
extinguished. In its results, manorial estates were con- 
solidated, partly by withdrawal from the village farm, 
partly by the enclosure of wastes, and many of the agra- 
rian associations were broken up. When these partner- 
ships were dissolved, common-field farmers enclosed their 
strips and became peasant proprietors. Wliere the 
association lingered on, its farming steadily deteriorated, 
as well from the contraction of the area of the common 
farm as from the neglect of the ' field constraint ' which 
had been mainly enforced by the landlord's oflScers. 
Yeomen were little affected by a chauge which slightly 
increased their numbers. The two classes that eventually 
suffered were the ' common-field farmers,' to use the 
eighteenth century description, and the cottagers or 
emancipated serfs, who had no share in the lands of the 
agrarian community, but lived as hired labourers, supple- 
menting their wages by keeping cattle on the rough 



FAEMING FOE PEOFIT 21 

pasture. The change was at first advantageous to all 
the classes concerned. Wage-earning labourers obtained 
more constant employment, while more substantial farmers 
reaped advantages from the consolidation of their hold- 
ings. Such enclosures were warmly recommended by 
practical agi'iculturists like Fitzherbert, who advises every 
man to ' change fields with his neighbour, so that he may 
lay his lands together,' keep more cattle, improve the soil 
by their ' compostynge,' and rest his corn land when it 
becomes impoverished. A new conception of agriculture 
dawned on men's minds. Landlords recognised that the 
soil might produce rents now that they had ceased to 
need retainers ; farmers were no longer content to produce 
enough for their own families, but desired to become 
growers as well as consumers. It is significant that the 
earliest corn laws were passed in the reign of Henry VI. 
Legislation to maintain the value of corn begins in 1436, 
and in 1463 foreign imports were forbidden^ until prices 
reached the point at which export was prohibited. 

But it was not long before commercial interests gave a 
new direction to agricultural tendencies, which proved fatal 
to the lower ranks of the labouring or land-holding popu- 
lation. The wars of the Roses were the suicide of feudal- 
ism, and in the reign of Edward IV. the spirit of trade 
breathed freely throughout England. If farmers were 
slow to recognise that ' the foot of the sheep turns sand 
into gold,' merchants were quick to see that money might 
be made by the growth of wool. But sheep could not be 
herded with success upon commons, and small holdings 
were incompatible with large flocks. 

' No corn was to be imported until wheat was 6^. Sd., rye 4s., barley 
3s. the quarter. These prices must have been high. (See table of 
prices of wheat, Appendix I.) 



22 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

The growth of woollen manufactories raised the price 
of English wool, which commanded the market at home 
and abroad. Edward III. encouraged Flemish wool- 
workers to settle in England and improve domestic 
manufactures, which hitherto had aspired to nothing more 
than a coarse frieze. He settled his Flemings in every 
part of England, but especially in the eastern counties 
and the south-west. At the same time English wool 
was indispensable to the manufacturers of Flanders, who 
mixed it with the produce of Spain, so that Europe was 
clothed by Engli.sh farmers. Wool was easy of transport, 
little liable to damage, subject to no duties. Baltic corn, 
on the other hand, competed successfully with English 
grain in foreign markets ; as a merchandisable commodity 
corn was liable to every tax and damage. Arable farming 
was expensive and uncertain ; sheep-feeding sure and 
cheap. 

The high and certain profits of sheep-farming encou- 
raged not only the consolidation of holdings, but a revolu- 
tion in agricultural practice. Hitherto but little attention 
had been paid to grass farms. Now tillage gave way to 
pasturage. The new commercial aristocracy converted 
their land into parks or sheep-walks, where only a 
shepherd found employment. They encroached upon and 
enclosed the commons by force or connivance with the 
principal commoners. The purchase of common rights 
must have been rare, for in the reign of Edward VI. the 
Statute of Merton was re-enacted. Tenants were encou- 
raged to consolidate their holdings, to exchange open 
fields for separate farms, to divide the common pasture 
with the landlord. Small tenants were evicted from their 
holdings on the demesne ; farm servants who had boarded 
with them were dismissed ; the cottages of the married 



FARMING FOE PROFIT 23 

labourers were pulled down. At tlie same time wastes 
and commons were enclosed and tlirown into sheep farms. 
This conti-action of the area of rough pasture inflicted a 
second and fatal blow on the interests of the small cot- 
tagers. The Statutes of Merton and Westminster only 
protected the interests of the freeholders, and so long as 
their consent was obtained no rights were recognised in 
other classes. The dissolution of the monasteries stimu- 
lated the process. The new landlords treated the royal 
grant as an excuse to override the customary and common 
rights of the existing tenants. The doggerel ballad (' Yox 
Populi Vox Dei,' 1549) laments the change : — 

We have shut away all cloisters, 

But still we keep extortioners ; 
We have taken their lands for their abuse, 
But we have converted them to a worse use. 

Legislation was powerless to check the reaction against 
tillage ; it failed to compel landlords to limit their flocks 
and maintain their farm buildings. The main object of 
the Government was to prevent the depopulation of the 
country ;^ but exemptions were purchased from the re- 
straining statutes, or their provisions were evaded. The 
destruction of farm buildings was forbidden, but it was 
easy to retain a single room for the shepherd ; a solitary 
furrow driven across newly laid pasture satisfied the law 
that no fresh land should be converted from tillaofe ; the 
number of sheep was limited by law, but flocks were held 
in the name of sons or servants. A petition in the reign 
of Henry VIII, states that 50,000 ploughs had been put 
down, each of which, on the average, maintained 13| per- 
sons. Thus, 675,000 persons were thrown out of work 

' See Appendix II. 



24 FAEMING FOR PROFIT 

when the whole population of the country did not exceed 
five millions. Still more vain was the quaint pedantry of 
the law which gave arable land the precedence over all 
other lands, conferred privileges on beasts of the plough 
above other beasts, voided bonds to restrain tillage. ' De- 
populatores agrorum ' were denied the benefit of clergy, 
sanctuary, or Christian burial. In spite of every effort, 
England remained till the eighteenth century the sheep- 
feeding country she had become under the Tudors. 

Advanced free traders might agree with Raleigh that 
England, like Holland, could be wholly supplied with 
grain from abroad without troubling the people with til- 
lage. Many, however, looked no further than the imme- 
diate distress which these changes produced. Wage- 
earning labourers were thrown out of employment, tenant 
farmers were evicted from their holdings ; crowds of small 
yeomen, copyholders, and cottars, who had eked out their 
livelihood by the produce of the stock which they main- 
tained on the commons, were ruined. John Rous, the 
monk and antiquary of Warwick, was the first to protest 
against the conversion of the country into a wilderness, 
traversed only by shepherds and their dogs. Pole, Brink- 
low, More, Bacon, Strype, declaimed against a system 
which Latimer and Gilpin denounced from their pulpits. 
The cry of the people disturbed the learued quiet of Ascham, 
reached the ears even of Somerset and Edward VI. Their 
distresses broke to the surface in the numerous agrarian 
insurrections of the century. The sweating-sickness 
claimed its thousands ; famine, rot, and murrain prevailed 
continuously. The high prices of necessaries, combined 
with the loss of commons and bad seasons, drove the small 
proprietors over the narrow border which separated them 
from starvation. Rents rose exorbitantly, till, for farmers 



FARMING FOR PROFIT 25 

at rack-rent, existence was a misery. There was an 
ominous growth of middlemen, ' leasemongers, who take 
groundes by lease to the entente to lette them againe 
for double and tripple the rente,' who battened on the 
earth-hunger of the people. In the reign of Henry VI. 
the average price of wheat was 6s. 8d. a quarter, of rye 4s., 
of barley os. The daily wages of labourers without food 
from Easter to Michaelmas were 4cZ. Thus the labourer 
could then earn a quarter of wheat in 20 days, of rye in 
12 days, of barley in 9 days. In 1595 the price of wheat 
was 20s. a quarter, of rye 13s. 4(i., of barley 12s. In the 
same year the wages of labourers were fixed by the York- 
shire justices at 6d. a day without food, from March 1 to 
November 1. Thus labourers could then earn a quarter of 
wheat in 48 days, of rye in 32 days, of barley in 28 days. 
Even those labourers who found employment worked for 
less wages than they received in the preceding century. 
'They were compelled to accept the rate fixed by the em- 
ployers ; the arguments were whipping, branding, the 
galleys, or death. Thousands besides 'poor Tom' were 
whipped from ' tything to tything, and stock'd, punish'd, 
and imprisoned.' Legislators were bewildered by cur- 
rency questions. Violent changes in the coinage aggra- 
vated distress. The nominal value of wages remained 
stationary while the purchasing power rapidly diminished. 
The standard purity of the pound of silver was, in the 
reign of Henry VIII. , 18 dwts. of alloy to 11 oz. 2 dwts. 
of silver. The pound of silver was coined into 45 shil- 
lings. In the fifth year of Edward VI. there were 9 oz. of 
alloy to 3 oz. of silver. The pound of silver was coined 
into 72 shillings. In other words, the ounce of silver 
varied between 3s. 9d. in 1509 and 24s. in 1552. The 
standard of purity was restored in 1553, only to be again 



26 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

debased by Mary, and again restored by Elizabeth . As. 
gold and silver poured into Europe from America prices 
rose throughout Europe. The rise was in England at- 
tributed to every cause but the true one, which was the 
lowering of the value of the precious metals. From 1459 
to 1560 wheat averaged 9s. 2d. per quarter ; from 1561 to 
1601 it averaged 47s. hd. But while the purchasing power 
of money was thus diminished, legislation prevented wages 
from following the rise in prices. Only human life was 
cheapened. The labour market was glutted; guild jea- 
lousies excluded peasants from trade. The poor-laws were 
passing from voluntary almsgiving to the compulsory sup- 
port of the poor. There was no substitute for monastic 
bounty. Shakespeare drew no fancy picture, but one of 
which ' the country gave him proof and precedent,' of the 
' bedlam beggars ' who 

from low farms, 
Poor pelting villages, sheepcotes, and mills, 
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers, 
Enforce their charity. 

Meanwhile large farmers profited by the low wages of 
agricultural labour and the high prices of agricultural 
produce. While Latimer laments the degradation of 
small yeomen, who, like his father, had farms of ' three to 
four pounds a year at the uttermost,' Harrison describes 
the rise of substantial farmers and the middle classes, and 
the chimneys, beds, sheets, pillows, pewter, tin, and silver, 
which for the first time appeared in their houses. 

The process by which the commons were enclosed was 
often high-handed and oppressive. From the comparative 
silence of English records it cannot be concluded that a 
parliament of English landlords had no occasion to protect 
the interests of the cultivators of the soil. Sir Thomas 



FAEMING FOR PROFIT 27 

More speaks of ' husbandmen thrust out of their own, or 
else, by covin and fraud, or by violent oppression, put be- 
side it, or by wrongs and injuries so wearied, that they be 
compelled to sell all.' The proceedings of Sir Giles Over- 
reach in the ' New Way to pay Old Debts ' did not entirely 
originate in the brain of the dramatist, and the peasant 
proprietor of a Naboth's vineyard would fall an easier 
victim than a lord of the manor. 

I'll buy some cottage near his manor, 
Which done, I'll make my men break ope his fences, 
Ride o'er his standing corn, or in the night 
Set fii'e to his barns, or break his cattle's legs. 
These trespasses will draw on suits, and suits expenses, 
Which I can spare, but will soon beggar him. 
When I have harried him thus two or three years. 
Though he sue in forma paxiperis, in spite 
Of all his thrift and care he'll grow behindhand. 
Then, with the favour of my man at law, 
I will pretend some title : want will force him 
To put it to arbitrament. Then if he sells 
For half the value he shall have ready money, 
And I possess the land. 

But forcible enclosures of wastes or encroachments by 
squatters were not the only means by which common land 
passed into individual ownership. Voluntary agreements 
between commoners and proprietors of land were frequent, 
and bargains were often struck on equitable terms. In- 
stances like the following extract from Rennet's ' Parochial 
Antiquities ' (ii. 324) might be indefinitely multiplied : 

' The said Edmund Rede, Esq., granted and confirmed 
to Thomas Billyngdon one close in Ardyngrave, in con- 
sideration whereof the said Thomas Billyngdon quitted 
and resigned his right to the free pasturage of four oxen 
to feed with the cattle of the said Edmund Rede and all 



28 FAKMING FOR PROFIT 

right to any common in the said pasture or inlandys of 
the said Edmund.' 

Here in the England of 1437 was the principle of com- 
mutation of rights of common applied by private contract. 
Sometimes these bargains were sanctioned by the Court of 
Chancery, or, where the Crown was interested, by royal 
license. No parliamentary confirmations are to be found 
before the reign of Charles II. Each party to the pri- 
vate contract possessed his block absolutely, instead of 
enjoying a perplexing variety of cross rights. Browbeat- 
ing and bullying doubtless occurred, but attempted acts of 
oppression were frequently checked by the courts of law. 
Justice was not always perverted in the interests of land- 
lords, nor were matters always ' ended as they were friended.' 
An interesting account of the attempted enclosure of the 
common fields at Welcombe, near Stratford-on-Avon, has 
been recently published by the late Dr. Ingleby, the well- 
known Shakespearian scholar. It is contained in a frag- 
ment of the 23rivate diary of Thomas Green, town clerk of 
Stratford in the first years of the seventeenth century. 
William Combe, lord of the manor of Welcombe, desired 
to enclose a portion of the hamlet which from time imme- 
morial had been common fields. Lord Chancellor Elles- 
mere was an interested promoter of the scheme. Among 
the persons possessing rights over these common fields was 
William Shakespeare, who appears to have resisted their 
enclosure. Upon the petition of the commoners at War- 
wick Assizes, Chief Justice Coke made an order that ' noe 
iuclosure shalbe made within the parish of Stratforde, for 
that yt is agaynst the Lawes of the Realme.' 



29 



CHAPTER III. 

THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. 

But though the change from common to individual owner- 
ship, from self-sufficing to profit-gaining agriculture, was 
accompanied with wide-spread distress, the sixteenth cen- 
tury, especially towards its close, witnessed a general im- 
pulse to the study and practice of farming. It was now 
that Herrera in Spain, Tarello in Italy, Heresbach in the 
Low Countries, Charles Estienne and Bernard Palissy in 
France, wrote upon agriculture. The gentry began to pay 
attention to farming. As Michel de I'Hopital solaced his 
exile from court with his farm at Etampes, so Fitzherbert 
relieved his judicial labours with the cultivation of his land. 
With the Tudor period begins the agricultural litera- 
ture of England.' Besides Fitzherbert and Tusser, there 
were Turner, Googe, Sir Hugh Plat, Plattes, Markham, 
and others. ' Mayster Fitzherbert's Boke of Husbandry ' 
was 'impr^mted in 1523,' and in the same year appeared 
his ' Boke of Surveying.' The reputed author, a judge of 
the Common Pleas, treated his subjects in the most prac- 
tical manner. His theory of the origin of the fluke in 
sheep survives in a more scientific form at the present day. 
The prevalence of the rot disquieted other agricultural 
writers. Harrison attributes it to ' gossamers, rowty fogs, 
mildews, and rank grass.' Leonard Mascall, who wrote on 
' Appendix III., The early literature of agricultiire. 



30 THE SEVENTEENTH CENTUKY 

the 'Government of Slieepe ' in 1605, warns shepherds 
against plants grown ' on wet and marish grounds.' Tus- 
ser is the poet of agriculture. He embodies his experiences 
in doggerel verse, without any invocations of Pomona or 
Ceres. In his own life he illustrated the difficulty of com- 
bining the practical farmer with the contemplative poet. 
' He spread his bread,' says Fuller, ' with all sorts of but- 
ter, 3^et none would stick thereon.' He was successively 
* a musician, schoolmaster, serving-man, husbandman, 
grazier, poet — more skilful in all than thriving in his voca- 
tion.' His book was long recognised as a useful guide to 
fai-mers. In 1723, Lord Molesworth proposed that schools 
of agriculture should be established, in which ' Tusser's 
work should be taught to tlie boys to read, to copy, and 
get by heart.' Now it is only valuable as a storehouse of 
information respecting the domestic economy and rural 
life of our Elizabethan ancestors. Clover and artificial 
grasses were unknown to Tusser and Fitzherbert : the 
former mentions turnips as ' a kitchen-garden root to boil 
or butter.' Both advocate enclosures, and instance Essex 
and Suffolk to prove the superior cultivation under the 
newer system. Tusser's testimony that, in these two 
counties, beef and mutton were more plentiful, cheese and 
butter better, and all classes wealthier than elsewhere, is 
the more striking, as he was an Essex man and a Suffolk 
farmer. The proverbial ' Suffolk stiles ' seem to point to 
the early extinction of parish fields ; but both counties 
]5artly owed their pre-eminence to the possession of some 
of the highways between the Netherlands and London. 
Chaucer's merchant demands that the sea be kept clear 
between Orewell and Middleburgh. Yet it is significant 
that Fitzherbert and Tusser, representing the best theory 
and practice of agriculture of their day, ignore draining 



THE SEVENTEENTH CENTUEY 31 

a,nd dismiss manure or ' compass ' with the briefest possible 
mention. 

At the end of the seventeenth century the prospects of 
agriculture seemed brightening. As Hartlib, the friend of 
Milton and pensioner of Cromwell, puts it, ' ingenuities, 
curiosities, and good husbandry began to flourish.' ' The 
soil,' says Harrison, ' had growne to be more fruitful, and 
the countryman more painful, more careful, and more skil- 
ful for recompense of gain.' Wheat averaged ' on the well- 
tilled and dressed acre ' twenty bushels. Improved means 
of communication facilitated progress. Increased attention 
was paid to manuring. In Sussex, farmers purchased 
lime, fetched it from a distance, and burned it in kilns 
erected for the purpose. In Middlesex and Hertfordshire 
the sweepings of the London streets were bought up for the 
fields. In Cornwall, farmers rode many miles to get sand, 
and brought it home on horseback. In South Wales sea- 
weed was extensively used. New materials for agricul- 
tural wealth accumulated, especially through the revival of 
gardening. Since the wars of the Roses this art had nearly 
expired. Herbs, fruits, and roots, which had been plenti- 
ful in the fifteenth century, had died out, or were thrown 
to the pigs. Even in 1650, Hartlib says that gardening 
was hardly known in the north and west of England. 
Hops were introduced into England in the reign of Henry 
VIII., though the old rhyme is hardly correct which says, — 

Hops, reformation, bays, and beer 
Came into England all in one year. 

They were extensively cultivated in Suffolk in the time of 
Tusser. Onions, cabbages, carrots, parsnips, ' colleflowers,' 
were chiefly imported from Flanders ; though Piers Plow- 
man could command the two former vegetables, they were 



32 THE SEVENTEENTH CENTUEY 

now rare except about Fulham and the Suffolk coast. 
Carrots were called Sandwich carrots, after the chief place 
of their cultivation. Turnips were scarcely grown except 
in gardens near London. Potatoes were still exotics, and 
luxuries of the rich. Both turnips and clover are urged 
on English farmers by Elizabethan writers. Googe, who 
knew the Low Countries, calls clover ' trefle de Bourgogne,' 
and, after Heresbach, supposes it to be a Moorish grass, 
brought in by the Spaniards. In the same author's men- 
tion of a car armed with sharp sickles may be traced the 
first hint of the reaping machine. 

The civil wars checked agricultural progress. Hus- 
bandry, if it did not actually decline, languished. It was 
a period of extreme distress. In 1651 Blithsays that the 
poor farmers ' lived worse than in Bridewell ; ' Hartlib 
adds that but for foreign supplies the people must have 
starved. Wheat rose rapidly, till in 1648 it stood at 85s. 
the quarter. This rise was due to the deficiency not only 
of harvests, but of arable land. The average price from 
1647 to 1651 was 77s. Id. ; the average taken from 1647 
to 1700 was only 49s. lOt^. Hartlib calculates that, in 
England and Wales, not more than four million acres 
were under tillage. While beef and mutton also rose to 
3f cZ. per pound, daily wages without food advanced only 
Id. upon the od. of 1444. 

On the other hand, the materials of agricultural wealth 
rapidly accumulated, and the work of preparation con- 
tinued almost uninterruptedly. To Sir Richard Weston, 
of Sutton in Surrey, formerly ambassador in the Palatinate, 
belongs the credit of the first successful cultivation of 
turnips and clover, the pivots of English agriculture. As 
Brillat-Savarin valued a new dish above a new star, so 
Young regards Weston as a ' greater benefactor than 



THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 33 

Newton.' He did, in fact, give bread to millions. Blith 
and Hartlib followed him, but it was long, as the latter 
says, before clover emerged from ' the fields of gentlemen 
into common use.' Hartlib urges the adoption of roots 
and the folding of sheep, ' after the Flaundei's manner,' 
as a means of improving sandy commons. He continually 
advocates the use of clover and ' Holy Hay or Saint foine,' 
and gives space to the following advertisement : ' Such 
as are desirous to buy any of the three-leaved grass, or 
lucern, spurry, clover-grass, and sinke-foile, what quan- 
tity they please, may have them at Thomas Brown's shop 
at the Eed Lion in Soper Lane.' Twenty years later, 
Plot mentions clover and sainfoin among the unusual 
grasses cultivated in Oxfordshire. In 1669 Worlidge, 
after advocating enclosures and the cultivation of artificial 
grasses, urges turnips on farmers, ' although this be a 
plant usually nourislit in gardens and be properly a gar- 
den plant.' Still more explicit is Houghton (1682) ; he says 
that ' some in Essex have their fallows after turnips, which 
feed their sheep in winter, by which means their land is 
dung'd as if it had been folded ; and these turnips, tho' 
few or none be carried ofi" for humane use, are a very ex- 
cellent improvement.' On the other hand, Blith derides 
turnips, which, he says, are only eaten by swine after they 
have been boiled. 

Drainage was ably discussed by Blith. Writing as ' a 
lover of ingenuity,' he published his ' English Improver ' 
in 1641. In 1652 a third edition of the work was pub- 
lished, under the title of ' The English Improver Im- 
proved.' In the interval Blith had become a captain and a 
courtier, and dedicated his book to the ' Right Honourable 
the Lord General Cromwell.' As remedies for the miseries 
of the agricultural population, he suggests the employ- 



34 THE SEVENTEENTH CENTUEY 

ment of more capital, the abolition of ' slavish customs,' 
the recognition of tenant right, the extinction of ' ver- 
mine.' Above all he insists on the necessity of drainage. 
It is characteristic of the age that he supports his argu- 
ment from the Bible, and asks with Bildad, ' Can the rush 
grow without mire, or the flagg without water ? ' Blith 
deals not only with surface water, but the constant action 
of stagnant bottom water. No drain could, he said, touch 
the ' cold spewing moyst water that feeds the flagg and 
rush,' unless it was ' a yard or four feet deep,' provided 
with 25roper outfalls. His views are sound and advanced 
on a sreneral scheme for drainag-e, in which landowners 
should be compelled to join for ' the commonwealth's 
advantage.' 

When Blith wrote the drainage of the fens was a 
question of importance. The fen district was seventy 
miles long, in places thiii^y miles broad, and covered 
680,000 acres. This was not land which had been under 
water since the Flood. Thorney was, in the time of Wil- 
liam of Malraesbury, rich in vineyards and orchards, well 
wooded, productive, ' a very paradise of pleasure and de- 
light.' The drainage works of the Romans had been 
carried on by the monks of Thorney, Crowland, Ramsey, 
Ely, Spinney. But latterly they had fallen out of repair. 
The district is naturally drained by the Cam, the Ouse, 
the Nene, the Welland, the Glen, and the Witham. But 
it was only in the maps that they ran into the sea. The 
river-beds were foul, the channels choked ; the streams 
continually overflowed their banks. Twice a day tides 
drove back the fresh water, and prevented the discharge 
■of the upland streams. The outfalls of the rivers silted up 
so rapidly, that in 1635, at Skirbeck Sluice, near Boston, 
.^ smith's forge and tools were found buried under sixteen 



THE SE\''ENTEENTH CENTURY 35 

feet of deposit. The country had thus become one vast 
deep fen, ' affording little benefit to the realm other than 
fish and fowl, and overmuch harbour to a rude and almost 
barbarous sort of lazy and beggarly people.' 

The first drainage work of comparatively modern times 
"was the cut from Peterborough to Denver, Avliich, under 
the name of Moreton's leam, commemorates the famous 
Bishop of Peterborough, The whole district was surveyed 
at the close of the reign of Elizabeth, but it was not till 
1606 that the first local Act was passed to reclaim the ring 
of Waldersea and Coldliam. In 16-30 the Earl of Bedford 
with thirteen gentlemen adventurers undertook to drain 
the southern fens. Though the Bedford level was the 
most completely executed work, the appliances could not 
cope with the rainfall of a wet season. Windmills were 
used to raise the waters of the interior districts to the 
level of the main river ; Hartlib speaks of a ' Holland mill 
for dreyning set up at Ely, and kept by a certaine French- 
man.' But these clumsily constructed mills were inade- 
quate. The work was partly done by Scotch prisoners 
taken at the battle of Dunbar, or by the Dutch prisoners 
of Admiral Blake. Other parts of the fens were in the 
same way partially reclaimed ; others remained untouched 
till the present century. In some parts the works were 
never completed, or fell into decay, or were carried out 
by persons whom Blith characterises as ' mountebank 
engineers, idle practitioners, and slothful, impatient 
slubberers.' In many districts the mills and embank- 
ments were destroyed by the fenmen. The following 
stanzas are quoted from the doggerel poem of some fen 
Tyrtffius : — 

Come, brethren of the water, and let us all assemble, 

To treat upon this matter which makes us quake and tremble ; 

D 2 



36 THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 

For we shall rue it, if 't be true, the Fens are undertaken, 
And where we feed in fen and reed, they'll feed both beef and 
mutton. 

The feathered fowls have wings to fly to other nations, 
But we have no such things to help our transportations ; 
We must give place (oh grievous case !) to horned beasts and 

cattle, 
Except that we can all agree to drive them out by battle. 

AVherefore let us entreat our ancient water nurses 
To show their power so great as t' help us drain their purses, 
And send us good old Captain Flood to lead us out to battle, 
Then Twopenny Jack with scales on 's back will drive out all 
their cattle. 

Owing to the inadequacy of the original works, and 
tlie ' riotous letts and disturbances of lewd people,' the 
east fen became once more a shaking bog or a chain of 
lakes fringed with reeds. The Wildmore and west fens 
were in 1793 so wet, that '40,000 sheep, or one per 
acre, rotted every year.' On Lindsey fen, in 1750, ' cows 
foraged midrib deep in water, swimming to their pasture 
from their hovels, and returning in the same way, and 
sheep were conveyed to pasture and clipped in flat-bottom 
boats.' 

It is somewhat curious that foreigners should have 
taught the English the treatment of water. The Dutch 
drained our fens ; paring and burning, irrigation, warp- 
ping, canals, are all foreign importations. A colony of 
French emigrants, settled near Thorney, introduced par- 
ing and burning, and the paring plough was long known 
as the French plough. The irrigation of meadows is said 
to have been first practised in modern times by the 

notorious ' Horatio Pallavazene, . . . who robbed the 

• 

Pope to pay the Queen.' Warping was brought from Italy 



THE SEVENTEENTH CENTUEY 37 

to the island of Axliolme in the eighteenth centiiiy, and 
by its means the peat}^ soils at the mouth of the Humber 
were converted into ' polders.' The great ' Canal du 
Midi' was completed in 1681, but for nearly a hundred 
years its example was lost on England. 

Before the Revolution the country, as has been seen, 
possessed the means of recovering its strength and inde- 
finitely increasing its productiveness. Enclosures facili- 
tated the progress of improvements. New methods of 
cultivation were studied, new crops introduced from abroad. 
Turnips offered winter keep for cattle ; with cultivated 
grasses, they supplied the means of enriching sands now 
profitable only as rabbit warrens : the same discoveries 
prevented the waste of land by exhaustive cropping and 
subsequent idleness under fallow. Drainage had been 
more practically discussed than it was destined to be again 
till the time of Smith of Deanston. The burdens of feudal 
tenures had been removed. Though the Crown had re- 
asserted its forest rights, the wild boar and the wolf dis- 
appeared in the reign of Charles II. But farmers were 
slow to profit by their improved position or to adopt new 
methods. No one, as Hartlib says, dared attempt innova- 
tions, lest he should be called ' a projector.' Little ad- 
vantage was taken of the discoveries of experimental 
farmers ; no general improvement was effected on the 
agriculture of the Georgics; no grazier formed a truer 
standard of the shape of cattle than Virgil or Columella. 



38 



CHAPTER IV. 

AGRICULTURAL PROGRESS IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY : 
TURNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM. 

The gigantic strides by which agriculture has advanced 
within the present century dwarf previous progress into 
insignificance; but the change between 1700 and 1800 
was astonishing. While population doubled itself, the 
number of persons engaged in agriculture decreased not 
only relatively, but, up to 1770, actually. Before the end 
of the reign of George III. more than 6^ million acres of 
land were enclosed. The area under cultivation had in- 
creased, but not in proportion to the growth of population ; 
but the difference between the two does not alone measure 
the increased productiveness of the soil. England not only 
produced food for a population that had doubled itself, and 
grain for treble the number of horses, at a greatly reduced 
expenditure of labour, but during part of the period was, 
as M. de Lavergne says, the granary of Europe. From 
1700 to 1764 the standard of living among all classes was 
considerably raised. The discovery of silver had spent its 
force, and the value of the precious metals hardened. But 
the coinage was greatly debased. Consequently there was 
a great inflation of nominal prices, which dissatisfied con- 
sumers without benefiting producers. But this difiiculty 
had been successfully met by the statesmanlike action of 
the Government of William III. Population increased 



TURNIP TOWNSHEND AI^D THE NORFOLK SYSTEM 39 

more slowly than the productiveness of the soil ; poor rates 
fell below the figures of the preceding century ; real wages 
were higher than they had been since the reign of Henry 
VI. Harvests were continuously prosperous ; wheat, in 
spite of large exports, averaged, between 1713 and 1764, 
34s. lid. a quarter. There was little civil war or tumult, 
no rapidly increasing class of artisans, no glut of the 
labour market. Living improved amoug all classes. In- 
stead of* Martylmas beef,' the salted carcasses of half-starved 
oxen, ' euyll for the stone and euyll of digestyon, fitter to 
be used outside as a waterproofe than inside,' fresh meat 
was eaten by the peasantry. Wheaten bread ceased to be 
a luxury of the wealthy ; rye was now chiefly grown as a 
forage crojD. The oaten loaves of Lancashire only survived 
in the proverb ' That's noan jannock.' The barley meal of 
Cumberland gave place to wheaten flour. In 17G0 wheat 
was the breadstuff of five-eighths of the population. The 
only drawbacks to agricultural prosperity were the ' most 
noted sheep rot' of 1735, and the cattle plague which 
broke out in Bohemia, devastated the north of France, and 
visited England three times during the period. Here the 
only remedy was to slaughter infected animals ; the Govern- 
ment, paying one-third of the value, expended 135,000Z. 
in a single year. The period was tasteless, coarse, and apa- 
thetic ; but it was the golden age of the English peasant. 
The next half-century witnessed a complete change. 
The Poor Law of 1733 had checked population. Cottages 
were razed to the gi-ound, lest they should become ' nests 
for beggars' brats.' But no impediments could resist the 
effects of the prosperity of the previous period, or of the 
development of trade. Population sprang up with a bound ; 
war raised necessaries to famine prices ; bread, meat, cheese, 
beer, candles, were trebled ; only clothing was cheapened. 



40 TUENIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NOKFOLK SYSTEM 

The climate worsened after 1764 ; the mean average rain- 
fall from 1741 to 1750 was 18^ inches; from 1771 to 1780 
it averaged 26 inches. The harvests were as unprosperous 
as they had previously been favourable; the imports of 
grain exceeded the exports. In no part of the country 
did the purchasing power of wages rise with prices. The 
allowance system set a premium on large families, and so 
fostered the evil it was designed to alleviate. It was now 
that the South fell hopelessly behind the North. Before 
1770 the rate of wages was lower in the North than in the 
South ; now the position was reversed. Wages remained 
stationary in the South, eked out by mischievous allow- 
ances ; while in the North they followed, though irregularly, 
the rise of prices. The introduction of machinery threw 
crowds of artisans out of work ; the enclosure of commons 
again ruined thousands of small freeholders and copy- 
holders. After 1814 the heavy fall of jd rices produced 
severe distress among landlords and tenants. Two years 
later the Board of Agriculture sent a circular letter 
throughout the counties to ascertain the state of the king- 
dom. The answers showed that landlords reduced their 
rents 25 per cent., struck off arrears, gave farms rent free 
for a year ; that still great quantities of land were thrown 
up ; that improvements were at a standstill, live stock de- 
creased, and the country was filled with gangs of depre- 
dators ; that eveiywhere ' bankruptcies, seizures, execu- 
tions, imprisonments, and farmers become parish paupers,' 
were numerous. It is an extraordinary proof of the elas- 
ticity of the country that within ten years the social balance 
was restored. 

The exertions of men like Townshend, Bakewell, Young, 
and Coke enabled farmers to meet the wants of a growing 
population. With their names is associated the a^ricul- 



TURNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM 41 

tural progress of the ^e jifciir^, which is com prised in im - 
proved raethods^ofjcijMYationjjthe , r^^ stock? 

"^reeding to a scien cej the enclosure of common field farms, 
the reclamation of commons and wastes, increased facilities 
of communication and transport, the invention of new 
implements, the application of new manures, the enterprise 
of capitalist landlords, the diffusion of intelligence among 
farmers. Within the period in question a class grew up 
which earned high wages and could afford to. purchase farm 
produce. But for this wage-earning artisan class, agricul- 
turists would have remained content to satisfy iheir own 
wants. The ci'isis at home and abroad gives peculiar 
interest to the advance of agriculture. England was 
sharing in that industrial movement which culminated 
politically in the rise of the new republic of America and 
the downfall of the ancient monarchy of France. It is 
more exciting to watch the political earthquake on the 
Continent ; but it is more satisfactory to trace the peaceful 
operations of nature by which the face of society was 
changed in England. To measure the influence of agricul- 
ture upon the two movements is impossible ; but here, at 
least till the close of the century, there was no gap between 
it and the general advance of industry. 

After the English revolution a new stimulus had been 
given to arable farming. The exportation of British wool 
was forbidden, and home manufacturers could not take up the 
supply. At the same time duties were laid on foreign wheat, 
and bounties were offered for the export of corn.' Farmers 

' Bounties on exports : — 

1. From 1697 to 1706, 1,668,904 quarters of wheat, barley, oatmeal, 
malt, and rye were exported, which were valued at 1,874,994Z. 10s. &d. 

2. From 1706 to 1726, 8,134,196 quarters were exported, valued at 
8,429,704Z. 14s. 

3. From 1726 to 1746, 9,488,703 quarters were exported, valued at 
10,080,224^^. 7s. M. [In 



42 TURNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM 

were thus attracted back from pasture to tillage. The 
wars which ravaged the Continent and prevented foreign 
nations from sowing or harvesting their crops completed 
what domestic policy initiated. It was at this crisis that 
Lord To^vnshend began the Norfolk or four-course system 
of husbandry, long the mode l tofaTH other ^colinties . 
Townshends political career had been useful, and from 
1709 to 1730 he had held important offices of State. In 
his capacity of Secretary he had accompanied George I. 
to Hanover, where he had seen turnips grown as a field 
crop. In 1730 he abandoned to Walpole the exclusive 
enjoyment of power,__devoted himselfJbo_-&£ming, and, by 
causing ' two ears of corn to grow where but one grew 
before,' earned a better title to national gratitude than the 
whole generation of his political contemporaries put to- 
gether. 

Hitherto Suffolk and Essex had afibrded the best ex- 
amples of English farming. Suffolk was famous for its 
breed of Suffolk Punches, short compact horses, of about 
fifteen hands high, properl}' of a sorrel colour, unrivalled 
in their power of draught, though, as Cullum wrote in 
1790, 'not fitted to indulge the rapid impatience of this 

In the 1st period 552,867 quarters of wheat were exported. 
„ 2nd period 2,518,213 „ 

„ 3rd period 4,461,337 „ „ „ 

4. Between the years 1746-65, 2,699,224Z. lis. 4frf. were paid in 
bounties on the following exports : — (1) Wheat, 6,800,016 qrs. ; (2) bar- 
ley, 1,268,087 qrs. ; (3) oatmeal, 67,186 qrs.; (4) malt, 4,977,303 qrs. 
(5) rye, 939,580 qrs. 

In the whole period, 1697-1765, it is calculated that upwards of 33 
million quarters were exported, the value of which exceeded 36,000,000/. 

Burke's Act of 1773 reversed the old policy of bounties, and, before 
It was modified, England had become a consumer rather than a grower 
of corn. See Appendix IV. on the Corn Laws and the note there given. 
on Bounties for Corn. 



TURNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM 43 

posting generation.' It was famous also for its dairy pro- 
duce, especially its cheese, ' so hard that pigs grunt at it, 
dogs bark at it, but none dare bite it.' The mystery of its 
interior fired Bloomfield to sing of the Suffolk cheese which 

Mocks the weak effort of the bending blade, 
Or in the hog-trough i-ests in perfect spite, 
Too big to swallow and too hard to bite. 

The southern part of the county was chiefly held in small 
farms, cultivated with the care and neatness of ' la petite 
culture.' Hollow drainage was practised earlier in Suffolk 
and Esses than elsewhere. The drains were wedge-shaped, 
filled with hazel boughs, bullocks' horns, ropes of twisted 
straw, stones, or peat. Bradley (1727) speaks of the Essex 
practice of making drains two feet deep at close and 
regular intervals throughout a whole field, filled with 
rubble or bushes, and covered over with earth ; and he 
derives the term ' thorough-drainage ' from an Essex word 
' thorow,' meaning a trench to carry off the water. Crag, 
a calcareous shelly mixture of phosphates, was extensively 
used in the eastern part of Suffolk to fertilise the soil. 
The depth and size of the pits prove the antiquity of the 
practice. Ploughing was economically conducted : two 
horses only were used ; oxen were unknown : ' no groaning 
ox is doomed to labour there ' is the evidence of Bloomfield. 
The absence of oxen is an incidental proof of the early en- 
closure of the county, and of the prevalence of farmers rather 
than peasant proprietors. Yet, even in these favoured 
counties, successive corn crops were raised till the land 
ceased to bear, or weeds overpowered the cereals. Crabbe,. 
himself a native of Suffolk, describes how 

Rank weeds, that every care and art defy, 
Reign o'er the land and rob the blighted rye. 



41- TUKNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM 

Little effort was made to restore the fertility of the soil : 
roots were practically unknown ; artificial grasses seldom, 
if ever, sown : scarcely any manure was used. Under a 
lease of 1753 a tenant on the manor ofHawsted was allowed 
two shillings for every load of manure which he brought 
from Bury and laid upon the land. But during a tenancy 
of twenty years only one load was charged to the landlord. 
The impoverished land was left to recover itself as best it 
could to grass. In the north-west corner of Suffolk tracts 
of moor and heath, alternating with blowing sands and 
rabbit-warrens, were interspersed with scanty patches of 
arable land, choked with weeds, in various stages of 
exhaustion. 

Lord Townshend's estates were situated in Norfolk, 
then covered with rush-grown marshes, or sandy wastes 
where a few sheep starved, and ' two rabbits struggled for 
every blade of grass.' The brief but exhaustive list of its 
productions is ' nettles and warrens.' Six hundred thou- 
sand acres of Lincolnshire were either fen or wold. From 
Sleaford to Brigg, ' all that the devil o'erlooks from Lincoln 
town ' was a desolate moor over which a land lighthouse, 
Dunstan pillar, guided travellers. There were no fences 
for miles, but the furze-capped sand-banks which enclosed 
the waiTens. The high ground running from Spilsby to 
Caistor was similarly a bleak unproductive heath. From 
the edge of the wolds to the sea was a boggy wilderness. 
Both counties were as much additions to the profitable 
dominions of England as any warlike conquests. Young, 
in 17G0, describes the effect of Townshend's Norfolk hus- 
bandry on a district near Norwich : — 

' Thirty years ago it was an extensive heath without 
•either tree or shrub, only a sheep-walk to another farm. 
Such a number of carriages crossed it, that they would 



^ 



TUENIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NOEFOLK SYSTEM 45 

sometimes be a mile abreast of eacli other in pursuit of tlie 
best track. Now there is au excellent turnpike road, en- 
closed on each side with a good quickset hedge, and tlie 
whole laid out in enclosures and cultivated in the Norfolk 
system in superior style. The whole is let at 15s. an 
acre, ten times the original value.' 

It was not till the close of the century that this description 
of the improvements effected by the Norfolk system applied 
to the whole of the county. Still later was it before the 
methods which turned Lincoln heath from a rabbit-warren 
to a sheep market were generally adopted in Lincolnshire. 

Among the improvements adopted by Townshend was 
the practice of marling. ^ In ancient leases in Normandy 
tenants covenanted to marl. In England the practice had 
died out, owing, as Fitzherbert thought, partly to • j'dleues,' 
partly to want of confidence between landlord and tenant. 
Markham says that marl was once largely used, since trees 
200 or 300 years old grew in spent marl-pits, but that it 
had been discontinued after the wars of the Roses. Most 
of the agricultural writers of the seventeenth century, such 
as Hartlib, Houghton, Worlidge, Plot, agree with Markham 
in urging the revival of the practice. Farmers believed 
that marl was ' good for the father, bad for the son,' till 
Townshend proved its value on the light sands of Norfolk. 
The tide of fashion set once more in its favour, and farmers 
found another proverb for their purpose : — 

He who marls sand 
May buy the land ; 
He that marls moss 
Suffers no loss ; 
He that marls clay 
Throws all away. 

By means of marl alone, Young calculated that ' three or 



46 TURNIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NORFOLK SYSTEM 

four liundred tliousand acres of waste were turned into 
gardens.' 

But Townsliend's greatest achievement was tli£_£djtL 
cultivation of turnips and clover. A new vein of agri- 
cultural wealth was struck ; turnips became the most 
active agents as well as the surest indicators of good farm- 
ing. Clover and turnips had hitherto been grown as 
experiments. Tull brought the cultivation of roots to 
comparative perfection. ' I introduced turnips into the 
field,' he says, ' in King William's reign ; but the practice 
did not travel beyond the hedges of my estate till after 
the peace of Utrecht.' A similar prejudice existed against 
clover. ' Farmers,' as Tull states, ' if ad\dsed to sow it, 
would certainly reply, Gentlemen might sow it if they 
pleasecLbut they [farmers] must take care to pay their 
rent.' iTownshend was the first great landlord who proved 
the value of green crops as the pivots of agricultural 
improvement. He initiated the Norfolk system, the merit 
of which depends on the judicious alternation of roots and 
grasses with cereals. The introduction of green crops 
encouraged the farmer to observe what, in the absence of 
chemical manures, was the golden rule of never taking 
two corn crops in succession ; saved him from leaving a 
portion of his land every year unproductive ; enabled him 
to increase his live stock and maintain it without falling 
oS" during the winter. For the sands of Norfolk, turnips 
possessed peculiar value. Eoots, fed ofi" on the ground by 
sheep, fertilised and consolidated the poorest soil. Another 
portion of the crop, drawn off" and stored for winter keep, 
enabled the farmer to carry more stock, supplied him with 
more manure, enriched the land, and trebled its yield. It 
thus became a proverb that ' a full bullock yard and a full 
fold yard makes a full granary.' Farming in a circle, un- 



TUENIP TOWNSHEND AND THE NOEFOLK SYSTEM 47 

like logic, proved a most productive process. Townshend 
adopted Tull's plan of drilling and liorse-lioeing turnips 
instead of sowing them broadcast. He was an exponent 
■of tlie maxim that ' the more the irons are among the 
turnijDS till the leaves spread across the rows, the better.' 
His advocacy of turnips earned him the nickname of Turnip 
Townshend, and supplied an example for Pope's Horatian 
illustrations — 

Why, of two brothers rich and restless, one 
Ploughs, burns, manures, and toils from sun to sun ; 
The other slights, for women, sports, and wines. 
All Townshend's turnips and all Grosvenor's mines. 

Those who followed Townshend's example realised 
fortunes. In thirty years one farm rose in value from 
1801. a year to 8001. ; another, rented by a warrener at 
18^. a year, was let to a farmer at 240^. ; a farmer named 
Mallet made enough off a holding of 1,500 acres to buy 
an estate of the annual value of 1,800?. a year. Some 
farmers were said to be worth ten thousand pounds. But 
the practice spread by very slow degrees. Many persons 
classed turnips with rats among Hanoverian novelties, 
and refused their assistance with Jacobite indignation. 
Nor was it possible to introduce roots or grasses among 
open field farmers on land which was common from August 
to Candlemas. But as the immense benefits of green 
crops became more evident the work of enclosure was 
accelerated. Besides the land enclosed by Acts of Par- 
liament, thousands of acres were enclosed piecemeal by 
interchange among individual occupiers, or by agreement 
and redistribution in separate parcels among the whole 
body of commoners. 



48 



CHAPTER V. 

AGRICULTURAL PROGRESS IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY r 
BAKEWELL AND THE GRAZIER'S ART. 

The discoveries in tlie art of stock-breeding made by 
Bakewell, of Disliley, near Loughborough, in Leicester- 
shire, produced even more startling results than Towns- 
hend's Norfolk system. Before his day the English 
farmer, like the Lord Chancellor, took his seat on the 
woolsack. British wool commanded the highest prices at 
home and in foreign markets ; it had been the chief object 
of agriculturists for three centuries. The classification of 
sheep as long-woolled, short-woolled, and intermediate, 
shows that sheep as wool-producing animals had long been 
studied in England ; the fleece, and not the carcass, was 
valued. Small animals, like the white-faced, hornless 
Eyeland sheep, were most profitable to farmers. In the 
reign of Henry VIII. ' Leemynster ' wool fetched the 
highest, Cotswold the second price. Elynour Rummin, 
alewife of Leatherhead, received payment in kind for her 
customers, of whom 

Some fill their pot full 
Of good Lemster wool. 

In 1783 Ry eland wool was sold at 2.s. a pound, when 
ordinary wool fetched only id. Owing to the value of 
the fleece, Ryeland sheep were cotted in Herefordshire 



BAKEWELL AND THE GEAZIER'S ART 49 

both summer and winter. Camden describes the cots in 
Gloucestershire as long, low-ceilinged buildings, three 
stories high, with slopes at the end of each floor, so that 
the sheep could mount to the topmost story. He cha- 
racteristically derives the Cotswolds from this practice of 
cotting. But in the eighteenth century our farmers gained 
a start over other agriculturists by their readiness to de- 
tect and accept coming changes. When Louis XVI. was 
forming his flock of merinos at Rambouillet to improve 
French fleeces, English sheep-farming took a fresh de- 
parture, which had for its object, not wool, but butcher's 
meat. 

Bakewell was an agricultural opportunist, ' un homme 
de genie qui a fait autant pour la richesse de son pays que 
ses contemporains Arkwright et Watt.' He was born in 
1725, and died in 1794. He saw that the day was near 
when meat would be more valued in the ox than draught, 
or in the sheep than wool. He succeeded in producing 
beef and mutton for the million. Visitors gathered from 
every part of the world to learn from him what are now 
axioms of stock husbandry, and to see his famous black cart 
stallion, his bull ' Twopenny,' or his ram ' Two-pounder. '^ 
In appearance he resembled the typical yeoman who figures 
on Stafibrdshire pottery, ' a tall, broad-shouldered, stout 
man of brown-red complexion, clad in a loose brown coat 
and scarlet waistcoat, leather breeches, and top-boots.' In 
his kitchen he entertained ' Russian princes, French and 
German royal dukes, British peers, and sightseers of every 
degi-ee.' He never altered the routine of his daily life. 
' Breakfast at eight : dinner at one ; supper at nine ; bed 
at eleven o'clock : at half-past ten, let who would be there^ 
he knocked out his last pipe.' 

Before his day no true standard of shape was recog- 

E 



50 BAKEWELL AND THE GEAZIER'S AKT 

nised. ' Cattle,' wrote Culley in 1809, ' were more like 
ill-made black horses than an ox or a cow ; nothing would 
please but elephants and giants.' The favourite type were 
the gaunt Holderness breed, because they offered most 
space for the laying on of flesh. Oxen were j^rized for 
their power of draught ; parish bulls were selected for 
those qualities which in Obadiah's pet were alleged to be 
wanting. No attention, except, as Hartlib allowed, in 
Lancashire and the northern counties, was paid to breed : 
it was a promiscuous union of nobody's son with every- 
body's daughter. Thus misshapen wall-sided beasts were 
scattered all over the country, and prizes were offered for 
the animal with the longest legs. Similarly sheep were 
tall, unthrifty beasts, valued for points which were absurd 
because they were useless. Wiltshire breeders demanded 
a horn which fell back so as to form a semicircle, in 
front of which the ear projected ; Norfolk flockmasters 
valued the length and spiral form of the horn and the 
blackness of the face and legs; Dorsetshire breeders 
staked everything on the horn projecting forward, so 
that the ear was behind. Rams were, in fact, selected 
for horns, legs, and faces. Each county had its breed, 
unknown beyond its borders. Ry elands were limited to 
Herefordshire, old Norfolks to Norfolk, Southdowns to 
Sussex. The only exceptions were Welsh sheep, which 
were driven up to London for their mutton, and Hamp- 
shire downs, which seem to have been known in the 
seventeenth century as Hertfords. Bakewell's predecessor 
in sheep-farming was J. Allom, a breeder of local fame. 
His own experiments were made on the ' old Leicester- 
shire' or Warwickshire sheep crossed with the Ryeland. 
Marshall thus describes the ' true old Warwickshire ' 
ram : — ' His frame large and loose ; his bones heavy ; his 



BAKEWELL AND THE GRAZIEE'S AET 51 

legs long and thick; his chine as well as his rump as 
sharp as a hatchet ; his skin rattling on his ribs like a 
skeleton bound in parchment.' 

With these unpromising materials Bakewell in 1750 
began his uphill task. He discovered the principle of 
selection. He only used those rams and ewes that 
possessed the qualities which he wished to reproduce. As 
these qualities were perpetuated the breed was formed. 
His object was to breed animals which weighed most in 
the best joints, and quickest repaid the food they con- 
sumed. ' Small in size and great in value,' or the Holk- 
ham toast of ' symmetry well covered,' was his motto. He 
saw that the value of the sheep lay not in the length of 
the legs, but the size of the barrel ; that the bones must be 
fine and the form compact, and that the true shape for 
profit was that of ' a firkin on as short legs as possible.' 
The great merits of his new Leicester sheep were their 
fattening propensities and early maturity. While other 
breeds required three or four years to fit them for market, 
the new Leicesters were prepared in two. Those who 
tried the Dishley sheep found that they throve where 
others starved, that while alive they were the hardiest, 
when dead the heaviest. Bakewell rapidly made a 
fortune. In 1755 he let his rams for the season at 16s. 
each ; in 1789 a society was formed to extend his breed 
of sheep, which hired his rams at 6,000 guineas for the 
season. 

Bakewell raised the new Leicesters to the hig-hest 
pitch of perfection. But this was not all. His breed was 
best suited to the plains, but was ill adapted to hills or 
mountains. He had, however, shown the way in which 
breeds might be improved ; imitation was easy. In a less 
immediate sense he was the creator, not only of the new 

X 2 



52 BAKEWELL AND THE GRAZIER'S ART 

Leicesters, but of the Soutlidowns and the Cheviots. 
Following in his footsteps, Ellman of Glynde took up 
the Sussex sheep, and under his skilful care and that of 
Jonas Webb, of Babraham, the Southdowns competed 
for supremacy with the new Leicesters. Similarly the 
Cheviots were improved on Bakewell's principles. Before 
these breeds, fitted for the plain, the hill, and the 
mountain, native races, like the Northumberland ' mugs,' 
the foresters of Nottingham, the Morfe-common sheep, 
died away, like Red Indians before more civilised races. 
But gradually supporters rallied round other varieties. 
Bakewell's weapons were turned against himself: native 
sheep of other districts were improved by crossing with the 
Leicesters or the Southdowns ; and though to these two 
breeds precedence will always be given on historical 
grounds, it may be questioned whether they have not been 
rivalled both in beauty and utility. 

In cattle-breeding Bakewell was less successful. It 
was his material, not his system, which failed. He 
endeavoured to found his typical race on the Westmore- 
land cattle, the purest breed of the Craven Longhorns. 
He based his improvements upon the labours of two of his 
predecessors. Sir Thomas Gresley, of Drakelow House, 
near Burton, had in 1720 begun the formation of a herd 
of Longhorns. Webster, of Canley, commenced with 
some of the Drakelow blood ; and Bakewell founded his 
experiments on two Canley heifers and a Westmoreland 
bull. But Bakewell could not produce the same results 
which he had developed in the new Leicester sheep. His 
cattle were good milkers, and little more. But it was by 
his example and practice that other breeds, with better 
natural qualities, were improved. Thus the Teeswater or 
Durham Shorthorns, both as dairy and meat-producing 



BAKEWELL AND THE GRAZIER'S ART 53 

■cattle, jumped into the foremost place. Charles Colling's 
Ketton herd was to cattle-breeders what Bakewell's new 
Leicesters were to sheep-farmers. In 1810 his stock was 
sold at an average price of 175 guineas. Similarly 
Tomkins, in 1769, took up and improved the Hereford 
cattle, from his two famous cows ' Pigeon ' and ' Mottle.' 
By a pardonable anachronism Scott has assigned to the 
Laird of Killancureit ' a bull of matchless merit brought 
from the county of Devon (the Damnonia of the Romans, if 
we may trust Robert of Gloucester).' But the Devon 
cattle were only known as draught oxen for the plough in 
the days of Waverley. Mr. Coke of Holkham brought 
them into fashion early in this century, and their great 
breeder was Mr. Quartley. 

Bakewell's success and the increasing demand for 
butchers' meat raised up a host of imitators. Breeders 
everywhere followed his example : his standard of excellence 
was gradually recognised. The foundation of the Smith- 
field Club in 1793 did much to promote the improvement 
of live stock. In 1710 the average size of the cattle 
and sheep sold in Smithfield Market was — beeves 370 lbs., 
calves 50 lbs., sheep 28 lbs., lambs 18 lbs.; in 1795 they 
weighed respectively 800 lbs., 148 lbs., 80 lbs., and 50 lbs. 
Part of this improvement must be attributed to Bake well 
and his successors, part to the enclosure of the commons. 
So long as these existed the cattle were stunted, if not 
starved; and the stint, even if any limit was imposed, 
was disproportionately large. But local prejudices were 
hard to overcome ; it was years before farmers ceased to 
value the shape and proportions which gratified the taste 
of their ancestors. It requires many blows to drive a nail 
through hearts of oak ; or, as others might put it, the 
' John Trot geniuses ' of farming were hardly convinced 



54 BAKEWELL AND THE GE*AZIER'S ART 

even by interviews with the Shorthorns or new Leicesters 
which were paraded through the county. The formation 
of herds became a favourite pursuit of the wealthy. Flora 
Maclvor might herself have lived to see the day when 
country gentlemen were breeders of cattle without being 
' boorish two-legged steers like Killancureit.' 

Bakewell was a man whose energy and skill deserved 
success. He was unpopular in his day because of his 
secrecy ; he had no confidant except an old shepherd. So 
lavish was his hospitality that before the end of his life he 
had to give up his farm, and died in comparative poverty. 
His irrigated water meadows, producing four crops a 
season, his miniature canal, by which the produce of the 
farm was conveyed to and fro, as well as his skill in stock- 
breeding, prove him to have been a man far in advance 
of his age as a scientific and practical farmer. 



55 



CHAPTER VI. 

AGRICULTURAL PROGRESS IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY : 
ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE. 

Before 1780 the Eastern counties and Leicestershire 
had alone profited to any substantial degree by improve- 
ments in agriculture or stock-breeding. The character of 
the farmers, the size of their holdings, the small number 
of open fields, the terms of land-letting, will explain the 
keenness of their spirit of progress. Young and Marshall 
agree that, in these counties, farms were large, and 
landlords and tenants enterprising. The farmers in 
Norfolk occupied ' the same position in society as the 
clergy and smaller squires ; ' in Lincolnshire ' many had 
mounted their nags and examined other parts of the 
country ; ' in Leicestershire they ' had travelled much 
and mixed constantly with one another.' Throughout 
these districts farmers were well educated, and possessed 
sufficient capital and confidence, though generally only 
holding at will or from year to year, to expend large sums 
of money on their land. In all the other counties 
agriculture languished, owing to the prevalence of wastes, 
the absence of leases, the ignorance of the people, the 
difficulties of communication, the obstinacy of traditionary 
practices. 

The ancient forest of Sherwood, which recalled the 
days of Robin Hood and Little John, still occupied the 



56 ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

greater part of Nottingliamshire ; Rossendale, in Lanca- 
shire, was still a cliace ; nearly the whole of Derbyshire 
was a black region of ling ; the land lighthouse of 
Dunstan pillar still guided the traveller from Sleaford to 
Brigg ; Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire still defied 
the assaults of drainage ; Northumberland was still over- 
spread with forests of broom, in which a Scotch army 
might hide ; from the northern point of Derbyshire to the 
extremity of Northumberland a line might be drawn for 
150 miles as the crow flies, which passed across nothing 
but wastes. It was across this district that Jea6ie Deans 
travelled in the reign of George II. Three quarters of 
Westmoreland, according to Bishop Watson, lay uncul- 
tivated. Hounslow Heath and Finchley Common were 
described in 1793 as wastes, fitted only for Cherokees and 
savages. That part of the East Riding called the Carrs, 
from Bridlington Quay to Spurn Point, and inland as far 
as Driffield, was an extensive swamp, which produced little 
but the ague ; willow trees marked out the road from 
Hull to Beverley, and the bells rang at dusk from the 
tower of Barton-upon-Humber to guide the travellers. 
Though many farmers in the north were masters of 
from 5,000 to 40,000 sheep, and tenants of farms from 
500L to 2,000?. a year, they still milked their ewes, and 
were ignorant of the nature of a fold. 

Half England was cultivated in very small farms, or 
by small peasant proprietors, or on the common field sys- 
tem. So late as 1794 it is calculated that, of 8,500 parishes, 
4,500 were even then still farmed in common. Out of 
84,000 acres of arable land in Bedfordshire, 24,000 acres 
were in open fields. In the 147,000 arable acres of 
Cambridgeshire, 132,000 were tilled in common; out of 
438,000 acres in Berkshire, 220,000 were similarly culti- 



ARTHUK YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 57 

yated. In Bucks 90,000, in Lincolnshire 268,000, in 
Huntingdon 130,000 acres were under tliis open field sys- 
tem. The Vale of Pickering, in Yorkshire, was farmed by 
the township, the common sheep-walks and pastures were 
overrun with bushes and weeds, the arable fields inces- 
santly ploughed for an unvarying succession of crops, the 
meadows mown year after year without intermission or 
amelioration. At Naseby a few pasture enclosures sur- 
rounded the mud-built village ; the open fields, tilled on 
the trinity system, were crossed and recrossed by paths to 
the different holdings, uneven, filled with cavernous depths 
of mire : the common pastures were in a state of nature, 
rough, full of furze, rushes, and fern. Bosworth Field, in 
1785, was in wheat, as it had been three centmies before. 
In Oxfordshii-e and the neighbouring counties the common 
field system extensively prevailed. At Aston Boges, in 
Oxfordshire, the customs of the manor, ' used time out of 
mind,' were confirmed in ' ye 35th yeare of Queen Eliza- 
beth, ano. dom. 1593.' The rules of cultivation which 
they laid down were carried out in the present century by 
the Sixteens, representatives chosen one from every four of 
the sixty-four yardlands ^ into which the manor was divided. 
In 1797 Rothwell, in Northamptonshire, contained 3,000 
acres : 600 acres were small enclosures near the village ; 
the remaining 2,400 acres were in three distinct fields of 
800 acres each, partly arable, partly meadow, divided into 
eighty yardlands cut up into parcels, and scattered over 
the fields. Stewkley, in Buckinghamshire, was at the 
same time surrounded by three extended fields, one fallow, 
one wheat, one beans. There were 104 yardlands of thirty 
acres each. The main roads were rendered invisible by 
the driftways to the various properties. The Cotswolds, 
* A yardland generally consisted of 30 acres. 



58 ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

from Broadway to Tetbury, and from Birdlip to Burford, 
lay unenclosed. Farmers were poor, ignorant, spiritless : 
holdings were small, wages low. On common fields it was 
impossible to introduce green crops, or to profit by the 
discoveries of Bake well. Young had some reason for the 
conclusion that the ' Goths and Vandals of open field farmers 
must die out before any complete change takes place.' 

In Essex and Suffolk leases for terms of years, with 
clauses as to management, were not unknown. But even 
landlords entertained prejudices against leases, because of 
the supposed want of reciprocity. In 1810 Young found 
many Oxfordshire landlords who never gave leases, because 
' they told the farmer when he might begin systematically 
to exhaust the land.' Agreements, voidable on either side 
at six months' notice, were the rule in the country. Where 
a good understanding existed between landlord and tenant 
leases were not indispensable. But if tenants at will lost 
confidence, as in Yorkshire at the close of the century, 
' good farming ceased, for fear the fields should look green, 
and the rent be raised.' Enterprise was impossible with- 
out certainty of return for outlay. Tenants at will adopted 
the routine of the district, and plodded along in the 
beaten track trodden by their ancestors. The Berkshire 

saying — 

He that havocs may sit, 
He that improves must flit, 

expressed the popular belief that, if the tenant improved 
his land, he would be forced either to leave his holding or 
pay a higher rent. Leases for lives were the usual form, 
when the tenure was not at will or from year to year. But 
their utility was marred by the absence of any clauses of 
management or provision for the maintenance of buildings. 
In Devonshire leases were, as Fitzherbert advises, for three 



AETHUK YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 59 

lives ; but the landlord was often obliged, as the third life 
drew to its close, to put himself in as sub-tenant to save 
his farm buildings from irreparable ruin. 

Still greater obstacles to agricultural progress were 
presented by an inert mass of local prejudice and an ob- 
stinate adherence to antiquated methods. The open field 
system provided sufficient for the occupiers who required 
nothing more. Where land was enclosed, the ignorance of 
the farmers made the dissemination of new ideas difficult. 
Not only could few read or write, but they entertained a 
not unjustifiable contempt for book-farmers. Few agri- 
cultural writers had had the practical experience of Fitz- 
herbert ; most wrote as if they had never travelled beyond 
the sound of Bow bells. Sometimes their books were too 
systematic or too general ; sometimes their promises were 
so extravagant as to give literary agriculturists the reputa- 
tion of quack medicine vendors. Ridiculous and valuable 
suggestions are intermixed. Here is the remedy, suggested 
by Hartlib or his editor Beati, for flukes in sheep : ' Take 
serpents or (which is best) vipers ; cut their heads and tayles 
off and dry the rest to powder ; mingle this powder with 
salt, and give a few grains of it so mingled to sheep.' Bewil- 
dered agriculturists fared ill between the bad scholarship, 
the inexperience, and the incorrect chemistry which was 
ofiered them in the name of science. In practice experi- 
mental farmers had often failed. Like ancient alchemists, 
they starved in the midst of their golden dreams. Tusser, 
teaching thrift, never throve. Gabriel Plattes, the corn- 
seller who boasted that he could raise thirty bushels of 
wheat to the acre, died in the streets for want of bread. 
Jethro Tull, instead of gaining an estate, lost two by his 
horse-hoeing husbandry. Arthur Young failed twice in 
farm management before he beo^an his invaluable tours. 



60 ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

Difficulties of communication impeded agricultural 
progress. Under the open field system the neighbour- 
hood had no interest for the village ; drift lanes to closes 
were alone important. Like ancient geographers, they 
knew their own district, while to all beyond they applied 
the description of impassable wastes or horrid sands. 
Some of the great highways were in good repair. Turn- 
pike roads had been established in 1663 ; and in the reign 
of George II. 

No cit nor clown 
Can gratis see the country or the town. 

Yet, in the eighteen miles of turnpike road between 
Preston and Wigan, Young ' measured ruts four feet in 
depth and floating in mud only from a wet summer,' and 
passed three broken-down carts. Essex in the time of 
Fitzherbert was famous for its bad roads. In the eigh- 
teenth century it worthily maintained its reputation. ' A 
mouse could barely pass a carriage in its narrow lanes,' 
which were filled with bottomless ruts, and often choked by 
a string of chalk wagons buried so deep in the mire that 
they could only be extricated by thirty or forty horses. 
' Of all the cursed roads that ever disgraced this kingdom 
in the very age of barbarism none ever equalled that from 
Billericay to the " King's Head " at Tilbury,' was the 
suffering cry of Young in 1769. The roads of Hereford- 
shire, says Marshall a quarter of a century later, were 
such as you might expect to find in the marshes of 
Holland or the mountains of Switzerland. Norfolk 
possessed such natural capacity for good roads, that 
Charles II. suggested it should be cut up to provide 
highways for the rest of the kingdom. Yet even in this 
county Young found ' not a yard of good road.' In re- 



ARTHUR YOUXG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 61 

moter or more backward parts of England roads were 
impassable except for well-mounted horsemen, or wagons 
drawn by twelve horses. In narrow country lanes bells on 
the team were not an ornament, but a necessary warning. 
Roads were engineered on the principle that ' one good 
turn deserves another.' Farmers of one district knew the 
practices of the next as little as those of Kamtschatka. 
Outside their limited range were only 

Anthropophagi, and men whose heads 
Do grow beneath their shoulders. 

This extreme isolation was a formidable obstacle. Yet the 
days when Gloucester seemed in ' the Orcades,' and York 
was a Pindaric flight from London, had advantages. In 
1800 it took fifty-four hours for ' a* philosopher, six shirts, 
his genius, and his hat upon it,' to reach London from 
Dublin. 

Traditional practices were agricultural heirlooms, which 
farmers guarded with jealous care : ocular proof of the 
superiority of new systems failed to wean them from the 
routine of their ancestors. Hartlib complained that in 
Kent he had seen ' four, six, yea, twelve horses and oxen 
to one plough ; ' nor were the teams diminished a century 
later. By immemorial custom in Gloucestershire, two men 
and a boy, with a team of six horses, were employed for 
ploughing. Mr. Coke sent a Norfolk ploughman into the 
county, who, with a pair of horses and a Norfolk plough, 
did the same amount of work in the same time. But 
though the annual expenses were thus diminished by 120Z. 
it was twenty years before neighbours profited by the 
lesson. In 1780 a Norfolk farmer settled in Devonshire, 
where he cultivated turnips on the newest methods. His 
crops were larger and finer than those of other farmers ; 



62 ARTHUR YOUNQ AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

yet at tlie close of tlie century none liad followed his 
■example. Young, in 1768, says that clover and turnips 
were unknown in many parts of the country. Clover was 
not sown in Northumberland before 1752, turnips did not 
appear till eight years later. The first root crop in Cum- 
berland was groAvn in 1 755 by Mr. Howard of Corby. Even 
where turnips were cultivated, drill husbandry was unheard 
of ; broadcast sowing still prevailed ; hoeing was hardly 
practised out of the eastern counties. As to Jethro Tull, 
Young adds, ' farmers knew not that such a man existed.' 
In Devonshire, till nearly the end of the century, the spade 
was of the shape known to card-players, and crops were 
carried or ' led,' from the fields, packed in crooks arranged 
on the backs of horses. When Davies wrote his report on 
Wiltshire in 1811, turhips were almost unknown, though 
sheep were the sheet-anchor of the agriculture of the 
county. In 1812 Strickland surveyed the East Riding of 
Yorkshire. In that year wheat had reached 122s. the 
quarter ; but much of the land was still in open fields. 
Irish farmers at the end of the eighteenth century still 
used sledges, still sowed their potatoes broadcast, still 
' walked backwards before their teams, striking them in the 
face when they wished them to advance,' still ' drew their 
ploughs and harrows by their horses' tails.' ' Indignant 
reader ' exclaimed Young, ' this is no jest of mine, but 
cruel stubborn, barbarous truth.' Yet in 1634 an Act was 
necessary in England ' agaynst plowynge by the taile.' 

The useful work of studying the agricultural practices 
of Eno-land and disseminating the results of scientific ex- 
periments was undertaken by Arthur Young. His name 
is ignored in many works on agriculture, notably in the 
article in the new edition of the ' Encyclopasdia Britannica.' 
France has better appreciated his merits. In the phrase of 



AETHUE YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 63 

M. Lesage, his latest translator and editor, she has made an 
adopted child of his work. Young was born in September 
1741, at Bradfield Hall, near Bury St. Edmunds. His 
father was a Prebendary of Canterbury. From Lavenham 
School he passed, at the age of seventeen, into a wine 
merchant's office at Lynn. On the death of his father, in 
1763, he returned home as his mother's bailiff; but his 
■experiments proved so unsuccessful that he was removed 
from the management of the estate. From various causes 
he failed twice in farming on his own account before he 
■devoted himself to those tours, in the course of which he 
has drawn his spirited sketches of England, Ireland, and 
France. He first visited France in 1787, on the invitation 
of the Due de la Eochefoucauld-Liancourt, whose two sons 
had been partly educated in his neighbourhood at Bury St. 
Edmunds. Young was a man of keen observation and 
considerable culture, familiar not only with the writings of 
English agricultural writers, but with those of De Seres, 
De Chateauvieux, and Du Hamel. He possessed great 
talents for description, but little power of generalisation. 
His arguments in favour of corn bounties, and his depre- 
ciation of science, prove him to have shared the prejudices 
of the day. Yet he was one of the most enlightened and 
useful pioneers of agricultural improvement that the cen- 
tury produced. His enthusiasm is always genuine if it 
is sometimes extravagant, as when he praises the plump- 
ness of Rubens's female portraits with the eye of a grazier, 
or remarks of a fine Correggio, ' A fine picture is a good 
thing, but I had rather it had been a fine tup.' In 1793 
he was appointed secretary to the new Board of Agricul- 
ture. He died in London in February 1820, having been 
for ten years totally blind. 



64 



CHAPTER VII. 

AGRICULTURAL PROGRESS IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY — 
THE SECOND AGRICULTURAL CRISIS — ENCLOSURES OF 
OPEN FIELDS AND COMMONS FROM 1770 TO 1820. 

The second agricultural crisis was due to the reaction 
from pasture to tillage in the latter half of the eighteenth 
and the beginning of the nineteenth centuries. England 
returned from sheep to arable farming under new conditions 
and changed circumstances, which rendered it a matter of 
national necessity to break up open fields, consolidate small 
holdings, and enclose wastes and commons. Without large 
farms, capital, and increased production, it would have 
been impossible for England to feed her growing popula- 
tion, or to attain her commercial prosperity. 

The blow fell in the first instance on the agrarian asso- 
ciations which still farmed the common fields. When 
Young commenced his tours few counties had changed 
their external features or agricultural practices for cen- 
turies. Hitherto the slow increase of a rural population 
had been the sole incentive to improvement. Watt, Ark- 
wright, and others changed the condition of society with 
the suddenness of a revolution. Population was advancing 
by leaps and bounds ; a market was opened for agricultural 
produce. The farmer lay down at night confident that he 
could supply his family with food ; he woke in the morn- 
ing to hear the clamour of crowded manufacturing cities 



ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 65 

for bread and meat. Self-sufficing agriculture was an 
anachronism. How was the new condition to be met ? 
Arthur Young was ready with his answer. ' Large farms 
and large capital ' was his interpretation of the problem 
set by the manufacturer to the agriculturist. He pro- 
claimed a crusade against open fields. As a practical 
farmer, the sight of good land yielding poor crops gave 
him pain ; but he had better grounds for his hostility. 
Here and there the villagers had appointed field-reeves to 
direct agricultural operations ; but, speaking generally, the 
farming of the old agrarian communities had deteriorated 
since the sixteenth century. They could make no use of 
improved methods of cultivation, rotations of crops, or 
machinery. Enterprising men were hampered by the 
apathy of less active partners. If one farmer drained his 
land, the others stopped up the main drain so that his land 
was swamped. The strips were too narrow to admit 
of cross-harrowing or cross-ploughing. Xo winter crops 
could be grown because common rights of pasture were en- 
joyed over the arable fields. Half the day was wasted in 
going to and fro between the difierent parcels ; the expense 
of reaping or carting was enormously increased when 
crops lay in little, remote, and distant strips. Innumerable 
footpaths to the various closes cut up and contracted the 
available land. Litigation was perpetual, since self- 
interested farmers ploughed up the common balks or 
headlands, moved their neighbours' landmarks, and filched 
their land or crops. As Tusser said two centuries before 
of common field farmers, — 

Some champions agree 
As wasp doth with bee. 

The manure of the live stock was wasted on the commons 

F 



GG ENCLOSUEES, 1770-1820 

instead of euriching the land of individual owners. Without 
a general agreement among a large body of small, suspi- 
cious, and ignorant independent proprietors, alternate 
husbandry could not be adopted by the open-field farmer ; 
turnips and clover, the philosopher's stones which turned 
sand into gold, were beyond his reach. Where no interest 
was individual, no private person would improve, drain, or 
reclaim wastes ; no would-be follower of Bake well could 
pursue the science of stock-breeding. The pastures on 
which the live stock of the township fed generated the 
rot ; promiscuous herding propagated infectious disorders. 
On every common were crowded together half-starved 
horses, cattle, and sheep, a disgrace to their respective 
breeds, a fruitful cause of disease, because no individual 
farmer could improve his breed of live stock. Not only 
was the arable land badly tilled, but the wastes and com- 
mons were a standing reproach, from a productive point 
of view, to the rural economy of the country. It is not 
surprising that Young should have demanded a general 
system of enclosure. 

His crusade against the old common-field system was 
assisted by other causes. It required little to turn a 
peasant proprietor into a wage-eaniing labourer. Every 
step in the industrial development of the nation tended to 
the consolidation of farms, the extinction of the common- 
field system, and the disappearance of small owners. Com- 
merce drew the peasantry to centres of trade. Even in the 
reign of Charles TI. petitions were presented against the 
denudation of country districts and the consequent scarcity 
of agricultural labour. Thousands of the rural population 
■were attracted from agriculture to manufacture ; the small 
farmer no longer had the aid of his family in the cultiva- 
tion of the soil, and he could not afibrd to pay wages. 



ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 67 

Formerly lie liad no need for money ; home production 
satisfied liis domestic wants : exchange or mutual accom- 
modation supplied whatever he could not fashion for him- 
self. Wealth only existed in its simplest forms ; natural 
divisions of employment were not made, because only the 
rudest implements of production were used. The rapid 
development of manuflvcture caused its complete separation 
from agriculture ; the application of machinery to manual 
industries completed the revolution in social arrangements ; 
a division of labour became an economic necessity. The 
farmer and the artisan became mutually dependent ; barter 
no longer sufficed, but money was absolutely necessary. 
Hitherto the rude implements required for the cultivation 
of the soil, or the household utensils needed for the com- 
fort of daily life, had been made at home. The farmer, 
his sons, and his servants, in the long winter evenings 
carved the wooden spoons, the platters, and the beechen 
bowls ; plaited wicker baskets ; fitted handles to the tools ; 
cut willow teeth for rakes and harrows, and hardened 
them in the fire ; fashioned ox-yokes and forks ; twisted 
willows into the traces and other harness gear. Travelling 
carpenters visited farmhouses at rare intervals to perform 
those parts of work which needed their professional skill. 
The women plaited the straw for the neck-collars, stitched 
and stuffed sheepskin bags for the cart saddle, wove the 
straw or hempen stirrups and halters, peeled the rushes for 
and made the candles. The spinning-wheel, the distaff, 
and the needle were never idle ; coarse home-made cloth 
and linen supplied all wants ; every farmhouse had its 
brass brewing kettle. The very names of spinster, brewster, 
baxter, webster, showed that the women spun, brewed, 
baked, and wove for the household. All the domestic 
industries by which cultivators of the soil increased their 

F 2 



68 ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 

incomes, or escaped the necessity of selling their produce, 
were now supplanted by manufactures. Basket or brush 
making, pillow lace, straw plait for hats, hand-loom weaving, 
spinning silk, hemp, or wool, stitching gloves for the trade 
of Hereford or Leominster, the woollen or worsted manu- 
facturers of Norfolk and Suffolk, the broadcloth trade of 
Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, the iron manufacturers of 
Kent and Sussex, the baizes of Colchester and Sturmin- 
ster, were gradually centred in the cities of the north, 
instead of being disseminated through the villages of the 
south, A change of fashion, like the decay of the taste for 
Derbyshire ' ribs,' brought Brandreth to the gallows. The 
cheapness of manufactured goods encouraged the depend- 
ence of the farmer on the manufacturer; the separation 
of the two industries was essential for the perfection of 
both. The gigantic increase of the population, together 
with the withdrawal of a large part of the labouring 
classes from agriculture, demanded the utmost development 
of the resources of the soil. Small farmers and peasant 
occupiers were picturesque obstacles to improvement, whose 
removal was necessary and inevitable. 

On agricultural grounds the open-field system was 
indefensible ; enclosures indisputably increased both rent 
and produce. The arguments used in its support are 
based on the damage done to the poor, and the depopula- 
tion of enclosed parishes. ' A Country Gentleman,' who, 
in 1772, wrote a pamphlet upon ' The Advantages and 
Disadvantages of Inclosing Waste Land,' did not exagge- 
rate the profits of enclosure. He says that rich open-field 
land was often let in its open state at 6s. to 7s. per acre. 
Open farms were divided into two, three, or four fields : if 
three, one field lay fallow, depastured by sheep ; the second 
was wheat or barley ; the third, beans, peas, or oats. He 



ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 



69 



drew up the following table of the probable results of 
enclosure : — 







NewRent 


Net Pro- 


Description of Laud 


Present Rent, 


to 


fits to 






Landlord 


Farmer 






£ 


£ 


1. 1,000 acres of rich open fields . . 


6s. per acre 


300 


3(J0 


Do. ten years after enclosure . . 


15.V. 


750 


500 


2. 1,000 acres of poorer land . . . 


is. „ 


200 


300 


Do. ten years after enclosure . . 


8s. 


400 


370 


3. 1,000 acres of rich common pas- 






tm'e 


2s. 
ir,s. 


100 1 240 
750 500 


Do. ten years after enclosure . . 


4. 1,000 acres of heaths and moors . 


Is. 


50 


60 


Do. ten years after enclosure . . 


8s. 


400 


370 



Within the next half-century these predictions were 
abundantly confirmed by results ; rents and production 
were more than quadrupled, and farmers grew rich upon 
war prices. 

In 1793 the Board of Agriculture was constituted, with 
Sir John Sinclair as president, and Arthur Young as 
secretary. The first object of the Board was to collect 
information respecting the agriculture of the country. For 
this purpose a series of questions were circulated among 
farmers, many of which related to open common fields. At 
the same time Commissioners drew up reports of the agri- 
cultural conditions of each county. The facts collected 
in these reports are invaluable to students of agricultural 
history. They establish beyond all controversy the enor- 
mous advantages of enclosed over open-field farms. Ten- 
ants lived comfortably on enclosed land, rented at 10s. (jcl. 
an acre, who had starved on open farms at 2s. 6d. an acre; 
enclosed land was cheaper at 20.s'. than open land at 8.s. 
The effect upon a district near Norwich of enclosures 
and the Norfolk system has been already illustrated.^ 
' See p. 44. 



70 ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 

' The vast benefit,' says Arthur Young,' ' of enclosmg 
can, upon inferior soils, be rarely seen in a more advan- 
tageous light than upon Lincoln Heath. I found a large 
range which formerly was covered with heath, gorse, &c., 
and yielding, in fact, little or no produce, converted, by 
enclosure, to profitable arable farms ; let, on an average, 
at 10s. an acre ; and a very extensive country, all studded 
with new farmhouses, barns, offices, and every appearance 
of thriving industry; nor is the extent small, for these 
heaths extend near seventy miles.' Nor were these excep- 
tional cases ; they might be paralleled in every county in 
the United Kingdom. 

But enclosures aimed at more than the extinction of open- 
field farms. Wastes and commons were also to be fenced 
and reclaimed. In 1773 Arthur Young drew attention to 
the extent of land lying waste in his ' Observations on the 
Present State of Waste Lands of Great Britain.' The Re- 
port of the Committee of the Board of Agriculture upon 
Enclosures states that twenty-two million acres of land lay 
waste, of which England had 6,259,470 acres, Wales 
1,629,307 acres, Scotland 14,218,221. acres. To this re- 
port is annexed a valuable sketch of the old law of wastes 
and commons, presented by the Surveyor-General of Wood& 
and Forests. The surveyor held that the common law 
annexed rights of common to all manors because of the in- 
ducement they afforded cultivators to till their land as 
arable farms, but that since the introduction of roots and 
artificial grasses no such need existed. If commons were 
unlimited, lords of manors might enclose ; if stinted, com- 
moners were often owners of the soil. The earliest method 
of enclosure was by writs of partition or admeasurement. 
But the proceedings were so costly that they were little 
' Agr'icvltnral Sktvcij of Linrohii^hirr, 1790, pp. 77-8. 



ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 VI 

used. In more modern times commons were divided by 
consent of the interested parties, or by private Acts of 
Parliament. Here, again, formidable obstacles impeded 
enclosures. It was difficult to obtain the consent of per- 
sons whose interests were opposed ; but four-fifths of the 
commoners, the lord of the manor, and the tithe-owner 
must agree before a Parliamentary sanction could be ob- 
tained. Cottagers were attached to the idle system of 
keej)ing a few half-starved cows upon the commons ; small 
freeholders feared the legal expense ; small common-field 
farmers dreaded a rise of rent ; landlords hesitated to 
invest capital for the benefit of tithe-owners ; tithe-owners 
were unwilling to take land in exchange for their tenths 
of the produce. Finally, the expenses of private Acts were 
almost prohibitive. A General Enclosure Act was impera- 
tively needed, but if such a measure was passed, ' what,' 
as a reporter asks, ' would become of the j)oor but honest 
attorney, officers of Parliament, and a long train of &c. &c., 
who obtain a decent livelihood from the trifling fees of 
every individual Enclosure Bill ? The waste lands in the 
dribbling, difficult way in which they are at present enclosed 
will cost the country upwards of 20 millions to these 
gentry, which under a general Enclosure Bill would be 
done for less than one million.' Partly from social causes,* 
partly in consequence of the recommendations of the Board 
of Agriculture, partly through the zeal of Arthur Young, 
but mainly through the necessity ivhich presses upon a pro- 
tectionist country, engcKjed in a European war, to feed its 
cjrowing poptdation out of its homeresoiirces, the first general 
Enclosure Act was passed in 1801. From 1777 to 1793, 
599 Enclosure Acts were passed. Between 1793 and 
1809 the number rose to 1,052. It has been calculated 
that 44 million acres of land were thus added to the 



72 ENCLOSUEES, 1770-1820 

cultivated area of the country in England and Wales 
alone. 

The agricultural and economical aspects of the question 
favoured enclosure, but the social ai-guments were less 
conclusive. It was, indeed, urged that enclosure of com- 
mons would benefit the morality of the country. The 
commoners are described as a ' most wretched ' class, relying 
on a precarious and vagabond subsistence, eked out by 
pilfering. Their ' miserable huts ' are ' seldom or never 
abodes of honest industry,' but harbour ' poachers and 
thieves of every description.' Forests, like Epping or 
Hainault, were the resort of ' the most idle and profligate 
of men ; here the undergraduates in iniquity commence 
their career with deer-stealing, and here the more finished 
and hardened robber retires from justice.' On the other 
hand, it was said that enclosures depopulated the country, 
were often needlessly created, and infllicted irreparable 
damage upon the poor. 

The depopulation of the country by enclosures was not 
confirmed by experience, because the object of the change 
was rather the increase of tillage than, as in the sixteenth 
century, the extension of pasturage. Arthur Young, in 
1801,^ proves by statistics, that of thirty-seven enclosed 
parishes in Norfolk, population had risen in twenty-four, 
diminished in eight, and remained stationary in five. In 
some few instances, no doubt, land was enclosed and 
ploughed which would have been more profitable as open 
pasture, but these cases were rare and exceptional. The 
real strength of the argument against the enclosure of 
commons lay in the injury they often inflicted upon the 
poor. The ' Country Gentleman,' whose pamphlet has been 

' l7iquiry into the Propriety of apphjinrj Wastes to the Better Sajj/jort 
and Maintenance of the Poor. 



ENCLOSUEES, 1770-1820 73 

already quoted, recognises this as an inevitable result. 
The landlord, the farmer, and the nation must gain by en- 
closure, but ' the small common-field farmer ' must become 
' a hired labourer.' He recommends that the lot of these 
' reduced farmers ' be rendered as easy as possible ' by lay- 
ing to their cottages a sufficient portion of land to enable 
them to keep a cow or two.' Had this advice been followed, 
England might have escaped the deplorable effects of the 
poor-law in the next fifty years. 

The claims of commoners were frequently disregarded 
by Commissioners. Young strongly advocated enclosures, 
but he laments the disastrous effect of the change upon 
the general condition of the labouring population. He in- 
stances numerous enclosures which, without adequate com- 
pensation, depi'ived commoners of their live stock, made it 
difficult or impossible to procure milk for their children at 
any price, cut off" their chief incentive to frugality, reduced 
them to hired labourers solely dependent upon their weekly 
wages. ' Many kept cows that have not since,' is his oft- 
recurring summary of results. Out of thirty-seven parishes 
he found only twelve in which the position of the poor was 
improved by the enclosure of commons.^ Many commoners 
received no allotment because they failed to prove their legal 
right ; others were assigned too little land to keep a cow, and 
both land and cow were sold to wealthy farmers ; others were 
bought out for comparatively small sums before the award 
was made ; others sold their allotments because they could 
not spend the sums necessary to enclose their portions ; in 
some cases allotments were made to the owners and not to 
the occupiers of cottages. On the other hand, in some 
parishes the interests of the poor were carefully protected ; 
they were not required to give strict proof of their legal 
' Arthur Young, On Wastes, 1801. 



74 ENCLOSUEES, 1770-1820 

riglits, and were allotted sufficient land for the summer 
and winter keep of their cows. Wherever this plan was 
adopted the poor rate remained low, even during the trou- 
bled times of the French war. Men of that generation^ 
who knew what it was to keep and to want a cow, pre- 
ferred the cow to parochial relief of 5s. or 6s. a week. 

Asfainst these individual losses must be set the national 
gain. Without the enclosure of commons England could 
never have fed her growing population, or gained the first 
place in the race for industrial supremacy. ' Where,' asks 
Arthur Young, ' is the little farmer to be found who will 
cover his whole farm with marl at the rate of 100 or 150 
tons per acre ? who will drain all his land at the expense 
of 2/. or ol. an acre ? who will pay a heavy price for the 
manure of towns, and convey it thirty miles by land carriage ? 
who will float his meadows at the expense of 5^. per acre ? 
who, to improve the breed of his sheep, will give 1,000 
guineas for the use of a single ram for a single season ? 
who will send across the kingdom to distant provinces for 
new implements, and for men to use them ? who will 
employ and pay men for residing in provinces where 
practices are found which they want to introduce into their 
farms ? ' Nor was the commoner without compensation in 
more certain employment and higher wages. If it is un- 
practical sentiment to regret the enclosure of commons, the 
rural poet of Dorsetshire may be invoked to tell the great- 
ness of the loss to the labouring population. 

Thomas (loq.) : Why, 'tis a handy thing 

To have a bit o' common, I do know, 
To put a little cow upon in spring, 
The while woone's bit ov orchard grass do grow. 
John : Aye, that's the thing, you zee. Now I do mow 
My bit o' grass, an meake a little i"ick ; 
An' in the summer while do grow, 



ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 75 

My cow do run in common vor to pick 

A blade or two o' grass, if she can vind 'em, 

Vor tother cattle don't leave much behind 'em. 

An' then, bezide the cow, why, we do let 

Our geese run out among the emmet hills ; 

An' then, when we do pluck 'em, we do get 

Yor seale zome veathers an' zome quills ; 

An' in the winter we do fat 'em well. 

An' car theui to the market vor to zell 

To gentle-volks. 

An' then when I ha' nothen else to do. 

Why, I can teake my hook an' gloves, an' goo 

To cut a lot o' vuzz and briars 

Vor heten ovens or vor lighten viers ; 

An' when the childern be too young to earn 

A penny, they can g' out in zunny weather, 

An' run about, an' get together 

A bag o' cow-dung vor to burn. 

The change came at a difficult crisis. An artisan class- 
was arising, and population shifting from the south to the 
north. Commoners and open-field farmers could not readily 
adapt themselves to altered conditions, or join in the keen 
struggle for existence which was commencing. At the 
same time the prices of necessaries were doubled during 
the war ; yet wages remained the same. It was this 
combination of circumstances which rendered the poor- 
lavv system so fatal. And the law was most unwisely 
administered. The weekly earnings of labourers were 
supplemented from the poor T'ate with such a sum as in 
the opinion of the magistrates would support their family ; 
a shilling or eigliteen-pence was paid for each child. This 
bounty upon production threw single men upon the rates, 
because employers calculated that labourers with the largest 
families required least wages. While the war swelled 
farmers' profits, ratepayers paid their labour bill. Wages 



76 ENCLOSURES, 1770-1820 

were regulated not by services, but by wants. Such a 
system promoted early marriages, encouraged a super- 
abundant population, increased the number of illegitimate 
births, annihilated distinctions between good and bad 
workmen. It was now that the south fell hopelessly 
behind the north. As population centred round the coal- 
fields, the manufacturing industries of the south dwindled, 
and its cloth and iron workers swelled the number of the 
indigent poor. After the peace of 1 8 1 5, disbanded soldiers, 
sailors, and militia-men added to the number of the discon- 
tented and unemployed. Thousands of artisans were 
discharged as machinery was introduced into manufactures. 
Thus the balance between the demand and supply of 
labour was completely overthrown, and the distress of the 
wage-earning populations from 1810 to 1820 was only 
paralleled by the miseries of the sixteenth century. 



77 



CHAPTER VIII. 

LARGE FARMS AND LARGE CAPITALISTS — MR. COKE OF 
HOLKHAM. 

A LARGE expenclittire of capital was needed to bring into 
cultivation the newly reclaimed commons or the barbarously 
cropped and impoverished open fields. But in order to 
derive full profit from the outlay it was necessary to obtain 
access to the new markets. Agriculture and manufacture 
agreed in demanding increased facilities of transport and 
communication. The demand created the supply. Hitherto 
the charges for the conveyance of heavy goods had been 
practically prohibitive. Except in the summer, farmers 
were confined to the nearest markets and deprived of the 
stimulus of competition. The impassable condition of the 
roads led to the widest differences in the prices of neigh- 
bouring districts. Meat varied with the distance from 
London ; within fifty miles of the capital it was 4d., beyond 
that limit 2d. ; as the distance increased prices fell, and 
farmers at Horsham were glad to take five farthings a 
pound for mutton. Food rotted upon the ground in one 
parish, while in the next there was a scarcity. The corn- 
law legislation of the eighteenth century provided for varia- 
tions of prices in twelve different districts of England and 
Wales. Between 1760 and 1780 all the main roads were 
repaired, while Brindley's construction of the Bridgewater 
Canal established a canal mania, only paralleled by the 
railway mania of this century. Within a few years 



78 MR. COKE OF HOLKHAM 

England was better provided with means of inland naviga- 
tiont ban any country except Holland. At first new means 
■of communication depressed the wage-earning labourer. 
Wages were generally low where food was cheap ; increased 
facilities of transport equalised the price of meat, bread, 
cheese, butter ; but wages were slow to follow the rise of 
prices, and it was fifty years before the balance was restored. 
Increased facilities of communication accelerated the 
rapid development of manufactures. When once the home 
markets were thrown open, agriculture received an extra- 
ordinary stimulus from the high prices of farm produce, 
and the increased demand consequent on a growing 
population and an improved standard of living. Napoleon 
became the Triptolemus of the farmer. The stoppage of 
foreign gi'ain supplies, war prices, the corn laws, made land 
a profitable investment for capital. Even the fall of prices 
in 1814 only excited agriculturists to renewed efforts. 
New implements were tried ; labour was economised by 
the inventions of Small and Meikle ; cattle shows and 
ploughing matches were held throughout the country ; 
prizes were offered to local breeders ; farmers' clubs and 
provincial societies were established. Great landlords took 
the lead in improvements. It is said that Walpole always 
opened the letters of his farm steward before he broke the 
seals of letters on State affairs. Bolingbroke caused his 
house at Dawley to be painted with trophies of ricks, 
spades, and prongs, and read Swift's letters between two 
haycocks with his eyes to heaven, not in admiration of the 
dean, but in fear of rain. The later generation were more 
earnest or more practical. In 1 723 a society of ' Improvers 
in the Knowledge of Agriculture' had been formed in 
Scotland; in 1777 the Bath and West of England Society 
was instituted, the Highland Society in 1784, the Smith- 
field Club in 1793. In the latter year Pitt, at the instigation 



ME. COKE OF HOLKHAM 79 

of Sir John Sinclair, created the Board of Agriculture, with 
Young as secretary. ' Farmer George ' contributed articles 
under the signature of Ralph Robinson to Young's ' Annals 
of Agriculture,' kept his model farm at Windsor, and ex- 
perimented in stock-breeding. So far Byron's epigram 
may be accepted — ' A better farmer ne'er brushed dew 
from lawn.' Lord Rockingham at Wentworth, the Duke 
of Bedford at Woburn, Lord Egremont at Petworth, and 
crowds of other landlords, followed the King's example. 
Fox in the Louvre was lost in consideration whether the 
weather was favourable to his turnips at St. Anne's Hill. 
Burke was seen by Young experimenting in carrots as a 
field crop on his farm at Beaconsfield, though he directed 
his sarcasm against the Duke of Bedford's devotion to 
agriculture. Lord Althorp, in the present century, worthily 
maintained the traditions of his official predecessors. During 
a serious crisis of affairs, when he was Chancellor of the 
Exchecpier, John Grey of Dilston called upon him in 
Downing Street upon political business. Lord Althorp's 
first question, eagerly asked, was ' Have you been at Wise- 
ton on your way up ? Have you seen the cows ? ' No new 
book escaped the vigilance of agriculturists. Miss Edge- 
worth's ' Essay on Irish Bulls ' had not been published 
three days when it was ordered by the secretary of the 
Bath and West of England Society of Agriculture. Nor 
were the clergy less enthusiastic. An archdeacon, finding 
the churchyard cultivated for turnips, rebuked the rector 
with the remark, ' This must not occur again.' The reply, 
' Oh no, sir, it will be barley next year,' proves that the 
■eighteenth-century clergy were at least zealous for the 
rotation of crops. 

Large farms and large capital found in j\fr. Coke of 
Holkham their most celebrated champion. In 177G he 
•came into his estate, with ' the King of Denmark ' as ' his 



80 MR. COKE OF HOLKHAM 

nearest neiglibonr.' The refusal of a tenant in 1778 to 
accept a lease at an increased rent threw a quantity of 
land on his hands. Excluded by his politics from court 
and Parliament, he thenceforward devoted himself to farm- 
ing. His energy was richly rewarded. Dr. Rigby in 1816 
(' Pamphleteer,' xiii. p. 45) stated that the rental of the 
Holkham estate rose from 2,200L in 1776 to 20,000Z. in 
1816. 

When Mr. Coke took his farm in hand, not an acre of 
wheat was to be seen from Holkham to Lynn. The sandy 
soil grew nothing but rye. No manure was purchased; 
the little muck that was produced was miserably poor : a 
few Norfolk sheep and half-starved milch cows were the 
only live stock. He determined to grow wheat. He 
marled the land, purchased large quantities of manure, 
trebled his live stock. At the end of nine years his object 
was attained. He saw that on land like that of Norfolk 
muck was everything. The Flemish saying applied equally 
to the eastern'counties : • Point de fourrage, point de bestiaux ; 
sans bestiaux, aucun engrais ; sans engrais, nulle recolte.' 
In 1772 the value of bones as manure had been accidentally 
discovered by a Yorkshire foxhunter, who was cleaning 
out his stable. Coke profited largely by the discovery. 
He also introduced into the country oil-cake and other 
artificial foods, which, with roots, enabled the Norfolk 
farms to carry increased stock. Under his advice and ex- 
ample stall-feeding was extensively practised. Cattle and 
sheep were sent up half fed to the Norfolk fairs, to be 
bought by graziers and fattened for the London market. 
On ' Bullocks ' Hill, near Norwich, during the great fair of 
St. Faith's, were assembled drovers of every county, with 
Galloway Scots, Lowland Scots, Highlanders, and Skye 
cattle, besides beasts from less remote districts. The 
grass lands, on which the beef and mutton of our ancestors 



ME. COKE OF HOLKHAM 81 

were raised, were deserted for the sands of tlie eastern 
counties ; the metropolis drew its meat supplies from Nor- 
folk. The cattle were sent up to Smithfield under the 
care of drovers, who took a week on the journey. The 
busiest time of the year was from April to June. The 
quantity of animals fattened on nutritious food gave the 
farmer the command of the richest manure, fertilised his 
land, and enabled him not only to grow wheat, but to 
verify the maxim, 'never to sow a crop unless there is 
condition to grow it luxuriantly.' 

Coke also improved the live stock of the county. On 
his own estate, after patient trial of other breeds, he 
adopted Southdowns and North Devons. But his efforts 
were not confined to the home farm. Early and late he 
worked in his smock-frock, assisting his farmers to im- 
prove their flocks and herds. Grass lands were wholly 
neglected till he gave them his attention. If land wanted 
seeding, farmers threw indiscriminately on the gi'ound a 
collection of seeds, drawn at haphazard from their own or 
their neighbours' ricks, containing as much rank weed or 
rough grass as nutritious herbage. It was a mere chance 
whether the farmer aided the sour or the sweet grasses in 
the struggle for existence. Stillingfleet, in 1760, dis- 
tinguished the good and bad herbage by excellent illustra- 
tions of the kinds best calculated to produce the richest 
hay and sweetest pasture. Coke was the first farmer who 
appreciated the value of the distinctions. During May 
and June, when the grasses were in bloom, he gave his 
botanical lessons to the children of his tenantry, who 
scoured the country to procure his stock of seed. 

Convinced of the community of interests among 
owner, occupier, and labourer. Coke stimulated the enter- 
prise of his tenants, encouraged them to put more capital 

G 



82 ME. COKE OF HOLKHAM 

and more labour into the land, and assisted them to take 
advantage of every new invention or discovery. His farm 
buildings, dwelling-houses, and cottages were models to 
other landlords. By offering long leases of twenty-one 
years, he guaranteed his tenants a return for their outlay 
and energy. ' My best bank,' said one of his farmers, ' is 
my land.' At the same time he guarded against the 
mischief of a long unrestricted tenancy by regulating the 
course of cultivation. In all the leases of his estates he 
inserted covenants for the adoption of the Norfolk system 
of husbandry. Though clauses of management were then 
comparatively unknown, his farms commanded the compe- 
tition of the pick of English farmers. Even Cobbett, in 
spite of his prejudices against landlords, was compelled to 
admit the benefits which Coke's tenants derived from his 
paternal rule. 'Every one,' he wrote in 1821, 'made use 
of the expressions towards him which affectionate children 
use towards their parents.' 

One great obstacle to improvement remained. Farmers 
of the eighteenth century lived, thought, farmed, like 
the farmers of the sixteenth. The Holkham sheep- 
shearings did much to break down traditions and preju- 
dices. These meetings began in 1778, in Mr. Coke's own 
ignorance of farming matters : he annually invited small 
parties of farmers to his house to discuss agricultural 
topics and aid him with their advice. In 1818 open 
house was kept at Holkham for a week; hundreds of 
persons assembled from all parts of Great Britain, the 
Continent, and America. The mornings were spent in 
inspecting the farms and the stock ; at three o'clock six 
hundred persons sat down to dinner ; the rest of the day 
was spent in toasts and speeches. Among the pupils was 
Erskine, who abandoned the study of Coke at Westminster 



ME. COKE OF HOLKHAM 83 

Hall to gather the wisdom of his namesake at Holkham. 
At the sheep-shearings were collected practical and theo- 
retical agriculturists, farmers of different districts, breeders 
of every stock. The Duke of Bedford, Lord Egremont, 
and other landlords established similar meetings in dif- 
ferent parts of the country. 

National necessities demanded the extinction of the 
open-field farmer, and the enclosure and reclamation of 
wastes and commons. The same causes during this period 
brought the same fate upon the small freeholders or yeo- 
men. More substantial than the open-field farmer or the 
cottager, they maintained their struggle for existence with 
more tenacity. The evidence of the Agricultural Com- 
mission of 1833 proves that they still existed in almost 
every county. But their numbers were already dimi- 
nished. The social advantages of landownership combined 
with high profits to give land a fancy value. In Cheshire, 
during the French war, agricultural land fetched as much 
as forty years' purchase. Yeomen consulted their pecu- 
niary advantage by selling their estates ; capitalists gra- 
tified both their tastes and their speculative instincts 
by buying land. It was manifestly the interest of small 
freeholders to sell their properties, the size of which pre- 
vented their taking full advantage of the price of corn, 
and to employ their capital in farming hired land. Those 
who remained on their own estates were for the most part 
ruined. War prices and the corn laws made farming a 
gambling speculation ; the wheat area alternately con- 
tracted and expanded ; violent fluctuations in the value of 
farm produce upset all calculations. Many yeomen mort- 
gaged their estates to make extravagant provision for 
their children, to buy more land, to enclose and im- 
prove their properties, or to erect better farm buildings. 

G 2 



84 ME. COKE OF HOLKHAM 

Prices fell, but the debt remained. The struggle was 
brief; farming deteriorated, buildings fell into ruins, 
finally the estate was sold. The purchasers were not 
yeomen, for after 1820 small capitalists ceased to invest 
their savings in land, but neighbouring squires or success- 
ful manufacturers. In Shropshire their capital dwindled, 
and they were forced to sell. In Wiltshire their farming 
retrograded and their buildings fell into bad repair. In 
Yorkshire the number of small proprietors diminished : for- 
merly, if one small freeholder went, another took his 
place; now this ceased to be the case. In Worcester- 
shire the small owners were obliged to sell, and men of 
their own class ceased to buy land after 1812. In Kent 
and Somersetshire many freeholders retained their land by 
practising the most rigorous self-denial, and by entirely 
ceasing to employ labour ; but all who had mortgages or 
annuities to pay were forced to sell their properties. 
Everywhere large landed properties were built up on the 
ruin of small landowners. It was only in counties like 
Lancashire, where the prices of dairy produce had not 
fluctuated during the war, and where huge markets sprang 
up at the doors of the farmer, that yeomen weathered the 
storm. The agricultural gain, derived from the extinction 
both of the common-field farmer and the small freeholder, 
was at the time great and undeniable. ' One-horse 
farmers ' on heavy soils had to struggle with the incon- 
venience of borrowing and lending horses. Hours were 
wasted before the teams could be collected and baited ; 
the process of ploughing was interrupted by frequent 
turns in small fields ; the area of cultivation was unduly 
encroached upon by hedgerows ; the methods of farming 
were antiquated, the implements old-fashioned ; without 
stock, capital, or machinery, living firom hand to mouth, 



ME. COKE OF HOLKHAM 85 

unable to buy manure, or cake, or any but the poorest 
sheep and cattle, the small yeoman could not hope to 
compete with the large tenant farmer. On social grounds 
the removal of small proprietors was a deplorable neces- 
sity. But the alternative was the starvation of millions 
of artisans. 



86 



CHAPTER IX. 

SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845. 

If the present century has not proved uniformly pro- 
sperous to farmers, it has witnessed a miraculous advance 
in the scientific practice of agriculture. Farming has 
advanced with gigantic strides. Vast capital has been 
expended on farm buildings and drainage ; new tracts 
of land have been brought into cultivation. Steam and 
machinery have lightened the toil, lessened the cost, and 
increased the amount of production. Systems of cultiva- 
tion are better adapted to the requirements of soil and 
climate ; more live stock is kept, and it is both better bred 
and better fed. The farmers' resources of crops, winter 
food, manures, appliances, are infinitely increased. New 
means of transport and communication bring markets to 
the remotest door. But the chief improvement has been 
the diffusion of intelligence and education ; the work in- 
augurated at the Holkham sheep-shearings has gone on 
apace. The ' rough-shod race ' no longer despise science. 
Bucolic life was the pastime of the town, the relaxation of 
statesmen, the inspiration of poets ; but farmers neither 
asked nor allowed scientific aid. Now good farming com- 
bines scientific knowledge with practical experience. The 
dawn of the new era was marked in 1812 by Davy's lec- 
tures before the Royal Society, and the adoption by that 
body of the motto ' Science with Practice.' Progress does 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 87 

not depend on chance-directed discoveries by unlettered 
rustics, but on experiments conducted by the rich and 
learned. History shows that unaided agiiculturists have 
by sheer doggedness conquered most formidable difficulties. 
Foreign competition is a more insidious foe than the open 
revolt of nature's ' wayward team ; ' but the forces arrayed 
on the side of English agriculture are now indefinitely 
multiplied. Within the last century capitalists, mechanics, 
architects, geologists, chemists, physiologists, botanists, 
have been enlisted on the side of the farmer. The agricul- 
tural progress of the present century is, in fact, summed 
up in the application of science and capital to the cultiva- 
tion of the soil. 

In the years 1812 to 1845 is included one of the most 
disastrous periods of English farming. It is also the 
period of Protection.' Inflated prices raised rentals and 
the standard of living, and vastly increased the area under 
corn cultivation. Prices fell when the war terminated. 
Contracts of all kinds had been made in the expectation 
that those prices would continue. Landlords declared 
that their ruin was inevitable if rents were reduced, and 
farmers, holding under leases, felt the full pressure of the 
crisis. These facts came out in the Reports of the Select 
Committee on the Corn Trade, which sat in 1814, and in- 
creased Protection was the result. Farmers had learned 
that fortunes were to be made by growing corn, and once 
more expectations and rents rose together. But wheat 
steadily declined. For a few years farmers paid their 
exorbitant rents out of capital ; but the end could not be 
long deferred. Again Select Committees sat in 1821-2. 
It was shown that rents had increased not less than 70 
' See Appendix IV., The Coru Laws. 



88 SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

per cent, on the rentals of 1790. Agriculturists demanded 
that foreign corn should be prohibited ; but the Committee 
of 1822 hinted that Protection was undesirable, and pro- 
posed nothing. Violent fluctuations in prices continued to 
overthrow all calculations ; the wheat area now swelled 
and now shrivelled, and the sliding scale of 1829 only- 
increased the speculative character of the farmer's trade. 
Select Committees sat again in 1833 and 1836, and evi- 
dence was given that farmers had lost all they had, and 
were working on the road ; in the weald of Kent and 
Sussex there was scarcely a solvent tenant. The last 
ten years proved more prosperous ; but the improvement 
was mainly due to better farming, the growth of population, 
the alteration of the poor laws, and the Tithe Commu- 
tation Act of 1836. Such is a brief epitome of the agricul- 
tural history of a period which will be examined in more 
detail. 

The advance made in farming between 1812 and 1845 
was effected in the face of almost unexampled distress. 
During the years 1773 and 1793 English imports and ex- 
ports of grain balanced each other, and these twenty years 
mark the turning-point when the nation passed from 
growers into consumers of corn. Within the next two 
decades of years the war and deficient harvests forced up 
the price of agricultural produce. While the East drained 
England of its bullion, Pitt's issue of paper money inflated 
prices. As bank notes circulated in greater quantities, 
prices rose higher and higher. Wheat in 1800 and 1801 
was driven up to the unprecedented height of 110s. 5d. 
and 115s. lid.; for the five years 1809-13 it averaged 
103s. lOd. Buyers of land paid forty and forty-five years' 
purchase, raised heavy mortgages on their estates, charged 
them extravagantly with annuities, and loaded them with 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 89 

legacies and portions for younger children. Yet the land 
seemed to stand the strain. Eents were doubled and 
cheerfully paid by farmers who made fortunes out of the 
war prices. Throughout the war the efforts of legislators 
were directed to the maintenance of high prices of home- 
grown grain. Heavy duties were imposed on foreign corn 
in 1804; they were increased in 1813, again in 1814, and 
again in 1815. It is, however, noteworthy that the last 
increase was not passed without a protest from ten peers, 
entered upon the journals of the House. The same policy 
was continued from 1815 to 1845. One argument, strongly 
urged upon Parliament throughout the whole period of 
Protection, was that, if prices fell, the land newly brought 
under the plough must necessarily fall out of cultivation. 
An extraordinary stimulus was thus given to enclosures ; * 
601 Acts were passed between 1810 and 1814, and at 
the same time the wheat-growing area was enormously 
increased. During this war period money was drawn 
together in masses in the hands of saving farmers and 
traders. A significant proof of the growing wealth is 
afibrded by the amount of capital paying legacy duty? 
which rose from 1,116,680Z. in 1797 to o3,118,281Z. in 
1820. 

But while all who sold produce profited by the artificial 
prices of commodities, the wage-earning population sank 
lower and lower. Agricultural labourers had lost their 
commons ; their wages were supplemented not by their 
industry, but by their pauperism ; and the poor rates 
exactly doubled between 1801 and 1813. 

At the close of the war distress prevailed over the 
whole of Europe. Throughout the progress of the struggle 
England, owing to her insular position, had sufiered less 
' See Appendix V., Enclosures. 



90 SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

than other countries. Its termination found her with a 
national debt of over 900,000,000/., an excessive taxation 
levied to meet the war expenditure, falling prices and 
dwindling industries, a disordered currency, a fictitious 
credit, and a mass of unemployed labour. ' Peace and 
plenty ' proved a ghastly mockery. Distress had always 
succeeded the close of war. In 1764 and again in 1784 
farmers suffered severely from the sudden diminution of 
the demand for their produce. In 1815 the distress was 
proportionately increased by the length of the struggle and 
the exertions which the country had made. England lost 
the monopoly of trade which she had enjoyed during the 
war; her manufactures exceeded the demand ; warehouses 
were overloaded, markets overstocked ; produce was unsold 
or unpaid for ; iron furnaces were blown out, cotton mills 
closed ; the coal trade languished ; the shuttles stood still 
in Lancashire and Yorkshire. Distrust and speculation 
replaced wholesome and natural commerce. Side by side 
with commercial depression went agricultural distress. The 
bitter cry of the landowners was heard in the House of Com- 
mons, and in 1815 the monopoly of the home market was 
secured to British growers unless wheat was above 80s. 
But the sudden fall of prices in 1814 and 1815, consequent 
on over-production and the diminished value of the cur- 
rency, had already spread ruin and bankruptcy among the 
agricultural classes. In 1816 the Board of Agrriculture 
issued a circular letter inquiring into the general conditions 
of agricultui-e.' The answers, to which reference has been 
already made, reveal the gravity of the crisis. Landlords 
lost, by reductions alone, 9,000,000/. on their rentals of the 
preceding years ; many farms were thrown up ; notices to 
quit poured in. Large tenants, farming on borrowed capi- 
' See Appendix VI., Questions of the Board of Agriculture. 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 91 

tal, bad become parish paupers ; bankruptcies, seizures, 
executions, imprisonments for debt, were universally preva- 
lent. The evidence laid before the Select Committee of 
1821 confirms the truth of these reports. In Dorsetshire, 
for instance, fifty-two farmers, cultivating between them 
24,000 acres, failed between 1815 and 1820. Eents were 
lowered in Somersetshire by a third, and the small farmers 
were reduced in point of diet to the condition of labourers, 
and the latter were compelled to subsist on bread and pota- 
toes. In Sussex, again, rents fell, upon an average, 53 per 
cent. Even on large farms in Norfolk tenants suffered 
severely, and put down their chaise and riding horse. The 
blow fell the more heavily on the southern counties, among 
other reasons because the old practice of lodging and feed- 
ing labourers in farmhouses had been discontinued during 
the war, and money wages could only be paid by unprofit- 
able sales of produce. Rents fell into arrear ; tithes and 
poor rates remained unpaid ; improvements were discon- 
tinued ; live stock dwindled, and gangs of poachers and 
depredators kept the country in continual alarm. Nume- 
rous tradesmen, innkeepers, and shopkeepers, who depended 
on farmers for their principal custom, were involved in the 
same ruin. War prices were gone, war taxes remained. 
Out of falling profits owners of land were unable to meet 
augmented taxation and heavy charges ; occupiers could 
not pay rents which had been raised upon fallacious esti- 
mates of agricultural prosperity, and were slowly and re- 
luctantly reduced. Meanwhile the credit of the paper 
currency was undermined ; bank notes were discounted at 
a loss, and guineas sold at a premium. The failure of 
numerous county banks, which between 1797 and 1814 
had increased in number from about 200 to 940, added 
to the ruin of country districts. As the year 1816 ad- 



92 SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

vanced, bad seasons created a scarcity ; wheat rose sud- 
denly from 52^. in January to 103s. in December; the 
potato crop, which had recently become important in 
England, failed ; and the perpetual floods of the spring and 
summer were succeeded by a winter of appalling severity. 
The army and navy had been reduced, the militia dis- 
banded, the store, commissariat, and transport departments 
placed upon a peace footing. To this mass of unemployed 
labour were now added thousands of artisans and agricul- 
turists. Starvation stared them in the face. Distress bred 
discontent, and discontent disturbances which were fos- 
tered by political agitators. While the Luddites broke 
up machinery, gangs of labourers avenged the fancied 
conspiracy of farmers by burning stacks, ricks, and 
farmhouses, or destroying the shops of butchers and 
bakers. 

Peace seemed only to aggravate every form of distress. 
At such crises the currency is often made the sole scape- 
goat for conditions which result from many causes. But 
one great cause of the general dejDression was the paper 
money, upon which had been built up extravagant ideas of 
the national wealth. Till cash payments were resumed 
financial equilibrium could not be permanently restored. 
The process by which the paper money was withdrawn ex- 
tended over the first twenty years after the conclusion of the 
peace ; but its general course was directed by Lord Liver- 
pool's adoption of the single gold standard, and Peel's Cur- 
rency Bill of 1819, to which the House of Commons agreed 
without a dissentient voice. The withdrawal of the paper 
money produced the same result as a drain upon the 
precious metals. A variety of causes combined with the 
resumption of cash payments to send down prices with 



SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 



93 



startling rapidity.' Landowners, who had raised money 
upon their land, found themselves confronted by ruin. Their 
reluctance to reduce rentals involved hundreds of tenants 
in their fall. The alternative was hard. Petitions show 
that where mortgagees foreclosed upon estates the land was 
sold for sums which barely, if at all, recouped the charges. 
In 1819 Cobbett's ominous prophecy respecting the Cur- 
rency Bill seemed in danger of literal fulfilment : ' Before 
this Bill could be carried into complete execution a million 
of persons at least must die of hunger.' 

The cheapness of food abated distress among the manu- 
facturing population, but it aggravated the difficulties of 
farmers. For the next fifteen years the attention of Par- 
liament was continually called to the landed interests. 
Resolutions were passed at county meetings demanding 
relief; innumerable pamphlets proved that three pounds did 
not now go as far as two had done during the war,^ and 
asked for remunerating prices for agricultural produce ; 
petitions covered the table of the House, and select com- 
mittees sat in 1820, 1821, 1822, 1833, and 1836. But 
within twenty years after the peace had been readjusted to 
diminished prices, and agriculture slowly began to share in 

1 Table sliowing the Fall of Prices, 1819-22. 



Dates 


Wheat per quarter 


Mutton per stone(81bs. ) 


Beef 


per stone (8 lbs.) 




S. S. 


s. d. S. d. 


s. 


d. .s\ d. 


Jan. 1819 . . 


64 to 84 


5 to G 4 


4 


to 5 


July 1819 . , 


58 „ 80 


4 6 „ 5 2 


4 


G „ 5 4 


Jan. 1820 . . 


54 „ 70 


3 4 „ 4 4 


3 


4 „ 4 8 


July 1820 . . 


58 „ 81 


4 2 „ 5 2 


3 


G „ 4 6 


Jan. 1821 . . 


40 „ 62 


3 „ 4 


3 


2 „ 4 2 


July 1821 . . 


36 „ 63 


2 2 „ 3 4 


2 


8 „ 3 8 


Jan. 1822 . . 


.30 „ 6G 


2 2 „ 3 2 


2 


„ 3 


July 1822 . . 


30 „ 56 


1 10 „ 2 6 


2 


„ 2 10 



- The following illustration from ' A Letter to a Member of Parlia- 



94 SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

the general revival of trade, yet the period left its mark 
not only in the extinction of small landowners, but in the 
retrogression of farming. On heavy clays less capital and 
less labour were expended ; wet seasons prevented farmers 
from getting upon their land, and led to the discontinuance 
of manure, excessive cropping, and the impoverishment, 
even the abandonment, of heavier soils. Wages had been 
lowered and labourers dismissed ; Swing and his prose- 
lytes were at work, and in 1830-1 agrarian fires blazed 
from Dorsetshire to Lincolnshire. To add to the difficulties 
of the clay farmer, the rot of 1830-1, which is described as 
the most disastrous on record, ' swept away two million 
sheep.' Much of the land was in miserable condition. 
Ploughed up when corn was high, it was badly laid down 
again when prices fell. Some was cultivated as ' up and 
down land,' tilled for two or three years, and then aban- 
doned, according to variations in the price of wheat. A 
general want of confidence prevailed between landlords 
and tenants, and recent experience created a profound dis- 
trust of leases. Rents had been reduced from 25 to 30 
per cent., and large arrears had accumulated ; poor rates 

ment ' is interesting as showing some of the ordinary expenses of living 

in 1 822 :— 

£ 
A person has an estate of, per annum .... 500 
(His family consists of himself, wife, four children, 

one man and two women servants.) £ 

Education of his children with their clothing . .160 

Assessed and parochial taxes 30 

Servants' wages 25 

Own and wife's clothing 35 

Deduct a third of his income . . . . .16(5 



416 



Remain to bear the expenses of housekeeping, &c. 
What is to become of this class and all under ? 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 95 

were enormously increased. Farmers on light lands suffered 
comparatively little. Prices were low ; but the spread of 
drill husbandry, artificial manures, better rotations of crop- 
ping, and improvements in the breed both of cattle and 
sheep enabled them to farm with profit. A good machine 
was driving out a bad one. Fifty years before, clay lands 
were the corn and beef producing districts of the country, 
while the light soils of Norfolk lay uncultivated. Now the 
parts were reversed. This revolution in farming had been 
mainly effected by turnips, and only drainage could enable 
clay farmers to hold their own against their rivals. The 
Commission which was appointed in 1836 received evidence 
upon the condition of the landed interests. They made 
no report, but the majority of the witnesses confined the 
distress to clay farmers. Signs of returning prosperity 
became faintly visible. Manufacturing progress began to 
tell upon agriculture ; the new system of poor laws had 
already reduced the rates ; wool, mutton, and beef had 
risen in price ; barley and oats were selling briskly and 
at higher rates ; wheat was low, but the price resulted 
partly from defective harvests in 1838 and 1839, partly 
from improved and extended cultivation. The ' rebellion 
of the belly' at Birmingham and Newport (Mon.) in 1839 
and at Sheffield in 1840 was the result of the rise in prices 
by which the farmers profited. 

The drainage of clay farms was the crying need of the 
day, and the Tithe Commutation Act of 1836 encouraged 
landlords and tenants to expend capital without fear that 
tithe-owners would share the profits. At the nick of time 
science provided the necessary means. 

Drainage bad been ably discussed by Walter Blith in 
1641, and it had been insisted upon by Young as a 
necessary preliminary to agricultural improvement. But 



96 SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

hitherto farmers had been baffled by insuperable difficulties. 
Over-wetness, which arose from water issuing to the surface 
in consequence of subterranean interruptions to its course, 
had been admirably dealt with by a Warwickshire farmer 
named James Elkington at the close of the eighteenth 
century. His services in tapping springs were in great 
request in the midland counties, where his crowbar was 
compared to the rod of Moses. He received a Parliamentary 
grant of a thousand pounds ; but his success so largely 
depended on experience, that his secret was but imperfectly 
reduced to rules by Johnstone.^ Oiily springy or spouty 
land was drained, and only those spots which were con- 
sidered dangerous to cattle. A trench was cut deep enough 
to reach the bed along which the water filtered before it 
encountered the obstacle that forced it to the surface, and 
was then filled with stones to within 2^ feet of the surface. 
But in draining the soil of its surface water the ordinary 
method was to throw the land into ridges from two to four 
feet high. As the headlands were often similarly dammed 
up, the furrows became standing pools of water. The 
height of these ridges was sometimes extraordinary. In 
Gloucestershire, while Marshall stood in a furrow, a man 
of middle height, crossing the field towards him, was lost 
to sight in every furrow. But this practice served other 
purposes besides drainage. On grass lands it provided a 
variety of herbage. Many farmers believed that it increased 
the surface. It was also employed on light chalky loams 
where it was not required for warmth or dryness, because 
in common fields continually fallowed, if the lands had 
lain flat, the soil would have been run together like lime 

' An Account of the 'most imjjroved Mode of Draining Land according 
to the System practised by Mr. James Elkington. By John Johnstone, 
Land Surveyor, Edinburgh, 1797. 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 97 

by a ' pash' of rain. The effect of this drainage was to 
wash the soil bare from the ridges into the furrows, and 
thence into the adjoining stream ; thus the high parts 
were too poor, and the lower too wet, to yield crops. If 
the rain descended with any force, it ran along the surface, 
carrying with it the manure and the richness of the soil. 
Every river flowed turbid after a storm, laden with the 
wealth of the land. 

The discoverer of the science of thorough drainage was 
Smith of Deanston. It had indeed been extensively 
practised in Essex, Suffolk, and Leicestershire, where land 
was drained by trenches filled up with haulm, ling, straw, 
or turf, and covered over. The practice of this system has 
been traced back in Essex to 1644 ; but in the nineteenth 
century it had hardly travelled out of the eastern counties. 
Smith of Deanston had watched the effect of turf furrow- 
drains in carrying off bottom water on the flat clay lands 
of Stirlingshire. In 1806 he went to reside in Perthshire. 
Tliere it occurred to him that the same system might be 
employed to carry off the surface water which stagnates on 
clay soil, rendering the land cold and tenacious in wet 
seasons, hard and unworkable in dry weather. .In 1823 
he began to try the experiment on a small farm at Deans- 
ton, and from 1834 onwards made known his extraordinary 
success to agriculturists. 

The advantages of his system were at once evident, 
and now scarcely need remark. The soil cannot retain by 
attraction more than a certain amount of water ; it must 
get rid of the rest by evaporation or superficial discharge. 
If the water runs off the surface, the land is deprived of 
one of the richest of fertilising agencies. Not only is rain 
heavily charged with ammonia, carbonic acid, and other 
gases, but it is the only carrier of heat downwards. The 

H 



98 SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

land is also robbed of its own natural fertility as well as of 
artificial means for its enrichment. If the soil rids itself 
of the surface water by evaporation, its temperature is 
chilled. A wet cloth wrapped round a bottle in hot 
weather acts as a refrigerator ; the same effect is produced 
upon the soil by evaporation. But Smith's system made rain 
a friend and not an enemy. In winter undrained land is 
saturated with water ; in summer, baked so as to exclude 
all air ; in frost, bound in a coat of iron. The object of 
Smith was to change the texture of the soil, to draw off 
the water and admit the air, and thus to communicate that 
divisibility and mellowness which farmers call friability. 
Drainage gave the farmer twice as many days on which he 
could work his land ; it increased the efficacy of his farming 
operations and of his manures ; it secured an earlier seed- 
time and an earlier harvest, raised the average produce, 
and lessened the expenses of working. On pasture land 
its benefits are not less obvious. Drainage destroys coarse 
aquatic plants, increases the sweetness and nourishment of 
the herbage, and affords a full bite to cattle weeks before 
undrained land. 

Much remained to be effected in the details of drainage 
after Smith had demonstrated its principles. But within 
the next ten years Josiah Parkes (1843) had brought his 
practical and scientific knowledge to bear upon the subject, 
the necessary appliances had been simultaneously provided 
by Reed's cylindrical pipes (1843) and Scragg's machine 
(1845) for their manufacture, and the necessary capital 
was offered to landlords upon easy terms by loans provided 
Tinder the Act of Parliament of 1846. 

Drainage chiefly helped one class of farmers, new 
manures assisted all. In the infancy of agriculture little 
or no attention was paid to the use of manure. Fitzherbert 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 99 

and Tusser hardly mention the subject. Plat is the first 
writer who treats of it at any length. Salt sand, salt 
water, salt weeds, and everything of a saline quality had 
been strongly recommended by Gervase Markham in his 
' Farewel to Husbandry,' written in the reign of James I. ; 
Gabriel Plattes considered that ^ sal-anioniake ' formed a 
good mould in which to set corn ; the use of salt had been 
urged upon farmers by Lord Bacon. But, as a rule, a little 
half-rotted straw was the only substance used. On the 
sea-coasts farmers might employ seaweed and sand, but 
the prohibitive prices of laud carriage prevented their use 
in the interior. Lime, chalk, marl, crag, gypsum, rags, 
coal ashes, and the sweepings of London streets ^ were used 
by farmers who found their natural manures upon the spot ; 
but their use was necessarily local. ' Nothing like muck ' 
was the proverbial saying, because nothing but muck 
was obtainable. The one exception up to this time was 
bone, which had created a new industry. Now, however, 
as railways cheapened costs of conveyance, and drainage 
enabled the soil to benefit by fertilising substances, science 
provided portable means of enriching lands. Sprengel led 
the way by investigating the properties of soil, and Liebig 
brought chemistry to bear on the composition of new 
stimulants in the shape of manure. From 1835 onwards 
the use of nitrate of soda and guano gradually spread. The 
manufacture of British guano supplied a cheaper and 
hardly less valuable substance than its Peruvian rival. In 

' The manures enumerated by Hartlib {Legacy, 1652) are — '(1) Chalke ; 
(2) Lime ; (3) Ordinary dung ; (4) Marie ; (5) Snaggrett [shelly earth 
from river beds]; (6) Ouse from marsh ditches; (7) Sea Weeds; (8) 
Sea Sand ; (9) Folding of Sheepe ; (10) Ashes ; (11) Soote ; (12) Pigeon's 
and hen's dung ; (13) Malt dust ; (14) Salt and lime ; (15) Grassy turf 
and brakes; (16) Fish ; (17) Urine; (18) Woollen rags ; (19) Denshyving, 
or paring and burning ; (20) Mixing of lands ; (21) Lupines, and plough- 
ing green plants into the ground.' 

H 2 



100 SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

1840 Liebig recommended, and in 1848 Sir John Lawes 
obtained superphosphate of lime by dissolving bone-dust 
in sulphuric acid.^ Geology contributed its quota In 
1843 Professor Henslow proved that coprolites, similarly 
dissolved, would produce the required superphosphate. 
Eight years later Odams showed the value of the blood and 
refuse of London slaughterhouses. The use of guano, 
phosphatic, and ammoniacal manures completely revolu- 
tionised the old rules of cropping. It stimulated not only 
produce, but drainage. Manures and drainage acted and 
reacted upon one another ; the first encouraged the second. 
Both together enabled farmers to carry more stock, and 
taught the lesson that he who puts most into the land gets 
the most out. Manure, like charity, proved a blessing 
alike to the giver and receiver. 

Other changes helped to mitigate the force of the blow 
from which English farming tottered. Eailroads, steam 
navigation, joint-stock banks, assisted agriculturists in 
their difficulties. Parliament passed Acts for the Amend- 
ment of the Poor Law, the Commutation of Tithes, the 
Repeal of the Beer Duty, the Enfranchisement of Copy- 
holds, the Enclosure of Common Fields, and reduced forty 
millions of taxation.^ Agricultural implements were im- 
proved or more widely diffused. Small's plough, the 
subsoil plough, Meikle's threshing machine, and the drill 
machine rendered labour more effective. The art of ' setting 
corn ' is said by Sir Hugh Plat to have originated with a 
' silly wench,' who accidentally dropped some wheat seeds 

1 The declared value of bones imported into the country in 1814 was 
under 550Z. In 1837 it had risen to 255,000Z. In 1815 the quantity of 
rape cake and linseed cake was only 16,000 cwt. ; in 1837 it rose to 
800,000 tons. In 1841 the guano imported was only 1,700 tons; in 1847 
it amounted to 220,000 tons. 

■^ The poor rates fell in England from 6,317,255Z. (1834) to 
4,044,741^. (1837). 



SCIENCE WITH PKACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 lOl 

in holes into which she ought to have dibbled carrots aiid 
radishes. Tull suggested a machine for the purpose ; but 
even in 1788 drills were only 'getting into use' in the 
first agricultural counties, like Norfolk and Suffolk. ' Mine,' 
says Mr. Samuel Taylor in that year,' * was one of the first 
invented.' The inventor was the Rev. Mr. Cooke, and it 
made its first appearance at Aspul, in Suffolk. But, adds 
Mr. Taylor, ' it was at this time rare to see a piece of 
drilled corn.' In 1839 the use of an improved implement 
was explained to the Royal Agricultural Society as ' a 
machine to lay the seeds in regular rows ; ' but it made its 
way slowly into general use. New attention was paid to 
plants and grasses. It was now ^ that swedes, cabbages, 
and Kohl rabi were cultivated, and that the mangel-wurzel 
was introduced. Dr. Chevallier cultivated selected and 
assorted qualities of barley seed ; Colonel Le Couteur, in 
Jersey, did the same for wheat, and the Lawsons in Edin- 
burgh for grasses. During the same period veterinary 
science made gigantic strides, and valuable stock was no 
longer sacrificed to ignorant quacks. County societies 
were formed for the extension of agricultural knowledge, 
and the encouragement of stock-breeders by cattle shows. 
In 1819 the Board of Agriculture had expired: the for- 
mation of the Royal Agricultural Society in 1838 marks 
the revival of better times. The first meeting of this so- 
ciety, which was designed to act as the heart of agriculture, 
was held at Oxford in 1839. Meanwhile the schoolmaster 
was abroad, and in 1842 the Royal Agricultural College at 
Cirencester and the Agricultural Chemistry Association 
were founded. 

' Memoir of yamuel Taylor of New Buckenham, Norfolk, reprinted 
from the Farmer's Magazine, April 1841. 

- Both swedes and Kohl rabi are mentioned by Young at the end of 
the previous century. 



102 SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 

Nor were the inflated prices of the war without perma- 
nent advantage to the agriculture of the county. The 
history of farming in Northumberland strongly illustrates 
this brighter aspect of a gloomy period. John Grey of 
Dilston,' the Black Prince of the North, one of the most 
skilful and enterprising agriculturists of the day, played a 
conspicuous part in the change. Born in 1785, and early 
called, through the death of his father, to the management 
of property, he lived in the midst of the agricultural revo- 
lution. When his father first settled in Glendale the plain 
was a forest of wild broom. He took his axe, and, like a 
backwoodsman, cleared a space on which to commence 
his farming operations. The Cheviot herdsmen were then 
described as ' ferocious and sullen,' the people as unedu- 
cated, barbarous, and ill-clothed. The country was wholly 
unenclosed, without either roads or sign-posts. The cattle 
were lost for days in the forests of wild broom. But the 
character of the soil, on which landlords alternately plun- 
dered or starved, attracted skill, enterprise, and industry. 
Men of the same stamp as the Messrs. Culley settled in its 
fertile vales, and by their spirited farming revolutionised 
whole districts which, like the rich vale of the Till, were 
wildernesses of underwood. The value of land was doubled, 
if not quadrupled, by the use of turnips and artificial grasses 
upon tracts which had previously produced naked fallows, 
or crops of peas choked with weeds. Money made by farm- 
ing was eagerly re-invested in the reclamation of wastes; 
commodious buildings were erected, new roads were laid 
out, threshing machines, worked by water or by horses, 
were introduced as flails proved too slow a process for the 
increased produce. During the wars of the French Revo- 

' Memoir of John Grey of Dllston, by Josephine E. Butler. Edin- 
burgh, 1869. 



SCIENCE WITH PKACTICE, 1812 TO 1845 103 

lution profits increased rapidly, and with tliem rose com- 
petition and rents for land. Long leases were given and 
large farms, and every rood of soil was put in requisition ; 
large stones were dug up and removed in order to obtain 
an arable surface ; bogs were drained, and open lands 
enclosed. The fall of prices brought reductions of rent, 
failure of tenants, changes of ownership and occupancy. 
But the high state of cultivation which was stimulated by 
unexampled prosperity was maintained. A substitute for 
high prices was provided by the increased produce which 
resulted from manure, drainage, subsoil ploughing, and 
other results of the union of science with practice. 

Similar changes might be noted in almost every county. 
One other instance will suffice. Before Mr. Pusey's Com- 
mittee on Tenant Right in 1848 a witness was asked 
what had been the increase of produce in Lincolnshire in 
consequence of improved farming. He replied : ' The in- 
crease has been from almost nothing to thirty-two and 
thirty-six bushels of wheat to an acre. It was formerly 
little more than a rabbit warren, only thirtj-five years 
ago.' 



104 



CHAPTER X. 

SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845-1873. 

The year 1845 divides the two periods of ' Science with 
Practice.' It inaugurated a new era. It marks the transi- 
tion from farming by extension to farming by intension. 
Hitherto British farmers had mainly supplied the wants of 
a growing population by increasing the area of cultivation. 
After the General Enclosure Act of 1 845 they were practi- 
cally excluded from this resource. They could only meet 
new demands by developing to the utmost the productive- 
ness of the soil. It is true that within the last forty years 
upwards of 800,000 acres have been taken into cultivation 
in England and Wales ; but this increase is counter- 
balanced by the agricultural land which has been occupied 
by the growth of towns, roads, and railways. The farming 
area remains, roughly speaking, what it was in 1845. 
Between 1801 and 1851 the population of Great Britain 
and Ireland increased by ten million new claimants for 
food, and the old supply of land was supplemented by four 
million additional acres. After 1845 British farmers were 
driven to depend for profits upon high farming. For the 
next thirty years they held their own by superior science 
against the vast corn-fields of Russia, the virgin soils of 
America and Canada, the alluvial plains of Egypt, and the 
favourable conditions of labour which enable India to grow 
grain with unequalled cheapness. During that period 



SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 105 

home-grown wheat was not displaced, but only supple- 
mented by imported corn ; the production of wheat did 
not decline, nor was its place supplied by foreign produce ; 
imports did not increase faster than consumption. The 
serious question to be considered is whether English farm- 
ing in 1888 is still in this position. 

So long as Protection lasted, landlords and farmers were 
unable to resist the gambli^ng spirit which it fostered. An 
upward tendency in prices raised rents and encouraged 
reckless competition for farms. But latterly the rise of 
prices proved only the flicker which precedes extinction. 
Corn-law rents and free-trade prices mined farmers ; 
Peel's sliding scale of 1842 gave them no relief; the re- 
duction of their labour bills revived incendiarism. Finally, 
in 1846, Protection was abolished, and England adopted 
the principle of Free Trade. A period of great distress 
followed, in which rents were completely revised. Adverse 
seasons and fear of the consequences of free trade intensified 
the crisis. Mr. (now Sir James) Caird's pamphlet on ' High 
Farming the Best Substitute for Protection," which was pub- 
lished in 1848, suggested the true remedy. The cessation 
of the free-trade panic, the revival of confidence, the diffu- 
sion of agricultural improvements, the expansion of trade, 
the increase of the precious metals owing to the discovery of 
gold and silver mines in Australia and California, and the 
Crimean war, helped the landed interests out of their dif- 
ficulties. The cost of living, as regards the working classes, 
lessened ; the raw materials of manufacture were cheap- 
ened ; the rate of discount was lowered ; new markets 
opened in the East, and the increase of our merchant ship- 
ping diminished the cost of transport. For the next fifteen 
years England enjoyed peace while Europe and America 
were at war, and the full effect upon prices of a free-trade 



106 SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 

policy only began to be felt in 1873. From 1846 to 1877 
no proposition to inquire into the state of agriculture was 
laid before Parliament, if we except the inquiry into tenant 
right of 1848, and into land improvements in 1873. 
After the Crimean war the rentals of land rapidly and 
steadily increased ; between 1857 and 1878 they rose not 
less than 20 per cent. ; and the capitalised value of the 
increase was calculated at upwards of 260 millions. 

This prosperity was claimed by the Manchester school 
as their achievement. Apart from the impulse of despair 
which it gave to farmers, there can be no doubt that free 
trade encouraged the best form of high farming. Corn 
fetched so low a price that, regarded as a separate depart- 
ment, corn-growing ceased to pay. But the rise in the 
price of meat enabled farmers to grow corn at a profit in 
conjunction with stock-feeding. Free trade forced them 
to adopt a mixed husbandry of corn and cattle, and made 
corn pay through the intervention of green crops and live 
stock. Here, again, the question now to be considered is 
whether these favourable conditions still exist. There can, 
it is feared, be but one answer. ' Down corn, up horn,' was 
the principle on which farming profits depended. Now 
both are down together. After the adoption of free trade 
the farmer's chief resource was to sell corn in the shape of 
meat ; but the recent fall in the prices of stock has check- 
mated his industry. 

The period from 1812 to 1845 had witnessed the pre- 
paration for, rather than the adoption of, high farming. 
The reports made to the Royal Agricultural Society in 
the early years of its existence, the letters of Sir James 
Caird as 'Times' Commissioner in 1850, the letters of 
the Commissioner of the ' Morning Chronicle ' in the 
same year, the evidence given before Mr. Pusey's Par- 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 107 

liamentary Committee on Agricultural Customs, supply 
abundant materials for estimating the progress of English 
farming since the Commissioners of the Board of Agricul- 
ture published their Reports from 1800 to 1812. The 
general impression made by the comparison is that farmers, 
speaking generally, had made but little use of the new 
materials of agricultural wealth which science had placed 
at their command. In each county high farming was 
rather the exception than the rule ; at least one-half of 
the occupiers of land had made little advance upon the 
open-field farms of the eighteenth century. The character- 
istic of the period 1845-73 is not the invention of novel- 
ties, but the wider diffusion of the best practices. 

The repeal of the corn laws acted as a spur to the 
energies of farmers ; and from 1853 to 1873 they were 
encouraged by a succession of prosperous seasons, to 
which the years 1866 and 1867 were the chief exceptions. 
If harvests were deficient, farmers were consoled by high 
prices. Wheat during the twenty years succeeding 1848 
averaged little below the prices of the last twenty years of 
Protection, and the last six years of the period approached 
them even more closely.' The Crimean war and the civil 
war in America stopped supplies from the Baltic and the 
New World ; the great demand for grain for France raised 
the markets in 1871 ; the heavy rainfall and deficient 
harvest of 1872 brought wheat to 57s. per quarter; and 
thus foreign imports, though relieved in 1869 of the 
shilling duty, failed to force down the prices of English 
grain. At the same time the ravages of the cattle plague 
raised the prices of meat in 1872-3 to a figure which 

' For 20 years preceding 1848 the average price of wheat was 57s. \d. 
For 20 years succeeding 1848 „ „ „ 525. 2d. 

For five years 1869-70-71-72-73 „ „ „ o6s. bd. 



108 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 



rendered stock-feediBg and corn-growing highly remune- 
rative.' Even when corn was low the high prices of meat 
maintained the balance. 

It would be a tedious because monotonous task to enu- 
merate in detail the improvements effected in agriculture 
during this jDeriod. Roots and artificial grasses remained 
the great pivots of high farming. They enabled the 
farmer to keep more stock, enrich his land with more 
manure, and thus trebled the growth of corn by bringing 
into use not only rich soils, but light lands which had been 
previously valueless ; they drew his attention to compara- 
tive degrees of maturity in sheep and cattle, and led him 
to devote himself to breed, precocity, and fattening pro- 
pensity ; they compelled tenants of stiff wet lands to drain 
carefully and thoroughly ; they revolutionised the old 
systems of cultivation by demonstrating the advantages 
of autumn tillage. Not last nor least of their merits is 
the continuous employment they provide for agricultural 
labourers, who are no longer dismissed at the approach of' 
winter, but earn their wages all the year round. Fresh 



' Average Prices of Butcliers^ Meai\ per stone of % lbs.) at the Metro- 
politan Cattle Market for 1843-tJ and for 1870-3. 



Years 


Beasts 


Sheep 


Inferior 


2ud class 


Srd class 


4tli clas 


Inferior 


2nd class 


3rd class 


4th class 


1843 
1844 
1845 
1846 

1870 
1871 
1872 
1873 


S. d. 

2 8| 
2 1\ 
2 9f 
2 8 


s. d. 
3 2i 
3 1 
3 5i 
3 l\ 


S. d. 
3 7 
3 5f 
3 9 
3 7i 


s. d. 
3 lOi 

3 lOf 

4 l| 
4 


s. d. 
8 Oi 

2 11' 

3 41 
3 7| 


s. d. 
3 5 

3 5f 

3 \0\ 

4 1 


S. d. 
3 10 

3 8i 

4 3f 
4 5| 


s. d. 
4 1 
4 Qi 
4 9 
4 10 


3 7 

3 Hi 

3 n 

4 9 


4 4i 
4 lOi 

4 4i 

5 3i 


4 Hi 

5 4i 
5 3i 
5 lOi 


5 4 
5 8i 

5 8 

6 


8 6 
4 1 

4 5i 

5 2i 


4 2| 

4 10 

5 4 
5 11 


5 Of 

5 lOi 

6 2i 
6 Oi 


5 7i 

6 5 
6 8 
6 9i 



SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 109 

discoveries increased tlieir utility : swedes and mangel- 
wurzels on the one side, spring vetches from the other, 
fill the gap which intervened between moisture-loving, 
frost-dreading turnips and later green crops. Geology and 
chemistry gave their invaluable aid to tillers of the land. 
Geology taught the reasons which govern the superfluity 
or the absence of bottom water, furnished definite classifi- 
cations of soils, ascertained the composition of their 
different strata, explained the principles that control their 
capabilities and degi'ees of fertility. Chemistry reveals 
by its analyses the elements on which agricultural values 
of land depend, suggests how to remove differences or 
supply deficiencies, equalises the characters of soils, re- 
stores the properties which different plants exhaust, and, 
in a word, assists every branch of husbandry, from the 
manuring of the land to the production of milk, from the 
growth of corn to the fattening of cattle. The triumph of 
chemistry is summed up in the system of successive 
cropping without impoverishment which has been esta- 
blished by the experiments of Sir John Lawes and Dr. 
Gilbert. Mechanical inventions completed what geology 
and chemistry had commenced. The soil is not only im- 
proved by drainage and artificial manures, but by subsoil 
and trench ploughs and deeper cultivation ; it is more 
easily tilled by the lighter and better implements which 
replaced the cumbrous plough with its shoe-like share 
fitted on to the wooden chip, and which, working at the 
lightest possible draught, show clean-cut, level-edged, un- 
broken rectangular fun'ows. Instead of the hawthorn tree 
which Markham recommended for a harrow, new imple- 
ments are adapted for light or heavy lands, as well as clod- 
crushers, and horsehoes and scarifiers to cleanse the foul- 
ness of the land. Thus the soil is better prepared for the 



110 SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 

reception of tlie seed, and the seed itself is not only better 
selected and assorted, but it is more effectively sown by 
drills, wliicli have supplanted the elaborate dii'ections for 
hand-sowing given by Fitzherbert, and realised the wildest 
dreams of Worlidge, Evelyn, orTull. Nor is mechanical 
invention content to improve the preparation, the tillage, 
and the sowing of the crops. It also supplies means by 
which they can be secured. Harvesting by hand has given 
place to mowing, reaping, tedding, and binding machines ; 
cumbrous wagons have yielded to lighter carts ; elevators 
have diminislied the labour of stacking ; the flail is sup- 
planted by threshing and corn-dressing machines, which 
not only thresh the grain quicker, but leave less in the straw. 
Lastly, the application of steam to agricultural implements 
has immeasurably increased their eflBciency, and instead 
of horse or water power the plough can now be driven, or 
the corn threshed, by a strength that never tires or slackens. 
Nor has science confined its efforts to the treatment of 
arable land. It has done much to improve the manage- 
ment of grass ; and in no department of agriculture has it 
achieved more marked results than in stock breeding and 
feeding. Stalls and yards which fifty years stood empty 
were filled with fat or store beasts. More stock was 
bred ; and it is better bred, better fed, and more com- 
fortably kept ; while the use of oil-cake enabled the farmer 
to enrich his store of manure, increase his supply of 
winter keep, and carry more head upon his farm. And 
here too, machinery economises his labour ; it crushes his 
corn breaks his cake, chaffs his fodder, pulps or slices his 
turnips, steams or boils his food. Stall-feeding avoids the 
waste that is inevitable in yards ; each animal receives an 
equal portion of food instead of being starved by the 
strongest, eats at its leisure, ruminates unmolested, and 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 111 

rests undisturbed. Three beasts were fatted upon land 
which, as pasture, barely supported one. During this 
period, from 1845 to 1873, most of these practices and 
appliances became widely known if not generally adopted. 
At the same time commodious buildings were erected; 
holdings were enlarged ; small fields were thrown to- 
gether, admitting light and air to the land, economising the 
time of the labourer, and saving expenses of repairs and gates. 
But the most conspicuous improvement was the change 
among farmers themselves. The class rapidly advanced 
as it was recruited from men of skill, enterprise, and 
capital, open to new ideas, quick to accept new discoveries, 
able and willing to try experiments. Good roads, good 
homesteads, good crojDS, good stock, and good farmers became 
the rule rather than the exception. The union of science 
and practice has, in other respects, borne abundant fruit. 
It has created a new industry, and a new class of persons 
connected with farming ; it has not only increased the 
amount, but lessened the cost of production, and thus freed 
the rural population to supply the demand for artisan 
labour; it has attracted capital into the land, and made 
the recognition of tenant right an indispensable necessity. 
Between 1851 and 1881 agricultural students increased 
from 104 in 1851 to 728 in 1881, agricultural implement 
proprietors and workers from 55 to 4,260, the land drainage 
service from 11 to 1,695. On the other hand, though the 
produce as well as area under cultivation is greatly 
increased since 1801, the agricultural population has 
declined. In 1811 it was 34 per cent, of the whole ; in 
1821, 32 ; in 1831, 28 ; in 1841, 22 ; in 1851, 16 ; in 1861, 
10 ; in 1871, and still more in 1881, not only rela- 
tively but actually the total number ' of agricultural 
' See Appendix VII., Census Returns of Agricultural Classes. 



112 SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 

labourers has considerably decreased. Whether this result 
is satisfactory may be doubted ; but it is indisputably a 
remarkable proof of the progress of scientific agriculture. 
Another sign of the change is tenant right. In the days 
of Protection English farming was conducted upon a system 
which required little or no capital. Farmers brought 
nothing upon their holdings in the shape of costly manure 
or expensive feeding stuffs ; they laid down no pipes for 
drainage, and used no manure beyond that which was 
produced upon the farm ; their premises were dilapidated 
and poverty-stricken. They themselves were men of little 
enterprise, capital, or intelligence, farming by rule of 
thumb and from hand to mouth, investing in no improve- 
ments, aiming at nothing more than to make both ends 
meet. The essence of ancient tillage was exhaustion 
followed by fallow. Nothing was spent in replacing the 
productive qualities which the crops had withdrawn. All 
this was now reversed. The essence of the modern system 
was restoration of fertility ; and tenants had at their 
command a host of resources, the use of which entailed a 
large expenditure of capital without immediate profits. 
High farming extracts more from the land ; but it also 
puts more into it and increases instead of diminishing its 
value. Common law gave no compensation to outgoing 
tenants except for their way-going crops, and everj^thing 
affixed to the soil belonged to the landlord. Under such 
circumstances tenants had little encouragement to expend 
money in manures, drainage, or a course of skilful farming : 
without capital, improvements were impossible ; but capital 
is proverbially too shy to be attracted where no security is 
forthcoming. The necessary outcome of the changed 
system of farming had been recognised by Mr. Pusey in 
1848. Before that time the cry for tenant right was un- 



SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 113 

heard, not because greater confidence existed between 
landlord and tenant, but because the protection of the 
right was not required. Three-quarters of a centuiy ao-o 
tenants were not compensated for their outlay because 
outlay was never made, or because profits covered the risk. 
From 1800 to 1820 land was clayed, chalked, or manured 
without any security for the tenant's outlay. The ' custom 
of the country ' intervened on his behalf, but partially and 
ineffectually. It was proved before the Parliamentary 
Committee of 1848 that in three counties only, Lincoln, 
Leicester, and Glamorgan, did the custom of the country 
afford the tenant any redress, if he received a notice to 
quit before he had repaid himself for his outlay, or found 
his rent raised upon improvements which he had himself 
effected. Even then it was doubtful whether the jarevaleot 
usage of the district could have been successfully pleaded 
in a law-court, though it was often accepted in arbitrations. 
The demand for tenant-right, which has resulted in the 
Agricultural Holdings Acts of 1875 and 1883, is rather a 
significant proof of improved farming than of distrust 
between landlords and tenants. 

To this same period appropriately belong the first 
records of practical and experimental agriculture. In 
1864, upon the motion of Sir James (then Mr.) Caird, it 
was determined to procure statistical information respecting 
agriculture, the acreage under cultivation, and its food 
supplies, whether bread or meat. At first considerable 
difficulty was experienced, especially in the Midland and 
Southern counties, in procuring complete returns, which 
were regarded as portents of increased taxation. But the 
returns are now approximately correct, and have repeatedly 
proved their value. We are no longer at the mercy of 
guesswork, which often travels wide of the mark. Arthur 

I 



114 SCIENCE WITH PEACTICE, 1845 TO 1873 

Young calculated tlie acreage of England and Wales at 
forty-six million acres, and Pitt adopted his estimate as the 
basis of his Property tax. It is now accurately known ^ 
how many acres are arable or pasture, what are the crops 
cultivated, and what the livestock which they carry. And 
the same information, in less detail, is also supplied with 
reference to our foreign competitors. Of equal, if not 
higher, value are the reports of experimental agriculture 
which are from time to time issued from Rothamsted, the 
most important station connected with farming in Europe 
or America. No branch of experimental agriculture or 
agricultural chemistry can be discussed without reference 
to the investigations of Sir John Lawes and Dr. Gilbert. 
It is difficult to estimate the enormous influence which their 
experiments have already exercised upon farming, or to 
assign limits to the increased productiveness of the soil 
which England might have witnessed but for the disas- 
trous period of 1873-87. 

' From these statistics it appears that the total area of England and 
Wales is 37,319,221 acres, of whicli, in 1887, 27,823,207 acres are under 
crops, bare fallow, or grass. 



115 



CHAPTER XI. 

AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887. 

The causes of the present as contrasted with pi-evious 
depression are partly new and partly old. The sketch 
which has been given of agricultural progress shows that 
a succession of bad seasons or a revolution in the science of 
farming have produced widespread distress and necessitated 
changes of front which can only be effected with heavy 
loss. But the new element now for the first time present 
is foreign competition. 

Though the circumstances are partially new, most of 
the literature on the subject is old. A large class of 
persons have always doubted the reality of farmers' troubles. 
In 1651 Blith said that the chief cause of the depression 
was the 'high stomachs' of the farmer. In 1816 people 
argued that if farmers drank sound beer instead of sour 
claret, and their wives returned from the piano to the 
dairy, they would still be wealthy. It was reserved for an 
imaginative poet in 1801 to charge them with soaking five- 
pound notes instead of rusks in their port wine. Then, as 
now, the complaint was heard that fundholders escaped 
taxation. Why, asks a pamphleteer of 1822, should land- 
owners, who only get 3^ per cent, for their purchase, while 
' moneyed men ' obtain 5 per cent., be despoiled of a third of 
their income by a taxation which the moneyed interest 
escapes ? Then, as now, the sufferers were not silent. The 

I 2 



116 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 

cry was heard that the taxes and the prices ruined farmers^ 
and it was maintained in 1816 that wheat could not be 
grown at a profit under 54.s., and that, if the tenantry had 
their lands rent free, they could not subsist under present 
conditions. Then, as now, political agitators were prepared 
to use depression to foment discontent. In 1766 a writer 
says that the ' sober industrious poor ' are the real sufferers 
from high prices ; but ' who,' he asks, ' ever heard of any 
of this character mixing themselves with mobs,' made up 
of the ' drunken, lazy, and abandoned,' whose case was 
misrepresented, exaggerated, or rather ' created by certain 
senseless and inj udicious writers in the common newspapers ? ' 
In the last century, as well as this, every politician at a 
coffee-house had his infallible nostrum ; theorists elaborated 
impracticable schemes, which were supported by the ignorant 
and used by the factious ; oppositions, themselves sitting 
in the cold shade of poverty, bewailed the miseries of the 
poor ; dowagers at quadrille tables inveighed against the 
cruelty of Parliament in disregarding the voice of the 
people ; quiet old gentlemen from the depths of their arm- 
chairs recommended military executions of butchers, bakers, 
poulterers, and fishmongers as the most effective remedy. 
If we are to believe half what we see in print, times have 
been as bad before. Let the reflection encourage us in 
facing present difiiculties. 

For the last fourteen years the country has been passing 
through a crisis of prolonged, if not unexampled, severity. 
Three previous epochs stand out conspicuously as periods 
of agricultural depression. In the last half of the sixteenth 
century, at the close of the seventeenth century, and during 
the years 1813-36, the disordered state of the currency 
constituted an important factor in the distress. Similarly 
the distress in 1765-73 was partly due to the excessive 



AGEICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 117 

Talue wliicli was attached to gold. Similarly, too, the most 
prosperous era of the present century, 1854-73, synchronised 
with a large increase of the precious metals consequent 
upon the discovery of gold and silver mines. The presence 
of this factor alike in adversity and prosperity suggests 
that the crisis of 1873-87 is largely affected by questions of 
the currency. The influx of gold raises prices because the 
purchasing power of money is relatively diminished by its 
abundance, and sellers benefit by the enhanced value of 
their produce. But it also stimulates commercial activity, 
and thus its tendency to raise prices is balanced by increased 
pi'oduction and consequent cheapness. So, on the other 
hand, the withdrawal of large quantities of precious metals 
necessarily lowers prices, because the dearness of money 
increases its purchasing power, and consequently buyers 
gain by the seller's, loss. The passage from this broad and 
simple principle to its detailed application is bewildering 
in its intricacy. If, as appears certain, currency questions 
enter largely into the present depression, it is greatly to 
be regretted that those who speak with authority on this 
most recondite subject have not translated their technical 
language into a tongue which is more intelligible to ordinary 
understandings. 

But it is not contended that the currency alone has 
produced the present crisis. A glance at the history of 
the past twenty years reveals, not only what has become of 
the gold, but numerous concurrent causes of financial 
depression. 

The failure of Messrs. Overend & Gurney in 1866 
was the first symptom of the rottenness of our commercial 
prosperity. Reckless trading had spread widely. Insol- 
vent firms glutted the markets with goods in order to 
manufacture credit, and deprived legitimate traders of 



118 AGRICULTUKAL DEPEESSION, 1873 TO 1887 

their reasonable profits. Banks engaged in business which 
lay outside their proper sphere, and linked their fortunes 
with unscrupulous adventurers. The crash came in 1878, 
but it had long been inevitable. Events of such raagni- 
tvide as the Civil War in America, the Franco-Prussian 
"War, and the French payment of the Prussian war indem- 
nity necessarily exercised a prodigious influence on the com- 
mercial world. Prices rose inordinately in England during 
the excited period from 1871-3. To this rise two circum- 
stances mainly contributed. The American War had cut 
off cotton supplies for four years, and during that period 
all the old produce was sold off, while an actual scarcity 
was created. Consequently in 1869 capital flowed into the 
new channel literally in torrents. So, again, an extraordi- 
nary demand was created for coal and iron to develop the 
railways of Germany and the United States, while the open- 
ing of the Suez Canal gave a stimulus to the shipbuilding 
trade. 

In 1873 the reaction came, though it did not reach 
England till a year later, Quantities of capital were locked 
up in unremunerative railways ; taxes had been largely 
increased to provide for war expenses or maintain huge 
armaments ; reckless speculation had followed the triumph 
of Germany. A railway panic set in in America, and dis- 
astrous failures occurred at Vienna, as well as in Germany 
and the United States, and they were followed by a fall in 
wages and in the prices of coal, iron, and other articles. 
When the reaction reached England it was aggravated by 
a series of bad harvests, as well as by the political difficul- 
ties to which the revival of the Eastern Question gave rise. 
In 1875 great failures like those of Im Thurn & Co., or 
Alexander Collie, and the default on the Turkish debt 
aggravated the depression, which was intensified by strikes, 



AGEICULTUEAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 119 

labour disputes, reductions of wages, and the discharge of 
operatives. The following year brought no increase of 
trade, but rather diminished both wages and confidence. 
Throughout 1877 prices fell; trade shrank and financial 
disasters became general. But the full extent to which 
the commercial prosperity of the country was undermined 
was not suspected till the colossal failures of the Glasgow, 
South Wales, and West of England Banks in 1878. The 
country has not yet recovered the blow, although trade now 
stands on a sounder footing through the drastic purging it 
has undergone. 

It is impossible to determine what proportion of the 
existing commercial depression is directly due to the di- 
minished and diminishing supply of gold. But a diagnosis 
of the disease detects characteristic signs of a crisis arising 
out of the gradual decrease of monetary stock. A sudden 
exportation of cash may produce a short crisis as severe as 
it is transient. A slow reduction of the stock of money 
blights and paralyses trade, produces languor, and stifles 
energies. One puts a pistol to the head of commerce, the 
other drains its lifeblood. And these signs are accom- 
panied by an exceptional demand for gold, and a palpable 
falling off in its supply. Within this period the paper 
currencies of the United States and European nations 
were replaced by specie payments. In 1871 the German 
Empire, which had hitherto adopted the single silver sys- 
tem, adopted the single gold standard with a subsidiary 
silver coinage ; America hoarded stores of gold in order to 
resume metallic money; Sweden, Norway, and Denmark 
substituted gold for silver in their currency. This drain 
upon the gold of the world, in addition to the ordinary 
consumption through wear and tear or works of art, was 
not met by an increased supply. On the contrary, Sir 



120 AGRICULTUEAL DEPEESSION, 1873 TO 1887 

Hector Hay's evidence before the Silver Commission of 
1876 ' sliows that the production of gold was steadily 
decreasing:, and the evidence laid before the Select Com- 
mittee on Depression of Trade in 1885^ establishes the 
same fact. To untrained eyes it also appears significant 
that in the years 1877-81 the exports of gold from Eng- 
land exceeded the imports by 11,160,000L^ As gold 
became dearer, prices fell ; its purchasing power increased, 
and produce was cheapened by the scarcity of the precious 
metals. At the same time silver was depreciated in value. 
The resumption by ^imerica of a double standard tem- 
porarily raised its price, but it fell again, partly abso- 
lutely owing to the increased yield of silver mines, partly 
relatively to the enhanced value of gold. Under ordinary 
circumstances the silver of the world is absorbed in the 
East. But the process has been extraordinarily slow. 
Meanwhile, as it appears to unscientific observers, the 
English farmer suffers both from the glut of silver and 
the famine of gold."* The Indian rupee, once worth 2s., is 
now worth scarcely Is. 5c/. Corn producers benefit by the 
fall in paying wages ; and merchants importing Indian 
produce can afford to speculate in the exchange, and under- 
sell home markets. The use of a single gold standard 
possesses undoubted merits, but it is complicated by our 
possession of an Eastern empire which has adopted the 
single silver standard.^ 

' See Appendix VIII. Table 1. ^ Ibid. Table 3. 

2 Ibid. Table 2. * Ibid. Table 4. 

* The disturbance in the wheat trade in fact results from the disloca- 
tion between the values of English gold and Indian silver, though Eng- 
land has the advantage in the exchange. The British currency gives a 
fixed value of 2^d. to the grain of fine gold. When the Indian rupee 
was Is. lO^d., 10^ grains of fine gold purchased 165 grains of fine silver ; 
now 8 grains of fine gold purchase the same amount of silver. 



AGEICULTUEAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 121 

The general depression was aggravated by tlie collapse 
of agriculture, consequent, in tlie early part of the period, 
upon a succession of bad harvests. An inclement autumn 
in 1872 and an unfavourable spring counterbalanced the 
fine harvest weather of 1873, and the crop fell below the 
average. The harvest of the next year was excellent and 
abundant, but it was the last of a cycle of prosperous 
seasons. Wheat began to fall in 1875, and a succession 
set in of unsettled seasons with bleak springs and rainy 
summers. Farmers found everything cheap to sell and 
dear to buy. The harvests of 1875-6-7 fell far below the 
average both in quantity and quality. The average price 
of these three years was bis. as against 57s. 5cZ. in the 
preceding three years. The potatoes failed, the fruit crop 
ran short, and the cattle plague was rife. In 1877 land 
agents began to complain that eligible tenants for vacant 
farms were scarce. The heavy losses which farmers had 
suffered from three bad seasons in succession, cattle plague, 
and scanty hay and root crops, were not compensated by 
the fine season of 1878. The full force of American com- 
petition made itself felt when agriculture at home was 
already thus enfeebled. The Civil War had delayed the 
impending pressure ; it was now accelerated and inten- 
sified by the commercial panic in America in 1873, 
which drove thousands of the working classes out of 
trade, and settled them down as farmers in the Western 
States. A general move was made from the Eastern States 
towards the West. Land was taken up with extraordinary 
rapidity ; population sprang up with a bound in districts 
which were unclaimed and uninhabited except by the large 
stockowners, who pastured their herds on open prairies 
which now yield abundance of corn. The effect was at 
once felt in the price of grain. The series of bad seasons 



122 AGKICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 

culminated when the sunless, ungenial 1879 produced the- 
worst harvest within living memory. Meanwhile America 
enjoyed crops of most exceptional abundance, and, taking 
advantage of the agricultural collapse in England, flooded 
the country with her produce. Some conception of her 
profits may be formed from the ease with which she carried 
out her resumption of cash payments. 

Foreign competition, coming on the back of unpro- 
sperous seasons, completed the ruin of English farmers. 
They were unable to recover themselves, and went from 
bad to worse. The modern problem is low prices. The 
margin of profit on the staple produce of agriculture sank 
to nothing. Wheat-growing ceased to pay ; the keeping 
of more stock on arable land barely met the expense of 
artificial food ; the reconversion of tillage to pasture 
glutted the milk market ; meat farming suffered from 
the severe competition of America. Added to all these 
difficulties was the heavy burden of local taxation ; labour 
was dearer and less eSective ; men were obliged to be 
employed where boys had sufficed ; railway companies car- 
ried foreign goods at preferential rates, which compelled 
English farmers to pay part of the bill for carriage of their 
foreign competitors. Many remedies were proposed, some 
the results of wide, others of limited experience. Each 
suggestion, fortified by instances of its successful adoption, 
was recommended to the country at large. Investments 
in fish-farming or jam-making at the best could afibrd 
only local relief. As to this large class of remedies, the 
most that was to be said was that farmers must sit loosely 
to routine^nd welcome assistance from whatever quarter 
it came. [No general cure for distress exists, except 
favourable seasons, increased supplies of money whether 
metallic or paper, revival of trade, curtailment of produc- 



AGEICULTUEAL DEPKESSION, 1873 TO 1887 123 

tion by the shifting of capital, diminution of foreign 
competition, adjustment of standards of living to decreased 
incomes, restored courage, and the adaptation of farming 
practices to new requirements. 

Recent seasons proved less inclement, and trade less 
languid ; but two of the jDriucipal causes of the crisis 
operate with scarcely diminished force. Foreign supplies 
pour into the country in increasing volume.^ Agriculture 
bears upon its face every sign of a depressed industry. 
The soil remains weakly farmed, undermanned and under- 
stocked, partly because capital has dwindled, partly because 
of the ravages of cattle disease, partly because farmers are 
compelled to realise something, even if sales are premature. 
Land is going back ; it is falling out of condition, if not 
out of cultivation, and farmers are too poor, too weak, and 
dispirited to restore or maintain it. Its produce per acre 
is diminishing, and the number of sheep has decreased by 
more than two million since 1875.^ High farming at pre- 
sent prices appears waste of money ; agriculture cannot 
hold its own by intension against extension. The progress 
of centuries seems thrown away ; the instrument becomes 
useless just when it is ]3erfected and able to double the 
existing produce of the soil. From every point of view 
but the fanner's, the brightest spot in the general gloom 
is the cheapness of food. Free trade has at least secured 
the country from the horrors of famine. 

In the face of past losses and present prices landlords 
have reduced their rentals to little more than the amount 
which they reached in 1836. And still ' Let the landlords 
come down with the rents," in the apprehension of many, 
solves every difficulty and closes every argument. Not 

* The growth of this prodigious trade from 1866 is shown in Appendix IX. 
- See Appendix X., Statistics of Agriculture, 1867-87. 



124 AGEICULTUEAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 

every landlord is a Dives; the majority sit at the rich 
man's gates. Many of them succeed to land encumbered 
by settlements and mortgages ; they cannot dispose of their 
property, for land is a drug in the market ; rates and 
taxes swallow up what is left from interest and rent 
charges, and the so-called landowner becomes an agent 
between his tenants and the mortgagees and taxgatherers. 
Anyone who has lived in the country can call up before 
his eyes numerous families who have curtailed their ex- 
penditure, diminished their establishments, let or closed 
their houses, or become absentees on the Continent. But 
among farmers arrears, bills of sale, liquidations, bank- 
mptcies kept ever in advance of reductions and remissions 
of rent. It is, of course, impossible to determine the exact 
amount of their loss. In 1875 their capital might be placed 
at something between 230,000,000?. and 260,000,000?. ; in 
1887 it has fallen to below 160,000,000?. AVhere they once 
employed over 10?. per acre, they now scarcely employ 61. 
The census returns of 1881 in a different way attest their 
impoverishment. The number of tenant farmers dimi- 
nished between 1871 and 1881 by 10 per cent., while the 
great increase in the number of bailiffs shows that many 
are farming as servants land which they had formerly held 
as occupiers. Many of those who are still in occupation of 
land are only holding on by their eyelids in hope of better 
times, or protection. Up till the last year labourers had 
suffered least of all by agricultural depression. Their 
position was, and for those who are emploj^ed still is, 
immeasurabl}^ superior to their condition at the commence- 
ment of the century. Their cottages are improved, their 
wages higher, and the prices of all the necessaries of life 
lower ; they are better housed, better clad, and better fed. 
But as arable land is converted to pasture, and farmers 



AGKICULTUEAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 125 

are hard pressed by unremunerative prices, numbers are 
necessarily thrown out of work, employed half-time, or 
crowd into towns to meet an exodus into the country of 
starving artisans ; their El Dorado proves to be the work- 
house or worse. The landlord's income is precarious, the 
farmer's fixed rent an improvident speculation, the 
labourer's wages an uncertain remuneration. With exist- 
ing conditions all classes, but especially those engaged in 
agriculture, are necessarily dissatisfied. 

Before considering the many remedies proposed, it may 
be said that, though State interests override the interests of 
individuals; though the cultivation and occupation of the- 
soil are matters of national concern ; though the limitation 
in the quantity of land attaches a fancy value to its acqui- 
sition and renders its possession a monopoly — no true dis- 
tinction on the score of ownership can be drawn between 
real and personal property. Money invested in land and 
money invested in the funds are equally the fruits of indus- 
try, equally entitled to protection. Eights, legally acquired 
under existing land laws, cannot be disturbed without 
destroying that security which is the vital breath of 
nations. Sudden changes, subversive of the social system, 
rather aggravate than cure existing evils. Freedom of 
contract is a sounder jDrinciple than State interference, 
and voluntary action more satisfactory than compulsion. 
Whatever are the remedies applied, they must be consist- 
ent with established rights and recognised economic laws. 
On the one side, the accumulation of large estates in few 
hands is admittedly an evil ; on the other, the mixture of 
large, middle-sized, and small holdings is economically and 
socially the most advantageous organisation. But, unless 
legislation is ill-considered and revolutionary, no general 
change can be immediately effected in the occupation or 



126 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 

even the cultivation of the soil. Wise reform will only 
affect existing- conditions by degrees ; it will pave the way 
for, but not effect, radical change ; it will create no arti- 
ficial class by the stroke of a pen. Relief from agricultural 
depression must be sought, not in the manufacture of a 
peasant proprietary by suppression of landlords, but in the 
restoration of confidence and the consequent attraction of 
more capital into land, the extinction of all hindrances to 
the development of high farming, the removal of every ob- 
stacle to the wider distribution of landed interests, and 
above all, the revival of paralysed energies. 

Crude panaceas are in vogue at the present day ; wild 
theories are promulgated for the redistribution of English 
land. In the days of her commercial and agricultural 
supremacy, England might safely ignore such demands 
for change. An ever-increasing prosperity postponed the 
shock of antagonistic interests. But now, when disastrous 
seasons and foreign competition paralyse the energies of 
agriculturists, when commerce ceases to expand with 
sufficient rapidity to employ a growing population, land 
questions are not merely considered with curiosity, but 
the exclusive privileges of the few are discussed with 
deepening eagerness. The assailants of property may be 
noisy out of all proportion to their numbers ; their confi- 
dence may rather proceed from ignorance than from the 
calm of reasoned conviction ; they may have given no 
proof, tested by success, that their schemes are feasible ; 
they may forget that the first and worst sufferers by eco- 
nomic blunders are the poor ; but it is idle to ignore the 
danger of an agitation which has already scared away 
capital from the land, and renders chronic the enfeebled 
condition of agriculture. It is easy to distinguish the his- 
torical and economical aspects of Irish from English land 



AGEICULTURAL DEPRESSION, 1873 TO 1887 127 

questions ; yet the exceptional legislation which has been 
deemed necessary for the Irish tenantry has already borne 
fruit in England. The cry is raised, and assiduously en- 
couraged by political leaders, that landlords are a parasi- 
tical growth, a remnant of feudalism, a class that reaps 
what others sow. The misconception is industriously fos- 
tered that England is a solitary exception to the univer- 
sal rule of European landholding. It is maintained with 
increasing vehemence that God made the land for the 
people, that land is an ager publicus, which the State has 
granted to landlords to administer, but which she may at 
pleasure resume. Men quote with approval Mirabeau's 
retort to the objection that he could not sell the landed 
property of the Church — ' Not sell it ! then I will give it.' 



128 



CHAPTER XII. 

PEASANT PROPRIETORS. 

The cliief social and theoretical remedy which is pro- 
posed for the existing agricultural distress is the forced 
growth of a peasant proprietary. The peasant proprietor 
is the spoilt child of theorists ; his artificial creation by 
the stroke of a pen is the favourite panacea of a large 
section of land reformers. Towards this end, in one shape 
or another, all theoretical reforms appear to tend. No 
one will deny that the spontaneous increase of small 
owners is socially and politically valuable, or that the 
aggregation of large properties in a few hands is a source 
of political and social danger. ' Latifundia perdidere 
Italiam ; ' and it is qviite possible that land monopoly may 
prove the ruin of England. The happiness of a people 
depends on the distribution, not on the accumulation, of 
wealth ; the larger the proportion of those who enjoy a 
proprietary interest in the soil, the stronger is the 
guarantee afforded to the stability of the State. From an 
economic point of view it may be doubted whether peasant 
proprietors are profitable ; but the enquiry whether a large 
or small farm produces most per acre yields in importance 
to the question — Which contributes most to the sum total 
of national prosperity ? 

It is useless to appeal in favour of peasant proprietors 
to the instances quoted by Mill. His authorities belong to 



PEASANT PR0PEIET0E3 129 

an extinct condition of society. At tlie present day means 
of communication are easy; agriculture has ceased to be 
self-sufficing, and has become dependent on manufacture ; 
machinery has been introduced into all farming operations ; 
foreign competition has to be faced. Reports of agricul- 
tural enquiries abroad prove that the Continental pea- 
santry are not more capable of competing with prairie 
farmers and rich, if not vii'gin, soils than are our English 
tenantry. The Agricultural Congress at Nancy, which 
concluded its session in the last week of August T886, 
practically decided that ' une seule ressource reste done 
aux cultivateurs qui veulent eviter la ruine, c'est d'elever 
les rendements de leurs recoltes.' In other words, high 
farming is the recommendation of the congress. 

No country and no system of farming has entirely 
escaped the present depression. Peasant proprietors have 
suffered less than tenant farmers, only because they employ 
no hired labour and grow corn, not for sale, but for their 
own consumption. For tenant farmers the agricultural 
crisis is hardly less serious in France than it is in England. 
The proof lies on every side. Forced sales of stock and 
rural bankruptcies are numerous ; disputes are rife re- 
specting claims to unexhausted improvements ; farms are 
difficult to let, rents are falling, population migrates into 
the towns, land decreases in value. It no longer pays to 
grow wheat ; flockmasters get nothing for their wool ; 
American pork undersells French produce; the florist of 
Angers complains of his Belgian rival; the madder of 
Vaucluse is beaten out of the field by indigo. Wages are 
rising in a falling market ; labour is not only scarce and 
dear, but it has deteriorated in quality. The younger 
generation is not, it is said, like the old ; lads go off" to 
seek fortunes in towns, or cannot endure, after the gaiety 

K 



130 PEASANT PROPRIETORS 

of barrack life, the monotony of tlie country. Girls will 
not work like tlieir mothers, but become dressmakers or 
shopgirls. In France, as in England, politico-economical 
questions are chained to the car of party politics ; no one 
dares to investigate the principles which regulate com- 
mercial dealings. In France, as well as in England, a new 
privileged class has been created, that of the rentier^ who 
escapes the taxation which crushes the agriculturist. As 
in England, so in France, through railway rates are said 
to favour the foreigner ; and in both countries the cry 
grows louder that the cheapest loaf becomes the dearest 
when no one has money to buy it. If French peasants 
and tenant farmers have suffered less than their English 
brethren, it is because the land has never been called upon 
to produce two gentlemen's incomes, and because large 
employers of labour are never ashamed of the blouse and 
the sabot. In Germany, again, the business of farming is 
in a most depressed condition. A United States consul 
of great experience reports that farming properties in 
districts which are remote from large cities, and where the 
consumption of milk and other perishable produce is small, 
may be purchased at fifty per cent, of their former value. 
Farmers who bought land at the high prices of 1871-74, 
have sunk half the capital thus invested ; those who raised 
the purchase-money on mortgage have suffered still more. 
The cause of this downward tendency is the low price of 
corn and cattle. Increased import duties have not directly 
benefited farmers. It is only under the new tariff law, 
which provides that a portion of the income derived from 
income duties shall be paid over to district authorities, 
and credited against their bills for local taxation, that they 
gain by the taxes on produce. A programme was 
adopted by a farmers' meeting at Cassel in 1883, which 



PEASANT PEOPKIETORS 131 

misfht have been laid before an English Chamber of 
Agriculture. The following are some of the measures 
which were decided upon as vitally necessary to the 
existence of farmers : — 

(1) The diminution of their outgoings by economy in 

administration, increased liability of personalty, 
a revision of stamp duties and other charges on 
land transfer, a tax on stock exchange transac- 
tions, an increase in indirect taxation. 

(2) The increase of their receipts by protective duties 

on foreign produce, suppression of middlemen, 
readjustment of railway rates which favour the 
foreigner, reintroduction of domestic indus- 
tries. 

(3) The extinction of the land tax ; the abolition of the 

law of succession, which drives peasants to 

contract debts in order to keep estates together 

and provide portions for younger children; the 

provision of cheap loans ; and the adoption of 

a double standard of coinage. 

Acre for acre, the English system produces more than 

the foreign. What reason is there to suppose that the 

raw agricultural labourer of England, suddenly planted on 

a cottier farm, will extract more from the soil than his 

Continental rival, who is favoured by a genial climate, 

centuries of training, and acquired habits of industry and 

thrift? The heavy rainfall and low temperature of this 

country narrowly limit the number of agricutural products 

which are suited to the farming of peasant proprietors, 

and even confine cereals to a limited area. Under such 

circumstances it is impossible that peasant proprietors can 

flourish universally in Britain. Nor in districts most 

adapted to their existence can their capital command 



132 PEASANT PEOPEIETORS 

those artificial manures which, to the exhausted fertility 
of an old country, have become a necessity. 

This statement is strongly confirmed by the conditions 
of agriculture in France. Variety is at once the charm 
and the solid advantage of France. It is by her diversities 
of soil and climate that her peasant proprietary thrives. 
By the same diversity she is protected against foreign 
competition or adverse seasons. As in England the 
relations of landlord and tenant farmer constitute practi- 
cally the only system of land tenure, and corn-growing 
and cattle-feeding her only agricultural industry, so her 
districts are purely agricultural or purely manufacturing. 
It is not so in France, and too much stress can hardly be 
laid on the contrast. On the one hand, her land tenures 
are more flexible and more elastic, and her modes of 
cultivation more diversified, so that all her eggs are not 
stored in a single basket ; on the other hand, agriculture 
and manufacture are not separated into distinct districts. 
The squalid haunts of English trade are surrounded at 
the best by blackened wastes ; in French Flanders dense 
population and high farming advance hand in hand. At 
the doors of factories, at the brink of coal-pits, is some of 
the best cultivated land in the world, land which affords 
recreation and profit to thousands of artisans. The im- 
portance of this feature in its bearing on the happiness of 
the industrial population and on the alleged pulverisation 
of the French soil can hardly be exaggerated. But even 
in this favoured country there are certain conditions 
which are necessary for the existence of a peasant pro- 
prietary. 

The departments in which large properties are rarest 
are the following : — Gers, Charente, Haute-Loire, Manche, 
Lot, in which only 6 to 10 per cent, of the properties 



PEASANT PEOPKIETOES 138 

exceed 300 acres; and Cliarente-Inferieure, Rhone, Tarn- 
et-Garonne, and Seine. It is impossible to assign any 
general reasons for the relatively large number of peasant 
proprietors in these departments. In each different locality 
much depends on the character of the soil and climate, the 
special crops, the rate of agricultural wages. Thus, for 
instance, in Manche, with its unrivalled pastures, its 
ready markets for eggs, poultry, and butter, its fruit 
orchards, and its domestic industries, peasant proprietors 
flourish. Owing to the amount of grass and to the 
decrease of population, but little agricultural employment 
is provided. Consequently wages are very high, and self- 
farming is profitable. The same remarks apply to the 
neighbourhood of Paris, where the rural population is 
attracted into the city, and where market-garden pro- 
duce commands a ready sale. In Rhone, again, where 
manufacturing industries abound which give employment 
to thousands of peasant proprietors, tenant-farming is 
unprofitable, while at the same time the market is good, 
and the peasant supplements his earnings in the muslin 
works of Tarare or some of the numerous manufactories of 
Givors. So, lastly, Charente-Inferieure is well suited to a 
peasant proprietary. Its soil varies between the reclaimed 
marshlands of La Rochelle and Rochefort to the valleys 
and gently undulating plains of Saintes, the well-wooded 
district of St. Jean d'Angely, or the heathy ground of 
Jonzac. Peasant proprietors, who number considerably 
more than half of the adult male rural population, are to 
be found in the richest districts, where, besides the vine 
and the ordinary cereals, hemp, flax, fruits, and garden 
vegetables are grown in great abundance. There is also a 
large trade carried on in horses. One farmer breeds the 
colts, the other buys them at six or eight months and 



1.34 PEASANT PROPRIETORS 

sells them at two or two and a half years old. Lastly 
every farmhouse has its still for the manufacture of spirits ; 
large quantities of oil are extracted from walnuts ; and the 
paper-works on the river Touve employ thousands of 
artisans, who are also small landowners. 

In purely agricultural districts, where hired labour is- 
cheap, or in mountainous and barren tracts, peasant pro- 
prietors do not thrive. On the other hand, the system of 
small farms worked by their owners succeeds wherever 
population is dense, labour dear, manufacturing industries 
abundant, and markets good for garden stuff, dairy 
produce, or poultry. The absence or presence of peasant 
proprietors depends on certain conditions of success, 
without which no peasant proprietor is eager to buy the 
land. They will not thrive wherever they are planted ; a 
fact which is often overlooked by theorists who point to 
the French peasant as a proof that owners of land will 
make gardens out of deserts. The fact is, no French 
peasant makes the attempt where it appears useless. If 
he can command some specially fertilising substance like 
the seaweed which the Breton peasant collects, or if he 
enjoys exceptional advantages of climate like that of 
Roscoff, his industry and energy know no limits, and he 
will in a few years transform a wild coast into a cemture 
doree. But it is not inland, on barren moors of heath, 
ling, broom, and stunted pine, that he thrives or even 
exists. A closer review of French farming than space 
permits would prove the point that the presence or absence 
of peasant proprietorship depends on the presence or 
absence of some essential conditions of success.' 

The excessive subdivision of the soil is often urged 
against the system in France. But the objection is based 
* See ' Rural France,' Ediiiburgh Rcvien, October, 1887. 



PEASANT PEOPEIETOES 135 

ratlier on the presumed results than the actual effect of the 
partage force ; customs have sprung up which so far evade 
the law as to prevent morcellement becoming pulverisation. 
Greater objections may be urged against the operation of 
a law which subdivides the soil on mechanical rules with- 
out reference to demand and supply, which splits up 
estates into minutely scattered parcels, wasting both the 
soil and the time of the owner, and breeding perpetual 
litigation. Another formidable danger is the amount of 
the French peasant's debt. No one is more possessed by 
the demon of property, more maddened by the soif du 
sillon, or more seduced by the fascinations of anguliis iste. 
He raises money, not for improvements, but for additional 
purchases; he increases his debt with blind recklessness, 
borrowing often at 7 per cent, from the local Kigou, and 
becomes proprietor only in name. Yet the mortgages on 
landed property in France do not amount to half the sum 
with which land in England is encumbered. In some 
parts of France the mortgage debt is said to be 80 per 
cent, of the value of the land, but the general average is 
only 15 per cent. Balzac's portrait of ' Courtecaisse ' is 
less favourable than Michelet's graphic picture. Perhaps 
the true condition of the modern peasant lies midway 
between the two. In actual command of the luxuries of 
life, the creation of a class of small owners in England 
would lower the standard of comfort. The French peasant 
is worse housed and worse fed than the English labourer. 
His cottage is generally a single room with a mud floor, in 
which he, his family, and his livestock live, eat, sleep, 
work, and die ; in cold weather he defies all sanitary laws, 
and makes his room a tank of stagnant air. From morning 
to night his toil is excessive and prolonged ; female 
labour is the rule; children are continuously employed. 



136 PEASANT- PKOPKIETOES 

Progress and education are alike difficult ; the rural popu- 
lation often remains ignorant, narrow-minded, jealous, and 
obstructive. 

Holiday writers seem to believe that the French peasant 
always enjoj^s summer weather. If Englishmen spend a 
winter in the country, it is probably in the sunny south. 
It is not thus that they can understand the melancholy 
timbre in the voice of the Auvergnat, or the wail of his 
' II faut travailler pour vivre.' No one who has read the 
* Satires Picardes ' of Hector Crinon, the ' laboureur, poete 
et Bculpteur ' of Peronne, can doubt the hardships of 
peasant life in France. The peasant working in the fields, 
as Crinon describes him, eats nothing but bread — hard, 
green, and mouldy — with a beard as long as that of a 
sapper. The food sticks in his throat, but he has nothing 
to wash it down. Drenched to the skin with the showers 
that sweep over the treeless plains, cut to the bone with 
the bitter cold, exhausted by a long day's work, he finds 
nothing ready for his refreshment when he returns home. 
No fire has been lighted ; the water for his soup is still at 
the bottom of the well ; it must be drawn up, the pot put 
on, and the fire kindled. His soup, when he gets it, is 
only water with the chill taken ofi", in which float a few 
raw vegetables. Small farmers are the first in the barn in 
the winter, the first in the fields in the summer, and the 
last to leave their work. They only rest in the grave. 
The sleeping fox catches no hen, and the gain is so small 
that labour is unremitting. As the ass that earns rarely 
eats the oats, so the peasant fats fowls for his richer 
neighbours. ' Pour tout regal nous n'avons que de la flam- 
miche,' a thick dough cake baked on the hearth. For meat 
he eats once a year, at the ' fete de Paques,' a small piece of 
tough, skinny cow beef. At other times his food is cab- 



PEASANT PEOPRIETOKS 137 

bage or sorrel soup. His only drink is water. Easier, 
exclaims tlie poet, is the lot of the hired labourer. In 
Brittany many of the peasants live on porridge made of 
buckwheat without milk, potatoes, rye bread, and buck- 
wheat pancakes without butter. If they are a little better 
off, they add milk and salt butter, and pork and cabbage 
two or three times a week. In Berri, Marche, Limousin, 
Auvergne, and the Cevennes, chestnuts are the staple diet 
of the rural population converted into a sort of porridge or 
paste and eaten hot. The fate of the peasant in his old 
age is often cruel. So long as the old man has not signed 
the deed of partition, he has the best seat by the fire ; no 
morsel is too choice for him. The moment it is signed, he 
is regarded as a burden ; he is sent out to beg with ragged 
clothes ; the sooner he dies the better. In fact, the French 
peasant is seldom far from the border-line of starvation ; all 
the product is consumed on the spot ; money is scarce, and 
famine periodical if not frequent. He is rarely well off 
unless he has other means of support. Many peasants in 
Belgium combine agricultural with other agricultural 
pursuits ; many in France are agricultural labourers for 
hire, and eke out their subsistence, as in the Alpes Mari- 
times, by moneta forestiere ; in Herault they are day 
labourers who till their own plots of land, or, as their patois 
expresses it, 'fo7it Vimperaoii ' out of working hours ; in 
Hautes-Pyrenees they hire themselves out for daily wages ; 
in Tarn-et-Garonne the pages, as the peasants are called, work 
in harvest times as estivandiers and solatiers ; in Auvergne 
the ground is tilled by old men, women, and children, while 
the able-bodied men work in large towns all the summer 
as porters and water-carriers ; so, too, the Limousin sup- 
plements the scanty produce of his land by wages earned 
in summer months as a bricklayer or stonemason. Yet, on 



138 PEASANT PKOPEIETOES 

the whole, the French peasant is less hopeless and more inde- 
pendent than the English labourer ; he possesses greater 
weight in the social scale. Arthur Young was no friend 
to peasant proprietors, but he says of those in the Isle of 
Axholme : ' Though they work like negroes, they are 
very happy respecting their mode of existence.' The lot 
of the French peasant is indisputably hard, his fare meagre, 
his cottage filthy, his standard of life and education often 
lamentably low. On the other hand, a peasant proprietary 
increases the number of those who have something to lose 
and nothing to gain by revolution, encourages habits of 
thrift and industry, gives the owner of land, however small 
his plot, a stake in the country, and a vested interest 
which guarantees his discharge of the duties of a citizen. 
Combined with the partage force, it checks population, for 
' la plupart des Normands n'ont pas lu Malthus, mais ils 
pratiquent instinctivement ses conseils.' 

No one will deny that the system of peasant proprietors 
is socially advantageous. It affords a training to the rural 
population for which we in England have found no substi- 
tute. It checks the centralisation of pauperism, the over- 
growth of population, and the migration into towns. The 
element of stability which it contributes to the State is 
more valuable to the French than ourselves. There the 
towns are inflammable as touchwood, while the country 
ignites more slowly. Yet even here it is useful to have a 
class of slow-thinking men, who will answer political fire- 
brands with ' Cela est bien, mais il faut cultiver notre 
jardin.' But, while conceding the advantages of a peasant 
proprietary, it is impossible to ignore the inseparable diffi- 
culties which beset its establishment in England. The 
poverty and misery or the wealth and happiness of French 
peasants are often exaggerated in the interests of poli- 



PEASANT PEOPEIETOES 13^ 

ticians or of theorists. The small owner is not superior to 
the ordinary conditions of agricultural success. He will 
not thrive wherever he is planted, or live on land which 
starves a rabbit. The chief conditions of his prosperity do 
not exist in England. We have no commons, no domestic 
industries, no union of agriculture with manufacture, no 
special crops for which his minute labour is peculiarly 
adapted. Some of these conditions can be created ; but 
it is well to bear in mind what is entailed in the establish- 
ment of a peasant proprietary, as well as to recognise the 
duties which such a system throws upon the State. 

Finally the example of France is often quoted to prove 
that a happy and contented peasant proprietary may be 
established by legislation. The illustration is unfortunate. 
In the fourteenth century peasant proprietors were nume- 
rous in the country, and on the whole increased continu- 
ously. In 1697, as Bois-Guillebert states in his ' Detail,' 
famine compelled them to sell the land which they had pain- 
fully acquired in the two preceding centuries. But this check 
was only temporary. Forbonnais points out that in 1750 
impoverished landlords sold their lands to their tenants, 
Necker states that there were in his time ' une immensite ' 
of peasant proprietors. Doniol (' Histoire des Classes ru- 
rales ') says that before the Revolution a quarter of the soil 
had passed into their hands. Arthur Young goes fvirther 
when he states that in 1787 a third of the land was tilled 
by peasant owners. The returns on which the land tax of 
1790 was based show that, in many districts, the number 
of proprietors then amounted to two-thirds of the land- 
owning population. It is a travesty of history to assert 
that the peasant proprietary of France w^as created by 
legislation, inasmuch as it was firmly established under the 
same land laws which existed in this country. 



140 PEASANT PKOPEIETORS 

On general grounds the proposition can hardly be dis- 
puted that an increase in the number of those who enjoy 
proprietary interests in the land is socially and politically, 
if not economically, advantageous. But the increase must 
be obtained by evolution, not revolution. For immediate 
relief of agricultural distress it is folly to look to peasant 
proprietorship. None of its advantages can be secured 
unless its growth is spontaneous. Habits of thrift, in- 
dustry, and sobriety are formed by centuries of custom and 
training — they will not spring up like mushrooms in a 
single night. State legislation opposed to natural laws is 
as effective as the Pope's bull against a comet. The dis- 
appearance of the class in England and its prevalence 
abroad result from gradual, well-ascertained causes. No 
argument for its artificial creation can be drawn from 
agrarian legislation on the Continent, while in every Euro- 
pean country it only exists side by side with landlordism. 
If it can be shown that the difficulty and expense of the 
transfer of land obstruct the natural growth of peasant 
proprietors, let the obstruction be removed. Its removal 
is on other grounds desirable. But the destruction of large 
estates and the creation of a class of small owners is a 
more than doubtful experiment of the legislature. Pea- 
sant proprietorship cannot be revived without a return to 
an extinct social system. Reduce population by one-half, 
revive domestic industries, return commons and wastes to 
their former barrenness, make the farmer independent of 
manufacture — in a word, restore the conditions of self- 
suflScing agriculture, and the peasant proprietor may still 
thrive. Under the present conditions of production, when 
crops must be sold as commodities for money, it is only 
under exceptional circumstances that the peasant owner 
maintains his ground. 



141 



CHAPTER XIII. 

LANDLORDS A NATURAL GROWTH. 

The case against nationalisation of land miglit be rested on 
the impracticable nature of the object for which it is de- 
manded. If the legislative introduction of a peasant pro- 
prietary is condemned as impossible, the broad features of 
the existing cultivation by landlords, tenant farmers, and 
wage-earning labourers must remain unchanged. But 
defenders of this system are challenged by the oft-repeated 
statement that landlords in this country are a parasitic 
growth. Although the State purchase, or nationalisation, 
of land is chiefly demanded for the creation of peasant pro- 
prietors, time will not be wasted by an attempt to prove 
the futility of this statement, which is continually used as 
a rhetorical point. 

In France the system of peasant owners and tenant 
farmers exists side by side, and is the outcome of natural 
causes and economic laws. France offers no parallel to 
the commercial exigencies which in England during the 
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries required the home pro- 
duction of wool, and evicted crowds of small farmers from 
the land to make room for the shepherd, his dog, and 
his flock. So, again, the population of France remained 
stationary, while that of England increased at the rate of 
geometrical progression ; the one country, confronted by 



142 LANDLOEDS A NATUEAL GEOWTH 

the practical problem of making bread and meat for the 
million, concentrated her energies on the wholesale pro- 
duction of corn and cattle ; the other, opposed by no such 
difficulty, developed a different system of land tenure and 
of farming. The effect of the French movement was to 
tighten the peasant's grasp upon the land, of the English 
to tear it from his clutch. 

In Belgium, as in France, the relations of landlord and 
tenant exist side by side with a peasant proprietary. In 
both countries the peasant owners are the growth of natu- 
ral laws. In Belgium the largest portion of the land and 
the most productive and fertile districts are held by tenant 
farmers. The ' Pays de Waes ' is not cultivated by small 
owners, but by tenants, who have for their landlords 
the little tradesmen of the towns. The poorest soils, such 
as the Campine or Luxembourg, are tilled by peasant pro- 
prietors. But even in the Campine the farmer ekes out 
his agricultural earnings by travelling over Europe as a 
pedlar in human Lair. 

Both the objects and results of agrarian legislation in 
Germany have been misinterpreted by English land agita- 
tors. Stein and his successors did not expropriate the land- 
lords, or deprive them of their land to create a peasant 
propiietary. Before 1807 land in Prussia was divided, 
like society, into three castes ; peasant land could not be 
exchanged for burgher land, or burgher land for noble. 
The old Teutonic communities occupied the greater part 
of the land, but the ownership was vested in the feudal 
barons. Peasants could not acquire more than the do- 
ntninium, utile ; the dominium directum belonged to the 
landlord. They were really serfs, fixed to the soil, irre- 
movable from the manor, holding their land by money 
rents and personal services. They enjoyed common rights 



LANDLORDS A NATUEAL GROWTH 143 

among themselves and usufructuary rights over the de- 
mesne. Thus, though the soil was divided into a number 
of individual properties, freehold ownership was practically 
unknown. The objects and results of Prussian agrarian 
legislation were to emancipate the peasant from serf- 
dom, release him from the manorial land, and abolish his 
personal services, to consolidate intersected estates and 
extinguish common rights. Landlords received as com- 
pensation for the release of their serfs a portion of the 
peasant lands; the peasant retained as freehold a diminished 
portion of the soil which he had occupied. The Legisla- 
ture in fact effected a compromise by an interchange of 
interests. Prussia remains to this day an example of that 
union of small, middle-sized, and large properties which is 
economically and socially the most advantageous organisa- 
tion. 

As with Prussia, so with other states in Germany. 
Between 1817 and 1848, in Baden, Wiirttemberg, Bavaria, 
and Hesse, the serfdom of the peasants was abolished by 
redemption of feudal services ; common rights were extin- 
guished, or so regulated as no longer to retard agricultural 
progress ; absolute individual ownership was substituted 
for common occupation by members of agrarian commu- 
nities ; landlords emerged from the transaction with an 
increased private estate, and peasants with a diminished 
but freehold property. 

The same legislation has produced with some varieties 
the same results both in Austria and in Russia, Nor was 
the legislation which is in Denmark associated with the 
name of Hansen and ' the peasant's friends ' of a more 
revolutionary character. Landlords abandoned their fiscal 
immunities and feudal rights, but retained their land. 
Each estate is now divided into demesne and peasant 



144 LANDLORDS A NATURAL GROWTH 

lands. Over his demesne tlie landlord's rights are unfet- 
tered ; he leases it to tenants by contracts which the State 
does not seek to control. But he may not increase this 
portion from the Bondergaard or peasant lands. The 
Bondergaard is occupied by peasants who rent from the 
landlord the land which they cultivate. When leases ex- 
pire, the landlord is bound to offer the farm at a fair rent. 
If no tenant accepts the farm, he may parcel it out among 
other peasant farmers, or let it in lots to the hired 
labourers, or absorb it in the demesne on giving an equiva- 
lent, or sell it to the peasant tenants. To encourage him 
in this latter course, he is allowed to annex to the demesne 
one-tenth of the peasant farni thus put up for sale. 

Throughout the Continent landlordism exists side by 
side with a peasant proprietary ; in no country has the 
State expropriated the landlords ; in none has the experi- 
ment been tried of an artificial creation of small owners. 
At the most the State has superintended and assisted the 
passage from primitive communism and mediaeval usufruct 
to individual ownership. All Teutonic nations started 
from the same agricultural basis ; in all feudalism was a 
universal feature ; in all the same conflict was waged be- 
tween the manor and the mark ; in all there has been the 
same transition from common to allodial property. In no 
country has the land been nationalised ; in all proprietary 
rights are acquired by private individuals ; the same sys- 
tem is at work in each, but the results are not identical. 
Both in England and on the Continent rights of ownership 
and of usufruct were once vested in different persons. 
Lords of the manor were lords of the soil, but their profit- 
able enjoyment of every portion except their demesne 
was limited by the usufructuary rights enjoyed by their 
tenants. When the primitive germs and natural laws of 



LANDLOKDS A NATURAL GEOWTH 145 

social development are tlius identical, it might be expected 
that results should prove analogous. If England appears 
to form an exception to rules of development which have 
elsewhere prevailed, the exception is rather apparent than 
real. The change which took place on the Continent 
within living memory commenced in England four centu- 
ries ago, and was practically completed before 1800. Its 
causes and progress have been already traced in consider- 
able detail.' On the Continent the land problem was 
solved by the light of the French Revolution ; in England 
it was determined while the spirit of feudalism still pre- 
dominated. Yet in Germany in 1810 the interests of the 
' Halb-Bauern ' were as much overlooked as those of cot- 
tagers in England during the sixteenth and eighteenth 
centuries. What England lost in one direction by the 
disappearance of a peasant proprietary she gained in 
another by that early start in the race of commercial pro- 
sperity which necessitated the extinction of small proprie- 
tors. The higher class of artisans represents the yeoman 
farmer, and its creation is the direct result of our land 
system. Neither nations nor individuals can eat their 
cake as well as keep it. Without large farms, capital, 
and increased production, it would have been impossible 
for England to feed her growing population, or to attain 
her commercial prosperity. No such economic necessity 
affected the agriculture of the Continent ; no industrial 
changes as yet revolutionised the conditions of foreign 
society. Buffon's maxim, ' A cote d'un pain il nait un 
homme,' still held good on the Continent, when, in Eng- 
land, population trode on the heels of production, and 
when peasants were no longer born to the bread on which 
they lived, but were suddenly required to furnish food for 

» See Chapters II., III., VII., and IX. 

L 



146 LANDLOEDS A NATURAL GROWTH 

vast centres of manufacturing industry. Abroad popula- 
tion remained stationary ; the habits of the people con- 
tinued to be agricultural ; manufacturing classes were 
comparatively unknown. Consequently, on the Continent, 
farming retained its self-sufficing character, and the agra- 
rian communities, which belonged to primitive conditions 
of society, outlived the decay of feudalism. 

In England the security, if not the profit, of the invest- 
ment, together with the social and political advantages 
which once attached to the possession of land, stimulated 
capitalists to lay field to field, and those yeomen who still 
owned the soil either consulted their pecuniary interests 
by selling their estates, or were . compelled by the wide- 
spread ruin of the first half of the present century to relax 
their hold upon the land. The result is that the whole 
number of landowners, properly so called, in England and 
Wales scarcely exceeds at the present time 170,000 per- 
sons. No one contends that such a condition of things 
is sound or healthy. But the difficulty of resisting the 
natural tendency to accumulate land is forcibly illustrated 
by the report of a Land Commission recently published in 
the United States. Statistics show that, in a country 
where estates in fee tail are obsolete or abolished by law, 
where there is no feudal tenure, no primogeniture, no 
privileged class — in a country, finally, where the transfer 
of land is simple, easy, and cheap— large estates and large 
farms have become the rule. The United States contain 
more tenant farmers than any other country in the world, 
and, where this class exists, those who do the drudgery do 
not own the land. Land monopoly is becoming the system 
of America. 

The course of agricultural history in England has on 
the w-hole been governed by natural economic laws ; its 



LANDLOEDS A NATURAL GROWTH 147 

present condition is the result of gradual well-ascertained 
causes. But the record of the growth of large estates is 
not so free from the taint of oppression that landlords can 
appeal with entire confidence to their moral title-deeds. 
The paucity of their numbers, and the exceptional nature 
of their position and property, should add no element of 
insecurity to their possessions ; yet they warn landlords to 
think less of their rights than their duties ; they render it 
essential that no individual should fall below the hiarhest 
standard of the class. It is inconceivable that any serious 
attack upon legal rights of property should be sanctioned 
by the law-abiding English nation. No more fatal blow 
could be struck at that national credit upon which our 
very existence depends. There is nothing in the examples 
of foreign legislation, there is still less in the history of 
the growth of English landed property, to justify the State 
in violently forcing back or putting forward the clock of 
social progress, in defying the natural laws of agricultural 
development, in arbitrarily replacing the peasantry of the 
country in a position which the majority abandoned nearly 
four centuries ago, and for the surrender of which com- 
pensation was, in most cases, oflered and accepted. Even 
if State interference were in theory so justified, practical 
experience does not invariably encourage a repetition of 
the experiment. Foreign precedents cannot be accepted 
when favourable and rejected when adverse. In Greece 
the rent to the State was from the first repudiated ; in 
Belgium the tenants always regarded themselves a,s State 
pensioners. Nor is the failure confined to foreign coun- 
tries. At Snigs End and Minster Lovell the experiment 
was tried after the Chartist movement. It cannot be said 
to have succeeded. If it is to be repeated on a large scale, 
we may once more witness the spectacle of tillers of the 

L 2 



148 LANDLOEDS A NATUEAL GEOWTH 

soil setting up perches for rabbits to roost upon. If 
economic laws, precedents, history, experience, national 
justice, and national security still weigh for anything with 
the legislature, the conversion of the State into a land 
agency for the immediate and artificial creation of a 
peasant proprietary may be dismissed to the limbo of 
crude panaceas and unpractical theories. 

Nor should it be forgotten, in the interest of landlords, 
that all the improvements in English agriculture, which 
have given us, speaking generally, an undisputed supre- 
macy in the art of farming, have been effected by private 
capital and individual enterprise. In these days of com- 
petition, agriculture must advance or retrograde. Peasant 
proprietors cannot conduct expensive experiments or invest 
money in the improvement of stock. If the State creates 
a class of small owners, it must be at the same time pre- 
pared to assume the expenses which have hitherto fallen 
on private individuals. In France, for instance, where a 
peasant proprietary exists, the State stands in the place of 
the landlords. Where properties are large State inter- 
ference is rarely necessary, because enlightened self-interest 
generally coincides with public policy. But among amass 
of ignorant, small owners, minute, isolated policies prevail, 
and the State alone regards larger interests. In the 
eighteenth'century, the existence, not merely the commerce, 
of England imperatively demanded large holdings, owned 
by capitalist landlords, and let to capitalist tenants. By 
this means only, when no foreign pi'oduce supplemented 
native resources, could the soil supply food for its vast 
population. France has felt no such overwhelming pres- 
sure of population ; no inexorable law of demand and 
supply has divorced her peasantry from the soil. In Eng- 
land, for public purposes, the State favoured the growth 



LANDLOEDS A NATUKAL GROWTH 149 

of a small class of capitalist landlords. In Frajice the State 
sacrificed the few to the many, and promoted the increase 
of small owners standing on the border-line of pauperism. 
In England the State has left agricultural improvement 
to private enterprise ; in France she supplies out of the 
pockets of the taxpayers the capital and direction in 
which her land system is deficient. If the present system 
is abolished in England, the State must not only undertake 
the expenditure of the landlord, but make the outlay of 
the tenant farmer. Peasant proprietors are, in fact, costly 
exotics, which, in their present surroundings, can only be 
reared with a certain loss to the community in the general 
productiveness of the land, a deterioration in their own 
standard of comfort, and a perpetual expense to the tax- 
payer. 

A glance at some of the leading features of the French 
system of State aid to agriculture will bring home the 
difficulty of creating a peasant proprietary to the breeches- 
pockets, if not the consciences, of legislators. 

Elementary agriculture is taught in primary schools, 
where children learn to distinguish between plants, grasses, 
and soils ; often a plot of ground is attached to the school 
which serves as an experimental farm. The school teachers 
are supplied with training in the subject by departmental 
professors, who, under the direction of the Minister of 
Education, give courses of lectures in the ecoles narmales 
The rest of the system of agricultural education falls under 
the department of the Minister of Agriculture. Three 
classes of schools are provided: — (1) the fermes-ecoles ; 
(2) the ecoles i^ratiques ; (3) the ecoles nationales. The 
fennes-ecoles are numerous and useful ; among them 
are those of Trois-Croix, near Rennes ; St.-Gauthier, at 
Domfront ; St. -Mich el (Nievre) ; Nolhac (Haute-Loire). 



150 LANDLOEDS A NATUKAL GROWTH 

Many of these primary agricultural schools were founded 
by private enterprise after the Restoration, but in October, 
1848, they were recognised as part of the administra- 
tive system of the State. Lads enter these schools as 
apprentices, not as pupils. They must not be over sixteen 
at the time of entrance ; they are fed and treated as 
labourers ; they go through a course of two or three years, 
and at the end leave the school with a certificate which 
qualifies them to act as bailiffs. If they show decided 
aptitude, they may obtain a bursary at one of the ecoles 
nationales. The yearly cost of each farm pupil to the 
State is lOL ; the State also defrays the expenses of the 
salary of the director and his assistants. The director 
obtains the labour of the pupil for nothing, and manages 
the farm for his own profit and at his own risk. The 
ecoles pratuiues are assisted and superintended by the 
State. It was intended that there should be one school 
in each of the twelve regions into which France is agri- 
culturally divided. These agricultural high schools are 
designed for the sons of the wealthier class of cultivators. 
The cost is from 400 francs to 500 francs a year. The 
pupils learn practical agi'iculture and the elements of 
physics, chemistry, natural history, botany, veterinary 
science, and stock-breeding. They have not proved par- 
ticularly successful ; the best known is that of Merchines 
(Meuse). The three ecoles nationales are placed in the 
centres of three districts of France. They are Grignon, 
near Versailles (He de France) ; Grand Jouan, near Nozay 
(Loire-Inferieure) ; Montpellier (Herault), formerly La 
Saulsaie (Ain). All three schools were founded before the 
Second Empire — -Grignon in 1827, Grand Jouan in 1832, 
La Saulsaie in 1840. The course of instruction at Grignon 
lasts two and a half years ; and each year is divided into 



LANDLOEDS A NATUEAL GEOWTH 151 

two terms, the first from October to March 15, the second 
from March 15 to August. All the pupils are obliged to 
pass the entrance examination, unless they have previously 
taken the degree of Bachelier es-Sciences. They may be 
either externes or internes. The externes pay 200 francs a 
year for their lectures ; the internes pay from 1 ,000 francs 
to 1,200 francs for their 'pension and lectures. There are 
bursaries in each of the three colleges, which are filled up 
in open competition among the pupils of the farm schools. 
The Institut Agronomique, which crowns the fabric, forms 
a faculty of agriculture. 

Besides these schools in the general practice and 
science of agriculture, there are special schools, such as 
the sheep farm at Rambouillet, the gardening establish- 
ment at Versailles, the school of drainage and irrigation 
at Lezardeau, near Quimperle, the three veterinary schools 
of Lyons, Alfort, and Toulouse, and the ecoles cle dressage 
like that near Caen. In 1879 departmental professors 
were appointed, whose duties are twofold. Under the 
direction of the Minister of Education, they lecture at the 
normal schools to pupils who are being trained as school- 
masters ; under the instructions of the Minister of Agri- 
culture, they hold conferences with the agriculturists, 
teachers, and proprietors of each canton, perambulate all 
the country villages to observe agricultural processes, 
keep in touch the various local societies, and spread the 
knowledge of improvements. By the law of June 16, 
1879, each department is to be provided with a professor, 
and their agricultural duties were minutely defined in a 
circular of M. Tirard in 1881. 

Agricultural shows amd competitions as well as horse- 
races are encouraged by the State. The great central 
show is held at Paris ; but, for the promotion of provincial 



152 LANDLOEDS A NATUEAL GEOWTR 

competitions, the whole country is divided into twelve 
regions, Algiers forming a thirteenth. These concours 
regionaux are under the direction of the State, which 
gives the prizes and pays the expenses of the judges. 
Agricultural societies have been formed under State 
patronage for the departments, the arrondissements, and 
even for the cantons. Veterinary science is a subject to 
which the State pays great attention. A veterinary 
officer is attached to each arrondissement, who has passed 
through the four years' course at one of the three veteri- 
nary schools, and has received the diploma entitling him 
to practise. His powers are considerable. All the 
foreign livestock is subjected to a veterinary examina- 
tion at one of the points at which it is permitted to be 
imported, and only sound animals enter the country. 
Internally, the existing law contains most stringent 
provisions for the slaughter of infected cattle. State 
indemnities are granted to owners of slaughtered animals. 
The State interests itself in the breeding of horses, cattle, 
and sheep. The Ministry of Agriculture contains, for 
instance, a Directeur des Haras, who has under him 
inspectors general and inspectors. At the Haras du Pin 
there is a free school, in which is taught every detail 
connected with the management of horses. There are 
twenty-one depots of the great Haras de Pompadour ; and 
more than 2,500 stallions are placed at the disposal of the 
owners of mares. 

Nor is the State aid confined to education and the 
improvement in livestock. Each arrondissement has its 
Ingenieur des Ponts et Chaussees, who assists proprietors 
in all drainage operations. In each arrondissement again 
there is the agent roijer^ who inspects the roads of the dis- 
trict in his care. There are three different classes of roads. 



LANDLORDS A NATURAL GROWTH 153 

tlie chemin vicinal, clejMrtemental, and national. The first 
class is kept in repair by the Communes, the second by the 
Department, the third by the State. It is the duty of the 
road overseer to assess the expenses of the repairs. 

Lastly, the State assists works of irrigation, reclama- 
tion, and similar improvements, indirectly through the 
Credit Foncier, and directly with subventions and loans. It 
has facilitated means of transport, subventioned the erec- 
tion of bridges in place of the old ferries, assisted canals, 
railways, and roads. It has aided in works of irrigation like 
those of Verdon, near Aix, St. Martory (Haute-Garonne), 
Lagoin (Basses-Pyr§nees), La Bourne, near Valence. It 
has helped to improve barren wastes by such means as 
winter submersions in the valleys of the Durance, the Arc, 
and the Isere. It has attempted to replant the forests, 
and so check the ruinous floods so common in the moun- 
tainous districts of the Alps. It has assisted in the re- 
clamation of La Sologne, the barren tract of heath and 
furze or sandy wastes diversified with marshy ponds, which 
formerly belonged to the Orleanais, and now makes up 
part of the Departments of the Loir-et-Cher, the Cher, and 
the Loiret. Thirty years ago this district was a desolate 
thinly populated plain, soppy as a sponge in winter, dry as 
a cinder in the summer, and so unhealthy that the average 
length of human life was only twenty-seven years, inhabited 
by a stunted race whose stupidity passed into the prover- 
bial saying of ' un niais de Sologne.' The State set on foot 
drainage works, cleaned out the watercourses, introduced 
marl, planted pines, and set an example which has been 
followed by many proprietors. So, too, it has aided to 
drain the district of the Dombes (Ain), where grass alter- 
nates with water and cattle with fish, and to bring into 
cultivation the landes of Gascony by pine plantations. 



154 LANDLOEDS A NATURAL GROWTH 

Are Englisli taxpayers prepared to pay several millions 
every year in order to try an experiment whicli, economi- 
cally at least, is of doubtful utility, and would probably 
result in establishing as tbe real proprietor, not the agri- 
cultural labourer, but the city money-lender ? 



155 



CHAPTER XIV. 



DISTRIBUTION OF LAND. 

If the State acquisition of the land and its arbitrary re- 
distribution among the class of peasant proprietors be 
rejected as an extravagant and impossible plan, the broad 
features of the existing system of land ownership, occu- 
pation, and cultivation must remain unchanged. What 
are the conditions of that system ? 

The total acreage ^ of England and Wales under all 
kinds of crops, bare fallow, and grass was, in 1887, 
27,753,207 acres. 

The New Domesday Book^ shows that there are 
972,836 proprietors of land in England and Wales, hold- 
ing between them 33,013,510 acres. These figures may 
be thus analysed : — 



Class of Owners 


Number of 
Owners 


Acreage of their 
lands 


Owning over 50,000 acres . 

„ between 50,000 and 5,000acres. 

„ „ 5,000 „ 1,000 „ 

1,000 „ 100 „ 

„ „ 100 „ 10 „ 

10 „ 1 „ 

Under one acre 


4 

870 

4,535 

37,116 

98,479 

121,983 

703,289 


376,500 

8,990,500 

9,328,500 

10,145,000 

3,541,700 

478,680 

151,170 



But the returns in the New Domesday are incorrect 

' Appendix XI. gives the statistical returns of the crops of England 
and "Wales for 1867, 1877, and 1887, and, for purposes of comparison, 
four other estimates of thedates respectively of 1688, 1771,1808,and 1827. 

- Moved for by Lord Derby in the House of Lords, February 1872. 
Compiled, 1874-5. 



156 



DISTKIBUTION OF LAND 



and misleading ; and the following analysis ^ gives a more 
reliable answer as to the conditions of land ownership in 
England and Wales : — 

(1) 4,217 persons own, in estates of over 1,000 acres, 

18,546,000 acres. 

(2) 33,937 persons own, in estates of between 1,000 

and 100 acres, 8,927,000 acres. 

(3) 217,009 persons own, in estates of between 100 

and 1 acres, 3,931,000 acres. 

(4) 14,419 public bodies own 1,443,500 acres. 

(5) 703,200 persons own, in holdings of under 1 acre, 

151,000 acres. 
But even this result leaves a false impression, if it is 
forgotten that it applies not merely to agricultural but to 
building: land. The number of owners of aofricultural land 



Nwiriber, Acreage, Average Size, 


and Nv/mher of Horses and Livestock 






ENG- 
LAND 




PROPOR- 
TIONAL 
No. per cent. 


ACREAGE 
cultural 
in each 


NUMBER OF AGRICULTURAL HOLDINGS 




^ 


in each class 


No. 


No. 


Eng. 


Wales 


England 




*0f ^ of an acre and under 1 acre . 


21,069 


1,083 


5-08 


1-80 


9,988 




*0f 1 acre and not exceed- 














ing 5 acres . 


103,229 


11,044 


24-88 


18-35 


286,526 




Above 5 acres „ „ 20 „ . 


109,285 


17.389 


26-34 


28-89 


1,219,663 




„ 20 „ „ „ 50 „ . 


61,146 


12,326 


14-74 


20-48 


2,04-2,370 




„ 50 „ „ „ 100 „ . 


44,803 


10,044 


10-82 


16-69 


3,285,350 




„ 100 „ „ „ 300 „ . 


59,180 


7,844 


14-26 


13-03 


10,285,988 




„ 300 „ „ „ 600 „ . 


11,452 


389 


2-76 


0-65 


4,328,722 




„ 500 „ „ „ 1000 „ . 


4,131 


63 


-99 


-10 


2,697,794 




„ 1000 acres 


665 


8 


•13 


-01 


735,138 




Total 


414,950 


60,190 


100.00 


100-00 


24,891,539 





Compiled from the Agri- 
* Probabl}' many of these small holdings are also 

' See English Land and English Landlords, by the Hon. G. Brodrick, 
London, 1881, 8vo ; and The Great Landonners of Great Britain and 
Ireland, by John Batenian, 4th edition, London, 1883, 8vo. 



DISTKIBUTION OF LAND 



157 



is far smaller. Thus 4,217 persons own half the land of 
England and Wales ; and an amount exceeding the culti- 
vated area of the country, or over 28 million acres, is the 
property of 38,000 persons. 

English land laws, prior to 1882, combined with social 
and economic causes to lessen the number and increase 
the size of landed properties. At the same time small 
farms decreased in number, as they were consolidated 
and thrown together to economise management and uti- 
lise machinery. The census for 1881 gives the number 
of tenant farmers at 223,943. But a fuller answer to the 
question — ' How is the land occupied ? ' will be supplied by 
the following table. Though the average size of holdings 
in England and Wales is only 53 acres, yet 19 millions 
out of the 27 million cultivated acres, or rather more than 

on each Class of Agricultural Holding in England and Wales in 1885. 





of agri- 
holding 
class 


AVERAGE 
SIZE of 

holding in 
each class 


No. of HORSES 

iu each class of 

holding 


No. of CATTLE 

in each class of 

holding 


No. of SHEEP 

in each class of 

holding 


11^ 




Wales 


Eng. 


Wales 


England 


Wales 


England 


Wales 


England 


Wales 


England 
and Wales 




530 

34,532 

200,169 

420,482 

735,671 

1,233.374 

143,623 

39,793 

10,378 


1 

2 

Hi 

33* 

73i 

1731 

378 

653 

130U 


h 

H 

Uh 

34 

73i 

157i 

369i 

631| 

1296i 


21,259 

68,250 

107,897 

160,755 

446,260 

164,996 

90,041 

19,410 


1,837 

9,3-27 

24,049 

39,562 

57,768 

5,494 

1,082 

242 


85,910 
383,574 
554,941 
750,165 
1.908,372 
645,0111 
301,224 

60,343 


13,955 
69,253 

1-24,027 

189,820 

276,114 

28,181 

5,527 

1,214 


85,730 

385,248 

905.771 

1,673,057 

6.469,357 

3,670,977 

2,784,094 

792,620 


21,947 

106,102 

489,602 

770,948 

1,100,444 

137,883 

43,170 

12,26-2 


155,048 
303,474 
298,724 
353,770 
754,386 
225,010 
114,836 
, 21,504 




2,818,547 


60 


46| 


l,078,868|lo9,461 


4,689,545 


708,091 


16,766,854 


2,742,358 2,226,752 



cultural Returns of 1886. 

included in the field allotments (see Appendix XIV.). 



two-thirds, are occupied in holdings ranging from 100 
acres to upwards of 1,000 acres. The land thus owned 



158 DISTEIBUTION OF LA.ND 

and occupied was in 1881 tilled by 870,798 agricultural 
labourers.' 

These conditions may be contrasted with the analysis 
drawn up by Gregory King,^ the Lancaster Herald, of the 
population of the country in 1688. King calculated the 
total nuraber of families at 1,349,586. Of this total 
number more than three-fourths were directly connected 
with agriculture, and three-fifths of the agriculturists 
enjoyed proprietary interests in the soil. The figures of 
early statisticians cannot be implicitly relied on; but 
whatever allowance is made for errors, the contrast is 
startling enough. Up to the commencement of the 
eighteenth century it was rare to see ' one only master 
grasp the whole domain.' ^ 

The most marked peculiarity of English land tenure is 
the small number of landlords, tenants, and labourers. 
At the present crisis this system has aj)parently collapsed, 
and failure is not unnaturally commonly attributed to its 
distinguishing feature. During the past fourteen years dis- 

• In England and Wales, in the reign of Elizabeth, there were three 
million agriculturists to one million non-agriculturists. In the years 
of Protection 1801-41 the agriculturists were (1811) 3.5 per cent., 
(1821) 33 per cent., (1831) 28 per cent., (1841) 22 per cent, of the 
population. Now barely one-fifth of the population [26 millions, 1881] 
are engaged in agriculture. In France, in 18.51, the industrial classes 
numbered 83 per cent, of the total population, and of these 56 per cent, 
were engaged in agriculture. In 1876 the industrial population had 
risen to 90 per cent., and 53 per cent, were agriculturists. 

- See Appendix VII. Census Returns, Table 1. 

^ In 1862 M. de Lavergne calculated that in France 37^ million 
acres were owned by 50,000 owners, whose estates averaged 750 acres ; 
37| millions by 500,000 owners, whose estates averaged 75 acres ; 37J 
millions by 5,000,000, who held properties averaging 7^ acres. In other 
words, one-third of the land was held by 50,000 owners, one-third by 
500,000, one-third by 5,000,000. The statement is too neat to be 
absolutely true. But it is remarkably confirmed by the most recent 
estimates. See Edinhurgh Review (Oct. 1887), 'Rural France.' 



DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 159 

tress has gradually increased in intensity, till it has ruined 
hundreds of landlords and tenant farmers. The stress of 
foreign competition falls with increasing force upon rents 
as the screw continues to tighten. With every turn of 
the screw the pressure becomes more intolerable for those 
landowners who are required to meet fixed charges from 
dwindling revenues. Their sufierings are none the less 
real because they are unexpressed. At a low estimate 
land has depreciated in letting value 35 per cent. ; and a 
competent authority, Lord Derby, has computed the aggre- 
gate loss of the landlords at 300 millions sterling. The 
sufferings of tenant farmers rise more rapidly to the 
surface because the land is, as a rule, their only source of 
income. The last report of the Royal Agricultural 
Benevolent Institution affords significant proof of the 
reality of the distress. Upwards of 400 farmers, who had 
recently cultivated holdings varying from 100 to 1,000 
acres, were applicants for relief. The same ruin now 
attacks the agricultural labourer. As the area of corn 
cultivation contracts, and land grows grass instead of 
grain, the economical transition means the destitution, if 
not the starvation, of thousands. 

The facts are patent, but they do not necessarily 
result from any defect in the existing tenure or cultivar 
tion of the land. Their causes must be sought elsewhere. 
In the past, 'large landlords and large farmers won for 
England, directly or indirectly, the first place both in 
manufacture and agriculture. Nor is it only yesterday 
that they did good service to the State. Our system 
admits abuses and lacks elasticity ; but capitalist landlords 
have proved the saviours, not the ruin, of farming. It is 
this class which to-day has saved England from the horrors 
which accompany distress in Ireland, and English land- 



160 DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 

lords have, voluntarily and by private bargain, offered 
reductions which law has there enforced. In this country 
the worst cultivated and most highly rented soil, and the 
most beggarly farm buildings, are found on the estates of 
small investors. If the numbers of this latter class were 
larger, distress would be proportionately increased, and 
their wretched dependents might as well hope to suck 
honey from flint as to obtain generous consideration of 
their distress. The blow has fallen upon the wealthy 
classes, not upon those who in ignorance resort to agrarian 
outrage. Nor has the country failed to profit by the 
losses of individuals. Diminished rentals do not mean a 
corresponding increase in the wealth of foreign producers. 
The greater part of the 300 millions that landed pro- 
prietors have lost is distributed among the toiling millions 
of our great cities. Schedule D of the income tax,' 
which includes all trades and professions, proves that 
within the past ten years the number of incomes ranging 
from 150/. to 500Z. a year has grown 21 per cent. The 
public servants and salaried employes of private houses of 
business have increased 50 per cent. Estates paying 
probate duty below 5,000/. are more numerous; the 
capital of registered companies shows an increase of 90 
per cent., but, while the number of shareholders has risen, 
the average amount of their holdings has fallen; the 
number of insurance policies has grown steadily, but the 
sums insured are smaller; the number of depositors in 
savings banks has increased, and the deposits per head 
are less; the insurance companies of the poor have 
enormously extended their business. These facts minister 
cold comfort to impoverished landlords and ruined tenants, 

' See presidential address of the Right Hon. G. J. Goschen before 
the Statistical Society, December 6, 1887. 



DISTEIBUTION OF LAND 161 

but, in striking the balance of profit and loss, they cannot 
be overlooked. 

Under other systems of land tenure than our own, ruin 
is widely spread. Everywhere the pressure of foreign 
competition is severely felt, but in other countries it is 
accompanied by demands for relief which it is impossible 
to resist and mischievous to concede. Advocates of a 
peasant proprietary belong, as a rule, to the party which is 
most deeply pledged to a Free Trade policy. Do they 
reflect that foreign experience shows their economical and 
agricultural theories to be opposed ? The agricultural 
labourer has hiblierto supported Free Trade ; transform 
him into a small farmer, and you make him a Protec- 
tionist. From this, as well as from every other point of 
view, it is assuredly no time to hazard agrarian experi- 
ments, which can only succeed under exceptional combina- 
tions of favourable circumstances. 

In many respects the existing relations of landlords^ 
tenants, and aofricultural labourers, mi»ht be advantaoce- 
ously modified. But the true lesson to be drawn from the 
small numbers directly interested in land is not that the 
existing system is to blame for the collapse, not that the 
three profits are necessarily doomed, but that the day has 
passed for legislation which favours a few producers at the 
expense of millions of consumers. In France one half, in 
England barely one fifth, of the total population are en- 
gaged in agriculture. The English landed interests waste 
their strength if they struggle for relief in the form of 
Protection, or the reduction of the tithe rent-charge. 
What chance have 38,000 landlords and 224,000 farmers 
of persuading twenty millions to pay 6d. for a loaf of bread 
which they can now purchase for 4^c/. ? For every one 

M 



162 DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 

who says bread is too cheap there are a hundred who find 
it too dear. Or what prospect has this same handful of 
persons of appropriating to their own use funds the re- 
version of which belongs, under remote and doubtful, but 
not impossible, contingencies, to the nation as a whole ? 



163 



CHAPTER XV. 

PROTECTION AND TITHE RENT-CHARGE. 

Historically 1 Protection is associated with a period of 
prolonged and unprecedented distress, with agricultural 
gambling and reckless speculation in land, with bank- 
ruptcy and insolvency of farmers, with the degradation 
and pauperism of agricultural labourers, with high prices 
and extravagant poor-rates, with incendiarism and starva- 
tion, with hunger made and perpetuated by law in the 
interests of a single industry. This was the price which 
the nation paid for artificial rents and artificial prices. 

There once lived a philosopher, who, seeing that he 
had scratched out both his eyes in a quickset hedge, de- 
termined 

To jump into a bramble bush 

And scratch them ui again. 

His example is urged by Protectionists, not only upon the 
nursery, but upon the nation generally. 

A black mark is set against Protection in the memory 
of consumers in this country ; the system itself is also dis- 
credited by comparative failure on the Continent. It is 
established in France and Germany ; "^ but import duties 
do not enable farmers to grow wheat at a profit. In Ger- 
many, as has been said, farmers have only gained by 

1 See Chapter IX. 

- See Appendix XII., Return of prices of wheat in France, Belgium, 
and Prussia. 

u 2 



164 PROTECTION AND TITHES 

Protection, because the Government applies the revenue- 
which it yields to the reduction of local burdens on farm- 
ing industries. From France comes the same tale. 
France had always preserved an import duty of 60 cen- 
times the quintal on foreign wheat, and of 1 fr. 20 c. on 
foreign flour. In December, 1884, the Chamber of Depu- 
ties decided to propose import duties not only on wheat 
and flour, but on oats, rye, barley, and malt, which had 
been hitherto imported free. In spite of strong protests, the 
policy of Protection was finally adopted in 1885. The 
duty on foreign wheat was fixed at 5s. Sd. the quarter, 
and 25 francs per head was charged on all foreign cattle. 
M. Tirard, the present Premier, was then Minister of Fi- 
nance, and the Ministry promised increased duties if 
agriculture did not improve. The pledge has been kept ; 
the duty on foreign wheat was raised to 8s. 9d. in 1887, 
and other duties in proportion. It may be added that 
France annually imports eight million quarters of grain. 
The recently published reports by English Consuls at 
French ports show that 5s. 3d. per quarter was an in- 
adequate duty. At Bordeaux duties on foreign cattle 
have not raised the prices of live stock, which, within 
the last two years, fell from 6 to 8 per cent., and the 
same remark applies to cereals. Near La Rochelle corn 
does not pay, live stock sells cheaper at each successive 
fair, markets are overstocked with fruit and vegetables. 
Peasant owners must either sell their land or be sup- 
ported by the nation. They will undoubtedly choose 
the latter alternative, and the next elections will be 
decided on the cry for increased protection. In the 
Brest district rents are unpunctually paid, and peasant 
proprietors are falling hopelessly into debt. Bound 
Havre import duties have not raised the price of cereals. 



PROTECTION AND TITHES 165 

In the neighbourhood of Boulogne and Dunkirk prices 
both of corn and cattle have fallen. On the other hand, 
the important grain trade of Marseilles is suffering severely 
from the Protectionist policy. The obvious result of 
Protection is to decrease both exports and imports of 
agricultural produce ; but the example of France shows 
that import duties have not raised the prices of wheat and 
beef, which are lower than when the duties were first 
imposed. The fault is that the duty is not large enough, 
and it may be confidently anticipated that it will be 
shortly raised from 8s. 9d. to at least 12s. a quarter.' 

The result of English and foreign experience on the 
subject of Protection is universally this. Import duties 
ruin the grain trade of seaport towns, but they do not 
necessarily raise the home price of wheat, because they 
stimulate over-production at home. In England from 
1820-48, in France and Germany from 1885 to 1887, 
wheat did not rise, but rather fell, in consequence of the 
exclusion of foreign competition. Farmers cut their own 
throats by increasing their breadths of corn cultivation. 
Hence, if protection is advocated as a remedy for low 
prices, it fails to produce the desired result, and the cry is 
raised for higher duties. It is probable that nothing short 
of a duty of 20s. a quarter would raise home prices to the 
point at which wheat would become profitable ; and if 
bread rose to G^cL, this price means an income tax of 
at least Is. a week on the wages of labour. 

Everyone now regrets that Mr. Gladstone, in 1869, 

took off the Is. duty on corn, which did not keep out a 

single quarter of wheat or raise the price of bread a 

' In Germany the demand of agriculturists for increased Protection 
seriously embarrasses the political action of the Government. Austria 
and Hungary export quantities of wheat and flour to Germany, which 
the agrarian party desire to exclude by doubling the existing duty. 



166 PKOTECTION AND TITHES 

farthing ; in the seventeen years that have since elapsed, 
this economic pedantry has cost the nation nearly twelve 
million pounds ; and once taken off it cannot be put on 
again. It is not denied that import duties, if they are 
high enough, would benefit farmers, or that the stimulus 
which they would give to arable farming would indirectly 
prove advantageous to agricultural labourers. But wheat 
cannot, it is said, be grown at a profit under 40^. Is 
an import duty of 20s. likely to be obtained, or, if 
granted, is it large enough to succeed ? Both questions 
must be answered in the negative. Fair traders are not 
likely to embarrass the question of taxing manufactured 
articles with the unpopular demand for the taxation of 
raw necessaries of life. Bread is the exclusive food of 
thousands ; its cheapness cannot be diminished in the face 
of trade depression ; it is the very last article which any 
Government can venture to tax, for the charge falls on the 
very poor. Agriculturists will only prove the catspaws 
of manufacturers if they swell the cry for Fair Trade. It 
is useless to ask for what, in all human probability, can 
never be granted. The consumers, and not the producers, 
of bread and meat now govern public opinion. The 
landed interests would, it is submitted, be wiser to 
concentrate all their strength upon obtaining pecuniary 
relief from foreign competition, not by raising the price 
of bread and meat, but by shifting a portion of the load 
of taxation which burdens real property to the shoulders 
of personalty. The effect of an import duty is to counter- 
balance existing taxes upon land ; if those taxes them- 
selves are lightened, the same object is effected in a less 
objectionable manner. 

Tithe rent-charge difficulties are less obviously, but 
not less vitally, affected by the numerical inferiority of 



PKOTECTION AISD TITHES 167 

the landed interests. Fifty years ago agricultural depres- 
sion raised an agitation against tithes. It was said, with 
great force, that tithes upon produce discouraged and 
retarded agricultural progress at a moment when the 
rapid growth of population rendered it necessary to de- 
velope to the full all the resources of the soil. One 
among many of its evil effects was to prevent the plough- 
ing up of pasture land. A Parliament of landlords 
listened favourably to the cry. The gross tenth of the 
annual produce of titheable land on the average, taken 
from 1829 to 1835, was 6,756,105Z. But the sum at 
which it was commuted was 4,053,663?. In other words, 
40 per cent, of the gross tenth went at once into the 
pockets of the landlords. Besides this, they also received 
all that portion of the increased value of the produce of 
the land which, prior to 1836, would have fallen to the 
Church, and which Sir J. Caird, in 1877, estimated, at 
two million pounds a year. Tithe rent-charge stood still 
while rentals rose ; it was in 1836 as 4 millions to 
33 millions (or more probably 28 millions); in 1877 it 
was 4^ millions to 51 millions. Thus the gain which 
landowners received from the Tithe Commutation Act 
of 1836 must be measured by many millions. 

In 1887, as in 1836, under the pressure of agricul- 
tural distress, the cry against tithe rent-charge is 
renewed. But times and tempers are entirely changed. 
Landed interests no longer rale supreme in Parliament, 
and it cannot now be said that the charge retards and 
discourages agricultural progress, for it falls on the land 
and not on the produce. The agitation takes the shape 
of a demand for its revaluation, that is to say, its reduc- 
tion. It is said that tithe rent-charge has become a 
disproportionate burden, and must be readjusted, or, 



168 PKOTECTION AND TITHES 

without circumlocution, must be cut down to relieve 
landlords and tenants. In the first place, the Act of 1836 
was designed to fix proportions not between rent-charges 
and the value of the land out of which they issued, but 
between rent-charges and their purchasing power in coin, 
to commute tithe of produce in kind for variable money 
payments charged upon the land, and maintain existing 
relations between values of titheable produce and prices 
of living. So far as the Act has failed, it has failed 
because it has not guarded the interests of tithe-owners. 
In the second place, even if the real issue was whether 
the tithe rent-charge is disproportionate to the value of 
land and ought to be readjusted, the factors in the 
question are the relations which the charge bears to the 
rentals of 1829-35 and 1 887, not those which it bore to the 
rentals of 1870-80. Those who bought land fifteen years 
ago purchased unprofitable bargains, and undoubtedly 
the tithe rent-charge has not decreased proportionately to 
their rentals. But this fact, though it may elicit sympathy, 
is beside the mark. The question is — does the tithe rent- 
charge at 3^ millions bear a relation to the rental of 1887 
disproportionate to that which it bore at four millions to 
the rental of 1836 ? The answer can only be in the 
negative. Assume that rentals in 1 887 have fallen to the 
figure at which they stood in 1836, and no one can 
pretend that they have fallen below twenty-eight millions, 
there still remains a considerable margin in favour of 
the tithe-owner.* 

' Sir James Caird takes 33 millions as the amount of rental in 1S36. 
If this figure had been arrived at by Sir James himself, it would com- 
mand acceptance upon Ms authority. But it appears that. Sir James 
adopted it from the Encxjdopcedia Briiannica (Letter to the Times, 
July 22, 1879), and the estimate is, for two reasons, probably extrava- 
gant. The gross annual value of the produce of the land in 1829-35 



PKOTECTION AND TITHES 169 

Even supposing landowners could prove their case 
against the tithe rent-charge, a glance at the nature of 
the charge shows how hopeless is their expectation that 
the nation will submit to its reduction. Tithes form part 

averaged 101,000,OOOL If 33 millions was at that time the rental, the 
produce only amounts to three rents. Four rents is a more reasonable 
allowance, and this would bring the rental of 1836 to 25 millions. 
Again, Schedule B of the Income Tax, 1814-16, gives the rental of 
England and Wales at 34,028, 655Z. But these are the war rentals. 
There was no Income Tax from 1816 to 1842; but the evidence given 
before Sir James Graham's Select Committee on Agriculture in 1833 
shows that rents were undergoing a reduction of from 20 to 30 per 
cent. They continued to fall for the nest five years. If in 1836 the 
rental was 25 millions, it would show a reduction of 25 per cent. ; 33 
millions only allows a reduction of 3 per cent., which is contrary to the 
evidence before the Select Committee. Lastly, in 1845, a careful 
inquiry into the valuation of land for taxing purposes shows that it 
had not even then materially increased in value since 1815. (See 
Pari. Papers, 1846, vol. xl. page 14). For these reasons it is impossible 
to put the rental of 1836 higher than 28 millions. The tithe rent- 
charge has been reduced 12j per cent, since 1836. Therefore, unless 
landlords are prepared to prove that their rentals amount in 1887 to only 
24^ millions, they cannot assert that the relation which the rent-charge 
bears to rents in 1887 is disproportionate to that which it bore to 
rent in 1836. It is perhaps worth while to notice that a pamphleteer 
in 1767, who advocates the commutation of tithe, states that it then 
amounted to between a fourth and a third of the rent. He puts the 
rental of England and Wales at 16 millions, and the tithe, at its lowest 
computation, at 4^ millions. (^Political Speculalions on the Dearncss 
of Prorisio7is, Part II., 1767.) Another writer {Three Letters to a 
Jfember of the House of Commons, from a Country Farmer, 1766) 
demands the abolition of tithes in kind, and asks that the existing 
charge should be commuted at a ' portion of the fair rent — say an 8th, 
a 7th, a 6th, or a 5th.' This advanced reformer never contemplated that 
for a considerable portion of the last half-century the tithe would not 
amount to a tenth of the rent. Arthur Young calculates tithe at 
3s. &(l. an acre; to this he adds a further sum for the gathering. He 
estimates the rental of the land of England at 22,400,000?. and the 
tithe at 7,000,000Z. {Eastern Counties : London, 1771, vol. iv. p. 459.) 
Yet landlords and farmers complain that they have lost by the Tithe 
Commutation Act of 1836. See also ' The Tithe Question,' Edinburgh 
lievien', January, 1888. 



170 PEOTECTION AND TITHES 

of a fund vested in the clergy to promote the spirit aal 
interests of the nation, and are, as the law now stands, 
inalienable, so long as religion is recognised to be a vital 
element in the national welfare. But subject to this 
life-interest of the Church, the nation claims the revenue 
in reversion. It is the duty of the State to preserve intact 
the corpus of the property. Upon this point Church and 
State are united ; the present interests of the first, the 
prospectively possible interests of the second are identical. 
Sections of the community desire to divert the fund to 
secular purposes ; but though those who seek to secularise 
the charge are actuated by antagonistic motives, they are 
agreed that the fund shall not be reduced. 

Doubtless the landed interests might benefit by the 
appropriation of tithes to the relief of local taxation. But 
so far as landlords and tenants have joined in the anti- 
tithe agitation, they have demanded its reduction, not 
its secularisation. They therefore ask the very thing 
which the clergy, the secularists, and the Nonconformists, 
and indeed the whole body of the nation, are interested 
in refusing. No class benefit can be obtained except at 
the expense of the community ; no relief can be extended 
to landlords without a corresponding diminution of the 
fund now dedicated to religious purposes, but under cer- 
tain contingencies, available for education or similar 
objects. It is the obvious interest both of the Church and 
the State that whatever profits are derived from dealing 
with the charge should be secured for national purposes. 
If the four millions of money alienated from the Church 
at the Reformation and in 1836 were still available for 
national objects, the sting would be gone from the pre- 
sent agitation against tithes. Till now each successive 
change has impoverished the clergy and enriched the 



PEOTECTION AND TITHES 171 

landlords ; but while the Church is weakened, no portion 
of the sum has hitherto been set aside to meet the cry- 
that there are other national purposes besides those of 
religion. Is this fatal course to be again pursued at the 
present crisis ? Is it at all likely that a handful of the 
community can repeat their financial triumphs at the 
Reformation and in 1836, in opposition not only to the 
life interests of the clergy but the reversionary interests 
of the nation ? If landlords or farmers agitate against 
tithe in the hope that it will be reduced, they will be 
inevitably disappointed. They are in fact only the stalk- 
ing-horses of those who desire to appropriate the funds 
to secular objects. 

Some change in the charge is doubtless imminent. 
The first proposal leaves the incidence where it now rests, 
but alters the calculation. Thus the septennial averages 
give the tithe-owner for every lOOL of tithe rent-charge 
87Z. 8s. lOd.; the prices of the year 1886 would have 
given him only 75Z. Is. b^d. If the charge were computed 
in 1888 according to the preceding six years, and that for 
1889 according to a quinquennial average, the charge of 
1893, if the length of the averages were thus annually 
reduced, would be the prices of 1892. But there is no 
reason to suppose that so slight a change would reconcile 
tenants to the continuance of their liability ; and if the 
concession is only the first of a series, there is absolutely 
no ground for thus mulcting the clergy. 

A second proposal changes the incidence and does not 
alter the calculation. It makes tithe rent-charge altogether 
a landlord's outgoing, and insists that all land shall be rented 
tithe free. But the proposed change hardly pretends to 
be final ; the spiritual interests of the nation will still be 
prejudiced, though the clergyman becomes the tithe proc- 



172 PROTECTION AND TITHES 

tor of the landlord instead of tlie evicting bailiff of the 
tenant farmer ; and, lastly, if 5 per cent, compensation is 
granted to the landlords by the legislature, the national 
reversioner can never again claim the whole of the tithe 
rent-charge. It irrevocably surrenders to individuals, for 
doubtful benefits, 5 per cent, of a property which belongs 
to the whole body of the clergy and laity. 

These considerations seem fatal to any legislation which 
only proposes either to continue the present liability of 
occupiers or to render the charge an owner's outgoing. 
The Government Bill of 1887 erred, as it seems, in not 
going far enough. So long as the principle of voluntary 
redemption by landlords is adopted, the scheme must be 
necessarily impaled on the horns of a dilemma. If the 
terms are made easy, the scheme may work, but it works 
at the cost of clerical and national interests. If the terms 
are disadvantageous, clerical and national interests are 
preserved, but the scheme is stillborn and a dead letter. 
The terms offered in the recent Bill rightly protected reli- 
gious life tenancies and national reversions. But the result 
was that only trustees, colleges, and other bodies, whose 
powers of investment are limited, could have profitably 
redeemed the charge. Apart from a landlord's unwilling- 
ness to store all his eggs in a rickety basket, the proffered 
terms would have tempted no one who could command 
more than 3 per cent, for his money. So long, also, as 
agitation can be brought to bear upon a small body of 
tithe-owners, tithe-payers will hold back for better terms 
of redemption. Convince agitators that the interest of the 
tithe-owner and the nation is in fact one, and you con- 
vince them of the hopelessness of delay. The only prin- 
ciple upon which a scheme of redemption can be made 
immediately operative, Avithout enriching individuals from 



PROTECTION AND TITHES 173 

the corpus of a property which belongs to the clergy and 
the State, is to show that the life-tenant and the rever- 
sioner are the parties with whom the bargain must be 
struck. 

Redemption, therefore, appears to be the final solution 
of the difficulty. 

The first step towards the extinction of the charge is 
for the State to undertake its collection, and compel tithe- 
paying tenants to deduct the charge from the rent. 
Assume, by way of illustration only, that the State gua- 
rantees to the clergy a net 60 per cent, of the 100?. charge 
regularly paid, free of rates, taxes, and costs of collection. 
At present values this would leave the State a margin of 
27^ per cent., out of which to pay the necessary outgoings. 
In the hands of the clergy there must be deducted from 
the gross value of the tithe, besides 15 per cent, for rates 
and taxes, 10 per cent, for arrears, remxissions, abatements, 
and costs of collection . In the hands of the State this last 
percentage would be reduced to 2^ per cent., and thus the 
State would have 10 per cent, in hand to meet further 
falls in the averages, and compensate, in special cases, the 
losses incurred by landlords pending new arrangements 
with their tenants, or by the clergy through diminution 
of income. But the margin would be rapidly freed from 
liability in respect of these two last payments. Thus pro- 
tected, the State could well afford to wait a turn in the 
tide, and escape a ruinous sale in a falling market. 

All schemes of redemption, whether compulsory or 
voluntary, proceed on the basis of State co-operation. 
The State raises a loan at 3 per cent, and lends at 5 per 
cent. The difference at compound interest pays off prin- 
cipal and interest within a fixed period. The amount of 
the State loan, the extent of the advance to landlords, the 



174 PROTECTION AND TITHES 

rate of interest charged, are mainly determined by the 
rate of years' purchase at which the charge is capitalised. 
It is the interest of the State to demand thirty years' pur- 
chase, of the landlord to offer fifteen. Between the two rates 
lie the possible compi'omises. But the basis upon which 
the charge is generally valued for i-edemption seems false in 
principle. A uniform rate of purchase based upon the gross 
value of the charge, subject to the deduction of the average 
necessary outgoings, would press hardly on individuals. 
Rates vary in every parish. Thus in A the rates are 7s. 6d., 
in B 5s., in C 2s. 6d. The average outgoing in these 
three parishes is 5s. in the pound, and this deducted from 
the gross value of a hundred pound tithe rent-charge leaves 
75L as the sum to be redeemed. Assume, for the sake of 
illustration only, that twenty years' purchase is a fair rate 
at which to capitalise the charge, and in A, B, and C the 
charge is redeemed for the same capitalised sum of 1,500Z. 
But observe the different values of the purchase. The 
withdrawal of the tithe rent-charge from the amount of 
rateable property in each parish necessitates a readjust- 
ment of the assessment upon the remaining property. 
Practically speaking, landowners will be additionally 
burdened by the amount now borne by the tithe rent- 
charge. Therefore, in A parish the annual value of the 
purchased charge is 621. 10s., in B 75^., in C 87Z. 10s. In 
other words, the landowner in A buys a very bad, in B a 
fair, in C a very good bargain. The most equitable 
method would be to calculate not the average but the actual 
outgoings, and to purchase the charge at its net value. 
Under these circumstances the charge would be redeemed 
in A at 1,250L, in B at 1,500^., in at l,750/.i 

• If the outgoings are similarly capitalised at twenty years' purchase, 
it will seem that the sum in each parish is actually the same. Thus in 



PROTECTION AND TITHES 175 

This calcalation shows the important bearing of rates 
upon the question of tithe redemption, and indicates the 
-direction in which, if anywhere, landlords and tenants must 
look to gain by the State collection of the tithe rent-charge. 
Redemption may be compulsory and immediate, in which 
case landlords would borrow from the State at 5 per cent, 
the sum required for redemption, and in less than fifty 
years would have paid off principal and interest and extin- 
guished the charge. But the terms would be necessarily 
governed by the miserable state of the present market. 
Church and State must be content not only to make a 
wretched bargain, but to see the value of the property rise 
for the benefit of individuals rather than of the community. 
Suppose, on the other hand, as has been suggested through- 
out, that the State undertakes the collection of the tithe, 
and, protected against possible loss by a considerable 
margin, waits for better times, and that redemption is 
voluntary and gradual. What then? It is in the highest 
degree improbable that land, which is limited in quantity, 
should permanently lose its value in the midst of a growing 
population, and the selling value of the rent-charge will 
benefit by any rise in the value of the property out of 
which it issues. If, again, agricultural depression should 
prove in some degree a question of currency, a readjust- 
ment of our financial conditions by depreciation of gold or 
appreciation of silver would restore agricultural industries 
to health and advance the value of the tithe. If, again, 
the country were to embark on a policy of Protection, the 
value of the charge would rise immediately, if not perma- 
nently. If, again, as the populations of foreign countries 

A, B and C, respectively, the capitalised outgoings are 7501., 500Z., and 
2501., and the respective prices paid are in A 1,250Z + 7501. = 2,0001. ; in B 
1,500Z. + 500Z. = 2,000Z. ; in C 1,750Z. + 2501. = 2,000Z. 



176 PROTECTION AND TITHES 

increase, the surplus production which now floods our 
markets were consumed in the land of its growth, the tithe 
rent-charge would once more approach par value. Even its 
present value is unduly depreciated by the alleged insecurity 
of the tithe-owner's tenure ; it is worth far more if not only 
the life tenant but the reversioner guarantee the title. Even 
to those who hold no optimistic views of the immediate 
future of farming, the sale of property of the nature of the 
tithe rent-charge, even though a purchaser is found by 
compulsion, appears little short of financial suicide. If 
these improvements in the value of the charge appear too 
distant or too problematical, it cannot be disputed that the 
readjustment of local burdens is a measure of the imme- 
diate future. Local taxation is the weight which really 
crushes English farming ; relief has been long promised 
and long deferred ; it cannot now be long postponed. 
But the immediate result of any readjustment of the load 
will be to enhance the net value of the rent-charge. If 
the State holds the charge, the benefit of this certain rise 
will be secured ; the national fund, and not any private 
individual, will benefit ; and, until religion is voted to be 
noxious or obsolete, the increased money will continue as 
now to be sacred to religious trusts. At the same time, 
so long as the State collects the fund, it can afibrd to be 
generous with the additional value its own action creates. 
The larger the reduction of local rates, the greater the gain 
upon the tithe rent-charge, and the larger the sum which 
might be devoted to such objects as the establishment of a 
system of land transfer by registration, the equipment of 
an efficient State department of agriculture, or scientific 
and technical education in farming. 



177 



CHAPTER XVI. 

LEGISLATIVE AID ; LAND LAWS, LAND TRANSFER, 
EDUCATION, RAILWAY RATES, 

If the nationalisation of land is rejected as an impossible 
plan ; if rural society is not to be reconstructed on the ruins 
of the landlord system ; if farmers must combat foreign 
competition with no other weapons than those of resolute, 
capable men ; if Protection, condemned by history and dis- 
credited by recent failure, is placed beyond the reach of 
agriculturists ; if a reduction of tithes is scarcely less hope- 
less because the reversion of the fund belongs to the com- 
munity at large — what, it may be asked, becomes of the 
Land Question ? It is reduced to its practical meaning ; 
and that practical meaning varies, apart from peasant 
proprietors, Protection, and abolition of tithes, with the 
respective needs of owners, occupiers, and cultivators- 
Landlords may possibly hint that production is hindered 
because farmers have adopted extravagant standards of 
living, and neglect their business. Farmers, perhaps, 
blame landlords, and attribute depression to high rents, 
restrictions upon cropping, land laws, and want of security 
for tenants' improvements. Both will probably agree that 
the seasons have been adverse, that land is exorbitantly 
taxed, that railway rates favour foreign producers, that 
hired labour is scarce, dear, and bad. The agricultural 
labourer has his own special grievances. He complains 
that there is no rung in the social ladder on which he can 

N 



178 LAND LAWS AND TRANSFER 

place his foot ; that his wages do not permit him to save ; 
that, though unable to supplement them from other sources, 
he depends entirely upon them ; that it matters little 
whether he scamps his work or does it honestly, whether 
he attempts to save or calls for another pot of beer, for the 
workhouse is his inevitable end. The general public may, 
perhaps, include among these and other causes of depres- 
sion, the sense of insecurity which scares away capital from 
the land ; dimly comprehended currency questions, to 
which, like the Gulf Stream, all that is inexplicable may 
be attributed ; the want of elasticity and variety in farm- 
ing practices ; the lack of sufficient capital, adequate 
knowledge, energy, and business enterprise, among both 
landlords and farmers. 

These are the practical meanings of the Land Question. 
Some of them can only be adequately discussed by expe- 
rienced agriculturists, and upon such it may appear pre- 
sumptuous to touch. But, without any desire to teach far- 
mers their business, it is impossible not to observe in every 
country district many points in which the general standard 
falls hopelessly below the practice of the few. Many of the 
causes of agricultural distress can be controlled by farmers 
themselves ; others, like the seasons, defy human calcula- 
tion. Some, on the other hand, can only be removed by 
legislative action. 

This chapter will be confined to this latter class, and 
to such subjects as the reform of the land laws, the pro- 
vision for scientific agricultural education, the equipment 
of a ministerial department of Agriculture, the revision 
of railway rates. 

Insecurity lies at the root of the present conditions of 
agriculture. Foreign competition, following upon disas- 
trous seasons, produced the present collapse : it has been 



LAND LAWS AND TRANSFEE 179 

perpetuated by want of confidence. So long as wild pro- 
posals for compulsory redistribution of property received 
the support of prominent politicians, no landlord would 
expend money on improvements, no capitalist, large or 
small, would invest in the purchase of land, no tenant 
would accept a lease, no labourer would put his heart into 
his work. While the intentions of the Legislature re- 
mained dubious and threatening, land continued to be un- 
saleable and half-farmed. Behind all legislative changes 
lurked the ominous question of confiscation. Land may 
be treated as private property, held so as not to prejudice 
the public welfare, but not to be taken from owners with- 
out fair compensation ; or it may be distinguished from 
private property, and the principles which guard private 
property held inapplicable to land. On which line was 
land legislation to proceed ? Wild talk about State- 
ownership, ransom, and natural rights, societies to nation- 
alise the land, heroic remedies of illogical half-disciples of 
Mr. George might be in themselves of little importance. 
But when the air was filled with vague threats, the atti- 
tude of ministers remained studiously neutral. Agitators 
complained of conditions which they themselves rendered 
chronic. Meanwhile the continued insecurity was rapidly 
producing results which threatened the subversion of rural 
society. Fortunately the example has been given that a 
patriotic fusion of political parties for the promotion of 
national interests is yet possible in party government. 
That restoration of confidence, which is the indispensable 
preliminary to agricultural revival, seems already to have 
begun, and to bear fruit in renewed energy. 

Arguments urged against the artificial creation of a 
peasant proprietary scarcely apply to their natural growth. 
Economically States gain more by agricultural factories 

N 2 



180 LAND LAWS AND TEANSFER 

tliaii by small farms conducted as domestic industries. 
Socially the advantages of a class of peasant owners are 
indisputably great. The rural economy of the nation 
would benefit by the diffusion of land ownership, and farm- 
ing offers no exception to the rule that two strings to the 
bow are better than one. If legislation is only invoked to 
remove artificial aids to the aggregation of large estates, 
the process will not foster that sense of insecurity which 
has paralysed the energies of landlords, and rendered 
chronic the enfeebled state of agriculture. Already signs 
appear of a tendency towards the multiplication of small 
tenant-farmers, if not of small owners. Small holdings 
obstructed progress so long as capital was required for the 
reclamation, enclosure, or drainage of land. But at the 
present day this argument loses much of its force. So 
again, while England depended for grain on home supplies, 
corn could be produced more economically on large farms. 
Now, when prices render its home production unremunera- 
tive, and foreign supplies are adequate to our wants, another 
argument for large farms is at least modified. Small 
farmers, content with small profits, depending on gardens, 
livestock, and dairies, commanding the unpaid labour of 
their own families, may make both ends meet, where larger 
capitalists go through the Court. If agriculture is tending 
in this direction, legislation must remove all hindrances to 
its natural course ; landlords are sufficiently alive to their 
own interests to do the rest. The risk of forcing streams 
into artificial channels is increased by the arguments which 
have been urged, from an economic point of view, against 
the creation in this country of peasant proprietors. In the 
uncertainty of their success under the changed conditions 
of modern agriculture, it is madness for the State to dic- 
tate, by positive legislation, the direction of their advance. 



J 



LAND LAWS AND TKANSFER 181 

Many advantages undeniably flow from an increase in the 
number of proprietors of the soil, and where men do not 
become owners of small tenant farmers. But the creation 
of either class must remain a matter of individual enter- 
prise. No State can afford costly experiments on a large 
scale, the success of which is doubtful. 

Whether land is farmed high or low, by large or small 
farmers, by peasa.nt owners or capitalist tenants, it is 
socially and politically expedient that legislation should 
remove all artificial obstacles to the acquisition of small 
interests in land, or the development of high farming, which 
hitherto has never obtained a fair chance of displaying 
its capabilities. In either case the preliminaries are the 
same, a reform of the laud laws, and a scientific and prac- 
tical agricultural education. 

The object of land law reform is twofold : the extinction 
of all hindrances to the full development of landed pro- 
perty, and the simplification of the transfer of land. To 
the first head belong such changes as the abolition of 
primogeniture and entail, and other changes which assimi- 
late the laws of real and personal property. The declaration 
of the spirit of the law in favour of primogeniture appears, 
from the rarity of intestacy, to be a matter of slight im- 
portance. It is different with the other objects of land law 
reform. Before 1882 the land was held by a series of life 
tenants, each of whom in turn, so soon as they arrived at 
the age of so-called discretion, deprived themselves irre- 
vocably of the free use of their estates. Thus life tenants 
were hampered with restrictions upon the development of 
their property, burdened with encumbrances, unable and 
unwilling to spend money on improvements. Lord Cairns's 
Settled Land Act made one gigantic stride in the right 
direction; impending legislation makes a second. 



182 LAND LAWS AND TRANSFER 

Lord Halsbury's Bill, whicli will probably be reintro- 
duced in the ensuing session, abolishes primogeniture and 
entail, but leaves untouched the power of testamentary 
disposition and of settlement. Taken in conjunction with 
Lord Cairns's Act, it relegates this side of land law reform 
to the limbo of obsolete grievances. Short of abolishing 
settlements altogether, it is difficult to see what additional 
freedom can be given to life tenants, unless, indeed, the 
power of creating life estates were limited to their creation 
in favour of children. 

The second object of land law reform is to cheapen and 
facilitate the transfer of real property. Examinations of 
title are costly, tedious, and insecure : mountainous piles 
of unintelligible deeds, lengthy abstracts, heavy law 
charges, and blistered titles characterise the existing 
system. It is said that the transfer of land cannot be 
cheapened or facilitated until it is freed from the com- 
plicated titles which settlements encourage. The heroic 
remedy is therefore suggested to abolish settlements. If 
this course were adopted, indefeasible titles might be safely 
conferred by registration ; without this preliminary step, 
it is doubtless hazardous to guarantee registered possessory 
titles, even when, after due notice, they remain unchal- 
lenged. This risk is less than lawyers make it appear. 
Legal conservatism may go too far. National interests 
would suffer from the loss of the power to prevent property 
accumulated by thrift from being squandered by extrava- 
gance. But if lawyers insist too strongly on the injustice 
of guaranteeing titles by registration, they peril the exist- 
ence of settlements. A cheap and easy method of transfer 
is imperatively demanded. Among European nations the 
want is almost universally supplied ; England' is nearly 
the solitary exception. It may be impossible to combine 



LAND LAWS AND TRANSFER 183 

land registration with secret conveyances and equitable 
mortgages, though the example of Australia proves the 
contrary ; but there can be no valid reason why all con- 
veyances should not be public, or why informal mortgages 
should continue to exist. Unless titles are guaranteed by 
registration, registries become merely records of dealing 
with land, or additional epitomes of titles which lawyers 
are compelled to search. The mere establishment of a 
registry of deeds is a retrogression. What is required is a 
public and compulsory system of land registration, based 
upon careful cadastration, which shall pass the estate by 
the official act of the registrar. Some cases of hardship 
may admittedly occur in the first establishment of a land 
registry; yet the number and importance of these are 
exaggerated. Adequate means for introducing the new 
system are already provided by the register of the Land 
Tax Commission. The intricacy, expenses, insecurity, and 
delays of the existing mode of land transfer necessarily 
check the circulation of land, and lessen its value as the 
basis of credit. To small capitalists, the class which all 
land reformers desire to encourage, the cost of conveyance 
presents a formidable obstacle. Deeds are not only ex- 
pensive, but to ignorant persons terrible. Small investors 
cannot afford the luxury, and, if they could, they shrink 
from the terrors of the unknown. The market might be 
glutted with land, but till the present system of examina- 
tion of title and execution of deeds and conveyances is 
abolished, purchasers of the class of peasant proprietors 
cannot, and will not, come forward. The Settled Land Act 
of 1882 gave tenants for life powers to sell, but it could 
not make land saleable. The difficulty is, not how to in- 
crease tBe quantity of land for sale, but how to double the 
number of purchasers. There is plenty of land in the 



184 LAND LAWS AND TEANSFEK 

market, but there are few buyers, because, among otber 
reasons, land is an inconvenient form of property, awkward 
to deal with, and therefore tempting only to the rich. The 
result of such a system is that the majority of persons in 
this country have no sympathy with ownership of land, 
and neither feel respect for, nor desire to secure, the sacred- 
ness of real property. 

The difficulties of introducing land transfer by means 
of registration are undoubtedly great. They are courage- 
ously met in Lord Halsbury's Land Transfer Bill of 1887. 
The Lord Chancellor proposes to render transfer by regis- 
tration universal, to bring estates gradually under the 
Act through the agencies of local registries in districts 
from time to time declared, to invalidate all dealings 
with land by sales, mortgages, conveyances, or settle- 
ments, except through the machinery of registration, and 
to establish a guarantee fund for the compensation of 
aggrieved purchasers. The details of the Bill will be 
better understood if the proposal is compared, both in its 
introduction and its working, with systems of land trans- 
fer already in operation. 

In the Australian colonies the system has been in 
force since it was introduced into South Australia thirty 
years ago by Sir R. Torrens. Upon the Torrens Act Lord 
Westbury and Lord Cairns based their legislation of 1862 
and 1875, and on it the Prussian legislation of 1872 is 
founded. All land alienated by the Crown subsequently 
to 1858 was brought under the Act compulsorily, and 
the title of the owner was the Registry ; land previously 
alienated was registered voluntarily. In the latter case, 
the applicant submits his title to examiners, who report 
to the registrar upon the clearness of the title and of 
the description of the parcels. Notices of the application 



LAND LAWS AND TRANSFER 185 

are then issued, and if no objection is alleged within a 
certain period, duplicate certificates of title are drawn 
op, one of which is placed on the Registry, the other 
handed to the owner. Applicants in undisturbed pos- 
session, or enjoying good holding titles, are registered. 
It is not necessary to show such absolute titles as will 
satisfy punctilious conveyancers, or can be enforced upon 
unwilling purchasers. Registrars do not demand strict 
proof, but admit qualified, possessory, and -prhnci facie 
claims. Error is guarded against by a guarantee fund. 
Cases of fraud or mistake hardly ever occur ; in 999 cases 
out of 1,000, the title proves sufficient. If the registered 
owner mortsfao-es his land, he retains his certificate of 
ownership, but it is endorsed with the charge. Thus, 
while he cannot deceive second mortgagees, he retains the 
power of additionally charging his land. He can, if he 
likes, effect equitable mortgages by lodging his certificate 
of ownership with a creditor, who issues a caveat to the 
registrar, forbidding him to register any further dealing 
with the estate till some named period has expired after 
notice is given. The land is then marked in the Registry 
with a red cross ; and the notice given to equitable mort- 
gagees of the intention to effect additional charges enables 
them to secure priority. Both settlement and entails 
exist in Australia, and are effected by registration. In 
these cases the life-owner is registered as such, and the 
folio of absolute ownership is closed. Each owner who 
places himself on the register, or succeeds to land by in- 
heritance or by will, subscribes \cl. in the pound to a 
Guarantee Fund, out of which, in cases of fraud or error, 
aggrieved purchasers or rightful owners are indemnified. 
No money is paid out of the fund to the first registered 
owner ; but it enables him to offer the estate to purchasers 



186 LAND LAAYS AND TRANSFER 

with the guarantee behind his back. Purchasers are not 
entitled to compensation until they have exhausted all 
possible remedies against fraudulent vendors. In cases 
of error, the rightful owner is compensated, not placed in 
possession. This system has been in operation for many 
years in the Australian colonies. Up to 1886 only four 
titles have been cancelled, and only 2,000Z. has been paid 
away in compensation. The aggregate amount of the 
Guarantee Fund is over 200,000L 

The Prussian system^ was adopted in May, 1872, and 
has since been applied in many of the German States. It 
proceeds on the same lines as the Torrens Act. In 
Prussia registries of deeds in which all mortgages were 
registered existed in every market town, and also a 
cadastral survey in which estates were defined. On these 
bases the law worked. Full titles of ownership of land 

' The subject is likely to prove of such importance that some of the 
best and most recent authorities are quoted below for the benefit of 
those who care to pursue it further. 

(a) For the introduction of the system. 

(i.) Lehrbuch des preuss. Privatrechts, von Heinrich Dernberg, 

3. Aufl. vol. i. p. 450 at seqq., sections 190-199. 
(ii.) Handbuch des deutschen Privatrechts, von Otto Stobbe, vol. 

ii., sections 94-95. 

(J) For the system itself. 

(i.) Die preussischen Grundbuch- und Hypotheken-Gesetze, von 

H. Werner (1873) (quoted by Mr. Brickdale). 
(ii.) Das preussische Grundbuch-Eecht, von H. Bahlmann (quoted 

by Mr. Scott), 
(iii.) Reports on Saxe-Coburg Land System and Prussian Land 

Transfer Laws, by Mr. Scott of the British Embassy at 

Berlin. Parliamentary Papers, Commercial Papers, part i. 

1882, and Report, 1887. 
(iv,)Annuaire de la legislation etrangere, Paris, 1873. Art. 

par M. Paul Qide. 
(v.) Law Quarterly Review, vol. iv, p. 63 et seqq. Jan. 1888- 

Article by Mr. C. F. Brickdale. 



LAND LAWS AND TEANSFER 187 

can only be acquired by registration ; all charges on real 
property are invalid, until they are registered in the 
' Grundbuch,' or Land Register, of the commune, arron- 
dissement, or other territorial unit. No property acquired 
by will or inheritance can be alienated or charged until the 
new owner registers his title, and for this purpose he pro- 
duces an official certificate of probate. Persons in pos- 
session of land when the Act came into operation were 
required to register their titles on the ' Grundbiicher ' of 
their districts. Mere possession for forty-four years, or 
possessory titles of ten years' duration, with 'prima fade 
evidence that such had a legal commencement, were 
accepted ; lesser titles required stricter proof. Like the 
Torrens Act, the Prussian law provides an insurance 
fund. 

The foundation was already laid in Prussia for the 
introduction of registration, and in Australia titles were 
scarcely old enough to be complicated : but although some 
additional difficulties impede the establishment of this 
system in this country, the titles which are to be regis- 
tered here will, if entails are abolished, be simpler than in 
Prussia or Australia. Lord Halsbury's Bill, though in 
some points it necessarily creates dissatisfaction, makes 
the first attempt to simplify land transfer which offers real 
prospects of success. To be placed on the register little 
more is probably required than guaranteed titles. The 
gradual establishment of the system may be necessary on 
the score of expense, but it is an undoubted blot upon the 
Bill, By the temporary employment of local solicitors, 
who are generally familiar with the titles by which the 
neighbouring land is held, the process of registration 
might be simultaneously and inexpensively effected, 
especially if only marketable titles are required for the 



188 LAND LAWS AND TKANSFEK 

lirst step in the proceeding. The exclusion of rightful 
owners in cases of error appears cruel ; but it is less hard 
than our existing system, which confiscates the invested 
capital of innocent and hond fide purchasers. The 
guarantee should, it is submitted, be paid at once to 
aggrieved purchasers, and the registrars should, in their 
names, enforce all their remedies against fraudulent 
vendors. It is greatly to be hoped that a Bill, the 
advantages of which are so numerous, will be speedily 
passed. 

The system is not new in this country, but as old as 
the Norman Conquest. Registrars resemble Stewards of 
Copyhold Courts, to whom the old estate is surrendered 
and by whom the new one is granted. Titles cease to be 
derivative, and rest upon the last entry in the registry; 
examinations, abstracts, deeds disappear; landowners can 
carry their certificates of ownership in their waistcoat 
pockets. Since mortgagees need not receive the legal 
estate, or ' sit upon their deeds,' mortgages are effected 
with the utmost ease for such small sums as hi. or lOZ., 
and foreclosure becomes a simple inexpensive process. 
Consequently charges will be effected at cheaper rates, 
and second mortgages will not be dearer than first. Land 
transfer by registration saves 90 per cent, in expense, pre- 
vents any possible litigation, is completed in a quarter of 
an hour, and is so simple a process that men of ordinary 
intelligence can safely transact then' own business. No 
class is more interested in the removal of legal cobwebs 
than the English landlords. Recent experience of land- 
owning has not been favourable ; future prospects are 
gloomy. They have been severely taught the danger of 
storing all their eggs in one basket, especially when the 
bottom has fallen out. Many must be anxious to sell. 



EDUCATION 189 

Whatever renders a commodity more marketable and 
more manageable adds to its value. The best chance of 
obtaining a reasonable price for land is to remove the 
fetters which restrain its transfer. From every point of 
view a reform of the land laws in the direction we have 
indicated would be a social and economical gain, but it is 
quite possible that increased facilities of transfer may 
encourage the consolidation as much as the diffusion of 
property. 

If rents are permanently reduced, landlords must 
become their own agents. If increased production affords 
the remedy for agricultural collapse, scientific training is 
required by the tenant farmer. If the soil is to be tilled 
in small holdings, or by a peasant proprietary, preparation 
must be made to educate them for the task. Thus, from 
every point of view, education becomes an indispensable 
condition in the future of agriculture. In England little 
provision is made to supply the want. Our manufacturers 
woke from their dreams of industrial supremacy to find 
that technical schools on the Continent had in a few years 
counterbalanced the advantages this country had gained 
from an early start. It is not impossible that our agri- 
culturists may, from the same cause, find themselves left 
behind in the race. Continental Europe is rich in the 
supply of teaching adapted to the wants of every class. 
Even Ireland possesses sixty tax-supported farm schools. 
In Great Britain the State subscribes a grant towards the 
teaching of agriculture in the Science and Art Depart- 
ment of Kensington' and contributes IbOl. a year to the 

' Kensington is a curious place for an agricultural department. 
Within the last year the number of students has increased by 25 per 
cent. In 1885 there were eight ; in 1886 there were twelve agricultural 
pupils. The Australian Colonies have recently increased facilities for 
agricultural education. In Victoria, for instance, a central college is to 



190 EDUCATION 

endowment of a professorial cliair at Edinburgh ; private 
enterprise provides Cirencester, Downton, and Aspatria ; 
agricultural societies offer examinations and prizes; and 
farming is taught in some of the country schools. Scot- 
land, as usual, leads the van of education. Edinburgh 
University has recently formulated an exhaustive scheme 
for examinations in agricultural science. The examina- 
tions established by the Surveyors' Institute for land agents 
attract an increasing number of candidates. Night 
schools for teaching scientific agriculture have been at 
work for three years with considerable success in Aberdeen- 
shire and Forfarshire. But, if the country is on the eve 
of an agricultural revolution so great as the creation of a 
peasant proprietary, or even the multiplication of small 
holdings, something more is required than isolated efforts. 
A glance at the means provided in some of the principal 
European states may bring home to us our relative 
deficiencies, and urge the country to inaugurate a new 
departure. 

A sketch has already been given of the French system. 
France has an organised system of education which works 
with great efficiency, and to which it annually devotes 
70,000Z, It is designed to encourage men of science to 
experiment in chemistry and machinery, to afford practical 
as well as theoretical instruction to landed proprietors, 
agents, and farmers, to train up intelligent peasant pro- 
prietors and labourers. For these objects there are four 
grades of schools. In most of the departments model 
farms, or fermes exemplaires, are established for farm 
labourers ; provincial schools are carried on for bailiffs 

be founded at Melbourne, and a new farm school is to be established at 
Longerenong. It is expected that the existing farm school at Dookie 
will show a profit for 1887. 



EDUCATION 191 

and farmers, as well as higher grade schools, like 
Grignon, for landed proprietors and estate agents ; and 
finally the Institut Agronomique supplies every appliance 
that is required for scientific investigation. There are 
besides special schools, and veterinary schools at Alfort, 
Lyons, and Toulouse. In many of the primary schools 
agriculture is taught, and to some of the normal schools 
land is attached for practical teaching ; each department 
a,lready is, or shortly will be, pervaded by a peripatetic 
professor. 

In the Austrian Empire the school of Krumman was 
founded so far back as 1799, There are now, scattered 
through the country, three superior, four middle-class, and 
seven lower agricultural schools ; there are also several 
special establishments in which instruction is aflforded in 
such branches as shepherding, bee-keeping, grape and 
orchard management. 

The dairy schools of Denmark have already enabled 
Danish farmers to rival English produce in London mar- 
kets. Belgium, Italy, Norway, Saxony, Sweden, are all 
more amply provided with means of general education in 
agriculture than England. As France has her Institut 
National Agronomique, Germany has her Institute ; the 
Agricultural Sections of Jena, Poppelsdorf, Bonn, or Got- 
tingen correspond to Grignon and the ecoles nationales ; 
the Landwirthschaftschulen to the ecoles iwatiques, the 
Ackerbauschulen to the fermes ecoles. In Prussia more 
than thirt}^ institutions teach the practice and theory of 
agriculture ; Moglin, founded in 1806 by Thaer, the 
Arthur Young of Germany, offers education of the highest 
class ; Annaberg trains peasant farmers and bailiffs ; in 
twelve primary schools agricultural pupils act as hired 
servants, and do the work of the model farms : itinerant 



192 EDUCATION 

teachers are paid by the Government to travel from 
village to village. There are also thirteen special schools 
in which such subjects as meadow culture, flax dressing, 
and gardening are taught.' 

Wiirttemberg is especially well provided with means of 
agricultural education. Besides the Royal Institution of 
Hohenheim, there are three school farms, an agi'icultural 
chair at Tubingen, and a veterinary school at Stuttgard. 
On many large farms there are apprenticed pupils pre- 
paring for Hohenheim. Voluntary winter schools, obliga- 
tory evening schools, and lecture meetings enable farmers 
to keep pace with the latest scientific discoveries. Prac- 
tical agriculturists, in the pay of the State, visit the 
different districts, discuss special branches of farming, and 
co-operate with local associations in experiments and im- 
provements. In all these countries admirable means exist 
for diffusing agricultural knowledge, and bringing home to 
the smallest farmers the best modes of cultivation. Scien- 
tific instruction is given in a practical form, and in a shape 
which is easily comprehended. 

Almost every nation on the Continent is better pro- 
vided with means of agricultural education than England, 
and a Committee of the Royal Agricultural Society is now 

' After the emancipation of the serfs, Russia recognised the urgent 
need of spreading among the mass a rational knowledge of agriculture. 
She has her agricultural museums, her three grades of primary, secon- 
dary, and higher education, as well as special schools adapted to the 
wants of different districts. Bavaria, besides large institutions at 
Weihenstephan near Munich, Lichtenhof, and Schleissheim, has agri- 
cultural sections in all the technical schools. Hesse possesses an agri- 
cultural college at Darmstadt, open to young farmers from November 1 
to March 31. Courses are given for the benefit of national school- 
masters ; botany, physics, and chemistry are taught in the national 
schools ; wanderleJirer impart instruction in the villages, visiting their 
circuits every year, so as to be able to note improvement. 



EDUCATION 193 

investigating our deficiencies. The course is often too 
ambitious and laid out on too large a scale ; but every 
tiller of the soil has the opportunity of learning the prin- 
ciples of his art, and of using to the utmost advantage the 
materials at his command. In every other department of 
human knowledge, where practice depends upon science, 
the shortest road to success is the mastery of general 
principles ; in other words, theoretical investigation. The 
truth of this fact, as applied to agriculture, is ignored by 
the State in England. The art is carried to considerable 
perfection, but the science is neglected. Our farmers are 
skilful in the practice of received principles ; they despise 
the general laws on which those principles depend ; to 
them agriculture is only a collection of accepted precepts. 
Science has turned many traditions upside down ; it may 
have a similar revolution in store for farming. The prin- 
ciples of scientific agriculture must be explored by men of 
science, and applied by men of practice ; but a better 
understanding between the two can only be obtained by 
education. Every farmer does not require the hio-hest 
scientific training ; but, even in his isolated experiments, 
some knowledge of physics, chemistry, botany, or geoloo-y 
is useful, if it only teaches him what to avoid, and how to 
apply the results of the work of others. Doctors' boys do 
not qualify as practitioners by delivering medicines ; nor 
do tillers of the soil become farmers by learning a tradi- 
tional round. 

Landlords require education as much as any of the 
classes which are interested in the cultivation of the soil. 
They alone have, to some extent, the means of supplying 
their want. In the future many must manage their own 
properties. Even if they can afford the luxury of an agent, 
it seems absurd to surrender to others the practical control 

o 



194 EDUCATION 

of their estates. From this point of view it might be ad- 
vantageous to introduce applied agricultural chemistry into 
the Science Schools of Oxford and Cambridge. At Oxford 
Mr. Primrose McConnell has taught agriculture with 
marked success to the selected candidates for the Indian 
Civil Service. 

To occupiers and cultivators of the soil, the value of 
asrricultural education needs no demonstration. Unlike 
the landlords, their wants in this respect are inadequately, 
or not at all supplied. One feature, at least, in the conti- 
nental system of education imperatively requires introduc- 
tion into England. Account-keeping is as essential for 
farmers as for tradesmen. Chalkmarks on backs of doors 
or scattered notes in memorandum books will never show 
farmers how they stand, or in what special department they 
are losing money. On the Continent book-keeping forms 
a prominent feature of agricultural education. Pupils 
write journals of everything done on the farm, make jDar- 
ticular notes of special work done and of the workmen 
employed, keep cashbooks of payments, sales, accounts 
with the house, and accounts of separate departments. If 
the way is to be paved for the growth of a peasant tenantry 
or proprietary, farm accounts should become a feature in 
all the rural schools of England. 

Farmers, if rich enough, are to some extent able to 
gratify their children's wish for education in farming sub- 
jects. Experience shows that the wish is rare. Large 
sums of money have been voted by Congress to found 
agricultural schools for farmers' sons in America ; but very 
few avail themselves of their exceptional advantages. Even 
for the wealthier classes of agriculturists much remains to 
be done. But no agricultural teaching of any sort is pro- 
vided for labourers. And it is here that the greatest need 



EDUCATION 195 

is felt. lu rural districts boys lose practical training to 
gain the three R's, and acquire in the process a distaste 
for farming occupations. Thus farmers suffer in two ways : 
they pay men's wages for boys' work, and labour is less 
efficient. Elementary education in the first principles of 
agriculture would go far to mitigate these evils. At the 
present day children in rural schools learn to read from 
books which are useless; their object lessons are polar 
bears or creatures with which they are equally unfamiliar ; 
the natural history of horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, and 
poultry, or insects and birds, is entirely neglected ; they 
know more of glacial action than they do of air and water ; 
their minds are stuffed with historical facts, but of the 
nature of soils, seeds, grasses, or trees they are probably 
entirely ignorant. If after passing a certain standard, 
say the third, they received technical education in the 
work of their future lives, practically illustrated from a 
few acres attached, as is often the case on the Continent, to 
the school itself, they would be better equipped as labourers, 
and would take intelligent interest in work which to them 
is now dreary routine. 

Hitherto agricultural progress has, in this country, de- 
pended entirely upon private enterprise. But as agriculture 
grows more scientific and landlords more impoverished, the 
need of a State Department of Agriculture is urged upon 
Government with increased force. Something is already 
done in this direction, but much remains. The Agricultural 
Department of the Privy Council, which already commands 
the services of Professor Brown, has been recently strength- 
ened by the appointment of Mr. Whitehead as agricultural 
adviser. State aid is also given to horse-breeding. The 
Government devoted 5,000^. for this purpose in 1888, and 
appointed a committee to frame a scheme for its distribu- 

o 2 



196 EDUCATION 

tion. They propose to offer twenty-two prizes, or ' Queen's 
Premiums,' of 200L each, to thoroughbred stallions, in the 
hope of secui'ing the service, at nominal fees of 2?., of first- 
class thoroughbred sires in every district in England. They 
are also considering the German and French systems of 
State haras, and the improvement of the old English strains 
fostered by the Cleveland, Hackney, and Coaching Horse 
Societies. It is also probable that the Committee upon 
Dairy Produce may suggest some technical education in 
butter and cheese making. In other directions the want 
of an Agricultural Department is severely felt, as, for exam- 
ple, to stamp out swine-fever and pleuro-pneumonia, and to 
give reliable analyses of artificial manures or reports upon 
seed samples. In this last direction technical education 
may supply farmers with the necessary knowledge, but 
meanwhile the loss is heavy. 

State depai'tments for agriculture alread}* exist abroad.' 
Some account has been given of State aid to farming in 
France. It may be interesting to illustrate the practical 
working of that system. In the autumn of 1887 M. Barbe, 
Minister for Agriculture in the Rouvier administration, 
issued two circulars. In the first, which was addressed 
to the Prefects, he calls attention to the black rot, 
a new disease among vines in the Garonne district, 

' Germany has a powerfully equipped Ministry of Agriculture for 
Agriculture, Domains, and Forests. In the United States the Central 
Department of Agriculture is divided into 12 branches, each presided 
over by a separate officer directly responsible to the Minister of Agri- 
culture for the work of his division. Thus the Seed Division purchases, 
tests, examines, reports upon seeds, experiments in their cultivation, 
and ascertains the localities to which they are best suited. The other 
divisions are (2) Botany, including plants and grasses ; (.3) Mycology, 
which investigates diseases of trees and plants caused by fungi ; 
(4) the Microscope ; (5) Forestry ; (6) Ornithology ; (7) Mammology ; 
(8) Pomology, for the assistance of fruit-growers; (9) Chemistry; 
(10) Entomology; (11) Veterinary Science ; (12) Statistics. 



EAILWAY RATES 197 

notices certain insect pests wliich destroy farm crops, 
directs that farmers shall be invited to give notice of their 
•attack, and requires Prefects and Professors to investigate 
the subject, and, if possible, devise tlie appropriate remedy. 
In the second circular, addressed to the departmental Pro- 
fessors of Agriculture, M. Barbe insists on the losses caused 
by bad seed, and directs his subordinates to call public 
attention to the Government Seed Trial Station, established 
three years ago at the office of the National Agricultural 
Institute in Paris. It may be added that the Institute, to 
which are attached experimental farms and laboratories at 
Joinville, inquires into methods of cultivation, examines 
and reports upon samples of seed which farmers propose to 
buy, or investigates the introduction of new varieties, and 
the amelioration of those already introduced. The Pro- 
fessors of the Institute, which is temporarily located in 
the Conservatoire des Ai'ts et Metiers, include the best 
known specialists of the day, and its director, M. Eugene 
Risler, enjoys a European reputation as a scientific agri- 
■culturist. 

Another point, in which legislation is urgently needed, 
is the revision of Railway Rates. The question is less 
simple than it at first sight appears. But the grievance of 
English farmers is real and substantial. 

Three modes of rating have been proposed : (i.) equal 
mileage rates ; (ii.) rates regulated by costs of conveyance ; 
{iii.) differential rates. The third is the principle adopted 
in England. 

Equal mileage rates are manifestly unfair, because it is 
reasonable to consider the costs of construction from point 
to point on the same line, the steepness of the gradients 
or other costs of service. It may be also conceded that con- 
sumers derive advantage from special through rates for long 



198 EAILWAY EATES 

distances, and that it is only by their means that London 
draws fish from Hull, meat from Aberdeen, vegetables from 
Penzance, and sweeps a radius of 150 miles for her milk 
supply. But the inexpediency of charging on the same 
scale for long distances as for short does not make it fair 
to charge higher rates for short distances than for long. 
You cannot argue in the same breath that consumers gain 
by placing remote markets on the same footing as near, 
and by placing near markets on a u-orse footing than those 
which are remote. 

But the case against through rates for foreign perish- 
able produce is still stronger. Foreign produce may be 
brought to London partly by sea and partly by land, or 
wholly by sea. If goods are imperishable, if quick de- 
livery is not essential to their good condition, if they do 
not suffer by delay in transit, foreign producers may choose 
either mode of conveyance. They naturally choose the 
cheapest. In this case, if low railway rates encourage 
foreigners to send their goods partly by land, English pro- 
ducers are little, and possibly not at all, injured. Their 
grievance would be formulated thus. Railway companies 
admit that they carry at a profit hops from Flushing to 
London for 2bs. ; therefore their profit must be enormous 
on the same weight of hops at 36s. 8d. from Sittingbourne 
to London, It is only by charging local producers high 
that they can so cheapen rates for foreigners as to 
secure their trafiic. The answer would probably be : 
Kentish hop-growers pay more, because they can only em- 
ploy land carriage ; foreigners can send by sea, and it is 
this competition between two modes of conveyance that 
determines the cheapness of the rates. 

But there is no such competition possible in the case 
of perishable produce, such as butter, fruit, vegetables, and 



EAILWAY KATES 199 

fresh meat — the very commodities to which farmers are 
recommended, and peasant proprietors would be obliged, 
to turn their attention. Here time is of the essence ; delay 
injures condition ; quick transit is a necessity ; and conse- 
quently there is no natural competition between sea and 
land carriage. If perishable produce was sent to London 
by sea, it could not compete in quality with English goods. 
When, therefore, foreign perishable produce is sent through 
to London at through rates, which are actually less than 
those charged to local growers, and in fast trains from 
which local growers are excluded, the English farmer is 
indisputably injured. Here is no natural competition 
between sea and land carriage, both of which are available 
to the foreigner, to cheapen the through rates, but only the 
artificial competition, created by rivalry between competing 
companies, each seeking, in the interests of their respective 
shareholders, to outbid the other and attract the traffic to 
their own lines. Here, then, British farmers pay the 
carriage bills of their foreign rivals. It is idle to plead the 
interests of the consumer ; they would be equally consulted 
if companies paid smaller dividends, and they cannot be 
served at one and the same time by bringing remote mar- 
kets to his door, and by driving near markets to a distance. 
Space is annihilated, but only if it is sufficiently great ; 
food is cheapened, but only by bounties to foreign pro- 
ducers, and premiums on distance at the expense of 
proximity. 

What is the remedy ? Equal mileage rates are simple, 
but the simplicity is attained by the sacrifice of equity. 
Rates based on the cost of conveyance without reference to 
the value of the articles are financially unsound. A ton of 
sand would pay the same as a ton of copper, or a hundred- 
weight of fresh beef as a hundredweight of potatoes. On 



200 RAILWAY RATES 

the whole, differential rates, if fairly worked, are the most 
equitable system. But in no case should special import 
rates be actually lower for long than for short distances, 
and a different scale should be provided if the perishable 
character of the article precludes natural competition be- 
tween land and sea carriage. The scale of rates should be 
published in a clear, intelligible form, and an appeal should 
lie to a Board of Control, whose decisions should bind the 
companies. Such Boards of Control are no novelties. In 
Holland, Belgium, and France the Government retains 
power to adjust rates in the public interest. In Prussia, 
and the German Empire generally, similar powers are 
vested in Conciliation Boards. It is true that in these 
countries railways were partly built by the State ; but the 
common principle is that, if railways are primarily com- 
mercial undertakings, they are endowed with exceptional 
powers, because they are designed to develop, and not to 
cripple, the resources of the country. 



201 



CHAPTER XVII. 

FISCAL RELIEF. FROTECTIO^^ PRICES A^D PROTECTION TAXES, 
OR FREE TRADE TAXES AND FREE TRADE PRICES. 

Restored confidence, largei- powers of dealing with their 
land, increased practical and scientific knowledge, well- 
directed State assistance, revised railway rates, may infuse 
new life into landlords and tenants. But their special 
public grievance is the unfair incidence of local taxation. 
At the present moment agriculturists are oppressed by Pro- 
tection taxes upon Free Trade prices. In the debates on 
the Repeal of the Corn Laws, both Sir Robert Peel and 
Lord John Russell argued that the removal of the burdens 
upon land must necessarily accompany the extinction of 
its immunities and privileges. So long as consumers of 
agricultural produce were heavily taxed through import 
duties for the benefit of producers, it was but reason- 
able that agricultural land should bear the largest share of 
the burden of rates. But from 1848 onwards that reason 
ceased to apply. Free Trade ought, in common justice, to 
go hand in hand with fair taxation. Yet legislators con- 
tinue to burden agricultural land, as if the community 
was still burdened for its support. Rates are charged with 
innumerable items of national concern, inseparable from 
civilisation or social organisation ; and existmg arrange- 
ments exhibit a chaos of areas, districts, and local authori- 
ties, in which national and local purposes are confusedly 



202 PEOTECTION TAXES ON FEEE TEADE PEICES 

intermingled. A comprehensive measure of local govern- 
ment is alleged to be the only ultimate remedy; but mean- 
while the plea is made a subterfuge to evade that relief, 
the justice of which the proposed reform itself concedes. 

Taxation of land mainly consists in (1) the Land Tax ; 
(2) Local Taxes. It is often contended that landlords have 
evaded payment of the Land Tax by reducing it to insig- 
nificance. But, in the first place, the true representative 
of the Land Tax for national purposes is Schedule A of the 
Income Tax. In the second place, the evasion of payment 
is not by realty but by personalty. In its existing form the 
Land Tax dates from 1692, when a new assessment was 
made ; but it undoubtedly represents a part of the ancient 
subsidies, scutages, hidages, and tallages. Present in- 
equalities, increased by partial redemptions, sprang from 
the politics of the Revolution ; the counties in which it 
was heaviest were most attached to the House of Stuart. 
The Land Tax, following the practice of the ancient 
subsidies, which it represents, originally applied to person- 
alty as well as to realty, but the difficulty of assessing 
the former proved so great, that in 1833 the net receipts 
only amounted to 5,2 1-W., and in that year an Act was 
passed abolishing its application to personalty. So far as 
the Land Tax is concerned, it is personalty, not realty, that 
has evaded j)ayment. It is not, however, by abolition of the 
Land Tax, which at the best would afford but partial relief, 
that landlords should seek redress. The Land Tax is an 
old tax, subject to which estates in this country have all 
been acquired. 

Local Taxation consists of old and new rates. The 
old rates were the following (1) Poor Rates, (2) County 
Rates, (3) Highway Rates, (4) Church Rates. To these 
must be added other rates which fell upon land, such as 



PKOTECTION TAXES ON FREE TEADE PRICES 203 

Light and Watching Eates, Sewers Rates (not Metropoli- 
tan), Drainage and Inclosure Rates. The amounts of this 
last class are not separately returned in early reports on 
Local Taxation. 

The four first-mentioned rates formed the chief items 
of Local Taxation. If, as it is believed, the value of agri- 
cultural land has fallen to about the value of 1815, it be- 
comes not only historically, but practically, interesting to 
give the amount of Local Taxation so far as it can be made 
out in 1815, 1827, and 1841. The total amount, and, 
where practicable, the items, will be found set out in the 
note,' and in Appendix XIII. These years, it will be 
observed, are years in which it was reasonable that Local 
Taxation should fall heavily upon agricultural land, because, 
under the protective system, the community at large was 
heavily taxed for its support. 

In 1848 England adopted a Free Trade Policy, but 
she did not readjust her Protection taxes. On the contrary, 
she has every year added to the burden upon agricultural 
land. In reason, if agriculturists have no Protection, they 
ought to have fair taxation ; in fact, they have neither. 
Personalty or building land eats its cake in the form of 
Free Trade, and keeps it in the shape of relief from taxa- 
tion. House property never had, and therefore never 
lost, the benefit of Protection ; but it is in building land 
that the increased value of the soil now consists. The 
whole force of the double blow inflicted by the loss of 

' The returns in early reports for any given year supiDlj- the item of 
one rate, another supplies a second, but 1827 is the first year in which 
all four are given. In 1803 and 1814 Poor Rate was 5,318,205^. and 
8,388,974/.; in 1792, County Rate was 218,215/!. ; in 1803, 317,977/.; in 
1814,573,504/. Highway Eates averaged for the three years 1811-12-13, 
1,407,200/. ; in 1827, Church Eates were 5G4,388/. For other details, see 
Appendix XIII. 



204 PROTECTION TAXES ON FREE TRADE PRICES 

Protection and by increased taxation without commensurate 
increase in value, lias fallen upon agricultural land, and it 
is agricultural land alone that requires relief. As a curious 
comment upon the existing crisis in England, it may be 
noted that when, in 1884, the proposed protective duties 
were referred to a French committee of deputies, an 
amendment was moved and carried, remitting the wliole 
of the Land Tax, except that portion which was assessed 
on vineyards and building land ; but the Chamber and 
the Senate preferred Protection. In England justice im- 
peratively demands the remission of taxation on agricul- 
tural land. Such a measure is due of right to agriculturists 
as the necessary consequence of Free Trade ; it was pro- 
mised in 1848 ; it is virtually conceded in every Treasury 
subvention ; it is implied in the repeated answer that 
landlords must wait for Local Government Reform ; it has 
been accepted by several resolutions of the House of 
Commons ; it has been recommended by recent commissions 
on agriculture. 

In 1815 the rental of England and Wales was 
36,000,000L; in 1878 it was 51,000,000?. But at least 
35 or 40 per cent, reduction has been made in 1887. At 
this moment rents are certainly no higher, possibly they are 
lower than in 1815. Again, in 1815 foreign corn was ex- 
cluded under 80s. a quarter, and the duty acted as an in- 
come tax on the wages of consumers to enable producers 
to bear the charges upon land. In 1887 there is no im- 
port duty, and no tax paid by the community for the 
benefit of the producer. Again, in 1815 agricultural land 
paid an enormous proportion of poor, rate, because rate- 
payers contributed to the farmer's labour bill; but in 1834 
the Poor Law system was totally changed, and farmers now 
pay wages from their own pockets. Are, then, local bur- 



PROTECTION TAXES ON FEEE TRADE PRICES 205 

dens readjusted ? Are they lightened ? On the contrary, 
they are enormously increased. Agricultural land is 
assessed at 82 per cent, of the gross income, while rail- 
ways, mines, and houses, which alone enjoy the so-called 
unearned increment, escape respectively at 31, 42, and 77 
per cent. Once this was just, now it is flagrantly unjust. 
New charges have been thrown upon agricultural land : as 
local burdens, education rates are glaring anomalies ; rate- 
payers have lost their tolls and the whole maintenance of 
highways falls upon the landed interests, though it is the 
brewer or the coal merchant who makes the profitable use 
of roads. If landlords and tenants invest capital in im- 
provements, or borrow money and similarly apply it, they 
are assessed upon the improvements. If they invest in the 
funds they escape, as does the mortgagee who holds a 
charge upon the land. Is it then surprising that farm- 
ing improvements, in these hard times, are not effected ? 
Traders, fundholders, manufacturers enjoy a regulated 
system of poor law, security of life and property, and well- 
kept roads for nothing ; owners and occupiers of land at the 
cost of millions. Not only are new charges thrown upon 
agricultural land, and old means of assistance withdrawn, 
but, item by item, with the exception of church rate, every 
one of the old charges ' is increased, and this upon what is 
possibly a lower income than that of 1815, when Protec- 
tion prevailed, and when the Poor Law acted as a wages 
fund. Mr. Goscheu, in the conclusion of his report on 
Local Taxation,^ says of 1868, 'An historical retrospect 
seems to prove that, as regards the burdens on land, they 
are not heavier than they have been at various periods of 
this century.' But, with all deference to his eminent 

* See Appendix XIII., Local Taxation. 

* Parliamentary Accounts and Papers, 1870, vol. Iv. 



206 PEOTECTION TAXES ON FEEE TRADE PRICES 

authority, his historical retrospect is only an historical 
squint if it fails to notice the two most prominent features 
of early local taxation — first, that, as regards rates gene- 
rally, agricultural land was heavily burdened because it 
enjoyed, so to speak, a drawback in protective duties ; 
secondly, that, as regards poor rates in particular, agricul- 
tural land was heavily burdened because, prior to 1834, the 
administration of the Poor Law taxed the community to 
pay the farmer's labour bill. The two reasons for the 
burden are now gone, but not the load ; rather it is, in the 
past twenty years, enormously increased. The climax of 
injustice has been reached within the last ten years, when 
distress has increased rates by more than a third. Agri- 
cultural depression raises the value of realised personalty, 
because it cheapens the cost of food, but it proportionately 
lowers the value of agricultural land. The property which 
profits by depression escapes scot free from the burden of 
local taxation, which falls more heavily upon agricultural 
land as its value declines. 

It would not suffice to show, even if it were possible, 
that the burden of local taxation is the same in 1888 as in 
1841.^ The following comparison between the figures of 
the four old rates in 1841 and 1885 shows that it is 
higher by 3^ millions. In both cases the Metropolitan ex- 
penditure under the heads of Poor Law Authorities and 
Churchwardens (church rates) is included : — 

' This date is chosen in preference to 1827, because the new Poor 
Law had then come into operation, while Protection still continued. In 
other words, that year is the simplest of the two detailed returns in the 
period of Protection, because one great factor which previously swelled 
rates in tlie interests of agricultural land is eliminated. 



PEOTECTION TAXES ON FREE TEADE PEICES 207 



Rates 


1841 


1885 


Poor Rates 

County Rates .... 
Highway Rates . . . 
Church Rates .... 


£ 
5,690,151 

963,223 
1,169,891 

506,812 


£ 
8,350,354 
2,008,048 
1,589,995 

9,468 


Totals 


8,3.30,077 


11,957,865 



To this comparison must be added the facts that, in 
1841, turnpike tolls amounted to 1,318,084?. ; that of the 
old rates. Sewers Rates, Drainage, Embankment, and Con- 
servancy Eates, and Burial Board Rates are all increased ; 
that a new rate falling wholly upon the land, the Rural 
Sanitary Rate, amounts to 313,724?. ; and that the School 
Board Rate, partly urban, partly rural, has risen to 
1,320,923?.> 

Since 1815 the total sum levied by local rates has risen 
from 8 millions to more than 26 millions in 1885. By far the 
largest share of the increased burden falls upon towns, and 
the Treasury sub vention s must also be considered (3 , 7 7 3 , 6 1 0? . 
in 1885). But it will hardly be disputed that not less 
than 2 millions of additional taxes have fallen upon rural 
districts, in which the value of property has, if anything, 
decreased, which now derive less direct benefits from a large 
portion of the expenditure than heretofore, and which no 
longer enjoy the compensating advantages of the protec- 
tive system. In strict justice, if the principle was carried 
out upon which land was originally burdened, the agricul- 
tural interests are entitled to be placed, with regard to 
local taxation, in a better position than they enjoyed in 
1815, when the total amount raised by rates was 8 millions 
instead of 26 millions. Their present position is that of 



For the detailed comparison of the rates in 1841 and 1885, see 
Appendix XIII. 



208 PROTECTION TAXES ON FEEE TRADE PRICES 

Protection taxes and Free Trade prices ; they are, therefore, 
abundantly justified in demanding either Protection prices 
or Free Trade taxes. 

It will be admitted on all sides that Local Government 
Reform is necessary. Local organisations growing up 
haphazard, and created from hand to mouth, are needlessly 
complicated, and the spread of population intensifies their 
ineffectiveness. The mischief is brought home to rate- 
payers by the astounding growth of local debt. Between 
1868 and 1885 local rates, exclusive of tolls, dues, and 
rents, rose from 16 to 26 millions, while during the same 
period Imperial taxation, excluding the Post Office, and 
miscellaneous receipts, only increased from 48,570,000L in 
1868 to 53,223,000Z. in 1885. During the ten years 
ending in 1884 the liabilities of the local authorities, in 
respect of outstanding loans, rose from 93 to 165 millions, 
and at the present moment the local debt is little less than 
a fourth of the National Debt. This enormous burden 
accumulates unchecked, if not encouraged, by its interested 
administrators. Ratepayers, aghast at the amount of their 
indebtedness, cannot see, much less control, its growth, 
their pockets are emptied on every side by local bodies, 
each invested with large powers to tax or borrow They 
cannot, at the same moment, keep an eye on quarter ses- 
sions, vestries, burial boards, sanitary boards, poor law 
guardians, parish overseers, drainage or sewers commis- 
sioners. Thus this burden grows day by day, uncontrolled 
by any central body, affecting different areas in different 
degrees, each portion administered by different authorities, 
elected on different methods, exercising their respective 
powers over intermingled areas which are not conter- 
minous, and enjoying a practical anarchy and collective 
irresponsibility. A strong central body with consolidated 



PROTECTION TAXES ON FREE TRADE PRICES 200 

powers, is imperatively needed to enforce economy, pro- 
mote efficiency, and exercise control over conveniently- 
sized and well-arranged districts. 

But administrative reform ought not to hinder financial 
relief. Excessive taxation and its wasteful distribution are 
two distinct abuses capable of separate removal. What- 
ever portion of local taxation is reduced for agriculturists 
must be necessarily transferred to some other form of 
property. Nor would it be difficult to establish a local 
taxation income-tax, and use existing returns to assess 
realised personalty. But if this method of supplying the 
deficiency is rejected, other alternatives exist. Subventions 
from general taxation are clumsy expedients, but the 
State supervision which they carry with them, if reform of 
local government is postponed, becomes a valuable advan- 
tage. Another and simpler method of relief is affi3rded by 
the allocation of certain taxes, like the dog, gun, game, 
and carriage licenses, to local authorities.^ 

But the mode of financial relief hardly belongs to the 
present inquiry, which is not so much intended to suggest 
remedies as to insist upon the unfair incidence of protec- 
tion taxes upon agricultural land. Here, and not in its 
incidence upon building-land, lies the inequality of the 
present system. Here, whatever increment has been gained 
is hardly earned, and here alone is relief urgently required. 

It is often argued that the reduction of local rates 
exonerates property at the cost of labour, and quarters 
landlords upon the State. Though the reduction of local 
rates is primarily a landlord's question, because upon him 

' Another financial measure which would indirectly confer substan- 
tial benefits upon agricultural land would be the reduction of 3 per cent, 
consols to 2^ per cent. By such a change capital would be necessarily 
attracted from consols to land, since both would then be placed upon 
much the same footing as remunerative investments. 



210 PROTECTION TAXES ON FREE TRADE PRICES 

falls three-fourths of the charge, yet the interests of 
farmers are not limited to the remaining fom'th. They 
are strong enough to secure reduced rents as a consequence 
of remission. Again, the existing incidence of local taxa- 
tion would necessarily prevent the growth of small owners, 
the spoilt children of those who use this argument against 
any reduction in the burden of rates. It is a novel mode 
of encouraging peasant proprietors to tax them more 
heavily than any other class in the community. Unless 
the soil is partially relieved from rates, the dreams of 
extreme land-reformers are impossible of realisation. 



211 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

SELF-HELP NOT PROTECTION. 

Legislation and financial reform may, and, it^'is hoped, 
will, do something for agriculture ; but it can, and must, 
do most for itself. State aid may be a good crutch ; it is 
certainly a bad leg. The only certain and immediate assist- 
ance comes from self-help. When the situation is looked 
fairly in the face, foreign competition in corn is seen to be, 
for the present at least, a fixed quantity. If agriculturists 
expect foreign wheat supplies to cease, they may starve 
where they stand, like Horace's rustic waiting for the 
river to cease to flow. It is true that American or Indian 
grain production and population will some day run neck 
and neck ; but few of the present generation of men will live 
to see that agricultural millennium. It is so inherently 
improbable that import duties on wheat will ever be 
imposed, that farmers only follow the will-o'-the-wisp of 
Protection to be lured still deeper into the Slough of De- 
spond. Agriculturists must therefore revise their practical 
ideas, if they cannot, in this respect, revise the fiscal sys- 
tem. From other sources relief will be but infinitesimal. 

AVhere, then, are agriculturists to look for a livelihood ? 
In 188G the total value of imports of agricultural produce' 
amounts, in round figures, to 113 millions of pounds. Of 
this total value, 62^ millions consisted either of grain, not 

' See Appendix VIII., Values of Imports of Agricultural Produce. 

p 2 



212 SELF-HELP NOT PKOTECTION 

including Indian corn (35 millions), or of articles which 
either cannot be produced at all or cannot be grown 
advantageously in this country (27^ millions). The re- 
maining 50^ millions consists, for the most part, of pro- 
duce which not only might be produced in this country, 
but, if railway rates were readjusted, could be produced 
with equal advantage nowhere else. Excluding salt and 
preserved meat, cheese, margarine, and lard, which are 
not perishable, and therefore could be conveyed here by 
sea, we annually import from abroad perishable produce, 
such as livestock, fresh meat, butter, eggs, fruit, and 
vegetables, of the enormous value of 30,600,000/. This 
sum, which exceeds the total value of the imported wheat 
by 4^ millions, can be produced at home under superior 
advantages of proximity. 

Our foreign meat supply arrives alive or dead. In the 
first case, English farmers suffer constant risk from im- 
ported contagious disease. Against this influx of living 
beef and mutton, if not unduly favoured by railway rates, 
English farmers can and must contend. But imported 
livestock should not be suffered to spread infection among 
the flocks and herds of this country. In France veterinary 
officers belonging to the Agricultural Department are 
stationed at all the ports of entry, armed with full powers 
to exclude or slaughter foreign livestock. In the Nether- 
lands the vigorous action of the Ministry of Agriculture has 
stamped out pleuro-pneumonia. Why should not a similar 
practice prevail in England? So long as contagious 
diseases are not shut out, British farmers fight foreign 
meat-producers with one hand tied behind their backs. 
Railway rates tie up the other. Under no natural system 
of competition could 30 million pounds' worth of perishable 
produce be thrown upon the London markets in equal 



SELF-HELP NOT PEOTECTION 213 

condition to English goods. If once the protective rates 
were revised, which now exckide home growers from home 
markets, English farmers would turn for profit to fresh 
perishable produce; and if they do so, there is an additional 
6 millions of imported bacon, hams, and cheese, in the best 
qualities of which they might defy foreign competition. 
This 06^ millions probably amounts to more than the 
rental of farms in England and Wales in 1887. 

History proves that farming has twice before changed 
its front. In the sixteenth century farmers turned from 
the plough to pasture ; in the eighteenth and nineteenth 
centuries they reverted to tillage. Now, at the close of 
the nineteenth century, livestock and dairy-farming must 
supersede corn as the farmer's sheet-anchor. Changes 
of front in the faces of watchful rivals are dangerous 
manoeuvres, attended with risk and loss ; but the sooner 
they are effected the better. There are signs that the new 
■departure has in fact commenced; and its inevitable result, 
the decreased demand for agricultural labour, is lament- 
ably manifest. The area of corn cultivation has decreased 
by 618,000 acres upon the area in 1875-7 ; on the other 
hand, more land is under rotation grasses, clovers, and 
permanent pasture, or fruit orchards and market gardens. 

Under changed conditions, agriculture begins to show 
faint symptoms of revival, which the scarcity of winter 
food, compensated as it was by abundant pasture up to 
December, has failed to check. Every county can pro- 
duce instances of shrewd, industrious, persevering men 
who now farm with profit by adapting low-rented land 
to new requirements, by economy of labour and personal 
supervision. Holdings have been reduced in size, and the 
proportions of arable and pasture are better adapted to 
varied and diversified husbandry. Land once more yields 



214 SELF-HELP NOT PKOTECTION 

a profit ; the unoccupied area is less in 1887 by 18,533 
acres than it was in 1881 ; agricultural-implement makers 
report an increased demand for their goods. The invention 
of new dairy implements and processes, the study of foreign 
systems, the importation of American experts, the esta- 
blishment of milk factories and creameries, the formation of 
associations and unions among milk-producers, testify to 
the growing importance of dairy-farming. 

The country, then, appears prepared to enter upon a 
great agricultural change. But without cordial co-opera- 
tion between owners and occupiers no new departure can 
succeed. Both profit by getting the utmost from the land ; 
and the real question for both parties to consider is, How 
can even-handed justice best be meted out to their respec- 
tive interests ? Landlords dislike to surrender control over 
their estates, and farmers dislike to risk capital on insecure 
tenures. Something may be said for both positions. But 
unless landlords find the whole capital, farmers have justice 
on their side. 

Parties to contracts must, as a general rule, protect 
their own interests ; but though farmers are now able to 
drive a bargain, their position is in some respects peculiar. 
The profession of a farmer is seldom lucrative, and he em- 
barks in it everything that he has. He follows the most 
hereditary of callings ; he cannot transfer himself and his 
money to other trades ; he is as helpless as generations of 
farming can make him. It is the consciousness of this 
fact that drives him into ruinous competition for land. 
He may lose money on his farm, but he cannot readily 
throw up his holding, especiallj' if he has a family. It is 
often better for him to suffer an annual loss than to risk 
the auction sale which closes his occupation. He has little 
incentive to improvement ; he cannot patent his agricultural 



SELF-HELP NOT PROTECTION 215 

processes ; till recently his laudlord often appropriated in 
the shape of increased rent the results of his enterprise. 
He has no benefit of fancy prices for his produce ; he can- 
not wait his market, for his goods suffer in the keeping ; he 
is deprived by railway rates of the natural protection aflfbrded 
by distance ; he is subjected, without the favour of fashion, 
to the barest competition ; his scanty profits are intercepted 
by middlemen, who stand between him and the producer. 

On the other hand, if agricultural produce all round 
has decreased in value by 25 per cent., rents have fallen 
from 30 to 40 per cent,, while seed corn, cake, manure, 
or store cattle and sheep are cheaper in proportion. Much, 
too, has of late been done for farmers. The Game Laws,' 
which, for more than a century bred bitter feelings, have 
been modified. The law of distress, which, by giving 
artificial security to landlords, often raised rents above 
their natural level, is limited in its range. The old legal 
maxim ' Qidcqidd plantatur solo accedit solo ' is at least 
shaken. The present Government has removed some of 
the inequality of taxation by allowing farmers to declare 
their actual income under Schedule D. It has also pro- 
tected them against adulterated produce, which robbed their 
dairy-farms of legitimate profits,^ or their purchases in 
cake of half their value. ^ But such remedies only touch 

' Game is no new grievance. In 1774, Ai-thur Young {Political 
AHthmetic, p. 204) speaks of the number of hares as ruinous to farm- 
ing. In 1830 a pamphleteer, writing as Agricola, begs landlords to 
abandon their 'contemptible place-hunting battues,' the proceeds of 
which are ' destined for the London poulterer,' and speaks of the 
' nursery of game ' as ' the stepping-stone to a sinecure.' 

- The Margarine Act. But it may be doubted whether the Act will 
effect its object. Perhaps the best legislative protection against the 
admixture with butter would have been to requh-e it to be coloured red 
or pink. 

' The Merchandise Trade Marks Act. 



216 SELF-HELP NOT PROTECTION 

the fringe of the farmer's dijSiculties. His real grievance 
against the landlord is the absence of security for unex- 
hausted improvements under a lease. Ownership affords 
the strongest encouragement to agricultural progress. On 
large estates it cannot be combined Avith occupation ; the 
relations of landlord and tenant must necessarily be 
maintained. Tenants of the class of clievaliers of agricul- 
tural industries are easily found, who cultivate the soil as 
lodgers, skim and rob the land, and reduce farming to 
leave to an exact science. But how can improving 
farmers be induced to hire land ? Three plans have been 
proposed. The first is to create peasant proprietors ; the 
second is to recognise that dual ownership which is in- 
volved in tenant-right ; the third, and most feasible pro- 
position, is to secure to the tenant in the fullest degree 
the benefit of the improvements which he effects. English 
farmers have no claim to fixity of tenure ; but they may 
fairly ask, and are entitled to obtain, absolute security for 
their outlay. 

With high farming, tenant-right, in some form or other, 
became an absolute necessity ; but the Legislature proved 
slow to recognise the change in agricultural conditions. 
Although the need of maintaining the fertility of the soil 
increased every year, modern tenants possessed no more 
security for outlay than medieval farmers who never put a 
sixpence into the soil. How compensation should be given 
is a much-debated question. Holdings acquire additional 
value in three ways : first, by permanent improvements 
effected by the landlord; secondly, by artificial manures 
which produce a temporary increase in the fertility of the 
soil ; thirdly, by a course of skilful farming, the effects of 
which last for years, but are capable of exhaustion. No 
question arises on the first head, and very little on the 



SELF-HELP NOT PROTECTION 217 

second ; the real difficulty begins with the third. If 
tenants, by skill and liberality, have increased the letting 
or marketable value of land, they are entitled to compensa- 
tion for whatever increase remains when landlords seek to 
change the conditions of a tenancy. Thus, even on the third 
head, difficulty only arises when, at the expiration of a lease, 
a notice to quit is given, or the rent is raised. In order to 
ascertain the value of the tenant's improvements, two plans 
are proposed — open sale in the market, and valuation with 
arbitration. The first is the free sale of tenant-right ; the 
second is the principle adopted in the Agricultural Hold- 
ings Acts of 1875 and 1883. One fatal objection may be 
urged against the first plan. The incoming tenant buys 
the improvements ; in other words, he enters upon the 
farm with his capital reduced, if not exhausted. Farmers, 
in fact, cut a stick for their own backs. On other grounds 
the three F's, with the attendant tutelage of a land court, 
are not only historically indefensible, but unnecessary and 
unfair to English landlords. 

To quitting tenants, the principle of reference and arbi- 
tration, adopted in the Agricultural Holdings Acts of 1875 
and 1883, affords adequate security. The latter Act is 
compulsory, and therefore escapes the danger which made 
the first inoperative. But its provisions are cumbersome, 
and its schedules of improvement minute but inadequate. 
It gives no security to sitting tenants against a rise of 
rent based upon their improvements. If tiiey refuse the 
rise, their alternative is to quit. The choice is unfair ; the 
losses on a sale preparatory to quitting a farm often 
amount to ruin ; countless considerations besides those of 
business induce tenants to consent to a rise which they 
cannot afford. The advantage taken of this dilemma 
negatived the intended results of the Irish Land Act of 



218 SELF-HELP NOT PEOTECTION 

1870, and was made the excuse for the three F's of 1883. 
For the present tmie in England, the parts are reversed ; 
land competes for tenants, not tenants for land. But it 
will not always remain so, and tenant farmers have now 
the opportunity of, as it were, legislating for themselves. 
Ample security might be given by a very simple bill, 
dealing with the principle of compensation, the mode of its 
assessment, and the manner of its payment. The broad 
principle is, that when changes in the condition of a tenancy 
are proposed, tenants are entitled to compensation for any 
additions which their skill and capital have made to the 
letting value of the land : landlords are entitled to similar 
compensation for any diminution caused by niggardly or 
negligent farming. The value of the addition must be 
calculated by reference to experts and arbitration, and the 
amount limited to seven years' purchase, the period within 
which it would generally be exhausted. Lastly, in the 
case of quitting tenants the compensation thus estimated 
and capitalised should be paid by or to landlords on the 
surrender of the farm ; in the case of sitting tenants the 
compensation should either be paid by the landlord in a 
capitalised sum, or be for seven years deducted from the 
increased rent. A measure constructed upon these lines 
would give tenants every necessary security and induce- 
ment for skilful and liberal farm management. 

But even if compensation were thus secured, many 
agreements are objectionable on account both of their con- 
tents and their omissions. Restrictions upon cropping or 
sales of produce belong to bygone conditions of farming, 
and fail to achieve their objects. If it is necessary to 
guard against the impoverishment of the land in the in- 
terests of the owner or the incoming tenant, the best pro- 
tection, next to the interests of the occupier himself, will 



SELF-HELP NOT PEOTECTION 



219 



be to prescribe the annual quantity of niannre, and tlie 
course of the latter year's cultivation. To the class of 
omissions belongs the want of a sliding scale to adjust 
rents to the rise or fall of prices. Without such a scale a 
fall in the value of agricultural produce places tenants 
under leases at the mercy of landlords. The following system 
is, it is believed, adopted on Lord Tollemache's estates ; 
and although difficulties may arise in working out the per- 
centages of the rise and fall, the fairness of the principle 
admits of no dispute. 

Rise or fall upon the rents. 

Else of 25 per cent. 

„ 20 

„ 15 

„ 10 

5 

Fall of 5 
„ 10 
„ 15 
„ 20 
„ 25 

Upon this system, assuming the rent on which the 
standard is obtained to be 1?. an acre, if prices reach 44s. 
the rent only rises to 25s. an acre. On the other hand, if 
prices fall to 19s. the rent falls to 15s. The scale for the 
fall is less equitable than the scale for the rise. If prices 
fell so low as the two last figures, the surplus profit for 
rent would be a minus quantity. But though particular 
percentages might always be disputed, the principle of 
sliding scales and fluctuating rents is at once so reasonable 
and practicable, that its adoption would go far to remove 
those natural objections to leases which spring from fear 
of falling prices and fixed outgoings. Mutual confidence 
between landlord and tenant, just agreements, security for 



Average price 
s. 


ofth 
d. 


ree or 


ops. 


4-1 


. 




41 


6 






39 









36 









34 









Standard 31 


6 






29 









26 









24 









21 


6 






19 










220 SELF-HELP NOT PEOTECTION 

outlay, freedom of and in contract, sliding scales for rent, 
would remove the principal hindrances which scare away 
improving tenants. Farms at present rentals may, it is 
believed, be made to pay. Undoubtedly if farmers slumber 
in their empty corn-bins dreaming of Protection, they will 
be worn out before things wear round. But capable men 
of energy and enterprise, wide awake to every chance of 
profit — men who in personal expenses cut their coats to 
their cloth, who thoroughly understand and keep the 
master's eye upon their business — can, and do, make farm- 
ing answer. They have, in many respects, rarely occupied a 
more favourable position ; they have a choice of holdings 
and their own terms. But profits do not lie in the old 
ways, nor are fortunes to be expected. Profits lie in pennies 
saved rather than in pennies made — in careful planning, 
skilled management, economy of working expenses, minute 
attention to detail. Many losses might be prevented or 
controlled if farmers more often remembered that no 
part of their holdings better repays tillage than their 
heads. 

Profitable farming has been revolutionised by the an- 
nihilation of time and space, and the reduction of freights 
of ocean transit which steam and trade-depression have 
together effected. But agriculture, like some heavy body 
which has reached a high rate of speed, cannot be pulled 
up abruptly. The machinery has ceased to drive it for- 
ward, but the way that is still upon it carries it in the 
direction of wheat. Yet the mass shows signs of breaking 
off into different directions. Low farming takes the place 
of high because it is safer. Holdings are reduced in size — 
a change which may prove advantageous to agricultural 
labourers ; breadths of arable land are diminished, and 
farms better proportioned for mixed farming. Dairying, 



SELF-HELP NOT PKOTECTION 221 

livestock breeding, rearing, and fatting, are the most 
remunerative forms in which tenant farmers can employ 
their capital. Nor is it only to this or that side of the 
country that mixed farming is suited. It is sometimes 
said that one district grows wheat, another dairies, accord- 
ing to the value of the soil. But the example of France is 
not required to prove that stock may be bred and reared, 
and cheese and butter made, on arable land. Dairying is 
more a question of markets than of soil. It is true that 
the butter made in the rich pastures of Gournay and Isigny 
fetches from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. a pound in the Paris mar- 
kets ; but much of that which competes in English markets 
is produced on cultivated lands by the yield of tares, clover 
roots, rye, and oats. Varied husbandry pays on light, 
shallow soils which will not produce a permanent grass. 
It employs more labour than land which is laid down per- 
manently to grass. It also saves expenses both of men and 
horses, because it diminishes the area under the plough, by 
substituting for three-fourths of the arable portion a three or 
four years' lea, which may be grazed or cut for hay. The sys- 
tem of rotation and temporary grass which it adoj)ts costs less 
in seeds than permanent pasture, and may be reconverted to 
tillage whenever necessary. It restores the fertility of 
arable soil, because it gives time for the vegetable matter to 
accumulate. It supplies fodder-crops, which in dry seasons 
like 1887, are the saving of stock-breeders and dairymen. It 
secures more profits from breeders and dealers, because more 
stock is reared at home and fewer 'stores' are purchased. 
It minimises the risk of contagious disease, because it 
lessens the number of cattle which travel through the coun- 
try ; and not only is home-bred stock less liable to disease, 
but it is better suited to the soil and climate. It enables 
farmers to compete with foreigners in those forms of pro- 



222 SELF-HELP NOT PROTECTION 

duce in wliicli proximity gives tliem natural advantages. 
It is, in fact, peculiarly adapted to the growth of beef, 
mutton, veal, butter, milk, and pork — ai'ticles in which 
home markets enjoy a natural monopoly, and the imported 
value of which annually exceeds 20 millions. It increases 
the proportion of livestock, and thus assists farmers to 
consume at home produce which they cannot sell at a 
profit. Better prices are realised in milk and butter than 
were made thirty years ago. Prime qualities of English hard 
cheese maintain their prices ; there is an increasing demand 
for soft cheese of the Coulommiers type ; buttermilk com- 
mands a ready sale among confectioners. If half-and-half 
cheese like Brie, or skim-milk cheese like Gervais, both 
famous in Paris, command no sale ; if separated milk is 
not, as in the North, bought to mix with porridge, skim- 
milk may be used to rear calves and pigs with peculiar 
advantage. Shorthorns, as is well known, take kindly to 
rearing by hand ; and the excessive fatness which depre- 
ciates the price of maize-fed American ' hog-products ' is 
best counteracted by nitrogenous food, like milk mixed 
with pea-meal or barley. 

Where markets are convenient, the milk trade is easy 
and remunerative ; but farmers have hitherto given away 
their profits to be reaped by middlemen. One of many 
signs that they are awakening to the importance of the 
trade is seen in their alliances to determine the prices of 
the districts. Co-operation in the sale of produce is sorely 
needed. It is probable that that uniformity which places 
Normandy at the head of the butter trade can only be 
secured in factories. If so, let us have them. But it is 
certain that if English cheese and butter are to compete 
at all with foreign goods, they must, before all things, be 
above suspicion for purit3^ In a war of ' wrinkles ' we 



SELF-HELP NOT PEOTECTION 223 

should go to the wall, and genuineness is our only strength. 
Bogus butter mixed with margarine, or bogus cheese made 
up with hog's lard, would kill the industry. So, too, if it 
is to compete with success, English butter must be well 
and uniformly made, carefully packed, and sent to market 
in attractive condition. Slovenly systems result in strong 
taste and low prices. These necessary elements have of 
late brought into prominence milk-factories and creameries. 
The danger of the system, unless it is conducted by and 
for farmers, is that it may establish another race of middle- 
men. 

If tenant-farmers could but clear their eyes of the 
dust of Protection, their outlook is by no means dismal. 
They enjoy a climate which is admirably adapted for 
diversified farming ; they have at their very doors an 
insatiable market ; they command the best breeds of live 
animals ; the diminished value of agricultural produce is 
met by a corresponding fall in rents and the costs of 
production ; labour is cheap, abundant, and, when good, 
the best in the world. They have before them examples, 
in every county, of men of their own class who have 
conquered circumstances, and who are at the present 
moment making money in their profession. All that is 
required is a frank recognition, both by landlords and 
tenants, of the changed conditions under which farming 
can be made to pay ; on the one side, fair rents and 
proper homesteads for the manufacture of meat and dairy 
produce ; on the other, revived energy, scientific practices, 
and more direct relations between producers and con- 
sumers. 



224 



CHAPTER XIX. 

AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS. 

Standing as agricultural labourers do on the brink of 
pauperism, the slightest slip downwards carries them over 
the verge. But the most cheering symptom in rural 
distress at present, as contrasted with the past, is that 
hired labourers have been the last, and not the first, tc> 
suffer by depression. Looking back to the period oi' 
protection from 1790 to 1840, their condition was de- 
plorable, a disgrace to civilisation generally, and to land- 
lords and farmers in particular. Between 1770 and 1850 
the average rent of arable land had more than doubled, 
while wages increased b}^ one-eighth, the rent of cottages 
rose by a half, and the commons, by which the labourer 
had improved his income, were enclosed— rarely, indeed, 
without compensation, but generally without any per- 
manent equivalent. The old Poor Law degraded peasants 
to parish pensioners, checked the circulation of labour, 
deteriorated its efficiency by fixing pay with reference to 
wants rather than services, encouraged the growth of a 
surplus population by rewarding the most productive 
couples. The standard of life from 1800 to 1834 sank 
to the lowest possible scale ; in the South and West wages- 
paid by employers fell to 3^. to 4.s. per week, augmented 
by parochial relief from the pockets of those who had no 
need of labour : and insufficient food has leffc its mark in 



AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS 225 

the physical degeneracy of the peasantry. Herded to- 
gether in cottages which, by their imperfect arrangements, 
violated every sanitary law, generated all kinds of disease, 
and rendered modesty an unimaginable thing ; driven to 
a distance from their work in order to create model 
villages, and congi'egated in ' open ' parishes, where they 
were subjected to the extortions of house-building specu- 
lators; compelled by insufficient wages to expose their 
wives to the degradation of field labour, and to send their 
children to work as soon as they could crawl — the peasant 
had little cause in the past to be enthusiastic for the 
land laws, the corn laws, and parochial relief. Disorganised 
by his divorce from the soil, demoralised by the poor 
law, degraded by insufficient money wages, lodged worse 
than the animals, oppressed by the high price of neces- 
saries, the labourer would have been more than human 
had he not risen in an insurrection which could only be 
quelled by force. He had already carried patience beyond 
the limit where it ceases to be a virtue. 

The relative improvement in the present condition of 
the agricultural labourer is enormous. Landlords have 
spared no jsains to improve his moral and material 
position. Labourers are comfortably lodged, and few are 
without land in the shape of field or cottage gardens ; the 
agi'icultural gang, public or private, is at an end ; fewer 
women and young children work in the fields ; the abuses 
of the truck system have been reduced. They enjoy 
comforts to which twenty years ago they were strangers ; 
they are better housed, better fed, better clad ; their work 
is lighter, and their wages, tested by the purchasing 
power of money, higher than they have been for centuries. 
But slow-witted as Hodge proverbially is, his memory is 
singularly tenacious. Deeply hidden in the recesses of 

Q 



226 AGEICULTURAL LABOURERS 

his intricate mind lurk vague theories of lost rights, and 
more distinct traditions of past wrongs. He forgets that 
his present condition, in its substance, results from the 
natural operation of economic laws ; he only remembers 
the occasions on which its unfortunate accidents have been 
aggravated for the benefit of landlords or of farmers. 

Speaking generally, the worst aspects of peasant life 
at the present moment are the decreasing demands for 
agricultural labour, the absence of any reasonable prospect 
of emerging from the condition of hii'ed service, and the 
pauper allowance which rewards the most industrious career. 
Some readjustment between the demand and supply for 
labour, some social ladder, and some better provision against 
old age are the true needs of the agricultural poor. So far 
from relieving the glut of labour, the new departure in 
the practice of farming will still further congest the 
market. Economical management and increased breadths 
of grass, whether permanent or temporary, mean a 
reduction of working expenses, which will take the form, 
not of less wages, but of less employment. Emigration 
affords the only outlet for the excess of the labour supply. 
But, putting this aside for the moment, do the agricultural 
changes which appear imminent afford no hope of partial 
remedy ? 

Everything points to a great reduction in the size of 
holdings, and closer relations between the labour and the 
land. Capital, in the shape of money, is being withdrawn 
from farming ; large tenants are scarce, large farms hard 
to let. Capitalists worth from 5,000Z. to 10,000Z. will not 
invest in a trade which now means daily drudgery or 
pecuniary loss. Others, who have lost half their capital, 
would be glad to lose half their land, and desire to con- 
centrate their money on narrower areas. Large farms go 



AGEICULTUEAL LABOUEERS 227 

begging, wlieu smaller holdings create competition. Thus 
the demand for land increases in extent as it diminishes in 
intensity ; and the same fact has been already noted as the 
characteristic of social progress.^ If agriculture for the 
time discards steam ploughs, it may find that spades are 
trumps. Easy-going farmers, bred in the traditions of corn- 
law prices, are yielding to smaller men who, by sheer hard 
work, will force the land to pay. 

Small peasant tenancies of 15 acres, in these days of 
small profits, offer a better chance of success than co-ope- 
rative farms, where Jack is as good as his master, and one 
idler drags down the rest. Small tenants, who make no 
outlay for labour, are indefatigable in their industry. If 
they soil their cattle, as every peasant does in France, they 
can keep three cows on land which, if grazed, would 
barely keep two. Calves, pigs, poultry, are within the 
reach of the humblest. Bigger men might also find 
breeding mares a profitable investment, especially if the 
Government provided good sires at easy rates. In France 
eggs are collected by cocotiers who travel the districts : a 
similar plan would enable the English peasant tenant to 
compete for a share in the 2,884,000L which the country 
annually pays for foreign eggs. If a butter-making factory 
or a market for milk were at hand, his success would be 
as certain as anything can be in farming. 

But the most industrious tenants require money 
capital with which to start. How is it to be provided ? 
On the Continent the Prussian land-banks have proved 
useful agencies for the purpose. But, with the English 
dislike to State interference, ' caisses de credit Ra^eisen ' 
may prove more popular. Societies of landlords form syn- 
dicates, and issue 3 per cent, bonds on the security of their 
' See page 160. 

Q 2 



228 AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS 

land. The money thus raised is advanced to farmers at 
easy rates, from S^ to 4 per cent. The system was started 
by M. Raffeisen in Neuwied on the Rhine, and, wherever 
it has spread, has proved successful. It is, however, 
essential that the circle within which each bank operates 
should be narrow, so that the members of the syndicate may 
be accurately informed of the position of would-be bor- 
rowers.' One great feature of French agriculture during 
the recent depression is the increase of metayage. Many 
agricultural writers admit that, on this system, landlords 
and tenants have got most from the land, and suffered least 
from falling prices ; some have even called it the land sys- 
tem of the future. The theory of metayar/e is admirable, 
and its working has been completely revolutionised since 
it was condemned by Arthur Young and Mill. Landlords 
and tenants combine to stock a farm ; the tenant tills the 
soil, and manages the live stock under the direction of the 
landlord ; the profits are divided as the interest on their 
respective capitals. Metayage applies co-operation directly 
and simply to agricultural industries ; it forms an associa- 
tion of capital with labour, of practice with science ; it 
brings to bear upon both partners the strongest motives of 
self-interest. It affords every variety of tenure, from the 
maitre-valet who contributes nothing but his labour, or the 
personniers, companies of mattre-valets working under the 

> In some cases syndicates have been allowed to issue paper money 
against their cash in hand. The Prussian Land Bills of Exchange con- 
siderably increase powers of borrowing on real property. This negoti- 
able mortgage (GnmdscJnM) may he made payable to order, and, if 
endorsed in blank, passes by mere delivery ; and the holder for value 
can always enforce his claim against the estate. The power to transfer 
whenever the holder wishes increases the value of land as a security, 
and is easily obtained if a land registration system were once esta- 
blished in the country. 



AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS 229 

supervision of their leader, the hourrat, to the metayen 
who brings 1001. into the partnership.' 

It may, therefore, prove that, in the future, some large 
percentage of discharged labour will be settled on small 
holdings. On larger farms economies will take the form 
rather of reduced numbers than of reduced wawes. The 
best men will probably be regularly employed at present 
rates ; but nothing can, it is feared, secure permanent 
wages for industrious but unskilful labourers, still less for 
idle, drinking loafers, who are only servants on Saturday 
nights. 

Different rates of wages have always existed, and may 
be illustrated from the scales fixed by justices of the peace 
in the seventeenth century.^ So, too, it was the habitual 
practice of farmers, at the commencement of the present 
century and previously to the general adoption of turnips 
and artificial grasses, to dismiss half their labourers in the 
winter months. The new and deplorable result of neces- 
sary changes in agi'icultural practices is not merely reduc- 
tion of wages, or even temporary loss of work, but the 
sheer impossibility for a considerable section of the rural 
community to find work in the Old World. 

There are, then, three classes of agricultural labourers, 
who will be differently affected by the new departure 
which seems imminent : those who themselves settle on 
small holdings, those who find employment on large farms, 
and those who are discharged. If the tendencies of Eng- 

' For further details see ' Rural France,' Edinhnrgli Revieiv, Octo- 
ber 1887, pp. 312-15. 

' E.g., in 1610, in Rutland, three classes of labourers are distin- 
guished. ' A superior servant in husbandrie which can eire, sow, mow, 
thresh, make a rick, thacke and hedge the same, and can kill a slieep, 
hog, and calfe,' obtained 21. 10s. a year with food; a common servant, 
21.; a ' meane servant,' 11. 9s. 



230 AGRICULTUEAL LABOUEEES 

lish farming are rightly interpreted, the change will supply- 
to the first two classes that social ladder, those means of 
making independent provision for old age, and that stimulus 
to energy, which their condition has hitherto lacked. The 
marked deterioration in the quality of English labour is 
partly due to hopelessness, partly to the educational needs 
of the day, partly to want of varied experience. The first 
cause may be removed by the stimulus afforded by small 
farms or allotments, by new sources of livelihood or new 
adjuncts to wages; the second may be mitigated by tech- 
nical teaching in village schools ; for the third it is perhaps 
hopeless to look for the extended revival of the bothy system 
of the north, which under a slightly different form prevailed 
at no distant period throughout the country. Farmers and 
their men once lived together and ate together; but the 
relations of the agricultural classes are altered. The re- 
ports of the Agricultural Commissions at the beginning of 
the century show that the practice of lodging and feeding 
farm servants died out because farmers' wives were 'too 
fine to keep house.' But such a practice benefits farmers, 
because, when prices are low, they need not sell large 
quantities of produce to realise money wages ; and, in times 
of scarcity, labourers obtain a larger money value in the 
shape of food than they could buy for themselves. The 
farmer had constantly on the premises a large staff" of 
labour : labour was more efficient ; boys, boarded and 
lodged in farmhouses, learned all kinds of work, turned 
their hands, like Mr. Arch, to everything, and, like him,' 
were perhaps worth 24.9. a week to their employer. Above 
all, the system checked early and improvident marriages. 
The discomforts of a lodger in an overcrowded cottage 
blind the agricultural labourer to all prudential considera- 
tions ; he marries before he has time to save ; for the next 



AGEICULTURAL LABOUEEES 231 

few years his life is an arduous struggle, which generally 
brings him on the parish. To the peasant the bothy 
system offers the same advantages which clubs afford to a 
different class. It enables him to wait in comfort till he 
has saved money. In some parts of France and in the 
north of England the hind's house is a frequent appendage 
to a farm. Labourers are hired for the year, and barracked 
on the spot in homesteads presided over by married 
labourers. They are better fed, and enjoy many com- 
forts which they must forego when married. If such a 
system could be revived, labourers would not be driven to 
improvident marriages ; they might save money before 
they start in life ; they would be better trained to various 
kinds of work; they would acquire the money and the 
skill to make the most of allotments. 

Sound policy and justice alike required that allotments 
should become universal. The most satisfactory and effec- 
tive method of extending the system is the voluntary action 
of landlords ; but to apathy or selfishness compulsion is 
rightly applied. Few cases remain in which the want is 
not supplied, and the question seems to be rapidly passing 
into an urban phase.' The last session of Parliament, it 
may be added, secured compensation to allotment tenants 
for unexhausted improvements. Socially allotments stimu- 
late thrift in early youth ; they make labourers independent, 
train them to habits of industry, occupy their leisure, 
enable them to provide for old age. Agriculturally they 
counteract the prejudicial effects of education on the prac- 
tical efficiency of labour by making boys and girls know- 
ledgeable in agricultural matters ; they prevent agricultural 
labour from migrating to the towns. Economically they 
occupy the leisure time of labourers, and reclaim the 
• See Appendix XIV., 'Allotments.' 



232 AGKICULTUKAL LABOUREES 

drunkard, tlie idler, and the poacher ; they relieve the 
rates, and, if a cow is kept, improve the health of the 
nation by supplying children with milk. Commercially 
they pay where the size is not too great to occupy more 
than the leisure time of the labourer, where the position is 
readily accessible, and where the rent is fair and paid direct 
to the landlord. 

England and Wales, at the present moment, contain 
807,608 agricultural labourers, farm servants, and cottagers. 
The table in Appendix XIV. shows that of this number 
102,774 persons have potato-grounds or cow-runs; and 
that there are 387,574 field and 257,482 garden allot- 
ments. Thus more than three-fourths of the agricultural 
labourers occupy land in one form or another. The field 
allotments are for the most part conveniently placed, since, 
out of 387,000, 318,000 lie within half a mile of the cot- 
tages. A considerable number of those labourers who do 
not possess allotments are lodgers, or sons living at home 
with their parents. It is therefore strictly true that allot- 
ments are almost universal in rural districts. 

The Table of Allotments has been drawn so as to show 
the districts in which they preponderate. It is intended 
for comparison with the Table of Wages,* which has been 
similarly drawn. Comparatively few allotments exist in 
grazing districts, where wages are relatively high ; they 
are most numerous in the corn counties, where wages are 
relatively low. 'It will be seen that the average weekly 
wages of agricultural labourers were estimated in 1771 by 
Arthur Young at 7s. b^cl. ; in 1824 they had risen to 
9s. 7^d. ; in 1881, to 14s. bd. Thus not only do labourei'S 
enjoy better cottages than heretofore, as well as a system 
of allotments which is almost universal, but their nominal 
' See Appendix XV., ' Agricultural Wages.' 



AGEICULTURAL LABOUKEKS 233 

"wages have risen within the last half-century by nearly 
five shillings. Nor is this all. It will be seen, from a 
glance at Appendix XVI.,' Table 2, that, within the last 
fifty years, their real wages have increased to an almost 
equal extent. Every item, except butter and butcher's 
meat, costs less, while the 4-lb. loaf has fallen from Is. 4d. to 
4>^d. The condition of agricultural labourers may be, and 
ought to be, improved in directions already indicated, and 
it seems almost incredible that in the whole of England 
and Wales there should still be only 9,466 of the total 
number who have the opportunity of keeping a cow. But 
the advance which they have made in material prosperity 
is enormous, especially if it is remembered that their 
earnings, though primarily consisting of weekly wages, are 
largely supplemented by payments for task-work, piece- 
work, and allowances ; that, if employed at all, they are 
employed more continuously than in former times ; and 
that though coal varies too widely in price in different 
districts to admit of any average being taken, yet not only 
firing, but all articles of clothing, are far cheaper in 1887 
than in 1824. 

On the other hand, many articles of clothing which 
were formerly made at home are now bought, and the very 
large additions to the weekly earnings of the family which 
were made by the wife and children are, to a great extent, 
withdrawn. Wages from 1871 to 1873 rose far higher than 
the figures shown in 1881, and further reductions have taken 
place within the last six years. But it seems probable that 
the average fall upon the wages of 1881 is not more than 
Is. a week, and this loss is partially covered by the in- 
creased purchasing power of wages. 

It is, then, evident that agricultural labourers in full 

' See Appendix XVI., Prices of Provisions, &c. 



234 AGKICULTUEAL LABOUEERS 

employment are, at the present moment, better off tlian 
any of the classes directly interested in agriculture. If 
small tenancies, as a consequence of the impending changes 
in farming, were placed within their reach, their prospects 
would be brighter than they have been for a century, their 
narrow horizon wider, their opportunity greater of rising 
in the social scale, their chance of independence better. 
The reverse of the picture is black. A large displacement 
of labour is imminent, which will further overstock the 
market. For this excess of supply there seems no remedy 
but emigration. The German labour colonies have suc- 
ceeded among the unemployed, and their introduction into 
Eussia has relieved the distress of the 180,000 peasant 
proprietors who in bad times have thrown up their 
holdings.' But the system aims at little more than tem- 
porary relief; it affords no such prospects of permanent 
independence as are offered by State-directed colonisation, 
which plants well-assorted groups of emigrants on the 
vacant lands of our colonial empire. The Old World 
offers no advantages comparable to those, for instance, of 
the village settlements of New Zealand. The Govern- 
ment sells land in small lots at 11. the acre, or lets 20 acres 
for the same sum, and advances loans at 5 per cent, to 
enable buyers or tenants to build houses or clear land. 
The colonies have the vacant land ; England, the surplus 
population. The need of outlet is urgent, and every day 
increases its pressure. Private enterprise cannot bring 
together colonial land and English labour on a scale large 

' The first of these labour colonies (^Arbeiter-Kolo)ne) was esta- 
blished in 1882 at Wilhelmsdorf in Westphalia. There are now (1887) 
sixteen, most of which are managed by ' House Fathers,' who are 
• Brothers of the Inner Mission ' trained at Hamburg and Berlin. As 
temporary expedients they are interesting, because successful, experi- 
ments. 



AGEICULTUEAL LABOURERS 235 

enough to prove effective. But private money would be, 
it is believed, subscribed in abundance if the Home Govern- 
ment framed, and negotiated with the colonies, a scheme 
to relieve that congestion of the labour markets which is 
the most pressing evil of the nineteenth century. 



236 



CHAPTER XX. 

CONCLUSION. 

It only remains to sum up the conclusions which have been 
formed. 

The history of agriculture in this country traces the 
English system of land tenure to commercial or social exi- 
gencies which did not affect Continental nations. To these 
natural differences, rather than to artificial causes, is due 
the contrast in respect of land- ownership which England 
and the Continent present. What England lost in one 
direction she gained in another ; she sacrificed the yeoman 
to the artisan. 

Historically no substantial foundation exists for the cry 
that the English peasant proprietary was forcibly divorced 
from the soO, Still less does the history of any foreign 
country support the theory that the class can be created 
by the stroke of a pen. Nor can agricultural depression 
be attributed to our system of land-ownership. Whatever 
social and political advantages belong to a peasant proprie- 
tary, Continental experience shows that it is little less ex- 
posed to agricultural depression or foreign competition than 
the class of tenant farmers, and that its standard of farming 
can only be raised or maintained by a large outlay of public 
money, which in England is borne by private individuals. 

The collapse of English agriculture must therefore be 
traced to other causes than conditions of land tenure. It 



CONCLUSION 237 

commenced with inclement seasons, but it now springs 
from low prices arising out of foreign competition, cheap 
freights, over-production, and the increased purchasing 
power of gold. Where is the remedy to be sought ? 

Not in violent changes in conditions of land tenure ; 
throughout the present crisis capitalist landlords have 
proved the saviours of the industry, and not an incubus on 
the soil. The paucity of their numbers should add no 
element of insecurity to their property, but it narrowly 
limits the range of practicable measures for their relief. As 
a remedy for low prices Protection fails. Continental ex- 
perience shows conclusively that moderate import duties 
do not enable wheat to be grown at a profit. Even if 
Protection offered a remedy, it is unlikely to be applied. 
For every one man who says that bread is too cheap, there 
are a hundred who say it is too dear. Nor, again, is the 
remedy to be found in the reduction of the tithe rent- 
charge. Apart from the injustice of the demand, those 
interested in its existing application, and those desirous of 
its diversion to secular objects, are united to preserve the 
corpus of the property intact. Moreover, subject to the 
life interest of the Church, inviolable so long as religion is 
recognised to be a vital element in the well-being of society 
the nation claims the reversion ; and therefore it is a 
prime duty of the State to guard the property with jealous 
care. 

If, then, the remedy is not nationalisation of the land, 
nor Protection, nor the reduction of the tithe rent-charge, 
what is it ? Some of the causes of agricultural depres- 
sion may be met by legislation, others spring from natural 
conditions which cannot be controlled ; others may be re- 
moved or modified by agriculturists themselves. 

To the first class belong such remedies as the following. 



238 CONCLUSION 

Land-law reform would increase the powers of life tenants 
to promote high farming, which hitherto has never enjoyed 
a fair chance of proving its capabilities. Increased facili- 
ties to transfer or charge land by the establishment of 
land registries would increase its value for sale or mort- 
gage, and, even if they did not extend the number of pro- 
prietors, would remove all artificial hindrances to the 
natural growth of small owners. At present land lies so 
far beyond the general public that the masses have little 
respect for, or desire to guard, the sanctity of real property, 
Financial reform demands the readjustment of local taxa- 
tion, which, as a burden on agricultural land, has lost its 
original justification, and now imposes Protection taxes on 
Free Trade prices. In this connection it may be suggested 
that since the dead capital, in the form ot realised per- 
sonalty, preys upon the living capital employed in industry, 
and since the fall of prices increases the value of the first 
in proportion as it diminishes the value of the second, a re- 
duction of the interest upon the National Debt from 3 per 
cent, to 2^ is not inequitable, and would attract capital 
from consols to agricultural land by equalising the remu- 
nerative value of the investments. The extension of 
technical agricultural education, especially among labourers, 
and the efficient equipment of a Ministry of Agriculture, are 
so urgently needed as to be indispensable preliminaries 
to the successful growth of a peasant proprietary or a pea- 
sant tenancy. Finally, the present scale of differential rail- 
way charges excludes English farmers from home markets. 
Higher rates upon local traffic than for long distances, and 
artificial competition between rival companies where land 
and sea carriage are not equally available and where time 
is essential, place premiums on distance at the expense of 
proximity, protect foreign producers, and offer bounties to 



CONCLUSION 239 

remote markets by placing home growers at an actual 
disadvantage in respect of costs of conveyance. 

No legislation can transform those elements of agricul- 
tural depression which depend on natural causes. So far as 
the currency affects the question, the increased production 
of gold will, on the one side, diminish its purchasing power, 
and, on the other, restore its relative value to silver ; while 
a decreased yield of the silver mines would deprive Indian 
corn producers of their advantages in the cost of production, 
and corn merchants of their speculations in rates of ex- 
change. No other remedy, except the introduction of an 
international monetary standard, suggests itself for currency 
disturbances, though the issue of 11. notes, payable to 
beai'er on demand, might reduce the existing appreciation 
of gold, and, in the face of present prices, it might possibly 
prove good policy to suspend forced sales of silver on 
behalf of the Indian Government. Cheap freights im- 
mensely increase the stress of foreign competition. If 
trade revived, foreign goods would no longer arrive as 
ballast or for nominal charges, and hopeful signs are 
manifest that the long frost of commercial languor is 
breaking up. In the last quarter of 1887 everything rose; 
pig iron, coal, copper, tin, lead, wheat, barley, oats, 
rice, beef, mutton, cotton, jute, petroleum — all realised 
better prices. 

But though legislative aid may mitigate artificial 
hindrances to agricultural revival, and though one of the 
natural causes which intensify the stress of foreign com- 
petition appears to be passing away, self-help affords the 
best aid to agriculturists. Too many farmers slumber in 
their empty corn-bins, dreaming of Protection. If they 
cannot revise the fiscal system, they can at least revise 
their practical ideas. The reduction of the size of holdings 



240 CONCLUSION 

and of the breadths of corn cultivation seems to indicate 
that the country stands on the edge of a revolution in 
farming practices, such as characterised the sixteenth and 
eighteenth centuries. Small farms are easier to let than 
large holdings, more suited to reduced capitals, better 
adapted to new requirements. Agi'iculture, if it is to 
pay, has become a daily drudgery, which men who are 
worth 5,000?. are indisposed to undergo. Such a re- 
duction in the size of holdings harmonises with the laws 
of progress which have been observed as characteristics in 
society and other industries. Although large farmers 
with sufficient skill and capital to adopt the best practices 
of the highest farming may hold their own, the problem 
of low prices appears to be best met by economical 
management, minute attention to details, and constant 
personal supervision. Diversified farming, which con- 
centrates its efforts on stock breeding, rearing, and 
fattening, and the production of fresh perishable articles of 
food, can be pursued with profit upon small holdings, 
whether farms of 250 acres, or peasant tenancies of fifteen 
acres where no outlay is made for wages. Prices have 
undoubtedly fallen ; but land, labour, stock, and all the 
materials of farming have fallen in proportion. Every 
county can produce instances of enterprising men who re- 
gard foreign competition in wheat as a fixed quantity, accept 
the new conditions, and force the land to pay at present 
prices. Agricultural depression, in the strict sense of the 
word, is over for those who are not lured by the will-o'- 
the-wisp of Protection deeper and further into the Slough 
of Despond. 

If the change from tillage to pasture is unaccompanied 
by an extension of present holdings, the new departure 
which appears to be imminent must inevitably increase 



CONCLUSION 241 

the amount of unemployed labour. If, on the other hand, 
it results in the multiplication of peasant holdings and 
in more direct relations between labour and land, a per- 
centage of the displaced labour will become absorbed in 
small tenancies to the great advantage of rural society 
in general. Small farms supply those ladders of thrift, 
wider horizons, incentives to energy, and prospects of in- 
dependence which are the great wants of their present 
condition. The best labourers may find employment upon 
the larger holdings. But for the rest, who are too un- 
skilful or too numerous to secure permanent wages, the 
New World offers advantages for which the Old affords 
no parallel. The crisis is indisputably grave ; revolu- 
tionary legislation is powerfully advocated, and the position 
of landlords completely isolated. Agricultural labourers 
possess the franchise at a stage in their civilisation which 
renders them an easy prey to unscrupulous agitators. 
The fatal germs of the Irish Land Act of 1881 have al- 
ready borne fruit in the demands of the Farmers' Alliance, 
and in the land bills which have been successively put 
forward by English, Scotch, and Welsh farmers. At the 
first gleam of agricultural prosperity the cry for tenant- 
right will be renewed. Landlords have now the oppor- 
tunity of removing legitimate grounds of discontent ; of 
increasing the number of those who, as small occupiers, 
will be interested in the maintenance of landed interests • 
of reviving those cordial relations with their tenants which 
in times past made English agriculture the model and 
example for foreign nations ; of striking from the hands of 
socialistic theorists weapons which are dangerous to the 
safety of society. The distinction between giving and 
giving up is vital. But here there is not even a question 

K 



242 CONCLUSION 

of giving. Changes such as are suggested entail no 
surrender of rights, no sacrifice of pecuniary interests. 
On the contrary, they are dictated to landlords not 
merely by political prudence, but by commercial self- 
interest. 



243 



APPENDIX I. 

A TABLE SHOWING THE AVERAGE PRICE OF WHEAT PER 
QUARTER FROM 1043 TO 1886. 



A.D. 


s. 


d. 


A.U. 


i". 


d. 


A.D. 


s. d. 


1043 . 


. 5 





1455 


. 1 


2 


1649 


. 80 


1125 . 


. 20 





1460 . 


. 8 





1650 . 


. 76 8 


1196 . 


. 13 


4 


1463 


. 2 





1651 . 


. 73 4 


1197 


. 18 


8 


1486 


. 24 





1652 . 


. 49 6 


1237 


. 3 


4 


1491 


. 14 


8 


1653 . 


. 35 6 


1243 


. 2 





1494 


. 4 





1654 . 


. 26 


1246 


. 16 





1497 


. 20 





1655 


. 33 4 


1257 


. 24 





1499 


. 4 





1656 . 


. 43 


1258 


. 16 





1521 


. 20 





1657 


. 46 8 


1270 9 


6.<.-. to 128 





1551 


. 8 





1658 


. 65 


1286 2 


s. 8d., 




1557 


. 8 





1659 


. 66 


but f] 


-om a 




Befor 


ehar- 




1660 . 


. 56 6 


storm 


on 




vest 


the 




1661 . 


. 70 


July 


20 it 




pric( 


i rose 




1662 


. 74 


rose 


bo . 16 





to 


. 53 


4 


1663 


. 57 


1287 


. 3 


4 


After 


har- 




1664 


. 40 6 


1288 


. 1 


6 


vest 


it fell 




1665 


. 49 4 


1294 


. 16 





to 


. 5 





1666 


. 36 


1315 


. 20 





1574 


. 56 





1667 


. 36 


1316 


. 32 





After 


har- 




1668 


. 40 


1317 


. 44 





vest 


. 24 





1669 


. 44 4 


1336 


. 2 





1587 


. 64 





1670 


. 41 8 


1349 


. 2 





1594 


. 56 





1671 


. 42 


1359 


. 26 


8 


1595 


. 53 


4 


1672 


. 41 


1361 


. 2 





1596 


. 80 





1673 


. 46 8 


1363 


. 15 





1597 8C 


s. to 104 





1674 


. 68 8 


1379 


. 4 





1641 


. 67 


1 


1675 


. 64 8 


1387 


. 2 





1642 


. 60 


2 


1676 


. 38 


1390 


. 16 


8 


1643 


. 59 


10 


1677 


. 42 


1401 


. 16 





1644 


. .. 61 


3 


1678 


. 59 


1407 


. 4 


4 


1645 


. 51 


3 


1679 


. 60 


1416 


. 16 





1646 


. 42 


8 


1680 


. 45 


1423 


. 8 





1647 


. 63 


8 


1681 


. 46 8 


1434 


. 26 


8 


1648 


. 85 





1682 


. 44 



244 



APPENDIX I. 



Appendix I. — cont. 



A.D. 


s. 


d. 


A.D. 


s. d. 


A.D. 


1683 . 


. 40 





1729 . 


. 46 10 


1775 . 


1684 . 


. 44 





1730 . 


. 36 6 


1776 . 


1685 . 


. 46 


8 


1731 . 


. 32 10 


1777 . 


1686 . 


. 34 





1732 . 


. 26 8 


1778 . 


1687 . 


. 25 


2 


1733 . 


. 28 4 


1779 . 


1688 . 


. 46 





1734 . 


. 38 10 


1780 . 


1689 . 


. 80 





1735 . 


. 43 


1781 . 


1690 . 


. 34 


8 


1736 . 


. 40 4 


1782 . 


1691 . 


. 34 





1737 . 


. 38 


1783 , 


1692 . 


. 46 


8 


1738 . 


. 35 6 


1784 . 


1693 . 


. 67 


8 


1739 . 


. 38 6 


1785 . 


1694 . 


. 64 





1740 . 


. 50 8 


1786 . 


1695 . 


. 53 





1741 . 


. 46 8 


1787 . 


1696 . 


. 71 





1742 . 


. 34 


1788 . 


1697 . 


. 60 





1743 . 


. 24 10 


1789 . 


1698 . 


. 68 


4 


1744 . 


. 24 10 


1790 . 


1699 . 


. 64 





1745 


. 27 6 


1791 . 


1700 . 


. 40 


6 


1746 


. 39 


1792 . 


1701 . 


. 37 


8 


1747 


. 34 10 


1793 . 


1702 . 


. 29 


6 


1748 


. 37 


1794 . 


1703 . 


. 36 





1749 


. 37 


1795 . 


1704 . 


. 46 


6 


1750 


. 32 6 


1796 . 


1705 


. 30 





1751 


. 38 6 


1797 . 


1706 


. 26 





1752 


. 41 10 


1798 . 


1707 


. 28 


6 


1753 


. 44 8 


1799 . 


1708 


. 41 


6 


1754 


. 34 8 


1800 . 


1709 


. 78 


6 


1755 


. 33 10 


1801 . 


1710 


. 78 





1756 


. 45 3 


1802 . 


1711 


. 54 





1757 


. 60 


1803 . 


1712 


. 46 


4 


1758 


. 50 


1804 . 


1713 


. 51 





1759 


. 39 10 


1805 . 


1714 


. 50 


4 


1760 


. 36 6 


1806 . 


1715 


. 43 





1761 


. 30 3 


1807 . 


1716 


. 48 





1762 


. 39 


1808 . 


1717 


. 45 


8 


1763 


40 9 


1809 . 


1718 


. 38 


10 


1764 


. 46 9 


1810 . 


1719 


. 35 





1765 


. 48 


1811 . 


1720 


. 37 





1766 


. 43 1 


1812 . 


1721 


. 37 


6 


1767 


. 47 4 


1813 . 


1722 


. 36 





1768 


. 53 9 


1814 . 


1723 


. 34 


8 


1769 


. 40 7 


1815 . 


1724 


. 37 





1770 


. 43 6 


1816 . 


1725 


. 48 


6 


1771 


. 47 2 


1817 . 


1726 


. 46 





1772 


. 50 8 


1818 . 


1727 


. 42 





1773 


. 51 


1819 . 


1728 


. 54 


6 


1774 


. 52 8 


1820 . 



APPENDIX I. 



245 



Appendix I. — cont 



A.D. 


s. d. 


A.D. 


s. 


d. 


A.D. 


s. d. 


1821 . 


56 1 


1843 . 


50 


2 


1865 


. 41 


1822 . 


44 7 


1844 . 


51 


3 


1866 


. 49 11 


1823 . 


53 4 


1845 . 


50 


9 


1867 


64 5 ; 


1824 . 


63 11 


1846 . 


54 


9 


1868 


. 63 9 


1825 . 


68 6 


1847 . 


69 


5 


1869 


. 48 2 


1826 . 


58 8 


1848 . 


50 


6 


1870 


. 46 11 


1827 . 


58 6 


1849 . 


44 


6 


1871 


. 56 8 


1828 . 


60 5 


1850 . 


40 


4 


1872 


. 57 


1829 


66 3 


1851 . 


38 


7 


1873 


. 58 8 


1830 . 


64 3 


1852 . 


41 





1874 


. 55 9 


1831 . 


66 4 


1853 . 


53 


3 


1875 


. 45 1 


1832 . 


58 8 


1854 . 


72 


7 


1876 


. 46 2 


1833 . 


52 11 


1855 


74 


9 


1877 


. 56 9 


1834 . 


46 2 


1856 . 


69 


2 


1878 


. 46 5 


1835 . 


39 4 


1857 . 


56 


4 


1879 


. 43 10 


1836 . 


48 9 


1858 . 


44 


2 


1880 


. 44 4 


1837 . 


55 10 


4859 . 


43 


9 


1881 


. 45 4 


1838 . 


64 4 


1860 . 


53 


3 


1882 


. 45 1 


1839 . 


70 6 


1861 . 


65 


4 


1888 


. 41 7 


1840 . 


66 4 


1862 . 


55 


5 


1884 


. 35 8 


1841 . 


64 5 


1863 . 


44 


9 


1885 


. 41 2 


1842 . 


57 5 


1864 . 


40 


2 


1886 


. 39 4 



The prices down to 1652 are taken from Fleetwood's Chronicon Pre- 
tiosum ; from 1653 to 1764 from Charles Smith's Tracts on Corn Trade 
(edit. 1804), pp. 125-7. These latter are unusually high, as they represent 
the prices of the best, and not the middling, wheat. 



246 



APPENDIX II. 

LEGISLATION AGAINST PASTURE FAEMS ON SOCIAL GROUNDS. 

(a) In the 4th year of Henry VII. an Act was passed 
relating to the Isle of Wight, to prevent the mischief arising 
from throwing small holdings into one large farm. The Pre- 
amble recites : — 

' Forasmuch as it is to the king, &c., great surety, and also 
the surety of this realm of England, that the Isle of Wight be 
well inhabited with English people, &c., the which isle is 
lately decayed of people, by reason that many towns and vil- 
lages have been beaten down, and the Fields ditched, &c., and 
many dwelling-places, ferms, and ferm-holds taken into one 
man's hands, that of old time were wont to be in many several 
persons holds and hands, and many several households kept in 
them, and thereby much people multiplied, and the same isle 
thereby well inhabited ; the which now, by the occasion afore- 
said, is desolate, and not inhabited, but occupied with beasts 
and cattle ; so that if hasty remedy be not provided, that isle 
cannot be kept and defended, but will be open and ready to 
the king's enemies, which God forbid : — For remedy whereof 
it is ordained,' &c. 

(b) i Henry VII. c. 19 is more general. The Preamble 
recites as follows :— 

* The king our sovereign lord having a singular pleasure 
above all things to avoid such enormities and mischiefs as 
be hurtful and prejudicial to the common weal of this his land, 
and his subjects of the same, remembereth that among other 
things great inconveniences daily do increase by desolation, 
and puUing do'WTi, and wilful waste of houses within this 



APPENDIX ir. 247 

realm, and laying to pasture what customably have been used 
in tillage ; whereby idleness, which is the ground and begin- 
ning of all mischiefs, daily doth increase. For where in some 
towns two hundred persons were occupied and lived of their 
lawful labours, now there are occupied two or three herdsmen, 
and the residue fall into idleness, that husbandrie, which is 
one of the greatest commodities of this realm, is greatly de- 
cayed, churches destroyed, the service of God withdrawn, the 
bodies there buried not prayed for, the patrons and curates 
wronged, the defence of this land, against our enemies out- 
ward, feebled and impaired, to the great displeasure of God, 
to the subversion of the policy and good rule of this land if 
remedy be not provided,' <fec., &c. 



248 



APPENDIX III. 

AGRICULTURAL WRITERS OF THE 16th, 17th, AND FIRST 
HALF OF THE 18th CENTURIES. 

The principal agricultural writers of England and "Wales 
from 1500 to 1740 are given in the following list ; but the 
list does not pretend to be exhaustive, nor are the editions to 
which the dates are affixed in all cases the first. 

1523. Fitzherbert (Sir Anthony) One of the Justices of the 
Court of Common Pleas. 

1. Boke of Surveyeng. 1523, 4to. 

2. Boke of Husbandry. 1525, 4to. 
1537. De Benese (Sir Richard) 

This Boke sheweth the maner of measurynge of all 
maner of land. Southwarke, 1537. 

1573. Tusser (Thomas) 

Five hundredth points of good husbandry. Lon- 
don, 1573, 4to. 

1574. Scot (Reginald) 

A perfite platforme of a Hoppe Garden and neces- 
sarie instructions for the making and maynten- 
aunce thereof. London, 1574, 4to. 
[This is the first treatise upon hops.] 
1594. Plat, or Piatt (Sir Hugh) 

The Jewell House of Art and Nature. London, 
1594, 8vo. 
1605. Mascall (Leonard) 

The Government of Cattell. 

Part I. The Government of oxen. 
Part II. The Govei^nment of horses. 
Part III. The ordering of sheep. 

London, 1605, 4to. 



APPENDIX III. 249 

1607. Norden (John) 

The Surveyor's Dialogue. London, 1607, 8vo. 
tfec, &c. 
1610. Vaughan (Rowland) 

Most approved and long experienced Water Workes. 
Containing the manner of Winter and Summer 
drowning of Medow & pasture. London, 1 6 1 0, 4to. 
[This is the first treatise on irrigation.] 
1614. Markham (Gervase) 

1. The English Husbandman. London, 1614. 

2. Countrey Contentments, 2 parts. London, 1615, 
4to. 

3. A Way to get Wealth, 6 parts. London, 1638. 

4. Complete Farriar. London, 1639, 8vo. 

1639. Plattes (Gabriel) 

A discovery of Subterraneal Treasure. 
(Not Agricultural but Mineral Works.) London, 
1639, 4to. 

1649. Blith (Walter) 

The English Improver ; or, A new survey of hus- 
bandry. London, 1649, 4to. 
[This is the first explanation of the science of drainage.] 

1650. Weston (Sir Richard) 

A Discourse of Husbandrie used in Brabant and 
Flanders. (Edited by S. Hartlib.) London, 
1650, 4to. 
[This is the first attempt to explain the cultivation of 
turnips.] 
1650. Hartlib (Samuel) 

1. A discourse of Husbandrie used in Brabant and 
Flanders. London, 1650, 4to. 

2. Samuel Hartlib his Legacie ; or an enlargement 
of the Discourse of Husbandry. London, 1651, 4to. 

3. A Design for plentie by an universall planting 
of fruit-trees. London, 1652, 4to. 

4. The Compleat Husbandman. London, 1659, 4to. 

(fee, &c. 



250 APPENDIX III. 

1656. Lee (Joseph) Rev. 

Evra^ia tov Aypov ; or, a vindication of a regulated 
inclosure. London, 1656, 4to. 
1659. Speed (Adolphus) 

Adam out of Eden, or an abstract of divers excel- 
lent experiments touching the advancement of 
Husbandry. London, 1659, 8vo. 

1661. Stevenson (Matthew) 

The Twelve Moneths ; or, a discourse of every 
action proper to eacli particular moneth. Lon- 
don, 1661, 4to. 

1662. Miles (Abraham) 

The Countryman's Friend and no . . . Mounte- 
bank, Ijut a rare method of Chirurgery and phy- 
sick. London, 1662, 8vo. 
1664. Forster (John), of Hanslop, Bucks. 

England's Happiness increased ; or a sure and 
easie remedy against all succeeding dear years > 
by a plantation of the roots called potatoes. Lon- 
don, 1664, 4to. 
[This is the first treatise upon potatoes. The cultiva- 
tion of the root was practically little known till 
the end of the eighteenth century, when it was 
zealously advocated by the Board of Agriculture.] 

1669. Worlidge (John) 

Systema Agriculture ; the mystery of husbandry 
discovered. London, 1669, fol. 

1670. Reeve (Gabriel) 

Directions left by a gentleman to his sons for the 
improvement of barren and heathy land in Eng- 
land and Wales. London, 1670, 4to. 
1673. Smith (John) Captain, late a London merchant. 

England's Improvement revis'd in a Treatise of 

all manner of Husbandry and Trade by Land and 

Sea. London, 1673, 4to. 
1677. Yarranton (Andrew) 

England's improvement by sea and land, 2 parts. 
London, 1677-81, 4to. 



APPENDIX III. 251 

1681. Houghton (John), F.R.S. 

1. A Collection of Letters for the improvement of 
Husbandry and Trade. London, 1681-3, 4to. 

2. An Account of the Acres and Houses with the 
Proportional Tax, &c., of each county in Eng- 
land and Wales. London, 1693, s. sh. fol. 

1685. Moore (Sir Jonas) 

1. History of the Great Level of the Fennes. Lon- 
don, 1685, 8vo. 

2. England's Interest, or the Gentleman and Far- 

mer's friend, 2nd edition. London, 1703, 12mo. 
1697. Meager (Leonard) 

The INIystery of Husbandry ; or, arable pasture and 
wood-land improved. To which is added the 
Countryman's Almanack. London, 1697, 12mo. 
1708. Mortimer (John) 

The Whole Art of Husbandry, 2 parts. London, 
1708, 8vo. 
1717. Jacob (Giles) 

The Country Gentleman's Vade Mecum. London, 
1717, 12mo. 
1724. Bradley (Richard) 

1. A treatise concerning the manner of fallowing 
ground. 1724, 8vo. 

2. A collection for the improvement of husbandry. 
1727, 8vo. 

3. A complete book of husbandry, &c. 1727, 8vo. 
1731. Tull (Jethro), of Shalborn, near Hungerford, in 

Berkshire, was a man of great inventive genius as 
well as scientific attainments. He advocated deep 
cultivation, drilling seed, small sowings, hoeing 
turnips. He also invented a variety of imple- 
ments, such as ploughs, hoes, drills, &c. 

The new horse-houghing husbandry. 1731, 4to. 
1731. Ellis (William), of Little Gaddesden, Hertfordshire. 

1. The Practical Fai-mer. London, 1731, 8vo. 

2. Chilton and Yale Farming. London, 1733, 8vo. 

3. A complete system of Improvements. London, 

1749, 8vo. 

etc., etc. 



252 



APPENDIX IV. 



THE CORN LAWS. 

The English corn laws at different times aimed at three prin- 
cipal objects : — (1) Abundance and low profits, (2) Revenue. 
(3) Encouragement of tillage and agriculture by raising prices 
to an artificial height. 

(1) The first object was secured by absolute prohibition of 
exportation, which was the policy of the Legislature from the 
Norman Conquest to 1329, or l)y compulsory sales of produce 
for what it would fetch at the nearest market, and laws 
directed against engrossers or corn-dealers. 

The first object was gradually exchanged for the third, 
and the necessity of maintaining the rural population ^ or 
strengthening the navy forms the transition stage between 
the prohibition of exports and protection. The laws against 
engrossing, &c., were modified in 1663, when internal corn- 
dealing was permitted, and repealed in 1773. 

(2) The second object governed the legislation of 1660, but 
was speedily abandoned. 

(3) Encouragement of tillage and agriculture was the object 
of the Legislature, with certain exceptions, from the fourteenth 
to the nineteenth century. 

The following are the principal Acts relating to corn : — 



Year 


Statute 


Provisions 


Price of 
Wheat at date 


1323 
1329 


17 Ed. II. 

c. 3 
3 Ed. III. 


Permitting importation of corn from 
Ireland into England. 

Prohibiting importations of corn into 
England unless the prices of a quar- 
ter of wheat, rye, or barley exceeded 
respectively 6s. Sd., 4s., and 3s. 


s. d. 

7 5f 

6 6f 



' Compare Appendix II. (a) and (J). 



APPENDIX IV. 



25J 



Appendix IV. — cont. 



Year 



1436 
1463 
1562 

1571 
1593 

1660 
1663 



1670 



Provisions 



j Price of 
Wheat at date 



15 Hen. VI. 
C.2 



3 Ed. IV. 
c. 2 



5 Eliz. c. 5 



13 Eliz. 
c. 13 



35 Eliz. c. 7 



12 Car. II. 
c. 4 

15 Car. II. 
c. 7 



2 Car. n. 
c. 13 



Permitting exportation of corn from 
England when a quarter of wheat, 
barley, and rye did not exceed re- 
spectively 6s. 8<Z., .Sa'., and 4s. 
Prohibiting importation absolutely ex- 
cept when prices of home produce 
rose above the point at which ex- 
portation ceased. 
An Act for the Maintenance of the 
Navypermitted exports at and under 
the following prices per quarter: — 
Wheat, 10s. ; rye, beans, and peas, 
8s. ; barley, 6s. M. 
Act for the Encrease of Tyllage, per- 
mitting exportation of corn from par- 
ticular districts, subject to payment 
of Is. duty. 
Permitting exportation, subject to ton- 
nage and poundage of 2s. per quarter 
for wheat and proportionate duty for 
other grains, when wheat exceeded 
20s., rye, etc. 13s. M., barley 12s. 
Attempted to raise revenue by permit- 
ting imports and exports subject to 
high duties. 
An Act for the Encouragement of 
Trade— 

(i ) Permitted engrossing, i.e. buy- 
ing in one market to sell in another 
when wheat was at or under 48s., 
and other grain in proportion, 
(ii.) Took off the high duties on 
importation, and imposed an ad 
ralorem duty in their stead, 
(iii.) Permitted exportation of wheat 
(subject to a reduced duty of 
5s. ^d. per quarter) when wheat 
was at or under 48s., and other 
grain in proportion. 
Act for the Improvement of Tillage 
and the Breed of Cattle — 
{a) Permitted importation of wheat 
subject to a duty of Ss. per quarter 
when wheat was between 53s. 4<f. 
and 80s., and 16s. per quarter 
when below 53s. ^^d. 



s. d. 
( 1 10 

(Fleet- 
wood). 
In modern 
money 
3 8 
* (Dr. Smith) 



18 4A 

56 6 
41 8 



37 Qi 



254 



APPENDIX IV. 



Appendix IV. — cont. 



Year 



1670 



1688' 



1757 
1766 

1773 



2 Car. II. 
c. 13 



1 Wm. & 
Mary, c. 12 



30 Geo. II. 

c. 7 

6 Geo. III. 

c. 3 & 4 

13 Geo. Ill, 
c. 43 



Provisious 



(b) Prohibited exportation when the 
home price of wheat was 53s. 4<f. 
or above it. Other grain in pro- 
portion. 
Bounties were offered of 5s. on every 

exported quarter of wheat when 

the prices were at or below 48s. 

2s.6tf. per qr. of barley or malt „ 24s. 

3s. 6d. „ rye, beans, or peas „ 32s. 

2s. Qd. „ oats or oatmeal „ 15s. 

Imports continued to be governed 
by the Act of 1670. 

This Act remained in force till 1773, 
but it was suspended during each 
of the following years: — 1698, 
1699, 1709, 1741,1756, 1757, 1759, 
1765-67, 17G8-69, 1771, 1773 
Imports allowed duty free till August 

25, 1757. 
Permitted importation of wheat, oats, 

and oatmeal from A merica duty free 

up to Michaelmas in that year. 
Burke's Act — 

(1) Prohibited exports and abolished 
the bounty when the quarter of 
wheat was at or above 44s., of rye 
28s., of barley 32s., of oats 14s. 



Price of 
Wheat at date 


t. 


d. 


46 


8 


60 





43 


1 


51 






Bounties jiaid vpon Exports of Corn under 1 William Jy Mary from 
1697-1765. 



Years 


Wheat Barley 


Malt 


Oatmeal 


Bye 


Amount of Boun- 
ties 


1697-1706 
1706-1726 
1726-1746 
1746-1765 


Quarters j Quarters 
552,867 i 251,689 
2,518,213 433,237 
4,461,337 590,080 
6,800,017 1,268,080 


Quarters 
623,345 
4,381,205 
3,871,332 
4,777,303 


Quarters 

2,015 

11,922 

45,932 

67,186 


Quarters 
238,985 
789,618 
520,020 
939,580 


£ s. d. 

289,670 14 

1,371,032 4 

1,769.756 4 2 

2,628,503 4 7 


1697-1765 


14,332,435 | 2,543,096 


13,653,186 


127,056 


2,488,206 


£6,058,962 6 9 



Between 1765 and 1773 the law was almost continuously suspended. In 1773 Burke's 
Act was passed. lu the nest twenty-sis years the imports of wheat (and of other grain 
In proportion) exceeded the exports. The following table shows the gradual decline of 
our export trade :— 

1765-74 imports of wheat exceeded exports by 830,619 quarters 

1775-84 „ „ „ „ 605,747 

1785-94 „ „ „ „ 711,462 

1795-99 „ „ „ „ 2,349,830 „ 



APPENDIX IV. 
Appendix IV. — cont. 



255 



1773 



1791 



1804 



1806 



1813 



1815 



13 Geo. III. 
c. 43 



31 Geo. III. 
c. 30 



44 Geo. Ill, 
c. 53 



46 Geo. III. 
c. 97 

53 Geo. Ill, 
c. 33 



55 Geo. III. 
C.26 



(2) Permitted exports and continued 
the bounty when prices were below 
the above limits. 

(3) Permitted imports of foreign 
grain at a duty of 6d. a quarter 
when home-grown wheat was at 
or above 48s., and other grain in 
proportion. 

(4) Imposed the prohibitory duties 
of 12 Car. II. upon foreign pro- 
duce imported below those prices. 

(5) Allowed foreign corn to be im- 
ported duty fi-ee for exportation. 

(1) Rearranged the scale of duties on 
imports, 6d. a quarter on wheat at 
or above 54s., 2s. 6d. between 54s. 
and 50s., 24s. Sd. below 50s. 

(2) Permitted wheat to be exported 
up to 46s. without bounty, and up to 
44s. with bounty. 

(3) Provided proper registration of 
prices of grain. 

Imposed higher duties on foreign im- 
ports, Gd. a quarter when home prices 
were at or above 66s., 2s. 6d. be- 
tween 66s. and 63s., 24s. 3d. below 
63s. It also permitted exports up 
to 54s. 

Free export and import of corn per- 
mitted between Great Britain and 
Ireland. 

The bountj^ was discontinued and un- 
restricted freedom of exportation 
allowed. Importation was permitted 
at the following duties for wheat : — 
Is. a quarter at or above 80s., and 
an increasing duty, with decreasing 
prices, till the duty on wheat im- 
ported at 64s. = 24s. 

Mr. Eobinson's Act, only passed under 
a protest from ten Peers, entered on 
the Journals of the House, pro- 
hibited the importation of foreign 
wheat tiU home prices stood at the 
following figures per quarter : — 
Wheat, 80s. ; barley, 40s. ; oats, 26s. ; 



Price of 
Wheat at date 



s. d. 



48 7 



62 3 



79 1 
109 9 



65 7 



256 



APPENDIX IV. 



Appendix IV. — cont. 



Year 


Statute 


Provisions 


Price of 

Wteatatdate 


1815 


55 Geo. III. 


rye, beans, and peas, 535. British 


i. d. 




c. 26 


North American corn was admitted 
on a lower scale. 




1822 


3 Geo. IV. 


Another scale was fixed which was to 


44 7 




c. 60 


come into force so soon as the limits 
stated by the Act of 1815 had been 
reached. Nominally a concession, 
the new Act increased Protection by 
loading corn with additional duties 
for the first three months after 
opening tlie ports. 




1825 




The home crop was so deficient that 
foreign wheat was admitted, irre- 
spective of liome prices, at a duty of 
hs. per quarter. 


68 6 


1826 




Foreign rye and oats were admitted at 
nominal prices. 


58 8 


1829 


9 Geo. IV. 


The shding scale admitted foreign 


66 3 




c. 60 


corn duty free, to be warehoused 
and consumed at home at the fol- 
lowing scale of duties : — 
25s. ^il. wlien home price was at 

or below 64s. 

16s. %d. „ between 64s. and 69s. 

Is. 0<Z. „ at or above 73s. 

The system was found to encourage 

speculative tiade. 




1842 


5 Vict. c. 14 


Reduced the sliding scale, and ad- 
mitted cattle and fresh provisions 
to be imported fi'om abroad. 


57 5 


1843 


6 & 7 Vict. 


Reduced the duties on Canadian wheat 


50 2 




c. 29 


to Is. a quarter. 




1840 


9 & 10 Vict. 


On and after February 1, 1849, foreign 


54 9 




c. 22 


corn was admitted on the following 

scale : — 

(a) Wheat, barley, oats, rye, beans, 

peas, Is. per quarter. 
(J) For meal of any of the same, 

\\d. per cwt. 




1869 


32 Vict. 


Abolished these duties, which were in 


48 2 


1 


c. 14, s. 4 


the nature of registration fees. 





257 



APPENDIX V. 



ENCLOSURES. 



The number of acres enclosed since 1700 probably exceeds 
8^ millions. The progress of the movement is shown below. 



Reign or Date 


No. of Bills Acreage 


Anne ..... 
George I. .... 
George II. .... 
George III. — 

(a) 1760-97 .... 

(b) 1797-1810 . 

(c) 1810-20 .... 

1820-30 

1830-40 

1840-50 

1 1850-86 


3 

16 

226 

1,482 
956 
771 
186 
129 
66 


1,439 

17,960 

318,778 

2,980,000 

1,897,980 

1,410,930 

340,380 

236,070 

369,127 

about 800,000 


Total, 186 years 


3,835 i 8,372,662 1 



The decline in the number of enclosures is apparently 
arrested in 1840-50 ; but 270,000 acres out of the total en- 
closed in that decade of years were enclosed under the General 
Act of 1845. 

The agricultural statistics from 1866 to 1886 show an appa- 
rently large increase in acreage ; but this is mainly due to 
fuller and more correct returns. It is also to be noticed that 
the area of agricultural land is being constantly diminished by 
the growth of towns, the increase of railways, roads, &c. 

More than three-fourths of the total enclosures (6,288,910 
acres) were made in the reign of George III . 



258 



APPENDIX VI. 

QUESTIONS ATTACHED TO THE CIRCULAR LETTER OF THE 
BOARD OF AGRICULTURE (FEBRUARY 13, 1816). 

1. Are any farms in your neighbourhood unoccupied by 
tenants ; and have landlords, in consequence, been obliged to 
take them into their own hands 1 Please to state the number 
of farms, and their size. 

2. Have any tenants, within your knowledge, given notice 
to their landlords of quitting their farms at Lady-day, or any 
other period 1 

3. Have any farms been lately relet at an abatement of 
rent ; and if so, what is the proportion of such abatement 1 

4. What circumstances, denoting the distress of the 
farmers, have come to your knowledge, which may not be 
included under the above queries 1 

5. Is the present distress greater on arable or on grass 
farms 1 

6. Have flock farms suffered equally with others ? 

7. Does the country in which you reside suffer from a 
diminished circulation of paper 1 

8. What is the state of the labouring poor ; and what is 
the propoi'tion of poor rates compared with the years 1811 
and 1812 1 

9. What remedies occur to you for alleviating these diffi- 
culties 1 



APPENDIX VII. 



259 





ooooooooooooooooooooo 


O 0! 


o oo o 


o o 


oo 


o 


ooooooooooooooooooooo 


O t« 


o o o o 




o o 


o 


O ^ 00 o_o o o_o^o o_o_o_o 0^0_i« o_o,o_o^o_ 


t- d 


o_^in o^o__ 




t^ w 
















t: rt d 


lit rircrco"cfo"Qo'o"o'"cxrco"o'-^'"(>ro'o"l>rir3'u3"cro'co' 






(NO 






to.-ii-c<=<Mcc5DcnoooooMm>nmaot-(Nn^r-( 






-o «o 


<N <M 


o 


c3 o a> 


— 1 CS ^ <M W M CO CO rt W rH 


o a 






o_to 


Tl1_ 


^g'- 




CO-P 








e<" , 


■ t4 

a o 


-^ooooooooooooooooooooo 


CO o 


o o o o 


OO 


CC CO 


Oi ' 


•;:»Tj 




s 










^o =i 


^oooooooooooocomoinooooo 


(N q; 


o -^^ lo o 


^ o 




00 


§15 














j,OOCOiOrJ(CO-!j<c<5CO^Tji<MO.-iOO^i-10<M.-l 


^ " 


o o o o 


O ff-l 


r-( O 


o 


fl 








h 


ii 'S 


-^ooooooooooooooooooooo 


^ 


oo oo 


oo 


.,- 


CO ■ 


<" P-Ti 














^O g 


■OOOOOOOOOOOOTj<ioOmOOOOO 


lO 


o c-1 in o 


en o 


o t» 




1 i-^ 


*^ — 1 -— ( 












.^Oi«0>U5^Cfl<:0t*b*t*C0OC»WOQ0^CSC5C0-t- 


^ 


(r- Tf IMt~ 


CO -* 


— ■ CO 


t~ 


>^ p. 


-« t- 'it Tjl tX -* CO M i-H CO c^ T-( i-( ^ .-1 .-^r-l 


" 






^ 




"as 


^^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


00 


oooo 


lO o 


CO CO 


a> 


^H 1-H 


^-^ 


*~* 




•-^ 




C3 o ,d 

CD O t, 


,OV0i0OW>W)OOOC0(MCqOC0O00(NOa>O»0 


(M 


t- ■* (M t- 


CO o* 


c-a CO 


J^ 


-K CX) CO VO "3 ^ CO CO C^ "5 »A (?^ .^ i-H i-l rH t-t i-H OT rH 








'"* 






OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


o 


oooo 


o o 


o o 


o 


•a .2 13 




o 


oooo 


o o 


oo 




oSoSooooooooooooooooo 


00 


oooo 


o o 


CO o 


co_ 
















i!/ 5J QJ 


,-»C^CO'-tHOOOOOOOO^OOO"300000 




oooo 


o o 


^^ CO o 




=rtr-(COOCnOCOOOOO-!)>Tt<O^Ot-»OU5CCOT)( 


00 


O O O 03 


m -£. 






^ s ^ 


U5 t-CO(MOO(MCOCOO>ni-l^CD-J3COC» I-)_CT tJI e-^ 


"^ 






•*J ^ o 


^» 
















T^air^ rHrt" Co'cd'cO C^'m 


■* 


""" 


00 


o ■ 


"" 












C3 




^ Si 


<->■ OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


CD 


OOOO 


o 


.-ooo 


Irt 


..-H o >, 










Ci I-H tH 




p.^ 










^ 




1 11 


OOOOOOOOO00^(MO--l>OClOu:.C0OO 


CO 


O W CD T|( 


o 


CD ceo 


c^ 


.-OOcot«»njoCTi'5-io<rsif3t>.u5C3'0-^o-veoooo 




O^rt il 




flcOf-( 


M 


-(?S-)CO00»-!ji(M(Ni-(T)(--i— ( 












(U O-M 










bo 




!H" 










2 




a OS 


ooooooooooooooooooooo 


o 


OOOO 


oo 


-*^o o 


o 


oc-iooooooooooooooooooo 


C-5 




o o 




cq 


Tfincoooooooooooooooooooo 




oooo 


oo 


mSo, 














«r CN b~"o"cD"oo''co'co'o''M''oo"o''o inuf o'o'co" 




o'ic"o'o" 


■oo 




o 




t- 


lOt^ o t- 




^~ CI 


o 


a 0) 


i-H CO05T}<c0>-l-*b-i-lTt<gguit>.CT^C>rH 






t>-^ 


CO CO 




fe3 s^ 




c-f 


T^^ 






»c" 


gg,a 


-*) ^1 


H« 


r*l-«- 


-H- 


HCO-C-T- 


-^2 


ooajcoocococoaocot~cO"rat-o>oiOTj.Tt<TriT|H 




CO CO CO (N 






■* 


^o^„^w 
































•3 


a a 




cS 










w 


o o 








+3 


g 


a S) 




o £,o ™ o 


C3 


.tls-S" . i 






i 


ss 




n^ ""TzJ t^ j_, -vJ o 




%\ 


-Q 




"3 
o 


"43.2 


§11^ So ^S 

si §-3. Ji.^ii.. 




o 


>- 


o o 






• a o • 

§ o "^.S 


^ 


"5 


C3 








•^5 


^ 




•-si:,,, S .s .3 " S -iS \2 °2 o .S a '^ sS ° 
|-| o.i--3^ 1 g.3 III III S 1 g-ll-l 




S-Q^^ a 


1 
is 

a, 


hobo 
H a 






H M ri WsSfSfSafSfliHtSS&IfelSM-^Jzi^ 




S C3 o O 


c3 


So 






ooooooooooooooooooooo 






o 


CO o 






CDWOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 






o 




00 


.c *.I^ 


,-1 Q0C0OO_,O_OOOOO o_o__o__o O O O O o 






o_^ 


lO O 


s^ 


1 i 


CO ci' in" lo w co" o' jf oo" o" o'o' ■ra" o' o" in TjT 


cT 


o" -fo' in 


CJi 


o'cT 


a^ 


^ --H -^IMiOrHUStt) 


o 






o ^ 


•^ 






CO ^ 


00 


WS CO 


CO 


55 •« 















260 



APPENDIX VII. 



Table 2. — Numbers and Occupations q/ those loho ivere engaged 
in Agriculturein England and Wales in 1851, 1861, 1871, 
and 1881. 



Total Population 


1851 


1861 


1871 


1881 












17,927,609 


20,066,224 


22,712,266 


25,974,439 


Occupations 










(a) In Fields and 










Pastures. 










Farmers and graziers 


249,431 


249,735 


249,735(«) 


223,943(a) 


Farmer's, grazier's 










son, grandson, &c.. 










in the house . 


111,604 


92,321 


76,466(&) 


75, 197 (J) 


Farm bailiff 


10,561 


15,698 


16,476 (c) 


19,377 (c) 


Agricultural labour- 










ers, shepherds, and 










cottagers 


965,514 


983,824 


962,348(<^) 


870,798(<?) 


Agricultural students 


104 


190 


760 


728 


Agricultural imple- 










ment proprietors or 










workers 


55 


1,441 


2,160 


4,260 


Land drainage service 


11 


1,761 


1,255 


1,695 


Others engaged in 










agriculture . 


— 


— 


1,061 


838 


(J}) In Woods 










Woodmen . 


— 


— 


7,855 


8,151 


{c) In Gardens. 










Market gardeners 


— 


— r 


112,786 


65,882 (e) 


Florists, nurserymen . 


— 


— 


7,021 


7,755 


Domestic gardeners . 




— < 
• 


C/) 


75,188 


119,857 


48,825 



{a) Shows reduction of 25,964 in number of farmers, or 10 per cent. 

(5) Shows a decline in the number of those who, having no other 
definite occupation, are practicallj^ agricultural labourers. 

{c) Shows that tenant farmers are giving up holdings and becoming 
bailiffs. 

Qd~) This decline of 10 per cent, is explained by increase either of 
agricultural machinery or of pastoral farms. 

(e) Owing to difficulty of comparing returns based upon different 
methods, it is impossible to give the increase of market gardeners, but 
it seems to be considerable. The increase of florists, &c., is large. 

C/) In 1871 a different reckoning was adopted from that of 1881. 
The sum-totals afford a comparison. 



261 



APPENDIX VIII. 

Table 1. — Estimated Production of Gold throughout the 
World from 1852 to 1875. 

(Paper handed in to the Committee on Depression of Silver, by Sir 
Hector Hay. No. 338 of Session 1876. Appendix, p. 25.) 



Years 

1852-56 . 
1857-61 . 
1862-66 . 
1867-71 . 
1872-75 (4 years only) 



Average Annual Production 
in Quinquennial Periods 
£ 
29,933,000 

24,633,000 
22,760,000 
21,753,000 
19,200,000 



Table 2. — Estimated Production of Gold and Silver through- 
out the World in Quinqtiennial Periods from 1851 to 1880, 
and in the Years 1881 to 1884. (000' s omitted.y 



Years 


Gold 


Silver 


1851-55 . . . . 27,553 


7,975 


1856-60 








i 28,745 


8,144 


1861-65 








25,824 


9,910 


1866-70 








26,770 


12,051 


1871-75 








23,809 


17,724 


1876-80 








I 24,105 


22,052 


1881 . 










22,027 


23,333 


1882 . 










20,492 


24,921 


1883 . 










20,079 


26,059 


1884 


19,530 


25,740 



' See Report of Commission on Bepressioi of Trade, 1886 (U), xxiii, 
Appendix B, Table 5. 



262 



APPENDIX VIII. 



Table 3. — Imports and Exports of Gold for the Years 
1887-81. (In Thousands of Pounds, 000' s omitted.) 




Table 4. — The folloioing are the Money Systems adopted in 
the Principal Nations of the World. 



1. Gold System 


2. Gold and Silver 
System 


3. Silver System 


England. 


France. 


Holland. 


Australia and New Zealand. 


Belgium. 


Austria. 


Germany. 


Italy. 


Russia. 


Norway. 


Switzerland. 


Egypt. 


Sweden, 


Greece. 


Japan. 


Denmark, 


Spain. 


China. 


Portugal. 


Roumania. 


India. 


Turkey. 


United States. 


Mexico. 


Persia, 


Chili. 


West Indies. 


Brazils. 


Venezuela. 




Argentine Republic. 


Paraguay. 




Canada. 






S. Africa. 







APPENDIX IX. 



263 









^ 






ts 



Total 
of the Groups 


CC(Mt— C5CO— 'r-HOO^^CCOlt-^O'M 

-^ O 0_ t-^ '-V ^1 1--;, M "* 00 t^ I^ «0 ■>) 

.-.2 -^oo oo CO :£■ r-Tt-Tco ro''o'--oc-f ctT 

0_ O O rH (M__ ^__ O OD .03 Ci lO C; t- C5 

^ S£ 2 '-r'^'^"t-- ~'-* -' t^^oTx-cf 


3 

o 


Oats, Indian 
Corn, Barley, 
Meal, Hops," 

Eice, 
Sugar, &c. 


O >0 CO — 1 U-3 O (M '-S CO CO t^ O O o: 

'j^ CO o o ^5 -n ^ O c; -*i o o i^ t- 

»0_ C5_ ^__ U3_ -(■__ 0_ CO O T— CO -+I -*< C L-? 

« 2S~ rJ' ^' "*" "^ — ' "^ ^^ o '^'' t^f o' <N ci" 

^C5(MOOOOOC5COrOO-t"Ci05^lS 

co^co^'^cs^iaoi-i^^cscoi— (Or-^co 
IM ■*' t^ oc i-o" O o" c^f cf O '^^ ct ?-t" t^ 

cO'^-^-^oo-^iirirj-oia-^^co 


■*■ 

3 
o 

O 


lis 


T-H o 1^1 w ^ -+ (M c-1 lo to lo t- in oo 

O ^__ l--_^ >.0_ -i^ tC_ f-i CO l^ in (M »C CO tc 

w iS r5 ®' "" -^'' t-^ o" t-^ S -T C5 lo* ^' t-T 

^(MWCCi— lC3^t^(>)CO(MC5:CCOCO 

■^^ ci, ^ s^„ "-^^ tM_^ « co__ 1-- "^^ t~:, o t-^ 1-H 

C<lO0<it--O'^CtC^ cT '^ CO O cr" zo 
irflCOC05<l-*COCOCO-*-*-*lCOCOC^ 


p 


Fruit (Raw), 

Nuts (Edible), 

and 

Vegetables 

(Raw) 


i-Hi-ICO^OOCDCiCOeD-tlCOOCltCl 
05COCOC5lO»OCOCOOlO-*cr>-Ht^ 

Ci_'-H_c<iooct^t-«:i— lcor-J(^^.— (,— c 
c+j o; sq cT o to' o c<f CO 5o o-i" co" crT os' 00* 

COlOi— IClt-ODOOClt^O'.O^Ot- 
'S^ 00 5D_ »0_ t- 0O__ —"^ C<J_ C5 IQ t^ LO O >-i 

(M 'ti ■*" ts" to" o t-^ co" »q" t:r 50" o" o so" 


o 

5 


Live Cattle, 

Sheep, 

and Pigs 


COCOCOC5-*C3iOlOtO«0-+lt^^t^ 

OoooO'-itoocociioiQiot^io';^ 

C5^lOC<J^^lOC0COC^1<MC;l^00t-"^ 
5j CO Co' to"" C" n' Co" lo" cT lO -H co' -TtT -h" J[? 
'^C^IrtOqcO^lOt^CO^Mt^COOCOii 

iO«OCOC<IO-^OC'llOC^C5iat^ 

'^ iQ i^ t-^ co' i>r t>r o" oo ci" .— (' o" od" fj' 

1-1 i-H rt "^ 


3 
o 
u 
O 


Beef, Mutton, 
Pork, Bacon, 
Hams, Eggs, 

Butter, 
Cheese, &c. 


£ 
15,044,181 
23,332,813 
28,039,220 
31,447,611 
31,227,346 
33,983,462 
33,645,153 
39,838,081 
39,650,098 
35,442,109 
40,792,229 
39,736,081 
38,110,303 
36,101,454 










bDbi:. . . . 


> > 

c3 ce 






O O 1 

1 1 

■^.-ilOCOt^COSlO-HOlCO-dHlolffl 

<»r^t^i— t^t-t-ccoooooooooooo 

oooocooococooocooococooooooo 



264 



APPENDIX X. 



APPEN- 

Table 1. — Acreage under each Descrijjfion of Croj), Fallow, and 



Description of Crop and 
Live Stock 


1866 


1867 


1868 


1869 




Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 




Corn crops 

Green crops 

Other crops — Flax .... 

„ „ Hops .... 

Clover and artificial and other 

grasses in rotation 
Permanent pasture not broken up . 
Bare fallow 

Live stock— Cattle .... 
„ Sheep .... 
Pigs .... 
Horses used for agi-icultural pur- 
poses, unbi-oken horses and mares, 
kept solel}' for breeding 


9,252,784 
3,562,434 

56,578 

3,694,224 

11,148,814 

964,937 

Number 
4,785,836 
22,048,281 
2,477,619 


9,284,780 
3,498,163 

64,284 

3,989,974 

11,967,288 

922,558 

Number 

4,993,034 

28,919,101 

2,966,979 


9,433,532 

3,385,866 

17,543 

64,488 

3,960,008 

12,136,036 

958,221 

Number 

5,423,981 

30,711,396 

2,308,539 


9,758,037 

3,575,067 

20,923 

61,792 

3,448,726 

12,735,897 

738,836 

Number 

5,313,473 

29,538,141 

1,930,452 







1877 


1878 


1879 


1880 




Description of Crop and 
Live Stock 
























Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 




Corn crops 


9,210,129 


9,167,646 


8,985,234 


8,875,702 




Green crops 


3,584,846 


3,491,010 


3,554,318 


3,476,653 




Other crops — ^Plax .... 


7,481 


7,261 


7,055 


8,985 




„ „ Hops .... 


71.239 


71,789 


67,671 


66,705 




Clover and artificial and other 












grasses in rotation 


4,494,216 


4,573,107 


4,473,373 


4,434,339 




Permanent pasture not broken up . 


13,728,355 


13,911,296 


14,166,724 


14,426,959 




Bare fallow 


616,147 


632,403 


721,409 


812,666 






Number 


Number 


Number 


Number 




Live Stock— Cattle .... 


5,697,933 


5,738,128 


5,856,356 


5,912,046 




„ Sheep .... 


28,161,164 


28,406,206 


28,157,080 


26,619,050 




Pigs .... 


2,498,728 


2,483,248 


2,091,559 


2,000,842 




Horses used for agricultural pur- 












poses, unbroken liorses and mares. 












kept solely for breeding 


1,388,582 


1,412,502 


1,432,845 


1,421,180 





APPENDIX X. 



265 



-DIX X. 

Grass, and Number of Horses, Cattle, Sheep, and Pigs, in Go-eat Britain. 



9,548,041 

3,586,730 

23,957 

60,594 

4,504,884 

12,072,856 

601,517 

Number 

5,403,317 

28,397,589 

2,171,138 



9,675,261 

3,738,180 

17,366 

60,030 

4,369,448 

12,435,442 

542,840 

Number 

5,337,579 

27,119,569 

2,499,602 



1,254,450 



1872 



9,573,551 

3,616,383 

15,357 

61,927 

4,515,451 

12,575,606 

64/, 898 

Number 

6,624,994 

37,921,507 

2,771,749 



1,258,020 



1873 



9,458,928 

3,576,486 

14,683 

63,278 

4,366,818 

12,915,929 

706,498 

Number 

5,964,549 

29,427,635 

2,500,259 



1,276,444 



9,431,490 

3,581,270 

9,394 

65,805 

4,340,742 

13,178,012 

660,206 

Number 

6,125,491 

30,313,941 

2,422,832 



1,313,739 



1875 

1 


1876 


Acres 


Acres 


9,451,650 


9,184,769 


3,664,107 


3,574,249 


6,751 


7,641 


j 69,171 


69,999 


4,354,071 


4,540,273 


13,313,621 


13,515,994 


557,979 


651,212 


Number 


Number 


6,012,824 


5,846,302 


29,167,438 


28,172,951 


2,229,918 


2,293,620 


1,340,129 


1,374,576 





1881 


1882 


1883 


1884 


1885 


1886 


1887 




Acres 

8,847,976 

3,510,568 

6,534 

64,943 

4,342,285 

14,643,397 

795,809 

Number 

5,911,642 

24,581,053 

2,048,090 

1,424,938 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 




8,833,380 

3 475,660 

5,220 

65,619 

4,327,392 

14,821,675 

784,425 

Number 
5,807,491 
24,319,768 
2,510,402 

1,413,578 


8,618,675 

3,454,579 

4,317 

68,016 

4,395,922 

15,065,373 

778,203 

Number 

5,962,779 

25,068,271 

2,617,757 

1,410,596 


8,484,730 

3,487,703 

2,247 

69,258 

4,381,404 

15,290,820 

749,699 

Number 

6,269,141 

26,068,354 

2,584,391 

1,414,377 


8,392,006 

3,521,612 

2,490 

71,327 

4,654,173 

15,342,478 

560,322 

Number 

6,597,964 

26,534,635 

2,403,380 

1,408,789 


8,260.165 

3,480,480 

3,068 

70,127 

4,689,200 

15,535,279 

552,898 

Number 

6,646,683 

25,520,718 

2,221,475 

1,425,359 


8,145,894 

3,463,706 

3,072 

63,706 

4,781,027 

15,671,395 

485,874 

Number 

6,441,268 

25,958,768 

2,299,323 

1,428,383 



266 



APPENDIX X 



STATISTICS OF AGRICULTUilE. 



Table II. — Acreage under each hind of Crop, Bare Fallow, and Grass, 
and Horses, Cattle, Sheep, and Pigs, in the Year 1887, in each 
Division of Great Britain ; with tlie Totals for Great Britain. 





EXGLAXD, 

1887 


"Wales, 
1887 


Scotland, 
1887 


Great 

Britain, 

1887 




Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Total area of land and water . 


32,597,398 


4,721,823 


19,466,978 


56,786,199 


Total acreage under all kinds 1 
of crops, bare fallow, and [• 
grass ' .... J 


24,922,052 


2,831,155 


4,862,097 


32,615,304 


Corn _ 
crops 

1 

Green _^ 
crops 


"Wheat .... 
Barley or bere . 
Oats .... 
Rye .... 
Beans .... 
Peas .... 


2,197,580 

1,759,636 

1,768,123 

45,994 

349,673 

226,U02 


69,407 

118,920 

255,434 

1,349 

2,078 

2,142 


50,337 

206,600 

1,064,432 

7,817 

18,963 

1,407 


2,317,324 

2,085,156 

3,087,989 

55,160 

370,714 

229,551 


Total . 


6,347,008 


449,330 


1,349,556 


8,145,894 


/Potatoes 

Turnips and swedes . 
Mangold 
Carrots 

Cabbage, k.-rabi, & rape 
Vetches, &c.- 


369,243 
1,419,268 
351,588 
14,468 
145,690 
380,286 


40,570 

70,487 

7,764 

459 

1,343 

4,592 


149,839 
482,532 
1,338 
1,115 
6,640 
16,484 


559,652 
1,972,287 
360,690 
16,042 
153,673 
401,362 


Total . 


2,680,543 


125,215 


657,948 


3,463,706 


Clover, 
& gras 


sainfoin, 
ses under 


' For hay 

Xot for hay 


1,708,719 
1,116,415 


175,119 
137,255 


441,120 
1,202,399 


2.324,958 
2,456,069 


rotation . 


Total 


2,825,134 


312,374 


1,643,519 


4,781,027 


Permanent pas- 
ture or grass. 


rForhav . 3,926,513 
Not for hay 8,619,990 


483,771 
1,445,375 


152,076 
1,043,670 


4,562,360 
11,109,035 


Not broken up in 
rotation ^ 


Total 


12,546,503 


1,929,146 


1,195,746 


15,671,395 


Flax . 

Hops . 

Bare fall 

land 


ow or uncrc 


2,746 
63,706 

pped arable) 456^412 


56 900 
15,034 14,428 


3,702 
63,706 

485,874 



' Not including nursery-grounds and woods, and that part of the acreage of 
orchards and market gardens which is not devoted to any of the crops or grass men- 
tioned in the above table. 

" Except clover and grass, which are separately shown. 

^ Exclusive of heath and mountain land. 



APPENDIX X. 



267 



Appendix X. — Table II. continued. 





ESGLAXD, 

1887 


Wales, 
1887 


Scotland, 
1887 


Britain, 

1887 




Number 


Number 


Number 


Number 


Horses ' - 


( Used solely for agri- 1 

culture . . . f 

Unbroken horses, and \ 

mares kept solely • 

for breeding . j 


766,693 
330,509 


72,354 
67,774 


142,083 
48,970 


981,130 
447,253 




Total 


1,097,202 


140,128 


191,053 


1,428,383 


Cattle ■ 


Cows and heifers In 1 

milk or in calf . ] 

Other ( 2 years & above 

cattle t Under 2 years 


1,841,664 

1,160,887 
1,621,164 


282,686 

131,934 

282,617 


411,930 

266,252 
442,134 


2,536,280 

1,559,073 
2,345,915 


Total 


4,623,715 


697,237 


1,120,316 


6,441,268 


Sheep - 


1 year old and above . 
Under 1 year old 


9,930,719 
6,521,789 


1,804,465 
935,894 


4,411,065 
2,354.836 


16,146,249 
9,812,519 


Total 


16,452,508 


2,740,359 


6,765,901 


25,958,768 


Pigs = 




1,940,507 


223,170 


135,646 


2,299,323 



' As returned by occupiers of land. — Including ponies. 

^ The number of pigs is exclusive of those kept in towns, and by cottagers with 
less than a quarter of an acre of laud. 



268 



APPENDIX XI. 



Table 1 (a). — The Land of England and Wales and its 
Products in 1688. (Davenamf on Trade, vol. ii. p. 219.) 



1 


Acres 


Value per acre 


Kent 


Arable land 

Pasture and meadow . 

Woods and coppices . 

Forests, parks, and com- 
mons .... 

Heaths, moors, mountains, 
and barren land 

Houses and homesteads, 
gardens and orchards, 
churches and churchyards 

Eivers, lakes, meres, and 
ponds .... 

Roads, ways, and waste 
land .... 


9,000,000 

12,000,000 

3,000,000 

3,000,000 

10,000,000 

1,000,000 •( 

500,000 
500,000 


£ .?. d. 
5 6 
8 8 
5 

3 8 

10 

The land 
The buildings 

2 


£ 

2,480,000 

5,200,000 

750,000 

570,000 

500,000 

450,000 
2,000,000 

50,000 


In all 


39,000,000 


about 6 2 


12,000,000 



Table 1 (b). — An Estimate of the Live Stock of England and 
Wales in 1688. 





Yearly breed 


The whole 


Value of each 


Value of the 




or increase 


stock 


besides the skin 


stock 








£ t. 


d. 


£ 


Beeves, stirks, & 












calves 


800,000 


4,500,000 


2 





9.000,000 


Sheep and lambs 


3,600,000 


12,000,000 


7 


4 


4,440,000 


Swine and pigs . 


1,300,000 


2,000,000 


16 





1,600,000 


Deer and fawns 


20,000 


100,000 


2 





200,000 


Goats and kids . 


10,000 


50,000 


10 





25,000 


Hares & leverets 


12,000 


24,000 


1 


6 


1,800 


Rabbits & conies 


2,000,000 


1,000,000 





5 


20,833 




7,742,000 


19,674,000 








15,287,633 



APPENDIX XI. 



269 



Table 2. — Arthur Youngr's Estimate (1771) of the (A) Area 
of Cultivation, (£) Capital employed by the Farmer, 
(C) Product of the Soil, and {D) Live Stock in England 
and Wales. 



(A) Aeable State of the Soil of England and Wales. 



Acres in all 
Arable land 
Grass 
Wood 



32,000,000 

13,518,716 

15,736,185 

2,395,721 



(B) Capital employed by the Fakmer. 
(i.) Stock in Husbandry. 





Number" 


Eate 


Value 


Draught cattle 

Cows .... 

Fatting beasts 

Young cattle 

Sheep .... 

Swine .... 

Poultry 


684,491 
741, .532 
513,369 
912,656 
22,188,948 
1,711,200 


£ s. a. 

10 
7 

12 
4 
15 
12 


£ 
6,844,910 
5,190,724 
6,160,428 
3,650,624 
16,641,711 
1,026,720 
171,120 


Total . 


26,752,196 


— 


39,686,237 


Total of live stock, ac- 
cording to the pro- 
portion in stocking 
farms, 273Z. to lOOZ. 
a year 






61,152,000 



(ii.) Dead Stock. 

Implements at 70Z. per lOOZ. a year 
Furniture ,, „ 

Total 



15,680,000 
15,680,000 

31,360,000 



' The number of the stock (swine excepted) is the actual number ; the value is 
Young's conjectiu'e. 



270 



APPENDIX XI. 



(B) Capital employed by the Farmer — continued. 

(iii.) Sundries. 

£ 
Including seed, labour, &c. . . 51,520,000 

(iv.) Recapitulation. 



Live stock 
Dead „ 
Sundries . 



Total 



61,152,000 
31,360,000 
51,520,000 

144,032,000 



(C) Product of the Soil. 
Arable Crops. 



Crops 


Acres 


Product 
per acre 


Total product 


Per 
quarter 


Value 


Wheat . 
Barley . 
Oats 
Peas 
Beans 

Turnips . 
Clover 


2,795,008 

2,623,885 

1,483,065 

513,369 

399,287 

1,711,228 
3,201,425 


Quarters. 

3 

4 
4 6 
2 7 
4 1 

£ i. d. 
2 2 5 
5 4 


Quarters. 
8,385,024 
10,495,540 
7,044,558 
1,475,935 
1,647,058 


s. 
40 
20 
16 
26 
26 


£ 

16,770,048 

10,495,540 

5,635,645 

1,918,714 

2,141,174 

3,629,228 
16,647,410 


Total . 


12,707,268 


— 


29,048,115 


— 


57,237,759 



(D) Cattle. 





Rate per head Number 


Total 


Cows .... 

Sheep .... 

Fatting beasts 

Young cattle 

Swine .... 

Poultry 


£ s. d. 
5 10 
11 8 
5 
10 
15 


741,532 

22,188,948 

513,369 

912,656 

1,711,200 


£ 

4,078,426 

12,943,551 

2,566,845 

912,656 

1,283,400 

171,120 


Total . 


— 


26,067,705 


21,955,998 



APPENDIX XI. 



271 



Table 3. — The Pro2)ortio7i of Land cultivated for Different Pur- 
poses in England and Wales in 1808. 

{An Jnqviry into the State of National Siilsistence. Bj' W. T. Comber. 
London. 1808. Appendix XXV.) 



Crops. 

Wheat 

Barley and rye ...... 

Oats and beans ..... 

Clover, rye, &c. ...... 

Eoots and cabbages cultivated by the plough 

Fallow 

Hop-grounds ...... 

Nursery-grounds ..... 

Fruit and kitchen gardens cultivated by the 

spade . 

Pleasure-groi;nds ..... 
Lands depastured by cattle 
Hedgerows, copses, and woods 
Ways, water, &c. ..... 



Total cultivated area 
Commons and waste lands 

Total acreage of England and Wales 



Acres. 

3,160,000 

861,000 

2,872,000 

1,149,000 

1,150,000 

2,297,000 

36,000 

9,000 

41,000 

16,000 

17,479,000 

1,641.000 

1,316,000 



32,027,000 
6,473,000 



38,500,000 



Table 4. — Mr. W. Couling's General Statement of the Super- 
ficial Area of England and Wales in 1827. 
(Select Committee on Emigration, 1827. Sessional Pajjei's, 1827, vol. v.) 



Territorial 
divisions 


Arable land 
and gardens 


Meadows, pas- 
tures, and 
marshes 


Uncultivated 

improveable 

wastes 


Unimprovo- Total 
able wastes acreage 


j Acres 
England 10,252.800 
Wales . 890,570 


Acres 

15,379,200 
2,226,430 


Acres 
3,454,000 
530,000 


Acres Acres 
3,256,400 32,342,400 
1,105,000 4,752,000 


Total . i 11,143,370 


17,605,630 


3,984,000 


4,361,400 37,094,400 



272 



APPENDIX XI. 



Table 5. — Total Acreage under each kind of Crop, Bare Fal- 
loiv, and Grass ; Total Acreage of Orchards, Market Gardens, 
Nursery-grounds, and Woods ; and Number of each kind 
of Live stock in Great Britain iyi each of the Years 1867, 
1877, 1887. 





1867 


1877 


1887 




Acres 


Acres 


Acres 


Total acreage under all kinds of 
crops, bare fallow, and grass . 


29,744,590 


31,712,413 


32,615,304 


Total acreage of permaaent pasture 
Total acreage of arable land 


11,967,288 
17,777,302 


13,728,355 
17,984,058 


15,671,395 
16,943,909 


Corn 
crops 


,Wheat .... 
Barley or bere . 

Oats 

Rye .... 
Beans .... 
Peas .... 


3,367,876 

2,2.59,164 

2,750,487 

52,865 

536,298 

318,090 


3,168,540 

2,417,588 

2,754,179 

60,146 

497,879 

311,797 


2,317,324 

2,085,156 

3,087,989 

55,160 

370,714 

229,551 


Total 


9.284,780 


9,210,129 


8,145,894 


Green 
crops " 


^Potatoes .... 
Turnips and swedes 
Mangold .... 
Carrots .... 
Cabbage, kohl-rabi, & rape 
Vetches & other green crops 


492,217 

2,173,850 

258,126 

15,923 

133,692 

424,355 


512,471 
2,073,455 
358,055 
15,9.53 
182,710 
442,202 


559,652 
1,972,287 
360,690 
16,042 
153,673 
401,362 


Total . . . 3,498,163 


3,584,846 


3,463,706 


Clover, sainfoin, and grasses under 
rotation ..... 

Flax 

Hops 

Bare fallow, or uncropped arable 
land 


3,989,974 
17,543 
64,284 

922,558 


4,494,216 

7,481 
71,239 

616,147 


4,781,027 

3,702 

63,706 

485,874 


Orchards, or fruit-trees of any kind 
Market gardens .... 
Nursery-grounds .... 
Woods and plantations 


148,221 

36,204 

11,779 

2,187,078 


163,290 

37,849 

11,952 

2,187,078 


202,234 

62,666 

12,478 

2,458,300 



APPENDIX XI. 



27^ 



Appendix XL — continued. 





1867 


1877 


1887 




Number 


Number 


Number 


Horses ■ 


■ Used solely for agriculture 

Unbroken horses & mares 

kept solely for breeding 


965,515 
301,194 


970,786 
417,796 


981,130 
447,253 


Total 


1,266,709 


1,388,582 


1,428,383 


/• Cows and heifers in milk 

or in calf 
Cattle-^ Other cattle : 2 years old 

and above 
^ Ditto under 2 years old . 


2,038,092 

1,266,753 
1,688,189 


2,207,017 

1,464,317 
2,026,599 


2,536,280 

1,559,073 
2,345,915 


Total 


4,993,034 5,697,933 


6,441,268 


avo i 1 ysar old and above 
"^®^Pt Under 1 year old . 


18,449,005 18,145,205 
10,470,096 10,015,959 


16,146,249 
9,812,519 


Total 


28,919,101 28,161,164 


25,958,768 


Pigs 


2,966,979 1 2,498,728 


2,299,323 



274 



APPENDIX XII. 



Return showing Price of Wheat per English Quarter in France, 
Belgium, and Prussia in the Years 1835, 1845, 1855, and 
1885, and the Import Duties on Wheat per English Quarter 
in the same Countries at the same periods (so far as can be 
given). 



Price per English Quarter 


Import Duty per English Quarter 


Countries 


1835 


1845 


1855 


1S85 


1835 


1845 


1855 


1885 




s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


J. d. 


s. d. 

l\ Oi to 7 May 
J 1885 
6 3after7May 


France 


35 2 


45 9 


47 2 


39 1 


sliding scale 


do. 


do. 


















y 1885 


Belgium 


33 7 


46 8 


77 1 


38 3 


8 


4 


free 


free 
11 2 to 20 Feb. 


Prussia 


23 2 


35 4 


60 


35 


no information 


2 8 


J 1885 
6 6 after 20 


















Feb. 1885 


England 


39 4 


50 10 


74 8 


41 2 


sliding scale 


do. 


jEree 


free 



275 



APPENDIX XIII. 



Table \.— Rates in 1803, 1815, 1827, and 1841. 



(1) In 1803 the total burden of the rates was 

(2) In 1815 . 

(3) In 1827 

(4) In 1841 



£ 

5,848,000 

8,164,000 

9,489,687 

11,187,027 



(1) and (2) No figures for the earlier years will supply the 
items in detail. But for the two latter years the information 
is more detailed. 



(3) 1827- 



1. Poor and county rates 

2. Highway rates 

3. Church rates 

Total . 



& 

. 7,803,465 

. 1,121,834 
564,388 

. £9,489,687 



(4) 1841— (A) Direct Taxation (Rates). 



1. Poor rate 

2. County and police rate 

3. Highway rate 

4. Church rate . 

5. Borough rate . 

6. Sewer rate (Metropolitan) 



£ 

5,690,151 

963,223 

1,169,891 

506,812 

246,743 

75,000 



£8,651,820 



T 2 



276 



APPENDIX XIII. 



(B) Indirect Taxation (Tolls, Fares, and Dues). 





Brought forward . 


£8,651,820 


1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 


Borough tolls . 

City of London 

Turnpike tolls 

Light dues 

Port dues 

Fees in administration 


of 


172,911 
188,521 
1,348,084 
243,023 
525,000 






justice .... 
Total 




57,668 


£2,555,207 








£11,187,027 



Table 2. — Local Taxation, in 1873 «nc? 1885 {omitting 
imrely Urhan and Metrojiolitan). 



Urban ami Rural 


1873 


1885 


Poor Law authorities(extra-Metropolitan) 
Burial boards „ 
School boards „ 
Churchwardens (Church rate) 
County authorities ..... 
Commissioners of Sewers 
Drainage, Embankment, and Conservancy 
boards ...... 

Total 


£ 

6,299,424 

122,923 

187,444 

9,246 

1,798,487 

48,724 

196,962 


£ 

6,078,942 

168,327 

1,320,923 

3,616 

2,008,048 

61,460 

• 214,256 


8,663,610 

1,514,758 
174,286 

27,807 


9,855,592 

1,589,995 
313,724 

22,807 


Pairal 


Highway authorities .... 
Rural Sanitary authorities 
Inspectors under Lighting and Watching 
Act (2 & 3 Wm. IV. c. 90) , 

Total 


1,716,851 


1,926,526 


Total Urban and Rural, and Rural 


10,380,461 


11,782,098 



277 



APPENDIX XIV. 

ALLOTMENTS IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 

The number of agricultural labourers, farm servants, and 
cottagers (not including females and shepherds) in England 
and Wales is 807,608 persons. 

The following table shows — (1) How many labourers have 
(«) potato-grounds ; (b) cow-runs, whether general or definite 
(and in the latter case the acreage). (2) The number and 
size of allotments, whether field gardens or attached to cottages, 
from under -g of an acre to 4 acres. 

In this table no allotments given by railway companies 
to their servants are included. Throughout the table the Eng- 
lish counties, in which the allotments, &c., are situated, have 
been classified in four divisions : 

I. Eastern and North - eastern, including Bedford, 
Cambridge, Essex, Herts, Hunts, Lincoln, Norfolk, Suffolk, 
East Riding of Yorkshire. 

II. South-eastern and East Midland, including Berks, 
Bucks, Hants, Kent, Leicester, Middlesex, Northants, Notts, 
Oxford, Rutland, Surrey, Sussex, Warwick. 

III. West Midland and South - western, including 
Cornwall, Devon, Dorset, Gloucester, Hereford, Monmouth, 
Shropshire, Somerset, Wilts, Worcester. 

IV. North and North - western, including Chester, 
Cumberland, Derby, Durham, Lancaster, Northumberland, 
Stafibrd, Westmoreland, North and West Ridings of York- 
shire. 

The first two constitute the corn division ; the last two 
the grazing division of the country. 



278 



APPENDIX XIV. 





>.^ 


'53 CD rH OS 1-1 


^ 


;:; 


50 




^ fl 












feg 


ti ia tCt^Oi 


t- 


" 


lO 




H|g> 


^^•r,^^ 


-^ 


CO 


•^ 




., a =0 












0) -^ -»J 




t-4 




u ro 




be -w 




0) O'O 


0) o 


o o-a o 




''•::r'^ 




ho"" a 


— '"" m 


sf" a -3 




M C3 O 








gp^ 




•<ii 




> a a 


c S a-a 




^M 




■<^f^ 


<!tf 




8I0Y UB JO f Smpsao 












-xa cy JO '-o:? 'sja'jnoq 


gSSf: 


2 


M 


00 




-131 '^q P13^ saCnitoo 


u^ CO O — < 


o" 


b-" 






01 p^soiiv sonata 


to »0 t^ CO 


C4 




c^ 




-ijonY napjBQ JO -ok 
















<^ G^ 


^ 


CO 


■* 




a> 


Q 


H ^- 




la 


o 






! 


o'^ 


■* 


^ 


o> 

co" 




-1 


a 3 












-« ti u 


t- 


^ 


OD 




bC^ 


c3 bD 




cs 


CD 






S 9 


to C3 


^5 a 3 


s~ 


-<J< 


t* 




"2 "3 


s| 


O S-i 


\a 




o 






o6 












£ = -^ 


^ 


^ 


lO 




ai — 


C3 


o 




o 


rT-< 


o a 

cfq 

s.a 




^g a 




t^ 


oo" 


TJ 












O 


O »5 


5 o 


05 O O CO 








fJ 


-a s> 


■*^ u 










.9 


IH S> 


r-l a 


Ci^^ CO -^ 




'T* 


CD_ 


c5 C 


«<J 


oo"«>rt>rco" 


cT 









C3 •" 


o^ 




CO 




CO 


O 












t> 


is s 


sT. o 


o 00 CO as 


o 


ro 


iO 


1 


f^.s 


a a >-• 


C) o o^ ■* 


co_ 


t* 


CO 


1 




os'o'cs'ar 






•"^5' 




o-g 


CO CO C^ 


o 




o 


a 2 












1^ 


'O-t* 


rH OCCCO 


t~ 


CO 


o 








CiS CO ^ »o 


00 


l>. 


o 


•§ 


|l 


WtTj 


tils' 


to 


CD 


t-T 


»y 


II 


<H a 










O 3 




'-' 




^ 




<J "t^ 












1 




t3 O 


20,489 
56,929 
24,122 
27,026 


CD 

3f 


o 


CO 

o 




aSBO 13%%Vl 


X r*H CO CC 
t^ Gl CC — . 


- 


Ci 


s 




m aScajoy ic^ox 


co_^x co_o_ 


s- 


IS- 


M 






pUBI JO 


O O O c» 


cs 


^ 


CO 




S.9 2 
5 S ^ 

1^1 


i5iinBn5 
a^jingaa 


lO lO X co__ 


«- 








Ai.00 


c:s CC OS cs 


.n 


00 


„ 




3-a 


JOJ una: 


§««-. 


53 


CO 


s 






[■Ejauaf) 


^ (M 


-^ 




•oT 




sao^B^oj; 
joj pnnoxS gn-iA-Bti 


2||s 


o 


M 


1 




siaanoqui jo -osj 


crra-o'."." 


8 


" 


o 








bo 


1 

a 


boS 




a 
a 




a 






a 


Hai^:25 


a" 


3 


1| 








1 


o 



279 



APPENDIX XV. 

Table of Agricultural Wages in England, 1824, 1836, 1860, 
1870, 1881.' It must, however, he noticed that this Table 
does not include Payments for Piece or Task Work, or 
Allowances. 



Divisions and Counties 


Average Weekly Wages of Men 


182-1 


1836 


1860 


1870 


1881 


I. Eastern and North- 
















eaitern. 


i. d. 


i. 


d. 


s. 


d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


Bedford .... 


8 7 


9 


6 


10 


3 


12 


13 


Cambridge 






— 


9 


6 


10 





11 




Essex 






9 4 


10 


4 


11 


3 


11 


13 6 


Hertford . 






9 


9 


6 


10 





12 


13 


Huntingdon 






— 


9 


6 


10 


9 


10 6 




Lincoln 






10 2 


12 





13 





14 


13 6 


Norfolk . 






9 1 


10 


4 


10 


7 


11 6 


13 6 


Suffolk 






8 3 


10 


4 


10 


7 


11 


13 6 


East Riding 






11 8 


12 





13 


6 


— 


17 6 


Average . 


9 5 


10 


3 


11 


1 


11 7 


13 10 


II. South-eastern and 
















East Midland, 
















Berks .... 


— 






10 





9 6 


12 


Bucks 






— 


8 












14 


Hants 






8 6 


9 


6 


12 





10 9 





Kent . 






11 9 


12 





12 





14 


14 


Leicester . 






— 


10 





13 





13 


13 


Middlesex 









10 


6 











Northants • 






8 1 


9 





11 





11 6 


13 


Notts . 






10 3 


12 





12 


9 


13 3 


13 6 


Oxford 









9 












13 3 


Rutland 






— 


9 









12 6 




Surrey 






10 8 


10 


6 


12 


9 


13 


16 


Sussex 






9 7 


10 


7 


11 


8 


12 


16 


Warwick . 






8 10 


10 





10 


9 


12 6 


16 


Average . 


9 8 


10 





11 


9 


12 2 


14 



' The materials from which these Tables of Wages and also that of 
Prices (Table 3) are principally compiled are Mr. Purdy's paper on 



280 



APPENDIX XV. 





Ap2yendix XV.- 


-continued 












Average Weekly Wages of Men 




Divisions and Counties 










1824 


1836 


1860 


1870 


1881 


III. West Midland mid 
















South-western. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


s. 


d. 


*. 


d. 


*. d. 


Cornwall .... 


— 


10 


11 





11 







Devon 




7 6 


8 


9 


2 


10 


9 


13 6 


Dorset 




6 11 


7 6 


9 


4 


11 





12 6 


Gloucester 






9 3 


9 


9 


5 


10 


9 


12 6 


Hereford . 






7 1 


8 


9 





10 


3 


14 


Monmouth 






10 1 


10 6 


11 


8 


13 


6 


12 


Shropshire 






8 10 


9 


10 





11 


9 


14 6 


Somerset . 






8 2 


8 8 


10 





10 


6 


13 


Wilts 






7 7 


8 


9 


6 


10 


9 


12 


"Worcester . 






8 2 


9 6 


10 





11 





— 


Average . 


8 2 


8 10 


9 


1 


11 


1 


13 


IV. North and North- 
















western. 
















Chester .... 


10 8 


13 


11 


8 


13 


6 


15 6 


Cumberland 




12 3 


12 


15 





15 


9 


18 


Derby 




10 10 


12 


12 





14 





13 6 


Durham . 




11 6 


12 


14 


3 


16 





18 


Lancashire 




— — 


_ 


_ 


15 


9 


17 6 


Northumberland 




11 5 


12 


14 





16 





18 


Stafford . 




10 8 


12 


12 


6 


13 








Westmoreland . 




12 


12 


14 


3 


16 


4 





Yorkshire, North Riding . 


10 3 


12 


13 


6 


14 


6 


17 G 


„ West Riding . 


12 6 


12 


13 


6 


16 





17 6 


Average . 


11 3 


12 1 


13 


3 


15 


2 


16 10 



Agricultural Wages (Statistical Society, vol. xxiv.) ; the Evidence before 
the Agricultural Commissions of 1833, 1836, and 1879-81 ; the Return 
of Agricultural Earnings {Parliameiitary Papers, No. 14, Sess. 1861) ; the 
Labour Statistics Return of Wages {Parliamentary Papers, 1887, c. 
5,172) ; Mr. Giffen's Presidential Address on the Progress of the Work- 
ing Classes in the last Half -century {Statistical Society, vol. xlvi.); 
Evidence before the Lords Committee on the Poor, 1830-31 ; and the 
Reports of the Poor Law Commissioners, jyassim. 



281 



APPENDIX XVI. 



Table 1. — Arthur Yoiaig's Calculations of Wages and Prices} 

1. The average wages of agricultui'al labourers, taking into 
account extra pay at harvest and haymaking, and commuting 
food allowances in money, is — in the South and East, 7s. \Qd.; 
in the North, 7s. \d. He adds that in the former case wages 
had risen by a quarter in the last eighteen years. 

2. Prices of provisions, tkc. : — 

Bread, per lb. 
Butter „ 
Cheese „ 

Butcher's meat, per lb 
House rent, yearly 
Firine: 



£ 


s. 


d. 








1| 








6i 








H 








3i 


2 








1 


6 






Table 2. — Prices'^ of Articles of Food, dec, in 1815, 
1836, 1860, 1887. 







Tears 




Articles 








1815 


1836 


18G0 


1887 




s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


Bread . . per 4 lbs. 


1 4 


7A 


7| 


^ 


Butter . . per lb. 


1 2 


1 


1 


1 5 


Cheese . . „ 


81 


7i 


1\ 


6 


Bacon . . „ 


8| 


7 


^ 

7| 


7 


Butcher's meat „ 


— 


6 


7 


Tea ... „ 


6 


5 


4 


2 3 


Sugar . . „ 


9i 


7 


4f 


2i 


Candles . . „ 


7i 


6 


6 


4 


Paraffine . . per quart 




— 


— 


2i 



' Eastern Tour (1770), vol. iv., pp. 311-326; and I^'ortliern Tour 
(1771), vol. iv., pp. 293-313. 

- If these prices appear high, it must be remembered that they are 
naturally greater when small quantities (as, for instance, ounces of tea) 
are purchased. 



INDEX. 



ACR 

ACREAGE, tables of, since 1866, 
264 

Agricultural Holdings Acts, 217 

Agriculture, Board of, inquiry 
made in 1816 by, 40, 90 ; ques- 
tions appended to their circular 
letter, 258 ; their reports and 
recommendations on enclosures, 
69 

Agriculture, early systems of, 1 ; 
characteristics of, during the 
Middle Ages, 11 ; pursuit of, by 
the monks, 1 4 ; first revolution 
in, from tillage to pasture, 17 ; 
early literature of, 29, 248 ; con- 
dition of, in the seventeenth 
century, 31 ; general view of, in 
the eighteenth century, 38-41 ; 
obstacles to the advance of, 55 ; 
second revolution in, from pas- 
ture to tillage, aided by manu- 
facturing development, 64 ; 
effects of enclosure legislation 
on, 74 ; stimulus imparted to, 
by improved transport and com- 
munication, 78 ; scientific prac- 
tice of, in the present century, 
86 ; condition of, during the 
disastrous period of 1812-45, 
87; progress of, from 1845 to 
1873, 104 ; publication of statis- 
tics relating to, 113 ; the present 
collapse of, its causes, 115, 236 ; 
its remedies, 125, 128, 155, 237 ; 
effects of monetary disturbances 
on, 25, 38, 88, 90 ; French and 
English, compared, 132 ; im- 
provements in EngUsh, all 



BAG 

effected by private enterprise, 
148 ; public teaching of, in 
France, 149; small number in 
England of those now occupied 
in, 158; bearing of the tithe- 
question on, 166 ; education in, 
required for England, 189, 238 ; 
need of a State department of, 
195 ; discouraged by presenti 
railway rates, 197, 238 ; and by 
unfair incidence of local taxa- 
tion, 201 ; signs of a third revo- 
lution in, to meat and dairy 
farming, 213 ; tables of statis- 
tics relating to, 264 
Allotments, labourers', 231 ; table 

of, 277 
Althorp (Lord), his devotion to 

agriculture, 79 
American competition, 121 
Arable farming, increased atten- 
tion to, after the Revolution, 41 
— land, first separation of, from 
pasture, 3 ; crops of, in the 
Middle Ages, 12 
Aristocracy, mediaeval, despised 

farming, 14 
Aston Boges, old village customs 
at, 3 ; cultivation on the old 
system at, in the present cen- 
tury, 57 
Australia, land registration system 

of, 184 
Austria, agricultural education in, 
191 



BA.CON (LORD) on manure, 99 



284 



ENGLISH FARMING 



BAK 

Bakewell (Robert), 49 ; his experi- 
ments in sheep and cattle breed- 
ing, 51 

Balks, 5 

Belgium, land tenure of, 142 

Billyngdon (Thomas) j'ields his 
right of common, 27 

Blith, advocates drainage, 33 sqq. ; 
quoted, 31, 95, 115 

Bolingbroke, his interest in agri- 
culture, 78 

Bones first used as manure, 80 

Bordars, 10 

Bounty system, 41 ; table of 
amounts, &c., paid under the, 
254 

Bradley's description of Essex 
drains, 43 

Burke, engaged in an agricultural 
experiment, 79 

Butts, 5 



CAIRD (SIR JAMES) recom- 
mends high farming, 105 ; ob- 
tains agricultural statistics, 113; 
quoted, 167 ; his estimate of 
rentals, 168 note 

Camden's description of the 
Gloucestershire sheep-cots, 49 

Cassel, farmers' conference at, 130 

Castle Combe, Domesday survey 
of, 15 

Cattle, old notions of breeding, 
50; Bakewell's attempt to im- 
prove, 59 ; Mr. Coke's improve- 
ments in feeding and breeding, 
80 

Cattle plague in eighteenth cen- 
tury, 39 ; risk of, 212 

Census, agricultural, for last four 
decades, 260 

Chaucer (Geoffrey) quoted, 5 note, 
9, 14 

Chemistry, services of, to agricul- 
ture, 99, 109 

Cheviot sheep improved on Bake- 
well's princiiiles, 52 

Church rates, 202 sqq. ; tables of, 
275 

Civil wars, effect of, on agricul- 
ture, 32 



COT 

Clay lands, drainage of, 95 
Climate, deterioration of, after 

1764, 40 
Clover, first successful cultivation 
of, in England, 32 ; field cul- 
tivation of, by Townshend, 46 j 
ignorance respecting, 62 
Coinage, condition of, in Tudor 

times, 25 
Coke (Judge) prohibits enclosures- 

at Stratford, 28 
Coke (Mr., afterwards Earl of 
Leicester), his agricultural im- 
provements, 79 
Ceiling's (Chas.) Ketton cattle, 53^ 
Common, rights of, their origin, 
8 ; their threefold nature, 18 ; 
agreements made to extinguish, 
19 ; example of their commuta- 
tion by private contract, 27 
Common-field system of hus- 
bandry, 3 ; its connection with 
the disturbances in Skye, 7 ; 
extent of its prevalence in 1794, 
56 ; its condemnation and down- 
fall, 65 
Commons, enclosures of, com- 
menced, 18 ; how effected, 26 ; 
prohibited by law at Welcombe, 
28 ; Board of Agriculture's re- 
commendations respecting, 70 ; 
a national necessity, 74 ; at- 
tended with suffering to the 
labourers, 74 
Compensation for tenants' im- 
provements, 216 
Conquest, the, its effect on agri- 
culture, 8 
Corn, bounties on exports of, 41, 
254 ; prices of, 12, 25, 26. See 
also Wheat, &c. 
Corn laws, earliest, 21 ; table of, 
252 ; condition of farming during 
the period of their greatest 
stringency, 87 ; abolition of, its 
effect on farming, 106; social, 
of Henry VII., 246 
Corn-weeding in the Middle Ages, 

11 
Cotswolds, the, and sheep-cotting, 
49 ; common fields in, at the 
end of the last centurj^ 57 



INDEX 



285 



cou 

County rates, 202 sqq. ; tables of, 
275 

Crabbe's description of SuflEolk, 43 

Crag, a fertiliser used in Suffolk, 
43 

Crinon (Hector), his description of 
French peasantry, 136 

Crustie of land, 5 

Currency questions, connection of, 
with agricultural depression, 
116; metallic, of principal coun- 
tries, 262 



DAIRY and livestock farming, 221 

Dales and dalesmen, 5 

Deanston, Smith's thorough drain- 
age experiment at, 97 

Demesne land, 9 

Denmark, land laws of, 143 

Devon cattle, Scott's anachronism 
about, 53 

Devonshire, absence of village 
communities in, 3 

Dishley, stock-breeding at, 51 

Distress between 1812andl845, 88 ; 
agricultural, connection of cur- 
rency questions with, 116 ; self- 
help the best remedy for, 211 

Doles, balloting for, 6 

Domesday, New, 155 

Drage, a kind of barley, 13 

Drainage, advocacy of, by Blith, 
33 ; works carried out in the fen 
district in the seventeenth cen- 
tury, 35 ; a doggerel poem de- 
nouncing, 35 ; Siiliolk and Essex 
systems of, 43 ; provided for 
clay farms, 95 

Drills, corn, 101 



EDGEWORTH (MISS), popularity 
of her ' Essay on Irish Bulls,' 79 

Education, agricultural, in France, 
149, 190, 196 ; in other countries, 
191; need of , for England, 189 

Edward III. establishes the wool- 
len manufacture, 22 

Elkington (James), drainage sys- 
tem" of, 96 

Emigration, 234, 241 



Enclosures, beginning of, 18; their 
effect on the peasantry, 20 ; 
high-handed, 26 ; an instance 
from Kennet's ' Parochial An- 
tiquities,' 27 ; extent of, towards 
the close of the reign of George 
III., 38 ; profits derivable from, 
68 ; recommendations of the 
Board of Agriculture respecting, 
70 ; empowered by Acts of Par- 
liament, 71 ; not followed by de- 
population, 72 ; hardships caused 
to the labouring population by, 
73 ; the gain to the nation, 74 ; 
increase of, in 1810-14, 89 ; 
table of, since 1700, 257 

Erskine a student at Holkham, 82 

Essex, bad roads of, 60 



FAMINE, a frequent result of 
mediaeval agriculture, 11 

Farm work in feudal times, 10 

Farmers, ignorance of, 59 ; force 
of traditional customs among, 
61 ; effects of manufactm'ing 
development on their condition, 
67; small freeholding or yeomen, 
suppressed, 83 ; distress among, 
after the war, 90; im^Droved class 
of , 1 1 1 ; popular views of distress 
among, 115 ; effect of the de- 
pression on, 124, 159 ; foreign, 
present condition of, 129 ; im- 
portance of agricultural educa- 
tion to, 194 ; profession of, 214 ; 
their want of security for im- 
provements, 216 

Farming, characteristics of, in 
feudal times, 1 1 ; increased in- 
terest in, in the sixteenth cen- 
tury, 29 ; high, a consequence of 
free trade, 106; future of, 211 ; 
livestock and dairy, 213, 220 

— common-field system of, 3 ; 
extent to which it prevailed to- 
wards the end of the eighteenth 
century, 56 ; necessity of its 
abolition, 65 

Fens, drainage of the, in the 
seventeenth century, 34 ; oppo- 
sition of the f enmen, 35 ; shock- 



286 



ENGLISH FARMING 



FEU 

ing condition of the east and 
west fens in the succeeding 
century, 36 

Feudalism, agriculture under, 9 ; 
emancipation of the land from, 
37 

Fitzherbert.writings of, 29; quoted, 
5, 18, 19, 21,45, 110 

Flat, an ancient division of land, 4 

Flemish wool-workers settled in 
England, 22 

Fleta on trinity fields, 3 ; his esti- 
mate of wheat cultivation, 11 

Fluke, disease in sheep, Fitzher- 
bert's theory of, 29 ; extraor- 
dinary nostrum for, 59 

Foreign competition, 121, 211 ; 
felt in other countries than 
England, 161 ; extent of, 211 

Fortescue's reason for the English 
victories over the French, 15 

Fothers, 5 

Fox (C. J.), his interest in agri- 
cultui-e, 79 

France, agriculture and peasant 
proprietorship in, 132; peasant 
life in, 136 ; land tenure of, 141 ; 
State aid to agriculture in, 149, 
190; illustration of its practical 
working, 196 ; estimates of land 
distribution in, 158 note ; me- 
tatjage in, 228 

Free trade, efEect of, on f arming,106 

Furlong, an ancient division of 
land, 4 



GAME laws, 215 

Gardening, revival of, in the seven- 
teenth century, 31 

Garstons, 3 

GeoloRy, services of, to agriculture, 
100^ 109 

George III., farming tastes of, 79 

Germany, depression of farming 
in, 130 ; agrarian legislation of, 
142 ; agricultural education in, 
191 

Gilbert (Dr.), 109, 114 

Gold, supply of, its relation to agri- 
cultural depression, 119 ; tables 
showing production of, 261 



HUN 

Gores, 5 

Goschen (Rt. Hon. G. J.) quoted, 

160, 205 
Grain crops in the Middle Ages, 13 
Grasses, artificial, culture of, 108 
Gresley (Sir T.), cattle-breeding 

by, 52 
Grey (John, of Dilston) establishes 

farming in Northumberland, 102 
Guano, British, 99 



HALSBURY (LORD), Land Bill 

of, 182, 184, 187 

Hams, 6 

Harrison quoted, 13 note, 26 ; his 
theory of sheep rot, 29 

Hartlib, his remedy for fluke, 59 ; 
his enumeration of manures, 99 
7iote;\As notices of agriculture in 
the seventeenth century, 31 sqq. 

Harvesting in the Middle Ages, 12 

Harvests, bad, as a cause of the 
present depression, 121 

Hawsted Manor in the fourteenth 
century, 11 ; lease covenant re- 
specting manure at, 44 

Hedges, prevalence of, in Devon- 
shire, 3 ; construction of, in the 
eighteenth century, 7 ; Henry 
VII., laws of, against pasture 
farms, 246 

Henslow (Professor) shows the use 
of coprolites for manure, 100 

Heraldry, illustration of contempt 
for farming from, 14 

Herefordshire, roads of, 60 

Highway rates, 202 sqq. ; tables 
of, 275 

Holkham, Mr. Coke's enterprise 
at, 79 ; the sheep-shearings at 
82 

Hooker (Richard) tending sheep 
in a common field, 5 

Hops, introduction of, into Eng- 
land, 31 

Horses, Suffolk, 42 ; State en- 
couragement to breeding of, 195 

Houghton recommends turnip cul- 
tivation, 33 

Hundred Years' War, its effect on 
agriculture, 19 



INDEX 



287 



IMPORTS, agricultural,sincel866, 

table of, 263 
Improvements, compensation for, 

216 
Ings divided into doles, 6 
Ireland, ignorant agricultural 

practices in, 62 



JOHNSTONE (JOHN), his work 
on drainage, 96 



KENNET'S instance of a cession 

of common rights, 27 
King (Gregory), his classification 

of the population in 1688, 158 



LABOURERS, agricultural, wages 
of, in the seventeenth century, 
32 ; in the reign of Henry VI., 
25 ; table of weekly wages of, 
279 ; early attracted to manu- 
facture, 66 ; decline in number 
of, 111 ; effect of the depression 
on, 124, 159 ; past and present 
condition of, 22-1 ; how to secure 
small holdings for, 227 ; lodg- 
ings of, 230 ; allotments for, 
231, 277 ; emigration for, 234 
Lammas Day, land customs of, 5 
Land, property in, see Property ; 
agitation, the, 126 ; nationalisa- 
tion of, 141 ; distribution of, in 
England and Wales, 155; de- 
creased letting value of, 159 ; 
transfer of, by registration, 184 ; 
tables of crops and livestock on, 
since 1866, 264-7 

— laws, reform of the, 181 

— tax, 202 

Landlords, effect of the agricul- 
tural depression on, 123, 159; a 
natural growth, 141 ; number of, 
in England and Wales, 146, 155 ; 
the real gainers by their losses, 
160; need of agricultural educa- 
tion for, 193 

Landowners, small number of, in 
England, 158 

Landshires, 5 



MAS 

Lavergne (M. de), his estimate of 
land division in France, 158 note 

Lawes (Sir John) obtains an 
artificial manure from bone- 
dust, 100 ; his services to agri- 
culture, 114 

Leases, farmers', 58 ; Mr. Coke's, 
at Holkham, 82 ; want of security 
for improvements under, 216; 
under Lord ToUemache, 219 

Leicester (Earl of). See Coke 

Leicester sheep, 51 

Liebig, agricultural chemistry of, 
99 

Lincoln Heath, value of enclosures 
shown on, 70 

Lincolnshire, waste condition of, 
in former times, 44 ; change 
effected by the adoption of 
Townshend's system in, 45 ; 
value of improved farming 
shown in, 103 

Local Government, abuses of, 208 

Local taxation, 201 sqq. ; tables 
of, 275 

Lynches on the Wiltshire and 
Sussex downs, 2 



MACHINES, agricultural, 109 

Manors, lords of, origin of their 
rights, 8 ; division of the land 
of, after the Conquest, 9 ; as 
illustrated by the Domesday 
Book, 15 ; first enclosures by, 
18 ; results of their withdrawal 
from theagrarianpartnership,20 

Manure, bones first used for, 80 ; 
neglect of, in early agriculture, 
98 ; researches of modern che- 
mists on, 99 

Markham (Gervase) quoted, 29, 
25 ; his ' Farewell to Husbandry ' 
quoted, 99 

Marling revived by Lord Towns- 
hend, 45 

Marshall, his theory of lynches, 
1 ; discovers evidences of the 
wild-field-grass system, 2 ; his 
description of the ^\'arwickshire 
ram, 50 ; quoted, 55, 60, 96 

Mascall's theory of sheep rot, 29 



288 



ENGLISH FAEMING 



MAS 

Maslin, bread so called, 13 

Meat, prices of, in 1843-6, and 
1870-3, 108 Twte 

Merton, statute of, authorises en- 
closures, 19 ; re-enacted, 22 

3Ietayage, 228 

Molesworth (Lord) wishes to make 
Tusser's poem a class-book, 30 

' Monday men ' tenants, 16 

Money systems of the principal 
countries, 262 

Monks, practice of agriculture by, 
14 ; drainage of fen district by, 
34 

Moreton's leam, 35 

Moryson, his ' Itinerary ' quoted, 13 



NANCY, decision of the Agricul- 
tural Congress at, 129 

Naseby, late survival of the com- 
mon-field system at, 57 

New Zealand as an agricultural 
labourers' settlement, 234 

Norfolk, Lord Townshend's agri- 
cultural improvements in, 44 ; 
roads of, 60; agricultural im- 
provement of, effected by Mr. 
Coke, 80 

Northumberland, farming in, 102 



ODAMS, manure of, 100 

Oxen, employment of, in farm 

work, 13 
Oxgangs, 5 



PAEKES (JOSIAH), 98 

Pasture, first separation of, from 
arable land, 3 ; tillage forsaken 
for, 22 ; return to, 64 ; legislation 
against farming, 246 

Peasant proprietors, condition of, in 
France, 132 

— proprietorship means extinction 
of Free Trade, 161 ; the agita- 
tion for, 128; not capable of 
flourishing universally in Britain, 
131 ; socially advantageous, 138 ; 
not to be established by legis- 
lation, 139; incompatible with I 



PUN 
the modern social system, 140 ; 
co-exists with landlordism on 
the Continent, 141 ; need of 
State aid to, as shown in France, 
148 

Peasantry, condition and obUga- 
tions of, in feudal times, 9; im- 
proved condition of, after 1350, 
14 ; disastrous consequences of 
sheep-farming to, 23 

Pickering, Vale of, late continu- 
ance of the common-field system 
at, 57 

Pightels, 5 

Plat (Sir Hugh) on the origin of 
' setting corn,' 100 

Plot, his 'Nat. Hist, of Oxford- 
shire ' quoted, 10, 33, 45 

Ploughing in medifeval times, 10 ; 
in Suffolk, 43 ; examples of 
waste of power in, 61 ; by the 
tail, 62 

Pole, local variations in length of 
the, 4 

Poor law of 1733, 39; evils of the, 
during the war period, 75, 224 

— rates, 202 sqq. ; tables of, 275 

Population, table of, in 1688, 259 

Prices, fall of, in 1819-22, 93 

Primogeniture, law of, 181 

Property in land, 125; duty of 
the State to uphold, 147 ; how 
to cheapen and facilitate the 
transfer of, 182 

Protection, historical associations 
of, 87, 163 ; encouraged gam- 
bling, 105 ; wretched system of 
farming under, 112; the creed 
of a peasant proprietary, 161 ; 
working of, abroad, 163 ; impos- 
sibility of reviving, in England, 
166; local taxation of , persisting 
with Free Trade prices, 203 ; no 
remedy for the present depres- 
sion, 211 

Provisions, prices of, 281 

Prussia, agrarian legislation of, 
142 ; land registration S3'stem of, 
186 ; agricultural education in, 
191 

Punches, Suffolk horses so called, 
42 



INDEX 



289 



PUS 
Pusey (Mr.), his Committee on 

Agricultural Customs, 103, 107 ; 

recognises need for tenant 

right, 112 
Pykes, 5 



QUAETLEY (Mr.), Devon cattle- 
breeder, 53 



RAFFEISEN'S land-bank system, 
227 

Puailway rates, revision of, in the 
interests of farmers, 197 

Rainfall, increased, in the latter 
half of the eighteenth century, 40 

Raps, 5 

Rates, 201 i<qq. ; tables of, 275 

Reed's drainage pipes, 98 

Rigs, 5 

Roads, bad, an obstacle to agri- 
cultural progress, 60 

Rogers (Prof. Thorold), his ' Hist. 
of Agriculture and Prices ' 
quoted, 11 

Roots, culture of, 108 

Roses, wars of the, their effect on 
agriculture, 21 

Rothwell, common- field cultiva- 
tion at, in 1797, 57 

Rous (John) denounces sheep- 
farming, 24 

Rupee, Indian, reduced value of, 
120 

Russia, agricultural education in, 
192 note 

Rye, cultivation of, in former 
times, 13 

Ryeland sheep, 48 



SALISBURY Plain, traces of ex- 
tinct villages in, 1 

Scott (Sir W.), his anachronism 
about Devon cattle, 53 ; ' Waver- 
ley ' quoted, 51 

Scragg's machine for making 
drainage pipes, 98 

Seebohm, his theory of IjTiches, 2 ; 
his inquiries into manorial 
rights, 8 



Serfs, 10 

Shakespeare resists an invasion of 
his rights of common, 28 

Sheep, diseases of, early theories 
as to, 29 ; rot in 1735, 39 ; cot- 
ting of, 48 ; diseases in, extra- 
ordinary nostrum for, 59 

Sheep-farming for wool, see Wool ; 
for meat, Bakewell's experiments 
in, 49 

Shot, an ancient division of land, 4 

Silver, depreciation of, 120 ; tables 
showing production of, 261 

Skj^e, crofters of, in 1750, 7 

Smith of Deanston, his system of 
thorough drainage, 97 

Smithfield, sizes of cattle and 
sheep sold at, in 1710andl795, 53 

Sologne district, reclamation of, 
153 

Southdown sheep improved on 
Bakewell's principles, 52 

Sprengel, agricultural chemistry 
of, 99 

Stewkley, common-field cultivation 
at, in the end of the last cen- 
tury, 57 

Stillingfieet, his knowledge of 
grasses, 81 

Stogoursey, late sur\'ival of the 
dual system of common-field 
husbandry at, 4, 7 

Stratford-on-Avon, an enclosure 
prohibited at, 28 

Suffolk, fanning in, prior to Lord 
Townshend's agricultural re- 
form, 42 



TAXATION, local, 201 ; tables of, 

275 
Taylor (Samuel), on the use of 

corn drills, 101 
Tenant-right, connection of, with 

improved farming, 112 
Tenants' improvements question, 

216 
Tillage, reaction from pasture to, 

64 ; abandoned for sheep-farm- 
ing, 22 
Tithe question, the, 166; to be 

solved by redemption, 173 
U 



290 



ENGLISH FAEMING 



TOL 

ToUemache leases, 219 

Tomkins's improvement of Here- 
ford cattle, 53 

Torrens Act, 184 

Townshend (Lord), his system of 
husbandry, 42 ; receives the 
nickname of Turnip Townshend, 
47 ; profitable results of his 
system, 47 

Township described, 3 

TuU (Jethro) on the field cultiva- 
tion of turnips and clover, 4G ; 
quoted, G2 

Tun, the Anglo-Saxon, 3 

Turnips, first successful cultivation 
of, in England, 32 ; field cultiva- 
tion of, by Townshend,46 ; ignor- 
ance and prejudice respecting, 62 

Turnpike roads, 60 

Tusser, his agricultural knowledge, 
30 ; quoted, 6, 10, 31, 55, 65 



UNITED STATES, agricultural 
competition of, with England, 
121 ; Central Department of 
Agriculture in, 196 note 



VETERINAEY science in France, 

152 
Village communities, sites of the 

oldest, 1 ; farming system of, 3 ; 

imposition of feudal manors on, 8 
Villein, status and duties of the, 9 
Villeins' land, 9 
Vines, ancient culture of, 13 



WAGES, rates of ,12, 25, 32, 40, 279 
Walpole (Sir R.), his interest in 

agriculture, 78 
Webb (Jonas), his Babraham flock 

of South-Downs, 52 
Webster of Canley, cattle breeding 

by, 52 



YOU 

Welcombe, failure of an attempted 
enclosure at, 28 

Westminster, statute of, authorises 
enclosm^es, 19 

Weston (Sir Richard) succeeds in 
cultivating tm-nips and clover, 
32 

Wheat, unsteady prices of, in the 
Middle Ages, 12 ; prices of, in 
the seventeenth century, 32 ; 
between 1713 and 1764, 39; 
foreign duties laid on, 41 ; cul- 
tivation of, established by Mr. 
Coke in Norfolk, 80 ; high prices 
of, in the early years of the 
present century, 88 ; importa- 
tion of, from America, 121 ; not 
grown profitably under Protec- 
tion, 163 ; minimum Protection 
for, 165 ; tables of prices of, in 
England, 243 ; in France, Bel- 
gium, and Prussia, 274 

Wight, Isle of, pasture-farming 
forbidden in, 246 

Wild-field-grass system of hus- 
bandry, 2 

Wool, culture of, 21 ; its disastrous 
efiiects on the lower peasantry , 
23 ; exportation of, forbidden, 
41; value of English, 48 

Worlidge recommends turnip cul- 
tivation, 33 

Wiirttemberg, agricultural educa- 
tion in, 192 



YARDLANDS explained, 57 
Young (Arthur), outline of his 
career, 62 ; denounces the open- 
field system, 65 ; his argument 
against small farmers, 74 ; his 
agricultural estimates for 1771, 
269 ; his calculations of wages 
and prices for 1771, 281 ; quoted, 
32, 55, 58, 59, 60, 70, 72, 73, 79, 
95 114 139 169, 215, 228, 232 



Spottiswoode & Co. Printers, New-street Square, London. 



THE BADMINTON LIBEAEY. 

EDITED BY 

THE DUKE OF BEAUFORT, K.G. and A. E. T. WATSON. 



HUNTING. By the Duke of Beaufoet, K.G. and Mowbeay 

Morris. With Contributions by the Earl of Suffolk and Berk- 
shire, Rev. E. W. L. Davies, Digby Collins, and Alfred E. T. 
Watson. With Coloured Frontispiece and 53 Illustrations on Wood 
by J. Sturgess, J. Charlton, and Agnes M. Biddulph. Fourth 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

FISHING. By H. Cholmondelet-Pennell. With Contri- 
butions by the Makquis of Exeter, Henry R. Francis, M.A. Major 
John P. Traherne, G. Christopher Daties, R. B. Marston, &e. 

Vol. I. Salmon, Trout, and Grayling. With Frontispiece, and 150 Illustrations of 
Tackle, &c. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. lOs. Sd. 

Vol. II. Pike and other Coarse Fish. With Frontispiece and 58 Illustrations of 
Tackle, &c. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 10*. Gd. 

RACING AND STEEPLE -CHASING. Racing : By the 

Earl of Suffolk and Berkshire and W. G. Craven. With a 
Contribution by the Hon. F. Lawley. Steeple-chasing : By 
Arthur Coventry and Alfred E. T. Watson. With Coloured 
Frontispiece and 56 Illustrations by J. Sturgess. Second Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

SHOOTING. By Lord Walsingham and Sir Ralph Payne- 

Gallwey, Bart. With Contributions by Lord Lovat, Lord Charles 
Lennox Kerr, the Hon. G. Lascelles, and A. J. Stuart- Wortley . 
With 21 Full-page Illustrations and 149 Woodcuts in the Text by 
A. J. Stuart- Wortley, Harper Pennington, C. Whymper, J. G. 
MiLLAis, G. E. Lodge, and J. H. Oswald Brown. 

Vol. I. Field and Covert. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 10*. Gd. 

Vol. II. Moor and Marsh. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 10o>. 6d. 

CYCLING. By Viscount Buky, K.C.M.G. and G. Lacy 

HiLLiER. With 19 Plates and 61 Woodcuts in the Text by Viscount 
Bury and Joseph Pennell. Crown 8vo. 10s. Gd. 

ATHLETICS AND FOOTBALL. By Montague Shearman. 

With an Introduction by Sir Richard Webster, Q.C. M.P. and 
a Contribution on Paper Chasing by Waltkr Rye. With 6 Full- 
page Illustrations and 45 Woodcuts in the Text from Drawings by 
Stanley Berkeley, and from Instantaneous Photographs by 
G. Mitchell. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d. 





IN PREPARATION. 


RIDING. 




CRICKET. 


DRIVING. 




TENNIS, &c. 


FENCING. 




GOLF, &c. 


BOATING. 




YACHTING. 



London: LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 



BOOKS FOE THE COUNTEY. 



A BOOK on ANGLING ; or, Treatise on tlie Art of Pishing 

in every branch, including full Illustrated Lists of Salmon Flies 
By Francis Francis. Post 8ro. Portraits and Plates 15s. 

The FLT-FISHER'S ETYMOLOGY. By Alfred 
KoNALDS. With 20 Coloured Plates. 8vo. 14s. 

The SEA-FISHERMAN ; comprising the Chief Methods 

of Hook and Line Fishing in the British and other Seas, and 
Remarks on Nets, Boats, and Boating. By J. C. Wilcocks. Pro- 
fixsely Illustrated with Woodcuts of Leads, Baited Hooks, &e. 
New and Cheaper Edition (the Fourth). Crown 8vo. 6s. 

The SCIENCE of AGRICULTURE. By Frederick James 
Lloyd, Lecturer on Agriculture, King's College, London. Svo. 12s. 

ARTIFICIAL ^MANURES ; their Chemical Selection and 

Scientific Application to Agriculture. By Georges Ville. Trans- 
lated and edited by W. Crookes, F.R.S. With 31 Plates. 
Svo. 21s. 

HOW to MAKE the LAND PAY; or, Profitable Indus- 
tries connected with the Land. By H. P. Dunsteb, M.A. Crown 
Svo. 5s. 

A TREATISE on the DISEASES of the OX; being a 

Manual of Bovine Pathology specially adapted for the use of 
Veterinary Practitioners and Students. By J. H. Steel M.R.C.V.S 
With 2 Plates and 117 Woodcuts. Svo, 155. 

A TREATISE on the DISEASES of the DOG; being a 

Manual of Canine Pathology. Especially adapted for the Use of 
Veterinary Practitioners and Students. By John Henry Steel, 
M.R.C.V.S. With 88 Illustrations. Svo. 10s. 6d. 

HORSES and STABLES. By Major-General Sir F. 

FiTZWYGBAM, Bart. With 19 pages of Illustrations. Svo. 5s. 

The HORSE. By William Youatt. Revised and Enlarged 

by W. Watson, M.R.C.V.S. 8vo. Woodcuts. 7s. 6d. 

The DOG. By William Youatt. Revised and Enlarged. 

Svo. Woodcuts. 6s. 

The DOG in HEALTH and DISEASE. By ' Stonehenge.' 
With 84 Wood Engravings. Svo. 7s. 6d. 

The GREYHOUND. By ' Stonehenge.' With 25 Portraits 

of Greyhounds, &c. Square crown Svo. 15s. 

London: LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 



CrUIrTS 18SS. 

GENERAL LISTS OF WORKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

Messes. LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO. 

LONDON AND NEW YOEK. 

HISTORY, POLITICS, HISTORICAL MEMOIRS, &C. 

Abbey's The English Church and its Bishops, 1700-1800. 2 vols. 8to. 2is. 

Abbey and Overton's English Church in the Eighteenth Century. Cr. Svo. 7s, (5i. 

Arnold's Lectures on Modem History. Svo. Is. 6d. 

Bagwell's Ireland under the Tudors. Vols. 1 and 2. 2 vols. Svo. 32». 

Ball's The Reformed Church of Ireland, 1537-18S6. Svo. 7s. 6<i. 

Boultbee's History of the Church of England, Pre-Roformation Period. Svo, 18j. 

Buckle's HLstory of Civilisation. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 24.?. 

Canning (George) Some Official Correspondence of. 2 vols. Svo. 28^. 

Cox's (Sir G. W.) General History of Greece. Crown 8vo. Maps, 7.«. 6d, 

Creighton's Papacy during the Reformation. Svo. Vols. 1 iSi 2, 32i. Vols. 3 &4, 24*. 

De Tocqueville's Democracy in America. 2 vols, cvnwn 8vo. J 6.?. 

Doyle's English in America : Virginia, Maryland, and the Carolinas, Svo. ISi. 

— — — The Puritan Colonies, 2 vols. Svo. 36*. 

Epochs of Ancient History. Edited by the Rev. Sir G. W. Cox, Bart, and C. 
Sankey, M.A. With Maps, Fcp. Svo. price 2i. 6d!. each. 



Boesly's Gracchi, Marlus, and Sulla. 
Capes's Age of the Antoninea. 

— Early Roman Empire, 
Cox's Athenian Empire. 

— Greeks and Persians. 
Cnrteis's Rise of the Macedonian 

Empire. 



Ihne's Rome to its Capture by the 

Gauls. 
Merivale's Roman Triumvirates. 
Sankey's Spartan and Theban fc>upre- 

macies. 
Smith's Rome and Carthage, the 

Punic Wars. 



Epochs of Modern History, Edited by C, Colbeck, M.A, With Maps. Fcp. Svo, 
2a. 6d. each. 



Church's Beginning of the Middle 

Ages. 
Cox's Crusades. 
Creighton's Age of Elizabeth, 
Gairdner's Houses of Lancaster 

and York. 
Gardiner's Puritan Revohition. 

— Thirty Years' War. 

— (Mrs.)FrenchRevoIution, 

1789-1795. 
Hale's Pall of the Stuarts, 
Johnson's Normans in Europe, 



Longman's Frederick the Great and 
the Seven Years' War. 

Luiilow's War of American Inde- 
pendence. 

M'Carthy'fl Epoch of Reform, 1830- 
1850. 

Moberly's The Early Tudors, 

Morris's Age of Queen Anne. 
— The Early Hanoverians, 

Seebohm's Protestant Revolution, 

SLubbs's The Early Plantagenets, 

Warburton's Edward III. 



Epochs of Church History, Edited by the Rev. MandeU Creighton, M.A. 
Fcp. Svo. price 2i. 6''. each. 



Brodriok's A History of the Uni- 
versity of Oxford. 

Carr's 1 he Church and the Roman 
Empire. 

Hunt's England and the Papacy, 

Mnllinger's The University of 
Cambridge. 

Overton's The Evangelical Revival 
in the Eighteenth Century, 

Perry's The Reformation in 
England, 

*,* Other Vohimes in prfparaiion. 



Pluramer's The Church of the Early 

Fathers, 
Stephens' Hildebrand and his 

Times. 
Tozer'3 The Church and the Eastern 

Empire, 
Tucker's The English Church In 

other Lands. 
Wakeraan's The Church and the 

Puritaus, 



LONGMANS, GREEJT, & CO., London and Netv York, 



General Lists of Works. 



Preeman's Historical Geography of Europe. 2 vols. 8vo. 31*. ed, 
Proudo's English in Ireland in the 18th Century. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 18*. 

— History of England. Popular Edition. 12 vols, crown 8 vo. 3*. 6(f. each. 

Gardiner's History of Enfrland from tlie Accession cf James I. to the Outbreak 

of the Civil War. 10 vols, crown Svo. 60*. 

— History of the Great Civil War, 1642-1640 (3 vols.) Vol. 1, 1642-1644, 

8vo. 21*. 

Greville'g Journal of the Reigns of King George rV., King William TV., and 

Queen "Victoria. Cabinet Edition. 8 vols, crown Svo. 6*. each. 
Historic Towns. Edited by E. A. Freeman, D.C.L. and the Eev. William Hunt, 
M.A. With Maps and Plans. Crown Svo. 3*. Gd. each. 

London. By W. E. Loftie. 
Exeter. By E. A. Freeman. 
Cinque Ports. By Montagu 
Burrows. 



Bristol. By the Rev. W. Hunt. 
Oxford. Ey the Rev. C. W. Boase. 
Colchester. By the Eev. E. 0. Cutts. 



Lecky'8 History of England in the Eighteenth Century. Vols. 1 & 2, 1700-1760, 
Svo. 35*. Vols. 3 & 4, 1760-17S4, 8vo. 36*. Vols. 5 & 6, 1784-1793, 36i. 

— History of European Morals. 2 vols, crown Svo. 16*. 

— — — Rationalism in Europe. 2 vols, crown Svo. 16*. 
Longman's Life afid Times of Edward III. 2 vols, Svo. 28*. 
Macaulay'B Complete Works. Library Edition. 8 vols. Svo. £5. 5*. 

— — — Cabinet Edition. 16 vols, crown Svo. £4. 18*. 

— History of England : — 

Student's Edition. 2 vols. cr. 8vo. 12*. I Cabinet Edition. 8 vols, post Svo. 48«. 

People's Edition. 4 vols. cr. Svo, 16*. | Library Edition. 5 vols. Svo. £4. 
Macanlay's Critical and Historical Essays, with Lays of Ancient Rome In Oae 

Volume : — 

Authorised Edition. Cr. Svo. 2*. 6c?. | Popular Edition. Cr. Svo. 2*. 6d, 
or 3*. 6d. gilt edges. | 

Macaulay's Critical and Historical Essays : — 

Student's Edition, 1 vol. cr. Svo. 6*. I Cabinet Edition, 4 vols, post 8vo. 24j, 

People's Edition. 2 vols. cr. 8vo. 8*. 1 Library Edition. 3 vols. Svo. 36*. 
Macaulay's Speeches corrected by Himself. Cro^^Ti Svo. 3*. 6d. 
Malmesbury's (Earl of) Memoirs of an Ex-Minister. Crown Svo. 7*. Gd. 
May's Constitutional History of England, 1760-1870. 3 vols, crown Svo. 18*. 

— Democracy in Europe. 2 vols. Svo. 32*. 
Merivale's F.t.11 of the Roman Republic 12mo. 7*. 6i. 

— General History of Rome, B.C. 753-a.d. 476. 
^ History of the Romans under the Empire. 

Nelson's (Lord) Letters and Despatches. Edited by J. 
Pears' The Fall of Constantinople. Svo. 16*. 
Richey's Short History of the Irish People. Svo. 14*. 
Saintsbury's Manchester : a Short History. Crown Svo. 3*. Cd. 
Seebohm's Oxford Refonners— Colet, Erasmus, & More. Svo. 14l. 
Short's History of the Church of England, Crown Svo. 7*. 6d, 
Smith's Carthage and the Carthaginians, Crown Svo. 10*. Gd, 
Taylor's Manual of the History of India. Crown 8vo. 7*. Sd. 
Todd's Parliamentary Government in England (2 vols.) Vol. 1, Svo. 21*. 
Tuttle's History of Prussia under Frederick the Great, 1740-1756. 2 vols. 
crown Svo. 18*. 



Crown Svo. 7*. 6d. 
8 vols, post Svo. 48*. 
K. Laushton. Svo. 16i. 



LONG-'J.A.NS, GEEEX, & CO., London and New York. 



General Lists of Works. 



Vitzthum's St. Petersburg and London, 1852-1864. 2 TOls. 8vo. 30*. 

WaJpoIe'8 History of England, from 1815. 5 vols. 8vo. Vols. 1 & 2, 1816-1832, 86*. 

Vol. 3, 1S32-1811, ISs. Vols. 4 & 6, 1841-1858, 36*. 
Wylie's History of Encland under Henry IV. VoL 1, crown 3vo. 10*. M, 

BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS 

Armstrong's ("B. J.) Life and Letters. Edited by G, P. A.rmstrong. Pep. 8vo. 7t.6d. 
i^evMm'B Life and Letters, by Spedding. 7 vols. 8vo. £4. ti. 
Ba^ehofs Biographical Studies. 1 vol. 8vo. 12*. 

Carlyle'a Life, bv J. A. Froude. Vols. 1 & 2, 1795-1835, 8vo. 32*. Vols. 3 & «, 
183-t-lSSl, a so. S£i. 
— (Mrs.) Letter.^ and Memorials. 3 vols. 8vo. 36*. 
Doyle (Sir F. H.) Reminiscences and Opinions. 8vo. IG*. 

English Worthies. Edited by Andrew Lang. Grown 8vo. each 1*. sev/ed ; 
la. 6rf. cloth. 

Charles Darwin. By Grant Allen. Steele. By Austin Eobson. 

Sliaftesbnrv (Tlie First Earl). By Ben Jonson. Bv .T. A. Symonds. 

H. D. Traill. George Canning". By Frank H. Hill. 

Admiral Blaise. By David Hannay. Claverhouse. By Mowbray Morris. 

Marlborough. By Geo. Saintsbury. | 
Fox (Charles .James) The Early History of. By Sir G. 0. Trevelyan, Bart. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 
Proude's Caesar : a Sketch. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

HauQilton's (Sir W. R.) Life, by Graves. Vols. 1 and 2, 8vo. 15*. each. 
Havelock's Life, by Marshman. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6(1. 
Jenkin's (Fleeming) Papers, Litei-ary, Scientific, &c. With Memoir by R. L. 

Stevenson. 2 vols. 8vo. 32s. 
Laughton's Studies in Naval History. 8vo. lOs, 6d. 
Macaulay's (Lord) Life and Letters. By his Nephew, Sir G. 0. Trevelyan, Bart. 

Popular Edition, 1 vol. crown 8vo. G*. Cabinet Edition, 2 vols, post 

8vo. 12*. Libraiy Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. 36*. 
Mendelssohn's Letters. Translated by Lady Wallace. 2 vols, cr. 8vo. 5*. each, 
MUller's (Max) Biographical Essays. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6/i. 
Newman's Apologia pro Vita SuS. Crown 8vo, 6*. 
Pasteur (Louis) His Life and Labours. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. 
Shakespeare's Life (Outlines of), by HalUwell-PhilUpps. 2 vols, royal 8vo. 10*. 6d, 
Southey's Con'espondence with Caroline Bowles. 8vo. 14*. 
Stephen's Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d, 
Tnylor's (Sir Henry) Correspondence. 8vo. 16*. 
Wellington's Life, by Gleig. Crown 8vo. 6*. 

MENTAL AND POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY, FINANCE, &C. 

Adam's Public Debts ; an Essay on the Science of Finance. 8to. 12*. 6d. 
Ames's View of the Science of Jurisprudence. 8vo. 18*. 

— Primer of the English Constitution. Crown 8vo. 6*. 
Bacon's Essays, with Annotations by Whately. 8vo. 10*. 6d, 

— Works, edited by Spedding. 7 vols. 8vo. 78*. 6d. 
Bagehot's Economic Studies, edited by Hutton. 8vo. 10*. ed. 

— The Postulates of English Political Economy. Crown 8vo. 8«. 6d, 



LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New Yor:^. 



General Lists of Works. 



Bain's Logic, Deductive and Indv^ctive. Crown 8vo. 10s. Cd. 

Part I. Deduction, is, | Part II. Induction, dt, 64. 

— Mental and Moral Science. Crown 8to. 10^. Gd. 

— The Senses and the Intellect. 8vo. 15*, 

— The Emotions and the Will, 8vo. 16i. 
Crozier's Civilisation and Progress. 8to. 5^ 

Crump's Short Enquiry into the Formation of English Political Opinion. Svo. 7i.6i. 
Dowell's A History oi Taxation and Taxes in England. Svo. Vols. 1 & 2, 21». 

Vols. 3 & 4, 2U. 
Green's (Thomas Hill) Works. (3 vols.) Vols. 1 & 2, Philosophical Works. Svo. 

16j. each. 
Hume's Essays, edited by Green & Grose. 2 vols. Svo. 29s. 

— Treatise of Human Nature, edited by Green & Grose. 2 vols. Svo. 28j, 
Kirkup's An Enquiry into Socialism. Grown Svo. os. 

Ladd's Elements of Physiological Psychology. Svo. 21». 

Lang's Custom and Myth : Studies of Early Usage and Belief. Crown Svo. Is. 6i, 

— Myth, Ritual, and Religion. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s. 
Leslie's Essays in Political and Moral Philosophy. Svo. lOj. 6d, / 
Lewes's History of Philosophy. 2 vols. Svo. 32*. 

Lubbock's Origin of CivUisation. Svo. 18 j. 

Macleod'B The Elements of Economics. (2 vols.) Vol. 1, cr. Svo. 7s. Gd. Vol. 2, 
Part I. cr. Svo. 7s. 6d. 

— The Elements of Banking. Crown Svo. 5s. 

— The Theory and Practice of Banking. Vol. 1, Svo. 12j. Vol. 2, 14». 
Max Mliller's The Science of Thought. Svo. 21s. 

Mill's (James) Analysis of the Phenomena of the Human Mind. 2 vols. Svo. S3i. 
Mill (John Stuart) on Representative Government. Crown Svo. 2^. 

— — on Liberty. Crown Svo. Is. id, 

— — Examination of Hamilton's PhUosophy. Svo. 16j, 
— . — Logic. Crown Svo. ^s. 

— — Principles of Political Economy. 2 vols, Svo. 30s, People's 

Edition, 1 vol. crown Svo. 6s, 

— — Utilitarianism. Svo. 5^. 

— — Three Essays on Religion, &c. Svo. 5*. 
Mulhall's History of Prices since 1850. Crown Svo. 6s. 
Sandars's Institutes of Justinian, with EngUsh Notes. Svo. 18l. 
Seebohm's English Village Community. Svo. 16j. 

Sully's Outlines of Psychology. Svo, 12*, Gd. 

— Teacher's Handbook of Psychology. Crown Svo. 6*, Gd, 
Swinburne's Picture Logic, Post Svo, bs. 

Thompson's A System of Psvchology. 2 vols, Svo, 36^ 

— The Problem of Evil. Svo. lOj. 6(f. 

— The Religious Sontimeiits of the Human Mind, Svo, 7s. Gd. 
Thomson's Outline of Necessary Laws of Thought. Cro^n 8to. 6s, 
Twiss's Law of Nations in Time ol: War, Svo, 21jr. 

— — in Time of Peace, Svo. 15*. 
Webb's The Veil of 1b\s. Svo. 10*. 6n'. 
^?lu^tely'8 Elements of Logic. Crown Svo. 4s. Gd. 

— — — Rhetoric. Crown Svo. 4s, Gd. 
Wylle's Labour, Leisure, and Luxury. Crown Svo. 6*. 

Zeller's History of Eclecticism in Greek Philosophy. Crown Svo. lOi. 64. 
— Plato and the Older Academy. Crown Svo. 18*. 



LONGMANS, GBEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



Zeller'a Pre-Socratic Schoolg. 2 vols, crown 8to. 30^. 

— Socrates and the Socratic Schools. Crown 8vo. lOs. 6d, 

— Stoics, Epicureans, ajjd Sceptics. Crown 8vo. 154. 

— Outlines of the History of Greek Philosophy. Crown 870. lOt. 5d. 

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. 
A. K. H. B., The Essays and Contributions of. Crown 8vo. 

Autumn Holidays of a Coantry Parson. Zs. 6(J. 

Changed Aspects of Unchanged Truths. Zs. 6d. 

Common-Place Philosopher in Town and Country, it, 6i. 

Critical E.;saya of a Country Parson. 3s. 6d, 

Counsel and Comfort spoken from a City Pulpit. Zs. Gd, 

Graver Thoughts of a Countiy Parson. Three Series. 3;. 6d. each. 

Landscapes, Churches, and Moralities. Zs. 6d. 

Leisure Hours in Town. Zs. dd. Lessons of iliddle Age. 34. 6i. 

Our Homely Comedy ; and Tragedy. 3*. 6d. 

Our Little Life, Essays Consolatory and Domestic. Two Series, 3s. 6d, 

Present-day Thoughts. 3*. 6d. leach. 

Recreations of a Country Parson. Three Series. Zs. 6d, each. 

Seaside Musings on Sundays and Week-Days. Zs. Gd, 

Sunday Afternoons in the Parish Church of a University City. 3*. Gd. 
Armstrong's (Ed. J.) Essays and Sketches. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. 
Arnold's (Dr. Thomas) Miscellaneous Works. 8vo. 7s. Qd, 
Bagehot'a Literary Studies, edited by Hutton. 2 vols. 8vo. 28». 
Beaconsfield (Lord), The Wit and Wisdom of. Crown 8vo. Is. boards ; Is. Od. ct. 
Fai-rar'a Language and Languages. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
Froude's Short Studies on (ireat Subjects. 4 vols, crown 8vo. 2is. 
Huth's The Marriage of Near Kin. Royal 8vo. 21s, 
Lang's Letters to Dead Authors. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. 6d, 

— Books and Bookmen. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

Macaulay's Miscellaneous Writings. 2 vols. 8vo. 21^. 1 vol. crown Svo. is. Gd. 

— Miscellaneous Writings and Speeches. Crown Svo. 6.r. 

— Miscellaneous Writings, Speeches, Lays of Ancient Rome, &c. 

Cabinet Edition, i vols, crown 8vo. 24*. 

— Writings, Selections from. Crown Svo. 6s, 

Max Miiller's Lectures on the Science of Language. 2 vols, crown Svo. 16j. 

— — Lectures on India. Svo. 12i. fi.f. 

— — Biographiesof Words and the Home of the Aryas. Crown 8vo.7«.Gi. 
Oliver's Astronomy for Amateiurs. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. 

Proctor's Chance and Luck. Crown Svo. 5s. 

Smith (Sydney) The Wit and Wisdom of. Crown Svo. Is. boards ; Is. 6d. cloth, 

ASTRONOMY. 

Herschel'B Outlines of Astronomy. Square crown Svo. 124. 
Proctor's Larger Star Atlas. Folio, 15j. or Maps ouly, 12i. 6d. 

— New Star Atlas. Crown Svo. 5s. 

— Light Seience for Leisure Hours. 3 Series, Crown Svo. 6s. each. 

— The Moon. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

— Other Worlds than Ours. Crown Svo. 5s, 

— Studies of Venus-Transits. Svo. 5s, 

— Orbs Around Us. Crown Svo. 5s. 

— Universe of Stars. Svo. IOj. 61?. 

— Old and New Astronomy. 12 Parts. 2s, 6d. each. (In course of 

publication.) 
Webb's Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes. Crown Svo. 9s, 



LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



General Lists of Works. 



THE 'KNOWLEDGE' LIBRARY. 

Edited by Kichard A. Pkoctor. 



How to Play Whist. Crown 8vo. 5a. 
Home Whist. 16mo. Is. 
The Poetry of Astronomy. Cr. Svo. 6j. 
Nature Studies. Crown Svo. 6s. 
Leisure Beadings. Crown Svo. 6s. 
The Stars in their Seasons. Imp. Svo. 5s. 
Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. 
Crown Svo. 6^ 



Pleasant Ways in Science. Or. Svo. St. 
Star Primer. Crown 4to. 2*. 6d. 
The Seasons Pictured. Demy 4to. 6.i. 
Strength and Happiness. Cr. Svo. 6.». 
Rou^hWeys made Smooth. Cr.Svo.i5*. 
The Expanse of Heaven. Cr. Svo. 6j. 
OurPlac3 r.mong Infinities. Cr. 8vo.5j. 
The Great Pyramid. Cr. Svo. 6i. 



CLASSICAL LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE. 

.ffischylus. The Eumenidea of. Text, with Metrical English Translation, by 

J. F. Davies. Svo. 7s. 
Aristophanes' The Achamians, translated by R. T. Tyrrell. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d. 
Aristotle's The Ethics, Text and Kotes, by Sir Ales. Grant, Eart. 2 vols. Svo. Z2s. 

The Kicomachean Ethics, translated by Williams, crown Svo. Is. 6d. 

— The Politics, Books I. III. IV. (VII.) with Translation, &c by 

BoUaud and Lang. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d, 
Becker's CharicUs and Gallus, by Metcalfe. Post Svo. ".s. 6a. each. 
Cicero's Correspondence, Text and Notes, by K. Y. Tyrrell. Vols. 1 & 2, Svo. 

12s. each. 
Mahaffy's Classical Greek Literature. Crown Svo. VoL 1, The Poets, 7s. 6d, 

Vol. 2, The Prose Writers, 7^. 6ci. 
Plato's Parmenides, vath Notes, itu. by J. 3Iat;uire. Svo. 7s. 6A 
Virgil's Works, Latin Text, with Commentary, Iiy Keniiecly. Crown Svo. lOs. 6d. 
— .aineid, translated into English Verse, by Coningt,on. Crown Svo. 9?. 
_ _ — — — — . by W. J. ThornhiU. Cr. Svo. 7s.ed. 

Poems, — — — Prose, by Coniugton. Crov.Ti Svo. St. 

Witt's Myths of Hellas, translated by F, M. Tounghusband. Crown Svo. 3*. 6d, 

— The Trojan War, — — Fcp. Svo. 2». 

— The Wai!derings of Ulysses, — Crown Svo. 3*. 6d, 

NATURAL HISTORY, BOTANY, Sc GARDENING. 

Dixon's Rural Bird Life. Crown Svo. Illustrations, 5s, 
Hartv/ig's Aerial World, Svo. lOj. 6d, 

— Polar World, Svo. 10.». 6d. 

— Sea and its Living Wonderi. Svo. 10s. M, 

— Subterranean World, Svo. IOj. 6d. 

— Tropical World, Svo. lOi. 6rf. 
Lindley's Treasury of Botany. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. 12/. 
Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening. Svo. 21*. 

— — Plants. Svo. 42j. 
Rivers's Orchard House. Crown Svo. hs. 

— Miniature Fruit Garden. Fcp. Svo. 4*. 
Stanley's Familiar History of British ilirda. Crown Svo. 8j, 
Wood's Bible Animals. With 112 Vignettes. Svo. IOj. Gii. 

— Homes Without Hands, 8v o. 10.i. 6d. 

— Insects Abroad, Svo. lOi. Gd. 
Horse and Man. Svo. 14«. 

Insects at Home. With 700 lihistrations. 8vo. I0«. 6rf. 



LON&MANS, GEICEN, & CO., London and New York. 



General Lists of Works. ' 



Wood's Out of Doors. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

— Petland Rensitcd. .Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd. 

— Strange Dwelliugs, Crowu Svo. oi. Popular Edition, 4to. 6<J. 

CHEMISTRY ENGINEERING, & GENERAL SCIENCE. 

Arnott's Elements of Physics or Natural Philosophy, Crown 8vo. 12*. 6d. 
Ban-ett's English Glees and Part-Songs : their Historical Development, 

Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 
Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine, Crown 8vo. 7s, 6d. 

— Handbook of the Steam Engine. Fcp. 8vo. 9i. 

— Recent Improv^emcnts in the Steam Engine. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. 
Buckton's Our Dwellings, Healthy and Unhealthy. Crown Svo. 3j. 6i, 
Clerk's The Gas Engine. With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd. 
Olodd's The Story of Creation. Hlustrated. Crown Svo. 6s. 
Crookes's Select Methods in Chemical Analysis. Svo. 2is, 

Culley's Handbook of Practical Telegraphy, Svo. 16j. 

Fairbaim's Useful Information for Engineers. 3 vols, crown Svo. 31*. 6i. 

— Mills and Millwork. 1 vol. Svo. 25*. 
Forbes' Lectures on Electricity. Crown Svo. 5*. 

Galloway's Principles of Chemistry Practically Taught. Crown Svo. 6s. 6d. 
Ganot's Elementary Treatise on Physics, by Atkinson. Large orown Svo. IfiJ. 

— Natural Philosophy, by Atkinson. Crown Svo. 7s, 6d, 
Grove's Correlation of Physical Forces. Svo. 15*. 
Haughton's Six Lectures on Physical Geography. Svo. 154. 
Helmholtz on the Sensations of Tone. Royal Svo. 28*. 

Helmholtz's Lectures on Scientific Subjects. 2 vols, crown Svo. 7s. Sd. each. 
Hudson and Goase's The Kotifera or ' Wheel Animalcules.' With "0 Coloured 

Plates. 6 parts. 4to. 10*. 6d. each. Complete, 2 vols. 4to. £3. 10*. 
Hullah'a Lectures on the History of Modern Music. 8vo. 8*. 6d. 

— Transition Period of Musical History. Svo. 10*. 6d, 
Jackson's Aid to Engineering Solution, Koyal Svo. 21*, 

Jago's Inorganic Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. Fcp. Svo. 2s. Gd., 
Kolbe's Short Text-Eook of Inorganic Chemistry, Crown Svo, 7*. 6i. 
Lloyd's Treatise on Magnetism. Svo. 10*. 6d. 

Macalister's Zoology and Morphology of Vertebrate Animals. Svo. 10*, CcL 
Macfarren'a Lectures on Harmony. Svo. ] 2*. 

— Addresses and Lecturea. Crown Svo. 6*. 6d, 

Martin's Navigation and Nautical Astronomy. Royal Svo. 18*. 
Meyer's Modern Theories of Chemistry. Svo. 18*. 
Miller's Elements of Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. 3 vols. Svo, Part I. 

Chemical Physios, 10*. Part II. Inorganic Chemistry, 24*, Part III. Orgaiilo 

Chemistry, price 31*. 6d, 
Mitchell's Manual of Practical Assaying, Svo. 31*, 6d. 

— Dissolution and Evolution and the Science of Medicine, Svo. 16*. 
Noble's Hours with a Three-inch Telescope, Crown Svo. is. 6d. 
Northoott's Lathes and Turning. Svo. 18*. 
Owen's Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrate Animala. 

3 vols. Svo. 73*. Gd. 
Piesse'B Art of Perfumery. Square crown Svo, 21*. 



LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York. 



General Lists of Works. 



Richardson's The Health of Kations ; 'Vv'orks and Life of Edwin Chadwick, C.B. 
2 vols. 8vo. 28j>. 
— The Commonhealth ; a Series of Essays. Cro^Ti 8vo. 6s, 

Bchellen's Spectrum Analysis. 8vo. Sis. Gd, 
Scott's Weather Charts and Storm Warnings, Crown 8to. 6s. 
Bennett's Treatise on the Marine Steam Engine. 8vo. 21*. 
Smith's Air and Kain. 8vo. 24*. 

Btoney's The Theory of the Stres-es on Girders, &o. Royal 8vo. 3G*. 
Tilden's Practical Chemistry. Fcp. 8vo. 1*. 6d. 
Tyndall's Farad.iy as a Discoverer. Crown 8vo. 3*. Gd. 

— Floating Matter of the Air. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d, 

— Fragments of Science. 2 vols, post Svo. \6s. 

— Heat a Mode of Motion. Crown Svo. 125. 

— Lectures on Light delivered in America. Crown Svo. 5«. 

— Lessons on Electricity. Crown Svo. Is. 6d. 

— Notes on Electrical Phenomena. Crown 8vo. 1*. sewed, 1». 6d. cloth. 

— Notes of Lectures on Light. Crown Svo. It. sewed, Is. 6d. cloth. 

— Researches on Diamagnetism and Magne-Crystallio Action. Cr. Svo. 

124. 

— Sound, with Frontispiece and 203 Woodcuts. Crown Svo. 10*. 6d, 
tJnwin's The Testing of Materials of Construction. Illustrated. Svo. 21*. 
Watts' Dictionary of Chemistry. New Edition (4 vols.). Vol. 1, 8vo. 42*. 
Wilson's Manual of Health-Science. Crown Svo, 2*. 6d. 

THEOLOGICAL AND RELIGIOUS V/ORKS. 
Arnold's (Rev. Dr. Thomas) Sermons. 6 vols, crown Svo. 5^. each. 
Boulthee's Commentary on the 39 Articles. Crown Svo. C*. 
Browne's (Bishop) Exposition of the 39 Articles. Svo. ICs. 
Bullinger's Critical Lexicon and Concordance to the Ent^lish and Greek New 

Testament. Royal Svo. 15*. 
Colenso on the Pentateuch and Book of Joshua. Crown Svo. 6*. 
Conder'a Handbook of the Bible. Post Svo. 7*. 6d. 
Conybeare Si Howson's Life and Letters of St. Paul : — 

Library Edition, with Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols, square crown 
Svo. 21*. 

Student's Edition, revised and condensed, with 46 lUustrationa and Maps. 
1 vol. crown Svo. 6*. 
Coi's (Homersham) The First Century of Christianity. Svo. 12*. 
Davidson's Introduction to the Study of the New Testament. 2 vols. Svo. 30*. 
Edersheim's Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. 2 vols. Svo. 24*. 

— Prophecy and History in relation to the Messiah. Svo. 12*. 
BUloott's (Bishop) Commentary on St. Paul's Ejistles. Svo. Corinthians 1. 16*. 

Galatians, S*. 6rf. Ephesians, 8s. 6d. Pastoral Epistles, 10*. 6d. Philippians, 
Colossians and Philemon, lOs. 6d. Thessaloniaus, 7*. 6d. 

— Lectures on the Life of our Lord. Svo. 12*. 
Bwald's Antiquities of Israel, translated by Solly. Svo. 12*. 6i. 

— History of Israel, translated by Carpenter & Smith. 8 vols. Svo. VoI». 

1 & 2, 24*. Vols. 3 & 4, 21*. Vol. 5, 18*. Vol. 6, 16*. Vol. 7, 21*. 

Vol. 8, 18*. 
Hobart's Medical Language of St. Luke. Svo. 16*. 
Hopkins's Christ the Consoler. Fcp. Svo. 2*. Cf. 



LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



General Lists of Works. 



Jameson's Sacred and Legendary Art. 6 vols, square 8vo. 
Legends of the Madonna. 1 voL 21i. 

_ _. — Monastic Orders 1 vol. 21*. 

— — — Saints and Martyrs. 2 vols. 31*. Cd. 

— — — Saviour. Completed by Lady Eastlake. 2 vols. 423. 
Juies's New Man and the Eternal Life. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

— Second Death and the Restitution of all Things. Crown 8vo. Zt, Gi, 

— Types of Genesis. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

— The Mystery of the Kingdom. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d, 

— The Names of God in Holy Scripture. Crown Svo. 45. 6d. 

Lenorm ant's New Translation of the Book of Genesis. Translated into English. 

Svo. 10*. 6d. 
Lyra Germanica : Hymns translated by Miss Winkworth. Pop. Svo. 6». 
Macdonald's (G.) Unspoken Sermons. Two Series, Crown 8vo. 3s. dd, each. 

— The Miracles of our Lord. Crown Svo. Zs. 6i. 

Manning's Temporal Mission of the Holy Ghost. Crown 8vo. Ss. 6d. 
Martineau's Endeavours after the Christian Life. Crown 8vo. Is. 6i. 

— Hymns of Praise and Prayer. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 32mo. is. ei. 

— Sermons, Hours of Thought on Sacred Things. 2 vols. 7t, 6ti. each. 
Max Miiller's Origin and Growth of Eeligion. Crown Svo. 7t. 6d. 

— — Science of Religion. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd, 
Monsell's Spiritual Songs for Sundays and Holidavs. Fop. Svo. 6*. 18mo. 2*. 
Newman's Apologia pro Vita Sua. Crown Svo. 6A 

— The Arians of the Fourth Century. Crown Svo. 6s. 

— The Idea of a Univeisity Defined and Illustrated. Crown Svo. 7», 

— Historical Sketches. 3 voli. crown Svo. 6s. each. 

— Discussions and Arguments on Various Subjects. Crown Svo, 6*. 

— An Essay on the Development of Christian Doctrine. Crown Svo. 6j. 

— Certain Difficulties Felt by Anglicaus In Catholic Teaching Con- 

sidered. Vol. 1, crown Svo. 7s. 6d, Vol. 2, crown 8vo. 5s. 6d. 

— The Via Media of the Anglican Church, Illustrated in Lectures, &c. 

2 vols, crown Svo. 6s. each. 

— Essays, Critical and Historical. 2 vols, crown Svo. 12*. 

— Essays on Biblical and on Ecclesi.-^tical Miracles. Crown Svo. 6#. 

— An Essay in Aid of a Grammar of Assent. 7s. 6d. 

— Select Treatises of St. Athanasius in Controversy with the Arians. 

Translated. 2 vols, crown Svo. 15*. 
Overton's Life in the English Church (1660-1714). Svo. 14*. 
Roberta' Greek the Language of Christ and Bis Apostles. Svo. 18*. 
Supernatural Religion. Complete Edition. 3 vols. Svo. 3G*. 
Younghusband'a The Story of Our Lord told in Simple Language for Children. 
BlUBtrated. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d. cloth plain ; 3*. 6d. cloth estra, gilt edges, 

TRAVELS, ADVENTURES, &c. 

Baker's Eight Tears in Ceylon. Crown Svo. 5*. 

— Rifle and Hound in Ceylon. Crown Svo. 6*. 

Braasey's Sunshine and Storm in the East. Library Edition, Svo. 21», Cabinet 
Edition, crown Svo. 7s. 6d, Popular Edition, 4to. 6d, 



LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



10 General Lists of Works. 

Brassey's Voyage in the ' Sunbeam.' Library Edition, 8vo. 21*. Cabinet Edition, 
crown 8vo. 7i. 6d. School Edition, tcp. 8vo. 2*. Popular Edition, 
4to. Gd. 

— In tlie Trades, the Tropics, and the ' Roaring Forties.' Cabinet Edition, 

crown 8vo. 17*. Gd. Popular Editiop, 4to. 6ii. 
Crawford's Reminiscences of Foreign Travel. Crown Svo. 5s. 
Fronde's Oc«ana ; or, England and her Colonies. Cr. 8 vo. 2*. boards ; 2s. Gd. cloth. 

— The English in the West Indies. Svo. 1 Si. 
Hewitt's Visits to Remarkable Places. Crown Svo. 5s. 

James's The Long White Mountain ; or, a Journey in Manchuria. Svo. 2is. 

Lindt's Picturesque New Guinea. 4to. 42*. 

Pennell's Our Sentimental Journey through France and Italy, illustrated. 

Crown Svo. Gs. 
Riley's Athos ; or, The Mountain of the Monks. Svo. 21*. 
Three in Norway. By Two of Them. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 2*. boards ; 

2t. 6d. cloth. 

WORKS OF FICTION. 

Anstey's The Black Poodle, &c. Crown Svo. 2s. boards ; 2*. Gd. cloth. 
Beaconsfield's (Tho Earl of) Novels and Tales. Hughenden Edition, with S 

Portraits on Steel and 11 Vignettes on Wood. 11 vols, crown Svo. £2. 24. 

Cheap Edition, 11 vols, crown Svo. 1*. each, boards ; li.6d.each, cloth. 



Contarini Fleming. 
Alroy, Ixion, &c. 
The Young Duke, &o. 
Vivian Grey. 
Endymion. 



Lothair. 

Sybil. 

Coningsby. 

Tancred. 

Venetia. 

Henrietta Temple, 
Gilkes' Boys and Masters. Crown Svo. Sj. Gd. 
Haggard's (H. Rider) She : a History of Adventure. Crown Svo. Gs. 

— — Allan Quatermain. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6«. '. 
Harts (Bret) On the Frontier. Thi-oe Stories. IGmo. Is, 

— —By Shore and Sedge. Three Stories. 16mo, 1j. 

— — In the Carquinez Woods. Crown Svo. 1*. boards ; Is. Gd. cloth. 
Lyall's (Edna) The Autobiography of a Slander. Fcp. 1*. sewed. 

Melville's (Whyte) Novels. 8 voLb. fcp. Svo. 1*. each, boards ; 1*. Gd. each, cloth. 
Digby Grand. Good for Nothing. 

General Bounce, Holmby House. 

Kate Coventry. The Interpreter. 

The Gladiators. The Queen's Maries. 

Molesworth's (Mrs.) Marrying and Giving in Marriage. Crown Svo. 2s. Gd. 
Novels by the Author of ' The Atelier du Lys ' : 

The Atelier du Lys ; or, An Art Student in the Reign of Terror. Crown 

Svo. 23. Gd. 
Mademoiselle Mori: a Tale of Modem Rome. Crown Svo. 2*. Gd, 
In the Olden Time : a Tale of the Peasant War in Germany. Crown Svo. 2s. Gd, 
Hester's Venture. Crown Svo. 2s. Gd. 
Oliphant'B (Mrs.) Madam. Crown Svo. 1*. boards ; 1.5. Gd. cloth. 

— — In Trust : the Story of a Lady and her Lover. Crown Svo. 

Is. boards ; Is. Gd. cloth. 
Payn's (James) The Luck of tho Darrells. Crown Svo. 1.?. boards ; 1*. Gd. cloth, 

— — Thicker than Water. Crown Svo. Is. boards ; Is. Gd. cloth. 
Reader's Fairy Prince FoUow-my-Load. Crown Svo. 2s. Gd. 

— The Ghost of Braiikiushaw ; and other Talcs. Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6<i. 



LONGStAJS'S, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



General Lists of Works. 11 



ewell'g (Miss) Stories and Tales. Crown 8vo. 1*. each, boards; 1*. 6c?. ciotli; 
2s. Cd. cloth extra, gilt ed;;e3. 

A Glimpise of the World. 



Amy Herbert. Cleva Hall, 
The Earl's Danehter. 
Experience of life, 
Gertrude. Ivors. 



Katharine Ashton. 
Lanetou Parsonage. 
Margaret Percival. Ursula. 

Stevenson's (R.L.) The Dynamiter. Fcp. 8vo. Is. sewed ; Is. 6d. cloth. 

— — Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Air. Hyde. Fcp. 8vo, 1«. 

sewed ; Is. 6d. cloth. 
Trollope's (Anthony) Novels. Fcp. 8vo. Is. each, boards ; Is. 6(i. clothi 

The Warden | Barchester Towers, 

POETRY AISTD THE DRAMA. 
Armstrong's (Ed. J.) Poetical Works. Fcp. 8vo. 5*. 
— (G. F.) Poetical Works :— 



Stories of Wicblow. Fcp. 8vo. 9*. 
Mephi^topbele3 in Broadcloth : a 

Satire. Fcp. 8vo. is. 
Victoria Kefrina et Iniperatrix : a 

Jubilee Song from Ireland, 1887. 

4to. 2s. 6d. 



Poems, Lyrical and Dramatic. Fcp. 
8vo. es. 

Ugone : a Tragedy. Fcp. 8vo. St. 

A Garland from Greece. Fcp, 8vo.9j. 

King Saiil. Fcp. 8vo. 5^. 

King David. Fcp. Svo. Us. 

King Solomon. Fcp. 8yo. 6*. 
Ballads of Berks. Edited by Andrew Leng. Fcp. 8vo. 6*. 
Bowen's Harrow Songs and other Verses. Fcp. Svo. 2*. Gd. ; or printed on 

hand-made paper, 5s. 
Bowdler's Family Shakespeare. Medium Svo. 14*. 6 vols. fcp. Svo. 21s. 
Dante's Divine Comedy, translated by Jaa:es Innes llinchiu. Crown 8vo. ISi. 
Goethe's Faust, translated by Birds. Large crown Svo. 12s. 6d. 

— — translated by Webb. Svo. 12*. 6d. 

— — edited by Selss. Crown Svo. 5s. 
Ingelow's Poems. 2 Vols. fcp. Svo. 12s. ; Vol. 3, fcp. Svo. 5s. 

— Lyrical and other Poems. Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6d, cloth, plain ; 3s. cloth, 

gilt edges. 
Kendall's (Mrs.) Dreams to SelL Fcp. Svo. 6s. 

Macaulay'a lays of Ancient Rome. Illustrated by Scharf. 4to. 10s. 6d. 
Popular Edition, fcp. 4to. 6d. swd.. Is. cloth. 

— Lays of Ancient Rome, with Ivry and the Annada. Illustrated by 
Weguelin. Crown Svo. 3s. Gd. gilt edges. 

Nesbit's Lays and Legends. Crown Svo. 5s. 

Newman's The Dream of Gerontins. ICmo. 6d. sewed ; Is. cloth. 

— Verses on Various Occasions. Fcp. 8ro. fis. 

Reader's Voices from Flowerland, a Birthday Book, 2s. 6d. cloth, 3s. Gd. lann, 
Bouthey's Poetical Works. Medium Svo. 14s. 
Stevenson's A Child's G arden of Verses. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. 
Virgil's iEneid, translated by Conington. Crown Svo. 9s. 

— Poems, translated into English Prose. Crown Svo. 9i. 

AGRICULTURE, HORSES, DOGS, AND CATTLE. 

Pitzwygram's Horses andfitables. Svo. 6s. 
Lloyd's The Science of Agriculture. Svo. 12s. 
Loudou's Encjclop.TE-dia of Agriculture. 21s. 

Prothero's Pione^TS and Progress of English Farming. Crown Svo. 5i, 
Steel's Diseases of the Ox, a Manual of Bovine Pathologj'. 8vo. lit. 
— — — Dog. Svo, 10s. ed. 

LONGMANS, GREEN, &; CO., London and New York. 



12 General Lists of Works. 

Btonehenge's Dog in Health and Disease. Square crown 8vo. 7s, 6d. 

— Greyhound, Square crown 8vo. 15*. 

Taylor's Agricultural Note Book. Fop. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 
VUle on Artificial Manures, by Crookes. 8vo, 21«. 
Youatt'8 Work on the Dog. 8vo. 6*. 
— _ _ — Horse. 8vo. 7s, 6i. 

SPORTS AND PASTIMES. 

The Badminton Library of Sports and Pastimes. Edited by the Duke of Beanfort 
Bnd A. E. T. Watson. With numerous Illustrations, Cr. 8vo. lOs, 6d, each. 

Hunting, by the Duke of Beaufort, Ac. 

Fishing, by H. Cholmondeley-Pennell, &o. 2 vols. 

Racing, by the Earl of Suffolk, <Sic. 

Shooting, by Lord Walsingham, &c. 2 vols. 

Cycling. By Viscount Bury. 

Athletics ami Football. By Montague Shearman, &c 

Boating. By W. B. Woodgate, &c. 

Cricket. By A. G. Steel, &c. 

Driving. Ey the Duke of Beaufort, &c. 

*tt* Otfter Volumes in preparation. 
Campbell-Walker's Correct Card, or How to Play at Whist. Fcp. 8to. 2*. 6(J. 
Ford's Theory and Practice of Archery, revised by W. Butt. 8vo. lis, 
Francis's Treatise on Fishing in all its Branches. Post 8vo. 15j. 
Longman's Chess Openings. Fcp. 8vo. 23. 6d. 

Pease's The Cleveland Hounds as a Trencher-Fed Pack. Royal 8vo. ISs, 
Pole's Theory of the Modern Scientific Game of Whist, Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 
Proctor's How to Play Whist. Crown 8vo. 5s, 
Eonalds's Fly-Fisher's Entomology. 8vo. lis, 
Wilcocks'B Sea-Fisherman. PostSvo. 6j. 

ENCYCLOP/EDIAS, DICTIONARIES, AND BOOKS OF 
REFERENCE. 

Acton's Modem Cookery for Private Families. Fcp 8vo. 4*. 6i. 

Ayre's Treasury of Bible Knowledge. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. 

Cabinet Lawyer (The), a Popular Digest of the Laws of England. Fcp. 8vo. 9*. 

Cates's Dictionary of General Bingraphy. Medium 8vo. 28*. 

Gwilt's Encyclopaedia of Architecture. 8vo. 52s. Grf. 

Keith Johnston's Dictionary o£ Geography, or General Gazetteer. 8vo. 42*. 

M'CulIoch'B Dictionary of Commeice and Commercial Navigation. 8vo. 63«. 

Maunder's Biographical Treasury. Fcp. 8vo. 6*. 

— Historical Treasury. Fcp. 8vo. 6*. 

— Scientific and Literary Treasury. Fcp. 8vo. 6*. 

— Treasury of Bitjle Knowledge, edited by Ayre. Fcp. 8vo. 8*. 

— Treasury of Botany, edited by Lindley & Moore. Two Parts, 12#. 

— Treasury of Geography. Fcp. 8vo. ti*. 

— Treasury of Knowledge and Library of Reference, Fcp. 8vo. 6*. 

— Treasury of Natural History. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. 

Quain's Dictionary of Medicine. Medium 8vo. 31*. 6i., or in 2 vols. 84*. 
Reeve's Cookery and Housekeeping. Crown 8vo. 6*. 
Rich's Dictionary of Roman aud Greek Antiquities. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d, 
Roget's Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases. Crown 8vo. 10*. 6d, 
Willich's Popular Tables, by Marriott. Crown 8vo. 10*. 6d. 

WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS. 



Savouries i la Mode. Fcp. 8vo. 1*. 
Entries k la Mode. Fcp. Svo. 1*. 6d. 
Soups and Dressed Fibh 4 la Mode. 
Fcp. Svo. 1*. 6d. 



Sweets and Supper Dishes, §, la Mode. 

Fcp. Svo. Is. 6(f. 
Oysters 4 la Mode. Fcp. 8vo. 1*. 6d. 
Vegelables i la Mode. Fcp. 8vo. 1*. 6i. 



LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



A SELECTION 

OF 

EDUCATIONAL WOEKS. 



TEXT-BOOKS OF SCIENCE. 

* FULLY ILLCSTRATED. 

Abney'B Treatiie on Photography. Pep. 8vo. 3i, 6i, 
Anderson's Strength of Materials. 3*. Gd, 
Armstrong's Organic Chemistry. 3s. 6d, 
Ball's Elements of Astronomy, 6s. 
Barry's Railway Appliances. 3s. Sd. 
Bauerman's Systematic Mineralogy. 64. 
— Descriptive Mineralogy. 6i, 
Blozam and Huntington's Metals. 6t, 
Glazebrook's Physical Optics. 6s. 
Glazebrook and Shaw's Practical Physics. St. 
Gore's Art of Electro-Metallurgy. 6s. 

Griffin's Algebra and Trigonometry. Zs. 6i. Notes and Solutions, 3;. 6i, 
Holmes's The Steam Engine. 6^. 
Jenkin's Electricity and Magnetism. Si. 6d. 
Maxwell's Theory of Heat. Zs. 6d. 

Merrifield's Technical Arithmetic and Mensuration. 3*. 6d, Key, Zs, 6d, 
Miller's Inorganic Chemistry. 3s. 6d. 
Preece and Sivewright's Telegraphy. Bs. 
Kutley's Study of Rocks, a Text-Book of Petrology. i.t. 6d. 
Shelley's Workshop Appliances, is. 6d. 
Thome's Structural and Physiological Botany. 6i, 
Thorpe's Quantitative Chemical Analysis, is. 6d, 
Thorpe and Muir's Qualitative Analysis. Zs. 6i. 

Tilden's Chemical Philosophy. 3s. 6d. With Answers to Problems, 4*. 6i. 
Unwin's Elements of Machine Design. 6s. 
Watson's Plane and Solid Geometry, Zs, 6d, 

THE GREEK LANGUAGE, 

Bloomfield's College and School Greek Testament. Fcp. 8vo. 5l, 
BoUand & Lang's Politics of Aristotle. Post 8vo. Ts. 6d, 
Collis's Chief Tenses of the Greek Irregular Verbs. 8vo. 1*. 

— Pontes Grseci, Stepping-Stone to Greek Grammar. 12mo. 3*. M, 

— Praxis Qrseca, Etymology. 12mo. 2s. 6d. 

— Greek Verse-Book, Praxis lambica. 12mo. 4*. Gd. 
Parrar's Brief Greek Syntax and Accidence. 12mo. is. 6d, 

— Greek Grammar Rules for Harrow School. 12mo, Is. Gd. 
Geare's Notes on Thucydides. Book I, Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 



LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York. 



14 A Selection of Educational Works. 



Hewitt's Greek Bzaminatlon-Papers. 12mo. 1*. Sd. 

Isbister's Xenopho:i's Anabasis, Books I. to III. with Notsa. ISmo. Si, 6d, 

Kennedy's Greek Grammar. 12mo. is. Sd. 

Iilddell & Scott's Englisli-Grcek Lexicon. 4to. 36s, ; Square 12mo. 7t. Gd, 

Habaffv's Classical Greek Literature. Crown 8vo. Poets, 7s. 6d. Prose Writers, 

7.i.'6<i. 
Morris's Greek Lessons. Square 18mo. Part I. 2.?. Gd. ; Part II. 1*. 
Parry's Elementary Greek Grammar. 12mo. 3s. 6d. 

Plato's Ecpublic, Book I. Greek Text, English Notes by Hardy. Crown 8to. 3s. 
Khtppard and Evaus'a Notes on Thucydides. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd. 
Thucydides, Book IV. with Notes by Barton and Chavassc. Crown Svo. 5s, 
Valpy's Greek Delectus, improved by White. 12mo. 2^. 6d. Key, 2s. 6d, 
White's Xenophon's Expedition of Cyrus, with English Notes. 12mo. 7s. 6cJ. 
Wilkins's Mcnnal of Greek Prose Composition. Crown Svo. 5s. Key, 5s. 

— Exercises in Greek Prose Composition. Crown Svo. 4.». 6(Z. Key,2s.Gd. 

— New Greek Delectus. Crown Svo. Zs. 6d. Key, 2s. 6d. 

— Progressive Greek Delectus. 12mo. is. Key, 2s. 6d, 

— Progressive Greek Anthology. 12mo. Os. 

— Scriptores Attici, Excerpts with Encrlish Notes. Crown Svo. 7s. 6(3. 

— Speeches from Thucydides translated. Post Svo. 6s, 
Yonge's English-Greek Lexicon. 4to. 2ls. ; Square 12mo. Si. Ci. 



THE LATIN LANGUAGE. 

Bradley's Latin Prose Exercises. 12mo. 3s. 6d. Key, 5s. 

— Continuous Lessons in Latin Prose. 12mo. 5s. Key, 6s. 6A 

— Cornelius Nepoa, improved by White. 12mo. 3s. 6d, 

— Eutropius, improved by White. 12mo. 2s. 6d. 

— Ovid's Metamorphoic-!, improved by White. 12mo. 4s. Sd. 

— Select Fa'oles of Phrodrus, improved by Wiiite. 12mo. 2s. 6d, 
CoUis's Chief Tenses of Latin IiTcgular Verbs. Svo. Is. 

— Pontes Latini, Steppinj^-Stone to Latin Grammar. 12mo. 3s. 6d, 
Hev/itt's Latin Examination-Papers. 12mo. Is. di. 
Isbister's Ceesar, Books I.- VII. 12rao. 4s. ; or with P.eading Lessons, 4*. 6d. 

— Caasar's Commentaries, Books I.-V. 12mo. 3s. ed. 

— First Book of Caesar's Gallic War. 12mo. Is. Gd. 
Jerram's Latin6 Reddenda. Crown Svo. Is. 6d, 

Kennedy's Child's Latin Primer, or Pii-st Latin Lessons. 12mo. 2s. 

— Child's Latin Accidence. 12mo. Is. 

Elementary Latin Gr.T.mmar. 12mo. 3s. ed. 

— Elementary Latin Beading Book, or Tu-ocinium Latinum. ISmo. Si. 

— Latin Prose, Paliestra Stili Latini. 12lli0. 6s. 

— Latin Vocabulary. 12mo. 2s. Gd. 

— Subsidia Primaria, Exercise Books to the Public School Latin Primer. 

I. Accidence and Simi)le Construction, 2s. ed. II. Syntax, 3s. ed. 

— Key to the Exercises in Subsidia Primaria, Parts I. and^II. price 5«. 

— Subsidia Primaria, III. the Latin Compound Sentence. 12mo. Is. 



LONGT.IANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York. 



A Selection of Educational Works. 



15 



Kennedy's Onrriculum Stili Latini. 12rao. 4*. Gd. Key, 7*. Gd. 

— Pp.Isestra Latina, or Second Latin Keadiusr Book, 12mo. 5». 

Moody's Eton Latin Grammar. 12mo. 2s. 6d. The Accidence separately, 1*. 
Morris's Elementa Latina. Fop. 8vo. Is. 6d, Key, 2s. Gd. 
PaiTy's Origines Eomanse, from Livy, vyith English Notes. Crown 870. it. 
The Public School Latin Primer. 12mo. 2s. Gd. 

— — — — Grammar, by Rev. Dr. Kennedy. Post 8vo. 7*. 6^ 
Prendergast's Mastery Series, Manual of Latin. 12mo. 2s. Gd. 
Rapier's Introduction to Composition of Latin Verse. 12mo. Ss. Gd. Key, 2s. Gd. 
Bheppard and Turner's Aids to Classical Study, 12mo, Ss. Key, Gs. 
Valpy's Latin Delectus, improved by Wliitc. 12mo. 2^. Gd. Key, Ss. Gd. 
Virgil's iEneid, translated into English Verse by Conington, Grown 8vo. 9*. 

— Works, edited by Kennedy, Crown 8vo. 10s. Gd. 

— — translated into English Prose by Conington. Crown Svo. 9*. 
Walford's Progressive Exercises in Latin Elegiac Verse. 12mo. 2s. Gd. Key, 6s. 
White and Riddle's Large Latin-English Dictionary, 1 vol. 4to, 2ls. 

White's Concise Latin-Eng. Dictionary for University Students. Royal Svo. 12j, 

— Junior Students' Eng.-Lat. & Lat.-Eng. Dictionary. Square 12mo, 63. 

Rptinrarplv i '^^^ Latin-English Diclionary, price 3.', 
ceparateiy ^ ^j^^ English-Latin Dictionai-y, price 3*. 
Tonga's Latin Gradus, Post Svo, 9s. ; or with Appendix, Vis, 

WHITE'S GRAMMAR-SCHOOL GREEK TEXTS. 



^sop (Fables) & Paltephatus (Myths), 

82mo. Is. 
Euripides, Hecuba. 2«. 
Homer, Iliad, Book I. Is. 

— Odyssey, Book I. Is. 
Lucian, Select Dialogues. Is. 
Xenophon, .Anabasis, Books I. III. IV, 

V. & VI. Is. 6d. each ; Book IX. Is. ; 

Book VII. 2s. 

The Four Gospels in Greek, vdth Greek-English Lexicon. Edited by John T, 
V/hite, D.D. Oson, Square 32mo. price 5s. 



Kenophon, Book I. without Vooabu- 

lary. 3d. 
St. Matthew's and St. Luke's Gospels. 

2s. Gd. each. 
St. Mark's and St. John's Gospels, 

Is. Gd. each. 
The Acts of the Apostles. 2s. Gd. 
St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans. 1^. Gd. 



WHITE'S GRAMMAR-SCHOOL LATIN TEXTS. 



CsBsar. Gallic War, Books I, & II. V, 

& VI, 1^. each. Book I. without 

Vocabulary, Sd. 
Csesar, Gallic War, Books III, & IV. 

9d. each. 
Caesar, Gallic War, Book VII. U. Gd. 
Cicero, Cato Major (Old Age). 1^. Gd. 
Cicero, LkHus (Friendship). Is. Gd. 
Eutrooius, Roman Historv, Books I. 

& II. Is. Books III. & IV. 1.?, 
Horace, Odes, Books I. II. & IV. Is. each, 
Horace, Odes, Book III. 1*. Gd. 
Horace, Epodcs and Carmen Soculare. 

It. 



Kepoa, Miltisdes, Simon, Pausanias, 
Aristides. Sd. 

Ovid. Selections from Epistles and 
Fasti. Is. 

Ovid, Select Myths from Metamor- 
phoses. 9d. 

Phfisdrus, Select Easy Fables, 

PbEedms, Fables, Books I. & II. It. 

Sallust, Bellum Catilinarium. Is. Gd, 

Virgil, Georgics, Book IV. Is. 

Virgil, .fflneid, Books I. to VI. Is. each. 
Book I. vidthout Vocabulary, 3d. 

Virgil, iEneid, Books VII. to XII. 
It. Gd. each. 



LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO,, London and New York. 



16 A Selection of Educational Works. 

THE FRENCH LANGUAGE. 

AlbitSs'a How to Speak French. Pep. 8vo. 5j. 6d. 

— Instantaueoug French Exercises. Fop. 2». Key, 2s. 
Cassal'a French Geuders. Crown 8vo. 3s. Gd. 
Oassal & Karcher's Graduated French Translation Book. Part I. 3j. 61. 

Part II. 5s, Key to Part I. by Professor Cassal, price 6s. 
Contanseau's Practical French and English Dictionary. Post 8vo. 3s. 6i. 
Pocket French and English Dictionary. Square ISmo, 1*. 6d, 

— PremiSrcs Lectures. 12mo. Is. Cii. 

Fii'st Step in French. 12mo. 2^. 6ii. Key, %>, 

— French Accidence. 12mo. 2.J. dd. 

— — Grammar. 12mo. is. Key, 3«. 
Contanseau's Middle-Class French Course. Fcp. 8vo. :— 



French Translation-Book, 8i, 

Es.sy French Delectus, Sd. 
First French Re;vtler, %d. 
Second French Keader, 8(J. 
French and English Dialogues, Sd. 



Accidence, 8d. 
Syntax, 8J. 

French Conversation-Book, Si. 
First French Exerci-ie-Book, %d. 
Second French Exercise- Book, Si. 
Contanseau's Guide to French Translation. 12mo. 3^. 6(i. Key %s. Bi, 

— Prosateurs et Po6tes Fran(;ais. 12mo. 6*. 

— Precis de la littt^rature Fran<;alse. 12mo. 3i. 6<i. 

— Abr(!:g6 de I'Histoire de France. 12mo. 'Is. 6d. 

FSval's Ohonans et Bleus, with Notes by 0. Sankey, M.A. Fcp. 870. 2*. Bi. 

Jorram's Sentences for Translation into French. Cr. 8vo. \t. Key, Is. Gd. 

Prendergast's Mastery Series, French. 12mo. Is. M. 

Souvestre's Philosophe sous lea Toits, by Stlgvenard. Square ISmo. 1». 6i. 

Stepping-Stone to French Pronunciation. 18mo. \s. 

Stidvenard's Lectures Franijaises from Modem Authors. 12mo. 4i. 6i. 

— Rules and Exercises on the French Language. 12mo. 3j. 6(i. 

Tarver's Eton French Grammar. 12mo. 6^. 6(i. 

THE GERMAN LANGUAGE. 
Blackley's Practical German and English Dictionary. Post 8vo. %s. 6i. 
Euchheim'a German Poetry, for Repetition, 18mo. \t. 6d. 
Collis's Card of German Irregular Verbs. 8vo. 2s. 
Fischer-Fischart's Elementary German Grammar. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. Gd. 
Just's German Grammar. 12mo. Is. 6d. 

— German Reading Book. 12mo. 3.j, 6d, 
Longman's Pocket German and English Dictionary. Square 18mo. 2s. 6(i, 
Naftel's Elementary German Course for Public Schools. Fcp. 8vo. 



German Accidence. 9d, 

German Syntax. 9d. 

First German Exercise-Book. Sd. 

Second German Exercise-Book. 9i, 
Prendergast's Mastery Series, German. 12mo. 2s. Gd. 
Quick's Essentials of German. Crown 8vo. 3*. dd. 
Selss's School Edition of Goethe's Faust. Crown 8vo. 5*. 
— Outline of German Literature. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d, 
Wirth's German Chit-Chat. Crown 870. 2«. 6d. 



German Prose Composition Book. 9d, 
First German Rcfier. 6J. 
Second German Reader. 9<i. 



LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO,, London and Now York. 
Spottisvoode <fc Co. PrirUsrs, New-street Square, London, 




PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



BioM« 



