UNIVERSITY OF 
ILLINOIS LIBRARY 
AT URBANA^CHAMPAIGN 
BOOKSTACKS 



CENTRAL CIRCULATION AND BOOKSTACKS 

The person borrowing this material is re- 
sponsible for its renewal or return before 
the Latest Date stamped below. You may 
be charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for 
each non-returned or lost item. 

Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can be 
causes for student disciplinary action. Ail materials owned by 
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State 
of Illinois and are protected by Article 16B of tllinoit Criminal 
Law and Procedure. 

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400. 
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign 






When renewing by phone, write new due date 
below previous due date. L162 



Digitized by 


the Internet Archive 






in 2015 







https://archive.org/details/onhabitsmannersOOarms 



ON 

HABITS ^ MANNERS, 

BY 

4 

Mrs. M. F. ARMSTRONG. 

Written originally for the Students of tie Hampton N. and A. Institute. 



REVISED EDITION. 



ADAPTED TO GENERAL USE. 



HAMPTON, VA. 
NORMAL SCHOOL TRESS, PRINT. 
1888. 



Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1888 1 1 
§. C. ARMSTRONG, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress. 



PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. 



Hampton, Va., July, 1888. 

The revision of this little book is a result of the suggestions of 
teachers who for the past ten years have been using it in their class 
rooms. The scope of the subject is such that it is impossible to deal 
with it satisfactorily within the limits of a text book, and we only 
claim for our present work that it is an embodiment, so far as we can 
make it so, of a general experience of the needs of our students. 

We have endeavored to make it constructive rather than critical, 
and we ask those who may use it, either as teacher or pupil, to re- 
member that it is not safe to adopt the manners of any individual as 
a standard, for even the most careful are liable to lapses, and it is al- 
ways the general law which should be regarded, rather than the spec- 
ial instance. 

Finally, most of us need to be reminded that picking flaws in 
other peoples' manners, does not help to mend our own, and that 
now and always, here and everywhere, it is only a gentle soul which 
can give us the best part of gentle breeding. 

M F. A. 



PREFACE. 



To be truly a gentleman or lady, in the best and broadest mean- 
ing of the words, is to be something more than most of us think of 
when we apply the terms in a general way, or as a mere class distinc- 
tion. 

It is not to those who are rich; it is not to those to whom the 
accident of birth may have given special advantages; it is not even to 
those who are educated, or who claim the title for themselves, that 
the name " gentleman " or " lady " rightfully belongs ; and as, with 
very few exceptions, we all desire to win this honor for ourselves, our 
first need is to make sure that we know just what we want — that we 
know what it is that is really meant by the words so frequently upon 
our lips. 

Long ago one of the old English poets wrote this beautiful de- 
scription of our Saviour : 

*' A soft, meek, patient, humble, tranquil spirit, 
The first true gentleman that ever breathed." 

And here, indeed, we find the ensample wherein is summed up all the 
graciousness which goes to make a " gentle " life. Do not think, then 
that I aim too high when I tell you that to be gentlemen and ladies 
is to be pure, conscientious and honorable, to be delicate and unselfish, 
careful always of the rights of others, and refined and gentle in the 
manner of our lives — that, in a word, it is to reach the highest type 
of man-and woman-hood. 

But of the great lessons which we must all learn in order to 
mould our natures after this perfect model, it is not my business now, 
and here, to speak. It is only with the " outward, visible sign of the 
inward, spiritual truth," that I have to deal in these pages, which I 
am permitted to dedicate to you; and I have to offer you, first of all, 



6 



PREFACE. 



a few words of explanation as to the nature of the work which lies be- 
fore us. 

You have already, doubtless, realized that society, (by which 
word we mean all the various combinations of men and women, — all 
the numerous conditions under which men and women mingle with 
each other), makes certain demands upon each of its individual mem- 
bers; and you have also begun to see that just in proportion to the de- 
velopment of .society, and the height to which you rise in the social 
scale, are the number and stringency of these demands. That is, that 
while in the backwoods cabin you may eat in the coarsest fashion, or 
go unwashed for days without exciting surprise, you will find that 
among another class of people such behavior would result in your 
own social disgrace. 

Now, among the most refined classes of the most highly civilized 
nations — that is, among people who have had the greatest advantages 
of birth, education and nature — there exists a code of social law 
which is just as inexorable as the law of the State. It has grown with 
the growth of civilization, and among the people who live within its 
influence, has produced certain habits and customs which you must 
study and follow if you desire to gain the external attributes of gentili- 
ty, and associate easily and pleasantly with your fellow-beings. 

While honesty and purity of life are the surest^foundation for true 
refinement of character, the details of daily life wherein such refine- 
ment shows itself are a study by themselves, "and demand your 
careful attention. In the following pages I shall try to give you the 
principal laws of good society, and as many of its minor regulations as 
are likely to be of use to you, trusting that your own earnestness and 
persistence may make this little book a real and permanent assistance 
toward a better life. M. F. A. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



CHAPTER I. 



THE ETIQUETTE OF THE TABLE. 

There is no place where it is easier to recognize refine- 
ment, or the want of it, than at the table ; and to those of 
you who are beginning to understand how good a thing it 
is to be "gentlemen and ladies," that is, to be really re- 
fined and delicate in the manner of j r our lives, I offer the 
following simple rules, assuring you that society will al- 
ways be largely influenced in its judgment of you by your 
behavior at table, and that, if you wish to take the first step 
in social education, you must do your best to become at ease 
in the details of table etiquette. 

Taking for granted that you understand already the 
necessity of making your dress and person as neat as the na- 
ture of your work will permit, before you present yourself 
at table, I must ask you to remember that haste in seating 
or helping yourself before others is simply unpardonable, 
being so gross a violation of good manners, that I trust your 
own instinct and kind feeling will make it unnecessary for 
me to do more than allude to it. 



8 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

Premising, therefore, that you have seated yourself qui- 
etly (aud I would here remark, that, as in well ordered 
households there is no irregularity in the time of meals, so 
there should be promptness on the part of individuals), I 
want you to be careful always to exchange polite and kind- 
ly greetings with those who sit at meat with you, whom 
you may not have previously met during the day. A cheery 
" Good-morning/' a bright smile, a bow to any one who 
may not be near enough for a word, serve to make the meet 
ing pleasant, and to open the way for the conversation 
which is, or ought to be, an important part of every mea . 
That is, while loud or careless talk is of course inadmissible 
it is a wise and pleasant thing to converse, in low tones, eas 
ily, upon topics of general interest (never in whispers or up- 
on purely personal matters); for this prevents you from fall- 
ng into the graceless and unwholesome habit of fast eating, 
and when you have been working hard is often a mental 
rest and relief. 

And now your repast is before you, and the first ques- 
tion which presents itself is one which I trust you will have 
no difficulty in answering, that is, "Whom will you first 
help, your neighbor or yourself? " 

Surely I do not need to tell you that you have no more 
important duty at table as everywhere else, than to attend 
to the comfort of your companions. You must see that 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 9 

those about you are served, you must assist them so far as 
your position will permit, (never stretching out your arms or 
standing up to reach anything,) and you must continue your 
vigilance so long as you remain at table, passing dishes 
which are within your reach, asking politely if your neigh- 
bors want anything which you can give them, never helping 
yourself greedily or taking the last of anything unless you 
know that a second supply is to be had, and finally, never on 
any account rising from the table until every one else is 
ready, or you are excused for some reason of real im- 
portance. 

There are certain well-known rules in regard to the 
manner of eating, which you must obey absolutely if you 
intend to become well-bred men and women. 

The knife must be held in the right hand, and the 
fork in the left, when you are eating anything which requires 
to be cut ; but in eating fish, or other substances which do 
not need to be cut, the knife should be laid down, the fork 
taken in the right hand, and a piece of bread in the left, by 
the aid of which you can take up your food upon your fork, 
and convey it to your mouth. To eat with your knife is 
one of the cardinal sins at table ; it stamps you at once as 
ill-bred, or unpardonably careless. In taking soup, tea, 
coffee, or any fluid food, you must carefully avoid making 
any sound while drinking; swallow the liquid, whatever it 



JO ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

may be, in small quantities and quietly; while in using a 
spoon there must be no gurgling or spilling. 

The fingers should never be used directly, if it is pos- 
sible to avoid it ; for example, when you want to dip bread 
or crackers into gravy, milk, syrup, etc., you should do it 
by breaking the bread or other solid into the fluid, and con- 
veying it thence to your mouth with a fork or spoon. 

Your own share of the table furniture ; that is, your 
plates, cup, glass, knife, fork, spoon, etc., are for the time 
being your own private property, and must never be used by 
others, and in the case of the last three, must not be used by 
you in helping yourself from any dish from which others are 
mating. 

Butter-knives, salt-spoons, table spoons, etc., are for the 
general use, and must never be superseded by your private 
knife, spoon or fork, and you must never pass your plate 
with any of these upon it, buc must remove them, and lay 
them upon the cloth beside you until your plate is returned. 

To pour anything from your cup into your saucer is not 
allowable, and you must not drink with the spoon in your 
•cup, but after stirring your tea you should put the spoon in 
the saucer, being particularly careful to place it there when 
your cup is passed. 

Do not blow any kind of food, but have patience until it 
cools without your* help, and a,void, if possible, any close 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. II 

examination of dishes which are passed to you, or of any- 
thing that is upon your own plate. If you find anything 
disagreeable remove it yourself as quietly as you can, or hand 
it, without calling attention to it, to the waiter. 

If you have preferences in regard to different parts of a 
dish, do not hesitate to mention them, if you are asked, but 
not otherwise : and, as a general rule, it is best to make 
no remarks upon the food while you are at table. After 
the meal is over, is the proper time to discuss, criticize, or 
mention to those in authority, anything unusual that you 
may have noticed at table. 

If it is necessary to remove from the mouth anything 
which may have found its way into your food by accident, 
this may be done usually under cover of your hand or your 
handkerchief, but always in such a manner as to attract the 
least possible attention. 

The use of the toothpick should be postponed, if possible, 
until after leaving the dining-room, but if it is used at table 
it must be behind your hand or handkerchief, and with the 
greatest c ire. 

Your position at table should be erect ; there must be 
no lounging, no pushing back or tilting of the chair (which 
should be placed at a convenient distance from the table and 
your neighbors), and never moved until you are ready to rise ; 
and, above all, no leaning of the arms or head upon the table, 
or the back of your neighbor's chair. 



12 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

Keep your food upon your plate or plates as ranch as 
possible, bread being the only thing which you can with 
invariable propriety lay upon the cloth beside you. 

If you are obliged to cough or sneeze, the head must be 
turned entirely away from the table, and the mouth and nose 
covered with the pocket-handkerchief. 

You should avoid blowing your nose at table, and must 
not arrange your dress, hair, or any part of your person, as 
these things can be done properly only in your own bed- 
rooms, or in places set apart for that purpose. Xever speak 
while in the act of eating, and never under any circum- 
stances over-fill your mouth. 

The above rules include all that you most need to know 
in regard to the proprieties of the table ; and I can add to 
them only the one broad rule, that you should never do any- 
thing which may offend the sense of the most refined person 
present, because, while there may be a certain latitude 
allowed in general society, the laws of the table are exact 
and unvarying. 

CHAPTER II. 

CARE OF THE PERSON. 

One of the fundamental conditions of civilized, not to 
say refined, society, is cleanliness. The house, trom the cel- 
lar to the garret, must be clean , the table, in all its appoint- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 13 

merits, scrupulously neat ; and, above all, the body should 
be guarded in every particular against even the suspicion of 
uncleanliness. The first step in this direction is the morning 
bath — a necessity and a luxury which should never, in 
winter or summer, be omitted. No matter how hurried you 
may he, or how unwilling to make what seems at the 
moment an exertion, you should never fail to bathe yourself 
thoroughly from head to foot in cool, fresh water, before you 
dress yourself for the day. The simplest and pleasantest 
way to do this is to have a large tub of tin or wood half 
filled with water, into which you can step, and with a large 
sponge or piece of coarse cloth, and plenty of soap, rub the 
akin upon every part of your body until all impurities are 
removed and the senses of sight and smell both assure you 
that you are beginning the day with a clean body. In case 
it is not convenient for you to procure or to use a tub, a 
large basin must take its place, though of course you cannot 
stand in this, but with the sponge or coarse cloth must be 
equally careful to rub every portion of your skin. Having 
by the use of the soap (which you must apply with your 
sponge or cloth) removed or neutralized all the secretions of 
the skin and all the foreign substances which may adhere to 
it, you should then rinse off the soap with pure water, and 
finally rub and dry yourself thoroughly with a clean towel, 
which is all the better for being coarse. 



14 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

This, then, is the general outline of the morning bath 
with which every civilized man and woman should begin 
the day, and without which no one has any right to consider 
himself or herself clean. 

But there are some details which require your attention, 
and I shall take them in what might be called their natural 
order, beginning with the hair. 

The hair and the skin of the head must be washed as 
often as once or twice a week with clean water, without 
soap. The use of oils and pomatum is, as a general thing, a 
mistake, as they clog the pores of the skin, and are more 
likely to produce than to prevent diseases of the hair, in addi- 
tion to which, their odor is usually unpleasant. The use of 
pure water, and thorough brushing once or twice a day, with 
such combing as is necessary to keep the hair from matting, 
will, in most cases, ensure the cleanliness of both the hair and 
the skin of the head. 

The ears must be carefully washed with a sponge or soft 
cloth. Nothing hard or rough should be used in cleaning 
them, and the wax which collects in them should never be 
removed except by washing, as the delicacy of the ears is 
such that it is possible to produee deafness by carelessness in 
the treatment of them. 

The teeth must be cleaned morning and night with a 
toothbrush, clear water, and either toothpowder or scap. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



15 



No toothpowder should be used except that which can be 
procured from respectable druggists and dentists, for it is 
very easy to destroy the enamel of the teeth, and the quack 
powders used by many ignorant people are usually made of 
detergents so powerful as to increase rather than prevent 
the decay of the teeth. If it is possible to clean the teeth 
and rinse the mouth after each meal, it should be done ; but^ 
in any case, a thorough cleaning should be given night and 
morning, for by this means only can you keep your teeth 
sound and white, and your breath free from offense. If this 
habit is established in early childhood, a fine set of teeth i& 
almost invariably the result, while toothaches are avoided 
and dentists set at naught, u a consummation most devoutly 
to be wished for." 

The hands and feet need special care, for the nails of 
the former must be always carefully cut and cleaned with a 
knife or nail-scissors every day, while they must be washed 
several times a day, in particular, both before and after eat- 
ing. The toes must be washed and dried carefully every 
morning, while, whenever it is necessary, the nails must be 
cut, and all corns or growths of that nature, must be pared 
with a knife or otherwise removed, in order to prevent the 
feet from becoming a source of great pain and annoyance. 

The habits of cleanliness which will result from obe- 
dience to the above simple rules, will do much toward keep- 



l6 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

ing your bodies in a healthy condition, for a clean skin is 
one of the essentials of health, so that you have a double 
motive to induce you to learn to be clean, in the fact that 
you can never have either health or refinement except upon 
the broad foundation of cleanliness. 



CHAPTER III. 



PERSONAL HAETTS. 

In associating with our fellow-men and women, in general 
society, which we are all, to a greater or less extent, obliged 
to do, and in which many of us find our greatest pleasures, I 
want you to notice how closely the Christian law and the 
law of Society are united in respect to the principles of re- 
finement. To be a Christian one must love one's neighbor 
as one's self, — to be a gentleman or lady one must at least 
seem to do so, and must bear one's self in all things as if the 
comfort and well being of one's neighbor were the first and 
highest consideration. True politeness involves frequent, 
indeed continual self-sacrifice, and it is this undoubtedly 
which makes it so hard for us to practice it in our homes, or 
at seasons when we fancy the eye of the world is no longer 
upon us and we can be rude and selfish without fear of be- 
ing held up to ridicule and contempt. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 17 

It is of the details of this politeness, this habitual refine- 
ment, that I hope to teach you something ; and I shall have 
now to ask you to follow me patiently through what may 
seem to you an unnecessarily minute account of the number- 
less social regulations to which gentlemen and ladies submit 
themselves, reminding you once more that there is no short 
road to the refinements of life, and that even those who are 
trained from their birth cannot rid themselves of the neces- 
sity for constant care and watchfulness. 

Before, however, I begin upon this part of our work I 
have something to say to you upon a subject which is of very 
great interest to mo.^t people, and that is the matter of 
"Dress/ 3 

Now it is undeniable that our personal appearance does, 
to a greater or less extent, influence onr lives, has often an 
intimate connection with our worldly success or failure, and, 
in short, is a matter worthy of sober consideration. To be 
slatternly, unneat, and careless ; to dress in an extravagant, 
ill-chosen fashion ; to wear uncomfortable and unnatural 
garments; to make either too much or too little of your 
clothes, is a serious mistake, and one against which 
I greatly desire to help you to guard yourselves. And what 
I want you first to remark is, that while, as I have said, 
your personal appearance may and probably does affect your 
life, your life most certainly affects your personal appearance. 



t8 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



Unconsciously, perhaps to you, but still most surely, your 
vices and virtues are moulding with strong hands, your face, 
your form, your very dress, and are forcing you in spite of 
yourself to carry about with you an index to the manner of 
your life, which all the world may read. If you think this 
an exaggeration let me ask you to look about for a moment 
among your companions. Here is Laziness in the girl with 
unneat hair and collar awry, who, as you can see, has been 
unwilling to make the exertion which neatness requires; 
here is Coarseness in the boy with dirty hands and person to 
match ; here Vanity in the shape of tawdry ribbons and 
mock jewelry ; and here, perhaps, Dishonesty in one who 
from a room-mate's trunk has taken some small article which 
may be used without detection, or may be said to have been 
" borrowed.' ' On the other hand, too, is it not pleasant to 
find Thrift in the plain but well-cared-for dress of some boy 
who has little to spend and means to spend that little hon- 
estly ; Modesty in the quiet neatness of some sweet-faced 
girl ; Unselfishness in some simple garb which is bare of 
ornament in order that its wearer may help a needy friend ? 

While I do not, by any means, claim that in all cases 
one can trust to outward signs, yet surely they have much 
to do with the judgment which we form of one another, and 
are therefore of real importance to every station in life, and 
in both sexes. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 19 

la regard, then, to the clothes which we wear, two 
things may be considered certain, namely, that we shall 
in the main follow the prevailing fashion of our time and 
country, and that in detail we shall follow the bent of our 
own tastes, so that while the limits of our obedience to the 
fashion of the day will be regulated by our consciences and 
our purses, our characters as individuals will have not a lit- 
tle to do with the cut and color of our garments. 

Now I think there are few among you who will not 
confess that to be well dressed is a desirable thing, but dif- 
ferences of opioion may very probably commence when we 
begin to discuss the meaning of this term "well-dressed," 
and much must necessarily be left to your own good taste 
and experience. There are, however, two or three essentials, 
and these, as is proper, shall come first. Cleanliness and 
Fitness, you will see at once, are absolutely necessary and 
are within the reach of almost everybody, while the third 
essential, Comfort, is seldom sacrificed, except by unwise 
people, who fancy that to distort and cramp different parts 
of their bodies is the way to obtain grace and beauty, which 
is undoubtedly one ot the important ends for which we strive 
in the endeavor to dress well. 

Having established, then, our three primary essentials, 
Cleanliness, Fitness, and Comfort, we have come to a point 
where the differences in the dress of the sexes make it neces- 



20 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

sary for us to divide our subject, as the rules binding upon 
one sex are not always equally binding upon the other, and 
both fashion and common sense ordain that there shall be a 
marked distinction in the dress ot men and women. Our 
next chapter, therefore, will be especially for young women. 

CHAPTER IV. 



FOR YOUNG WOMEN. 

Taking the articles of your dress in their customary 
order, I shall first speak of the underclothing, which is of 
primary importance to your health and comfort. 

Next the skin, flannel should always be worn, heavy in 
winter, but in summer as light as possible ; and the reason 
lor this is a sanitary one, for nothing so effectually protects 
the skin from the effect of cold in winter, and the danger of 
chills during the profuse perspiration of summer, as some 
woolen material, flannel being the best and cheapest. 

These garments may be made in different ways, but 
should always come up to the throat, entirely covering the 
chest: should be made with sleeves to reach at least half way 
to the elbow (for the under part of the upper arm and the 
armpit are exceedingly sensitive parts of the body), and 
should come well down over the hips. Once a week these 
-under jackets must be changed, lor the excretions from the 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 21 

skin will thoroughly soil them in that time, although no 
stain or mark of dirt may be apparent to the eye. All 
the cotton garments must also be changed at least once 
a week, and it is often desirable to change them more 
frequently, while with the stockings (which should be wool- 
len in winter and cotton in summer) the only safe rule is to 
change them whenever they are soiled. 

The corsets, which are so dangerous a stumbling block 
in the path of young girls, are so universally worn that the 
harm which they do is a serious matter, and I want you to 
whom I am writing these words, and who, in years to come, 
may be able to do much to influence other women, to give 
me your sober attention while I ask a question or two and 
offer you a few facts. 

There can be no doubt, I am afraid, that many of you 
wear your gowns much too tight, and in order to do this use 
your stiff steel-boned corsets to obtain the small waists which 
you think pretty and elegant. Now let me tell you where 
lies your first mistake. Nothing is pretty which is unnatu- 
ral, and as you well know small waists are not natural to 
healthy, well developed women. Your waist, if you would 
have a good and graceful figure, must be in proportion to 
your height and the breadth of your shonlders, and a waist 
of seventeen or eighteen inches upon a girl of average size, 
is simply a deformity. Your small waists are obtained, then, 



2 2 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

at a sacrifice of the very grace for which you are seeking, 
and that is not the sum of your folly. Do you realize when 
you pull in that fatal corset-lacing of yours, what suffering 
you are preparing for yourselves ? 

You are squeezing in your stomach so that it cannot 
digest food ; you are compressing your lungs so that they 
cannot receive the air, which is your life ; you are stopping 
the action of your busy heart ; you are doing a dozen things 
which may ruin your health for life, and which at any rate 
are giving you daily headaches, and very probably making 
you irritable and unhappy. This is surely a senseless and a 
wicked thing — a thing which any honest, God- fearing wo- 
man ought to be ashamed to do ; and I assure you that you 
must consider it, not as a trifling question of dress, but as a 
matter of very great importance to you and to others. For 
God has given you, in most cases, healthy, well formed bo- 
dies, and the responsibility of injuring them is an awful 
weight which must rest now and hereafter upon your own 
shoulders. 

As to the directly practical side of the question I can 
perhaps make some suggestions which may be of use to you. 
A waist made ot stout cotton cloth, firmly stitched and 
corded, cut low in the neck, with sleeveless armholes, will 
take the place of the corset in every respect, while in some 



on Habits and manners. 23 

particulars it is altogether preferable. It can be made with 
a corset steel in front (to be removed when it is washed), 
but should contain no other bones or steels. Your own back 
bone is your proper and all-sufficient support, and you are 
doing your spine and the wonderful nervous system so close- 
ly connucted with it, no kindness when you rely upon the 
artificial aid of whale bones to produce an erect figure. The 
weight of the skirts, which can be made to button on to the 
waist I am describing, is thus supported from the shoulder 
by the band of the armhole ; there is no drag upon the hips, 
no chance to tighten a lacing, no compression between stiff 
bones, and none of that awkward and unnatural inflexibility 
which comes from the wearing of corsets. 

This matter is one which of course must be left to your 
own consciences, but once more I ask you to think of it seri- 
ously, ard to remember that you can sin against your bodies 
as well as against your souls. 

A complete change of clothing at night is imperative. 
You must have night-gowns neatly made of cotton cloth, 
and you must have a sufficient number of them to enable 
you to change at least once a week. On going to bed take 
off all the garments which you wear in the daytime and put 
on your night-gown, which you must be careful to see is 
thoroughly aired every morning, in order that the impuri- 
ties collected during the night may be, so far as possible, re- 



2 4 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



moved. For a similar reason the clothes which you take off 
at night should he thrown loosely upon a chair where the 
air may have free circulation among their folds, and in this 
connection I may properly remind you of the importance of 
having your sleeping room thoroughly ventilated. Before 
going to bed you should always open one or more of the 
windows of your room, and this not only in summer, but 
even more especially in winter, if you are in good health, as 
at that season, house ventilation, for several reasons, is very 
imperfect and the danger from impure air particularly great. 

I have spoken somewhat in detail in regard to your 
underclothing, and I have done so because it is not unusual, 
especially among persons of limited means, to put all the 
expenditure of time and money upon externals of dress, 
while the underclothing is allowed to take care of itself. 
Now, if you have to choose between finery and cleanliness, 
between ribbons and a proper change of underclothing, do' 
not for a moment hesitate, for nothing can be a truer type of 
the "whited sepulchre" of the Bible than the man or woman 
whose external dress is showy and expensive, while under- 
neath are rags and uncleanliness. Make every exertion to 
supply yourselves, first of all, with suitable underclothing, 
and after that you may think about the fashion of your 
jackets and the trimming of your hats. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



25 



In regard to these same externals of dress — that is, as 
to the style, material, etc., of your outer garments, it is very 
difficult, as you yourselves will understand, to give you any 
fixed rules, tor in respect to these parts of our dress we are 
all of us at the mercy of a changing fashion. All that I can 
hope to do is to offer you some general ideas upon the sub- 
ject, in the belief that your own intelligent observation and 
instincts of modesty and propriety will enable you gradually 
to learn for yourselves what are the characteristics of the 
dress of a true lady. 

CHAPTER V.— Dress. 

FOR YOUNG WOMEN. 

The first principle of dress may, I think, safely be said 
to be suitability, and by this I mean that your dress should 
be suited to the occasions on which it is worn, to your posi- 
tion in life, and to the characteristics of your face and fig- 
ure. When you are at work, for example, wear something 
dark in color, simple in make, and, if possible, of material 
which will wa3h. Put aside all your finery, tor nothing is 
more completely unladylike than to overdress ; aad when 
you are at work of any kind, the simpler you dress the bet- 
ter. Plain linen collars and cuffs are proper at all times, 
and should always be preferred to mussy rufflings, though 



26 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

fresh lace or muslin rufflings are a pretty and ladylike addi- 
tion to your toilette ftv evening, or at any time when you 
are dressed more than usual. 

Any preponderances ot bright color, or any glaring or 
improper combination of colors, is always to he avoided. 
There are certain colors, as you know, which are always 
beautiful — as scarlet and brown, or pink and gray — while 
again there are colors which, to use an expressive word, 
u kill" each other, as purple and blue, green and yellow. No 
mere directions can guide you here ; you must simply train 
your own taste by watching the dress of people whom you 
know you can trust in this particular, and in this way you 
will soon learn to judge for yourselves ; but, in the meantime, 
I advise you to err on the side of too little color rather than 
too much. 

For dress materials choose as much as possible solid 
colors — that is, do not indulge too often in plaids, stripes or 
figures, and be careful never to overtrim, for the first care of 
a lady is to avoid attracting attention by the gaudiness or 
fussiness of her dress. Dark colors for winter and light 
tor summer is a very safe rule, though, of course, it may 
often be safely broken. For jackets and cloaks, black or 
any very dark color is proper, and the hat or bonnet should 
be made to match or contrast with the suit with which it 
will be principally worn, while gloves must never be of any 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



2 7 



bright color — grays, drabs, browns, and black, being the 
most useful, with white and light shades for full dress. 

Jewelry, lace, artificial ffowers, etc., should not be worn, 
excep on special occasions, as evening parties, weddings, etc., 
and only at such times, too, are low necked or short sleeved 
dresses suitable, for it is safe to say that the ordinary every 
day toilette of a lady, is remarkable chiefly for its simplici- 
ty of color, fashion and material. 

Boots should be thick and strong for common wear, 
must be kept in good order and neatly blacked. Never, on 
any account, be so foolish as to wear tight shoes, for, as I 
fear many of you have already found, they are the cause of 
infinite discomfort and pain. Slippers are proper for the 
house at all times, but be careful that they do not entice you 
into slipshod habits ; do your best to keep your stockings 
and your shoes clean, whole and neat. 

In respect to petticoats, I think you will see for your- 
selves, that for winter you need those which are light, warm 
and not easily soiled, while in summer you want those that 
are light, cool, and easily washed. The colored woolens 
for one season and the colored cottons for the other, are, if 
wisely chosen, neat, comfortable and cheap, while petticoats 
of white cotton, prettily trimmed, should always be worn 
for your best, or when you have on a thin dress. 



28 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



The idea of "suitability," on which I am inclined to 
dwell very strongly, exists not only in regard to the times 
and places for which you dress yourselves, but also has a very 
direct connection with the amount of money which you are 
able to spend. You understand, no doubt, that it is unsuit- 
able to dress conspicuously in the street, to dress gaudily while 
at work, to overdress anywhere or at any time ; but do you 
also understand how very unsuitable it is to spend a penny 
more than you can honestly afford upon your clothes ? To 
most of you this matter of economy is doubtless a very im- 
portant one, and I shall (taking it for granted that you mean 
to be houest and careful in personal expenditure) try to give 
you a few hints which may be of assistance to you. 

In selecting any garment, from a pair of shoes to a hat, 
you may be sure that it is better to have one really good 
thing than two or three poor ones. Many girls would spend 
the money which one good gown or cloak would cost, upon 
two or three cheap ones, but it is not in this way that you 
will dress well upon a little money. Let your materials, 
your gloves, your shoes, or whatever the articles may be, be 
always as good and as well made as you can afford, and then 
take care of them. Be satisfied to do without a variety in 
order that you may have better things, which, in the end, 
are always more economical, especially when you take into 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



2 9 



account the extra labor entailed upon you by the multipli- 
cation ot cheap articles in your wardrobe. 

Again, do not spend your money upon trinkets ; the 
habit of buying useless ornaments is most extravagant and 
unsatisfactory, for a ring here, a necklace there, a string of 
beads or a brooch now and then, however cheap they may 
seem at the time, will run away with the price of a complete 
stock of underclothing before you think of it. In this con- 
nection, too, 1 must warn you against the vulgarity of all 
imitations, false jewelry in particular being always in bad 
taste. You will find that among ladies and gentlemen a 
very plain reality is better than a very fine sham, and that 
it is good to be true in dress as well as in other things. 

In laying out your limited allowance of money always 
take the most substantial things first, for you will find that 
to sacrifice comfort to show is very poor economy ; as, for 
example, the girl who goes without overshoes in order to buy 
a feather, is very likely to discover her mistake wheu she gets 
her feet wet and pays the penalty of illness and suffering. 

Never fret yourself and waste your time in the attempt 
to dress as people do who are richer than you are, or whose 
position enables them to make more show upon a similar 
outlay. You can be a lady in calico as well as in silk, and 
you can make no greater error than to fancy that economy 



30 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

is a disgrace or extravagance a virtue. The refinement (to 
use a general term) of your dress and appearance will depend 
largely upon your own industry and neatness, for a careful 
eye and ready hand can do much toward making and keep- 
ing j T our dress, what a lady's should be, whole and clean, 
and to that end you should mend rips, tears and holes in your 
garments as soon as they appear, remembering that most 
useful little proverb, "A stitch in time saves nine." 

If you have patiently followed rne thus far, I think you 
will now agree with me that a lady's dress should always be 
clean, suitable and comfortable, and any girl who will work 
on that foundation may safely be trusted to make her dress 
also pretty and attractive by a careful and modest use of 
color, a wise choice of material and fashion, and a systematic 
avoidance of everything glaring and unreal. 

And now there are but two other points upon which I 
wish to speak, and I have purposely reserved them for the 
last, for they are not only matters of dress, but of morality 
as well. 

You must never use articles of toilette which belong to 
your companions, but must yourself be supplied with all that 
you are likely to require, so that you need on no account 
trespass on the belongings of other people. Tooth brushes, 
combs and brushes, washcloths, sponges, etc., are sacred to 
the use of their owner, and I do not know anything more 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



3* 



indicative of a want of refinement than a promiscuous use of 
these things. The utmost intimacy will not justify you in 
any carelessness in regard to articles which, in the strictest 
sense, are personal property, and with your nearest friend you 
should never permit yourself to become lax in this particu- 
lar. Also in respect to minor articles of dress — pocket hand- 
kerchiefs, collars, ribbons, etc. — it is wise to borrow and lend 
as little as possible. Have a sufficient number of these things, 
let them be plainly marked with your name, and while 
guarding your own rights be careful to respect the rights of 
your neighbor, for nothing is more likely to lead to petty 
thefts (a vice about which I shall speak to you elsewhere) 
than the habit of indiscriminate borrowing. 

My second and last warning to you is against a shame- 
ful practice, of which, I hope, you yourselves see the folly. 
While a lady should take every care of her teeth, her hair, 
and her skin, no lady should use cosmetics in any form. 
Paint and powder, however skilfully their true names may 
be concealed under the mask of " Liquid Bloom," or "Lily 
Enamel,'* can never change their real character, but remain 
always unclean, false, unwholesome, a disgrace to those who 
use them, and certain ruin to the skins they are supposed to 
beautify. Put such things away from you entirely, and be 
sure that the adornment they afford is unworthy of good 



32 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

women, for it is an offense against the laws of health, a 
foolish and paltry attempt at deception. 



CHAPTER VI.— Dress. 

FOR YOUNG MEN. 

If you, as young men who desire to maintain the exter- 
nal appearance of gentlemen, were to ask me what are the 
characteristics of a gentleman's dress, I should answer you 
with little hesitation, "Cleanliness, quiet colors, and well 
brushed boots." If you have these three requisites you need 
not be over-carcful about the cut of your coat and trousers, 
or the fashion ot your hat : but even with these attained you 
have not yet reached the foundation of the matter, tor your 
dress really begins, not with the garments which are usually 
visible, but with the underclothing, and on this point I want 
you to understand very clearly what are the essentials. 

As a matter of health you ought to wear next your 
skin, shirt and drawers of some woollen material, heavy in 
winter and light in summer, for this is a safeguard against 
sudden changes of temperature or the depressing effect upon 
the vital forces of extreme oj: unaccustomed cold. The wo- 
ven undergarments, which can be bought at almost any dry- 
goods shop, are cheap and convenient, though flannel, either 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 33 

white or colored, is, on some accounts, better for this pur- 
pose. These garments mast; be changed at least once a 
week; do not on any account wear them longer than that ; 
for, although they may not look soiled, they are most cer- 
tainly saturated with the impurities thrown off by the skin, 
and will probably show it by their color. It is well, too, to 
wear woolen stockings in winter, and for them the only rule 
I can give you is to change them whenever they are dirty. 

You will see, of course, that I am taking it for granted 
that you yourselves are cleanly in your habits, that you un- 
derstand the necessity of keeping your bodies pure and 
healthy, and knowing that this cannot be done without scru- 
pulous attention to details, are glad to learn from the expe- 
rience of others just what those details are. 

Eemember, therefore, in your daily life, in your choice 
of garments, in the formation of your personal habits, and 
in the expenditure of your money, that the thing above all 
others which Society insists upon is "cleanliness," and that 
this cleanliness must begin with your skin and the clothes 
which you wear next it. You must make it a duty, a mat- 
ter of conscience, to be clean trom head to foot, and to this 
end you must faithfully take the daily bath, about which I 
have already so strongly spoken to you. Then you must 
change your underclothes throughout once a week, or often- 
er if necessary, and be very careful never to wear the same 
shirt at night which you have been wearin ^ through the day. 



34 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

13 1 P.ly yourselves with night shirts of white cotton, and 
wear these and nothing else at night, taking off every arti- 
cle of clothing that you have worn through the day, for 
there is no more unwholesome personal habit than that of 
wearing a garment both day and night. You must change 
your night shirt once a week, and when you take it off* in 
the morning must see that it is properly aired before it is 
put away for the day. 

As to your outer garments, the clothes in which you 
work will naturally be suited to the purpose for which they 
are used, and the fact that you do work in them will usually 
imply that they are not very clean nor entirely whole, but as 
most of you have it in your power to have one or more good 
suits, I want to say a word or two to you about those gar- 
ments, in the selection of which you have an opportunity to 
show your individual taste. 

Perhaps the first thing to be said here is what I have 
already once said, namely, that your linen must be clean and 
neat and alw r ays simple — ruffles, embroideries, or any peculi- 
arity of cut, being out of place and unsuitable. A clean 
shirt, collar and cuffs, are indispensable, and when the two 
latter cannot, from motives of economy or convenience, be of 
linen, paper, celluloid, etc., make neat and excellent substi- 
tutes. 

Any jewelry which you may wear — studs, sleeve but- 
tons') scarf pin, or watch chain, must be real of its kind, and 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. % 35 

•simple in style, and, as a general rule, the less you wear of it 
the better. In wearing rings, or any additional jewelry, a 
gentleman will be exceedingly careful as to both quality and 
quantity, as any attempt at show, in this respect, is almost 
inevitably vulgar and a sure evidence of bad taste. 

Your cravats and neckties should not be too bright 
in color ; plain dark shades are always the best, except 
for occasions when you wear full dress — that is, parties, 
weddings, etc., when white or light colors are per- 
missible, and black is always proper. In the selection of 
material for your coat and trousers, you will naturally be 
largely influenced by the climate in which they are to be 
worn — but here again, plain colors are the rule. You will 
very probably have noticed for 3'ourselves that gentlemen 
usually wear suits made of one material throughout, in color 
dark gray, brown, blue or mixed, or suits in which the coat 
is of some very dark shade or black, and the trousers more 
varied, though never of any bright color or large pattern. 
Entirely black clothes are not worn except by clergymen or 
for mourning. 

Boots and shoes must alvays be neatly kept and well 
polished, and care must be taken that they are sufficiently 
large for the feet. 

In the choice of hats you will be guided by the season 
and the fashion as to material and shape, the chief thing 



36 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



being to avoid wearing anything which is conspicuous. 
Gloves must usually be of some dark color, gray, drab, brown 
or black, while for full dress almost any light shade is proper. 

In conclusion, I would say to young men as to young 
women, that the surest economy in dress is to buy good 
things and take care of them. Do not spend your money 
for useless trifles, and on no account spend more on your 
dress than you can honestly afford. Remember that you 
must never borrow anything even from your friends without 
asking leave, and that it is best to borrow and lend, as a 
habit, as little as possible. Let your garments be legibly 
marked with your name, and never wear other people's 
clothes if you can help it. All toilette articles — brushes, 
combs, sponges, etc., are sacred to the uses of their owner, 
and must, under no circumstances, be considered public 
property, or put to any other use than that for which they 
were intended. A gentleman will be careful to supply him- 
self with these things and to keep them strictly to himself, 
neither committing nor permitting any trespass. Further- 
more, you must understand that in order to be gentlemen at 
all you must be gentlemen always, modest and refined among 
yourselves as well as in public, and in nothing is the modesty 
and refinement of a gentleman more clearly shown than in 
the simplicity of his dress and the care and neatness with 
which he attends to the details of his toilette. To form gen- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. }7 

tlemanly habits in this respect will be of the greatest value 
to you, and you may be sure that it is never too soon to be- 
gin the endeavor whose success will be mainly dependent 
upon your own resolution. 



CHAPTER VII.— In General Society. 

FOR YOUNGr WOMEN. 

In general society there are, as you know, many par- 
ticulars in which what is proper for one sex is not proper for 
the other, and what is required of one sex is not required of 
the other, and these differences form a very important part of 
our social regulations, so that it becomes again necessary to 
divide our subject, and upon certain points to speak with re- 
gard, primarily, to their diversity. In obedience, therefore, 
to a well known rule of etiquette, I shall once more [give 
precedence to young women among my readers, and endea- 
vor to show them what Society has decreed to be the essen- 
tial attributes and duties of a lady — that is, what a lady 
must and must not do when she is in the presence of others. 

I have already asked you to notice that the foundation 
of good manners is the commandment, "Thou shalt love thy 
neighbor as thyself;" for even if you do not in your heart 
obey that precept, you must externally appear to do so, if 
you desire to be courteous and well bred. 



38 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

You must, that is, always endeavor to make those about 
you comfortable and happy, even when it is at your own ex- 
pense; and upon this point it will be necessary to go some- 
what into detail in order that you may fully understand 
what is expected ot you, for in society you are brought into 
contact with so many different people under frequently 
changing conditions, that no single rule can cover your gen- 
eral demeanor. 

Toward all persons of your own sex, toward old people 
ot both sexes, toward invalids, or those w T ho are in any way 
weaker than yourself, you must show deference — that jis/you 
must invariably consider their comfort and pleasure, and must 
show them a certain external respect. In your turn, how- 
ever, you will receive a similar deference from gentlemen, 
and in most cases you must understand that you are enti- 
tled to certain privileges by right of your sex. For example, 
you must not pass through doors or gates, or up-stairs before 
other people, but must allow them to pass before you ; you 
must not take the most comfortable or the only seat in a 
room, but must offer it politely to others, except in the case 
of gentlemen, who will allow you to precede them, to occupy 
the only seat, etc., and whose attentions you must accept 
always with suitable acknowledgments. 

You must not sit or piss between the fire or the light 
and another person ; in short, you must not take the best of 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 39 

anything to yourself, but must share it with others, never 
pushing your own claims but trusting always to the polite- 
ness of your associates. In your own house especially you 
must be watchful that your guests are cared for, while, when 
you are yourself the guest of other people, you must be care- 
ful to take no liberties. 

In conversation you must not interrupt those who may 
be speaking, and you must never yourself talk in a loud 
voice or use coarse or rough language, while I advise you 
to break yourselves, as quickly as possible, of the habit of 
using frequent exclamations of any kind, but especially of 
using those which are irreverent, if not actually profane, as 
"Good Lord," "My Jesus/' etc. Sneezing, coughing, blow- 
ing the nose, etc., must be done as quietly as possible under 
cover ot the pocket handkerchief, and you must on no ac- 
count take anything from your mouth when you are in the 
presence of other people. Ooe of the chief charms in a lady 
is gentleness in voice, in manner, in language : a Jady is al- 
ways geutle, and loud talking, or boisterous laughter and 
gestures, are entirely inadmissible in refined society. 

In social gatherings it is not customary for strangers to 
speak to one another without being first introduced by some 
one who is known to both parties, and this ceremony of in- 
troduction consists in bringing together the two people 
whom you desire to introduce, and in mentioning the name 



4o 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



of each one to the other, as, for example, "Mrs. Johnson — 
Miss Smith Miss Smith — Mr. Jones." the gentleman be- 
ing always presented to the lady, and the single to the mar- 
ried lady. After this the parties introduced are expected, 
under all circumstances, to bow and begin a conversation, in 
which, when one of the parties is a gentleman, it is usually 
his duty to speak first. An acquaintance begun in this way 
may be continued or not, at the pleasure of the individuals 
introduced, it being always in the power of one person to 
refuse to know another by declining to speak, bow, or other- 
wise recognize him or her, but it must be understood that 
you must not intentionally fail to recognize any one to whom 
you may have been introduced, without good and satisfac- 
tory reasons for so doing. It is not customary for a lady to 
talk to or accept attentions from gentlemeu whom she does 
not know, and I would like to say to you that it is always 
better for you t o be too reserved rather than too bold in your 
manner, especially with gentlemen, for, as you will soon find, 
the respect and courtesy which they show to you will almost 
invariably be in proportion to the dignity aud modesty of 
your own demeanor. Do not put yourself forward, do not 
endeavor to monopolize attention, do not talk much of your- 
self or your own affairs, do not in any way presume upon 
the general patience, and in conversation endeavor as much 
as you can to choose subjects which will interest all who are 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 41 

either listening or talking. Nothing is in worse taste than 
to talk in public upon purely personal matters, and it is of- 
ten little short of disgusting to well bred people to be obliged 
to listen to long descriptions of things and incidents which 
should properly only be spoken of between intimate friends 
and in privacy. As, for example, you should never talk 
before people of the state of your stomach, the medicines you 
may be using, your visits to the dentist, any more than you 
should in general company pick your teeth, scratch your 
head, or clean your nose or ears. 

The habit of chewing gum, or any similar substance, is 
entirely unpardonable, it being; not only bad for the diges- 
tion and the teeth, but thoroughly vulgar, and to cleanly 
people disgusting. No one who is careful of either health 
or appearance will acquire it, especially as it oilers no com- 
pensating pleasure. 

These and all similar faults, both of word and of action, 
you must scrupulously avoid, and if you have nothing better 
to occupy your attention than such things as these, your 
first duty should be so to regulate your behavior that, at 
least, you may not oftend those who are more refined than 
yourself. You must never forget that there are many things 
which can properly enough be done and said when you are 
among people with whom you are familiar, which are out of 
place and unladylike in general society ; and in this respect 



42 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

it is never safe to allow yourself much liberty, for offences 
against propriety committed in public will eventually result 
in your expulsion from good society, the first requirement 
of such society being, everywhere and always, propriety of 
behavior. 

In conversing with those with whom you are not on 
intimate terms, it is rude to touch any part of their dress or 
person with your hands, or anything which you may have 
in your hands, as a fan, cane or parasol ; to attract their at- 
tention by touching them or calling loudly, to look at them 
very closely, or to comment in any way upon their appear- 
ance. You must not point or stare at people either in the 
street or a room, and when it is necessary or desirable to 
point one person out to another, you must do it in a low 
voice, without any gestures, and so quietly that no one will 
notice it except the person to whom you are speaking. You 
must never make audible remarks upon the people about 
you, and when you unintentionally annoy or discommode 
another person, as by stepping on a lady's dress, taking up 
a book which some one has for the moment laid down, or 
anything of the kind, you must immediately atone for your 
involuntary rudeness by saying, '*I beg your pardon,'' or 
4i Excuse me." When it happens that you are the offended 
party you must always acknowledge the apology made by 
the offender, using some such form of words as "Certainly;" 
44 It is of no consequence." 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 43 

If you have any accomplishment which you can use for 
the amusement of others, you should always be willing to 
do your best when invited, though it is not usually proper 
for you to volunteer your services. If you can sing or play, 
or read well, and are asked to use your power for the plea- 
sure of your friends, do not make the mistake ot hesitating 
and offering a half-dozen excuses, none of which are suffi- 
cient, but do what you are able cheerfully and readily, 
showing your willingness to oblige, while, however, you 
should be careful not to do too much, thereby tiring your 
listeners instead of pleasing them. 

If you join in games or dancing (to neither of which, 
when properly conducted, is there any objection), you must 
be careful that your fun and frolic do not degenerate into 
roughness, that there is no loud laughing or boisterous 
romping, and you must remember that upon you as ladies 
rests the responsibility of excluding all coarseness and vul- 
garity from your presence. You can easily show your dis- 
pleasure and disapproval, and I want you to appreciate the 
fact that in society the power lies principally with your sex; 
that in all social gatherings, and in the family life, it is you 
who must keep up the standard of refinement and demand 
propriety in the behavior of those about you. 



44 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

CHAPTER VIII.— In General Society.— (Continued.) 



FOR YOUNG WOMEN. 

I must advise you especially to guard yourself against 
the dangers arising from over-familiarity. Young people, 
as a rule, are apt to make friends easily and to be unnecessa- 
rily communicative, and in this way often get themselves 
into difficulties which might, at the outset, be easily avoided. 
Young women are probably somewhat more liable to make 
this error than young men, and I would therefore advise you 
in particular not to be too familiar even with your intimate 
friends, but to keep up a certain reserve, which you will find 
to be often a great safeguard. Do not talk of your own 
affairs to all the world ; do not attempt to pry into the af- 
fairs of other people ; do not gossip about your friends and 
their faults ; remember that modesty is essential to your 
womanhood, and that true modesty is spiritual as well as 
physical. By this I mean that the same instinct which will 
prevent you from making coarse gestures, from intruding on 
the privacy of others, from committing any action publicly, 
ought also to guard your tongue from loose speech, your eye 
from suspicion, and your thought from indelicacy, just as 
much when you are alone, as when you are in a crowd, just 
as effectually at home as abroad. 

I would like you to notice here that this modesty of 
which I speak is a very different thing from that awkward 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 45 

shyness which afflicts many young girls, and which more 
often comes from too much thought of self than from too 
little. True modesty is often the surest relief from shyness, 
for it prevents any over-estimate of one's own importance, and 
frees its possessor from any undue sensitiveness as to the 
opinions of other people — that is, a young person who is 
really modest will not constantly wonder what other people 
are thinking of her, or imagine that she is an object of atten- 
tion to any one about her, but will go quietly about her 
work or her pleasure, careful to be true and honest, but not 
too anxious about appearances, remembering that to u be" is 
better than to "seem." 

In order to be graceful and ladylike in your manner 
you must be at your ease, not presumptuous nor over-sure of 
yourself, or vainly confident of your own ability, but simply 
at your ease in that you are not constantly irritated by the 
thought that you may be making some error, doing some- 
thing foolish or different from other people, or in some way 
showing that you are a stranger to the rules of society. And 
I think we shall come back here to our original proposition, 
namely, that you must think about yourself as little as pos- 
sible. Do not fidget because you do not know what to do 
with your hands, or get nervous because you do not know 
whether you ought to stand up or sit down, but watch as 
closely as you can the behavior of the cultivated people whom 



46 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

you may meet; accustom yourself as much as you can to do 
as they do, and be sure that as a general thing the one rule 
which will help you most is to think of others more than of 
yourself. 

It is very important for you to understand that to be 
respectful in your manner and address is essential. In your 
association with people older than yourself, with those who 
are in positions of authority, with those of superior wisdom 
and experience, you must show special respect, not insisting 
upon your own equality, not advancing your own opinions, 
not contradicting others or asserting yourself, but listening 
rather than talking, and being content to follow instead of 
to lead. 

I have spoken to you before of the impropriety of whis- 
pering in general society, and I have still something more 
to say upon that subject. It is rude for anybody, but espe- 
cially for young people, to converse in whispers, to monopo- 
lize conversation, or to keep up a private conversation to the 
exclusion of others, but it is inexcusably so when they are 
in the presence of those who are older and better informed 
than themselves, Also this special respect must be shown 
to places as well as to individuals, in public meetings, at 
lectures, concerts, or similar gatherings, but, above all, in 
church your demeanor must be quiet and unobtrusive ; you 
must do nothing to disturb others or attract attention to 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 47 

yourself, and in church or at any meeting for purposes of 
devotion, you must maintain a sober and reverent manner. 

I do not know anything more displeasing in young 
girls than a habit of loud talking and restless or bold beha- 
vior in public places. Your instinct of modesty ought to 
protect you from this fault ; and if you are so unfortunate as 
to have contracted it, do your best to change and modify 
your manner, and let me advise you to make a beginning in 
the school room. So much of your school life as students is 
spent in class rooms, and so many of you intend to become 
teachers that this matter of school etiquette deserves especial 
thought. Let me suggest to you then, that you give to 
your teachers the same respect and attention, which you in 
your turn, desire to receive from the pupils to whom in fu- 
ture you are to be leaders and examples. Respect also the 
room, and its furniture; respect your classmates, and work 
together to make the standard of the school room high and 
inflexible. If you are in doubt as to what this standard 
should be, your teachers can tell you, and will be your best 
advisers in matters ot detail. I can only tell you broadly 
that politeness is as much in place in school rooms as in par- 
lors, and if you do not practice it in the one place you may 
be sure you will never be perfect in it in the other. 

When any of your associates, of either sex, show you 
curtesy in any form, you must never fail to make due ac- 



48 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

knowledgment. It costs you scarcely a breath to say 
"Thauk you," or "I am much obliged," or "You are very 
kind;" but these little phrases, spoken at the right time, 
are of real importance, and you should try to form a habit 
of using them, as well as of taking notice in other ways of 
the little favors which you ought to be able to accept as well 
as to offer kindly and freely. When you meet friends it is 
proper to inquire if they and their families are well, and to 
show interest in their well being, and sympathy for their 
troubles, all of which can be done without exhibiting any 
impertinent curiosity, and is, of course, a very different thing 
from that personal questioning which is merely an attempt 
to pry into matters that do not concern you. 

In regard to making calls you have to be guided in de- 
tail by the customs of the community in which you live. In 
general, I can only tell you that ladies never call upon gen- 
tlemen, but may invite gentlemen to call upon them, having 
first made sure that they are proper and desirable acquaint- 
ances. You may invite other ladies to visit you, or may first 
visit them, the latter being usually considered more courte- 
ous, and when you receive invitations to call, must accept 
them as soon as possible, or it will be understood that you 
desire to drop the acquaintance. If you have been present 
at an entertainment of any kind, you should, within the 
following week, call upon your hostess as an acknowledge 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 49 

merit of her hospitality. Formal visits should never exceed 
ten minutes in length, and in making them it is desirable to 
eave your card or your name, whether the lady of the house 
is at home or not, and, indeed, in very fashionable society, 
to leave a card is considered the equivalent of a personal 
visit. 

Acknowledgments of a gift, however small, should be 
made promptly and heartily, without, however, any extrav- 
agant expressions, which only give the impression that you 
do not mean what you say. Remember that any delay, for 
which there is no good reason, in sending your letter of 
thanks, or in making your acknowledgment in person, di- 
minishes the value of what you say, making it more a mat- 
ter of form and less an expression of real gratitude. Put 
yourself in the giver's place and you will realize how ungra- 
ious is the delay which allows the glow of friendly feeling 
to change to a disappointment and[ displeasure which excuses 
will hardly remove, and which, not improbably, may 
seriously disturb the friendship. 

As an illustration of the courtesy which good manners 
demand, I give you the following incident, the spirit of 
which, I am sure, you will appreciate, while you will un- 
derstand that the forms demanded by Japanese etiquette are 
not necessary in this country, where hospitality is suffi- 
ciently acknowledged by a properly worded letter, or by 



5<D ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

word of mouth, no gift being looked for except in cases 
where there has been special indebtedness. 

Some years ago the party of Japanese Commissioners of 
Education to the Centennial Exhibition visited Hampton 
Institute, part of their mission to this country being for the 
purpose of studying our various systems of education. The 
party, consisting of a prince and the gentlemen of his suite, 
were gladly enter cained for the several days of their stay by 
the officers of the School. They were all gentlemen of very 
high standing and great intelligence, and their visit was a 
source of pleasure to all who met them. On their depar- 
ture, according to a graceful custom of their country, the 
prince left a beautiful present of Japanese work at each house 
where he had been a guest. A month or more after he left, 
by the earliest possible mail, came letters courteously an- 
nouncing the party's safe arrival in Japan, and renewing 
their acknowledgments of the hospitality they had received. 

As I have said, our Ee publican Society does not de- 
mand such excessive formality as is necessary to the despotic 
etiquette of those Eastern nations, but in some respects we 
can learn from them, and I have used the above anecdote 
to show you how broad a meaning " courtesy" may have. 

It is almost always rude and unkind to ridicule people 
whether they are friends or strangers, and as politeness 
means not only external forms, but also involves considera- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 5 I 

tion for the teelings of those with whom you come in con- 
tact, you must remember that it is often jii3t as ill-bred to 
say or do anything which you know is likely to hurt a per- 
son's feelings, as it would be to shut a door in any one's face 
or offer any similar rudeness. 

If by accident you injure anything belonging to an- 
other person, you must make proper apology, and if in any- 
way you can repair your fault, must do so. Anything 
which you may have borrowed should be returned promptly 
at the expiration of the time for which it was lent. If it 
has been in any way damaged, you must replace it, or if 
that is not possible, must make good its money value to its 
owner. You must never make use of the smallest article 
without asking leave of its owner, and even in so trifling a 
matter as taking up a book or newspaper belonging to any 
one else, must be careful that you are not, in so doing, an- 
noying the owner; in short, you must always and every- 
where be strictly scrupulous in regard to other people's 
property. 

In making the acquaintance of young men, and in your 
association with them, I have already told you how import- 
ant it is that you should be careful, molest, pure in word 
and deed, so that you may command their respect, and never 
have the misfortune to find your name in the mouths of gos- 
sips or scandal- mongers, or even worse, to know that it is 



52 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

bandied about among the very young men whose good opin- 
ion you are doubtless trying to win. 

Do not, as a rule, accept presents from young men ; do 
not go out with young men alone, but try always to have 
others of your own sex with you ; do not take a young man's 
arm unless it is offered to you, and not even then unless the 
time and place are suitable and the offer properly made ; in 
a word, do not permit yourself to be familiar or free in your 
manner, except with those with whom you are intimately 
acquainted ; while so long as you are under the guidance of 
parents, teachers, or friends, you will find it best to trust to 
their judgment rather than yourown in regard to what is 
proper and permissible for young women in their association 
with young men. 

And now, if I were face to face with you, I should like 
to ask you, "What is it which, in your opinion, makes a 
lady?" and from your answers judge of my own success in 
this foregoing explanation. I cannot do that, but I can ask 
you to think for yourselves about the matter, and to answer 
to yourselves a few last questions. 

To be a lady — is it not to be gentle, courteous and kind, 
to speak and move without roughness or rude noise, to be 
modest in look and word, to be considerate of others, to dress 
quietly and suitably, to be respectful, to be neither unduly 
shy nor presumptuously forward, to be at ease in regard to 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 53 

all ordinary social rules, to be bright and cheery without 
coarseness, and to be all these not in public or at times only, 
but everywhere and always? And of such an one can we 
not say, u Strength and honor are her clothing, in her 
tongue is the law of kindness — her price is far above rubies?' 



CHAPTER IX.— In General Society. 



FOR YOUNQ MEN. 

The principal power in general society undoubtedly lies 
in the hands of its female members — that is, it is to them 
that Society looks for a careful maintenance of etiquette, and 
for the support of a high standard of refinement, and you 
will understand this when you remember how many things 
3'ou do, as young men, among yourselves, which, as gentle- 
men, you would not, on any account, do in the presence of 
ladies. Now, of course, the rougher life, which, as a gene- 
ral thing, falls to the lot of young men, and the fact that in 
their struggle with the world they have little time for social 
culture, explains this and to a certain extent excuses that 
w r ant of grace and ease which is so much more frequent 
among young men than among young women. But, and I 
want you to lay this to heart, neither this nor any other 
reason, however plausible, can or ought to induce you to 



54 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

abate, by jot or tittle, your constant endeavor to become and 
to be gentlemen. If you will once take the trouble to learn 
what it is to be polite and well-bred, and will honestly try 
to form the habit in yourselves, you will find that you need 
never be too tired, or too busy, or too careless, to be gentle 
and courteous in your manner to those about you, and you 
will find, too, that every step which you take in this direc- 
tion will bring its reward, and that, in the end, you will be 
more than repaid for the exertion which, at the outset, may, 
not improbably, seem to you very great. 

I have no intention, as you see, of encouraging you with 
the assertion that it is an easy thing to be a gentleman, for 
that, I think, would be the surest road to your ultimate dis- 
couragement, but I want you to believe and act upon what I 
am sure is the truth — that is, that by care, patience, watch- 
ing the habits of those who are better bred than yourselves, 
and modestly accepting instruction in whatever form'it may 
come, you can make of yourselves gentlemen, of whom your 
friends and teachers will have no need to be ashamed. 

Now if you have read what has already been written to 
you, you have learned several things which I shall here 
merely recapitulate in brief. You have learned that tho- 
rough cleanliness is essential, that your dress should be neat, 
quiet, and always suitable to your occupation, and that at 
table your behaviour must be most carefully regulated. We 
come now, naturally, to your demeanor in general society — 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 55 

that is, in all social gatherings, in all public places, in the 
street and the house ; wherever, iu short, you are brought 
in contact with your fellow beings, and the details which I 
shall try to make plain to you, demand your serious atten- 
tion. 

Consideration for others, either real or apparent, is the 
foundation for good manners, and what you need to learn is 
to show such consideration constantly and easily, to make it 
so entirely habitual as to require no special effort. There 
are certain forms which you will have to follow, certain rules 
which you will have to obey, and the more thorough your 
knowledge of these, the pleasanter your social relations will 
be, both to yourself and others. 

Many of the principal of these rules relate to the respect 
which you are to show in certain ways, and, in greater or 
less degree, to all whom you may meet. For example, you 
must invariably give precedence to all women — young or 
old, rich or poor — to all old people, to all invalids, and to 
all to whom, from their position or character, you desire to 
show especial respect — that is, that you must never enter a 
room, carriage, etc., before such persons, or precede them 
through doors, gates, etc., or seat yourself before they 
are seated; but, on the contrary, should always be 
ready to assist them by the numberless little attentions 
which a gentleman has it in his power to bestow. Do you 



56 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

ask what these attentions are? Did you never see a gentle- 
man assist a lady, or any one who was old or weak, from a 
carriage, or open a door for them to pass through, or carry a 
parcel for them, or pick up anything which they may have 
dropped, or close a window for them, or in a hundred w r ays 
do something for them which it would be hard or disagree- 
able for them to do for themselves? 

If you will notice how wide the difference is in these 
matters between a rough, untrained man, and a gentleman, 
you will soon be convinced of their importance and the ne- 
cessity for training yourselves to remember them, for every- 
where and always it is these little things that mark a gen- 
tleman's manner. 

You must not pass between the fire or the light and any 
one; must not sit in any awkward or familiar position in the 
presence ot others ; must not smoke without asking permis- 
sion ; must not chew, or, above all things, spit ; must not 
cough, sneeze, or blow your nose loudly or obtrusively. You 
should always carry and carefully use a pocket handkerchief ; 
and with it cover your mouth when you sneeze, cough, or 
yawn (turning your head aside at the same time), while the 
various other uses to which it can be put, make it an indis- 
pensable article of your attire. If you can avoid it, you 
should not sit or stand with your back toward any one, and 
when in company should never yawn, as this latter is a rude 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 57 

indication that you are tired of the people about you. 

To whistle or sing audibly is in very bad taste, and you 
must most certainly not allow yourself to pick your teeth, 
scratch your head or any part of your person, clean your 
nails, or take any similar liberty before people. 

You must not talk in a loud voice, call loudly to attract 
another person's attention, must not use rough or coarse lan- 
guage, and must never, anywhere or at anytime, be guilty 
of profanity. In regard to this last fault I would gladly 
speak to you at length and most earnestly, but I think the 
sin has been wisely summed up in the words of a famous 
clergyman who once said that " there could be no excuse for 
profanity, for it was not only wicked and ungentlemanly, but 
also consummately foolish," a description so true that it 
ought to be enough to deter any thoughtful man from the 
use of so called strong language. In a less degree it also 
applies to any coarseness or vulgarity of word or gesture, 
than which nothing is more repugnant to refined persons, 
and as this is a specially dangerous fault for young men who 
are apt to take a good deal of license among themsel ves, you 
will have to guard against it very carefully, remembering 
that the expressions which you permit yourself to use habit- 
ually when you are with your daily companions, will almost 
invariably crop out in your general conversation. If you 
use coarse, rough, language and gestures, when you are with 



58 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

the men and boys who are your ordinary associates, you will 
find it very difficult to change your custom when you are 
with other people, for which reason (and for many others), 
it is best, if you mean to be a gentleman at all, to be a gen- 
tleman always. 

When the door of a room which does not belong to you , 
or in which you have not at least an equal right with others, 
is closed, do not try to open it, but knock and await the an- 
swer of those within. When you enter a room always re- 
move your hat, and touch, or remove it when you meet an 
acquaintance; while upon your first entrance into a room 
you should speak or bow to each person in it, unless, of 
course, the number is very large, and should do the same 
upon leaving. When you are introducel to any one you 
should bow and begin a conversation upon some subject of 
common interest, shaking hands, in this country, not being 
usual except among friends. In conversation be careful not 
to put j^ourself and your opinions forward, to interrupt any 
one who may be speaking, to talk much of yourself or your 
own affairs, or to introduce any merely personal subject. 

Do not talk (except to intimate friends or in private) 
about the state of your health, your clothes, your teeth, about 
anything, in short, which can only be of interest to yourself 
and your near friends, and try to reach a happy medium be- 
tween uneasy shyness and presuming self-confidence, being 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 59 

quiet and unassuming, but neither careless nor awkward. 

Do what you can always for the entertainment ot others, 
and when you join in games or similar amusement, do so 
without noise or roughness, and with due regard to the 
pleasure ot your companions. 

If you are a guest in the house of others you must, upon 
your arrival, first greet your host and hostess, and never 
leave without making a proper farewell to them ; in your 
own house you must politely and kindly receive your guests, 
doing your best to make them at ease and to give them plea- 
sure. When you are away from home you must be careful 
to take no liberties, and must understand that many things 
which it is proper to do in your own house, you'cannot do in 
other people's houses without rudeness. 

I believe that with young men, as with young women, 
the safest means to obtain graceful and pleasing manners is 
to think as little of yourself as possible. Of course it is ne- 
cessary for you to give some thought to your appearance and 
to your general demeanor, but my meaning is that you are 
not to think of yourself selfishly or with over-sensitiveness. 
Do not be too anxious as to the opinion that may be formed 
of you ; do not constantly wonder whether people think you 
are good-looking, or well dressed, or well-mannered, or 
"smart ;" but watch closely the behavior of the most culti- 
vated people you know, imitate their actions when you are 



60 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

in doubt or ignorance as to what is proper, and then forget 
yourself and try to make those about you comfortable and 
happy. This may seem to you an odd rule whereby to mea- 
sure yourselve3, but I assure you that if you will put it in 
practice you will find it covers a great many of these details 
which seem so hard to master when you are obliged to take 
them one by one. You will find, in many cases, when you 
are perplexed as to the proper thing to do, that the answer 
to the question, " What will be most agreeable to those 
about me?" will solve yoar doubts and decide correctly f r 
you. For example, nothing is more ill-bred than over-famil- 
iarity, and, as a general thing, nothing is more disagreeable 
to the people to whom it is offered. Do not approach too 
closely to any one to whom you may be speaking, especially 
if it be a lady ; do not touch any part of the dress or person 
of any one near you ; do not whisper, point or stare ; do not 
make remarks upon the appearance of others while you are 
in their presence, and do not ridicule or make fun of either 
strangers or friends. 

Do not keep up a private conversation to the exclusion 
of other people, and do not in any way amuse yourself at 
other people's expense, for, as I have said before, the rude- 
ness which unnecessarily wounds another person's feelings, 
is just as inexcusable as the rudeness which stares a person 
out of countenance or occupies a comfortable seat while 
some tired woman stands. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 6\ 

If you unintentionally commit any rudeness, or trespass 
upon the rights of others, you must never fail to ask pardon 
at once, saying " I beg your pardon," or " Excuse me," or 
using some similar form of words, and, when possible, must 
atone tor your rudeness in other ways as well. 

In church, at concerts, lectures, or any public gathering, 
you must always be quiet and orderly, on no account talking 
in a loud voice, or in any way making a disturbance or at- 
tracting attention ; while at church or any religious meeting 
your behavior must be reverent and marked by proper re- 
spect for the place wherein you are, and the occasion which 
has called you there. 

Applause should be will-timed aud general, never being 
kept up by a few when it is evidently the general wish ot 
the assembly that it should cease, and never bein g permitted 
to become boisterous or uncontrollable. 



CHAPTER X.— In General Society— (Continued.) 



FOR YOUNG MEN. 

You should try always, when you are among people, to 
sit or stand quietly, unless there is good reason for moving. 
To shuffle your feet, move your chair uneasily, fidget with 
any part of your dress, or anything you may be holding, is 
very annoying, and, if you allow it to become a habit, will 



62 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

often make you an unpleasant companion to well-bred peo- 
ple. Teach yourself to do what you have to do neatly and 
quickly, and then do not embarrass yourself and others by 
constant and needless movement. 

You probably sufficiently appreciate the importance of 
showing deference to those whose years, station or character 
make their claim to it evident, but I should like to make 
you feel that it is a good thing to practice politeness toward 
your companions whom you consider on an equality with 
yourself, and not especially entitled to respect. The minor 
courtesies of society cost so little when they have once be- 
come habitual , and go so far toward making life smooth and 
pleasant, that you will find it no waste of time to practice 
them in your intercourse with your fellow students and la- 
borers. Do not be ashamed to offer a seat, or a newspaper, 
to say "thank you" for any little kindness, to pick up any- 
thing that your companion may have dropped and return it 
to him ; but, on the other hand, be always ashamed to keep 
on your hat even in a room full of men, to spit recklessly 
here and there, to yawn in a friend's face, to take the best 
seat, to ridicule or mock any unavoidable peculiarity in an- 
other, to roughly reject or ignore any favor done for you, 
because for your own sake, if you are not moved by any less 
selfish reason, you had better give your companions such 
treatment as you in turn desire to receive. More than this, 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 63 

there are few, even among rough boys, who do hot feel the 
charm of a courteous and kindly manner, and the example, 
in this respect, of a single boy may work greater good than 
pages of written advice. 

It is not unusual to hear boys and very young men say, 
scornfully or carelessly, that all these things are for girls : 
"men" have no time or need for them, but surely in so say- 
ing they prove nothing but their own ignorance or laziness. 
If you will make a fair trial of this matter you will find that 
it is possible to be refined and gentlemanly in spite of hard 
work, small opportunities and a rough life, and it is foolish 
for you to undervalue the importance to you of a pleasing 
and sensible manner. A man's success in life is sure to be 
more or less affected by the external proof which he gives of 
the training he has received, and it will be greatly to your 
advantage if early in life you teach yourselves to be polite 
and careful in your behavior to all people. 

In your intercourse with all members of the opposite 
sex, of whatever class or age, it is proper for you to pay cer- 
tain attentions and evince a more marked respect than is 
expected from you toward your own sex. There are many 
particulars in which your behavior must be modified by the 
presence of ladies, and as the social regulations upon this 
point are very exact, you will need to study and observe 
them with care. 



64 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

When you meet a lady with whom you are acquainted, 
in the street, you must bow and remove your hat, and must 
usually pass her on the outer side, leaving to her what is 
presumably the best and safest part of the path or pavement, 
while in walking with a lady you must also take the outer 
side. When you are introduced to a lady, bow and speak at 
once, and when a lady speaks to you, remember you are 
bound to reply, and reply politely, under all circumstances. 
If you are walking with a lady who is a friend, you can, in 
the evening, offer her your arm, which she can take or re- 
fuse, at her own pleasure ; in the daytime you need not offer 
your arm, but must be watchful to give any aid she may 
seem to require in the way of getting in and out of car- 
riages, boats, cars, etc., stepping over any obstacle or avoid- 
ing any difficulty. 

You must not usually permit a lady to open doors, gates, 
etc., for herself, but must open them for her, standing back 
to allow her to pass through before you. You must not, on 
any account, smoke in a lady's presence, even if she is an 
intimate friend or relative, without first asking her permis- 
sion, and as to the disgusting habit ot spitting, I trust that I 
have already impressed upon you that it is never permissi- 
ble before ladies or any number of people. 

You must not remain seated while a lady is standing, 
but must always try to find for her a comfortable and con- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 65 

venient seat, and when there is anything to be seen or heard, 
must not fail to give her the best place. To push or jostle a 
lady, to force yourself in front of her, to take, in any way, 
advantage of her inferior size and strength, is the height of 
rudeness, and is an act of which no true gentleman is ever 
guilty. On the contrary, you should use your strength for 
her advantage, allowing her in your presence to do nothing 
disagreeable or arduous for herself which you can properly 
do for her. When you are with ladies you must be particu- 
larly careful to fall into no awkward or familiar positions. 
Do not sit or staud with your hands in your pockets ; do not 
lounge or sit with your feet higher than your head ; do uot 
whistle or hum; do not yawn, and especially do not permit 
yourself any of those liberties which I have already told you 
are entirely forbidden in general society. 

Remember what I have said to you in regard to the use 
of your pocket handkerchief, and how careful you must fcfe 
about blowing your nose, sneezing, picking your teeth, etc. 
Then, too, you must scrupulously avoid annoying a lady by 
any coarse words or gestures, or by any rude attempt at 
familiarity. Let your manner to a lady be always modest, 
quiet and attentive, roughness and noisy talk being always 
repugnant to well bred, modest women. 

When you are playing games in which ladies join, or 
dancing, or engaged in any social amusement, you must allow 



66 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



yourself always to be governed by the pleasure of the ladies ; 
they must take the lead and you must follow — that is, yo u 
must permit them to choose what they will do and how it 
shall be done, and must waive your own opinion. 

You must not get up games or conversation among 
yourselves to the exclusion of the ladies who are present, 
and must be careful when refreshments are offered to see that 
the ladies are properly served before you help yourselves. 
If a lady drops a handkerchief, gloves, etc., you must at 
once pick it up and politely return it to her, and if you.unin- 
tentionally commit any rudeness, such as stepping on her 
dress, failing to answer when she speaks, etc., you must at 
once apologize and do what you can to atone for it. If a 
lady is reading a book or paper you must not ask her to give 
it up to you, but, on the other hand, if you are using any- 
thing which you think she wants, you must offer it to her, 
and, if she desires it, give it up at once. You should never 
scrutinize closely a lady or her dress, and should never make 
remarks about her ; indeed, this is carried so far that it is a 
point of honor among gentlemen not to discuss freely among 
themselves the character or appearance of their lady friends- 

A lady desires, above all things, to be respected, and 
you, as gentlemen, can show your respect for her in no bet- 
ter way than by refusing to talk about her among your 
companions. If you wish to accompany a lady home from 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 67 

any evening entertainment, you must ask her permission 
and be careful not to force yourself upon her, while if you 
do accompany her, you must not, upon reaching her home, 
go in, unless she gives you an invitation to do so. 

The choice as to whether or no she will make or keep 
up your acquaintance rests always with her, and in paying 
formal visits you must keep strictly within the rules which 
society lays down. You must never call without an invita- 
tion, unless you go with a friend who has the right to intro- 
duce you. You must always call upon your hostess within 
a few days after any entertainment to which she may have 
invited you, whether you have been present or not. You 
must leave your card or your name at the door when you 
enter, and you must not make the mistake of unduly pro- 
longing your visit. Ten minutes is quite sufficient for an 
ordinary call, and unless there are special reasons for so doin^, 
you had better not exceed thatlirnitor you will find yourself 
in the dreaded category of u bores." 

If you have reason to suppose that you have offended 
a lady by any rudeness or carelessness, it is your duty to 
offer a proper apology or explanation, and you need feel no 
false shame in so doing, for a true lady will always respect 
your intentions even though they may be awkwardly 
expressed. 

In the above I have throughout used the term u lady,'' 
partly because it was convenient for me, and partly because 



68 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

it conveyed to you something more than the word "woman" 
or "girl," but I want you to understand that what I have 
said includes, with very few exceptions, the whole sex. 
Your schoolmates, your mothers and sisters, the young girls 
with whom you commonly associate, all should receive from 
you deference and kindly respect. 

Do not let the rules and hints which have been given 
you serve only when you are in the company of your teachers 
or those whom you yourselves consider a# "ladies," or those, 
in short, of whom you have a little wholesome fear, but let 
them control your everyday life and regulate your conduct 
toward your girl companions, your relatives and home 
friends. You may be sure that it is just as rude and ungen- 
tlemanly to push through a door before the girl who stands 
next to you in class, as before the lady who teaches yon, and 
that the boy who keeps on his hat in a room full of girls, 
and suddenly removes it when a teacher looks in, has a great 
deal to learn, and is not on the right road to learn it. 

Furthermore, if you do not yourselves show respect to 
the women of your own kindred and race, you will have no 
right to expect such respect from other men, which is a full 
and sufficient reason for you to be toward them, even more 
than toward others, scrupulous and courteous in thought 
and deed. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 69 

The following chapters, tor the use of travelers, have 
been written especially for this volume by Miss H. W. Lud- 
low, whose experience in travelling with our students and 
in the South generally, has given her unusual opportunity 
for observation. 

CHAPTER XI. 

MANNERS ON THE ROAD. 

Here is a true story. One summer day a steamboat 
stopped at Old Point, Virginia, and took on, among other 
passengers, quite a large number of young colored people of 
both sexes. Some of these went or* board loudlj talking and 
laughing, pushed their way up stairs to get th,e first places 
by the rail of the upper deck, from which they called and 
shouted to their friends onshore till the boat started; others, 
hurrying into the cabin, made for the best seats, lounging on 
the sofas, and exchanging free jokes with their companions 
in loud tones, till their behavior drew upon them the atten- 
tion of all the passengers within seeing and hearing distance. 

u ThaVs the beauty of educating Negroes," said one of a 
group of southern white gentlemen standing near, and his 
lip curled with disgust. 

"Sir,'' replied another, a man of high birth and standing 
in the State, u I have visited the Hampton Normal School, 
and I know its Principal, and have seen its students, and 
I'll wager you that there's not a Hampton student in that 



70 OX HABITS AND MANNERS 

crowd, but those are some of them yonder, and there are 
some more, behaving like ladies and gentlemen. I can pick 
them out for you anywhere on the boat — so quiet and neat 
and well mannered that they haven't even attracted your 
attention." To confirm his words, this champion of Hampton 
students took pains during the trip to approach the different 
groups and talk separately with each individual, inquiring 
in his kind and fatherly way where they had come from and 
what were their plans for life. In uot one single case did 
lie find his first conviction a mistake, as he has since told not 
only the friends who were with him, hut more than one 
officer and teacher of Hampton Institute, very much to their 
gratification, as you may imagine. And some of them were 
gratified again, recently, by hearing from a northern lady 
visiting Hampton for a second time, that having no- 
ticed some quiet act of politeness to a stranger done by a 
young colored man of intelligent and pleasant appearance^ 
oti a railway train in Massachusetts, she had "wondered if he 
were not from Hampton Institute/*' knowing that its stu- 
dents had sometimes found work in that neighborhood, and 
on inquiry, found this to be the case. 

We tell 3^011 these pleasant incidents, assured that they 
will incite many of you to do all in your power to win the 
same good opinion for yourselves, and keep up the good 
reputation of Hampton students. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 7 1 

And what are good manners on the road? We have 
only to adapt to the special circumstances of travel the gen- 
eral rule with which we started, that politeness at its foun- 
dation is thoughtfulness for others and a proper sense of our 
own relations to our surroundings. All through life, as a 
poet has said, 

" We all are travellers who throng 
A thorny road together." 

To take the thorns out of others' way will make the road 
smoother for ourselves also, and let us not be a thorn in their 
way if we can help it. 

You will gather from the first of our true stories above, 
that good manners on the road, as elsewhere in public, are 
quiet manners. Ladies or gentlemen will not wish to make 
themselves conspicuous among strangers, therefore talk 
quietly together, or with the friends who come to see you 
off. Demonstrative farewells are supposed to have been 
made at home. A kiss should be held sacred for the nearest 
and dearest, and they will not wish to make a display of it. 
For the rest, a friendly handshake is enough, and remember 
again that that does not mean a torturing grip that will 
leave its memory in aching joints. 

TO YOUNG WOMEN. 

Quietness of manner should accompany you all the way, 
and will be your best passport and safeguard. If you are 
traveling alone, be especially careful of your behavior. Don't 



72 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

enter into familiar conversation with men who are strangers 
to you. Look out for your pocket book, and remember, too, 
that as Shakespeare says, "Who steals my purse steals trash." 
Remember that you have your own self-respect, the rep- 
utation of Hampton students, and the good name of the 
women of your race to sustain. Not long ago a Hampton 
girl was going North for the summer ; money had been sent 
her for her fare ; alter paying her passage on the steamboat, 
she put the balance for her railroad ticket into her satchel. 
Unfortunately, not being perhaps much accustomed to trav- 
eling, she left her stateroom door unlocked and her satchel 
lying on the berth. When she returned it had disappeared. 
Greatly distressed she went to the stewardess. While telling 
her sad loss a white gentleman drew near, and hearing her 
account, said to the stewardess, "Where does this young 
woman come from ?*' u From Hampton Institute, sir." " I 
can't see a Hampton student suffer when I can help it/' said 
the gentleman, and, taking out his pocket book, presented 
her with a two dollar bill to replace the one she had lost. 
It seems to me there are several lessons in this story, and I 
will leave them to you to find out. 

Be observant of all about you. A great deal can be 
learned on a journey, not only of geography, but of human 
nature and social customs. One good rule is not to do things 
or go into places that you see no one else do or enter. A young 
girl, taking a short journey alone, amused herself for some 



ON HABIT AND MANNERS. 73 

time by watching the ways of people in the same car, and 
seeing one very pleasant, modest looking young lady, not far 
off, resolved that she would take her for a model all the way. 
She thought she was so pretty and sweet looking that she 
gave her in her thoughts her favorite name, and called her 
Miss Charlotte. Observing that Miss Charlotte put her 
satchel in the rack above her, set her umbrella in the corner 
by her, and folded her shawl over the seat behind her, occu- 
pying thus only the half seat she sat in, Sarah, as we will 
call her, took hers from the seat beside her and stowed them 
away in like manner, though many others in the car were 
spreading their belongings over a whole seat. At the next 
station a great many people got in, and Sarah looked rather 
anxiously to see what Miss Charlotte would do. As usual, 
the women and children entered the car first, looking from 
side to side for a seat. Many who sat alone in a seat turned 
their heads and looked out of the window, leaving their 
baggage to speak for them ; some declared that the seat was 
"engaged." Miss Charlotte looked pleasantly at the first 
woman and child who entered. The woman hesitated, but 
seeing Sarah's seat so near, sent her little boy to that and sat 
down very gladly. Several were left standing, but when 
the conductor came in he found seats for all, and Sarah was 
very thankful that she was not one of those whose baggage 
he unceremoniously removed to accommodate some of those 



74 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

they would have least welcomed. When the cars stopped 
for dinner, Miss Charlotte proved to have brought her lunch 
basket with her, and as Sarah also had some sandwiches 
and fruit in her satchel, she had another opportunity of 
watching her model. She was glad that she, too, had a nice 
clean napkin to spread on her lap, and though she had no 
pretty fruit knife like Miss Charlotte, she followed very 
closely her example of neatness, keeping her crumbs in her 
napkin, and folding her apple cores and peach stones in a 
paper, wondering indeed why she didn't throw them out of the 
window as some did, till ✓she saw she was only waiting till 
the train had moved out of the station and away from the 
town, where they would be annoying to passers by. Seeing 
the little boy by her side look longingly, as children will, at 
her fruit, Sarah would have liked to offer him one, but 
fearing that his mother might not think it best for him, she 
held it up with an inquiring look, as she caught her eye. 
The mother smiled and nodded, and Sarah offered it to the 
little fellow. He looked towards his mother, who said, 
4 'You may take it, Tommie, and say thank you." Sarah 
was pleased to see that Miss Charlotte saw it too, and was 
delighted when she gave her a pleasant smile. After that 
the little fellow became quite sociable and she enjoyed his 
childish talk ; but nothing more of note happened till, when 
at the next station Miss Charlotte was getting off, as she 
passed Sarah's seat her veil was caught and drawn off, and 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 75 

she went on without perceiving it, till Sarah, hurrying after, 
handed it off of the platform, calling "Oh, Miss Charlotte, 
here is your veil you dropped." "Oh, thank you very 
much," said the young lady with surprise, "but my name is 
not Charlotte, did you think it was?" "Oh, no, ma'am — I 
— beg your pardon/' said Sarah, her cheeks growing very 
hot. The pretty young lady looked puzzled, but laughed 
and said, "Well I thank you very much all the same," and 
there was no time for more, the train moved off, and Sarah 
took her seat again, and wondered all the way what "Miss 
Charlotte" would imagine about it, and what her name 
really was, and where she lived, and what she would think 
if she could know she had been a " model." But she never 
saw her again, and that is all the story. You might make 
up a great deal prettier ending if you were to try, no doubt, 
and imagine a great many more circumstances. 

Some people get into trouble by asking direction of 
strangers about them, rather than of the proper officials. 
Ticket agents, conductors, pursers, stewardesses, and police- 
men, are responsible persons, part of whose business is to 
direct strangers. If irresponsible persons mislead you by 
accident or design, you have generally yourself to blame. 
Other people, especially women traveling alone and unused 
to traveling, make themselves very annoying and provoke 
discourteous answers by asking very foolish, unnecessary 
questions of the officers of the road, or requesting something 



7 6 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



they have no authority or right to do. As we have said 
elsewhere, keep your eyes open. Read notices ; they are put 
up on purpose to be read. When you need to make inqui- 
ries, make them clearly and modestly of the proper persons, 
and you will seldom receive anything but a courteous an- 
swer, for which or for any help rendered even by one who is 
paid to do it, it is always proper to say " Thank you." lie 
cannot be paid for the courtesy with which he does his duty, 
except by corresponding courtesy in those for whom he does it. 

When you approach your destination, or have to change 
oars, think about your trunk. Don't forget to check it, and 
never give up your check except to an official, or without a 
receipt. It is always well to look when your trunk is check- 
ed, to be sure that the numbers correspond, on the check you 
hold and that on your trunk. It is well to also write the 
number of your check, and the name or letters on it, in your 
note book. This will enable the railroad or express company 
to trace your trunk if it is lost. If you give your trunk to 
an express agent be sure that he takes the right address and 
check number, and take care of the receipt he gives you. It 
is safe to give your check to a city hack driver to get your 
trunk if you are going to take it on the carriage with you; 
his hack is numbered and he is responsible. But if you are 
not going with it, don't give your trunk or check to any man 
who oflers to take it, with no receipt. Many trunks have 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 



77 



been stolen in this way. If you don't know how to manage, 
ask the conductor, or stewardess, or a policeman, according 
to where you may be. But keep your own wits about you, 
and when you leave car or boat or station, count your be- 
longings and see that you leave nothing behind. If you 
should ever leave anything, go to the office of the company, 
or the station, where many things thus lost are brought. 
It is always well to have everything clearly marked with 
your name — satchel, umbrella, shawl strap, overshoes, pocket 
book, etc. 

The matter of dress comes up in traveling as everywhere 
else. It is always a mistake to dress showily for traveling. 
For short distances in summer, a simple calico or gingham > 
clean and neat, with clean collar, and straw hat with ribbon, 
is quite appropriate and much more ladylike than a white 
muslin with gay ribbons, and hat with light flowers or lace, 
getting more and more soiled every mile of the way. In 
the same way, for long journeys or cool weather, a plain dark 
alpaca or woolen stuff, with clean collar, dark sack, and hat 
with dark ribbons, makes the best kind of traveling dress, 
much better than anything light or showy. All cannot 
afford a special traveling dress. That is not neccessary, but, 
choose a plain, quiet dress to travel in and let it be neat and 
whole. And clean hands are better than dirty and ragged 
or showy gloves. A young girl we once saw, who, unwill- 



78 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

ing to lose the effect of her rings, had put them on outside 
her gloves, had certainly made a sad mistake. Strong ser- 
viceable shoes, large enough to be perfectly comfortable, and 
worn enough to be used to them, are best at any time, and 
especially for a journey. In our changeable climate, a gos- 
samer, overshoes, umbrella and shawl, save much danger 
from exposure on a long journey. A good supply of hand- 
kerchiefs and collars should also be in your satchel. A cel- 
luloid collar and cuffs can be worn with comfort and washed 
off like a china plate every night. If you engage a sleeping 
car or berth, be sure to loosen your clothes thoroughly to 
give your lungs free play on lying down. Serious illness 
may result from neglect of this. With a little management, 
it is quite possible to do this even in the narrow limits of a 
sleeping car, and to remove the dress, folding neatly and 
laying it at the foot of the berth, slipping on a loose sack, 
comfortable to sleep in and proper to appear in in case of 
emergency. The trouble this takes will be well rewarded 
by the rest of the night and the comfort of the day on a long 
journey. 

CHAPTER XL— Manners on the Road— (Continued.) 

TO YOUNG MEN. 

The matter of dress touches you, too. Don't try to look 
like a dude, and don't be negligent of your appaarance. In 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 79 

these days of celluloid collars and cuffs, no one need wear 
soiled linen. A clean flannel shirt is better than a dingy 
white one ; a straw or felt hat better than a silk one ; well 
blacked shoes look better than light or flashy ones, while 
clean hands and nails are the sign manual of a gentleman — 
rings are no improvement to them. 

Don't buy coarse papers or dime novels. A man is 
known by what he reads. Buy the respectable journals and 
read what is going on in your country. 

Don't strew peanut shells on the floor, and don't make 
the compartment you occupy so foul and revolting that a 
woman — or a decent man — will rather stand up than sit 
down there. 

As I have just cautioned our girls as to their behavior 
towards men who are strangers to them on the road, so do 
I most earnestly say to you, } r oung men, protect the woman- 
hood of your race. If a lack of self-respect on the part of a 
woman is pitiable and sickening, the attempt of a man 
to take advantage of such lack is contemptible and un- 
pardonable. Stand ever ready to protect or aid without 
presuming on anything great or small that you may be able 
to do. Towards women, young or old, whom you meet on 
the road, let your behavior be guided by this thought: 
" How should I want a man to treat my sister or my mo- 
ther ?" 



8.o 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



I do not forget that to colored people in America the 
question of manners on the road may involve at times pecu- 
liarly difficult and trying positions, and cases where the 
courtesy will seem very one-sidevl. But while I understand 
and deplore this, and while I admit that there may be cir- 
cumstances when it will be right and necessary to make a 
stand, in a proper and lawful way, for one's lawful rights, I 
believe that, especially in these cases, propriety of deport- 
ment on your own part will do more than anything else to- 
wards securing for you fair and proper treatment from 
others. And trying as are some of the inconsistencies of 
treatment, of which you have just cause to complain — the 
penumbra of slavery's dark eclipse out of which your race is 
passing — I am sure that a glance over the past will encour- 
age you by the perception that these very inconsistencies are 
on the hopeful side and show what you have gained, not lost, 
of rights and privileges. I am sure, too, that you will agree 
with me that the improvement has been owing, in a great 
measure, to the progress and the proper deportment of your 
people. The incidents with which I began this chapter 
show you how this is recognized by both North and South. 
Thus every one of you can do something to help it on, and 
with this inspiring thought I wish you each, wherever you 
go. a pleasant journey. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 



81 



CHAPTER XIII. 



LETTER WRITING, 

There are certain well-defined rules in regard to the 
arrangement of a letter, its address, date, signature, etc., with 
which you ought to be familiar, and you also need to un- 
derstand the regulations of general correspondence — that is, 
you should know the difference between a business letter and 
a note of invitation, between an unceremonious line to a 
friend and a polite and careful letter to a stranger. In fact, 
there is a good deal to be learned before you can write a 
neat, graceful, properly expressed letter, and as the ability 
to do so should be one important result of your education, 
you must try to familiarize yourselves as rapidly as possible 
with the art of letter writing. 

In the first place, then, whatever the object and style of 
a letter may be, and to whomsoever it may be written, it 
must always be dated — the name of the place from which, 
and the day of the week and month upon which it is writ- 
ten, being placed in the upper right hand corner of your 
sheet of paper. Give it plenty of room, and if the letter is 
of special importance, add in figures the date of the year as 
well. A little lower down, and upon the left side, write the 
name of the person you are addressing, always with a 
proper prefix ; to a stranger, " Dear Sir," or " Dear Madam ;" 



82 ON HABITS AND MANNERS 

to a friend, whatever your taste and affection may dictate. 
Directly below this, and again a little to the right, the body 
of your letter should begin. This should be broken into 
paragraphs, should be written in perfectly straight lines (it 
is best to accustom yourself to use unruled paper), and should 
be so arranged as not to close either at the extreme top or 
bottom of your sheet, as this always gives an awkward look, 
and by a little care can be avoided, while you must specially 
avoid making blots and erasures. 

Having completed your letter, you have still the envel- 
ope to address, and this requires quite as much attention as 
the letter itself, for, as you know, it is only by means of a 
legible and correct address that your letter can reach its des- 
tination. Begin somewhat above the middle of your envel- 
ope and close to the left hand corner, with the plainly writ- 
ten name of the person, giving any title which may belong 
to him or her. Follow this a little lower down and further 
to the right w ; th, if it is to go to a city, the street and nur ^* 
ber ; if it is to go to any institution, office, society, etc., with 
the requisite a.ldress of such place or society, writing, in all 
cases, after this (again lower down and more to the right) 
the name of the village or city, closing with the name of the 
State. *Vheii there is no number, street, or special address, 
the name of the village or town follows directly after the 
name of the person, and in cases where the place is little 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 83 

known it is best to put between its name and the name of 
the State, the name of the county in which it is situated. 

The following is a properly written note with envelope 
appended : 

Hampton, March 9, 1875. 

My dear Uncle : — 

I arrived here last night and write at once in 
order that you may know of my safety and feel no further anxiety 
about me. 

I have a very pleasant room and am sure I shall be happy here, 
provided I can keep up with my classes, which I certainly mean to 
do, if it can be done by hard work. Of course I am a little home* 
sick at first, and everything seems strange to me, but I expected that, 
so do not feel discouraged. 

I hope you will write to me often, and do not forget to give my 
love to Jennie and Tom. 

It is time for me to go to school, and I am going to begin my 
education by learning to be punctual, so the rest of my news must 
wait until my next letter. Hoping to hear from you soon, I am, 
^ Your affectionate Niece, 

Sarah Thompson. 

Mr. James Thompson, 
Care of Mr. Charles Lee, 

18 William St. 

Raleigh, 

North Carolina. 

There are so many different ways of prefacing your sig- 
nature that it is impossible and, indeed, unnecessary to enu- 



84 ON HABITS AND MANNERS 

merate them here, but whatever form you may use must be- 
gin a little below and to the right of the final line of your 
letter, while below this, and to the right again, comes your 
signature — that is, your name, either written at length or 
with merely the initials of the Christian name or names, 
and the whole surname. 

Your sheet of paper must be neatly folded to fit the 
envelope, and the stamp must always be placed in the upper 
right hand corner where it will not cover any portion of the 
direction. In writing the direction you must • remember 
that post office officials, in distributing letters, always read 
first the name of the State, then the city, then the street, and 
last of all the name of the person, for it is in that way that 
a mail is made up, the letter being first sent to the destined 
State, and then to the local postmaster, who finally gives it 
to the person for whom it is intended. Your direction, 
therefore, should not be so written as to crowd the latter 
part of it ; on the contrary, write the names of the village 
and of the State in a large and clear hand, and the name of 
the person in somewhat smaller characters. 

Very formal notes, notes of invitation, etc., are fre- 
quently written in the third person, as, 

Philadelphia, May 10th. 

Mr. Smith regrets to inform Mrs. Allen that he is unable to give 
her the information she desires, but believes that she can obtain it 
from Miss Jay, to whom he encloses a letter of introduction. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 85 

Now a letter of introduction is usually given by a mu- 
tual friend to one of two individuals who are strangers to 
each other (the bearer of the letter presenting it to the per- 
son to whom it is addressed), and would run somewhat as 
follows, varying of course according to the facts of the case : 

19 Columbia St., Washington, [ 
December 6th. ( 

My Dear Mr. Turner : 

I take pleasure in introducing to you Mr. 
Henry Otis, a friend and neighbor of mine who is intending for the 
present to reside in Washington. Any kindness which you may have 
it in your power to show him, will be a personal favor to me, while I 
am sure that you yourself will enjoy his society. 
Hoping to see you soon, I remain, 

Very truly yours, 

Samuel Warner. 
Notes of invitation in the third person admit of little 
variation, the usual form being : 

Mrs. Jones requests the pleasure of Mr. Knox's company, on 
Wednesday evening, June 2d, at 3 o'clock. 

Regrets and acceptances are framed in the same way* 
Business men use certain forms of correspondence which 
presuppose familiarity with, and are only used in business 
circles, but every young man, at least, ought to be able to 
write a fair business note according to established form, and 
although one example does not by any means cover the 
ground, it will enable you to understand the usual form : 



86 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 



New York, May 4, 1875. 

Messrs. Brown, Jones & Co., Chicago. 
Gentlemen : 

Yours of the 30th ult. received and contents duly 
noted. In reply to your enquiries in regard to sales of cotton we 
would say that there is little demand for high grades at present, the 
market being dull and season late. 

We shall do nothing without further orders from you. 
Your obedient servants, 

John Smith & Son. 

Letters to strangers should not be written familiarly, 
although the ordinary formula is retained at the beginning. 
"Dear Sir," or "Dear Madam," "Dear Mr., Mrs., or Miss," 
are always correct, while you may sign yourself, "Respect- 
fully," or "Very respectfully yours," "Truly," or "Very 
truly yours," "Faithfully yours," "Sincerely yours," or by 
a variety of forms. 

In using postal cards you should remember that you are 
at the mercy of the public, so to speak, and should therefore 
write nothing that you are unwilling all the world should 
read. Telegrams should be as concise as possible, the ordi- 
nary forms of address and signature being omitted, and 
merely the name and telegraphic address given. It is good 
practice to occasionally write telegrams upon imaginary bus- 
iness, in order to learn how much information may be given 
and received within the compass of ten words. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS Sj 

It is, both in society and in business, your duty to an- 
swer letters fully and promptly, reading them carefully and 
making full acknowledgment of their contents. 

In writing, as in talking to friends, you can of course 
allow yourself much more liberty, but at the same time 
must always obey the rules which have been given in respect 
to dates, addresses, etc., and must be careful to keep your 
lines straight, your paper clean, and your whole letter, from 
the date at the beginning to the stamp on the envelope, neat 
and accurate. 

You will find, moreover, as you begin to attempt letter 
writing, that you can never learn to write correctly or com- 
pose easily, except by constant practice, and whether or no 
you get such practice will depend mainly upon your own 
conscientiousness and energy. Paper, pens and ink, are 
within the reach of almost all of you, and if you will make 
a point of using them carefully and frequently you will find 
that the bugbears of letter writing will soon disappear, and 
that which to many of you is now a task, will not only 
become a pleasure to yourselves but will enable you to give 
pleasure to others. 



88 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 



CHAPTER XIV. 

MINOR MORALS. 

The Christian law is, as I have said before, so closely 
interwoven with the whole fabric of modern civilization that 
many of our daily habits, and much of our social life, may 
be said to come properly under the head of minor morals. 
That is, there are many forms which people of refinement 
observe in their intercourse with each other, which are not 
only matters of etiquette, but also come under the jurisdic- 
tion of the moral law, and are of more importance, both to 
individuals and to society, than any mere ceremonies can be. 
It is, of course, often very difficult to decide just when and 
how oar habits or our manners cease to be "right" and 
" wrong,/" and begin to be merely "proper'' and "improper," 
and I think it is quite certain that we have all of us much 
to learn in respect to that morality which is the foundation 
of society. Therefore I hope that you will be glad to study 
a little for yourselves, and to gain a clearer comprehension 
of the value of truth and honor and honesty and purity in 
the details of life, even when those details are, as is often the 
case, of the homeliest and roughest description. However 
unimportant an action ma}' seem to you, however small the 
thing to be done may be, it is always better to be right than 
wrong about it, and I want to speak to you now of a few, at 
least, of these daily habits of yours, in which you are espe- 
cially likely to fall into error. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 89 

I have already spoken of the rudeness of mimicking, 
ridiculing, or in any way "making fun" of people in an un- 
kind spirit, and I want you to understand that it is not only 
rude but also really wrong, as are all words and actions 
whereby you unnecessarily wound the feelings of others. 
Try at all times and in every way to be considerate, remem- 
bering that deep injury and grief may be inflicted by what 
you may only think "a little thoughtlessness ;" and to show 
you how far such thoughtlessness may go, and how serious 
its results may be, I want you to ask yourselves a few ques- 
tions about your consideration for the rights of other people 
in respect to their personal property, which is certainly a 
serious matter. Do you not frequently borrow from your 
friends and schoolmates articles of clothing, books, or even 
money, which you forget to return? Do you not sometimes 
even take such u little things," as you probably consider 
them, without asking leave of their owner, and although at 
the time you undoubtedly mean to return them, do you not 
sometimes find that you are unable to do so, and thus actu- 
ally end by committing a dishonesty ? This carelessness in 
regard to other people's property is, I fear, not an uncommon 
fault among you, and it is only too true that, while you 
would perhaps never do deliberately dishonest things, you 
are, nevertheless, sometimes led into violations of the eighth 
commandment through simple thoughtlessness, or want of 
consideration for the distinction of mine and thine. 



9° 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 



Now, I think that you must see for yourselves that if 
you do not overcome this fault in early life, it will inevita- 
bly grow upon you as you grow older, and cannot be other- 
wise than harmful in its effects upon your moral nature, so 
that your duty is to put strict guard upou yourselves in this 
respect at once and constantly. Do not take anything which 
belongs to another person, without first asking that person's 
leave, and not even then unless you are sure of your ability 
to return it or its equivalent. Do not get into the habit of 
borrowing, even from members of your own family, for such 
a habit tends very surely to encourage thriftlessness and im- 
prudence, and you will find that in the end you are very 
seldom the better for borrowed things, however tempting 
they may be at the moment. If you make strict honesty 
the habit of your lite you will soon discover the result to be 
an independence and self-respect which is of infinite value to 
the -man or woman who has rightfully earned it. 

In the preceding chapters, upon your behavior in gene- 
ral society, I omitted to speak to you in regard to certain 
matters of politeness, because they are also, and, I think, 
primarily, matters of morality, and one of these omitted sub- 
jects is the reading of other people's letters or papers. You 
know, of course, that few things are meaner or more dishon- 
orable than to open any letter, paper, or package, which is 
addressed to anybody else ; but I am not sure whether you 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 9 1 

understand that this extends even to communications which 
have already been opened by the person for whom they are 
intended. That is, that the fact of letters, etc., being un- 
sealed and open, does not by any means give you the right 
to read them. Not only must you not take letters from the 
trunks, desks, or boxes of their owners, in order to read 
them, but when you find letters lying open upon a table, for 
example, or the floor, you must scrupulously avoid satisfy- 
ing your curiosity as to their contents. If you want to find 
the owner of a letter thus found, you can generally do so by 
looking at the address or possibly the signature, but beyond 
that you must never permit yourself to go. This rule ap- 
plies also to unfinished letters which your companions may 
have left within your reach ; you must on no account read 
them, and furthermore, you must never look over the shoul- 
der of a person who is writing or reading a letter — this latter 
being, to say the least of it, an unpardonable rudeness. 

Another most contemptible habit is that of prying about 
among things of whatever kind which belong to other peo- 
ple. To open drawers, trunks, boxes, etc., to search in pock- 
ets, private books, or similar receptacles ; in short, to take 
any sly or unfair means to possess yourself of information 
to which you have no right, is so evidently wrong that I am 
sure it is only necessary to call your attention to it, for you 
can see, without any explanation from me, how ignoble such 
conduct is. 



92 ON HABITS AND MANNERS 

Again, if by any chance you become the possessor of in- 
formation which was not intended for you, your only proper 
course is to keep scrupulously silent about it ; and in this 
connection I want to say something to you about the too 
common practice of reckless gossiping about other people's 
affairs. I have told you before that it is always best to be 
careful as to what you say, or listen to, about your neighbors, 
and again I must remind you that scandal (which usually 
means repeating unpleasant and harmful stories which may 
or may not be true, about your acquaintances) is always to 
be avoided, because it is almost inevitably injurious both to 
the subjects of it and to those who talk it. 

Try to think and speak well of your neighbors when- 
ever it is possible, dwelling always rather upon their virtues 
than their faults, for "charity covereth a multitude of sins," 
and charity means to love one's neighbor as one's self. Do 
not gossip or talk carelessly or much about other people's 
affairs, there are other subjects better worth talking and 
thinking of, and except in cases where you are able to give 
advice or assistance it is best for you to remember that usu- 
ally it is wise and kind to mind one's own business. You 
will understand that, used in this sense, "minding your own 
business" does not imply that you are to be selfishly wrapped 
up in your own affairs, but simply that you are to permit to 
others the same freedom from interference which you desire 
for yourself. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 93 

Do not help to circulate stories of the entire truth of 
which you are not certain, a tiling which is so frequently 
done, merely for the sake of excitement, that it and its com- 
panion fault of exaggeration are fixed habits with many 
people. Try not only to be sure of the truth of any reports 
which you may desire to repeat, but try also to train your- 
self to exactitude of speech. Weigh your words ; be sure 
that you know just what they mean before you use them, 
and then don't let them be too big or too frequent. State 
your facts with as much accuracy as you can command, and 
in order to do this train yourself to observe carefully and to 
listen attentively, for it is only by doing this that you can 
protect yourself from constant errors in your descriptions 
and statements. 

If you permit yourself to fall into a habit of using big 
words simply because you fancy they have a fine sound, you 
will find them snares and pitfalls, for they will tempt you 
into exaggerations, into saying more than you mean, and 
very often into actual mis-statements or falsehoods. As a 
matter of elegance, too, you should avoid grandiloquence of 
speech, for nothing is more likely to make you ridiculous in 
the eyes of sensible, well-bred people, than an attempt to 
unduly magnify your subject or yourself by the use of unne- 
cessary or exaggerated forms of expression. This, and more 
also, applies to all words or expressions which are in the 



94 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

least irreverent or profane, of which, I think, 1 may safely 
tell you that they are never used by Christians or even by 
persons who claim nothing more than mere external refine- 
ment. If you desire to gain the respect of either of these 
two classes of people, you must give up absolutely the use of 
all profanity, irreverence and vulgarity in your language, 
and I would also once more advise you to guard yourself 
against the too frequent use of exclamations of any kind, for 
this latter is very commonly only a form of irreverence. 

This whole matter of guarding your speech is an im- 
portant one, for with the tongue you can commit much fol- 
ly, injury and sin, and you must remember that words 
which are, in one point of view, only "the breath of your 
mouths," are, in another, fixed and unalterable facts, potent 
for good and evil. Of scandal, of profanity, of coarseness, of 
unkindness, words are the chief vehicle, the tongue the great 
agent, while of a greater sin than any of these, the burden 
lies principally upon that " little member" which is too of- 
ten a a world of iniquity." 

I mean the sin of falsehood, a sin which I fear many of 
you do not sufficiently dread and fight against, but which 
is too fatal in its consequences to be for a moment trifled 
with. Do you ever stop to think soberly of the effect upon 
a person of deliberate or even thoughtless untruthfulness? 
Do you realize that if you allow yourself to become habitu- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 95 

ally false in your speech, even in matters of little import- 
ance, that you are undermining your whole moral nature and 
forfeiting the confidence of your fellows, thereby fatally in- 
juring yourself? I cannot and need not speak here of the 
innumerable varieties of falsehood, nor of the far-spreading 
evil which a single lie may work, — you must know from 
your own experience that the harm which a liar can do to 
others is incalculable, — the thing that, perhaps, you do not 
understand is the harm which a liar does to himself, and the 
danger of the first steps in the path of deceit. 

As a general thing, of course, lies are told for some 
purpose, to conceal a previous lie, to obtain some advantage, 
or tor some similar end, and in each case are only the begin- 
ning of a long course of deceit, for one of the terrible fea- 
tures of falsehood is that one untruth necessitates another, 
the alternative of confession being so painful that few people 
have the courage to meet it. Such deliberate falsehood is 
an alarming symptom of moral disease, and the mental state 
which produces it should no more be permitted to continue 
than a fever is allowed to run its course untended, and if 
you will resist steadfastly the first temptations, you will find 
each victory easier than the last, for your moral strength, 
like your physical strength, increases by use. 

Consider well the fact that everything is against the 
liar; he gains nothing, or at best but a temporary advan- 
tage; he loses the confidence of his associates, and with it 



g6 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

his best chance of worldly success ; he loses his own self- 
respect, and with it all the best of his power ; and he loses 
altogether and entirely his claim to be a servant of God, the 
noblest name for which any man can strive. Like all other 
virtues, truthfulness can be gained only by work and watch- 
fulness ; you must never let yourselves grow careless, or per- 
mit yourselves to believe that "white lies," or prevarica- 
tions, or even inaccuracies, do no harm, for they are all false 
lights which sooner or later lead away from the pure light 
of truth. You can win few things for yourselves which are 
better worth having than a habit of speaking the truth at 
all times and seasons and to all people, and if there is one 
thing more than another which you ought to gain before 
you go out into the world to meet its temptations, it is a 
horror of lying and liars. And here, as in so many other 
respects, you can help yourselves more than anybody else 
can help you ; you can remember how shocking falsehood is 
in itself and in its consequences, and, with God's help, can 
determine to cast in your lot with His servants, u in whose 
tongue there is no guile ;" for without such resolution the 
lives upon which you are just entering will be worth little 
to yourselves or your fellow men. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

CHAPTER XV. 



97 



minor morals — (Continued.) 
Among the innumerable forms of deceitfulne&s there is 
one, viz. : the withholding of the truth, of which I want to 
speak to you as students, and which I want you to consider, 
as it affects you in your relation to each other, to your teach- 
ers, and to your school. I am sure that there are few of you 
who do not grow to have a real and hearty affection for the 
school to whose influences you owe so much, and who do not 
feel that in after life you will look back to your school as to 
a home, with interest, with gratitude, and, if all goes well, 
with honest pride. And yet I fear that you do not often 
remember how much the character and success of your school 
depend upon individual scholars, how much you can help 
your teachers, how much you can do for your fellow stu- 
dents, how much, in short, the whole tone of the school will 
depend upon you. No school can be very powerful for good 
unless a majority of its students co-operate with the teach- 
ers, and make the honor of their school a real thing, so real 
that it is a live influence among them, and this can only be 
done by the best and most intelligent scholars uniting to 
put down and expel the vices which are constantly creeping 
in among their younger and weaker schoolmates. You will 
understand better than I can tell you how much there is 



gS ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

which is wrong and foolish going on among you, which 
your teachers, however deeply it may grieve them, can hard- 
ly reach without your assistance, and that, therefore, your 
personal responsibility is very great. When you become a 
member of a school you become responsible, not only for your 
indivdual life in it, but for its honor and good name, and 
there is nothing which a student should feel more keenly 
than any disgrace befalling his school, above all, when it is a 
disgrace which, to a greater or less extent, may be chargea- 
ble to his own carelessness or wrong doing. 

Now while there are many w r ays in which you can show 
your allegiance to your school and your determination to 
make its record honorable and its name respected, there is 
one in particular which often involves some troublesome 
questions and requires much consideration — I mean that 
courageous telling of truths for the good of the school, which 
you know will bring upon you from some of your compan- 
ions the accusation of tale-telling, an accusation which must 
always be very painful to any right-minded boy or girl, 

Tale-telling is emphatically mean, but there is a w r ide 
difference between glibly complaining of some fellow stu- 
dent's mistake or misdemeanor, and conscientiously and so- 
berly reporting to the school officers anything which you 
are convinced is, unknown to them, injuring or interfering 
with the work of the school, or poisoning the moral atmos- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 99 

phere. This latter you are bound in honor to do even at the 
cost of great pain to yourself; it is a duty which you owe to 
the school as an organization of which you are a responsible 
member, and in doing it you need to be sure only of two 
things: first, that your report is accurate; second, that it 
is made, not for the sake of telling tales, but because you 
know that in no other way can the evil be remedied. 

To take or attempt to take the law into your own hands 
on such occasions, is almost always worse than useless, for 
you are not in a position of authority, and usually have nei- 
ther the experience nor the judgment necessary to enable 
you to deal justly and wisely with the offender. The only 
honest and courageous course for a student who becomes 
aware of a serious misdemeanor on the part of a fellow stu- 
dent, is to report at once, without exaggeration or reserva- 
tion, to the proper authorities, and to be guided as to his 
own action entirely by their decision. 

By this, and by a conscientious obedience to the laws of 
the school, you can vastly strengthen the hands of your 
teachers, and you can do your share in the honorable and 
lasting work of building up a Christian college for your peo- 
ple, a work of which your own experience must already have 
taught you the inestimable importance. 

Throughout all your school life you. should remember 
that the time which you spend in study is entirely and sim- 



IOO ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

ply a time of preparation. The great work of life opens before 
you when the school doors close behind you, and from that 
day forward you will in all probability have little time or op- 
portunity for merely personal cultivation. You have spent 
months, possibly years, in sharpening your weapons, and 
when the day comes for using them they should be keen and 
true, or your chance in the crowded field will be small. Re- 
member, then, that your school hours are precious, that the 
knowledge which you acquire in them is the foundation of 
all that you will get in after life, and that the habits which 
you then form will remain always at the base of your char- 
acter. In your school, under the guiding and protecting 
influence ot your teachers, you have an opportunity to form 
and strengthen both your moral and intellectual nature, and 
you cannot too strongly feel the importance of making the 
best use of your advantages. I believe that most of you un- 
derstand the value of the education which you get from 
books, and that upon that point I need say little to you. 
You know that tvithout suoh education you can do little or 
nothing ; that with it, the world of art, of science, of busi- 
ness is open to you, and ou are aw are that in order to ob- 
tain it you must pay the price of persistent hard work, but 
in regard to the habits of life which you are forming day by 
day, I fear your convictions are not so clear. 

In respect to these habits, then, I have something to 
say to you before we part, and although it may seem to you 



ON HABITS AND* MANNERS. IOI 

to be to some extent a reiteration of what has been said be- 
fore, yet I hope to be able to put the facts before you in a 
new and clearer light. 

The habit of courtesy, of consideration for others, the 
habit of truth telling and of fair dealing, the habit of self- 
control, you can form in yourselves (as soon as you are old 
enough to appreciate their importance), no matter how great 
your early disadvantages may have been, provided you can 
place yourselves for a time under favorable conditions, and 
nowhere can you find these conditions so well as in a good 
school. In such a school you are thrown into close contact 
with a laro-e number of vounsc men and women, under such 
regulations that courtesy, consideration and self-control, be- 
come matters of course, while the association with cultivated 
teachers is of very great personal assistance to yon. All the 
circumstances are helpful, for you have not only individual 
ambition as a spur, but you have also an ambition to keep 
up the reputation of the school, and a desire that neither 
those who have graduated before you nor those who are to 
come after you, shall have reason to be ashamed of your re- 
cord. 

You have, in short, as I have already told you, what is 
probably the best opportunity you can ever obtain to make 
yourself strong for good and against evil, and in order to use 
your opportunity wisely you ought to consider what are 
your special weaknesses and temptations. 



102 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



Do you ever stop, for example, to think how frequently 
idleness ruins men and women, and whether you yourself 
are doing your best to form a habit of industry? Are you 
conscientious about your work, filling every hour set apart 
for labor with useful employment, or do you shirk and evade, 
doing only what you are obliged to do and doing that not 
very energetically or persistently ? Do you realize that the 
command "Whatsoever thine hand findeth to do, doit with 
thy might," is applicable to all your undertakings, because 
slip shod, unregulated work is never good or successful, and 
you can never do little things well unless you are in earnest 
about them. 

If you have thought much about this matter of indus- 
try you must already have learned that it is not only all- 
essential as regards your worldly success, but that it has also 
a most important and certain influence upon your character. 
If you permit yourself to become careless about your work, 
to fall into irregular, unpunctual habits, you will find that 
it affects your whole life and injures you seriously in many 
w T ays, gradually unfitting you for any kind of persistent la- 
bor, and making you finally useless, shiftless, and utterly 
unsuccessful. Begin, then, in school, where everything is 
in your favor, to make yourself conscientiously industrious, 
and do it as a matter ot principle, for as the years go on you 
will find that there is spiritual as well as material truth in 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. IO3 

the proverb, "The soul of the sluggard desireth and hath 
nothing, but the substance of a diligent man is precious." 

Hand in hand with the vice of idleness goes frequently 
another almost equally dangerous vice, that of waste; and 
the temptations to it among young people are usually very 
great. You have not yet learned by experionce the danger 
of wasteful aud the value of economical habits, and, as a 
general thing, youth has more temptations to spend than 
incentives to save. Usually you have no one dependent 
upon you ; you are strong and hopeful and not afraid of the 
a rainy days" against which older people are constantly ad- 
vising you to provide. You scarcely see why you should 
trouble yourself now to form a habit of economy, and it 
seems very hard and unreasonable that you should be told 
to deny yourself pleasures now in order to prepare for a very 
uncertain future. But if you are wise, you will learn as wise 
men since the foundation of the world have learned, "from 
the ant, which provideth her meat in the summer and gath- 
ereth her food in the harvest," and will understand that 
your material prosperity will largely depend upon your 
thrift. Furthermore, waste is in itself sinful ; we have no 
right to squander and misuse anything, but should honestly 
economize and make the best use of everything which passes 
through our hands, whether it be our own or another's. 

The food which we waste, which might feed the hungry, 



104 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

clothing which we neglect and abuse, which might cover the 
naked, tools or material of any kind which we wear out and 
destroy by rough handling or carelessness, money which we 
spend thoughtlessly — for all these we are accountable, and 
neither here nor hereafter can we escape from our responsi- 
bility. 

Diligence and thrift are at the foundation of worldly 
prosperity and are also most emphatically Christian virtues, 
and neglect of them in your youth will cost you in later life 
a heavy price, while I am inclined to press upon you their im- 
portance, because as a people you have had in the past little 
opportunity to practice them, and are therefore specially 
likely to undervalue the v n. 

A virtuous life is a many-sided life ; if you mean to be^ 
good men and women it will not suffice for you to cultivate 
merely those virtues which are easy and pleasant to you, so 
growing in one direction only, but your endeavor must be to 
develop evenly and healthfully upon all sides; and now, in 
these years which are set apart as a time of preparation for 
the work and care and responsibility which will surely be the 
lot of every one of you, you should constantly and earnestly 
remember how precious is every hour. All that you learn 
now is just so much working capital for the rest of your 
lives, and if properly used you will find that it will never 
fail to bring you a heavy interest upon all the time and 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. IO5 

strength its accumulation may have cost you. All the 
knowledge you get from books, all the experience you gain 
of different forms of labor, all the good habits you form, may 
be considered as permanent investments, which, by a little 
determination on your part, may be made continuously and 
increasingly profitable, and the honorable ambition to elevate 
yourselves and your people, which, I believe, most of you 
feel, ought to help you greatly in overcoming the obstacles 
which God in his omniscience has seen fit to put in your path. 

You know better than I can tell you what those obsta- 
cles are, and I believe you are rapidly learning what I have 
again and again told you in these pages, that they can only 
be surmounted or removed by patient, hard, intelligent work. 
For such work you have now the opportunity ; in it you 
have the warm sympathy and wise assistance of teachers and 
friends, to it you have every stimulus that human life can 
offer. 

More than all this, and I believe that there are many of 
you who have a deep and honest sense of the truth of what I 
am going to say, you have the humble faith that you are the 
children of an all-wise Father whose will it is honor and 
gladness to fulfil, in who3e justice you can most absolutely 
trust. If you can put love for Him at the foundation of your 
lives, all the details of which I have tried to teach you, 
something, will seem neither trivial nor impossible, you will 
know the meaning of that beautiful old verse, — 



106 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

"A servant, with this clause, 

Makes drudgery divine ; 
Who sweeps a room as for Thy laws, 
Makes that and the action fine." 
And you can so order your ways that wherever you may be, 
or whatever may be your work, you can feel and show that 
you are about your Father's business. 

It is to this end that all decency, all courtesy, all honor, 
all study tend, and this is the conclusion of the whole mat- 
ter : "Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the 
whole duty of man." 



CHAPTER XVI. 

HOUSE AND HOME. 

The corner stone of all civilization is the Family ; the 
existence of families includes the existence of homes, and a 
home pre-supposes a house, so that we are swiftly and easily 
led to comprehend the importance to the human race, or at 
least to all civilized members of it, of the houses which shel- 
ter them, and which, furthermore, supply so large a share of 
the comforts, the charms, the sweet and powerful influences 
of Home. 

The effect of well built, convenient, attractive houses, 
is hardly to be overrated ; they are so supremely civilizing 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



107 



that men and women can hardly fail to be made, in one way 
or another, the better for living in them ; they seem to offer 
a premium upon neatness and taste, and are a constant stim- 
ulant to the desire for comfort and beauty, which is common 
to all people above the level of barbarians. No young man 
at the outset of his life can have a safer or wiser ambition 
than that which he gains from his desire to become a house- 
holder ; no young woman can go far wrong who believes that 
to become a housekeeper, in the true meaning of the term, is 
a good and beautiful thing, and neither of these positions 
are, as a general thing, to be lightly won or easily kept. A 
man who has only his own labor to depend upon must make 
up his mind to much hard work and some self sacrifice be- 
fore he attains to the undivided ownership of a suitable and 
comfortable house ; and a woman, who in her childhood and 
youth has known little or nothing of the details of properly 
organized housework, needs to lay up a stock of courage and 
perseverance when she promises herself to become a true 
housekeeper. 

But both man and woman find themselves amply repaid 
for all their labor and sacrifice when, the goal being won, 
the house and home are theirs, and they can rest, as did the 
wise men of old, under the safe and beautiful shelter of their 
own vine and figtree. 

Now, taking for granted the desire and resolution to 



I08 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

make homes for yourselves which, I believe, exist among 
most of you to whom these chapters are addressed, there 
follow at once the practical questions: first, " What is the 
safest and quickest way of becoming the owner of a house, 
open to a man who works for his daily bread?" and second, 
i4 What is the best and most convenient plan for building a 
suitable house on limited means?" 

The answer to the first question will vary to a certain 
extent with circumstances, but in the main will remain the 
same, and, to show that the principle upon which it is based 
has already been successfully demonstrated, I quote from an 
editorial in the Southern Workman for October, 1875, which 
describes an undertaking similar to many which have been 
initiated, and in a majority of cases successfully carried 
through, in the South, from that date to the present. 

" Commencing in April, 1871, a gentleman, resident in 
the South, built and sold to negroes forty-nine houses, be- 
sides selling to them sixteen vacant lots. Only three of the 
houses were paid for in cash. Twenty-four of the remaining 
houses have been paid for in full, chiefly in monthly instal- 
ments. The other twenty-two were sold for $10,755, of 
which $5,650 has been paid. 3So case has yet occurred, or is 
likely to occur, in which it has been or will be necessary to 
turn out a purchaser for default. First payments of from 
one-tenth to one-fifth have always been insisted on, partly 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS IO9 

as a means of sorting out the better class, and partly because 
having paid their fifty or one hundred dollars, they would 
make great efforts rather than lose it." 

The cost of these houses, built as above described, was r 
as the figures show, about five hundred dollars apiece, and 
every one of the forty-nine purchasers has found it in his 
power to pay from fifty to one hundred dollars (or more) 
down at once, and to continue monthly payments of from 
five to ten dollars. 

The security of the gentleman who thus offers his expe- 
rience, lay in the fact that he withheld the deed of house and 
lot until the whole price was paid, giving the purchaser a 
contract to give him the deed when the last payment should 
be made, and he made his profit, which was very small, by 
buying a large tract of land and building by wholesale. The 
interest was included in the instalments, and this served 
often to hasten payments, the whole arrangement being, in 
short, exactly similar in its results to a mortgage. 

A man buying a single lot and building a single house ? 
could hardly, of course, do it on such advantageous terms as 
the above ; but the difference would not be very great, and 
in a neighborhood where a number of steady, industrious 
men were willing to unite, land could be bought and houses 
put up at the cheapest possible rates, the necessary money 
being borrowed from a bank or an individual upon mort- 



110 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

gages on each house and lot. In this case the mortgage 
and interest thereon would be paid oft by instalments exact- 
ly as the monthly payments were made to the gentleman 
from whom I have quoted, and the results in each case would 
be the same. 

The fact that forty-nine men have been found in any 
one locality who could in this manner purchase houses for 
themselves (and I ask you again to notice that there has not 
been a single defaulter) establishes a fair precedent, as the 
circumstances in this instance were not specially favorable, 
and the Successful purchasers were simply working men of 
ordinary honQsty and perseverance. Any sober, industrious 
man, with a thrifty wife who is willing to do her share ot 
the work, can, if he is getting average wages, pay in less 
than three years for a house and lot which will provide for 
him and his family a comfortable home for a lifetime, and 
he can do it with very little more exertion than would be 
required to pay the rent of an inferior house for the same 
length of time. 

The advantages of owning a house in distinction to hir- 
ing one, are so great as to need only the briefest mention, 
and most of you must already have learned that, for many 
reasons, hired houses make very uncertain and unsatisfactory 
homes. There is no better investment for a certain propor- 
tion of a man's capital than a house and lot, and the earlier 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



Ill 



in life he makes the investment, the more profitable it will 
be, not only as a direct saving of money, but also and prin- 
cipally in a higher sense. In the first place, he saves for 
himself the profit which, in paying rent, he puts in another 
man's pocket ; he avoids the uncertainty which must always 
accompany the occupation of another man's house, and the 
expense, discomfort and loss caused by frequent removals 
from one place to another, and he secures all the pecuniary 
advantage which must accrue to any working man who be- 
comes known as a steady, industrious and permanent resident 
of any one locality. 

But perhaps his greatest gain is that which comes sec- 
ondarily, in the moral stimulus which he and his family 
receive from living in a house which is their own property, 
wherein no one has a right but themselves, which they can 
improve andbeautify until it becomes to them, as their home, 
the pleasantest and most attractive spot on earth. When a 
man and woman actually own the house which is their home, 
they find themselves, as a rule, quickly filled with an hon- 
orable ambition to make house and garden as neat, comfort- 
able and pretty as possible. They take pride and pleasure 
in working tor the improvement of that which is their 
own, and receive constant gratification from results 
achieved by their own labor and thrift. They have provid- 
ed for themselves a tangible object for honest ambition ; they 



112 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

have something to work for and be interested in, and have 
thus secured a strong safeguard against the temptations to 
idleness, unsteadiness and extravagance, which so constantly 
beset humanity and are so frequent a cause of ruin. 

Powerful as all these influences are upon parents, they 
are, if possible, still more powerful in their effects upon chil- 
dren, to whom the importance of a home, with all its strong 
and sweet associations, its various and lasting ties, is incal- 
culable. There is almost necessarily a certain training, a 
certain formation of thought and habit received from living 
in a permanent, orderly and peaceful home, which nothing 
else supplies, and this in itself should be a sufficient reason 
for parents to do their utmost to become possessors of that 
which is the first essential of a home, namely, a comfortable, 
suitable house. That this is the foundation of family life is 
indisputable, and no one who looks at the matter fairly can 
fail to be convinced that the wisest thing a working man 
with a family can do, is to secure, as early in life as possible, 
a house, which will not only be his home as long as he lives, 
but will also form a provision for his wife and children in 
case of his death. 

The answer to the first question, "As to how a working 
man can best and most quickly become the owner of a house," 
seems to be very simple, and if we can trust the experience 
of others, is very satisfactory, i. e. if he has not accumulated 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. II3 

sufficient money of his own for the purpose, he must buy and 
build, either alone or in company with others, with money 
borrowed at a fair rate of interest, giving as security a mort- 
gage upon his house, and paying off such mortgage as rapidly 
as possible. In no way can a man incur smaller risk, and 
all that is required of him, as essential to success, is average 
industry and economy, so that no able-bodied man who is 
blessed with a helpful wife, need fear to undertake the pur- 
chase, in this manner, of a homestead, which, under ordinary 
conditions, is certain to pay him heavy interest upon the 
money invested. 

When a man finds himself the possessor of a piece of 
land, with money sufficient to put up a small house, i. e. 
about four hundred dollars, our second question at once 
presents itself: "How can such a house be built to properly 
accommodate a family of six or seven members?" N~ow, of 
course, in answering this question there are many things to 
be taken into consideration and more ways than one of 
reaching the desired result. In the first place, climate must 
be consulted, and as the majority of our readers live where 
warm weather is to be provided for rather than cold, the 
suggestions which we have to ofier will be especially for their 
benefit. Location, also, must affect the decision, as, of 
course, houses in the country and in the city require in 
many respects different arrangement ; while the size of the 



114 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

family, their prospects for the future, and last, but not least, 
individual taste, must each and all have their weight in 
influencing the plans of the architect. 



CHAPTER XVII.— House and Home— (Continued.) 

BUILDING. 

It will easily be understood that, where the conditions 
are so various, it is impossible to lay down unvarying rules 
for the building of a house, and I do not hesitate to confess 
that the most I can do for my readers is to offer a tew germ 
eral principles, and .some personal suggestions, assuring 
them at the outset that it is upon their own intelligence 
and experience that they must principally depend. There 
are a few points, however, winch are unalterable, that is, 
there are a few principles which apply to house-building ail 
the world over, and it is of these that I would first speak, 
and can confidently say that they will fully repay the care- 
ful consideration of any one of you who may be about to 
build a house. To begin with, however small a house may 
be, the work on it should be well and thoroughly done ; 
you should select good, well-seasoned material, get trust- 
worthy workmen, deprive yourself, if necessary, of all orna- 
mentation, but permit no shams, no imitations, and be sure 
that from top to bottom your house is honestly built. The 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I 1 5 

very greatest fault in the ordinary architecture of the day is 
its flirnsiness and want of honesty, and for this no amount of 
stucco, or cheap carving, or sham ornament of any kind, can 
atone. If you are limited as to the amount of money which 
you can put into the house, (which I am taking for granted 
to be the case), then your first care must be to see that you 
get something real, and permanently valuable, in return for 
your money. Be sure that your foundations are sound, 
your walls substantial, your roof tight, your windows and 
doors well-fitting, and that you begin with one thorough 
coat of paint, outside and in ; after which, it you have any 
money left, you can afford to take a little time to consider 
what is the best use for it. 

The point to be next considered, as affecting both com- 
fort and utility, is the internal division and arrangement of 
the house, and this demands some thought, for the arrange- 
ment of the rooms of a house affords a very delicate and 
valuable test of the amount of civilization and refinement 
possessed by its inhabitants. In the dwellings of the very 
poor and ignorant we find human beings, of all ages and 
both sexes, crowded together in one room, forming a hot-bed 
from which springs a frightful crop of indecency, immor- 
ality and vice, and to no lower depth than this can human 
beings sink, for it pre-supposes the absence of even the 
instincts of modesty and decency. Now the first step on 



iiG 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



the upward road is the separation of the sexes, then the pre- 
vention of overcrowding, finally the separation of individ- 
uals, and the setting apart of certain rooms for special pur- 
poses, as kitchen, dining, sitting, sleeping rooms, etc. ; and 
this is what we reach in the home, and it is the approxima- 
tion to this which should be attempted even in thef smallest 
house which is inhabited by men and women claiming to 
be civilized. 4 ' Can this be done," you ask, u upon small 
means, and in cases where the mistress has the work of the 
family to do single handed ?" I believe it can, and further- 
more, I believe that you will find the attempt to do it in 
itself civilizing and enlightening. You may think it a 
trivial matter, but I assure you that the mere fact that you 
determine not to eat your meals in the kitchen where they 
are cooked, but in another room which can easily be kept 
free from the disorder, heat, and smell attendant upon 
cookery, wherein you can sit down to a clean and properly 
arranged table, will make better men and women of you, 
will give you an impetus in the right direction, and assist 
you materially in your efforts to rise to a higher plane of 
thought and life. 

Therefore, in building your house, it is well worth your 
while to try for such an arrangement of it as shall give you 
two or three separate rooms on each of the two floors. If 
your means do not permit you to cover a space sufficiently 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. IIJ 

large to be divided into three rooms, you must be content 
with two rooms on each floor in the body of the house, and 
a small out-building for a kitchen, which would give you a 
dining and sitting room down-stairs and two bedrooms 
above. For a six roomed house the best division is a 
kitchen, dining and sitting room down-stairs and three 
bedrooms above; tor an eight-roomed house, kitchen, 
dining, sitting room and parlor, or one bedroom down- 
stairs and four bedrooms above, but this last is of sufficient 
size to accommodate a more than usually large family, and 
is commonly beyond the means or the needs of a working- 
man. In any of these houses a small entrance hail opening 
from the front door is desirable, a back door is indispen- 
sable, while a piazza, or porch, and garret, each adds greatly 
to the general convenience and comfort. The minor details 
must of course depend chiefly upon the wants and taste of 
•the family: but the points which I insist upon as of unva- 
rying importance, are, 1st, that the house should be 
properly divided ; 2d, that the rooms should be set apart 
for special uses ; 3d, that great efforts should be made to 
prevent over-crowding, especially in the sleeping rooms. 
This last is a matter of both delicacy and hygiene, and it 
may be considered certain that a room of ordinary size 
should never be inhabited by more than three people, while 
in most cases it is desirable that the number should be 



i 

Il8 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

limited to two, it being understood that ventilation should 
always be most carefully attended to. I dwell strongly 
upon the points just mentioned, because, as I have said 
before, I believe that a properly arranged and well ordered 
house is an important educational agent, that it has real 
and great power to civilize and elevate, and that finally its 
refining influences depend more than is commonly supposed 
upon these particulars of internal arrangement. 

In regard to externals, the first consideration should be 
the drainage; nothing so nearly affects the health of the 
inhabitants of a house as the local drainage and the quality 
and quantity of the water supply. In city houses these 
matters are usually under the control of the officials, the 
individual having no direct power or responsibility, but in 
most country neighborhoods each man has to attend per- 
sonally to the details of drainage, etc., and consequently it 
is every man's duty to inform himself as to the best means 
of obtaining efficient bcal drainage and a pure water supply. 
Where there is any general system of drainage for a town 
or village, all that is necessary is to properly connect each 
newly built house with the main drain, and this can be 
done by means of a single small pipe, into which the whole 
house-drainage, from water-closets, sinks, etc., must pass, 
and which must be fitted with traps and properly jointed. 
The latest experiments prove that brick sewers are almost 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



II 9 



always failures, both on account of the material and the 
size; for a sewer should never be of more than sufficient 
capacity, because, as we already know, a current of water 
spread over a large surface flows with much less force than 
when it is confined within a smaller space, and the effect of 
this in a sewer, is to permit the deposit of all heavy 
substances which may have entered the drain and which lie 
there choking the passage, when in a sewer of smaller 
capacity they would quickly be carried down by the force of 
the flow. A smooth two-inch pipe of some hard, vitreous 
material, which cannot absorb sewer filth, will carry off all 
the drainage from an ordinary house, is the best possible 
sewer, and is comparatively inexpensive. Where there is no 
public system and the drainage is purely local, it is best to 
raise the foundation of the hou^e a little above the general 
level of the ground, by filling in, so that there may be a 
natural drainage of all moisture away from the house, while 
all the house slops should be disposed of in ways to be 
presently described. If pigs or cattle of any kind be kept, 
their pens and yards should be as far as possible from the 
house,. and should be kept clean by being frequently emptied 
of the manure and filth, which should always be utilized at 
once upon farm or garden. The water-closet should be, if 
possible, an earth closet, as earth is the most effectual and 
cheapest disinfectant and deodorizer at present known to 



J20 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

science. A cheap and cleanly out-of-door earth closet can 
be made by simply digging a vault in the ground and keep- 
ing in the building above it (which is merely an ordinary 
privy) a box of thoroughly dry earth and a scoop. Each 
person after using the closet should be required to empty 
into it a couple of scoopfuls of the dry earth, and as often as 
once a month, the contents of the vault should be removed, 
and used at once as manure, tor they are almost completely 
deodorized, and therefore inoffensive, which makes the 
frequent cleaning a comparatively easy matter. Chamber 
slops can of course be emptied into the same receptacle, but 
it is much better to dispose of them in some other way, as 
they largely neutralize the effect of the earth. They can be 
emptied into pig-sty or cow-yard, where they do their part 
in making fertilizing material (but this should never be 
done except when the yard or sty is cleaned regularly and 
frequently), or they can be thrown upon the ground at a safe 
distance from the house (this, again, should never be done 
w T hen a house stands in close neighborhood to other houses), 
or, and this, probably, is the best way, they can be emptied 
into a hole dug in the ground as far from the house as 
possible, and boarded over, the cover being lifted only when 
the slops are emptied. By emptying occasionally a little 
dry earth into the hole, and once or twice a year filling it 
up entiiely and digging a fresh hole, the slops of a large 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I : 

house may be disposed of with ease and safety. Kitchen 
slops and swill should all be carefully kept for pig feed, for 
if the family do not keep a pig, some neighbor can always 
be found who will take away swill for the sake of having it, 
and to w r aste such material is one of the common forms of 
extravagance which keeps poor people poor forever. 

After the drainage of a house and the cleanliness of a 
yard and outhouses have been carefully provided for, I 
believe that next in order comes the question of the water 
supply, and while a few of you, as residents of large cities., 
are not obliged to think much about the matter, being sup- 
plied by the city, or by companies, yet I suppose a majority 
of my readers are dependent solely upon wells or springs, 
and can therefore drink pure or impure waters according as 
they themselves are intelligent and energetic or ignorant and 
lazy. It is not, 1 confess, always easy for an uneducated 
person to detect the impurity of water, because while pure 
water is always clear and tasteless, water which is clear and 
tasteless is not always pure ; but there are a few simple 
rules which he who runs may read, and which will, in 
most cases, afford effectual protection. For example, it is ev- 
ident to any one that to use water from a river below a point 
where the refuse of a factory or the drainage of a town 
empties into it, must be harmful; that, again, it must be 
equally so to use water from a stagnant pond, or from a 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



brook which drains marshy ]and rich in decomposing 
vegetation, and yet it is but^too common to find whole 
communities using such water and dying like sheep with 
dysenteries and fevers, merely because they are too thought- 
less or too lazy to make the effort to obtain a pure water 
supply. 

Water should never be taken from a river or brook 
which is contaminated by filth of any kind, and this danger 
can easily be avoided, for there are few localities in which it 
is not possible to obtain a plentiful supply of wholesome 
water from wells or springs. If there is a good, unfailing 
spring within convenient distance of a house, water should 
be drawn from it in preference to any other source, and 
sometimes by means of a few yards of pipe, spring water 
can be brought to the very door of the house, which, 
although it costs something at the outset, is in the end a 
real economy. But, as in a large majority of cases, wells 
and wells only, form the source of water supply, it is to 
them that your attention must chiefly be directed, and in 
building a house I would advise you to make, if necessary, 
many sacrifices, in order to secure a well of good water. In 
the first place, a well should never be dug in a place where 
there is any danger ot its receiving the drainage from house, 
water-closet, barn-yard, pig-sty, or any similar source of 
contamination ; it should not be in the near neighborhood 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I2J 

of large trees whose roots are likely to grow into the water 
and make it dirty and unwholesome; it should be so cov- 
ered that not even leaves can fall into it, and should occa- 
sionally, in a dry season, be thoroughly cleaned. There is 
really nothing so safe and certain as an artesian well, which 
consists of an iron pipe sunk perpendicularly into the 
ground until its lower end strikes a supply of pure, sweet 
water; and these wells are coming gradually into use, their 
advantage over the ordinary wells being that they can 
be sunk to any distance necessary to obtain really pure 
water, and that they are beyond the possibility of contami- 
nation, either from drainage or any other source. But from 
common wells, which are at present, as I have already said, 
by far the most frequent source of supply, the precautions 
already mentioned will usually secure water sufficiently 
pure not to affect the health of those who drink it. 

Even in these clays of comparative enlightenment in 
regard to the matter of drainage, water, etc., there are many 
people who cling to the ignorance which for the moment is 
so easy, regardless of the fact that in the end it costs them 
the heavy price of health and life. They say that they are 
willing to fc ' take their chances " as their fathers did, and it 
is difficult to prove to them that they are morally responsi- 
ble for the results of their own wilful ignorance and care- 
lessness. 



124 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

It is true that it is oaly by close and intelligent atten- 
tion and constant labor that the immediate neighborhood of 
the dwellings of human beings can be kept clean and whole- 
some ; but it is also true, to quote the words of an eminent 
authority, that " all filth is absolute poison," and undoubt- 
edly the terrible punishment of uncleanliness is the weapon 
used by the all-wise Creator to force his ignorant and wilful 
creatures into the cleanliness which involves so much exer- 
tion of mind and body. Surely I need not here reiterate 
how fatal is the effect of all filth and especially of human 
filth ; surely I need not tell you how fever, and cholera, and 
dysentery, follow uncleanliness as certainly as night follows 
day, and that therefore it lies with us to choose whether or 
no we take the risk of diseases whose prevention lies com- 
monly in our own hands. I could fill page upon page of 
written warning in respect to defective drainage, impure 
water, filthy water-closets and outhouses, but it would be 
all useless unless your own intelligence and moral sense 
came to the rescue, and induced you to act resolutely and as 
rational human beings. 

Therefore I can only beg those of you who are house, 
holders or who are in any way responsible for the health of 
others, to study well the facts in regard to this compre- 
hensive subject of cleanliness in its relation to house build- 
ing and keeping, and to judge for yourselves whether it is 
not well worth while to build and keep a cleanly house. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 125 

CHAPTER XVIII.— House and Home— (Continued.) 

woman's work. 
In most cases the buying and building of a house is 
more especially a man's work, and it is the husband and 
father ot the family who is principally responsible for the 
thought and labor which lay the foundation of the Home. 
It is for him to earn the money, to choose a suitable site, to 
see that the house is well and carefully built, properly 
divided, ventilated, drained, etc. ; but from the moment that 
the family enters the house as a home, the responsibility is 
shifted, and it is the w T ife and mother who must bear the 
chief burden of the housekeeping and become the ruling 
spirit of the home. The man, as the bread-winner, 
finds that his work keeps him during the greater part of 
the day away from his home and family, and consequently, 
the duty of regulating and controlling the household falls 
mainly into the woman's hands, an 1 any conscientious 
woman will gladly do all in her power to fit herself for the 
due performance of the work which is so plainly set before 
her. It seems as if it could hardly bo necessary to press 
upon women of any intelligence, the importance of their 
position as wives and mothers, and yet the evidences of 
carelessness and ignorance which constantly force themselves 
into notice, show but too plainly how much the majority of 



126 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

women need assistance and instruction in respect to the 
every day work of their lives, that work which out of small 
things rightly done, builds up so beautiful and grand a 
whole. 

In endeavoring to give in a brief space and a familiar 
way, advice which may practically help and teach the 
women into whose hands these papers may fall, I find that 
the subject of family life divides itself naturally into several 
branches, and in writing of them I shall give precedence to 
the one which is ©f invariable and permanent importance, 
viz: the care of children. I put this first, because the first 
fifteen or sixteen years of the life of a man or woman deter- 
mine largely what his or her character is to be, and it j s 
over these first fifteen or sixteen years that parents, and 
especially mothers, have almost unlimited control. 

The physical care of the child during this period usu- 
ally devolves entirely upon the mother, and it is to the 
ignorance of mothers that a large proportion of the deaths 
among children under five years old is due. Children who 
are born healthy can easily be kept so by obedience to a few 
simple laws, and even delicate children will often become 
healthy adults, if properly cared for during the first years of 
life. A baby from the time of its birth until it is twelve 
months old should always, if possible, be nursed by its 
mother, for in this way only can it obtain food which is 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 1 27 

natural, and, therefore, entirely safe. In cases where this 
is impossible, cow's or goat's milk diluted with lime water 
is the best substitute ; and after a baby is seven or eight 
months old, simple preparations of wheat flour, rice, crack- 
ers, etc., may be used, but always in small quantities and 
with great care. Indeed, until a baby has safely passed its 
first year, all but the simplest food should be prohibited, 
but after that age it is well, if the child is healthy, to begin 
with a variety of light food, as potatoes, eg^s, breal and 
butter, meat broths, simple preparations of the various 
grains, a little fruit, etc., gradually increasing the variety 
and quantity of the food given, but being always exceed- 
ingly careful to give nothing rich or indigestible, and to 
closely watch the condition of the stomach and bowels. 
Daring all the years cf growth a child's food should be 
nutritive and easily digested, and, even with very small 
means, a careful and thoughtful mother can provide such 
food for her family. Fish, meat, vegetables and fruit, 
plainly cooked, that is, boiled, broiled or roasted, without 
much grease or spice, cold, or better still, stale bread of 
Graham flour, wheat flour or corn meal, eggs, milk, sugar 
or molasses in small quantities, hominy, rice, etc., can each 
and all be safely eaten by children over three years of age : 
and from such food, given always at regular times and in 
proper quantities, nature can be trusted to build up the 



123 



ON HA1JITS AND MANNERS. 



healthy bodies which are so essential to the happiness of 
human beings. That meals should he given at regular 
intervals, and that nothing should be eaten between them, 
is ot the utmost importance, for the habit of permitting 
children to eat candy, nuts, fruit, etc., indiscriminately, is as 
harmful as it unfortunately is common. Simplicity and 
regularity are essential in feeding children, and the mother 
who, through ignorance or carelessness, disregards these two 
rules, may be sure that her innocent children will, sooner or 
later, suffer for her sin. 

Of scarcely less importance than food is cleanliness, and 
no child can be considered really clean which is not thor- 
oughly washed every day. This practice of daily bathing 
should date from the child's birth, lukewarm water beino- 
used for babies, who should, as soon as they are a month or 
so old, be pat into a tub or large basin and carefully washed 
from head to foot with a soft sponge, or cloth, and soap ; 
the best time for the bath being in the morning, though if 
more convenient to the mother, ii can be given at night. 
Children who are properly washed in this way will be 
directly benefited as to their general health, and are usually 
almost entirely exempt from certain skin diseases which are 
the result of uncleanliness. Care should always be taken to 
thoroughly dry the skin on all parts of the body after 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 1 29 

bathing: baths should never be given immediately after 
eating, and for children, should always be of medium temp- 
erature, neither hot nor cold. 

In addition to the daily bath, the cleanliness of children 
should be ensured by frequent changes of underclothing, and 
this is not a difficult thing to do, because the under- 
garments of little children are so easily washed and cheaply- 
made, that almost any mother can provide and keep clean a 
sufficient supply, if necessary. In clothing young children^ 
even in warm climates, thin flannel shirts are almost indis- 
pensable, for they protect the chest, stomach and bowels, 
and prevent much of the danger arising from sudden 
changes of temperature. Beyond this, there is little to be 
said in respect to clothing, except that the garments should 
all be loose and comfortable, and, so far as possible, adapted 
to the changing seasons ; for a little care in putting on and 
taking off extra clothing will save children from many of 
the colds, and ailments resulting from colds, from which 
they suffer. The substance of all teaching in regard to the 
physical care of children is simply that if parents can ensure 
to their children wholesome food, comfortable clothing, and 
cleanliness, they need have little fear about their physical 
condition ; for though the food may be very plain, their 
clothing coarse, and the cleanliness not always apparent to 
the eye, yet such is the power of the natural laws that 



I30 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

obedience to them in the above particulars is sure to 
develop children, born without inherited weakness, into 
strong men and women. Of the other essentials to the 
physical health of children, viz., plenty of fresh air and out- 
of-door exercise, I need hardly speak, for, as a general thing, 
the children in whose interest I am now writing, enjoy to 
the full these two privileges, and are therein greatly, though 
perhaps unconsciously, blessed. 

If the physical development of children is largely 
dependent upon parents, the same is true of their intel- 
lectual and moral growth.; for the first of these, parents 
being indirectly, and for the second directly, responsible. 
The duty of parents in regard to what is commonly called 
the education of their children is usually plain enough, for 
though they are frequently unable to give instruction them- 
selves, they can almost always succeed in securing the 
regular attendance of their children at good schools, and in 
providing for them certain advantages at home. While a 
mother is often too busy to teach her children even so much 
as the alphabet, she can always see that they are properly 
prepared for school, that they are punctual in attendance 
suitably clad, that their books are kept in order and their 
lessons learned, in short, can make their road to learning an 
open way, and greatly simplify the work of those who 
actually teach them. In the home life, too, the father and 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 131 

mother can provide many advantages for children, at com- 
paratively small expense, and it is the presence or absence of 
these which make the atmosphere of home healthful and 
elevating, or the reverse. To have a few pictures, prints or 
chromos, well chosen and neatly framed, to take a good 
paper or magazine, to buy a few good books, to take 
children now and then to hear a lecture or to some similar 
entertainment, are all of direct assistance in the mental 
education of the young, and are no great tax upon the 
means or energies of the parents. In most cases, the best 
thing which you can do for your children is to give them 
the opportunity and excite in them t r he desire to obtain a 
thorough education, and thus to make up to them, so far as 
possible,for the disadvantage which your own lack of educa- 
tion must be to them. 

As you probably know only too well, the time for 
receiving the education which books give is in most cases 
past for yourselves, and feeling, as you must, what the lack 
of it is constantly costing you, you should be all the more 
willing to make every effort to secure it for your children. 
Your duty is plain enough, so plain, indeed, that but the 
briefest statement of it should be necessary : Send your 
children to the best school within your reach, and send 
them properly prepared; provide for them at home, so far 
as your means will allow, everything which will teach 



132 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

them or help them to learn, and by your own conversation 
and behavior show them how important you consider the 
work of education, remembering that the responsibility of 
your children's ignorance is rather yours than theirs. 

Inseparable from this intellectual training of your 
children is the development of their moral nature, and it is 
in directing them in respect to the great choice between 
good and evil, that your chief work, as Christians and as 
parents, most certainly lies. It may not always be possible 
for you to give them all that their physical welfare de- 
mands, your own ignorance may not improbably stand in 
the way of their .obtaining the intellectual advantages 
which their growing minds require; but it is only your 
own sin and folly that need prevent you from bringing up 
your children to be virtuous men and women. It is from 
you that they must learn the beauty of goodness and the 
hatefulness of sin, and it is your teaching during the years 
when your influence is superior to every other, that will 
influence them all their lives through. It is no light thins: 
to teach a child to be honest, truthful, pure, patient, indus- 
trious, careful ; but perhaps the most difficult part of the 
work lies in the preparation for it ; that is, in making 
yourselves what you wish your children to be. As you 
cannot teach children that which you do not yourselves 
know, so, also, w you will find it impossible to make them 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 133 

that which you, yourselves, are not, and the virtues which you 
desire for your children you must first practice, or all your 
endeavors will go for nothing. I shall reserve for another 
chapter that which I want to/ay to you in "regard to the 
moral training of your children, asking you, however,to 
think a little in the meantime for yourselves about this 
important subject, 

CHAPTER XIX. 



MORAL TRAINING OF CHILDREN. 

The moral training of children ought, and if it is to be 
successful, must, begin with the earliest development of 
their intellectual faculties. As soon as they are conscious 
of their own will, they should also become conscious of the 
existence of other and stronger wills ; and the parents 
should endeavor so to regulate their conduct toward their 
children, as to make them, as early in life as possible, recog- 
nize the fact that the wills, which of necessity are so 
frequently opposed to theirs, are not only strong but wise. 
That is, you should be so careful, so judicious and so unself- 
ish, in governing your children that they may quickJy learn 
to trust you, and to feel, even in moments of anger and 
impatience, that you are their best friend. Most of you, I 
think, must have formed in your own minds some idea of 



134 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

what you would like your children to be, arid it is a good 
thing to keep constantly before yourselves the standard 
to which your children are to attain, either abstractly, 
or in the person of some individual whose character you 
admire. If you love your children with the ordinary love 
of humanity, one of your deepest, if not your deepest inter- 
est in life, will lie in watching and guiding their develop- 
ment, and in preparing them, as far as you can, for the 
future; and I hope I am right in believing that among the 
parents who read this, there is not one who is not honestly 
desirous of seeing his children grow up to be good men and 
women. Taking for granted, then, that you have a full 
sense of your own responsibility, and are keenly alive to 
the sacredness of the burden which the Almighty Father 
lays upon every parent, I shall try to condense for your use 
some of the experience ot those who have made the educa- 
tion of children, in the family and in the school, the study 
of their lives. 

I have already said that, in order to train children 
properly, you must, first of all, have their confidence, and 
you will naturally ask how the confidence of these little 
thoughtless, unreasoning beings is to be won. In reply* 
I should say, in brief, by letting them see that what you 
demand of them you yourselves fulfil; that is, tvhen 
you ask them to be truthful, be sure that their quick ears 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 1 35. 

do not find you oat in falsehood ; when you tell them of 
the danger and sinfulness of anger, jealousy and hatred, do 
not let them see in you daily proof of uncontrolled passions \ 
when you command them to be honest, temperate and 
industrious, do not let them find that in your own life you 
cling to deceit, self-indulgence and laziness. " Practice 
what you preach," is a homely text, which has served 
for many a sermon, but can never be more forcibly applied 
than in regard to the relations between parents and 
children ; for in all the world you will not find more severe 
or acute critics than those little ones, whose sharp eyes and 
ears are constantly measuring your life by the rules which 
you give to them. You must show your children by your 
daily life that you have real anl practical faith in the 
virtues of whose value and beauty you talk to them, and 
although you may frequently fail to reach the standard 
which you have set up, yet if you endeavor to be honest, 
your children, aye, even your little children, will quickly 
and surely receive impressions from your character which 
will be deep and permanent for good. Take, as an example 
of this, the exhibitions of fretfulness and ill-temper which 
are unfortunately not uncommon in family life, and to 
which children in their intercourse with each other are 
especially liable. You want to teach your children to be 
patient, gentle, kindly in deed and word, and these are 



I36 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

things which you cannot enforce by mere authority ; you 
must, in your own person, show them how much good temper 
has to do with the happiness of life; you must be gentle 
and kind to them, and then must demand from them gentle- 
ness and kindness in return. Example, in short, is of the 
first importance in the education of children, for they 
instinctively admire and desire to imitate those older than 
themselves with whom they associate, and are directly and 
strongly influenced by what they see and hear in their every 
day life. 

But example, important as it is, will not alone do the 
work ; love and authority must go hand in hand as its assist- 
ants, and it is to combine these wisely that is the second 
great difficulty in the path of parents. To love your children 
warmly, and yet not to injure them by over-indulgence, to 
£xact obedience without undue severity, to be firm and 
unyielding and yet not unkind, to be tender and forgiving 
and yet not weak, is by no means an easy task, and it is 
just this that a conscientious parent must strive to be. If 
you have won your children's confidence by showing tbern 
that you are what you desire them to be, that your practice 
and your precept are the same, then the next great requisite 
in your government of them is, probably, absolute truthful- 
ness, for any attempt at deceit at once destroys their confi- 
dence in you, and will, sooner or later, make your authority 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 137 

null and void. By absolute truthfulness I mean that you 
should never tell a child a falsehood even about trifles, that 
you should never break a promise to a child if it is possible 
to keep it, that you should do your best to let your children 
find you neither changeable nor inconsistent. For example, 
if you have to give medicine to a child, do not attempt to 
gain your point by saying that the medicine is "good," 
when it is really disagreeable, for you will rarely be able to 
deceive a child in that way more than once, and the result 
will be that you will he distrusted and disbelieved. Tell 
the child plainly that the medicine is not pleasant to take, 
but must be taken, and obtain obedience by gentle reason- 
ing, or, if necessary, by absolute authority. The same course 
should be pursued in all similar cases, that*is, when you de- 
sire them to do anything which is disagreeable do not rely up- 
on deceit, for you will find it a broken reed; but tell the exact 
truth, and with all possible kindness insist upon obedience. 
You will find that after two or three experiences of this 
kind the child's confidence in you will be implicit, and that, 
furthermore, he will have learned that when you seriously 
demand his obedience, his easiest course is to give it as 
quickly and as willingly as possible. And this brings up 
another point, viz : the folly of entering into unnecessary 
conflicts with your children, of fretting them needlessly, 
and irritating them about things which are not essential. 



138 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

There are numberless small difficulties into which children 
are constantly falling which are really of very little im- 
portance, that is, are not matters of right and wrong, and 
do not in any way affect a child's moral nature, and of these 
it is far better for parents to take no notice. Do not tease 
your children about little things, for this tends to make 
them fretful and unhappy ; but, on the contrary, give them 
all the liberty possible, guarding yourself against using your 
authority so frequently as to make it dreaded or despised. 
When, however, you do give an order or demand obedience 
in any form, be sure that there is no evasion ; let your child- 
ren understand that when you speak, your decision is final, 
your authority supreme, and, above all, when any conflict 
arises between yoft and your child, do not at any cost permit 
the child's will to conquer yours. Firmness is absolutely 
essential in the moral government of children, and you can 
make no greater mistake than to give way to a child when 
once an issue has been raised between you. If you have 
deliberately given a child an order of any kind, have required 
any particular course of action, or ordained any punishment, 
then no matter how much time, strength and patience it may 
cost you, you must make good your words, and prove to the 
child that your will and power are stronger than his. If 
your child finds out that he can coax or weary or frighten 
you into revoking an order, or remitting a punishment, 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 139 

your positions will be speedily changed, and his, not yours, 
will be the ruling will. Therefore, do not give too many 
orders, or inflict too many punishments ; but when you do 
decide that either the one or the other is necessary, then let 
nothing shake your determination or alter your action. 
You will find that such a course will not only be better for 
your children, but will also save you infinite trouble, for it 
will put an end to that constant teazing and bickering be- 
tween parents and children, which so often mar the happi- 
ness of family life and induce on both sides irritability of 
temper. Children soon find the difference between a person 
who is constantly finding fault without reason, giving orders 
which can be disobeyed with impunity, and ordaining pun- 
ishments which are never inflicted, and a person who reproves 
seldom but earnestly, whose orders are absolute, whose pun- 
ishments are not frequent, but serious, and not to be escaped. 
Under the first of these two systems, children will be care- 
less, impertinent, and self-willed; under the second, almost 
any child will become orderly and obedient, and it is for 
parents to decide which shall reign within their own family 
circle. 

The question of rewards and punishments is one which, 
as a matter of course, occupies much of the attention of every 
one who is brought into close relations with children, and it 
is certainly by no means a simple matter. To discourage 



140 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

children in wrong-doing, and to encourage them in doing 
right j is practically the first object of moral education, and 
some system of punishment and reward is undoubtedly in- 
dispensable, especially with young children, who can under- 
stand nothing which does not directly appeal to their senses. 
As a general thing, however, rewards should not be offered 
to a child as an inducement to right-doing, but should be 
given after the act is performed, and then only when the 
child is really deserving, for constant rewards are to the 
moral nature w T hat too much sugar is to the digestion, pro- 
ducing in both cases unwholesome and morbid conditions. 
You can teach children to feel that your approbation is their 
best reward, and that their goodness is your and their hap- 
piness, without creating in them a habit of expecting habit- 
ually a recompense for good behavior, and in this way you 
can gradually lead them to understand that it is their 
motives which you value rather than their actions ; that you 
look deeper than the external conduct ; into the spirit which 
prompts it. 

As to the punishment of children, the best authorities 
upon the subject of education are, in the main, agreed ; but 
even yet there is much left to the ingenuity and patience of 
parents. Corporal punishment, either in schools or in the 
family, has no part in the best modern systems of education? 
and there are verj few teachers or parents who should permit 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 141 

themselves to use it. It is commonly a wrong to the child, 
and is almost always inflicted in a spirit of anger, which 
alone would effectually prevent it from having any good 
effect. In these days it is usually very ignorant, very care- 
less, or very cruel people who depend upon corporal punish- 
ment to assist them in governing their children, and any 
thoughtful and moderately patient person ought to be able 
to find many expedients which are far more useful and 
reasonable, and which will win from children obedience 
through respect instead of through TLere physical fear. If 
children were simply and wholly animal in their nature, 
then we might consider blows a suitable form of punishment, 
(though even animals, as modern experience has proven, get 
far too much of this crude and barbarous discipline), but as 
they have another and a higher nature, it is only logical that 
the highest and most successful system of education should 
appeal to that rather than to the merely brutal instincts. I 
dare say that most of you feel that you would be almost help- 
less if the power of whipping your children were to be taken 
away from you, and are quite sure in your own minds that 
nothing can take the place with a child of what is popularly 
called, "a good whipping" ; but in this, as in other things, 
your safest course is to accept the facts established by those 
who are wiser and more experienced than you are. If reason 
and affection both fail, say the wisest modern teachers, there 



142 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

still remain a variety of punishments, which will affect child- 
ren without injuring them or making them feel that they are 
treated with injustice. You can deprive children of some 
pleasure, take their lib rty away from them for a shorter or 
longer time, by shutting them up, or confining them within 
certain limits ; you can in various w^ays treat them differently 
from the other children of the family , you can take away 
from them some article of food of which they are fond ; in 
short, a little thought will show you that there are number- 
less ways of inflicting real punishment upon children without 
striking a blow. In selecting from these it is well, so far as 
possible, to suit the punishment to the offence ; for example, 
if a child does harm or mischief with its hands, as by striking 
another child, wilfully breaking or tearing anything, punish 
it by securely tying the offending members, or, again, if a 
child errs by saying anything wrong or untruthful, punish 
it by keeping it alone, where no one can be hurt or annoyed 
by what it may say. But, whatever your punishment may 
be, never inflict it when you yourself are angry ; wait always 
until your passion is cooled and you can use your sober judg- 
ment, for this is the chief safeguard both for yourself and the 
child, and one without which you will be almost certain to 
do the child injustice. 

Example, love, truthfulness, firmness, each and all are 
necessary if you would rightly train your children ; and to 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 143 

go back to the beginning, to take up once more our text, 
your precept and your practice must be one and the same. 
The Christian grace which you strive to nurture in the hearts 
of your children, you must first firmly plant in your own 
hearts, looking then in humble faith toward the Supreme 
Source of all fruition, for "Paul planteth, Apollos watereth, 
but God giveth the increase." 



CHAPTER XX. 

HOUSEWORK. 

Next in importance to the direct care of the children, 
comes, for a woman who is at the head of a household, that 
general personal supervision and labor which, when intel- 
ligently done, result in cleanliness, order and comfort for 
the whole family. Of course, it is much easier to write and 
talk about this kind of work than it is to do it ; but, never- 
theless, it is a constant surprise to me to find how much can 
be accomplished through determination and system, by 
women who have much to do, and little to do with. These 
two things, determination and system, which lie at the 
foundation of all good housekeeping, mean simply that you 
must always do your work at stated times and in certain 
places. To take, for example, a very simple but constantly 
recurring duty, i, e., dish washing; are there not two wide- 



144 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

] y different ways of doing it ? One woman will leave her 
table standing for two or three hours, and then, throwing 
her dishes all together, and unscraped, into a dirty pan, 
will go for hot water, which, as she has forgotten to fill the 
pot, is not to be had, and at the same time will find that 
there is no soap in the house, that her dish-cloth is lost and 
her towel wet. Another woman will clear her table as soon 
as the meal is over, will put her dishes, carefully scraped 
from all grease, broken bits, etc., into a pan, which is used 
for nothing else, will wash first her silver and glass, then 
her china, and last of all her cooking utensils, will have 
plenty of boiling water and soap, a clean dishcloth and a 
dry towel. And of these two women you may be sure that 
the first will be always in confusion and disorder, while the 
second, you may be equally sure, is the mistress of a neat 
and well-ordered household. 

This comparison may be carried through the whole 
field of household work, and the advantage will always be 
found on the side of the woman who systematizes her work 
who does it, that is, in a regular and orderly way, who has 
a time and a place for everything. The details of the life of 
an ordinary housekeeper, who does most of her work herself, 
are far too numerous and varied to be set down upon paper ; 
but the most important of them are usually much the same 
from day to day and in all families, and I think that 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 1 45 

perhaps our best way to get a clear idea of what system and 
industry can accomplish will be to follow, in imagination, a 
goo I housekeeper through the work of one day, from the 
rising to the setting of the sun. We will give her a house 
of her own, with kitchen, eating-room and sitting-room 
downstairs, and three bedrooms upstairs, her family shall 
consist of a husband, who is a day laborer, and three 
children, two of whom are old enough to go to school. 

As soon as she herself is dressed in the morning, she 
gives the children such help as they require in washing and 
dressing, making sure that they begin the day with clean 
skins, if nothing more, and then, after thoroughly shaking 
up the beds and opening the windows, she goes d >wn stairs 
to get breakfast, her husband having, in the meantime, 
made the fire. However simple the breakfast may be, if it 
should consist only of coffee and cornbread, it should be 
neatly served in the eating-room, on a clean tablecloth and 
from clean dishes. To this meal, and all others, the family 
should sit down promptly and together ; their food should 
be eaten in a clean and orderly way, and, if possible, should 
not be eaten in the same room in which the cooking, wash- 
ing, etc., are going on. I have already drawn your 
attention to the fact that a careless, disorderly habit in 
respect to serving and eating food should be careful- 
ly avoided, not only because it indicates ignorant and 



T46 on habits and manners. 

coarse tastes, but also because it is injurious to health, and I 
would once more lay down, as a cardinal principle of good 
housekeeping, that the eating-room should not be used as a 
cooking or sleeping-room, that the table should be neatly 
set with a clean cloth, clean china, glass, etc., and that the 
food should be served and eaten in a neat and orderly way. 
You will find that there is no one thing which will more 
affect the comfort of your family than that the meals should 
be prepared and eaten with regularity and order, and 
though those of you who have never made the attempt may 
feel that it is not worth the trouble you think it will cost 
you, you will find, if you will but make an honest trial, 
that the trouble is nothing in comparison with the increase 
of comfort and the satisfaction of feeling that you are edu- 
cating your children in some very important particulars, 

But to return to our diligent housekeeper ; by this time 
she has, I think, finished her breakfast, cleared her table 
and washed her dishes in the way I have already described. 
This accomplished, she will put away the articles used, in 
their proper places on the cupboard shelves, in drawers, etc., 
will sweep and dust the room and then go upstairs to the 
bedrooms, which she will proceed to put in order for the 
day. And here I must say a word about the care of the 
beds and bedsteads, a duty the neglect of which never fails 
to produce most unpleasant results. If there is one thing in 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 147 

your house about the cleanliness of which you should be abso- 
lutely sure, it is the beds, and the only way to obtain such 
certainty is by constant care. The beds should be thor- 
oughly shaken up every morning as soon as the occupants 
are out of them ; and by this I mean that you should not 
only take off the coverlids, blankets, sheets, pillows, etc., 
and spread them out upon chairs in such a way that the air 
may have tree circulation about them, but that you should 
also take off or throw back the bed or mattress itself, so 
that the framework of the bedstead will be exposed to the 
air and light. You should let the beds and bedclothes lie in 
this way for at least an hour every morning, and in addition 
to this, you should, as often as once a month, remove every- 
thing from the bedstead and wipe it off carefully with hot 
soapsuds, and then turpentine, going thoroughly into all the 
cracks where insects are likely to secrete themselves. If 
you follow this course habitually, you will have little to fear 
from the bugs, whose presence is a disgrace to any house- 
keeper, and your beds will be always sweet and fresh, a rest 

and comfort to those who lie down upon them. 

Having thus shaken up her beds before breakfast (and 
before I leave the subject, I want to recommend you to use 
hard beds rather than soft, mattresses in preference to 
feather beds), our housekeeper finds them well aired on her 
return, and proceeds at once to make them up, spreading 



148 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

the sheets, etc., so carefully that the bed when finished is 
really an ornament to the room and a temptation to tired 
limbs. Then she empties the slops, thoroughly washing 
the basins, pitchers, etc., and refilling the pitchers with 
fresh water, dusts and arranges the furniture and leaves the 
room in such order that she need have no fear of the most 
critical eye. The children must now be got ready for school, 
and this takes a little time, for their faces and hands must 
be washed and clean aprons or jackets put on, in order that 
neither they nor their teacher need have cause to be 
ashamed of clirt and carelessness for which their mother is 
responsible. 

After they are gone, the special work of the day, what- 
ever it may be, sewing, baking, cleaning or ironing, may 
begin (except in the case of washing, which ought to be 
begun as early in the morning as possible), and this will go 
on, unless some accidental interruption occurs, until it is 
time to prepare for the mid-day meal, which will be dinner 
or luncheon, according as the father or children do or do not 
return at that hour. In either case, when the meal and its 
attendant work are done, the mother will again have two 
or three hours for work in the house or garden before it is 
time to cook the evening meal, after which there is again an 
hour or two after the children are put to bed (and this 
should be at a regular hour), for rest, amusement, visiting, 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 1 49 

etc. With a day systematized in this way, it is possible for 
a woman to do all the work of a small family, and to take 
in work in addition, though it is no doubt more desirable 
that she should be able to give all her time and energy 
directly to the care of her own family. 

As I have said before, there are innumerable details in 
housekeeping in regard to which actual instruction from a 
good housekeeper is almost a necessity ; but I am sure that 
most of you have constant opportunities to see for your- 
selves how to do your work properly, if you will only take 
advantage of them. In the matter of cleanliness, for exam- 
ple, you must surely have seen enough for yourselves to 
know that to sweep dirt into holes and corners where for 
the moment it is out of sight, or to throw rubbish into a 
pantry and shut the door, is, in no sense, cleanliness. If you 
are going to be clean, you must not keep your cellar 
noisome with decaying vegetables, or refuse of any kind ; 
you must not let your garret be a receptacle for the dusty, 
mouldy rubbish of years ; you must not let your back door 
be surrounded by the quickly accumulating and foul smell- 
ing dirt of the kitchen ; but you must see to it yourself that 
nowhere within the limits of your responsibility is there 
anything unclean which your hands can remove. I know 
that this is no easy task ; but at any rate you can do your 
best, and the advice which I would give to any woman 



150 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

who is too poor or too overworked to do all that more fortu- 
nate women are able to do, is : "Rid yourself first ot the 
dirt, which is likely to be directly injurious to health ; that 
is, keep your cellar clean, even if your windows go 
unwashed ; wash your cooking utensils and keep your beds- 
fresh at the expense of something of less importance; keep 
your skin clean, even if your dress has to go dirty." 

But, in truth, a person who really loves cleanliness will 
be clean everywhere and at all times, and the first step in 
advance is taken when you begin to feel that din in any 
form is really unpleasant to you, and that to sit down in a 
dirty room at a dirty table, to eat dirty food from dirty 
dishes (which you know to be only too common a habit) is* 
to you, actual misery. When you have learned to hate 
uncleanliness, you will surely learn in one way or another 
to be clean, and you will never be a good housekeeper until 
you do hate uncleanliness in every shape and with all your 
heart. The more closely you examine the work of any 
woman who is a successful housekeeper, the more evident it 
will become to you that, like the woman whom we have 
been following through the duties of the day, she is orderly, 
systematic and thorough in all her habits. The cleanliness, 
as we have seen, is not superficial, but includes everything 
that comes within her province; the work of each day is 
arranged so that nothing is left to chance; her cooking is 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 151 

done by rule and not by ee guess ;" she studies to avoid 
waste, and to make the most of her materials ; she knows 
that the comfort of her household depends mainly upon her 
thrift and industry, and she takes every means in her power 
to find out and adopt the best way of doing all that she has 
to do. And certainly there is no more honorable ambition 
for most women than the ambition to be a good house- 
keeper, taking that word always in its broadest and most 
beautiful sense, the Bible sense, whose interpretation we find 
in that wonderful description in the last chapter of Proverbs, 
a description which should cheer and refresh the heart of 
every woman who is trying to work well and earnestly : 

" The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. 
. . . She will do him good and not evil all the days of 
her life. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly 
with her hands Strength and honor are her clothing, and 
she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth 
with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. 
She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth 
not the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her 
blessed ; her husband also, and he praiseth her. 
A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.'' 



152 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

CHAPTER XXL 

CARE OF THE SICK. 

To all families, but especially to those where there are 
little children, sickness is sure to come in one form or 
another, and no wife and mother should feel that she has 
done her duty until she has trained herself to be a gentle 
and careful nurse. Furthermore, it is undoubtedly true, 
that a large proportion of the illness which we so much 
dread may be averted or greatly modified by intelligent and 
watchful care, and as " prevention is better than cure," the 
first thing which we need to learn, is, how to prevent. On 
that point, I have already said much to 3 t ou, but shall once 
more repeat briefly some of the more important rules which 
have been found to be essential to the prevention of disease 
In the first place, then, you must be chan, in your house, in 
your clothing, in your body and in your soul. Your house, 
its cellar, outbuildings, drainage, etc., must be clean, or else 
the poisonous gases, which emanate from decay of any and 
all kinds, will produce fevers aud choleraic diseases. Your 
clothing and your body must be clean, or you will be preyed 
upon by skin diseases, and all the ailments which arise from 
a stoppage of the pores of the skin; and, last of all, your 
soul must be clean, because there is no more frequent or 
prolific cause of disease and physical degradation than vice 
or immorality. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I 53 

Secondly, you must have good and well-cooked food, 
which you must eat regularly and in reasonable quantities, 
as excesses in eating and drinking sow the seed for the har- 
vest of aches and pains, arid you must be careful that the 
water which you drink and use in other ways, is pure ; that 
is, free from filth of all kinds; from organic matter or min- 
eral salts. Thirdly, you must be clothed with due regard to 
the changing seasons, must have plenty of fresh air to 
breathe, both by day and night ; and, finally, must keep 
both mind and body in a state of wholesome activity ; for 
work, wholesome, well-regulated work, is a most valuable 
safeguard against many kinds of illness. 

A dua attention to these rules will undoubtedly enable 
both individuals and communities to avoid many of the dis- 
eases (especially those that usually occur in epidemic forms) 
which have hitherto been considered inevitable ; but, even 
then, there will remain ample need for good nursing, an 1 
anj r woman who really knows how to nurse will always find 
plenty of work ready to her hand. 1 do not, of course, 
mean to say that a woman who has the cares of a household 
upon her, should be called upon to be, also, a trained nurse ; 
but I do believe that almost any ordinarily intelligent 
woman can, if she will rightly use her opportunities and 
faculties, learn to understand so well the symptoms and 
treatment of any common illness as to be able to prevent 



154 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

and alleviate much suffering and often to save from death. 
Take, for example, what is called a " common cold " 
(which, by-the-way, is one of the most fertile sources of 
illness, especially in cold climates), and let us see what can 
be done to prevent or cure it. Carefulness in regard to 
clothing, avoidance of drafts and sudden chills, and a habit 
of being much in the fresh air, will do a good deal in the 
way of prevention, and when the cold is fairly caught a lit- 
tle judicious care at the outset will often prevent the long 
illnesses which so frequently follow neglected colds. The 
requisites are warmth, an even temperature, light food and 
good air. It is well to give a hot bath, to put the feet in 
hot mustard water, to give hot drinks; if the cold is on the 
chest, to put on a mustard plaster; if it is in the head, to 
steam it with hot water, with a little camphor in it, taking 
care, always, to prevent any chill from following the profuse 
perspiration. The bowels should be kept open, by a dose 
of oil, of some mineral water, or by an ensema, the head 
cool and the feet warm, and a day or two of this sort of 
treatment will usually break up even a heavy cold. In the 
case of fever, again, the stomach and bowels must be regu- 
lated as quickly as possible ; light, nourishing food, such as 
beef-tea, chicken or mutton broth, rice, milk, etc., should be 
given ; the patient must be kept quiet and in a darkened 
room, with the head cool and feet warm, while ice or cold 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 155 

water may be frequently given. Diarrhceis or .dysentery 
demand perfect quiet ; the best thing to be done, in many 
cases, being simply to put the patient to bed and feed him, 
or her, on arrowroot, rice and water, beef-tea, etc. ; giving 
small quantities at a time. All derangements of the stom- 
ach, inflammations, etc., require the same treatment ; the 
principle being that rest and light food give Nature a 
chance to effect her own cure, and Nature is by far the best 
physician we can employ. Medicines' of any kind should 
rarely be given without the advice of a physician and never 
unless you are thoroughly familiar with their action. There 
are times, of course, when quick action is necessary, as in 
the case of croup, when ipecac should at once be given in 
sufficient quantities to produce vomiting ; or, in colic, when 
a dose of castor-oil is always a safe remedy ; but usually it 
is best to get the advice of a good doctor before giving any 
medicine; for when you begin to administer drugs, about 
which you know little or nothing, you are playing with 
edged tools. 

When you have a patient to take care of who is con- 
fined to the bed, there are certain things to be done, no 
matter what the illness may be, which are the foundation of 
good nursing You must keep the air fresh by opening a 
window (not a door), and shielding the patient from the 
draft. If the weather is cold, you can either leave the win- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

dow on a«crack for some time, or you can opeu it wide for a 
few minutes, as seems best ; if the weather is mild, it is best 
to keep one window constantly open. You must change the 
bed-linen frequently, and this can be done, even with a very 
sick patient, if you can get some one to help you by raising 
the invalid for a moment while you pull out the soiled 
sheet and put on a clean one, rolling it up and slipping it 
quickly under the slightly-raised body of the patient, who 
can lie upon one side of the bed, while you make the other. 
No slops of any kind should be permitted to remain in the 
room for a moment, and it is well to use some disinfectant? 
such as carbolic acid and chloride of lime, remembering, 
however, that cleanliness is the only really effectual disin- 
fectant. The patient should be kept quiet, and in acute 
cases should never be allowed to see strangers or to oecome 
excited by talking, etc., while the nurse herself should wear 
a dress of some soft material which will not rustle, and 
should speak always in a low tone and gentle voice, humor- 
ing, but at the same time controlling the patient. The 
room should be darkened, or at least the patient's eyes 
should be shaded from the light, and neatness and order 
should be the universal rule. Feather beds should never be 
used in illness, mattresses being on all accounts better, and 
the bed covering should be light, as a weight of clothing is 
very oppressive to an invalid. Obedience to the doctor's 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 1 5 J 

orders and constant watchfulness of symptoms are essential, 
and at all times it must be remembered that sick people are 
like children, and require to be treated with great gentle- 
ness, but also with firmness. 

The work of a nurse is, for many reasons, very difficult 
and trying ; but the reward is great, and any woman who 
learns to be a good nurse will find infinite pleasure in the 
consciousness of her ability to alleviate and prevent suffer- 
ing, and her increased power to do good to others. 

CHAPTER XXII. 

ACCIDENTS. 

In any emergency whatever, in the nature of an acci 
dent to yourself or others, or of a general and sudden alarm, 
you are useful, first, as you are able to control yourself; and 
second, as you can do what is necessary until efficient help 
can be obtained. You may, some of you, have heard the 
joke, which though old is not worn out, to the effect that in 
a railway accident, there is but one thing better than u pies- 
ence of mind," and that is " absence of body." It, after all r 
only illustrates the fact that presence of mind, that is, self- 
control, is an essential at all moments of danger to yourself 
or others, and nothing will help you more in this than to 
be sure that you know what ought to be done. The follow- 
ing simple directions will, I trust, be of assistance to you> 



158 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

and if at any time you can obtain special instruction, it will 
be well worth your while to do so, for the sake of those 
among whom your future work may lie : 

Wounds. — If an artery or large vein has been cut, and 
you can always tell if this is the case, by the fact that the 
blood will come in jets, as if it were pumped, you must stop 
it by pressing your finger upon the artery above the wound, 
if it is in the leg or arm, it being necessary, as perhaps you 
understand, to stop the flow from the heart. Sometimes, a 
compress made of cotton or a folded cloth bandaged tightly 
on the artery, always, of course, between the wound and the 
heart, will effect the purpose, but where there are two per- 
sons present who can rest each other, it is best to use the 
finger. When the wound is superficial, and the blood simply 
oozes from it, direct pressure with a soft cloth wet in hot 
water, should be used. 

Hemorrhage. — When it is from the lungs, the patient 
should be made to lie down, with the head low, and keep 
perfectly quiet, not even speaking or lifting the head. Very 
cold applications may be made to the chest, that is, cloths 
wrung out of cold water and frequently changed. When 
the hemorrhage is from the lungs or other internal organ, 
the same position must be maintained, with perfect quiet. 

Burns and Scalds. — Dissolve a teaspoonful of soda in 
half a pint of water, which will be almost a teacupful, wet a 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 159 

soft cloth in it and put it directly on the burn. Do not re- 
move the cloth, hut when it is dry wet it by pouring a little 
of the solution directly upon it. Or, take equal parts of 
lime water and sweet oil, mix well, and apply to the burn 
as directed for the soda ; or, if the burn is superficial, so 
that the skin is not entirely taken off, cover it at once with 
a piece of isinglass plaster, which must be left until the place 
is healed. 

Convulsions in Children. — Put the child at once in a 
hot bath for ten minutes or longer. When it is taken out, 
wrap it in a warm blanket, keep the head cool and the feet 
warm, and if it can swallow, give a close of oil. To prevent 
it from biting its tongue and lips, put a cork, or a folded 
towel, between the teeth till the paroxysm is over, being 
careful not to impede the breathing. 

Fainting. — Keep the head low, loosen the clothing and 
put camphor or ammonia to the nose, or a little pepper on 
the tongue. 

Croup. — Produce vomiting as soon as possible, either 
by ipecac, salt and water, or any mild emetic which you have 
at hand. Apply cloths wrung out of very hot water to the 
throat, being careful always to put dry cloths over the wet 
ones, and to change as soon as they get cool. 

Broken Bones. — The only thing which can be done until 
the doctor comes, is to keep the patient from moving, and 



l6o ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

to lay the limb or injured part in a position as nearly natural 

as possible. 

Blows on the Head. — Use very cold applications to the 
head, keep the feet warm, and on the soles put small mustard 
plasters. Allow the patient to sleep, and permit no noise 
or excitement in the room, which, in all these cases, should 
he well ventilated and quiet. 

Drowning. — Place the body face downward, raise the 
chest by placing pillows under the body, folded garments, or 
a block of wood, so that the head will be low enough to per- 
mit the water which has been swallowed to flow out of the 
mouth. Keep up the temperature by bottles of hot water 
around the body, aud if possible, attempt to start respiration 
by artificial means. This is done by lifting the arms above 
the head gently, then bringing them down and pressing 
them against the sides, at about the rate of ordinary breath- 
ing ; but this process can hardly be understood or practiced 
until you have seen it done by some one who has been trained 
to it, and you will probably only attempt it as a last resort* 

In giving these directions it must always be understood 
that they are only for use until the doctor comes, or in cases 
where no doctor is at hand, for it is only practical experience 
which can fit you to take charge of a sick room. 

In cases where the danger is general, as for example 
when a building or a vessel is on fire, in the midst of an 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS l6l 

epidemic, in a railway accident, etc.. I can only say to you 
that, first of all, you must try to control your own fears ; if 
you can do this, your chances to help others as well as your- 
self are doubled, for you can think clearly, and by your own 
courage and coolness inspire others to do their best for their 
common safety. Circumstances, in such cases, differ so 
much that it is impossible to give special directions, and it 
is a good plan to consider, when you are at peace and in 
safety, what you would do in the face of such dangers as 
these, in this way preparing yourself, by a habit of thought, 
to act intelligently in time of need. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

COOKERY. 

W^hen one has abundance of good material, and is 
obliged to economize neither in timo nor labor, it is not a 
difficult matter to become a good cook ; but the real test of 
a woman's ability, in this department of household labor, 
lies in the results she can obtain from a few inexpensive 
materials with comparatively small outlay of either time or 
labor. The first sJep in the right direction is to thoroughly 
understand the importance of good cookery to the health 
and comfort of [a family, and before we go into details, I 



162 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

should like to make clear to you the principles which under- 
lie what is rightly called the u art " of cookery. 

You are probably sufficiently familiar with the action 
of your own stomachs to know that anything which irri- 
tates them produces, in a greater or less degree, general 
derangement and illness ; and the acute forms of such 
derangement are, probably, pretty well known to you. But, 
while you are aware that unwholesome or badly cooked 
food is almost always the cause of these acute troubles, you 
perhaps do not know that such food may, and frequently 
does, produce a slow and subtle irritation, which affects the 
whole constitution, mental and physical, and in time is 
capable of causing the degeneration of a whole race. " Dys- 
pepsia" is the name which covers the thousand and one 
forms of this irritation, and dyspepsia means, simply, that 
the stomach cannot digest the food that is put into it, and 
this indigested food instead of supplying the nourishment 
which is the result of complete digestion, disturbs the order 
of the whole system and lays the foundation of numberless 
diseases. Now, the common, one may almost say universal, 
cause of dyspepsia, is that food, which is either unwhole- 
some in itself, or made so by improper cookery, is put into 
stomachs to which Nature has given the ability to resent 
the abuse. 

This law of nature is so unyielding that if you at- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



163 



tempt to make your stomach do work for which it was not 
intended, your body will sooner or later suffer the conse- 
quences, and nothing is more certain than that men and 
women who desire to be healthy themselves, or to have heal- 
thy children, must learn to make their food and its prepa- 
ration, a matter of reasonable consideration. It is possible 
that this principle of the physiological necessity of good 
cookery would be sufficient for my present purpose, but 
there is still another fact which I want you to notice, and 
that is, that the highest civilization always includes great 
care in the choice and preparation of food. Uncivilized 
races live like animals, eating anything they can get, at any 
time and in any way ; but the gradual ascent of humanity 
in the scale of civilization is marked always by an increase 
of care in respect to food, both as regards material and 
cookery. So long as you eat like animals, that is, irregular- 
ly, coarsely and carelessly, just so long you are, aud will re- 
main uncivilized, and therefore, if you mean to civilize 
yourself thoroughly, it follows that you must become refined 
and careful in regard to food and its preparation. You have 
then, as you see, two good reasons tor trying to educate 
yourselves in respect to your habits of eating and drinking — 
1st, that in order to be really and permanently healthy you 
must have good and well cooked food ; 2d, that you can 



164 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

never be really civilized until you learn to be refined and 
careful as regards your food. 

Now, practically, it is upon women rather than upon 
men that the burden of this responsibility falls, and women, 
in this country at least, have few more useful fields ot work 
than the kitchen. For most of the women to whom I am 
writing, economy of time, of money and of labor is a neces- 
sity, and it is only, as I have said before, when you have 
learned to appreciate the importance of your work to your- 
selves, and to others, that you will do it well. I hope, 
therefore, that you will believe me when I tell you, that 
when you have learned from the materials at your command 
to choose and prepare for your husband and children, good 
and wholesome food, you have done a great thing ; you are 
helping them and yourselves in ways of which you do not 
dream. If yon are in earnest in your desire to do this-, you 
must begin with a few simple facts which can be easily 
stated and remembered, and you must determine to work 
intelligently and by rule, not blindly and by " guess.' 5 

In the first place then, you need to learn how to choose 
and cook, meat, fish, vegetables, and the different kinds of 
grain, and a certain amount of real study is necessary to do 
1 his. In regard to meats, for example, you should know 
that betf, mutton and venison are more wholesome than 
veal or pork, that almost all kinds of poultry and game are 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 1 65 

good and nourishing, and that in preparing any kind of meat 
it is better to roast, broil or boil than to fry, as by the latter 
process, the article cooked, whatever it might be, becomes 
soaked with the melted grease, and is, in proportion, indiges- 
tible. Tough pieces of all meats except pork, can be used 
for soups, and bones and odds and ends of cold or uncooked 
meat should be kept for the same purpose. These soups, 
which can be made with cheap vegetables, as cabbage, 
onions, potatoes, etc., and with very little or no meat, are 
wholesome, cheap, and afford an agreeable variety. Fish, for 
all who live on the sea coast, or in the neighborhood of 
rivers and lakes, is also a cheap and wholesome food, and as 
in the case of meat, it can be broiled, boiled, baked or 
friend, while when salted or ?moked, it provides material 
for many different dishes. As to vegetables and fruits, the 
variety both in kinds and ways of cooking, is almost endless. 
Any man or woman in this country who has a garden, not 
to say a farm, can provide a family with a constant succes- 
sion of fresh vegetables at small expense, and people who 
live without such supply have usually only their own ignor- 
ance or want of energy to blame for it. These vegetables 
and fruits are, with few exceptions, wholesome, and may be 
eaten at all seasons in reasonable quantities, care being 
taken to use none that are unripe, or at all decayed. They 
can, of course, be cooked in a variety of ways, and an intelli- 



l66 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

gent woman will quickly learn how to choose the best and 
most economical. The different grains also furnish most 
important articles of food and are almost, without exception, 
wholesome, and in this country, cheap. They can be simply 
boiled with water and eaten as porridge or mush, or can be 
made with other ingredients into cakes, puddings and bread 
of different kinds. As porridge, mush, etc, they are espe- 
cially good for children, as they are easily digested and very 
palatable. 

The small collection of receipts which I have placed at 
the end of this volume, will, I trust, be of some assistance to 
you in preparing the material which you are able to obtain ; 
but until you learn, as I have said before, to understand the 
reasons for good cookery and regular habits in respect to 
food, no receipts, however good in themselves, can be of 
much use to you. I have therefore given, in connection 
with the receipts, such suggestions as I think may help you 
to bear in mind, or to search for the reasons for what you 
are doing, hoping that in this way you may gradually find 
out for yourselves that I have not exaggerated the import- 
ance of your work. 

When you have learned to cook well and intelligently, 
you have made yourselves valuable members of any house- 
hold, rich or poor, and this is surely no little thing to say, 
and no mean ambition for any woman to set before herself, 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 1 67 

and I would, therefore, urge every woman who reads this to 
do her best to create healthy and civilized tastes in regard 
to food, in all those who are within her reach. 

SOUP. 

Although soups are considered, and indeed can be made 
a very expensive kind of food, it is quite possible to make 
delicious soups at a small cost, but this requires some skill 
and forethought, and is therefore not often done. In the 
first place, all gravies, scraps and bones of meat, and many 
kinds of cold vegetables can be used for that purpose, and 
are indeed, with the addition of an occasional piece of fr es 
meat and some fresh vegetables, all that is required to make 
many kinds of soup. The bones, etc., which of course must 
be perfectly sweet, should be simmered for four or five hours, 
or longer, in sufficient water to cover them, then the broth 
should be strained off and set away until the following day, 
when it must be boiled again for a short time with what- 
ever vegetables or seasoning you may prefer to use. To 
"stock," as it is called, made in this way, you can add to- 
matoes, rice, barley, cabbage, onion, etc. You can thicken it 
with potatoes or milk ; you can season it and put in macca- 
roni or vermicelli; in short, there are numerous different 
ways of treating it, and a little experience will soon teach 
you to make excellent soup from materials which must 
otherwise be thrown away. Of course if you can afford 



i68 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



fresh meats, the soup will be richer and more nourishing, 
and whenever you boil any kind of meat, (except pork) or 
poultry, you should carefully save the water in which it is 
boiled for the basis of a soup. There are some kinds of 
soup which are in themselves a dinner, and I add a few re- 
ceipts which you will find both good and cheap. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take a hock of beef, or any such piece as would be used for corn- 
ing, boil it three hours, add a dozen white potataoes, three carrots 
cut fine, two onions, one turnip, and a little celery if you can get it, 
.and boil another hour. Season to taste, and serve all together, taking 
out the beef and putting it on the table in a separate dish. 

VEAL SOUP. 

Boil a knuckle of veal three hours, add a dozen potatoes, one 
onion and a large handful of rice, and boil another hour. Take out 
the veal and potatoes and season the soup to taste. Then cut up the 
veal and potatoes in rather small pieces, and season with pepper, salt, 
and a little vinegar. Take one pint of milk, or of milk and water, 
thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of flour; when it boils add a small 
piece of butter and pour it over the veal and potatoes. This, with 
the soup, makes an excellent dinner. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

This can be made without any meat at all, and, if you raise your 
own vegetables, is the cheapest of all soups. Take a dozen potatoes, 
half a small head of cabbage, three onions, four carrots, two turnips, 
if possible a little celery or three or four tomatoes, two handfuls of 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



I 69 



barley or the same of rice. Cut the vegetables, except the potatoes, 
quite fine and boil until thoroughly done, seasoning to taste. If 
■desired, a small piece of pork may be added. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take two dozen ears of sweet corn, cut the corn from the cobs, 
dividing the kernels as nearly in half as possible ; scrape the cobs and 
throw them into a large pot full of water. Let them boil two hours, 
then dip them out and scrape them thoroughly, putting all that you 
scrape off directly into the pot, into which at the same time you put 
rather less than a quart of Lima beans, and a piece of salt pork 
weighing from one and a half to two pounds. Boil for three quarters 
of an hour, then add the corn which you cut from the cobs, half a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and a very little salt. This is a most excellent 
a nd inexpensive dish, and is very good even when made of dried corn 
and beans. 

BEAN OR PEA SOU P. 

One pint of beans or peas to two quarts of the "stock" already 
described. Soak the beans or peas all night and boil them soft ; 
season with pepper, silt, and a little onion. 

calf's head soup. 

Boil until the meat clears from the bone, strain the broth and 
add the meat to it, with three onions chopped fine. Boil the brains 
in a cloth by themselves, mix them with a little flour and add to the 
soup. Season with pepper, salt, thyme and a little mace. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Five quarts of water, and one and a half pounds beef, five dozen 



170 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

okras cut in thin slices, one dozen tomatoes, one cup of rice. Season 
with salt and cloves. The whole must be boiled four hours and 
strained through a sieve. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

If you have a butcher in your neighborhood you can frequently 
get the ox-taiis for a very small price, or indeed for nothing, and the 
soup is of course cheap in proportion. Boil the tail until it is thor- 
oughly done, take out the bones and add any vegetable you like, or 
strain the soup or thicken with a little browned flour, seasoning to 
taste. 

1 OMATO SOU P. 

Take two quarts of stock, boil two dozen tomatoes until thor- 
oughly done, rub them through a sieve and add to the stock. Thicken 
with a little flour, season with onion, pepper and salt, then cut wheat 
bread into small square pieces, fry in a little butter or lard, and drop 
into the soup just before putting it on the table. 

POTATO OR MILK SOUP. 

Take two quarts of stock and thicken it either with a quart of 
finely mashed potatoes, or a quart of milk into which you have rubbed 
a pint of flour. In both cases season with onion, pepper and salt, 
straining your stock perfectly clear before you add either the potato 
or milk. 

FISH. 

For all who live on the sea-board, or in the near neighborhood 
of lakes and rivers, fish is a cheap as well as a wholesome food, and 
even those who live far inland, can, at a slightly increased cost, obtain 
a good variety of canned or salted fish. Fresh fish may be cooked in 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I/I 

many different ways, but the simplest are usually the best, and for 
these, only a few rules need be given. 

BOILED FISH. 

Glean your fish carefully and boil it whole, in very little water, 
with or without salt, as you like. It should be eaten with some kind 
of sauce or drawn butter, for otherwise it is very tasteless. A fish 
weighing four or five pounds is the best to boil. 

BROILED FISH. 

Split the fish exactly in half and broil it over live coals, taking 
care that it does not get burned or smoked. When done, put it on 
the dish and butter while hot. 

FRIED FISH. 

For this, small fish is necessary, and should be rolled whole in 
bread or cracker crumbs, or Indian meal, and fried quickly in hot fat> 
lard or butter. 

BAKED FISH. 

Take a fish as for boiling and fill it with the following stuffing, 
sewing up the side where you put the stuffing in, and putting a few 
small lumps of butter on top while baking. Bread crumbs in quantity 
according to size of fish, mixed with a little butter, pepper, rait, and a 
little thyme or sage, or instead of butter a little finely chopped pork. 

SHELL FISH. 

While the different kinds of shell fish make many delicious dishes, 
they are, for some people, very unwholesome, producing violent indi- 
gestion with often a bright red eruption, and they should therefore be 
aten with great care, especially in hot weather. 



\*]2 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



OYSTERS AND CLAMS. 

Stewed. Put the liquor on the fire by itself ; when it comes to a 
boil, drop in the oysters or clams, and add at once, starring all the time* 
milk (in proportion of one cup to a quart of oysters) in which you 
have mixed smoothly two tablespoonfuls of wheat flour, and one 
tablespoonful of butter. As soon as this thickens so that the broth 
is creamy, take from the fire and serve hot. 

Fried. Roll each oyster or clam in bread or cracker crumbs, or 
Indian meal, and fry in butter or lard. 

Scalloped. Small dishes should be used for this : scallop shells 
themselves being excellent. Roll the oysters or clams in bread 
crumbs with which you have mixed a little salt and pepper, put them 
in the dishes or shells, with several small lumps of butter on top of 
each, and bake in a quick oven. 

LOBSTERS AND CRABS. 

Boil till thoroughly done ; take the meat from the shells and eat 
cold, stewed, pickled or scalloped. 

Stewed. Mix with butter, pepper, salt and a little hot water, and 
boil for one minute. 

Pickled. Put in a bowl, season highly with pepper, salt and mace, 
and cover with vinegar. 

Scalloped. The same as oysters and clams. 

SALT FISH. 

All the different kinds of salt fish may be either broiled or boiled 
while some kinds, as codfish, haddock, etc., may be made into a 
variety of palatable dishes. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I 73 

CODFISH. 

i. Shred fine and stew in a little milk, butter and pepper. Jus 
before putting on the table, add one or more hard-boiled eggs, cut 
into small pieces. 

2. Chop up very fine with an equal quantity of potato, add a little 
milk, butter and pepper ; serve hot. 

3. Roll the above, when cold, into small cakes, and fry in lard. 

HADDOCK. 

1. Stew with milk, etc., the same as codfish. 

2. Boil a cupful of rice ; when thoroughly done, add twice the 
quantity of finely-shredded haddock, and two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped very fine ; a little pepper. 

MEATS. 

Large pieces of beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison, etc.— poultry 
and many kinds of game are best and most wholesome when roasted in 
a slow oven, care being taken not to over do them. Beef, mutton, 
and poultry may also be boiled, and in this case the water used 
should always be saved for soup, while the meats may be often made 
more palatable by boiling vegetables with them, as corned beef with 
cabbage and turnips. Ham, bacon, and salt pork are usually boi'ed, 
and to the last two, cabbage, beans, turnips or some kind of green, 
are generally added. Smaller pieces of beef, mutton, venison (as 
steaks and chops), spring-chickens and the smaller kinds of game are 
best broiled, and for this the meat should be cut thick (at least two 
inches; and broiled quickly over live coals, taking care not to smoke, 
burn, or over do it. With the exception of ham and bacon, no meat 



»74 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



should be fried, and even these two are less greasy and safer when 
well broiled. There are few articles which a careful and intelligent 
cook will fry, and, as a rule, almost any way of cooking food is to be 
preferred to this. 

Excellent hashes and stews can be made from cold meats or from 
pieces of meat which cannot be used in any other way, and for these 
I add a few well-tried receipts. 

BEEF, MUTTON, CHICKEN, VEAL, OR TURKEY HASH. 

"Remove all gristle, bones or fat, chop the remaining meat very 
fine and put it in a pan with a little hot water, or better still a little 
meat gravy. When thoroughly heated, put it on a flat dish, and sur- 
round it with small triangular pieces of buttered toast. In making 
this of poultry, add any cold dressing, liver or gizzard (chopping fine) 
which you may have. 

CORN-BEEF HASH. 

Chop the beef fine, with an equal quantity of potato, add a very 
little hot water, a small piece of butter, and a little pepper. Heat 
thoroughly. 

BEEF OR MUTTON HASH. 

Cut the meat up (not very fine) and mix with an equal quantity 
of potato cut in the same way. Add gravy, pepper, salt, and heat 
thoroughly. 

VEAL, MUTTON OR CHICKEN HASH. 

0 

Chop the meat very fine, season with salt, pepper and thyme or 
sage. Line a bowl with hot boiled rice, and into the hollow left in 
the centre put the chopped meat. When quite cold, the whole will 
turn out in shape, and should then be put in the oven and allowed to 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



'75 



warm, without browning at all, Take it out and pour over it drawn 
butter, made as described, for fish sauce. 

STEWED MUTTON OR BEEF. 

For this you can use either meat which has been once cooked, or 
can take inferior pieces of fresh meat. Boil gently for one hour with 
just sufficent water to prevent burning, then add potatoes, carrots and 
onions and a little turnip, and boil three quarters of an hour longer. 
Turn out on to a large flat dish, aud put boiled rice neatly round the 
edge. 

CHOPPED VEAL, MUTTON OR CHICKEN. 

One and a half pounds of the meat ; quarter of a pound salt pork 
chopped fine ; three Boston crackers, or an equal amount of butter 
crackers ; two eggs ; salt, sage, pepper to taste. Pack in a pan and 
cook until thoroughly done. Half a cup of cream will improve this 
receipt. 

SAUSAGES. 

Three full tablespoonfuls of powdered sage ; one and a half full 
tablespoonfuls salt ; one full tablespoonful pepper, to a pound of finely 
chopped meat. 

CHOWDER. 

Three slices salt pork fried brown ; three onions fried in the fat . 
one quart boiled potatoes, mashed ; two pilot biscuit broken line , 
one tablespoonful thyme ; three tablespoonfuls pepper : half a tea- 
spoonful cloves ; a little salt, six pounds fresh fish cut n slices ; water 
enough to cover, boil slowly one hour. 

STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 
Soak a sufficient quantity of bread crusts in water ; when soft, 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



chop fine and add salt, pepper, sage and a little butter ; chop the 
liver and gizzards of the fowls very fine and mix with the bread. 

CHOPPED BEEF. 

Take cold roast or boiled beef, chop it fine, and add half the 
quantity of bread crumbs, salt, pepper and a little butter. Warm 
with a little water or gravy, or put it in a pan and bake. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak the beans all night ; put them in a deep dish with a little 
water, and in the centre of the dish put a thick piece of salt pork. 

Bake three or four hours. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes may be cooked in a great variety of ways, and are always 
good and nourishing food. 

Mashed — Rub well-boiled potatoes till there are no lumps, and 
add salt, milk or cream, and a little butter. Leave them in this way, 
or put them in a deep dish and brown in the oven, or roll and cook as 

croquettes. 

Chopped — Chop cold boiled potatoes not very fine ; warm them 
with milk, butter and salt. 

Fried. — Cut cold boiled potatoes in thick slices, and brown slightly 
in butter or lard, or slice raw potatoes very thin and fry to a crisp in 
lard deep enough to cover them, and at the boiling point. 

TURNIPS. 

i 

Mash while hot and mix with butter, pepper and salt. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 
CARROTS. 



*77 



Cut in fine strips, boil soft, drain off the water, and thicken it 
with a little flour and milk, add pepper and salt, and pour over the 
carrots. Celery and salsify may be cooked in the same way. 

TOMATOES. 

Cut two cucumbers and one onion into very small pieces, boil 
till quite soft, add six large tomatoes which have been peeled and cut 
up. some pepper and salt, and boil till done. If any of this is left, 
thicken it with bread crumbs, put in a deep dish, sprinkle bread 
crumbs and a little butter on top, and bake. Canned tomatoes can 
be cooked in the same way. 

ONIONS. 

Boil till soft, put in a deep dish and pour over them a sauce made 
of milk thickened with flour, butter, pepper and salt. Scallop cold 
boiled onions with bread crumbs in the same way as tomatoes 

Cauliflower should be boiled with a little* salt and served with 
drawn butter. 

Greens of any kind should be boiled very tender, rubbed through 
a sieve and garnished with slices of boiled egg. 

WHEAT BREAD. 

Two quarts sifted flour, three pints water, one-fourth cake yeast, 
one teaspoonful salt, one large spoonful butter, one teaspoonful 
sugar. Mix well, let it stand until it has doubled in size, make it in 
two loaves, knead it, put it in pans and let it rise a second time. 
Bake in slow oven. Equal parts of milk and water can be used if 
desired. 



178 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One pint milk scalded and cooled, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter yeast cake dissolved in one-half 
cup cold water, two cups white flour, sifted ; three and one-half cups 
Graham flour. Mix a little softer than white bread. Let it rise till 
light ; stir it down and pour into well-greased pans. Let it rise 
again, and bake a little longer, and in a slower oven, than white 
bread. 

ROLLS. 

Pour one pint of scalded milk on one teaspoonful each of butter, 
sugar and salt ; when lukewarm, add one-half cup of yeast. Stir in 
three cups of flour, and beat well. Let it rise about three hours, 
then add from two to three cups of flour, to make it just stiff enough 
to knead, and knead for twenty minutes; let it rise in the bowl 
Shape it into rolls, and after putting it in the pans, let it rise again. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup of flour, one cup of corn meal, one cup of milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half tablespoonful 
melted butter; one egg. Mix the dry ingredients together and sift 
them. Beat an egg light, add the milk and stir all together. Bake 
twenty minutes. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One-quarter cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, Graham flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Bake half an hour. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 179 
QUICK BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; sift these together ; rub in, with tips of fingers, one large tea- 
spoonful of lard ; add milk enough to^make a soft dough. 

RICE BREAD, 

One pint rice flour ; one pint milk ; one tablespoonful butter ; 
one egg ; one level teaspoonful soda ; one of cream of tartar ; a little 
salt. Scald the milk, and mix as for corn bread. 

MUFFINS. 

One quart warm milk ; three eggs ; one teaspoonful of salt ; four 
tablespoonfuls of yeast ; flour, to make a stiff batter, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. Bake when risen. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One cup milk ; two-thirds of a cup of butter ; two tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; whites of two eggs, well beaten ; half a cup yeast ; flour to 
make a thick batter. Cook on griddle. 

HOMINY WAFFLES. 

To one pint cold boiled hominy add one quart sour milk, two 
beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter and one teaspoonful 
soda, with flour sufficient for a thick batter. 

Rice cakes can be made in the same way, and can be fried on a 
griddle, or cooked as waffles. 

Boiled rice, hominy, cornmeal, oatmeal and cracked wheat are 
all excellent for breakfast and supper, as they are nourishing, satisfy- 
ing and cheap. Hot breads of all kinds are, as a rule, unwholesome 
and the same is true of fried cakes, which should seldom be eaten, 
especially in warm climates. A breakfast or supper of any of the 



l8o ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

grains, with milk, butter or molasses is, on all accounts, far more 
wholesome than hot breads or cakes, fried pork, bacon, or indeed 
than any of the food commonly eaten by the poorer classes in this 
country, besides being cheaper and easier to prepare. Two meals out 
of the daily three can be made upon these grains, with the addition, 
for the sake of variety, of white and sweet potatoes, boiled or baked ; 
and such a diet is, as I have said, strongly to be recommended to all 
who desire to live cheaply and well. 



PUDDINGS AND CAKE. 

TROY PUDDINGS. 

One cup milk ; one cup molasses ; one cup suet, chopped fine, or 
butter; two cups raisins; flour enough to make a thick batter; one 
teaspoonful saleratus. Boil four hours ; eat with sauce. 

BERRY PUDDING. 

Two cups molasses; one cup milk; three cups flour ; one-half 
cup butter ; two cups berries ; two eggs; one teaspoonful saleratus. 
Bake, 

POP-OVERS. 

Two teacups flour; two of milk; two eggs; salt ; a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut (melted). Bake in cups in a quick oven. 
RICE PUDDING. 

Mix two cups cold boiled rice with a quart of milk, a little sugar 
and salt, and the grated rind of one lemon. Bake in a slow oven. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Six tablespoonfuls tapioca, soaked all night in one pint cold 
water. In the morning turn off the water; add a little salt, the yolk 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



181 



of three eggs, one cup sugar, one quart milk ; boil like custard. Put 
it in a dish, and, when cool, stir in lightly the beaten whites ; flavor 
with vanilla and eat cold. 

ANOTHER. 

Put one quart tapioca in one quart cold water. Set it in a warm 
place till it becomes clear. Pare and quarter apples ; put them in a 
pudding dish, with a little sugar and nutmeg ; add a little salt to the 
tapioca ; pour it over the apples, and bake till they are tender. Serve 
with sugar and cream, or milk. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and grate eight apples ; measure in a cup or bowl, and add 
same quantity of bread crumbs, three eggs, one and a-half pints milk, 
and a little sugar and cinnamon. Bake and eat with cream, or omit 
the cream and eat with sweet sauce. 

ANOTHER. 

Pare the apples, and stew till tender; beat up light, with a little 
sugar and cinnamon. Line a mold, or baking dish, with slices of 
buttered bread. Bake and eat with sweet sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Cut the bread into small, square pieces ; make a custard of a 
quart of milk, the yolks of two eggs, sugar and a little nutmeg; add 
half a cup of seeded raisins. Mix all in a deep dish, and bake a very 
light brown ; beat the whites of two eggs very light, with just enough 
su^ar to stiffen; and, when the pudding is cool, drop this in spoon- 
fuls on the top. Put it back in the oven till the white of the eggs is 
lightly browned. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



ANOTHER. 

Two cups bread crumbs ; one quart milk ; three well-beaten 
eggs; a little salt; one-fourth teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Bake and eat with sweet sauce. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 
One-half cup butter ; two cups sugar ; three eggs ; three and 
one-half cups flour; one cup milk; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in cups, and eat with sweet sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk ; one teacup molasses ; one cup suet ; one heap- 
ing cup Indian meal ; one egg; a little ginger, cinnamon and salt. 
Heat the milk, and stir into it the meal wet, with cold milk. Let it 
boil for two minutes. When cold, add other ingredients, and bake. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat together one cup fine sugar and one-half cup butter- 
Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 

SOFT SAUCE. 

One pint hot water ; one tablespoonful butter ; three full table- 
spoonfuls sugar. While boiling, stir in one tablespoonful cornstarch, 
dissolved in cold water. Flavor with vanilla, or lemon and nutmeg. 

PASTRY. 

Take equal parts of butter and lard, and chop them into the 
flour ; add sufficient cold water to moisten, a little salt, and roll as 
little as possible. For one pie the proportions are one cup flour, 
butter and lard the size of a small egg. Pastry which is chopped in 
this way is much lighter than if mixed with the hand ; but, however 
made, it is an unwholesome and expensive food, and should be very 
seldom eaten. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 183 
CRULLERS. 

One cup milk ; one cup sugar ; five eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; butter size of an egg ; 
a little nutmeg ; flour enough to make a thick paste. Cut into 
shapes, and drop into boiling lard or beef fat. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint milk ; three eggs ; two cups sugar ; one cup butter or 
lard ; one gill fresh yeast ; grated orange peel and nutmeg ; flour 
enough to make a stiff paste. Roll into balls, and cook like crullers. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One-half pound sugar, one-fourth pound flour, juice and grated 
rind of one lemon, five eggs ; beat whites and yolks separate, as light 
as possible ; beat the sugar into the yolks ; then very lightly beat in 
the flour. 

BOSTON TEA-CAKE. 

Two cups white sugar ; two cups milk ; two eggs ; one-half cup 
butter ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; four cups flour ; spice. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Three cups flour ; one-half cup butter ; one cup molasses ; one- 
half cup milk ; one egg ; tablespoonful ginger ; one teaspoonful soda ; 
two of cream tartar. 

GINGERSNAPS. 

One large cup butter and lard ; one large cup sugar ; one large 
cup molasses; one-half large cup cold water; one teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in a little warm water; flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Roll very thin, and bake quickly. 



1 84 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 



SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup butter; one half cup lard ; one 
cup milk ; one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little warm water ; 
flour to make it just thick enough to roll out. Mold as little as 
possible. 

CUP CAKE. 

One-half cup butter ; two cups sugar ; three eggs ; four cups 
flour; one cup milk ; two teaspoon fuls baking powder. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter ; four cups sugar; two cups milk; yolks of six 
eggs, well beaten ; four teaspoonfuls baking powder ; eight cups 
flour ; one cup of citron and one cup of raisins, both chopped fine. 
Spice with nutmeg and cinnamon. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Three cups light dough ; one cup butter and lard ; three eggs ; 
two cups sugar ; one-half cup milk ; one-half teaspoonful soda ; 
nutmeg and cinnamon ; one cup raisins and citron. If not stiff 
enough, add a little flour. 

ANOTHER, 

Three lbs. flour; one and one-half lbs. sugar ; one-half lb. butter . 
one-half lb. lard; three eggs; one pint milk; one-half pint yeast. 
Spice with mace and nutmeg, and, if you like, add raisins and citron. 

The afternoon before you want to bake, put half the shortening 
and half the sugar into the milk and scald it ; when cool, add the 
yeast and the flour. When it is raised, which will be sometime 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 185 

during the evening, work in the rest of the sugar and shortening. In 
the morning add the eggs, well beaten, the spice and fruit ; put in 
the pans, and let it rise again before baking. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses; one-half cup butter; tablespoonful ginger, 
one teaspoonful saleratus, dissolved in half a cup warm water ; flour 
enough to roll. 

HARRISON CAKE. 

Two cups molasses, heated, with half a cup butter and lard and 
one cup sugar ; one teaspoonful cloves ; two teaspoonfuls saleratus ; 
one cup sour cream, if you have it, if not, one cup sour milk and a 
little more butter ; flour to thicken, as gingerbread ; raisins. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut the beef in small pieces ; put in a saucepan, with just enough 
water to cover. Set it back on the stove, and let it steep, not boil, 
for six or seven hours. Strain it, and flavor with a little celery, 
onion or anything you like and the doctor approves. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

Two quarts boiling water ; one cup Indian meal ; a little salt. 
Wet the meal to a smooth paste, and stir it into the water when 
actually boiling, and boil slowly half an hour, stirring all the time. 
Oatmeal gruel is made in the same way. 



t86 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



MILK AND RICE GRUEL. 
Wet two heaping tablespoonfuls ground rice with cold milk and 
stir into one quart boiling milk. Boil ten minutes, and add a little 
salt. Sago and arrowroot are made in the same way. 

APPLE WATER. 

Take one large juicy apple, pare and quarter, but do not core it. 
Add three cups cold water and boil (closely covered) until the apple 
stews to pieces. Strain at once, squeezing the apple through the 
cloth ; strain this again through a finer cloth ; sweeten and drink with 
ice, and, if you like it, a little lemon juice. This is excellent in fevers 
and colds, as are also drinks made from acid jellies dissolved in 
water. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Two bars common yellow soap ; two lbs. washing soda; two oz. 
borax. Dissolve in eight quarts warm water. The water must be 
kept warm (without boiling) until the ingredients are thoroughly 

dissolved. 

POISONS. 

For any poison, drink, at once, a glass of cold water, in which 
has been dissolved a teaspoonful of ground mustard, and one of com- 
mon salt. This is an emetic, and should, after its action, be followed 
by the white of two raw eggs. A physician should always be sent for 
at once. 

STAINS. 

Iron rust can usually be taken out with fresh currant juice, but 
is very troublesome. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 187 

Mildew, by oxalic acid. 

Ink, while wet, by milk : when dry (from anything white), by 
oxalic acid. 

Grease can be removed sometimes by French chalk ; sometimes 
by borax, dissolved in warm water ; sometimes (as in the case of 
candle grease) by laying thin paper on the spot, and pressing with a 
hot iron ; sometimes by benzine, and sometimes not at all. 

MEASURES. 

One heaping quart, sifted flour, weighs one pound ; one quart 
fine sugar and one quart softened butter, weighs one pound ; one 
quart brown sugar, or one quart Indian meal, weighs one lb. two oz. 

INSECTS. 

Cockroaches and beetles may be got rid of by sprinkling 
powdered borax on the shelves, sinks, etc., which they frequent. 
Ants, by putting almond kernels on the shelves, etc. The ants will 
leave anything else for these, and you can brush them off into 
hot water, destroying hundreds at once. Bedbugs will yield to 
nothing but perfect cleanliness. Moths will not eat anything in a 
chest or trunk in which there is a strong odor of camphor. Brush all 
woollens and furs carefully, and sprinkle with camphor gum. 

SALT PORK. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch deep. Put 
down one layer of pork, and cover with one inch salt, continuing 
thus till the barrel is full. Then pour in as much strong pickle 
as the barrel will hold. Pack as tight as possible, and keep the 
pork always under the brine. 



i88 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



HAMS. 

For six hams make a brine strong enough to bear a potato ; add 
one-fourth lb. saltpetre, dissolved in warm water, and sugar enough 
to make the mixture slightly sweet. Soak the hams in this for ten or 
twelve days ; take them out, and, when thoroughly dry, smoke until 
they are of a deep brown. Then wrap in cotton cloth, or brown 
paper, and pack in a box or barrel, with coarse salt enough to com- 
pletely cover them. Hams cured in this way may be kept for two or 
three years. 

COFFEE. 

The best coffee pot is one so arranged that the grounds do not 
get into the coffee at all ; and this end is reached by means of a little 
cylinder with a fine sieve at the bottom, which stands on top the 
coffee-pot. The ground coffee is put in this cylinder, and the boiling 
water being poured into it, drains int* the pot below. This insures 
clear, strong coffee, without further trouble, and is the simplest pos- 
sible method. 

TEA. 

Put the tea, in the proportion of one teaspoonful to each person, 
into the pot (which should first have been heated), pour boiling 
water on it, and set it for five minutes where it will keep hot without 
boiling. 



ij^ts on Agriculture. 



BY F. RICHARDSON. 



Written for the Southern Workman. 

More people make their living directly by agriculture 
than by any other calling ; and famine would overtake all 
civilized nations if one year's crop should fail. Agriculture 
is, therefore, called the "King of Arts/' So universal is its 
bearing upon the interests of all classes, that no man's head 
can be considered well furnished, till he knows the general 
principles ot farming. Professional men of nearly all kinds 
are continually brought in contact with farmers. Especially 
is this the case with teachers in the Southern States. And 
the more exact and detailed a teacher's information is on 
agricultural matters, the more he may enjoy the respect and 
confidence of those practical men who are the leaders of pub- 
lic opinion in rural communities. 

To command the respect of practical men, however, the 
student must know how narrow are the limits within which 
book knowledge is worth anything. Books cannot convey 
the skill of touch which enables its owner to select a valuable 



OK HABITS AND MANNERS. 



animal by the quality of its hair ; nor can they give the 
practiced eye, which decides at a glance whether grass is at 
the proper stage for cutting, or whether a clay field should 
be plowed to-day or left till it is drier. Nor can books de- 
termine whether this farm is worth ten dollars per acre more 
than that, and whether cattle farming in any particular 
locality is likely to pay better than raising grain. On all 
such matters the mere book theorist in agriculture would be 
as much at sea as the young physician who has his volumes 
at his fingers' ends, and can prescribe for any disease which 
may be named to him, but cannot decide what is the matter, 
in his first case. 

On all such questions as the above, practical men, 
though prompt to laugh at any dogmatic intrusion upon 
their provinces, are especially eager to hear facts. They 
value these if modestly offered, and under a sense that the 
experience recorded in books and farm papers has been often 
gained under totally different circumstances from the case in 
hand. Books never do record all the circumstances. They 
deal in relative terms, and in results, often leaving out such 
vital points as temperature and amount of rain-fall, &c. 
For example, a first-rate authority on market-gardening, 
living in New York, gives as a fixed rule that it will not 
pay to plant truck on land having a clay sub-soil. While 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 191 

in the South, on the contrary, the rule is worthless, and a 
clay sub-soil is often especially sought by truck growers. To 
trust books too far is to become the laughing-stock of sensible 
men. It is necessary to learn to read between the lines and 
supply omitted circumstances. 

The students of Hampton have not only the great privi- 
lege of seeing a fine farm successfully managed under their 
eyes and hands, but they are also thoroughly drilled in the 
elements of agricultural science in their class-rooms. The 
object of the present series of papers is to supplement the 
knowledge thus attainable by suggesting a few of the prac- 
tical ideas about farming, which are not commonly found in 
text-books, but which the young farmer needs at the very 
threshold of his experience, and for lack of which many 
good men have thrown away the labor of years, or of a life- 
time. In treating of agriculture from this point of view, it 
is hoped that useful hints may be given to the teachers who 
go out from Hampton into farming communities, and whose 
pupils may apply to them for advice. The whole future of 
those pupils may be determined by a woi-d from an honored 
teacher, and much depends upon 

STARTING RIGHT. 
I 

It is best for the young farmer to begin at the bottom 
of the ladder. He has a long course before him. In thirty 



192 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

years he may expect to reach a comfortable independence. 
If not satisfied with this and he tries to go faster, he will 
usually siuk into some enticing pitfall of speculation. 

In every country neighborhood are to be found a few 
men who have made money by legitimate farming, and who 
are not ashamed to use their own hands. After finding 
some such man, the young farmer can make the best use of 
two or three years, by working faithfully and diligently for 
him, and learning what he knows. If a young farmer has 
determined to be rich in thirty years, he can better afford to 
labor at first for a successful man for board and clothing only, 
than to receive high wages from a slip-shod fox hunter who 
calls himself unlucky. 

ii 

After having given satisfaction to a critical master for 
two or three years, our beginner will find that though he 
may have put no money in his purse, and is apparently at 
the bottom of the ladder, he has really made the first great 
step upward. He has gotten a character. A man whose 
judgment is recognized in the place, has given him a 
thorough trial, and pronounced him .steady, reliable and 
efficient. What is the result ? 

The result is that, though without a penny or an en- 
dorser, he will find two classes of persons who are looking 
for just such men as he. The first class is of practical farm- 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 193 

ers who need foremen. The second class is of non-residents 
who must have hands who are trusty, and not eye servants. 
The most successful farmer is to be preferred as an employer, 
first, because such a man is more likely to be able and willing 
to pay all who work for him; second, because something is 
to be learned from him. 

in. 

Oar beginner, looking steadily toward the end of the 
thirty years, will not be in too great a hurry to start for 
himself. And in his early efforts to swim against the cur- 
rent, he will wait till he finds some solid ground under his 
feet, before he places the weight of another's arms around 
his neck. It is true that many young men save nothing 
until they get married, but this is their own folly. Every 
valuable farm hand, if single, ought to put by at least $7.00 
to §10.00 per month. If he sticks to this till he has laid up 
§500.00, he will have learned the value of little sums, — 
which is one of the most important lessons in the art of get- 
ting wealth. It is the testimony of every successful man, — 
that it is more difficult to keep money than to make it. 

IV. 

While working out for an employer, our beginner is 
gaining experience at the least risk, of any period of his life. 
He has before his eyes the example of a practical man laying 
out money. If losses occur, the employee gets a valuable 



194 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

warning ; if gains result, the employee can some day try the 
same path. Moreover, while his own bank account is grow- 
ing, he has many opportunities of seeing, in the experience 
of other young men, the folly of trying to farm without 
sufficient capital. 

v. 

By these gradual steps upward, we will suppose our 
young farmer to have acquired a first-rate character for 
steadiness, honesty, industry, and knowledge of his business. 
These things are capital in themselves, and are within the 
reach of any one, however poor. While acquiring them, he 
has formed fixed habits, and conquered many of his own 
weaknesses. He has now taken a Right Start on the road to 
an honorable career of prosperity. With his five hundred 
dollars, he is now, perhaps, a man of sufficient experience to 
commence being his own employer. Only seven or eight 
years of the thirty are gone, and he finds himself in advance 
of fully three-fourths of the young men who began life when 
he did. 

VI. 

At this stage of the life of our hero (for heroes are those 
who conquer little temptations), a land agent lights down 
upon hipa. The land agent has a nice little farm of fifty 
acres, for sale at a bargain. He don't want much down — 
say $200. Seeing the purchaser is such a deserving young 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS 195 

man, the balance may remain on interest for four or five 
years. As a friend, the land agent would advise him not to 
let such a good chance slip. In the whole course of his ex- 
perience in real estate, he had never known a more favorable 
opportunity to make a strike. The wood on the farm will 
nearly pay for it, &c, &c. Only $1,000.00 for the place, and 
all but $200 might remain on interest. " Buy it ! young 
man! Buy it!" 

VII. 

Our advice would be, do nothing of the kind. You will 
find just as good bargains five years hence. " There are 
always as fine fish in the sea as have been caught." The 
wood would be worth very little without capital to handle 
and sell it to the best advantage. The farm itself will produce 
nothing without tools, seed, team and labor. If it is the 
labor of the owner, how is he to be fed ? The $300 still in 

the bank would be soaked up directly as follows: 

Cost of the cheapest horse worth owning, $80.00 

Cart harness, plow harness and whiffietree, 20.00 
Cart, plows, drag, cultivator, scythe, axe, spade, 
hoe, forks, rake, shovel, curry-comb, brush, 
grind-stone, wedges, chains, bags, baskets, 

steel-yard, half-bushel, hatchet, wrench, &c, 110.00 

f Cow, pigs and poultry, 50.00 

Seeds and plants, 30.00 

Lastly, the wedding expenses, 10.00 

$300.00 



196 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

Even if the house were nicely furnished by a liberal 
father-in-law, how can the young man live, and pay interest 
on the remaining $800 due on the land ? 

VIII. 

All this tearful embarrassment and the consequent 
working at a disadvantage, and compulsory borrowing, could 
be avoided by not investing a penny in land so early in life. 

Turning a deaf ear to the land agent, our hero sets 
himself to find a good piece of land which has been a little 
neglected, and whose owner has not much taste or skill, and 
would be glad to put it out on shares. Such pieces are to 
be found easily enough, and after refusing a number of such, 
our prudent beginner, making haste slowly, will be likely 
to have a favorable opportunity. Here his good character 
will enable him to command good terms. And the more 
he can induce the owner to furnish of stock and tools the 
better. There will be plenty of room left to use the small 
sum of $500 as working capital, to more advantage. 

In making a bargain to farm on shares, the beginner 
should be very careful to have the contract drawn up in 
writing as definitely and clearly as possible. This is neces- 
sary even with the land -owner who means to deal fairly, 
because misunderstandings are constantly occurring when 
there is only memory to refer to. So far from making agree- 
ments with land-owners whose neighbors do not consider 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 



I 97 



them reliable and just men, it is much safer for beginners to 
avoid such altogether. Even a victory in a lawsuit is often 
ruinous to a poor man. 

IX. 

As a guide, we give the following form, which can easily 
be varied : but as written, it embraces the common features 
of such agreements in Eastern Virginia: 

Articles of agreement made this first day of 1888, 
between John Doe, of the County of , in the State of 

Virginia, of the first part, and Richard .Roe, of the said County and 
State, of the other part, witnesseth : That the said John Doe doth 
demise unto the said Richard Roe, his personal representatives and 
assigns, all that certain farm situate in ihe County of 
in the State of Virginia, bounded on the North by the main road 
leading from to , on the East by the land of 

Adam Smith, on the South by the River, and on the West 

by land now occupied by Pier Plowman : from the first day of Jan- 
uary, 1888, for the term of three years thence ensuing, yielding there- 
for to the said John Doe, during the said term, the rent of one-third 
of the crops raised on said farm. 

And it is agreed that said John Doe shall furnish three head of 
yearling cattle and ten pigs over three months old, at the beginning 
of each year of said term. And that all grain fed to said stock shall 
be out of the share of said Richard Roe. And that said stock shall 
be common property, share and share alike, and shall not be disposed 
of before the end of the said term of three years, unless by consent 
of both parties hereto. Working teams are to be fed from the un- 
divided crops. 

It is further agreed that said Richard Roe shall have the use of 
half an acre of ground adjoining the dwelling, as a kitchen garden ; 
and shall have the privilege of cutting as much timber as may be 
necessary for fencing upon the farm, and wood for his family. 

And said John Doe agrees to pay all the taxes upon said property 
except the road tax, which is to be paid by said Richard Roe. And 
the said John Doe covenants that the said lessee shall have quiet 
enjoyment of his term. 



I98 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

The said Richard Roe covenants to deliver the said John Doe's 
third, at the South barn on said premises, without charge and in as 
good order as that in which his own crops are housed. The said 
Richard Roe further covenants that he will not assign without leave ; 
that he will keep the fences in repair and pay the road tax, and to 
raise forty acres of corn each year. 

Witness the following signatures and seals. 

John Doe, [seal.] 
Richard Roe, [seal.] 

Witnesses at signing, 

Solon Shingle, Joseph Jefferson. 
Sometimes Richard Roe is not able to furnish team and 
seed, and implements. John then furnishes half, and receives 
half the crops. 

XI. 

The advantages of renting on shares over renting for 
cash are principally to be seen in bad seasons. When from 
drouth, or long rains, or insect enemies, the crops fail, the 
owner gets very little; while the tenant, having dwelling, 
garden and fuel free, can raise his own meat and vegetables 
and make his poultry and butter pay his grocery bills ; 
leaving him but little worse off for the bad season, except 
his loss of time and wear of tools. Sometimes, however, it 
would be better to take the risk of renting for cash, as the 
money rent is often considerably cheaper in good seasons. 
The advantages of either method of renting over buying 
are, that the farmer who rents has the most money left to 
buy stock, seed, manure and labor with. And he can turn 
a small capital over much more rapidly in these things than 
in land. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 1 99 

XII. 

The farmer whose money is all wrapped up in land is 
compelled to sell his grain for want of stock to eat it. Such 
farmers are getting, this year, fifty cents per bushel for corn. 
The same corn fed to hogs would be worth one dollar per 
bushel, provided dressed pork brings six cents per pound. 
The man who has ready money enough to buy hogs at the 
right time can thus realize twice as much money for his 
corn as his neighbor who owns land, but has not enough 
working capital to stock it. 

XIII. 

It is a golden rule in fanning never to plant a grain 
crop on poor land. But if the farmer has no working cap- 
ital to buy stock to make manure, he can't help himself. 
He is compelled to raise poor crops. 

It costs about $5 per acre to draw out manure and 
enrich a field so as to bring its crop of corn from five barrels 
up to eight per acre. Thus the three barrels are the pro- 
duct of only $5 of working capital. How many barrels 
would the same five dollars have yielded, clear of expense, if 
put into land ? Not more than one. 

XIV. 

The fact is, that many farmers are " land poor," because 
they have not clearly understood that land alone is of no 



2'00 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

more use than gold to a starving sailor on a raft. The 
money made by farmers is not in proportion to the size of 
their farms, but in proportion as they have working capital, 
and know how to use it. And if our beginner does not own 
a foot of land for ten years after he has commenced to farm 
for himself, he will be better off, provided be and his wife 
know enough not to spend their working capital for things 
which can be done without. 

If, however, the young farmer finds that he is fond of 
attending auctions, or discovers that either he or his wife 
have a habit of buying things because they are "nice," or 
because they are "cheap,'' or for any other reason than 
absolute necessity, then his only chance to escape shipwreck 
may be to run in debt for a farm. Debt is a hard master ; 
but it will stop him, if anything will, from fooling away 
his money. It is a sad fact that not one man in ten can 
rely upon himself and his family to refuse always to buy 
that which they could somehow manage to do without. 
Therefore it is often safer to put money into land, lest it 
take wings and escape. 

In buying a farm, the next thing in importance after 
healthful location, is the natural productiveness of the soil. 
That this should be considered before price, is evident. 
Land rich enough without manure to bring eight barrels 
of corn, pays the farmer over two dollars per day for 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 201 

his labor. While on land which brings only four barrels, 
the farmer is paid scarcely one dollar per day. The rich 
land is cheap at thirty dollars per acre, because each acre* 
after paying the cost of cultivation, yields more profit than 
the interest on thirty dollars. While the poor land pays 
no interest, and would be dear as a gift, unless the 
farmer has means to enrich it. 

xv. 

Rich land, in a productive state, is often too high- 
priced for a poor man. But the richest lands are often 
unproductive from want of drainage, simply, and can be 
bought at a real bargain. The young farmer should be 
awake to seize such chances of getting rich land cheap. 
Some of the most successful farmers have found their for- 
tunes in just that way. 

A very simple levelling apparatus may be made as fol- 
lows: Take a fence board eight inches wide and sixteen 
feet long ; plane one edge, so as to be straight ; nail a leg 
three feet long at each end of the board; set the board 
on its legs, straight side up. A carpenter's level on top of 
the board will tell you how much the lowest leg needs to be 
raised. Raise it till the straight edge is level, and measure 
with a pocket rule the height of the leg from the ground. 
This height is the difference of level between the ends. 
Make a note of it, and move the apparatus sixteen feet 



202 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

farther. Level and measure as before, and add or subtract, 
as the case may require, from the previous note. Or, by 
putting all the down-hill measures on one side of the page, 
and the up-hill measures on the other, the difference of 
their sums will give the difference of level of two places. 
By this contrivance it is easy to ascertain, without employ- 
ing an engineer, how much fall can be had, and whether it 
is practicable to drain a piece of low land. 

xvi. 

In choosing a farm, next after healthfulness and fertil- 
ity, comes the question of nearness to market. The import- 
ance of this depends upon the particular branches which the 
skill, means or inclination of the farmer leads him to follow. 
There are advantages and disadvantages in being near 
cities, and they are so nicely balanced that good managers 
grow rich in each location. Everything depends upon the 
man. A shrewd farmer of small means, by locating twenty 
miles from town, gets good land cheap. In ten years the 
value of his land is likely to double by the increase of popu- 
lation around him, and by the growth of his orchards and 
the improved productiveness of the soil. Meanwhile he can 
reduce his expenses of transportation by converting his 
grain and hay into cattle and colts, which will carry them- 
selves to market. 



ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 203 
XVII. 

Having formed a clear idea of what particular line of 
farming is most in accordance with his tastes and his capital, 
our young farmer considers every place offered him with 
reference to these points specially. And, seeing the sad 
results all around him of hasty and ill-considered purchas- 
ing, he takes his time, and will not be hurried in choosing. 
He will have nothing to do with poor land at any price, nor 
will he be tempted by cheapness to live in an unhealthy 
place, nor to run much in debt and use up all his working 
capital in paying interest and other expenses. He had 
rather buy only a very small farm. 

XVIII. 

After finding a place as nearly as possible suited to his 
case, it is well for the young farmer to remember that 
everything he is doing now should be for the permanent 
benefit of his land, and with a view of making his labors 
easy as old age comes upon him, and his strength lessens. 
He should, therefore, keep steadily in view the following 
ideas, much as they differ from ordinary practice. 

First. It is possible so to manage land that, while 
yielding good crops, its fertility is constantly increasing. 

Second. It is possible to give his live stock such care 



204 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

in breeding and management that they will command better 
prices than those of his neighbors. 

Third. By care in selecting seed, year after year, he 
may make his grain crop salable for seed at an advance. 

Fourth. By planting a tenth of his land in fruit trees 
of the most showy and productive market kinds, and not 
many varieties, he may realize a hundred per cent, on the 
investment. 

Fifth. By strict integrity in putting up his products, 
he may make his stamp bring an extra price. 

Sixth. By giving his sons or apprentices a little 
ground to tend for themselves, or young stock to raise, he 
will interest them in looking after his interests 'and remain- 
ing with him on the farm. 

Seventh. An agricultural paper is worth its cost for the 
hints it will furnish if not blindly followed. 

Eighth. It is much safer to raise a variety of crops than 
to trust all to one crop. 

Ninth. By honesty and industry and faithful perse- 
verance and a constant study of how to make the best use of 
every minute, he has more chances to become wealthy and 
respected at farming than at any other profession for which 
he is equally fitted. And civil rights and honors naturally 
follow those who show that they can make and keep money 
and deserve respect. 



iiiiilllll 

' v'' s\ \X ;^'" \ 


> <■' ^ v\ V 


N. \ \-i ' 


\ 'r \^^"- s'" *'\\ N ' '' . \N^'^ ■>. 

. , ' y 

^ > .V “'•■•< > \\,X , 


UNIVERSITY OF 
ILLINOIS LIBRARY 
AT URBANA^CHAMPAIGN 
BOOKSTACKS 


CENTRAL CIRCULATiON AND BOOKSTACKS 

The person borrowing this material is re- 
sponsible for its renewal or return before 

the Latest Date stamped below. You may 
be charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for 
each non-returned or lost item. 

Theft, mutiUiHon, or clefo<ement of library materlaU con be 
covset for ttudenf disclplmary action. Ail materials owned by 
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State 
of Illinois ohhI are protected by Article 16B of IliinoU Criminal 
Law and Procedvro. 

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400. 

University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign 




When renewing by phone, write new due date 


below previous due date. 


L162 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2017 with funding from 

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Alternates 


https://archive.org/details/onhabitsmanners00arms_0 


ON 



BY 


Mrs. M. F. ARMSTRONG. 


Wrillen origiiiallj for tiie Stiideiits of tlie Haiiiptoii 1 aiid A. Iiistitiite. 


REVISED edition. 


ADAPTED TO GENERAL USE. 


HAMPTON, VA. 

NORMAL SCHOOL PRESS, PRINT. 
1888. 


Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1888, 1 7 
S. C. ARMSTRONG, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress. 


3 S' 

A i f' 


PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION, 


Hampton, Va., July, 1888. 

The revision of this little book is a result of the suggestions of 
teachers who for the past ten years have been using it in their class 
rooms. The scope of the subject is such that it is impossible to deal 
with it satisfactorily within the limits of a text book, and we only 
claim for our present work that it is an embodiment, so far as we can 
make it so, of a general experience of the needs of our students. 

We have endeavored to make it constructive rather than critical, 
and we ask those who may use it, either as teacher or pupil, to re- 
member that it is not safe to adopt the manners of any individual as 
a standard, for even the most careful are liable to lapses, and it is al- 
ways the general law which should be regarded, rather than the spec- 
ial instance. 

Finally, most of us need to be reminded that picking flaws in 
other peoples’ manners, does not help to mend our own, and that 
now and always, here and everywhere, it is only a gentle soul which 
can give us the best part of gentle breeding. 


M F. A. 



PREFACE. 


To be truly a gentleman or lady, in the best and broadest mean- 
ing of the words, is to be something more than most of us think of 
when we apply the terms in a general way, or as a mere class distinc- 
tion. 

It is not to those who are rich; it is not to those to whom the 
accident of birth may have given special advantages; it is not even to 
those who are educated, or who claim the title for themselves, that 
the name “ gentleman ” or “ lady ” rightfully belongs ; and as, with 
very few exceptions, we all desire to win this honor for ourselves, our 
first need is to make sure that we know just what we want — that we 
know what it is that is really meant by the words so frequently upon 
our lips. 

Long ago one of the old English poets wrote this beautiful de- 
scription of our Saviour : 

“ A soft, meek, patient, humble, tranquil spirit, 

The first true gentleman that ever breathed.’^ 

And here, indeed, we find the ensample wherein is summed up all the 
graciousness which goes to make a “ gentle ” life. Do not think, then 
that I aim too high when I tell you that to be gentlemen and ladies 
is to be pure, conscientious and honorable, to be delicate and unselfish, 
careful always of the rights of others, and refined and gentle in the 
manner of our lives — that, in a word, it is to reach the highest type 
of man-and woman-hood. 

But of the great lessons which we must all learn in order to 
mould our natures after this perfect model, it is not my business now, 
and here, to speak. It is only with the “ outward, visible sign of the 
inward, spiritual truth,” that I have to deal in these pages, which I 
am permitted to dedicate to you; and I have to offer you, first of all. 


6 


PREFACE. 


a few words of explanation as to the nature of the work which lies be- 
fore us. 

You have already, doubtless, realized that society, (by which 
word we mean all the various combinations of men and women, — all 
the numerous conditions under which men and women mingle with 
each other), makes certain demands upon each of its individual mem- 
bers; and you have also begun to see that just in proportion to the de- 
velopment of .society, and the height to which you rise in the social 
scale, are the number and stringency of these demands. That is, that 
while in the backwoods cabin you may eat in the coarsest fashion, or 
go unwashed for days without exciting surprise, you will find that 
among another class of people such behavior would result in your 
own social disgrace. 

Now, among the most refined classes of the most highly civilized 
nations — that is, among people who have had the greatest advantages 
of birth, education and nature — there exists a code of social law 
which is just as inexorable as the law of the State. It has grown with 
the growth of civilization, and among the people who live within its 
influence, has produced certain habits and customs which you must 
study and follow if you desire to gain the external attributes of gentili- 
ty, and associate easily and pleasantly with your fellow-beings. 

While honesty and purity of life are the suresfifoundation for true 
refinement of character, the details of daily life wherein such refine- 
ment shows itself are a study by themselves, 'and demand your 
careful attention. In the following pages I shall try to give you the 
principal laws of good society, and as many of its minor regulations as 
are likely to be of use to you, trusting that your own earnestness and 
persistence may make this little book a real and permanent assistance 
toward a better life. M. F. A. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


CHAPTER I. 


THE ETIQUETTE OF THE TABLE. 

There is no place where it is easier to recognize refine- 
ment, or the want of it, than at the table ; and to those of 
you who are beginning to understand how good a thing it 
is to be ‘‘gentlemen and ladies,’’ that is, to be really re- 
fined and delicate in the manner of j^our lives, I offer the 
following simple rules, assuring you that society will al- 
ways be largely influenced in its judgment of you by your 
behavior at table, and that, if you wish to take the first step 
in social education, you must do your best to become at ease 
in the details of table etiquette. 

Taking for granted that you understand already the 
necessity of making your dress and person as neat as the na- 
ture of your work will permit, before you present yourself 
at table, I must ask you to remember that haste in seating 
or helping yourself before others is simply unpardonable, 
being so gross a violation of good manners, that I trust your 
own instinct and kind feeling will make it unnecessary for 
me to do more than allude to it. 


8 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


Premising, therefore, that you have seated yourself qui- 
etly (aud I would here remark, that, as in well ordered 
households there is no irregularity in the time of meals, so 
there should be promptness on the part of individuals), I 
want you to be careful always to exchange polite and kind- 
ly greetings with those who sit at meat with you, whom 
you may not have previously met during the day. A cheery 
Good-morning,” a bright smile, a bow to any one who 
may not be near enough for a word, serve to make the meet 
ing pleasant, and to open the way for the conversation ^ 
which is, or ought to be, an important part of every mea . 
That is, while loud or careless talk is of course inadmissible 
it is a wise and pleasant thing to converse, in low tones, eas 
ily, upon topics of general interest (never in whispers or up- 
on purely personal matters); for this prevents you from fall- 
ng into the graceless and unwholesome habit of fast eating, 
and when you have been working hard is often a mental 
rest and relief. 

And now your repast is before you, and the first ques- 
tion which presents itself is one which I trust you will have 
no difficulty in answering, that is, ‘'’Whom will you first 
help, your neighbor or yourself? ” 

Surely I do not need to tell you that you have no more 
important duty at table as everywhere else, than to attend 
to the comfort of your companions. You must see that 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


9 


those about you are served, you must assist them so far as 
your position will permit, (never stretching out your arms or 
standing up to reach anything,) and you must continue your 
vigilance so long as you remain at table, passing dishes 
which are within your reach, asking politely if your neigh- 
bors want anything which you can give them, never helping 
yourself greedily or taking the last of anything unless you 
know that a second supply is to be had, and finally, never on 
any account rising from the table until every one else is 
ready, or you are excused for some reason of real im- 
portance. 

There are certain well-known rules in regard to the 
manner of eating, which you must obey absolutely if you 
intend to become well-bred men and women. 

The knife must be held in the right hand, and the 
fork in the left, when you are eating anything which requires 
to be cut ; but in eating fish, or other substances which do 
not need to be cut, the knife should be laid down, the fork 
taken in the right hand, and a piece of bread in the left, by 
the aid of which you can take up your food upon your fork, 
and convey it to your mouth. To eat with your knife is 
one of the cardinal sins at table ; it stamps you at once as 
ill-bred, or unpardonably careless. In taking soup, tea, 
cofiee, or any fiuid food, you must carefully avoid making 
any sound while drinking ; swallow the liquid, whatever it 


lo ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

may be, in small quantities and quietly ; while in using a 
epoon there must be no gurgling or spilling. 

The fingers should never be used directly, if it is pos- 
sible to avoid it ; for example, when you want to dip bread 
or crackers into gravy, milk, syrup, etc., you should do it 
by breaking the bread or other solid into the fluid, and con- 
veying it thence to your mouth with a fork or spoon. 

Your own share of the table furniture ; that is, your 
plates, cup, glass, knife, fork, spoon, etc., are for the time 
being your own private property, and must never be used by 
others, and in the case of the last three, must not be used by 
you in helping yourself from any dish from which others are 
eating. 

Butter-knives, salt-spoons, table spoons, etc., are for the 
general use, and must never be superseded by your private 
knife, spoon or fork, and you must never pass your plate 
with any of these upon it, buc must remove them, and lay 
them upon the cloth beside you until your plate is returned. 

To pour anything from your cup into your saucer is not 
allowable, and you must not drink with the spoon in your 
'Cup, but after stirring your tea you should put the spoon in 
the saucer, being particularly careful to place it there when 
your cup is passed. 

Do not blow any kind of food, but have patience until it 
€Ools without your* help, and r^void, if possible, any close 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


1 1 

examination of dishes which are passed to you, or of any- 
thing that is upon your own plate. If you find anything 
disagreeable remove it yourself as quietly as you can, or hand 
it, without calling attention to it, to the waiter. 

If you have preferences in regard to difierent parts of a 
dish, do not hesitate to mention them, if you are asked, but 
not otherwise ; and, as a general rule, it is best to make 
no remarks upon the food while you are at table. After 
the meal is over, is the proper time to discuss, criticize, or 
mention to those in authority, anything unusual that you 
may have noticed at table. 

If it is necessary to remove from the mouth anything 
which may have found its way into your food by accident, 
this may be done usually under cover of your hand or your 
handkerchief, but always in such a manner as to attract the 
least possible attention. 

The use of the toothpick should be postponed, if possible, 
until after leaving the dining-room, but if it is used at table 
it must be behind your hand or handkerchief, and with the 
greatest care. 

Your position at table should be erect ; there must be 
no lounging, no pushing back or tilting of the chair (which 
should be placed at a convenient distance from the table and 
your neighbors), and never moved until you are ready to rise ; 
and, above all, no leaning of the arms or head upon the table, 
or the back of your neighbor’s chair. 


12 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


Keep your food upon your plate or plates as much as 
possible, bread being the only thing which you can with 
invariable propriety lay upon the cloth beside you. 

If you are obliged to cough or sneeze, the head must be 
turned entirely away from the table, and the mouth and nose 
covered with the pocket-handkerchief. 

You should avoid blowing your nose at table, and must 
not arrange your dress, hair, or any part of your person, as 
these things can be done properly only in your own bed- 
rooms, or ill places set apart for that purpose. Kever speak 
while in the act of eating, and never under any circum- 
stances over-fill your mouth. 

The above rules include all that you most need to know 
in regard to the proprieties of the table ; and I can add to 
them only the one broad rule, that you should never do any- 
thing which may ofi^end the sense of the most refined person 
present, because, while there may be a certain latitude 
allowed in general society, the laws of the table are exact 
and unvarying. 


CHAPTER II. 

CARE OF THE PERSON. 

One of the fundamental conditions of civilized, not to 
say refined, society, is cleanliness. The house, trom the cel- 
lar to the garret, must be clean , the table, in all its appoint- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 


13 


merits, scrupulously neat ; and, above all, the body should 
be guarded in every particular against even the suspicion of 
uncleanliness. The first step in this direction is the morning 
bath — a necessity and a luxury which should never, in 
winter or summer, be omitted. No matter how hurried you 
may be, or how unwilling to make what seems at the 
moment an exertion, you should never fail to bathe yourself 
thoroughly from head to foot in cool, fresh water, before you 
dress yourself for the day. The simplest and pleasantest 
way to do this is to have a large tub of tin or wood half 
filled with water, into which you can step, and with a large 
sponge or piece of coarse cloth, and plenty of soap, rub the 
skin upon every part of your body until all impurities are 
removed and the senses of sight and smell both assure you 
that you are beginning the day with a clean body. In case 
it is not convenient for you to procure or to use a tub, a 
large basin must take its place, though bf course you cannot 
stand in this, but with the sponge or coarse cloth must be 
equally careful to rub every portion of your skin. Having 
by the use of the soap (which you must apply with your 
sponge or cloth) removed or neutralized all the secretions of 
the skin and all the foreign substances which may adhere to 
it, you should then rinse off the soap with pure water, and 
finally rub and dry yourself thoroughly with a clean towel, 
which is all the better for being coarse. 


14 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


This, then, is the general outline of the morning bath 
with which every civilized man and woman should begin 
the day, and without which no one has any right to consider 
himself or herself clean. 

But there are some details which require your attention, 
and I shall take them in what might be called their natural 
order, beginning with the hair. 

The hair and the skin of the head must be washed as 
often as once or twice a week with clean water, without 
soap. The use of oils and pomatum is, as a general thing, a 
mistake, as they clog the pores of the skin, and are more 
likely to produce than to prevent diseases of the hair, in addi- 
tion to which, their odor is usually unpleasant. The use of 
pure water, and thorough brushing once or twice a day, with 
such combing as is necessary to keep the hair from matting, 
will, in most cases, ensure the cleanliness of both the hair and 
the skin of the head. 

The ears must be carefully washed with a sponge or soft 
cloth. Nothing hard or rough should be used in cleaning 
them, and the wax which collects in them should never be 
removed except by washing, as the delicacy of the ears is 
such that it is possible to produce deafness by carelessness in 
the treatment of them* 

The teeth must be cleaned morning and night with a 
toothbrush, clear water, and either toothpowder or scap. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


15 


No toothpowder should be used except that which can be 
procured from respectable druggists and dentists, for it i& 
very easy to destroy the enamel of the teeth, and the quack 
powders used by many ignorant people are usually made of 
detergents so powerful as to increase rather than prevent 
the decay of the teeth. If it is possible to clean the teeth 
and rinse the mouth after each meal, it should be done ; but,, 
in any case, a thorough cleaning should be given night and 
morning, for by this means only can you keep your teeth 
sound and white, and your breath free from offense. If thi& 
habit is established in early childhood, a fine set of teeth is 
almost invariably the result, while toothaches are avoided 
and dentists set at naught, “a consummation most devoutly 
to be wished for.” 

The hands and feet need special care, for the nails of 
the former must be always carefully cut and cleaned with a 
knife or nail-scissors every day, while they must be washed 
several times a day, in particular, both before and after eat- 
ing. The toes must be washed and dried carefully every 
morning, while, whenever it is necessary, the nails must be 
cut, and all corns or growths of that nature, must be pared 
with a knife or otherwise removed, in order to prevent the 
feet from becoming a source of great pain and annoyance. 

The habits of cleanliness which will result frorq obe- 
dience to the above simple rules, will do much toward keep- 


i6 


ox HABITS AND MANNERS. 


ing your bodies in a healthy condition, for a clean skin is 
one of tlie essentials of health, so that you have a double 
motive to induce you to learn to be clean, in the fact that 
you can never have either health or refinement except upon 
the broad foundation of cleanliness. 


CHAPTER III. 


PERSONAL HAETTS. 

In associating with our fellow-men and women, in general 
society, which we are all, to a greater or less extent, obliged 
to do, and in which many of us find our greatest pleasures, I 
want you to notice how closely the Christian law and the 
law of Society are united in respect to the principles of re- 
finement. To be a Christian one must love one’s neighbor 
as one’s self, — to be a gentleman or lady one must at least 
seem to do so, and must bear one’s self in all things as if the 
comfort and well being of one’s neighbor were the first and 
highest consideration. True politeness involves frequent, 
indeed continual self-sacrifice, and it is this undoubtedly 
which makes it so hard for us to practice it in our homes, or 
at seasons when we fancy the eye of the world is no longer 
upon us and we can be rude and selfish without fear of be- 
ing held up to ridicule and contempt. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


17 


It is of the details of this politeness, this habitual refine- 
ment, that I hope to teach you something ; and I shall have 
now to ask you to follow me patiently through what may 
seem to you an unnecessarily minute account of the number- 
less social regulations to which gentlemen and ladies submit 
themselves, reminding you once more that there is no short 
road to the refinements of life, and that even those who are 
trained from their birth cannot rid themselves of the neces- 
sity for constant care and watchfulness. 

Before, however, I begin upon this part of our work I 
have something to say to you upon a subject which is of very 
great interest to mo.^t people, and that is the matter of 
‘^Dress.” 

Now it is undeniable that our personal appearance does, 
to a greater or less extent, influence our lives, has often an 
intimate connection with our worldly success or failure, and, 
in short, is a matter worthy of sober consideration. To be 
slatternly, unneat, and careless ; to dress in an extravagant, 
ill-chosen fashion ; to wear uncomfortable and unnatural 
garments; to make either too much or too little of your 
clothes, is a serious mistake, and one against which 
I greatly desire to help you to guard yourselves. And what 
I want you first to remark is, that while, as I have said, 
your personal appearance may and probably does affect your 
life, your life most certainly afiects your personal appearance. 


l8 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

Unconsciously, perhaps to you, but still most surely, your 
vices and virtues are moulding with strong hands, your face, 
your form, your very dress, and are forcing you in spite of 
yourself to carry about with you an index to the manner of 
your life, which all the world may read. If you think this 
an exaggeration let me ask you to look about for a moment 
among your companions. Here is Laziness in the girl with 
unneat hair and collar awry, who, as you can see, has been 
unwilling to make the exertion which neatness requires; 
here is Coarseness in the boy with dirty hands and person to 
match; here Vanity in the shape of tawdry ribbons and 
mock jewelry ; and here, perhaps. Dishonesty in one who 
from a room-mate’s trunk has taken some small article which 
may be used without detection, or may be said to have been 
“ borrowed.” On the other hand, too, is it not pleasant to 
find Thrift in the plain but well-cared-for dress of some boy 
who has little to spend and means to spend that little hon- 
estly ; Modesty in the quiet neatness of some sweet-faced 
girl ; Unselfishness in some simple garb which is bare of 
ornament in order that its wearer may help a needy friend? 

While I do not, by any means, claim that in all cases 
one can trust to outward signs, yet surely they have much 
to do with the judgment which we for m of one another, and 
are therefore of real importance to every station in life, and 
in both sexes. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


19 


In regard, then, to the clothes which we wear, two 
things may be considered certain, namely, that we shall 
in the main follow the prevailing fashion of our time and 
country, and that in detail we shall follow the bent of our 
own tastes, so that while the limits of our obedience to the 
fashion of the day will be regulated by our consciences and 
our purses, our characters as individuals will have not a lit- 
tle to do with the cut and color of our garments. 

Now I think there are few among you who will not 
confess that to be well dressed is a desirable thing, but dif- 
ferences of opinion may very probably commence when we 
begin to discuss the meaning of this term ‘‘well-dressed,’’ 
and much must necessarily be left to your own good taste 
and experience. There are, however, two or three essentials, 
and these, as is proper, shall come first. Cleanliness and 
Fitness, you will see at once, are absolutely necessary and 
are within the reach of almost everybody, while the third 
essential. Comfort, is seldom sacrificed, except by unwise 
people, who fancy that to distort and cramp different parts 
of their bodies is the way to obtain grace and beauty, which 
is undoubtedly one ot the important ends for which we strive 
in the endeavor to dress well. 

Having established, then, our three primary essentials, 
Cleanliness, Fitness, and Comfort, we have come to a point 
where the differences in the dress of the sexes make it neces- 


20 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


sary for us to divide our subject, as the rules binding upon 
one sex are not always equally binding upon the other, and 
both fashion and common sense ordain that there shall be a 
marked distinction in the dress ot men and women. Our 
next chapter, therefore, will be especially for young women. 

CHAPTER IV. 


FOR YOUNG WOMEN. 

Taking the articles of your dress in their customary 
order, I shall first speak of the underclothing, which is of 
primary importance to your health and comfort. 

Next the skin, flannel should always be worn, heavy in 
winter, but in summer as light as possible; and the reason 
for this is a sanitary one, for nothing so effectually protects 
the skin from the effect of cold in winter, and the danger of 
chills during the profuse perspiration of summer, as some 
woolen material, flannel being the best and cheapest. 

These garments may be made in diflterent ways, but 
should always come up to the throat, entirely covering the 
chest; should be made with sleeves to reach at least half way 
to the elbow (for the under part of the upper arm and the 
armpit are exceedingly sensitive parts of the body), and 
should come well down over the hips. Once a week these 
-under jackets must be changed, for the excretions from the 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 


21 


skin will thoroughly soil them in that; time, although no 
stain or mark of dirt may be apparent to the eye. All 
the cotton garments must also be changed at least once 
a week, and it is often desirable to change them more^ 
frequently, while with the stockings (which should be wool- 
len in winter and cotton in summer) the only safe rule is to 
change them whenever they are soiled. 

The corsets, which are so dangerous a stumbling block 
in the path of young girls, are so universally worn that the 
harm which they do is a serious matter, and I want you to 
whom I am writing these words, and who, in years to come, 
may be able to do much to influence other women, to give 
me your sober attention while I ask a question or two and 
offer you a few facts. 

There can be no doubt, I am afraid, that many of you 
wear your gowns much too tight, and in order to do this use 
your stiff steel-boned corsets to obtain the small waists which 
you think pretty and elegant. Now let me tell you where 
lies your first mistake. Nothing is pretty which is unnatu- 
ral, and as you well know small waists are not natural to 
healthy, well developed women. Your waist, if you would 
have a good and graceful figure, must be in proportion to 
your height and the breadth of your shoulders, and a waist 
of seventeen or eighteen inches upon a girl of average size, 
is simply a deformity. Your small waists are obtained, then, 


2 2 OK HABITS AND MANNERS. 

at a sacrifice of the very grace for which you are seeking, 
and that is not the sum of your folly. Do you realize when 
you pull in that fatal corset-lacing of yours, what suffering 
you are preparing for yourselves ? 

You are squeezing in your stomach so that it cannot 
digest food ; you are compressing your lungs so that they 
cannot receive the air, which is your life ; you are stopping 
the action of your busy heart ; you are doing a dozen things 
which may ruin your health for life, and which at any rate 
are giving you daily headaches, and very probably making 
you irritable and unhappy. This is surely a senseless and a 

wicked thing — a thing which any honest, God-fearing wo- 

# 

man ought to be ashamed to do ; and I assure you that you 
must consider it, not as a trifling question of dress, but as a 
matter of very great importance to you and to others. For 
God has given you, in most cases, healthy, well formed bo- 
dies, and the responsibility of injuring them is an awful 
weight which must rest now and hereafter upon your own 
shoulders. 

As to the directly practical side of the question I can 
perhaps make some suggestions which may be of use to you. 
A waist made of stout cotton cloth, firmly stitched and 
corded, cut low in the neck, with sleeveless armholes, will 
take the place of the corset in every respect, while in some 


ON riABITS AND MANNERS. 


23 

particulars it is altogether preferable. It can be made with 
a corset steel in front (to be removed when it is washed), 
but should contain no other bones or steels. Your own back 
bone is your proper and all-sufficient support, and you are 
doing your spine and the wonderful nervous system so close- 
ly connncted with it, no kindness when you rely upon the 
artificial aid of whale bones to produce an erect figure. The 
weight of the skirts, which can be made to button on to the 
waist I am describing, is thus supported from the shoulder 
by the band of the armhole ; there is no drag upon the hips, 
no chance to tighten a lacing, no compression between stifi 
bones, and none of that aw’kward and unnatural inflexibility 
which comes from the wearing of corsets. 

This matter is one which of course must be left to your 
own consciences, but once more I ask you to think of it seri- 
ously, ard to remember that you can sin against your bodies 
as well as against your souls. 

A complete change of clothing at night is imperative. 
You must have night-gowns neatly made of cotton cloth, 
and you must have a sufficient number of them to enable 
you to change at least once a week. On going to bed take 
oflf all the garments which you wear in the daytime and put 
on your night-gown, which you must be careful to see is 
thoroughly aired every morning, in order that the impuri- 
ties collected during the night may be, so far as possible, re- 


24 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


moved. For a similar reasoa the clothes which j^ou take off 
at night should be thrown loosely upon a chair where the 
air may have free circulatinn among their folds, and in this 
connection I may properly remind you of the importance of 
having your sleeping room thoroughly ventilated- Before 
going to bed you should always open one or more of the 
windows of your room, and this not only in summer, but 
even more especially in winter, if you are in good health, as 
at that season, house ventilation, for several reasons, is very 
imperfect and the danger from impure air particularly great. 

I have spoken somewhat in detail in regard to your 
underclothing, and I have done so because it is not unusual, 
especially among persons of limited means, to put all the 
expenditure of time and money upon externals of dress, 
while the underclothing is allowed to take care of itself. 
Now, if you have to choose between finery and cleanliness, 
between ribbons and a proper change of underclothing, do 
not for a moment hesitate, for nothing can be a truer type of 
the ^^whited sepulchre” of the Bible than the man or woman 
whose external dress is showy and expensive, while under- 
neath are rags and uncleanliness. Make every exertion to 
supply yourselves, first of all, with suitable underclothing, 
and after that you may think about the fashion of your 
jackets and the trimming of your hats. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


25 


In regard to these same externals of dress — that is, as 
to the style, material, etc., of your outer garments, it is very 
difficult, as you yourselves will understand, to give you any 
fixed rules, tor in respect to these parts of our dress we are 
all of us at the mercy of a changing fashion. All that I can 
hope to do is to offer you some general ideas upon the sub- 
ject, in the belief that your own intelligent observation and 
instincts of modesty and propriety will enable you gradually 
to learn for yourselves what are the characteristics of the 
dress of a true lady. 

CHAPTER V.— Dress. 

FOR YOUNO WOMEN. 

The first principle of dress may, I think, safely be said 
to be suitability j and by this I mean that your dress should 
be suited to the occasions on which it is worn, to your posi- 
tion in life, and to the characteristics of your face and fig- 
ure. When you are at work, for example, wear something 
dark in color, simple in make, and, if possible, of material 
which will wash. Put aside all your finery, tor nothing is 
more completely unladylike than to overdress ; aad when 
you are at work of any kind, the simpler you dress the bet- 
ter. Plain linen collars and cuffs are proper at all times, 
and should always he preferred to mussy ruffiings, though 


26 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


fresh lace or muslin rufflings are a pretty and ladylike addi- 
tion to your toilette for evening, or at any time when you 
are dressed more than usual. 

Any preponderances ot bright color, or any glaring or 
improper combination of colors, is always to be avoided. 
There are certain colors, as you know, which are always 
beautiful — as scarlet and brown, or pink and gray — while 
again there are colors which, to use an expressive word, 
“ kill” each other, as purple and blue, green and yellow. No 
mere directions can guide you here ; you must simply train 
your own taste by watching the dress of people whom you 
know you can trust in this particular, and in this way you 
will soon learn to judge for yourselves ; but, in the meantime, 
I advise you to err oa the side of too little color rather than 
too much. 

For dress materials choose as much as possible solid 
colors — that is, do not indulge too often in plaids, stripes or 
figures, and be careful never to overtrim, for the first care of 
a lady is to avoid attracting attention by the gandiness or 
fussiness of her dress. Dark colors for winter and light 
tor summer is a very safe rule, though, of course, it may 
often be safely broken. For jackets and cloaks, black or 
any very dark color is proper, and the hat or bonnet should 
be made to match or contrast with the suit tvith which it 
will be principally worn, while gloves must never be of any 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


27 


bright color— grays, drabs, browns, and black, being the 
most useful, with white and light shades for full dress. 

Jewelry, lace, artificial flowers, etc., should not be worn, 
excep on special occasions, as evening parties, weddings, etc., 
and only at such times, too, are low necked or short sleeved 
dresses suitable, for it is safe to say that the ordinary every 
day toilette of a lady, is remarkable chiefly for its simplici- 
ty of color, fashion and material. 

Boots should be thick and strong for common wear, 
must be kept in good order and neatly blacked. Never, on 
any account, be so foolish as to wear tight shoes, for, as I 
fear many of you have already found, they are the cause of 
inflnite discomfort and pain. Slippers are proper for the 
house at all times, but be careful that they do not entice you 
into slipshod habits ; do your best to keep your stockings 
and j^our shoes clean, whole and neat. 

In respect to petticoats, I think you will see for your- 
selves, that for winter y^u need those which are light, warm 
and not easily soiled, while in summer you want those that 
are light, cool, and easily washed. The colored woolens 
for one season and the colored cottons for the other, are, if 
wisely chosen, neat, comfortable and.cheap, while petticoats 
of white cotton, prettily trimmed, should always be worn 
for your best, or when you have on a thin dress. 


28 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


The idea of ‘‘suitability/’ on which I am inclined to 
dwell very strongly, exists not only in regard to the times 
and places for which you dress yourselves^ but also has a very 
direct connection with the amount of money which you are 
able to spend. You understand, no doubt, that it is unsuit- 
able to dress conspicuously in the street, to dress gaudily while 
at work, to overdress anywhere or at any time ; but do you 
also understand how very unsuitable it is to spend a penny 
more than you can honestly afiord upon your clothes? To 
most of you this matter of economy is doubtless a very im- 
portant one, and I shall (taking it for granted that you mean 
to be honest and careful in personal expenditure) try to give 
you a few hints which may be of assistance to you. 

In selecting any garment, from a pair of shoes to a hat, 
you may be sure that it is better to have one really good 
thing than two or three poor ones. Many girls would spend 
the money which one good gown or cloak would cost, upon 
two or three cheap ones, but it is not in this way that you 
will dress well upon a little money. Let your materials, 
your gloves, your shoes, or whatever the articles may be, be 
always as good and as well made as you can afford, and then 
take care of them. Be satisfied to do without a variety in 
order that you may have better things, which, in the end, 
are always more economical, especially when you take into 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


29 


account the extra labor entailed upon you by the multipli- 
cation ot cheap articles in your wardrobe. 

Again, do not spend your money upon trinkets ; the 
habit of buying useless ornaments is most extravagant and 
unsatisfactory, for a ring here, a necklace there, a string of 
beads or a brooch now and then, however cheap they may 
seem at the time, will run away with the price of a complete 
stock of underclothing before you think of it. In this con- 
nection, too, 1 must warn you against the vulgarity of all 
imitations, false jewelry in particular being always in bad 
taste. You will find that among ladies and gentlemen a 
very plain reality is better than a very fine sham, and that 
it is good to be true in dress as well as in other things. 

In laying out your limited allowance of money always 
take the most substantial things first, for you will find that 
to sacrifice comfort to show is very poor economy ; as, for 
example, the girl who goes without overshoes in order to buy 
a feather, is very likely to discover her mistake when she gets 
her feet wet and pays the penalty of illness and suffering. 

Never fret yourself and waste your time in the attempt 
to dress as people do who are richer than you are, or whose 
position enables them to make more show upon a similar 
outlay. You can be a lady in calico as well as in silk, and 
you can make no greater error than to fancy that economy 


3 ° 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


is a disgrace or extravagance a virtue. The refinement (to 
use a general term) of your dress and appearance will depend 
largely upon your own industry and neatness, for a careful 
eye and ready hand can do much toward making and keep- 
ing your dress, what a lady’s should he, whole and clean, 
and to that end you should mend rips, tears and holes in your 
garments as soon as they appear, remembering that most 
useful little proverb, “A stitch in time saves nine.” 

If you have patiently followed rne thus far, I think you 
will now agree with me that a lady’s dress should always be 
clean, suitable and comfortable, and any girl who will work 
on that foundation may safely be trusted to make her dress 
also pretty and attractive by a careful and modest use of 
color, a wise choice of material and fashion, and a systematic 
avoidance of everything glaring and unreal. 

And now there are but two other points upon which I 
wish to speak, and I have purposely reserved them for the 
last, for they are not only matters of dress, but of morality 
as well. 

You must never use articles of toilette which belong to 
your companions, but must yourself be supplied with all that 
you are likely to require, so that you need on no account 
trespass on the belongings of other people. Tooth brushes, 
combs and brushes, washcloths, sponges, etc., are sacred to 
the use of their owner, and I do not know anything more 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


3^ 


indicative of a want of refinement than a promiscuous use of 
these things. The utmost intimacy will not justify you in 
any carelessness in regard to articles which, in the strictest 
sense, are personal property, and with your nearest friend you 
should never permit yourself to become lax in this particu- 
lar. Also in respect to minor articles of dress — pocket hand- 
kerchiefs, collars, ribbons, etc. — it is wise to borrow and lend 
as little as possible. Have a suflScient number of these things, 
let them be plainly marked with your name, and while 
guarding your own rights be careful to respect the rights of 
your neighbor, for nothing is more likely to lead to petty 
thefts (a vice about which I shall speak to you elsewhere) 
than the habit of indiscriminate borrowing. 

My second and last wwning to you is against a shame- 
ful practice, of which, I hope, you yourselves see the folly. 
While a lady should take every care of her teeth, her hair, 
and her skin, no lady should use cosmetics in any form. 
Paint and powder, however skilfully their true names may 
be concealed under the mask of Liquid Bloom,’ ^ or “Lily 
Enamel,” can never change their real character, but remain 
always unclean, false, unwholesome, a disgrace to those who 
use them, and certain ruin to the skins they are supposed to 
beautify. Put such things away from you entirely, and be 
sure that the adornment they afford is unworthy of good 


32 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


women, for it is an offense against the laws of health, a 
foolish and paltry attempt at deception. 


CHAPTER VL— Dress. 

FOR YOUNG MEN. 

If you, as young men who desire to maintain the exter- 
nal appearance of gentlemen, were to ask me what are the 
characteristics of a gentleman’s dress, I should answer you 
with little hesitation, ^‘Cleanliness, quiet colors, and well 
brushed boots.” If you have these three requisites you need 
not be over-carcful about the cut of your coat and trousers, 
or the fashion of your hat : but even with these attained you 
have not yet reached the foundation of the matter, for your 
dress really begins, not with the garments which are usually 
visible, but with the underclothing, and on this point I want 
you to understand very clearly what are the essentials. 

As a matter of health you ouglit to wear next your 
skin, shirt and drawers of some woollen material, heavy in 
winter and light in summer, for this is a safeguard against 
sudden changes of temperature or the depressing effect upon 
the vital forces of extreme of unaccustomed cold. The wo- 
ven undergarments, which can be bought at almost any dry- 
goods shop, are-cheap and convenient, though flannel, either 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 33 

white or colored, is, on some accounts, better for this pur- 
pose. These garments must be changed at least once a 
week ; do not on any account wear them longer than that ; 
for, although they may not look soiled, they are most cer- 
tainly saturated with the impurities thrown ofi by the skin, 
and will probably show it by their color. It is well, too, to 
wear woolen stockings in winter, and for them the only rule 
I can give you is to change them whenever they are dirty. 

You will see, of course, that I am taking it for granted 
that you yourselves are cleanly in your liabits, that you un- 
derstand the necessity of keeping your bodies pure and 
healthy, and knowing that this cannot be done without scru- 
pulous attention to details, are glad to learn from the expe- 
rience of others just what tiiose details are. 

Eemember, therefore, in your daily life, in your choice 
of garments, in the formation of your personal habits, and 
in the expenditure of your money, that the thing above all 
others which Society insists upon is ‘^cleanliness, ” and that 
this cleanliness must begin with your skin and the clothes 
which you wear next it. You must make it a duty, a mat- 
ter of conscience, to be clean from head to foot, and to this 
end you must faithfully take the daily bath, about which I 
have already so strongly spoken to you. Then you must 
change your underclothes throughout once a week, or often- 
er if necessary, and be very careful never to wear the same 
shirt at night which you have been wearin g through the day. 


34 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


TIply yourselves with night shirts of white cotton, and 
wear these and nothing else at night, taking off every arti> 
cle of clothing that you have worn through the day, for 
there is no more unwholesome personal habit than that of 
wearing a garment both day and night. You must change 
your night shirt once a week, and when you take it ofi* in 
the morning must see that it is properly aired before it is 
put away for the day. 

As to your outer garments, the clothes in which you 
work will naturally be suited to the purpose for which they 
are used, and the fact that you do work in them will usually 
imply that they are not very clean nor entirely whole, but as 
most of you have it in your power to have one or more good 
suits, I want to say a word or two to you about those gar- 
ments, in the selection of which you have an opportunity to 
show your individual taste. 

Perhaps the first thing to be said here is what I have 
already once said, namely, that your linen must be clean and 
neat and always simple — ruffles, embroideries, or any peculi- 
arity of cut, being out of place and unsuitable. A clean 
shirt, collar and cuffs, are indispensable, and when the two 
latter cannot, from motives of economy or convenience, be of 
linen, paper, celluloid, etc., make neat and excellent substi- 
tutes. 

Any jewelry which you may wear — studs, sleeve but- 
tons^ scarf pin, or watch chain, must be real of its kind, and 


35 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS^ 

•simple in style, and, as a general rule, the less you wear of it 
the better. In wearing rings, or any additional jewelry, a 
gentleman will be exceedingly careful as to both quality and 
quantity, as any attempt at show^ in this respect, is almost 
inevitably vulgar and a sure evidence of bad taste. 

Your cravats and neckties should not be too bright 
in color ; plain dark shades are always the best, except 
for occasions when you wear full dress — that is, parties, 
weddings, etc., when white or light colors are per- 
missible, and black is always proper. In the selection of 
material for your coat and trousers, you will naturally be 
largely influenced by the climate in which they are to be 
worn — but here again, plain colors are the rule. You will 
very probably have noticed for yourselves that gentlemen 
usually wear suits made of one material throughout, in color 
dark gray, brown, blue or mixed, or suits in which the coat 
is of some very dark shade or black, and the trousers more 
varied, though never of any bright color or large pattern. 
Entirely black clothes are not worn except by clergymen or 
for mourning. 

Boots and shoes must alvays be neatly kept and well 
polished, and care must be taken that they are sufl3.ciently 
large for the feet. 

In the choice of hats you will be guided by the season 
and the fashion as to material and shape, the chief thing 


36 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


being to avoid wearing anything which is conspicuous. 
Gloves must usually be of some dark color, gray, drab, brown 
or black, while for full dress almost any light shade is proper. 

In conclusion, I would say to young men as to young 
women, that the surest economy in dress is to buy good 
things and take care of them. Do not spend your money 
for useless trifles, and on no account spend more on your 
dress than you can honestly afford. Remember that you 
must never borrow anything even from your friends without 
asking leave, and that it is best to borrow and lend, as a 
habit, as little as possible. Let your garments be legibly 
marked with your name, and never wear other people’s 
clothes if you can help it. All toilette articles — brushes, 
combs, sponges, etc., are sacred to the uses of their owner, 
and must, under no circumstances, be considered public 
property, or put to any other use than that for which they 
were intended. A gentleman will be careful to supply him- 
self with these things and to keep them strictly to himself, 
neither committing nor permitting any trespass. Further- 
more, you must understand that in order to be gentlemen at 
all you must be gentlemen always, modest and reflned among 
yourselves as well as in public, and in nothing is the modesty 
and refinement of a gentleman more clearly shown than in 
the simplicity of his dress and the care and neatness with 
which he attends to the details of his toilette. To form gen- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


37 


tlemanly habits in this respect will be of the greatest value 
to you, and you may be sure that it is never too soon to be- 
gin the endeavor whose success will be mainly dependent 
upon your own resolution. 


CHAPTER VII. — In General Society. 

FOR YOUNU WOMEN. 

In general society there are, as you know, many par- 
ticulars in which what is proper for one sex is not proper for 
the other, and what is required of one sex is not required of 
the other, and these dilferences form a very important part of 
our social regulations, so that it becomes again necessary to 
divide our subject, and upon certain points to speak with re- 
gard, primarily, to their diversity. In obedience, therefore, 
to a well known rule of etiquette, I shall once more [give 
precedence to young women among my readers, and endea- 
vor to show them what Society has decreed to be the essen- 
tial attributes and duties of a lady — that is, what a lady 
must and must not do when she is in the presence of others. 

I have already' asked you to notice that the foundation 
of good manners is the commandment, ‘‘Thou shalt love thy 
neighbor as thyself;” for even if you do not in your heart 
obey that precept, you must externally appear to do so, if 
you desire to be courteous and well bred. 


38 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


You must, that is, always endeavor to make those about 
you comfortable and happy, even when it is at your own ex- 
pense; and upon this point it will be necessary to go some- 
what into detail in order that you may fully understand 
what is expected ot you, for in society you are brought into 
contact with so many different people under frequently 
changing conditions, that no single rule can cover your gen- 
eral demeanor. 

Toward all persons of your own sex, toward old people 
ot both sexes, toward invalids, or those who are in any way 
weaker than yourself, you must show deference — that ;is, you 
must invariably consider their comfort and pleasure, and must 
show them a certain external respect. In your turn, how- 
ever, you will receive a similar deference from gentlemen, 
and in most cases you must understand that you are enti- 
tled to certain privileges by right of your sex. For example, 
you must not pass through doors or gates, or up-stairs before 
other people, but must allow them to pass before you; you 
must not take the most comfortable or the only seat in a 
room, but must offer it politely to others, except in the case 
of gentlemen, who will allow you to precede them, to occupy 
the only seat, etc., and whose attentions you must accept 
always with suitable acknowledgments. 

You must not sit or piss between the fire or the light 
and another person ; in short, you must not take the best of 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


39 


anything to yourself, but must share it with others, never 
pushing your own claims but trusting always to the polite- 
ness of your associates. In your own house especially you 
must be w^atchful that your guests are cared for, while, when 
you are yourself the guest of other people, you must be care- 
ful to take no liberties. 

In conversation you must not interrupt those who may 
be speaking, and you must never yourself talk in a loud 
voice or use coarse or rough language, while I advise you 
to break yourselves, as quickly as possible, of the habit of 
‘ using frequent exclamations of any kind, but especially of 
using those which are irreverent, if not actually profane, as 
‘^Good Lord,” ‘‘My Jesus,” etc. Sneezing, coughing, blow- 
ing the nose, etc., must be done as quietly as possible under 
cover ot the pocket handkerchief, and you must on no ac- 
count take anything from your mouth when you are in the 
presence of other people. One of the chief charms in a lady 
is gentleness in voice, in manner, in language : a lady is al- 
ways gentle, and loud talking, or boisterous laughter and 
gestures, are entirely inadmissible in refined society. 

In social gatherings it is not customary for strangers to 
speak to one another without being first introduced by some 
one who is known to both parties, and this ceremony of in- 
troduction consists in bringing together the two people 
whom you desire to introduce, and in mentioning the name 


40 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


of each one to the other, as, for example, ‘‘Mrs. Johnson — 
Miss Smith Miss Smith — Mr. Jones,” the gentleman be- 
ing always presented to the lady, and the single to the mar- 
ried lady. After this the parties introduced are expected, 
under all circumstances, to bow and begin a conversation, in 
which, when one of the parties is a gentleman, it is usually 
his duty to speak first. An acquaintance begun in this way 
may be continued or not, at the pleasure of the individuals 
introduced, it being always in the power of one person to 
refuse to know another by declining to speak, bow, or other- 
wise recognize him or her, but it must be understood that 
you must not intentionally fail to recognize any one to whom 
you may have been introduced, without good and satisfac- 
tory reasons for so doing. It is not customary for a lady to 
talk to or accept attentions from gentlemen whom she does 
not know, and I would like to say to you that it is always 
better for you to be too reserved rather than too bold in your 
manner, especially with gentlemen, for, as you will soon find, 
the respect and courtesy which they show to you will almost 
invariably be in proportion to the dignity and modesty of 
your own demeanor. Do not put yourself forward, do not 
endeavor to monopolize attention, do not talk much of your- 
self or your own afiairs, do not in any way presume upon 
the general patience, and in conversation endeavor as much 
as you can to choose subjects whicli will interest all who are 


I 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 4I 

either listening or talking. Nothing is in worse taste than 
to talk in public upon purely personal matters, and it is of- 
ten little short of disgusting to well bred people to be obliged 
to listen to long descriptions of things and incidents which 
should properly only be spoken of between intimate friends 
and in privacy. As, for example, you should never talk 
before people of the state of your stomach, the medicines you 
may be using, your visits to the dentist, any more than you 
should in general company pick your teeth, scratch your 
head, or clean your nose or ears. 

The habit of chewing gum, or any similar substance, is 
entirely unpardonable, it being not only bad for the diges- 
tion and the teeth, but thoroughly vulgar, and to cleanly 
people disgusting. No one who is careful of either health 
or appearance will acquire it, especially as it offers no com- 
pensating pleasure. 

These and all similar faults, both of word and of action, 
you must scrupulously avoid, and if you have nothing better 
to occupy your attention than such things as these, your 
first duty should be so to regulate your behavior that, at 
least, you may not offend those who are more refined than 
yourself. You must never forget that there are many things 
which can properly enough be done and said when you are 
among people with whom you are familiar, which are out of 
place and unladylike in general society; and in this respect 


42 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


it is never safe to allow yourself much liberty, for offences 
against propriety committed in public will eventually result 
in your expulsion from good society, the first requirement 
of such society being, everywhere and always, propriety of 
behavior. 

In conversing with those with whom you are not on 
intimate terms, it is rude to touch any part of their dress or 
person with your hands, or anything which you may have 
in your hands, as a fan, cane or parasol ; to attract their at- 
tention by touching them or calling loudly, to look at them 
very closely, or to comment in any way upon their appear- 
ance. You must not point or stare at people either in the 
street or a room, and when it is necessary or desirable to 
point one person out to another, you must do it in a low 
voice, without any gestures, and so quietly that no one will 
notice it except the person to whom you are speaking. You 
must never make audible remarks upon the people about 
you, and when you unintentionally annoy or discommode 
another person, as by stepping on a lady’s dress, taking up 
a book which some one has for the moment laid down, or 
anything of the kind, you must immediately atone for your 
involuntary rudeness by saying, ‘*1 beg your pardon,'’ or 
Excuse me.” When it happens that you are the offended 
party you must always acknowledge the apology made by 
the offender, using some such form of words as ‘‘Certainly;” 
‘‘It is of no consequence.” 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


43 


If you have any accomplishment which you can use for 
the amusement of others, you should always be willing to 
do your best when invited, though it is not usually proper 
for you to volunteer your services. If you can sing or play^ 
or read well, and are asked to use your power for the plea- 
sure of your friends, do not make the mistake ot hesitating 
and offering a half-dozen excuses, none of which are suffi- 
cient, but do what you are able cheerfully and readily^ 
showing your willingness to oblige, while, however, you 
should be careful not to do too much, thereby tiring your 
listeners instead of pleasing them. 

If you join in games or dancing (to neither of which, 
when properly conducted, is there any objection), you must 
be careful that your fun and frolic do not degenerate into 
roughness, that there is no loud laughing or boisterous 
romping, and you must remember that upon you as ladies 
rests the responsibility of excluding all coarseness and vul- 
garity from your presence. You can easily show your dis- 
pleasure and disapproval, and I want you to appreciate the 
fact that in society the power lies principally with your sex; 
that in all social gatherings, and in the family life, it is you 
who must keep up the standard of refinement and demand 
propriety in the behavior of those about you. 


44 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


CHAPTER VIII. — In General Society. — (Continued.) 

FOR YOUNG WOMEN. 

I must advise you especially to guard yourself against 
the dangers arising from over-familiarity. Young people, 
as a rule, are apt to make friends easily and to be unnecessa- 
rily communicative, and in this way often get themselves 
into difficulties which might, at the outset, be easily avoided. 
Young women are probably somewhat more liable to make 
this error than young men, and I would therefore advise you 
in particular not to be too familiar even with your intimate 
friends, but to keep up a certain reserve, which you will find 
to be often a great safeguard. Do not talk of your own 
affairs to all the world ; do not attempt to pry into the af- 
fairs of other people ; do not gossip about your friends and 
their faults ; remember that modesty is essential to your 
womanhood, and that true modesty is spiritual as well as 
physical. By this I mean that the same instinct which will 
prevent you from making coarse gestures, from intruding on 
the privacy of others, from committing any action publicly, 
ought also to guard your tongue from loose speech, your eye 
from suspicion, and your thought from indelicacy, just as 
much when you are alone, as when you are in a crowd, just 
as effectually at home as abroad. 

I would like you to notice here that this modesty of 
which I speak is a very different thing from that awkward 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


45 


shyness which afflicts many young girls, and which more 
often comes from too much thought of self than from too ^ 
little. True modesty is often the surest relief from shyness, 
for it prevents any over-estimate of one’s own importance, and 
frees its possessor from any undue sensitiveness as to the 
opinions of other people — that is, a young person who is 
really modest will not constantly wonder what other people 
are thinking of her, or imagine that she is an object of atten- 
tion to anyone about her, but will go quietly about her 
work or her pleasure, careful to be true and honest, but not 
too anxious about appearances, remembering that to ‘‘be” is 
better than to “seem.” 

In order to be graceful and ladylike in your manner 
you must be at your ease, not presumptuous nor over -sure of 
yourself, or vainly confident of your own ability, but simply 
at your ease in that you are not constantly irritated by the 
thought that you may be making some error, doing some- 
thing foolish or different from other people, or in some way 
showing that you are a stranger to the rules of society. And 
I think we shall come back here to our original proposition, 
namely, that you must think about yourself as little as pos- 
sible. Do not fidget because you do not know what to do 
with your hands, or get nervous because you do not know 
whether you ought to stand up or sit down, but watch as 
closely as you can the behavior of the cultivated people whom 


46 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

you may meet; accustom yourself as much as you can to do 
as they do, and be sure that as a general thing the one rule 
which will help you most is to think of others more than of 
yourself. 

It is very important for you to understand that to be 
respectful in your manner and address is essential. In your 
association with people older than yourself, with those who 
are in positions of authority, with those of superior wisdom 
and experience, you must show special respect, not insisting 
upon your own equality, not advancing your own opinions, 
not contradicting others or asserting yourself, but listening 
rather than talking, and being content to follow instead of 
to lead. 

I have spoken to you before of the impropriety of whis- 
pering in general society, and I have still something more 
to say upon that subject. It is rude for anybody, but espe- 
cially for young people, to converse in whispers, to monopo- 
lize conversation, or to keep up a private conversation to the 
exclusion of others, but it is inexcusably so when they are 
in the presence of those who are older and better informed 
than themselves. Also this special respect must be shown 
to places as well as to individuals, in public meetings, at 
lectures, concerts, or similar gatherings, but, above all, in 
church your demeanor must be quiet and unobtrusive ; you 
must do nothing to disturb others or attract attention to 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 


47 


yourself, and in church or at any meeting for purposes of 
devotion, you must maintain a sober and reverent manner. 

I do not know anything more displeasing in young 
girls than a habit of loud talking and restless or bold beha- 
vior in public places. Your instinct of modesty ought to 
protect you from this fault ; and if you are so unfortunate as 
to have contracted it, do your best to change and modify 
your manner, and let me advise you to make a beginning in 
the school room. So much of your school life as students is 
spent in class rooms, and so many of you intend to become 
teachers that this matter of school etiquette deserves especial 
thought. Let me suggest to you then, that you give to 
your teachers the same respect and attention, which you in 
your turn, desire to receive from the pupils to whom in fu- 
ture you are to be leaders and examples. Respect also the 
room, and its furniture; respect your classmates, and work 
together to make the standard of the school room high and 
inflexible. If you are in doubt as to what this standard 
should be, your teachers can tell you, and will be your best 
advisers in matters ot detail. I can only tell you broadly 
that politeness is as much in place in school rooms as in par- 
lors, and if you do not practice it in the one place you may 
be sure you will never be perfect in it in the other. 

When any of your associates, of either sex, show you 
ourtesy in any form, you must never fail to make due ac- 


48 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


knowledgment. It costs you scarcely a breath to say 
“Thauk you/’ or ‘‘I am much obliged/’ or ‘‘You are very 
kind;” but these little phrases, spoken at the right time, 
are of real importance, and you should try to form a habit 
of using them, as well as of taking notice in other ways of 
the little favors which you ought to he able to accept as well 
as to offer kindly and freely. When you meet friends it is 
proper to inquire if they and their families are well, and to 
show interest in their vrell being, and syrnpathj" for their 
troubles, all of which can be done without exhibiting any 
impertinent curiosity, and is, of course, a very different thing 
from that personal questioning which is merely an attempt 
to pry into matters that do not concern you. 

In regard to making calls you have to be guided in de- 
tail by the customs of the community in which you live. In 
general, I can only tell you that ladies never call upon gen- 
tlemen, but may invite gentlemen to call upon them, having 
first made sure that they are proper and desirable acquaint- 
ances. You may invite other ladies to visit you, or may first 
visit them, the latter being usually considered more courte- 
ous, and when you receive invitations to call, must accept 
them as soon as possible, or it will be understood that you 
desire to drop the acquaintance. If you have been present 
at an entertainment of any kind, you should, within the 
following week, call upon your hostess as an acknowledg- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


49 


merit of her hospitality. Formal visits should never exceed 
ten minutes in length, and in making them it is desirable to 
eave your card or your name, whether the lady of the house 
is at home or not, and, indeed, in very fashionable society, 
to leave a card is considered the equivalent of a personal 
visit. 

Acknowledgments of a gift, however small, should be 
made promptly and heartily, without, however, any extrav- 
agant expressions, which only give the impression that you 
do not mean what you say. Remember that any delay, for 
which there is no good reason, in sending your letter of 
thanks, or in making yowv acknowledgment in person, di- 
minishes the value of what you say, making it more a mat- 
ter of form and less an expression of real gratitude. Put 
3^ourself in the giver’s place and you will realize how ungra- 
ious is the delay which allows the glow of friendlj^ feeling 
to change to a disappointment and[displeasure which excuses 
will hardly remove, and which, not improbably, may 
seriously disturb the friendship. 

As an illustration of the courtesy which good manners 
demand, I give you the following incident, the spirit of 
which, I am sure, you will appreciate, while you will un- 
derstand that the forms demanded by Japanese etiquette are 
not necessary in this country, where hospitality is suffi- 
ciently acknowledged by a properly worded letter, or by 


so 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


word of mouth, no gift being looked for except in cases 
where there has been special indebtedness. 

Some years ago the party of Japanese Commissioners of 
Education to the Centennial Exhibition visited Hampton 
Institute, part of their mission to this country being for the 
purpose of studying our various systems of education. The 
party, consisting of a prince and the gentlemen of his suite, 
were gladly entercained for the several days of their stay by 
the officers of the School. They were all gentlemen of very 
high standing and great intelligence, and their visit was a 
source of pleasure to all who met them. On their depar- 
ture, according to a graceful custom of their countiy, the 
prince left a beautiful present of Japanese work at each house 
where he had been a guest. A month or more after he left, 
by the earliest possible mail, came letters courteously an- 
nouncing the party’s safe arrival in Japan, and renewing 
their acknowledgments of the hospitality they had received. 

As I have said, our Republican Society does not de- 
mand such excessive formality as is necessary to the despotic 
etiquette of those Eastern nations, but in some respects we 
can learn from them, and I have used the above anecdote 
to show you how broad a meaning ^ ‘ courtesy ” may have. 

It is almost always rude and unkind to ridicule people 
whether they are friends or strangers, and as politeness 
means not only external forms, but also involves considera- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


51 

tion for the feelings of those with whom you come in con- 
tact, you must remember that it is often just as ill-bred to 
say or do anything which you know is likely to hurt a per- 
son’s feelings, as it would be to shut a door in any one’s face 
or offer any similar rudeness. 

If by accident you injure anything belonging to an- 
other person, you must make proper apology, and if in any- 
way you can repair your fault, must do so. Anything 
which you may have borrowed should be returned promptly 
at the expiration of the time for which it was lent. If it 
has been in any way damaged, you must replace it, or if 
that is not possible, must make good its money value to its 
owner. You must never make use of the smallest article 
without asking leave of its owner, and even in so trifling a 
matter as taking up a book or newspaper belonging to any 
one else, must be careful that you are not, in so doing, an- 
noying the owner; in short, you must always and every- 
where be strictly scrupulous in regard to other people’s 
property. 

In making the acquaintance of young men, and in your 
association with them, I have already told you how import- 
ant it is that you should be careful, molest, pure in word 
and deed, so that you may command their respect, and never 
have the misfortune to find your name in the mouths of gos- 
sips or scandalmongers, or even worse, to know that it is 


52 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


bandied about among the very young men whose good opin- 
ion you are doubtless trying to win. 

Do not, as a rule, accept presents from young men ; do 
not go out with young men alone, but try always to have 
others of your own sex with you ; do not take a young man's 
arm unless it is offered to you, and not even then unless the 
time and place are suitable and the offer properly made ; in 
a word, do not permit yourself to be familiar or free in your 
manner, except with those with whom you are intimately 
acquainted ; while so long as ^^ou are under the guidance of 
parents, teachers, or friends, you will find it best to trust to 
their judgment rather than your own in regard to what is 
proper and permissible for young women in their association 
with young men. 

And now, if I were face to lace with you, I should like 
to ask you, ‘AVhat is it which, in your opinion, makes a 
lady?’' and from your answers judge of my own success in 
this foregoing explanation. I cannot do that, but I can ask 
you to think for yourselves about the matter, and to answer 
to yourselves a few last questions. 

To be a lady — is it not to be gentle, courteous and kind, 
to speak and move without roughness or rude noise, to be 
modest in look and word, to be considerate of others, to dress 
quietly and suitably, to be respectful, to be neither unduly 
shy nor presumptuously forward, to be at ease in regard to 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 


55 


all ordinary social rules, to be bright and cheery without 
coarseness, and to be all these not in public or at times only, 
but everywhere and always? And of such an one can we 
not say, Strength and honor are her clothing, in her 
tongue is the law of kindness — her price is far above rubies?’ 


CHAPTER IX. — In General Soctety.- 


FOR YOUNO MEN. 

The principal power in general society undoubtedly lies 
in the hands of its female members — that is, it is to them 
that Society looks for a careful maintenance of etiquette, and 
for the support of a high standard of refinement, and you 
will understand this when you remember how many things 
you do, as young men, among yourselves, which, as gentle- 
men, you would not, on any account, do in the presence of 
ladies. Now, of course, the rougher life^ which, as a gene- 
ral thing, falls to the lot of young men, and the fact that in 
their struggle with the world they have little time for social 
culture, explains this and to a certain extent excuses that 
want of grace and ease which is so much more frequent 
among young men than among young women. But, and I 
want you to lay this to heart, neither this nor any other 
reason, however plausible, can or ought to induce you to 


54 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


abate, by jot or tittle, your constant endeavor to become and 
to be gentlemen. If you will once take the trouble to learn 
what it is to be polite and well-bred, and will honestly try 
to form the habit in yourselves, you will lind that you need 
never be too tired, or too busy, or too careless, to be gentle 
and courteous in your manner to those about you, and you 
will find, too, that every step which you take in this direc- 
tion will bring its reward, and that, in the end, you will be 
more than repaid for the exertion which, at the outset, may, 
not improbably, seem to you very great. 

I have no intention, as you see, of encouraging you with 
the assertion that it is an easy thing to be a gentleman, for 
that, I think, would be the surest road to your ultimate dis- 
couragement, but I want you to believe and act upon what I 
am sure is the truth — that is, that by care, patience, watch- 
ing the habits of those who are better bred than yourselves, 
and modestly accepting instruction in whatever form' it may 
come, you can make of yourselves gentlemen, of whom your 
friends and teachers will have no need to be ashamed. 

Now if you have read what has already been written to 
you, you have learned several things which I shall here 
merely recapitulate in brief. You have learned that tho- 
rough cleanliness is essential, that your dress should be neat, 
quiet, and always suitable to your occupation, and that at 
table your behaviour must be most carefully regulated. We 
come now, naturally, to your demeanor in general society — 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


55 


that is, in all social gatherings, in all public places, in the 
street and the house ; wherever, in short, you are brought 
in contact with your fellow beings, and the details which I 
shall try to make plain to you, demand your serious atten- 
tion. 

Consideration for others, either real or apparent, is the 
foundation for good manners, and what you need to learn is 
to show such consideration constantly and easily, to make it 
so entirely habitual as to require no special effort. There 
are certain forms which you will have to follow, certain rules 
wliich you will have to obey, and the more thorough your 
knowledge of these, the pleasanter your social relations will 
be, both to yourself and others. 

Many of the principal of these rules relate to the respect 
which you are to show in certain ways, and, in greater or 
less degree, to all whom you may meet. For example, you 
must invariably give precedence to all women — young or 
old, rich or poor — to all old people, to all invalids, and to 
all to whom, from their position or cliaracter, you desire to 
show especial respect — that is, that you must never enter a 
room, carriage, etc., before such persons, or precede them 
through doors, gates, etc., or seat yourself before they 
are seated; but, on the contrary, should always be 
ready to assist them by the numberless little attentions 
which a gentleman has it in his power to bestow. Do you 


56 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


ask what these attentions are? Did you never see a gentle- 
man assist a lady, or any one who was old or weak, from a 
carriage, or open a door for them to pass through, or carry a 
parcel for them, or pick up anything which they may have 
dropped, or close a window for them, or in a hundred w^ays 
do something for them which it would be hard or disagree- 
able for them to do for themselves? 

If you will notice how wide the difference is in these 
matters between a rough, untrained man, and a gentleman, 
you will soon be convinced of their importance and the ne- 
cessity for training yourselves to remember them, for every- 
where and always it is these little things that mark a gen- 
tleman’s manner. 

You must not pass between the fire or the light and any 
one; must not sit in any awkward or familiar position in the 
presence ot others ; must not smoke without asking permis- 
sion ; must not cliew, or, above all things, spit ; must not 
cough, sneeze, or blow your nose loudly or obtrusively. You 
should always carry and carefully use a pocket handkerchief ; 
and with it cover your mouth when you sneeze, cough, or 
yawn (turning your head aside at the same time), while the 
various other uses to which it can be put, make it an indis- 
pensable article of your attire. If you can avoid it, you 
should not sit or stand with your back toward any one, and 
when in company should never yawn, as this latter is a rude 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


57 


indication that you are tired of the people about you. 

To whistle or sing audibly is in very bad taste, and you 
must most certainly not allow yourself to pick your teeth, 
scratch your head or any part of yoUr person, clean your 
nails, or take any similar liberty before people. 

You must not talk in a loud voice, call loudly to attract 
another person’s attention, must not use rough or coarse lan- 
guage, and must never, anywhere or at anytime, be guilty 
of profanity. In regard to this last fault I would gladly 
speak to you at length and most earnestly, but I think the 
sin has been wisely summed up in the words of a famous 
clersTvinan who once said that there could be no excuse for 
profanity, for it was not only wicked and ungentlemanly, but 
also consummately foolish,’' a description so true that it 
ought to be enough to deter any thoughtful man from the 
use of so called strong language. In a less degree it also 
applies to any coarseness or vulgarity of word or gesture, 
than which nothing is more repugnant to refined persons, 
and as this is a specially dangerous fault for young men who 
are apt to take a good deal of license among themselves, you 
will have to guard against it very carefully, remembering 
that the expressions which you permit yourself to use habit- 
ually when you are with your daily companions, will almost 
invariably crop out in your general conversation. If you 
use coarse, rough, language and gestures, when you are with 


58 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


the men and boys who are your ordinary associates, you will 
find it very difficult to change your custom when you are 
with other people, for which reason (and for many others), 
it is best, if you mean to be a gentleman at all, to be a gen- 
tleman always. 

When the door of a room which does not belong to you , 
or in which you have not at least an equal right with others, 
is closed, do not try to open it, but knock and await the an- 
swer of those within. When you enter a room always re- 
move your hat, and touch, or remove it when you meet an 
acquaintance; while upon your first entrance into a room 
you should speak or bow to each person in it, unless, of 
course, the number is very large, and should do the same 
upon leaving. When you are introduce! to any one you 
should bow ana begin a conversation upon some subject of 
common interest, shaking hands, in this country, not being 
usual except among friends. In conversation be careful not 
to put yourself and your opinions forward, to interrupt any 
one who may be speaking, to talk much of yourself or your 
own affairs, or to introduce any merel}^ personal subject. 

Do not talk (except to intimate friends or in private) 
about the state of your health, your clothes, your teeth, about 
anything, in short, which can only be of interest to yourself 
and your near friends, and try to reach a happy medium be- 
tween uneasy shyness and presuming self-confidence, being 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


59 


quiet and unassuming, but neither careless nor awkward. 

Do whatyou can always for the entertainment ot others^ 
and when you join in games or similar amusement, do so 
without noise or roughness, and with due regard to the 
pleasure ot your companions. 

If you are a guest in the house of others you must, upon 
your arrival, first greet your host and hostess, and never 
leave without making a proper farewell to them ; in your 
own house you must politely and kindly receive your guests, 
doing your best to make them at ease and to give them plea- 
sure. When you are away from home you must be careful 
to take no liberties, and must understand that many things 
which it is proper to do in your own house, youkannot do in 
other people’s houses without rudeness. 

I believe that with young men, as with young women,, 
the safest means to obtain graceful and pleasing manners is 
to think as little of yourself as possible. Of course it is ne- 
cessary for you to give some thought to your appearance and 
to your general demeanor, but my meaning is that you are 
not to think of yourself selfishly or with over-sensitiveness. 
Do not be too anxious as to the opinion that may be formed 
of you ; do not constantly wonder whether people think you 
are good-looking, or well dressed, or well-mannered, or 
‘‘smart but watch closely the behavior of the most culti- 
vated people you know, imitate their actions when you are 


6o 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


in doubt or ignorance as to what is proper, and then forget 
yourself and try to make those about you comfortable and 
happy. This may seem to you an odd rule whereby to mea- 
sure yourselves, but I assure you that if you will put it in 
practice you will find it covers a great many of these details 
which seem so hard to master when you are obliged to take 
them one by one. You will find, in many cases, when you 
are perplexed as to the proper thing to do, that the answer 
to the cpiestion, What will be most agreeable to those 
about me?’’ will solve yoar doubts and decide correctly f.r 
you. For example, nothing is more ill-bred than over-famil- 
iarity, and, as a general thing, nothing is more disagreeable 
to the people to whom it is oftered. .Do not approach too 
closely to any one to whom you may be speaking, especially 
if it be a lady ; do not touch any part of the dress or person 
of any one near you ; do not whisper, point or stare ; do not 
make remarks upon the appearance of others while you are 
in their presence, and do not ridicule or make fun of either 
strangers or friends. 

Do not keep up a private conversation to the exclusion 
of other people, and do not in any way amuse yourselt at 
other people’s expense, for, as I have said before, the rude- 
ness which unnecessarily wounds another person’s feelings, 
is just as inexcusable as the rudeness which stares a person 
out of countenance or occupies a comfortable seat while 
some tired woman stands. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


6? 

If you unintentionally commit any rudeness, or trespass 
upon the rights of others, you must never fail to ask [lardon 
at once, saying I beg your pardon,” or Excuse me,” or 
using some similar form of words, and, when possible, must 
atone tor your rud'eness in other ways as well. 

In church, at concerts, lectures, or any public gathering, 
you must always be quiet and orderly, on no account talking 
in a loud voice, or in any way making a disturbance or at- 
tracting attention ; while at church or any religious meeting 
your behavior must be reverent and marked by proper re- 
spect for the place wherein you are, and the occasion which 
has called you there. 

Applause should be will-timed and general, never being 
kept up by a few when it is evidently the general wish ot 
the assembly that it should cease, and never bein g permitted 
to become boisterous or uncontrollable. 


CHAPTER X. — In General Society — (Continued.) 


FOR YOUNG men. 

You should try always, when you are among people, to 
sit or stand quietly, unless there is good reason for moving. 
To shuffle your feet, move your chair uneasily, fidget with 
any part of your dress, or anything you may be holding, is 
very annoying, and, if you allow it to become a habit, will 


62 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


often make you an unpleasant companion to well-bred peo- 
ple. Teach yourself to do what you have to do neatly and 
quickly, and then do not embarrass yourself and others by 
constant and needless movement. 

You probably sufficiently appreciate the importance of 
showing deference to those whose years, station or character 
make their claim to it evident, but I should like to make 
you feel that it is a good thing to practice politeness toward 
your companions whom you consider on an equality with 
yourself, and not especially entitled to respect. The minor 
courtesies of society cost so little when they have once be- 
come habitual, and go so far toward making life smooth and 
pleasant, that you will find it no waste of time to practice 
them in your intercourse with your fellow students and la- 
borers. Do not be ashamed to offer a seat, or a newspaper, 
to say “thank you” for any little kindness, to pick up any- 
thing that your companion may have dropped and return it 
to him ; but, on the other hand, be always ashamed to keep 
on your hat even in a room full of men, to spit recklessly 
here and there, to yawn in a friend’s face, to take the best 
seat, to ridicule or mock any unavoidable peculiarity in an- 
other, to roughly reject or ignore any favor done for you, 
because for your own sake, if you are not moved by any less 
selfish reason, you had better give your companions such 
treatment as you in turn desire to receive. More than this. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 


63 


there are few, even among rough boys, who do hot feel the 
charm of a courteous and kindly manner, and the example, 
in this respect, of a single boy may work greater good than 
pages of written advice. 

It is not unusual to hear boys and very young men say, 
scornfully or carelessly, that all these things are for girls : 
“men” have no time or need for them, but surely in so say- 
ing they prove nothing but their own ignorance or laziness. 
If you will make a fair trial of this matter you will find that 
it is possible to be refined and gentlemanly in spite of hard 
work, small opportunities and a rough life, and it is foolish 
for you to undervalue the importance to you of a pleasing 
and sensible manner. A man’s success in life is sure to be 
more or less affected by the external proof which he gives of 
the training he has received, and it will be greatly to your 
advantage if early in life you teach yourselves to be polite 
and careful in your behavior to all people. 

In your intercourse with all members of the opposite 
sex, of whatever class or age, it is proper for you to pay cer- 
tain attentions and evince a more marked respect than is 
expected from you toward your own sex. There are many 
particulars in which your behavior must be modified by the 
presence of ladies, and as the social regulations upon this 
point are very exact, you will need to study and observe 
them with care. 


64 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


When you meet a lady with whom you are acquainted, 
in the street, you must bow and remove your hat, and must 
usually pass her on the outer side, leaving to her what is 
presumably the best and safest part of the path or pavement, 
while in walking with a lady you must also take the outer 
side. When you are introduced to a lady, bow and speak at 
once, and when a lady speaks to you, remember you are 
bound to reply, and reply politely, under all circumstances. 
If you are walking with a lady who is a friend, you can, in 
the evening, offer her your arm, which she can take or re- 
fuse, at her own pleasure ; in the daytime you need not offer 
your arm, but must be watchful to give any aid she may 
seem to require in the way of getting in and out of car- 
riages, boats, cars, etc., stepping over any obstacle or avoid- 
ing any difficulty. 

You must not usually permit a lady to open doors, gates, 
etc., for herself, but must open them for her, standing back 
to allow her to pass through before you. You must not, on 
any account, smoke in a lady’s presence, even if she is an 
intimate friend or relative, without first asking her permis- 
sion, and as to the disgusting habit ot spitting, I trust that I 
have already impressed upon you that it is never permissi- 
ble before ladies or any number of people. 

You must not remain seated while a lady is standings 
but must always try to find for her a comfortable and con- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS, 


65 


venient seat, and when there is any thing to be seen or heard, 
must not fail to give her the best place. To push or jostle a 
lady, to force yourself in front of her, to take, in any way, 
advantasre of her inferior size and streno-th, is the hei2:ht of 
rudeness, and is an act of which no true gentleman is ever 
guilty. On the contrary, you should use your strength for 
her advantage, allowing her in your presence to do notliing 
disagreeable or arduous for lierself which you can pjroperly 
do for her. When you are with ladies you must be particu- 
larly careful to fall into no awkward or familiar positions. 
Do not sit or stand with your hands in your pockets ; do not 
lounge or sit with your feet higher than your he id ; do not 
whistle or hum; do not yawn, and especially do not permit 
yourself any of those liberties wliich I have already told you 
are entirely forbidden in general society. 

Remember what I have said to you in legard to the use 
of your pocket handkerchief, and how careful you must tfe 
about blowing your nose, sneezing, picking your teeth, etc. 
Then, too, you must scrupulously avoid annoying a lady by 
any coarse words or gestures, or by any rude attempt at 
familiarity. Let your manner to a lady be always modest, 
quiet and attentive, roughness and noisy talk being always 
repugnant to well bred, modest women. 

When you are playing games in which ladies join, or 
dancing, or engaged in any social amusement, you must allow 


66 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


yourself always to be governed by the pleasure of the ladies ; 
they must take the lead and you must follow — that is, yo^ 
must permit them to choose what they will do and how it 
shall be done, and must waive your own opinion. 

You must not get up games or conversation among 
yourselves to the exclusion of the ladies who are present, 
and must be careful when refreshments are offered to see that 
the ladies are properly served before you help yourselves. 
If a lady drops a handkerchief, gloves, etc., you must at 
once pick it up and politely return it to her, and if you.unin- 
tentionally commit any rudeness, such as stepping on her 
dress, failing to answer when she speaks, etc., you must at 
once apologize and do what you can to atone for it. If a 
lady is reading a book or paper you must not ask her to give 
it up to you, but, on the other hand, if you are using any- 
thing which you think she wants, you must offer it to her, 
and, if she desires it, give it up at once. You should never 
scrutinize closely a lady or her dress, and should never make 
remarks about her ; indeed, this is carried so far that it is a 
point of honor among gentlemen not to discuss freely among 
themselves the character or appearance of their lady friends* 

A lady desires, above all things, to be respected, and 
you, as gentlemen, can show your respect for her in no bet- 
ter way than by refusing to talk about her among your 
companions. If you wish to accompany a lady home from 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


67 


any evening entertainment, you must ask her permission 
and be careful not to force yourself upon her, while if you 
do accompany her, you must not, upon reaching her home, 
go in, unless she gives you an invitation to do so. 

The choice as to whether or no she will make or keep 
up your acquaintance rests always with her, and in paying 
formal visits you must keep strictly within the rules which 
society lays down. You must never call without an invita- 
tion, unless you go with a friend who has the right to intro- 
duce you. You must always call upon your hostess within 
a few days after any entertainment to which she may have 
invited you, whether you have been present or not. You 
must leave your card or your name at the door when you 
enter, and you must not make the mistake of unduly pro- 
longing your visit. Ten minutes is quite sufficient for an 
ordinary call, and unless there are special reasons for so doing, 
you had better not exceed thatlirnitor you will find yourself 
in the dreaded category of bores.’’ 

If you have reason to suppose that you have offended 
a lady by any rudeness or carelessness, it is your duty to 
offer a proper apology or explanation, and you need feel no 
false shame in so doing, for a true lady will always respect 
your intentions even though they may be awkwardly^ 
expressed. 

In the above I have throughout used the term lady,” 
partly because it was convenient for me, and partly because 


68 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


it conveyed to you something more than the word ^^woman” 
or but I want you to understand that what I have 

said includes, with very few exceptions, the whole sex. 
Your schoolmates, your mothers and sisters, the young girls 
with whom you commonly associate, all should receive from 
you deference and kindly respect. 

Do not let the rules and hints which have been given 
you serve only when you are in the company of your teachers 
or those whom you yourselves consider as ‘Madies/’ or those, 
in short, of whom you have a little wholesome fear, but let 
them control your everyday life and regulate your conduct 
toward your girl companions, your relatives and borne 
friends. You may be sure that it is just as rude and ungen- 
tleraanly to push through a door before the girl who stands 
next to you in class, as before the lady who teaches you, and 
that the boy who keeps on his hat in a room full of girls, 
and suddenly removes it when a teacher looks in, has a great 
deal to learn, and is not on the right road to learn it. 

Furthermore, if you do not yourselves show respect to 
the women of your own kindred and race, you will have no 
right to expect such respect from other men, which is a full 
and sufficient reason for you to be toward them, even more 
than toward others, scrupulous and courteous in thought 
and deed. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


69 


The following chapters, for the use of travelers, have 
been written especially for this volume by Miss H. W. Lud- 
low, w^hose experience in travelling with our students and 
in the South generally, has given her imusual opportunity 
for observation. 

CHAPTER XI. 

MANNERS ON THE ROAD. 

Here is a true story. One summer day a steamboat 
stopped at Old Point, Virginia, and took on, among other 
passengers, quite a large number of young colored people of 
both sexes. Some of these went on board loudlj talking and 
laughing, pushed their way up stairs to get th,e first places 
by the rail of the upper deck, from wliich they called and 
shouted to their friends onshore till the boat started; others, 
hurrying into the cabin, made for the best seats, lounging on 
the sofas, and exchanging free jokes with their companions 
in loud tones, till tlieir behavior drew upon them the atten- 
tion of all the passengers within seeing and hearing distance. 

That's the beauty of educating Negroes,” said one of a 
group of southern white gentlemen standing near, and his 
lip curled with disgust. 

“Sir,’’ replied another, a man of high birth and standing 
in the State, “I have visited the Hampton Normal School, 
and I know its Principal, and have seen its students, and 
I’ll wager you that there’s not a Hampton student in that 


70 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


crowd, but those are some of them yonder, and there are 
some more, behaving like ladies and gentlemen. I can pick 
them out for you anywhere on the boat — so quiet and neat 
and well mannered that they haven’t even attracted your 
attention.” To confirm his words, this champion of Hampton 
students took pains during the trip to approach the diflferent 
groups and talk separately witli each individual, inquiring 
in his kind and fatherly way where they had come from and 
what were their plans for life. In not one single case did 
he find his first conviction a mistake, as he has since told not 
only the friends who were with him, but more than one 
ofi&cer and teacher of Hampton Institute, very much to their 
gratification, as you may imagine. And some of them were 
gratified again, recently, by hearing from a northern lady 
visiting Hampton for a second time, that having no- 
ticed some quiet act of politeness to a stranger done by a 
young colored man of intelligent and pleasant appearance^ 
on a railway train in Massachusetts, she had “wondered if he 
were not from Hampton Institute/’ knowing that its stu- 
dents had sometimes found work in that neighborhood, and 
on inquiry, found this to be the case. 

We tell 3^)11 these pleasant incidents, assured that they 
will incite many of you to do all in your power to win the 
same good opinion for yourselves, and keep up the good 
reputation of Hampton students. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


71 


And what are good manners on the road? We have 
only to adapt to the special circumstances of travel the gen- 
eral rule with which we started, that politeness at its foun- 
dation is thoughtfulness for others and a proper sense of our 
own relations to our surroundings. All through life, as a 
poet has said, 

We all are travellers Vvho throng 
A thorny road together.” 

To take the thorns out of others’ way will make the road 
smoother for ourselves also, and let us not be a thorn in their 
way if we can help it. 

You will gather from the first of our true stories above, 
that good manners on the road, as elsewhere in public, are 
quiet manners. Ladies or gentlemen will not wish to make 
themselves conspicuous among strangers, therefore talk 
quietly together, or with the friends who come to see you 
off. Demonstrative farewells are supposed to have been 
made at home. A kiss should be held sacred for the nearest 
and dearest, and they will not wish to make a display of it. 
For the rest, a friendlj^ handshake is enough, and remember 
again that that does not mean a torturing grip that will 
leave its memory in aching joints. 

TO YOUNG WOMEN. 

Quietness of manner should accompany you all the way, 
and will be your best passport and safeguard. If you are 
traveling alone, be especially careful of your behavior. Don’t 


72 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


enter into familiar conversation with men who are stransrers 
to you. Look out for your pocket book, and remember, too, 
that as Shakespeare says, ‘‘Who steals my purse steals trash.’’ 
Remember that you have your own self-respect, the rep- 
utation of Hampton students, and the good name of the 
women of your race to sustain. Not long ago a Hampton 
girl was going North for the summer ; money had been sent 
her for her fare ; alter paying her passage on the steamboat, 
she put the balance for her railroad ticket into her satchel. 
Unfortunately, not being perhaps much accustomed to trav- 
eling, she left her stateroom door unlocked and her satchel 
lying on the berth. When she returned it had disappeared. 
G-reatly distressed she went to the stewardess. AVhile telling 
her sad loss a white gentleman drew near, and hearing her 
account, said to the stewardess, “Where does this young 
woman come from ? ’ “ From Hampton Institute, sir.” “ I 

can’t see a Hampton student suffer when I can help it,” said 
the gentleman, and, taking out his pocket book, presented 
her with a two dollar bill to replace the one she had lost. 
It seems to me there are several less;)ns in this story, and I 
will leave them to you to find out. 

Be observant of all about you. A great deal can be 
learned on a journey, not only of geography, but of human 
nature and social customs. One good rule is not to do things 
or go into places that you see no one else do or enter. A young 
girl, taking a short journey alone, amused herself for some 


ON HABIT AND MANNERS. 


73 


time by watching the ways of people in the same car, and 
seeing one very pleasant, modest looking young lady, not far 
off, resolved that she would take her for a model all the way. 
She thought she was so pretty and sweet looking that she 
gave her in her thoughts her favorite name, and called her 
jJIiss Charlotte. Observing that Miss Charlotte put her 
satchel in the rack above her, set her umbrella in the corner 
by her, and folded her shawl over the seat behind her, occu- 
pying thus only the half seat she sat in, Sarah, as we will 
call her, took hers from the seat beside her and stowed them 
away in like manner, though many others in the car were 
spreading their belongings over a whole seat. At the next 
station a great many people got in, and Sarah looked rather 
anxiously to see what Miss Charlotte would do. As usual, 
the women and children entered the car first, looking from 
side to side for a seat. Many who sat alone in a seat turned 
their heads and looked out of the window, leaving their 
baggage to speak for them ; some declared that the seat was 
^^engaged.” Miss Charlotte looked pleasantly at the first 
woman and child who entered. The woman hesitated, but 
seeing Sarah’s seat so near, sent her little boy to that and sat 
down very gladly. Several were left standing, but when 
the conductor came in he found seats for all, and Sarah was 
very thankful that she was not one ot those whose baggage 
he unceremoniously removed to accommodate some of those 


74 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


they would have least welcomed. When the cars stopped 
for dinner, Miss Charlotte proved to have brought her lunch 
basket with her, and as Sarah also had some sandwiches 
and fruit in her satchel, she had another opportunity of 
w^atching her model. She was glad that she, too, had a nice 
clean napkin to spread on her lap, and though she had no 
pretty fruit knife like Miss Charlotte, she followed very 
closely her example of neatness, keeping her crumbs in her 
napkin, and folding her apple cores and peach stones in a 
paper, wondering indeed why she didn’t throw them out of the 
window as some did, till<^she saw slie was only waiting till 
the train had moved out of the station and away from the 
town, where they would be annoying to passers by. Seeing 
the little boy by her side look longingly, as children will, at 
her fruit, Sarah would have liked to offer him one, but 
fearing that his mother might not think it best for him, she 
held it up with an inquiring look, as she caaght her eye. 
The mother smiled and nodded, and Sarah offered it to the 
little fellow. He looked towards his mother, who said, 

‘ Wou may take it, Tommie, and say thank you.” Sarah 
was pleased to see that Miss Charlotte saw it too, and was 
delighted when she gave her a pleasant smile. After that 
the little fellow became quite sociable and she enjoyed his 
childish talk ; but nothing more of note happened till, when 
at the next station Miss Charlotte was getting off, as she 
jjassed Sarah’s seat her veil was caught and drawn off, and 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


75 


she went on without perceiving it, till Sarah, hurrying after^ 
handed it off of the platform, calling ‘‘Oh, Miss Charlotte, 
here is your veil you dropped.’’ “Oh, thank you very 
much,” said the young lady with surprise, “but my name is 
not Charlotte, did you think it was?” “Oh, no, ma’am — I 
— beg your pardon,” said Sarah, her cheeks growing very 
hot. The pretty young lady looked puzzled, but laughed 
and said, “Well I thank you very much all the same,” and 
there was no time for more, the train moved off, and Sarah 
took her seat again, and wondered all the way what “Miss 
Charlotte"’ would imagine about it, and what her name 
really was, and where she lived, and what she would think 
if she could know she had been a “ model.” But she never 
saw her again, and that is all the story. You might make 
up a great deal prettier ending if you were to try, no doubt, 
and imagine a great many more circumstances. 

Some people get into trouble by asking direction of 
strangers about them, ratlier than of the proper officials. 
Ticket agents, conductors, pursers, stewardesses, and police- 
men, are responsible persons, part of whose business is to 
direct strangers. If irresponsible persons mislead you by 
accident or design, you have generally yourself to blame. 
Other people, especially women traveling alone and unused 
to traveling, make themselves very annoying and provoke 
discourteous answers by asking very foolish, unnecessary 
questions of the officers of the road, or requesting something 


76 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


they have no authority or right to do. As we have said 
elsewhere, keep your eyes open. Read notices ; they are put 
up on purpose to be read. When you need to make inqui- 
ries, make them clearly and modestly of the proper persons, 
and you will seldom receive anything but a courteous an- 
swer, for which or for any help rendered even by one who is 
paid to do it, it is always proper to say “ Thank you.” lie 
cannot be paid for the courtesy with which he does his duty, 
except by corresponding courtesy in those for whom he does it. 

When you approach your destination, or have to change 
cars, thii]k about your trunk. Don’t forget to check it, and 
never give up your check except to an official, or without a 
receipt. It is always well to Ipok when your trunk is check- 
ed, to be sure that the numbers correspond, on the check you 
hold and that on your trunk. It is well to also write the 
number of your check, and tlie name or letters on it, in your 
note book. This will enable the railroad or express company 
to trace your trunk if it is lost. If you give your trunk to 
an express agent be sure that he takes the right address and 
check number, and take care of the receipt he gives you. It 
is safe to give your check to a city hack driver to get your 
trunk if you are going to take it on the carriage with you; 
his hack is numbered and he is responsible. But if you are 
not going with it, don’t give your trunk or check to any man 
who oflers to take it, with no receipt. Many trunks have 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


77 


been stolen in this way. If you don’t know how to manage^ 
ask the conductor, or stewardess, or a policeman, according 
to where you may be. But keep your own wits about you, 
and when you leave car or boat or station, count your be- 
longings and see that you leave nothing behind. If you 
should ever leave anything, go to the office of tlie company, 
or the station, where many things thus lost are brought. 
It is always well to have everything clearly marked with 
your name — satchel, umbrella, shawl strap, overshoes, pocket 
book, etc. 

The matter of dress comes up in traveling as everywhere 
else. It is always a mistake to dress showily for traveling. 
For short distances in summer, a simple calico or gingham, 
clean and neat, with clean collar, and straw hat with ribbon, 
is quite appropriate and much more ladylike than a white 
muslin with gay ribbons, and hat with light flowers or lace, 
getting more and more soiled every mile of the way. In 
the same way, for long journeys or cool weather, a plain dark 
alpaca or woolen stuff, with clean collar, dark sack, and hat 
with dark ribbons, makes the best kind of traveling dress, 
much better than anything light or showy. All cannot 
afford a special traveling dress. That is not neccessary, but, 
choose a plain, quiet dress to travel in and let it be neat and 
whole. And clean hands are better than dirty and ragged 
or showy gloves. A young girl we once saw, who, unwill- 


78 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


ing to lose the effect of her rings, had put them on outside 
her gloves, had certainly made a sad mistake. Strong ser- 
viceable shoes, large enough to be perfectly comfortable, and 
worn enough to be used to them, are best at any time, and 
especially for a journey. In our changeable climate, a gos- 
samer, overshoes, umbrella and shawl, save much danger 
from exposure on a long journey. A good supply of hand- 
kerchiefs and collars should also be in your satchel. A cel- 
luloid collar and cuffs can be worn with comfort and washed 
off like a china plate every night. If you engage a sleeping 
car or berth, be sure to loosen your clothes thoroughly to 
give your lungs free play on lying down. Serious illness 
may result from neglect of this. With a little management, 
it is quite possible to do this even in the narrow limits of a 
sleeping car, and to remove the dress, folding neatly and 
laying it at the foot of the berth, slipping on a loose sack, 
comfortable to sleep in and proper to appear in in case of 
emergency. The trouble this takes will be well rewarded 
by the rest of the night and the comfort of the day on a long 
journey. 

CHAPTER XL — Manners on the Road — (Continued.) 

TO YOUNO MEN. 

The matter of dress touches you, too. Don’t try to look 
like a dude, and don’t be negligent of your appearance. In 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


79 


these days of celluloid collars and cufis, no one need wear 
soiled linen. A clean flannel shirt is better than a dingy 
white one ; a straw or felt hat better than a silk one ; well 
blacked shoes look better than light or flashy ones^ while 
clean hands and nails are the sign manual of a gentleman — 
rings are no iraprovenient to them. 

Don't buy coarse pa[>ers or dime novels. A man is 
known by what he reads. Buy the respectable journals and 
read wdiat is going on in your country. 

Don’t strew peanut shells on the floor, and don’t make 
the compartment you occupy so foul and revolting that a 
woman — or a decent man — will rather stand up than sit 
down there. 

As I have just cautioned our girls as to their behavior 
towards men who are strangers to them on the road, so do 
I most earnestly say to you, ^mung men, protect the woman- 
hood of your race. If a lack of self-respect on the part of a 
woman is pitiable and sickening, the attempt of a man 
to take advantage of such lack is contemptible and un- 
pardonable. Stand ever ready to protect or aid without 
presuming on anything great or small that you may be able 
to do. Towards women, young or old, whom you meet on 
the road, let your b^phavior be guided by this thought: 

How should I want a man to treat my sister or my mo- 
ther ?” 


8o 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


I do not forget that to colored people in America the 
question of manners on the road may involve at times pecu- 
liarly difficult and trying positions, and cases where the 
courtesy will seem very one-sided. But while I understand 
and deplore this, and wdile I admit that there may be cir- 
cumstances when it will be right and necessary to make a 
stand, in a proper and lawful way, for one’s lawful rights, I 
believe that, especially in these cases, propriety of deport- 
ment on your own part will do more than anything else to- 
wards securing for you fair and proper treatment from 
otliers. And trying as are some of the inconsistencies of 
treatment, of which you have just cause to complain — the 
penumbra of slavery’s dark eclipse out of which your race is 
passing — I am sure that a glance over the past will encour- 
age you by the j)erception that these very inconsistencies are 
on the hopeful side and show what you have gained, not lost, 
of rights and privileges. I am sure, too, that you will agree 
with me that the improvement has been owing, in a great 
measui'e, to the progress and the proper deportment of your 
people. The incidents with which I began this chapter 
show you how this is recognized by both North and South. 
Thus every one of you can do something to help it on, and 
with this inspiring thought I wish you each, wherever you 
go, a pleasant journey. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


8t 


CHAPTER XIII. 


LETTER WRITING, 

There are certain well-defined rules in regard to the 
arrangement of a letter, its address, date, signature, etc., with 
which you ought to be tamiliar, and you also need to un- 
derstand the regulations of general correspondence — that is, 
you should know the difierence between a business letter and 
a note of invitation, between an unceremonious line to a 
friend and a polite and careful letter to a stranger. In fact, 
there is a good deal to be learned before you can write a 
neat, graceful, properly expressed letter, and as the ability 
to do so should be one important result of your education, 
you must try to familiarize yourselves as rapidly as possible 
with the art of letter writing. 

In the first place, then, whatever tlie object and style of 
a letter may be, and to whomsoever it may be written, it 
must always be dated — the name of the place from which, 
and the day of the week and month upon which it is writ- 
ten, being placed in the upper right hand corner of your 
sheet of paper. Give it plenty of room, and if the letter is 
of special importance, add in figures the date of the year as 
well. A little lower down, and upon the left side, write the 
name of the person you are addressing, always with a 
proper prefix ; to a stranger, Dear Sir,” or Dear Madam 


82 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


to a frieud, whatever your taste and affection may dictate. 
Directly below this, and again a little to the right, the body 
of your letter should begin. This should be broken into 
paragraphs, should be written in perfectly straight lines (it 
is best to accustom yourself to use unruled paper), and should 
be so arranged as not to close either at the extreme top or 
bottom of your sheet, as this always gives an awkward look, 
and by a little care can be avoided, while you must specially 
avoid making blots and erasures. 

Having completed your letter, you have still the envel- 
ope to address, and this requires quite as much attention as 
the letter itself, for, as you know, it is only by means of a 
legible and correct address that your letter can reach its des- 
tination. Begin somewhat above the middle of your envel- 
ope and close to the left hand corner, with the plainly writ- 
ten name of the person, giving any title which may belong 
to him or her. Follow this a little lower down and further 
to the right wHh, if it is to go to a city, the street and num- 
ber ; if it is to go to any institution, office, society, etc., with 
the requisite address of such place or society, writing, in all 
cases, after this (again lower down and more to the right) 
the name of the village or city, closing with the name of the 
State. 'Vhen there is no number, street, or special address, 
the name of the village or town follows directly after the 
name of the person, and in cases where the place is little 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


83 


known it is best to put between its name and the name of 
tlie State, the name of the county in which it is situated. 

The following is a properly written note with envelope 
appended : 


My dear Uncle : — 


Hampton, March 9, 1875. 


I arrived here last night and write at once in 
order that you may know of my safety and feel no further anxiety 
about me. 

I have a very pleasant room and am sure I shall be happy here, 
provided I can keep up with my classes, which I certainly mean to 
do, if it can be done by hard work. Of course I am a little home* 
sick at first, and everything seems strange to me, but I expected that, 
so do not feel discouraged. 

I hope you will write to me often, and do not forget to give my 
love to Jennie and Tom. 

It is time for me to go to school, and I am going to begin my 
education by learning to be punctual, so the rest of my news must 
wait until my next letter. Hoping to hear from you soon, I am, 
Your affectionate Niece, 

Sarah Thompson. 


Mr. James Thompson, 

Care of Mr. Charles Lee, 

18 William St. 

Raleigh, 


North Carolina. 


There are so many difierent ways of prefacing your sig- 
nature that it is impossible and, indeed, unnecessary to enu- 


84 ON HABITS AND MANNERS 

merate them here, but whatever form you may use must be- 
gin a little below and to the right of the final line of your 
letter, while below this, and to the right again, comes your 
signature — that is, your name, either written at length or 
with merely the initials of the Christian name or names, 
and the whole surname. 

Your sheet of paper must be neatly folded to fit the 
envelope, and the stamp must always be placed in the upper 
right hand corner where it will not cover any portion of the 
direction. In writing the direction you must • remember 
that post office officials, in distributing letters, always read 
first the name of the State, then the city, then the street, and 
last of all the name of the person, for it is in that way that 
a mail is made up, the letter being first sent to the destined 
State, and then to the local postmaster, who finally gives it 
to the person for whom it is intended. Your direction, 
therefore, should not be so written as to crowd the latter 
part of it ; on the contrary, write the names of the village 
and of the State in a large and clear hand, and the name of 
the person in somewhat smaller characters. 

Very formal notes, notes of invitation, etc., are fre- 
quently written in the third person, as, 

Philadelphia, May loth. 

Mr. Smith regrets to inform Mrs. Allen that he is unable to give 
her the information she desires, but believes that she can obtain it 
from Miss Jay, to whom he encloses a letter of introduction. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 85 

Now a letter of introduction is usually given by a mu- 
tual friend to one of two individuals who are strangers to 
each other (the bearer of the letter presenting it to the per- 
son to whom it is addressed), and would run somewhat as 
follows, varying of course according to the facts of the case ; 

19 Columbia St., Washington, I 
December 6th. ( 

My Dear Mr. Turner: 

I take pleasure in introducing to you Mr. 
Henry Otis, a friend and neighbor of mine who is intending for the 
present to reside in Washington. Any kindness which you may have 
it in your power to show him, will be a personal favor to me, while I 
am sure that you yourself will enjoy his society. 

Hoping to see you soon, I remain, 

Very truly yours, 

Samuel Warner. 

Notes of invitation in the third person admit of little 
variation, the usual form being : 

Mrs. Jones requests the pleasure of Mr. Knox’s company, on 
Wednesday evening, June 2d, at 8 o’clock. 

Regrets and acceptances are framed in the same way* 
Business men use certain forms of correspondence which 
presuppose familiarity with, and are only used in business 
circles, but every young man, at least, ought to be able to 
write a fair business note according to established form, and 
although one example does not by any means cover the 
ground, it will enable you to understand the usual form : 


86 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


New York, May 4, 1875. 

Messrs. Brown, Jones & Co., Chicago. 

Gentlemen : 

Yours of the 30th ult. received and contents duly 
noted. In reply to your enquiries in regard to sales of cotton we 
would say that there is little demand for high grades at present, the 
market being dull and season late. 

We shall do nothing without further orders from you. 

Your obedient servants, 

John Smith & Son. 

Letters to strangers should not be written familiarly, 
although the ordinary formula is retained at the beginning. 
‘^Dear Sir/’ or ‘‘Dear Madam/^ “Dear Mr., Mrs., or Miss,” 
are always correct, while you may sign yourself, “Respect- 
fully,’' or “Very respectfully yours,” “Truly,” or “Very 
truly yours,” “Faithfully yours,” “Sincerely yours,” or by 
a variety of forms. 

In using postal cards you should remember that you are 
at the mercy of the public, so to speak, and should therefore 
write nothing that you are unwilling all the world should 
read. Telegrams should be as concise as possible, the ordi- 
nary forms of address and signature being omitted, and 
merely the name and telegraphic address given. It is good 
practice to occasionally write telegrams upon imaginary bus- 
iness, in order to learn how much information may be given 
and received within the compass of ten words. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 87 

It is, both in society and in business, your duty to an- 
swer letters fully and promptly, reading them carefully and 
making full acknowledgment of their contents. 

In writing, as in talking to friends, you can of course 
allow yourself much more liberty, but at the same time 
must always obey the rules which have been given in respect 
to dates, addresses, etc., and must be careful to keep your 
lines straight, your paper clean, and your whole letter, from 
the date at the beginning to the stamp on the envelope, neat 
and accurate. 

You will find, moreover, as you begin to attempt letter 
writing, that you can never learn to write correctly or com- 
pose easily, except by constant practice, and whether or no 
you get such practice will depend mainly upon your own 
conscientiousness and energy. Paper, pens and ink, are 
within the reach of almost all of you, and if you will make 
a point of using them carefully and frequently you will find 
that the bugbears of letter writing will soon disappear, and 
that which to many of you is now a task, will not only 
become a pleasure to yourselves but will enable you to give 
pleasure to others. 


88 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


CHAPTER XIV. 

MINOR MORALS. 

The Christian law is, as I have said before, so closely 
interwoven with the whole fabric of modern civilization that 
many ot our daily habits, and much of our social life, may 
be said to come properly under the head of minor morals* 
That is, there are many forms which people of refinement 
observe in their intercourse with each other, which are not 
only matters of etiquette, but also come under the jurisdic- 
tion of the moral law, and are of more importance, both to 
individuals and to society, than any mere ceremonies can be. 
It is, of course, often very diflS.cult to decide just when and 
how our habits or our manners cease to be ^‘right” and 
‘‘wrong,/’ and begin to be merely “proper’^ and “improper,’^ 
and I think it is quite certain that we have all of us much 
to learn in respect to that morality which is the foundation 
of society. Therefore I hope that you will be glad to study 
a little for yourselves, and to gain a clearer comprehension 
of the value of truth and honor and honesty and purity in 
the details of life, even when those details are, as is often the 
case, of the homeliest and roughest description. However 
unimportant an action ma}^ seem to you, however small the 
thing to be done may be, it is always better to be right than 
wrong about it, and I want to speak to you now of a few, at 
least, of these daily habits of yours, in which you are espe- 
cially likely to fall into error. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 89 

1 have already spoken of the rudeness of mimicking, 
ridiculing, or in any way ‘^making fun’’ of people in an un- 
kind spirit, and I want you to understand that it is not only 
rude but also really wrong, as are all words and actions 
whereby you unnecessarily wound the feelings of others. 
Try at all times and in every way to be considerate, remem- 
bering that deep injury and grief may be inflicted by what 
you may only think ‘‘a little thoughtlessness and to show 
you how far such thoughtlessness may go, and how serious 
its results may be, I want you to ask yourselves a few ques- 
tions about your consideration for the rights of other people 
in respect to tlieir personal property, which is certainly a 
serious matter. Do you not frequently borrow from your 
friends and schoolmates articles of clothing, books, or even 
money, which you forget to return? Do you not sometimes 
even take such little things,” as you probably consider 
them, without asking leave of their owner, and although at 
the time you undoubtedly mean to return them, do you not 
sometimes And that you are unable to do so, and thus actu- 
ally end by committing a dishonesty ? This carelessness in 
regard to other people’s property is, I fear, not an uncommon 
fault among you, and it is only too true that, while you 
would perhaps never do deliberately dishonest things, you 
are, nevertheless, sometimes led into violations of the eighth 
commandment through simple thoughtlessness, or want of 
consideration for the distinction of mine and thine. 


90 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


Now, I think that you must see for yourselves that if 
you do not overcome this fault in early life, it will inevita- 
bly grow upon you as you grow older, and cannot be other- 
wise than harmful in its effects upon your moral nature, so 
that your duty is to put strict guard upon yourselves in this 
respect at once and constantly. Do not take anything which 
belongs to another person, without first asking that person’s 
leave, and not even then unless you are sure of your ability 
to return it or its equivalent. Do not get into the habit of 
borrowing, even from members of your own family, for such 
a habit tends very surely to encourage thriftlessness and im- 
prudence, and you will find that in the end you are very 
seldom the better for borrowed things, however tempting 
they may be at the moment. If you make strict honesty 
the habit of your life you will soon discover the result to be 
an independence and self-respect which is of infinite value to 
the man or woman who has rightfully earned it. 

In the preceding chapters, upon your behavior in gene- 
ral society, I omitted to speak to you in regard to certain 
matters of politeness, because they are also, and, I think, 
primarily, matters of morality, and one of these omitted sub- 
jects is the reading of other people’s letters or papers. You 
know, of course, that few things are meaner or more dishon- 
orable than to open any letter, paper, or package, which is 
addressed to anybody else ; but I am not sure whether you 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 9I 

understand that this extends even to conamunications which 
have already been opened by the person for whom they are 
intended. That is, that the fact of letters, etc., being un- 
sealed and open, does not by any means give you the right 
to read them. Not only must you not take letters from the 
trunks, desks, or boxes of their owners, in order to read 
them, but when you find letters lying open upon a table, for 
example, or the floor, you must scrupulously avoid satisfy- 
ing your curiosity as to their contents. If you want to find 
the owner of a letter thus found, you can generally do so by 
looking at the address or possibly the signature, but beyond 
that you must never permit yourself to go. This rule ap- 
plies also to unfinished letters which your companions may 
have left within your reach ; you must on no account read 
them, and furthermore, you must never look over the shoul- 
der of a person who is writing or reading a letter — this latter 
being, to say the least of it, an unpardonable rudeness. 

Another most contemptible habit is that of prying about 
among things of whatever kind which belong to other peo- 
ple. To open drawers, trunks, boxes, etc., to search in pock- 
ets, private books, or similar receptacles ; in short, to take 
any sly or unfair means to possess yourself of information 
to which you have no right, is so evidently wrong that I am 
sure it is only necessary to call your attention to it, for you 
can see, without any explanation from me, how ignoble such 
conduct is. 


92 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


Again, if by any chance you become the possessor of in- 
formation which was not intended for you, your only proper 
course is to keep scrupulously silent about it ; and in this 
connection I want to say something to you about the too 
common practice of reckless gossiping about other people’s 
aifairs. I have told you before that it is always best to be 
careful as to what you say, or listen to, about your neighbors, 
and again I must remind you that scandal (which usually 
means repeating unpleasant and harmful stories which may 
or may not be true, about your acquaintances) is always to 
be avoided, because it is almost inevitably injurious both to 
the subjects of it and to those who talk it. 

Try to think and speak well of your neighbors when- 
ever it is possible, dwelling always rather upon their virtues 
than their faults, for ^^charity covereth a multitude of sins,” 
and charity means to love one’s neighbor as one’s self. Do 
not gossip or talk carelessly or much about other people’s 
affairs, there are other subjects better worth talking and 
thinking of, and except in cases where you. are able to give 
advice or assistance it is best for you to remember that usu- 
ally it is wise and kind to mind one’s own business. You 
will understand that, used in this sense, ‘‘minding your own 
business” does not imply that you are to be selfishly wrapped 
up in your own affairs, but simply that you are to permit to 
others the same freedom from interference which you desire 
for yourself. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


93 


Do not help to circulate stories of the entire truth of 
which you are not certain, a thing which is so frequently 
done, merely for the sake of excitement, that it and its com- 
panion fault of exaggeration are fixed habits with many 
people. Try not only to be sure of the truth of any reports 
which you may desire to repeat, but try also to train your- 
self to exactitude of speech. Weigh your words ; be sure 
that you know just what they mean before you use them, 
and then don’t let them be too big or too frequent. State 
your facts with as much accuracy as you can command, and 
in order to do this train yourself to observe carefully and to 
listen attentively, for it is only by doing this that you can 
protect yourself from constant errors in your descriptions 
and statements. 

If you permit yourself to fall into a habit of using big 
words simply because you fancy they have a fine sound, you 
will find them snares and pitfalls, for they will tempt you 
into exaggerations, into saying more than you mean, and 
very often into actual mis-statements or falsehoods. As a 
matter of elegance, too, you should avoid grandiloquence of 
speech, for nothing is more likely to make you ridiculous in 
the eyes of sensible, well-bred people, than an attempt to 
unduly magnify your subject or yourself by the use of unne- 
cessary or exaggerated forms of expression. This, and more 
also, applies to all words or expressions which are in the 


94 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


least irreverent or profane, of which, I think, I may safely 
tell you that they are never used by Christians or even by 
persons who claim nothing more than mere external refine- 
ment. If you desire to gain the respect of either of these 
two classes of people, you must give up absolutely the use of 
all profanity, irreverence and vulgarity in your language, 
and I would also once more advise you to guard yourself 
against the too frequent use of exclamations of any kind, for 
this latter is very commonly only a form of irreverence. 

This whole matter of guarding your speech is an im- 
portant one, for with the tongue you can commit much fol- 
ly, injury and sin, and you must remember that words 
which are, in one point of view, only ‘^the breath of your 
mouths,’^ are, in another, fixed and unalterable facts, potent 
for good and evil. Of scandal, of profanity, of coarseness, of 
unkindness, words are the chief vehicle, the tongue the great 
agent, while of a greater sin than any of these, the burden 
lies principally upon that little member” which is too of- 
ten ‘‘a world of iniquity.’ ' 

I mean the sin of falsehood, a sin which I fear many of 
you do not sufiiciently dread and fight against, but which 
is too fatal in its consequences to be for a moment trified 
with. Do you ever stop to think soberly of the effect upon 
a person of deliberate or even thoughtless untruthfulness? 
Do you realize that if you allow yourself to become habitu- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


95 


ally false in your speech, even in matters of little import- 
ance, that you are undermining your whole moral nature and 
forfeiting the confidence of your fellows, thereby fatally in- 
juring yourself? I cannot and need not speak here of the 
innumerable varieties of falsehood, nor of the far-spreading 
evil which a single lie may work, — you must know from 
your own experience that the harm which a liar can do to 
others is incalculable, — the thing that, perhaps, you do not 
understand is the harm which a liar does to himself, and the 
danger of the first steps in the path of deceit. 

As a general thing, of course, lies are told for some 
purpose, to conceal a previous lie, to obtain some advantage, 
or for some similar end, and in each case are only the begin- 
ning of a long course of deceit, for one of the terrible fea- 
tures of falsehood is that one untruth necessitates another, 
the alternative of confession being so painful that tew people 
have the courage to meet it. Such deliberate falsehood is 
an alarming symptom of moral disease, and the mental state 
which produces it should no more be permitted to continue 
than a fever is allowed to run its course untended, and if 
you will resist steadfastly the first temptations, you will find 
each victory easier than the last, for your moral strength, 
like your physical strength, increases by use. 

Consider well the fact that everything is against the 
liar; he gains nothing, or at best but a temporary advan- 
tage; he loses the confidence of his associates, and with it 


g6 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

his best chance of worldly success ; he loses his own self- 
respect, and with it all the best of his power ; and he loses 
altogether and entirely liis claim to be a servant of God, the 
noblest name for which any man can strive. Like all other 
virtues, truthfulness can be gained only by work and watch- 
fulness ; you must never let yourselves grow careless, or per- 
mit yourselves to believe that white lies,’’ or prevarica- 
tions, or even inaccuracies, do no harm, for they are all false 
lights which sooner or later lead away from the pure light 
of truth. You can win few things for yourselves which are 
better worth having than a habit of speaking the truth at 
all times and seasons and to all people, and if there is one 
thing more than another which you ought to gain before 
you go out into the world to meet its temptations, it is a 
horror of lying and liars. And here, as in so many other 
respects, you can help yourselves more than anybody else 
can help you ; you can remember how shocking falsehood is 
in itself and in its consequences, and, with God’s help, can 
determine to cast in your lot with His servants, in whose 
tongue there is no guile for without such resolution the 
lives upon which you are just entering will be worth little 
to yourselves or your fellow men. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


97 


CHAPTER XV. 


MINOR MORALS — (Continued.) 

Among the innumerable forms of deceitfulne&s there is 
one, VIZ. : the withholding of the truth, of which I want to 
speak to you as students, and which I want you to consider, 
as it aflfects you in your relation to each other, to your teach- 
ers, and to your school. I am sure that there are few of you 
who do not grow to have a real and hearty affection for the 
school to whose influences you owe so much, and who do not 
feel that in after life you will look back to your school as to 
a home, with interest, with gratitude, and, if all goes well, 
with honest pride. And yet I fear that you do not often 
remember how much the character and success of your school 
depend upon individual scholars, how much you can help 
your teachers, how much you can do for your fellow stu- 
dents, how much, in short, the whole tone of the school will 
depend upon you. Xo school can be very powerful for good 
unless a majority of its students co-operate with the teach- 
ers, and make the honor of their school a real thing, so real 
that it is a live influence among them, and this can only be 
done by the best and most intelligent scholars uniting to 
put down and expel the vices which are constantly creeping 
in among their younger and weaker schoolmates. You will 
understand better than I can tell you how much there is 


98 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


which is wrong and foolish going on among you, which 
your teachers, however deeply it may grieve them, can hard- 
ly reach without your assistance, and that, therefore, your 
personal responsibility is very great. When you become a 
member of a school you become responsible, not only for your 
indivdual life in it, but for its honor and good name, and 
there is nothing which a student should feel more keenly 
than any disgrace befalling his school, above all, when it is a 
disgrace which, to a greater or less extent, may be chargea- 
ble to his own carelessness or wrong doing. 

Now while there are many ways in which you can show 
your allegiance to your school and your determination to 
make its record honorable and its name respected, there is 
one in particular which often involves some troublesome 
questions and requires much consideration — I mean that 
courageous telling of truths for the good of the school, which 
you know will bring upon you from some of your compan- 
ions the accusation of tale-telling, an accusation which must 
always be very painful to any right-minded boy or girL 

Tale-telling is emphatically mean, but there is a wide 
difierence between glibly complaining of some fellow stu- 
dent’s mistake or misdemeanor, and conscientiously and so- 
berly reporting to the school officers anything which you 
are convinced is, unknown to them, injuring or interfering 
with the work of the school, or poisoning the moral atnios- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


99 


phere. This latter you are bound in honor to do even at the 

cost of great pain to yourself ; it is a duty w^hich you owe to 

% 

the school as an organization of which you are a responsible 
member, and in doing it you need to be sure only of two 
things: first, that your report is accurate; second, that it 
is made, not for the sake of telling tales, but because you 
know that in no other way can the evil be remedied. 

To take or attempt to take the law into your own hands 
on such occasions, is almost always worse than useless, for 
you are not in a position of authority, and usually have nei- 
ther the experience nor the judgment necessary to enable 
you to deal justly and wisely with the offender. Tlie only 
honest and courageous course for a student wlio becomes 
aware of a serious misdemeanor on the part of a fellow stu- 
dent, is to report at once, without exaggeration or reserva- 
tion, to the proper authorities, and to be guided as to his 
own action entirely by their decision. 

By this, and by a conscientious obedience to the laws of 
the school, you can vastly strengthen the hands of your 
teachers, and you can do your share in the honorable and 
lasting work of building up a Christian college for your peo- 
ple, a work of which your own experience must already have 
taught you the inestimable importance. 

Throughout all your school life jou should remember 
that the time which you spend in study is entirely and sina- 


lOO 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


ply a time of preparation. The great work of life opens before 
you when the school doors close behind you, and from that 
day forward you will in all probability have little time or op- 
portunity for merely personal cultivation. You have spent 
months, possibly years, in sharpening your weapons, and 
when the day comes for using them they should be keen and 
true, or your chance in the crowded field will be snaall. Re- 
member, then, that your school hours are precious, that the 
knowledge which you acquire in them is the foundation of 
all that you will get in after life, and that the habits which 
you then form will remain always at the base of your char- 
acter. In your school, under the guiding and protecting 
influence ot your teachers, you have an opportunity to form 
and strengthen both your moral and intellectual nature, and 
you cannot too strongly feel the importance of making the 
best use of your advantages, I believe that most of you un- 
derstand the value of the education which you get from 
books, and that upon that point I need say little to you. 
You know that without such education you can do little or 
nothing ; that with it, the world of art, of science, of busi- 
ness is open to you, and ou are aw are that in order to ob- 
tain it you must pay the price of persistent hard work, but 
in regard to the habits of life which you are forming day by 
day, I fear your convictions are not so clear. 

In respect to these habits, then, I have something to 
say to you before we part, and although it may seem to you 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


lOI 


to be to some extent a reiteration of what has been said be- 
fore, yet I hope to be able to put the facts before you in a 
new and clearer light. 

The habit of courtesy, of consideration for others, the 
habit of truth telling and of feir dealing, the habit of self- 
control, you can form in yourselves (as soon as you are old 
enough to appreciate their importance), no matter how great 
your early disadvantages may have been, provided you can 
place yourselves for a time under favorable conditions, and 
nowhere can you find these conditions so well as in a good 
school. In such a school you are thrown into close contact 
with a large number of young men and women, under such 
regulations that courtesy, consideration and self-control, be- 
come matters of course, while the association with cultivated 
teachers is of very great personal assistance to you. All the 
circumstances are helpful, for you have not only individual 
ambition as a spur, but you have also an ambition to keep 
up the reputation of the school, and a desire that neither 
those who have graduated before you nor those who are to 
come after you, shall have reason to be ashamed of your re- 
cord. 

You have, in short, as I have already told you, what is 
probably the best opportunity you can ever obtain to make 
yourself strong for good and against evil, and in order to use 
your opportunity wisely you ought to consider what are 
your special weaknesses and temptations. 


102 


ON habits and manners. 


Do you ever stop, for example, to think how frequently 
idleness ruins men and women, and whether you yourself 
are doing your best to form a habit of industry? Are you 
conscientious about your work, filling every hour set apart 
for labor with useful employment, or do you shirk and evade, 
doing only what you are obliged to do and doing that not 

very energetically or persistently ? Do you realize that the 

% 

command ^‘Whatsoever thine hand findeth to do, doit with 
thy might,’’ is applicable to all your undertakings, because 
slip shod, unregulated work is never good or successful, and 
you can never do little things well unless you are in earnest 
about them. 

If you have thought much about this matter of indus- 
try you must already have learned that it is not only all- 
essential as regards your worldly success, but that it has also 
a most important and certain infl.uence upon your character. 
If you permit yourself to become careless about your work, 
to fall into irregular, unpunctual habits, you will find that 
it affects your whole life and injures you seriously in many 
ways, gradually unfitting you for any kind of persistent la- 
bor, and making you finally useless, shiftless, and utterly 
unsuccessful. Begin, then, in school, where everything is 
in your favor, to make yourself conscientiously industrious, 
and do it as a matter ot principle, for as the years go on you 
w’ill find that there is spiritual as well as material truth in 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


103 


the proverb, ‘‘The soul of the sluggard desireth and hath 
nothing, but the substance of a diligent man is precious.’’ 

Hand in hand with the vice of idleness goes frequently 
another almost equally dangerous vice, that of waste; and 
the temptations to it among young people are usually very 
great. You have not yet learned by experience the danger 
of wasteful aud the value of economical habits, and, as a 
general thing, youth has more temptations to spend than 
incentives to save. Usually you have no one dependent 
upon you ; you are strong and hopeful and not afraid of the 
“ rainy days” against which older people are constantly ad- 
vising you to provide. You scarcely see why you should 
trouble yourself now to form a habit of economy, and it 
seems very hard and unreasonable that you should be told 
to deny yourself pleasures now^ in order to prepare for a very 
uncertain future. But if you are wise, you will learn as wise 
men since the foundation of the world have learned, ‘^from 
the ant, which provideth her meat in the summer and gath- 
ereth her food in the harvest,” and will understand that 
your material prosperity will largely depend upon your 
thrift. Furthermore, waste is in itself sinful ; we have no 
right to squander and misuse anything, but should honestly 
economize and make the best use of everything which passes 
through our hands, whether it be our own or another’s. 

The food which we waste, which might feed the hungry. 


104 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


clothing which we neglect and abuse, which might cover the 
naked, tools or material of any kind which we wear out and 
destroy by rough handling or carelessness, money which we 
spend thoughtlessly — for all these we are accountable, and 
neither here nor hereafter can we escape from our responsi- 
bility. 

Diligence and thrift are at the foundation of worldly 
prosperity and are also most emphatically Christian virtues, 
and neglect of them in your youth will cost you in Jater life 
a heavy price, while I am inclined to press upon you their im- 
portance, because as a people you have had in the past little 
opportunity to practice them, and are therefore specially 
likely to undervalue them. 

A virtuous life is a many-sided life ; if you mean to be- 
good men and women it will not suffice for you to cultivate 
merely those virtues which are easy and pleasant to you, so 
growing in one direction only, but your endeavor must be to 
develop evenly and healthfully upon all sides; and now, in 
these years whicli are set apart as a time of preparation for 
the work and care and responsibility which will surely be the 
lot of every one of you, you should constantly and earnestly 
remember how precious is every hour. All that you learn 
now is just so much working capital for the rest of your 
lives, and if properly used you will find that it will never 
fail to bring you a heavy interest upon all the time and 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


lOS 

strength its accumulation may have cost you. All the 
knowledge you get from books, all the experience you gain 
of different forms of labor, all the good habits you form, may 
be considered as permanent investments, which, by a little 
determination on your part, may be made continuously and 
increasingly profitable, and the honorable ambition to elevate 
yourselves and your people, which, I believe, most of you 
feel, ought to help you greatly in overcoming the obstacles 
which God in his omniscience has seen fit to put in your path. 

You know better than I can tell you what those obsta- 
cles are, and I believe you are rapidly learning what I have 
again and again told you in these pages, that they can only 
be surmounted or removed by patient, hard, intelligent work. 
For such work you have now the opportunity ; in it you 
have the warm sympathy and wise assistance of teachers and 
friends, to it you liave every stimulus that human life can 
offer. 

More than all this, and I believe that there are many of 
you wdio have a deep and honest sense of the truth of what I 
am going to say, you have the humble faith that you are the 
children of an all-wise Father whose will it is honor and 
gladness to fulfil, in whose justice you can most absolutely 
trust. If you can put love for Him at the foundation of your 
lives, all the details of which I have tried to teach you, 
something, will seem neither trivial nor impossible, you will 
know the meaning of that beautiful old verse, — 


io6 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


“A servant, with this clause, 

Makes drudgery divine ; 

Who sweeps a room as for Thy laws, 

Makes that and the action fine.” 

And you can so order your ways that wherever you may be, 
or whatever may be your work, you can feel and show that 
you are about your Father's business. 

It is to this end that all decency, all courtesy, all honor, 
all study tend, and this is the conclusion of the whole mat- 
ter : ‘^Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the 
whole duty of man/’ 


CHAPTER XVI. 

HOUSE AND HOME. 

The corner stone of all civilization is the Family ; the 
existence of families includes the existence of homes, and a 
home pre-supposes a house, so that we are swiftly and easily 
led to comprehend the importance to the human race, or at 
least to all civilized members of it, of the houses which shel- 
ter them, and which, furthermore, supply so lar^e a share of 
the comforts, the charms, the sweet and powerful influences 
of Home. 

The effect of well built, convenient, attractive houses, 
is hardly to be overrated ; tliey are so supremely civilizing 




ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


107 


\ 


I that men and women can hardly fail to be made, in one way 
>: or another, the better for living in them ; they seem to offer 
a premium upon neatness and taste, and are a constant stim- 
ulant to the desire for comfort and beauty, which is common 
to all people above the level of barbarians. No young man 
at the outset of his life can have a safer or wiser ambition 
than that which he gains from his desire to become a house- 
holder ; no young woman can go far wrong who believes that 
to become a housekeeper, in the true meaning of the term, is 
a good and beautiful thing, and neither of these positions 
are, as a general thing, to be lightly won or easily kept. A 
^ man who has only his own labor to depend upon must make 
up his mind to much hard work and some self sacrifice be- 
fore he attains to the undivided ownership of a suitable and 
comfortable house ; and a woman, who in her childhood and 
youth has known little or nothing of the details of properly 
organized housew^ork, needs to lay up a stock of courage and 
perseverance w^hen she promises herself to become a true 
housekeeper. 

But both man and woman find themselves amply repaid 
for all their labor and sacrifice when, the goal being won, 
the house and home are theirs, and they can rest, as did the 
wdse men of old, under the safe and beautiful shelter of their 
own vine and figtree. 

Now, taking for granted the desire and resolution to 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


io8 

make homes for yourselves which, I believ^e, exist among 
most of you to whom these chapters are addressed, there 
follow at once the practical questions: first, What is the 
safest and quickest way of becoming the owner of a house, 
open to a man who works for his daily bread?’’ and second, 
^‘What is the best and most convenient plan for building a 
suitable house on limited means?” 

The answer to the first question will vary to a certain 
extent with circumstances, but in the main will remain the 
same, and, to show that the principle upon which it is based 
has already been successtully demonstrated, I quote from an 
editorial in the Southern Workman for October, 1875, which 
describes an undertaking similar to many which have been 
initiated, and in a majority of cases successfully carried 
through, in the South, from that date to the present. 

Commencing in April, 1871, a gentleman, resident in 
the South, built and sold to negroes forty-nine houses, be- 
sides selling to them sixteen vacant lots. Only three of the 
houses were paid for in cash. Twenty-four of the remaining 
houses have been paid for in full, chiefly in monthly instal- 
ments. The other twenty^-two were sold for $10,755, of 
which $5,650 has been paid. Xo case has yet occurred, or is 
likely to occur, in which it has been or will be necessary to 
turn out a purchaser for default. First payments of from 
one-tenth to one-fifth have always been insisted on, partly 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS IO9 

as a means of sorting out the better class, and partly because 
having paid their fifty or one hundred dollars, they would 
make great eflforts rather than lose it.” 

The cost of these houses, built as above described, was^ 
as the figures show, about five hundred dollars apiece, and 
every one of the forty-nine purchasers has found it in his 
power to pay from fifty to one hundred dollars (or more) 
down at once, and to continue monthly payments of fion:^ 
five to ten dollars. 

The security of the gentleman who thus offers his expe- 
rience, lay in the fact that lie withheld the deed of house and 
lot until the whole price was paid, giving the purchaser a 
contract to give him the deed when the last payment should 
be made, and he made his profit, which was very small, by 
buying a large tract of land and building by wholesale. The 
interest was included in the instalments, and this served 
often to hasten payments, the whole arrangement being, in 
short, exactly similar in its results to a mortgage. 

A man buying a single lot and building a single house^ 
could hardly, of course, do it on such advantageous terms as 
the above ; but the diflcerence would not be very great, and 
in a neighborhood w^here a number of steady, industrious 
men were willing to unite, land could be bought and houses 
put up at the cheapest possible rates, the necessary money 
being borrowed from a bank or an individual upon mort- 


r 10 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


gages on each house and lot. In this case the mortgage 
and interest thereon would be paid oft by instalments exact- 
ly as the monthly payments were made to the gentleman 
from whom I have quoted, and the results in each case would 
be the same. 

The fact that forty-nine men have been found in any 
one locality who could in this manner purchase houses for 
themselves (and I ask you again to notice that there has not 
been a single defaulter) establishes a fair precedent, as the 
circumstances in this instance were not specially favorable, 
and the*successful purchasers were simply working men of 
ordinary honesty and perseverance. Any sober, industrious 
man, with a thrifty wife who is willing to do her share of 
the work, can, if he is getting average w^ages, pay in less 
than three years for a house and lot which will provide for 
him and his family a comfortable home for a lifetime, and 
he can do it with very little more exertion than would be 
required to pay the rent of an inferior house for the same 
length of time. 

The advantages of owning a house in distinction to hir- 
ing one, are so great as to need only the briefest mention, 
and most of you must already have learned that, for many 
reasons, hired houses make very uncertain and unsatisfactory 
homes. There is no better investment for a certain propor- 
tion of a man’s capital than a house and lot, and tlie earlier 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


Ill 


in life he makes the investment, the more profitable it will 
be, not only as a direct saving of money, but also and prin- 
cipally in a higher sense. In the first place, he saves for 
himself the profit which, in i)aying rent, he puts in another 
man's pocket ; he avoids the uncertainty which must always 
accompany the occupation of another man’s house, and the 
expense, discomfort and loss caused by frequent removals 
from one place to another, and he secures all the pecuniary 
advantage which must accrue to any working man who be- 
comes known as a steady, industrious and permanent resident 
of any one locality. 

But perhaps his greatest gain is that which comes sec- 
ondarily, in the moral stimulus which he and his family 
receive from living in a house which is their own property, 
wherein no one has a right but themselves, which they can 
improve andbeautify until it becomes to them, as their home, 
the pleasantest and most attractive spot on earth. When a 
man and woman actually own the house which is their home, 
they find themselves, as a rule, quickly filled with an hon- 
orable ambition to make house and garden as neat, comfort- 
able and pretty as possible. They take pride and pleasure 
in working tor the improvement of that which is their 
own, and receive constant gratification from results 
achieved by their own labor and thrift. They have provid- 
ed for themselves a tangible object for honest ambition ; they 


I 12 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


have something to work for and be interested in, and have 
thus secured a strong safeguard against the temptations to 
idleness, unsteadiness and extravagance, which so constantly 
beset humanity and are so frequent a cause of ruin. 

Powerful as all these influences are upon parents, they 
are, if possible, still more powerful in their effects upon chil- 
dren, to whom the importance of a home, with all its strong 
and sweet associations, its various and lasting ties, is incal- 
culable. There is almost necessarily a certain training, a 
certain formation of thought and habit received from living 
in a permanent, orderly and peaceful home, which nothing 
else supplies, and this in itself should be a sufficient reason 
for parents to do their utmost to become possessors of that 
which is the first essential of a home, namely, a comfortable, 
suitable house. That this is the foundation of family life is 
indisputable, and no one who looks at the matter fairly can 
fail to be convinced that the wisest thing a working man 
with a family can do, is to secure, as early in life as possible, 
a house, which will not only be his home as long as he lives, 
but will also form a provision for his wife and children in 
case of his death. 

The answer to the first question, ^‘As to how a working 
man can best and most quickly become the owner of a house, 
seems to be very simple, and if we can trust the experience 
of others, is very satisfactory, i. e. if he has not accumulated 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. II3 

sufficient money of his own for the purpose, he must buy and 
build, either alone or in company with others, with money 
borrowed at a fair rate of interest, giving as security a mort- 
gage upon his house, and paying off such mortgage as ra[)idly 
as possible. In no way can a man incur smaller risk, and 
all that is required of him, as essential to success, is average 
industry and econom}^, so that no able-bodied man who is 
blessed with a helpful wife, need fear to undertake the pur- 
chase, in this manner, of a liomestead, which, under ordinary 
conditions, is certain to pay him heavy interest upon the 
money invested. 

When a man finds himself the possessor of a piece of 
land, with money sufficient to put up a small house, i. e. 
about four hundred dollars, our second question at once 
presents itself: ^‘How can such a house be built to properly 
accommodate a family of six or seven members?’’ Now, of 
course, in answering this question there are many things to 
be taken into consideration and more ways than one of 
reaching the desired result. In the first place, climate must 
be consulted, and as the majority of our readers live where 
warm weather is to be provided for rather than cold, the 
suggestions which we have to offer will be especially for their 
benefit. Location, also, must affect the decision, as, of 
course, houses in the country and in the city require in 
many respects different arrangement ; while the size of the 


114 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


family, their prospects for the future, and last, but not least, 
individual taste, must each and all have their weight in 
influencing the plans of the architect. 


CHAPTER XVII. — House and Home— (Continued.) 

BUILDING. 

It will easily be understood that, where tlie conditions 
are so various, it is impossible to lay down unvarying rules 
for the building of a house, and I do not hesitate to confess 
that the most I can do for my readers is to otier a tew gen- 
eral principles, and some personal suggestions, assuring 
them at the outset that it is upon their own intelligence 
and experience that they must principally depend. There 
are a few points, however, wliicli are unalterable, that is, 
there are a few principles which apply to house-building all 
the wmrld over, and it is of these that I would first speak, 
and can confidently say that tlie}^ will fully repay the care- 
ful consideration of any one of you who may be about to 
build a house. To begin with, however small a house may 
be, the work on it should he well and thoroughl}" done ; 
you should select good, well-seasoned mateiial, get trust- 
worthy wmrkmen, deprive yourself, if necessary, of all orna- 
mentation, but permit no shams, no imitations, and be sure 
that from top to bottom your house is honestly built. The 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I 15 

very greatest fault in the ordinary architecture of the day is 
its flirnsiness and want of honesty, and for this no amount of 
stucco, or cheap carving, or sham ornament of any kind, can 
atone. If you are limited as to the amount of money which 
you can put into the house, (which I am taking for granted 
to be the case), then your first care must be to see that you 
get something real, and permanently valuable, in return for 
your money. Be sure that your tbundations are sound, 
your walls substantial, your roof tight, your windows and 
doors well-fitting, and that you begin with one thorough 
coat of paint, outside and in ; after which, if you liave any 
money left, you can afford to take a little time to consider 
what is the best use for it. 

The point to be next considered, as affecting both com- 
fort and utility, is the internal division and arrangement of 
the house, and this demands some thought, for the arrange- 
ment of the rooms of a house affords a very delicate and 
valuable test of the amount of civilization and refinement 
possessed by its inhabitants. In the dwellings of the very 
poor and ignorant we find human beings, of all ages and 
both sexes, crowded together in one room, forming a hot-bed 
from which springs a frightful crop of indecency, immor- 
ality and vice, and to no lower depth than this can human 
beings sink, for it pre-supposes the absence of even the 
instincts of modesty and decency. Now the first step on 


Il6 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

the upward road is the separation of the sexes, then the pre- 
vention of overcrowding, finally the separation of individ- 
uals, and the setting apart of certain rooms for special pur- 
poses, as kitchen, dining, sitting, sleeping rooms, etc. ; and 
this is what we reach in the home, and it is the approxima- 
tion to this which should be attempted even in the smallest 
house which is inhabited by men and women claiming to 
be civilized. “ Can this be done,” you ask, “ upon small 
means, and in cases where the mistress has the work of the 
family to do single handed ?” I believe it can, and further- 
more, I believe that you will find the attempt to do it in 
itself civilizing and enlightening. You may think it a 
trivial matter, but I assure you that the mere fact that you 
determine not to eat your meals in the kitchen where they 
are cooked, but in another room which can easily be kept 
free from the disorder, heat, and smell attendant upon 
cookery, wherein you can sit down to a clean and properly 
arranged table, will make better men and women of you, 
will give you an impetus in the right direction, and assist 
you materially in your efforts to rise to a higher plane of 
thought and life. 

Therefore, in building your house, it is well worth your 
while to try for such an arrangement of it as shall give you 
two or three separate rooms on each of the two floors. If 
your means do not permit you to cover a space sufficiently 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. II7 

large to be divided into three rooms, you must be content 
with two rooms on each floor in the body of the house, and 
a small out-building for a kitchen, which would give you a 
dining and sitting room down-stairs and two bedrooms 
above. For a six roomed house the best division is a 
kitchen, dining and sitting room down-stairs and three 
bedrooms above ; tor an eight-roomed house, kitchen, 
dining, sitting room and parlor, or one bedroom down- 
stairs and four bedrooms above, but this last is of sufficient 
size to accommodate a more than visually large ffimily, and 
is commonly beyond the means or the needs of a working- 
man. In any of these houses a small entrance hall opening 
from the front door is desirable, a back door is indispen- 
sable, while a piazza, or porch, and garret, each adds greatly 
to the general convenience and comfort. The minor details 
must of course depend cliiefly upon the wants and taste of 
the family: but the points which I insist upon as of unva- 
rying importance, are, 1st, that the house should be 
properly divided ; 2d, that the rooms should be set apart 
for special uses ; 3d, that great efforts should be made to 
prevent over-crowding, especially in the sleeping rooms. 
This last is a matter of both delicacy and hygiene, and it 
may be considered certain that a room of ordinary size 
should never be inhabited by more than three people, while 
in most cases it is desirable that the number should be 


ii8 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


limited to two, it being understood that ventilation should 
always be most carefully attended to. I dwell strongly 
upon the points just mentioned, because, as I have said 
before, I believe that a properly arranged and well ordered 
house is an important educational agent, that it has real 
and great power to civilize and elevate, and that finally its 
refining influences depend more than is commonly supposed 
upon these particulars of internal arrangement. 

In regard to externals, the first consideration should be 
the drainage; nothing so nearly affects the health of the 
inhabitants of a house as the local drainage and the quality 
and quantity of the water supply. In city houses these 
matters are usually under the control of the officials, the 
individual having no direct power or responsibility, but in 
most country neighborhoods each man has to attend per- 
sonally to the details of drainage, etc., and consequently it 
is every man’s duty to inform himself as to the best means 
of obtaining eflieient l)Cal drainage and a pure water supply. 
Where tliere is any general system of drainage for a town 
or village, all that is necessary is to properly connect each 
newly built house with the main drain, and this can be 
done by means of a single small pit)e, into which the whole 
house-drainage, from water-closets, sinks, etc., must paSvS, 
and which must be fitted with traps and properly jointed. 
The latest experiments prove that brick sewers are almost 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I I9 

always failures, both on account of the material and the 
size; for a sewer should never be of more than sufficient 
capacity, because, as we already know, a current of water 
spread over a large surface flows with much less force than 
when it is confined within a smaller space, and the effect of 
this in a sewer, is to permit the deposit of all heavy 
substances which may have entered the drain and which lie 
there choking the passage, when in a sewer of smaller 
capacity they would quickly be carried down by the force of 
the flow. A smooth two~inch pipe of some hard, vitreous 
material, which cannot absorb sewer filth, will carry oflt all 
the drainage from an ordinary house, is the best possible 
sewer, and is comparatively inexpensive. Where there is no 
public system and the drainage is purely local, it is best to 
raise the foundation of the hou=^e a little above the general 
level of the ground, by filling in, so that there may be a 
natural drainage of all moisture away from the house, while 
all the house slops should be disposed of in ways to be 
presently described. If pigs or cattle of any kind be kept, 
their pens and yards should be as far as possible from the 
house,. and should be kept clean by being frequently emptied 
of the manure and filth, which should always be utilized at 
once upon farm or garden. The water-closet should be, if 
possible, an earth closet, as earth is the most effectual and 
cheapest disinfectant and deodorizer at present known to 


1:20 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


science. A cheap and cleanly out-of-door earth closet can 
he made by simply digging a vault in the ground and keep- 
ing in the building above it (which is merely an ordinary 
privy) a box of thoroughly dry earth and a scoop. Each 
person after using the closet should be required to empty 
into it a couple of scoopfuls of the diy earth, and as often as 
once a month, the contents of the vault should be removed, 
and used at once as manure, for they are almost completely 
deodorized, and therefore inoffensive, which makes the 
frequent cleaning a comparatively easy matter. Chamber 
slops can of course be emptied into the same receptacle, but 
it is much better to dispose of them in some other way, as 
they largely neutralize the effect of the earth. They can be 
emptied into pig-sty or cow-yard, wheie they do their part 
in making fertilizing material (but this should never be 
done except when the yard or sty is cleaned regularly and 
frequently), or they can be thrown upon the ground at a safe 
distance from the house (this, again, should never be done 
wdien a house stands in close neighborhood to other houses), 
or, and this, probably, is the best way, they can be emptied 
into a hole dug in the ground as tar from the house as 
possible, and boarded ovei’, the cover being lifted only wdien 
the slops are emptied. By emptying occasionally a little 
dry earth into the hole, and once or twice a year filling it 
up entiiely and digging a fresli hole, the slops of a large 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


I2J 

house may be disposed of with ease and safety. Kitchen 
slops and swill should all be carefully kept for pig feed, for 
if the family do not keep a pig, some neighbor can always 
he found who will take away swill for the sake of having it^ 
and to waste such material is one of the common forms of 
extravagance which keeps poor people poor forever. 

After the drainage of a house and the cleanliness of a 
yard and outhouses have been carefullj^ firovided for, I 
believe that next in order comes the question of the water 
supply, and while a few of you, as residents of large cities, 
are not obliged to think much about the matter, being sup- 
plied by the city, or by companies, yet I suppose a majority 
of my readers are dependent solely upon wells or springs, 
and can therefore drink pure or impure waters according as 
they themselves are intelligent and energetic or ignorant and 
lazy. It is not, 1 confess, always easy for an uneducated 
person to detect the impurity of water, because while pure 
water is always clear and tasteless, water which is clear and 
tasteless is not always pure ; but there are a few simple 
rules which he who runs may read, and which will, in 
most cases, afford effectual protection. For example, it is ev- 
ident to any one that to use water from a river below a point 
where the refuse of a factory or the drainage of a town 
empities into it, must be harmful; that, again, it must be 
equally so to use water from a stagnant pond, or from a 


12^2 


(3N HABITS AND MANNERS 


brook which drains marshy land rich in decomposing 
vegetation, and yet it is hut^too common to find whole 
communities using such water and dying like sheep with 
dysenteries and fevers, merely because they are too thought- 
less or too lazy to make the effort to obtain a pure water 
supply. 

Water should never be taken from a river or brook 
which is contaminated by filth of any kind, and this danger 
can easily be avoided, for there are few localities in which it 
is not possible to obtain a plentiful supply of wholesome 
water from wells or springs. If there is a good, unfailing 
spring wdthin convenient distance of a house, water should 
be drawn from it in preference to any other source, and 
sometimes by means of a few yards of pipe, spring water 
can be brought to the very door of the house^ which, 
although it costs something at the outset, is in the end a 
real economy. But, as in a large majority of cases, wells 
and wells only, form the source of water supply, it is to 
them that your attention must chiefly be directed, and in 
building a house I would advise you to make, if necessary, 
many sacrifices, in order to secure a well of good water. In 
the first place, a well should never be dug in a place where 
there is any danger of its receiving the drainage from house, 
water-closet, barn-yard, pig-sty, or any similar source of 
contamination; it sliould not be in the near neighborhood 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


12J 


of large trees whose roots are likely to grow into the water 
and make it dirty and unwholesome; it should be so cov- 
ered that uot even leaves can fall into it, and should occa- 
sionally, in a dry season, he thoroughly cleaned. There is 
really nothing so safe and certain as an artesian well, which 
consists of an iron pipe sunk perpendicularly into the 
ground until its lower end strikes a supply of pure, sweet 
water; and these wells are coming gradually into use, their 
advantage over the ordinary wells being that they can 
be sunk to any distance necessary to obtain really pure 
water, and that tliey are beyond the possibility of contami- 
nation, either from drainage or any other source. But from 
common wells, wliich are at present, as I have already said, 
by far the most frequent source of supply, the precautions 
already mentioned will u^uially secure water sufficiently 
pure not to affect the health of those who drink it. 

Even in these days of comparative enlightenment in 
regard to the matter of drainage, water, etc., there are many 
people who cling to the ignorance which for the moment is 
so easy, regardless of the fact that in the end it costs them 
the heavy price of health and life. They say that they are 
willing to take their chances as their fathers did, and it 
is difficult to prove to them that they are morally responsi- 
ble for the results of their own wilful ignorance and care- 
lessness. 


124 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


It is true that it is only by close and intelligent atten- 
tion and constant labor that the immediate neighborhood of 
the dwellings of human beings can be kept clean and whole- 
some ; but it is also true, to quote the words of an eminent 
authority, that all filth is absolute poison,” and undoubt- 
edly the terrible punishment of uncleanliness is the weapon 
used by the all-wise Creator to force his ignorant and wilful 
creatures into the cleanliness which involves so much exer- 
tion of mind and body. Surely I need not here reiterate 
how fatal is the effect of all filth and especially of human 
filth ; surely I need not tell you how fever, and cholera, and 
dyse)itery, follow uncleanliness as certainly as night follows 
day, and that therefore it lies with us to choose whether or 
no we take the risk of diseases whose prevention lies com- 
monly in our own hands. I could fill page upon page of 
written warning in respect to defective drainage, impure 
water, filthy water-closets and outhouses, but it would be 
all useless unless your own intelligence and moral sense 
came to the rescue, and induced you to act resolutely and as 
rational human beings. 

Therefore I can only beg those of you who are house- 
holders or who are in any way responsible for the health of 
others, to study well the facts in regard to this compre- 
hensive subject of cleanliness in its relation to house build- 
ing and keeping, and to judge ft)r yourselves w’hether it is 
not well worth while to build and keep a cleanly house. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


^25 

CHAPTER XVIII. — House and Home— (Continued.) 
woman’s work. 

In most cases the buying and building of a house is 
more especially a man’s work, and it is the husband and 
father ot the family who is principally responsible for the 
thought and labor which lay the foundation of the Home. 
It is for him to earn the money, to choose a suitable site, to 
see that the house is well and carefully built, properly 
divided, ventilated, drained, etc. ; but from the moment that 
the family enters the house as a home, the responsibility is 
shifted, and it is the wife and mother who must bear the 
chief burden of the housekeeping and become the ruling 
spirit of the home. The man, as tlie bread-winner, 
finds that his work keeps him during the greater part of 
the day away from his home and family, and consequently, 
the duty of regulating and controlling the household falls 
mainly into the woman’s hands, and any conscientious 
woman will gladly do all in her power to fit herself for the 
due performance of the work which is so plainly set before 
her. It seems as if it could hardly be necessary to press 
upon women of any intelligence, the importance of their 
position as wives and mothers, and yet the evidences of 
carelessness and ignorance which constantly force themselves 
into notice, show but too plainly how much the majority of 


126 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 




women need assistance and instruction in respect to the 
every day work of their lives^ that work which out of small 
things rightly done, builds up so beautiful and grand a 
whole. 

In endeavoring to give in a brief sjiace and a familiar 
way, advice which may practically help and teach the 
women into whose hands these papers may fall, I find that 
the subject of family life divides itself naturally into several 
branches, and in writing of them I shall give precedence to 
the one which is of invariable and permanent importance, 
viz: the care of children. I put tins first, because the first 
fifteen or sixteen years of the life of a man or woman deter- 
mine largely what his or her character is to be, and it 
over these first fifteen or sixteen years that parents, and 
especially mothers, have almost unlimited control. 

The physical care of the child during this period usu- 
ally devolves entirely upon the mother, and it is to the 
ignorance of motliers that a large proportion of the deaths 
among children under five years old is due. Children who 
are born healthy can easily be kept so by obedience to a fe^v 
simple laws, and even delicate children will often become 
healthy adults, if properly cared for during the first years of 
life. A baby from the time of its birth until it is twelve 
montlis old should always, if possible, be nursed by its 
motlier, for in this way only can it obtain food which is 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


127 


natural, and, therefore, entirely safe. In cases where this 
is impossible, cow’s or goat’s milk diluted with lime water 
is the best substitute ; and after a baby is seven or eight 
months old, simple preparations of wheat flour, rice, crack- 
ers, etc., may be used, but always in small quantities and 
with great care. Indeed, until a baby has safely passed its 
flrst year, all but the simplest food should be prohibited, 
but after that age it is well, if the child is healthy, to begin 
with a variety of light food, as potatoes, eggs, broal and 
butter, meat broths, simple preparations of the various 
grains, a little fruit, etc., gradually increasing the variety 
and quantity of the food given, but being always exceed- 
ingly careful to give nothing rich or indigestible, and to 
closely watch the condition of the stomach and bowels. 
During all the years cf growth a child’s ibod should be 
nutritive and easily digested, and, even with very small 
means, a careful and thoughtful mother can provide sucli 
food for her family. Fish, meat, vegetables and fruit, 
plainly cooked, that is, boiled, broiled or roasted, without 
much grease or spice, cold, or better still, stale bread of 
Graham flour, wheat flour or corn meal, eggs, milk, sugar 
or molasses in small quantities, hominy, rice, etc., can each 
and all be safely eaten by children over three years of age : 
and from such food, given always at regular times and in 
proper quantities, nature can be trusted to build up the 


128 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


healthy bodies which are so essential to the happiness of 
human beings. That meals should be given at regular 
intervals, and that nothing should be eaten between them, 
is ot the utmost importance, for the habit of permitting 
children to eat candy, nuts, fruit, etc., indiscriminately, is as 
harmful as it unfortunately is common. Simplicity and 
regularity are essential in feeding children, and the mother 
who, through ignorance or carelessness, disregards these two 
rules, may be sure that her innocent children will, sooner or 
later, suSer for her sin. 

Of scarcely less importance than food is cleanliness, and 
no child can be considered really clean which is not thor- 
oughly washed every day. This practice of daily bathing 
should date from the child’s birth, lukewarm water being 
used for babies, who should, as soon as they are a month or 
so old, be put into a tub or large basin and carefully washed 
from head to foot with a soft sponge, or cloth, and soap ; 
the best time for the bath being in the morning, though if 
more convenient to the mother, ii can be given at night. 
Children who are properly washed in this way will be 
directly benefited as to their general health, and are usually 
almost entirely exempt from certain skin diseases which are 
the result of uncleanliness. Care should always be taken to 
thoroughly dry the skin on all parts of the body after 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


129 


bathing: baths should never be given immediately after 
eating, and for children, should always be of medium temp- 
erature, neither hot nor cold. 

In addition to the daily bath, the cleanliness of children 
should be ensured by frequent changes of underclothing, and 
this is not a difficult thing to do, because the under- 
garments of little children are so easily washed and cheaply- 
made. that almost any mother can provide and keep clean a 
sufficient supply, if necessary. In clothing young children^ 
even in warm climates, thin flannel shirts are almost indis- 
pensable, for they protect the chest, stomach and bowels, 
and prevent much of the danger arising from sudden 
changes of temperature. Beyond this, there is little to be 
said in respect to clothing, except that the garments should 
all be loose and comfortable, and, so far as possible, adapted 
to the changing seasons ; for a little care in putting on and 
taking ofl extra clothing will save children from many of 
the colds, and ailments resulting from colds, from which 
they sufier. The substance of all teaching in regard to the 
physical care of children is simply that if parents can ensure 
to their children wholesome food, comfortable clothing, and 
cleanliness, they need have little fear about their physical 
condition ; for though the food may be very plain, their 
clothing coarse, and the cleanliness not always apparent to 
the eye, yet such is the power of the natural laws that 


130 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

obedience to tliein in the above particulars is sure to 
develop children, born without inherited weakness, into 
strong men and women. Of the other essentials to the 
physical health of children, viz., plenty of fresh air and out- 
of-door exercise, I need hardly speak, for, as a general thing, 
the children in whose interest I am now writing, enjoy to 
the full these two privileges, and are therein greatly, though 
perhaps unconsciously, blessed. 

If the physical development of children is largely 
dependent upon parents, the same is true of their intel- 
lectual and moral growth.; for the first of these, parents 
being indirectly, and for the second directly, responsible. 
The duty of parents in regard to what is commonly called 
the education of their children is usually plain enough, for 
though they are frequently unable to give instruction them- 
selves, they can almost always succeed in securing the 
regular attendance of their children at good schools, and in 
providing for them certain advantages at home. While a 
mother is often too busy to teach her children even so much 
as the alphabet, she can always see that they are properly 
prepared for school, that they are punctual in attendance, 
suitably clad, that their books are kept in order and their 
lessons learned, in short, can make their road to learning an 
open way, and greatly simplify the work of those who 
actually teach them. In the home life, too, the father and 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS I31 

mother can provide many advantages for children, at com- 
paratively small expense, and it is the presence or absence of 
these which make the atmosphere of home healthful and 
elevating, or the reverse. To have a few pictures, prints or 
chromos, well chosen and neatly framed, to take a good 
paper or magazine, to buy a few good books, to take 
children now and then to hear a lecture or to some similar 
entertainment, are all of direct assistance in the mental 
education of the young, and are no great tax upon the 
means or energies of the parents. In most cases, the best 
thing which you can do for your children is to give them 
the opportunity and excite in them tjie desire to obtain a 
thorough education, and thus to make up to them, so far as 
possible, for the disadvantage which your own lack of educa- 
tion must be to them. 

As you probably know only too well, the time for 
receiving the education which books give is in most cases 
past for yourselves, and feeling, as you must, what the lack 
of it is constantly costing you, you should be all the more 
willing to make every effort to secure it for your children. 
Your duty is plain enough, so plain, indeed, that but the 
briefest statement of it should be necessary : Send your 
children to the best school within your reach, and send 
them properly prepared; provide for them at home, so far 
as your means will allow, everything which will teach 


132 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


them or help them to learn, and by your own conversation 
and behavior show them how important you consider the 
work of education, remembering that the responsibility of 
your children’s ignorance is rather yours than theirs. 

Inseparable from this intellectual training of your 
children is the development of their moral nature, and it is 
in directing them in respect to the great choice between 
good and evil, that your chief work, as Christians and as 
parents, most certainly lies. It may not always be possible 
for you to give them all that their physical welfare de- 
mands, your own ignorance may not improbably stand in 
the way of their ^obtaining the intellectual advantages 
which their growing minds require; but it is only your 
own sin and folly that need prevent you from bringing up 
your children to be virtuous men and women. It is from 
you that they must learn the beauty of goodness and the 
hatefulness of sin, and it is your teaching during the years 
when your influence is superior to every other, that will 
influence them all their lives through. It is no light thing 
to teach a child to be honest, truthful, pure, patient, indus- 
trious, careful ; but perhaps the most difficult part of the 
work lies in the preparation for it ; that is, in making 
yourselves what you wish your children to be. As you 
cannot teach children that which you do not yourselves 
know, so, al80,*you will find it impossible to make them 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


133 


that which you, yourselves, are not, and the virtues which you 
desire for your children you must first practice, or all your 
endeavors will go for nothing. I shall reserve for another 
chapter that which I want to^say to you in [regard to the 
moral training of your children, asking you, however, to 
think a little in the meantime for yourselves about this 
important subject. 


CHAPTER XIX* 


MORAL TRAINING- OF CHILDREN. 

The moral training of children ought, and if it is to be 
successful, must, begin with the earliest development of 
their intellectual faculties. As soon as they are conscious 
of their own will, they should also become conscious of the 
existence of other and stronger wills ; and the parents 
should endeavor so to regulate their conduct toward their 
children, as to make them, as early in life as possible, recog- 
nize the fact that the wills, which of necessity are so 
frequently opposed to theirs, are not only strong but wise. 
That is, you should be so careful, so judicious and so unself- 
ish, in governing your children that they may quickly learn 
to trust you, and to feel, even in moments of anger and 
impatience, that you are their best friend. Most of you, I 
think, must have formed in your own minds some idea of 


^34 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


what you would like your children to be, and it is a good 
thing to keep constantly before yourselves the standard 
to which your children are to attain, either abstractly^ 
or in the person of some individual whose character you 
admire. If you love your children with the ordinary love 
of humanity, one of your deepest, if not your deepest inter- 
est in life, will lie in watching and guiding their develop- 
ment, and in preparing them, as far as you can, for the 
future; and I hope I am right in believing that among the 
parents who read this, there is not one who is not honestly 
desirous of seeing his children grow up to be good men and 
women. Taking for granted, then, that you have a full 
sense of your own responsibility, and are keenly alive to 
the sacredness of the burden which the Almighty IB^ather 
lays upon every parent, I shall try to condense for your use 
some of the experience ot those who have made the educa- 
tion of children, in the family and in the school, the study 
of their lives. 

I have already said that, in order to train children 
properly, you must, first of all, have their confidence, and 
you will naturally ask how the confidence of these little 
thoughtless, unreasoning beings is to be won. In reply^ 
I should say, in brief, by letting them see that what you 
demand of them you yourselves fulfil; that is, when 
you ask them to be trutliful, be sure that their quick ears 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


135 


do not find you out in falsehood ; when you tell them of 
the danger and sinfulness of anger, jealousy and hatred, do 
not let them see in you daily proof of uncontrolled passions ; 
when you command them to be honest, temperate and 
industrious, do not let them find that in your own life you 
cling to deceit, self-indulgence and laziness. Practice 
what you preach,’’ is a homely text, which has served 
for many a sermon, but can never be more forcibly applied 
than in regard to the relations between parents and 
children ; for in all tbe world you will not find more severe 
or acute critics than those little ones, whose sharp eyes and 
ears are constantly measuring your life by the rules which 
you give to them. You must show your children by your 
daily life that you have real anl practical faith in the 
virtues of whose value and beauty you talk to them, and 
although you may frequently fail to reach the standard 
which you have set up, yet if you endeavor to be honest, 
your children, aye, even your liiile children, will quickly 
and surely receive impressions from your character which 
will be deep and permanent for good. Take, as an example 
of this, the exhibitions of fretfulness and ill-temper which 
are unfortunately not uncommon in family life, and to 
which children in their intercourse with each other are 
especially liable. You want to teach your children to be 
patient, gentle, kindly in deed and word, and these are 


136 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

things which you cannot enforce by mere authority ; you 
must, in your own person, show them how much good temper 
has to do with the happiness of life; you must be gentle 
and kind to them, and then must demand /rom them gentle- 
ness and kindness in return. Example, in short, is of the 
first importance in the education of children, for they 
instinctively admire and desire to imitate those older than 
themselves with whom they associate, and are directly and 
strongly influenced by what they see and hear in their every 
day life. 

But example, important as it is, will not alone do the 
work ; love and authority must go hand in hand as its assist- 
ants, and it is to combine these wisely that is the second 
great difficulty in the path of parents. To love your children 
warmly, and yet not to injure them by over-indulgence, to 
^xact obedience without undue severity, to be firm and 
unyielding and yet not unkind, to be tender and forgiving 
and yet not weak, is b}^ no means an easy task, and it is 
just this that a conscientious parent must strive to be. If 
you have won your children’s confidence by showing them 
that you are what you desire them to be, that your practice 
and your precept are the same, then the next great requisite 
in your government of them is, probably, absolute truthful- 
ness, for any attempt at deceit at once destroys their confi- 
dence in you, and will, sooner or later, make your authority 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


137 


null and void. By absolute truthfulness I mean that you 
should never tell a child a falsehood even about trifles, that 
you should never break a promise to a child if it is possible 
to keep it, that you should do your best to let your children 
find you neither changeable nor inconsistent. For example, 
if you have to give medicine to a child, do not attempt to 
gain your point by saying that the medicine is ^^good,^’ 
when it is really disagreeable, for you will rarely be able to 
deceive a child in that way more than once, and the result 
will be that you will be distrusted and disbelieved. Tell 
the child plainly that the medicine is not pleasant to take, 
but must be taken, and obtain obedience by gentle reason- 
ing, or, if necessary, by absolute authority. The same course 
should be pursued in all similar cases, that ms, when you de- 
sire them to do anything which is disagreeable do not rely up- 
on deceit, for you will find it a broken reed; but tell the exact 
truth, and with all possible kindness insist upon obedience. 
You will find that after rwo or three experiences of this 
kind the child’s confidence in you will be implicit, aud that, 
furthermore, he will have learned that when you seriously 
demand his obedience, his easiest course is to give it as 
quickly and as willingly as possible. And this brings up 
another point, viz : the folly of entering into unnecessary 
conflicts with your children, of fretting them needlessly, 
and irritating them about things which are not essential. 


138 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

There are numberless small difficulties into which children 
are constantly falling which are really of very little im- 
portance, that is, are not matters of right and wrong, and 
do not in any way affect a child’s moral nature, and of these 
it is far better for parents to take no notice. Do not tease 
your children about little things, for this tends to make 
them fretful and unhappy ; but, on the contrary, give them 
all the liberty possible, guarding yourself against using your 
authority so frequently as to make it dreaded or despised. 
When, however, you do give an order or demand obedience 
in any form^ be sure that there is no evasion ; let your child- 
ren understand that when you speak, your decision is final, 
your authority supreme, and, above all, when any conflict 
arises between yoh and your child, do not at any cost permit 
the child’s will to conquer yours. Firmness is absolutely 
essential in the moral government of children, and you can 
make no greater mistake than to give way to a child when 
once an issue has been raised between you. If you have 
deliberately given a child an order of any kind, have required 
any particular course of action, or ordained any punishment, 
then no matter how much time, strength and patience it may 
cost you, you must make good your words, and prove to the 
child that your will and power are stronger than his. If 
your child finds out that he can coax or weary or frighten 
you into revoking an order, or remitting a punishment. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


139 


your positions will be speedily changed, and bis, not yours^ 
will be the ruling will. Therefore, do not give too many 
orders, or inflict too many punishments ; but when you do 
decide that either the one or the other is necessary, then let 
nothing shake your determination or alter your action. 
You will find that such a course will not only be better for 
your children, but will also save you infinite trouble, for it 
will put an end to that constant teazing and bickering be- 
tween parents and children, which so often mar the happi- 
ness of family life and induce on both sides irritability of 
temper. Children soon find the difference between a person 
who is constantly finding fault without reason, giving orders 
which can be disobeyed with impunity, and ordaining pun- 
ishments which are never inflicted, and a person who reproves 
seldom but earnestly, whose orders are absolute, whose pun- 
ishments are not frequent, but serious, and not to be escaped. 
Under the first of these two systems, children will be care- 
less, impertinent, and self-willed; under the second, almost 
any child will become orderly and obedient, and it is for 
parents to decide which shall reign within their own family 
circle. 

The question of rewards and punishments is one which, 
as a matter of course, occupies much of the attention of every 
one who is brought into close relations with children, and it 
is certainly by no means a simple matter. To discourage 


140 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


children in wrong-doing, and to encourage them in doing 
right, is practically the first object of moral education, and 
some system of punishment and reward is undoubtedly in- 
dispensable, especially with young children, who can under- 
stand nothing which does not directly appeal to their senses. 
As a general thing, however, rewards should not be offered 
to a child as an inducement to right-doing, but should be 
given after the act is performed, and then only when the 
child is really deserving, for constant rewards are to the 
moral nature what too much sugar is to the digestion, pro- 
ducing in both cases unwholesome and morbid conditions. 
You can teach children to feel that your approbation is their 
best reward, and that their goodness is your and their hap- 
piness, without creating in them a habit of expecting habit- 
ually a recompense for good behavior, and in this way you 
can gradually lead them to understand that it is their 
motives which you value rather than their actions ; that you 
look deeper than the external conduct ; into the spirit which 
prompts it. 

As to the punishment of children, the best authorities 
upon the subject of education are, in the main, agreed ; but 
even yet there is much left to the ingenuity and patience of 
parents. Corporal punishment, either in schools or in the 
family, has no part in the best modern systems of education > 
and there are verj few teachers or parents who should permit 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I41 

themselves to use it. It is commonly a wrong to the child^ 
and is almost always inflicted in a spirit of anger, which 
alone would eflectually prevent it from having any good 
efiect. In these days it is usually very ignorant, very care- 
less, or very cruel people who depend upon corporal punish- 
ment to assist them in governing their children, and any 
thousfhtful and moderately patient person ought to be able 
to find many expedients which are far more useful and 
reasonable, and which will win from children obedience 
through respect instead of through mere physical fear. If 
children were simply and wholly animal in their nature, 
then we might consider blows a suitable form of punishment, 
(though even animals, as modern experience has proven, get 
far too much of this crude and barbarous discipline), but as 
they have another and a higher nature, it is only logical that 
the highest and most successful system of education should 
appeal to that rather than to the merely brutal instincts. I 
dare say that most of you feel that you would be almost help- 
less if the power of whipping your children were to be taken 
away from you, and are quite sure in your own minds that 
nothing can take the place with a child of what is popularly 
called, ^^a good whipping’^; but in this, as in other things, 
your safest course is to accept the facts established by those 
who are wiser and more experienced than you are. If reason 
and affection both fail, say the wisest modern teachers, there 


142 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


still remain a variety of punishments, which will affect child- 
ren without injuring them or making them feel that they are 
treated with injustice. You can deprive children of some 
pleasure, take their lib rtj^ away from them for a shorter or 
longer time, by shutting them up, or confining them within 
certain limits ; you can in various ways treat them dififerently 
from the other children of the family , you can take away 
from them some article of food of which they are fond ; in 
short, a little thought will show you that there are number- 
less ways of inflicting real punishment upon children without 
striking a blow. In selecting from these it is well, so far as 
possible, to suit the punishment to the oflfence ; for example, 
if a child does harm or mischief with its hands, as by striking 
another child, wilfully breaking or tearing anything, punish 
it by securely tying the offending members, or, again, if a 
child errs by saying anything wronger untruthful, punish 
it by keeping it alone, where no one can be hurt or annoyed 
by what it may say. But, whatever your punishment may 
be, never inflict it when you yourself are angry ; wait always 
until your passion is cooled and you can use your sober judg- 
ment, for this is the chief safeguard both for yourself and the 
child, and one without which you will be almost certain to 
do the child injustice. 

Example, love, truthfulness, firmness, each and all are 
necessary if you would rightly train your children ; and to 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


143 


go back to the beginning, to take up once more our text, 
your precept and your practice must be one and the same. 
The Christian grace which you strive to nurture in the hearts 
of your children, you must first firmly plant in your own 
hearts, looking then in humble faith toward the Supreme 
Source of all fruition, for ‘^Paiil planteth, Apollos watereth, 
but God giveth the increase.’’ 


CHAPTER XX. 

HOUSEWORK. 

Next in importance to the direct care of the children, 
comes, for a woman who is at the head of a household, that 
general personal supervision and labor which, when intel- 
ligently done, result in cleanliness, order and comfort for 
the whole family. Of course, it is much easier to write and 
talk about this kind of work than it is to do it ; but, never- 
the-less, it is a constant surprise to me to find how much can 
be accomplished through determination and system, by 
women who have much to do, and little to do with. These 
two things, determination and system, which lie at the 
foundation of all good housekeeping, mean simply that you 
must always do your work at stated times and in certain 
places. To take, for example, a very simple but constantly 
recurring duty, L 6., dish washing; are there not two wide- 


144 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


] y different ways of doing it ? One woman will leave her 
table standing for two or three hours, and then, throwing 
her dishes all together, and unscraped, into a dirty pan, 
will go for hot water, which, as she has forgotten to fill the 
pot, is not to be had, and at the same time will find that 
there is no soap in the house, that her dish-cloth is lost and 
her towel wet. Another woman will clear her table as soon 
as the meal is over, will put her dishes, carefully scraped 
from all grease, broken bits, etc., into a pan, which is used 
for nothing else, will wash first her silver and glass, tlien 
her china, and last of all her cooking utensils, will have 
plenty of boiling water and soap, a clean dishcloth and a 
dry towel. And of these two women you may be sure that 
the first will be always in confusion and disorder, while the 
second, you may be equally sure, is the mistress of a neat 
and well-ordered household. 

This comparison may be carried through the whole 
field of household work, and the advantage will always be 
found on the side of the woman who systematizes her work ^ 
who does it, that is, in a regular and orderly way, who has 
a time and a place for everything. The details of the life of 
an ordinary housekeeper, who does most of her work herself, 
are far too numerous and varied to be set down upon paper ; 
but the most important of them are usually much the same 
from day to day and in all families, and I think that 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I45 

perhaps our best way to get a clear idea of what system and 
industry can accomplish will be to follow, in imagination, a 
goo l housekeeper through the work of one day, from the 
rising to the setting of the sun. We will give her a house 
of her own, with kitchen, eating-room and sitting-room 
downstairs, and three bedrooms upstairs, her family shall 
consist of a husband, who is a day laborer, and three 
children, two of whom are old enough to go to school. 

As soon as she herself is dressed in the morning, she 
gives the children such help as they require in washing and 
dressing, making sure that they begin the day with clean 
skins, if nothing more, and then, after thoroughly shaking 
up the beds and opening the windows, she goes d )wn stairs 
to get breakfast, her husband having, in the meantime^ 
made the fire. However simple the breakfast may be, if it 
should consist only of coffee and cornbread, it should be 
neatly served in the eating-room, on a clean tablecloth and 
from clean dishes. To this meal, and all others, the family 
should sit down promptly and together ; their food should 
be eaten in a clean and orderly way, and, if possible, should 
not be eaten in the same room in which the cooking, wash- 
ing, etc., are going on. I have already drawn your 
attention to the fact that a careless, disorderly habit in 
respect to serving and eating food should be careful- 
ly avoided, not only because it indicates ignorant and 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


146 

coarse tastes, but also because it is injurious to health, and I 
would once more lay down, as a cardinal principle of good 
housekeeping, that the eating-room should not be used as a 
cooking or sleeping-room, that the table should be neatly 
set with a clean cloth, clean china, glass, etc., and that the 
food should be served and eaten in a neat and orderly way. 
You will find that there is no one thing which will more 
afiect the comfort of your family than that the meals should 
be prepared and eaten with regularity and order, and 
though those of you who have never made the attempt may 
feel that it is not worth the trouble you think it will cost 
you, you will find, if y'ou will but make an honest trial, 
that the trouble is nothing in comparison with the increase 
of comfort and the satisfaction of feeling that you are edu- 
cating your children in some very important particulars, 

But to return to our diligent housekeeper ; by this time 
she has, I think, finished her breakfast, cleared her table 
and washed her dishes in the way I have already described. 
This accomplished, she will put away the articles used, in 
their proper places on the cupboard shelves, in drawers, etc., 
will sweep and dust the room and then go upstairs to the 
bedrooms, which she will proceed to put in order for the 
day. And here I must say a word about the care of the 
beds and bedsteads, a duty’ the neglect of which never fails 
to produce most unpleasant results. If there is one thing in 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


147 


your house about the cleanliness of which you should be abso- 
lutely sure, it is the beds, and the only way to obtain such 
certainty is by constant care. The beds should be thor- 
oughly shaken up every morning as soon as the occupants 
are out of them ; and by this I mean that you should not 
only take off the coverlids, blankets, sheets, pillows, etc., 
and spread them out upon chairs in such a way that the air 
may have tree circulation about them, but that you should 
also take off or throw back the bed or mattress itself, so 
that the framework of the bedstead will be exposed to the 
air and light. You should let the beds and bedclothes lie in 
this way for at least an hour every morning, and in addition 
to this, you should, as often as once a month, remove every- 
thing from the bedstead and wipe it oft' carefully with hot 
soapsuds, and then turpentine, going thoroughly into all the 
cracks where insects are likely to secrete themselves. If 
you follow this course habitually, you will have little to fear 
from the bugs, whose presence is a disgrace to any house- 
keeper, and your beds will be always sweet and fresh, a rest 

and comfort to those who lie down upon them. 

Having thus shaken up her beds before breakfast (and 
before I leave the subject, I want to recommend you to use 
hard beds rather than soft, mattresses in preference to 
feather beds), our housekeeper finds them well aired on her 
return, and proceeds at once to make them up, spreading 


148 ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

the sheets, etc., so carefully that the bed when finished is 
really an ornament to the room and a temptation to tired 
limbs. Then she empties the slops, thoroughly washing 
the basins, pitchers, etc., and refilling the pitchers with 
fresh water, dusts and arranges the furniture and leaves the 
room in such order that she need have no fear of the most 
critical eye. The children must now be got ready for school, 
and this takes a little time, for their faces and hands must 
be w^ashed and clean aprons or jackets put on, in order that 
neither they nor their teacher need have cause to be 
ashamed of dirt and carelessness for which their mother is 
responsible. 

After they are gone, the special work of the day, what- 
ever it may be, sewing, baking, cleaning or ironing, may 
begin (except in the case of washing, which ought to be 
begun as early in the morning as possible), and this will go 
on, unless some accidental interruption occurs, until it is 
time to prepare for the mid-day meal, which will be dinner 
or luncheon, according as the father or children do or do not 
return at that hour. In either case, when the meal and its 
attendant work are done, the mother will again have two 
or three hours for work in the house or garden before it is 
time to cook the evening meal, after which there is again an 
hour or two after the children are put to bed (and this 
should be at a regular hour), for rest, amusement, visiting, 


etc. With a day systematized in this way, it is possible for 
a woman to do all the work of a small family, and to take 
in work in addition, though it is no doubt more desirable 
that she should be able to give all her time and energy 
directly to the care other own family. 

As I have said before, there are innumerable details in 
housekeeping in regard to which actual instruction from a 
good housekeeper is almost a necessity; but I am sure that 
most of you have constant opportunities to see for your- 
selves how to do your work properly, if you will only take 
advantage of them. In the matter of cleanliness, for exam- 
ple, you must surely have seen enough for yourselves to 
know that to sweep dirt into holes and corners where for 
the moment it is out of sight, or to throw rubbish into a 
pantry and shut the door, is, in no sense, cleanliness. If you 
are going to be clean, you must not keep your cellar 
noisome with decaying vegetables, or refuse of any kind ; 
you must not let your garret be a recej)tacle for the dusty, 
mouldy rubbish of years ; you must not let your back door 
be surrounded by the quickly accumulating and foul smell- 
ing dirt of the kitchen ; but you must see to it yourself that 
nowhere within the limits of your responsibility is there 
anything unclean which your hands can remove. I know 
that this is no easy task ; but at any rate you can do your 
best, and the advice which I would give to any woman 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


150 

who is too poor or too overworked to do all that more fortu- 
nate women are able to do, is : ‘‘Rid yourself first of the 
dirt, which is likely to be directly injurious to health ; that 
is, keep your cellar clean, even if your windows go 
unwashed; wash your cooking utensils and keep your beds^ 
fresh at the expense of something of less importance; keep 
your skin clean, even if your dress has to go dirty.’’ 

But, in truth, a person who really loves cleanliness will 
be clean everywhere and at all times, and the first step in 
advance is taken when you begin to leel that din in any 
form is really unpleasant to you, and that to sit down in a 
dirty room at a dirty table, to eat dirty food from dirty 
dishes (which you know to be only too common a habit) isr 
to you, actual misery. When you have learned to hate 
uncleanliness, you will surely learn in one way or another 
to be clean, and you will never be a good housekeeper until 
you do hate uncleanliness in every shape and with all your 
heart. The more closely you examine the work of any 
woman who is a successful housekeeper, the more evident it 
will become to you that, like the woman whom we have 
been following through the duties of the day, she is orderly, 
systematic and thorough in all her habits. The cleanliness, 
as we have seen, is not superficial, but includes everything 
that comes within her province; the work of each day is 
arranged so that nothing is left to chance; her cooking is 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


151 

done by rule and not by guess;’’ she studies to avoid 
waste, and to make the most of her materials ; she knows 
that the comfort of her household depends mainly upon her 
thrift and industry, and she takes every means in her power 
to find out and adopt the best way of doing all that she has 
to do. And certainly there is no more honorable ambition 
for most women than the ambition to be a good house- 
keeper, taking that word always in its broadest and most 
beautiful sense, the Bible sense, whose interpretation we find 
in that wonderful description in the last chapter of Proverbs, 
a description which should cheer and refresh the heart of 
every woman who is trying to work well and earnestly: 

The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. 

. . . She will do him good and not evil all the days of 

her life. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly 
Avith her hands Strength and honor are her clothing, and 
she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth 
with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. 
She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth 
not the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her 
blessed ; her husband also, and he praiseth her. 

A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.” 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


152 


CHAPTER XXL 


CARE OF THE SICK. 

To all families, but especially to those where there are 
little children, sickness is sure to come in one form or 
another, and no wife and mother should feel that she has 
done her duty until she has trained herself to be a gentle 
and careful nurse. Furthermore, it is undoubtedly true, 
that a large proportion of the illness which we so much 
dread may be averted or greatly modified by intelligent and 
watchful care, and as prevention is better than cure,” the 
first thing which we need to learn, is, how to prevent. On 
that point, I have already said much to j^ou, but shall once 
more repeat briefiy some of the more important rules wdiich 
have been found to be essential to the prevention of disease 
In the first place, then, you must be chan^ in your house, in 
your clothing, in your body and in your soul. Your house, 
its cellar, outbuildings, drainage, etc., must be clean, or else 
the poisonous gases, which emanate from decay of any and 
all kinds, will produce fevers and choleraic diseases. Your 
clothing and your body must be clean, or you will be preyed 
upon by skin diseases, and all the ailments which arise from 
a stoppage of the pores of the skin; and, last of all, your 
soul must be clean, because there is no more frequent or 
prolific cause of disease and physical degradation than vice 
or immorality. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


153 


Secondly, you must have good and well-cooked food, 
which you must eat regularly and in reasonable quantities, 
as excesses in eating; and drinking sow the seed for the har- 
vest of aches and pains, and you must be careful that the 
water which you drink and use in other ways, is pure ; that 
is, free from filth of alt kinds; from organic matter or min- 
eral salts. Thirdly, you must be clothed with due regard to 
the changing seasons, must have plenty of fresh air to 
breathe, both by day and night ; and, finally, must keep 
both mind and body in a state of wholesome activity ; for 
work, wholesome, well-regulated work, is a most valuable 
safeguard against many kinds of illness. 

A due attention to these rules will undoubtedly enable 
both individuals and communities to avoid many of the dis- 
eases (especially those that usually occur in epidemic forms) 
which have hitherto been considered inevitable; but, even 
then, there will remain ample need for good nursing, aril 
any woman who really knows how to nurse will always find 
plenty of work ready to her hand. 1 do not, of course, 
mean to say that a woman who has the cares of a hoiiseliold 
upon her, should be called upon to be, also, a trained nurse ; 
but I do believe that almost any ordinarily intelligent 
woman can, if she will rightly use her opportunities and 
faculties, learn to understand so well the symptoms and 
treatment of any common illness as to be able to prevent 


154 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


and alleviate much suffering and often to save from death. 
Take, for example, what is called a “ common cold 
(which, by-the-way, is one of tlie most fertile sources of 
illness, especially in cold climates), and let us see what can 
be done to prevent or cure it. Carefulness in regard to 
clothing, avoidance of drafts and sudden chills, and a habit 
of being much in the fresh air, will do a good deal in the 
way of prevention, and when the cold is fairly caught a lit- 
tle judicious care at the outset will often prevent the long 
illnesses which so frequently follow neglected colds. The 
requisites are warmth, an even temperatare, light food and 
good air. It is well to give a hot bath, to put the feet in 
hot mustard water, to give hot drinks; if the cold is on the 
chest, to pat on a mustard plaster; if it is in the head, to 
steam it with hot water, with a little camphor in it, taking 
care, always, to prevent any chill from following the profuse 
perspiration. The bowels should be kep't open, by a dose 
of oil, of some mineral water, or by an eneema, the head 
cool and the feet warm, and a day or two of this sort of 
treatment will usually break up even a heavy cold. In the 
case of fever, again, the stomach and bowels must be regu- 
lated as quickly as possible; light, nourishing food, such as 
beef-tea, chicken or mutton broth, rice, milk, etc., should be 
given ; the patient must be kept quiet and in a darkened 
room, with the head cool and feet warm, while ice or cold 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


155 


water may be frequently given. Diarrhoeis or .dysentery 
demand perfect quiet ; the best thing to be done, in many 
cases, being simply to put the patient to bed and feed him, 
or her, on arrowroot, rice and water, beef-tea, etc. ; giving 
small quantities at a time. All derangements of the stom- 
ach, inflammations, etc., require the same treatment ; the 
principle being that rest and light food give Nature a 
chance to effect her owm cure, and Nature is by far the best 
physician we can employ. Medicines’ of any kind should 
rarely be given without the advice of a physician and never 
unless you are thoroughly familiar with their action. There 
are times, of course, when quick action is necessary, as in 
the case of croup, w^hen ipecac should at once be given in 
sufficient quantities to produce vomiting ; or, in colic, when 
a dose of castor-oil is always a safe remedy ; but usually it 
is best to get the advice of a good doctor before giving any 
medicine; for when you begin to administer drugs, about 
which you know little or nothing, you are playing with 
edged tools. 

When you have a patient to take care of who is con- 
fined to the bed, there are certain things to be done, no 
matter what the illness may be, w^hich are the foundation of 
good nursing You must keep the air fresh by opening a 
window (not a door), and shielding the patient from the 
draft. If the weather is cold, you can either leave the win- 


15^ ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 

dow on a^crack for some time, or you can open it wide for a 
few minutes, as seems best ; if the weather is mild, it is best 
to keep one window constantly open. You must change the 
bed-linen frequently, and this can be done, even with a very 
sick patient, if you can get some one to help you by raising 
the invalid for a moment while you pull out the soiled 
sheet and put on a clean one, rolling it up and slipping it 
quickly under the slightly-raised body of the patient, who 
can lie upon one side of the bed, while you make the other. 
No slops of any kind should be permitted to remain in the 
room for a moment, and it is well to use some disinfectant? 
such as carbolic acid and chloride of lime, remembering, 
however, that cleanliness is the only really effectual disin- 
fectant. The patient should be kept quiet, and in acute 
cases should never be allowed to see strangers or to oecome 
excited by talking, etc., while the nurse herself should wear 
a dress of some soft material which will not rustle, and 
should speak always in a low tone and gentle voice, humor- 
ing, but at the same time controlling the patient. The 
room should be darkened, or at least the i)atient’s eyes 
should be shaded from the light, and neatness and order 
should be the universal rule. Feather beds should never be 
used in illness, mattresses being on all accounts better, and 
the bed covering should be light, as a weight of clothing is 
very oppressive to an invalid. Obedience to tlie doctor’s 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 1 57 

orders and constant watchfulness of symptoms are essential, 
and at all times it must be remembered that sick people are 
like children, and require to be treated with great gentle- 
ness, but also with firmness. 

The work of a nurse is, for many reasons, very difficult 
and trying ; but the reward is great, and any woman who 
learns to be a good nurse will find infinite pleasure in the 
consciousness of her ability to alleviate and prevent suffer- 
ing, and her increased power to do good to others. 

CHAPTER XXII. 

ACCIDENTS. 

In any emergency whatever, in the nature of an acci 
dent to yourself or otliers, or of a general and sudden alarm,, 
you are useful, first, as you are able to control yourself; and 
second, as you can do what is necessary until efficient help 
can be obtained. You may, some of you, have heard the 
joke, which though old is not worn out, to the effect that in 
a railway accident, there is but one thing better than pies- 
ence of mind,^’ and that is absence of body.’’ It, after all^ 
only illustrates the fact that presence of mind, that is, self- 
control, is an essential at all moments of danger to yourself 
or others, and nothing will help you more in this than to 
be sure that you know what ought to be done. The follow- 
ing simple directions will, I trust, be of assistance to you,, 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


158 

and if at any time you can obtain special instruction, it will 
be well worth your while to do so, for the sake of those 
among whom your future work may lie : 

Wounds. — If an artery or large vein has been cut, and 
you can always tell if this is the case, by the fact that the 
blood will come in jets, as if it were pumped, you must stop 
it by pressing your finger upon the artery above the wound, 
if it is in the leg or arm, it being necessary, as perhaps you 
understand, to stop the flow from the heart. Sometimes, a 
compress made of cotton or a folded cloth bandaged tightly 
on the artery, alwa3\s, of course, between the wound and the 
heart, will effect the purpose, but where there are two per- 
sons present who can rest each other, it is best to use the 
finger. When the wound is superficial, and the blood simply 
oozes from it, direct pressure with a soft cloth wet in hot 
water, should be used. 

Hemorrhage. — When it is from the lungs, the patient 
should be made to lie down, with the head low, and keep 
perfectly quiet, not even speaking or lifting the head. Very 
cold applications may be made to the chest, that is, cloths 
wrung out of cold water and frequently changed. When 
the hemorrhage is from the lungs or other internal organ, 
the same position must be maintained, with perfect quiet. 

Burns and Scalds. — Dissolve a teaspoonful of soda in 
half a pint of water, which will be almost a teacupful, wet a 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


f59 


soft cloth in it and put it directly on the burn. Do not re- 
move the cloth, hut when it is dry wet it by pouring a little 
of the solution directly upon it. Or, take equal parts of 
lime water and sweet oil, mix well, and apply to the burn 
as directed for the soda ; or, if the burn is superficial, so 
that the skin is not entirely taken ofi*, cover it at once with 
a piece of isinglass plaster, which must be left until the place 
is healed. 

Convulsions in Children. — Put the child at once in a 
hot bath for ten minutes or longer. When it is taken out, 
wrap it in a warm blanket, keep the head cool and the feet 
warm, and if it can swallow, give a dose of oil. To prevent 
it from biting its tongue and lips, put a cork, or a folded 
towel, between the teeth till the paroxysm is over, being 
careful not to impede the breathing. 

Fainting. — Keep the head low, loosen the clothing and 
put camphor or ammonia to the nose, or a little pepper on 
the tongue. 

Croup. — Produce vomiting as soon as poossible, either 
by ipecac, salt and water, or any mild emetic which you have 
at hand. Apply cloths wrung out of very hot water to the 
throat, being careful always to put dry cloths over the w^et 
ones, and to change as soon as they get cool. 

Broken Bones. — The only thing which can be done until 
the doctor comes, is to keep the patient from moving, and 


i6o 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


to lay the limb or injured part in a position as nearl}^ natural 
as possible. 

Blows on the Head. — Use very cold applications to the 
head, keep the feet warm, and on the soles put small mustard 
plasters. Allow the patient to sleep, and permit no noise 
or excitement in the room, which, in all these cases, should 
he well ventilated and quiet. 

Drowning. — Place the body face downward, raise the 
chest by placing pillows under the body, folded garments, or 
a block of wood, so that the head will be low enough to per- 
mit the water which has been swallowed to flow out of the 
mouth. Keep up the temperature by bottles of hot water 
around the body, and if possible, attempt to start resriiration 
by artificial means. This is done by lifting the arms above 
the head gently, then bringing them down and pressing 
them against the sides, at about the rate of ordinary breath- 
ing ; but this process can hardly be understood or practiced 
until you have seen it done by some one who has been trained 
to it, and you will probably only attempt it as a last resort. 

In giving these directions it must always be understood 
that they are only for use until the doctor comes, or in cases 
where no doctor is at hand, for it is only practical experience 
which can fit you to take charge of a sick room. 

In cases where the danger is general, as for example 
when a building or a vessel is on fire, in the midst of an 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS l6l 

epidemic, in a railway accident, etc., I can only say to yon 
that, first of all, you must try to control your own fears ; if 
you can do this, your chances to help others as well as your- 
self are doubled, for you can think clearly, and your own 
courage and coolness inspire others to do their best for their 
common safety. Circumstances, in such cases, differ so 
much that it is impossible to give special directions, and it 
is a good plan to consider, when you are at peace and in 
safety, what you would do in the face of such dangers as 
these, in this way preparing yourself, by a habit of thought, 
to act intelligently in time of need. 


CHAPTER XXTIL 

COOKERY. 

When one has abundance of good material, and is 
obliged to economize neither in time nor labor, it is not a 
difficult matter to become a good cook ; but the real test of 
a woman’s ability, in this department of household labor, 
lies in the results she can obtain from a few inexpensive 
materials with comparatively small outlay of either rime or 
labor. The first step in the right direction is to thoroughly 
understand the importance of *good cookery to the health 
and comfort of [a family, and before we go into details, I 


i 62 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


should like to make clear to you the principles which under- 
lie what is rightly called the art ” of cookery. 

You are probably sufficiently familiar with the action 
of your own stomachs to know that anything which irri- 
tates them produces, in a greater or less degree, general 
derangement and illness ; and the acute forms of such 
derangement are, probably, pretty well known to you. But, 
while you are aware that unwholesome or badly cooked 
food is almost always the cause of these acute troubles, you 
perhaps do not know that such food may, and frequently 
does, produce a slow and subtle irritation, which affects the 
whole constitution, mental and physical, and in time is 
capable of causing the degeneration of a whole race. Dys- 
pepsia ’’ is the name which covers the thousand and one 
forms of this irritation, and dyspepsia means, simply, that 
the stomach cannot digest the food that is put into it, and 
this indigested food instead of supplying the nourishment 
which is the result of complete digestion, disturbs the order 
of the whole system and lays the foundation of numberless 
diseases. Now, the common, one may almost say universal, 
cause of dyspepsia, is that food, which is either unwhole- 
some in itself, or made so by improper cookery, is p)ut into 
stomachs to which Nature has given the ability to resent 
the abuse. 

This law of nature is so unyielding that if you at- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


163 


tempt to make your stomach do work for which it was not 
intended, your body will sooner or later suffer the conse- 
quences, and nothing is more certain than that men and 
women who desire to be healthy themselves, or to have heal- 
thy children, must learn to make their food and its pre;)a- 
ration^ a matter of reasonable consideration. It is possible 
that this principle of the physiological necessity of good 
cookery would be sufficient for my present purpose, but 
there is still another fact which I want you to notice, and 
that is, that the highest civilization always includes great 
care in the Choice and preparation of food. Uncivilized 
races live like animals, eating anything they can get, at any 
time and in any way ; but the gradual ascent of humanity 
in the scale of civilization is marked always by an increase 
of care in respect to food, both as regards material and 
cookery. So long as you eat like animals, that is, irregular- 
ly, coarsely and carelessly, just so long you are, and will re- 
main uncivilized, and therefore, if you mean to civilize 
yourself thoroughly, it follows that you must become refined 
and careful in regard to food and its preparation. You have 
then, as you see, two good reasons for trying to educate 
yourselves in respect to your habits of eating and drinking — 
1st, that in order to be really and permanently healthy you 
must have good and well cooked food ; 2d, that you can 


164 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


never be really civilized until you learn to be refined and 
careful as regards your food. 

NoWj practically, it is upon women rather than upon 
men that the burden of this responsibility falls, and women, 
in this country at least, have few more useful fields ot work 
than the kitchen. For most of the women to whom I am 
writing, economy of time, of money and of labor is a neces- 
sity, and it is only, as I have said before, when you have 
learned to appreciate the importance of your work to your- 
selves, and to others, that you will do it well. I hope, 
therefore, that you will believe me when I tell you, that 
when you have learned from the materials at your command 
to choose and prepare for your husband and children, good 
and wholesome food, you have done a great thing ; you are 
helping them and yourselves in ways of which you do not 
dream. If you are in earnest in your desire to do thi:?, you 
must begin with a few simple facts which can be easily 
stated and remembered, and you must determine to work 
intelligently and by rule, not blindly and by ‘‘ guess. 

In the first place then, you need to learn how to choose 
and cook, meat, fish, vegetables, and the different kinds of 
grain, and a certain amount of real study is necessary to do 
this. In regard to meats, for example, you should know 
that beef, mutton and venison are more wholesome tlmn 
veal or pork, that almost all kinds of poultry and game are 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 165 

good and nourishing, and that in preparing any kind of meat 
it is better to roast, broil or boil than to fry, as by the latter 
process, the article cooked, whatever it might be, becomes 
soaked with the melted grease, and is, in proportion, indiges- 
tible. Tough pieces of all meats except pork, can be used 
for soups, and bones and odds and ends of cold or uncooked 
meat should be kept for the same purpiose. These soups, 
which can be made with cheap vegetables, as cabbage, 
onions, potatoes, etc., and with very little or no meat, are 
wholesome, cheap, and afford an agi eeable variety. Fish, for 
all who live on the sea coast, or in the neighborhood of 
rivers and lakes, is also a cheap and wholesome food, and as 
in the case of meat, it can be broiled, boiled, baked or 
friend, while when salted or smoked, it provides material 
for many different dishes. As to vegetables and fruits, the 
variety both in kinds and ways of cooking, is almost endless. 
Any man or woman in this country who has a garden, not 
to say a farm, can provide a family with a constant succes- 
sion of fresli vegetables at small expense, and people who 
live without such supply have usually only their own ignor- 
ance or want of energy to blame for it. These vegetables 
and fruits are, with few exceptions, wholesome, and may be 
eaten at all seasons in reasonable quantities, care being 
taken to use none that are unripe, or at all decayed. They 
can, of course, be cooked in a variety of ways, and an intelli- 


i66 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


gent woman will quickly learn how to choose the best ami 
most economical. The different grains also furnish most 
important articles of food and are almost, without exception, 
wholesome, and in this country, cheap. They can be simply 
boiled with water and eaten as porridge or mush, or can be 
made with other ingredients into cakes, puddings and bread 
of different kinds. As porridge, mush, etc, they are espe- 
cially good for children, as they are easily digested and very 
palatable. 

The small collection of receipts which I have placed at 
theend of this volume, will, I trust, be of some assistance to 
you in preparing the rnaterial which you are able to obtain ; 
but until you learn, as I have said before, to understand the 
reasons for good cookery and regular habits in respect to 
food., no receipts, however good in themselves, can be of 
much use to you. I have therefore given, in connection 
with the receipts, such suggestions as I think may help you 
to bear in mind, or to search for the reasons for what 3^11 
are doing, hoping that in this way you may gradually find 
out for yourselves that I have not exaggerated the irnport- 
'Bnce of your work. 

When you have learned to cook well and intelligently, 
you have made yourselves valuable members of any house- 
hold, rich or poor, and this is surely no little thing to say, 
and no mean ambition for any woman to set bef)re herself. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 167 

and I would, therefore, urge every woman who reads this to 
do her best to create healthy and civilized tastes in regard 
to food, in all those who are within her reach. 

SOUP. 

Although soups are considered, and indeed can be made 
a very expensive kind of food, it is quite possible to make 
delicious soups at a small cost, but this requires some skill 
and forethought, and is therefore not often done. In the 
first place, all gravies, scraps and bones of meat, and many 
kinds of cold vegetables can be used for that purpose, and 
are indeed, with the addition of an occasional piece of fr es 
meat and some fresh vegetables, all that is required to make 
many kinds of soup. The bones, etc., which of course must 
be perfectly sweet, should be simmered for four or five hours, 
or longer, in sufficient water to cover them, then the broth 
should be strained off and set away until the following day, 
when it must be boiled again for a short time with what- 
ever vegetables or seasoning you may prefer to use. To 
^‘stock/’as it is called, made in this way, you can add to- 
matoes, rice, barley, cabbage, onion, etc. You can thicken it 
with potatoes or milk ; you can season it and put in macca- 
roni or vermicelli; in short, there are numerous different 
ways of treating it, and a little experience will soon teach 
you to make excellent soup from materials which must 
otherwise be thrown away. Of course if you can afford 


i68 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


fresh meats, the soup will be richer and more nourishing, 
and whenever you boil any kind of meat, (except pork) or 
poultry, you should carefully save the water in which it is 
boiled for the basis of a soup. There are some kinds of 
soup which are in themselves a dinner, and I add a few re- 
ceipts which you will find both good and cheap. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take a hock of beef, or any such piece as would be used for corn- 
ing, boil it three hours, add a dozen white potataoes, three carrots 
cut fine, two onions, one turnip, and a little celery if you can get it, 
.and boil another hour. Season to taste, and serve all together, taking 
-•out the beef and putting it on the table in a separate dish. 

VEAL SOUP. 

Boil a knuckle of veal three hours, add a dozen potatoes, one 
onion and a large handful of rice, and boil another hour. Take out 
the veal and potatoes and season the soup to taste. Then cut up the 
veal and potatoes in rather small pieces, and season with pepper, salt, 
and a little vinegar. Take one pint of milk, or of milk and water, 
thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of flour; when it boils add a small 
piece of butter and pour it over the veal and potatoes. This, with 
the soup, makes an excellent dinner. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

This can be made without any meat at all, and, if you raise your 
own vegetables, is the cheapest of all soups. Take a dozen potatoes, 
half a small head of cabbage, three onions, four carrots, two turnips, 
if possible a little celery or three or four tomatoes, two handfuls of 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


I 69 

barley or the same of rice. Cut the vegetables, except the potatoes, 
quite fine and boil until thoroughly done, seasoning to taste. If 
desired, a small piece of pork may be added. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take two dozen ears of sweet corn, cut the corn from the cobs, 
dividing the kernels as nearly in half as possible ; scrape the cobs and 
throw them into a large pot full of water. Let them boil two hours, 
then dip them out and scrape them thoroughly, putting all that you 
■scrape off directly into the pot, into which at the same time you put 
rather less than a quart of Lima beans, and a piece of salt pork 
weighing from one and a half to two pounds. Boil for three quarters 
of an hour, then add the corn which j^ou cut from the cobs, half a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and a very little salt. This is a most excellent 
^nd inexpensive dish, and is very good even when made of dried corn 
and beans. 

BEAN OR PEA SOUP. 

One pint of beans or peas to two quarts of the “stock” already 
described. Soak the beans or peas all night and boil them soft ; 
season with pepper, silt, and a little onion. 

calf’s head soup. 

Boil until the meat clears from the bone, strain the broth and 
add the meat to it, with three onions chopped fine. Boil the brains 
in a cloth by themselves, mix them with a little flour and add to the 
soup. Season with pepper, salt, thyme and a little mace. 

OKRA SOUP. 

Five quarts of water, and one and a half pounds beef, five dozen 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


I 70 

okras cut in thin slices, one dozen tomatoes, one cup of rice. Season 
with salt and cloves. The whole must be boiled four hours and 
strained through a sieve. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

If you have a butcher in your neighborhood you can frequently 
get the ox-tai'ls for a very small price, or indeed for nothing, and the 
soup is of course cheap in proportion. Boil the tail until it is thor- 
oughly done, take out the bones and add any vegetable you like, or 
strain the soup or thicken with a little browned flour, seasoning to 
taste. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Take two quarts of stock, boil two dozen tomatoes until thor- 
oughly done, rub them through a sieve and add to the stock. Thicken 
with a little flour, season with onion, pepper and salt, then cut wheat 
bread into small square pieces, fry in a little butter or lard, and drop 
into the soup just before putting it on the table. 

POTATO OR MILK SOUP. 

Take two quarts of stock and thicken it either with a quart of 
finely mashed potatoes, or a quart of milk into which you have rubbed 
a pint of flour. In both cases season with onion, pepper and salt, 
straining your stock perfectly clear before you add either the potato 
or milk. 

FISH. 

For all who live on the sea-board, or in the near neighborhood 
of lakes and rivers, fish is a cheap as well as a wholesome food, and 
even those who live far inland, can, at a slightly increased cost, obtain 
a good variety of canned or salted fish. Fresh fish may be cooked in 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. l/I 

many different ways, but the simplest are usually the best, and for 
these, only a few rules need be given. 

BOILED FISH. 

Glean yojar fish carefully and boil it whole, in very little water, 
with or without salt, as you like. It should be eaten with some kind 
of sauce or drawn butter, for otherwise it is very tasteless. A fish 
weighing four or five pounds is the best to boil. 

BROILED FISH. 

split the fish exactly in half and broil it over live coals, taking 
care that it does not get burned or smoked. When done, put it on 
the dish and butter while hot. 

FRIED FISH. 

For this, small fish is necessary, and should be rolled whole in 
bread or cracker crumbs, or Indian meal, and fried quickly in hot fat»“ 
lard or butter. 

BAKED FISH. 

Take a fish as for boiling and fill it with the following stuffing, 
sewing up the side where you put the stuffing in, and putting a few 
small lumps of butter on top while baking. Bread crumbs in quantity 
according to size of fish, mixed with a little butter, pepper, salt, and a 
little thyme or sage, or instead of butter a little finely chopped pork. 

SHELL FISH. 

While the different kinds of shell fish make many delicious dishes,, 
they are, for some people, very unwholesome, producing violent indi- 
gestion with often a bright red eruption, and they should therefore be 
aten with great care, especially in hot weather. 


172 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


OYSTERS AND CLAMS. 

Stewed, Put the liquor on the fire by itself ; when it comes to a 
boil, drop in the oysters or clams, and add at once, starring all the time» 
milk (in proportion of one cup to a quart of oysters) in which you 
have mixed smoothly two tablespoonfuls of wheat flour, and one 
tablespoonful of butter. As soon as this thickens so that the broth 
is creamy, take from the fire and serve hot. 

Fried. Roll each oyster or clam in bread or cracker crumbs, or 
Indian meal, and fry in butter or lard. 

Scalloped. Small dishes should be used for this : scallop shells 
themselves being excellent. Roll the oysters or clams in bread 
crumbs with which you have mixed a little salt and pepper, put them 
in the dishes or shells, with several small lumps of butter on top of 
each, and bake in a quick oven. 

LOBSTERS AND CRABS. 

Boil till thoroughly done ; take the meat from the shells and eat 
-cold, stewed, pickled or scalloped. 

Stewed. Mix with butter, pepper, salt and a little hot water, and 
boil for one minute. 

Pickled. Put in a bowl, season highly with pepper, salt and mace, 
and cover with vinegar. 

Scalloped. The same as oysters and clams. 

SALT FISH. 

All the different kinds of salt fish may be either broiled or boiled 
while some kinds, as codfish, haddock, etc., may be made into a 
variety of palatable dishes. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


173 


CODFISH. 

I. Shred fine and stew in a little milk, butter and pepper. Jus 
before putting on the table, add one or more hard-boiled eggs, cut 
into small pieces. 

2. Chop up very fine with an equal quantity of potato, add a little 
milk, butter and pepper ; serve hot. 

3. Roll the above, when cold, into small cakes, and fry in lard. 

HADDOCK. 

1. Stew with milk, etc., the same as codfish. 

2. Boil a cupful of rice ; when thoroughly done, add twice the 
quantity of finely-shredded haddock, and two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped very fine ; a little pepper. 

MEATS. 

Large pieces of beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison, etc.— poultry 
and many kinds of game are best and most wholesome when roasted in 
a slow oven, care being taken not to over do them. Beef, mutton, 
and poultry may also be boiled, and in this case the water used 
should always be saved for soup, while the meats may be often made 
more palatable by boiling vegetables with them, as corned beef with 
cabbage and turnips. Ham, bacon, and salt pork are usually boiled, 
and to the last two, cabbage, beans, turnips or some kind of green, 
are generally added. Smaller pieces of beef, mutton, venison (as 
steaks and chops), spring-chickens and the smaller kinds of game are 
best broiled, and for this the meat should be cut thick (at least two 
inches) and broiled quickly over live coals, taking care not to smoke, 
burn, or over do it. With the exception of ham and bacon, no meat 


174 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


should be fried, and even these two are less greasy and safer when 
well broiled. There are few articles which a careful and intelligent 
cook will fry, and, as a rule, almost any way of cooking food is to be 
preferred to this. 

Excellent hashes and stews can be made from cold meats or from 
pieces of meat which cannot be used in any other way, and for these 
I add a few well-tried receipts. 

BEEF, MUTTON, CHICKEN, VEAL, OR TURKEY HASH. 

'Remove all gristle, bones or fat, chop the remaining meat very 
fine and put it in a pan with a little hot water, or better still a little 
meat gravy. When thoroughly heated, put it on a flat dish, and sur- 
round it with small triangular pieces of buttered toast. In making 
this of poultry, add any cold dressing, liver or gizzard (chopping fine) 
which you may have. 

CORN-BEEF HASH. 

Chop the beef fine, with an equal quantity of potato, add a very 
little hot water, a small piece of butter, and a little pepper. Heat 
thoroughly. 

BEEF OR MUTTON HASH. 

Cut the meat up (not very fine) and mix with an equal quantity 
of potato cut in the same way. Add gravy, pepper, salt, and heat 
thoroughly. 

VEAL, MUTTON OR CHICKEN HASH. 

Chop the meat very fine, season with salt, pepper and thyme or 
sage. Line a bowl with hot boiled rice, and into the hollow left in 
the centre put the chopped meat. When quite cold, the whole will 
turn out in shape, and should then be put in the oven and allowed to 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


^75 

warm, without browning at all, Take it out and pour over it drawn 
butter, made as described, for fish sauce. 

STEWED MUTTON OR BEEF. 

For this you can use either meat which has been once cooked, or 
can take inferior pieces of fresh meat. Boil gently for one hour with 
just sufficent water to prevent burning, then add potatoes, carrots and 
onions and a little turnip, and boil three quarters of an hour longer. 
Turn out on to a large flat dish, aud put boiled rice neatly round the 
edge. 

CHOPPED VEAL, MUTTON OR CHICKEN. 

One and a half pounds of the meat ; quarter of a pound salt pork 
chopped fine ; three Boston crackers, or an equal amount of butter 
crackers ; two eggs ; salt, sage, pepper to taste. Pack in a pan and 
cook until thoroughly done. Half a cup of cream will improve this 
receipt. 

SAUSAGES. 

Three full tablespoonfuls of powdered sage ; one and a half full 
tablespoonfuls salt ; one full tablespoonful pepper, to a pound of finely 
chopped meat. 

CHOWDER. 

Three slices salt pork fried brown ; three onions fried in the fat . 
one quart boiled potatoes, mashed ; two pilot biscuit broken fine ; 
one tablespoonful thyme ; three tablespoonfuls pepper : half a tea- 
spoonful qioves ; a little salt, six pounds fresh fish cut n slices ; water 
enough to cover, boil slowly one hour. 

STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 

Soak a sufiicient quantity of bread crusts in water ; when soft, 


176 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


chop fine and add salt, pepper, sage and a little butter ; chop the 
liver and gizzards of the fowls very fine and mix with the bread. 

CHOPPED BEEF. 

Take cold roast or boiled beef, chop it fine, and add half the 
quantity of bread crumbs, salt, pepper and a little butter. Warm, 
with a little water or gravy, or put it in a pan and bake. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak the beans all night ; put them in a deep dish with a little 
water, and in the centre of the dish put a thick piece of salt pork. 
Bake three or four hours. 


VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes may be cooked in a great variety of ways, and are always 
good and nourishing food. 

Mashed — Rub well-boiled potatoes till there are no lumps, and 
add salt, milk or cream, and a little butter. Leave them in this way,, 
or put them in a deep dish and brown in the oven, or roll and cook as 

croquettes. 

Chopped — Chop cold boiled potatoes not very fine ; warm them 
with milk, butter and salt. 

Fried — Cut cold boiled potatoes in thick slices, and brown slightly 
in butter or lard, or slice raw potatoes very thin and fry to a crisp in 
lard deep enough to cover them, and at the boiling point. 

TURNIPS. 


Mash while hot and mix with butter, pepper and salt. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


177 


CARROTS. 

Cut in fine strips, boil soft, drain off the water, and thicken it 
with a little flour and milk, add pepper and salt, and pour over the 
carrots. Celery and salsify may be cooked in the same way. 

TOMATOES. 

Cut two cucumbers and one onion into very small pieces, boil 
till quite soft, add six large tomatoes which have been peeled and cut 
up, some pepper and salt, and boil till done. If any of this is left, 
thicken it with bread crumbs, put in a deep dish, sprinkle bread 
crumbs and a little butter on top, and bake. Canned tomatoes can 
be cooked in the same way. 

ONIONS. 

Boil till soft, put in a deep dish and pour over them a sauce made 
of milk thickened with flour, butter, pepper and salt. Scallop cold 
boiled onions with bread crumbs in the same way as tomatoes 

Cauliflower should be boiled with a little^ salt and served with 
drawn butter. 

Greens of any kind should be boiled very tender, rubbed through 
a sieve and garnished with slices of boiled egg. 

WHEAT BREAD. 

Two quarts sifted flour, three pints water, one-fourth cake yeast, 
one teaspoonful salt, one large spoonful butter, one teaspoonful 
sugar. Mix well, let it stand until it has doubled in size, make it in 
two loaves, knead it, put it in pans and let it rise a second time. 
Bake in slow oven. Equal parts of milk and water can be used if 
desired. 


178 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


BROWN BREAD. 

One pint milk scalded and cooled, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter yeast cake dissolved in one-half 
cup cold water, two cups white flour, sifted ; three and one-half cups 
Graham flour. Mix a little softer than white bread. Let it rise till 
light ; stir it down and pour into well-greased pans. Let it rise 
again, and bake a little longer, and in a slower oven, than white 
bread. 

ROLLS. 

Pour one pint of scalded milk on one teaspoonful each of butter, 
sugar and salt ; when lukewarm, add one-half cup of yeast. Stir in 
three cups of flour, and beat well. Let it rise about three hours, 
then add from two to three cups of flour, to make it just stiff enough 
to knead, and knead for twenty minutes ; let it rise in the bowl^ 
Shape it into rolls, and after putting it in the pans, let it rise again. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup of flour, one cup of corn meal, one cup of milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half tablespoonful 
melted butter; one egg. Mix the dry ingredients together and sift 
them. Beat an egg light, add the milk and stir all together. Bake 
twenty minutes. 


GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One-quarter cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, Graham flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Bake half an hour. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


179 


QUICK BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls’ baking 
powder ; sift these together ; rub in, with tips of fingers, one large tea- 
spoonful of lard ; add milk enough to^make a soft dough. 

RICE BREAD, 

One pint rice flour ; one pint milk ; one tablespoonful butter ; 
one egg ; one level teaspoonful soda ; one of cream of tartar ; a little 
salt. Scald the milk, and mix as for corn bread. 

MUFFINS. 

One quart warm milk ; three eggs ; one teaspoonful of salt ; four 
tablespoonfuls of yeast ; flour, to make a stiff batter, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. Bake when risen. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One cup milk ; two-thirds of a cup of butter ; two tablespoonfuls 
sugar ; whites of two eggs, well beaten ; half a cup yeast ; flour to 
make a thick batter. Cook on griddle. 

HOMINY WAFFLES. 

To one pint cold boiled hominy add one quart sour milk, two 
beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter and one teaspoonful 
soda, with flour sufficient for a thick batter. 

Rice cakes can be made in the same way, and can be fried on a 
griddle, or cooked as waffles. 

Boiled rice, hominy, cornmeal, oatmeal and cracked wheat are 
all excellent for breakfast and supper, as they are nourishing, satisfy- 
ing and cheap. Hot breads of all kinds are, as a rule, unwholesome 
and the same is true of fried cakes, which should seldom be eaten, 
especially in warm climates. A breakfast or supper of any of the 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


i8o 

grains, with milk, butter or molasses is, on all accounts, far more 
wholesome than hot breads or cakes, fried pork, bacon, or indeed 
than any of the food commonly eaten by the poorer classes in this 
country, besides being cheaper and easier to prepare. Two meals out 
of the daily three can be made upon these grains, with the addition, 
for the sake of variety, of white and sweet potatoes, boiled or baked : 
and such a diet is, as I have said, strongly to be recommended to all 
who desire to live cheaply and well. 


PUDDINGS AND CAKE. 

TROY PUDDINGS. 

One cup milk ; one cup molasses ; one cup suet, chopped fine, or 
butter; tv/o cups raisins; flour enough to make a thick batter; one 
teaspoonful saleratus. Boil four hours ; eat with sauce. 

BERRY PUDDING. 

Two cups molasses; one cup milk; three cups flour ; one-half 
cup butter ; two cups berries ; two eggs; one teaspoonful saleratus. 
Bake, 

POP-OVERS. 

Two teacups flour; two of milk; two eggs; salt ; a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut (melted). Bake in cups in a quick oven, 

RICE PUDDING. 

Mix two cups cold boiled rice with a quart of milk, a little sugar 
and salt, and the grated rind of one lemon. Bake in a slow oven. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Six tablespoonfuls tapioca, soaked all night in one pint cold 
water. In the morning turn off the water; add a little salt, the yolk 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


i8i 


of three eggs, one cup sugar, one quart milk ; boil like custard. Put 
it in a dish, and, when cool, stir in lightly the beaten whites ; flavor 
with vanilla and eat cold. 

ANOTHER. 

Put one quart tapioca in one quart cold water. Set it in a warm 
place till it becomes clear. Pare and quarter apples ; put them in a 
pudding dish, with a little sugar and nutmeg; add a little salt to the 
tapioca ; pour it over the apples, and bake till they are tender. Serve 
with sugar and cream, or milk. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and grate eight apples ; measure in a cup or bowl, and add 
same quantity of bread crumbs, three eggs, one and a-half pints milk, 
and a little sugar and cinnamon. Bake and eat with cream, or omit 
the cream and eat with sweet sauce. 

ANOTHER. 

Pare the apples, and stew till tender; beat up light, with a little 
sugar and cinnamon. Line a mold, or baking dish, with slices of 
buttered bread. Bake and eat with sweet sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Cut the bread into small, square pieces ; make a custard of a 
quart of milk, the yolks of two eggs, sugar and a little nutmeg; add 
half a cup of seeded raisins. Mix all in a deep dish, and bake a very 
light brown ; beat the whites of two eggs very light, with just enough 
sugar to stiffen; and, when the pudding is cool, drop this in spoon- 
fuls on the top. Put it back in the oven till the white of the eggs is 
lightly browned. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


182 


ANOTHER. 

Two cups bread crumbs ; one quart milk ; three well-beaten 
eggs ; a little salt ; one-fourth teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Bake and eat with sweet sauce. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter ; two cups sugar ; three eggs ; three and 
one-half cups flour; one cup milk; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Bake in cups, and eat with sweet sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk ; one teacup molasses ; one cup suet ; one heap- 
ing cup Indian meal ; one egg; a little ginger, cinnamon and salt. 
Heat the milk, and stir into it the meal wet, with cold milk. Let it 
boil for two minutes. When cold, add other ingredients, and bake. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat together one cup fine sugar and one-half cup butter- 
Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 

SOFT SAUCE. 

One pint hot water ; one tablespoonful butter ; three full table- 
spoonfuls sugar. While boiling, stir in one tablespoonful cornstarch » 
dissolved in cold water. Flavor with vanilla, or lemon and nutmeg. 

PASTRY. 

Take equal parts of butter and lard, and chop them into the 
flour ; add sufficient cold water to moisten, a little salt, and roll as 
little as possible. For one pie the proportions are one cup flour, 
butter and lard the size of a small egg. Pastry which is chopped in 
this way is much lighter than if mixed with the hand ; but, however 
made, it is an unwholesome and expensive food, and should be very 
seldom eaten. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


183 


CRULLERS, 

One cup milk ; one cup sugar ; five eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; butter size of an egg ; 
a little nutmeg; flour enough to make a thick paste. Cut into 
shapes, and drop into boiling lard or beef fat. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint milk ; three eggs ; two cups sugar ; one cup butter or 
lard ; one gill fresh yeast ; grated orange peel and nutmeg ; flour 
enough to make a stiff paste. Roll into balls, and cook like crullers. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One-half pound sugar, one-fourth pound flour, juice and grated 
rind of one lemon, five eggs ; beat whites and yolks separate, as light 
as possible ; beat the sugar into the yolks ; then very lightly beat in 
the flour. 

BOSTON TEA-CAKE. 

Two cups white sugar ; two cups milk ; two eggs ; one-half cup 
butter ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; four cups flour ; spice. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Three cups flour ; one-half cup butter ; one cup molasses ; one- 
half cup milk ; one egg ; tablespoonful ginger ; one teaspoonful soda ; 
two of cream tartar. 

GINGERSNAPS. 

One large cup butter and lard ; one large cup sugar ; one large 
cup molasses ; one-half large cup cold water; one teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in a little warm water; flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Roll very thin, and bake quickly. 


184 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar; one-half cup butter; one half cup lard ; one 
cup milk ; one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little warm water ; 
flour to make it just thick enough to roll out. Mold as little as 
possible. 

CUP CAKE. 

One-half cup butter ; two cups sugar ; three eggs ; four cups 
flour; one cup milk; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. 


FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter ; four cups sugar ; two cups milk ; yolks of six 
eggs, well beaten ; four teaspoonfuls baking powder ; eight cups 
flour; one cup of citron and one cup of raisins, both chopped fine. 
Spice with nutmeg and cinnamon. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Three cups light dough ; one cup butter and lard ; three eggs ; 
two cups sugar ; one-half cup milk ; one-half teaspoonful soda ; 
nutmeg and cinnamon ; one cup raisins and citron. If not stiff 
enough, add a little flour. 

ANOTHER. 

Three lbs. flour; one and one-half lbs. sugar ; one-half lb. butter; 
one-half lb. lard; three eggs; one pint milk; one-half pint yeast. 
Spice with mace and nutmeg, and, if you like, add raisins and citron. 

The afternoon before you want to bake, put half the shortening 
and half the sugar into the milk and scald it ; when cool, add the 
yeast and the flour. When it is raised, which will be sometime 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


185 

during the evening, work in the rest of the sugar and shortening. In 
the morning add the eggs, well beaten, the spice and fruit ; put in 
the pans, and let it rise again before baking. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses; one-half cup butter; tablespoonful ginger, 
one teaspoonful saleratus, dissolved in half a cup warm water ; flour 
enough to roll. 

HARRISON CAKE. 

Two cups molasses, heated, with half a cup butter and lard and 
one cup sugar ; one teaspoonful cloves ; two teaspoonfuls saleratus ; 
one cup sour cream, if you have it, if not, one cup sour milk and a 
little more butter ; flour to thicken, as gingerbread ; raisins. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut the beef in small pieces ; put in a saucepan, with just enough 
water to cover. Set it back on the stove, and let it steep, not boil, 
for six or seven hours. Strain it, and flavor with a little celery, 
onion or anything you like and the doctor approves. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

Two quarts boiling water ; one cup Indian meal; a little salt. 
Wet the meal to a smooth paste, and stir it into the water when 
actually boiling, and boil slowly half an hour, stirring all the time. 
Oatmeal gruel is made in the same way. 


t86 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


MILK AND RICE GRUEL. 

Wet two heaping tablespoonfuls ground rice with cold milk and 
stir into one quart boiling milk. Boil ten minutes, and add a little 
salt. Sago and arrowroot are made in the same way. 

APPLE WATER. 

Take one large juicy apple, pare and quarter, but do not core it. 
Add three cups cold water and boil (closely covered) until the apple 
stews to pieces. Strain at once, squeezing the apple through the 
cloth ; strain this again through a finer cloth ; sweeten and drink with 
ice, and, if you like it, a little lemon juice. This is excellent in fevers 
and colds, as are also drinks made from acid jellies dissolved in 
water. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Two bars common yellow soap ; two lbs. washing soda; two oz. 
borax. Dissolve in eight quarts warm water. The water must be 
kept warm (without boiling) until the ingredients are thoroughly 
dissolved. 

POISONS.' 

For any poison, drink, at once, a glass of cold water, in which 
has been dissolved a teaspoonful of ground mustard, and one of com- 
mon salt. This is an emetic, and should, after its action, be followed 
by the white of two raw eggs. A physician should always be sent for 
at once. 

STAINS. 

Iron rust can usually be taken out with fresh currant juice, but 
is very troublesome. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. I'87 

Mildew, by oxalic acid. 

Ink, while wet, by milk : when dry (from anything white), by 
oxalic acid. 

Grease can be removed sometimes by French chalk ; sometimes 
by borax, dissolved in warm water ; sometimes (as in the case of 
candle grease) by laying thin paper on the spot, and pressing with a 
hot iron ; sometimes by benzine, and sometimes not at all. 

MEASURES. 

One heaping quart, sifted flour, weighs one pound ; one quart 
fine sugar and one quart softened butter, weighs one pound ; one 
quart brown sugar, or one quart Indian meal, weighs one lb. two oz. 

INSECTS. 

Cockroaches and beetles may be got rid of by sprinkling 
powdered borax on the shelves, sinks, etc., which they frequent. 
Ants, by putting almond kernels on the shelves, etc. The ants will 
leave anything else for these, and you can brush them off into 
hot water, destroying hundreds at once. Bedbugs will yield to 
nothing but perfect cleanliness. Moths will not eat anything in a 
chest or trunk in which there is a strong odor of camphor. Brush all 
woollens and furs carefully, and sprinkle with camphor gum. 

SALT PORK. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch deep. Put 
down one layer of pork, and cover with one inch salt, continuing 
thus till the barrel is full. Then pour in as much strong pickle 
as the barrel will hold. Pack as tight as possible, and keep the 
pork always under the brine. 


i88 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


HAMS. 

For six hams make a brine strong enough to bear a potato ; add 
one-fourth lb. saltpetre, dissolved in warm water, and sugar enough 
to make the mixture slightly sweet. Soak the hams in this for ten or 
twelve days ; take them out, and, when thoroughly dry, smoke until 
they are of a deep brown. Then wrap in cotton cloth, or brown 
paper, and pack in a box or barrel, with coarse salt enough to com- 
pletely cover them. Hams cured in this way may be kept for two or 
three years. 

COFFEE. 

The best coffee pot is one so arranged that the grounds do not 
get into the coffee at all ; and this end is reached by means of a little 
cylinder with a fine sieve at the bottom, which stands on top the 
coffee-pot. The ground coffee is put in this cylinder, and the boiling 
water being poured into it, drains int® the pot below. This insures 
clear, strong coffee, without further trouble, and is the simplest pos- 
sible method. 


TEA. 

Put the tea, in the proportion of one teaspoonful to each person, 
into the pot (which should first have been heated), pour boiling 
water on it, and set it for five minutes where it will keep hot without 
boiling. 


lijsiTS ON Agriculture. 


BY F. RICHARDSON. 


Written for the Southern Workman. 

More people make their living directly by agriculture 
than by any other calling ; and famine would overtake all 
civilized nations if one year’s crop should fail. Agriculture 
is, therefore, called the ^‘King of Arts.”' So universal is its 
bearinar upon the interests of all classes, that no man’s head 
can be considered well furnished, till he knows the general 
principles of farming. Professional men of nearly all kinds 
are continually brought in contact with farmers. Especially 
is this the case with teachers in the Southern States. And 
the more exact and detailed a teacher's information is on 
agricultural matters, the more he may enjoy the respect and 
confidence of those practical men who are the leaders of pub- 
lic opinion in rural communities. 

To command the respect of practical men, however, the 
student must know how narrow are the limits within which 
book knowledge is worth anything. Books cannot convey 
the skill of touch which enables its owner to select a valuable 


90 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


animal by the quality of its hair ; nor can they give the 
practiced eye, which decides at a glance whether grass is at 
the proper stage for cutting, or whether a clay field should 
be plowed to-day or left till it is drier. Nor can books de- 
termine whether this farm is worth ten dollars per acre more 
than that, and whether cattle farming in any particular 
locality is likely to pay better than raising grain. On all 
such matters the mere book theorist in agriculture would be 
as much at sea as the young physician who has his volumes 
at his fingers’ ends, and can prescribe for any disease which 
may be named to him, but cannot decide what is the matter, 
in his first case. 

On all such questions as the above, practical men, 
though prompt to laugh at any dogmatic intrusion upon 
their provinces, are especially eager to hear facts. They 
value these if modestly ofi:ered, and under a sense that the 
experience recorded in books and farm papers has been often 
gained under totally different circumstances from the case in 
hand. Books never do record all the circumstances. They 
deal in relative terms, and in results, often leaving out such 
vital points as temperature and amount of rain-fall, &c. 
For example, a first-rate authority on market-gardening, 
living in New York, gives as a fixed rule that it will not 
pay to plant truck on land having a clay sub-soil. "While 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS- 


19I 

in the South, on the contrary, the rule is worthless, and a 
clay sub-soil is often especially sought by truck growers. To 
trust books too far is to become the laughing-stock of sensible 
men. It is necessary to learn to read between the lines and 
supply omitted circumstances. 

The students of Hampton have not only the great privi- 
lege of seeing a fine farm successfully managed under their 
eyes and hands, but they are also thoroughly drilled in the 
elements of agricultural science in their class-rooms. The 
object of the present series of papers is to supplement the 
knowledge thus attainable by suggesting a few of the prac- 
tical ideas about farming, which are not commonly found in 
text-books, but which the young farmer needs at the very 
threshold of his experience, and for lack of which many 
good men have thrown away the labor of years, or of a life- 
time, In treating of agriculture from this point of view, it 
is hoped that useful hints may be given to the teachers who 
go out from Hampton into farming communities, and whose 
pupils may apply to them for advice. The whole future of 
those pupils may be determined by a word from an honored 
teacher, and much depends upon 

STARTING RIGHT. 

I 

It is best for the young farmer to begin at the bottom 
of the ladder. He has a long course before him. In thirty 


192 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


years he may expect to reach a comfortable independence. 
If not satisfied with this and he tries to go faster, he will 
usually sink into some enticing pitfall of speculation. 

In every country neighborhood are to be found a few 
men who have made money by legitimate farming, and who 
are not ashamed to use their own hands. After finding 
some such man, the young farmer can make the best use of 
two or three years, by working faithfully and diligently for 
him, and learning what he knows. If a young farmer has 
determined to be rich in thirty years, he can better afford to 
labor at first for a successful man for board and clothing only, 
than to receive high wages from a slip-shod fox hunter who 
calls himself unlucky. 

II 

After having given satisfaction to a critical master for 
two or three years, our beginner will find that though he 
may have put no money in his purse, and is apparently at 
the bottom of the ladder, he has really made the first great 
step upward. He has gotten a character, A man whose 
judgment is recognized in the place, has given him a 
thorough trial, and pronounced him steady, reliable and 
efficient. What is the result ? 

The result is that, though without a penny or an en- 
dorser, he will find two classes of persons who are looking 
for just such men as he. The first class is of practical farm- 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


193 


ers who need foremen. The second class is of non-residents 
who must have hands who are trusty, and not eye servants. 

The most successful farmer is to be preferred as an employer, 

♦ 

first, because such a man is more likely to be able and willing 
to pay all who work for him; second, because something is 
to be learned from him. 

in. 

Oiir beginner, looking steadily toward the end of the 
thirty years, will not be in too great a hurry to start for 
himself. And in his early efforts to swim against tlie cur- 
rent, he will wait till he finds some solid ground under his 
feet, before he places the weight of another’s arms around 
his neck. It is true that many young men save nothing 
until they get married, but this is their own folly. Every 
valuable farm hand, if single, ought to put by at least $7.00 
to $10.00 per month. If he sticks to this till he has laid up 
$500.00, he will have learned the value of little sums, — 
which is one of the most important lessons in the art of get- 
ting wealth. It is the testimony of every successful man, — 
that it is more difficult to keep money than to make it. 

IV. 

While working out for an employer, our beginner is 
gaining experience at the least risk, of any period of his life. 
He has before his eyes the example of a practical man laying 
out money. If losses occur, the employee gets a valuable 


194 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


warning ; if gains result, the employee can some day try the 
same path. Moreover, while his own bank account is grow- 
ing, he has many opportunities of seeing, in the experience 
of other young men, the folly of trying to farm without 
sufficient capital. 

V. 

By these gradual steps upward, we will suppose our 
young farmer to have acquired a first-rate character for 
steadiness, honesty, industry, and knowledge of his business. 
These things are capital in themselves, and are within the 
reach of any one, however poor. While acquiring them, he 
has formed fixed habits, and conquered many of his own 
weaknesses. He has now taken a Right Start on the road to 
an honorable career of prosperity. With his five hundred 
dollars, he is now, perhaps, a man of sufficient experience to 
commence being his own employer. Only seven or eight 
years of the thirty are gone, and he finds himself in advance 
of fully three-fourths of the young men who began life when 
he did. 

VI. 

At this stage of the life of our hero (for heroes are those 
who conquer little temptations), a land agent lights down 
upon hipa- The land agent has a nice little farm of fifty 
acres, for sale at a bargain. He don’t want much down — 
jsay $200. Seeing the purchaser is such a deserving young 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS 


195 


man^ the balance may remain on interest for four or five 
years. As a friend, the land agent would advise him not to 
let such a good chance slip. In the whole course of his ex- 
perience in real estate^ he had never known a more favorable 
opportunity to make a strike. The wood on the farm will 
nearly pay for it, &c., &c. Only $1,000.00 for the place, and 
all but |200 might remain on interest. ‘‘ Buy it ! young- 
man ! Buy it ! ’’ 

VII. 

Our advice would be, do nothing of the kind. You will 
find just as good bargains five years hence. ‘‘There are 
always as fine fish in the sea as have been caught.” The 
wood would be worth very little without capital to handle 
and sell it to the best advantage. The farm itself will produce 
nothing without tools, seed, team and labor. If it is the 
labor of the owner, how is he to be fed ? The $300 still in 
the bank would be soaked up directly as follows : 


Cost of the cheapest horse worth owning, $80.00 

Cart harness, plow harness and whiffietree, 20.00 

Cart, plows, drag, cultivator, scythe, axe, spade, 
hoe, forks, rake, shovel, curry-comb, brush, 
grind-stone, wedges, chains, bags, baskets, 
steel-yard, half-bushel, hatchet, wrench, &c., 110.00 

,Cow, pigs and poultry, 50.00 

Seeds and plants, 30.00 

Lastly, the wedding expenses, 10.00 


$300.00 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


196 

Even if the house were nicely furnished by a liberal 
father-in-law, how can the young man live, and pay interest 
on the remaining $800 due on the land ? 

VIII. 

All this fearful embarrassment and the consequent 
working at a disadvantage, and compulsory borrowing, could 
be avoided by not investing a penny in land so early in life. 

Turning a deaf ear to the land agent, our hero sets 
himself to find a good piece of land which has been a little 
neglected, and whose owner has not much taste or skill, and 
would be glad to put it out on shares. Such pieces are to 
be found easily enough, and after refusing a number of such, 
our prudent beginner, making haste slowly, will be likely 
to have a favorable opportunity. Here his good character 
will enable him to command good terms. And the more 
he can induce the owner to furnish of stock and tools the 
better. There will be plenty of room left to use the small 
sum of $500 as working capital, to more advantage. 

In making a bargain to farm on shares, the beginner 
should be very careful to have the contract drawn up in 
writing as definitely and clearly as possible. This is neces- 
sary even with the land -owner who means to deal fairly, 
because misunderstandings are constantly occurring when 
there is only memory to refer to. So far from making agree- 
ments with land-owners whose neighbors do not consider 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


197 


them reliable and just men, it is much safer for beginners to 
avoid such altogether. Even a victory in a lawsuit is often 
ruinous to a poor man. 

IX. 

As a guide, we give the following form, which can easily 
be varied ; but as written, it embraces the common features 
of such agreements in Eastern Virginia: 

Articles of agreement made this first day of 1888, 

between John Doe, of the County of , in the State of 

Virginia, of the first part, and Richard .Roe, of the said County and 
State, of the other part, witnesseth : That the said John Doe doth 
demise unto the said Richard Roe, his personal representatives and 
assigns, all that certain farm situate in ihe County of 
in the State of Virginia, bounded on the North by the main road 
leading from to , on the East by the land of 

Adam Smith, on the South by the River, and on the West 

by land now occupied by Pier Plowman ; from the first day of Jan- 
uary, 1888, for the term of three years thence ensuing, yielding there- 
for to the said John Doe, during the said term, the rent of one-third 
of the crops raised on said farm. 

And it is agreed that said John Doe shall furnish three head of 
yearling cattle and ten pigs over three months old, at the beginning 
of each year of said term. And that all grain fed to said stock shall 
be out of the share of said Richard Roe. And that said stock shall 
be common property, share and share alike, and shall not be disposed 
of before the end of the said term of three years, unless by consent 
of both parties hereto. Working teams are to be fed from the un- 
divided crops. 

It is further agreed that said Richard Roe shall have the use of 
half an acre of ground adjoining the dwelling, as a kitchen garden ; 
and shall have the privilege of cutting as much timber as may be 
necessary for fencing upon the farm, and wood for his family. 

And said John Doe agrees to pay all the taxes upon said property 
except the road tax, which is to be paid by said Richard Roe. And 
the said John Doe covenants that the said lessee shall have quiet 
enjoyment of bis term. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


I 98 

The said Richard Roe covenants to deliver the said John Doe’s 
third, at the South barn on said premises, without charge and in as 
good order as that in which his own crops are housed. The said 
Richard Roe further covenants that he will not assign without leave r 
that he will keep the fences in repair and pay the road tax, and to 
raise forty acres of corn each year. 

Witness the following signatures and seals. 

John Doe, [seal.] 
Richard Roe, [seal.] 

Witnesses at signing, 

Solon Shingle, Joseph Jefferson. 

Sometimes Richard Roe is not able to furnish team and 
seed, and implements. John then furnishes half, and receives 
half the crops. 

XI. 

The advantages of renting on shares over renting for 
cash are principally to be seen in bad seasons. When from 
drouth, or long rains, or insect enemies, the crops fail, the 
owner gets very little ; while the tenant, having dwelling, 
garden and fuel free, can raise his own meat and vegetables 
and make his poultry and butter pay his grocery bills ; 
leaving him but little worse off for the bad season, except 
his loss of time and wear of tools. Sometimes, however, it 
would be better to take the risk of renting for cash, as the 
money rent is often considerably cheaper in good seasons. 
The advantages of either method of renting over buying 
are, that the farmer who rents has the most money left to 
buy stock, seed, manure and labor with. And he can turn 
a small capital over much more rapidly in these things than 
in land. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


199 


xir. 

The farmer whose money is all wrapped up in land is 
compelled to sell his grain for want of stock to eat it. Such 
farmers are getting, this year, fifty cents per bushel for corn. 
The same corn fed to hogs would be worth one dollar per 
bushel, provided dressed pork brings six cents per pound. 
The man who has ready money enough to buy hogs at the 
right time can thus realize twice as much money for his 
corn as his neighbor who owns land, but has not enough 
working capital to stock it. 

XIII. 

It is a golden rule in farming never to plant a grain 
crop on poor land. But if the farmer has no working cap- 
ital to buy stock to make manure, he can’t help himself. 
He is compelled to raise poor crops. 

It costs about $5 per acre to draw out manure and 
enrich a field so as to bring its crop of corn from five barrels 
up to eight per acre. Thus the three barrels are the pro- 
duct of only $5 of working capital. How many barrels 
would the same five dollars have yielded, clear of expense, if 
put into land ? Not more than one. 

XIV. 

The fact is, that many farmers are land poor,” because 
they have not clearly understood that land alone is of no 


200 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


more use than gold to a starving sailor on a raft. The 
money made by farmers is not in proportion to the size of 
their farms, but in proportion as they have working capital, 
and know how to use it. And if our beginner does not own 
a foot of land for ten years after he has commenced to farm 
for himself, he will be better ofi, provided he and his wdfe 
know enough not to spend their working capital for things 
which can he done without. 

If, however, the young farmer finds that he is fond of 
attending auctions, or discovers that either he or his wife 
have a habit of buying things because they are ‘"'nice,'' or 
because they are cheap,'’ or for any other reason than 
absolute necessity, then his only chance to escape shipwreck 
may be to run in debt for a farm. Debt is a hard master ; 
but it will stop him, if anything will, from fooling aw^ay 
his money. It is a sad fact that not one man in ten can 
rely upon himself and his family to refuse always to buy 
that which they could somehow manage to do without. 
Therefore it is often safer to put money into land, lest it 
take wings and escape. 

In buying a farm, the next thing in importance after 
healthful location, is the natural productiveness of the soil. 
That this should be considered before price, is evident. 
Land rich enough without manure to bring eight barrels 
of corn, pays the farmer over two dollars per day for 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


20 1 


his labor. While on land which brings only four barrels, 
the farmer is paid scarcely one dollar per day. The rich 
land is cheap at thirty dollars per acre, because each acre^ 
after paying the cost of cultivation, yields more profit than 
the interest on thirty dollars. ¥/hile the poor land pays 
no interest, and would be dear as a gift, unless the 
farmer has means to enrich it. 

XV. 

Rich land, in a productive state, is often too high- 
priced for a poor man. But the richest lands are often 
unproductive from want of drainage, simply, and can be 
bought at a real bargain. The young farmer should be 
awake to seize such chances of getting rich land cheap. 
Some of the most successful farmers have found their for- 
tunes in just that way. 

A very simple levelling apparatus may be made as fol- 
lows : Take a fence board eight inches wide and sixteen 
feet long ; plane one edge, so as to be straight ; nail a leg 
three feet long at each end of the board; set the board 
on its legs, straight side up. A carpenter’s level on top of 
the board will tell you how much the lowest leg needs to be 
raised. Raise it till the straight edge is level, and measure 
with a pocket rule the height of the leg from the ground. 
This height is the difierence of level between the ends. 
Make a note of it, and move the apparatus sixteen feet 


202 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


farther. Level and measure as before, and add or subtract, 
as the case may require, from ^the previous note. Or, by 
putting all the down-hill measures on one side of the page, 
and the up-hill measures on the other, the difference of 
their sums will give the difference of level of two places. 
By this contrivance it is easy to ascertain, without employ- 
ing an engineer, how much fall can be had, and whether it 
is practicable to drain a piece of low land. 


XVI. 

In choosing a farm, next after healthfulness and fertil- 
ity, comes the question of nearness to market. The import- 
ance of this depends upon the particular branches which the 
skill, means or inclination of the farmer leads him to follow. 
There are advantages and disadvantages in being near 
cities, and they are so nicely balanced that good managers 
grow rich in each location. Everything depends upon the 
man. A shrewd farmer of small means, by locating twenty 
miles from town, gets good land cheap. In ten years the 
value of his land is likely to double by the increase of popu- 
lation around him, and by the growth of his orchards and 
the improved productiveness of the soil. Meanwhile he can 
reduce his expenses of transportation by converting his 
grain and hay into cattle and colts, which will carry them- 
selves to market. 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


203. 


XVII. 

Having formed a clear idea of what particular line of 
farming is most in accordance with his tastes and his capital, 
our young farmer considers every place offered him with 
reference to these points specially. And, seeing the sad 
results all around him of hasty and ill-considered purchas- 
ing, he takes his time, and will not be hurried in choosing* 
He will have nothing to do with poor land at any price, nor 
will he be tempted by cheapness to live in an unhealthy 
place, nor to run much in debt and use up all his working 
capital in paying interest and other expenses. He had 
rather buy only a very small farm. 

XVIII. 

After finding a place as nearly as possible suited to his 
case, it is well for the young farmer to remember that 
everything he is doing now should be for the permanent 
benefit of his land, and with a view of making his labors 
easy as old age comes upon him, and his strength lessens. 
He should, therefore, keep steadily in view the following 
ideas, much as they difier from ordinary practice. 

First. It is possible so to manage land that, while 
yielding good crops, its fertility is constantly increasing. 

Second. It is possible to give his live stock such care 


204 


ON HABITS AND MANNERS. 


in breeding and management that they will command better 
prices than those of his neighbors. 

Third, By care in selecting seed, year after year, he 
may make his grain crop salable for seed at an advance. 

Fourth, By planting a tenth of his land in fruit trees 
of the most showy and productive market kinds, and not 
many varieties, he may realize a hundred per cent, on the 
investment. 

Fifth. By strict integrity in putting up his products, 
he may make his stamp bring an extra price. 

Sixth. By giving his sons or apprentices a little 
ground to tend for themselves, or young stock to raise, he 
will interest them in looking after his interests ’and remain- 
ing with him on the farm. 

Seventh. An agricultural paper is worth its cost for the 
hints it will furnish if not blindly followed. 

Eighth, It is much safer to raise a variety of crops than 
to trust all to one crop. 

Ninth. By honesty and industry and faithful perse- 
verance and a constant study of how to make the best use of 
every minute, he has more chances to become wealthy and 
respected at farming than at any other profession for which 
he is equally fitted. And civil rights and honors naturally 
follow those who show that they can make and keep money 
and deserve respect. 







•j' 





I 









