BALTIMORE: NEW YORK : 

22 and 24 E. Baltimore St. No. 112 Fifth Avenue. 

WASHINGTON : 

817 Market Space, Penna. Avenue. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



TPS 



Shelf,.G.4.S"5 





Itfm. Innate <| Go. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



*Gpand,<S'UpFighKand*SquaFe* 

Piano- Fortes. 



For Fifty Years before the public, these Instruments have, by 

their excellence, attained an unpurchased pre-eminence, 

which establishes them the unequaled in 



Tone, T 0110 ^, YV)or^mansbif> and Durability. 



Arrangement of the Book. 



The Menu for Breakfasts, Luncheons and Dinners at the 
beginniog and end of the Book, has been prepared with care, 
and will be useful and helpful to the house-keeper. It may 
be added that the dishes suggested in these will be found un- 
der their appropriate headings among the Recipes. At the 
end of the Book will be found an Index of the Recipes in 
regular order, also a Classifield Index or Business Direc- 
tory of the advertisers who have generously contributed to 
the book. 

In conclusion, it maybe remarked that "The Practical 
Cook Book" makes no attempt to give anything untried or 
fanciful, but a good collection of well tried Recipes, with 
simple and comprehensive directions. 

Mrs. J. H. GIESE. 



HIIE 



Practical 



Cook Book 



Hopper, McGaw & Co., 

Importing Grocers and Wine Merchants, 

HAVANA AND KEY WEST CIGARS, 
220 and 222 North Charles Street, 



(OPPOSITE MASONIC TEMPLE. 




=«"■ .^—».. t - 11tr — — 



Have the handsomest equipped establishment in this City. 

The Greatest Variety of Choice Edibles. 

Prices guaranteed as low as any. 

MOTTO :—" PURITY AND EXCELLENCE." 



[copyrighted.] 

OVER 300 



-WELL TRIED- 



PRECIPES* 



-AND- 



WHPRK TO PI IV ALMOST EVERYTHING 
I'ERTAINING TO 

-«House=Keepings- 



-FROM- 



WELL ESTABLISHED FIRMS. 



Compiled by MRS. J. PI. GIESE. 



Baltimore : 

Hanzsche & Company, Printers, 

No. 2 Light Street. 

1888. 







Q< 



a 



rDENU. 



Spring Bre^kfrst. 



Fruit. 



Fish and biscuits. 

Fried chicken and mush. )_ j^^ 

Sliced tomatoes. j 

Reed birds on toast. 

Coffee and chocolate. 

Simple Breakfast for Six. 

Partridges on toast. | p arker House rolls 

Omelet with mushrooms. ) 
Porter-house steaks. ) Rjce waffles 
Saratoga potatoes. \ 
Coffee and chocolate. 

Luncheon. 

Bouillon. 

Breaded chops and mushrooms. 

Deviled fish with pickles. 

Chicken croquetts, green peas and hot rolls. 

Sweet bread salad and wafers. 

Charlotte russe. 

Ice cream and cake. 

Fruit bon-bons and salted almonds. 

Coffee. 



6 
Luncheon. 

Bouillon. 

Oyster patties. 

Capons, spinach and potatoes. 

Croquetts and peas. 

Sweet breads, mushroom sauce. 

Ices with cake. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Oysters on half shell. 

Circle of chops, with mound of potatoes. 

Finger rolls in halves. 

Pressed chicken and cold slaw. 

Olives and celery. 

Wafers. 

Ices and assorted cakes. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 

WINTER DINNER. 

Raw oysters served on ice. 

Chicken soup with noodles. 

Deviled salmon served in shells. 

Croquetts with green peas. 

Roasted quail with potato balls and jelly. 

Salad. 

Water ices and ice cream. 

Cake. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 

WINTER DINNER. 

Plain chicken soup. 

Fried oysters, cold slaw. 

Braised pigeons with spinach. 

Roast beef with a circle of baked sweet potatoes. 

Canvas back ducks, celery. 

Macaroni with cheese. 



Pine apple, Bavarian cream. 

Vanilla cream and ginger preserves. 

Cakes. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Oysters on shell. 

Soup. 

Smelts on straws. 

Fillet of beef, mushroom sauce. 

French peas, Parisienne potatoes. 

Quail on toast, Saratoga celery. 

Charlotte russe. 

Cake. « 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



SUMMER DINNER. 

Clam soup. 

Soft crabs and cauliflowers, (cream dressing on both.) 

Croquetts of chicken with peas. 

Roast lamb; caper sauce; spinach. 

Sliced tomatoes with mayonaise dressing. 

Cucumbers ; wafers. 

Raspberries and cream and cakes. 

Coffee. 



SPRING DINNER. 

Raked shad. 

Macaroni soup. 

Chicken croquetts with green peas. 

Sweet breads ; tomato sauce. 

Fillet of beef with mushrooms. 

Snipe ; creamed potatoes. 

Mayonnaise of chicken. 

Asparagus with cream dressing. 

Neopolitan ice cream with strawberries and angel food. 

Coffee. 



WINTER DINNER. 

Oysters on half shell. 

Mock turtle soup. 

Salmon with potato flowers. 

Sweet breads and peas. 

Lamb chops ; tomato sauce. 

Roast turkey, chestnut stuffing, cream potatoes. 

Salad with small thin slices of fried ham. 

Cheese ; celery ; wafers. 

Mince pies with vanilla ice cream. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



To Cook: Cereals. 



To render cereals wholesome, they should be cooked slowly, and 
with enough water. The following table will be found a help : 

Pearled Wheat. — Five measures of liquid to each measure of wheat. 
Cook from four to six hours. 

Pearled Barley. — Five measures of liquid to each measure of barley. 
Cook from four to six hours. 

Coarse Hominy. — Five measures of liquid to each measure of hom- 
iny. Cook from six to ten hours. 

Fine Hominy. — Four measures of liquid to each measure of hominy. 
Cook from four to six hours. 

Coarse Oatmeal. — Four measures of liquid to each measure of oat- 
meal. Cook from four to six hours. 

Rolled Wheat. — Three measures of liquid to each measure of wheat. 
Cook two hours. 

Rolled Barley. — Three measures of liquid to each measure of barley. 
Cook two hours. 

Rolled Oats. — Three measures of liquid to each measure of oats. 
Cook an hour. 

Rice. — Three measures of liquid to each measure of rice. Cook 
an hour. 

Farina. — Six measures of liquid to each measure of farina. Cook 
half an hour to an hour. 

Cerealine Flakes. — One measure of liquid to each measure of cere- 
aline. Cook half an hour. 



I41hj, Rogers & Co. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DRUGGISTS, 

108 E. Baltimore St,, Baltimore, Md. 
FINEST SATCHET POWDERS. 



o 

u 



CO 

W 

H 
h 
O 
PQ 

co 

CO 

< 



H 

D 
o 



Prescription : 

l-£ The Prescription Department of 
' Lilly, Rogers & Co. is the most 
completely equipped and thoroughly stock- 
ed establishment of the kind in the country, 
and the facilities afforded for the accurate 
compounding of Prescriptions are un- 
equalled. Presided over by several gradu- 
ates of Pharmacy, each Prescription is made 
to pass through several hands, and is 
checked and counter-checked before being 
delivered to the customer, thereby render- 
ing mistakes impossible. 

The quality of Drugs used is guaranteed 
to be of absolute purity and full strength. 



H 

O 

>— < 

r 
w 

> 

o 

< 

o 
o 
o 

o 

en 

I 

I? 
3* 






o 



Orders by Mail receive prompt attention. 

A large variety of everything in our line at moderate 
prices. 



10 

YEAST. 



In two quarts of water boil three large potatoes, a handful 
of hops tied in a bag, boil till the potatoes are well done ; 
mash smooth, add seven tablespoonsful of flour, pour over 
this the potato and hop water, which must be boiling. Stir 
till perfectly smooth, then add one cup brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful ginger, and a small cup of baker's yeast ; let rise till 
very light, then add one tablespoonful salt and half pint boil- 
ing water, stir well and let rise again ; then put it in cool place 
and it will keep for weeks. 



BREADS. 



Take one quart tepid water. 

One tablespoonful salt. 

One cupful of yeast. 
Beat this well into a nice sponge at night. In the morning 
add flour enough to make a good dough, knead well for half 
an hour, set to rise and when light make into loaves ; let rise 
again and bake immediately. Or the sponge can be made 
about 5 o'clock in the afternoon, and will be read}' if kept in 
a warm place, to make up into bread dough at bed time ; let 
rise over night, and make into loaves early the next morn- 
ing, and bake as soon as it lightens in the pans, in a moderate 
oven. 

BREAD. 

Take two quarts flour. 

One dessertspoonful sugar. 

The same of salt. 

Lard size of a walnut. 

Half cake of compressed yeast. 

And tepid water to make good dough. 
Knead well for half hour and let rise over night. Mold into 
loaves in the morning, with as little handling as possible. 
After it lightens in the pans bake in a moderate oven. The 
baking is a very important part in good bread. Good rolls 
can be made from this dough for breakfast. 



11 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two cupsful unbolted flour. 

Three-quarters cupful yellow corn meal. 

Three-quarters cupful wheat flour. 

Three-quarterscupful molasses. 

One teaspoonful soda. 

Salt to taste. 

Small piece of lard. 

One egg well beaten. 

With sufficient water to make the consistency of muffin 
dough. 

Steam or boil six or seven hours. 
Place in a hot oven for twenty minutes to dry off, and 
form a tender crust. When it is served for breakfast it 
should be heated, cut in slices, dip very quickly in boiling 
water, lay out singly in a pan and place in a hot oven till 
thoroughly heated. Serve at once. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two cupsful sweet or sour milk. 

Half cupful molasses. 

Half cupful brown sugar. 

Half teaspoonful saleratus. 

Two cupsful of brown or graham flour. 

With one teaspoonful of baking powder stirred in the 
flour. 

One cupful white flour. 

Half teaspoonful salt. 
Put the saleratus in the molasses dry and beat until light ; 
then add the other ingredients. Steam two hours or bake 
half hour. 

Graham Bread. 

Take equal quantities of graham and wheat flour. 

Make a sponge about 5 P.M., of one quart tepid water. 

Half cake compressed yeast and wheat flour. Let 
lighten. 
About 10 P. M. make up the bread, adding salt to taste, half 
cupful dark molasses and small piece of lard ; work it suffi- 
ciently, but do not make the dough quite as stiff as white 
bread. Set to rise and in the morning mold and put in pans, 
let lighten again, bake in a careful oven. This will make two 
loaves. 



12 
Good Rolls. 

Make a sponge with one pint of tepid water, one small po- 
tato boiled and mashed, one teaspoonful salt, half cake com- 
pressed yeast, with flour enough to make thick as muffin 
batter. Set to rise about 10 A. M. When light add the 
whites of two eggs beaten very light, one heaped dessert- 
spoonful sugar, one heaped fo^/<?spoonful lard, or butter with 
flour enough to make a nice dough, not too stiff. Knead 
well about twenty minutes : set to rise again and for tea at 7 
make the rolls into pans about 5. These can be made into 
French rolls or any desirable shape. The) 1 are very nice 
rolled out thin, spread with butter and rolled up like jelly 
cake in the shape of a French roll or round and turned over. 
Let these get very light and bake in a hot oven. 

Aunt Susan's Rolls. 

Warm in a pint of milk a large spoonful of lard. 

And the same of butter. 

A spoonful of salt and the same of sugar. 

Stir into this a pint of sifced flour. 

Two well beaten eggs. 

Half a cake of compressed yeast. 
Then beat in as much more flour as you can with a spoon 
beat well and smooth as stiff as can be beaten ; set to rise in 
a warm place ; it will take four or five hours. When light 
dust flour on your cake board, on which drop a spoonful of 
this risen dough ; mold lightly with the fingers, using as 
little flour as possible ; put in a greased pan, not allowing 
them to touch ; let stand till quite light, bake in a quick 
oven. 

Parker House Rolls. 

One quart sweet milk. 

Half cupful sugar. 

One table spoonful lard and the same of butter. 

One teaspoonful salt. 

Heat milk adding all. 

When cool, add half cake compressed yeast. 
Make into a soft dough, let rise and roll out without work- 
ing ; spread with butter, cut and fold over, rise again and bake 
in a hot oven. 



13 



Samviel Child & Son, 



-OFFER ONE OF THE- 



fewest and Best Selected Stool of Goons 

IN T3GEIS COUNTRY. 

Dinner Sets, complete with all full size pieces, decorated 
handsomely, from $15.00 up. 

(Not old unsalable patterns, but New and Handsome Designs.) 

Cut Table Glassware, best quality, 4 dozen for $10.00. 

Chamber Sets, new colors and shapes. 

Decorated Plates in dozens. 

Fish, Game, Salad, Lunch, Tea and Breakfast Sets. 

Heavy Cut Glass Table Ware, — large variety and choice quality. 

Paris Mantel Clocks. — Closing Out at Cost. — Great Bargains. 

Sheffield Table Cutlery.— Pearl, Ivory, Celluloid, Rubber & Plated. 

Ornamented Goods and Novelties in China, Brass, &c. 

HfgpTWe Warrant the Goods we sell and Guarantee the Prices. 



YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION IS CALLED TO 

PROCTER & GAMBLE'S 

Cincinnati Oleine Soap, 

— IT IS THE 

ORIGINAL OLEINE SOA1' 

AND 

The best laundry soap made, 

See that every bar has "PROCTER & GAMBLE'S" name on it, as 
there are many Imitations. 



ITTOIES"^" GOiiP 

For Fine LAUNDRY work and TOILET use has no superior. It is a 
White Soap. It floats and is a splendid Bath Soap. 



The above brands can be had of any Grocer as low as brands of inferior 
quality, and are guaranteed to give you every satisfaction. 



14 
Turnovers. 

One and a quarter pounds flour. 

Four small white potatoes boiled and mashed through 

a colander into .the flour whilst they arc hot. 
Four ounces lard, and four eggs well beaten. 
One-third of a cake compressed yeast. 
One dessert spoonful of salt. 
Set to rise over night, in the morning roll into thin biscuit, 
turn over one edge and put a little lard or butter on the top ; 
let them rise a second time in the pans. 

Rusk. 

One pint milk. 

Two-thirds cake compressed yeast. 

And as much flour as will make a good sponge. 

Set to rise over night. Next morning take three eggs. 

One cupful of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of butter beaten to a cream. 

One nutmeg. 
Add all this to the risen sponge, add as much flour as will 
make a soft roll dough, work it well into rolls, and put them 
in a greased pan, let them lighten and bake in a moderate 
oven ; do not put them too close together in the pan. Wash 
over before baking with milk and sugar. Sprinkle with sugar 
when ready for the table. 

Maryland Biscuit. 

To one quart of flour take one teaspoonful Rumford's 

yeast powder sifted with flour. 
Salt to taste. 

One tablespoonful of hud. 
Water enough to make a very stiff dough. 
Beat with flat iron twenty minutes, mould into nicely shaped 
biscuits, flatten slightly and stick with a fork. 

Maryland Biscuit. 

Two pounds of flour. 

Quarter pound lard or butter. 

One pint of milk. 

A little salt. 

Beat with flat iron twenty minutes exactly. 



15 
Breakfast Biscuit. 

Sift one quart of flour. 

One tea spoonful of salt and 

Three teaspoonsful of Rumford's yeast powder. 

Add half-ounce each lard and butter. 
Mix well together, add milk enough to make a soft dough, 
roll out and cut in biscuits, and bake in a hot oven. The 
same dough rolled very thin and baked on the griddle, and 
turned as any griddle cakes, are very nice for breakfast or 
tea ; cut the same size of biscuits ; these will require more time 
than griddle cakes. 

HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 

HOT FOR TEA. 

Two cupsful flour. 

One cupful milk. 

One cupful berries. 

Two tablespoonsful molasses. 

One egg. 

One teaspoonful yeast powder. 

Sally Lunn. 

One quart milk. 

One teacupful sugar. 

One teacupful butter and lard mixed. 

Four eggs. 

Four cupsful flour. 

Half cake compressed yeast. 

Salt to taste. 
Set to rise at 10 A. M., and pour in pans two hours before 
baking. This is for 7 P. M. tea, and makes two good sized 
cakes. 

Sally Lunn. 

One pint milk. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Three eggs. 

As much flour as will make batter as thick ^as ."pound 

cake. 
Sugar to taste. 
A little salt. 
Half cake yeast. 



16 

Set to rise about 10 A. M., and about an hour before supper 
stir down, and stir in gently one tea spoonful Rumford's yeast 
powder, let rise again and bake ; an earthern dish with funnel 
in it is the best to baKe this or any similar cake. 

Scotch Short Bread. 

One pound of butter. 
Two pounds of flour. 
Three-quarters pound sugar. 
Mix well together and roll, cut in squares and bake. 

Pop Overs, or Gems. 

One quart of milk. 

Four eggs. 

Two ounces of butter, and a little salt. 

A full pint of sifted flour. 
Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately, very light, add 
gradually the other ingredients, no baking powder is needed. 
Bake quickly in a hot oven in small pans, greased with butter. 

Crumpets. 

One quart of flour. 

One teaspoonful of salt. * 

Four teaspoonsful of Rumford's yeast powder. 
Three teacupsful of milk. 
Beat all well. The pans should be heated before putting in 
the batter. They require a very hot oven. 

Corn Meal Drop Cakes. 

One pint corn meal, scalded. 
One egg beaten light. 
( hie tablespoonful of wheat flour. 
A little salt. 
Have ready some hot lard and drop the batter into it from 
a spoon. 

Rye Drop Cakes. 

One egg. 

One pint of sour milk. 
One teaspoonful of saleratus. 
Add alternately a spoonful of rye and corn meal, until you 
have a stiff batter. Cook as above. 



17 



Tll WK YQII WflJW: 






Reliable Food Products ! 

Convenient to Your Home ! 

At Lexington Market Prices ! 



HT PW WE QFFEl^: 



v^ 



Most Baltimore Housekeepers are familiar with 
our long-established house at the Lexington Market. 

We announce the opening of our New Store, cor. 
Charles Street and North Avenue, which will be run 
in connection with our Lexington Market store, with 
exactly the same prices. 

We offer those goods only which our long experi- 
ence guarantees as the Purest and Best. 

We are convenient to you, and will promptly de- 
liver goods in any part of the city or belt. On appli- 
cation, our wagons will call daily for orders. 



F. L. LaWPence ^ $ong. 



(Established 1844.) 

Charles Street and North A venue, and 

Greene Street and Lexington Market. 



18 
Rye Batter Cakes. 

One quart milk. 
Half cake compressed yeast. 
As mnch rye meal as will make a batter. 
Three eggs beaten light, and a little salt. 
Set in a warm place to rise. Bake as buckwheat cakes ; 
butter, and send to table hot. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

To one pound buckwheat meal take one-third as much 
corn meal. 

One teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix with water and one cup of milk. 

Half cake compressed yeast. 
Make the batter the consistency of flannel cakes. Beat 
well for fifteen minutes ; set to rise over night. If the batter 
should seem the least acid, dissolve half teaspoonful soda in 
warm water and stir in lightly. Have your griddle hot and 
grease with a fat piece of ham with the skin on it. 

Flannel Cakes. 



To one pint of milk, take three eggs. 
One-third of a cake of yeast. 
One teaspoonful of salt, and two of butter. 
One quart of flour. 
Let rise. Have your griddle ready and bake as above. 

Waffles. 



To one pint of milk, take two eggs. 

A pinch of salt, and one tablespoonful of butter. 

Beat butcer well. 

Add yolks of eggs. 
Beat again until very light, flour to make proper consist- 
ency, not to stiff, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
added last. Two teaspoonsful Rumford's yeast powder stirred 
in just when you are ready to cook them. 

Muffins made in the same way are very nice only a trifle 
stiffer. 



19 

Waffles without Butter. 

One and a half pints of milk. 

One and a half cupsful of flour. 

Three eggs beaten separately and very light. 

One teaspoonful salt. 
Beat milk, flour and salt very light. Then add the eggs and 
one tablespoonful Rumford's yeast powder ; these are very 
nice indeed if beaten sufficiently. 

Butter-Milk Waffles. 

To one pint of buttermilk take two eggs. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Make a batter with the butter milk. 
Then add the eggs beaten separately and very light, mak- 
ing it all just thick enough to run off the spoon ; add a little- 
salt, and just when ready to bake dissolve an even teaspoon- 
ful of soda in water, and stir into the batter. 

Rice Corn Bread. 

Boil at night two scant cupfuls of rice. 

When done add butter size of an egg, and one pint 

of milk. 
In the morning beat four eggs very light, beaten into 

the rice, &c, 
Adding two cups of corn meal and 
Two teaspoonsful yeast powder just when you are 

ready to put in the oven. Bake in a hot oven. 

Southern Corn Meal Pone. 

Mix with cold water into a soft dough white corn meal, 
one teaspoonful salt and a little melted lard, bake in a hot 
oven in a well greased pan. 

Corn Bread. 

To one pint of milk. 

One teaspoonful of salt. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One tablespoonful each butter and lard. 

Three eggs. 

One dessert spoonful Rumford's yeast powder, 



20 

Mix corn meal with half teacupful wheat flour into the milk, 
then lard and butter, salt and sugar, then the eggs beaten 
light and separately, whites last, and just when ready to go 
into the oven put in the yeast powder ; do not make too 
stiff, about three cups corn meal and flour together is ample. 
Sour milk may be used, in which case use one teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in warm water instead of yeast powder. 



CO^^ZLZLIZLnTIB. 



DIRECTIONS FOR USING CORALLINE. 



Handy Receipt ! No Cooking ! 

Place desired amount of Coralline dry in a China or Porcelain vessel ; 
add sufficient milk or water to cover, and let stand until the Coralline 
absorbs the liquid. Use custard, cream, sweetened milk, or any fla- 
vored dressing desired. Splendid for pic-nics, quick desserts, and a 
most delightful dish for summer evening teas. 

BREAKFAST CAKES, &c. 

Coralline Pone. 

Mix well one pint of Coralline, one pint of Milk, one cup of Flour, 
two Eggs, one teaspoonful of Salt, one tablespoonful of Sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Yeast Powder. Bake in a hot Oven. 

Coralline Omelets. 

Two Eggs, one cupful of milk, one even teacup of Coralline, one small 
teaspoonful of Salt one tablespooonful of Butter ; beat well the yolks of 
the Eggs, add the Milk Salt and Coralline ; beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and stir altogether. Put the butter in a hot pan, and when mel- 
ted, pour in the mixture. Let the pan remain on the stove two minutes, 
then place in a hot oven and let remain five minutes, then fold and turn 
on a hot dish. Serve immediately. 

Coralline Waffles. 

Take one pint of Coralline and dissolve in one pint of hot Milk (sweet 
or sour) ; add sufficient Hour to keep them from sticking to the irons ; 
two teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder, good size lump of Lard, little Salt ; 
have batter thin and irons well greased and hot. Serve plain or with 
equal parts of Cinnamon and Sugar dusted lightly over it. 

Coralline Pudding to Serve with Meat. 

Mix one quart of Coralline, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Yeast Pow- 
der, and a saltspoonful of Salt. Then stir in four Eggs, and add slowly 
while briskly stirring with a spoon, a quart of Milk, making a light and 
smooth batter. Bake twenty minutes in a well-greased tin. 



21. 

RUMFORD 



YeasKPocuder, 

(THE OLD RELIABLE.) 

IS THE BEST, 

BECAUSE 

It adds the nutritious and strength-giving phosphates 
required by the system. 

It makes biscuit that dyspeptics can eat hot. 

It requires less shortening than any other baking 
powder. 

It makes biscuit that are sweet and palatable when 
cold. 

It is the strongest baking powder made. 

It is recommended by eminent Physicians. 

No other baking powder has these qualities. 

Put up in glass bottles. Every Bottle Warranted. 
iSP'CooK Book Free. 

Humpord Chemical Works, 

PROVIDENCE, R. I. 



•1-1 

Coralline Buns. 



Mix one pint of Coralline and one heaping teaspoonful of Yeast Pow- 
der. Then add half a pound of powdered Sugar and four ounces of 
Butter, and mix well together. Then break in four Eggs, and beat all 
together, bake in small tins or patty pans for fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. 

Coralline Muffins. 

One pint sifted Flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Yeast Powder, 
and a little Salt. Thoroughly mix together ; then add one pint of Cor- 
alline, two Eggs, one tablespoonful of Butter, and enough Sweet Milk 
to make a thick batter. Bake immediately. 

Coralline Griddle Cakes. 

lake half pint of Coralline, soak it in Milk until soft, beat one Egg 
light, add one teaspoonful of Salt, one pint of wheat Flour, and enough 
water to make a smooth batter ; add the Coralline; thin with Milk or 
Water ; add two teaspoonfuls of Yeast Powder. Bake immediately on 
a hot griddle. 

BOILED CORALLINE. 

Take Coralline. Boil either in water or Milk for two or three minutes 
adding Salt and Butter to taste. Serve with Milk or Cream and pow- 
dered Sugar. When cold, slice and fry. 

Into two quarts of boiling Milk, stir gently five ounces of Coralline, 
stirring with a wooden spoon. Boil two to four minutes. Add Salt, 
Pepper and Sugar to taste. Serve hot. 

One and a half pints of Coralline and one quart of Milk. Boil the 
Coralline in the Milk for two minutes, adding a little Salt, Sugar and 
Butter to taste. Serve with Cream and powdered Sugar. This is also 
a very delicate and palatable dish if sliced when cold and fried. 

Take one and three-quarter quarts of water. Salt to taste, and when 
it reaches the boiling point, stir in one-half pound of Coralline. Boil 
briskly for one or two minutes, stirring continuously to prevent stick- 
ing. Use Butter, Milk, Sugar, Vanilla, or any Sauce you prefer. When 
cold, it may be cut into slices and fried in Lard. 

SOUP. 

Coralline for Soups. 

Coralline is an addition to all kinds of Soup. When the Soup is 
ready for the table, add one cupful of Coralline. 

Coralline for Stewed Oysters. 

Add one cup of Coralline to one quart of Oysters ; Coralline to be 
added when Oysters are ready tor the table. 

BREAD. 

Coralline Cream Rolls. 

Take one pint of Coralline, one and three-quarter pints of Flour, a 
little Salt, two teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, a tablespoonful of Butter 
and a pint of Milk. Sift the Flour, Salt and Baking Powder together, 



23 

and rub in the Butter cold. Add the Milk and Coralline, and mix into 
a rather firmer dough than ordinary. Flour the board ; turn out the 
dough, and immediately give it a quick kneading to complete its smooth- 
ness, divide into pieces the size of an Egg. Punch the ends together 
a little, and lay them on a greased baking tin, and wash over with Milk. 
Bake in a hot oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Coralline Rolls. 

Sift the Flour, Salt, and Baking Powder together. Rubin the Butter 
cold. Beat the Egg into the Milk. Add the Coraline, and mix the 
whole into a smooth dough easily handled without sticking to the hands 
or board. Flour the board ; turn the dough out on the board and give 
it a quick kneading to equalize it. Then roll it out to onedialf inch in 
thickness. Cut out with large round cutter, and fold onedialf over the 
other by doubling it. Lay them on greased baking sheets without 
touching each other. Wash them over with a little Milk to glaze them, 
and bake in a hot oven. 

Coralline Home-Macle Bread. 

Use the usual amount of Flour, add one-quarter the amount of Coral- 
line steeped in hot water, and proceed as usual. Bread made in this 
manner will keep moist and sweet two or three days longer than with- 
out Coralline. Try it. 



SOUPS. 



Stock for Clear Soups. 

Five pounds of clear beef cut from the lower part of the 
round, five quarts cold water, let come to a boil slowly ; skim 
carefully and set where it will keep just at the boiling point 
for eight or ten hours ; strain and set away to cool over night. 
In the morning, skim off all the fat ; turn the soup into the 
kettle, add one onion, one stalk celery, two leaves sage, two 
sprigs parsley, two of thyme, two of summer savoy, two bay 
leaves, twelve pepper corns, six whole cloves. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Boil gently for twenty minutes, and strain 
through a napkin. 

Lenten Soup. 

One quart canned tomatoes, one quart fresh milk, one tea- 
spoonful soda. Let tomatoes boil then run through a colander, 
add the soda, smooth one tablespoonful of butter in flour and 
stir through the tomatoes, add pepper and salt and make scald- 
ing hot, then stir in the milk, let come to a scald and serve. 



24 
Tomato Soup. 

One quart tomatoes, three quarts boiling water, one even 
teaspoonful soda, pepper and salt. Butter size of an egg, one 
small onion, one quart fresh milk. Put tomatoes and onion 
over the fire with the water and when cooked strain through 
a colander. Boil the milk, then stir in the soda and butter, 
and after one boil keep hot until ready to serve. Put pepper 
and salt with the tomatoes and onion, simmer five minutes, 
stir in the milk, stirring constantly to keep from curdling. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Take two pounds of lean beef, allow to boil four hours, one 
onion, one pint prepared tomatoes, one pint sliced gumbo, and 
half pint cut potatoes. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Take two pounds lean beef, one onion, one pint each of pre- 
pared tomatoes and sliced gumbo, half pint cut potatoes; let 
boil four hours, one and a half gallons of water reduced to one 
gallon, press through a colander, then add a half dozen corn 
cut off the cob, half pint sliced gumbo ; boil tender and serve 
with the soup. Season highly with pepper and salt. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One cup black beans, one pound lean beef, three quarts cold 
water, boil half away, slice one lemon and one hard boiled egg 
in the tureen and strain the soup over these. 

Crab Soup. 

The meat of six hard crabs ; one quart fresh milk ; put into 
a kettle ; two small tablespoonsful of flour and two of butter, 
worked smoothly together, stirred in, salt and pepper to taste. 
Boil fifteen minutes. 

Bouillon. 

A large beef shin. 

Two and one half gallons water. 

Two bunches soup herbs. 

One small onion. 

Three pieces celery, or use celery seed to taste. 
Boil all down to half the quantity, add salt and red pepper, 
strain and when cold skim off the grease. When wanted for 
use put on the fire with the shells and whites of three eggs 
and boil until clear. Color with caramel and pour through a 
flannel basr. 



25 



Vienna PoM Bakery. 

Jaeob p. Baiter, proprietor. 
Nos. 1413 & 1415 N. Charles St., 

SOUTH OF UNION STATION. 



"Tfoe 0nJtj Sen in tie Vieitna 

■^BREAD, ROLLS,^- 

AND ALL OF THE FAMOUS BAKINGS OF 
THE CENTENNIAL EXPOSITION 

■KL876.* 



ALSO, 

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. 



PRIVATE FAMILIES PROMPTLY SERVED. 

Telephone Call 1268-2. 

Wimmmm M£@d®i MmJkmj?^, 

7 A COB P. BAITER, Proprietor. 
JOHN y. DORSEY, Manager. 



26 
Chicken Soup. 

Put the chicken on to boil, covered with cold water ; let 
boil slowly one hour, then season and add a soup bunch ; boil 
two hours longer, and ten or fifteen minutes before serving 
add half cup cooked rice, three potatoes cooked and cut up, 
and one cup fresh milk ; let boil and last of all add noodles, 
they require very few minutes to boil. 

Noodles. 

Three eggs beaten light. 

One teaspoonful salt and flour. 

With half teaspoonful Rumford's yeast powder sifted 
with the flour. 
Make this into a stiff dough, roll very thin, rub flour on 
both sides and make into a tight roll, (the dough must be 
rolled thin as a wafer) cut in very thin slices, forming little 
curls, shake them out and let dry an hour or more. These 
noodles are nice for a vegetable. Three eggs will make a suf- 
ficient for soup and vegetable both. For a vegetable throw 
the noodles into boiling water (salted) and boil till done, shak- 
ing to keep from sticking together or matting. Skim out and 
place on a platter after seasoning, with butter. Fry some 
bread crumbs in butter and sprinkle over the noodles before 
serving. This is. a good dish to serve with fish. 



Kishi and Ovsters. 



Devilled Crabs. 

Take one dozen crabs, boil till red, but not soft, pick, and 
to this quantity take a slice of bread moistened with milk, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one raw egg beaten, cayenne pepper 
and salt to the taste ; put into the shells and dust with cracker 
dust, small pieces of butter over the top and brown in a quick 
oven. 

Soft Crabs, Fried. 

Get crabs alive, remove the dead men's fingers and sand 
bag, wash well and drain, season well with pepper and salt, 
fry in hot lard, make a cream gravy and pour over. 



27 

Devilled Clams. 

Twenty-five clams chopped fine. Half small loaf of stale 
bread, crumbled. Two hard boiled eggs chopped fine. One 
tablespoonful melted butter. Season well with salt and pep- 
per, a little sweet marjoram and a little onion. Moisten this 
with clam juice. Put into shells, cover the tops with bread 
crumbs and a small piece of butter on the top of each one ; 
bake in a quick oven. 

Devilled Fish. 

Take a white fish ; three and a half lbs., for twelve people, 
boil until done, remove the skin and bones ; cut up fine. Take 
one pint of the water the fish was boiled in and one pint o( 
milk, put into this butter size of an egg, a little onion chopped 
fine, a little parsley and salt to taste, thicken with corn starch 
about two tablespoonsful, when this has boiled mix with the 
fish. Bake in shells, cover with bread crumbs and a small 
piece of butter on each one, when done serve with a leaf of 
parsley on the top. 

Devilled Oysters. 

Put on fifty oysters to boil in their own liquor, when boiled 
just enough, drain well, cut up not very fine ; add salt, pep- 
per, a little nutmeg, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of onion chopped. For dressing put seven table- 
spoonsful of butter in a saucepan to melt, do not let it get 
too hot, mix with the butter four tablespoonsful of flour and 
half pint of milk, boil two minutes, then add half a pint of 
cream. Mix all this with the oysters. Put in shells and cover 
with bread crumbs, with small pieces of butter, brown quickly. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

Toast several slices of bread quite brown and butter them 
on both sides. Take a baking dish and put the toast around 
the sides, pour the oysters into the dish and season to Your 
taste with butter, pepper and salt, adding mace and cloves ; 
cover with bread crumbs and bake with a quick heat about 
fifteen minutes. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

( )ne quart oysters. 

One teacupful dry bread crumbs or pounded crackers. 
Two great spoonfuls butter. 
( )ne-half cup milk or cream. 
Pepper to taste. 
A little salt. 



28 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish (well buttered) with a 
layer of crumbs, and wet these with the milk, put on spoonful 
by spoonful, pepper and salt, and strew with minute bits of 
butter. Next, put in the oysters with a little of their liquor. 
Pepper them. Stick bits of butter in among tnem, and cover 
with dry crumbs until the oysters are entirely hidden. More 
pieces of butter, very small, and arranged thickly on top. 
Set in the oven, invert a plate 'over it to keep in the flavor, 
and bake until the juiee bubbles up to the top ; remove the 
cover, and brown on the upper grating for two or three min- 
utes — certainly not longer — send to the table in a bake dish. 

Stewed Oysters. 

One quart of milk to two quarts oysters, drain the liquor 
from the oysters, put on and boil slowly, skim off until clear ; 
add to this the milk, with butter size of an egg, with pepper 
and salt to taste ; when all comes to boiling point, put in the • 
oysters and cook slowly until they are done. 

Fried Oysters. 

Wash and drain the oysters and wipe dry with a napkin ; if 
oysters are small fit two together, season with pepper and salt, 
roll in cracker dust or corn meal, pat them well, let stand about 
a half hour ; fry in plenty boiling lard. 

Panned Oysters. 

Take good oysters, wash and drain through a colander. 
To one quart of oysters take butter size of an egg, melt 
butter in a skillet and pour in the oysters, let cook till they 
curl at the edges ; season and pour over pieces of bread toasted 
and buttered ; serve hot. 

Potted Shad, or Herring. 

Clean the fish, taking off the heads, tails and all the fins, 
cut in pieces, wash well and wipe dry ; season each piece well 
with salt and cayenne pepper ; lay in layers in a stone pot, 
place between each layer some allspice and pieces of cinna- 
mon stick ; cover with good cider vinegar, tie thick paper over 
the pot, place in a moderate oven and let remain three or four 
hours. 



29 

T. T. "WEBSTEE, 

^aney W l^aple (Upo©epie§, 

893 NORTH HOWARD STREET, 
Opp. Richmond Market, "BsUVCCLOTB >, JjlcL. 

Goods Delivered Promptly. Marketing Delivered Free. 

^KT. ~^KT. SlvCOOT, 

Prime Chipped Beef & Tongues, 



-STALLS 



35 & 37 Richmond Market, and 30 & 32 Lexington Market, 
BALTIMORE, JviU. 

Baltimore Goal Go., 

Biggs Brothers, 

Ggau and Vog 

Ne. 2 SeafH Street, 

AMERICAN BUILDING, 

BAUTIMORE. 



30 

Hints on Cooking Merts. 



The secret of having good roast meats of any kind as well 
as poultry is to cook just long enough and to baste fre- 
quently. It is better to allow too much rather than too little 
time to all meats except beef. Do not put any water to beef, 
mutton or pork ; let cook slowly at first and baste with their 
own juices and fat. A medium sized turkey of eight or nine 
lbs., should be cooked three hours. To prevent a large tur- 
key from getting too brown, it is well to make a tolerably stiff 
dough of flour and water, and spread over the breast and limbs 
whilst cooking placed on its back, this keeps the meat moist 
and juicy.. 

Dressing for Poultry. 

Take bread a day or two old, cut up very fine or crumble 
it if you prefer, season liberally with celery salt, pepper, 
butter and chopped onion, heat all together in the oven and 
rub well together, do not add any water as the dry dressing 
is much nicer. 

Beef Steak with Oysters. 

After broiling a porter house or sirloin steak, season well 
with butter, pepper and salt. Have ready washed and drained 
a pint or more fine oysters, cover the steak with the oysters 
adding bits of butter and a sprinkle of pepper and salt. Set 
in a hot oven just long enough for the oysters to curl. Any 
steak to be good must not be too thin, cooked quickly, turning 
the broiler frequently and watched carefully. 

A Palatable Dish from Cold Meats. 

Take cold roast beef chop very fine and season with pepper, 
salt and a little chopped onion, or "prince ol wales sauce" 
add water and stew till very tender. Have ready mashed 
potatoes seasoned with butter and milk beaten light. Cover 
the bottom of a meat dish with the potatoes, put the meat in 
the centre and pile prettily around it the potato to imitate 
puff paste. Place in a hot oven to brown. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Put in a sauce pan half pint fresh milk, piece ol butter size 
of a walnut, when this comes to a boil put in half lb. finely 



31 

chipped smoked beef, a sprinkle of flour from the dredging 
box, and a light sprinkle of pepper; just let it boil up and it 
is done. This is very nice for tea. 

French Way of Cooking Veal Cutlets. 

Cut the cutlets in round pieces size of a large oyster, season 
with pepper and salt, dip in egg and cracker dust and fry- 
nicely — a whole hour and a half before it is needed. Cover 
with boiling water keeping tightly covered and allow to sim- 
mer sloivly till it is needed, when there will be just enough 
gravy, and the meat will be delicate as possible. 

Shoulder of Veal. 

Select a shoulder of fat veal, let the butcher take out all the 
bones, make a filling as for poultry, fill it and roll it into a 
nice shape and secure it with skewers, season well and bake 
basting often ; this will slice nicely and is as nice as a more 
expensive cut. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw veal chopped fine. 
Four eggs. 

Four crackers, rolled. 
One cup of milk. 
Butter size of an egg. 
Pepper salt and nutmeg. 
Make into a long loaf and bake an hour or more. 

A Very Pretty Way to Serve Lamb Chops. 

Get good chops froiclicd, broil and season well ; make a 
mound of well-beaten and seasoned mashed potatoes in the 
middle of the platter, and stack the chops in a circle around, 
-bone upward ; add a circle of parsley around the chops and 
a piece on the mound of potatoes. 

Baked Lamb Chops. 

Pound them and season with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten 
egg, and then in cracker crumbs. Lay them in a greased 
baking pan ; put a small piece of butter on each chop. Bake 
a full hour ; basting occasionally with the grease that cooks 
out of them. When done pour off the grease in the pan, and 
add about a cupful of boiling water to the brown gravy which 
remains. Thicken with flour and season with salt and pepper. 
Pour over the chops. 



32 
Breaded Chops. 

Have tender lamb chops frenched, season with pepper and 
salt, dip in beaten egg, cover well with stale bread crumbled 
fine as possible, fry in butter a light brown ; serve with peas, 
garnish the dish with parsley. 

Tongue Toast. 

Make some slices of toast not very thick, browned nicely 
on both sides, cut off the crust, butter ; grate with a large 
grater a liberal sufficiency of cold tongue, (or broiled ham if 
you have not the tongue,) spread thickly over the toast; lay 
the slices side by side on a large dish. Serve at breakfast, 
luncheon or supper. 

Chicken Terrapin. 

Boil until perfectly tender one chicken, pick into small 
pieces and put in a porcelain stew pan, with a small teacup- 
ful of boiling water ; cream perfectly smooth a quarter of a 
pound of butter and- a heaping tablespoonful of flour, when 
the chicken is boiling hot add this (a little at a time) to pre- 
vent lumps, boil a minute or two, stirring all the time, add 
salt and pepper to taste, and a gill of milk. 

Pressed Chicken. 

After having boiled a chicken in a small quantity of water 
as possible until the meat falls from the bones, pick off all 
the meat, chop fine and season well with celery, salt and 
pepper. Add to the water in which the chicken was boiled 
one tablespoonful Cox's Gelatine, previously soaked ; then 
boil down to one pint, mix half this through the chicken ; 
now cover the bottom of your mould with slices of hard boiled 
eggs, then a layer of chicken, then egg slices laid on the 
sides of the mould, then another layer of chicken until the 
mould is nearly full, then pour over this the rest of the stock, 
which will sink through, forming a kind of jelly. It is well 
to make this the day before it is needed ; keep in a cold place. 
Garnish the dish with fine lettuce ; slice at the table and serve 
with a leaf of the lettuce. 



33 



WHY 



DO ALL THE LEADING COOKING Teachers 




GASSARD'S 
C'ft'liARB? 

*■■■» J^i -^^^»k. M m. A a. Bmamr o 




BECAUSE THEY KNOW IT IS THE BEST 

(BEING ABSOLUTELY PURE) AND 

THEY ARE SURE OF 

Sueeess 



s> 



Mess. Park & Tilford of New York sell it exclusively. 
Mr. G. G. Cornwell of Washington supplies the White 

House with it. 
Mess. T. T. Pierce & Co., of Boston sell nothing else. 
Mess. Thos. M. Reese & Sons, F. L. Lawrence and other 

Baltimore Grocers have sold it for nearly twenty 

years without complaint. 

O, OABSJJUD <& BONi 

BALTIMORE, MD., U. S. A. 



34 

Fried Chicken. 

Take tender chicken, cut up and lay in salt water half hour, 
drain and dry with a towel, season well and sprinkle with flour 
lightly. Put in a deep iron saucepan about a pint of lard, 
make very hot, put in the chicken selecting the best pieces, 
fry a light brown for the gravy, take about four table spoons- 
ful of the lard in which you have fried the chicken, strain into 
a clean vessel add two table spoonsful flour, stir thoroughly 
into the hot lard, add rich milk to make the consistency of 
cream, flavor with parsley. Fried mush served with the 
chicken is very nice. Place the mush around the chicken 
neatly. 

Sweet Breads. 

After parboiling, cut in pieces size of an oyster, dip in egg 
and cracker crumbs and fry in butter. 

Sweet Breads. 

Parboil the sweet breads and cut in pieces, salt and pepper 
to taste. 

For dressing : — Take one cup of milk and half cup of cream, 
put on to boil ; when thoroughly heated stir in two table 
spoonsful of flour, (mixed first with a little cold milk) butter 
and salt to taste, also an onion and parsley ; when creamy 
remove the onion and parsley ; and pour the cream over the 
sweet breads. Serve in escalop shells with bread crumbs 
sprinkled over the top and browned in the oven. It is well to 
reserve a little of the cream to pour over just before adding 
the bread crumbs. 

Sweet Bread Salad. 

Clean thoroughly the sweet breads by throwing boiling 
water over them, boil till done, cut in very small pieces, and 
mix with mayonaise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Chicken Salad. 

To one large chicken, take two bunches celery, boil the 
chicken and chop fine, season to taste with pepper and celery 
salt ; prepare the celery, cut fine and lay in cold water, until 
just before you are ready to mix the salad, drain well and mix 
with the chicken just before stirring in the mayonnaise 
dressing-. 



35 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two eggs, one salt spoonful of salt, one of dry mus- 
tard, the juice of one lemon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
one pint of olive oil. Heat the yolks, mustard and salt to- 
gether until very light, then drop the oil a few drops at a time, 
until it begins to thicken ; a few drops of the lemon juice from 
time to time, lastly, the cayenne pepper, a quart of oil can be 
incorporated with two yolks of eggs ; the dressing should be 
thick as jelly ; the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and added with the dressing, just before serving is a great 
improvement. 

Chicken Pie. 

Make a dough just like yeast potvder biscuit, line the sides 
of your baking dish with the dough rolled thin ; have ready 
your chicken stewed and seasoned well with plenty nice gravy. 
Put first in the bottom of the deep dish a layer of the inferior 
pieces of chicken, and then a layer of little squares of the 
paste, rolled very thin and very thin slices of potato, then 
chicken and so on, till the dish is full, pour in enough gravy 
and cover with a thick top of the biscuit dough, about half 
inch in thickness, with a small hole in the centre ; let the top 
extend well over the dish and fasten down very well, to keep 
the gravy from wasting. If the pie should be too dry when 
done, more gravy can be added when served. Bake careful- 
ly. A chicken pie requires plenty of seasoning and rich gravy. 
Any meat pie can be made in the same way. Spare ribs 
stewed with veal make a very nice pie. 



CROQUETTES. 



Chicken Croquettes. 

One chicken and two sweetbreads boiled tender and chopped 
fine, one pint of milk, put on to boil with some chopped 
onion, parsley, a little cayenne pepper, piece of butter size of 
a small egg, a little nutmeg, then dissolve two tablespoonfuls 
corn starch in a little cold miik, pour into the boiling milk and 
stir until it becomes very thick, mix thoroughly with the 
chicken and set aside to cool, when cold shape and dip into 
the white of an egg beaten light, then into cracker dust, drop 
one at a time into boiling lard, they will brown in a few 
moments. 



36 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Boil one chicken, and two sweetbreads, stir both very fine, 
take one large spoonful of butter and the same of flour then 
add a half pint of cream and a small quantity of milk to make 
a nice sauce, then add chicken and sweetbreads and stir all 
well together, season with red pepper and salt, shape nicely 
with your hands, dip into beaten egg and cracker dust, have 
your lard boiling and fry quickly, drop into a colander to drip. 

Croquettes. 

One slice veal cutlet. 

One pint sweetbreads. 

One cup milk. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

Butter size of walnut. 

One egg. 

A small piece of onion. 

Salt and parsley. 
Boil milk, flour, butter and onion together, then put in the 
egg, mix this in the meat which has been chopped very fine, 
set away to cool, when firm shape, roll in bread crumbs, from 
bread which has been browned. This quantity makes eigh- 
teen croquettes. 

Croquettes. 

Soak two slices of bread in boiling milk till it gets like 
mush, part of an onion stewed in water with a little butter and 
celery seed until it is done, chop very fine any kind of meat 
and mix with it the bread and onion, season to taste with 
pepper, salt and butter, mixing in the raw yolk of one egg ; if 
too stiff, add more milk, then put away to cool, when cool, 
make out into shape, rolling each one in cracker dust to make 
it firm, shape with a wine glass and fry in boiling lard, turn- 
ing each one as quick as possible. Two pounds veal or 
chicken make one dozen croquettes. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper, salt and nutmeg, 
beat to a cream with a tablespoonful of melted butter to every 
cupful of potato, bind with two or three beaten eggs, add 
some minced parsley, roll into oval balls, dip in beaten egg, 
then in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 



39 

DIAMONDS,^* 

Rubies, Sapphires, Emeralds, Pearls, 

In Pendants, Lace Pins, Ear Rings, Rings, etc. 

WATCHES OF ALL KINDS. 

In Fine Gold and Silver Cases. Also the Latest Novelties in 

JEWELRY. 

STERLING SILVER AND PLATED WARE. 

Clocks, Bronzes, Brass Goods, Lamps, 

Fine China and Fancy Goods, etc., etc. 

OUR SPECIALTY: 

SEH^Engagement, Wedding and Anniversary Presents. ^J^ J 

IsTE^KTEST STTLES. LOWEST PEICES. 

WELSH & BRO., 

Of the late firm of Canfield, Bro. & Co., 
Clocks, Bronzes and Fancy Goods, ) 5 East Baltimore Street, 

On Second Floor. — Elevator. ) near chakles. 



SAFE DEPOSIT 10 TRUST COMPANY 

SOUTH STEEET, 
Baltimore, did. 

Established for the safe keeping of Bonds, Stocks and other 

Valuables, and is fully authorized to act as Executor 

of Estates. Guardian of Minors and to 

accept Trusts of every description. 

OFFICERS : 



B. F. NEWCOMER, President. W. T. WALTERS, Vice Pres. 
W. A. WISONG, Treasurer. GEO. R. TUDOR, Cashier. 

JOHN W. MARSHALL, Secretary. 

DIRECTORS : 



B. F. NEWCOMER, W. T. WALTERS, VV. F. BURNS, 

FRANCIS WHITE. WALTER B. BROOKS, HEN'RY JAMES, 
MICHAEL JENKINS. 



40 
Rice Croquettes. 

One cupful of rice soaked over night in enough tepid water 
to cover it, then drain almost dry, then add one quart of fresh 
milk, steam until very tender, then add four tablespoonsful of 
sugar, two tablespoonsful of butter, and salt to taste, beat five 
eggs to a stiff froth and add to the mixture, cook all together 
from five to ten minutes, then remove from the fire and add 
juice of one lemon, turn out upon a buttered dish; when cold, 
flour the hands and roll into oval balls, or shape in a wine 
glass, beat one egg light and dip croquettes in, then roll in 
cracker crumbs, then fry in boiling lard. They are delicious 
if well prepared. 



VEGETABLES. 



To Cook Vegetables. 

Boil new potatoes from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Old potatoes from thirty to forty minutes. 

Peas from twenty to thirty minutes. 

String beans two hours. 

Turnips one hour. 

Cabbage one and a half hours. 

Beets two hours. 

New onions one hour. 

Old onions two hours. 

Sweet corn ten to fifteen minutes. 

Asparagus twenty to thirty minutes. 

Spinach thirty minutes to one hour. 

Dandelion from one to two hours. 

Tomatoes one hour. 

Carrots one to two hours. 

Cauliflower one to two hours. 
Green vegetables should be washed thoroughly in cold 
water, and cooked in salted water which is just beginning to 
boil. 

Spinach. 

Spinach served by being molded in a small glass or cup, 
placed in a pan with bread crumbs sprinkled over and browned 
in the oven, with a slice of hard boiled egg on top is very nice. 



41 

To Stew Potatoes. 

Cut in slices or squares as many potatoes as required ; stew 
in water with a pinch of salt until done, turn into a colander 
and drain ; set them where they will keep hot, have ready one 
pint milk, butter, the size of a walnut, a little chopped pars- 
ley ; let come to a boil and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg ; 
season with salt and pepper throw over the potatoes and serve 
in a covered dish. Cold potatoes can be used in the same way. 

Potato Flowers. 

Pare medium sized potatoes as for boiling; then, with a 
sharp pen-knife, cut or pare round and round till the potato 
is all cut up. Do not pare too thin and keep the whole pota- 
to in one piece if possible. Boil in hot lard as Saratoga pota- 
toes. You will find these very nice to garnish beef steak or 
roast. It is well for cooking any thing of this kind, as well 
as for croquettes to have a wire basket set right inside the 
vessel of boiling lard. 

Potato Puffs. 

Prepare the potatoes as directed for mashed potato ; while 
hot shape in balls about the size of an egg, have a tin sheet 
well buttered and place the balls on it ; as soon as all done 
brush over with beaten egg ; brown in the oven. When done 
slip a knife under them and slide them upon a hot platter ; 
garnish with parsley and serve immediately. 

Delmonico Potatoes. 

Boil the potatoes with skins on. When cold peel, and slice 
them thin. Put in a shallow pie dish. Scald scant pint of 
milk with one and a-half tablespoonsful of butter rubbed with 
the same quantity of flour. Salt, and scald. Pour over the 
potatoes and bake twenty minutes. They must brown. 

Escaloped Tomatoes. 

Stew and season a quart or more tomatoes to your taste. 
Add a tablespoonful butter, a very little chopped onion, one 
coffeecupful bread crumbs, or bread cut in small pieces. 
After the tomatoes are stewed, turn into a pudding dish, with 
one tablespoonful sugar stirred in with the bread crumbs, re- 
serving some to put over the top. Bake in the oven an hour 
or more. Little bits of butter and a slight sprinkle of sugar 
over the top is an improvement. 



42 
Fried Tomatoes. 

Select very firm tomatoes. Have ready some corn meal 
well seasoned with pepper and salt. Slice your tomatoes just 
when ready to cook them, clip the slices in the seasoned corn 
meal, and fry in hot lard ; sprinkle with sugar before serving. 

Fried Apples. 

Take good cooking apples. Cut in round slices taking out 
the seeds leaving on the skin. Fry nicely in hot lard, sprinkle 
a little sugar over them when ready to serve. 

Fried Peaches. 

Pare and cut large yellow peaches in halves, taking out the 
stone , fry in butter carefully watching, that they do not burn ; 
fry on both sides as apples, serve with sugar sprinkled over. 
Very nice for breakfast or luncheon. 

Tomato Toast. 

Prepare tomatoes as for sauce. Whilst they are cooking 
toast carefully very brown, (but not burned) some slices of 
bread. Butter both sides and pour the tomato over them. 

Escaloped Onions. 

Take eight or ten onions good size, slice them and boil till 
tender. Lay them in a baking dish, putting bread crumbs, 
butter in small bits, with pepper and salt between each layer 
till the dish is full, putting bread crumbs last ; add milk or 
cream till all is covered. Bake half an hour ; this is very nice, 
if rightly done you will have a dish for the most fastidious. 

Corn Fritters. 

Grate the corn from a dozen cobs, season with salt and pep- 
per. Add one tablespoonful melted butter, one teacupful 
sweet milk and half teacupful flour. Beat three eggs sepa- 
rately, very light, and turn into the batter ; beat all well to- 
gether. Drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard. Fry on both 
sides. 



43 

George Walter, 

PR.ACTIOil.Ij 

\J9a{0^makep and Jeweler, 

No. 819 MADISON AVENUE, 

Baltimore, flld. 

Keeps constantly on hand a complete assortment of 

Silver and J^fated Ware, 
Spectacles, £loefts t 

Special attention given to the Repairing of Fine 

WATCHES, 

And perfect satisfaction guaranteed in every case. 

CLOCKS, 

Sent for, repaired, returned and warranted. 

Special attention given to Repairing and Reset- 
ting Diamond Jewelry and making new 
Diamond Work to order. 



44 

Egg Plant Fritters. 

Take a large sized egg-plant, leave the stem and skin on, 
and boil in a porcelain kettle until very soft, then take the skin 
off, and mash fine in a bowl. Add a teaspoonful of salt, 
plenty of pepper, and a large iron spoonful of flour ; when cold, 
add a half teacupful of milk and three eggs. This makes a 
nice batter. Have some butter and lard hot, drop them in 
with a spoon, and brown each side. 

Cold Slaw. 

Cut with a slaw cutter a medium sized head of cabbage, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and set on ice or in a very cool 
place, whilst you make the dressing. 

Dressing for Slaw. 

Half cupful of vinegar. 

Piece of butter size of a walnut boiled in the vinegar. 

Have ready two well beaten eggs, leaving out the white 

of one. 
With a dessertspoonful of sugar. 
Half cupful milk. 
Stir all into the boiling vinegar rapidly that it may not cur- 
dle, and pour over the slaw whilst boiling. Slaw dressed in 
this style is good for two days. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

One quart of beans, soak in cold water over night, next 
morning parboil in plenty water half an hour, then remove 
from the fire and add one teaspoonful of soda ; pour off this 
water. Put the drained beans in an earthen crock, with half 
pound salt fat pork, {not smoked) and one tablespoonful sugar, 
cover with water, bake eight or ten hours, adding from time 
to time more water as it is needed, to keep the beans covered, 
until the last two hours, when just enough water is wanted to 
have them moist when served, perhaps more salt may be re- 
quired if the pork is not salt enough. 

Eggs. 

Omelette. 

Six eggs. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 
One teacupful of milk. 
One teaspoonful of salt. 



45 

Beat yolks well, and add the flour in the milk, salt, and 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mix well together, pour 
into a very hot buttered skillet, set into the oven for a few 
minutes, not longer, cook on the top of range till done, then 
fold and serve immediately. A delicious omelette if this rule 
is followed. 

Baked Omelette. 

Five eggs. 

Three gills milk. 

One dessertspoonful of butter. 

One tablespoonful of flour. 

One teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat eggs separately, then add the flour and salt with the 
milk and butter to the yolks, whites to be stirred in last. Pour 
into a buttered dish, bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Curried Egg. 

Twelve eggs boiled hard. 

One tablespoonful of butter. 

Two thirds of a cup of water. 

One-half tablespoonful corn starch. 
Cut the whites of eggs in small pieces and place in a flat dish. 
Make a dressing of butter, water and corn starch, adding a 
little salt and curry powder to taste^ and mix this with the 
whites. Grate the yolks over the top and garnish with 
parsley. 

Eggs sur le Plat. 

Heat and butter one of the little dishes that come for the 
purpose. Break into it two eggs — -carefully — not to break the 
yolks. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and drop on them half 
a tea spoonful of butter — in bits. Bake in a moderate oven 
until the white is set. There should be a dish for a person. 

To Boil Eggs. 

Have the water boiling. Remove the vessel to the hearth, 
and put in the eggs, cover, and leave for ten minutes. This 
cooks whites and volks evenlv. 



46 
Eggs for the Sick. 

Put on the eggs in cold water, let boil a full half hour. 

Egg Tonic. 

Persons exhausted either from mental or physical labour, 
will be much benefitted from taking a fresh raw egg dropped 
into a half a tumbler of good cider, (carefully avoid breaking 
the yolk.) This is easily swallowed. As man)' as conveni- 
ent during the day can be taken and not less than three. In 
a short time the result will be very marked. 



PICKLES. 



Chow Chow. 

Quarter peck green tomatoes. 

One large head of cabbage. 

Seven large onions. 

Twelve large and one hundred very small cucumbers. 

One pint small white onions. 

Half pint grated horse radish. 

Quarter pound mustard seed. 

Half ounce celery seed. 

Quarter teacupful black pepper ground. 

Quarter cupful tumeric. 

Quarter cupful cinnamon. 

Two pounds brown sugar. 

Three quarter gallons vinegar. 

Half pound mustard. 

Quarter pint salad oil. 
Cut large cucumbers, large onions and tomatoes in small 
pieces ; cut cabbage as for slaw ; pack all down in salt over 
night. In the morning drain the brine off, put to soak for a 
day or two in vinegar and water, drain again, then mix the 
spices in the three quarter gallons vinegar with the sugar ; 
pour over hot three successive days ; the third day mix the 
mustard and salad oil, add and mix all thoroughly ; do not add 
the horse radish until the boiling is done. It is well to com- 
mence the pickle Monday so it can be finished by Saturday. 



49 

G. S. Griffith & Co. 

DEALERS IN 

"Fine (Sappetings 

Hpholzfep'g ©oodz, 

Nos. 403 & 405 E. Baltimore Street, 

J. Wilson !Brown ? 5 

POPULAR HOUSE - FURNISHONG STORE, 

Nos. 126 and 128 North Howard Street, 
Between Lexington and Fayette Streets, 

Crockery, China, Glassware, Lamps, &c. 

Family Hardware, Kitchen Articles, 

Wooden, Tin and Willow Wares. 
Refrigerators, Water Coolers, Ice Cream Freezers, 
Clothes Wringers and Carpet Sweepers, 
Brushes, Brooms and Whisks, 

Gas and Oil Stoves and Cooking - Utensils. 

In fact our variety and stock is the largest and most complete in the 

city. Housekeepers and those commencing Housekeeping will do well 

to examine our stock and prices before purchasing elsewhere, as they 

cannot fail to be pleased with our line if they see it. . 

ESirPolite attention will be extended to all who will favor us with their 

patronage. 

(Ask for our Catalogue.) 



50 

Cucumber Pickles. 

After the cucumbers have been in brine ten days or more, 
as convenient, put them in cold water fof twenty-four hours ; 
then boil equal parts vinegar and water, and pour over them 
three times ; having pickles in a porcelain or bell metal kettle, 
cover over with grape leaves and napkin to keep in the steam ; 
then take them out and place in jars with onions sliced through, 
also small pieces horse radish, and one or two very small 
peppers in each jar ; then take pure vinegar and to one gallon 
add 

Three ponnds brown sugar. 

Half pound white mustard seed. 

One tablespoonful mace. 

One ounce celery seed. 

One tablespoonful whole allspice. 

One tablespoonful of cloves. 
Some prefer cinnamon stick instead of mace. Boil these in 
the vinegar and pour over the pickles as hot as possible. 

Higdon Pickle. 

One peck green tomatoes. 

One and a half dozen onions. 

One pound brown sugar. 

Half pound white mustard seed. 

One ounce mace. 

Three ounces celery seed. 

One gallon cider vinegar. 
Slice tomatoes and onions and salt well, for twenty-four 
hours, then drain, wash and drain again, then add all together 
and boil fifteen minutes, when cold add five tablespoonsful 
salad oil, three of mustard, one of tumeric. 

Premium Pickles. 

Get the sweet peppers, take the seed out carefully so as not 
to break them. For the filling take three or four heads of 
cabbage cut as for slaw, and salt very lightly, enough to draw 
out the water ; drain and press through a colander, to this take 

One dozen onions chopped fine. 

Two cupsful scraped horse radish. 

Two cupsful mustard seed, white and black, (one of 
each.) 

One small teacupful of black pepper. 

One small teacupful of allspice. 



51 

One and a half ounces race ginger. 

One and a half ounces celery seed. 

One ounce cinnamon. 
Beat all very fine. Take half the spices and mix with the 
cabbage and onions, with three cupsful brown sugar, beside 
which put a teaspoonful of sugar into each mango or pepper 
before you put the filling in ; tie up with cord. 

Boil two cupsful sugar with the remainder of the spices and 
vinegar, enough to cover the pickles well and pour on very 
hot. 

Mangoes. 

Take the smooth green melons about as large as the fist, 
cut a slit down one side, put them in strong brine for some 
weeks ; then remove the seeds, then green with vinegar and 
water, and place them in plain vinegar till you are ready to 
stuff them. For the filling for three dozen mangoes take 

One pound white mustard seed. 

One pound black mustard seed. 

Half pint grated horse radish. 

Half pound celery seed. 

Half pound mace. 

Half pound coriander seed. 

Three pounds brown sugar. 

Two teaspoonsful cayenne pepper. 

Three tablespoonsful tumeric. 

Moisten with one pint of sweet oil. 
Fill the mangoes with this mixture ; tie up to prevent es- 
cape of spices and place in a jar. Vinegar as follows : 

To two gallons best cider vinegar take 

One pound white mustard seed. 

Four ounces black pepper. 

Three ounces allspice. 

The same of cloves and mace, all bruised together. 

One ounce tumeric. 

Handful horse radish. 

One ounce celery seed. 

One and a half pounds brown sugar. 
Boil and pour over the mangoes, add three lemons sliced. 
These are best when a year old. 

Pickled Onions. 

Peel small white onions and pour boiling milk and water 
over them ; when cold put them in a jar and pour white vine- 
gar over them ; make them air tight. 



52 
German Pickle. 

Half peck green tomatoes. 
One large head cabbage. 

One dozen onions all cut up into separate bowls. 
Sprinkle well with salt, let stand over night ; next morning 
drain and rinse them. To these add 

Half dozen large sweet green and red peppers, seeds 

taken out and chopped. 
One and a half pounds sugar. 

Two tablespoonsful each mustard and celery seeds. 
One tablespoonful each ground mustard, tumeric, 
cloves and pepper. 
Cover with cider vinegar and boil one hour ; when cold and 
ready to be sealed pour over the top, mustard mixed with 
olive oil. This keeps the pickle moist. 

Pickled Cabbage. 

Take two medium sized heads of cabbage, either white or 
red ; cut as for slaw, pour over this boiling salt water, strong 
enough to bear an egg ; let stand over night, next morning 
drain and squeeze the cabbage till very dry, then add twelve 
green peppers chopped fine, discarding the seeds. 
One teacupful mustard seed. 

Two tablespoonsful each celery seed and tumeric. 
One tablespoonful each whole cloves and allspice. 
Pack in a jar and cover with vinegar, tie up tight ; open and 
stir up once or twice a week for two weeks. This will keep 
all winter. 

German Sauce. 

Half gallon white cabbage, cut fine. 

The same quantity green tomatoes cut fine. 

One pint of onions when cut. 

One and a half tablespoonsful mustard. 

The same quantity each ground pepper, whole allspice 

and whole cloves. 
Two and a half gills mustard seed. 
One and a half pounds brown sugar. 
Three pints vinegar. 
Boil altogether fifteen minutes. 



53 

Formerly with STINE & SON, Late with M. ROCK, 

Baltimore. 5th Ave., New York. 

J. P. Steinbaeh, 

Tailor, 

*S-T2o. 410 Seeorjd Street^ 
BRiiTimoRE, mo. 

Goods of my Ocan Importation at Reasonable Prices- 



F. C. FOSSETT & SON, 

SHIRT TAILORS 



-AND- 



GENT'S FURNISHERS, 

No. 421 East Baltimore St., 

Between Post Office Avenue and Gay St., 

Baltimore, Md. 



54 
Tomato Sauce. 



Pare and cut up as for stewing 18 good sized tomatoes. 

Add one cupful sugar. 

Two cupsful vinegar. 

Two teaspoonsful salt. 

One teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon, allspice and 
nutmeg or mace. 

Two or three large green peppers and one onion chop- 
ped fine. 

Boil slowly three or fourhours. 



Pepper Sauce. 

Twelve peppers green and red. 

Three large heads of cabbage. 

One scant quart white onions. 

Sugar to your taste, very little salt. 

Two tablespoonsful dry mustard. 

One pound white and one pound black mustard seed. 

Two tablespoonsful each powdered cloves and allspice. 

Cabbage, onions and peppers to be chopped very fine to- 
gether, and well mixed with the other ingredients, adding two 
tablespoonsful of oil. Then cover with cold vinegar. This 
will be ready for use in four weeks. 



Tomato Catsup. 

Boil half bushel tomatoes until soft, press through a 

wire sieve. 
Add one quart vinegar. 
Half pint salt. 
One ounce cloves. 
Two ounces allspice. 
Six small red peppers cut up very fine. 
One dessertspoonful of black pepper. 
Three onions chopped very fine. 

Mix all together and boil three hours, or till reduced to 
nearly half the quantity. Bottle without steaming. 



57 
Tomato Catsup. 

Select good ripe tomatoes, halve and take out the core ; put 
them on and boil, when well bursted and soft enough put 
through a sieve. Let this stand till the water rises on the top, 
then pour off one-third of the water. Put on and boil with six 
onions to half bushel tomatoes, one ounce ground allspice, the 
same quantity black pepper and white mustard seeds, ground 
in a mill or pounded. One grated nutmeg, half ounce 
ground cloves, one pound brown sugar, one gill of salt and 
one quart vinegar. When the onions begin to soften you can 
remove them as the flavor will be then extracted. If you like 
cayenne pepper can be added and more vinegar ; let boil till 
thick enough, then bottle. Pour a little cold vinegar on the 
top of each bottle before sealing. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Take three dozen full grown cucumbers. 

Eight large onions. 
Pare and slice very thin, sprinkle with a pint of salt; let 
drain five hours, then squeeze dry and mix with 

Half pound mustard seed. 

Quarter pound black pepper ground. 

Half pound brown sugar. 

Half pint olive oil. 
Mix well together ; boil as much vinegar as you think will 
eover this ; fill your jars half full of the mixture and the bal- 
ance of the jar with the boiling vinegar ; if in a few days they 
require more vinegar, fill up the jars with cold vinegar and 
seal up. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Three dozen large cucumbers. 
Eight large onions. 
Pare and cut or chop fine as possible, sprinkle very freely 
with salt ; mix well with the salt, then drain through a sieve, 
then spread on a thick cloth to thoroughly dry out the salt 
water ; then take a teacupful of mustard seed, half teacupful 
black pepper ground, cinnamon and cloves to the taste ; these 
spices pounded or broken up fine ; mix thoroughly with the 
cucumbers and onions, put the whole in a stone jar and cover 
with the best vinegar ; close up tightly and it will be ready for 
use in a few days. This will keep for years. 



58 

Sweet Pickled Damsons. 

Four pounds damsons. 
Two pounds sugar. 
One pint vinegar. 

Half ounce each cinnamon, cloves and allspice. 
Roil the vinegar, sugar and spices together, when boiling 
throw in the fruit and boil all fifteen minutes. 

Spiced Peaches. 

Seven pounds fruit. 

Three pounds sugar. 

One quart vinegar. 

Half ounce each cinnamon in stick, whole cloves, and 
allspice tied up in a gauze bag. 
Boil vinegar, spices and sugar for fifteen minutes, and throw 
over the peaches three successive days. The last time you 
boil the vinegar, it is well to pour the peaches into the kettle, 
and let all boil together five or ten minutes. Peaches are 
nicer to be pared and cut in halves. 

Spiced Currants. 

Four pounds currants. 
Two and a half pounds sugar. 
One pint cider vinegar. 
Two tablespoonsful cinnamon. 
One teaspoonful cloves. 
Pick the currants from the stems, boil with the vinegar and 
sugar half hour ; add the spices when nearly done boiling. 

Spiced Pears. 

Take seven pounds pears, par-boil them in water, drain 

off the water, put pears in a stone jar. 
Then take three pounds sugar. 
( )ne quart vinegar. 
One tablespoonful stick cinnamon. 

Half tablcspoonful whole cloves, a few pieces mace and 

allspice. 

Put spices in a bag and boil with the vinegar and sugar for 

four successive mornings, and pour over the pears ; the fourth 

morning put the pears into the vinegar whilst boiling, and boil 

a half hour. 



59 



E. Q. TAYLOR & CO,, 

Importers and fnanufaetut*eFs 

♦ -♦-•» 

fiats, purs, tlmbrellas, jiar\d gatchels and traveling 
BAGS. 



Dunlap & Co.'s Hats, New York. 

Christy & Co.'s Hats, London. 

Calvert Street, opp. Barnum's Hotel, 

BALTIMORE, MD. 

IMIiss Hi. _^L._ ZEEozBinsrscosr, 

(Successor to Mrs. C. W. Bridge,) 

BOTS' CLOTHHTO-, 

234 North Howard St., near Saratoga, 

Baljuimo^e, GQd. 

3^° Also Trimmings, Patterns, &c, &c. 

€|ngrabFP, JPpinfor anh #tntitiiirt, 

AND 

DEALER IN FANCY GOODS, 

Wedding and Visiting Cards, Monograms, Crests and Arms, 

201 N. Charles St., Corner Lexington, 

BALTIMORE, MD. 



60 
Spiced Tomatoes. 

One peck tomatoes. 

One pound brown sugar. 

One pint vinegar. 

One dessertspoonful of mace. 

One tablespoonful each of cloves and allspice. 
Put on the tomatoes, and as they boil pour off the water, 
that they may not be watery ; then add the other ingredients 
and boil one hour, or until perfectly done. 

Spiced Canteloupe. 

To six large canteloupes, not too ripe 

Take one gallon of vmegar. 

Two pounds of sugar. 

One ounce each of stick cinnamon, and mace. 

One-half ounce of cloves. 
Pare, seed and slice your fruit, and lay in vinegar over 
night. In the morning strain, then add to the vinegar the 
spices and sugar; boil for a few minutes, then add the fruit 
and boil till the fruit can be pierced with a straw ; put in jars 
and seal. 



Preserves and Jellies. 



Preserved Strawberries. 

Get a bright colored berry. To one pound of fruit take 
three-quarters pound sugar. Put the sugar over the fruit over 
night, or the morning of the day you do them. Put the 
strawberries and sugar in a kettle, boil ten minutes, remove 
berries with a perforated spoon, and place on dishes in the 
sun. Put the syrup in a pitcher, and pour over the berries 
enough to float them. They will absorb this in one day. 
Bring them in at night, and the next day, place again in the 
sun, replenishing the syrup as it is absorbed. Let them re- 
main in the sun until. the syrup forms a jell)- around the fruit. 
The berries will plump up from the absorption. Two days is 
usually sufficient if the sun is hot. If not, a third day will 
improve them. 



61 

Currant Jelly. 

Take fine ripe currants, mash well and boil till the juice can 
be easily strained through a fine sieve or jelly bag. Measure 
juice and sugar in equal quantities; put juice on and boil 
fifteen minutes. Put the sugar in the oven to get very hot, 
then pour together and just let come to a boil ; take off and 
put into jelly glasses. Let set in the sun four or five days, 
then cover. 

Currant Jelly. 

Get thoroughly ripe currants. Wash and place them in a 
kettle without any water, put on the stove and let them burst ; 
squeeze through a jelly bag, and to every pint of juice take 
one pound of granulated sugar ; stir until the sugar partially 
dissolves. Boil twenty minutes, no longer. If boiled longer 
it becomes ropy. Fill the glasses while hot ; when cool paste 
up, and then place in the sun for a day. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Put on the blackberries, (which must not be too ripe,) with 
a very little water, let them boil till soft ; put through a 
strainer made of cheese cloth. To each pint of the juice 
allow one pound sugar. Return to the fire the juice without 
the sugar ; boil twenty minutes, skim, then add sugar and 
boil twenty minutes. 

Apple Jelly. 

Take half peck of juicy tart apples, quarter and core, but 
do not pare them ; put into a kettle with two lemons cut up 
with them, and cover well with water. Let them cook until 
reduced to a pulp, chen strain through a flannel bag. To 
ever\' tumbler of juice add two-thirds of a tumbler of white 
sugar. Boil hard for twenty minutes ; put in glasses and 
cover next day. Slices of lemon can be added if preferred. 

Lemon Jelly. 

To one package of Nelson's Gelatine add one pint of cold 
water, one and a half pints of sugar, the juice of five lemons. 
Let this dissolve an hour or two. Then add three pints boil- 
ing water ; colour with burnt sugar. No boiling, and not 
necessary to strain. To burn the sugar : — Take a large 



62 

kitchen spoon with two teaspoonsful of brown sugar on it, 
hold over the hot coals until all melted and brown, not burnt. 
Run through the jelly until the desired colour. 

Quince Jelly. 

Take any refuse quinces that may be left from the preserv- 
ing quinces, with the parings and cores without the seeds ; 
cover with water and boil till soft ; strain through a colander 
and jelly bag, and to one pint juice add three-quarters pound 
sugar; boil all briskly till jelly. 

Preserved Pears. 

Select firm Bartlett pears, and to each pound of fruit allow 
three-quarters pound sugar. Pare the fruit and cut in hakes 
or quarters, leaving on the stems. Parboil in enough water 
to cover ; when rather tender add the sugar with enough 
green ginger to flavor ; lemons may be added also if desired. 
Boil until clear and the syrup begins to thicken. Quinces can 
be done in the same way, leaving out ginger and lemon. 

Preserved Cherries. 

To each pound of seeded cherries, take one pound of sugar. 
Put on together, let boil a half hour ; then strain out the 
cherries, boil the syrup until it begins to thicken, then add 
the cherries and boil ten or fifteen minutes. 

Preserved Blackberries. 

To each pound of Lawton blackberries take three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar, make a syrup with the sugar and as little 
water as can be used to dissolve the sugar ; let .syrup come to 
a boil, and add the berries ; let cook a half hour then strain 
out the berries, and cook syrup till it begins to thicken and 
pour over the berries. 

Peach Jam. 

Four pounds of ripe openstone yellow peaches. Peel and 
quarter them and boil without sugar for fifteen minutes, then 
put them through a colander and boil again thirty minutes ; 
then add sugar in the proportion of two and a half pounds to 
four pounds of fruit; boil thirty minutes again, when it will 
be clear and of a beautiful colour. 



(35 
THE BRAINERD & ARMSTRONG CO. 

Manufacturers of 

Seuuing Silks, Olaehine Tuuist, 

"BEST IN THE WORLD" 

FRONT END APD(7/ REVERSE ^ END 

.SILK. 





Embpoidery, pilloselle, Knitting, t^ope Silk, ete., etc. 

5 HANOVER STREET, BALTIMORE, MD. 



MILLS:-NEW LONDON, CT. 



M. A. M^DONNELLi 



^ppenG^ 



IM^OKLTER. OF 

• < 4 • 




-ii.ITI>- 



^FANGY«G00DS,N 

No. 23 West Lexington Street, 

IB^IjTIIMIOIRIE]. 
Rue du Faubourg Poissonniere, Paris. 



66 
Green Tomato Jam. 

One peck of green tomatoes pared and sliced. 
Five pounds of white sugar. 
Six lemons sliced very thin. 
Boil until a thick jam. 

Peach Sauce. 

One peck peaches. 

Three pounds sugar. 

One pint vinegar. 
Boil the peaches until soft enough to run a straw through. 
Take out and put right in jars. Boil down the vinegar, sugar 
and juice until all is a syrup. Pour over the fruit boiling hot, 
seal tight. 

Pine Apple Jam. 

Three quarter pounds sugar to one pound fruit. 
Pare the fruit and be sure to take out all the eyes ; grate 
with a coarse grater ; boil twenty minutes. Put away in jars 
hot. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Take one dozen oranges, small size and sour, wash and cut 
in very thin slices ; take out all the seeds, pour over them six- 
quarts of water ; let it stand over night, and in same water 
boil for three hours slowly. Then add .-.even pounds of sugar, 
let boil until clear. 

Conserved Fruit. 

One quarter of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Make your syrup without water, by putting the fruit into the 
kettle with the sugar, and let stand on the coolest part of the 
range till the sugar is dissolved ; then let boil a half an hour 
take out the fruit and spread on dishes, and pour over the 
syrup ; keep in the hot sun till the syrup is all dried into the 
fruit, turning frequently. When dry enough roll in sugar 
and pack in jars. 



67 
Gooseberry Conserve. 

To each pound of gooseberries allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and a little water to dissolve the sugar. Let 
berries cook till they burst, then take out and spread on dishes ; 
boil the syrup down to half its quantity and pour over the 
berries. Put in the hot sun during the day and at night put in 
the oven of the range, where they will be heated through, but 
not cook. The oven of course must not be hot enough to 
bake ; let them remain over night, they will look dark and 
thick when done ; put in a stone jar and tie up closely. When 
needed for use add a little water and cook five minutes. This 
is as nice with roast turkey as cranberries. 

Conserved Quince. 

Roast the quinces in the oven like apples with the skins on, 
when soft peel off the skin and cut off the quince to the core. 
Take equal weight of quince and sugar, dissolve the sugar in 
as little water as possible ; add the quince and boil half hour. 

Apple Ginger. 

Four pounds apples. Four pounds sugar. Make a syrup 
of the sugar, adding a pint of water. Cut the apples in small 
pieces and add one ounce green ginger. Put in the syrup 
with the grated rind of four lemons. Boil slowly four hours, 
or until it looks clear. 



CANDIES. 



Chocolate Caramels. 

Three pounds of sugar. 
One and a half cakes chocolate. 
Half pound of butter. 
Two cupsful of milk. 
Boil until it thickens, constantly stirring ; flavor with vanilla. 
Pour in buttered pans and bar off or work, and cut in slices. 



68 
Chocolate Caramels. 

Half pound of Baker's chocolate. 

One and a half pounds of moist brown sugar. 

One and a half pounds of pulverized sugar. 

Three eighths of a pound of butter. 

One tumbler of milk. 

One teacupful of golden syrup. 

Flavor with vanilla. 
Stir frequently whilst boiling ; when done pour in pans ; 
when a little cool mark off in squares. It improves the cara- 
mels after they are poured out and somewhat cool to wash 
over with vanilla instead of putting it in before. 

Pulled or Pressed Caramels. 

Take either of the preceeding recipes ; do not boil quite as 
long as for cutting in squares ; pour apart of the caramel into 
a well buttered bowl, large enough to allow beating well ; beat 
well until it begins to stiffen, then pour into a well buttered 
dish and work like bread. 

Make into short rolls like sausages. When cool enough 
cut in slices ; do not let these rolls get too hard before slicing. 
The part you do not pour out should remain where it will 
keep warm on the stove, but not boil. Vou'will find this re- 
quires quick work as caramels stiffen very soon. Use plenty 
butter to prevent sticking. 

Chocolate Drops. 

Two cupsful of granulated sugar. 
Haifa cupful of milk. 
Put in a saucepan and boil hard five minutes; then put the 
saucepan in cold water and beat till it creams ; flavor with 
vanilla and form in round or cone shaped balls. Cover with 
chocolate shaved down and heated over tea kettle. 

Cream Candv Cooked. 

Two cupsful of granulated sugar. 

One cupful of water. 

One tablespoonful of corn starch. 

One teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Boil in a nice saucepan till done ; drop a little in a cupful 
of cold water, and when you can feel something in the bottom 
it is boiled enough ; if boiled till it hardens in water, like taffy, 
you can do nothing with it. Add the vanilla after it is taken 
from the range ; beat till it stiffens. 



69 

WRMSLEY& NEDWELL, 

Importers and Dealers in 

ladies' ?ine Dpess ffoodg, 

TRIMMINGS, LACES, RIBBONS, 

GLOVES, UNDERWEAR, CORSETS, &c. 

No. 325 North Charles Street, above Saratoga, 



CHAS. SIMON & SONS, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

pon^apd Dome5ti<; DryQood5, 

208 NORTH HOWARD STREET, 
yRcLltimore, J\d.cL. 

Teleplicne Call, 2To. 382. ZEsta-Tolislxed. in 181S. 



123 E. Baltimore St., opp. B. & O. Building, 

7V\anufacturerof gbirts. 

■ ♦ ■ 

»"A FIRST-CLASS FIT GUARANTEED. 



R. G. BROH.DBENT & CO. 

IMPORTEE3 <Sz. EETJi.ILEPvS OP 
The Latest Styles in 

Silkjs, Kress (sTooqs, JJace-s, 

§l)au§ls, Jjirjerjs arja k)on)esfics, 

i£To. 1© 2>To:r,t:e3: Chaeles Steeet, 

BALTIMORE, MD. 



70 

Cream Candy without Cooking. 

White of one egg with same quantity of cold water, beaten 
to a stiff froth ; stir in gradually until stiff enough to mold 
XXX pulverized sugar; flavor with vanilla. This same re- 
cipe can be used for walnuts, dates, chocolatccreams, etc. 

Particular Directions for General Candy Making. 

To make pink candies use the same rule as cream candy 
cooked ; adding half teaspoonful strawberry sugar, dissolved 
in cold water, stirred in whilst boiling. 

A very pretty light green candy is made by boiling the rind 
of one or more lemons in water, which will be quite yellow. 
Fake one cupful of this yellow water and make boiled candy 
from the above rule. Whilst boiling add a few drops of the 
juice of a lemon, which will make a lovely green ; by adding 
a larger quantity lemon juice it will become perfectly white. 
Cocoanut grated mixed with either the white or pink candy 
made in rolls like sausage links, sliced when cold, is another 
variety; also very nice in chocolatecreams. 

Whilst molding boiled candy and it begins to get too hard, 
just set over hot water, or mix this with some of the unboiled 
candy. The two recipes mixed make the nicest candies, and 
much easier to mold. A great many varieties can be made 
from these rules, by molding in different shapes, ike. Take 
preserved peaches and pears, drain off the syrup, then set in 
the oven (not too hot) with sugar sprinkled over. This makes 
a kind of conserve. A small piece of either laid on the top 
of a round or oblong shape looks very pretty. 

Cream Candy Loaf. 

Use the same recipe as the boiled candy, only whilst boil- 
ing add a light teaspoonful gelatine after it is soaked ; when 
done beat till it stiffens, then add peaches, pears as directed, 
also conserved cherries all sliced ; mix neatly and pack in a 
deep dish ; let this get perfectly cold and slice. Take one half 
pink and the other white if preferred. 

Gum Drops. 

Dissolve gum arabic half cupful to make a thick syrup. 

One cupful granulated sugar made into a thick syrup. Mix 

the two together about the consistency of molasses ; drop into 

little molds made in a dish or pan, covered with corn starch 

with a thimble. These can be flavored with lemon. 



73 

Everton Caramels. 

Four cupsful of granulated sugar. 
Half cupful of butter. 
One cupful of milk. 
One teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
After boiling, flavor and turn into buttered pans ; mark 
when cool. 

Ice Cream Candy. 

Four cupsful of granulated sugar. 

One cupful water. 

One teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Boil about twenty minutes, flavor ; for chocolate flavor add 
about two squares chocolate whilst boiling; pour out, let cool 
and pull like taffy. 

Butter Scotch. 

One cupful of molasses. 
One cupful of brown sugar. 
Half cupful of butter. 
Boil about twenty minutes. 

Candy Pudding. 

Half pound of stoned raisins. 

Half pound of cut up figs. 

Half pound of cut up citron. 

Half pound of blanched almonds split. 

Two pounds of A sugar. 
Moisten the sugar with strong vinegar, being careful not to 
get it too wet ; let this boil until when dropped on a plate it 
will stiffen to a paste ; take it off and beat with a spoon till the 
consistency of stiff cream. Put the fruit in and mix well ; 
turn out into a towel, which has been wrung out of cold 
water ; roll up tightly, shape evenly ; let stand a few hours 
before eating, cut in slices. 

Candied Fruits. 

Prepare any kind of fruit you wish as for preserving. Boil 
in a thick syrup, made with a teacupful of water to each pound 
of sugar only till tender ; let the fruit remain in the syrup 
several days, then drain and spread on dishes, sprinkling each 
piece with granulated sugar ; dry slowly in the oven, which 
must not be very hot. 

10 



74 



PUDDINGS, 

PASTRY AND OTHER DESSERTS. 



Carrot Plum Pudding. 

One pound sifted flour. One pound carrots, (weigh before 
grating,) heavy weight as they moisten the pudding. Half 
pound suet. One and a half pound raisins. One and a half 
pounds currants. Two teaspoonsful each cinnamon, cloves 
and mace. Boil four hours. To be eaten with sauce. 

A Cheap Plum Pudding. 

Three eggs. One cupful raisins. Two cupsful currants. 
Half pound bread crumbs. One cupful suet chopped fine and 
rubbed fine in flour. One cupful sweet cream. One scant 
tablespoonful baking powder. One teaspoonful each cinna- 
mon and cloves. One nutmeg. One cupful brown sugar. 
Two-thirds cupful molasses, in which mix one teaspoonful 
ground ginger, a pinch of salt, the same of black pepper. 
Steam in a bag or mold three hours. To be eaten with hard 



sauce or ice cream. 



Plum Pudding. 

One pound each raisins, currants, citron, almonds and 
sugar. One and half pounds bread crumbs. One quart milk. 
Eight eggs. Three-quarters pound suet. Rind and juice of 
two lemons. One teaspoonful each cinnamon and cloves. 
Half teaspoonful mace. One nutmeg. 

A Fine Plum Pudding. 

TO BR EATEN WITH ICE CREAM. 

One pound stoned raisins. One pound currants. Half 
pound citron, cut in fine slips. One pound suet cut fine. 
Eight eggs. Half pound browned bread crumbs. One pint 



75 

of new milk. One nutmeg. Four tablespoonsful flour. Beat 
the eggs very light, add one pound nice brown sugar, then the 
other ingredients by spoonsful. When well mixed, and having 
had the pudding bag well washed in hot water and floured, 
pour in and tie tightly with a strong string ; allow space for 
swelling. When the water boils, dip the pudding in three or 
four times, before leaving it in the pot. This quantity makes 
a large pudding, requiring six hours to cook properly. 

Amhurst Pudding. 

Three cupsfu! flour. One cupful raisins. Three quarters 
cupful suet. Three-quarters cupful sweet milk. Three-quart- 
ers cupful molasses. One teaspoonful cloves. One teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon. One teaspoonful salt. One teaspoonful soda. 
Boil from three to four hours. 

Dixie Pudding — Boiled or Baked. 

Three cupsful flour. One cupful milk with one teaspoonful 
of soda in it. One cupful of suet, chopped fine. One cupful 
molasses. Half pound raisins or dried cherries. One salt- 
spoonful salt. Beat all together, boil from three to four 
hours. 

Cherry Pudding. 

Six ounces stale bread crumbs soaked in a half pint of milk. 
Two ounces flour with two teaspoonsful yeast powder. 
One-quarter cupful molasses. One-quarter cupful sugar. Two 
cupsful cherries stoned, stewed and sweetened. Quarter 
pound butter. Half teaspoonful cloves. Two teaspoonsful 
cinnamon. One nutmeg. Three eggs. Bake one hour or 
boil two hours. 

Cocoa-Nut and Rice Pudding. 

One cupful of rice. One cupful of sugar. One pint of gra- 
ted cocoa-nut. One quart of fresh milk. Wash the rice and 
mix it with the milk. Put it on the back of the range to swell 
for two or three hours ; then add the sugar, cocoa-nut, a little 
salt, and any flavoring you like. (Nutmeg is very nice in rice 
puddings.) Bake half an hour and eat hot or cold, with or 
without sauce. Good either way. 



76 

French Pudding. 

Six eggs. One pint milk. Three tablespoonsful flour. A 
little salt. Mix the eggs smoothly with the flour, then add 
the milk ; whip the whites to a stiff froth ; work them in and 
bake immediately thirty minutes. To be eaten hot with cold 
sauce. 

Ready Pudding and Sauce. 

One pint flour. Quarter pound butter. One teacupful 
milk. One egg. Grated rind and juice of one lemon. One 
tablespoonful Rumford's yeast powder. Bake half an hour. 
To be eaten with the following sauce : — One large cupful 
sugar. Half cupful butter. One egg. The juice and half 
the rind of one lemon. One small nutmeg. Three table- 
spoonsful of boiling water. Cream the butter and sugar ; 
beat in the egg, nutmeg and lemon ; beat hard ten minutes 
and add the water, a spoonful at a time. Set it over a kettle 
of boiling water to keep hot, but not to boil. 

Cracker Pudding. 

One pint pounded crackers. Two quarts milk. One cup- 
ful sugar. Four eggs. One pound raisins. Bake a long 
time very slowly. Serve with hard sauce. 

Queen of Plum Puddings. 

Half pound butter. Half pound suet. Half pound sugar. 
One and a quarter pounds flour. One and a quarter pounds 
raisins. One pound currants. One eighth pound citron. Six 
eggs beaten separately. Half pint milk. Quarter ounce 
cloves. Quarter ounce mace. Two nutmegs. 

The Queen of Bread Puddings. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs to one quart of milk. One 
cupful of sugar. Yolks of four eggs well beaten. Grated 
rind of one lemon. Butter the size of an egg. Bake until 
done. Whip the whites stiff and beat in one teacupful of 
sugar, in which has been stirred the juice of one lemon. 
Spread over the pudding a layer of any sweetmeats you pre- 
fer. Pour the stiffened whites of the eggs on this ; replace in 
the oven and bake lightly. To be eaten with cold sauce. 



77 




An Entirely New and Reliable Article of Food, made from 
SOUTHERN WHITE CORN. 



For Purity, Healthfulness and Convenience, it 
stands unrivaled 

por Breakfast, Dinger and Jea. 



PATENTED IMUkTZ" ^tih:, 1886. 



MAlT'JFACTXrBED E"!T 



jlaryland Jjominy and loralline |o< 

2©^3= :B-u.c33.a,:n.si2i's "\7s7"£i.arf, 

BAbTlMORE, MD. 



GIVE IT .A. TZKI^I-,- 



TELEPHONE CALL, No. 1448. 



ASK YOUR GROCER FOR IT, 



78 
Huckleberry Pudding. 

Six eggs beaten separately. Three quarters of a pound 
sugar beaten with the yolks. Half pound creamed butter. 
Three-quarters pound flour. The whites of eggs stirred in 
last. Pick, wash and strain one or more quarts berries, dry 
with a handful of flour, and stir into the batter. Bake in a 
moderate oven about one hour and a half. 

Corn Starch Pudding. 

Two quarts milk. One cupful sugar. Six tablespoonsful 
corn starch. Three eggs. This makes one good-sized pud- 
ding. Beat the yolks and sugar together until very light, 
then add the corn starch, with enough cold milk to mix it 
smooth. When the balance of the milk is boiling hot, add 
the other ingredients, and let cook a few minutes ; when done 
flavor with vanilla and pour into a pudding dish. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth with five tablespoonsful of pulverized 
sugar ; pour over the pudding and place in the oven to brown. 
Serve very cold with cream, or it is very nice without. 

Fig Pudding. 

Half pound figs chopped fine. One cupful each chopped 
suet, molasses and sweet milk. Three well-beaten eggs, one 
teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in a little water. Three 
and a half cupsful flour and a little salt. Mix all very thor- 
oughly together and pour into a buttered mold or dish, and 
steam in a steamer over a pot of boiling water three hours. 

Sauce. 

One cupful butter. Three cupsful powdered sugar. One 
teaspoonful cream. Cream the butter, then add the sugar. 
Beat hard until smooth, then add the cream ; flavor with 
nutmeg or vanilla. Make this just before dinner, and do not 
put it on the ice. 

A rich boiled custard is a very nice sauce for puddings, and 
when used for plum pudding flavor with nutmeg. 

Sauce. 

Half cupful butter. Two cupsful brown sugar. Yolks of 
two eggs. One pint boiling water poured over the butter, 
sugar and eggs. Flavor with nutmeg. 



81 



SISGO BROTHERS, 

Importers and Manufacturers 
2STo. 218 nSToiETH: Chakles Steeet, 

BALTIMORE, MD. 



^•to zmzotzhheiks^ 



THE BEST PLACE IN BALTIMORE TO BUY YOUR 
BOYS' SUITS, IS AT 

HAMBURGER'S, 

122 E. Baltimore St., near Calvert. 

MISS FROHLINGER, 
LADIES ^"CT^E-^-CT 

1100 Cathedral Street, Corner Tyson. 

ompetent White and Colored Help for all capacities. Families in 

want of good Help will find it to their interest to call. This Office 

insures honesty in all its dealings, and will give satisfaction. 
ll 



82 

Lemon Sauce. 

One large cupful sugar. Nearly one-half cupful butter. 
One egg. Juice and rind of one large lemon. Three table- 
spoonsful boiling water. Cream the butter and sugar ; add 
egg, lemon and nutmeg. Stir ten minutes, add the water by 
the spoonful. Place on fire until hot. 

Hard Sauce. 

One large cupful powdered sugar whipped to a cream with 
two tablespoonsful of butter. One tablespoonful of currant 
jelly beaten in well, with as much cinnamon as will lie on a 
half dime. When mixed heap on a saucer or glass dish and 
set in a cool place to harden. 

Jam Sauce. 

A teacupful of water to half pint of jam ; stir it and melt it 
on the fire, then strain and pour round any pudding you wish. 

Puff Paste. 

Take three quarter pounds of flour. 

Half pound of butter, a little salt. 

One cupful of ice water. 
Take one half the flour and butter with the salt ; mix well 
together with the ice water. Divide the rest of the butter and 
flour into four parts, and put one part into the dough at each 
rolling. 

Puff Paste. 

One and a half pounds of sifted flour. 

One pound of butter creamed and set to get cold. 
Divide the butter in quarters, take one quarter of the butter 
with lard size of an egg, and work into one pound of the flour 
with a little salt and a tumbler of ice water, work to a paste 
with a broad knife, roll out three separate times, each time 
adding one quarter of the butter and sprinkle of the flour, cut 
off pieces to suit your pie plates, roll out each piece twice. 
Bake quickly. 

Plain Pie Paste. 

One pound of flour and a teaspoonful of yeast powder, sifted 
together, one teaspoonful of salt, half a pound of butter and 
lard mixed; mixed with ice water. Use a knife to mix it. 



83 
Po.tato Crust. 

Boil six medium sized mealy white potatoes, pare and mash 
them through a colander, add one teacupful of sweet cream 
and a pinch of salt; sift in just flour enough to make a dough 
to roll out; work as little as possible; this must be rolled 
rather thicker than ordinary paste, and is excellent for pot-pie 
or any kind of boiled dumplings. 

Apple Pie. 

Eight large cooking apples, chopped fine. 
Four well beaten eggs. 

Half a pound of butter creamed with a half a pound 
of sugar. 
Mix all well together. Have your pie plates or tins lined 
with rich paste and fill ; bake without top paste. 



Sliced Apple Pie. 

Slice very thin the best cooking apples ; line your pie pans 
with rich paste and fill with the sliced apples and a little 
sprinkle of allspice ; add a little water and bake with top paste. 
Bake long enough in a moderate oven to cook the apples, 
when ready to be eaten, remove the top and dress with sugar 
and rich cream. Some bake these without a bottom crust 
and turn them upside down on another dish and eat with sugar 
and cream, whilst hot. Peach pies can be made in the same 
way. 

Apple Meringue. 

Prepare six large tart apples as for sauce, whilst hot add 
butter size of an egg ; sweeten to taste, and make into a smooth 
sauce. When cold add a cupful of fine cracker crumbs, yolks 
of three eggs well beaten, a cupful of sweet milk and nutmeg 
to taste. Bake in a large deep plate with an undercrust of 
rich paste, and a rim of puff paste around the edge. When 
done have ready the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, with a half coffee cupful pulverized sugar and one tea- 
spoonful lemon juice ; pour over the pie, return to the oven 
to brown lightly. 



84 
Pumpkin Pie. 

One half of a pumpkin cut up, stewed and strained through 
a colander over night. One quart of milk, or three pints if 
the pumpkin is watery. Four eggs ; a little salt. Three 
quarters teaspoonful ginger. One nutmeg. Sweeten to the 
taste. Two or three butter crackers, rolled fine. One table- 
spoonful molasses to make the pies brown nicely. Bake 
slowly three-quarters of an hour. 

Potato Pie. 

To one pound of finely mashed potato add three-quarters 
pound butter, quarter pound sugar, half a nutmeg and three 
well beaten eggs. Bake in a rich paste without a top crust. 

Cream Pies. 

Make a cream of three large spoonsful of corn starch mixed 
in a little milk, with the beaten yolks of four eggs, stirred 
into one quart of boiling milk. Stir smoothly and let boil 
up once ; add sugar to taste and a little salt ; flavor with va- 
nilla or lemon. Line your pie plates or tins with a rich paste, 
and bake, and when cold pour in the cream, and cover with 
the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with four table- 
spoonsful pulverized sugar ; return to the oven for a few min- 
tes till a light brown. This makes three pies. 

Lemon Pie. 

One lemon, two eggs, one cupful sugar. Yolks of eggs 
beaten with the sugar and whites beaten to a stiff froth ; add 
the grated rind and juice of the lemon, and one cupful of 
milk. Mix all together and bake like custard pie without a 
top crust. 

Lemon Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of three lemons. One quart fresh 
milk. Six eggs leaving out the whites of three. Two table- 
spoonsful corn starch. Butter size of a walnut. Sugar to 
taste. Beat the eggs very light and add sugar with corn 
starch and melted butter ; then pour the cold milk over this and 
add the lemons ; beat up and bake immediately in rich paste. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, with three table- 
spoonsful sugar. Cover the pies after they are baked, and 
return to the oven for a few minutes to brown slightly. 



85 
LESSONS GIVEN IN SEE KINDS ©F EMBf(0IDE^y. 

SPECIAhT.ES: | FIlE]ilI]V[6 B^6^. 

jiStompei'g I Degignei% 



Arrasene, Ribbosene and 

Plush Embroideries, 
Canvass of all kinds, 

Embroidery Materials, 
Fancy Baskets, Stands, 

and Novelties. 



NEW STORE, 

31 U/e5t Iexi9$tc>9 Str<?<?t. 



Every Novelty in our line is received by us as soon as issued. 



We keep complete lines of Ribbons, Ruchings, Collars and 
Cuffs, and Notions. 

Fleming Brothers, 

31 LUest Liexington Street. 

Miss M. J. QTJIGLEY, 



pe&s 




EVENING BRESSES— A SPECIALTY. 



211 If. ©ibepfg §t Pee t> 

BALTIMORE. 



86 
Lemon Pie. 

One lemon-peel grated and juice squeezed ; one and a half 
soda crackers, grated ; one egg ; one cupful sugar ; one cupful 
water, makes one pie. 

Cocoanut Custard. 

One cocoanut grated. One heaped tablespoonful butter. 
One pound granulated sugar. One wineglassful rose or orange 
water. One tumbler cream or rich milk. Nine eggs beaten 
separately. Cream the butter with the sugar, then add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, the beaten yolks 
with the cocoanut and rose or orange water. Lastly, stir in 
carefully the cream. Bake for half an hour in puff paste, 
without a top crust. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Make up dough precisely like yeast powder biscuits ; slice 
very thin good cooking apples and have ready some butter 
and sugar mixed together. For each dumpling take a piece 
of the dough, roll out rather thin, fill with the sliced apples 
full enough to make a nice sized dumpling ; place in an earthen 
dish close together. Inside of each dumpling put a small 
piece of the butter and sugar mixed ; also outside between the 
dumplings cover with water and place in the oven ; baste fre- 
quently as you would baste meat, when cooking. If they 
should brown too quickly, cover over with a pan or dish. 
Eat with cold sauce. Peach dumplings made in the same 
way : either slice the peaches or pare and leave whole, are very 
nice, and can be eaten with cold sauce. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. 

Pare and core good sized cooking apples, and make into 
dumplings ; using the potato crust ; tie each one separately in 
a little bag or dumpling cloth and boil. To be eaten with cold 
sauce or sugar and cream. 

Roly-Poly Dumpling. 

Pare and slice thin or chop up good cooking apples, roll 
out a good sized piece of potato crust ; spread with apples, 
roll up as jelly-cake ; tie up in a napkin and boil ; any other 
fruit dumpling can be made in the same way. 



87 

Snow Pudding. 

Dissolve one box of Cox's gelatine and a half cupful of 
sugar, in a cupful of cold water. Then add one quart of boil- 
ing water and let it come to a boil again. Set aside until it 
stiffens a little, then beat with the whites of five eggs and pour 
into molds. Make a custard of the yolks of five eggs and one 
quart of milk ; flavor with vanilla. 

Coffee Cream. 

One pint rich cream whipped light; half box of gelatine, 
soaked in one cupful of milk ; one cupful of strong coffee; one 
cupful white sugar ; the whites of two eggs. Dissolve the 
soaked gelatine and sugar in the boiling coffee and let it cool. 
Whip the cream and whites of eggs in separate dishes. When 
the gelatine is perfectly cool, beat it gradually into the whites 
until it is a firm froth, then whip in the cream. Rinse the 
molds in cold water, fill them with the mixture and set it on 
ice to cool. 

Coffee Cream. 

To half box gelatine add half cupful cold water ; let this 
stand whilst you make a pint of very strong coffee, very clear. 
Sweeten to taste and while boiling hot, stir into the dissolved 
gelatine, and set to cool. To be eaten with cream. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Put to soak half box of Cox's gelatine in just as little water 
as will cover it, let soak over night. Boil one pint of rich milk 
with half teacupful sugar ; add your gelatine and remove from 
the fire ; flavor with vanilla. Add the yolks of four eggs well 
beaten and stir quite well for a few minutes. Let cool a little 
and stir again till it begins to thicken and is very smooth. 
When quite cool but not set add one pint whipped cream, 
well mixed in. Pour in molds and set in a very cool place or 
on ice. 

Bavarian Cream with Peaches. 

Prepare about two pounds of rich, ripe peaches ; add one 
pound sugar, and boil to a marmalade. Squeeze through a 
colander, then add half box Cox's gelatine, soaked, let boil 
or heat through ; then remove from the fire ; stir well and 
add one tumbler of rich cream. Stir occasionally till cold 
enough, then add one pint whipped cream and mold. Place 
a circle of cut peaches around the dish when brought to table. 
Any other fruit can be used. 



88 
American Cream. 

Soak half a box Cox's gelatine in one quart of milk for an 
hour or more. Let come to a boil ; add yolks of four eggs 
beaten light, with six tablespoonsful of sugar, stirring con- 
stantly. Let boil a few minutes and remove from the fire. 
Then stir in briskly the whites of the four eggs beaten light, 
with same quantity sugar ; flavor with vanilla. Pour in molds 
and set to cool. To be eaten with cream. Make the day be- 
fore using. Cook in double kettle. 

French Cream or Pudding. 

Dissolve half box gelatine in one quart milk ; place in a 
vessel of boiling water on the fire and let it come to a boil. 
In another vessel put one cupful sugar and half cupful water, 
and let boil at the same time. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and 
add to the milk and gelatine, stirring well ; remove from 
where it boils and keep hot, whilst you add the well beaten 
whites of six eggs to the sugar and water, which must boil to 
a thick syrup ; stir all into the milk, remove entirely from the 
heat ; flavor with vanilla. Stir till it is cool then pour into 
molds, and put in the coolest place you have. To be eaten 
with whipped cream or the following snow. 

Snow. 

Half box gelatine soaked in a teacupful cold water; then 
add two cupsful sugar ; juice of two or three lemons ; one large 
cupful boiling water, with rind of lemon to flavor ; set on the 
fire till all is dissolved, then strain, and whilst just a little 
warm add the whites of four eggs well beaten, and beat all till 
stiff. This snow piled on a glass dish or bowl around the 
French pudding makes a very pretty dish. 

Delicious Blanc Mange. 

One quart milk ; two heaped tablespoonsful corn starch ; 
yolks of three eggs ; sugar to taste. When the milk with 
sugar added is at boiling heat, add yolks of eggs well beaten, 
with corn starch mixed first with cold milk ; remove from the 
fire as soon as this boils up first, flavor with vanilla. Beat the 
whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and add stirring all well ; 
then pour into molds. To be eaten with plain cream, with 
the addition of any rich preserve. 



89 



— U/m. 1^. Ijpeolr;, — 

No. 217 North Howard Street, - - Baltimore, Md. 

— LARGEST DISPLAY OF — 



f ine«£f*urniture- 



In the City, including latest designs of Parlor, Library, Chamber 
and Dining Suits, in Mahogany, Antique, Oak and Walnut. 



— LARGE LINE OF — 



"Up bolste r\f • good 



S 



In all desirable styles and colors. All Upholstering done in my own 
shop and under my personal supervision. 

Largest and best display of Wakefield Rattan Goods. 

Agents National Wire Mattress and Standard Folding Beds. 



Grain, Flour 1 , Canned Goodg, Feed, ^c. 

Consignments and Orders Solicited. 

Ask your Grocer for "Good as Gold" Flour, "Good as Gold" Canned 
Tomatoes and Corn. 

Write us for directions how to fry Canned Tomatoes and make Canned 

Corn Fritters. 

217 McElderry's Wharf, Baltimore. 



SEND YHIIR ORDERS FOR 

Pine, Oak and Hickory Uiood, 

(IN THE STICK, SAWED ONLY, OR SAWED AND SPLIT.) 
XO 

J7K56B. D. § WJfl. 6. jaiCHflEL, 

West Side Union Dock, Baltimore. 

Telephone No. 458-3. 
12 



90 

Floating Island. 

Separate the whites and yolks of eight eggs. Beat whites 
to a stiff froth, add gradually half teacupful pulverized sugar, 
half tumbler of currant, raspberry or quince jelly. With the 
yolks, and one quart rich milk sweetened to taste, (a dessert- 
spoonful of sugar to each egg is a fair proportion.) Make a 
boiled custard. Beat the yolks and sugar together, pour over 
this the milk boiling hot, stirring constantly. Place this in a 
kettle of boiling water till it thickens a little, if left a few 
moments too long in the water after it begins to thicken, it 
will surely curdle. It is important to stir it constantly if you 
wish a smooth custard. Flavor with vanilla. 

Another Way 

Which looks very pretty, is to leave out the jelly when you; 
make the float, and poach large spoonsful as you would poach 
an egg, only use milk instead of water, let the milk be boil- 
ing. Pour your custard into a glass bowl or dish and deco- 
rate the top with these spoonsful of poached float. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Let a pint of milk almost boil : stir in the yolks of four 
eggs well beaten, with three tablespoonsful of sugar. Stir 
this carefully till as thick as custard ; take from the fire im- 
mediately. Add quarter box gelatine previously soaked in 
milk enough to cover it ; flavor with vanilla, set in a cool place, 
and when cool, but not stiff, stir in a quart of whipped cream, 
flavored and sweetened slightly, and pour into paper cases or, 
glass bowl lined with sponge cake. 

A Delicious Dessert. 

Line the sides of a mold with sponge cake and the bottom 
w it'll bananas. Then fill the mold with stiff whipped cream. 
Set on ice till wanted. 

Banana Dessert. 

Slice eight bananas thin in the dish they are to be served. 
Make a very siveet lemonade and pour over the bananas ; let 
stand an hour before eating. 



91 
Bananas Sliced 

And put in alternate layers with either sliced oranges or pine 
apples, make a delicious and tempting dessert. 

Meringues. 

Whites of eight eggs. One pound granulated sugar. 
Beat the whites to a very stiff froth, then stir in gradually 
the sugar ; drop from the side of a teaspoon into a well but- 
tered dripping pan. Bake in a slow oven 45 minutes. When 
done mash in the bottom with a spoon before they harden. 
One teaspoonful is enough for each shell. For the filling take 
take either ice cream or whipped cream. 

Orange Ice. 

Twelve oranges. Three lemons. Two quarts of water. 
Sweeten to taste and freeze. 

Mock Ice Cream. 

Rub one cupful of strawberry, or any other jam or pre- 
serve, through a sieve, and add to this one quart sweet rich 
cream. Have already dissolved one ounce gelatine in a half 
pint of water and quarter pound of sugar. Stir all well to- 
gether. Put in molds on the ice till firm and solid. 

Caramel Custards. 

One pint milk. Two eggs, well beaten. Small cupful sugar. 
Put a tablespoonful granulated sugar on a small tin and place 
on the hot part of the range. Let this melt and burn. When 
it begins to smoke well add quickly one third cupful boiling 
water. This makes a dark brown liquid, which when cooled 
is to be added to the custard, and makes the caramel flavoring. 
Pour the custard into small cups, place them in a deep drip- 
ping pan, set in the oven, and then half fill the pan with boil- 
ing water, set in a hot oven. They will bake in about twenty 
minutes. 

Salted Almonds. 

Blanch the almonds, dip in melted butter and sift well with 
salt. Put in the oven and roast till a light brown. 



92 

Pine Apple Omelette. 

Beat three eggs for one minute with one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, and one heaping tablespoonful powdered sugar, 
and put this into a nice frying pan with a teaspoonful of but- 
ter (first melted. Set over the fire, and as fast as the omelette 
cooks on the bottom, break it a little in different places with 
a fork, to allow the uncooked portions to run down on the pan. 
When it is still a little liquid put in the middle a heaping table- 
spoonful of fresh or canned pine apple, grated or chopped fine ; 
fold the omelette, turn out on a hot dish, dust a little powdered 
sugar over the surface, and send to the table at once for des- 
sert or luncheon. 

A Fancy Dessert. 

Take a half dozen egg shells, broken carefully at one end, 
fill with blanc mange. Place neatly in the bottom of a glass 
bowl pieces of stiff gelatine jelly, in the form of a nest. Strew 
around thin strips of lemon rind preserved in sugar, to imitate 
straws, then remove the egg shells from the blanc mange and 
place these eggs in the nest. To be eaten with plain or whip- 
ped cream. 



DESSERTS OF CORALLINE. 



Coralline Blanc Mange. 

Boil one pint of milk ; pour into it one pint of Coralline dissolved in a 
pint of milk ; three tablespoonsful of sugar, a little salt and two well- 
beaten eggs, boil two or three minutes; flavor with vanilla; pour into 
molds. To be eaten when cold, with cream. 

Coralline Minute Pudding. 

Take one pint of milk to moisten one quart of Coralline. Put the bal- 
ance of the milk well salted into a buttered sauce pan, and boil over a 
moderate fire. While it is boiling, stir in lightly the moistened Coral- 
line. Add three eggs previously well beaten. Let boil one minute and 
serve with sweetened milk, cinnamon and sugar. 

Baked Pudding. 

Take one-half pint of Coralline, one tablespoonful of flour, and enough 
of a quart of milk to moisten it. Then scald the balance of the milk, 
and add to it the moistened Coralline and flour, and stir until it thick- 
ens ; then add a spoonful of s^lt, and remove from the fire. When cold, 
add five eggs (well beaten), two tablespoonsful of sugar, and pour the 
whole into a well buttered pudding dish, and bake fifteen to twenty 
minutes. Use any sauce desired. 



&3 

* * ttlholesale and Retail * * 

ITo. 3© HiLlTOlTER ST. 



Lace Curtains, Long Curtains, 
Curtain Poles, Portieres, 
Fringes, Silk Plush, 

Mohair Plush, Satin Damask, 

Material for Loose Coverings. 

EVERYTHING NEEDED FOR 

<?urtaiQ5, ^a/nbr^juii^, porti<?n?s, 

And the Covering of Old and New Furniture. 

C. SIDNEY HO$$IS & CO. 



•iv£-crszc i*^3< 



'QmatM (Qyf#4a <<2?%0tmm 



21S 'WEST lv£^^IDISO]Sr ST., 

(Of the Peabody Conservatory of Music.) 

U/ill <£iue l^essops op tf?e piapo, 

- — AT HER RESIDENCE, 

Or at the Residence of Pupils, if preferred. 



NVERY BEST REFERENCES-^ 



94 

Coralline Plain Pudding. 

, Take three cupsful of Coralline, one and a half cupsful of grated 
bread crumbs, one and a half cupsful of currants, washed and picked, 
one-half cupful seeded raisins, one-half cupful of chopped suet, one-half 
cupful of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder, two eggs and 
one pint of milk. Mix all well, together. Put into a well greased pud- 
ding mold. Set the mold in a sauce pan with boiling water sufficient to 
reach half way up the sides of the mold. Steam in oven two hours. 
Turn out and serve with a sauce of butter and sugar. 

Coralline Pudding - . 

Three-quarters of a pint of Coralline, half pint of bread crumbs, four 
eggs, one quart of milk, one cupful sugar and one lemon ; soak the Cor- 
alline and bread crumbs in part of the milk until soft, beat the yolks of 
four eggs and white of one together, add the sugar, bread, Coralline 
and milk, and flavor with the grated rind of the lemon ; bake in a hot 
oven ; when done, take the three whites, beat stiff, add one cupful of 
pulverized sugar, the juice of the lemon, spread on top and set in the 
oven until a light brown. 

Coralline Croquettes. 

Into one and a half quarts of boiling milk stir nine ounces of Coralline, 
putting it in gradually ; stir and boil four minutes, then add six ounces 
of sugar, one and a half teaspoonsful of extract of vanilla, the yolks of 
four "eggs, well beaten, and mix well on the fire. Turn into a buttered 
dish and let cool. Strew some bread crumbs on the table. Divide the 
preparation into pieces the size of an egg, and give them the shape of a 
pear. Dip in beaten eggs and roll them in the crumbs. A few minutes 
before serving, fry them to a light brown, in plenty of hot lard made for 
the purpose. Drain and lay them on a dish in a circle and serve with 
sauce. 

Princess Pudding. 

One pint of Coralline, one quart of milk, three eggs, one small cup- 
ful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, mix together, put in a quick oven, 
serve hot. Sauce : — pulverized sugar and butter, and flavor with va- 
nilla or lemon. 



LOAF CAKE. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Twelve eggs. One pound butter. One pound flour browned 
in the oven. One pound brown sugar. Two pounds raisins, 
seeded. Two pounds currants, washed and dried. Three- 
quarters pound citron. Half pint of black molasses. One 
teaspoonful ginger put in the molasses. Two tablespoonsful 
of the mixture composed of nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, and a lfctle mace. Steep this mixture of spices in one 
pint of cider over night. Take separate flour for rolling your 
fruit in. 



95 

Black Cake. 

Fifteen eggs. One and a half pounds brown sugar. One 
and a half pounds flour, browned in the oven. One pound of 
butter. One dessertspoonful of cloves. One dessertspoonful 
of cinnamon. One dessertspoonful of nutmeg. Two lemons; 
grate the rind and add the juice. Three pounds of currants.. 
Two pounds of raisins. One and a half pounds of citron. 
Two pounds pecan nuts chopped. One teacupful of black 
molasses. Bake three hours and a half. 

Fruit Pound Cake. 

One pound of butter. One pound of sugar. One pound 
of flour. Ten eggs. One wineglassful of rose water. Half 
pound citron, and two pounds of currants or seeded raisins. 
Flour the fruit well, Bake three hours in an earthen dish 
with funnel. 

Plain Fruit or Lunch Cake. 

Beat together until light three-quarters pound of butter, 
with one and a half pounds of granulated sugar. Then add 
the yolks of five eggs. Three gills of milk. A heaping table- 
spoonful of Rumford's yeast powder, mixed with one and' 
three-quarters of a pound of flour. Put the flour and beaten 
whites of the eggs in together. Then add one and a half 
pounds raisins. One and a half pounds currants. One nut- 
meg-grated. Bake in an earthen dish with a funnel. 

Leopard Cake. 

Half pound white sugar. Half pound butter. Whites of 
eight eggs. Half pound flour well mixed. Also mix sepa- 
rately, same quantity of butter and flour. Same quantity 
brown sugar. Yolks of eight eggs. Half pound currants. 
Six ounces raisins stoned and chopped. Small teaspoonful 
cinnamon and cloves. Mix well ; drop alternately in pan, 
but do not smooth. 

Composition Cake. 

One and three quarter pounds of flour. One and a half 

pounds of sugar. Fourteen ounces butter. Six eggs. Two 

pounds of fruit. Citron to the taste. One tablespoonful 

Rumford's yeast powder. Bake in Jcwo loaves about t two 



96 

hours. Use the earthen fluted cake dish with funnel. Any 
cake of this kind is very much better when baked in these 
dishes. 

English "Walnut Cake. 

Half cupful of butter. Two cupsful powdered sugar. 
Three cupsful of flour. Four eggs. One cupful of milk. 
A little salt. Two teaspoonsful Rumford's baking powder. 
Bake in layers. Filling : — Make soft white icing, using 
whites of two eggs and confectioner's sugar. One pound Eng- 
lish walnuts. Half pound raisins. Reserve enough halves of 
nuts to cover top of cake ; also a few of the raisins, seeded and 
halved, laid on top with the nuts improves it. Chop raisins and 
nuts a little and stir in the icine. 



Hickory Nut Cake Filling. 

One and a half cupsful of A sugar. Half cupful of water. 
One cupful of hickory nuts before chopped. Chop them to 
powder ; boil water and sugar until it hairs ; beat white of one 
egg to a froth ; beat sugar until creamy ; then stir together 
and add nuts This makes three layers, make the top thickest, 
and brown a little in the oven. Any good cake can be used. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Take one third cake of Baker's chocolate grated fine. One 
cupful sugar. Half cupful milk. Place the mixture in a bowl 
over the tea kettle until the chocolate is melted. When it is 
cool add a beaten egg and flavor with vanilla. Then take 
half cupful butter. One cupful sugar. Half cupful milk. 
Two eggs. Two cupsful flour. One tablespoonful Rumford's 
yeast powder ; add to this the above mixture, and bake on a 
tin sheet. 

Chocolate Filling for Cake. 

One pound of pulverized sugar with water enough to wet 
it ; beat the whites of three eggs a little but not to a stiff froth ; 
add the sugar and quarter pound of chocolate ; boil it until it 
thickens. After removing from the fire let it cool a little, then 
stir in one grated cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla, spread be- 
tween the layers on top and sides. 



97 

arc-)'! pea§t W <§or->i,, 

FLORIST,- 

Ifo, 228 If. ©bapleg, §t pee t> 

BALTIMORE, IvdIID. 



©reenhouzes i-vErederiek l^oad Z$ ©eeehfield Tlvz. 
Catonsville Cars Pass every hour. 

H. SUSMAN, 

Stalls :-38 & 40 Lexington Market, 

Vegetables and Fruits 

ITMABKETING DELIVERED FREE. 

R0BERT H6GHES, 

l®lumbep®and#(Ba§# < F > i({ep, 

516 FIRST STREET, 

BETWEEN CHARLES STREET AND MARYLAND AVENUE 

Baltimore County, Md. 

13 



98 



York Chocolate Cake. 

Three quarters of a cupful butter. Two cupsful sugar. One 
cupful milk. Three cupsful flour. Whites of eight eggs. 
Three drops almond oil. Two even teaspoonsful of Rumford's 
baking powder. Bake in layers. Two cupsful sugar, and 
half cupful of cream or milk ; after this comes to a boil, let it 
boil three full minutes not stirring at all. When it ropes from 
the spoon, pour into a bowl and beat until it begins to harden ; 
add one teaspoonful of vanilla. Have melted half cake choc- 
olate and spread the cream quickly over the layers of cake, 
and spread the melted chocolate thinly over the cream, be- 
tween the layers and on top. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One cupful sugar. Half cupful butter. Three eggs. Half 
cupful sweet milk. Two and a half cupsful flour. Two tea- 
spoonsful Rumford's yeast powder. Bake in layers. When 
cool spread with the following mixture : — Quarter pound 
Baker's chocolate, shaved down. Half pound sugar. Half 
pint milk. Boil and stir till thick. 

Randolph Cake. 

One pound sugar. Half pound butter. One and a quarter 
pounds flour. Four eggs. One pint of milk. ( )ne teaspoon- 
ful Rumford's yeast powder ; flavor to taste. 

Sponge Cake. 

Ten eggs. One pound sugar. Half pound flour sifted. 
Juice of one lemon with the rind grated. Beat the yolks very 
light; add the sugar to the yolks, then the lemon juice and 
rind. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add alternately with 
the flour ; stirring them in very lightly. Bake slowly. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs. The weight of the eggs in sugar and half the 
weight in flour. Rind and juice of one lemon. Separate the 
whites and yolks of eggs. Beat yolks very light, then add 
the sugar, lemon juice and rind grated ; then add the whites, 
which must be very light, alternately with the flour. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 



Sponge Cake. 

Four eggs. One even cupful of sugar. One heaped cup- 
ful of flour. Begin with the whites of eggs ; beat to a stiff 
froth, then add the yolks beat till well mixed ; then beat in the 
sugar about five minutes ; remove the beater, and with a spoon 
as lightly as possible stir in the sifted flour. Bake in shallow 
pans about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Jelly Roll. 

Three eggs. Half cupful butter. One cupful flour. One 
and a half dessertspoonsful yeast powder sifted with the flour. 
Two-thirds cupful sugar. A little salt. Bake in a long shal- 
low pan. When baked remove carefully from the pan and 
place on a napkin. Spread quickly with jelly and roll whilst 
hot. It is well to keep the roll in the napkin until cool. 

Date Cake. 

Two cupsful sugar. One cupful molasses. One cupful 
milk. Half cupful butter. Three eggs. Two pounds dates. 
A little salt. One nutmeg. One teaspoonful cloves. One 
dessertspoonful yeast powder sifted with enough flour to make 
as stiff as pound cake. The dates must be seeded and chop- 
ped not too fine. 

Filling for Larger Cake. 

One cupful seeded raisins, cooked in a little water till ten- 
der ; chop fine and mix with one cupful walnut kernels chop- 
ped fine, the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, and half 
cupful powdered sugar. Mix all together and spread between 
layers of cake. 

Orange Jelly Filling. 

Grated rind of one and juice of two oranges. Juice of half 
lemon. Half cupful water. One cupful sugar. Boil till clear ; 
then add one tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little cold 
water, with one well beaten egg. Let boil up and it is done ; 
be careful not to let it curdle. When cool spread between 
layers of cake. 



100 

Lemon Jelly Filling. 

Three eggs. Grated rind of one and juice of two lemons. 
Two cupsful sugar. Small lump butter. Beat the eggs, add 
the sugar, then the lemon and butter ; stir well, and let set 
over the boiling tea kettle till it thickens. Spread between 
layers of any kind of cake. 

Beautiful Cake. 

Three cupsful sugar. Two cupsful butter. Six cupsful 
flour. One cupful milk and half cupful cream. Five eggs, 
one nutmeg, fruit of any kind. One tablespoonful Rumford's 
baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, then 
add the yolks of eggs well beaten, then the milk, cream and 
nutmeg. Sift the baking powder with the flour, and add alter- 
nately with the whites of the eggs well beaten. Add fruit 
last. This makes two loaves. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Three cupsful flour. Two cupsful powdered sugar. One 
cupful milk. Half cupful butter. Three eggs. One cocoa nut 
grated. One tablespoonful yeast powder. Cream butter and 
sugar; add yolks of" eggs well beaten ; then the milk. The 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth alternately with the flour 
and yeast powder sifted together. Stir in last of all the cocoa 
nut. Bake in a carefully heated oven. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Four cupsful flour sifted with one tablespoonful yeast pow- 
der. Three cupsful sugar. One cupful milk. Five eggs, 
beaten separately, (saving the whites of three for icing.) Half 
cocoanut grated put into the cake; the other half with the 
whites of three eggs beaten very stiff, with a little lemon juice 
for the icing ; bake the cake in jelly tins. When done spread 
the icing between and on top, and return to the oven for a 
few minutes. 

Economy Cake. 

Two cupsful flour silted with one tablespoonful yeast pow- 
der. Two cupsful sugar. One cupful milk. Three eggs. 
One tablespoonful butter. Mix butter and sugar to a cream ; 
add the eggs beaten separately, then milk and flour. Bake in 
a moderate oven. When done butter the top and sift pow- 
dered su<rar and cinnamon over it. 



101 

S. B. Sexton. ESTABLISHED 1839. S. B. Sexton, Jr. 

S. B. SEXT0N & SON, 

— Manufacturers of — 

Stoves, * Ranges, * Furnaces, 



-AND THE- 



b 

nd : 

ORIGINAL BALTIMORE FIRE-PLACE HEATERS, 



(Patented by S. B. Sexton.) 



Store and Salesroom,— No. 23 East Lombard Street, 

Foundry, 511 to 519 Conway Street, 

Baltimore, GQd. 

COAh & CUOOD. 

Carlos f(. Sai^tyez, 

20 SOUTH HOLLIDRY STREET, 

•>Balti/r\or<?, (T\d. 



Telephone 326-3. Patent Dumping Carts. 



102 
Strawberry, or Peach Short Cake. 

One egg. One third of a cupful sugar. One cupful sweet 
milk. Two tabespoonsful butter. One teaspoonful soda. 
Two teaspoonsful cream tartar. Mix thicker than batter, and 
bake quickly in layers. Strawberries between and on top. 

Lemon Cake. 

One and a quarter pounds of flour. One pound of white 
sugar. Half pound of butter. Six eggs. Half pint of milk. 
One tablespoonful Rumford's yeast powder, sifted with the 
flour. The rind and juice of one lemon. Cream the butter 
and sugar together. Beat the eggs separately, add them to 
the sugar, then the milk, lemon rind and juice, lastly the 
flour, a little at a time. Bake half an hour. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cupsful of granulated sugar. One cupful of milk. 
Half cupful of butter. Three cupsful of flour. Whites of 
five eggs. One tablespoonful yeast powder. Bake in a quick 
oven, in jelly cake pans. Icing for same : — One orange rind 
grated, also the juice. Whites of two eggs. Beat very stiff, 
with pulverized sugar ; put the icing between the cakes in- 
stead of jelly ; then ice the whole. 

Ginger Bread. 

Two teacupsful of butter. Two teacupsful of brown sugar. 
Five eggs. Two teacupsful of black molasses. Quarter tea- 
cupful ginger. Five teacupsful flour. One teacupful sweet 
milk, with one teaspoonful of soda in the milk, put in just be- 
fore the flour. 

Ginger Pound Cake. 

Five teacupsful of flour. Five eggs. Two and a half cups- 
ful of molasses. One and a half cupsful butter. One cupful 
of milk. Two cupsful of brown sugar. Half cupful of gin- 
ger. One teaspoonful of allspice. One teaspoonful of cloves. 
One teaspoonful of cinnamon. Juice and rind of one lemon. 
One teaspoonful of soda. Fruit added if desired. 



103 
Soft Ginger Bread. 

Six cupsful flour. Three cupsful molasses. One cupful 
cream. One cupful butter. Two eggs. One heaping tea- 
spoonful baking powder. 

Aunt Agnes' Ginger Cake. 

One pound butter. One pound sugar. Six eggs. Two 
pounds flour. One pint molasses. One pint milk. One tea- 
spoonful saleratus. One tablespoonful ginger. One table- 
spoonful cinnamon. One tablespoonful allspice. One table- 
spoonful cloves. Grated rind of two lemons. 

Angel Food. 

One and a half tumblers or goblets of granulated sugar. 
One tumblerful of flour. One teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
One teaspoonful of vanilla. Sift the sugar and flour four 
times each, (separately.) Then measure. Add the cream 
tartar to the flour, then sift again. Beat the whites of twelve 
eggs on a large dish, to a stiff froth ; then add the sugar 
quickly but lightly ; the flour in the same way. Put in the 
vanilla before the flour and sugar. Put immediately into an 
ungreased pan, and bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. 
When done, turn upside down in the pan to cool. Place little 
props under the edges of the pan to give air. Use a tumbler 
that holds two and a quarter gills. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

Whites of eight eggs. One cupful of sweet milk. One 
cupful of butter. Two cupsful of sugar. Two cupsful of 
flour. One cupful of corn starch. Two tablespoonsful Rum- 
ford's baking powder mixed with flour. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the milk, flour and corn starch, then the 
whites beaten very light ; bake in cakes about an inch thick. 

Icing for same : — Whites of four eggs beaten very light. 
Four cupsful sugar. Pour half a pint of boiling water on the 
sugar, boil until clear and candy, pour the boiling sugar over 
the beaten eggs and beat till cold, to a stiff cream ; before it is 
quite cold add one teaspoonful of cream tartar, two teaspoons- 
ful vanilla. When cold spread between the cakes as thick as 
the cakes. Also on top and sides. 



104 
Dover Cake. 

One pound flour. One pound sugar. Half pound butter. 
Six eggs. One cupful milk. Haifa nutmeg. Cream butter 
and sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs beaten very 
light, then milk and nutmeg, and last the whites of eggs bea- 
ten very light with the flour, and one tablespoonful yeast 
powder. This cake is very good to add fruit, and makes a de- 
licious fruit or black cake. Also for hot huckleberry cake to 
eat with hard sauce. 

Frosting or Icing. 

To the white of one egg take a heaping teacupful of pulver- 
ized sugar. Beat the egg only to a foam (not to a stiff froth,) 
add the sugar gradually, and mix well, adding flavor to taste, 
and the icing is ready. It is better to spread the icing over 
the cakes as soon as they are taken from the oven. For a 
cocoanut cake mix plenty grated cocoanut with the icing 
and spread at once. 

Boiled Icing. 

Take same proportions of sugar and egg as in above recipe. 
Boil the sugar with a little water, when it is boiled to candy and 
threads take it from the fire, and add at once the foamy egg, 
stirring briskly as possible. Flavor and it is ready for use. 



SMALL CAKES. 



Raised Doughnuts. 

One and a quarter pounds of sugar. Half pound butter. 
Half pound lard. One quart milk. Ten eggs. One nut- 
meg. One cake compressed or a cupful baker's yeast. Mix 
the yeast, milk, eggs, lard, nutmeg and half the sugar to a 
stiff batter with flour in the morning. At noon add the other 
ingredients and knead it in a soft dough. Set the dough in 
a warm place to rise, and it will be ready to boil the next 
morning ; to be boiled in lard. This quantity makes a great 
many. 



105 






(P"rom the Leipzig Conservatorium,) 



AND HARMONY. 



PROSPECTUSES ON APPLICATION 



NO. 1811 ST. PAUL STREET, 
JEtctltimore, JS£cL. 

English~Gei*man~Classieal 



iEOIR BOYS ^L.HST3D ~5TOTT^TGr IMIIEIbT, 

E. DEICHMANN, Principal. 
PRIMARY, COLLEGIATE and BUSINESS CLASSES. 

HO. 608 ROI^IIH EU^AW STREET, ■ 

(Opposite Johns Hopkins University,) 

BALTIMORE, MD. 

TERMS:— From Fifty to One Hundred and Twenty- Five Dollars a year, 
according to class. 

A Gymnasium is attached, and Gymnastic Exercises are included in 

the course, under a competent instructor. 
14 



106 
Raised Doughnuts. 

Three eggs well beaten. Two cupsful sugar. Quarter pound 
butter. Three ounces lard. One pint milk. Warm the but- 
ter, lard and milk. Whilst lukewarm add the sugar, eggs and 
half cake compressed yeast and one nutmeg. Thicken this 
with flour to a stiff batter, and set to rise. When very light 
add flour and knead well into dough ; let rise again, then cut 
out and fry in boiling lard. 

Sand Tarts. 

Two pounds flour. Three-quarters pound butter. One 
and a half pounds brown sugar. Two eggs. Beat eggs and 
sugar and add flour ; then pour in the melted butter. Two 
teaspoonsful cinnamon and a wineglassful of rose water. Roll 
out thin and cut in square cakes. Stick blanched almonds, 
cut in pieces, over the top before they go in the oven. 

Sand Tarts. 

Two pounds brown sugar. Three quarter pounds butter. 
Two pounds flour. Yolks of ten eggs. Two teaspoonsful of 
Rumford's yeast powder, sifted with the flour. Mix well and 
roll out, and cut with cake cutter any shape you wish, wash 
over the top with beaten egg, and sprinkle well with cinnamon 
and granulated sugar. 

Sand Tarts. 

One pound butter. Two pounds brown sugar. Two pounds 
flour. Three eggs. Half pound blanched almonds, split. 
Mix the flour, butter, sugar and eggs, leaving out the white 
of one. Work these into a mass — then roll out about as thin 
as a sugar cake and cut out. Beat the white of the egg and 
with a feather wet the cakes over. Stick it over with the split 
almonds, and sand over with loaf sugar and cinnamon. Let 
bake slowly. 

Snow Balls. 

Six eggs. Three cupsful sugar. Four cupsful sifted flour. 
Half pound butter. One cupful milk. One teaspoonful soda. 
Two teaspoonsful cream of tartar. Flavor with vanilla. Bake 
in muffin tins. Do not beat the eggs separately. 



107 
Ginger Snaps. 

One quart black molasses. Two cupsful brown sugar. Two 
cupsful of butter and lard mixed. Two tablespoonsful of gin- 
ger. Two teaspoonsful black pepper. Half ounce cinnamon. 
Boil this mixture three or four minutes ; after which add a small 
teaspoonful of baking powder. When this mixture is cool, 
make quite stiff with flour. Roll very thin and bake. 

Annie's Ginger Snaps. 

To one quart molasses take one cupful of lard and butter 
mixed. One small teaspoonful of baking soda One teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar. One cupful brown sugar. A pinch of sak. 
Half cupful ginger. Dissolve the soda and cream tartar in 
water separately. Then mix them and make stiff with flour. 
Roll thin and bake. 

Rich Sugar Cakes. 

One pound butter. One and a quarter pounds sugar. Two 
and a half pounds flour. Half pint milk. One teaspoonful 
saleratus in a little water. Roll very thin and bake a delicate 
brown, in a very quick oven. 

Crullers. 

Half pound butter. Three-quarters pound sugar. Two 
pounds flour. One teaspoonful cinnamon. One nutmeg. Six 
eggs. One teaspoonful rose water. Fry in boiling lard. 

Cookies. 

One cupful butter. Two cupsful sugar. Two eggs. One 
teaspoonful saleratus, dissolved in three tablespoonsful milk. 
Flour to roll out nicely. 

Sugar Cakes. 

Half pound butter. Quarter pound lard. One and a half 
pounds sugar. Six eggs. One grated nutmeg. Flour to 
roll. Grated lemon rind improves. 



108 
Drop Cakes. 

Two cupsful sugar. Half cupful milk. Half cupful butter. 
Three eggs. Half a nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether ; add eggs beaten separately, milk and nutmeg. Sift 
one dessertspoonful yeast powder with Hour enough to make 
a little thicker than pound cake. Drop a small spoonful in a 
well buttered pan, not too close together. 

Macaroons. 

Whites of three eggs and three-quarters of a pound fine 
sugar beaten together. Add one-half pound almond paste* 
chopped fine. Bake on buttered paper about ten minutes in 
a quick oven. 

Hickory Nut Macaroons. 

Two cupsful nuts, chopped very fine. One cupful sugar. 
Whites of three eggs, beaten very stiff. Two tablespoonsful 
flour. Mix all, then drop in small lumps size of a walnut, on 
well-buttered tins. Be careful they do not burn. 



Walnut Kisses. 

Beat whites of three eggs as for icing ; then add half pound 
pulverized sugar ; quarter pound kernels of English walnuts. 
Have ready a well-buttered pan. Drop into the pan (not too 
close together,) one tablespoonful of the mixture, and be 
sure a half walnut is in each spoonful covered with the bat- 
ter. Bake in a slow oven till a liuilt brown. 



Cheese Sticks. 

One-half pound flour, dried. One quarter pound butter. 
One pinch mustard. A little cayenne pepper. One saltspoon- 
ful salt. One-quarter pound cheese grated. Bind them to- 
gether with whites of two eggs. Cold water enough for a 
stiff paste. Roll one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut about five 
inches in length and in very narrow strips. Bake in a quick 
oven, a light brown. This makes a large quantity. 



108 i 

MOHLER & HURLBUTT, 

14 N Charles St., Baltimore, Md. 



— Upholstery fabrics — 

I2ST ALL GRADES. 

A complete stock, ranging from the lowest to the best novelties 
as they are placed on the market. 

A most complete and comprehensive stock. We have many 
private patterns. 

Heavy Curtains, Cretonnes, Slip Coverings, Awnings, &c. 

FURNITURE RE-UPHOLSTERED. 



3ESTA38LIS3Ei3BX> 1862. 

— Confectioner,— 



829 ZDZRTXIID HILL ^^"iTEnSTTJE, 

— DIRECTS ATTENTION TO HIS — 

lceCreams.waierlces. n usiarQs.PiomDiere.6iG . 

TRY:— SHIRLEY FRUITAGE. (Original.) 
Liberal Discount to Churches, Fairs, Festivals, etc. 



N. B. — Articles Strictly Pure and personal attention given to all Orders. 

Tex.ei'iio^je: 1388. 




gTEWWFg 




Mt. Royal Entrance to 
Druid Hill Park, 




MES 



211 Park Avenue. 

Landaus, Victorias, Coupes, Landaulets, 

Broughams, and all kinds of Heavy Hire. 

Drivers in Livery furnished at a few minutes notice. 

BOARDING STABLES for 

Gentlemen's Road Horses, and Private Tenants. 



RIDDU£ & WIUUAMS, 



ARTISTIC 

Hard Wood and 
Slate mantels 

— FOR — 

Art Tiles, Hearths, Facings, 
Wainscoating, &c. 

PLAIN TILES FOR FLOORS. 

GRATES, BRASS GOODS, &c. 

124 [forty ^ovuard Str^t, r^ar ^exir^tor), 




Telephone ^io. 1482. 



109 




THE GREAT 



China Tea Co 



Importers, Wholesale and Ketail 
Dealers in 



»! 



Teas and Coffees, 

615 East Baltimore Street, and 
215 North Eutaw Street. 



The Only Exclusive Tea and Coffee House 
in Baltimore. 



into the extent of "FOOD ADULTERATION " report: - 

~fTJP -^^T^Out 6i 20 samples of Ground Cloves examined, only t:-o were pure. 

-O Out of S samples of Ground Pepper examined, only one was pure. 
Jlltr — ir Out of io samples of Mustard examined, none were pure. 

(see report on spices and condiments.) 

15 • BFJ100l/^S • £l/£RY • fiOdS^K^P^R 

the selection of her SPICEs 
i idly which at present exists, 
MUSTARD AND SPICKS 




To exercise the 

greatest care in 

I CONDIMENTS. In order to overcome the diffi- 

itli regard to SECURING REALLY 1'IRE 

Messrs. 

^lARKELL JSrOS. * ]c)ALTIMORE, ^1d. 

Proprietors of the Para Steam Mustard and Spice Mills (established 1812), have 
prepared — expressly for the wants of the fine retail trade — a brand of Spices man- 
ufactured from the best materials and known as the "Purity Brand." 

( )ur newly-designed "Purity Spiee Boxes' 1 contain a quarter-pound each 
of our "Union Brand" (absolutely pure) Mustard and our "Pnri'tv Brand" ground 
Allspice, Cinnamon, Cloves, Ginger and Pepper . in handsomely-decorated dredge 
top square cans, the absolute purity of the contents being guaranteed by the si^ 
natures of the firm on each can — thus li Markell Bros." Sent by express, prepaid, 
to any address, upon receipt of $J.oo. Address, Makkkli. Bros., Baltimore, Mil. 

A magnificent 6x14 inch 

panel IMiotot;i.<r ravin:; 

of the figure hereon, without 
advertising matter, after Ser- 
voux's famous painting (in 
the Corcoran Art Gallery, 
Washington,) of "The Vesta/ 
T/ieeia," sent free with each 
Purity Spice Box. Dupli- 
cate-, furnished at $1.00 each. 




©o BR05.q>@ 
BfH£l/T\0RE, /T\D. 



110 



COFFEE, &c. 



Good Coffee. 

For good Coffee use one third Mocha and two-thirds Java. 
Let it be roasted carefully and very even, for a very few burnt 
grains will make the whole pot of coffee bitter. To three 
pounds roasted coffee take the whites and shells of two eggs ; 
the shells broken up and stirred up with the whites and mixed 
thoroughly with the roasted coffee when nearly cold ; then let 
dry and put in a tight canister ; grind just when it is needed. 
To one quart of boiling water add four heaping tablespoonsful 
ground coffee, moistened with cold water, and let boil fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Stir down with a spoon when it boils up 
and boil slowly. 

Chocolate. 

To each square of Baker's Chocolate allow three gills milk 
and water, (half of each.) Scrape down the chocolate and mix 
to a paste, with hot water just enough to melt it ; add this to 
the hot milk and water. Let boil and serve with a spoonful 
whipped cream floating on the top of each cup. 

Tea. 

Be sure the water boils before scalding tea, which is to be 
used hot, and never let the tea boil — only draw. A cup of tea 
is very refreshing made by putting a teaspoonful of good tea 
into the cup just when it is needed, and pouring boiling water 
over it. If the water is boiling the tea leaves will not float, 
but sink at once. It will not be necessary to strain it. This 
is a good way to make tea for the sick. 

Ice Tea. 

Use a pitcher with a top to it. Put into this the tea and 
pour over it cold water in the morning, and keep covered in a 
cool place till it is needed. Serve in glasses with plenty oi 
ice and lemon sliced. 



Ill 



additional 

Choice Recipes. 



Breakfast Shortcake. 

One quart of flour sifted with one and a half dessertspoons- 
ful yeast powder. Two-thirds cupful butter or lard. One 
pint sweet milk or ice water. One teaspoonful salt. Work 
the butter thoroughly in the flour ; add the salt. Make a 
nice dough by adding the milk. Sprinkle your biscuit-board 
with flour, turn out the dough, working as little as possible, 
with very little flour, as this dough should be soft. Roll out 
in square sheets, half an inch thick, put in the pan and mark 
in squares. When nicely baked break or cut into squares ; 
butter while hot and place on a plate. Serve at once. 

Huckleberry Muffins. 

Four cupsful sifted flour. Half cupful sugar. Two cups- 
ful sweet milk. One and a half dessertspoonsful Rumford's 
yeast powder. One quart huckleberries. Half cupful but- 
ter. Two eggs. Cream the butter and sugar. Add the 
beaten yolks of eggs, then the milk; then alternately flour 
with yeast powder, and the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth ; lastly, the berries. Bake in a quick oven. 

Stuffed Tomatoes — Baked. 

Choose large smooth tomatoes. Scoop out a place at the 
top and fill with very fine bread crumbs, with a small piece 
onion chopped ; pepper, salt, one teaspoonful sugar, and a 
liberal piece of butter. Set in the oven and heat ; rub well 
together and fill the tomatoes very full ; let the filling pro- 
ject half an inch above the tomato and smooth over the top. 
Bake and serve with a little sprinkle of sugar dusted over 
them. 



112 
Potatoes in Cases. 

Select good sized, smooth potatoes. Bake. When done 
and still hot, cut off one end and with a teaspoon scoop out 
the inside ; be careful not to break the skin ; mash smoothly, 
and season with butter, pepper and salt ; and with a spoon 
return to the potato skin, allowing the open-end to be built up 
an inch above the skin, leaving it rough ; put them in a hot 
oven. These tops up just to brown, which will only take a 
few minutes. Serve at once. 



Lyonnaise Potatoes. 



Cut cold potatoes into squares. Put them in a sauce pan 
with cream enough to moisten. Simmer till heated well ; then 
add a little chopped parsley, butter, pepper and salt. If the 
flavor of onion is desired : first put a lump of butter into the 
sauce pan, with some minced onion ; fry a very light color, 
then add cream, potatoes, etc., as given. 



Corn Pudding. 



Six ears of corn. One quart rich milk. Two eggs. Quar- 
ter pound butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Grate the corn 
from the cobs ; add to the milk, with the eggs beaten light, 
butter and seasoning. Stir all well together, and bake until 
done, but not waterv. 



Baked Apple Sauce. 



Be sure to select good cooking apples. Peel and slice very 
thin, enough to fill a baking dish very full, (they will cook 
down). Sprinkle just a little sugar over, and add a spoonful 
or two of water. Cover with a dish, and place in a hot oven. 
Cook till the apples are tender and clear. Remove the dish 
when nearly done, and let all brown over. Bits of butter and 
sugar sprinkled over the top will improve. Also make the 
apples brown nicely. This is a good dish for breakfast or 
luncheon. To be eaten cold. 



113 



■^The^pen^LDCj^elBc^chooI-^ 

F01R GURUS A^D BOYS, 

Corner J\forih and Maryland ^venues, 



-CONDUCTED BY — 



The Misses Johnston. 



Thorough English Course taught, also French and German 

Languages without extra cost. Special attention given 

to Elocution, Orthograpliy and Penmanship. 



BEFEBE1TCES : 

Mrs. Oliver Hoblitzell. Mrs. Hiram Taylor, Mrs. J. Badger Brown. 

Mr. James F. McCabe, Mr. Richard Cromwell, Mr. John M. Littig, 

Mrs. G. M. Gelston. 

Other References Given if Desired. 



J^potbecarif, — 



South- West Corner Charles Street and Boundary Avenue, 

B^EjTIIMIOiBiE], IMIID. 

Drugs, Medicines, Chemicals, 

Fine Toilet Soaps, Brushes, Combs, etc. 

Perfumery and Fancy Toilet Articles in great variety. 

BEAM'S SUPERIOR MOUTH WASH for Cleansing, Beautifying, and Pre- 
serving the Teeth and Gums, and imparting a pleasant odor to the Breath. 

BEAM'S SUPERIOR COLOGNE. 

Pure Brandy, Wines and Liquors for Medicinal Purposes. 

Physicians' Prescriptions Accurately Compounded. 



114 
Beef a' la Mode. 

Five pounds of the round of beef. One pound of bread. 
Two eggs, and one tablespoonful of flour. Butter size of an 
egg. Half teaspoonful each salt, ground cloves, allspice, pep- 
per and nutmeg. Wet the bread in water. Mash fine ; add 
the butter (melted,) then all the other ingredients. Cut 
gashes in the beef and fill them with about half of the dress- 
ing. Put the meat in a baking pan with water to cover it. 
Set it where it will stew for a couple of hours gently ; cover 
it with a lid. When it has stewed two hours turn the reserved 
dressing on the top of the meat. Put the lid on and let it 
stew an hour or more longer. This last stewing should be in 
the oven, removing the lid long enough for the meat to brown 
nicely. After the meat is done and taken up if the gravy 
should not be thick enough, thicken with a little flour mixed 
in water ; add more butter, let cook and pour over the meat. 
Do not make the gravy too thick. 

Boiled Chickens. 

Prepare as for roasting. Stuff with bread crumbs as given 
for roast poultry. Season very highly. Sew each chicken in 
a cloth ; the limbs tied firmly with a string. Place in an iron 
pot and cover with hot water, which will prevent the escape of 
the juices. Let boil slowly for the first half hour ; then boil 
harder till the chickens become quite tender. Serve with 
drawn butter, with hard boiled eggs sliced and chopped pars- 
ley, or with oyster sauce. 

Oyster Sauce. 

One pint or more oysters. One teacupful milk or cream. 
Two tablespoonsful butter. One tablespoonful flour. Pep- 
per and celery salt. Boil the liquor of the oysters. Strain 
till clear ; add the milk and let come to a boil and skim. Add 
the oysters which only need five minutes to cook ; then the 
butter with the pepper and celery salt to taste. Lastly the 
flour, mixed smoothly with a little water. Pour over the 
chickens when ready to serve. Thin slices of lemon may be 
placed in a circle around the dish, or sprigs of parsley. 

Oyster Sauce is often served with boiled halibut and other 
fish ; for boiled turkey, chickens and other white meats. 



115 
To make Good Table Mustard. 

Four tablespoonsful dry mustard. Two teaspoonsful salad 
oil. One teaspoonful salt. One teaspoonful pepper. Two 
teaspoonsful sugar. Vinegar to make a paste. Wet up the 
mustard with the oil, add the vinegar, the salt, pepper and 
suear and beat hard five minutes. 



Caper Sauce. 

Make a rich drawn butter. Let boil till it thickens, and 
add three tablespoonsful French capers. Remove from the 
fire and stir into this the yolk of an egg beaten, with one 
tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Oyster Pie. 

To three quarts of oysters, allow half pound butter. Strain 
the liquor from the oysters. Cook it, adding a few sticks of 
mace. Skim well and season ; adding a cupful of milk with 
the butter, rubbed smooth with a spoonful of flour. When 
this comes to a boil put in the oysters, and let them remain 
till they fill out. Put around a deep dish for the table pieces 
of pastry, previously made and baked, with pointed edges. 
Pour in the oysters and liquor, and lay over the top pastry, 
cut and baked in fancy shapes, as birds, diamonds, etc. Serve 
immediately. The pastry may be made Saturday, if the pie 
is needed Sunday. 

Baked Shad. 

Let the fish remain in water, slightly salted, after it is cleaned 
for an hour. Then wipe it dry. Season well and stuff with 
bread crumbs prepared as for poultry. Sew it up after stuff- 
ing and place on a gridiron, over a dripping pan, with a pint 
or more hot water and bake in a hot oven. Just before it is 
done butter it well on the top ; sprinkle with fine bread crumbs 
and brown nicely. A large fish will take an hour to cook in 
this way. Gravy may be made with the water in the dripping 
pan, adding catsup or any pungent sauce and juice of one 
lemon thickened with browned flour. Garnish the dish with 
parsley. 



113 

Incorporated 1S84. 

The Cochpan-Olep Ice Co. 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 




River Ice. 



Ice Served Daily in all parts of the City. 

"Ice Tickets in packages of One Dollar ($1.0O) can be furnished by our 
Drivers, if desired. 



Cochran & Co. 
Oler & Co. 



Office, Herald Building, Baltimore k Charles Sts, 



Telephone Call, No. 979. 
%W Please report any neglect of our Drivers at the Otlice. 
^"AU Bills Kendered Monthly. 



3ESTit38LIS3E3E3EI> 1845. 



Sti/i\u/alt lee <$ompapy, 

Bostop apd /T\aipe I<;e, 

^COFFIQE pfib DEpOJ :3fc. 

/T\ulbenry 5treet, p^ar j-louyard, 



^^o/T\(T\odatii7<^ ar?d F^liabl<^ Drivers. 



117 
Baked Shad. 

In preparing or cleaning the shad, remove the entrails with 
a spoon, so as not to cut the breast, only enough to admit the 
spoon. Lay the shad in salted water for one hour ; wash it 
out wipe it dry, and fill with one pint of oysters dried well, 
through which shake cracker dust, salt, pepper and a piece of 
butter. In the pan the shad is to be baked, render out two 
slices breakfast bacon. Score the shad in several places and 
put in a thin strip of bacon. Put a tomato with a small piece 
of butter in each coiner of the pan in which you bake the fish. 
Baste often with the grease and essence of the pan ; bake till 
done. If it browns too soon just turn a pan over it. Garnish 
the dish with slices of raw tomato and bits of parsley. 

M. V. Smith. 

To Souse Rock Fish. 

Cut a large rock fish in pieces, and put into a fish kettle 
with sufficient water to cover it. Let boil and remove the 
bones, and put back in the water in which it boiled and add 
to this half cupful of salt. One tablespoonful each whole 
white pepper, cloves and allspice. A pinch of mace and a 
small bunch of sage, all tied in a thin gauze bag. Let all boil 
till the fish is sufficiently cooked for souse ; then add one 
quart light colored cold vinegar. It will jelly in twenty-four 
hours. 

Potato Salad. 

Cold boiled potatoes sliced, with very thin slices of small 
onions, over which pour the following simple dressing : 

Two raw eggs. One tablespoonful butter. Eight table- 
spoonsful vinegar. Half teaspoonful mustard. Put in a bowl 
over the tea kettle of boiling water, and stir till it becomes 
like cream. Add pepper and salt to taste. 



Lettuce Salad. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes in the centre of a pretty dish. Slice 
cold boiled beets next around the potatoes, with tender lettuce 
underneath and around the dish. Pour over this the above 
dressing. Garnish the top with slices of hard boiled eggs. 



118 

The above salad is particularly good when both beets and 
potatoes are new and tender. Boil in salted water : set on the 
ice to get cold, and just before serving cut them into thin reg- 
ular slices, and pour over the simple dressing. Garnish with 
water cresses. 

Lobster Salad. 

Cut up into small pieces. Season with pepper and salt. 
Put into the centre of a salad bowl surrounded with lettuce 
leaves, just before serving pour over mayonnaise dressing. 
Garnish with slices of hard boiled eggs, celery tops and the 
small claws. 

Baked Eggs. 

Put a generous lump of butter in a baking pan. Grease 
muffin rings and fill the pan ; break into each ring one egg. 
Bake in a hot oven till the whites are set. These are much 
nicer than fried eggs served with broiled or fried ham. 



To Keep String Beans. 

Get the beans in September. String them and cut in pieces 
as for cooking. First put a layer of beans in a deep earthen 
jar ; then a layer of salt until the jar is full, put a weight on 
top and cover tightly; if they are salted properly, will keep all 
winter; for use take out as many as you may want for dinner 
next day, wash and let soak over night, and when cooked are 
as nice as new beans. Dress with pepper, butter and if needed 
add salt and some cream. Serve hot. 



Ginger Cake. 

One pound flour. Half pound butter. Half pound brown 
sugar. Teacupful ginger. Six eggs. One pint West India 
molasses. One teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one table- 
spoonful milk. Cream the butter. Beat the eggs separately, 
the brown sugar with the yolks. Then add the molasses with 
the soda, ginger and beaten whites, alternately with the flour. 
Be sure to have the oven properly heated. 



Cod Fish Balls. 



One pound cod Fish. Four white potatoes, boiled and 
mashed. A small piece of onion chopped fine. Pick the fish 
and mix with the potatoes and onion and fry in balls. In pre- 
paring cod fish pour boiling water over it three times, letting 
it cool each time. It is then cooked without the odor that 
usually arises. 



Vegetable Soup. 



Five pounds beef. Eight white potatoes. Four carrots. 
Four turnips. Five tomatoes. Three ears of corn. Half 
head of cabbage. Half of an onion. Cut the vegetables very 
fine, and put meat and vegetables in cold water together, 
enough to cover and let boil three hours. Never add water 
to the soup while boiling, it spoils the taste. Allow enough 
water for the evaporation. 



Browning for Soups. 



Many of the nicest soups owe their attractive appearance to 
burnt sugar ; which is prepared as follows : — -Put three table- 
spoonsful of brown sugar and one ounce of butter in a frying 
pan over the fire ; stir until it is a bright brown color ; add 
half pint of water, boil and skim, when cold bottle for use. 



Mince Meat. 



One pound of tender beef. One pound of suet. One beef 
heart. One teaspoonful salt. Two pounds currants. Two 
pounds raisins. Two ounces ground cinnamon. Half ounce 
cloves. Two grated nutmegs. One pint Orleans molasses. 
Half pint vinegar. Twice the weight of meat in apples chopp- 
ed fine. Sugar to taste. Grated rind of one and juice of two 
lemons. The syrup from spiced or sweet pickled peaches or 
pears is a great improvement. 



Tomato Figs. 



Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to remove the skins ; 
weigh equal quantities of tomatoes and sugar ; place in a stone 
jar ; let stand two days, then pour off the syrup, boil and skim 
until no scum arises ; pour this over the tomatoes, let stand 
two days; boil and skim again and pour over as before ; after 
the third day they are fit to dry if the weather is good, if not, 
let them stand in the syrup till drying weather ; then place on 
large earthen dishes and put in the sun to dry for about a 
week, then pack in small wooden boxes with fine sugar be- 
tween the layers. 



Glace' Cherries. 



One quart large, ripe red cherries, seeded carefully. One 
pound loaf sugar. Half teacupful of water. Make a syrup of 
the sugar and water, boil till it ropes. Pour it over the cher- 
ries which should be spread out upon a large flat dish. When 
the syrup is almost cold take these out one by one with a tea- 
spoon ; and spread upon a dish to dry in the open air. If 
nicely managed, these are nearly as good as those put up by 
professional Confectioners. Keep in a dry, cool place. Glace' 
cherries are quite an addition intermixed with the different 
varieties of candies. See page 70. 



To Spice Oysters. 



Strain the liquor from the oysters. Wash the oysters one 
by one in cold water, changing the water frequently ; let the 
oysters drain. Put the liquor over the fire, boil and skim ; then 
put in a few oysters at a time ; let them plump. Skim out 
and when all are plumped throw the liquor over them. To a 
gallon of oysters take half pint of vinegar, a little mace, a few 
cloves, plenty allspice and a few lumps of loaf sugar, (about 
four) boil altogether and stir into the oysters. Taste and if 
not sufficiently flavored, add more spices. 



119 
Removed from 204 ft- G harl es gtreet. 



H. H- REED, 

Embroideries, I^ibbor>s, l^aees, 

FANCY GOODS, &e. 
s fio. 28 U/. l^xiQ^tor? Str^t, 

BALTIMORE, IAD. 

J. <?. U/eems 9 Bro. 

No. 331 North Howard Street, - - Baltimore, Md. 

— Manufacturers and Dealers in — 



LIVE GEESE FEATHERS A SPECIALTY. 



And made equal to new by our Live Steam and Cold Blast process. 



Satisfaction Guaranteed or Money Refunded. 



320 



What to have for Breakfast. 



FRUIT. 



OAT MEAL MUSH. 



STRAWBERRY PERCH (Fried.) BAKED POTATOES. 

BOILED EGGS . 

BREAKFAST SHORT CAKE . 

COFFEE. 



FRUIT. 



CORALLINE WITH CREAM. 

BEEF STEAK COVERED WITH OYSTERS. 

LYONNAISE P OTA TOE S . 

HOT ROLLS. 

COFFEE. 



FRU IT- 
CRACKE D WH EAT . 
FRIED CHICKEN. FRIED MUSH - 

WAFFLES. CO LD BREAD . 

COCOA. COFFEE. 



121 

FRUIT. 

OAT MEAL . C REAM. 

BRO I LED SHAD . SLICED CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS . 

RICE CORN BREAD . 

FRIED POTATOES. 



COFFEE. 



FRESH FRUIT . 
CO RALLINE FLAKES . 
LAM B CHOP S. SLICED TOMATOES . 

I HUCKLE BERRY MUFFI NS. 
COCOA. CO FFEE - 
FRUIT. 
VEAL CUTLETS BREADED. 
FRIED TOMATOES - 
H OT ROLL S AN D BROWN BREAD (Heated. ) 
OMELETTE. 
COFFEE. 

» 
FRUIT. 

OAT MEAL. 



BROILED MACKEREL. SLICED CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS. 



CORN PONE . SARATOGA CHIPS - 
CHOCOLATE AND COFFEE. 
16 



122 

FRUIT. 

CRACKED WHEAT WI TH CREAM . 

FRIED HAM. BAKED EGGS . 

G RIDDLE CAKES. GRA HA M BREA D. 

COFFEE. 



FRUIT- 
HOMINY GRITS WITH MILK - 
STEWED KIDNEY . BEEF STEAK - 
BR EAKFAST BISCUIT . COLD BREAD . 
RAW TOMATOES . 
COFFEE. 



FRUIT. 

OAT MEAL. 

BASS— (Fried. ) 

CORN OYSTERS OR FRITTERS. FRIED TOMATOES . 

AUNT SUSAN'S ROLLS . 

WAFFLES. COFFEE. 



FRUIT. 

COR ALLINE FLAKES. 

F RIED SAUSAG E. FRIE D POTATOES . 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. GRAHAM BREAD . 

COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE. 



123 

FRUIT - 
IRISH OAT MEAL . 
QUAIL ON TOAST— Curra nt Telly. _ 
P OTATO F LO WERS . 
MARYLAND BISCUIT. RYE BATTER CAKES. 
COFFEE. 



FRUIT- 
CORALLINE FLAKES. 
VEAL CU TLETS BREADED. 
SWEET POTATOES BA KED. 
GOOD ROLLS. BOSTON BROWN BR EAD. 
CHOCOLATE OR COFFEE. 



FRUIT. 
CRACK ED WHEAT. CREAM . 
B ROILED CHICKENS. BREAKFAST BACON - 
STEWED POTATOES - 
CORN MEAL DROP CA KES. __PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 
COFFEE. 



124 




— INSBRANGE, — 
p|o. 20§ @. (Ueproar? <l>tpeet 

KETSEB ZBTTIXjIDI^TG-, 
Telephone 865. Baltift-JOPe, f^d. 



Dr. C. W. BENSON, 

Specialist, Electrician and Dermatologist, 

Practice limited to the treatment of 
Skin Diseases and Diseases of the Nervous System. 

The Doctor is prepared to use electricity in every form and 
way, in the treatment of such cases as it is applicable to. 

The Vern Electro Chemical Bath gives immediate and per- 
manent relief in Rheumatism, Neuralgia, and all forms of 
nervous prostration and sleeplessness. They are growing in 
popularity and are giving perfect satisfaction. Their effect is 
magical upon the nervous sufferer. 

Dermatology : — The treatment of Skin Diseases can only be 
successfully practiced by a Specialist, who gives his time to 
their study. Dr. Benson has devoted the last seventeen years 
to the treatment of skin diseases, which includes the removal 
of all blemishes from the skin ; moles, warts, marks and super- 
fluous hairs from ladies' faces, and the treatment of the scalp 

and hair. 

Office, 521 North Howard Street, Opp. Academy of Music. 

Hours from 9 to 5 Daily, and Every Monday Night. 



125 



Hints for Every-Day Dinners 



-FOR- 



MARCH AND APRIL. 



gunday. 

SOUP. 

BO ILED CHICKENS. ' OYSTER SAUCE . 

CREAMED POTATOES. M ACARONI. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 



LETTUCE. 



COCOA-NUT CUSTARD. 



COFFEE. 



7V\pndai/. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 
LAM B C HOPS WITH MOUND OF POTATOES. 
PEAS. SPINACH. 



LE TTUCE SALAD . 
A P PLE MERIN GUE . 
COFFEE. 



126 

TOMATO SOUP- 
SHOULDER OF VEAL STUFFED AND BAKED. 
MASHED POTATOES BROWNED . 
ESCALOPE D ONIONS- 
BEANS DRESSED WITH CREAM AND BUTTER. 
BLANC MANGE. 



ASSORTED CAKE. 



COFFEE. 



Wednesday. 

SOUP- 
ROAST BEEF. ^POTATO FLOWERS- 
CORN. TOMATOES . 
COLD S LAW. 
A FANCY DESSERT. 
COFFEE. 



Thursday. 

SOUP. 
PALATABLE DISH from COLD BEEF. 

CO LD SLAW, 

Served in the Centre of Platter on Napkin, 

with a Circle of 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

MACARONI. 



BANANA DESSERT. SPONGE CAKE. 
COFFEE. 



127 

OY STERS ON HALF SHELL - 
BAKED SHAD STUFFED WITH BREAD CRUMBS . 
C UCUMBER CATSUP - 
POTATOES. TOMATOES SLICED . 
LETTUCE. 



CREAM PIES. 



COFFE E. 

Saturday. 

LENTEN SOUP - 
BREADED CHOPS WITH P EA S . 
STEW E D TOMATOES. STUFFED POTATOES. 
R I CE CR O QUETTES . 
ICE CREAM. ASSORTE DJ3A K E . 
COFFEE. 



Sunday. 

SOUP. 
BOILED HAM- SPINACH MOLDED IN CUPS . 

OYSTER PIE. 
CORN. TOMAT(^ S._CREAMEDJP OTATOES . 
SWEET PICKLES. CATSUP- 
BLANC MAN GE. PRESERV ES 
CAKE- 
COFFEE. 

17 



128 

7Wondaj/. 

BOILED ROCK WITH DRAWN BUTTER. 

COLD HAM. CROQUETTES. 

STRING BEANS. TOMATOES. POTATOES. 

LET TUCE . 

FR ENCH PUDDING. COLD SAUCE . 

COFFEE. 



SOUP - 
VEAL CUT L ETS— F R E N C H STYLE . 
S LICES OF HAM BRO ILED— SERVED ON TOAST. 
BROWNED POTATOES- 
TOMATOES STEWED A N DB A K E I ) . 
MACARONI. LETTUCE. 
DOVER CAKE "HOT."— Cold Sa itk 
COFFEE. 



Y^^dnesdaif. 



CHICKEN PIE. J ( ) I . E A NDS P ROUTS. 

BEANS DRESSED WITH CREAM AND BUTTER. 
POTATOES. RICE CROQUETTES- 

CR ACKERS. CHE ESE- 
FRUIT . 
COFFEE. 



129 
< Yhursda\f m 

LENTE N SOU P. 
BROILED STEAK COVERED WITH OYSTERS - 
BOSTON BAKED BEANS . 
TOMATOES STEWED. POTATOES IN CASES. 
PUDDING. 
COFFEE. 

SOUP. 
BAKED SHAD STUF FED WITH OY STERS. 
SLICED (I ^CUMBERS. BERMUDA ONIONS. 
POTATOES. NOODLES— Co v ered w ith Browned Crumbs. 
LETTUC E SALA D- 
CHARLOTT E RUSSE . WA LNUT KISSES. 
COF FEE. 

^utuvtUiiL 

SOUP. 
BOILED LAMB. CAPER SAUCE- 
PEAS. CREAMED POTATOES. 
TOMATOES SLICE D. 
RICE CROQUETTES. 
SALAD. 



STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM . 

S PONGE CAKE. 

COFFEE. 



130 



George H. Mason, 

— Wholesale and Retail healer in — 

Penna. &. Delaware Print and Roll Butter, 

STALiUS : ■ — 

75 1 SO Lexington, 27 1 29 Richmond, and 30 1 92 Centre Markets, 

Residence, 801 North Broadway, 
BALTIMORE, MD. 



Families Supplied Promptly at their Residences. 

2v£. TT. S1IITH, 

(Mrs. P. B. SMITH.) 

Fist Hani, Deviled am Soft Grabs, 

Terrapin Meat, Peelers, and Game in Season, 

ALSO 

FAMOUS "BALTIMORE BRAND" OF CRAB MEAT, 

Stalls : — 17 Lexington, 17 and IS Centre, and 1 Hanover Markets, 

Office, 1038 East Lombard Street. 

Banquets and Excursions served at short notice. All Orders 
will receive prompt attention. 

P. S.— STRICTLY FIRST-CLASS GOODS HANDLED. 

Telephone No. 1081. 



131 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Cure for Epilepsy. 

Brom. potassa. twelve drachms. Brom. ammonia four scru- 
ples. Bi. carb. potassa. thirty grains. Co. tincture gentian 
three ounces. Pure water nine ounces. Dose one tablespoon- 
ful three times daily in water. A teaspoonful of sugar maybe 
added if preferred. 



Cure for a Sprain. 

White of egg and salt. Beat up together until the consis- 
tency of batter, (the egg will take up gradually several hand- 
fuls of salt. 



For a Bone Felon. 

Wear a raw egg. Break a small hole and slip the finger in, 
then wrap in a towel. 

Cure for Croup. 

One teaspoonful of pulverized alum, mixed in one teaspoon- 
ful molasses, and administered quick!}'. 

Sore Throat. 

The moment you have a sore throat, put a cold water ban- 
dage around your throat and cover it with oilskin. For inside 
treatment begin warm inhalations at once and go to bed. It 
is just possible that your sore throat comes from a rheumatic 
condition, if so, you will kill two birds with one stone. 



132 
Gargle for Sore Throat. 

Take half teacupful vinegar and fhe same quantity of rain 
water. Half teaspoonful of soda ; the same quantity of table 
salt. Mix all together and use frequently. This has been 
known to cure an ulcerated sore throat in a short time. 

Gargle for Sore Throat. 

Dissolve sqa salt in hot water and gargle frequently, as hot 
as can be used. Cures and greatly strengthens the throat. 

Tetter Ointment. 

lake one handful of sour dock root and one of chamomile 
flowers. Cook them in one pound mutton tallow. After 
straining and a little cool, add one tablespoonful of tar, one of 
pulverized sulphur, mix well. When using the ointment wash 
the parts affected with castile soap and tepid water, also a 
blood purifier should be taken. 



Cure for Burns or Sting of a Bee. 

Dampen cooking soda and spread on the parts affected. 
This is an excellent remedy. 



Washing Blankets, &c. 

For washing fine blankets, take two gallons of water ; add 
hall cupful each of ammonia and alcohol, mixed to a suds 
with castile soap. The blankets should be sopped up and 
down in the water ; rinsed in tepid water, well shaken and im- 
proved by carding with a comb, while on the line drying. 



To Make Washing Easier. 

A practical housekeeper recommends a "compound made of 
a pound of potash, dissolved in a gallon of warm water, and 
half an ounce of sal ammonia. She adds a cupful of this to 
the water in which she washes her clothes. 



133 

Frost Crystals. 

Three ounces epsom salts. Three-quarter ounces lump gum 
arabic. Four and a half ounces water. Put gum arabic with 
the water in a tin cup, on the back of the stove and let it dis- 
solve ; then add the salts. Strain through a cloth six or seven 
times, then pour into a wide mouthed bottle. Have ready two 
panes window glass. Pour over every part of one pane. this 
mixture and spread neatly with the finger ; then let it drain 
from the corners ; then set up on end, (wet side inside) let 
drain about a minute, then arrange dry ferns on it in any 
design you prefer, and press them down with the finger, then 
let it dry. After which lift off the ferns with a needle. After- 
wards put the two panes together and bind with paper, using 
flour paste. This makes a very pretty decoration for vestibule 
doors. 

Recipe for Keeping Butter. 

Make a brine of salt and water that will bear an egg ; add 
one tablespoonful brown sugar. Take top layer from the tub, 
and put into another vessel and cover with the brine. Also 
fill the tub with brine and keep the butter below the surface, 
and as tightly covered as possible to exclude the air. 

White Wash that will not Rub Off. 

Mix together half pail of lime and water ready to use ; mix 
a gill of wheat flour with cold water ; pour over it boiling 
water until it thickens, pour while hot into the white wash, 
and stir all well together. 

Cream as Food and Medicine. 

Persons consumptively inclined, those with feeble diges- 
tions, aged people and those inclined to chilliness and cold 
extremities, are especially benefitted by a liberal use of sweet 
cream. No other article of food or medicine will give them 
results equally satisfactory, and either as a food or medicine 
it is not bad to take. As an antidote for a tendency to con- 
sumption, it acts like a charm, and serves all the purposes in- 
tended to be served by cod-liver oil with much greater cer- 
tainty and effect. Where sweet cream can be had, cod-liver 
oil is never needed. The volatile and easily appropriated 
unctuous matter in cream, besides contributing directly to 
warmth and vigor, aids indirectly by promoting digestion for 
the same reason and in the same way that other aromatic and 
attenuated oils aid the digestive function. 



134 
To Keep a Stove Bright. 

A stove can be kept bright by two applications a year of 
this recipe :— Make some weak alum water, mix with it Brit- 
ish lustre, two teaspoonsful to a gill of alum water. Let the 
stove be cold, brush it with the mixture, then take a dry 
brush and rub the stove until perfectly dry. Should any part 
before polishing be so dry as to look gray, moisten it with a 
wet brush and proceed as directions given. 

A Small Piece of Paper or Linen 

Moistened with spirits of turpentine and put into a bureau or 
wardrobe for a single day, two or three times, is said to be a 
sufficient preservation against moths. 

Mildewed Linen 

May be restored by soaping the spots, and while wet covering 
the spots with fine chalk, scraped to a powder and well rub- 
bed in. 

To Remove Ink Stains 

From a carpet use sapolio. Directions on each package. 
This has been tried and found to work satisfactorily, as it 
removed all trace of the ink. 

About Raw Eggs. 

A raw egg if .swallowed in time, will effectually detach a 
fish bone fastened in the throat, and the whites of two eggs 
will render the deadly corrosive sublimate as harmless as a 
dose of calomel. They strengthen the consumptive, invigo 
rate the feeble, and render the most susceptible all but proof 
against jaundice in its more malignant phase. 



Egg shells crushed shaken in glass bottles half filled with 
water will clean them quickly. 



,\ small quantity baking powder in the water in which cut 
flowers arc placed, will keep them fresh a long time. 



135 

A grain of flaxseed placed under the eye lid will remove a 
mote from the eye. 



Paint stains that are dry and old may be removed from cot- 
ton or woolen goods with chloroform. First cover the spot 
with olive oil or butter. 



The water in which cod fish has been soaked is very good 
for washing the zinc under the stove. 



Do not put the salt into soup until you are done skimming, 
as salt will stop the rising of the scum. 



Set a dish of water in the oven when baking cake ; it will 
prevent scorching. 



Two apples kept in the cake box will keep cake moist for a 
length of time. 



Do not place raw meats directly on ice, for the juices are 
apt to be withdrawn. Place them on an uncovered earthen 
dish and then on ice. 



18 



136 



Household Measures. 



Sugar — Two heaping cupsful make one pound. 

Flour — Four heaping cupsful make one pound. 

Butter — Two heaping cupsful make one pound. 

Wheat Flour — One pound makes one quart. 

Indian Meal — One pound two ounces make one quart. 

Butter, when soft — One pound makes one pint. 

White Powdered Sugar — One pound one ounce makes one 
quart. 

Best Brown Sugar — One pound two ounces make one 
quart. 

Ten eggs make one pound. 

Flour — Eight quarts make one peck. 

Flour — Four pecks make one bushel. 

Sixteen large tablespoonsful make one half-pint. 

Eight large tablespoonsful make one gill. 

Two gills make one half pint. 

A common-sized tumbler holds half a pint. 

A tablespoonful makes one half ounce. 

Sixty drops make a teaspoonful. 

Four teaspoonsful make one tablespoonful. 



137 



To Furnish an Entertainment for Fifty Persons. 



Four gallons of ices. 

One gallon of jelly. 

Two dollars worth of small cakes. 

Two dozen partridges. 

Six diamond-back terrapin. 

Six chickens and ten bunches celery in salad. 

One gallon of coffee. 

Two gallons broiled oysters. 

Ten dozen fried oysters. 

Five dozen finger rolls. 

Another Entertainment for Fifty. 



Four gallons ices. 

One gallon jelly. 

Two dollars worth of small cakes. 

Six chickens and one turkey, one dozen bunches celery 
in salad. 

Five dozen finger rolls. 

Bon Bons. 

Salted Almonds. 

One gallon coffee. 



138 

H0US£H0UDJ30NV£NIENCES. 

THE CELEBRATED LUMINOUS DOOR PLATES 

For Heuse Numbers or Name Plates,— legible at Night without aid of artificial light- 
absorb l>ay Light and Shine (bright White) at Night. 
Attiicllclble oyer Doors, under Transoms, on Doors, or at Bell Pulls, making a 

handsome finish. 
A.<loi>tC<l for Dwellings on Leading Streets and Avenues of the City and Belt. 

THE TRIUMPH SELF-WRINGERS AND MOPS. 

Time saving Machines, hence Money making ones. Mops or ordinary Floor Rags can 
In' wrung out more effectually than with naked hands, and at arms length by purchase 
secured by drawing them within frame. Mop and Wringer 75 cents complete. Extra 
Cloths 20 cents and 25 cents, two sizes. 

Rt'lllCllllXT ! Hottest or Strongest Alkaline Water may be used with impunity, 
and hands need not be exposed to Water or Suds. 

THE ELEVATOR CLOTHES DRYER, 

Size of Frame about 4}*j feet long, 6 inches wide. Intended as permanent attachment 
to walls, etc. Can be removed if desired. Represents about 25 or 30 feet of Drying 
Space or Lines. Arms may be raised or lowered, and locked anywhere along Frame by 
Lock Pulley, and can be folded down within the Frame. "Greater Heat near Ceiling, 
Quick Drying." Price $2.00 each. 

THE COMMON SENSE BOOK-HOLDER 

For Musicians, Artists, students, Book-keepers, Copyists, Professionals, Type Writers, 
Compositors. -25 cents each. 

A Cheap Photograph Album Holder or Book Best. 

Directions. — Place Book on Wood Cross Piece. To turn leaf, pull lever down, 
passing leaf over lever, lei go of lever to return to place. 

THE PATENT COMBINATION WHIP LOCK, 

Lock, Soekef and Keinholder combined. A very disastrous runaway or smash up might 
be saved by use of this Combination. It is not intended that Whips be locked when 
driving. Key can lie put in vest pneket. 
Man, Woman or Child may be as his or her own fireman by adopting use of 

THE PERFECT HAND FIRE EXTINGUISHER. 

WiHTftllttMl. That by applying the contents of one of these Extinguishers, one 

can control 100 to 150 feet of flame absolutely extinguishing Fire. 

Non-Explosive, Non-Corrosive, containing no acid.— $12.00 per doz. or $1 .25 each. 

8AFK. A recent Testimonial. Baltimore, March 12th, 1S8S. 

HRK. "To whom it may concern:— At a tire at my country residence, some 

I MP I.E. months ago. 1 found The Perfect Hand Fire Extinguisher very efficacious 
in its work." (Signed,) CHARLES J. BONAPARTE. 

PRESERVE YOUR BROOMS. 

Common Sense Broom Holders, 10 cents each, or 3 for 25 cents. 

THE EUREKA STAIR CORNER. 

"A thing of beauty and a joy forever." 1 Easily adjusted to corners of rooms, etc. They 
can be mopped or swept with same ease as Floors, and can be had of Bronze, Brass, two 
varieties of Crystalized or of Nickel Finish. 
Any or all of These Goods may be obtained at Retail or Wholesale, of 

— glottis; qiese, — 

(Sole Agency, &c.) 

Office, No. 227 North Charles Street, - Mr. Blake's Jewelry Store, 

MASONIC TEMPLE BUILDING, 

P. O. Box 693. ZB-^ILTIirvEOISIE., Is/LlD. 

|0g-<)r of Grocers, Locksmiths, Hardware Healers and House-Furnishing Trade. 

Copies of this Book can be obtained per above address at $1.00 each. 



Index to Recipes. 



Menu, 5-S 

Yeast, 10 

Breads 10-19 

Coralline, 20-23 

Soups, 23-26 

Fish and Oysters, 26-28 

Meats, 30-35 

Croquettes, 35*4o 

Vegetables, 40-44 

Eggs 44-46 

Pickles, 46-60 

Preserves and Jellies, 60-67 

Candies 67-73 

Puddings, Pastry and Other Desserts, 74 94 

Loaf Ceke, 94-104 

Small Cakes, 104-108 

Coffee, &c no 

Additional Choice Recipes, 111-118 

What to have for Breakfast, 120-123 

What to have for Dinner, 125-129 

Miscellaneous, . . ..131-135 

Household Measures, 136 

To furnish an Entertainment, &c 137 



Index to Advertisements. 



Bakery— Vienna Model Bakery, 25 

Beef Tongues— W. W. Smoot, 29 

Butter— George H. Mason, 130 

Cement— Russell, Giese & Co : Inside back of cover. 

Coal— Baltimore Coal Co 29 

" Carlos N. Sanchez, 101 

Carpeting— G. S. Griffith & Co 49 

Clothing— Miss L. A. Robinson, 59 

" Isaac Hamburger, 81 

Coralline— Coralline 77 

Canned Goods— Wm. H. Michael & Sons, 89 

Druggists— Lilly, Rogers & Co 9 

" Isaac R. Beam, 113 

Dry Goods— Chas. Simon & Sons, 69 

Wamsley & Nedwell, 69 

" A. G. Broadbent & Co 69 

Dress Maker— Miss M. J. Quigley, 85 

Electrician— Dr. C. VV. Benson, 124 

Embroidery— Fleming Bros 85 

Furs—Hats— R. Q. Taylor & Co 59 

Furniture— Wm. R. Lincoln, 89 

Florist— Samuel Feast & Sons, 97 

Fancy Goods— R. H. Reed, 119 

Fish— M. V. Smith, 130 

Grocers— Hopper, McGaw & Co 2 

" F. L. Lawrence & Sons, 17 

" J.T.Webster, 29 

Gents' Furnishings— F. C. Fossett & Son, 53 

House Furnishings — Samuel Child & Son, 13 

" " J. Wilson Brown, 49 

Household Specialties— Louis Giese 138 

Intelligence Office— Miss Froblinger, 81 

Ice — Cochran-Oler Ice Co 1 16 

" Sum wait Ice Co 116 

Insurance — Horace L. Spice, 124 

Ice Cream— C. Hofmann, io8£ 



Jewelry— Welsh & Bro : 39 

" George Walter, 43 

Lard — G. Cassard & Son 33 

Millinery— M. A. McDonnell, 65 

Marble Mantels— Riddle & Williams 10834: 

Mattresses— J. C. Weems & Bro , . . . .119 

Music Teachers — The Misses Brown, 105 

" " Miss Nora Freeman, 93 

Pianos — Knabe & Co Inside of cover. 

Palace Stables — Stewart's Palace Stables, 10834" 

Plumber — Robert Hughes, 97 

Shirt Maker— R. H. Millikin, 69 

Sewing - Silks— The Brainer.d & Armstrong Co 65 

Safe Deposit Co.— Safe Deposit and Trust Co 39 

School — E. Deichmann's School, 105 

" The Pen Lucy Select School, 113 

Soap — Procter & Gamble, 13 

Stationery- -En graving - — James H. Downs, 59 

Spices— Markell Bros 109 

Stoves, &c— S. B. Sexton & Son, 101 

Tailor— J. P. Steinbach, 53 

Tea Dealers— The Great China Tea Co 109 

Trimmings — Sisco Bros 81 

Upholstering— C. Sidney Norris & Co 93 

'* Mohler & Hurlbutt, io8| 

Vegetables — H. Susman, 97 

Yeast Powder— Rumford Yeast Powder, 21 



1S51- 

OLD ESTABLISHED HOUSE 



l^USSEliLi, GIESE & CO. 

Nos. 306 to 314 Spear's Wharf, - - Baltimore, Md. 

IIMIIFOIECTIEIRS 

FOREIGN & DOMESTIC 

VENETIAN RED, 

PLASTER, HAIR, &c. 



Grass Seeds: 

CLOVER, 

TIMOTHY, 

ORCHARD GRASS, 

BLUE GRASS, 

MILLET, &c, &c. 



