CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 



ICMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 






Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted lo obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the Images ir. the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method cf filming are 
checked below. 







Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 



r~7] Covers damaged / 



Couverture endommag^e 

Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restaur^e et/ou pellicul^e 



D 

I I Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 
I I Coloured maps / Cartes giographiques en couleur 



D 



Coloured ink (I.e. other than blue or black) /* 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 



I — I Coloured plates and/or Illustrations / 



D 
D 
D 



D 



Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
ReliS avec d'aulres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule Edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serrde peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
Int^rieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / II se peut que certalnes pages 
blanches ajout6es lors d'une restauratlon 
apparaissent dans le texte, mals, lorsque cela ^tait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas 6t§ film^es. 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
i\6 possible de se procurer. Les details de eel exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-6tre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduce, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la m6tho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiqu6s ci-dessous, 

U/\ Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

I [/"I Pages damaged / Pages endommag^es 

□ Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaur^es et/ou pelliculdes 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages d^color^es, tachet^es ou piqu^es 

I I Pages detached / Pages ddtach^es 

r7] Showthrough / Transparence 

□ Quality of print varies / 
Oualit^ inigale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel suppl^mentaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscu.'ed by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont i\6 film^es k nouveau de fafon k 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
film^es deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



D 
D 



D 



rT] Additional comments / 



Commentaires suppldmentaires: 



Various pagings: p. 2-8, [1]-103, [l]-[3]. 
Pagination multiple: p. 2-8, [1]-103, [l]-[3] 



This Item Is filmed at ihe reducllon ratio checked below / 

Ce document est lilme au taux de riduclion Indiqu* ci-deiiOU«. 



10x 








14x 








IBx 








22x 








26x 








30x 


























V 






























19y 








IRy 








20x 








24 x 








28x 








32x 



Th« copy filmed hare has bacn rsproducad thanks 
to tha ganarosity of: 

Toronto Public Library 
North York Central Library 
Canadiana Department 

Tha imagas appaaring hara ara tha bast quality 
possibia considaring tha condition and iagibiiity 
of tha original copy and in kaaping with tha 
filming contract apacificationa. 



Original copias in printad papar covars ara filmad 
beginning with tha front covar and anding on 
tha last paga with a printad or illustratad impraa- 
sion, or tha back covar whan appropriata. All 
othar original copiaa ara filmad beginning on tha 
first paga with a printad or illustratad impraa- 
sion, and anding on tha last paga with a printad 
or illuatratad impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain tha symbol ^-m^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Mapa, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



L'exemplaira film* fut reproduit grica k la 
g*n4rositA da: 

Toronto Public Library 
North York Central Library 
Canadiana Department 

Les images suivantas ont h\h reproduitas avec la 
plus grand soin, compta tanu de la condition at 
de la nenati de I'exempiaire film*, at an 
conformity avec las conditions du contrat da 
filmage. 

Lea axemplaires originaux dont la couvartura an 
papier eat imprim^a sont filmis an commancant 
par la premier plat at %r\ terminant soit par ia 
darniire page ^ui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par ia second 
plat, salon la cas. Tous lea autres axemplaires 
originaux sont fiimAs an commandant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration at an terminant par 
la darnlAre paga qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un des symboles suivants spparaitra sur la 
darniire image de chaque microfiche, salon la 
cas: la symbols — ^ signifie "A SUIVRE". le 
symbols V signifie "FIN ". 

Les cartas, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent fttre 
film^s A des taux de reduction diff^rents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour Atra 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est film* * partir 
da Tangle supArieur gauche, de gauche A droite, 
et de haut an baa. ^tx prenant le nombre 
d'imagea nicassaira. Las diagrammes suivants 
illustrant la mithoda. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1^ 

no 



Vi 



2.8 

1 4.0 




II 2.5 
2.2 

1.8 




Sr- 1653 East Main Street 

B"~5 Rochester. New York 14609 USA 

— (716) 482 -0300 -Phone 

^S (7 '6) 288 -5989 -Fax 




THE LEADTNa HOUSE IK CANADA, 



L E. N. PRATTE, 

IMPORTER OF 

AMERICAN, EUROPEAN & CANADIAN 



FiaKog (3in(k 0pq(aRS. 



HAZELTON BROS., N.Y. 

FISCHER, N.Y. 

NEWBY A EVANS, N.Y. 
DOnilBIION ORGAI« & PIANO CO'V. 
And Otliertt. 



'X'Jrx-bLi 

Largest Assortment of Fine Instruments 

And the Finest Warerooms, as well as the most extensive, in Canada. 



<rxi«_ 



LOWEST PRICES. 



3--i 



1676 NOTRE DAME STREET, 



i 



GEO. R. PROWSE, 



Manufacturer of 



Wrouc|ht|ron gookin^ Ranges, 



xjE^LEie I XT 



HOUSE FURNISHING HARDWARE, 
Combination it Hot Air Furnaces. 



'^_? 



No. 224 ST. JAMES STREET, 

Mont '^EAL. 



D. H. WELSH, 

4t ST. UWRENCE MAIN STREET 

CONFECTIONER 



AND 



PASTRY COOK. 



Orders Promptly Executed. 



ICl CBIAM IN SEASON. 

WZ, UNCUBS AT ALL TfJUMS, 



If you want your 

COOKING WELL DONE 



BUY YOUR COAL FROM 



/INDREW BAILE 

CITY COAL DEPOT, 

69 McGILL STREET, 




WILLIAM EVANS, 

Secdoiuan to the Council of Agriculture for the Province of Qi:ebec. 

IMPORTER AND GROWER OF 

Field, Garden & Flower Seeds, 

Guano, Superphosphate and other Fertilizers. 
WAREHOUSES: Nos. 89, 91 and 93 McGill Street, 

MONTREAL. 

Fruit and Ornamental Trees, Shrub", Roses, Greenhouse and Bed- 
ding Plants, VegetabJe Plants, etc. 




■"IS'' 



=H1 



m ESTABLISHED « 1869 m 



IIM- 



HENRY R. GRAY, 

Dispensing & Fmnily Chemist^ 

144 ST. LAWRENCE MAIN STBEET, 

Particular Attention given to Physicians' Prescriptions 
Firat-Class Clerks only Employed. 



Physicians, Hospitals, Conventn, Dispensariew, &c., supplied with 
Pure Drugs and Chcuiioals u\\ rejsKoiiablo term.*!. 



Get the Best! 



aken without the objectionab' ; head rest. 



■RT I otman's Portraits are unsurpassed for Style & Finish. 
A ften mentioned for Superiority by tiie Press, 

T 

M 

A 

N 



aking it much more easy for nervous people. 



nd always natural and lifelike. 



ever mind cloudy weather, it is just as good. 



17 Bleury Street, MONTREAL 



Ff\ci^arty & Brother, 



MASVFACrirHKHS Ol' 




BOOTS AND SHOES, 



Cor. St. Lawrence & St. Catherine Sts., 



MONTREAL, CANADA. 



Mine. J. H. LEBLANC, 






543^ CRAIG STREET, MONTREAL. 

Dyed Cleaned k Curled. ^I'n^^^^sTcT^i^sSS." 

always on hand at Wholesale Prices. 




ARMSTRONG, 

And PRAOTIOAL EMBALMEh, 
VICTORIA SQUARE. 




MONTREAL STEAM LAUNDRY CO. (Ltd.). 

TblkphoneNo 580. T. ii/lovk. Manaukr 




ITie LargMt and most Complete Laundry lu the DomiKicm. I'linctunlity In thJ 

delivery ol ordors on the shoitfHt noilce guaranteed. 

Price I>lst» Fural8he«t or Special Family KateN ^uotetl. 



8 



COLE'S LAMP STORE. 



FIISTE COAL OILS, 

COLE'S LAMP STORES, 

1702 SOTKE DAME & 2392 ST. CATHERIIIIE SIS. 



PllSlHTS! PllSlITSl 

COLE'S LAMP STORE, 
2392 « St. * Catherine « Street. 



6HSHL1ERS, BHICKETS. MLL LiPPS, 

COLE'S LAMP STORES, 

17921IOTRE DAME lil 2392 ST. CATBERIHE STS. 



^i ^^^ca ^iormieif -^ 



/ 



Ih. // 



CLEVER COOKING 



KOR 



CAREFUL COOKS. 



Tried Recipes, collected and arranged by a 

few Ladies of the Church of St. John 

the Evangelist, Montreal. 



o>oo.^e>o^o 



PRINTED BY JOHN LOVELL 6* SON. 
1888. 



" We may live without poetry, music and art, 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart, 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks." 



The once celebrated President, DuPaty, of the French 
Assembly, remarked, nearly a hundred years ago, to the 
astronomer LaPlace, that he considered the discovery of 
a new planet to be far less important than that of a new 
pudding,— since we never could have puddings enough, 
while of planets there were more than we knew what to 
do with. 



PRBI^ACE. 



The compilers of this little book commend the result 
of their labours to the public, in the hope that anyone buy- 
ing a copy will find they get Scriptural value for their money : 
" Good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and 
running over." Many of these recipes have never been 
published before, and some are more than a hundred years 
old. One object of this work has been to give young house- 
keepers practical and economical hints, which, if faithfully 
followed, will make of them, not only careful housekeepers, 
but clever cooks. 




EDWARDS' 




(Adoptel bj H«r Majfstj'i fioTernment.) 
A dry preparation of Extract of 
Beef and Vegetable's, a delicious, 
Nourishing & Economical 
Basin of Soup in a few minutes, a 
ground work for all Brown Soups. 
Keeps good any time and in all 
climates. 

Highly recommended by 
the Medical profession. 

DIRECTIONS FOR USE. 

, 80UP. — To three -(luarters of a pint of Cold Water in a saucepan stir the content? 
pj oSi\ packet, or about one oii;ice; boil for fifteen minutes, then llavour to taste, ►i 

^O A few drops of Sauce may be added. O 

Vf MULLAGATAWNYS^jUP.— This can be made by adding a small teaspoonful ^ 
J? of Curry Powder to a quart of Soup prepared as aljove. ^a 

y* TOMATO SOUP may lie made by adding fresh Tomatoes to the plain Soup as ^f^ 
|-», above. When tliese are not in season, canned Tomatoes or Tomato Conserve S< 
pij may be used. O 

•* RISSOLES' — Pi't oneo iince of Edwards" Desiccated Soup into a bowl, pour cS 
on it a quarter of a pint of Boiling Water, cover and keep warm for fifteen £* 
minutes, then add one ounce of bread crumbs and seasoning to taste. Mix all 
well together (and bind it with one well-beaten egg) into a thick paste. Form tl 
O the mixture into six balU, dip them into egg and thread crumb, «nd fry them^2 

J* to a nice brown. ^5 

*N POTATO PASTRY. — Put two ounces of EiJWAFDs' Desiccated Soup into a ^ 
bowl, pour on it half-a-pint of a boiling water, cover, and keep w.arm for 16 
minutes; add two o\mces of bread crumbs, mix well together, place it in « 



o 



o 



p* 



Hake i 



CO 
O 



Vi 



pie-dish, spread overita thick layer of nicely mashed Potato 
moderate oven. 

I POTATO RISSOLES. — Form two ounces of the Soup into a thick paste by 5^ 
•^ adding Boiling Water as directed above, omitting the bread crumbs ; divide Vi 

O it into several portions, each of which place between layers of nicely mashed i* 

(t| Potatoes, and bake or cook in pan with butter or lard until brown. t-t 

•>^SAU8AGE ROliLS. — Prepare the Soup as in last recipe, and add bread 8J 

J^ crumbs; mix well together, divide into several portions, covei with pastry p 

g in the shape of sausage rolls, and bake. © 

•3 GRAVIES.— Klend the Desiccated Soup in a cup or basin with a little tepid ^ 

^ water, cover, and place by the fire a few .Tiinutes. Put it into a saucepan — — 

O with the quantity of water necessary to make it of the proper consistency ; 5? 

0) boil about 10 minutes, stirring well. ^ 

rg SAUCES, and all Soups reqiiirinp a body, may be most advantageously thickened 
•Jj with these Soups ; being fa. perior to flour for that purpose. 

Where time is limited, these fe ips maybe made when convenient, and can be 
'JS warmed upagain when required, leaving the rich flavour unimpaired 

^^ N. B.— Jn in'eparin(f Bdwards' Do-ijcoatod Soup, be bmtp you lioil it— atirrinff frequently — 
'^ tor nut Ums iii«n (il'tei 11 nilniuus ; it' tlio firo hi' low, it m.iy t»ko a fi'w tniiiiile< loiigvr, 

<! Supplied by all Wholesale and Retail Grocers, 

In 1 lb., i Ibr and ilb. Canisters, and 1 oz. Packets. 



o 
o 



SOUPS. 



Soups are an economical addition to a bill of fare, and ma- 
terial that is often considered useless, and consigned to the 
crematory of the kitchen stove or rhe refuse heap, might, with 
a little carefulness and knowledge, be utilized in the prepara- 
tion of a tasty and nourishing soup. A bowl or earthen dish 
should be kept in every pantry, into which remnants of steak, 
or bones from cold meat, trimmings, gristle, drainings of 
gravy from dishes and gravy boats, can be collected. These, 
with the addition of a very little fresh meat, will make excellent 
stock, from which a variety of soups may be prepared by vary- 
ing the flavoring ingredients. Remains of cold vegetables 
should also be saved, and will be found valuable additions to 
soup by being rubbed through a colander. The boilings of 
fresh meat, with the addition of bones or scraps to increase 
the strength, will form the foundation of all sorts of soups, 
gravies, etc.; this is what is commonly called ** stock." Most 
soups require 4 to 6 hours gentle boiling, and almost ;ill should 
be prepared the day before they are to be useu, as by allowing 
the stock to become cold the fat collects on the top and can 
be easily separated. 
.*■■ 

Browning for Stock. 

2 oz. of powdered sugar and ^ pint of water. Place the 
sugar in a saucepan over a slow fire until it begins to melt, 
keeping it stirred until it becomes black, then add the water^ 
and let it dissolve. Cork closely, and use a little when re- 
quired. 



6 Clever Cooking 

Hare Soup. 

Cut the hare up in joints, preserve all the blood, and put both 
together on the fire till warm through. Then add 3 quarts of 
cold water, one turnip, one carrot, half a piece of celery, 4 or 
5 potatoes sliced raw, some sweet herbs, and let it stew slowly 
for 3 hours. Then take it off the fire. Cut off from the bones 
the best part of the meat. Strain the remainder, replacing 
the pieces of hare ; add 2 finely sliced onions, and a small 
quantity of flour and butter. Put the whole on the fire for 
another half hour, adding >^ pint of port wine 5 minutes 
before dishing it up. If necessary Yz tablespoonful of Wor- 
cester sauce may be added. 

Julienne Soup. 

Take a large carrot, a turnip, some celery, and one or two 
onions, cut them in slices and fry them brown, drain off the but- 
ter used in frying, and add a quart or two of stock. Let it sim- 
mer slowly for an hour or more, add a seasoning of salt and 
pepper. In summer, green peas, asparagus tops or French 
beans may be added. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

Take an ox-tail, separating it at the joints, wash and put it 
in a stewpan with a pint of water and- a small piece of butter, 
stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn ; then add ^ 
a carrot, the same of turnip, an onion, a little celery and parsley, 
five or six pepper corns, a lump of sugar, and a teaspoonful 
of salt. When the vegetables are tender take them out and pulp 
them through a sieve, after which rub all up with the gravy in the 
stewpan, incorporating with it two tablespoonfuls of flour, then 
add by degrees 2 pints and a half of boiling water. Finally 
boil up for a few minutes and add a little browning. It may be 
made clear by omitting the flour. 



For Careful Cooks, — Soups. 7 

Green Pea Soup. 

I quart of young green peas, a bunch of parsley, 2 young 
onions, a lump of sugar, a little salt, 2 quarts of stock. Boil 
the peas and other vegetables till quite tender, then rub through 
a sieve and pour the stock on to them. Let it get thoroughly hot 
but not boil ; serve very hot. You may add a pint of young 
peas boiled and served whole in the tureen. 

Potato Soup. 

4 lbs. mealy potatoes boiled very dry, pepper and salt to taste, 
an onion or two, 2 quarts of stock. Mash the potatoes smoothly, 
and gradually add the boiling stock ; puss it through a sieve, 
season, and simmer five minutes. The onion should be boiled 
in the stock. Some minced parsley served in the soup is an 
improvement. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

A knuckle of veal weighing 5 or 6 lbs., 2 cow heels, 2 large 
onions stuck with cloves, i bunch sweet herbs, 3 blades of 
mace, salt to taste, 12 pepper corns, i glass of sherry, 24 force- 
meat balls, a little lemon juice, 4 qts. water. 

Put all the ingredients except the forcemeat balls and lemon 
juice in an earthen jar, and stew for 6 hours. When cold skim 
off the fat, and strain, place it on the fire, cut up the meat into 
inch-and-a-half squares, and put it with the forcemeat balls and 
lemon juice into the soup, and serve. It can be flavored with 
anchovy or Harvey's sauce. 

Artichoke Soup No. i. 

4 lbs. artichokes, J^ head celery, i turnip, i onion, 2 oz. 
butter,2 lumps sugar, pepper and salt to taste, 2 qts. white stock, 
I pt. milk boiling. Wash and pare the arti' hokes and cut into 
slices, add them with a pint of the stock to the other ingredients. 
When these hr- stewed down to a smooth pulp, add remain* 



8 



Clever Cooking 



der of stock. Stir well, adding seasoning, and simmer for 
five minutes, and pass through a strainer. Pour back into the 
stewpan, boil 5 minutes, and add the boiling milk. 

Artichoke £'"UP No. 2. 

Boil 4 or 5 good artichokes in salt and water until tender. 
Then drain them and put in a stewpan with about ^ a pint 
of good stock and J^ a pint milk, add salt and pepper and a 
shake of cayenne pepper. If not quite rich enough, a tea- 
spoonful of butter may be added. Give one good boil and 
serve. This quantity makes sufficient for 4 persons. 

Pea Soup. 

I onion, i carrot, a little celery, ^ lb. split peas, a little mint 
shred tine, i tablespoonful of coarse brown sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste, 4 qts. water or liquor in which meat has been 
boiled. Pour water on vegetables, and when boiling add peas, 
seasoning and sugar. Boil four or five hours. 

Brown Soup. 

Get a good sized shank of beef, well cracked, and cover it 
entirely with cold water, into which beat the whole of an egg. 
Take the meat which has been cut off the shank and fry it in 
dripping until quite brown, and add it to the soup while boiling, 
put in also i large onion (not skinned), i large carrot, a little 
celery (if you have it), 2 oz. whole black pepper, i oz. whole 
allspice, boil slowly for 6 hours, strain through a towel, adding 
then, I glass sherry and salt to taste. Next day remove all 
grease before heating for use. 

Soup for Luncheon. 

I lb. lean beef minced. Put it into a stone jar, cover with cold 
water (about a pint will be sufficient), add a little salt, cover 
the jar and let it boil in a saucepan of boiling water one hour. 



For Careful Cooks.— Soups. 9 

Stew 3 or 4 tomatoes in a saucepan with a scrap of onion and 
a teaspoorful of mushroom catsup, if you have it; when your 
beef tea has cooked an hour, add it to the contents of the sauce- 
pan, with a little more salt if required, give the whole five min- 
utes boil, and serve in cups. 

Oyster Ooup. 

I pt. oysters, i qt. milk, % tablespoonful butter, i large 
tablespoonful cornstarch, salt to taste, ^ saltspoonful pepper. 
Put the milk on to boil in the double boiler. Place a colander 
over a pan. Put the oysters in a bowl and pour over them 
one cup water, then drain in colander, strain oyster liquor which 
has drained from colander through fine strainer. Put it on to 
boil, add oysters. Strain liquor into milk and put oysters 
where they will keen hot. Thicken milk with butter and tlour, 
add salt and pepper to taste. Boil five minutes, and serve at 
once. 

Oyster stew is made like oyster soup without the thickening. 

Tomato Soup No. i. 

Five tomatoes peeled and stewed in a cup of water, add a 
cup of milk, and ? minute or two before dishing stir in three 
soda biscuits rolled finely, and a small piece of butter; season 
with pepper and salt to tas^e. 

Tomato Soup No. 2. 

I quart canned tomatoes, i tablespoonful butter, i pint hot 
water, i tablespoonful cornstarch, i teaspoonful salt, i table- 
spoonful chopped onion, i saltspoonful white pepper, i table, 
spoonful chopped parsley. Put the tomatoes, water, salt on to 
boil in a stewpan, put the butter in a small saucepan, and when 
it bubbles put in the onion and parsley. Fry five minutes, 
being careful not to burn it. Add the cornstarch, and whea 



zo 



Clever Cooking, etc. — Soups. 



well mixed stir it into the tomatoes. Let it simmer ten minutes. 
Strain and serve with toasted crackers. 
Stock may be substituted for the water. 

Barley Bpoth. 

Boil a neck of mutton in 3 or 4 qts. of water 5 hours, and if 
possible let stand till next day in order to remove the fat. Then 
add 1/2 turnip, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a little celery or parsley 
finely minced. Boil ^ teacup of barley for 3 hours in a little 
water in a double boiler, and add it to the stock with the vege- 
tables. Season to taste. 

Game Soup. 

Take the remains of any ])artridge left over from dinner, pick 
oflF the meat, break up the bones and lay them in a saucepan 
with a carrot, turnip, blade of celery, an onion stuck with a 
clove or two, a few pepper corns, and some parsley, if you have 
it. Let it boil gently, in enough common stock to cover it all 
well, for several hours ; pound the meat previously saved with 
any scraps that may have left the bones while boiling, moisten- 
ing it with some of the soup, rub this through a sieve into the 
soup, which should be strained from the bones, vetretables, etc. ; 
give it a boil up, thicken with a little butter rolled in ilo "i, and 
serve with fried bread dice. 



I 



FISH. 



Pi 



Fish should be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked, (> 
it will be very indigestible and sometimes i.oisonous. 

It should be wiped with a cloth wet in cold salted water, 
and may be cooked in a variety of wa s, but broiling and 
baking are the most wholesome metlods. 

For frying, fish should be wiped dry,: i.l dipped in egg, 
then in bread crumbs. Then, having a di "p frying pan on 
the fire, with i)lenty of very hot lard or drii ping, plunge the 
fish into it and let it fry quickly, till a fine yellow brown 
colour. The grease may be removed by placing the fish on 
a sheet of white blotting paper. 

P'or boiling fish, the water should be cold, nd a little salt 
and vinegar added to it. It should boil ver; gently — time 
8 minutes to the pound. 

If to be broiled, rub the gridiron with a bi- of suet when 
quite hot, have ready the fish seasoned and floured, and broil 
over a clear fire. 

In garnishing fish with fried parsley, the lat:er must be 
washed and picked, and thrown into fresh water When the 
fat boils, throw the parsley into it and it will become green 
and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice. Lemon and 
horse-radish are also used for garnishing. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

Clean the fish thoroughly, and rub it with alirtle salt an 
hour or so before you dress it. Lay it in your fish k jttle with 
cold water enough to cover it. Add salt in the proportion of 
5 oz. to I gal. of water, k ' it covered with water. Boil 
slowly and keep it well skimmed. Drain and serve on a 
napkin. Have oyster sauce or melted butter. 



'asTw?,.. 



12 



Clever Cooking 






Salmon (Boiled). 

6 oz. salt to each gallon water ; sufficient water to cover fish. 
Scale and clean fish, simmer gently till the meat will separate 
easily from bone, serve with lobster, parsley or plain melted 
butter sauce. 

Salmon (Pickled). 

After the fish has been boiled and drained, add the following 
pickle : Take equal quantity of water in which the fish was 
boiled, and vinegar, add a few pepper corns, a little mace, a 
very litde allspice, boil for a few minutes, and pour over the 
fish. 

Cod Pie. 

Any remains cold cod, 12 oysters, sufficient melted butter to 
moisten it, mashed potatoes enough to fill up the dish ; flake 
fish from bone, lay it in a pie dish, add oysters and melted 
butter, cover with mashed potatoes, and bake a light brown. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
I pt. oysters, one-third cup of melted butter, i cup cracker 
or stale bread crumbs moistened in the melted butter. Butter 
a shallow dish ; put in a layer of crumbs, then layer of oysters, 
season with salt and pepper. Put in another layer of oysters 
and seasoning, with thick layer of crumbs on top. Bake in 
hot oven 20 minutes. 

Lobster Patties. 
Minced lobster, 4 tablespoonfuls of bechamel (see sauces), 
6 drops anchovy sauce, lemon juice, cayenne to taste. Line 
the patty pans with puff paste, or buy shells at confectioners. 
Take lobster, mince fine and add above ingredients, stir over 
fire five minutes and put in patty cases. 

Stuffing for Baked Fish; 
I cup cracker crumbs, i teaspoonful parsley, i salt- 



For Careful Cooks. — Fish. 



13 



M 



spoonful salt, i teaspoonful pickles, 1: saltspoonful pepper, ]^ 
cup melted butter, i teaspoonful chopped onion. 

This makes a dry crumbly stuffing. If a moist stuffing be 
desired use stale bread crumbs and moisten with one egg and 
the butter. The pickles should be chopped. 

To Fry Trout. 

Scale, clean and wash ; dry them well, and roll in flour, or 
cover them with egg and breadcrumbs or coarse oatmeal, then 
fry them of a fine colour, with fresh dripping. Serve with 
crimped parsley and cold butter. 

Time five to eight minutes, according to size. 

Gatineau Trout ( Baked ). 
Make a stuffing of fine rolled bread crumbs, parsley or 
thyme, butter, salt and pepper. Have your fish carefully 
dried and cleaned, put in the stuffing and sew it up. Bake 20 
minutes to half an hour, according to the size of your fish. 
Baste well with dripping, and serve with a garnish of parsley. 

Salt Fish Balls. ( Mrs. Lincoln.) 

I cup raw salt fish, i pint potatoes, i teaspoonful butter, 
I egg well beaten, ^ saltspoonful pepper, more salt if re- 
quired. Wash the fish, pick in ^ inch pieces, and free from 
bones. Pare the potatoes and cut in quarters. Put the pota" 
toes and fish in a stewpan, and cover with boiling water. 
Boil 25 minutes or till the potatoes are soft. Drain off all the 
water. Mash and beat the fish and potatoes till light. Add 
the butter and pepper, and when slightly cooled the egg, and 
more salt if necessary. Shape in a tablespoon without much 
smoothing, slip into a frying basket, and fry in smoking hot 
lard one minute. Fry only five at a time as more will cool the 
fat. The lard should be hot enough to brown a piece of 
bread while you count 40. To prepare the night before, 



14 



Clever Cooking 



m. 



omit the tgg. Warm the fish and potato in a double boiler 
and add the egg. Keep the fish in a bowl of cold water while 
picking, and it will require no further soaking. 

To Broil Salmon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; 
lay each slice on half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist 
the ends of the paper, and broil the sHces over a slow fire six 
or eight minutes. Serve with raw pickles. 

Creamed Salt Fish. 

Serve one cup of picked up fish in a rich cream sauce. 

Kedgeree. 

Take equal parts of cold fish (free from skiu and bones), 
boiled rice, and some hard boiled eggs. Butter, the size of an 
egg. Chop the fish and eggs and mix with the rice, add the 
butter, season with salt, pepper, and a sprinkle of curry powder. 
Warm in a saucepan, and serve as hot as possible. 

Oyster Pie. 

Have a rich paste baked on an oval or round dish with a high 
border. Cut out the flat part close to the rim after it has been 
baked, and place it in the bottom of a deep dish. Make a 
sauce with a pint of milk, a tablespoouful of flour, and one of 
butter ; season with pepper and salt. When the sauce is well 
cooked put in a quart of oysters, and let them heat well through 
without boiling. Then pour them into the dish on the paste, 
and place the rim on top. 

Baked Herrings. 

12 herrings, 12 cloves, 12 allspice, 2 small blades of mace» 
salt, and a dash of cayenne if liked, vinegar. 
Separate the flesh from the back bone, take it out and take off 



%\ 



i 



I 



For Careful Cooks. — Fish. 



15 



the heads, tails, and fins, sprinkle the insides witli a little salt 
roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and pack them 
closely in a pudding dish, put in the spice and vinegar, and 
water sufficient to cover them, using only one-third vin 
egar. Bake from 30 to 40 minutes in a moderate oven. To be 
eaten cold. 

Oyster Kromeskys. 
Parboil a dozen oysters in their own hquor, remove the 
beards, strain the liquor and cut up the oysters in dice ; melt a 
piece of butter (about the size of a pigeon's egg) in a saucepan^ 
stir in a tablespoonful of flour, add the oyster liquor,a little milk, 
minced oysters, salt and pepper to taste, a scrap of grated nut- 
meg and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Take the saucepan 
off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg. Let the mixture get quite 
cold. Divide it into 12 pieces. Wrap each piece in a thin 
slice of bacon. Dip in egg and fry in hot lard. They are very 
good without the bacon. 

Halibut R^chauff^. 

Cut one onion into a saucepan, add ^ a pint of water, a little 
mace and parsley. When thoroughly boiled, add one pint of 
milk or cream, i dessertspoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of floui, and strain all through a sieve. Take some halibut 
or other fish, remove the skin and bones, flake it, butter a dish, 
and put first a layer of fish, them some of the dressing, and so 
on, alternately, until the dish is full. Put grated breadcrumbs 
on the top, and bake from 30 to 40 minutes. 



1 



GRAVIES, SAUCES, PICKLES- 



General Directions for making Gravies. 

Any stock made from bones or meat, thickened with flour 
and flavoured with onion and sauces, this, with the addition of 
pepper and salt is called " made gravy." 

Gravy for Joints. 

After the meat is taken out of the pan, pour off" the fat ; a 
small quantity of boiling water is put into the pan and tho- 
roughly washed over its surface. If a thicker gravy is liked, a 
little flour may be dusted on the pan and browned before the 
water is put in. 

Drawn Butter. 

I pt. white stock or hot water, ^ cup of butter (scant), 2 
tablespoonfuls flour, ^ teaspoonful salt, 3^ saltspoonful pepper. 
Put half the butter in a saucepan, be careful not to let it becnme 
brown, when melted add the dry flour and mix well, add the 
hot water, a little at a timt, and stir rapidly as it thickens. 
When perfectly smooth, add the remainder of butter in small 
pieces and stir till it is absorbed. Add salt and pepper. 

White Sauce. 

A good white sauce for vegetables can be made by using 
milk with a thickening of cornstarch and a teaspoonful of 
butter. It is more economical and is excellent with artichokes, 
or any vegetable requiring drawn butter. 

Sauce (For Baked or Boiled Fish). 

}4 cup of butter, i saltspoonful salt, yolks of 2 eggs, }( salt- 
spoonful cayenne pepper, juice of j4 lemon, J^ cup of boiling 









Clever Cooking, etc.— Sauces, etc. 



17 



water. Rub the butter to a cream. Add the yolks, one at a 
time, and beat well ; then add the lemon juice, salt and pepper. 
About five minutes before serving, add the boiling water, and 
stir until it thickens like boiled custard. 

BfecHAMEL Sauce. 

I small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, small bunch herbs, salt 
to taste, 2 pts. white siock, i pt. cream or milk, i tablespoonful 
of arrowroot. 

Horse-Radish Sauce. 

I oz. grated horse-radish, y^ oz. salt, i tablespoonful made 
mustard, 3 dessertspoonfuls sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls vinegar, 
and milk or cream enough to make it the consistency of thick 
cream. 

Onion Sauce (For Lamb or Mutton). 

Boil 2 or 3 onions of good size till soft. Drain and rub 
them through a strainer, stir the onion pulp into half a pint of 
white sauce made with milk. 

Bread Sauce (For Gan>e). 

i^ pint of milk, ^ cup of breadcrumbs, i teaspoonful 
chopped onion, i blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste, i 
teaspoonful of butter. Boil the milk with the bread, onion and 
mace, add the seasoning and butter. Beat a few minutes till 
smooth, serve hot. 

Mint Sauce. 

Wash and pick over mint leaves, chop them with a sharp 
knife, and quickly, to preserve the color, put them into a 
sauce tureen with sufficient sugar to take off the acidity of the 
vinegar. 



l8 



Clever Cooking 



|!'! 



Oyster Sauce. 

Take J^ pint of oysters, remove the beards, and give them a 
boil up in a drawn butter sauce. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Make a drawn butter sauce, according to directions given, 
wash, pick and chop fine plenty of parsley. Mix with melted 
butter, and boil a few minutes. 

Caper Sauce. 

Add whole capers and a portion of the vinegar they are 
preserved in to drawn butter. 

Mayonnaise. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with an even saltspoonful of salt till 
very smooth, then incorporate with it a teaspoonful of thick 
made mustard. When these are quite smooth, add by degiecs 
one, two or even three tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil, 
taking care to add it by degrees, and blend each portion before 
adding more. This ought to make a smooth mass so thick 
that a spoon would stand up in it. Dilute with vinegar to the 
consistency of ^hick cream. A little anchovy may be added if 
desired . 

Mayonnaise Dressing (most delicious). 

I tablespoonful mustard, i tablespoonful sugar, i-io tea- 
spoonful cayenne, i teaspoonful salt, the yolks of 3 uncooked 
eggs, juice of half a lemon, y^ cup vinegar, i pint of fine salad 
oil, I cupful whipped cream. Beat the yolks and dry ingre- 
dients till very light and thick, setting the bowl in a pan of ice 
while beating, add the liquids in tb*^ following order : First the 
oil, gradually, if used (it may be left out and cream supplied 
instead), then the vinegar, lemon and cream, place on the ice 
for a few hours if there is time. 

Half these proportions makes a good supply. 



For Careful Cooks. — Sauces, etc. 



19 



Forcemeat. 

3 or 4 ozs. of suet, 2 ozs. of lean ham or bacon, a little grated 
lemon peel, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of 
sweet herbs, salt, pepper and a little mace, and 6 ozs of grated 
bread, 2 eggs. Mix all the ingredients finely, and rub them 
with the spice well into the breadcrumbs. Wet them with the 
2 eggs (well beaten). When wanted for use make into balls, 
and fry in hot lard as a garnish. Or simply use the forcemeat 
as a stuffing for turkey or veal. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Take 14 lbs. of peaches ; in every one stick 2 cloves and 2 
pieces of cinnamon. Dissolve 7 lbs. of sugar in a quart of 
water ; when boiling put in the peaches and cook until tender, 
put in jars ; to the syrup add one pint of vinegar, let it boil up 
and pour into the jars over the fruit. 

Governor's Sauce. 

Slice I peck green tomatoes, cover with salt and let stand 
all night. Drain off liquor, add i cup sugar, i cup grated horse- 
radish, I tablespoonful ground cloves, i tablespoonful cinna- 
mon, I tablespoonful allspice, i dessertspoonful red pepper, i 
dessertspoonful white pepper, 3 whole red peppers, 3 large 
onions chopped fine, cover with vinegar and simmer till soft. 

C how-Chow. 

I qt. small white onions, i qt. small cucumbers, i cauliflower, 
6 green peppers, put these in a brine and let stand twenty -four 
hours, then scald in the same brme, i qt. vinegar, ^ cup flour, 
y^ cup sugar, 6 tablespoonfuls mustard, yi oz. turmeric powder. 
Boil this until well cooked, and pour over the pickles. 



h 



20 



Clever Cooking 






Plain Stuffing for Fowls. 

Take a pint of bread crumbs, a plentiful seasoning of salt 
and pepper, a tablespoonful of minced parsley or some sweet 
herbs. Take some good clarified dripping or butter. Melt 
and pour it on the breadcrumbs and other ingredients, and stuff 
your fowls. 

Maitre D' Hotel Butter. 

^ lb. of butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls of minced parsley, salt 
and pepper to taste, the juice of a lemon. Work these ingre- 
dients well together with a spoon. It can be poured either 
under or over the meat or fish it is to be served with. 

* 

Spiced Currants. 

5 lbs, currants, 4 lbs. brown sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls cloves, 
2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, i pint vinegar. Boil till thick. 

Tomato Catsup (excellent). 

2 gals, ripe tomatoes, teacup salt, boil for half an hour, put 
through a colander, put in y^ dessertspoonful cloves ground, 
y^ dessertspoonful allspice, 3^ dessertspoonful ground ginger, 
y^ dessertspoonful pepper, y^ dessertspoonful cayenne, a little 
garlic and onion chopped fine, let it boil down some time and 
strain through sieve. 

Chili Sauce. 

40 tomatoes, 4 green peppers, 8 large onions, 16 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 8 tablespoonfuls salt, i tablespoonful ground 
cloves, I tablespoonful of cinnamon, i teaspoonful of ginger, 
2 nutmegs. Prepare the tomatoes as for stewing, chop up the 
onions and peppers. Mix all together and boil till quite thick. 
Put uj) in small bottles and cork tightly. 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 



Roasting. 

As a general rule a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat 
is the proper allowance for roasting, adding a Httle for large 
joints and taking off for small ones. The meat to be cooked 
should be exposed at first to a quick heat, which immediately 
coagulates the albumen on and near the surface. Should the 
oven be very brisk, the meat may be covered with a piece of 
white paper to prevent scorching before the heat penetrates 
the joint. Remove the paper half an hour before the meat is 
done, and let it brown nicely. Beef should be garnished with 
scraped horse-radish and may have horse-radish sauce. 

Mutton should be well basted in its own fat, and towards 
the last well dredged with flour. The shoulder, loin and neck 
being flat require less time than the saddle and leg joints. 

Mutton is served with red currant jelly ; with the shoulder 
some prefer onion sauce. 

Venison and lamb require the full quarter of an hour per 
pound. Venison is served with felly the same as mutton. 
Lamb always with mint sauce. 

Veal should be thoroughly done in a hot oven and browned 
well, with a certain amount of coating from a dredging of flour 
or flour and breadcrumbs mixed. It should be well basted 
with lard or dripping. The fillet should be stuffed with force- 
meat where the hone was taken out, and the flap skewered over 
it. A fillet, stuffed, of nine pounds, two hours and a half to 
roast. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Turkeys and fowls have their breasts stuffed with forcemeat, 
and require a made gravy, which can be obtained by boiling 
the necks,' etc. 



i 



22 



Clever Cooking 



Bread sauce accompanies them, and sausages, ham or baron, 
according to tasle, should be served with them. Time, as near 
as possible, a quarter of an hour per pound. 

Geese and ducks should be stuffed with sage and onions, 
boiled and chopped fine, then mixed with enough of cither 
mashed potato or breadcrumbs to fill their bodies. They 
should be well basted, have a made gravy, also apple sauce* 
Time according to the rule. 

Boiling. 

Joints that are boiled require the quarter of an hour calcu- 
lation. They should be put in boiling wat. r and cooked very 

slowly. 

Turkeys and fowls should have the breasts stuffed the same 

as for roasting. 

Boiled beef is improved by the addition of vegetables put in 
while it is boiling, and served as a garnish to the dish. 

Pickled pork is boiled like beef. If very salt it may be 
soaked for two or three hours before boiling. It requires 
double the time to cook. 25 minutes to the pound at least, 
very slow boiling. When under done it is very unwholesome. 
The skin should be taken off, and a sprinkling of fine dried 
crumbs put over the meat and lightly browned in the oven. 
The same rule as to time applies to ham and bacon. 

Beef tongue, if salt, may be soal^ed before boiling. It re- 
quires 3 or 4 hours according to s;ze. The skin is taken off 
before serving. 

Beef tongue, rolled, is an economical method of using both 
fat and lean. When the tongue is boiled and skinned, lay it 
:'n a jar or round tin with the tip outside the root ; a little of the 
liquor it is boiled in may be stiffened with gelatine and poured 
round. Put a small saucer or round piece of wood on the top 
of the tongue, and a heavy weight on that. Serve cold. 



'11 



For Careful Cooks. — Meats, etc. 



23 



Leg of mutton may be boiled with turnips and served with 
caper sauce. Tim'^, a little more thari the rule for large legs* 
The liquor makes excellent stock. 

To Clarify Beef Dripping. 

Take the skimming of boiled shank of beef (there must be 
no vegetable in it if it is to be used for pastry) or beef dripping, 
put it in a saucepan, and melt it over the fire with some boil- 
ing water. When thoroughly melted, strain it through a sieve, 
or allow it to become cold, and then carefully scrape olT the 
sediment from the under side of the cake of fat. It may be 
kept a length of time by wrapping the cakes in white paper 
and keeping in a cool place. Bacon fat should be kept by 
itself, and can be used for basting veal or poultry. 

Mutton fat should be clarified and put away for soap mak- 
ing purposes. 

All pieces of beef suet and trimmings of fat should be tried 
out in a frying pan, and the rendering added to your stock of 

dripping. 

Spiced Beef (Excellent). 

Take a piece of ribs of beef of about 10 lbs. weight and rub 
it well with common salt. Make a brine with a y^^ lb. of salt, 
]^ oz. of saltpetre, 5^ lb. sugar, 60 cloves, 60 allspice, as many 
black pepper corns. Crack the spice, put it on to boil for a 
few minutes in 2 pints of water, when cold pour it over the 
beef. Turn and rub it well every day for 3 weeks. When re- 
quired for use, put the beef into a deep pan with the brine, a 
little water, and about i lb. of beef suet. Bake it or boil it very 
slowly until tender, let it get cold in the brine. If boiled it 
must be very, very slowly for 5 or 6 hours, adding sufficient 
water to the brine to cover the beef. Be sure and put in the suet 
and let it get cold in the liquid. Put into a round pan and 
put a weight on it for some hours before using. This recipe 
answers for brisket. 



H 



Clever Cooking 



To Pickle Hams or Pork. 
t lb. coarse sugar, i pint of molasses, y^ lb. bay salt, ^ lb. 
saltpetre, i lb. common salt, i qt. of beer. Boil together and 
pour on hams boiling hot. i^ an oz. ground pepper rubbed in 
each ham and set to drain a day or two. 

Boiled Fowl. 
Pluck, draw, and singe a nice plump fowl. Cut the feet oflF 
at the first joint and tic up the legs closely to the breast, cut off 
the head and neck, leavmg sufficient skin to skewer back. 
Turn the wings under and skewer them to the sides. Tie in a 
cloth and put into hot water or, better still, put on a plate in a 
steamer and steam over boiling water. An hour for a large 
fowl, 5^ for one of less size, extra time must be allowed for old 
fowls. Boiled pickled pork, tongue or bacon are the usual 
accompaniments. Serve with white sauce, parsley and butter, 
or oyster or celery sauce. Pour a little of the sauce over the 
fowls after removing the skewers, and serve the rest in a 
tureen. 

Spiced Beef. 
A round of 20 lbs. Rub over with 2 ozs. saltpetre and let it 
remain 24 hours. Then take: 2 c-. coarse sugar, i oz. 
black pepper, i grated nutmeg, i^ oz. ground allspice, yi oz. 
ground ginger, % oz. ground mace, 2 cloves to every lb., 
pounded fine, i teaspoonful cayenne pepper, i lb. common 
salt. Rub the beef over with the above spices and let it remain 
3 weeks, turning and rubbing every day. Then put it into a 
baking pan (deep), with y^ a teacup of water, covering the top 
of the beef with shred suet, and putting in the brine and spices. 
Cover the pan with a paste of flour and water, and bake five 
hours. Or boil an equal length of time, very slowly, with 
plenty of suet and sufficient water added to the brine to cover 
the meat. 



For Careful Cooks. — Meats, etc. 
Stewed Pigeons. 



25 



Lay some butter and white flour in the bottom of your 
stewpan, and let them brown well. Then lay in your birds 
(fdled with chicken stufling), and nearly cover them with 
water. Season with pepper and salt, a little parsley or onion 
chopped tine, if the flavor is liked. Lot the giblets also be 
put in. Stew from one and a half to two hours. 

Stewed Kidney with Maccaroni. 

Cook 2 oz. of maccaroni (broken into small pieces) in 
boiling water. Take 2 or 3 mutton kidneys, skin them, re- 
move the fat, and cut into thin slices, season with salt, cayenne 
and minced herbs, fry on both sides in butter, then stew in 
half a pint of gravy flavored with tomatoes. Dish with a 
layer of maccaroni over them, then the gravy poured over, 
add salt and pepper, some grated Parmesan cheese if liked, 
and brown. 

Sweetbreads Fried. 

Soak the sweetbreads i hour in salt and water, remove the 
pipes, parboil and roll in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in 
hot lard. 

Sweetbreads Stewed. 

Proceed as in the former recipe, make a white sauce, put 
in the sweetbreads and stew a few minutes and serve. 

Croquettes of Chicken or Veal. 

Minced meat, i tablespoonful of cream, a little salt, a grate 
of nutmeg, some breadcrumbs. Put the minced meat in a 
pan with a little stock, the cream or milk, and flavor to taste 
with the spice. Mace in powder may be used instead of 
nutmeg. Thicken the mixture with flour enough to make a 
paste, and boil a few minutes. Then pour it out on a dish 



26 



Clever Cooking, etc— Meats, etc. 



and let it get cold. Divide it in pieces. Roll in fine bread 
crumbs, then in egg and again in crumbs. Fry in hot lard a 
light golden brown. Garnish with parsley. The lard should 
be hot enough to brown a piece of bread while you count 50. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Take any remains of cold boiled or steamed fowl or turkey, 
cut up and heat in a steamer, have ready a white sauce with 
plenty of chopped parsley in it. Arrange your meat upon a 
dish, pour the sauce, which should be thick, over it, and serve. 
Garnish with strips of bacon rolled. 

Curried Fowl. 

Take any remains of cold fowl, chop fine, and brown 2 
onions in 2 oz. butter, add i teaspoonful flour, i dessertspoon- 
ful curry powder, i tablespoonful len^on juice, ^ pint gravy, 
seasoning. Stew 20 minutes. 

Mince Collops. 

Mince very fine, i lb. beef, i onion, 2 oz. suet, add a little 
flour, pepper and salt. Stew half an hour, stirring frequently. 
Minced hare or venison makes good collops. 



POULTRY. 



Roast Turkey. 

Choose a nice young turkey. If the legs are black and the 
spurs short, it is young, if old the legs will be pale and rough 
and the spurs long. Carefully pluck the bird, singe it, and 
wipe thoroughly with a cloth. Preserve the liver, gizzard and 
neck, which may be boiled down for gravy. Be very careful 
when removing the gall bag not to break it, as no washing 
will remove the bitter taste it imparts. Wash the bird well 
inside, wipe dry, and stuff with one of the forcemeat recipes 
given, or with sausage meat. Tie the legs close up to the 
breast, after breaking them off an inch below the knee joint. 
Roast in a good oven ^ hour to each lb. Serve with cran- 
berry sauce. 

Roast Duck. 

Choose a plump duck, with thick yellowish legs. Break 
off the head and neck, and pinions and legs, at first joint- 
Stuff the bird with the following stuffing : One large onion 
boiled till tender, add seasoning of pepper and salt, % lb. 
breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful dried sage rubbed fine, and 
enough melted dripping to bind the mixture together. Roast 
the bird in a good oven and baste frequently. A few minutes 
before serving dredge lightly with flour, and send to the table 
very hot, served with a good brown gravy. Time, % hour to 
each lb. 

Roast Goose. 

Choose a goose with yellow legs, old birds have red legs- 
Roast the same as ducks ; r-.ashed potatoes may be added to 
the stuffing instead of breadcrumbs. 






I I 



Roast Partridge. 
Wipe the partridge inside and out, cut off the head, lay a 
strip of bacon on the breast and tie up the legs close to the 
breast, remove the string before serving. Lay the bird on a 
piece of bread ^4 inch thick, and roast from 25 to 30 minutes. 
Serve on the bread with bread sauce. 

Roast Wild Duck. 
Cut off the head, wipe and roast in a quick oven, baste plen- 
tifully with butter, and a few minutes before serving dredge 
with flour. To take off the fishy taste, baste for a few moments 
with hot water in which a little salt has been dissolved. 
Afterwards baste with butter or dripping. Cook from 25 to 
35 minutes. 

Roast Pigeons with Savory Bread Sauce. 

Stuff the pigeons with ordinary forcemeat. Roast and serve 
round a pyramid of baked tomatoes, and send up the following 
sauce : Simmer 3 or 4 onions (small), or half a Portugal onion 
sliced, in half a pint of milk for an hour ; avoid reducing the 
milk too much. Take out the onions, put in grated bread, a 
lump of butter, pepper, salt, a dessertspoonful of chopped 
parsley, one chili and one anchovy (washed and boned) 
shreded fine. Make it the consistency of bread sauce. 
A Boned Jellied Turkey. 

Having a turkey nicely dressed, take a sharp game carver 
and commence at the back of the neck to pass it down nexj 
the bone, disengaging the flesh from the bone. Pass the knife 
around in this way, cutting off the wings at the joint, and dis- 



¥: i 



i 



Clever Cooking, etc. — Game, etc. 



29 



joint the thigh and leg bones, drawing out the tendons and 
leaving the leg whole. Withdraw the carcass, and sew up the 
open parts with a needle and ordinary thread, except the neck. 
Have ready prepared, and cut in even pieces half an inch 
square, the half of a parboiled corned tongue, six lbs. of fresh 
pork (not too fat), cut also into half inch squares, and well 
seasoned with salt, and a little cayenne and white pepper mixed 
throughout. A fowl cut up may be added also, but it is not 
necessary. Fill the turkey pretty firmly, turn the skin of the 
neck back and sew tightly. Roll in a cloth, and tie at each 
end. Place in a pot of warm water and boil for two hours. 
When boiled, put on a dish, with another dish on top, and a 
weight, leaving the cloth on, and let it remain for some hours 
until quite cold. Take off the cloth and remove the fat and 
threads where it has been sewn. To jelly, take a small package 
of Cox's gelatine, dissolve in a half pint of boiling water, season 
with lemon, a spoonful of vinegar, and a little salt, and pour 
on a dish about the size of the turkey. When cold and very 
stiff, it can, by warming the dish with a hot cloth, be easily re- 
moved, and turned over the turkey so as to cover. Take another 
box of gelatine, and dissolve in a cup of cold water and two 
cups of boiling water and flavor the same as the other, pour in 
small quantities on plates, not very deep. Some may be col- 
ored amber, with a few drops of burnt sugar or catsup, and 
some with a few slices of raw beet placed on the plate and 
heated in the jelly. When the color is extracted the beet root 
can be taken out. When stiff, the jelly can be cut in any form, 
diamonds, etc., and some chopped fine, so as to decorate the 
dish as taste may suggest. 

Jugged Hare. 

Hares, i^ lb. bacon, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 4 cloves (ground), 
I teaspoonful pepper, ^ of a nutmeg grated, 4 teaspoonfuls 



I 
I) 



30 



Clever Cooking 



I It 



flour, Yo, pint ale, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped onion, 5^ pint water, 
I teaspoonful powdered savory. Cut the hare into small pieces, 
also the bacon into dice, rub the hare and bacon with the 
spice, and place all the ingredients in the stewpan ; having 
saved the blood, chop up the liver and mix with it, add the ale 
and water. An old hare will take 3 hours, if young 2 will do. 
It is best cooked in a hot water saucepan. If you have not 
ale, a wineglass of brandy, or 2 of sherry or port, or i of vinegar 
will flavor it. 

Hot Pot. 

Take any remains of cold pork (any other kind of meat may 
be used, but it is not so nice), cut meat from bones and put it 
into a deep pan. Put bones on to stew Ibr 2 hours. Parboil 
some potatoes and onions, cut them into rather large pieces, and 
mix them in well with the pieces of lean meat, season well with 
pepper, salt and a little sage, and add the gravy made from the 
bones. Put a layer of parboiled potatoes on the top and 
brown in the oven. Serve in the same dish or pan with a nap- 
kin tied round it. 

Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding. 

Two pounds of round steak, and one beef kidney, seasoning 
to taste of pepper and salt. Suet crust (see pastry). Cut the 
steak into small pieces, and slice the kidney. Line tl>e dish 
with crust, leaving a small piece of crust to overlap the edge, 
then cover the bottom with a portion of the steak and kidney, 
season with pepper and salt, then add another layer of ste^;k, 
kidney, and seasoning until the dish is full. Put in sufficient 
water to come within two inches of the top of the basin. Moisten 
the edges of the crust with cold water, cover the pudding over 
press the two crusts together, that the gravy may not escape, 
aftd turn up the overhanging paste. Steam from three to four 
hours. Serve in the basin with a napkin pinned round it. 



For Careful Cooks. — Game, etc. 



31 



Croquettes. 
Make a very light pie paste with dripping, roll very thin, and 
cut in half moons. Chop either beef or mutton with a little 
summer savory, thyme or parsley, pepper and salt, lay some 
of it between 2 layers of paste. Egg and breadcrumb the paste, 
and fry in boiling dripping or lard for about ten minutes. 

Veal Mould. 
Boil 2 or 3 eggs hard, cut in slices crosswise, and put in 
bottom of and arrange round the sides of mould. Place in the 
mould, in alternate layers, thui slices of veal and ham. Put in 
some good stock made of beef bones, boiled shank or calf's 
head boiled well down. Set into the oven for ^ an hour, 
when cool turn out of mould and garnish with parsley. 

GuLASCH (German Recipe) . 
A piece of the fillet of veal (or beef steak) is cut into lengths 
(with the grain) the width of a finger, and again in small pieces 
against the grain. To 2 lbs. of meat, }{ lb. of fat bacon, y^ lb. 
of onions, both cut up into small pieces and fried light brown, 
add the meat, and stew the whole together in a little stock c^-er 
a clear fire, until the plentiful juices shall be reduced to a 
small remainder. Add a little salt, pepper and cayenne. Stir 
all well together and serve very hot. This is a favorite dish 
with gentlemen. 

Beef Roll. 

tYz lb. round steak, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, summer savory, or 
sweet marjoram. Have the meat finely chopped, season with 
pepper, salt^ and whichever herb is preferred. Beat the eggs 
thoroughly, and add to the beef, when well mixed roll it up 
closely, put into a dripping pan and bake nearly an hour. To 
be eaten cold, cut in thin slices like tongue. 

Cold veal is excellent cooked in this manner with the addi- 
tion of breadcrumbs. 



32 



Clever Cooking 



Brawn. 



Take a pig's head and feet thoroughly washed and cleaned, 
soak in salt and vaterforan hour, then put on to boil with about 
a pound and a half of lean beef, cover it with water, and let it 
boil gently for some hours, until the bones will come out quite 
clean. Lift the meat into a hot pan and strain the liquid from 
the bones. Season it well with salt and pepper. Cut the meat 
into nice pieces and arrange it in a basin or mould, seasoning 
as you put it in till the basin is 3 parts full, then' fill up with 
the liquid. 

JoMBALAYAH (A Creole dish). 

Take the remains of any cold meat with scraps of chicken or 
game, if you have any, mince it finely. Have ready some 
boiled Carolina rice, and some tomatoes, either canned or fresh 
ones. Stew the tomatoes in a saucepan till well cooked with a 
little minced onion, then add the rice and minced meat, and 
plenty of seasoning. Let these cook together a few minutes 
and serve on a hot dish, or put in a baking dish, cover with 
breadcrumbs, and brown in the oven. A la.-ge cup of tomatoes 
the same of rice, and a cup and a half of minced meat makes 
a good sized dish. 

Dormers. 

Chop cold beef very fine, and season it with pepper and salt, 
then add some onion chopped very fine and fried previously, 
also some rice boiled very dry. Mix all well together and make 
into small rounds, flour them, and fry till brown. Serve with 
nice hot gravy. 

Savory Toast. 

Take the yolk of one egg, and beat it well, pour into it, 
stirring all the time, a dessertspoonful of Harvey or Worcester 



For Careful Cooks. — Game, etc. 



33 



sauce, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, a large tablespoonful of finely grated meat — 
fowl, duck or veal (fowl being the best), a dash of red pepper, 
salt and black pepper to taste, and a dash of nutmeg, mix it all 
well together until it becomes a paste. Have ready some very 
hot lightly done toast, spread the paste on it, and place it in 
the oven for a few minutes, when the paste is lightly browned 
it is done. 

ROGNONS A LA BrOCHETTE. 

Cut some mutton kidneys, open down the centre, do not 
separate them \ peel, and pass a skewer across them to keep 
them open, pepper, salt, and dip them into melted butter, broil 
over a clear fire on both sides, doing the cut side first ; remove 
the skewers \ have ready a little butter mixed with some chop- 
ped parsley, salt, pepper, a little lemon juice and a dash of 
nutmeg, put a small piece of this maitre d' hotel butter in the 
hollow of each kidney, serve very hot. 






VEGETi^BLES. 



General Directions. 
In order to boil vegetables of a good green color, take care 
that the water boils when they are put in. Make them boil very 
fast, do not cover but watch them, and if the water has not 
slackened you may be sure they are done when they begin to 
sink. All vegetables must be carefully cleaned from msects 
.and well washed. Cauliflower should be soaked in salt and 
water, head downwards, for an hour before cooking. 

Never take hot water from the tap for cooking purposes, as 

.there is great danger of lead poisoning by so doing. 

Broiled Mushrooms. 

Wipe the mushrooms, cut off a portion of the stalk and peel 

the tops; broil them over a clear fire, turning them once, and 

place them on a very hot dish, put a small piece of butter on 

each mushroom, season with pepper, salt, and a litde lemon 

juice. 

Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes may be stewed, and thickened with breadcrumbs, 
or scalloped like oysters. 

Tomatoes on Toast. 

Take large ripe tomatoes, core and fill the cavity with a 
forcemeat, bake in the oven and serve on toast. 
To Boil Spanish Onions. 

Take one weighing 3 lbs., put it on to boil without peeling 
or trimming. Boil 3 hours, then strip and remove root and 
stalk. Three or four of the skins are enough of the covering 
to remove. Serve with white sauce. 



Clever Cooking, etc.— Vegetables, 



35 



Baked Spanish Onion. 
Put onions in a pan in oven and bake 4 hours. It will 
blacken outside, which is of no consequence ; when they begin 
to shnnk try with a knitting needle, and if quite tender strip 
off the skni, add a little butter, pejiper and salt on top and set 
into the oven again for a few minutes. 

Cauliflower. 

The leaves should be green mmu fresh, and the heads creamy 
white. 

Soak in cold salted water, top downwards, for one hour, to 
cleanse it thoroughly. Cook in boiling salted water fifteen or 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Serve in a shallow dish, and 
cover with a cream sauce. 

Spanish Potatoes. 
Take some warm mashed potatoes, with a very little milk 
and butter mixed in. Have ready a small quantity of dried 
and finely rolled breadcrumbs, also in a separate dish a couple 
of eggs well beaten. Form the potato into balls, or an oval 
shape, with the hands, then dip them into the egg, and then in 
the breadcrumbs. Place them in a pot of boiling rendered 
beef suet, letting them remain until well browned. Then take 
out and place for a i^w moments on a sieve before serving. 

Potatoes. 

Raw potatoes which are to be fried should be thinly sliced 
and soaked in cold water to draw out all the starch, that they 
may be crisp and not mealy. 

Boiled potatoes. Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash 
and scrub with a brush. Pare and soak in cold water Put 
them m boiling salted water. Cook half an hour or until soft 
Drain off every drop of the water. Place the kettle on the 
back of the stove, keep hot until ready to serve. 



I 



!l 



I 



jitiii 



I ! 



36 



Clever Cooking 



Scalloped Onions. 
Boil 2 or 3 large onions (Spanish are best) till tender, 
separate and put into a pi iding dish a layer of onion, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt, cover with breadcrumbs ; add 
another layer of onions, seasoning and breadcrumbs. Put a 
few pieces of butter or suet dripping on top, and brown m the 

oven. 

Fried Artichokes. 

Five or six artichokes, salt and water. Boil till tender and 
fry in the following batter : 

1/ lb of flour, a little salt, yolk of one egg, milk to make a 
batter. Cut the artichokes in halves, dip in the batter and fry 
in hot lard till brown. 

Stewed Celery. 

Put into boiling water (salted), and boil till tender. Serve 
with white sauce. 

Fried Parsnips. 

Put parsnips in boiling water and cook till tender. Then 
split them into slices, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry 
golden brown in hot lard. 



I « 



PTJDDiisras. 



All boiled puddings should be put into boiling water, and 
never allowed to stop simmering or they will become heavy. 
They should be kept covered with the water. Steaming m a 
steamer over boiling water is preferable to boiling, but the 
same rule as to the water being kept at the boil applies to 
steaming. All moulds or basins should be buttered. Pudding 
cloths should be dipped in boiling water and dredged lightly 
with flour. 

Foamy Sauce for Puddings. 

Whites of 2 eggs, i cup sugar, i cup boiling milk, juice of i 
lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs till foamy, but not dry ; 
add the sugar, beat well ; add the milk, and lemon juice. 

Plum Pudding Sauce. 

Add 10 4 ounces of melted butter or thick arrowroot, sugar 
to taste, a little nutmeg and lemon peel grated. Add i wine- 
glass of sherry, brandy or curacoa if liked. 

Pudding Sauce. 

A cup of sugar, and half a cup of butter, beaten together 
till very light, then add one egg, but do not beat much after the 
egg is in. Take off the teakettle cover, set the basin with the 
sauce in, and let it stand till as thick as cream, stirring occa- 
sionally. Add a glass of wine if approved. 

Excellent Plum Pudding. 

8 eggs, one pint of milk or cream, one half pound of flour, 
and the same of breadcrumbs, one pound of chopped suet, 
one of curn.nts, one of raisins, after they are stoned, one of 






i 



88 



Clever Cooking 



sugar, two ozs. candied orange peel and the same of citron. 
Grate a nutmeg and mix all well together. This quamity makes 
two puddin-rs. Boil in buttered moulds or tied in a cloth. 
Time, five hours. Steaming is prcftMable to boiling if the pud- 
dings are in basins. They will keep for weeks in a dry place, 
and should then be steamed for two hours before they are 
required. 

Plain Plum Pudding. 
Well mix a large breakfasicupful of breadcrumbs, the same 
quantity of flour and finely chopped suet, 2 eggs, a cupful of 
sugar, a little ginger, grated nutmeg and candied peel, }{ lb. 
currants, i^ lb. of raisins, 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle made 
warm in a little milk. Boil it four hours. 

Plain Suet Pudding. 

I cup of suet, 2 cups of flour, i cup of milk, a little salt, and 
a teaspoonful of baking powder. Boil or steam 2 hours. 

The baking powder may be omitted and 2 eggs used if de- 
sired. Serve with jam or syrup. 

Bread and Suet Pudt ing. 

y2 a lb. of chopped suet ; ^ a lb. of breadc umbs, the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon, ^ lb. of sugar, 2 eggs, mix 
well together with a little milk, and boil or steam 2 hours. Any 
sweet sauce. 

Boiled Apple Pudding. 

Make a suet paste according to the recipe given, butter a 
basin, line it with paste, pare, < ore and cut into slices, apples 
enough to fill your basin, add sugar, the grated rind and juice 
of a lemon, or nutmeg (cinnamon if you prefer it). Cover with 
crust ; pinch the edges together. Flour the cloth, place it over 
the pudding and tie down, put it in a steamer or in fast boiling 



For Careful Cooks — Puddings. 



39 



water and boil or steam at least 2 hours, more if the pudding 
be large. Turn out of the basin and serve quickly with or 
without sauce. 

Blueberries, black currants or any fresh fruit, makes a deli- 
cious boiled pudding. The former are improved by the addi- 
tion of lemon juice. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
I stick cooking chocolate, i^ pint breadcrumbs, i small 
cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Grate the chocolate and stir 
into the breadcrumbs, with the sugar, beat the eggs well, add 
the milk, and stir all the ingredients well together. Pour into 
a mould and steam for ^ to i hour. Serve with sauce as fol- 
lows : 

Sauce. 

Into ^2 a pint of boihng water stir i dessertspoonful (or 
more if desired) of grated chocolate, and i ttaspoonful (heap- 
ing) of cornstarch (previously mixed with cold water) ; when 
cooked, add a large wineglass of port wine. This pudding 
should be eaten hot. 

Chocolate Pudding No. 2. 
Heat together 4 ozs. of butter and one 3^ pint of milk, when 
it boils stir in 4 ozs. of grated chocolate and the same of 
crumbled lady's fingers or sponge cake. Stir till it is thick, 
then let it cool. When nearly cold stir in 3 ozs. of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla, and then the yolks of 3 eggs, and 
lastly the whites beaten to a froth, pour the mixture into a 
plain, buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam 2 
hours. Serve with a sauce flavored with vanilla. 

Lemon Pudding. 
Juice and rind of two lemons, y^ lb. of breadcrumbs, ^^ lb. 
sugar, 5 ounces butter, yolks of 5 eggs and whites of 2. Boil 
or steam in a mould for 2 hours and a 'V^\l. 



40 



i i 



Clever Cooking 
Carrot Pudding. 



I cup currants, i cup of raisins, i cup of breadcrumbs, i cup 
of flour, Vz cup sugar, J^ cup grated carrot, J^ cup grated 
potato, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Boil or steam 3 hours. 

Hard Times Pudding. 

I cup suet, xVi cup flour (sifted), i cup treacle, i cup milk, 
i>^ teaspoonful baking powder, ginger and nutmeg to taste. 

Mix the baking powder in the flour, then add the suet, lastly 
the treacle, milk and flavoring. Steam two hours and a half. 

Fig Pudding. 

■% lb. figs, y^ lb. breadcrumbs, ^/^ lb. sugar, ^ lb. suet, 3 
eggs. Chop suet and figs, mix well together with the bread- 
prumbs, beat the eggs thoroughly, add the sugar, stir themmto 
the figs, suet and breadcrumbs, pour uito a mould and steam 
for two hours. 

Prune Pudding. 

Make a small mould of lemon jelly. Boil large selected 
prunes till tender, keeping skins unbroken. Drain and place 
in glass dish. Break up the jelly all about them so that it will 
have the appearance of being made together. Pile whipped 
cream over prunes and jelly. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

5 oz. breadcrumbs, 4 eggs, i pint sweet milk, sugar and 
currants, raisins. Scald the milk, pour over the breadcrumbs, 
let it stand until you beat the eggs, add a little sugar and some 
currants. Line a well buttered pudding dish with stoned raisins, 
pour the pudding in, and steam one hour. Serve with sauce. 



J 



For Careful Cooks. — Puddings. 



41 



Cottage Pudding. 

I cup of powdered sugar, i cup of sweet milk, i tablespoon- 
ful of butter, 2 eggs beaten light, yolks and whites separately. 
About 3 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder (mix in 
flour). Rub the butter into the sugar, add beaten yolks, 
the milk, then the whites. Bake in a buttered mould. When 
you can bring out the testing-straw clean from the middle of 
the loaf, turn it out upon a dish. Serve with foamy sauce. 

Iced Pudding. 

I pint cream, 2 glasses sherry, as many crystallized fruits as 
you like. Whip cream well, add sugar and wine, then freeze. 

Walnut or Filbert Iced Pudding. 

Make the cream given above. Pound walnuts or filberts* 
after removing the skins, to a paste, add a little cream and 4 
oz. sugar. Make a little thick custard flavored with lemon or 
vanilla, and put to it the nut paste. Freeze ; line a plain mould 
with he frozen plain cream, and fill in the centre with the 
frozen nut cream. Cover tight. Pack in ice for 3 hours. 

Prince Albert Pudding. 

yl lb. butter, % lb. raisins stoned, }( lb. sugar, 2 eggs, % 
lb. flour. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the raisins, 
and stir in the flour very lightly. Line your buttered mould 
with strips of candied lemon peel, and steam one hour and a 
half. Serve with sauce. 

Madeira Pudding. 

3 ozs. of flour, 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of sugar, ^ pint of 
milk, I egg, i teaspoonful of baking powder in the flour. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten egg, then the 



A 



11 

ill 
f 11 



42 



Clever Cooking 









flour and milk. Flavor to your taste, and bake in email buttered 
cups or moulds 20 minutes. 

Turn out, garnish with apple jelly, and serve either with or 
without sauce. 

Delicate Pudding. 

I cup of sugar, i cup of milk, i egg, i cup of raisins, butter 
the size of an egg, i large teaspoonful baking powder. Flour « 
to make the consistency of cake. Steam i hour. Any sauce 
preferred. 

Sponge Pudding. 

I pint of milk, 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of sugar, 2 J^ ozs. of 
flour, 2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Flavor with 
vanilla or grated lemon peel. 

Put the milk on the fire with the sugar and butter, let it come 
to a boil. Have a little of the milk reserved to mix the 
flour into a smooth paste, then stir in gradually the boiling 
milk, and again set over the fire, stirring until it is a thick 
smooth paste. Set off till a little cooled, and then add the 
eggs, whites last. Pour into a dish and bake 20 minutes, set- 
ting the pudding dish in a pan of hot water. 

Bachelor's Pudding. 

4 ozs, of grated bread, 4 ozs. of currants, 4 ozs, of apples, 2 
ozs, of sugar, 2 eggs. A few drops of essence of lemon and a 
Httle nutmeg. Mince the apple, add the currants, breadcrumbs 
and sugar, whisk the eggs and beat with the other ingredients, 
adding a spoonful of milk if not moist enough. When all is 
thoroughly mixed, put the pudding in a buttered basin, tie over 
with a cloth and steam or boil 3 hours. Sauce. 



11 



i I 



For Careful Cooks, — Piiddiugs. 
Salem Pudptng. 



43 



I cup of suet chopped fine, i cup of molasses, i cup of milk, 
3j^ cups of flour, I cup of raisins (stoned), i cup of currants, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, salt to taste. Steam 3 hours. 
Sauce. 

Tapioca and Pineapple Pudding. 

Cut a little pineapple (say some slices left over) into small 
pieces, and put in the bottom of your pudding dish. Have 
some tapioca soaked and boiled, and pour over the pine apple. 
i at with cream and sugar. 

Tapioca Rouge. 

Soak 4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, and boil until thick and 
clear. Stir into this while boiling a cup of red currant jelly, 
when thoroughly blended put into a mould, to be eaten cold 
with cream. 

Delhi Pudding. 

4 large apples, suet, 2 large tablespoonfuls sugar, 6 ozs. cur- 
rants, flour, lemon peel, nutmeg. Core and cut the apples 
into slices, put them into a saucepan with the sugar, a little 
nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped or grated lemon 
peel. Stir them over the fire until soft. Make some suet paste, 
roll it out to a proper thickness, spread the apples over the 
paste, sprinkle over the currants, roll the pudding up, closing 
the ends properly, and steam or boil for two hours. 

Snowdon Pudding. 

Mix together a cupful each of chopped suet, breadcrumbs 
and sifted sugar ; add two eggs and the grated rind and juice 
of a lemon, if not moist enough a wineglass of milk. Steam 
in a mould (which may be lined with raisins) 4 hours. Serve 
with any sauce you like. 



lii 



44 



Clever Cooking 
Chancellor's Pudding. 



\ 



i \ 



1 



.; 5 



■f * 



!l I 



Butter a mould and line it with stoned raisins, cherries or 
any dried fruit over the bottom and sides. Fill it nearly full 
with layers of sponge cake and maccaroons. Pour over all a 
good custard, flavored with vanilla. This should be cold when 
poured in. Steam an hour and a quarter, and serve with 
sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

I quart milk heated, 7 tablespoonfuls Indian meal, \ cup 
molasses and \ cup sugar, butter size of an egg, and 2 eggs. 
Beat well together with some raisins and a little cinnamon, 
then pour heated milk into it, set into oven until it bubbles, 
stirring occasionally. Take it out and beat every lump out, 
adding i pint cold milk; put in pudding dish, and bake i hour 
in a rather slow oven. 

Delmonico Pudding. 

1 pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 2 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls white sugar. Beat the whites and 3'olks of the eggs 
separately, add the sugar to the yolks, mix the cornstarch with 
a little of the milk cold, and put the rest on to boil ; when 
almost boiling add "the eggs, sugar and cornstarch, let it boil 3 
minutes, put into the oven in a well buttered dish and bake a 
light brown. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, put on to the pudding and return to the 
oven to brown. This pudding is excellent cold. 

Mysterious Pudding. 

2 eggs, their weight in flour, butter and moist sugar. Beat 
the whites and yolks separately. Mix these ingredients well 
together ; the butter and sugar first, then the yolks, the whites 



?! i 



For Car ef til Cooks, — Creams'. 



45 



last. Then add a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda or 
baking powder, and a large dessertspoonful of orange marma- 
lade. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould or basin, which 
it will about two-thirds fill as it rises quickly. Steam over 
boilifig water for an hour and a quarter. Everything depends 
on the cooking. Serve with pudding sauce or a custard. 

Fig Mould. 

2 lbs. of figs, I large cup su,u;ar, i^ pint of water, ' small 
box of gelatine, i coffee cup sherry. Stew the figs and sugar 
in the water for i hour, add the gelatine and sherry, pour into 
a mould. Should be eaten cold with cream, plain or whipped. 

Mould of Apple Jelly. 

Peel and cut up i lb. finely flavored apples (weighed after 
they are peeled), put them in a pan with 3 oz. of sugar, ^ a pint 
of water, and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. When 
cooked to a pulp, pass through a strainer and stir in r ounce 
of gelatine dissolved in a gill of water. Color half the apple 
with cochineal, and fill a mould with alternate rows of colored 
and uncolored apple ; when cold turn out and serve with half 
a pint of cream whipped solid. 

To Whip Cream. 

If in perfect condition cream will whip as solid as white of 
egg, and leave no liquid in the bowl, cream for whipping should 
be 24 hours old in warm weather and 36 in cold ; it should also 
be thoroughly chilled ; if the day be warm set it on ice while 
whipping. Put in the whip and do not lift the froth off as it 
rises, it is quite unnecessary if the bowl you use is large enough. 
As you see it thicken, which will be after steady beating for 
five or six minutes, keep on just as you would for white of 
egg. If it is slow in whipping leave the beater in the bowl and 
set it on the ice until very cold again. 



1 



ri, 



1 t 



46 



Ckver Cooking 
Orange Charlotte. 



Vz box gelatine, x^ cup cold water, y, cup boiling water, i 

cup sugar, ju.ce of i lemon, i cuporange ji.ice and pulp, whites 

of 3 eggs. Luie a mould or bowl with lady's fingers or slices 

of oran.e. Soak gelatine in cold water till soft, pour on boil- 

ing wat.r, add sugar and lemon juice. Strain and add the 

orange ju.ce and pulp with a little grated rind. Cool in a pan 

o ice water. Beat whites of eggs stiff, and when orange jelly 

begins to harden beat it till light, and add beaten whites, and 

bea together t.ll sfff enough to drop. This can be made with 

apple pulp instead of orange. 

Velvet Cream. 

X box gelatine % cup cold water, r pt. cream, ^ cup sugar, 
I teaspooniul van.lla. Soak gelatine in cold water till soft, cWl 
cream on ,ce, and whip till you have 3 pts. froth. Boi any 
reminder (or .f there should be none, use a cupof milk) whh 
St" Zl-;", ; '" ''■ "'"^ '^'"'^^ ^'- -''^-d gelatine, 
wme ,f hked, or flavour wuh . tablespoonfuls melted chocolate. 
Place the pan to cool, stir occ. .ionally, and when cold and thick 
st.r n. wh.ppecl cream lightly, when nearly stiff enough to d op 
pourmtoan oded mould. Red bananas may be sliced and 
the mould lined with them for variety. 

Ginger Cream. 

eJ^'ltiMn'"."!!; ^"'P™"'' ' °^--far, and yolks of 3 
egg,. St,r m a double boiler till thick, let it cool, add i cup 
syrup from preserved ginger, and a oz. ginger cut up add J 
o. gelat,„e melted in as little water as possible. Ust of a1 



For Careful Cooks. — Creams. 
Charlotte Russe. 



47 



I oz. isinglass to a quart of good cream, sweeten to taste* 
juice of two lemons, very little sherry to flavor. Whisk all 
together in a cold place until quite thick, put it into a shape 
and turn out just before serving. Dissolve the isinglass in a 
little water, and let it be cold before putting it amongst the 
cream. Stick your shape round with lady's fingers before 
putting in the whisked cream. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Dissolve >< box gelatine in a coffee cup of new milk. Set on 
back part of stove, when all dissolved add coffee cup of sugar, 
I pint creani; i dessertspoonful vanilla, set away to cool ; 
before it gets too stiff, add whites of seven eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Line the dish with sponge cakes and heap up with 
the cream. 

Coffee Jelly. 

I pint strong coffee, i cup sugar, \ box gelatine soaked in a 
cup of water, boil up once and strain into a mould. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Ice Cream. 

To I qt. milk, the yolks of 2 eggs, i cup of sugar, i dessert- 
spoonful of arrowroot, scald till it thickens, then cool, add i 
pint whipped cream and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, flavor to taste, color with cochineal. It requires to be 
very sweet and strong of the flavoring, as it loses much of the 
strength by freezing. 

Stone Cream. 

I oz. isinglass, i pint milk or cream, greengage or other 
jam. Put a thick layer of greengage or any other jam into the 




48 



il 



Clever Cooking 



boiiom of a glass dish, boil ,l,e isinglass in the milk, sweeten 

roiir„r;e,;r d- ,r • ^-^ '-'- ^-'^ -^^ '^ "^" "^ 

Tapioca Cream. 

^tablespoonfuls tapioca, , .,aart milk, 4 eggs, sugar, and a 

mle salt. Soak the tap.oca .n a little water for two hours put 

the milk to bo,I, stir in the mpioea, sugar and a little 'ri , w'en 

nearly bo.hng st,r m the yolks of the eggs, when as thick as 

bo.led custard remove from the fire, have the white of , he 

vami la To be eaten cold. A teaspoonful of cornstarch can be 
added .f the custard is not thick en ough. 

Calf's Feet Jellv. 
J calfs feet, J lb. sugar, J pint sherrv, , glass branriv , „„ 

he . calf s feet, add the sugar, sherry, brandy, shells andww;" 
of the eggs, rmd and juice of the lemons and ,1,. ,-.• , 
Stir all well together beforeplacing the ^r on he fire ;":^m:r 

he m,x.ure gently X of an hour, but do no. stir it after ™"^ 
to w.,rm. 1 hrow „, small teacup of cold water, boil for TnZ 

the fire. Dip the jelly bag mto hot water, ring it quite dry tie 

1 r ^h'°If:e-'^''"""V•'■^^•^"^^^"■■"^''f-''^ 

to boif ihe i n 7^," "'^'^'^ ""'>■ "h™ "•= ■»!«"= begins 
to bo,l, the jelly will be found clearer and firmer. 

Lemon Sponge. 

; "'■ ^'^^''"'l ■» ^8S=. ' lemons, 2 cups sugar, r cup cold 
water, .cups boiling water. Soak the gelattae i^ the cold 
water, and pour the boiling water on to it, Lt the whit s of the 
esgs with the sugar and the juice of the lemons ; when the gel 



For Careful Cooks.— Creams. 49 

atine is cooled, beat all well together ; the gelatine can be 
whipped until frothy before adding the eggs and sugar, pour 
into a mould slightly oiled with olive oil. 

For the custard take one pint of milk, the yolks of the 4 eggs, 
sugar to taste. 

Frozen Cream. 

I cocoanut grated, mix with it an ounce of sugar ; melt in a 
very little water ^ of an ounce of gelatine, whip the whites of 
3 eggs, mix them with the yolks in J a pint of milk, stir over 
the fire until the custard thickens, sweeten with six tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Stir the gelatine with a full yi pint of grated 
cocoanut and the cocoanut milk into the custard. Then stir 
y2 a pint of cream whipped solid into the custard ; when the 
latter is cold, but before it seis, add a little vanilla, mould and 
set on ice. 

Potato Flour Cream. 

I pt. of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 3 eggs, i 
tablespoonful of potato flour, a little rose or orange water. Put 
half the milk with the sugar on the fire, stir the rest of the milk 
into the yolks of the eggs and the flour, pour it into the boiling 
milk, and let it boil up two or three times, stirring continually. 
Take it off" the fire, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs whipped 
to a stiff* froth, add the flavoring, and put in a glass dish, orna- 
ment with little pieces of red currant jelly. This is an elegant 
and delicious dish. 

Burnt Cream. 

From one quart of milk take enough to blend thoroughly ^^ 
of a cup of flour, let the remainder of the milk come to a boil, 
and then pour it on the flour, stirring it well, when smooth turn 
it back into the saucepan, and let it boil until it thickens. 






r li 



so 



Clever Cooking 



Meantime m another pot (an iron one- is best) let one cup 
brown sugar melt and brown, letting it burn according to taste, 
into this pour the boiling milk and flour, and let all boil well up 
together. Then pour into a mould. When cold serve with 
cream, or with whipped cream round it. 

GiNCxER Water Ice. 

6oz. preserved ginger, 8 or lo lemons, whites of 4 eggs, 
sugar, water. Free the ginger from fibre, pound it, pare the 
lemons very thinly, put the peel of three into a jug with ij lb. 
of white sugar, squeeze and strain the juice from the lemons, 
add 2 quarts of boiling water, and when cold stir in the ginger 
and some meringue paste made with the whites of the eggs. 



! '5 



Lemon Water Ice. 

6 cups of water, juice of 6 lemons, 3 cups of sugar, whites of 
5 eggs, well beaten with some of the sugar. Beat well together 
and freeze. 



Trifle. 

X lb. maccaroons, y^ lb. ratafias, 2 doz. lady's fingers, 5^ pot 
of strawberry jam, i pint of custard, whites of the eggs xV. 
02. pounded sugar, y, pint of sherry, 6 sponge cakes, oneoz. 
almonds, spread the jam on 12 biscuits, press the other twelve 
on them, line a large round glass dish with them and pour over 
the sherry. Let them soak two hours, arrange the maccaroons 
and ratafias over them, and the sponge cakes thickly stuck with 
blanched and sliced almonds. Pour over the custard and add 
a whip made of the whites of the eggs and the sugar. 



For Careful Books. — Creams. 
Cranberry Shape. 



51 



Boil some cranberries in water till n liiced to a pulp. Take 
a plain mould or basin, cut a slice of bread a ]^ of an inch 
thick and evenly butter it, lay it in the bottom of your mould, 
cut strips of buttered bread like lady's fingers and arrang- them 
closely round the sides of the mould. Then mash your stewed 
cranberries through a colander into the mould till full, cover 
with a lice of buttered bread, butter side down, when thor- 
oughly cold it should turn out quite solid. Serve with a garnish 
of whipped cream, or with plain cream. A quart of cranbe ries 
is sufficient for a pint mould. 



Pineapple Ice. 

I pineapple grated, the juice of 2 oranges, i qt. of water, i 
lb. of sugar, i^; box of gelatiae, essence of vanilla. Freeze. 

Svk'EET Omelet (Macaroon). 

Pound 2 or 3 macaroons, and beat them into the whisked 
yolks and whites of 3 eggs, add :,ugar to taste and a little 
al mond flavoring. Make the omelet as in the preceding recipe, 
sprinkle with sugar, and serve. 



I 



ill 



Apple Fritters. 

Peel and cut apples into slices without dividing them, and 
stamp out the core with a cutter. Then put into the following 
batter : Beat whites and yolks of 2 eggs separately, put \ lb. 
flour into a basin, m It and stir into the flour i^ oz. butter, 
add a little salt, the yolks of the eggs, and enough warm milk 
to make it firm enough to drop from the spoon. Rub out the 
lumps and add whites of the eggs. Fry in boihng lard, and 
when nicely browned lay them on a piece of blotting paper to 



52 



Clever Cooking 



absorl) the greasy moisture. The flavor of the fritters is much 
improved by soaking the pieces of apple in a little wine mixed 
with sugar and lemon juice an hour before cooking. 

Pancakes. 

To make four or five pancakes, take 2 eggs, beat whites and 
yolks separately. Tut yolks into a basin with % saltspoon 
salt, and 2 oz. flour and a little warm milk, beat well, and add 
the remainder of the milk and whites of eggs. The batter 
should be the consistency of thick cream. Have the frying 
pan very hot, put in a small piece of butter and fry a light 
brown. Roll and serve with powdered sugar and a cut lemon. 
Send quickly to table. 



BeIGNET SoUFFLfe. 

Put I pint of milk in a saucepan with a few grains of salt, and 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, 2 ozs. of sugar, r,.jme 
grated lemon peel, and 3 ozs. of flour wet with a little of tliC 
milk when cold and stirred in when it boils, to form a thick 
paste. Then add the lightly beaten yolks and whites of 2 eggs. 
Let it stand 2 or 3 hours, and then fry in pieces the size of a 
walnut dropped into hot lard. Serve with powdered sugar 
over, and sliced lemon. 



Cheese Fritters. 



2 tablespoon fuls grated cheese, i teaspoonful flour, a little 
cayenne and salt, whites of 2 eggs. Whisk the whites of the 
eggs to a froth, mix the ingredients all well together and drop 
into boiling lard, a teaspoonful to each fritter. 



%. 



For Careful Cooks — Pastry. 53 

Potatoes a la Provencale. 

Mash and pass through a sieve 2 lbs. potatoes, season with 
salt and pepper. Gratf; 2 oz. of Gruy^re, or any good clieese, 
pound with enough 'jutu:; to make a paste ; add a gill of milk 
and a teaspoonfu) ofchoppd parsley. Put into a dish, add 
the potato, mix well, • lould ;;).toa pyramid and brown slightly 
in the oven. A das) .f ra;- cnne may be added. 

Toasted Cheese or Wli-sh Rabbit. 

Cut bread into slices i^ inch thick ; pare off the crust, toast 
slightly and spread with butter. Melt on a plate or over steam 
some good rich cheese, add a small quantity of mixed mustard, 
season with pepper. When well melted, spread over the top 
of the toast and put in oven for 2 minutes and serve imme- 
diately. 

Tomatoes and Macaroni (Neapolitan). 

Take yl lb. of macaroni and boil in salted water till tendei, 
cut in nice lengths and put in a dish -.' '• a piece of butter. 
Have ready some stewed tomato and pour it boiling hot on 
the macaroni, and serve with a plate of grated cheese. A good 
Lenten dish. 

Pastry . 

In all sorts of pastry it must be remembered that the hand- 
ling is of the greatest importance, and that however correct the 
proportions may be, the paste cannot succeed unless it is lightly 
handled. The temperature of the o^en is also most important. 
It should be hot enough to bake the paste without burning it. 
If put into a slow oven it will become sodden -Tid not rise. It 
is a good plan to put a bit of paste in the ovci^ and try it, to as- 






54 



Clever Cooking 



ill 



certain the degree of heat. If it puffs up and becomes light and 
flaky, the cook may be sure of success. 

Suet should be well chopped and free from skin ; it should be 
dredged with flour to keep it from getting into lumps. 

Clarified beef dripping if free from any burnt flavor, such as 
the skimmings of the water in which a beef shank has been 
boiled, and which is principally suet and marrow, makes very 
good plain paste either alone or with butter. 

Paste should be made in a cool place, and is better if put on 
ice for a time before it is used. In winter it may be kept in a 
cold place and used as required. 

To Make Puff Paste. 

It should be made in a cool place, and in warm weather with 
iced water. Weigh one pound of sifted flour, and one lb. of 
butter, or half butter and half lard, and about ^ a pint of 
water. 

Put the flour on the board or in a bowl,and mix it into a smooth 
paste with the water, using a knife to mix it with ; do not have 
it too moist. Roll out to the thickness of about an inch. 
Divide the butter into 4 or 6 pieces. Take a piece of butter, 
break it into bits and spread evenly over your paste, dredge a 
little flour over it, fold it into four, and roll out again. Repeat 
the rolling and buttering till all i'^ in ; a little flour dredged over 
the board and rolling pin will keep them from getting sticky. 
Handle the paste as lightly a^ possible, and roll lightly. Paste 
is better for standing two or three hours on the ice or in a 
very cold place before being used. Bake in a quick oven. 
Much depends c i the baking. 

Plain Crust for Family Use. 

To every lb. of flour allow 6 oz. of clarified beef dripping, 
and 2 of butter, abou" t a pint of water. Divide the butter 



For Careful Cooks.— Pastry, 5 5 

and dripping into 4 pieces, mix your flour with water and then 
roll four times, putting in a piece of dripping or butter at each 
time. If this paste is made with really good dripping and 
lightly handled, it will be found very good, for meat pies espe- 
cially. 

Suet Crust, 

To every lb. of flour, 6 ozs. of beef suet finely minced,^ a 
pint of water ; see that the suet is free from bits of skin an 
strings ; rub it well into the flour ; work the whole to a smooth 
paste with the water, roll out and it is ready for use. If re- 
quired richer, put y^ a lb. of suet to the same quantity of 
flour. This paste is excellent for boiled apple or beefsteak 
puddings. 

Crust for Raised Pork Pies. 

To 4^ lbs. of flour, put \\ lb. of lard and butter, melt 
this over the fire in i pint of boiling milk. While hot mix the 
flour into a stiff paste with the yolks of 4 eggs and the milk, 
work the whole well till the paste is perfectly smooth. Then, 
when nearly cold, take a lump of paste according to the size 
of the pie you wish to make, mould it to the shape of a sugar 
loaf. Flatten the sides with the palms of your hands ; press 
the knuckles of the left hand into the top of the lump, and 
with the right work the edges up the back of the hand, which is 
shifted round and round till the paste forms a round case with 
upright sides and flat bottom. Avoid pressing it into holes or 
thin places. Fill it with poik cut into small pieces and highly 
seasoned with pepper and salt. There should be a fair dis- 
tribution of fat and lean. Cover with a circle of paste, egg the 
edges, and ornament to taste, making a hole in the centre. 
Bake from 2 to 3 hours or more if large, in a well heated oven. 



56 



Clever Cooking 



When the pies are baked and cool, pour in some good stock 
that will jelly through a funnel. Brush the pies over with 
yolk of egg. 

Apple Tart. 

Pare, core, and quarter the apples, and fill a pie dish ; put 
over them a tablespoonful of sugar, a little grated lemon peel, 
cloves or nutmeg as preferred, add a spoonful or two of water' 
cover with crust and bake, or stew your apples first, then cover 
with paste and bake. With the latter method your paste is 
more certain to be light. 

Mince Pies. 

Mince pies are made in small pattypans, which are lined 
with puff paste, filled with mince meat, and then covered with 
more paste and baked a delicate brown. 

Prune Pie. 

Line a dish with a strip of puff paste round the sides, put in 
prunes stewed and stoned and flavored with the juice of a 
lemon. Cover with the whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar beaten to a stiff froth, and lightly browned in the oven. 

Delicious Lemon Pies. 

2 lemons, juice and grated peel, 2\ cups of sugar, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, 2 cups of boiling water, 2 eggs, and 
butter the size of an egg. Wet the cornstarch with a very little 
cold vnter, and pour to it the boiling water, stir well, and boil 
thick, add the lemons and sugar as well as the butter to the 
hot cornstarch. Cool a little and add the yolks of the eggs well 
beaten. Stir the mixture well and put it in your plates which 
should be ready lined with paste. Bake in a quick oven till the 



For Careful Cooks. — Pastry. 57 

paste is done. Have your whites well whisked with half a cup 
of white sugar, and put it over the r'>s. T us quantity makes 
2 pies. The icing should be lightly browned in the oven. 

Mince Pie Meat. 

Boil a neat's tongue tender, peel, and chop it fine. To i lb. 
tongue put 2 lbs. suet chopped very fine, mix them together, 
put in 2 lbs. currants, i lb. raisins stoned and chopped, mace, 
cloves and cinnamon pounded, i nutmeg,6 good apples chopped 
fine, the peel of a Urge lemon grated, y^ lb. sugar, a little salt, 
X pint of sack or sack and brandy mixed, }{ lb. of candied 
fruit chopped ; when you make your pies put the squeeze of a 
lemon in each, a bit of candied fruit in each will also improve. 

N.B.— The above lecipe was given to my mother by Lady 
Nelson and Bront6, wife of the hero of Trafalgar. 



L. A. H. 



Mincemeat with Meat. 



2 lbs. raisins, i small nutmeg, 3 lbs. currants, J pint of 
brandy, i^lb. lean beef, 2 qts. apples, 3 lbs. beef suet, 2 lemons, 
nnd and juice, 2 lbs. moist sugar, ^ lb. mixed candied peel. 
Stone and cut the raisins, wash and pick currants free from 
stalks and dirt, chop the suet and meat very fine. Grate the 
nutmeg and mince the apples, lemon vind and mixed peel. Mix 
all well together, adding brandy when all ingredients are well 
blended. Press into a jar, carefully excluding the air, and keep 
for a fortnight before using. 

Mince Meat. 

Take three pounds of suet, finely chopped and sifted, two 
pounds o: currants, three pounds of raisins, and one pound 
of apples all chopped very small, three pounds of moist sugar, 



58 




Clever Cooking 



three-quarters of a pint of red and white wine, mixed, a glass of 
brandy, the peel of two small lemons, the juice of one, two 
ounces of candied peel, cut. Mix all together with a quarter 
of an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and 
one small nutmeg, all finely powdered. Keep it in a close 
covered jar, and if kept a twelvemonth, it may require the ad- 
dition of a little more wine. Cider may be substituted for the 
wine, and more lemon juice added if desired. 

Friars Eggs. 

I cup lean cooked ham chopped fine, six hard boiled eggs. 
Cook one third of a cup stale breadcrumbs in one third of a 
cup of milk to a smooth paste. Mix it witli the ham, add half 
a teaspoonful made mustard, half a saltspoon of cayenne, and 
one raw egg. Mix well, remove the shells from eggs and cover 
with mixture. Fry in hot fat till brown. Drain and serve hot 
or cold for lunch parties or picnics. Cut them into halves 
lengthwise, and arrange each half on a bed of parsley. 

To Pickle Eggs for Winter Use. 

}i lb. lime, 2 lbs. salt, i pail of water. Pour the water on 
the lime and let it stand an hour or two, then add the salt, 
pack the eggs in a stone jar, and pour the pickle ov^r them. 

Omelette. 

4 eggs, I cup milk, pepper, salt, i teaspoonful butter, i table- 
spoonful flour. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separ- 
ately. Put the milk on to boil, blend the flour with a very 
little milk, then having seasoned the boiling milk with pepper 
and salt, pour it on the blended flour, and return all to boil for 
2 or 3 minutes ; take off" the fire and cool a little before adding 



For Careful Cooks. — Eggs. 



59 



the eggs, yolks first, then the whites, pour into a buttered pan 
to bake for about 20 minutes. This is excellent with cold meat 
and may have any addition liked, such as minced ham, tomato 
sauce or a Httle finely minced parsley. 

Curried Eggs. 

6 hard boiled eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of curry powder, i pint 
of stock. Mix the curry powder with a little of tlie stock, add 
the rest, and stew till reduced half. Thicken with flour and 
butter ; slice the eggs, put them into the gravy, let it simmer 
five minutes, and serve very hot. 

Baked Eggs. 

Butter a dish with y^ an oz. of butter, make it hot, break 
your eggs into a saucer first, then slide them on to your hot 
dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put another \ oz. of butter 
over them. Set the dish in the oven and let it remain till the 
whites become set, but not hard. Serve immediately, setting 
the hot dish on to a cool one. 3 minutes will cook them. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Plain Omelet. 

Beat up 3 or 4 eggs with one dessertspoonful of minced 
parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Put a piece of butter 
the size of an egg into a frying pan, as soon as it is melted, pour 
in the omelet mixture, anc' I.olding the handle of the pan witn 
one hand, stir the omelet with the other \ means of a spoon. 
The moment it begins to set cease stirring, but keep on shak- 
ing the pan for a minute or so ; then with a long knife double 
up the omelet and keep shaking the pan till the under side has 
become a golden color. Turn over on a hot dish and serve. 

The omelet may be varied in flavor by adding a little rainced 
onion, or a tablespoonful of tomato. 



60 



C^iver Cooking 
Bread. 



Have some flour sifted into yoi^- mixing dl^h, take ij pint 
of vv2mn water, put into it a small lablespoonful of salt nnd 
some ntashed potato (if you have it). Make a hole in your 
flour, ;,iir in gendy the waier, potatoes and salt, and lasHy jg a 
cak.. of conipres«!ed yeast which has been dissolved in a very 
little lukewarm riter, L'^at the sponge well for a few minutes, 
then cover and set in a v.'rm place until morning, when add 
a ^ pmt of warnj w,a cr and sufficient flour to make a soft 
dciugh, let it ^^^e until noon, or until light and spongy. Make 
into loaves, and set to rise in the baking pan for an hour ['■fore 
putting in the oven. Care must be taken not to knead ir. too 
much flour, only enough to keep from sticking to the board 
while moulding the loaves. The bread will require to bake 
about I hour. 

Jean's Bread. 

ij cup of boiling water, i^ cup of milk, i J cup yeast, butter 
the size of an egg, a little salt and sugar. Beat these ingre- 
dients well together, adding the yeast last, knead in flour suffi- 
cient to make a soft dough, let it stand all night, and in the 
morning make into three loaves. Let it rise two or three hours, 
and bake in a moderate oven about an hour. 



I ■' 



I I 



Graham Bread. 

I pint milk, scalded and cooled, 2 tablespoonfuk sugar 
teaspoonful salt, J of compressed yeast cake, 2 cups w 
flour, and 3 cups sifted Graham flour. Mix in the order f '-- 
into a dough ; let it rise ti ■ i -ht, then knead and sha, 
loaves ; let it rise again, a. .. Dake. Always sift Gral ? Jour, 
using a coarse sieve. 



a 
to 



For Careful Cooks. — Bread, 
Rich Brov/n Bread. 



6i 



4 cups of cornmeal, 2 cups Graham or other flour, 3 cups 
sweet milk, 2 cups sour milk, i cup molasses, i teaspoonful 
salt, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls soda. Mix well together, and pour 
into a three quart basin, and steam steadily for two hours and 
a half. 

Milk Bread. 

I pint milk scalded and cool, i tablespoonful butter melted 
in the hot milk, i tablespoonful sugar, i teaspoonful salt, \ cup 
yeast, 6 or 7 cups flour. Measure the milk after scalding and 
put it in the mixing bowl, add butter, sugar and salt; when 
cool add yeast, then stir in flour, adding it gradually after the 
first five cups are in, that it may not be too stiff, use just 
enough to knead it, knead till smooth and elastic. Cover, let 
it rise till light, cut it down, divide into four parts ; shape into 
loaves or biscuits. Let it rise again in the pans. Bake forty or 
fifty minutes. 

Water Bread. 

I tablespoonful butter, i tablespoonful sugar, i teaspoonful 
salt, \ yeast cake, i pint water, about 2 quarts flour. 

Put butter, sugar and salt in the mixing bowl, add one-fourth 
cup boiling water to dissolve them ; then add enough more 
lukewarm water to make a pint in all, half a cup yeast and 
three and a half or four cups of flour, enough to make a batter 
that will drop, not pour from a spoon. Give it a vigorous 
beating ; cover and let it rise over night. This soft mixture 
is called a sponge. In the morning add flour enough to make 
it stiff" enough to knead. Knead half an hour. Cover, let it 
rise in bowl till noon, or till light and spongy ; then shape it 
into rolls and loaves, bake as usual. 



H 



62 



Clever Cooking 



li 







Sally Lunn. 
I quart flour, butter size of an egg, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
2 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt, 2 cupsm.lk. 
Mix sugar, baking powder and flour together, add milk, then 
eggs, stir well and bake in square pans. 

Cream Gems. 

I cup sweet cream, i cup flour, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful baking 
powder. 

Potato Scones. 

Mash eight boiled potatoes while they are hot, mix with two 
ounces of sugar, dissolve half a yeast cake in half a pmt of 
warm milk ; beat together, then mix with flour enough to make 
a soft dough, let it rise; flour a board and roil out half an 
inch thick ; cut into squares, and bake. 

Potato Rolls. 

Take 4 large potatoes, boil, until quite soft, in a small sauce- 
pan of water, then mash them well in this water. Take 2 large 
cups of flour and three tablespoonfuls of yeast, or a small half 
yeast cake, and a Uttle salt ; knead all to a thick batter about 
3 o'clock, and at 9 knead in a little more flour, and set m a 
warm place until morning. First thing in the morning knead 
into the dough % cup of sugar, and a little shortening, together 
with a very little more flour, let it rise a couple of hours, then 
make into rolls, allowing an hour for them to rise after they are 
in the pans. Keep the dough nice and spongy, not too stiff 
with flour. When nearly baked wash over with a little milk 
to make them a nice brown. 



For Careful Gooks. — Bread. 
Light Buns. 



63 



I lb. flour sifted, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. loaf sugar, }^ Ih. cur- 
rants or raisins, i pint cold new milk, i egg, y'z teaspoonful 
tartaric acid, yi teaspoonful soda. Rub the tartaric acid, soda 
and flour all together, work the butter into the flour, add the 
sugar, currants and some caraway seeds if liked. Mix well, 
pour in the milk and egg well beaten, mix quickly, and set the 
buns on baking tins with a fork, bake about 20 minutes ; can 
be baked as one cake, it will then take i yi hour. 

Potato Yeast. 

Grate 6 large potatoes, add i cup of sugar and half a > up of 
salt, pour in boiling water and stir well, let it simmer until 
quite thick, when lukewarm add one cup and a half of pota 
yeast, or nearly a cup of hop yeast, if these are not to be 
had, a cake of Fleischman's. 



Regina Buns. 

2 oz. white sugar, i egg, i\ oz. ground rice, 2 oz. butter, li 
oz. currants, a few thin slices of candied peel, flour. Whisk 
the egg, stir in the sugar, beat them well together, beat the 
butler to a cream, put into it the rice, currants, canu ^ [>* si, 
egg and sugar, and as much flour as will make it consistent 
enough to roll into 7 or 8 balls, put these on a buttered tin, and 
bake from 5^ to ^ of an hour. 1 he oven should be brisk, and 
they should not stand, or they will become heavy. 

Table of Proportions. 

I scant measure of liquid to 3 full measures of flour for 
bread^ ^ cup of yeast, or ^ of compressed yeast cake to one 



I 



64 



Clever Cooking 



pint of liquid, 1 even leaspoonful of soHn ^nri - full teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar to i quart of Aom., 1 teaspoonful /salito 
1 quart of soup stock, i saltspoonfui of white pepper to i 
quart of soup stock. 

Table of Weights and Measures. 

4 ta blospoonfuls of liquid = i wine glass or yi gill or li cup. 

2 gills =1 cup or yd pint. 

4 cups of liquid =1 quart. 

4 cups of flour =1 pound or i quart. 

^ cup or butter =1^ nouni. 

2 cups of granulated sugar =^1 pound. 

1 round tablespoonful of butter = i ounce. 

Butter the size of an egg = 2 oui.ces or ]{, cup. 

I tlask of olive oil = lyi cup or 20 tablespoonfuls. 

General Diki-ctions. 

Before proceeding to make your ca'e, ascertain just what 
things you require, i wci"U your [uantitics ready. Put 
the baking powder into the flour, and have the eggs broken 
and the whites and yolks beaten separately. The butter and 
sugar are generally bcu.en logether til' -reamy, fc all cakes. 

Fruit should be prepared by stoning the rai'^ins (after boil- 
ing water has been poured over them) a^*^, eighing them after 
they are stoned. Currants shoi. ' be v ished, picked over, 
and carefully dried, candied pe- rt ito strips, and flour 
sifted. For fruit cakes mLx the \, , per .i. antities of fruit and 
spice with the flour in a large basin, before proceeding t beat 
your butter and sugar, which can be done either with a spoo" 
(wooden) or your hand. Fruit cakes require a slow oven 
and long cooking. By using a clean straw you can ascertain 
when they are done by the straw coming out clean and dry. 
Cake pans should be lined with buttered paper. 



For Careful Cooks. — Cakes, 
Plain Frosting, 



65 



Beat the white of one egg very stiff, then add one scant cup 
of powdered sugar, flavor with vanilla. Beat all together 
five minutes. 

Golden Frosting. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and stir in powdered sugar till stiff 
enough to spread, not to run. Flavor with vanilla. 



Rich Fruit Cake. 

I lb. sugar, i lb. butter, i lb. flour, 2 lbs. of currants, 2 lbs. 
of raisins, i lb. of sliced citron peel, 10 eggs, i lb. blanched' 
almonds, ^ cup of molasses, i wini glass of brandy, i tea- 
spoonful ground cloves, 2 of allspice, 2 of cinnamon, 2 of 

itmeg. 

Wash and pick the currants, stone the raisins, and mix them^ 
with the spices into the flour in a separate dish. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a cream,add the eggs well beaten separately,, 
then the dry ingredients by degrees, alternately with the 
molasses and spirit Bake in a slow oven frora 2 to 3 hours 
or more, according to the size of your cakes. The p r "s should 
be lined with buttered paper, and a sheet of w ';e paper kept 
ready to cover them should they brown too quickly. When 
a stravvwill come out clean they are done. 



Plain Fruit Cake. 

4 eggs, 2 cups c " sugar, i cup of butter, y^ cup of milk, 
2j^ cups of raisins, stoned, 4 cups of flour, 2]/^ teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Bake in a slow oven, till a straw will come 
out clean and dry. Will keep well. 

E 






66 



ill 



Clever Cooking 
Fruit Cakk. 



Two teaspoonfuls of Cook's Friend baking powder, one and 
a half pound flour, one and a half pound raisins, one pound 
currants, half pound candied peel, one pound sugar (moist), 
one pound butter, ten egg^ and spice to taste. Beat the sugar 
and butter to a cream, then break in two eggs at a time and 
beat well until the eggs are in ; have the currants, spice, flour 
and peel ready mixed in a bowl and stir in, after the eggs are 
thoroughly beaten, into the butter and sugar, pour in well 
buttered pans, and bake in not too quick an oven. This 
quantity makes two good sized cakes. It is a good plan to 
line the tins with coarse paste and then with buttered paper. 

Spice Cake. 

One pound flour, three quarters pound sugar, half pound 
butter, four eggs, one cup sour milk, one wineglass brandy, 
half teaspoonful each nutmeg, mace, cloves and cinnamon. 

Chocolate Cake. 

I cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of milk, 4 eggs beaten 
separately, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed in the flour, 
about 3 cups of flour or enough to make a batter. Beat well 
and bake in layers. Put chocolate mixture between and over 
the cakes. Half these proportions makes a good sized cake. 

Chocolate Mixture. 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate with enough milk to 
rub it smooth, i cup of sugar, x egg well beaten, stir over the 
fire till mixed. Flavor with vanilla. 



■]tf'' 



For Careful Cooks. — Cakes, 
Savoy Sponge Cake. 



^1 



A Y-i lb. of finely sifted sugar, beaten with the yolks of 4 
eggs until it forms a thick batter, then stir in ){ of a lb. of 
finely sifted flour, then the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Lightly butter a cake tin lined with paper. Pour in the 
batter and bake in a moderately quick oven. It should be 
flavored with the grated peel and juice of half a lemon. 

Queen Cakes. 

Beat 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, stir in gradually 
6 ozs. of white sugar, add ]^Qidu lb. of tiour, a pinch of cinna- 
mon, and 2 ozs. of butter warmed, lastly 2 ozs. of currants. 
Beat till the batter is light. Bake in patty pans, buttered. 

Lemon Cake. 

A pound of sifted flour, ^ lb. of sugar,io ozs. of butter, juice 
and grated peel of a lemon, 5 or 6 eggs, beaten separately. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten, then the whites, and the flour by degrees, with a 
teaspoonful (heaping) of baking powder mixed in it, lastly the 
juice and rind of the lemon . Beat well and bake in tins lined 
with buttered paper. It should be a golden color when baked, 
and very light. B.iia: in a moderately hot oven, cover with a 
sheet of white pa^^er i; likely to brown too much. Test with 
a straw. 



Dominoes or Fancy Cakes. 

I lb. flour, 5^ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, 6 eggs, juice and grated 
rind of a lemon, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat the 






n 




» * 



I ii; 



III 



gg C/^^'' Cooking 

butter until creamy.add the sugar, then beat in the egg=. ««>« 
and yolks separately, add the rindand )-« °f *' 'J"?"' P"^ 
the baking powder into the flour, which shouM be s,f ed, when 
all are well beaten together the batter ,s «ady fo. use Lme 
some ielly cake tins with buttered paper, spread a layer of the 
future just as for jelly cake but not much thicker, as when 
Mkd the layers should not be more than the th>rd of an mch 
Aicf Bake slowly and when done remove from the oven but 
e^'undtturbed until cold. If the sheets are largecut them 

rtly in half, spread them *inly "''''--, '!f"';7„:'^tt 
or ielly any rich flavor with some tartness w,ll do, lay one halt 
on'ttithe'r, and press closely and neatly together ; have ready 
a bowl of icing, dust the top of the cake w.th «<>"'■„ »"'"?'^ 
off again, as it is only to absorb *e grease Flavor the 
icing with vanilla and lay it on the top of the cake, let U rm 
over it, aiding with a knife dipped in water (shakmg off the 
drops howeve'r). The icing needs to be very n,ce y done 
and must not be thicker than a twenty-five cent p.ece Now 
color the icing in the bowl pink with a httle ^och-ned .dd a 
drop or two of extract of lemon or b.tter almond, euher of 
which will agree with the vanilla in the wh>te .c.ng ; then ,ce 
another sheet of cake in the same way, a third may be done 
t hlocolate icing. The beauty of these .akes w,U depend 
on the way they are cut. You may choose to make them 
Ub lets an inch'wide, and three inches long, or ■„ lo^eng 
shape but in either case the cuttmg must be exact. The best 
way^o have it so is to mark the lines very Lg^y -* *e 
point of a peitknife on the icing, ustng a measure. Tnm off the 
edgeof thecakewithasharp knife, so thatit.sneat all round 
no excess of marmalade oozing out, or tears of .-"8 runnmg 
down. Then warm a sharp carving knife (suppos>ng the cake 
fs on aboard), and cut through the lines you h^ve n,arked 
without hesitation, so that there may be no crumus or rough 



Ul 



For Careful Cooks. — Cakes. 



69 



ness which slow, over careful cutting causes. When cut up 
you should have, if neatly done, an assortment of very deli- 
cious and ornamental cakes. 

Cornstarch Cakes. 

7 eggs, I lb. white sugar, \ lb. butter, \ cup cream, i tea- 
spoonful of soda, 2 of cream of tanar, i package cornstarch, 
mix the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks, then the 
whites, and lastly th«i cornstarch and milk or cream, and 
flavoring. 

Oatmeal Crackers. 

3 cups oatmeal, \\ cup of flour, i cup sugar, i cup butter, 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, milk enough to roll them out. 

Sugar Cookies. 



I cup butter, i cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 cups sifted flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour 
reserving some of the flour to roll out the cookies, then add 
sugar, eggs, etc., and roll thin, and cut out. 



Sugar Cookies No. 2. 

I cup of butter, i cup sugar, 2 eggs beaten, and the cup 
filled up with milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 3 cups flour, 
roll out thin. 

Short Bread, a Dumfriesshire Receipt. 

I lb. flour, i lb. butter, J^ lb. citron peel, cut small, \ lb. 
sugar, some caraway comfits, Wash the butter if salt, and 



m 



I Itiii 



-Q Clever Cooking 

melt it over the fire, but do not let it hoil Mix the sugar 
and fruit well with the flour, then work it up with the 
butter till it is smooth and compacted, divide it >nto four o 
five pieces, and roll out each piece into an oblong cake half 
an inch thick, having previously floured the paste board well , 
prick the top with a steel fork, and strew some orange and 
citron peel cut thin and some large caraway comfits upon he 
cakes, press with the roller. Pinch round the edges, put the 
cake in floured tins, and bake for 20 minutes. 

Beignes (Old French Recipe). 

I doz. eggs, li lb. sugar (white), 3^ lb. of butter, i wine- 
glass brandy i small teaspoonful soda, some fresh milk. Beat 
the butter to a cream, add the sugar, then the eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, the whites to a very ^'fj^^'^^^^^ 
half a cup of boiling water over the soda, then fill up the cup 
with milk. Flour enough to make into a paste not too stiff, 
let it rise for three hours, then shape and drop "^to boihng 
lard. Self-raising flour can be used. Delicious. Will keep 

any time. 

Doughnuts. 

4 eggs, 2 cups sugar, i cup milk, i cup butter, 4 cups flour 
3 ttaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat the sugar and butter o 
a cream, add the yolks, put the baking powder ir to the flour 
and sift it, adding milk and flour alternately, then lastly the 
whites, knead in the last of the flour, shape, and throw into 
boiling lard until brown. 

Doughnuts No. 3. 
2 eggs, I cup of sugar, i^ cup sweet milk, 3 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 5 cups of 




For Careful Cooks. — Cakes. 



n 



flour. Mix the ingredients well together, make the dough as 
soft as can be handled. Take a small portion at a time, roll 
Yi of an inch thick, and cut with a ring cutter, fry in deep hot 
fat, drain on paper. 

Jelly Cake. 

3 eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, i cup of white 
sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls warm water added to the sugar to make 
a syrup, and stirred with the yolks of the eggs, then the whites 
poured over and well beaten together with one cup of flour 
and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Lottie's Little Cakes. 

\ lb. butter, i lb. flour, \ lb. sugar, z eggs, ^ teaspoonful 
soda, some nutmeg and cinnamon. Rub the butter into the 
flour, add a little cinnamon and nutmeg and the sugar. Mix 
all together with the eggs well beaten, roll thin, and cut into 
small cakes ; beat up another egg and wash over the tops of 
the cakes, and strew some finely chopped almonds mixed with 
some sugar over them, and bake. 

SiNZKR Cake. 

i^ lb. sweet grated almonds, ^^ lb. flour, }{ lb. sugar, a little 
less than Yt^ lb. butter, the yolks of two raw eggs, and the yolks 
of 3 hard boiled eggs chopped very fine, the grated peel of 
one lemon, and 2 tablespoonfuls of rum or arrac. Mix all 
these to a soQi dough, roll out pretty thin, and make a little 
border round,, then spread with any kind of jam, and bake. 
This is a delicious cak-. 



JJ^MS. 



'Li 




i 






Orange Marmalade (Old Scotch receipt). 

To each dozen of bitter oranges put two lemons. Weigh the 
fruit, and to each pound allow one pound and a half of loaf 
sugar. Boil the oranges an hour and ten minutes, then pour 
off the water, and put them into fresh boiling water in which 
let them boil half an hour more, then cut the oranges into 
quarters. With a silver spoon scrape out the pulp from each 
quarter, putting the seeds and tough centre skin into a little of 
the water in which the oranges were last boiled, save some of 
this \ 'ater also for your syrup. Have the skins cut into nice 
equa' strips. Boil the lemons in a little water until tender, 
cut -he skins into strips with your oranges, and measure the 
water, adding enough of that in which the oranges were last 
boiled to allow a quart to every six pounds of sugar, put it on 
to boil ; when your syrup is ready, put in the chips, pulp and 
the washings of the seeds. Let all boil for fifteen minutes, 
skim and pot it up. 

To Preserve Apples. 

Pare, core and quarter 6 lbs. apples, 4 lbs, loaf sugar, put a 
layer of each alternately with }4 lb. best whole white ginger, 
bruised into a jar, let it remain 43 hours. Infuse for half that 
time, in a little boiling water, 2 oz, bruised white ginger, strain 
and boil liquor with the apples, till they look clear, about an 
hour. Before serving remove the whole ginger. 

Quince Jam. 

Pare, core and weigh quinces, put them into a close kettle 
with water enough to cover, spread cores and peelings over top 







Clever Cooking, etc — Jams. 



73 



and simmer till fruit is tender. Take out quinces, strain syrup, 
and add i lb. sugar to each lb. fruit. To every 6 lbs. sugar 
allow I quart liquid in which quinces have been boiled. Put 
in fruit and boil till clear. 



Pineapple Preserve. 

Pare the pineapples and cut them in slices about ll of an 
inch thick. Cut out the eyes from the outside edge, take the 
core out as it is very hard. Cut the slices into neat small 
squares, or pointed pieces. If preferred, the pineapple can be 
grated. 

To every pound of prepared fruit allow one pound of white 
sugar. Have a good sized crock or basin, put a layer of sugar 
at the bottom, then a layer of fruit, and so on untU the fruit 
and sugar are all in, put it away in a (ool place and let it stand 
1 2 or 1 5 hours, when it will be ready for boiling. Put it on a 
clear hot fire, and let it boil smartly for half an hour, when 
the fruit and syrup should be clear. If there should be any 
scum take it off carefully, and dish the preserve into small 
jars. 

The eyes and cores of the pineapples, if they weigh a pound 
or so, should be put mto an enamelled pan with a pint of water, 
and boiled and strained, when the juice can be added to the 
fruit when first put on the fire, it makes more syrup. 

Sweet Orange Marmalade. 

Take 1 2 sweet oranges and 8 lemons and double their weight 
of sugar, cut the rind of the fruit into quarters and peel it off. 
If the marmalade be not wanted very stiff, take off some of the 
spongy white skin inside the rind. Cut the chips as thin as 
possible, and about half an inch long, and divide into small 
bits the pulp, removing carefully the seeds, which may be 



11 



liHfi 

: If 



74 



Clever Cooking 



steeped in part of the water which is to make the marmalade 
and which must be in the proportion of a quart to a pound of 
fruit. Put the chips and pulp into an earthen dish, and pour 
the water boiling over them; let them remain for 12 or 14 
hours, and then turn the whole into the preserving pan, and 
boil until the chips are perfectly tender ; then add by degrees 
the sugar, and boil until it jellies. The water in which the 
seeds have been steeped, and which must be taken from the 
quantity apportioned to the whole of the marmalade, should be 
poured into a hair sieve, and the seeds well worked in it with 
the back of a spoon. A strong, clear jelly will be obtained by 
this means, which must be washed off them by pouring their 
own liquor through the sieve in small quantities over them. 
This must be added to the fruit when it is first set on the fire. 



■I 




Rhubarb Jam. 

Peel and cut into lengths 7 lbs. of rhubarb, the peel and 
juice of 4 oranges, sprinkle over all 5 pounds of sugar, let it 
stand some hours, then boil slowly i hour or more. 

Rhubarb Jam. 

Take well matured rhubarb, peel it and cut into 2 inch lengths 
weigh it and put into a jar. Allow weight for weight of sugar, 
sprinkle some of the sugar over the rhubarb, and let it stand all 
night, 2 ozs. of bruised ginger to every 4 lbs. of fruit, soak the 
ginger in a very little boiling water, and use this water to make 
the syrup with the juice from the rhubarb after standing over 
night. Let the syrup boil to a good thickness and pour it over 
the rhubarb in the jar, letting it stand over night again. Then 
boil all together until the fruit becomes clear and transparent. 
The ginger must be tied in a muslin bag. 






For Careful Cooks — Jams. 
Green Tomato Marmalade. 



75 



To a lb. of green tomatoes, i lb. of sugar. Make a syrup 
first, allowing i qt. of water to every six pounds of sugar, the 
grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, and 2 oz. of bruised ginger 
(tied in a muslin bag). Slice the tomatoes very thin, but do 
not peel them, put them into the syrup when it cools, boil very 
gently from i to 2 hours, until clear and thick. 



To Can Strawberries. 

Hull the strawberries, then weigh them, and allow y^ a 
pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put the berries into a 
basin or crock, and cover them with a small portion (from half 
a pound to a pound, according to the quantity of fruit) of the 
sugar which has been weighed, let them stand all night. In 
the morning put them into the preserving pan, let them heat 
well through, then add the remainder of the sugar, and boil 
gently for 20 minutes, do not stir much as it breaks the fruit. 
When it begins to fall, it is done ; remove from the fire. Have 
the self-sealing jars heated by putting them into the plate- 
warmer, or close to the oven, take them out one at a time, fill 
quickly to the brim with the boiling fruit, and screw down. 
Set them on one side until cold, then tighten the screw, and 
put away. This applies to all canned fruit. 

To Can Cherries. 

Stone and weigh the fruit, allow ^ a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit ; put some of the sugar over it and let stand all 
night, then put into the preserving pan, let it heat gently and 
boil for ten minutes, until the cherries are tender, then add the 
sugar and boil for fifteen minutes, remove from the fire and fill 
into the jars quickly. 



i ! 



Pillt^i 



76 



Clever Cooking 



Plums (Canned). 

Weigh the fruit, allowing \ a pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit, put the fruit into the preserving pan, with a pint of 
water to every 6 pounds of fruit ; let it boil for ten or fifteen 
minutes until the skins are tender, then add the sugar and boil 
for fifteen or 20 minutes more, fill into the heated jars and screw 
down. 

Gooseberries are done^in the same manner as plums, also 
black currants. 




Peaches. 

Peaches may be canned either whole or in halves. Peel the 
fruit very carefully, weigh it, allow \ a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Make a syrup with a pint of water to every 
three pounds of sugar. A little more water may be added if 
the peaches are not juicy, as the syrup requires to cover the 
fruit, that it may cook evenly. Let it simmer gently until a 
straw will run through the peaches. Put the fruit into the hot 
jars, fill with syrup and screw down. 

Apple Jelly. 

Choose large crab apples, or tart apples with a good color, 
wipe (and if very large quarter tnem), put them on to boil with 
plenty of water to cover them, let them cook until reduced to 
pulp, strain through the jelly bag. To every pint of juice allow 
a pound of sugar, put on the fire again and boil for ten or 
fifteen minutes until it jellies, which you can tell by putting a 
little on to a saucer to cool. 

Red Currant Jelly. 

Pick over the currants, and put them on the fire with a very 
little water, boil from ten to fifteen minutes, stirring them well 




For Careful Cooks, — Jams. 77 

to mash the currants, when thoroughly cooked put them into a 
jelly bag, and set it near the fire to keep warm while the juice 
is running through. To each pint of juice allow one pound of 
sugar, put it on the fire, and let it boil for a few minutes until 
it jellies. 

To Can Tomatoes. 

Skin the tomatoes, and put them on to boil with a small cup 
of salt to each peck of tomatoes, let them boil until all the hard 
pieces are thoroughly cooked, then fill into self-sealing jars and 
screw «aOwn. When cold tighten the screw before putting away. 



Ci^LlSTDY. 




9f I. 



Oeneral Directions. 

Fondant. 
(Catherine Owen). 

Use best granulated or loaf sugar. Take a pint of ' iigar and 
set it to boil with a small cup of water, stirring only to mix. 
Boil ten minutes, then dip a fork in it, taking care not to stir 
the syrup after t. 'las boiled, lift out the fork, and if a long silk 
like hair hang'; f;,..m it, take up a little in a spoon and drop 
into a cup oi Jcc-waser. If it forms a soft ball in bottom of 
the cup, remove it quickly from the fire and set to cool on ice 
if possible. 

This testing process must be quickly done, as candy passes 
rapidly from one degree to another, and while you are trying 
the heat of the fondant the saucepan is cooking it more. The 
candy must not be stirred while cooking nor shaken after it 
is removed from the fire, or it will granulate. 

When cool enough to bear your finger in it, stir with a 
spoon till thick enough to work it like bread dough. If 
boiled rather beyond right time it may be crumbly, but if 
worked quickly and pressed hard between the hands, it will 
soon come smooth. 

If your sugar refuses to harden into a thick paste, put it 
back into the saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls hot water, watch 
closely and try in ice-water till it is a little firmer than before. 

When the candy is cool, if it looks smooth as jelly it will 
be perfect, if there is a thin coating on top, skim this offbefore 
beating. If boiled too long it will " granulate," and this is 



1 


i 



For Careful Cooks.— Candy. 



79 

the greatest difficulty to contend with in candy-roaking- the 
only thing to be done is to boil it over again with the Iddi- 
tion of a cup of boiling water. If ' en before it is cool 
enough, your candy will be " grain- or rough. 
The following recipes are for coloring candy : 

Yellow Coloring. 
Ten cents worth of Spanish saffron, boiled in '^ pint water 
till reduced one-half, then strain through muslin, squee^ing 
hard. One or two drops will give sufficient color. 

Pink Coloring. 

Get weighed by a druggist, i ounce cochineal powdered i 
ounce cream of tartar, 2 drachms of alum, half a pint of 
water. ^ 

Green Coloring. 
Juice of spinach or beet leaves. 

Brown Coloring. 
Powdered chocolate. 

Orange Creams. 

Grate rind from one orange, add a speck of tartaric acid 2 
large tablespoonfuls of powdered or confectioners' sugar and 
enough orange juice to mix into a smooth paste. Roll this 
mixture into small balls, flatten them a little and drop on a 
sugared plate. These are the insides. Take a piece of the 
boiled white paste, or fondant as it is called, size of an egg 
put It in a cup and set in a pan of boiling water on the range 
Lay a sheet of oiled or greased paper on your right hand and 
the orange balls on your left, with a fork mash the fondant 
till It is like thick cream. Keep stirring or it will go back to 
Clear syrup. Take care no water splashes into it. When 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TKT CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



1^ 

1^ 



m 
1^ 



2.5 

12.2 

2.0 
1.8 




jS applied IM>1GE Inc 



1653 East Moin Street 
Rochester. New York 14609 
(716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 
(716) 288-5989 -Fox 



USA 



I i 



gQ Clever Cooking 

creamy bring it saucepan and all to the table, drop in one 
ora^^'ball, take it quickly out with a fork, shake sUghtly, 
and turn it neaJy on the greased paper. 

Cream Walnuts or Almonds. 
Melt a piece of fondant by stirring in a cup of boiling water 
flavor with vanilla and stir till like a cream, drop half walnuts 
or ahBonds, take out on end of a fork and drop on oded 

^'h 'the candy thickens too much, return to fire and stir till 
liquid again. When the nuts are all dipped once give them 
aTeld coat of candy. The flavoring and colonng may be 
changed. 

Grilled Almond Drops. 
Blanche a cup of almonds and dry thoroughly. Boil a cup 
of! gar and a quarter cup of water till it '' ha.rs,'' then throw 
t ahuonds, stirrmg occasionally till they are shghtly Wn^ 
Remove from fire and stir them till the syrup has turned 
back to sugar and clings irregularly to the nuts. 
English Almond Rock. 
Boil I or 2 lbs. of brown sugar till it snaps in water, flavor 
slightly with lemon juice. Have ready i lb. of almonds rubbed 
dry but not blanched, slightly warm them and pour as many 
into the candy as it will take, then pour into oiled pans. It 
should be two inches thick and the almonds all the way 
ttmlgh. Cut it into bars before it is cold with a strong knife 

well oiled. 

Butter Scotch. 

I lb. sugar, V, lb. butter, i teacupful and a half of water, 
. teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 3 teaspoonfuls of molasses. Boil 
for one hour, then pour on to buttered plates. 



For Careful Cooks. — Candy. 



Si 



Chocolate Caramels. 

% lb. butter, J^ lb. Baker's chocolate, \\ lb. white sugar, 
I cup of milk, vanilla to flavor. Melt the butter first, then 
pour on the other ingredients. Stir continually, boil 20 min- 
utes, pour on to oiled tins, and mark into squares when almost 
cold. 

CocoANUT Chocolate Caramels. 

J cup molasses, i cup sugar, a small piece of butter, ^ cup 
milk, vanilla flavoring, \ cake Baker's chocolate. Put the 
milk and chocolate on the fire and dissolve thoroughly, then 
add the molasses and sugar, and, when nearly cooked, the but- 
ter, boil until it hardens well when dropped into cold water. 
Remove from the fire and stir in desiccated cocoanut until 
quite thick, flavor with vanilla, and drop from the end of a 
spoon on to oiled paper in small cakes leaving them quite rough 
on the top. 

Cream Caramels (outside). 

y^ lb. Baker's chocolate, 2 lbs. light brown sugar, i table- 
spoonful butter, I cup cream, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla, put all 
together on the fire and boil until it hardens well, not allow- 
ing it to sugar. 

Cream Caramels (inside). 

3 cups white sugar, i cup of cream, juice and grated rind 
of one lemon. Cook until it is the consistency of thick paste. 
Butter a dish and pour in half of your chocolate mixture, let it 
cool, then add the cream, and, when nearly cold, the remainder 
of the chocolate. While the first layer hardens, the cream 
and remainder of the chocolate mixture must be kept hot by 
setting your saucepan into boiling water. 

F 



82 



Clever Cooking 



'■ ( t 



EvERToN Toffy. 
, lb. brown sugar, i lb. butter, i lb. treacle. BoiUt on a 
good fire, stirring in one direction all the t,me When tt 
begins to thicken try it in cold water and if perfectly cr.sp 
the toffy is done, pour on to buttered tins and put m a cool 
place. 

Nougat. 
One cup blanched almonds,two cups powdered sugar. Chop 
the almonds very fine, put the sugar over the fire without any 
water, stir it constantly until it is melted; then stir m your 
chopped almonds, and spread very thm on buttered tins to 
cool It requires care and patience to stir the sugar until it 
is melted ; if left too long it will turn to sugar again. W hen 
well made it is an excellent candy. 

CocoANUT Cream. 
Three cups white sugar, cup milk, one cup desiccated 

cocoanut, flavor with vanilla. , ,u^ ^p 

Soak the cocoanut in a spoonful of the milk, pu the re- 
mainder on to boil with the sugar, when it candies, which you 
can tell by dropping into cold water, stir in the cocoanut and 
let boil for a minute ; add vanilla to taste, and, if you like, 
cochineal sufficient to color it pink. Care must be taken to 
stl always one way when boiling, take off the fire, and s ir in 
the opposite direction until almost cold,pour on to oiled plates, 
cut into bars when cold. 

Maple Cream. 

Two cups scraped maple sugar, one cup cream, butternuts. 

Take the meat out of the nuts and break into pieces, boil the 

cream and sugar until it candies, stirring always one way then 

put in the nuts, take off the fire, and stir in the opposite direc 






For Careful Cooks. — Candy. 



83 



tion until nearly cold, pour onto buttered plates and cut into 
squares when cold. Walnuts can be substituted for butter- 
nuts if preferred. 

Nut Caramels. 

Three cups dark brown sugar, one cup cream, one dessert- 
spoon vanilla. Boil the sugar and cream for twenty-five min. 
utes, stirring constantly, just before taking off the tire add 
vanilla. Fill a buttered dish with any kind of nuts choj ped 
fine, pour the candy over them. 

Fig Candy. 

One cup of sugar, one-third cup of water, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, one lb. figs. Cook until it hardens 
well when dropped into cold water,but do notstinvhile hoilituj, 
chop the figs, lay them on a buttered dish and pour the candy 
over them. 

Candied Orange and Lemon Peel. 

(Catherine Owen). 

Throw the peels into salt and water, let them remain from 
9 days to 3 weeks. All the pulp must be removed from the 
peelsjbut the white part must remain untouched, as the thicker 
the peel the better for this purpose, thin skinned oranges being 
of no use for candying. Wash them when you take them 
out of the salt and water, and put them on the fire in cold 
water, and let them boil until perfectly tender, but not mushy. 
While they are boiling change the water 'intil it no longer 
tastes salt. Lemon peels may take from 3 10 4 hours boiling, 
orange peels less. Care must betaken to see that the lemon 
peel is perfectly tender, as if the least underdone it will har- 
den when it goes into the syrup and become like chips, instead 
of a rich sweetmeat. Drain the peels, make a weak syrup of 
a pint of water to each pound of sugar ; let it boil five minutes, 



84 



Clever Cooking. 



then throw in the peels ; they must boil gently in this until 
clear and the syrup has become thick, almost boiled away 
in fact, then make another syrup with half a pint of water to 
two pounds of sugar ; let it boil until clear and till there is a 
short hair from the fork. Put in the peels (which must have 
been drained from the first syrup) ; take from the fire.stir them 
round until the syrup looks whitish, lift each piece out, and 
lav it on a dish freely sprinkled with granulated sugar. Orange 
peels must not be put in the same jar of salt and water with 
lemon peels, nor must they be candied together or their dis- 
tinctive flavors will be lost. 



,. 



! 



I**" 



,. 



„ 



SA.LA.DS. 

Polish Salad. 

Cold meat of any kind chopped, i lettuce, boiled beet root, 
a little onion, 3 hard boiled eggs, pickled gherkins, 2 or 3 
pickled sardellen, all these chopped fine and well mixed to- 
gether with a salad dressing of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. 
Reserve some chopped eggs, yolks and whites separate, beet- 
root and gherkin and ornament the salad as follows. Make a 
mound of the mixture, and put alternate rows or patterns of the 
reserved ingredients, and stick a sprig of parsley at the top. 

Good Potato Salad. 

Good not too mealy small potatoes are boiled in their skins. 
When sufficiently boiled remove the skins immediately and 
cut in thin slices into a salad bowl. Keep them warm till the 
following sauce is made. 2 dessertspoonfuls of oHve oil, 4 of 
vinegar, 2 of milk, pepper, salt and a little onion minced very 
small. Cover the bowl and shake it well with half of the sauce, 
then cover with the sauce remaining. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil or roast a chicken. When cold, take the meat from the 
bonea and cut into small pieces. Wash 2 heads of celery and 
cut the white parts up into small pieces also, add a few capers, 
cover with one of the mayonnaise dressings given, and mix well. 
The dressing should not be put on till a few minutes before 
the salad is served. Beetroot chopped fine may be mixed with 
the salad, or with celery only, and put round the edge of the 
dish. Garnish with celery tops. 



86 



Clever Cooking 



Lobster Salad. 

Take a medium sized lobster, separate the body from the 

tail, break off the great claws and crack them at the 30m s 

without injuring the meat ; split the tail m halves. Take a t m 

o canned lobster, some nice heads of lettuce, some f esh 

dashes, and 6 eggs hard boiled. Take the outer lettuc 
leaves (reserving the more delicate leaves for decoration), cut 
them up finely and mix with the tinned lobster -range on 
dish in a mound with a border of the reserved let uce. lake 
the eggs, peel and cut in halves, remove the yolks careful y 
L some of the halves and put a small red radish into 
he cu . Pour a mayonnaise over the salad and arrange 
the back and claws of your lobster over it ; the claws at the 
ends and the other parts according to taste. Arrange the egg. 
and radishes round the dish amongst the salad leaves. 
If tastefully arranged you will have a lovely supper dish. 

Green Butter. 
4 anchovies, 2 ozs. butter, 4 ozs. parsley. Wash the anchovies 
wen and pound them in a mortar, boil the parsley (having re- 
moved all stalks) till tender, and squeeze the water well out 
U en chop the pirsley very fine, and rub it through a s.ev 
with the anchovies and 2 ozs. fresh butter, or salt butter we 
washed. Serve on very thin toast, done in the oven until 
quite dry and crisp. 

Oyster Toast. 
Bruise one small anchovy very fine in a mortar, then take 20 
oyfters chopped very fine. Put both into a smaU saucepan 
wih teacup or more of milk or cream (if milk add a morsel 
r butter), heat it over the fire andkeep stirring it all the time 
When it comes to the boil spread it on hot buttered toast and 
serve. 



For Careful Cooks, — Salads, 



87 



Salad Sandwich. 

Cut neat slices of stale bread, butter them evenly and not 
too thickly with butter which has been carefully mixed with 
mustard flour ; on this lay a lettuce leaf, then a slice of rather 
underdone roast beef, then one of tomato, and cover with 
another slice of bread and butter. Press firmly together and 
cut into neat shape. Chicken may be substituted for the beef 
omitting the mustard and putting a little mayonnaise on the 
lettuce. 

Tomato Sandwich. 

Cut thin slices of brown bread and butter and put between 
them slices of tomato lightly dressed with oil and lemon 
juice. 

Beef Sandwich. 

Grill a piece of sirloin or tender loin steak, slice it thin, sea- 
son and put while still hot between slices of bread and butter. 
Press between 2 plates 2 ' trim when cold. 



SYRUPS cS: CORDIALS. 



Lemon Syrup. 

Take 6 pounds of white sugar, add three pints of water and 
let it boil for twenty minutes, then pour into the syrup whil' 
boiUng, the juice of three dozen lemons, and the grated peel of 
six (tied in a muslin bag). Let it boil for five minutes, then 
remove from the fire and bottle it. When cold cork it down tight 
to keep for use. This syrup is ready for lemonade, ices, jellies, 
etc., without any trouble. 

Ginger Liqueur. 

Take i lb. of raisins, the rind of one lemon, 3 quarters of an 
ounce of bruised ginger. Steep these ingredients in a quart of 
best rye'whiskey, then strain it. Make a syrup of i lb. loaf 
sugar and | pint water and add to liqueur. 

Grape Wine. 

I gallon grapes, i gallon water. Bruise grapes and let stand 
a week without stirring. Pour off liquid and strain through a 
jelly bag. To every gallon of wine add 3 lbs. sugar. Put it 
into a crock or cask, but do not cork till it has done hissing. 
The contents of the jelly bag can be emptied into a preserving 
kettle and scalded over the fire with a quart of water, then 
strained and added to the liquid. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

1 large pail of raspberries, ^ gal. of malt vinegar, sugar. 
Put the raspberries into a crock, pour over them the vinegar, 
and let them stand for 12 hours, then strain through a sieve, 



" 



I '•'<»' 



For Careful Cooks.— Syrups, etc. 



89 



or muslin bag, to each pint of juice put i lb. sugat, and let it 
boil for 2 or 3 minutes then bottle. 

Currant Cordiat. 

I peck currants, boil and strain, th«Mi add 7 lbs. of loaf sugar 
and \ lb. of root ginger. Boil for 20 minutes and strnin, then 
add 1 gallon of malt whiskey. 

Ginger Wine. 

To make ten gallons. An excellent old Scotch recipe. 

Take a well seasoned cask, put into it three gallons of 
whiskey, take 3 dozen lemons, pare off the rind of all of them, 
and put it into a large jug, pour boiling water over them and 
keep them covered up for 12 hours, then strain off all the 
liquor, and add more boiling water to extract all the flavor of 
the lemon skins, put this into the cask with the squeezed juice 
of the lemons, taking care to keep back the seeds and pulp. 

'lake then 16 pounds of coarse raw sugar and put it into a 
pan with a gallon of water, let it come to the boil, then put it 
into a vessel to cool and subside. Take then 16 ounces of 
rough ginger, beat it, but do not break it much, boil it in water 
repeatedly, till all the substance is out of it, and as much liquor 
prod-'ced as fills the cask. The liquor the sugar is boiled into 
must not be added until quite cold, nor the ginger water either. 
Stir the whole well for three days occasionally with a stick, 
then bung it up, and allow it to remain a month or six weeks, 
if the weather be cold, before bottling it. 

Tf wished to be perfectly f ie and pure, \ an oz. of isin- 
glass dissolved in a little of the wine should be added, and the 
crane ought always to be put into the cask where the wine is, 
as the less the cask is moved the less sediment there will be. 



INVALID COOKERY. 



\, ; ' 



Chicken Pfoth. 

An old fowl will make a more nutritious broth than a young 

chicken. Skin, cut it up and break the bones with a mallet. 

Cover well with cold water "and boil slowly for three hours. 

Salt to taste. A little rice or tapioca may be boiled with it, if 

desired. 

Oyster Broth. 

Cut into small pieces a pint of oysters , put them into half 
a pint of cold water, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes 
over a slow fire. Skim, strain, add salt and pepper. 

Peptonized Milk. 
Stir up five grains of pancreatic extract, and fifteen of bicar- 
bonate of soda, in a gill of water; mix thoroughly and add 
a pint of iVesh milk. Put in a bottle or a covered jug, and let 
it stand where it will keep warm for an hour. Then put on 
ice until required for use, or boil for two or three minutes to 
stop further digestive action. Milk so prepared will have a 
faintly bitter ilavor; it may be sweetened to taste, or used in 
punch, gruels, etc., like ordinary milk. 

Boiled Flour Gruel. 
Moisten a pint of flour with a couple of teaspoonfuls of cold 
water,make it into a ball and tie it up tightly in a strong cloth. 
Slightly dampen the cloth, sprinkle it with flour and boil it hard 
for ten hours. Then take off the cloth, and let the ball dry 
in a dow oven for ten hours more. Grate two teaspoonfuls of 
flour from the dry ball, mix it with cold water to a smooth 
paste and stir it into half a pint of boiling milk. Simmer 
about three minutes and sweeten. This is considered especi- 
ally good for children while teething. 



Clever Cooking, etc. — Invalid Cookery; 



91 



Oatmeal Gruel. 
Boil a tablespoonful of oatmeal in a pint of water for three 
qmrters of an hour, then put it through a strainer. If too 
tliick, reduce with boiling water to the desired consistency. 
Season with salt. 

Milk and Alisumkn. 
Put into a clean quart bottle a pint of milk, the whites of 
two eggs, and a small pinch of salt. Cork, and shake hard for 
five minutes. 

Arrowroot. 

Mix a teaspoonful of Bermuda arrowroot with four of cold 
milk. Stir it slowly into half a pint of boiling milk, and let it 
simme- for five minutes. It must be stirred all the time, to 
pievent lumps and keep it from burning. Add half a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and one of cinnamon, 
if desired. In place of the cinnamon, half a teasjjoonful of 
brandy may be used, or a dozen large raisins may be boiled 
in the milk. If the raisi'is are preferred, they should be 
stoned, and the sugar may be omitted. 

Cornstarch or rice flour gruel is made in the same way. 

Barley Water. 

Wash two ounces of pearl barley in cold water. Then boil 
for three minutes and throw both waters away. Add two 
quirts of boiling water and boil till reduced to one quart, or 
about two hours, stirring frequently. Strain, add the juice of 
a lemon and sweeten. For infants omit the lemon. 

The foregoing recipes aie from Miss Weeks' " Text Book 
of Nursing." 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 
Into a pint of hot water put two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
three of whole flaxseed. Steep for an hour, then strain, add 
the juice of a lemon, and set on ice until required. 



92 



Clever Cooking 



!( ^ M 



Chocolate. 
Scrape fine an ounce of Baker's chocolate, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and one tablespoonful of hot water ; stir 
over a hot fire for a minute or two until it is smooth and 
perfectly dissolved, then pour into it a pint of boihng milk, nriix 
thoroughly and serve at once. If allowed to boil af^r the 
chocolate is added to the milk, it becomes oily, and loses 
flavor. Broma is made in the same way. 

KOUMVSS. 

(Miss Weeks.) 

Dissolve a third of a cake of compressed yeast (Fleisch- 
mann's), or its equivalent of fluid yeast, in a little warm-^^o* 
Aoe-water. Take a quart of milk fresh from the cow or 
warmed to ab-ut blood heat, and add to it a tablespoomul of 
sugar and the dissolved yeast. Put the mixture in beer bott es 
wi?h patent stoppers, fill to the neck, and let them stand for 
twelve hours where you would put bread to rise, that is, at a 
temperature of 68 o or 70 ° • Then put the bottles on ice, up- 
side down, until wanted. 

Beef Tea No. i. 

Take a pound of juicy beef, round steak is best, remove all 
the fat and cut into small pieces, put into an earthen crock, or 
double boiler, and add a pint of cold water, cover it closely 
and let it soak one hour, then gently simmer for two hours, or 
until all the juice is extracted from the meat strain and add 
pepper and salt to taste. The crock should be set into a pan 
of water to boil. 

Beef Tea No. 2. 
Mince finely some lean, juicy meat, from which all the fat 



For Careful Cooks. — Invalid Cookery. 



93 



i# 



it 



has been removed, put it into a wide mouthed bottle or jar, 
just cover with cold water and cork tightly, set the jar into a 
kettle of cold water, let it heat slowly and boil for three hours. 

Port Wine Jelly for Invalids. 

2 ozs. white gum Arabic, i oz. best isinglass, y^ oz. sugar 
candy, i pint water, i pint of boiling water. Dissolve the 
isinglass in a little cold water, add it with the gum (which 
sh "Id be in clear lumps) and the sugar to the boiling water, a 
hu.>; bit of stick cinnamon if liked, and port wine sufficient to 
flavor. Take out the cinnamon when you pour it into your 
mould to cool. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Take a fowl, cut it up in joints, and put it in a saucepan 
with enough water to cover it, a pinch of irice, a teaspoonful 
of salt and a little pepper ; let it stew t i.i the meat will leave 
the bones. Then take the meat out, remove the bones and 
arrange the meat nicely in a mould. Season the liquid with a 
little more salt and pepper, if necessary, and dissolve in it 
}i ounce of gelatine. Pour over the chicken. 

Beef Jelly. 

To I lb. lean beef add yi a pint of water and the knuckle 
end of leg of mutton, put in a stewpan and simmer gently for 
2 hours. No meat is required on the knuckle of mutton it is 
only to cause the liquid to jelly. Clear through a jelly bag 
and let it stand in a cool place, it will then keep for four or 
five days. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

To two quarts of ripe blackberries, add the following in- 
gredients. One pound loaf sugar, one half ounce each of 
nutmegs, cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Boil all together 



fl 



- . Clever Cooking. 

94 

for fifteen minutes, and when cold strain and add a pint ot 
good b^ "y. Fr'om a teaspoonful to a wineglass according 
to the age of the patient. 

The Rector's Recipe for Chicken Broth. 

(As made by himself.) 

Take one fowl, cut it up and pu. it on in ^ -""P^" ^^l: 
an onion stuck with cloves (tins may be om.tted if not ap 
IveT). a teaspoonful of salt and a little sugar. Cover 
S wa er and simmer all day. Strain off the l,qu,d and le 
Ttstand till cold, remove the fat and use either cold as jelly or 
hot as broth. 



i 

i 




t 



k 'ii 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS- 



(. 



To chop suet, cut into small pieces and remove the mem- 
brane. Sprinkle with flour, and chop in a cold place to pre- 
vent its becoming soft and sticky. 

To stone raisins, pour boiling water over them, and let 
them stand in it five minutes. Drain and rub each raisin 
between the thunib and finger till the seeds come out clean. 

Hard Soap (without boiling). 

Take a tin of Gillett's lye (made in Toronto) and five lbs. 
of clean grease. Melt the lye in 2^ pints of wa^er in an iron 
saucepan or kettle. Melt the grease in a large pan. Let 
them both cool till the grease is at a temperature of 1 20 ^ and 
the lye at 80 "=> which you can ascertain by plunging in a 
small thermometer. Then pour the lye into the grease and 
stir from one to five minutes but not more. Set in a warm 
place, cover and let it stand till next day. 

To Preserve Parsley Green through the Winter. 

Gather fresh parsley, wash well and drop into boiling water 
which has been slightly salted. When it has boiled for two or 
three minutes, drain it on a sieve near the fire, and dry it as 
quickly as possible. Store it away in bottles, and when 
wanted for use pour over it a little warm water and soak it 5 
minutes. 

Fried Bacon (To Garnish). 

Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon, cut off the rind, put 
them in a frying pan on the fire, and turn often ; then roll 



' 



Ml': 



|;1 i. _^ 



96 



up 



each slice and g 



Clever Cooking 
and garnish your dish. Or ihey may be rolled 



loven 



cooked. Remove 

the thread before using. 

Fried Breadcrumbs. 
Put the breadcrumbs in a baking tin with a piece of butter 
place it in the oven and stir the breadcrumbs occasionally uU 
Ly have absorbed all the butter, and are of a golden color. 
Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Peel or skin your tomatoes, cut them in halves, take out 
the hard centre, and put them in a dish that will stand the 
fire and in which you have put a httle butter or salad o 1 
make a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped ham, parsley, mar- 
joram, thyme, a little minced onion, pepper and salt. he 
breadcrumbs in the proportion of 2 to i of ham. The other 
thngs according to the taste of the cook. Strew this mixture 
o4r the tomatoes so as to cover them ; a little more salad 
oil, or butter (oiled), put on the top, and a few minutes baking 
will produce a most toothsome dish. 

To Prevent Moth in Carpets. 
Sweep the carpet dean, and then with a broom brush it 
over with spirits of turpentine and water, y, a pint to 3 puits 
of water. Turpentirxe can be bought cheaper from the painter 
than at a chemist's. 

To Remove Grease from Carpets. 
Make a paste of .qual parts of Fuller's earth and powdered 
magnesia with a little hot water, spread on the stain and leave 
till quite dry, then brush off. 

To Destroy Insects— Ants. 
Turpentine on a sponge wiped over the parts where the 
nts are numerous will prevent their coming. 



Por Careful Cooks. — Miscellaneous liitifs. 97 



1 



Black. Bef/iles. 

Cucumber parings put on the iloor where tliey ai)pear aro 
said to he an effectual preventive. Ground l)!)rax. mixed 
with a little white sugar will destroy them, and, if kept under 
the papers of cupboard shelves, and renewed from time to 
time, prevent their reappearance. 

Furs. 

May be successfully protected from moth, by first beating 
and shaking well; then ^,ewing up in newspapers and then 
in brown cotton or old sheets. They seem to have a horror 
of printers' ink. 



^ 



he 



! ■ ^ 



I3iTIDEX: 



SOUPS. 

PAGE 

General Directions 5 

Browning for Soup 5 

Hare " 6 

Julienne " ^ 

Ox-tail " 6 

Green Pea " 7 

Potato " 7 

Mock Turtle " 7 

Artichoke " No. i 7 

•• " No. 2 8 

Pea " 8 

Brown " 8 

Luncheon " 8 

Oyster " 9 

Tomato " No. i 9 

<' " No. 2,... 9 

Barley Broth :o 

Game Soup lo 

FISH. 

General Directions 1 1 

Cod's Head &> Shoulders 1 1 

Salmon (boiled) 12 

Salmon (pickled) 12 

Cod pie 12 

Scolloped Oysters 12 

Lobsters Patties 12 

Stuffing for Baked Fish 12 

TofryTrout 13 

Gatineau Trout (baked) 13 

SaltFish Balls 13 

Preserved Salt Fish 14 

Kedgeree I4 

Oyster Pie ^ " 

Baked Herrings 14 

To broil Salmon 14 

Kromeskys ^ 5 

Halibut Rechautfe •• 15 



GRAVIES, SAUCES, PICKLES 

PAGE 

General Directicms 16 

Joints, Gravey for 16 

Drawn Butter 16 

White Sauce 16 

Fish " 16 

Bechamel " 17 

Horse Radish Sauce 1 7 

Onion Sauce 17 

Bread •' (for Game) 17 

Mint " 17 

Oyster " 18 

Parsley ♦' 18 

Caper " 18 

Mayonaise I &^ 2 18 

Force meat 19 

Plain Stuffing for Fowls 20 

Brawn 32 

Jombalayah 32 

Dormers 32 

Savory toast 32 

R'jgnons a la Brochette 33 

Pickled Peaches 19 

Governor's Saace 19 

Chow Chow 19 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 20 

Spiced Currants 20 

Tomato Catsup 20 

Chili !;-auce 20 

MEATS 6- POULTRY. 

General Directions 21 

Spiced Beef I 6^ 2 23 

To Pickle Pork 24 

To Clarify Dripping 23 

Boiled Fowls 24 

Stewed Pigeons 25 

Stewed Kidney with Maccaroni 25 

Sw^et: breads 2 2^ 



100 



Index. 



'\ 




1 • - tt'i 

? 1 


1 ■^ H ■ 



Croquettes, Chicken or Veal . . 

Fricasse 

Fowl (curried) 

Mince Collops 

Roast Turkey 

" Duck 

' • Goose , 

" Partrid^'e 

" Wild Duck 

" Pigeons 

Turkey boned 6^ jellied 

Hare jugged 

Hot-Pot 

Beef Steak &• Kidney Pudding 

Croquf ttes (lieef) 

Veal Mould 

Gulash 

Beef Roll 



l>AOIC 

25 
26 
26 
26 

27 
27 
27 

2S 
2cS 
2S 
28 
2y 



.1^ 



VEGETABLES. 

General Directions 34 

Boiled Mushrooms 34 

Tomatoes 34 

Tomatoes on Toast 34 

To boil Spanish Onions 34 

Baked " " 35 

Cauliflower ,. 35 

Spanish Potatoes 35 

Potatoes 3 15 

Scalloped Onions 36 

Fried Artichokes 36 

Stewed Celery 36 

Fried Parsnips 36 

PUDDINGS. 

Directions 37 

Foamy oauce for Puddings. . . 37 

Excellent Plum Pudding.... 37 

Plum Pudding Sauce 37 

Pudding Sauce 37 

Plain Plum Pudding 38 

" Suet Pudding 38 



Bread &• Suet 

Boiled Apple 

Chocolate 

Chocolate 

Lemon 

Carrot 

Hard Times 



" No. 2. 



3S 
38 
39 
39 
39 
40 

40 



PAOK 

I'lg Padding 40 

Prune «' 40 

Cabinet »» 40 

Cottage '' 41 

Prince Albert " 41 

Maileira '* 41 

It^c '' 41 

Walnut Iced " 41 

Delicate *' 42 

Sponge " 42 

Bachelor's '< 42 

i^aiem " ........ 43 

Tapioca 6^ Pine ApplcPudding 43 

I'apioca Rouge 43 

Delhi Pudding 43 

Snowdon " 43 

Chancellor's " , 44 

Baked Indian Pudding 44 

1 )elmonico " 44 

Mysterious " 44 

CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

l'"ig Mould 45 

Mould Apple Jelly 45 

'I'o Whiji Cream 45 

Orange Charlotte 46 

Velvet Cream ^{\ 

CJinger Cream 4(5 

Charlotte Russe 47 

do do No. 2 47 

Coffee Jelly 47 

Ice Cream 47 

Stone do 44 

Tapioca Cream 48 

Calf's Foot Jelly.. 48 

Lemon Sponge 48 

Frozen Crtani 4() 

I'otntoe Flour Cream 49 

15urnt Cream 49 

Ginger Wine Ice 50 

I ,emon Water Ice cq 

Trifle ^^o 

Cranberry Shape 51 

Pine Apple Ice 51 

Sweet Omelet 51 

Apple Fritters 51 

Pancakis ^2 

Briquet Souffld 52 

Cheese Fritters 25 






Index. 



lOI 



PAOE 

Potatoes a La Provencale .... 53 

Welsh Rarebit 53 

Tomato and Macaroni 53 

I'ASTRY. 



Puff Paste 

I' lain Crust 

Suet do 

Crust for Raised I'ies. 



;.4 
54 
55 

55 



Apple Tart oil 

Mince Pies i')0 

Prune Pie 5^) 

Delicious Lemon Pie 5(1 

Mince Pie Meal. 57 

Mincemeat wilii Meat 57 

Mmcemeat without Meat 57 



EGGS. 



Friars Pgjjs 

To Pickle Kggs. 

Omelet 

Baked Eggs. . . . 
Curried Eggs. . . 
Plain Omelet. . . 



(10 

do 



BREAD. 

Jean's Bread , 

Graham Bread 

Rich Brown Bread . . . 

Milk 

Water 

Sally Lunn . . . 

Cream Gems. . 

Potato Scone. 

Potato Rolls. 

Light Buns. . . 

Potato Yeast . 

Regina Buns., 



CAKES. 

Table of Proportions 

do Weights and Measure. 

( Jeneral Direction 

Plain Frosting 

Golden do 

Rich Fruit Cake 

Plain Fruit Cake , 

!:•>• Cake 



5« 
5^ 
5^ 
;■)!> 

59 
59 



60 
60 
61 
61 
61 
62 
62 
62 
62 

63 
63 
63 



63 
64 

6a. 

65 
65 
60 
60 



Spice ( 'ake 

Chocolate Cake 

do Icing, . . . 
Savoy S])()nge (. ake. 
I Jueen Cake 



PAnp. 

. 60 
. 6() 
. 6() 
. 67 
67 



73 



Lemon Cake 07 

Dominoes 67 

Coin Staich Cakes 6y 

Out Meal Crackers ... 69 

.Suj^ar I'ookies, I and 2 (ny 

Short Unad 09 

Beigik's 70 

Dough nuts 3 7(1 

J lly Cake 71 

LotiieV Cike yi 

'I 'tier Cake 71 

J.\MS. 

Orange Marmnlade 2 72 

Preserved Apples 72 

(Quince Jain 72 

Pine Ap|>le 

Swecl Orange Marmalade.. . 

Rhubarb 2 74 

(iieeii Tomato Jam 75 

To can Strawberries 75 

do Chen ies > ^ 

do j'lums 76 

do Peaches 

Apple Jelly 76 

Red Currant Jelly 76 

To can Tomatoes 77 

CANDY. 

General Directions 78 

Fondant 7iS 

Yellow Coloring „ . 79 

Pink " -,i) 

Green " 79 

Brown " 79 

Orange Creams 79 

Cream Walnuts or Almonds. . !So 

Grilled Almond drops 80 

English Almond Rocks 80 

Butter Scotch 80 

(. 'hocolate Caramels 81 

Cocoaimt Chocolate Caramels. 81 

Cream Caramels (outside) 81 

do do (inside) 81 



76 



102 



IndeX' 






PAGE 

Everton Totly 82 

Nougat 82 

C'ocoanut Ci earn 82 

Maple Cream 82 

Nut Caramels 83 

Fig Candy 83 

(Jandied Orange Peel 83 

Candied Lemon Peel 83 

SALADS. 

Polish Salad 85 

Potato " 85 

Chicken " 85 

Lobster " 86 

Green Butter 86 

Oyster Toast 86 

Salad Sandwich 87 

Tomato ♦' 87 

Beef " 87 

SYRUPS &- CORDIALS. 

I^mon Syrup 87 

(iinger Liquer 87 

Grape Wine 88 

Ginger " 88 

Raspberry Vinegar 88 

Currant Cordial 88 

INVALID COOKERY. 

Chicken Brot h 90 



PAOB 

Oyster Broth... 90 

Peptonized Milk 90 

Boiled Klour Gruel 90 

Oatmeal " 91 

Milk &^ Albumen 91 

Arrowroot 91 

Bar'ey Water 91 

Flaxseed Lemonade 9I 

Chocolate 92 

Koumyss , . 92 

Beef Tea 92 

Port Wine Jelly 93 

Jellied Cliicken 03 

Beef Jelly 93 

Blackberry Cordial 93 

The Rector's Receipt for Chick- 
en Broth (as made by himself) 94 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

To preserve parsley green 

through the winter 95 

Hard Soap 95 

Micellaneous Hints 95 

Fried Bacon to Garnish 95 

Fried Bread Crumbs 96 

Stuffed Tomatoes 96 

To destroy Insects 96, 97 

To prevent moths in Carpets.. 96 

To remove grease from Carpets 96 



|i 



.*>• 



ttiS 



n 



ti 



Hi 




. 


1/ 

i. 






• ,1 

i. j 

u 





10.-^ 



Comb's Heat ^EarSet, 

233 BLEURY STREET. 



TKLKPHONK 808. 



Pish. Poultry and Vegetables 

ALWAYS ON HAND. 



209<? St. catm u?mE nx.. 



Books, Fancy Goods, JMusic, School Supplies, 
Stationery, Birthday, (Correspondence, 

VISITING AND PLAYING CARDS, 
PERIODICALS, TOYS, &C. 



USE • 

Covernton's Fragrant Carbolic Tooth Wash, 

For CLEANSING and PRESERVING the TEETH, 

PRICE, - - 25 cts. 

XTSIB 

COVERNTON'S SYRUP OF WILD CHERRY, 

For Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, 

PRICE, - - 25 cts. 

TJSE 

COVERNTON'S NIPPLE OIL, 

FOR CRACKED OR SORE NIPPLES, 

PRICE, - - 25 cts. 



JPrescHjHions Carefully Prepared and at Moderate 

Pt'ices, 



C. J. COVERNTON & CO., 

Cor. of DORCHESTER & BLEURY STREETS. 

Branch Store, 469 ST. LAWRENCE STREET. 

T. 



DKALEK IN 




|oic^ mutnU^, 



TE^S, COFFEES, 

AND FRUITS IN SEASON. 



MONTREAL. 



ill 



|»IxOg(5E&eO 



f^ 




CO 



CO 



■8 

a 







►-4 



21 * 2lf. * liawrenee * Zlreelf, 
!• MONTREAL. -I 

STROUD'S • TEA 

^Np pE y^ppY. 



91 ^t. I^kwfenc'e^fkiti ^ti^eet, 



mi 



'il 



iQ> 









I 



I' 



Tele PHONE No. 1G90 



WALLACE DAWSON, Apothecary, 

169 ST. LAWRENCE. MAIN STREET, MONTREAL. 

Sunday Attendance : 10 a.m. to I p.m.. and 4.30 to 6 p.m. 

I would bug to call the iittention of the imblic to the folliwiiig inlvautiiges 

?;uaraiitefd them by the system adopted \\\ ii,y Depiirtiiient t'c.r Disiieusing 
'hysiciaas' Prescriiitions : 

The. DUpansarfi h-inr/ qiiHi' .■ffjinru'c/niin ntlur nrimches <>/ thr nn.-tiiiijss. 
All Medicines arc Cnrnpniniilnl inuler mii iiiimc(li(Ui' snpt rintenilence. 
A C'ojn/ of enri/ /'ti-ncrintiiiii is /.f/it. 
The priiiiij)/ ileliccr/i nf Sli-itieincis in nil ftislricU. 

As also a few of inv Sjiei'iallies : 

DAWSOK'S COMPULND PECTORAL SYUUIV— The populur Peincdy for 
Coughs, BroiiohiHs;, and the dlBtressing ('ough nf Coiibuniptioii. For Child- 
ren, it ha-< no equal. 

DAVVSOX S UHKU.MATIC CUKE. -An elVectual Remcly for all Itheumatio 
afl'ections 

DAWSON'.S STOl'-lT.— An iiifullible remedy lor Toothaehe 

DAWSON'S ODONTINE S.A.l'.)NVCEOUS.— A i.>rfeot Tooth Powder. 



CANADA TRUSS FACTORY. 




M 



(ESTAISLI.SIIKD 1856.) 

F. GROSS, 712 Craig St., Montreal, ft. 

Near Victoria Square. 'A 

SURGICAL INSTKUMENT MAKER. 



OroHS' 



' Patent Artificial f.,linbM. 

Latest improved, 
Are made light and durable 




(jross' Improved Chest Expanding Steel Shoulder Braee. 
PRrCK :-For Adults, ,$t M. $2, .if'.'.oO, $5, or best .■^13 ."O. 
tor Children, .^1, ifl.TjU, §2, or best, $2 50. 

'Jakeeircuniference round wal t,and length from under 
t)ie armpit to top of hij) boup. 
/ \\\ . ^y remittirg amount, as ako 25c. postage stamps. 1 will 
4 )", forward them by parcel post. 
I it // ^iVIt'.'if^a^turers of all kinds of Trussei, Instruuients for 
'.It 1 1 1 Physicml Deformities, etc. 

rrilT^Jk lamfi mde 10 Walk, llif Drf inaJe to Hw 

by Artificial tar Drums, which are not perceptible ; Audoi.hones, Ear Trumpets, 
and Conversation Tubes, Elastic .Stockings, Leggings and Anklets Electric 

'rrnnh ^'^'nH^f ^t°^o^ Bands ea„sily applied and pleasant to wear forVidney 
Trouble; price, «L 2d. Invalid Chairs aud Crutches, Pile Trusses, etc., and 
Syringes of every description ' =■> , ckv-., <»uu 

N.B.— Special Room for ladi es with lady attendant. 

The Dominion Umbrella and Para.sol Factory, 
714 CRAIG STREET. 




On band, made to order, repaired, and re-covered* 




I 



