


^ * » /- "c^ 



0^ ^ ^ ^ 









i 




^*-' "*- 












x< 






'^^ * 8 . \ - V 



•^^. ..< 



A-*- 



C^ 



^^ c 



.*^-^- 







8 1 » 



.^■^■ 



/■ 















^^% 









•"\>^^ ■-• ""> '^°>^^.o,%♦•■'*\^^^-• 
'. ' -• - y •J^ -^ — si^ « ^v ^ ^ ■ ■< 












'^^. 



, . ■* .A 






<^ ^ , X -* , 



•<• "^^ 









' » 



TtIB 



GRADED COOK BOOK 



A GUIDE TO OLD AND YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS, WITH 

PLAIN DIRECTIONS FOR PRACTICAL COOKING 

AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



" We may live without poetry, music and art ; 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart ; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving ? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving ? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man who can live without dining? " 

— Lucille, 



t7 



edited b^y 
Mrs. LAVINIA HARGIS. 



,,YOFCO/V(. 

SrP 3 1888 

•^^SHlNGTOt^" 



CHICAGO: 

KNIGHT & LEONARD CO., PRINTERS. 

1888. 



\ 






Copyrighted, 1887, 

By Mrs. lyAviNiA Hargis, Chicago. 

All rights reserved. 



INTRODUCTORY. 



In the preparation of this work I have aimed to meet a long- 
felt want, and believe the utility of a graded cook book will be 
recognized after a careful consideration of the purpose. Experi- 
ence and observation have taught me that the housekeeper as 
"committee of ways and means" in household economy looks to 
the number of eggs on hand in projecting a meal. It is not always 
convenient to send for more, or to secure good ones at certain 
seasons — hence, the classification of departments according to the 
number of eggs, beginning at the head of each kind of cookery 
with one-egg dishes, next two eggs — and so on through. 

The advantage of this system will also be appreciated where 
time is an object. 

The formulas that are the result of personal study and elemen- 
tary cooking, and the relation that these elements bear to each 
other are given under the head of "Author." 

The compounds having the names of relatives, have been 
used many years in my family, and those which have been 
donated were solicited from friends who had an established repu- 
tation for good cooking. In every instance, I have requested 
original ideas and compounds. 

I would not accept knowingly any formulas from recipe 
books, having no desire to infringe upon the rights or copyrights 
of others. The student of cookery finds the theory a dry study, 
but followed up patiently and without prejudice, is rewarded in 
time by being able to reduce it to practice — then it is that this 
science becomes interesting. The many ways to prepare the 
same kind of food— the great variety of dishes, both simple and 
rich (most of them peculiarly American) make us realize that we 
are a progressive people, and may be proud of the national hon- 
ors we have justly earned. The Toilet and also the Medical 
Departments, though not a branch of cookery, are alike essential 
to our comfort. The formulas have been tried and passed upon 
favorably — many of them having been in use for years in my 
family. To be successful in preparing the recipes of the Graded 
Cook Book, it will be necessary to consider carefully the headings 
and rules laid down by -the Author. 



CONTENTS, 



SOUPS, - - 5—39 

Suggestions for soup — About stock— To color soup— Stock for 
soup, Nos. I and 2— To prepare a beef's head as stock for soup 
—Calf's head stock— Beef stock— Stock for soup— Bouillon— Bread 
for soup — Egg balls for soup — ^Nleat balls for clear stock — Soup ex- 
. tract — Glaze — Beef stock — Amber cream soup — Croutons — Ameri- 
can soup — Rich brown soup — Bean soxip, Nos. i and 2 — Black bean 
soup— Beef soup— Calf 's head soup— Catfish soup— Celer>' soup — 
Cream celery soup — Chicken broth — Chicken soup, Nos. i and 2— 
Clam soup— Corn soup — Crab soup— Egg soup, Nos. i and 2 — 
Gumbo soup, Nos. 1, 2 and 3 — Gvimbo File — Indian hodge-podge 
^Invalid soup— Lottie's soup — Lunch soup — Meatless soup — 
Mock oyster soup — IMullagatawnj' soup — Mutton soup — Scotch 
Mutton broth — Noodle soup — Noodles, i and 2 — Onion soup — Ox- 
tail soup— Palestine soup— Green Pea, Nos. i and 2— Pea soup — 
Dried pea soup— Pepper-pot— Potato soup, Nos. i and 2— Scotch 
broth— Scrap soup— Spice soup— Squirrel soup— Tapioca for soup 
— Tomato soup, Nos. i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 — Turtle soup, Nos. i and 
2 — Variet}', Nos. i and 2 — Veal soup — Vegetable soiip — Vermicelli 
soup — White soup. 

FISH, ._...._._ 40—59 

Boiled — Bouillabaisse, Nos. 1 and 2 — Cat — Boiled salt cod — 
Boiled fresh cod — Broiled cod — Cream codfish^Codfish balls, Nos. 
I and 2 — Baked salt codfish — Codfi.sh omelette — Codfish souffle — 
Codfish croquettes — Cusk a la crenie — Fish a la creme— Fish au 
Gratin, Nos. i and 2— Fish balls— Codfish balls, Nos. i and 2— Fish 
chowder — Fish croquettes — Fish pudding — Fried fish — Escalloped 
— Haddock — Baked Haddock — Finnan Haddock — Halibut a la 
creme — Baked halibut — Boiled halibut — Herrings — Broiled fresh 
mackerel — Broiled salt mackerel — Fried perch — Baked pickerel- 
Fried trout and pickerel— Broiled salmon trout— Devilled salmon 
—Shad— Salt shad— Broiled— Baked— To bake a shad or whitefish 
—To boil salt shad or mackerel — Fried smelts — Baked whitefish— 
Boiled whitefish fritters — To broil whitefish — To fry whitefish — 
Escalloped whitefish — Steamed whitefish. 

SHELL FISH, .__..._. 59—81 

To fatten oysters— Raw oysters— Oyster stew— Dry oyster stew 
— Oyster soup, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Fried oysters, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — 
Escalloped oysters, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Escalloped oysters in the 
shell — Panned oj^sters, Nos. i and 2 — Oyster patties — Escalloped 
oyster pie— Oyster pie, Nos. i and 2— Oyster chicken pie— Oyster 
bisque— Roast oysters — Broiled o\-sters, Nos. i and 2 — Steamed 
oysters — Pickled oysters, Nos. i and 2 — Scrambled 03-sters, Nos. i 
and 2 — Oyster fricasse, Nos. i and 2 — Oyster fritters, Nos. i and 
2 — Oyster gumbo — Creamed oysters — Oj-ster macaroni — Spiced 
oysters— Clams— Clam chowder, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Boiled clam with 
two eggs— Clam pancakes with two eggs— Lobstkrs— Bisque- 
Boiled — Broiled — Croquettes, Nos. i and 2 — Escalloped — Lobster 
farce— Lobster fanc3-—Pattie.s—Stewed—CRABS— Boiled— To dress 
boiled crabs— Crab 'patties— Salad— Gumbo— To make lile — Dev- 
elled crabs, Nos. i aiid 2— Soft shell crabs— Terrapin— Baked — 
Stew — Eels — Eel baked or fried — Boiled — Fried eels, Nos. i and 2 
—Roasted— Boiled. 



VI GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SAUCES FOR FISH, ....-- 82—85 

Sauce for boiled fish— Anchovey— Caper sauce— Cream— Dress- 
ing— Sauce Hollandaise— IvObster— Maitre D'Hotel, Piquante— 
Shrimp, Nos. i and 2— Tomato— Vinaigrettes— White or Bechemel 
— White sauce. 

MEATS, .___.._-- 86—101 
Corned beef— Roast— Pudding for roast beef— French a la mode, 
Nos. I, 2 and 3— Beef bouille— Spiced round— Drippings— Force- 
meat dressing — Yorkshire pudding to eat with roast beef^Beef- 
steaks— Broiled— Potted beef— To boil tongue— Calfs heart- 
Fried liver— Lamb— Roast lamb— Roast mutton— Mutton chops- 
Mutton stew— To boil a leg of mutton— Lamb fry— Stewed lamb 
fry— Veal— Roast— Curried— Veal cutlets, Nos. i and 2— Pork- 
Baked ham, Nos. i and 2 — Suggestions on boiling ham, Nos. i 
and 2— Roast pig— Fried pig's feet— vStewed pig's feet— Pork and 
Beans— Broiled stuffed sausage— Scrapple— Cracklins— Rashers 
of pork— Fried liver and bacon— Head cheese— Kidney, Nos. i 
and 2 — Sweetbreads, fried and stewed. 

POULTRY, 102— 116 

Chickens— Chicken pie— Southern chicken pie— Baked chicken 
pudding — Fried chicken, Nos. i and 2 — Boned chicken — Gra\'y, 
Nos. I and 2— Old-fashioned pot-pie— Pot-pie dumpling, Nos. i 
and 2— Chicken pot-pie crust— Panned chicken— Chicken curry— 
A very nice way to cook chickens — Turkey — Dry filling and 
roast turkey — Stuffing — Gravy for turkey— Boned turkey — Boiled 
turkey— Meat jelly— DtXK— Roast duck— A good way to dispose 
of ducks— Chestnut filling— Oyster filling— Filling for fowls, Nos. 
I and 2— Susie's meatstuffing— Gamk— To roast a goose— Devilled 
goose— Canvasback duck— Teal duck— Pigeons— Prairie chicken 
—Quails— Partridges and plovers— Pheasants— Reed bird— Fric- 
asseed rabbit— Frogs— Stewed— Roast venison. 

SAUCES FOR MEATS, _ . . . . 117— 119 

Celery— Drawn butter— Mint— Egg— Prepared mustard —Oyster 
sauce — Brown flour — Gravies — Caramel for gravy. 

CURING MEATS, ._..._.- 119— 120 

Dried beef— Curing hams, Nos. i and 2— Dried beef— Sau- 
sages. 

SAUCES AND SALAD DRESSING, . . . 120—131 

Anchovy sauce— Bechemel— Celery— Chili, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Cur- 
rant jelly sauce— Curry powder— Drawn butter, Nos. i and 2— 
Maitre d'hotel butter — Mint sauce — Pepper sauce — Pickle sauce — 
Roux for boiled mutton or fish— Sauce for cold meats— Sauce with 
fresh mushrooms— Canned mushroom sauce— Salad dressing- 
Tomato sauce, Nos. i and 2 — Caper sauce — Dressing for cabbage — 
Salad dressing, Nos. i and 2— Sauce a la creme— Copeland's sauce 
for cold game— Cream dressing— Mayonnaise dressing, Nos. i 
and 2— Salad dressing, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Sauce Frangois- Mayon- 
naise— Salad dressing for cabbage or tomatoes— Dressing for 
chicken salad— Salad dressing— Sauce Hollandaise— Maj'onnaise 
dressing— Bottled salad dressing— Sauce Tartare. 

SALADS, .._•_-.-- 132—149 

Beet— Celery— Celery— Lettuce— Lobster curry— Wilted Lettuce 
—Potato salad— Tomato salad— Salad dressing for cabbage— Cab- 
bage salad, Nos. i and 2— Plantation potato salad— Shrimp salad 
— Anchovy salad — Cabbage and celery salad, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 — 
Lobster salad— Prawn salad— Scallop salad— Potato salad, Nos, i 



GRAr)ED COOK BOOK. vil 

and 2— Salad eggs— Salmon salad, Nos. i and 2— Shrimp salad- 
Veal salad, Nos. i and 2— Lobster— Chicken salad— Tongue salad 
— Whitefish salad — Chicken salad — Potato salad — Chicken salad 
— Chicken salad — Egg salad, Nos. i and 2 — Ham salad — Oyster 
salad— Plain lettuce salad— Salad a la Russe, Nos. i, 2 and 3— 
Sweetbread salad. 

VEGETABLES, 150— 181 

Burr artichokes— Asparagus, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Beets— To boil 
dried beans— Cabbage— Savoy cabbage— Hot slaw— Cauliflower- 
Sea kale— Hot slaw, Nos. i and 2 — Cauliflower — Cold slaw — Sea 
kale — Stuffed cabbage — Cold slaw — Corn — Stewed corn — To boil 
green corn — Green corn pie — Fried cold corn — Corn pudding — 
Canned corn fritters— Green corn fritters— Green com cakes- 
Green corn oysters — Corn pudding, Nos. i and 2 — Green corn 
cake.s — Green corn fritters — L,ima Beans, Nos. i and 2 — Succotash 
— Boiled Hominy — Baked egg-plant, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Egg-plant 
patties— Egg-plant fritters, Nos. i and 2— Dixie baked egg-plant 
—Baked egg-plant — Onions— Baked — Escalloped— Fried — Pars- 
nips, Nos. I, 2 and 3 — Mock oj^ster plant — Peas, Nos. i and 2 — To 
cook dried peas — Fried Plantain— Potatoes — New potatoes — Block 
— Saratoga — Baked cream — Fried — Potato balls — Potato fritters — 
Potato cakes — Potato croquettes — Potato patties, Nos. i and 2 — 
Naples potato— Berlin potato— Potato soufii^— Mount Blanc po- 
tato — Potato puffi-i — Potato snow — Irish potato snow— Potato cakes 
— Potato puff^Potato puffs — Southern baked sweet potatoes — 
Mock sweet potato — Sweet potato balls— Sweet potatoes— Baked 
sliced sweet potatoes— To boil rice— vSalsify— Boiled spinach- 
Squashes — Beans— Tomatoes — Turnips 

MADE DISHES, 182—217 

"Allez Couchez "—Baked meat dish— Mock duck— Rolled beef- 
steak, Nos. I and 2— Smothered beefsteak— Roast beef hash- 
French hash— Hash Nos. i and 2— Frizzled dried beef, Nos. i and 2 
—Cottage cheese— Choice lunch relish— Chicken jelly— Croquetts 
—Chicken curry— Pressed chicken— Chicken tamales— Irish stew 
— Pork and beans — Pot-pie — Sausage-meat — Spanish rice — Scotch 
pie— Tomato pie— Fried noodles— Veal olives, Nos. i and 2— Veal 
pate— Beef roll, Nos. i and 2— Chicken croquettes— Ham or veal 
croquettes— Delmonico's chicken croquettes— Grated ham— Ham 
sandwiches — launch omelet — Remnant cake — Sausage — Tongue 
on toast — Veal croquettes, Nos. i and 2 — Beef or veal onielet — 
Bread omelet— Chicken croquettes— Dressing for cold meat— Jel- ' 
lied veal or chicken— Ham sandwich— Mock cream— Hominy 
puff— French toast, with mushrooms — Veal croquettes — Veal loaf, 
Nos. I, 2 and 3— Boiled whitefish fritters— A meat pudding— Nice 
breakfast dish— Cheese scalop— Chicken croquettes— French rare- 
bit—Fried cream — Ham on toast— Veal cutlet— Veal loaf— 
Pressed chicken— Potted chicken— Terrapin hash— Veal omelet- 
Pressed chicken and cauliflower — Terrapin veal — Egg baskets, 
Nos. I and 2— Egg baskets, with tongue— Macaroni, Nos. i and 2 
— Macaroni, with oysters— Warmed-over macaroni — An economic 
dish— Macaroni without cheese— Eggs— Baked eggs— Poached 
eggs— Omelet, Nos. i and 2— Scrambled— Eggs Napolitaine— 
Omelet souffle— vScrambled eggs— Stuffed eggs— Pickled eggs. 

BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES, . . . 218—254 

Bread, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Salt-rising bread— Boston brown bread, 
Nos. I, 2 and 3— Graham bread, Nos. i and 2— Boiled bread— Corn 
bread — Steamed Indian bread — Toast — Milk toast — Steamed bread 
—Biscuits— Baking powder— Bread puffs— Buttermilk biscuits 
—Cream — Graham — Kentucky— Mississippi beaten biscuits- 
Raised— Soda— Tea— Yeast — Baking powder— Yeast, Nos. i, 2 and 



VIU GRADED COOK BOOK. 

3— Yeast without hops— Potato and hop j-east— Potato yeast- 
Rolls— Buns— Cinnamon rolls— French rolls— Parker house rolls 
—Tea rolls — Breakfast Cakks— Buckwheat cakes— English 
muffins— Cracklin corn bread— Custard corn cake— lyOttie cakes 
— Hoe cake — Mississippi corn pone — Diamonds — Gems — Rye 
griddle cakes — Batter cakes — Breakfast cakes — Corn bread, Nos. 
I and 2 — Drop cakes — Wheat flour gems — Johnny cake, Nos. i 
and 2 — Fritters — Graham bread, Nos. i and 2 — Grahams, Nos. i 
and 2 — Graham muffins, Nos. i and 2 — Muffins, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — 
Osborne cake.s— Rice cakes— Bread griddle cakes— Coffee rolls- 
Corn bread, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Lottie corn cakes— Spider corn cake 
— Corn dodgers — Crumpets — Dutch loaf^Flannel cakes — Indian 
meal rolls— Brown flour rolls— Mush griddle cakes— Warnecke 
muffins — Potato biscuit — Pumpkin Johnny cake.s — Pumpkin loaf 
— Rusk — Slapjacks — Waffles — Wheat — Corn pone — Apple fritters 
—Corn meal batter cakes— Corn cakes— Corn muffins— Corn bread 
— West Point corn bread — F'ine corn bread — Flannel cake.s — 
Cousin Millie's fritters — muffins — Rice and flour muffins — Rice 
pancakes — Sally Lunn — Bread cakee — Cream cakes — Fritters — 
Graham cup cakes— Indian corn biscuit— Muffins— Puffs or pop- 
overs — Salh' Lunn — Waffles, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Flannel cakes — 
Waffles — Mrs. Way's rolLs— Brioche — Cereals — Brown flour 
mush— Corn meal mush — Corn mush— Cracked wheat— Oat meal 
—Oat meal porridge— Oat meal mush— Small hominy— Fried 
hominy. 

PASTRY, 255—270 

Pie crust— Puff paste— Suet paste— To render lard— Pies— Apple 
— Cream — Mince pie without meat — Mince meat, Nos. i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 
—Orange— Peach — Rhubarb — L,emon — Lemon tarts— Squash- 
Chocolate — Lemon, Nos. i and 2 — Pie-plant— Cocoanut — Cream — 
Custard — Sour Cream — Sweet Potato — Orange — Irish Potato — 
Pumpkin — Pine-apple — Apple-custard — Lemon-custard — Potato. 

PUDDINGS, . . _ 270—301 

Apricot or peach cobbler, for winter — Baked apple dumpling — 
Blueberry pudding — Bombay — Brown betty — Cracker — Crisp 
bread— Damson dumplings— Forrest pudding— Fruit— Fruit roll 
— Indian pudding — Indian fruit pudding — Peach cobbler^Peach 
puddipg — Plum — Puff— Raspberry puffs — Rice pudding — Roata 
crusta— Surprise pudding— Strawberry short-cake— Suet pudding 
— Apple tapioca — Cottage — Graham — Minute — Apple — Betty — 
Baked bread — Boiled suet — Catskill — Fruit — Hamilton — Herodo- 
tus— Lemon— English lemon — Pop-over— Porcupine pudding- 
Tapioca — Coffee — Cracker — Cream — Dauphines Fstelle pudding 
— Huckleberry — Jelly — Boiled rice — Rice — Sago — Sunderland — 
Sweet potato — Batter — Baked flour — Bird's nest — Bread — Bread- 
and-butter — Cocoanut — German puffs — Indian pudding — Lemon 
bread — Orange-puff— Queen of puddings — Snow — Sour cream 
tapioca — Almond — Cream puffs, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Chocolate — Del- 
monico — Delig-ht- Eve's Farina pudding — Lemon — Snow — Velvet 
—Apple pudding, without pastry— Batter pudding— Cake— Cocoa- 
nut, Nos. I and 2 — Cream — Orange — Sponge — Bread — Batter — 
English— Plum— Tipsy— Baked batter, Nos. i and 2— Cocoanut— 
Lemon— Plum— English plum— Queen's— English plum pudding 
— Marlborough. 

PUDDING SAUCES, 302—306 

Cream — Lemon — Maple syrup — Molasses — Wine, Nos. i, 2 and 
3 — Aurora or ice cream— ^Foaming— Lemon — Pudding, Nos. i 
and 2 — Brandj\ 



GRADED COOK BOOK. IX 

CAKES, ......... 307—367 

Bread — Christmas — Christmas kisses — Cookies, Nos. i and 2 — 
Delicious plain doughnuts — Fruit cakes — Country gingerbread — 
Ginger — IMolasses ginger — Ginger cookies, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 — 
Ginger snaps — Ginger wafers— Jumbles, Nos. i and 2 — lyemon 
jelly cake — Molasses drops — Nut cake — Pork cake — Seed — White 
fruit— Coffee, Nos. i and 2— vSelma's cookies— Sugar cookies- 
Cream sponge — Crullers — Doughnuts — Dried apple cake — Dutch 
apple cake — Favorites — Common fruit cake — Soft ginger — Pump- 
kin — Roulettes — Vanitj^ — Walnut — Apple — Breakfast — Blueherr^^ 
— Chocolate — Chocolate macaroons — Cocoanut j umbles — Coffee— 
Cocoanut cookies — Soft cookies— Crullers — Dough cake — Dough - 
nut.s — Soft gingerbread — I^emon cream cake — Love knots — Lunch 
—Molasses pound— Plain, Nos. i and 2— Sally Dunn— Sand tarts 
— Spice — Sponge, Nos. i and 2 — Tea cake, Nos. i and 2— Wafers — 
Bread, Nos. i and 2 — Cinnamon wafers — Composition — Confec- 
■tionerj^ — Cookies — Corn starch — Crullers — Delicate — Dough- 
nuts — Gingerbread — Jelly fruit — Rolled jelh* — Jumbles, Nos. i 
and 2 — Lancaster — Layer — Lunch — Macaroons — Marble — Molas- 
ses — Orange — Queen's— Ribbon — Rock — Selma — Sponge, Nos. i 
and 2 — White — Citron — Currant — Raised doughnuts — Dough — 
Cookies, Nos. i and 2 — English walnut — Fedora — Fig — Fried — 
Soft gingerbread — Gold — Hickor\mut — Hone}- — Roll jelly — Lemon 
— Marble — Nut — Raisin — Silver— Spanish buns — Rolled sponge — 
Tri-colored— Washington — Watermelon — Pink and white — White 
mountain cake, Nos. i and 2 — Chocolate — Coffee — Cream dough- 
nuts — Crullers — Cup — Fruit — Gold — Jumbles— Lemon — Lemon 
jelly — Lena —Mountain — Orange, Nos. i and 2 — Plum — Pyramid — 
Raisin — White, Nos. i and 2— Almond jumbles — Corn starch, Nos. 
I and 2 — Cream — Hickorynut — Lemon cheese, Nos. i and 2 — 
Measure — Orange — Pineapple — Regal — Silver — Sponge— Wafers — 
Orange — Rough and Readj' — White — Arctic — Black — Carolina — 
Delicious chocolate — Cocoanut, Nos. i and 2 — Gold — Naples — 
Pound — Silver, Nos. 1 and 2 — Washington — White fruit — Pound 
— Prince — Raisin — Scotch — Angels' Food — Chicago cake — Fruit — 
Imperial — Lad}- — Pound — White sponge — Snow, Nos. i and 2— 
Sunrise — Angels' Food — Gold — Sunshine — Almond — Angels' 
Food — Delicate — Fruit, Nos. i and 2 — Gentleman's gingerbread — 
Sponge — White mountain — Sponge — Almond— Bride's — Snow — 
White pound — Bride's— Fruit. 

ICING AND FILLINGS FOR CAKES, . _ 367—373 

Soft frosting — Cheap — Chocolate — Author's — Cold icing — Al- 
mond — Frosting — Boiled icing — Filling for fig cake — Cream for 
cake— Almond filling, Nos. i and 2— Apple jelly for cake— Filling 
for wafers, Nos. i and 2 — Filling for cake— Custard — Chocolate, 
Nos. I, 2 and 3 — Lemon mixture — Lemon jelly for tarts — Lemon 
jelly^Pineapple filling. 

EXTRACTS FOR FLAVORING, .... 373—374 
Lemon— Vanilla. 

CREAMS, ........ 375—411 

Ambrosia — Banana ice — Banana — Charlotte rnsse, Nos. i, 2 
and 3 — Chocolate blanc mange — ^Florida pyrimads — Iced coffee — 
Caramel ice cream, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Noj-eau — Frozen peaches — 
Pineapple, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Pineapple sherbet— Slip— Strawbep-}-, 
Nos. I and 2 — Swiss — Velvet blanc mange — Velvet cream— Boiled 
custard — Charlotte russe — Lemon sponge — Caledonia — Coffee- 
Genoa- Hidden— Mountain— Ice— Sea "foam— Snow— Spanish- 
Tapioca — Vanilla — Apple foam — A])ple float — Floating Island — 
Fried cream — Ice cream — Lemon butter — Lemon ice — Orange — 
Orange ice— Tapioca— Velvet— Almond custard— Amber cream— 



X GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Bavarian cream, Nos. i and 2 — Charlotte russe — Chatham — Choc- 
olate — Cocoanut blanc mange — Coffee cream — French custard — 
I,enion ice, Nos. i and 2 — New York ice cream — New York cream 
— Orange float — Pineapple glace— Peaches, frozen — Pumpkin 
custard — Radiant— Spanish — Rice balls — Rice meringue — Sun- 
shine — Tapioca — Tipsy Charlotte — Apple meringue — Charlotte 
russe— Fancy blanc mange— Ice cream— Snowflake— Apple me- 
ringue — Boiled custard — Coffee custard — Cafe glace— Chocolate 
ice cream — Floating island — Italian — lycmon blanc mange — Rasp- 
berry charlotte — Sherry wine jelly — vSwiss cream — Syllabub — 
Apple custard — Lemon custard— Snow balls — Spanish cream — 
Biscuit glace — Nesselrode pudding — Tutti frutti — Napolitaine 
cream. 

PICKLES, CATSUPS AND SPICED FRUITS, . 412—439 

Cucumber, Nos. i to 7 — To color pickles green — Onion — White 
walnut — Albermarle — Chopped pickle — Mixed — Mixed mustard 
—Turmeric — Fast India — English —French — Mustard —Mush- 
room — To pickle red cabbage — Cousin Susie's chow-chow — Chow- 
chow, Nos. 2 and 3 — Piccalilli, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Green tomato 
pickle — Sweet green tomato — Mangoes — Old-fashioned mangoes 
— Peach mangoes, Nos. i and 2 — Stuffing for cucumber mangoes 
— Pickled apples — Blackberries — Currants — Spiced currants — 
Spiced gooseberries, Nos. i and 2 — Spiced grapes — Spiced peaches 
and plums — Spiced peaches — Pickled peaches, Nos. i and 2 — 
Plums — Spiced whortleberries — Sweet pickle — Watermelon — 
Chili sauce, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Cucumber catsup, Nos. i and 2— 
Gooseberry — Plum — Tomato sauce for bottling — Tomato catsup 
without boiling — Tomato catsup — Celerj' vinegar — Currant sauce 
— Governor's^ — Mustard — Prepared mustard — Spiced vinegar. 

JELLIES AND PRESERVES, .... 440—473 

Apple — Apple skin — Blackberry — Cranberry sauce — Cranberry 
— Black currant — Currant — Currant jelly without boiling — Grape 
—Green grape— lyCmon, Nos. i and 2— Lemon orange— Orange— 
Parfait aux fruits — Quince, Nos. i and 2— Wine, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 
— Preserves— Blackberrv' jam — Citron — Fresh fig — Fruits in al- 
cohol — Hone3' — Lemons — Orange — Stuffed oranges — Conserved 
peaches — Peaches— Brandy peaches, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 — Pears — 
Pineapple — Plum or grape — Plantation stewed fruit — Poor man's 
preserves— Pumpkin— Raspberry Jam, Nos. i and 2— Strawberries 
— Tomato — Tomato conserve — Marmalades — Black currant — 
Crab-apple — Orange — Peach, Nos. i, 2 and 3 — Quince, Nos. i, 2 
and 3— Rhubarb— Canned Fruits— Syrup— Fruit, Nos. i. 2 and 
3 — Sweetmeats — Corn — Cherries — Green gages — Gooseberries, 
Nos. I and 2 — Peaches — Apricots — Pineapple — Raspberries — 
Strawberries— Miscellaneous— Apple hedge hog— Baked apple, 
Nos. I, 2, 3 and 4 — Gelatine — Coddled — Apple compote — Apple but- 
ter — Spiced quince butter — Quince and apple butter — Baked pie 
plant— Quinces— Apple sauce— Fried apples, Nos. i and 2. 

BEVERAGES AND SUMMER DRINKS, _ . 474—491 

Blackberry bounce — Blackberry cordial, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 — 
Blackberry syrup— Blackberry wine — Champagne cup — Cherry 
cordial — ^Cherry wine, Nos. i and 2 — Chocolate sj^rup — Chocolate, 
Nos. I, 2, 3 and 4 — Cocoa shells — Coffee — Cafe au Lait — Cafe Noir 
—Cream beer— Currant shrub— Currant wine, Nos. i and 2— 
Egg-nog, Nos. I, 2, 3 and 4 — English ginger beer — Ginger beer — 
Kumvss— Lemon tea, Nos. i and 2— Egg lemonade— Mead- 
Mulled cider — Negus — Pie-plant wine — Pine-apple shrub — Pine- 
apple syrup — Artificial pine-apple syrup — Pine-apple punch — 
Porter sangaree — Raspberry vinegar, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 — Refresh- 
ing summer beverage — Rofnan punch — Sherrj' cobbler — Spruce 



GRADED COOK BOOK. • XI 

beer, Nos. i and 2— Strawberry syrup— Strawberry vinegar— Sun- 
set lemonade— Tea— Vanilla syrup— White wine whej-— Winter- 
green pop. 

CANDIES, 492—502 

Butter scotch, Nos. i and 2— Candy— Caramels, Nos. i, 2, 3 and 4 
— Chocolate caramels, Nos. i and 2 — Cocoanut — Chocolate creams, 
Nos. I and 2 — Cocoanut drops— Chocolate puffs— Chocolate squares 
—Cocoanut balls— Cream, Nos. i and 2— French cream— Metro- 
politan— Mrs. H's candN'— Horehound— Hard nut— Maple square 
— Marsh mallows — INIolasses cream — Molasses candy, Nos. i and 
2 — Peppermint drops — Taffy, Nos. i and 2 — White French candy 
— White cream, Nos. i and 2— Whitman's taffy — Chocolate cream 
— Salted almonds, Nos. i and 2. 

BILLS OF FARE, 503—518 

Choice of wines — Bill of fare tables — Combinations good to- 
gether — Measures — Culinary terms which dot our menus — Sim- 
ple menus. 

MEDICAL DEPARTMENT, 519-558 

The bath— Arrow-root— Barley water— Beef tea— Essence of 
beef— Beef juice— Blackberry tonic— Boiled flour— Caudle— Chicken 
broth— Cream soup tor invalids— Ginger cordial— Gruel— I,emon 
jellj- — Moss jelly — Mulled wine — Mutton tea — Panada Rice gruel 
— Sago — Soda mixture— Toast water — Vegetable broth — Water 
gruel — Wine whej- — Infant diet— Croup — Milk beer for nursing 
mothers — Eggs as food and as remedies — Water for the sj-stem — 
Interesting to Asthmatics— Bronchitis— Bronchial cough— Plaster 
for weak chest— Cold— Hoarseness, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Tar syrup- 
Croup — Diphtheria — Sore throat— L,ar5'ngitis — Tonsilitis — Glj'^c- 
erine lotion — Application for sore throat— Gargle for sore throat 
— Children's sore mouth — Spice plaster — Chicken pox — Scarlet 
fever — Alum curd — Earache — Ear drops — Swollen face — Rheum- 
atism—Liniment, Nos. I and 2— Chloroform— Ague, Nos. i, 2 and 
3— Constipation— Tonic— I,emons— Good tonic— Oranges as a 
medicine — Tonic — To relieve distress in stomach — Milk as a rem- 
edy — Squibb's mixture — Hamlin's mixture, Nos. i and 2 — Dysen- 
tery- — Soreness of the bowels— Ginger and mustard plaster — Pain 
in the bowels— Burns, Nos. i and 2— Sun-burn— Liniment for 
burns — Wounds — Cuts — Bruises — Chilblains — Corns — Felon . 
— Hemmorhoids — Piles — Warts — Poisons — Antidotes — Disenfect- 
ants — For asthmatic canaries — German paste for singing birds. 

FOR THE TOILET, _ 558—572 

Wash for the head — Baldness— To make the hair grow — To in- 
vigorate the hair— A simple and harmless hair dye— To keep the 
hair in crimp — Bandoline — Cocoanut hair oil — Care of the face — 
Powder for the skin — Bloom of s'outh — An indispensable powder 
— Suggestions for the complexion — To remove freckles — A prepa- 
ration to remove wrinkles — To remove black-heads from face — 
Suggestions on teeth — Orris tooth powder — Wititergreen tooth 
powder — Care of finger nails — Recipes for softening the hands — 
To render mutton tallow— Arnica jelly— Camphor ice— Cold 
cream, Nos. i and 2— Glycerine jelly— Glj-cerine lotion— Soap for 
whitening the hands — Windsor cream — Cologne — Farina cologne 
— Extract Jockey Club — I^avender water — Republique cologne- 
Extract White Rose — Toilet soap. 

MISCELLANEOUS, 573— 604 

Ammonia for houge cleaning— Zinc— Stoves— To remove rust 
from steel — Stove dressing— To clean pots, kettles and tins — 
China, glass, knives, marble, wall paper, paint— To remove paint 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 

—Furniture polish, Nos. i and 2— Piano polish— For varnished 
furniture— Gilt frames— To clean carpets— Straw matting— Silk 
or woolen goods— Cloth coats— Silk— Black lace— To prevent blue 
from fading— To wash black calico— To prevent calico from fading 
— To remove mildew — jNIildew washing fluid, Nos. i and 2 — 
Bluing— Starch— French starch— Gloss for starch, Nos. i and 2— 
Soap for cleaning— Bleach for clothes— Soft soap— Hard soap— 
Soap— Family soap, Nos. i and 2— Washing blankets— Useful 
hints — To make whitewash — To destroy cockroaches — To clean 
bottles— To remove glass stoppers— Liquid cement— Cement for 
glass, china, wood, etc.— Invisible cement— Liquid glue— Muci- 
lage — Shellac — Waterproof polish for boots and shoes — To weave 
hair— To make a candle burn all night- Wrinkles— Canker in the 
mouth— Earache— Headache— Lotion for sick headache— Sprains 
— Hands — Pot-pourri — Useful hints and recipes — Colored eggs — 
To keep eggs, Nos. i, 2 and 3— Lime brine— Vinegar-Hints on 
wine— Regeiit punch- To keep lemons- To purify rancid lard— 
The art of frying— A lunch dish— Yeast meal— Cherry pndding— 
Cheese— Pineapple pie— Pineapple sherbet. 



Gl^ADED (SOOI^ BOOI^, 



SUGGESTIONS FOR SOUP. 

Author. 

I prefer an iron pot, light in weight and well tinned, 
to a porcelain or iron one ; if the latter be used 
cleanse the pot with a small piece of carbonate of 
soda ; this will remove the flavor of vegetables should 
you desire to use it for other purposes. A teaspoonful 
of salt to a quart of water is a very good rule. Cold 
water must be used to boil uncooked meats, while 
boiling water must be used for meats which have been 
cooked, and then used for scrap soup. 

You need not be particular to cut the vegetables 
small if you intend to strain the soup, but if intended 
to serve with the vegetables many shapes can be cut, 
such as stars, rings, etc., half-inch cubes, thin slices 
lengthwise and round, etc. Grated carrot gives an 
amber color, one large carrot to three quarts of water. 
Burnt sugar or browned flour will color soup brown. 
Macerate spinach and squeeze through a cloth into the 
soup a few minutes before taking from the stove ; 
this colors the soup green ; tomatoes in the same way 
color red, etc. A lump of sugar added improves soup •, 
green leaves of celery impart a rich flavor. 



6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SUGGESTIONS ABOUT STOCK. 

Author. 
If you are very particular to have the stock clear, 
stir in the beaten white and shell of an egg, put back 
on the stove ; when it boils remove at once to a cool 
place ; when cool strain through a cloth. 

TO COLOR SOUP. 

Author. 

One-fourth pound of sugar, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, mixed well and put over the fire ; stir constantly 
until it turns brown but does not burn, then add one- 
half pint of water ; bottle for use. A piece of bread 
toasted quite brown and added to the boiling soup 
gives a good color. 

STOCK FOR SOUP. No. i. 

Author. 

One quart of cold water to each pound of meat; let 
it stand a half hour before putting on the back part of 
stove; this will extract the juices more readily; cover 
and heat slov/ly, and just before it boils skim. To 
skim after it boils throw in a little cold water first. 
To clarify the soup, mix the whites of one or two eggs 
and shells with a teacup of cold water. Draw the soup 
kettle to the back of the stove, and when it ceases to 
boil stir in the mixture, bring forward, and when it 
boils again skim. Some persons rub salt in the meat 
before boiling because with the gradual heating the 
juices are easily extracted, but salt hardens the meat. 
In order to use meat for croquettes in hash, the salt 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 7 

must be added after the boiling commences. About 
five hours are required for boiling. There should be 
little waste of liquid, and will be, if care is taken to 
boil on the back of the stove. When done pour into 
an earthen vessel if required to use the same day, and 
skim the fat from the surface. The sooner stock is 
cooled the better. If desired to keep several days, 
pour into a stone jar and leave the fat on the surface 
until required to use. Stock will keep a week in win- 
ter. The fat taken from the surface of the soup may 
be clarified and used for drippings by putting it into 
boiling hot water. When it cools, all sediment will 
settle at bottom and the fat can again be skimmed off. 

Vegetables for soup may be used as follows : To 
every gallon, a pint of cut vegetables, say one turnip 
of medium size, one tomato, one carrot, one ear of 
corn (cut from the ear), and what would be the same 
quantity of cabbage, two heads of celery, an ounce of 
rice, or a slice of old bread, a little parsley, one onion. 

Suggestions. — A small slice of cooked ham, say 
one-half teacup chopped boiled ham, gives a deli- 
cious flavor. Many persons add to the vegetable 
soup two bay leaves, six cloves, and ten pepper corns. 
Crosse & Blackwell's Parisian essence is very nice to 
flavor stock with. Celery seed crushed may be used 
when the celery cannot be obtained. Fry a small 
piece of pork and veal with vegetables and add to the 
stock ; this makes a rich brown soup. Burnt sugar 
gives a good color. Put some granulated sugar in 
a pie tin and let it brown on the stove till it burns, 
then pour on this a little cold water, and shake until 
it is well colored, ^nd add to the soup. 



8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

STOCK FOR SOUP. No. 2. 

Author. 

One gallon of cold water, one shank bone of veal, 
broken, one large beef soup-bone, simmer five hours ; 
set away where it will cool readily, skim off all the 
fat. When cold this should be a jelly. Like any 
soup, this will keep about a week in winter and not 
longer than a day in summer. When ready to use it 
heat this jelly and use plain or with vegetables, 
vermicelli, macaroni or rice. If used with vegetables, 
to the above stock add one large tomato, one small 
turnip, one carrot, one large onion with three cloves 
stuck in, two heads of celery, one potato, one ear of 
corn, two bay leaves and six pepper corns. Strain 
before serving. Celery seed crushed and put in a bag 
may be boiled with the soup when celery cannot be 
obtained. 

TO PREPARE A BEEF'S HEAD AS STOCK 
FOR SOUP. 

Author. 

Cut up the head into small pieces, and boil in a 
large quantity of water until it is boiled all to pieces. 
Take out all the bones, as in making cheese souse, 
and boil again until thick. Then season very highly 
with pepper, salt, catsup and allspice and onions chop- 
ped fine. Place in a crock or jar, and set away for 
future use. For a small family cut out a thick slice, 
(say five inches square) and add about one quart of 
boiling water. It need cook for a few minutes only, 
and is valuable as keeping well, and being ready for 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 9 

times of emergency. By the addition of a few sliced 
hard-boiled eggs, and a gill of good cooking wine, this 
soup will have very nearly the flavor of mock-turtle. 

CALF'S HEAD STOCK. 

Author. 
Prepare the head as above and break into small 
pieces, cover with cold water, boil slowly; when done 
remove all the bones and boil till thick, then add one 
tablespoon of salt, one teaspoon each of ground allspice 
and black pepper, one tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, and two onions chopped fine. Put in a jar and 
set away for use. Will keep several days. For a few 
persons cut a piece about five inches square and add 
to one quart boiling water; boil a few minutes, pour 
into a tureen. You may add hard-boiled eggs and a 
wineglass of any wine you wish. 

BEEF STOCK. 

Author. 
Six pounds beef, five quarts cold water, cut up the 
meat and boil slowly for five hours ; skim. An hour 
before it is done add three white turnips, three car- 
rots, two heads celery, one large onion, six cloves, 
one small bunch herbs, one teaspoon whole pepper. 
Melt a tablespoon of butter in saucepan and add to it 
one pound chopped raw beef. When it browns nicely 
add a pint water and allow to cook slowly one hour. 
When it begins to boil add the whites and shells of two 
eggs, a few sprigs of parsley and two celery tops, and 
skim. When cooked strain and add to the stock. 
Cool and set away until wanted. This will keep sev- 
eral days in cool Weather. 



lO GRADED COOK BOOK. 

STOCK FOR SOUP. No. 3. 

One quart of cold water to each pound of meat is a 
good rule for stock, or if desired richer, to five pounds 
of meat, seven pints of water. It may be made stron- 
ger or weaker, but prepared the same. When soup 
begins to boil throw in half a teacup of cold water and 
skim well. Let the soup simmer slowly four or five 
hours; take from the fire, cool quickly, and set away 
for use. It is better used the next day; will keep for 
a week in winter, but will only keep about twenty-four 
hours in summer. Should you desire to clarify this 
broth for white soup, beat the white of an egg into a 
little cold broth, and stir into the broth when boiling. 
A few minutes' boiling will clear it sufficiently, when 
you can strain and set it away. The meat from this 
broth can be spiced and baked, or made into hash or 
croquettes. Do not salt until the stock is half cooked. 

BOUILLON. 

For 12 Persons. 

Author. 

Eight pounds of lean beef cut up, three quarts of 
cold water. Boil slowly five hours, strain through a 
fine sieve, season only with salt and pepper, after re- 
moving every particle of fat. 

BREAD FOR SOUP. 

Author. 

Cut bread in inch cubes, brown well in oven. Is 
superior to crackers to serve with soup. Crackers are 
improved by putting them in the oven a few minutes 
before using. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. II 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Author. 

Boil three eggs twenty minutes, put into cold water; 
mash yolks with yolk of one raw egg and one teaspoon 
of flour, a little pepper, salt and one-half teaspoon 
minced parsley. Make into balls and boil three 
minutes. 

MEAT BALLS FOR CLEAR STOCK. 

Author. 

One-half pound raw veal chopped fine, a slice of 
salt pork chopped fine, which will make one-half 
teacup, two soda crackers rolled fine, salt and pepper 
to taste. Flavor with tomato sauce or catsup. Mix 
with one raw egg, roll into balls, dip in beaten egg, 
then into cracker dust and fry. Lay these balls into 
the tureen with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Lemon sliced 
very thin is liked by many as an addition to soup. If 
desired, pork may be omitted. 

SOUP EXTRACT. 

Author. 

Six pounds of beef, one gallon of water, one ounce 
of salt, two ounces of dry crust, one-half ounce of 
pepper, one soup bunch, one clove of garlic. Put a 
gallon of cold water in a soup kettle, add the meat 
free from bone, fat and sinew, simmer gently, take off 
the scum and then 'add the other ingredients ; sim- 
mer until the soup jellies, which you will find out by 
cooling a little of it. After it has cooked slowly five 
hours, strain through a coarse muslin bag or hair 



12 GRADED COOK. BOOK. 

sieve into an earthen vessel. When cold take off the 
fat, remove to cups and let heat gradually by pouring 
water around them, but do not get any water into the 
cups ; cook slowly until the extract jellies like glue, 
cool, turn out, and dry the jelly in the sun all day, 
then pack between unglazed paper in well-covered tin 
boxes. A lump the size of an egg is sufficient for a 
quart of boiling water. 

Vegetables may be glazed before adding to stock 
by spreading two tablespoons of butter over the bot- 
tom of a pot and putting in the vegetables and a very 
little water, and allowing them to cook until there is a 
whitish glaze on the kettle, then pour over them the 
broth and cook till the vegetables are done. It re- 
quires about thirty minutes to cook the vegetables. 

GLAZE. 

Author. 

Boil down clear stock until thick as cream and set 
away to cool ; when ready to use set the jar contain- 
ing it in hot water until it dissolves, then brush boiled 
ham or tongue over with it until you have a complete 
varnish. 

BEEF STOCK. 

Six pounds beef, five quarts cold water, cut up the 
meat and boil slowly in the water five hours. Skim 
an hour before it is done. For vegetable soup add 
three white turnips, three carrots, two heads celery, 
one large onion, six cloves, one teaspoon whole black 
pepper. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I3 

AMBER CREAM SOUP. 

Author, 

One pint cream, one pint milk, pinch of salt, pinch 
of cinnamon, three eggs. Let milk come to the boiling 
point. Then draw to the back of stove and stir in 
smoothly the three beaten yolks. Let thicken three 
minutes, then stir in the beaten whites lightly ; remove 
from the stove and add cream. Salt and cinnamon 
now added. Serve with toasted bread cut as dice. 



CROUTONS, 

Or fried bread crumbs for soup. Cut slices of stale 
home-made bread one-half inch thick. Trim off all 
crust and cut each slice into squares, fry these in hot 
fat, drain on a napkin. Add six or eight to each plate 
of soup. 

AMERICAN SOUP. 

Author. 

One gallon cold water, one shank bone of veal, 
broken, one large beef soup bone. Simmer five hours, 
set away where it will cool readily, skim off all the fat. 
When cold, this should be a jelly like any soup; this 
will keep about a week in winter, and not longer than 
a day in summer. When ready to use it, heat this jelly 
and use plain or with vegetables, vermicelli, macaroni 
or rice. If used with vegetables, to the above stock 
add one large tomato, one small turnip, one carrot, 
one large onion with three cloves stuck in, two bay 
leaves, six pepper corns, celery, one potato, one ear of 



14 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

corn. Strain before serving. Celery seed crushed put 
in a bag, may be boiled with the soup when celery 
cannot be obtained. 

RICH BROWN SOUP. 

Mrs. J. F. 
Take six pounds of lean fresh beef, cut from the 
bone. Stick over it four dozen cloves. Season it with 
one teaspoonful of salt, one of pepper, same of mace 
and nutmegs; (onions.) Pour on five quarts of water 
and stew slowly five or six hours, skimming well. 
When the meat is in shreds, strain it and return the 
liquid to the pot, then add a tumbler and a half of 
claret or port wine. Simmer it slowly until dinner 
time or until reduced to three quarts. 

BEAN SOUP. No. i. 

Author. 
Pick over about two quarts of beans immediately 
after breakfast, cover with cold water, heat through, 
drain and cover with boiling water, boil one hour, 
change the water two or three times, but not after the 
beans begin to break, then set on the back of the stove, 
allow to cook slowly four or five hours until well soft- 
ened and separated. Take out half of the beans to 
bake. Into the soup put a cup of cream, some salt, 
and enough boiling water to make thin; a little soda 
may be added if the beans still have a strong taste. 

BEAN SOUP. No. 2. 

Author. 

Soak a quart of beans over night in lukewarm 
water. In the morning put over the fire with one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 15 

gallon of cold water and one pound of salt pork. 
Boil slowly three hours. Season with celery and pep- 
per. Add salt if necessary. Simmer one hour longer. 
Strain through a colander and serve. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Cousin Mary. 

The day before the soup is required get a shin of 
beef, have it cracked in three or four pieces, put it 
into the soup kettle early in the morning, with a gallon 
of cold water ; let it simmer all day ; then strain all 
the meat and bone from the liquor and set the liquor 
away in as cold a place as possible. Next morning, 
after having taken the fat from the liquor, cut into it 
a bunch of soup vegetables and let them boil an 
hour, strain them off and add to the soup a quart of 
black beans which have been soaked all night and 
boiled until they will go through the colander like a 
sort of paste. Season with pepper and salt ; add 
ground allspice, cloves and mace to taste ; finally a 
glass of wine. When the soup is in the tureen cut 
two hard-boiled eggs and one lemon in dice and 
throw them lightly in so that they will rest on top as 
much as possible, taking care that each person has 
some, as the lemon is very nice with the soup. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Mrs. James Vick. 

One large soup bone ; boil slowly in five quarts of 
water. The next day take off the grease and add the 
stock, five medium-sized potatoes, two onions, one 
carrot, and one-half large head of celery, all chopped 



l6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

fine. Season to taste. Boil about four hours, strain 
and serve. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Author. 

Prepare and wash in warm water the head, heart, 
liver and feet of a calf, cover with a gallon of cold 
water, let stand one hour ; then put on the stove and 
cook slowly till the bones can be easily removed, 
skim well, remove from the stove and throw the 
tongue at once into cold water and let it remain five 
minutes, when peel and chop fine ; remove the rest of 
the meat except the feet, which will have to cook 
while you cut the meat into small pieces like dice ; 
when the feet are done chop the meat from them, 
also add the brain to this. Set all one side, then 
pour the broth through a sieve into a bowl. Put the 
kettle over the fire to dry out, then dredge with three 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and rub three-fourths pound of 
butter on the flour. When this browns a little add 
two chopped onions and let them fry a little, then 
add a layer of meat, one-half teaspoon of black pep- 
per (ground), one teaspoon of salt ; let cook until 
brown, then add the broth and the chopped whites 
of four eggs ; lay the yolks in a tureen with a half 
a nutmeg grated, the juice and a few pieces of the 
rind of one lemon, a teacup of claret or port wine or 
sherry ; lastly in the tureen put the force meat balls 
which are made thus : reserve a teacup of chopped 
meat from the above mixture, chop very fine, mix 
with one raw egg, pepper and salt, make into small 
balls, roll in cracker dust and fry in a pot of hot lard. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 17 

CATFISH SOUP. 

Author. 
To each pound of fish cleaned, skinned and washed, 
one slice of ham or salt pork, one quart of water, one 
teacup of milk, one egg, pepper and salt. Put the 
fish and pork on in cold water, having cut the fish 
into squares. Cook till the fish is in shreds, strain, 
return to the kettle, thicken with cornstarch, mus- 
tard spoon of cornstarch to a quart. Dissolve the 
cornstarch in the teacup of milk and beaten egg. 
Stir into the soup and let it boil three minutes, take 
from stove and pour into tureen. Serve with anchovy 
sauce and toasted bread cut into dice. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Author. 
Boil a teacup of rice in a pint of water and add to 
it, as it thickens, a quart of milk. Cut up in inch 
pieces the white part of three heads of celery and 
grate a little of the root and add to a quart of veal or 
chicken broth. Boil the celery until tender, put in 
the boiled rice and milk ; season with pepper and 
salt, strain, and just before taking up add half a tea- 
cup of cream. Put the rice over the fire in cold 
water and let the mixture come to a boil slowly. 

CREAM CELERY SOUP. 

Author. 
One pint of milk, one tablespoon of flour, one 
tablespoon of butter, one head of celery, a large slice 
of onion, a small piece of mace. Boil celery in a pint 
of water from thirty to forty-five minutes ; boil 
onion, mace and milk together ; wet flour with two 
teaspoons of cold milk and add to the boiling milk, 



l8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

cook ten minutes ; mash celery in water in which it 
has been cooked and stir into boiling milk, add 
butter and season to taste, strain and serve at once. 
Same, using asparagus, for asparagus cream. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Author. 
Cut up an ordinary sized fowl, crack the bones and 
put into two quarts of cold, unsalted water. Cover it 
closely and boil for three or four hours, then strain off 
the broth, set it away to cool and remove every parti- 
cle of fat before using. Soak two tablespoonfuls of 
pearl barley in a little lukewarm water ; add it with 
four tablespoonfuls of milk to the broth, and simmer 
all until the barley is well cooked. Season lightly 
with salt and pepper and serve with crackers or dry 
toast. 

CHICKEN SOUP. No. i. 

Author. 
Disjoint two chickens and put them in a pot with 
five quarts of cold water. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Let them boil until the meat is very well done, 
and remove it from the liquor, and cut it up into 
small pieces. Put in the soup a quarter of a pound 
of butter mixed with a little flour, and a pint of 
cream. Throw in the cut meat, and just before you 
serve it add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little 
parsley. You may also add (if in season) a pint of 
green corn cut from the cob, and put in when it is 
half done. Squirrel soup is made in the same way. 
CHICKEN SOUP. No. 2. 

Author. 
Rub a five-pound chicken with salt and pepper, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 19 

then cut up and put into a pot with a gallon of cold 
water. Boil until the meat begins to separate from 
the bones, remove from the liquor and cut into small 
pieces. Rub a lump of butter the size of an egg well 
into a tablespoonful of flour, add a coffee-cup of 
cream, to which add the well-beaten j^olks of two 
eggs and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Butter 
the soup pot. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Aunt Robinson. 

Fifty clams. Take them from the jUice, chop 
pretty fine. To a pint of the juice add the same of 
water, let boil and skim. Two tablespoons of flour 
and the same of butter rubbed together to a cream; 
after skimming the soup remove from the fire and add 
the flour and butter. One and one-half cup of milk, 
let it boil well, then add the clams and pepper and boil 
five minutes. 

CORN SOUP. 

Author. 

Three pounds of beef, three quarts of cold water, 
four tomatoes, eight ears of corn, salt, pepper. Boil 
the soup slowly two hours, then add the cut corn, and 
cobs and tomatoes ; boil twenty minutes and remove 
the cobs, and add one quart of milk, salt and pepper. 
Strain and serve. 

CRAB SOUP. 

Mrs. Charlton H. Way, Savannah, Ga. 

One dozen fat crabs, one quart tomatoes, one quart 
water, two large onions, one large tablespoon butter. 



20 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Fry onions in lard a light brown. Pick the meat] 
from crabs' claws, crush the body of the crabs with, 
all their fat in the soup kettle ; add the rest of the 
ingredients, and boil one hour. Strain and pour 
soup over crab meat. Serve with two glasses of] 
sherry and two lemons sliced in tureen. 

EGG SOUP. 

Author. 

Stir the well-beaten yolks of five eggs into a pint 
of cream or rich milk which has reached the boiling] 
point ; allow it to thicken but not curdle, then add toj 
this one quart of clear broth. Very nourishing. 

EGG SOUP. No. 2. 

Twelve eggs, one gallon of stock, two onions, one 
carrot, a little celery, one large apple, two ounces of 
butter, a little roux, one tablespoon of curry paste, 
one tablespoon of curry powder, a few allspice, a 
blade of mace, some seasoning, four ounces of rice. 
Cut onions, apples, carrot and celery in stew-pan with 
butter and fry over a slow fire. Add curry paste and 
powder, seasoning, allspice, mace and the roux. 
Mix well together. Add the boiling stock, stir until 
boiling, strain and set by the fire to clear. Add hard 
boiled eggs (shelled). 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Author, 

To five quarts of water use five pounds of chicken, 

or chicken and veal. To the water add one quart 

young okra, cut in rings, one quart tomatoes, one-half 

teacup corn cut from the ear, one large onion, a blade 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 21 

of red pepper, and salt and pepper to taste. Fry a 
slice of ham an inch thick, lean and fat, a few mo- 
ments, add the chicken after it is disjointed and rolled 
in flour ; fry both a light brown and add all the soup. 
Cook until the meat falls to pieces easily. Serve with 
boiled rice, one teaspoonful in the centre of each soup 
plate. 

' GUMBO SOUP. No. 2. 
E. B. M. 
Cut a fowl in pieces ; flour it well and fry in drip- 
pings, with a slice or two of salt pork in the same 
kettle in which the soup is to be made. When brown 
remove the scraps of pork and turn off all the fat, 
leaving in the chicken. Pour on to this three or four 
quarts of water, and let it boil slowly for three 
hours ; then add two dozen or more of okra pods, one 
small onion, sliced, and salt and pepper to taste ; cook 
for another hour and serve with boiled rice. 

GUMBO SOUP. No. 3. 

Author. 
Three quarts cold water, one medium sized chicken, 
one onion, chopped, one pint of young okra, sliced in 
rings, one small bunch of parsley if liked, one-half 
teacup rice. Salt and pepper to taste. Boil the chick- 
en and the rice in the water until tender; take out 
the chicken, remove the grease and add the other in- 
.gredients. Cook the soup about one-half an hour, 
strain and add one teacup of cream. It is now ready 
to serve. For the chicken, reserve two teacups of the 
broth, which put in a saucepan with a pint of milk ; 
bring to a boil and -thicken with a heaping tablespoon 



22 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of flour dissolved in a little of the milk used for the 
gravy ; one tablespoon of butter. Lay toasted bread 
or split biscuit on a platter, then the chicken and 
gravy. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

GUMBO FILE. 

Author. 
Four pounds chicken, one quart of oysters, three 
quarts of boiling water, two tablespoons of flour, one 
tablespoon butter, one tablespoon of lard, two table- 
spoons of pulverized sassafras leaves, one onion, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper. Prepare and disjoint 
the chicken and roll in the flour and fry in the lard 
and butter which you have melted in the soup kettle; 
when nearly done add the chopped onion, fry with it, 
then pour over all three quarts of boiling water. Boil 
three hours; pepper and salt. Ten minutes before 
serving cook the oysters in their own liquor until they 
curl and add to the soup, lastly add two tablespoons 
of file made smooth with a little of the soup; boil up 
once and serve. 

TO MAKE FILE. 

Gather sassafras leaves as late as possible in the 
season when they turn red. Dry in the shade and 
open air. When dry, pound in a mortar and bottle. 

INDIAN HODGE-PODGE. 

E. B. M. 
Three pints of good gravy or broth, one quart of 
split peas, three large onions, mihced fine, fried in 
butter; add to peas; mix two tablespoon fuls curry 
powder in cold water, and add salt and pepper. Let 
all simmer. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 23 

INVALID SOUP. 

Author. 
Clear broth poured over a poached egg will be 
found acceptable to many invalids. 

LOTTIE'S SOUP. 

Author. 

Two quarts of broth, two-thirds large can of toma- 
toes, one pint of milk, two tablespoons flour, pepper and 
salt. Boil tomatoes one hour in the broth, strain, add 
flour dissolved in little cold water, the milk, salt and 
pepper, let all boil three minutes and serve. 

A salt spoon of celery seed to each gallon of soup. 
When milk is used it should be brought to the boiling 
point separately, and put in just before lifting the 
soup from stove. 

LUNCH SOUP. 

Author. 
One large onion, one large potato, boiled and 
mashed, one large cup broth, one tablespoon butter, 
two tablespoons flour, one quart milk. Slice the onion 
and fry in the butter a light-brown, then stir in the 
flour dissolved in the cold broth. Have the milk 
boiling hot and beat into it the potato ; salt and pepper 
to taste ; pour over the onion broth in the tureen with 
one slice of bread an inch thick, broken. Water may 
be substituted for broth, but more butter must then be 
used. Serve hot. 

MARROW DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

Grate the crust of a breakfast roll or loaf of bread 
and break up the remainder into crumbs. Soak these in 



24 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

cold milk, drain and add two ounces of flour ; chop 
one-half pound marrow (freed from skin and sinew), 
beat yolks of five eggs, mix together, and if too 
moist more bread crumbs. Salt and pepper. Boil in 
soup one-half hour. 

MEATLESS SOUP. 

Author. 

Two quarts boiling water, two onions, two baker's 
rolls, salt and pepper to taste, a head of celery cut up 
green and all, one-half teacup of butter, boil one- 
half hour. Ask your baker for rolls entirely covered 
with crust. If they are not brown enough, put in the 
oven a few minutes. 

MOCK OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. H., Cincinnati. 

Boil one and half dozen onions in water enough to 
cover them; if the onions are small take two dozen, 
if strong, boil a turnip with them, which will destroy 
the strong taste. When they are soft enough, mash 
them very smooth through a colander, then boil them 
again in one quart of milk. Mix one teaspoonful of 
flour with one tablespoonful of butter, and stir in the 
soup. Let it boil up thoroughly and season with pep- 
per, salt and mace. 

MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 

E. B. M. 

Cut up a chicken weighing three pounds; lay in the 
soup kettle with one pound of veal, one large onion, 
stuck with three cloves, a blade of red pepper, a soup 
bunch containing carrots, celery and parsley, and cover 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 25 

with one gallon of cold water. Take the chicken out 
when tender and let the soup continue to boil. Put in a 
saucepan a tablespoonful of butter ; when melted slice 
in it a medium sized onion; when this has browned 
lightly, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and brown 
also, but be careful not to let it burn ; then add one 
teaspoonful curry powder, two tablespoons boiled rice 
and a teacup of the broth ; lay in this the chicken and 
simmer about fifteen minutes. Put this in a tureen 
and pour over it the broth, which should be skimmed. 
The broth and curried chicken can be served separ- 
ately if desired, in which case put into each soup-plate 
a teaspoonful of boiled rice. Salt to taste. 

MUTTON SOUP. 
L. M. H. 

One pound of very fat mutton loin, as the fat meat 
is more apt to be juicy. Strip off the fat and put 
meat into a kettle of cold water and stew slowly for 
three or four hours. Add to this quantity of meat, 
one head of celery, one small onion, one potato and 
a tablespoonful of oatmeal. When nearly done add 
to the juice one pint of milk, or what is better, add 
cream after the soup is dished up. This is a very 
nourishing dish for delicate stomachs. 

SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. 

Warne. 

Six pounds of neck mutton, three quarts water, five 
carrots, five turnips, two onions, four tablespoons of 
Scotch barley, a little salt. Soak a neck of mutton in 
water for an hour, cut off the scrag, and put it into a 
stewpan with three quarts of water. As soon as it 



26 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

boils skim it well, and then simmer it for an hour and 
a half. Cut the best end of the mutton into cutlets, 
dividing it with two bones in each. Take off nearly- 
all the fat before you put it into the broth; skim it the 
moment the meat boils, and every ten minutes after- 
wards ; add five carrots, turnips and two onions all 
cut into two or three pieces; and put them into the 
soup soon enough to be thoroughly done, stir in the 
barley well washed in cold water ; add salt to your 
taste ; and let all stew together for three hours ; about 
one-half an hour before sending to the table put in a 
little chopped parsley and serve all together. Time, 
three hours and half. 

SUGGESTION. 

If you wish to skim soup before it is cold, cover the 
surface with a linen cloth wrung out of ice cold 
water. The grease will all adhere to the cloth. 
Repeat if necessary. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Is made in the same way as vermicelli soup, except 
that strips of paste are substituted for the vermicelli. 
The paste is prepared by beating three eggs very light, 
and making them into a stiff dough with flour and 
water. They are then kneaded well and rolled very 
thin, cut into fine narrow strips, and dried a short 
time on dishes in the sun or oven ; if you do this they 
must be soaked a short time before putting them into 
the soup, but I often put them in without drying- 
They will require to be boiled a little longer than 
vermicelli. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 27 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Author. 

Beat three eggs very light and mix a saltspoon of 
salt with sifted flour and cold water into a stiff dough, 
knead well, roll thin and cut into narrow strips, and 
drop lightly into the soup; cook ten minutes. If 
wanted for future use they must be dried in the sun 
or in the oven on dishes. They will have to be soaked 
in cold water a few minutes before using. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

One egg, one tablespoon of flour, a little salt, a 
quarter teaspoon baking powder mixed with flour and 
salt, then stir in the beaten egg. Ten minutes before 
serving the soup, drop the batter from the spoon 
into it. 

ONION SOUP. 

Author. 

Put into a saucepan one tablespoonful of butter ; 
when it browns lightly, slice into it two large onions ; 
let them cook through and brown, but do not burn. 
Have ready one quart of milk, heated to boiling point. 
Lay in the. bottom of a tureen two slices of bread, 
broken in inch pieces; lay the cooked onions on the 
bread, pour over them the hot milk, and lastly one 
teacup uncooked cream, salt and pepper. This is a 
delicious soup even without cream. Is nice cold. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Author. 

Dress two ox-tails, disjoint, and with one-fourth 
pound of ham cover with cold water, cook slowly till 



28 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

done, then add any vegetable with six cloves stuck in 
large onion; cook 30 minutes longer, strain and serve. 
If you like it highly seasoned may add a wineglass of 
port wine, catsup to taste and a bay leaf. 

PALESTINE SOUP. 

Author. 

Three pounds Jerusalem artichokes, one turnip, one 
small onion, one head of celery, one pint of cream, 
one teaspoon of pepper, one teaspoon of salt, one 
tablespoon of sugar, three tablespoons of butter, three 
quarts of clear stock. Pare and cut in pieces the 
above vegetables; cover with the clear stock or three 
quarts of boiling water if you haven't the stock ; let 
boil one hour, then add the cream and seasoning. 
Serve with bread which has been cut into dice and 
toasted in the oven. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. No. i. 

Author. 
One gallon of water, three pints of peas, one knuckle 
of veal, one soup bunch, salt and pepper. - Put the 
knuckle of veal in a soup kettle with two quarts of water 
and let it heat gradually ; in fhe remaining two quarts 
of water put the pods of the peas and let them cook 
one-half hour, then strain the liquor off and add it to 
the veal, also the soup bunch ; boil the soup two hours, 
then add peas and cook twenty minutes or one-half 
hour if the peas are old. Strain the soup, mash the 
peas and add and serve. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. No. 2. 
Author. 
Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces. One- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 29 

fourth peck green peas, one gallon of water. Boil the 
empty pods of the peas in the water one hour, strain 
them out, add the beef and boil slowly one and one-half 
hours. Half an hour before serving strain out the 
meat and add the peas; 20 minutes later add one-half 
cup of rice, salt, and pepper to taste. After adding 
the rice stir carefully to prevent burning. Peas meas- 
ure one-fourth peck shelled. If canned peas are used, 
three pints of water will be sufficient for a can when 
boiled; mash, run through a colander, boil this extract 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; pour over 
bread which has been cut into inch cubes and browned 
in the oven. 

PEA SOUP. 

Author. 

Soak a quart of split peas in cold water over night. 
Then put them into a pot with two gallons of water, 
six cold boiled potatoes, two onions sliced, one pound 
of pork, or an old ham bone. Cover very closely ; 
boil very slowly five hours. Season to the taste with 
pepper and salt. One tablespoon of celery seed im- 
parts a fine flavor. Serve the pork on a platter with 
vegetables. 

If canned peas are used, three pints of water will 
be sufficient for a can; when boiled, mash, run through 
a colander. Boil this extract and add a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley; pour over bread which has been 
cut into inch cubes and browned in the oven. 

DRIED PEA SOUP. 

Author. 
Cover a quart of peas with cold water, let stand 



30 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

over night, drain, and pour over them one gallon of 
cold water and add the small hock of a ham, one 
medium sized turnip, one carrot, one large onion, a 
blade of red pepper. Cook three hours. When the 
peas are done, press them through a colander or sieve 
into a tureen, then pour the soup and other ingre- 
dients through a sieve over the peas. Serve. 

PEPPER POT. 

Sister J. H. 

A knuckle of veal, three pounds of cooked tripe, cut 
in squares like dice, four large onions, cut small, four 
large potatoes, cut small, one-half teaspoon each of 
sweet marjoram, sweet basil, summer savory, thyme 
and parsley, well powdered, or if fresh, chop very fine, 
season with salt and pepper. Boil the veal in a gallon 
of water until thoroughly cooked. Take out and strain 
stock. After washing kettle return the stock and add 
the meat cut in small pieces, tripe, onions and potatoes. 
Simmer about an hour, or until all are tender, adding 
herbs about half an hour before taking from fire. At 
the same time add a pint bowl of dumplings. These 
are made of flour and butter, rolled out and cut 
like dice. Many prefer this without the herbs. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Mrs. M. 

Six large potatoes, boiled soft, one large onion, with 
six cloves stuck in it; twelve pepper corns, six allspice, 
two bay leaves and a suspicion of nutmeg. Run all 
through a colander. Have ready one quart of boiling 
milk, which add to the above, salt and pepper to taste. 
This should make two quarts. Pour all in tureen 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 31 

over bread cut in dice, either fried or not, add one 
heaping teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Author. 

Slice four or six potatoes; boil them in one pint of 
water until half done, then add milk, salt and pepper 
and boil one-half hour. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Sister. 

To a gallon of broth add an onion chopped fine, a 
little salt and pepper, and one-half teacup of oatmeal 
made smooth with a little of the broth. Cook about 
twenty minutes, stirring often to prevent burning. 

SCRAP SOUP. 

Author. 

Any fragments of chicken, turkey, veal or beef 
covered with sufficient water (cold) to make the re- 
quired amount of soup; boil slowly two or three 
hours if desired for the noon meal. Put in any veg- 
etables an hour before using. Season to taste, strain 
and serve. A good rule for any one is, one quart of cold 
water to a pint of scraps, three tablespoons of chopped 
mixed vegetables. To a gallon of cold water a pint 
of chopped mixed vegetables and any scraps you have; 
use your judgment. In the quantity of scraps for a 
gallon of water, one-half teacup rice, one large onion, 
one large tomato, one carrot, one potato, three heads 
celery, a little cabbage chopped. 



32 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SPICE SOUP. 

Author. 

Make a stock the day before of five pounds lean meat 
and five quarts of water; boil slowly five hours. Skim off 
grease when cold. When ready to make the soup add 
to the stock the chopped whites and grated yolks of four 
hard-boiled eggs, one chopped onion, one teaspoon each 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, juice of two lemons, 
pepper and salt to taste, ^oil about half an hour. 
Just before taking up add one-half teacup Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

SQUIRREL SOUP. 

This soup is made like Chicken Soup No.i. 

TAPIOCA, MACARONI OR VERMICELLI 
SOUP. 

Author. 

Soak the tapioca in cold water on back of stove; 
let it simmer until clear, when it will be ready to add 
to the clear stock or meat broth. 

Break the macaroni in inch lengths, pour boiling 
salt water over and boil until tender, then add to the 
stock or meat broth. 

Vermicelli may be boiled with the soup and need 
not be soaked. This soup is best made of veal. 
Grated cheese served with it is relished by many. 

TAPIOCA FOR SOUP. 

Author. 

Soak the tapioca in water for 30 minutes, then cook 
till clear and add the stock. 






GRADED COOK BOOK. ^^ 

TOMATO SOUP. No. i. 

Cousin Alice. 

Take two quarts of tomatoes, one small marrow 
bone, one cucumber, one onion, six okras, and three 
pints of water. Wash the tomatoes, scald the water, 
scald the tomatoes in it, and then use it for the soup. 
Rub the tomatoes through a colander. Boil all the 
materials three hours, stirring frequently. When it 
begins to thicken add boiling water until it becomes 
the right consistency. Just before it is done add one 
teaspoonful of flour made smooth in a little cold 
water. Season with cayenne pepper and salt. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 2. 

Cook thoroughly, as for canning, some tomatoes, 
about one quart after they are cooked, season with 
pepper, salt and butter. Then pour into a large tu- 
reen three pints of boiling milk; stir in together a tea- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved in a small quantity of 
cold milk, and the tomatoes. These should be stirred 
in simultaneously with the soda. Add some rolled 
crackers, and serve immediately. This is equal to 
oyster soup. 

COUSIN EVA'S TOMATO SOUP. No. 3. 

Two quarts of rich stock. Make day before, when 
cold remove every particle of grease. One quart 
fresh or best canned tomatoes. Boil with stock thor- 
oughly, and after straining through a fine sieve ex- 
cluding seeds and skin, add a medium sized raw potato 
grated, and after the soup thickens add salt and a dash 
of cayenne pepper. Twenty minutes before serving. 



34 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

add a handful of macaroni letters or figures; or these 
can be cooked separately and added. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 4. 

One large beef soup bone, three quarts cold water; 
boil four hours; cool; skim. An hour before dinner stir 
in one can tomatoes, one onion, one carrot, one full ear 
corn, one-half teacup rice. Mash through a colander 
and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 5. 

Author. 

Stew a quart can of tomatoes, or twelve large ones, 
until soft enough to mash through a colander — about 
ten minutes. After they are strained return them to 
the stove, stir in a scant half teaspoon of soda ; when 
it ceases to foam thicken with two even tablespoons of 
flour creamed with a tablespoon of butter and made 
smooth with a little of the liquid ; then add one quart of 
boiling hot milk, salt, boil five minutes and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 6. 
Mrs. E. Morgan. 
Boil one hour in one quart of water, one pint of 
peeled tomatoes, then add a teaspoon of salt, one of 
soda, one quart of milk and a little rolled cracker. 

TOMATO SOUP. No. 7. 
Mrs. J. W. Little. 

One quart of tomatoes, two tablespoons flour, one 
tablespoon butter, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
sugar, one pint of hot water ; rub flour, butter and a 



GRADED COOK BOOk. 35 

little of the cold tomato together ; let the rest of the 
tomato and water come to a boil. Add the flour, but- 
ter, and seasoning. Boil all together for fifteen min- 
utes and rub through a sieve. Serve with toasted 
bread. Butter the bread, cut in small squares, and 
put in hot oven, buttered side up. 

TURTLE SOUP. No. i. 

Author. 
Cut off the heads the night before and hang up to 
drain off the blood ; in the morning clean, being care- 
ful to remove the gall without breaking, separate the 
parts, scald and take off shells and skin, then cut into 
small pieces and cover with cold water ; boil slowly 
bones and meat till tender, then take out the meat and 
add the bones and liquor to a ?tock made of a shin of 
veal, one-half teacup of chopped ham, small bunch of 
parsley, a clove of garlic, salt and pepper to taste. 

TURTLE SOUP. No. 2. 

Author. 
Cut off the head the night before and hang up to 
drain off the blood. In the morning clean, being care- 
ful to remove the gall without breaking. Separate the 
parts, scald and take off the shell and skin, then cut 
into small pieces and put bones and meat into enough 
cold water to cook the meat; boil slowly until the 
meat is tender, then make stock of four quarts of water, 
four pounds of veal, one-half teacup of chopped ham 
and the liquor the turtle was cooked in, reserving the 
meat for the tureen. Boil the stock slowly for three 
hours, then add one dozen pepper corns, a bunch of 



^6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

parsley, the juice of a lemon, a clove of garlic and 
salt to taste ; boil one hour longer, then strain over 
the pieces of meat. Pour into the tureen a sauce made 
thus: bring a teacup of Madeira wine to the boiling 
point, stir in a tablespoon of butter rolled into a table- 
spoon of flour, and slice in one lemon. 

VARIETY SOUP. No. i. 

Author. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter and a teaspoonful of 
sugar in a pan, then add a teacup of chopped mixed 
vegetables. Allow this to cook until covered with a 
glaze, but not brown; add to this two quarts of clear 
stock, and allow all to cook slowly on the back of 
stove about 30 minutes until the vegetables are done. 

VARIETY SOUP. No. 2. 

Glaze as above, adding a teaspoon of chopped 
parsley, and to the two quarts of stock add a coffee 
cup of milk. Cook as above until the vegetables are 
done. Grate and pour over toasted bread, cut into 
one-half inch cubes or dice. The bread crust must be 
cut into cubes before toasting. 

VEAL SOUP. 

One gallon cold water, one shank of veal, boil slowly 
two hours ; twelve tomatoes, two onions, two turnips, 
two carrots, salt and pepper, chop the vegetables, add 
to the meat and boil one hour longer. Toasted bread 
may be cut in small pieces and laid in the bottom of 
the tureen if desired. 



I 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 37 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cousin Alice. 

Put a pint of Lima beans, a half dozen large toma- 
toes, two teacups of dried corn or corn cut from the 
cob, a few snap-beans, and two teaspoons of dried 
okra into five quarts of water, with three slices of 
lean ham. Boil for two hours and season with salt 
and pepper. Remove the ham before sending to the 
table. Thicken with yellow of egg and a little flour. 
A nice winter soup is made by boiling a few slices of 
lean ham, with a half pint of dried Lima beans, a few 
heads of celery cut up, and turnips and potatoes sliced 
thin. A fourth of a teacupful of dried okra will be a 
nice addition, and a grated carrot, or half a teacup of 
stewed tomatoes, will improve the color. If thick- 
ening is required, add some made of browned 
flour and water. Two tablespoons of pepper- 
sauce will improve it. Put it in after it is in the 
tureen. 

VERMICELLI OR MACARONI SOUP. 

Author. 

Prepare the soup the same as veal stock ; in the 
meantime break the paste into equal lengths, cover 
with water and boil till tender, then add in the pro- 
portion of four ounces of paste to a gallon of soup and 
two heads of celery. In making vermicelli soup with 
vermicelli or Italian letters boil them first in a little 
of the water from the stock and add to the soup 
after it has been strained. 

RICH WHITE SOUP. 
Take a pair of large fat fowls and cut them up. 
Butter the soup pot and put in the pieces, with two 



38 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

pounds of the lean of veal cut in pieces. Season with 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, same of cayenne pepper 
and mace, cover with water and stew slowly for an hour, 
skimming it well. Then take out the breasts and 
wings of the fowls and chop the meat fine, leaving the 
rest stewing. Mix the chopped chicken with the grated 
crumbs of a quarter of a loaf of stale bread, having 
soaked the crumbs in a little warm milk. Have ready 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, one dozen sweet 
almonds and six bitter ones, blanched and broken 
small. Mix eggs, almonds, chicken and bread, pound 
well in a mortar, strain the soup from the meat and 
fowl and stir this mixture in after it is reduced to two 
quarts. Boil separately one quart of cream or rich 
milk, and add it hot to the soup a little at a time, and 
let simmer a few minutes longer. 

WHITE SOUP. 
E. B. M. 
Break up a shin of veal; soak in four quarts of 
cold water two hours; boil with it-one onion, a little 
mace, pepper and salt; simmer five hours; strain ; re- 
move fat; mix two tablespoonfuls ground rice; boil; 
add one pint sweet milk. Boil the veal in the same 
water that you soak it in. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Author. 
Five pounds of chicken, one pound of veal, three 
quarts of cold water, one quart of sweet cream, one 
teacup of grated bread, twelve grated almonds, three 
hard-boiled eggs, one-half teaspoon of cayenne pep- 
per, one-half teaspoon of ground mace, salt. Put the 



¥ 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 39 

chicken, veal, grated bread and cold water in a por- 
celain kettle (or granite or iron kettle) having rubbed 
butter over the bottom. Bring gradually to the boil- 
ing point, add the pepper, salt and mace. Cook slowly 
until the chicken begins to separate from the bones, 
then take from the fire, remove all the meat, and 
strain the broth and skim off the fat ; add to the broth 
finely chopped whites and mashed yolks of the hard- 
boiled eggs, the blanched powdered almonds, let all 
boil ten minutes, then add the cream warm, boil three 
minutes and serve. There should be two quarts of 
broth to one of cream. Do not allow the stock to be 
reduced more than one quart in boiling. 



FISH. 



Fresh fish will be firm, with stiff fins and scales 
bright, with red gills and eyes full. If the fish is 
flabby and the gills brownish, you may be sure it has 
been out of the water too long. When fresh fish is 
cooked it should look white and curdy, not bluish. 
Fresh fish should be cooked the day it is purchased. 
Mackerel spoils very soon. Special care should be 
used in cleansing fish to remove all the blood. If 
desired, the scales may be scraped off with a knife 
when the fish is dry, then trim off the head, fins and 
gills, then open the under side and scrape the back 
clean. Do not break the gall or the fish will taste bit- 
ter ; remove the roes or eggs, wash in cold water 
quickly and dry with a napkin, then lay the eggs 
inside the fish. The roe is a proof that the fish is in 
season. Don't allow fish to soak in water, cover with 
cold water. Crimped fish should be put on in boiling 
water and set on back of stove where it will simmer 
gently. To a gallon of water put four tablespoonfuls 
of salt and a wine glass of vinegar; this will give the fish 
firmness. To tell when the fish is done, probe with a 
knife along a bone; the fish will separate easily if 
done. A fish kettle is almost indispensable; if one 
is used lift the drainer as soon as the fish is done and 

lay it across the kettle for a few moments and cover 

40 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 41 

the fish with a napkin. If a common kettle is used, 
lay the fish in a circle in a plate and run a skewer to 
hold head and tail together, tie a napkin over it and put 
into the kettle and cover with cold water. When done, 
take out by lifting the cloth and slide the fish into 
another napkin and into a dish, or slide into a dish 
carefully and garnish with lemon and parsley; serve 
with Bechemel sauce. Fish having a muddy taste 
must be soaked awhile in strong salt and water 
Many persons salt shad and haddock the night before. 
Salmon should be put on to boil in salt water, when 
boiling, to retain its color. Fish cooks in a few min- 
utes, five minutes to fifteen and so on to the pound, 
according to the thickness. Salt fish must be put to 
soak in cold water the night before, and some fish is 
so salt it requires thirty-six hours to freshen, but salt 
fish, such as cod, may be freshened by pouring in cold 
water, bringing it gently to a boil, pour off, then pre- 
pare for the table. Fish may be decorated with boiled 
shrimps, craw-fish, prawns, or with jelly. When you 
wish to bone fish, cut on one side of the backbone and 
run the knife between the flesh and the bone. Fish is 
much improved after it is prepared for baking by lay- 
ing it in a pan two hours and basting with a mixt- 
ure of vinegar, oil, parsley, onion, thyme and bay 
leaves, say to a half a cup of vinegar mix two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, a little at a time until mixed well, then 
one small onion chopped fine, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of thyme and three bay 
leaves, salt and pepper. In baking fish use very little 
water, butter, pepper and salt well; writing paper but- 
tered is used to cover fish to bake. 

Lay fish in a' wire basket, immerse in hot lard, 



42 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

run skewer in shape of letter ''S." Fish should al- 
ways be well done. Without fish kettle, lay in circle 
on a plate. Olive oil is preferable to fat or drippings. 
Boil large fish; bake medium-sized ones; fry small 
ones. 

Sea bass, river bass and rock fish are boiled in 
weak salt and water over a moderate fire. Serve with 
celery sauce, or parsley and cream sauce; garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs. 

FOR BOILED FISH. 

To each pound of fish allow atablespoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar, half a medium-sized onion and two stalks 
of parsley. One tablespoonful of salt to a quart of 
water (cold). 

BOUILLABAISSE. No. i. 

Slightly fry in stew-pan some onions, shallots and 
parsley; then put in the fish and sufficient water to 
cover; season with pepper and salt, and put in a pinch 
or two of flour; boil for about ten minutes; pour the 
rich gravy obtained over slices of bread and serve the 
fish and the bread and gravy in separate dishes. 

BOUILLABAISSE. No. 2. 

Boil about one pound of small fish with a quart of 
water for rather over one hour, then pour out the 
whole and press the fish through a colander. When this 
thick rich gravy or soup is obtained, proceed as in the 
first recipe, only instead of adding water use the 
fish gravy. Rock fish, sea bass, sturgeon or lobster, 
makes a really good bouillabaisse; crabs may also be 
added. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 43 

CAT FISH. 

Author. 
Clean and boil in weak salt and water, with a clove 
of garlic if liked or a little parsley, if boiled for pie use 
only parsley. When done lay in a pan with paste and 
bake with a top crust. If to fry, dip in beaten egg and 
corn meal. 

BOILED SALT COD. 

Author. 
Soak in cold water over night, lay in kettle and 
cover with cold water; when it reaches the boiling 
point, skim. After boiling three minutes draw to the 
back of stove, keep well covered ten minutes, drain 
and serve at once with Bechemel sauce. 

BOILED FRESH COD. 

Prepare according to directions for fish; put on a 
steamer and into a fish kettle, or fit it in a bag to fit 
the piece of cod, lay in a kettle of water (three 
quarts), bring to a boil and simmer gently till done. 
Three tablespoonfuls of salt, an ounce of vinegar and a 
little horseradish boiled with it improves the flavor. 
Serve with egg sauce, or lemon sliced and parsley. 

BROILED COD. 

Prepare and cut into pieces three inches square, 
flour well and broil with the inside toward the fire; 
turn when it begins to brown; when done lay on a 
platter, add butter, pepper, salt and a little catsup. 

CREAM CODFISH. 

Author. 
One and one-half cups of codfish picked fine. Turn 
on boiling water. Let it scald, then drain. Add one 



44 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

quart rich milk, two tablespoonfuls flour, made smooth 
with some of the above milk and stirred into the hot 
milk; cook until thick like cream. Just before taking] 
from the fire add butter the size of an egg. 

CODFISH BALLS WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 

One pint of potatoes peeled, one scant pint fish 
picked fine. Boil together. When done, drain off 
water and beat together well; add butter the size of 
an egg, a little pepper, and one egg, well beaten. 
Drop in hot lard and cook same as fried cakes. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Cousin Mary. (East Troy.) 

One cup of raw fish, one pint of potatoes, one tea- 
spoonful of butter, one egg well beaten, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Wash the fish, pick up in half-inch 
pieces, cut potatoes in quarters, put both in kettle 
together; cover with boiling water. Boil twenty-five 
minutes; drain and mash. Beat till very light. Butter 
and salt. When slightly cooled add the egg. Fry in 
hot lard one minute. 

BAKED SALT CODFISH WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 

One coffee cup of mashed potatoes, one of cream, 
one teacup of picked codfish, half a teacup of butter, 
two eggs, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Mix pota- 
toes, cream, fish and butter and the well-beaten yolks 
of the eggs; lastly mix lightly through the beaten 
whites; bake about twenty minutes. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 45 

CODFISH OMELETTE WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 

Half a pound codfish, picked fine, three large pota- 
toes. Boil these together. Then add one dessert spoon- 
ful butter, two tablespoonfuls rich milk or cream, one 
egg, beaten separately. Bake ten minutes. Take from 
oven, pour over it one egg beaten separately and mixed 
with a teaspoonful of cream. Set back in oven about 
five minutes. 

CODFISH SOUFFLE WITH FOUR EGGS. 

Author. 
Soak one coffee cup picked codfish in cold water 
five minutes, then drain off and wash well twice in hot 
water; drain off and put the fish in a skillet with one 
pint of sweet milk; bring to a boil; thicken to the 
consistency of cream with a teaspoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold water; then stir in the beaten 
yolks of four eggs and a tablespoonful of butter. This 
preparation makes a solid meal — enough for eight 
persons. 

CODFISH CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. E. Morgan. 

Pick fine one pint of raw fish, cut up in half- 
inch pieces two pints of raw potatoes^ put them both 
together into one quart of water and boil until the po- 
tatoes are done; then drain thoroughly in a colander; 
put in a piece of butter the size of a butternut, mash 
it all together with a potato masher and fry in hot 
lard like crullers. 

CUSK A LA CREME, FIVE EGGS. 

Author. 
Put a fish after cleaning into cold salt and water, heat 



46 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

slowly, and let it simmer till done. Then take out and 
remove the bones, lay on a fish dish and make a sauce 
as follows: put a pint of cream and a pint of milk in 
a saucepan; mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a half 
teacup of butter and stir into the milk smoothly just 
before the milk reaches the boiling point. Then add 
five sprigs of parsley, one-half of a grated nutmeg, 
salt, pepper and the juice of one lemon; strain the 
sauce through a sieve and pour over the fish; then beat 
in the whites of five eggs and spread over the whole. 
Put in oven to brown lightly. Season the whites with 
a little salt and the juice of a lemon. Rich milk may 
be used instead of cream. 

FISH A LA CREME. 

Author. 
Boil three pounds of fish in salted water, when done 
and cold remove skin and bones and flake it. Put 
over the fire one quart of milk; when heated, stir into 
it two tablespoonfuls of flour rolled in two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter; when it is mixed smoothly add a small 
onion chopped fine, three sprigs of parsley, one bay 
leaf, a little thyme and a little grated nutmeg, salt and 
pepper. Cook till like cream, rather thick, remove 
and pass through a sieve, then put a layer of the flaked 
fish, a layer of dressing, until all is used; sprinkle 
cracker crumbs over the top and bake. Some of the 
above seasonings may be omitted if not desired. 

FISH AU GRATIN. 

Author. 
Remove the skin and bone of a two-pound fish, slice 
and lay in a pan, spread with half a teacup of butter, 
a tablespoonful of chopped onion and five sprigs of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 47 

parsley. Pour into the pan half a cup of white wine ; 
salt and pepper the fish, slice four mushrooms and put 
over it ; pour over half a teacup of anchovy sauce ; 
sprinkle a little rolled cracker over the fish, and bake. 
If the flavor of anchovy is not liked it may be omitted, 
and a sauce like the following prepared while it is 
baking to pour over the fish a few minutes before tak- 
ing it from the oven: Brown lightly a teaspoonful of 
flour in two tablespoonfuls of butter, then add a half 
teacup of broth and some of the fish gravy; cook a few 
minutes, then pour over the fish. 

FISH AU GRATIN. 

Mrs. M. 
Put one tablespoonful of finely chopped onion, with 
one glass of wine, into a baking dish. Season some 
slices of fish with pepper and salt ; lay them in also ; 
then sprinkle chopped parsley (and if convenient, 
chopped mushrooms) over them, and pour over all 
one-half pint (or even less) of anchovy sauce, over 
which sprinkle bread crumbs. Place in the oven until 
cooked, — the time will of course vary according to the 
thickness of the slices. Serve in the same dish. 

FISH BALLS WITH TWO EGGS. 
Mrs. S. 
One pint cooked fish, one pint and a half boiled 
potatoes, one tablespoonful (heaping) butter, two eggs, 
salt and pepper. Then make into balls and fry. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

The same proportion as above, but the fish and 
potatoes must be cooked together, and then the other 
ingredients added. 



48 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FISH BALLS WITH TWO EGGS. 

One pint fish, picked fine, one pint and a half raw 
potatoes. Put together and boil until done, then 
drain off the water and beat well together. Add 
butter the size of an egg, two well-beaten eggs. Mix 
thoroughly. Drop from spoon into kettle of hot lard. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Author. 
Fry one-half pound of sliced pork in a kettle; when 
done take out the pork, and lay in the bottom of the 
kettle with the fat, one large onion chopped fine, a 
layer of fresh white fish or cod, then a layer of thin 
sliced Irish potatoes; pour over all a pint of water, 
stew thirty minutes, then add a pint of sweet milk 
thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour, pepper to 
taste. Boil up and serve. 

FISH CROQUETTES WITH THREE EGGS. 

Author. 

One pint cooked fresh fish, one tablespoonful cream, 
one tablespoonful melted butter, one teaspoonful 
chopped onion, two eggs, salt and pepper. Separate 
the fish from the bones, chop fine, add the other ingre- 
dients, roll into balls, dip into beaten egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry in leaf lard and butter, or dip in 
cracker dust, egg and cracker dust again, and fry in 
kettle of hot lard. Serve with cream gravy. 

FISH PUDDING WITH SIX EGGS. ^ 

Selma (Author's Cook). 
Lay a white fish weighing two pounds in cold water 
for one hour, then pick carefully the meat from the 
bones. To this add one-fourth pound of butter, lay 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 



49 



in a porcelain kettle, beat the whole with a potato 
masher until the flakes look white and smooth. Then 
stir in a tablespoonful of flour, one-half tablespoonful 
salt, six eggs, beaten separately and together. Beat 
all together, and fill a tin basin, and set the basin 
inside a steamer. Cover tightly and boil two hours. 
Turn out on a platter, bottom side up, which will 
give it form. Serve with caper sauce. Have on the 
table both Worcestershire and caper sauces. Some 
like the addition of Worcestershire sauce. 

FRIED FISH. 

Author. 

Prepare fish and roll in flour, or dip in egg and then 
into rolled cracker ; place in a wire basket if you have 
one, and immerse in smoking hot lard and fry till a 
nice brown ; serve with parsley. 

ESCALLOPED FISH WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 

Dip an uncooked fish in boiling water, take out in- 
stantly so as not to lose the juice; bone and skin the 
fish. Rub a clove of garlic over a baking dish, or put 
in a layer of finely chopped onion, and a few bits of 
butter, then the fish, which you have sprinkled with 
salt and pepper. Make a sauce of one teacup of boil- 
ing water thickened with a luniip of butter size of a 
hickory nut, rolled into a teaspoonful of flour, and 
add the juice of one lemon. Pour this sauce over the 
fish and cover with a beaten egg and sprinkle over 
with cracker crumbs. Bake and serve in the same 
dish. 



5© GRADED COOK BOOK. 

HADDOCK WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 

Prepare and cut into square pieces, or steaks, put 
into the oven and let it remain until the skin begins to 
rise, then take out and dip into beaten yolk of an egg, 
then bread crumbs ; place on a buttered gridiron over 
clear coals. When done serve with drawn butter sauce. 

BAKED HADDOCK WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 

Prepare the same as cod. Make a dressing of one 
coffee cup of bread crumbs, one-half cup butter, one 
tablespoonful of savory herbs, the rind of half a lemon 
grated, salt and pepper to taste, and the yolk of one 
egg; mix and fill; brush over the outside with the 
white of an egg, strew bread crumbs over this and 
bake. Can be baked in long pan, or curl the tail in its 
mouth and bake in round pan. Serve with anchovy, 
Bechemel, or caper sauce. 

FINNAN HADDOCK. 

This fish should be soaked, dried, and boiled with 
the addition of bits of butter, then it is ready for the 
table. 

HALIBUT A LA CREME. 
Contributed. 

Cut two onions in one-half pint of water, and add a 
little mace and parsley. When boiled, add one quart 
of milk or cream, one tablespoonful of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and strain all through a sieve. 
Take four pounds of well boiled halibut or other fish; 
salted while boiling; flake it, butter a good-sized 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 



51 



baking dish, and put first a layer of fish, then some of 
the dressing, and so on alternately, until the dish is 
full. Put grated bread crumbs on the top, and bake 
it one hour. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Author. 

Soak for one hour in cold salt and water about five 
pounds of fish, then lay in a dripping pan with very 
little water, and more butter or all butter according 
to taste. Allow ten minutes to the pound. Serve 
with a sauce made as follows: To a coffee cup of boil- 
ing water mix a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into 
two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, and a tablespoon- 
ful of walnut catsup, and the juice of one lemon. 
Pour into a sauce boat after it is cooked. 

Note. — Perch, bass, carp, flounder, pike, pickerel, 
blue and black fish and white are cooked alike. 

BOILED HALIBUT. 

Author. 

Soak in cold salt and water an hour about four or 
five pounds for a private family, lay in a kettle with 
weak salt and water, heat gradually, and after it be- 
gins to boil allow ten minutes to the pound. When 
done drain and serve with egg sauce or parsley sauce. 
Pour sauce from sauce boat. 

HERRINGS. 

Author. 

Fresh, salt smoked or red herrings. Fresh herrings 
are prepared like any fresh fish; salt herring must be 
soaked in cold or tepid water until freshened, tepid is 



52 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 



best, and prepared like mackerel; red herring must be 
skinned, split, cleaned, and the backbone removed 
and cooked by general rules for fish. Serve with 
vinaigrette with mustard to taste. 

BROILED FRESH MACKEREL. 

Author. 

Clean, wash quickly, and dry with a linen cloth, 
rub salt inside and out, lay on a double gridiron which 
has been well greased, broil over fresh coals, turning 
often, butter and send to table. Mackerel loses its 
flavor in a short time after leaving the water, and 
spoils sooner than any other fish. 

BROILED SALT MACKEREL. 

Author. 
Soak over night in cold water, and if too salt in the 
morning change for more cold water until ready to 
broil; wipe dry, and lay on a double gridiron which 
has been greased. Broil over clear coals. I suggest 
double gridiron because the fish can be turned with- 
out breaking. 

FRIED PERCH. 

Author. 

Scale and clean these as any pan fish, dip in beaten 
egg, then cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

BAKED PICKEREL. 

Author. 

Pickerel may be baked and served with the same 
sauce as salmon trout. 

FRIED TROUT AND PICKEREL. 

Author. 

Clean and dry carefully, roll lightly in flour, fry to 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 53 

a light brown in butter and lard mixed. Put them in 
when the butter and lard become boiling hot. Do not 
fry to a crisp brown, as it takes away the delicate flavor. 
Serve at once. 

BOILED SALMON. 
Author. 

Boil salmon in salted, boiling water ; the fish re- 
tains its color when cooked in this way. Serve with 
melted butter and juice of a lemon. Garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Note. — Cucumber salad and peas are good with 
boiled salmon. 

BAKED SALMON, TROUT OR PICKEREL. 

Author. 

May be prepared the same as shad. The sauce for 
salmon may be varied by making a drawn butter 
sauce, and adding instead of cream, port wine or 
lemon juice to taste, and Worcestershire sauce. 

BAKED SALMON TROUT. 

Author. 
Clean carefully, wash, wipe dry, and lay in a pan 
with butter and water, or butter to taste. Have ready 
a sauce, made of a cup of cream thickened with a tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch dissolved in very little milk, 
a tablespoonful of butter, and a tablespoonful of chop- 
ped parsley. Pour over the fish after it is laid in the 
hot dish and serve at once. 

BROILED SMOKED SALMON. 

Wash the smoked salmon in cold water, lay in a 
skillet and cover with cold water, gradually heat and 



54 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

allow to simmer five minutes ; this will free it from 
the salt and rank taste ; then remove, wipe dry and 
broil over clear coals on a buttered gridiron. After 
you have buttered the fish, add drops of lemon juice, 
and garnish with parsley. ^ 

BOILED SALMON TROUT. 

Author. 

Clean and wash carefully, lay in a fish kettle, or if 
you have none fold in a thin cloth just enough to fit 
the shape, and put into a kettle with cold salt and 
water, heat gradually, boil until done and serve with 
sauce the same as for baked salmon trout. 

^ DEVILLED SALMON. 
Mrs. F. B. Jones, Washington, D. C. 

One can salmon picked fine, one small cup bread 
crumbs; sauce, one pint milk, when boiling hot stir in 
one-half tablespoonful dissolved flour, one teaspoonful 
butter. When thick take from fire, add a small one- 
half cup Worcestershire sauce, juice of lemon. Pepper 
and salt salmon, add sauce ; put bread crumbs on top. 
A little cream to moisten crumbs will make it take a 
better brown. Bake quickly, and serve hot. Bake in 
little dishes if you have them, one for each person ; if 
not, in square tin, and dip out with care. If used as 
croquettes, save half the sauce to heat and serve with 
them. 

KIPPERED SALMON. 

Author. 

This fish should be wrapped in buttered paper, and 
broiled on a greased gridiron. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 55 

SHAD. 

Author. 

Clean, wash and dry with a napkin, sew up in a 
cheese cloth bag, boil in salted water, serve with 
drawn butter sauce with lemon sliced in. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs sliced, and sprigs of parsley. 

SALT SHAD. 

Author. 

Must be soaked over night in cold water, or the 
water changed often if the fish is required the same 
day. Put on the fire in cold water, bring to a boil, 
change for boiling water, cook till tender. Garnish as 
above and serve with a sauce. Boil a teaspoonful chop- 
ped parsley in a teacup of cream five minutes, then 
beat in the mixture the yolk of an egg, boil three min- 
utes longer, salt and pepper and serve. When the egg 
is added the cream must be drawn to the back of the 
stove ; mix and bring forward to thicken, stirring all 
the time. 

BROILED SHAD. 

Author. 

Wash, split, and dry with a cloth and lay upon a 
gridiron which has been greased. Broil over clear 
coals fifteen minutes. Butter generously, and serve 
with lemon and parsley. 

BAKED SHAD OR WHITEFISH. 

Author. 

For a medium-size fish make a filling of half pint 
of old bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of butter, must- 
ard spoon of salt and pepper each, one egg if desired. 



56 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

and an even tablespoonful of parsley. Work butter 
and crumbs together, add seasoning and egg and bind. 
If egg is not used, a little cold water will be required 
to mix, but very little, however. Fill the fish, tie a 
string firmly about it, and bake about one hour. If 
preferred, pork chopped fine may be used instead of 
butter Flour and butter put on the fish will brown it 
well. Serve with sauce Tartare, tomato or anchovy 
sauce. 

TO BAKE A SHAD, OR WHITEFISH. 

Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, 
butter, and a little parsley, mix it up with the beaten 
yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity of 
stuffing required ; fill the fish with it, and tie a string 
firmly about it. Pour over it a little water and some 
butter, and bake as you would a fowl. A shad will re- 
quire from an hour to an hour and a quarter to bake. 
Whitefish not quite as long. Rockfish is baked in 
the same way, but requires a longer time to cook. 

TO BOIL SALT SHAD OR MACKEREL. 

Dixie Cook Book. 

If very salt, the fish must be soaked twelve hours in 
plenty of cold water. Or if the water is changed, a 
shorter time will be required. Put it into a skillet or 
frying-pan, with cold water enough to cover it, and let 
it boil fifteen minutes. Then change the water for 
fresh hot water, and after boiling in this for fifteen 
minutes longer, take it up and serve with drawn but- 
ter, and garnish with parsley. Another nice way to 
dress salt fish, is to boil together for ten minutes a tea- 
cup of cream, some cut parsley, and a little butter and 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 57 

pepper, and if the cream is not very thick, a beaten 
yolk of an egg, and pour it over the fish when it is 
ready to send to the table. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

Author. 

Get them as fresh as possible, wash very little, dry 
carefully, dip in beaten egg and cracker dust and fry 
in hot lard to a delicate brown ; or roll in flour and 
fry in a little lard and butter. Arrange them side by 
side and garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of 
parsley. It improves smelts to lay them in milk a few 
minutes. 

BAKED WHITEFISH. 

Prepare as above, make a filling as follows : Grated 
bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and melted butter to taste; 
parsley chopped fine if desired. Sew up, dredge flour 
over it, lay in a dripping pan with a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, and bake about three-quarters of 
an hour, basting now and then ; take from the oven 
when done, cut the threads and serve. Shad may be 
served in the same way, but it takes a little longer to 
bake. 

BOILED WHITEFISH FRITTERS. 

Author. 

One cup flaked fish, one-half cup grated bread, one- 
half cup mashed potatoes, one-half cup cream, two 
eggs, add pepper and salt, mix ingredients, make into 
balls, dip into the beaten whites of the two eggs, then 
into the cracker crumbs. Fry in a saucepan of hot 
lard. 



58 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TO BROIL WHITEFISH. 

Scale, wash and split down the back ; lay on a broiler 
on hot coals ; turn often to keep juices in ; cook well ; 
lay on hot platter and season with salt, pepper and 
butter ; serve with slices of lemon. 

TO FRY FISH. 

Scale, split down the back, wash, dry, season with 
salt and pepper, dust with flour and fry with a slice or 
two of salt pork in pork drippings. 

TO FRY WHITEFISH. 

Prepare as above, cut in squares, dip in beaten egg 
and cracker dust, and fry in hot lard. 

ESCALLOPED WHITEFISH WITH ONE EGG. 

One pint of flaked white fish, one-half cup of rolled 
crackers, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, one 
egg, pepper and salt. 

STEAMED WHITEFISH. 

Three pounds fish, one-fourth pound salt pork, two 
slices of bread one-eighth inch thick, season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Chop the bread and pork very 
fine and stuff the fish ; sew up, put the fish in a 
cloth, lay in steamer, and steam three-quarters of an 
hour ; garnish with parsley. Lake trout may be 
cooked in the same way. 

Dressing. — One cup of boiling water, one table- 
spoonful of butter thickened with an even tablespoon- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 59 

ful of flour dissolved in a little milk, and one table- 
spoonful of cream. Boil two eggs hard and slice into 
the gravy boat. 

SUGGESTION. 

»Whitefish baked is very nice with the addition of a 
little salt pork, chopped very fine and added to the 
filling. 



SHELL FISH, 



Oysters when stale are white and not firm and gray- 
ish, and will adhere to the fork when passed through 
them. 

TO FATTEN OYSTERS. 

Author. 
,Wash them well, sprinkle over them salt and corn 
meal, cover with cold water, laying the concave side 
down, change the water every twenty-four hours, and 
sprinkle each time with the meal and salt. Keep the 
tub in a cool place covered with an old blanket. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

Scoop out of a cake of ice a cavity large enough to 
hold the oysters, garnish with slices of lemon, and 
serve at once. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Prof. Blot. 
Put one quart of oysters with their liquor in a sauce- 



6o GRADED COOK BOOK. 

pan, with one pint of cold water, and set it on a good 
fire. Take from the fire at the first boil, and skim. 
Take the oysters from the pan with a skimmer, and 
put them in the soup dish. By keeping the soup dish 
in a warm but not hot place the oysters will not 
harden. Add to the juice in the saucepan a gill of 
white wine; give one boil and take from the fire. Mix 
two ounces of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour 
in a bowl; turn the juice and wine into the bowl 
also, and mix the whole well; put the mixture back 
into the saucepan, and set it on the fire, adding 
about half a dozen mushrooms, two or three stalks of 
parsley, and pepper to taste. Boil two minutes, turn 
over the oysters through a strainer, and serve. The 
mushrooms may also be turned into the soup dish. 

DRY OYSTER STEW. 

Author. 
To the liquor from one quart of select oysters add 
one teacup of boiling water. Bring to a boil and skim, 
then add two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
the oysters. When the oysters curl, take them out 
and add to the liquor two tablespoonfuls of cracker 
dust, not the crumbs. Pour over the oysters and serve. 

OYSTER SOUP. No. i. 
Author. 

Drain the liquor from one quart of oysters, add this 
to one quart of milk. When this reaches the boiling 
point add one tablespoonful of butter, when melted put 
in the oysters; leave only until they curl, when add 
one-half teacup of cream, and one-half teacup rolled 
crackers. Season with salt and pepper. Do not add 
any water, and use only select oysters. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 6l 

OYSTER SOUP. No. 2. 

Author. 

One quart oysters, three quarts of water, one pint 
cream, six soda crackers, pepper, salt and one teacup of 
butter. Strain liquor from oysters and add it to the 
water, when it boils add butter, salt, pepper and 
oysters. When the oysters curl remove them to the 
tureen and add to the soup the cream and rolled 
crackers. Let boil up and pour into the tureen. 

OYSTER SOUP. No. 3. 

Strain the liquor from two quarts of oysters, add to 
it an equal quantity of water. Put it on to boil, and 
skim it, then throw in a little white pepper, a head of 
celery cut in small pieces, and a third of a pound of 
butter, with two teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed in it. Boil 
it five minutes longer, and put in the oysters and a 
pint of cream, and after one more boil pour into the 
tureen, in which have some toasted bread cut in small 
pieces, and a little finely cut parsley. 

FRIED OYSTERS. No. i. 

Cousin Eva. 

Procure large plump oysters, selects, spread them 
between two pieces of linen, and leave them till the 
moisture is absorbed. Beat an egg, adding pepper 
and salt. Dip the oysters in the egg, then roll in fine 
cracker crumbs until they are well covered. Fry in 
part lard and butter. Place napkins in platter in 
which oysters are to be served. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and parsley. 



62 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FRIED OYSTERS. No. 2. 
Author. 
Select large, fine oysters. Drain off the juice. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt; dip in fine cracker crumbs, 
then in well-beaten egg, and again in the crumbs. 
Drop in boiling lard and fry the same as doughnuts. 
They brown much better if a little beef suet is added 
to the lard. Lift with a skimmer. 

FRIED OYSTERS. No. 3. 

Author. 
Drain or scrape the oysters. Dip in egg and fine 
rolled cracker crumbs. Season with salt and pepper. 
Brown lightly a tablespoonful of butter, put in a layer 
of oysters ; turn as they brown ; take out, and put in 
more butter and fry another layer, and so on. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. No. i. 

Fill a buttered dish with alternate layers of oysters 
and grated bread-crumbs, pepper, butter, and salt, (a 
piece of mace to each layer is an addition), have a 
thick layer of crumbs on top. Place in a moderately 
heated oven, and bake fully an hour. When it com- 
mences to brown on top, place a paper over it, and 
allow to bake thoroughly through, then remove the 
paper and brown to a rich color on top. No oyster 
liquor need be put in, as there will be enough when 
they are cooked. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. No. 2. 

Contributed. 

For a five-quart pan, take two quarts of oysters 
and one pound of small butter crackers, rolled fine. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 6^ 

Put a thick layer of cracker in the bottom of the pan. 
Take the oysters upon a fork and cover them with 
rolled cracker, then cut a piece of butter half the size 
of an egg into small bits, and place them around upon 
the oysters, sprinkling a little salt (not more than 
quarter of a teaspoonful), with a little pepper, over 
all. Repeat this until all the oysters and crackers are 
used, putting a layer of cracker upon the top. Pour 
upon the whole cream or milk, until you can just see 
it around the edge of the pan. Bake in a slow oven 
for one hour and a half, or two hours. When thor- 
oughly heated, put a little more butter upon the top, 
to make them brown nicely. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. No. 3. 

Author. 
Crush and roll several handfuls of crackers ; put a 
layer in the bottom of a buttered dish. Wet this with 
a mixture of the oyster juice and milk ; next a layer 
of oysters ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and lay 
small bits of butter upon them ; then another layer of 
moistened crumbs, and so on until the dish is full. 
Let the top layer be of crumbs, and thicker than the 
rest ; beat an egg into the milk you pour over them ; 
put pieces of butter on top ; cover the dish ; bake half 
an hour. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. No. 4. 
Cousin Eva. 
Cleanse the shells thoroughly. Open the oysters, 
remove upper half of shell, drain off a portion of the 
liquor ; sprinkle thickly with cracker dust ; add small 
piece of butter, a little pepper and salt. Put oysters 
in dripping pan, and bake them a light brown. Serve 
with slices of lemon. 



64 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

OYSTER PANCAKES WITH TWO EGGS. 

Mrs. S. 
Mix together equal measures of oyster juice and 
milk. To a pint of this mixture, put a pint of wheat 
flour, a few oysters, two eggs, and a little salt. Fry 
till nicely browned. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Author. 

Lay the oysters separately on a linen cloth for a few 
minutes, then separately on a hot skillet ; as soon as 
they curl remove from the fire, season with salt, pep- 
per and butter, and lay on slices of buttered toast ; 
pour over them the liquor which oozes from them in 
cooking. (I rub a linen cloth moistened with butter 
over the skillet to prevent sticking, and I keep an old 
tablecloth to absorb the moisture from the oysters.) 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. H., Omaha. 
Drain your oysters perfectly dry in a colander, then 
put into a frying pan a half teacup of butter. When 
hot throw in your oysters, and salt and pepper them ; 
toss them about in the pan, and serve hot ; add a little 
mace. Do not use the liquor at all, as there will be 
plenty from the heating. 

OYSTER PATTIES WITH TWO EGGS. 
Author. 
Bake rich puff paste in small patty pans and set 
aside to cool. Put over the fire, one coffee cup of oys- 
ter liquor with a blade of mace and five cloves ; when 
boiled enough to flavor, throw in the oysters and boil 
till they curl. Take out the oysters, and mix with this 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 65 

liquor the mashed yolk of two hard-boiled eggs, one 
teaspoonful butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Pour this 
over the oysters, and fill the patties — two or three oys- 
ters to each patty. The liquor should be of the con- 
sistency of cream. Garnish with rings made of the 
whites of the eggs. These patties may be made 
with a double crust or like a turnover. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTER PIE. 
Author. 
Roll crackers very fine, salt and mix with butter as 
you would for pie-crust, then roll out, put a layer of 
crust and a layer of oysters, pepper, salt, and small 
pieces of butter, so on, until all is used ; when it be- 
gins to bake put over the top a little more butter to 
brown the pie. 

OYSTER PIE WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 

Drain off the liquor from a quart of oysters ; put on 
to boil with a tablespoonful of butter, teaspoonful of 
salt, and a little pepper. Mix one even tablespoonful of 
flour with a teacup of cream and stir into the oyster 
liquor ; allow to thicken like cream, then stir in the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, throw in the oysters last, and 
let cook three minutes. Cover a buttered dish with a 
paste, support the lid of paste with a cup made of 
paper, bake ; then remove the cover, take out the cup, 
fill dish with oysters and gravy, and set in the oven a 
few moments, until they curl. Remove from the oven, 
and put on the cover and serve. 

OYSTER PIE 

Author. 
Line a deep dish with a rich paste ; fill with oysters 



66 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

and pour over a sauce made as follows : One pint of 
oyster liquor brought to the boil, and skimmed ; 
thicken with one tablespoonful of flour dissolved in a 
little cold milk ; add one-half teacup cream, pepper 
and salt to taste, and pour over the oysters. Cover 
with crust, and bake about twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. 

OYSTER CHICKEN PIE. 

Author. 

Cut up a chicken and stew in as little boiling water 
as possible. When done take out the chicken, and 
thicken the liquor with a tablespoonful of flour dissolved 
in a little cold milk ; add to this a pint of oyster 
liquor. When about as thick as cream, pour over the 
chicken, and bake in a dish lined with pie paste. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt before baking. 
Ten minutes before the pie is doye lift up the crust 
and add the oysters and one-half teacup of cream. 

OYSTER BISQUE WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 

One can select oysters, one teacup cream, butter size 
of a hickory nut, one egg, well beaten, two soda 
crackers, rolled very fine. Put the oysters on in their 
own liquor, let them boil up once ; take out the oysters 
and skim the liquor. To this liquor add the butter 
then the egg, a little salt, pepper and a blade of mace, 
then the cracker dust, lastly the oysters, which have 
been minced. Serve hot; nice for lunches. 

TO ROAST OYSTERS. 

Author. 
Wash and dry shell oysters. Put in a very hot oven 
or on a gridiron, always having the upper shell down, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 67 

SO as to retain the juices. When the shells open lay 
on a hot platter and serve with melted butter, cayenne 
pepper and salt. 

BROILED OYSTERS. No. i. 

Author. 

Drain the oysters well and dry them with a napkin. 
Have ready a hot skillet, lay in a few oysters at a time, 
so they will not touch each other. Take them up as 
soon as they curl at each end. Serve on buttered 
toast. 

BROILED OYSTERS. No. 2. 
Author. 

Lay oysters on an old linen tablecloth or napkin to 
drain ; roll in fine cracker crumbs and place on the 
broiler ; cook till they puff up, then serve on buttered 
toast. Season with pepper and salt. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Author. 

Lay the oysters on a napkin in a steamer and cover 
until they puff up. Serve on buttered toast with 
drawn butter sauce. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. No. i. 

Author. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of vinegar, one even 
tablespoonful whole pepper, one teaspoonful whole all- 
spice, two blades of mace. Drain the liquor from the 
oysters ; add to it one-half cup boiling water, and an 
even teaspoonful- salt. When this boils throw in the 



68 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

oysters and let them remain until they curl. In the 
meantime boil the vinegar and spice, which pour 
over the oysters after they have been scalded. These 
will keep several days. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. No. 2. 
Author. 
One pint of oysters, three tablespoonf uls vinegar, one- 
half teaspoon each allspice and mace. Boil vinegar 
and spice five minutes ; throw in oysters and let them 
cook about a minute. When done skim out spice, 
unless you wish the flavor pronounced. 

SCRAMBLED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. M. 
Put your oysters in a colander, and allow all the 
liquor to run through. Into this liquor put a lump of 
butter about as large as a walnut, some pepper and 
salt. Put it on the stove and let it get thoroughly hot, 
then put your oysters into it. Have ready some bread 
nicely toasted, place it on a flat dish, and when the 
oysters are thoroughly cooked pour them over the 
toast. 

OYSTER FRICASSEE WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
One quart oysters, drained as dry as possible. Put 
a piece of butter the size of an egg into a hot spider, 
and let it get quite brown; then put in the oysters, and 
as soon as they commence to cook add as much more 
butter which has been well mixed with a tablespoonful 
of flour. Let it cook a moment, and add one egg^ 
beaten with a tablespoonful of cream. Let this cook 
a moment and pour over toasted bread. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 69 

OYSTER FRICASSEE. No. 2. 

Author. 

Split open nine soda crackers (the large square ones), 
lay them in a hot oven for a few minutes, then lay 
them on a platter and pour over them oyster sauce 
made of one coffee cup of cream, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of flour and a pint of oysters 
pepper and salt. Mix the flour with a little milk and 
thicken the cream when it reaches the boiling point, 
add butter, pepper and salt, then pour in the oysters, 
and leave them until they curl at the ends, steam and 
pour over the crackers. 

OYSTER FRITTERS WITH ONE EGG. 

Aunt M. 
One pint of oysters, one egg, whipped light, pepper 
and salt, half a cup of milk, flour, cut up oysters and 
mix in. 

OYSTER FRITTERS WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 
One cup flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful olive oil, 
salt and pepper to taste, enough oyster liquor and milk 
to make a thin batter, and add oysters. Fry in kettle 
of hot lard, same as fried cakes. Serve with lemon. 

OYSTER GUMBO. 

Cousin Julia, Mobile. 
Cut up a chicken, sprinkle with flour and lay in the 
vessel in which the gumbo is to be made. When 
nearly done chop an onion and fry with it ; pour over 
this three quarts of boiling water and let it boil 
until the flesh drops off; now pour on the liquor of 
the oysters, salt and pepper to taste, two tablespoonfuls 



70 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of tomato sauce; let it boil a short time, and then add 
fifty select oysters or one hundred small oysters ; 
let boil only five minutes. When taken from the fire 
put in two tablespoonfuls of file. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Author. 
One quart of oysters, one coffee cup of cream, one 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper. Put the liquor, 
cream and butter in a saucepan, bring to the boiling 
point and add the oysters, which cook till they curl ; 
season with salt and pepper, and serve on toast. 

OYSTER MACARONI WITH ONE EGG. 

E. B. M. 
Boil macaroni ; put in a dish alternate layers of 
macaroni and oysters ; season with butter, pepper and 
salt. Spread over the top grated bread with beaten 
egg. Bake. 

SPICED OYSTERS. * 

Mrs. J. Fulton. 
Pick over and wash the oysters, strain the liqut)r, 
and pour it over the oysters again. Then put over the 
fire with cloves, mace and pepper, and let them come 
to a boil, then skim them. When quite cool, add 
enough vinegar to suit your taste, and slice a lemon 
into it. 



CLAMS. 



CLAM CHOWDER. No. i. 

Author. 
Slice one-fourth pound salt pork and fry to a crisp 
brown, then chop it fine ; slice two onions and fry 
brown in the pork fat ; next slice three good-sized 
potatoes thin, and split five crackers and dip in milk. 
Now put a layer of chopped pork, a layer of clams, a 
layer of chopped onions (browned), a layer of the 
soaked cracker, then the sliced potatoes. Put a little 
butter, pepper and salt over each layer, so on, until the 
kettle is full, cover with three quarts of cold water and 
boil three-quarters of an hour. Drain off the liquor from 
the chowder, and put chowder in a tureen. Thicken 
the liquor with a little flotir dissolved in cold water ; 
add a glass of white wine and a tablespoonful of cat- 
sup and pour over the chowder. 

CLAM CHOWDER. No. 2. 
Author. 
Wash the clams and place them in a stew-pan filled 
with boiling water, put the cover on firmly and let 
them stand ten minutes ; then remove the clams, cut 
off the black heads, flour them, and season with pep- 
per and salt, two blades of mace and half a nutmeg 
grated. Put two quarts of the liquor into a sauce-pan. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a lump of butter 
size of an egg and stir into the liquor, put in the clams 
and let them boil fifteen minutes ; remove from the 
stove and stir in half a pint of cream. 

71 



72 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CLAM CHOWDER. No. 3. 

Author. 

Cover the bottom of a kettle with thin slices of salt 
pork, then a layer of thin sliced raw potatoes, then a 
layer of chopped onions, a layer of tomatoes sliced, a 
layer of chopped clams and a layer of crackers ; pep- 
per and salt each layer ; a little thyme or mace or bay 
leaves may be used to flavor if liked. Cover with cold 
water, cook till done. If too thick, add water ; if too 
thin, cook a little longer. 

BOILED CLAMS WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 

Scrub the shells clean and put over the fire for a few 
minutes when the heat will open them ; cut them in 
halves or three pieces, put them in a pan with salted 
water, or the water which oozed from them, one-fourth 
pound of butter to fifty clams ; cook about an hour, then 
stir in the yolks of two eggs and serve at once. 

Clams are liked by many raw with vinegar, pepper 
and salt. 

CLAM PANCAKES WITH TWO EGGS. 

Mrs. S. 

Make a thick batter of flour and milk. Put to each 
pint of milk two eggs and a few clams. The clams 
may be put in whole after being first stewed ; or they 
may be only taken out of the shell and chopped fine. 



LOBSTERS. 



LOBSTER. 

Author. 

Choose lobsters by weight, not by their size, the 
heaviest being the best. Lobsters are not so good 
when full of eggs. Use all of the lobster except the 
stomach and the blue vein running along its back and 
tail. Lobsters boiled after they are dead are watery 
and soft. The male is preferred for boiling, the flesh 
is firmer, the shell a brighter red ; the female is best 
for salads on account of its coral. The male lobster 
has a narrower tail. A lobster put into cold water 
will be killed as soon as the water gets warm, but most 
persons throw the lobster in boiling water, although 
the flesh is firmer when cold water is used. Twenty- 
five minutes is required to boil a lobster ; when done, 
separate body from tail, lay in a colander to drain, 
then proceed. Split the tail lengthwise, do not break 
the body and large claws; remove the vein found under 
the shell all along the back, throw away the stomach 
found near the head. Mix the flesh cut into dice, and 
inside of the lobster with salt and pepper, oil, mustard 
and vinegar, and parsley if desired. The lobster shell 
may be laid in a dish with the claws and feelers 
stretched out, the flesh laid around it and garnished 
with sliced hard-boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley. 

LOBSTER BISQUE. 

Author. 
Cut up the lobster from one can and stew twenty 

73 



74 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

minutes in three pints of water ; then add cream, 
one pint, half teacup butter and lastly salt and pepper, 
and three large soda crackers rolled fine ; serve at 
once. 

BOILED LOBSTER. 

Author. 

Put sufficient water to cover the lobster and allow 
an even tablespoonful of salt to each quart of water. 
When the water boils hard put in the lobster head 
first, this will kill it instantly. Boil hard twenty min- 
utes or longer, according to weight, then take out of 
the water with tongs. Rub butter over it with a linen 
cloth after wiping off the scum. Take off the large 
claws and crack at each joint ; lay in a napkin in a 
long dish, arrange the claws along the side, and garn- 
ish with sprigs of parsley. Serve with drawn butter 
and slices of lemon. 

BROILED LOBSTER. 

Author. 
Remove the meat from the shells, mix lightly 
through it bits of butter and a little pepper, return the 
meat to the shells and lay the shells on a hot gridiron 
for about fifteen minutes. Serve in the shells. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Take the meat and fat of a tender fresh lobster, 
chop it very fine, add salt, pepper, mace and butter. 
To three-quarters of a pint of cream boiled, stir in 
one-quarter of a pound of butter, and three table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add this to the lobster ; shape the 
croquettes, dip them in yolk of egg and rolled cracker, 
fry in butter to a light brown, serve hot. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 75 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Author. 
Pour a coffee cup of cream into a sauce-pan with 
one-half teacup of butter, just before it reaches the 
boiling point stir in a scant cup of flour dissolved in a 
little milk; when thickened sufficiently take from the 
stove and stir in the chopped meat and fat of a fresh 
lobster which you have seasoned with pepper, salt and 
a little grated nutmeg ; make into balls, dip in a 
beaten egg and then into rolled cracker. Fry in hot 
butter and lard. 

ESCALLOPED LOBSTER. 
Chop fine the meat of a boiled lobster, season with 
salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
the juice of one lemon, a tablespoonful of butter, one 
teacup of cream ; let boil up, put into a baking dish, 
sprinkle cracker crumbs over and bake. 

LOBSTER FARCI WITH TWO EGGS. 
To four pounds of lobster use the following: 
Put one tablespoonful of flour or cornstarch in a 
sauce-pan ; rub one tablespoonful of butter with it 
until smooth. Add one pint of milk ; stir until it boils, 
then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, one full 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, stir in lobster 
briskly after it is shredded fine. Fill the shells ; sprinkle 
thickly with cracker dust ; add a piece of butter 
soaked in sherry wine. Bake in brisk oven. Chicken, 
white fish or clams are good prepared in this way. 

LOBSTER FANCY. 

Author. 
Mince the meat and coral of a boiled lobster and 
heat it through in a sauce made thus: a wineglass of 



76 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

lemon juice, half teacup of butter and a teaspoonful 
of made mustard, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs, and serve at 
once. 

LOBSTER PATTIES WITH TWO EGGS. 
Author. 
Mince the meat and mash the coral of a boiled lob- 
ster ; mix with it two hard-boiled eggs grated, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter or salad oil, one-half 
cup of cream, a little mace, pepper and salt. Bring 
all to a boil, remove from the fire, cool and fill patty- 
pans which are ready with baked puff paste. Bake 
the mixture and serve. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 
Cut the lobster into small pieces with the green fat 
and a little of the roe ; put them in a sauce-pan with 
a little water or white veal stock, a piece of butter 
braided with flour, a little pepper, salt, and a glass of 
white wine. Let it stew ten or fifteen minutes. 



CRABS. 



Author. 
Crabs are chosen by weight; if fresh the points of 
the claws will be stiff, light crabs will be watery. 
Crabs or any fish are stale when the eyes look dull. 
Crabs are boiled like lobsters, must be put in the 
water alive. When crabs or lobsters become bright 
red they are done. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 77 

BOILED CRABS. 

Author. 
Crabs are boiled in water salted in the same propor- 
tion as lobsters. Boil about fifteen minutes, when 
done take out, wipe off and rub the shells over with 
butter ; take off the small claws, lay them in a dish 
covered with a napkin. A nice way to dress boiled 
crabs is to take out the meat, and to each cup of meat 
mix a wineglass of lemon juice, half a teacup of 
melted butter, a pinch of cayenne pepper and a little 
salt ; when well mixed replace in the shells and serve. 

TO DRESS BOILED CRABS WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 
Remove the meat and chop into dice ; mix with 
bread crumbs, hard-boiled eggs, parsley, salt and pep- 
per, in the proportion of one coffee cup of crab (after 
it is cut up) to one teacup of bread crumbs, two hard- 
boiled eggs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper. Clean the shells and fill with the mixture. 
Sprinkle over some bread crumbs and serve with sliced 
lemon. (Brown in the oven). 

CRAB PATTIES. 

Author. 
Are made as above, and the mixture put into patty 
tins with a baked puff paste, and put into the oven to 
brown. 

CRAB SALAD. 

Author. 

Remove the meat from a boiled crab, cut into dice, 

mix with salt, cayenne pepper, vinegar and a little oil, 

replace in the shell and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 



78 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CRAB GUMBO. 

Cousin Cordelia, Mobile, Ala. 

Take one dozen large crabs, one cup of butter, and 
two or three onions ; divide the crabs into quarters ; 
brown onions in the butter with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour ; put in the crabs with some chopped ham ; fill 
the pot with three quarts of cold water. Just before 
serving put in two tablespoonfuls of file ; do not let it 
boil after putting in the file ; serve with rice. 
TO MAKE FILE. 

Gather sassafras leaves as late as possible in the sea- 
son before they turn red, dry in the shade and open 
air ; when dry pound them and sift the powder ; bot- 
tle it and keep tightly corked. 

DEVILLED CRAB WITH TWO EGGS. 

Sister. 
When the crabs are boiled take out the meat and cut 
it in small pieces ; clean the shells. To six ounces of 
crab meat add two ounces of bread crumbs, two hard- 
boiled eggs chopped, the juice of half a lemon, cayenne 
pepper and salt. Mix all with cream or cream sauce. 
Fill the shells with the mixture, smooth tops, sprinkle 
over with bread crumbs sifted, and brown in a quick 
oven. 

DEVILLED CRABS WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 
One cup of crab meat, one-half teacup of rolled 
cracker, one-half teacup of butter, the chopped whites 
and mashed yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, juice of 
one lemon, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper ; 
when mixed put in scallop shells or patty tins, sprinkle 
cracker dust over and brown in the oven. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 79 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Author. 

Remove the spongy substance from the sides and 
the sand bags, wash and wipe, fry in hot lard, half but- 
ter and half lard. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 

*Craw-fish or river crabs boiled in salt water are used 
for decaration. 



TERRAPIN. 



BAKED TERRAPIN. 
Author. 

Remove the head ; boil with the shell on. When 
nearly done take off the under shell, remove the meat, 
and pick to pieces. Have the upper shell well cleaned 
and fill with the meat after seasoning with butter, 
rolled cracker, chopped parsley, allspice, cayenne pep- 
per, a little salt, and white wine. Lay slices of lemon 
over the top and bake. 

STEWED TERRAPIN. 

When parboiled, pick to pieces ; season with salt, 
cayenne pepper, lemon, hard-boiled egg, white wine 
or champagne, and boil till done. 



EELS. 



EEL SOUP WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 

Clean, skin and remove the fat from three pounds 
of eels, fry five minutes in drippings from one-half 
pound of salt pork, then add two quarts of water, 
one onion chopped, a head of celery or celery roots, 
or a few celery seeds, salt and pepper to taste ; boil 
until tender without breaking (about an hour), then 
remove eels to tureen. Strain the soup and put over 
the fire in the same kettle, then thicken it with a 
beaten egg mixed with one-fourth teacup of flour and 
a teacup of milk. Pour over the eels and slice in the 
tureen two hard-boiled eggs ; a tablespoonful of chop- 
ped parsley, some think, improves the flavor. Serve 
with toasted bread cut into dice. 

BAKED OR FRIED EELS. 

Author. 

Dip in beaten egg and rolled cracker, lay sprigs of 
parsley over it, and baste while baking with butter ; 
use lard and butter to fry them ; need not flavor with 
herbs, but may garnish with them. 

BOILED EELS. 

Author. 

Skin, clean and remove the head and tail, throw into 
boiling water in which has been added salt and a little 

vinegar, boil five minutes and drain. 

80 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 8l 

FRIED EELS. No. i. 

Author. 

Prepare as above, cut into three-inch lengths, fry in 
a little butter three minutes ; then put in a porcelain 
kettle, simmer two hours, add a little parsley, onion, 
nutmeg, oil, salt and pepper, about one-half teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped 
onion each to the pound, and only a suspicion of nut- 
meg : when cooked, roll in cracker crumbs and fry ; 
serve with sauce piquante. 

FRIED EELS. No. 2. 

Prepared as directed, rolled in cracker dust, egg and 
cracker dust and fry. Serve with tomato sauce. 

' ROASTED EELS. 
The same as above, only wrapped in buttered paper 
and laid before the fire. Must be turned frequently 
while roasting. 

BOILED EELS. 
Author. 

Eels prepared as directed above, but boiled twenty 
minutes ; serve with oyster or maitre d'hotel sauce. 



SAUCES FOR FISH 



Caper, egg, cream, anchovy, maitre d'hotel, tomato, 
Bechemel, vinaigrette or sauce HoUandaise are served 
with boiled or baked halibut, haddock or cod. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH WITH ONE EGG. 

Author, 

One pint of milk, yolk of one egg, one even tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one even teaspoonful of 
flour, a lump of butter size of a walnut. Heat milk 
and parsley to the boiling point, rub butter and flour 
together and stir in the milk, let mixture boil up, stir- 
ring all the time until it begins to thicken, then draw 
to the back of the stove and stir in the beaten yolk of 
the egg. 

Half cream and half milk improves this sauce. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Author. 
Freshen butter and heat slowly, then add anchovy 
essence to taste, about a tablespoonful of essence to 
six tablespoonfuls of butter. 

CAPER SAUCE WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
Bring to the boiling point one pint of broth, then 
stir in butter size of an egg rolled in a tablespoonful 
of flour, cook two minutes, add yolk of one egg, then 
add a tablespoonful of chopped capers. Boil up and 
serve. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 83 

CREAM SAUCE WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
Make a pint of drawn butter, add a teacup of cream 
and one yolk of egg beaten light. 

DRESSING WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
One egg, one teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-half cup vinegar. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Author. 
Rub two tablespoonfuls of butter with a dessert 
spoonful flour, stir over the fire until it begins to 
change color, then add a teacup of broth, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, three mushrooms chopped, 
a wineglass of sherry ; boil a few minutes, stirring 
constantly. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 
Author. 
May be made in the same manner as shrimp sauce. 
Dry the coral of the lobster, pound and sprinkle over 
the fish; it makes a nice garnish, 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

Author. 
Mix well together two tablespoonfuls of butter, not 
melted, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and juice of 
half a lemon, salt to taste. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Author. 
Fry a small onion chopped, to a light brown in one- 
half teacup of butter, then add a tablespoonful of 
flour, stir and cook two minutes, then add a teacup of 
broth^ a tablespoonful of pickled cucumber chopped, 



84 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one-half teaspoon- 
ful mustard (raw), salt and pepper and the juice of 
half a lemon. Boil up and serve. 

SHRIMP SAUCE WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 

One quart of shrimps, one coffee cup of water, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, one pinch of cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, two eggs. 

Remove the shell. Boil the heads in the water 
twenty-five minutes ; strain this liquor, allow it to 
simmer, add the butter and flour rolled together, then 
the pepper ; when it boils, add the shrimps, then the 
beaten eggs, cook three minutes, serve on toast. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. No. 2. 

Author. 
To a pint of drawn butter sauce, add the juice of 
half a lemon, a blade of red pepper, and half a 
pint of chopped boiled shrimps. Cook slowly a few 
minutes. The shrimps should be boiled in water 
salted, the water must be poured over them boiling 
hot. When done the shrimps will look red. Remove 
shells and heads, and do not chop too fine. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Author. 
Six large fresh tomatoes skinned, or a pint of can- 
ned tomatoes, a clove of garlic or a medium-sized 
onion, a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of parsley, 
chopped, a bay leaf, one clove and a little thyme ; boil 
gently one hour, strain, put back on fire and stir in a 
lump of butter size of a hickory nut rolled in a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Boil up, strain again, and serve. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 85 

VINAIGRETTE FOR MEATS. 

Author. 
Mix vinegar, salt and pepper and mustard, then oil 
slowly and serve. Chopped parsley, if that flavor is 
liked, may be added. When served with fish and birds, 
leave out the mustard 

WHITE OR BECHEMEL SAUCE WITH ONE 
EGG. 

Author. 

A teaspoonful butter melted, put into it a table- 
spoonful flour. Cook until it turns a light brown ; 
then add a teacup of broth made of veal in which a 
soup bunch has been boiled. Add a little salt and 
pepper ; then the beaten yolk of an egg. Cook three 
minutes ; take from the stove and add a teacup of 
cream ; a blade of mace in this sauce is liked by some. 
If desired richer, add a teaspoonful of butter on 
taking up. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH WITH 
TWO EGGS. 

^ Author. 
Bring a pint of milk to the boiling point and stir in 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little cold milk. 
Add a level spoonful of butter, and salt to taste. Pour 
in a bowl, and slice two hard-boiled eggs in. 



MEATS. 



Author. 
Loin and rib roasts of beef are the best; brisket 
pieces are used for pot roasts. To bake the former, if 
very fat, place in a pan, and put in rather hot oven at 
first, to close the pores. When it begins to bake, salt 
and pepper. Allow fifteen minutes to the pound. 
Test in oven for baking the same way that you test a 
flatiron for ironing. Keep the oven this temperature, 
or throw into the oven a pinch of flour. If it turns 
black the oven is too hot — if the flour does not 
change color the oven is too cool — if it turns a rich 
brown, the oven is just right for baking. If the rib 
or loin roast is deficient in fat, baste with butter, but 
never use water for baking meats. To cook a brisket 
piece, lay in a pot with as little water as will stew with- 
out burning. When it is cooked allow it to dry down 
without burning. There will be a rich glaze on the 
bottom of the pot, of which you make the gravy. 
Have your beef or pork cut up in suitable pieces for 
cooking. Then pack them, not too tightly, in a close 
hogshead or barrel, placing a weight on the top. Then 
make enough brine to cover it, in the following pro- 
portion: To four gallons of water use eight pounds 
of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and one quart of 
molasses, place in a kettle, and bring it to a boil, skim 
thoroughly; then pour off in some vessel until it cools, 
then pour it over your beef. Your pieces for drying 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 87 

take out in six weeks and smoke. Let your corn beef 
and pickled pork remain in the brine until wanted for 
use. If in the spring the brine moulds, pour it off 
and bring it to a boil again, skim as before, and pour 
it over the beef again hot. 

CORNED BEEF 

Mrs. Philo Stevens. 
Eight pounds salt, four pounds brown sugar, one- 
fourth pound black pepper, one-fourth pound salt- 
petre, one hundred pounds beef. 

Brisket and plate pieces are usually called for 

ROAST BEEF. 

Author. 
A nice way to prepare beef for roasting: Mix with 
one-half teacup olive oil, one teaspoonful ground 
black pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful lemon juice, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, one large onion chopped, two bay leaves. 
Spread over a ten-pound roast, and leave over night. 
Place in an oven when ready to roast, with the above 
ingredients. 

PUDDING FOR ROAST BEEF. 

For every pint of milk use three eggs and three 
cups of flour and salt to taste, stir well and pour 
into the dripping pan under the meat one-half hour 
before it is done. 

FRENCH A LA MODE BEEF. No. i. 

Author. 
Seven to ten pounds of rump of beef. Boil, with- 
out cutting, for soup the day before, flavoring soup 



88 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

with onion, parsley, thyme, pepper and salt. Then 
take out the beef and stick in cloves, put in hot oven 
and bake. Add a few tomatoes around the pan if in 
season. 

BEEF A LA MODE. No. 2 

Cousin Alice. 
Procure a fine beefsteak, hav* it cut extra thick, 
then pound it well, season with salt and pepper; make 
a stuffing as you would for a turkey, spread it on the 
steak quite thick, then roll up and bind securely with 
tape, put it into a dripping pan with water sufficient to 
cover it. Let it stew slowly for two or three hours; 
add boiling water if more water is needed. The gravy 
will require no thickening, but a glass of wine will im- 
prove it. 

BEEF A LA MODE. No. 3. 
Mrs. Lawton. 
Six or eight pounds of beef from the round, cut 
thick. Take out the bone, trim off all rough bits 
carefully and rub the meat well with the following 
spicing: One teaspoonful each of pepper and ground 
cloves, one-fourth cup of brown sugar, and three tea- 
spoonfuls salt. Mix these together and rub into the 
beef thoroughly, and let stand over night. The next 
morning make a stuffing of one pint of bread or 
cracker crumbs, one large onion chopped fine, one 
tablespoonful sweet marjoram or thyme, one-half tea- 
spoonful each of pepper and ground cloves, and a 
heaping teaspoonful of salt. Add a large cup of hot 
water, in which has been melted a heaping table- 
spoonful of butter, and stir into the crumbs. Beat an 
egg light and mix with it. If there is more than 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 89 

needed to fill the space, make gashes in the meat and 
fill with the remainder. Now bind into shape with a 
strip of cotton cloth, sewing or tying it firmly. Put a 
trivet or small iron stand into a soup pot and lay the 
beef upon it. Half cover it with cold water; put in 
two onions stuck with three cloves each, a large table- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
stew very slowly, allowing half an hour to the pound, 
and turning the meat twice while cooking. At the 
end of this time take off the cloth and put the meat, 
which must remain on the trivet, in a roasting pan. 
Dredge it quickly with flour, set into a hot oven and 
brown thoroughly. Baste once with the gravy and 
dredge again, the whole operation requiring about 
half an hour. The water in the pot should have been 
reduced to about a pint. Pour this into the roasting 
pan after the meat is taken up, skimming off every 
particle of fat. Thicken with a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of browned flour stirred smooth in a little cold 
water, and add a tablespoonful of catsup, and two of 
wine if desired, though neither is necessary. Taste, 
as a little more salt may be required. 

BEEF BOUILLE. 

Rub salt and pepper thoroughly into the beef, 
(the rump or brisket pieces are the best), and steam 
it about five hours over water into which is put pep- 
per, salt, sweet marjoram, summer savory, thyme, 
onions, carrots, two turnips cut fine, some parsley, 
celery and tomatoes. When the meat is perfectly 
tender take it up; take out the carrots from the gravy, 
strain, thicken and boil. Pour over the meat just be- 
fore placing it on the table. 



90 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SPICED ROUND OF BEEF. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 
Twenty or twenty-five pounds beef; let it drain for 
a day, then take one-half pound coarse brown sugar, 
rub well for three mornings, after which, rub both 
sides well for three weeks every day with the follow- 
ing mixture: Three-fourths pound common salt, one 
and one-half ounces cloves, one and one-half ounces 
allspice, two ounces saltpetre, four ounces black 
pepper. When ready to bake, cover with paste. Bake 
four or five hours. When done remove paste and 
serve. 

DRIPPINGS. 

To clarify drippings, pour boiling water over the 
drippings from beef or mutton, stir with a silver spoon 
and set out to cool; the drippings will form on top of 
the water, the sediment will be found in the bottom of 
the pan. Beef drippings are excellent to use in cook- 
ing with half lard or butter or all drippings. 

FORCEMEAT DRESSING WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 
Six ounces bread crumbs, rind of one-half lemon, 
one tablespoonful of savory herbs, three ounces of 
suet or butter, two eggs, pepper, salt and a little nut- 
meg grated, 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING <TO EAT WITH ROAST 
BEEF). 
Author's Aunt. 
One pint of milk, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, 
and flour to make a batter half as thick as for pan- 
cakes. Bake in the fat of the meat, and eat with the 
beef gravy. Place it on the dish under the beef when 
you serve it. 



GRADED COOK BOOK, 91 

BEEFSTEAKS. 

Author. 
First choice, loin; second, porter-house; third, sir- 
loin, and fourth, round. 

BROILED STEAK. 

Author. 
Porter-house is the choice steak. Put the gridiron 
over a clear fire, grease the bars with suet, turn 
very often in broiling; when done, lay orLa hot platter, 
on which are bits of butter, a tablespoonful of mush- 
room ketchup or Worcestershire sauce. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. 

POTTED BEEF. 
Author. 
Chop very fine the remnants of cold cooked beef, 
season with cloves, mgce, and sage; add stock flavored 
with onion, and rub a clove of garlic around the bak- 
ing dish and fill, then put in a pan of hot water or 
patent cooker, cook two hours. 

TO BOIL TONGUE. 

Author. 
Procure a large, freshly pickled tongue; cover with 
cold water and boil moderately (not too slowly) seven 
hours. When done, take from the pot and throw im- 
mediately into cold water for five minutes. Skin at 
once and put in refrigerator. Slice thin and garnish 
with sliced lemon. 

CALF'S HEART. 

Author. 
Wash, dry, and fill with turkey stuffing. Lay on it 
bits of pork, put in a pan with very little water, 
sprinkle salt and pepper over when partly cooked. 
Baste often; wheYi done, make a brown gravy. 



92 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Fry in lard until brown, take up on a hot dish; add 
to the gravy a chopped onion, half cup of hot water, 
pepper, salt and juice of one lemon, and flour enough 
to thicken; boil and run through a colander. Pour 
over liver and serve. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Author. 
The loin is the best for roasting. Salt, pepper and 
dredge with flour. Make an incision between the 
meat and the flap. Fill with a stuffing made as fol- 
lows: Two cups grated bread, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful chopped salt pork, one tea- 
spoonful sweet marjoram, one teaspoonful summer 
savory, one teaspoonful pepper, one-half teaspoonful 
salt. Mix dry Put bits of butter on the veal and bake. 

SUGGESTION FOR ROAST VEAL. 

Season highly and cover roast with a well-buttered 

writing paper; no basting is then required. 

• 

CURRIED VEAL. 
E. B. M. 

Cold roasted veal, four onions, two apples, one 
tablespoonful curry powder, one dessert spoonful flour, 
one-half pint broth or water, one tablespoonful lemon 
juice. Slice onions and apples and fry in a little but- 
ter; take them out, cut meat in small cutlets, fry a pale 
brown, add curry, flour, onions, apples and lemon 
juice. Cook a few minutes and serve with edging of 
boiled rice. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Make a batter of one egg well beaten, one-half pint 
of milk and flour. Fry the veal brown, dip in the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 93 

batter and fry again, drop spoonful of the batter in the 
hot lard after the veal is taken out and serve on the veal. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Author. 
Choose the loin or rib cuts. Dip in beaten egg and 
cracker crumbs and fry. I use butter, just enough to 
keep from burning. Cook slowly. When done, 
remove cutlets to the dish in which they are to be 
served. Rub a tablespoonful of flour into the gravy 
left in skillet in which they were fried. Add boiling 
water and cream. Strain into a gravy boat and serve 
with fried tomatoes. 



LAMB. 



ROAST LAMB. 

Author. 
The hind quarter is the choice. Put salt, pepper, 
a few pieces of mint, and butter over the lamb. Lay 
in a pan, and baste often while baking. Make a brown 
gravy, and serve with mint sauce and green peas. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

Author. 
The leg is the choice, or the saddle or shoulder. It 
may be prepared the same way as lamb, simply 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay in pan without 
water, and have a quick oven at first to close the 
pores. Make a brown gravy, and serve with stuffed 
tomatoes, currant or grape jelly. 



94 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Author. 

Rib chops are best. Have the butcher trim the 
chops; broil the same as porter-house steak, and serve 
with tomato sauce, or a sauce made of one cup of 
broth, seasoned with a little salt pork. Strain into a 
saucepan, add a few mushrooms and a little parsley. 
Thicken with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed into one- 
half teaspoonful of butter. 

MUTTON STEW. 

R. M. H. 
One pound of loin of mutton; cut in small pieces, 
put in kettle and pour on boiling water. Add a small 
onion and salt. Let boil slowly until tender. 

TO BOIL A LEG OF MUTTON. 

Author. 
Lay the leg in a kettle, put on the stove, and pour 
boiling water over; this will sear the surface and re- 
tain the juice. Keep tightly covered, and skim when 
necessary, add salt three-quarters of an hour later. 
Serve with caper sauce. 

LAMB FRY. 
Soak four hours in weak lye, then one hour in weak 
salt water, dry, and cook the same way as fried oys- 
ters, adding parsley. 

STEWED LAMB FRY. 
Prepare as above, boil, when done rub together a 
tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper. 
Add to the boiling mixture. 



PORK. 



In fresh pork use loin for baking; chops for frying; 
tenderloin for broiling; and backbone for stewing. 
Pork or veal tenderloin prepared in the following 
manner is very nice for breakfast: Put meat in frying 
pan, and when partly cooked cut into small bits and 
fry brown. Season with pepper and salt, and if de- 
sired make a gravy of cream, thickened with a little 
flour, and turn over meat before serving. 

Pork tenderloin is also very good for pot-pie in 
place of chicken, and for salad. 

BAKED HAM. 

Author. 
Boil and remove skin. Cover with beaten egg, and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs. Moisten with cream and 
bake.v 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Boil ham till nearly done. Take from kettle, re- 
move skin and stick the top with cloves about half an 
inch apart. Sprinkle with brown sugar; put in the 
oven and bake. 

BAKED HAM. 

Author. 
Soak the ham in cold water over night, if salt. 
Scrape and shave off the rusty part. Cut off the 
knuckle bone, cover entirely with a dough made of 
flour and water. Fasten the dough together, so as to 
retain the juices while baking. Bake in a slow oven. 
When nearly done, remove the dough and skin, finish 

95 



96 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

according to above rules for baked ham, return to 
oven for ten or fifteen minutes. The time for baking 
ham varies from two to four hours, according to size. 

SUGGESTIONS ON BOILING HAM. 

Author. 
Very salt hams must be soaked over night in fresh 
water, then put on back of range in cold water, and 
cooked slowly till done. May be boiled in weak 
vinegar and water, with the addition of a little dry 
mustard. Hams are excellent boiled in claret, white 
or Rhine wines. In this case the vessel must be 
closely covered while cooking. If cooked in clear 
water, herbs may be added with a bunch of hay. 

A SOUTHERN RECIPE. 
When boiling a ham, first and most important it is 
to be sure of the quality of your ham, which should 
be sweet and not too salt. Clean it thoroughly, 
scrubbing well to remove all grime and salt, and soak 
in hot water long enough to remove the rind; twelve 
hours will not be too long for a ham of an ordinary 
degree of saltness; then it must be trimmed and cooked 
slowly — and here lies the secret — not in water, but 
in cider. I can fancy the incredulous smile that flits 
over the face of the conservative housewife who may 
chance to read these lines, but I ask only a fair trial 
of the recipe which I have altered from that of 
a mighty cook, and if you do not continue its use, 
I can only account for it by the fact that there is 
a great difference in tastes. Lay in the bottom 
of a kettle a bunch of fresh, sweet, new-mown hay, 
upon this place the ham and cover with sweet 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 97 

cider; bring slowly to the boiling point, and simmer 
until tender. When you can probe it easily with a 
sharp skewer it is done. Lift out; lay on a sieve to 
drain; sprinkle thickly with crumbs mixed with brown 
sugar, and set in the oven for ten minutes. Cooked 
in this way it will have an exquisite flavor, greatly 
superior to that produced by any other method. 

ROAST PIG. 

Author. 
Select from three to six weeks old, weight eight to 
fourteen pounds. Let it soak in water, having a little 
soda in it, about one hour; then rinse in salt and 
water. Clean, wipe inside and out; fill with one 
quart of mashed potatoes mixed with one large spoon- 
ful of butter, one medium sized chopped onion, one 
tablespoonful powdered sage, teaspoonful salt, the 
same of pepper. Sew up, skewer firmly. Bend the 
fore feet backward and the hind feet forward. Baste 
with butter, dredge with flour, put in a dripping pan 
with very little water; when it begins to brown rub a 
buttered cloth over it, to make it crisp. Length of 
time depends on the size, about two or three hours. 
When baked, put in a cold place at once for five min- 
utes. Garnish with parsley and sliced lemon and put 
an apple in the mouth. Drain off the fat from the 
pan; leaving a little for gravy, then rub flour dry into 
the remaining drippings; when it browns lightly add 
boiling water and lemon juice, a glass of wine, salt 
and pepper, strain into the gravy boat. Serve with 
apple-sauce. 

FRIED PIG'S FEET. 

Split boiled pig's feet, roll in flour, and fry in lard. 



98 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

STEWED PIG'S FEET. 

Author. 
Scald, scrape and lay the feet in weak lime water to 
whiten them. Boil in weak salt water, add one-half 
blade of mace, three pepper-corns, two cloves, one 
allspice for each foot. When cooked, remove from 
water, cover with cold vinegar at once; add a few 
whole spices to the vinegar if intended to keep a few 
days; cover closely. 

PORK AND BEANS. 
Soak over night a quart of navy beans in luke- 
warm water. The next morning drain off the water, 
cover with cold water, heat through, change for fresh 
water. Boil till tender; test by taking a few beans 
out of the kettle, they will shrink if done. Mix well 
through them a mustard spoonful of soda; when it 
ceases to foam, pour off the water and put the beans 
in a two-quart stone jar. Cut half a pound of salt 
pork, which has been well scraped, in half-inch lengths; 
bury in the beans until even with the surface, then 
sprinkle over them a little salt and a dessert spoonful 
of molasses. Pour on boiling water until it rises just 
above the beans, and add boiling water as often as 
necessary. Cover well. Bake eight or nine hours. 
Keep the water even with the beans. Uncover just 
before it is done brown. 

BROILED STUFFED SAUSAGE. 

Author. 
To prevent the skin from cracking while broiling, 
pierce here and there with a needle. Broil twenty 
minutes. A nice way to cook prepared sausage is to 
throw them into boiling water, cook three minutes. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 99 

SCRAPPLE. 

Author. 

Boil a hog's head till tender. When done remove 

from the liquor. When cold remove grease from the 

liquor, cut the head in small pieces and add to it. 

Place on the fire, and when hot stir in equal parts of 

flour and corn meal, until it becomes the consistency 

of mush. Season with salt and pepper; cook until 

done, stirring all the time. Pour into a square tin, 

when cold, cut in slices, roll in corn meal, and fry in 

hot lard. 

CRACKLINS. 

Author. 

Cracklins left from the rendering of leaf lard, are 

very nice mashed to a paste, and salted, and packed 

in little iars. 

•' • 

RASHERS OF PORK. 

Author. 
Cut breakfast bacon in strips one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Fry a light brown, not crisp. Serve with roast 
beef or beefsteak. 

FRIED LIVER AND BACON. 

Author. 
Cut breakfast bacon into one-eighth inch strips three 
inches in length, fry a light brown. Add strips of 
calf's liver rolled in flour. Cook until a rich brown. 
Server with, or without gravy. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Author. 
Clean the head; remove the eyes. Split it with a 
sharp knife. Remove the ears and brains. Soak the 



lOO GRADED COOK BOOK. 

head, tongue and feet in cold water two hours, then 
sprinkle to taste with powdered sage, thyme, bay 
leaves, salt, pepper, and the juice of one lemon. Cover 
twenty-four hours. Then boil whole in just enough 
water to cover. When done separate from the bones, 
pack in a bread pan, cover with a weight, and press 
over night. Serve with mustard and vinegar. 



KIDNEY. 



STEWED KIDNEY. No. i. 

Chop the kidney in inch cubes, remove the gristle, 
lay in cold salt water half an hour. Do not soak the 
tallow, but cook it with the kidney after removing it 
from the salt water to fresh water. Stew half hour, 
then throw off the water and pour on fresh water and 
stew till done. Many like an onion grated in. 



STEWED KIDNEY. No. 2. 

Author. 

The kidney must be soaked in water, remove the 
scum and gristle. Chop fine or coarse as desired, and 
stew till tender. Add butter, pepper and salt. 



SWEETBREADS. 



FRIED SWEET-BREADS. 
Author. 
Scald them in salt and water, and take out the 
stringy parts; then put them in cold water a few min- 
utes; dry them on a towel, dip in egg and then bread 
crumbs, and fry brown in butter. When they are 
done take them up and put in a dish. Pour into the 
frying-pan a large cup of sweet cream, a little pepper 
and salt, dust in a very little flour, and when it boils 
up pour over the sweet-breads and send hot to the 
table. 

STEWED SWEET-BREADS. 

Author. 
Put them into tepid salt water, and let them stand 
a while. Then put into stewing pan, pour boiling 
water over them, and as soon as they become white 
and firm throw them into cold water. Baste them 
with butter and put in stew-pan with pieces of bacon, 
carrots, onions, and a few cloves. Then add four 
tablespoonfuls of water, and keep covered. When 
done take out the sweet-breads, strain the gravy over 
them. About three-fourths of an hour will be suffi- 
cient to cook them. 



POULTRY. 



CHICKENS. 



CHICKEN PIE. 

Aunt Hettie. 

Cut chicken in small pieces, and stew till tender in 
as little water as possible. When done make a rich 
gravy. Line a pudding dish with paste made like 
rich baking powder biscuit. Fill dish with chicken 
and gravy, and cover top with paste. Bake till crust 
is thoroughly cooked. It makes the dish more deli- 
cate to remove skin and bones from chicken; cut fowl 
in small pieces, and bake in biscuit tin, rolling paste 
thin. Cut in squares, and serve in small dishes, one 
to each person. 

SOUTHERN CHICKEN PIE. 

Author. 

Cut up two young chickens and put on to boil in a 
little hot water, salt and pepper them; when tender 
put a layer of the chicken in a pan lined with pastry; 
over each layer of chicken put three very thin slices of 
pork (salt); when all the chicken is used pour over all 
some of the liquor in which it has been boiled, dredge 
over with a little flour, cover with pastry, bake in quick 
oven. (One-half pound of salt pork is sufficient for two 
good-sized" chickens). 



GRADED COOK BOOK. lOJ 

BAKED CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Prepare the chickens and cook as for pie, then make 
a batter of one quart of milk, one pint of flour and 
four eggs, and a little salt. Beat the yolks very light, 
add flour and milk by degrees, lastly the beaten whites; 
then over each layer of chicken pour some of the bat- 
ter till all is used, having a cover of the batter. Bake 
in a quick oven. Make a gravy of the liquor the 
chickens were boiled in. 

FRIED CHICKEN. No. i. 

Author. 

Pick, clean and cut up two young chickens, lay them 
in milk and water three-fourths of an hour; drain and 
wipe each piece and dredge with flour, salt and pep- 
per them; fry to a good brown in a little butter and 
lard or all lard. 

GRAVY. 

Bring to the boiling point one pint of cream, thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour rubbed into a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, add salt and pepper, and a suspicion of 
nutmeg. Cook till the flour thickens, and if desired 
add half a cup of white wine just before serving. 

GRAVY. No. 2. 

Pour a pint of cream into some of the lard in which 
the chickens were fried, add minced parsley and 
thicken with a little, milk, salt and pepper, strain and 
pour over the chickens. 



I04 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FRIED CHICKEN. No. 2. 

Author. 

Disjoint a good-sized chicken; if old, lay in milk 
and water one hour; if young, this is not necessary. 
Roll each piece in flour and fry a nice brown, half 
lard and half butter. 

BONED CHICKEN. 

Author. 

Cut the chicken down the back, keep the knife close 
to the bones, cut down the sides, and remove the bones. 
Leave the wings and drumsticks with the bones in, 
and break at the joints; fill with the following stuffing: 
Mix one cup finely chopped cooked veal, one-half tea- 
cup chopped uncooked salt pork, a dessert-spoonful 
sun;mer savory, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, 
and a little of the oil squeezed from the rind of a 
lemon. Sew up the chicken, tuck the wings and tie 
under the back; tie the legs close to the sides, lay it 
on its back, cut salt pork into dice, and insert into the 
small incisions made over the breast. Do not remove 
the skin from the pork laid on the chicken. Baste 
often while baking. Serve with Author's tomato 
sauce. 

OLD-FASHIONED POT-PIE. 

Martha Wells Hale. 

Cut up one or two nice chickens, put into a deep 
pot, and boil until done. Then take some bread 
dough, (a good, time to make this is on baking day), 
then work in some shortening, just as if you were 
making ordinary light rolls. Make them out into rolls 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I05 

or dumplings, and set aside to rise. When the chicken 
is sufficiently done, make a rich gravy; about half an 
hour before you are ready to serve them, drop into the 
pot with your chicken and gravy your dumplings, 
cover tight, and do not lift the lid, under any circum- 
stances, until it is done. A half hour is sufficient to 
boil them. Serve immediately, for if allowed to stand 
they will fall. 

POT-PIE DUMPLING. 

Author. 

One quart of flour, three even teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, a little salt and cold water enough to make a 
soft dough. Roll about an inch thick. Steam. 

POT-PIE DUMPLING. 

One quart of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, one heaping tablespoonful butter, cold 
water to mix soft. Roll about an inch thick. Steam. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE CRUST 
L. A. M. 
One coffee cup of sour cream (not too rich), one 
even teaspoonful saleratus, a little salt, flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Mix as lightly as possible, and 
break off the dough. Boil five minutes. Keep pot 
well covered. 

PANNED CHICKEN. 

Author, 
Use young chickens; pick and clean, cut down the 
back, lay open and flatten with a mallet or hatchet; 
baste with butter, dredge with flour and lay in drip- 



I06 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ping pan with a lump of butter; baste once. Young 
chickens require about twenty to twenty-five minutes 
in quick oven. Do not cover the pan. They can be 
served with or without gravy; if with gravy, rub a 
little flour in the pan with the drippings, pour on a 
little boiling water and cream, each one-half. Nice 
cold for picnics with cabbage salad. Smothered 
chicken is prepared in the same way except that the 
pan is kept closely covered, which steams the fowl. 

CHICKEN CURRY 

Sister M. H. 
Cut up one large chicken, at least one year old, as 
for fricassee, one and one-half pounds fresh pork cut 
in pieces two inches square, a vegetable dish of sliced 
onions, one can of tomatoes, one cup of flour with two 
teaspoonfuls curry powder mixed in it, one quart 
milk. Have ready on the back of the stove a large 
porcelain kettle, in front a stew-pan or spider. Put a 
piece of butter size of a large walnut into each, and 
the onions in the kettle, after which cover. Fry pork 
in the spider until brown, but not cooked through; 
transfer to kettle; treat chicken in the same way as 
the pork. Then mix with it the flour and powder; 
after stirring thoroughly, add the tomatoes, lastly the 
milk; salt to taste. Cover tightly; stir frequently and 
scrape from bottom of kettle, as it burns easily; let it 
simmer six or seven hours. Twenty minutes before 
dinner have a large kettle more than half filled with 
water boiling furiously. Allow one-fourth cup rice to 
each person. Pour in rice, let boil ten minutes, stir- 
ring from the bottom occasionally, then throw in a 
tablespoonful of salt, let boil ten minutes longer. Do 



I 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I07 

not leave it on the stove too long or it will be spoiled. 
Pour through a colander to drain. Serve in soup 
tureen; the other mixture serve on a platter, helping 
each guest to rice and the curry. 

A VERY NICE WAY TO COOK CHICKENS. 

Cut the chicken up, put it in a pan and cover it with 
water; let it stew as usual, and when done make a 
thickening of cream and flour, adding a piece of but- 
ter, pepper and salt. I make and bake two short cakes, 
made as for pie crust, then rolled thin, and cut in small 
squares. This is much better than chicken pie, and more 
simple to make. Lay the crust on a dish, and pour the 
chicken and gravy over it while both are hot. 

Test chicken by pulling under the wing; if it breaks 
easily, the chicken is young. 



TURKEY. 



DRY FILLING AND ROAST TURKEY 

Author. 
Pick the fowl and singe by holding it over a saucer 
of burning alcohol a few minutes. Make an incision 
in the back of the neck and remove the crop, then 
draw the fowl, being very careful not to break the 
gall. Having cleaned it, wash and dry quickly with 
a linen towel. Fill in at the neck, and draw the skin 
over the back and fasten, then fill the inside and sew 
up ; then turn the legs and wings in, fasten close to 
the body with skewers. The skewers for the legs are 
run through the hip-bone. Tie the lower ends of the 
legs with a strong thread. 



Io8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

STUFFING. 
Two coffee cups dry bread crumbs, Yz teacup but- 
ter, one tablespoonful sage, one teaspoonful salt, also 
one of black pepper. Work well together, and fill the 
fowl, baste with pepper, salt and butter, cover with a 
buttered paper, or a batter made of flour and water. 
Put in a very quick oven at first to close the pores, then 
moderate the heat. Allow fifteen minutes to the 
pound. Baste the turkey often. Remove the but- 
tered paper a few minutes before taking up the turkey 
to brown it nicely. The batter is only used to keep 
the fowl from scorching. Use this same rule for 
baking chickens. 

GRAVY FOR TURKEY. 

Author. 
While the turkey is baking stew the giblets, when 
done, chop fine and add to the gravy; when the turkey 
is baked, lay on a platter and keep warm. Put the 
baking pan over the fire, sprinkle in a little flour, stir 
smoothly, then pour on boiling water, salt, pepper and 
a little burnt sugar water to give a nice brown color. 
Strain and add the giblets. Serve turkey with cran- 
berry sauce, currant, grape, or plum jelly. Before 
making the gravy, pour off the excess of grease. 

BONED TURKEY. 

Author. 
Pick and singe a large turkey. Use a game carver, 
cut off the neck a full inch above the body, cut wings 
at the joint. Pass the carver from the back of the 
neck down next to the bone, all around in this manner, 
until all the flesh is disengaged from each side of the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. IO9 

breast bone ; disjoint the thigh and leg bones, leav- 
ing the leg whole. Remove the carcass, sew up the 
open parts, leaving the space for filling. Chop into 
dice one-half of a fresh corned tongue, three pounds 
fresh pork, cut the same size, and one-half pound 
boiled ham, lean only, one-fourth pound salt pork cut 
into dice, salt and pepper. 

Mix six mushrooms, chopped fine, with one-fourth 
nutmeg grated, add to the chopped meat, add lastly 
six hard-boiled eggs, sliced. Fill the turkey, sew up, 
and wrap in towel, tie at both ends, and bind well all 
over to hold the form ; lay in a kettle of boiling 
stock, made of the bones of the turkey and seasoned 
with six cloves, one bay leaf, twelve pepper-corns, a 
little thyme and parsley, and if liked, one small onion. 
Boil about three hours ; when don^, the upper part 
will be above the liquor. Take immediately from the 
stove, and rinse in cold water, wipe, return to towel, 
fold up, place on platter with another dish over it 
with a weight on it. Keep in a cool place over night; 
when wanted, remove the towel and threads which 
were used in sewing it. Serve with meat jelly. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Author. 
Select a hen turkey, clean, stuff, and sew up as in 
baked turkey. Cut the legs at the first joint and fasten 
them into the body. Tie the small ends of the wings 
under the back, then tie the legs and wings securely 
to the body, serve with boiled rice and parsley, oyster 
or Hollandaise sauce. A little summer savory and 
sweet marjoram is liked by many better than sage for 
seasoning dressing for turkey and chicken. 



no GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MEAT JELLY. 

Author. 

Soak one package Cox's gelatine in one coffee cup 
of cold water for one half-hour on back of stove, then 
pour in two coffee cups of boiling water, the juice of 
four lemons, one-half teaspoonful of salt, strain and 
divide into two equal parts. To one-half add two 
beets sliced very thin. Set away to congeal. To the 
other half add a few drops of burnt sugar. 

The jelly with the beets cut into fancy shapes when 
cold is used to decorate the platter holding the turkey; 
the other half can be removed from the dish in which 
it was congealed, by warming the dish with a hot 
cloth and laid over the turkey for a glaze. 



DUCK, 



ROAST DUCK. 

Author. 
Pick ducks dry and toward the head, singe, rinse 
with claret or weak vinegar water, fill with the stuff- 
ing, which has onion and sage. Slice onion on top, 
and scrape them off when baked. The onion takes 
away the strong odor. Serve with giblet gravy, apple 
sauce and green peas. 

GOOD WAY TO DISPOSE OF DUCKS. 

Boston Transcript. 
This excellent recipe for braising ducks comes from 
the Caterer: Obtain a pair of fine, young and fat 
ducks, truss them as for roasting and place them in a 



GRADED COOK BOOK. Ill 

stewpan together with two or three slices of bacon, a 
carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little 
thyme and parsley. Season with pepper, and cover 
the whole with a broth, adding to the broth a gill of 
white wine. Place the pan over a gentle fire and allow 
the ducks to simmer until done, basting them fre- 
quently. When done, remove them from the pan and 
place them where they will keep hot. A turnip should 
then be cut up and fried in some butter. When nicely 
browned, drain the pieces and cook them until tender 
in the liquor in which the ducks were braised. Now 
strain and thicken the gravy and after dishing up the 
ducks, pour it over them, garnishing with the pieces 
of turnip. 

CHESTNUT FILLING. 
Author. 
Roast, remove the shell, also the white skin under 
it ; add the chestnuts to the ordinary filling for fowls. 

OYSTER FILLING. 

Author. 
The oysters must be drained and added to the dry 
filling given for roast turkey. 

FILLING FOR FOWLS. No. i. 

Author. 
Soak two slices of dry bread in one-half teacup of 
stock. Brown one-half teacup butter, stir in two 
tablespoonfuls chopped onions, one tablespoonful 
parsley, a pinch of thyme, pinch of grated nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, lastly add one egg and the bread. 



112 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FILLING FOR FOWLS. No. 2. 

Author. 
Two coffee cups of grated bread moistened with 
stock or water, one-half teacup of butter after it is 
melted,* one-quarter teacup salt pork minced, one 
tablespoonful sage, one egg, salt and pepper, mix and 
till. 

SUSIE'S MEAT STUFFING. 
One quart of dry bread after it is broken, moisten 
with hot water, (hot stock is better), or the juice which 
exudes from the fowl or meat. Add one egg, two 
tablespoonfuls butter, two pieces of celery chopped, 
salt, pepper to taste. Sage may be used instead of 
celery. No butter is needed if the stock is used. 



GAME. 



TO ROAST A GOOSE (TAME OR WILD). 

"Old Virginny." 
Prepare the goose for roasting. Let it lie in weak 
salt and water three or four hours before cooking ; the 
goose should not be cooked the day it is killed — in 
winter it may be kept to advantage a week. When 
ready for use, parboil five minutes ; remove and fill 
with a dressing ; rub butter over the goose ; lay in a 
pan with the giblets, and a coffee cup of boiling water ; 
turn and baste often while roasting. 

DRESSING. 

Fill with same dressing as used for turkey, or mix 
with mealy Irish potatoes a small lump of butter, a 
slice of finely chopped salt pork, and minced onion, or 
a little powdered sage. 

DEVILLED GOOSE (TAME OR WILD). 

Author. 
Prepare as for roasting ; lay in a pan with a slice of 
salt pork and a coffee cup of meat broth, seasoned 
with two tablespoonfuls of celery vinegar, the same 
of pepper-sauce, the same of prepared mustard, and 
one of currant jelly ; dredge with flour, and baste 
often while baking. 

CANVASBACK DUCK. 

Author. 
Pick dry, and singe by holding the duck over lighted 
alcohol; clean and rinse with claret, this will remove 

113 



114 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

the fishy taste ; fill with onion or sage dressing ; baste 
with butter, and put in a pan without water, and bake. 

FILLING. 

One pint grated bread, one-half teacup butter, one 
small onion, chopped fine, one teaspoonful powdered 
sage, salt and pepper. Mix without water. 

TEAL DUCK. 

Author. 
Pick dry, singe and broil. 

PIGEONS 

Author. 
Are broiled or made into pot-pie. A nice way to cook 
them is to fill them with a dressing made the same as 
for turkey, and roast them in a pot. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS OR GROUSE. 

Author. 

Split them open in the back, and broil, rubbing 
them with butter. As all but the breast is generally 
tough, it is better to cut this out and parboil the rest 
of the chicken, after cutting into joints. These pieces 
are then broiled with the breasts, after rubbing butter 
over them all. After broiling, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, and put a small lump of butter on each piece. 
Serve with currant jelly. 

To choose a young prairie chicken : Bend the under 
bill ; if it is tender, the chicken is young 

QUAILS 

Author. 
Are best broiled and served on toast. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. II5 

PARTRIDGES AND PLOVERS. 

Author. 

Are cooked in the same way as quails. 

PHEASANTS. 

Are cooked in the same way as prairie chickens. 

REED BIRDS. 

Author. 

Are always broiled. Be careful to turn often, and 
brown without burning. The flavor is very delicate. 

FRICASSEED RABBIT. 

E. B. M. 
To skin the rabbit, make a hole in the leg large 
enough to insert a goose-quill. Blow into the quill 
until the skin separates from the animal, when you 
can easily remove it. Wash it thoroughly after it is 
drawn ; joint, salt, and pepper it : put half a teacup 
of butter into a frying-pan ; let it melt, not brown ; 
lay the rabbit in fiat, and cover closely ; brown on 
both sides ; turn frequently. When well browned, add 
one pint hot water, a little parsley, three or four 
cloves, a blade of mace, a little flour mixed with but- 
ter or water ; cover closely and stew one hour, or until 
done. Take out the rabbit, leaving the gravy in the 
pan. For one teacup of cream add a beaten egg ; beat 
together and pour into the gravy ; boil a moment, 
pick out the spice and pour the gravy over the rabbit. 

FROGS. 

Mrs. H. W. H. Mosher. 
Skin, and throw into boiling salt and water a few 
minutes, then throw into cold water for one minute ; 
drain well and fry in one-half each lard and butter. 



Il6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

STEvVED FROGS. 

Prof. Blot. 

Skin, boil five minutes, throw in cold water, and 
drain as above. Put in a stewpan two ounces of but- 
ter for two dozen frogs ; set it on the fire, and, when 
melted, lay the legs in ; fry two minutes, tossing now 
and then ; then sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of 
flour, stir with a wooden spoon, add two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, one of 
garlic, salt, white pepper, and half a pint of white 
wine ; boil gently till done ; dish the legs ; reduce the 
sauce on the fire, strain it, mix in it two yolks of eggs, 
pour on the legs, and serve them. 

FROGS. 

Sister Mary. 
Skin the hind legs, sprinkle with salt, and let them 
lie a few minutes. Drain off the salt, dredge with 
flour and fry in butter lightly browned. 

ROAST VENISON. 

Cover the roast with a paste made of flour and 
water; roast the same as beef. Remove the paste 
when done. Serve with gravy and currant jelly. 

Broiled venison requires the same attention that 
beefsteak does. Must be eaten very hot. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS, 



CELERY SAUCE. 

Author. 
Cut up a large bunch of celery into small pieces. 
Use only that which is blanched ; throw aside the 
green tops. Put it into a pint of water and boil until 
it is tender. Then add a teaspoonful of flour, and a 
lump of butter the size of an egg. Mix all together. 
Season with salt and white pepper, and stir constantly 
until removed from the fire. It is nice with boiled 
poultry. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Author. 
Mix together one quarter of a pound of butter, and 
one tablespoonful of flour. Put one pint of water 
into a kettle, and when it boils stir in the flour and 
butter. Season with salt and white pepper, and celery 
if in season, removing the stalks of celery before send- 
ing to the table. It will require but a few minutes' 
boiling, and must be stirred constantly. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Author. 

Take the leaves of young mint and cut up finely, 

and to three tablespoonfuls of chopped mint add one 

of sugar, and vinegar sufficient to moisten the mint 

and sugar well. Put in a little salt, and serve with 

roast lamb. 

117 



Il8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Author. 
Is made as drawn butter, with the addition of six 
hard-boiled eggs cut in small pieces and stirred in a 
few minutes before removing from the fire. This 
sauce is usually served with fish. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one large teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt. Pour on 
enough boiling water to wet it. When cool add a 
tablespoonful of salad oil, and vinegar enough to 
make it thin. 

Pickled nasturtiums are a good substitute for capers. 
Capers added to a white roux, which is butter, flour, 
and water, is caper sauce. Serve with boiled mutton. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 
Author. 
One cup of oyster liquor put on to boil ; thicken 
with flour rolled in butter the size of a walnut ; throw 
in one pint of oysters ; cook until they curl — about 
three minutes. Take from stove and stir in a well- 
beaten egg ; season to taste. 

BROWN FLOUR. 

Author. 
Put the flour in a pan and set in the oven to brown, 
or stir over the fire ; when a good brown, put in a 
dredging box. Good for gravies, soups, etc. 

GRAVIES. 

Author. 
To any gravy add from one to three tablespoonfuls 
of cold coffee : its flavor is excellent. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. II9 

CARAMEL FOR GRAVY. 
Author. 
Burn white sugar in a pan ; pour on boiling water, 
and when dissolved fill bottle and put away ready for 
use in making brown gravy. 



RECIPES FOR CURING MEATS, 



DRIED BEEF. 

Remove the bone. Make a brine of one-third 
sugar, two-thirds salt, allow beef to remain in this 
brine one week. Then hang up and rub every morn- 
ing for one week, with molasses, sugar and salt. 
Then smoke until cured. 

FOR CURING HAMS. 

General Risley. 
Three gallons of water, four pounds of salt, one 
and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one pint of mo- 
lasses, two ounces of saltpetre, one-half ounce of pearl- 
ash. Mix, boil, and skim, and put on hams, enough 
in this proportion to cover. 

CURING HAMS. 

Gen. E. Risley's Twenty-Eight-Pound Hams. — 
One pint of salt, one pound of sugar, four ounces of 
saltpetre, red pepper. 

J. T. Barden's One-Hundred-Pound Hams. — Ten 
pounds salt, two quarts of molasses, one-half pound 
saltpetre. 



I20 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MAINE CULTIVATOR. 

Three gallons pure fresh water, four pounds of salt, 
one-half coarse, one-half fine, one and one-half pounds 
of brown sugar, one pint best Havana molasses, two 
and a half ounces saltpetre, one-half ounce pearlash, 
mix and boil carefully, freeing the liquor of scum as 
it rises, and when cold put on ham. 

DRIED BEEF. 
Gen. E. Risley's One-Hundred-Pound Beef. — 
Four pounds of salt, four pounds of sugar, four 
ounces saltpetre, pulverize saltpetre and salt and mix 
all together, and rub into beef well and pack down 
tight. 

SAUSAGES 
Gen. E. Risley's Ten-Pounds. — Three ounces salt, 
one ounce sage, one ounce pepper, summer savory. 



SAUCES AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 



WITHOUT EGGS. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Author. 

Make a drawn butter like Drawn Butter No. i ; add 
a dessert spoonful of anchovy extract. 

BECHEMEL SAUCE. 

Author. 
One bay leaf to one pint of milk ; a very little nut- 
meg, one-fourth pint of stock ; after this reaches the 
boiUng point, add one teaspoonful of flour and the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 121 

same of butter, rubbed together to a cream, and stir 
into the above mixture. In boiling the stock, be care- 
ful not to allow it to change color or glaze. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Author. 
Boil the white parts of three heads of celery, broken 
in small pieces, in half a pint of water, till tender ; 
then add half a pint of cream, a teaspoonful of flour, 
dissolved in a little milk ; when the same thickens, 
add a teaspoonful of butter and a little salt. This is 
excellent with boiled fowl. 

CHILI SAUCE. No. i. 

Sister Donie. 
Four quarts strained tomato, one red pepper, two 
teaspoonfuls of black pepper, three tablespoonfuls of 
salt, one pint of cider vinegar. If not very sharp, more 
vinegar must be added. 

CHILI SAUCE. No. 2. 
Eighteen ripe tomatoes, one large onion, three green 
peppers, one cup of sugar, two and a-half cups of vine- 
gar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of all 
other spices. Bottle for use. 

CHILI SAUCE. No. 3. 
Nine large, ripe tomatoes, two red peppers, one large 
onion ; chop the onion and peppers, then the toma- 
toes ; add one tablespoonful of salt, one of brown 
sugar (if vinegar is very sour, add two spoonfuls of 
sugar), two cups of vinegar, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice, and one grated nutmeg ; boil 
twenty minutes. By adding one more pepper, you 
can make it hotter. 



122 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

Author. 

Melt one-half tumbler of jelly, and in the meantime 
infuse into it a wine-glassful of port wine or claret, 
the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, five cloves, 
and a piece of cinnamon about three inches long. Let 
this steep for fifteen minutes ; strain into the currant 
jelly, and set away to cool. Very nice with venison. 

CURRY POWDER. 

Four ounces each tumeric, black pepper, and cori- 
ander ; three ounces fenugreek, two ounces ginger, 
one ounce each cinnamon seed and ground rice ; one- 
half ounce each cardamon and cayenne pepper. 

DRAWN BUTTER No. i. 

Author. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one even tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one teacup of boiling water. Put a table- 
spoonful of the butter into a saucepan, and when 
heated stir in the flour ; keep stirring until the flour 
is cooked, but do not let it burn ; then pour on the 
boiling water and add the other tablespoonful of 
butter ; strain and serve. 

DRAWN BUTTER. No. 2. 

The same as above, only substituting one teacup of 
meat broth for the boiling water. 

Drawn butter for fish or fowl is improved by the 
addition of lemon juice or a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley to one-half pint of the sauce. Cauliflower, 
cut in small bundles from the flower end, is a nice 
addition to drawn butter sauce for boiled fowl. 



• GRADED COOK BOOK. I23 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

To one-half teacup butter well creamed, add one 
even tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt 
and pepper, and the juice of one-half a lemon. Spread 
on fish or boiled meat, as soon as removed from fire. 

MINT SAUCE. 

One-half teacup cider vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 

green mint leaves cut fine, one teaspoonful sugar. 

Mix a little while before using. Nice with boiled 
mutton, as well as roast lamb. 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

Author. 
Put into a quart bottle as many small red or green 
peppers as can be covered with vinegar; cover with 
the best cider vinegar, add two tablespoonfuls granu- 
lated sugar; cork tight. You may use it on the table 
as it is, or season sauces with it. 

PICKLE SAUCE. 

Author. 
Add to a half pint drawn butter sauce, when ready 
to serve, two tablespoonfuls chopped cucumber or 
mixed pickles. 

ROUX FOR BOILED MUTTON OR FISH. 

Melt in a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, add two even tablespoonfuls of sifted flour; stir 
till smooth, and pour in slowly one pint of milk. Boil 
a few minutes. Water may be substituted for the 
milk. 



124 GRADED COOK BOOK. ' 

SAUCE FOR COLD MEATS. 

Author. 
One-half teacup vinegar, one tablespoonful horse- 
radish, one teaspoonful dry mustard, one teaspoonful 
salt. Mix and serve. 

SAUCE WITH FRESH MUSHROOMS. 
Cut off stalks of mushrooms, quarter them, boil in 
enough broth to cover. Add butter and salt to taste, 
and thicken with flour. Lastly add a little lemon 
juice. 

CANNED MUSHROOMS SAUCE. 

One-half cup of juice from the can; one-half cup 
boiling water or broth. Bring to a boil and thicken 
with an even tablespoonful of butter rolled in an even 
teaspoonful of flour; squeeze in juice of one-half a 
lemon, and add half a can of mushrooms. Boil about 
five minutes. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
Author. 

Two tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful 
pepper, rub a bead of garlic over the bottom of the 
bowl. Mix oil, salt and pepper, adding vinegar a little 
at a time; stir continually until mixed. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Author. 
Boil a can of tomatoes seasoned with one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one hour. Press through a colander and 
put in saucepan, and set on back of the stove. Add 
an even tablespoonful of butter, and thicken with an 
even tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a little 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 125 

cold water. Stir while it thickens. When sufficiently 
cooked, it should drop from the spoon like thick 
cream. Serve with mutton chops or veal cutlets. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Author. 
Pour boiling water over eight medium-sized toma- 
toes, peel and put into a porcelain kettle with a little 
salt and pepper; simmer for one hour, then run 
through a colander; put back on stove and add one 
even teaspoonful sugar, and a tablespoonful butter 
rubbed into a tablespoonful of flour. Boil until a 
little thicker than cream. Serve with veal cutlets or 
chops. 



WITH ONE EGG. 
CAPER SAUCE. 

Author. 
Melt a piece of butter size of a large egg. Stir well 
into it one tablespoonful flour. When mixed, add 
one coffee cup of boiling water. Let this mixture 
come to a boil; add two tablespoonfuls of capers, 
and the juice of one-half a lemon, and lastly the 
beaten yolk of one egg. Cook one minute, when it 
will be ready to serve. 

DRESSING FOR CABBAGE. 

One egg, one teaspoonful mustard, one teaspoonful 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, a small piece of butter, or 
one tablespoonful of oil, one-half teacup vinegar. Set 
it on the stove and let it scald or cream; then pour it 
over the cabbage, which should be previously chopped 
or shaved. If oil is used, add to the dressing just 
before pouring over cabbage. 



126 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING. No. i. 
One-half coffee cup cream, one teaspoonful corn- 
starch, one teaspoonful each salt, sugar and mustard 
mixed together, one quarter teacup vinegar, two tea- 
spoonfuls oil, white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
added after the mixture is cold; also the cream and oil. 

SALAD DRESSING. No. 2. 
A cruet of olive oil beaten well into the yolk of 
one egg drop by drop; to this add one-half teaspoon- 
ful salt and mustard, a dash of cayenne pepper, juice 
of one lemon. 

SAUCE A LA CREME. 

Author. 

One tablespoonful of butter, and one teaspoonful 
flour stirred to a cream. Put in saucepan with a pint 
of cream. Stir until it begins to thicken, then add the 
well-beaten yolk of one egg, and a little salt. Re- 
move and serve. Milk may be substituted for cream. 

A good rule for those who do not like much oil in 
salad is: one teaspoonful of oil to one egg; or one 
tablespoonful of butter to one egg. 



WITH TWO EGGS 

COPELAND'S SAUCE FOR COLD GAME. 

Pound in a mortar the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, add one tablespoonful of vinegar, a little anchovy 
paste, one teaspoonful of dry mustard ; when mixed, 
add slowly one tablespoonful of olive oil, and the same 
of vinegar. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I27 

CREAM DRESSING. 
.E, B. M. 
Rub together the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a 
dessert spoonful of mixed mustard, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one-half teacup of thick cream, cayenne 
pepper, salt, a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and 
vinegar enough to form a smooth paste. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. i. 
Cousin Eva. 
Beat to a foam the yolks of two eggs with a Dover 
beater ; add one tumbler of Lucca oil, one teaspoon- 
ful at a time. After the above is thoroughly mingled, 
add the juice of half a lemon and two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
mixed mustard, a dash of cayenne pepper, and last of 
all add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
This preparation will keep for a month, bottled and 
placed in an ice-box. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. No. 2. 

Keep the bowl cold. Beat the yolks of two raw 
eggs smooth, add two salt-spoons of salt and stir one 
way two minutes, then add, drop by drop, olive oil, a 
bottle containing one-half pint or more. When it 
begins to thicken, add a little lemon juice, and con- 
tinue stirring the same way until the oil is absorbed, 
adding lemon juice, or lemon juice and vinegar, until 
the mayonnaise is thinned to the right consistency. 
The total amount of vinegar is two tablespoonfuls, 
and the proper time to stop adding oil and to add 
drops of vinegar, is when the salad has a glassy 
instead of a velvety appearance. This is nice for 
chicken salad, lobster, lettuce, or fish. 



128 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING. No. i. 

Author. 

Yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
one teaspoonful of prepared mustard, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a trifle of cayenne pepper. Cook like 
custard, and when cold add one tablespoonful of 
cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. No. 2. 
Aunt Robinson. 

Two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard, one 
teaspoonful of salt, teaspoonful of sugar, one-half cup 
of cream, one tablespoonful of vinegar, three-fourths 
cup of oil, juice of lemon. Beat yolks of eggs, salt, 
sugar, and mustard well ; to this add oil, a spoonful 
at a time, beating well all the time ; lastly, add whites 
of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and the cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. No. 3. 

Author, 

Boil two eggs hard ; throw into cold water for a few 
moments, then mash the yolks and add to them one 
tablespoonful of cream, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, or olive oil, as preferred, one teaspoonful of 
salt, the same of dry mustard, and three tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, 

SAUCE FRANgOIS. 

Author. 

One-fourth teacup of vinegar, two yolks of eggs, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of cream, one tablespoonful of oil. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 



29 



Heat the vinegar, and mix well into the beaten yolks 
of eggs ; cook three minutes, stirring all the while ; 
remove from the fire and add butter and salt ; when 
cold add cream and oil. Pour into a pitcher, and 
serve with salad or pressed chicken. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 
' MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Three eggs, one tablespoonful mustard, prepared; 
one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, a trifle 
of cayenne pepper, one pint of olive oil. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs, add mustard, sugar, salt and pep- 
per, and lastly the oil, drop by drop. With the last 
half pint of oil, add slowly the juice of two lemons. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR CABBAGE OR TOMA- 
TOES. 
E. D. G. Gushing. 

Three eggs well beaten, three tablespoonfuls of 
cream, two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Mix all together. Then 
add six tablespoonfuls of sugar, cayenne pepper and 
salt to taste. Put the whole on the stove in a double 
boiler and stir constantly till it thickens. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKEN SALAD 

Aunt Sarah. 
Three eggs, six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, six table- 
spoonfuls ' of sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, two full teaspoons mixed mustard. 
Pepper and salt to taste. Boil two eggs, and rub the 
yolks fine and add to the dressing. Chop the whites 
and add to the chicken and celery. 



130 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

M. H. 
Three raw eggs, eight tablespoonfuls vinegar, one ^ 
teaspoonful melted butter, one-half teaspoonful pre- 
pared mustard, pepper and salt to taste. Put in a j 
bowl over boiling water, and stir until it becomes like 1 

cream. 

• 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 

Author. 
Melt an even teaspoonful of butter in a pan, rub into 
it an even tablespoonful flour. Stir it until the flour 
changes color, but does not turn dark. Then pour 
into it one-half pint boiling water; remove to the back 
of stove; stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Let 
it thicken. Take from stove; add the juice of one- 
half lemon and a dessert-spoon heaping with butter. 
Whisk until it froths. Nice with cauliflower, aspara- 
gus or boiled fish. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Beat into the yolks of two raw eggs, drop by drop, 
a pint of olive oil. When it thickens like paste, add 
juice of lemon or vinegar to thin it sufficiently; then 
add the mashed yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, or a tablespoonful of pre- 
pared mustard, a small spoonful salt and pepper. The 
whites of the eggs may be chopped and added to the 
salad, or used to garnish with, sliced in rings, or 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I3I 

chopped fine and sprinkled over the salad. Less or 

more oil may be used in this mayonnaise, or half 
melted butter, and half oil. 



WITH EIGHT EGGS. 

BOTTLED SALAD DRESSING. 

Sister J. H. 
Beat yolks of eight eggs, add to them a cup of 
sugar, one tablespoonful each salt, raw mustard and 
black pepper, a very little cayenne pepper, and one- 
half cup cream; mix thoroughly. Bring to the boil- 
ing point one and one-half pints of vinegar, add one 
cup of butter; pour in the mixture, and cook three 
minutes. When cold fill bottles, seal and keep in a 
cold place. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 

Author. 

Add to one-half pint of mayonnaise dressing me 
following ingredients minced fine: two even table- 
spoonfuls capers, one teaspoonful of parsley, one-half 
of a small onion, one small pickled cucumber. 

This sauce will keep a long time, and is a nice dress- 
ing for fish or boiled tongue. 

In making mayonnaise dressing, if the eggs and oil 
will not mingle, or should curdle, add another yolk of 
egg uncooked, and beat one way. 



SALADS. 



A RECIPE FOR SALAD. 

Sidney Smith. 

To make this condiment your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two hard-boiled eggs; 

Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 

Smoothness and softness to the salad give ; 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, half suspected, animate the whole; 

Of mordant mustard add a single spoon, 

Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ; 

But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca crown, 

And twice with vinegar, procured from town ; 

And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 

A magic soupgon of anchovy sauce. 

O green and glorious! O herbaceous treat! 

'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; 

Back to. the world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 

And plunge his fingers in the salad-bowl ; 

Serenely full, the epicure would say, 

" Fate cannot harm me, — I have dined to-day." 



WITHOUT EGGS. 
BEET SALAD. 

Author. 

An easy salad may be made of sliced beets laid in a 
salad dish in layers alternately with sliced hard-boiled 
eggs; pepper and salt each layer. Pour on. vinegar 
when served. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 133 

CELERY SALAD. 

Author. 

Let the celery stand in cold water until it is crisp. 
Break in uneven lengths; place in a celery bowl. 
Cover with a dressing made of two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful 
pepper, one-half teacup olive oil. 

A sauce made as above, substituting walnut oil, is 
very nice. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Author. 

Break celery into inch pieces. Lay in a salad bowl. 
Put in a teacup a teaspoonful of salt, and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper; fill the cup one-half with olive oil, 
and the rest with vinegar. Beat this over the celery 
If any oil remains in the bottom of the cup, use a 
little more vinegar ^nd beat in the same way until all 
is distributed over the celery. Be sure to have the 
celery crisp. Melted butter may be used instead of 
oil. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Mother Knox. 

Lettuce should be fresh. Keep in a cool place until 
just before serving; wash carefully in cold water; drain 
on a sieve; break with the hands in small pieces, do 
not cut; lay on a salad dish and cover with a dressing 
made of one cup of cream, one-half cup granulated 
sugar, one-fourth cup vinegar. Beat the cream and 
sugar well, add the vinegar, and serve at once. 



134 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTER CURRY. 

E. B. M. 
Two large onions, sliced and fried a light brown, 
two tablespoonfuls (even) curry powder, one teaspoon- 
ful butter rolled in one teaspoonful flour. Mix these 
together, and add one pint of good stock, flavored 
with the juice of one lemon; a little salt and two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream. Pass all through a sieve over the 
lobster. Serve with plain boiled rice. 

WILTED LETTUCE. 

Sister Nettie. 
Heat the fat of ham, bacon, or ham gravy very hot 
in a skillet, break up lettuce and put in to cook one 
minute, or just long enough to wilt, then add a little 
vinegar, salt and pepper, and a dash of sugar; stir all 
together and serve at once. This is an excellent sub- 
stitute for greens. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Author. 
For six medium-sized cold boiled potatoes cut in 
one-half inch cubes, mix one teaspoonful of grated 
onion or rub a clove of garlic round the salad dish, a 
teaspoonful of salt and pepper, one tablespoonful of 
parsley after it is chopped, three tablespoonfuls of oil; 
lastly the juice of one lemon. 

TOMATO SALAD. 
Mrs. O. F. 
Eight or ten tomatoes, three heads of celery, one 
teacup of vinegar, one (heaping) tablespoonful sugar, 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch, one teaspoonful (scant 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I35 

raw) mustard, one teaspoonful salt. Cut tomatoes 
coarse, say in inch square pieces, and lay in a colander 
two hours to drain. Mix mustard, cornstarch, sugar, 
salt and vinegar smoothly and put over fire to thicken, 
cook three minutes, cool and put over the mixed chop- 
ped celery and tomatoes. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR CABBAGE. 

Author. 
One-half cabbage shaved (medium-sized), one-half 
cup cream, one-half cup vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, 
one tablespoonful prepared mustard. Beat together 
and pour over cabbage before serving. 



WITH ONE EGG. 
CABBAGE SALAD. No. i. 

Slice a small, white cabbage very fine with a sharp 
knife. Put half a cup of vinegar in one saucepan, 
and half a cup of milk in another. When the vinegar 
is hot, add one tablespoonful of granulated sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Let all come to boiling point, and then add the finely- 
cut cabbage, set the pan on the range, where it will 
not boil but must be kept very hot, covering closely. 
When the milk is hot^ mix with it one well-beaten egg 
and set it on the fire, stirring until it thickens. Turn 
the cabbage into a salad bowl, pour the hot egg and 
milk over it, mixing thoroughly with a silver fork. 
Cover the bowl while the cabbage is still hot and set 
where it will cool very rapidly. Serve cold. 



136 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CABBAGE SALAD. No. ^, 
Author. 
One quart chopped cabbage, one raw egg (beaten 
separately), two tablespoonfuls of butter, heated quite 
hot ; three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one even table- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, half a teacup of cream, 
one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of granulated 
sugar, half a teaspoonful of pepper ; one tablespoon- 
ful of olive oil may be added without injury. Heat 
ingredients well through and pour over the cabbage. 

PLANTATION POTATO SALAD. 

Take five or six thin slices of bacon, fry until crisp ; 
flake in small pieces, slice thin or chop fine two or 
three onions, add bits of meat, salt and pepper, and a 
little grease from bacon, one egg well beaten, in half a 
cup of vinegar ; pour over potatoes (boil about ten 
minutes, remove peels and slice thin), and let stand 
an hour or two before using. Use mild vinegar. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 
W. G. H. 
One two-pound can of shrimps (Dunbar's the best), 
two heads of celery (chopped), or one head of lettuce. 
Break the yolk of one egg in a bowl and mix with it, 
drop by drop, one small bottle of olive oil ; when thor- 
oughly mixed, add two teaspoonfuls of prepared mus- 
tard ; continue to mix until it becomes a thick batter, 
then add salt and cayenne pepper to taste ; lastly, add 
quickly the juice of two lemons, mix well, and pour 
over the shrimps. If the shrimps are large, cut them 
in two. Lobster may be used in the same way. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 137 

WITH TWO EGGS. 

ANCHOVY SALAD. 

Wash, skin and bone eight salted anchovies ; soak 
them in water for an hour ; drain and dry them ; cut 
two hard-boiled eggs in slices ; arrange lettuce in a 
bowl, then the eggs and fish, and lastly the sauce. 

CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD. No. i. 

Author. 
One pint chopped cabbage, one pint chopped celery, 
two yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one 
tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful cream, one 
tablespoonful Lucca oil, one teaspoonful salt, pepper 
if desired. Heat the vinegar in a porcelain pan; draw 
to the back of the stove, add the beaten yolks of eggs ; 
draw forward again and cook three minutes; re- 
move from stove, add butter and salt, and when cold 
add cream and oil, and mix well ; pour over salad ^nd 
serve. 

CABBAGE SALAD. No. 2. 
Author. 
Two yolks eggs, small half cup of vinegar, half tea- 
spoonful of salt, butter size of an egg ; bring the vin- 
egar to the boiling point, then draw to the back part 
of stove and stir in the beaten yolks of eggs ; when 
well mixed draw forward again and cook three min- 
utes, stirring constantly ; add the butter and salt, and 
as soon as the butter melts add the shaved cabbage. 
This quantity of dressing is sufficient for two quarts 
of shaved cabbage I cut a firm cabbage in half and 
shave from the inside. Can be made with one egg, 
but will not be so rich. Do not cook the cabbage. 



138 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CABBAGE SALAD. No. 3. 
Author. 
Two quarts shaved cabbage, half a teacup vinegar, 
half a teacup cream, one tablespoonful granulated 
sugar, one tablespoonful butter, half teaspoonful salt, 
half a teaspoonful pepper, two yolks of eggs. Heat 
the vinegar boiling hot ; stir in the butter, sugar, salt 
and pepper ; pour hot over the cabbage ; cover and 
set on back of range until you thicken the beaten eggs 
and cream ; cook cream and eggs three minutes, then 
mix with salad and set aside to cool. 

CABBAGE SALAD. No. 4. 

Author. 
One-half a cabbage (medium size), two eggs, one 
tablespoonful prepared mustard, one tablespoonful 
vinegar, one tablespoonful butter ; shave cabbage fine, 
set aside ; boil the eggs hard ; when cold chop the 
whites fine and mix with cabbage ; mash yolks and 
add to above ingredients. Heat all through. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 
Cousin Eva. 
Boil two hen lobsters thirty minutes ; when cold 
break apart, crack the claws, and if the tail fins are 
covered with eggs, remove them carefully ; take out 
the sand-pouch found near the head ; split the fleshy 
part of the tail in two lengthwise ; remove the small 
long entrail found inside and adhering to the body. 
Should there be found a layer of creamy fat, save it ; 
also the green fat and the coral. Chop the white part 
of the lobster into dice, mix with creamy fat and put 
into an oval dish to mould, packing closely. Garnish 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 139 

a platter with Boston lettuce, using only the crisp, 
yellow leaves. Then turn the dish containing lobster 
upside down into the platter, and remove dish care- 
fully so as not to break the form. Garnish with the 
green fat and coral, and olives cut in rings, after the 
stones are removed. Serve the dressing from a sepa- 
rate dish. Use Cousin Eva's rule for mayonnaise 
dressing. 

PRAWN SALAD. 
One quart prawns, one pint celery ; same dressing 
as above. 

SCALLOP SALAD. 

Soak scallops in salt water half an hour ; rinse in 
cold water ; boil twenty minutes ; mix with equal 
parts of celery, and serve with same mayonnaise as 
above. 

POTATO SALAD. 
Seven medium-sized potatoes boiled and sliced, one 
onion, two hard-boiled eggs (the whites and onion 
chopped together), two teaspoonfuls mustard, two 
tablespoonfuls butter or oil, one-half teacup vinegar, 
salt and pepper. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Mrs. J. J. Quetting. 
Boil half a dozen, or eight, good-sized potatoes in 
the skin, when done peel them, and cut in fine slices ; 
cut a small piece of onion very fine ; take two hard- 
boiled eggs, and rub the yolks in two tablespoonfuls 
of salad oil ; add, pepper, salt and vinegar ; chop the 
whites of the eggs very fine, and add to the sauce ; 



140 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

pour the sauce over the potatoes, and mix well. 
There should be sauce enough just to njoisten them 
thoroughly. 

SALAD EGGS~A PICNIC RELISH. 

Boil eggs hard, separate yolks and mix with vinegar 
enough to make a smooth paste, season to taste with 
celery salt, pepper, mustard, and butter. Fill whites 
with mixture. 

SALMON SALAD. No. i. 
Author. 
Line a salad dish with lettuce leaves, in the centre 
lay the salmon from a pound can. 

DRESSING. 

Bring to the boiling point one-half teacup of vine- 
gar (not too sharp vinegar), and stir in the yolks of 
two eggs; add one tablespoonful of butter, a mustard 
spoonful of salt and pepper (a pinch of cayenne 
improves it for some palates). When it thickens like 
custard, take it from the stove, add one teaspoonful 
each of sugar and mustard; lastly when cool, one-half 
teacup of cream. Pour over the salmon on the stove, 
from a pitcher. 

SALMON SALAD. No. 2. 

Author. 
One can fresh salmon, one-fourth bunch celery, 
chopped rather fine, mix ; make a dressing of one 
teaspoonful prepared mustard, two tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, the yolks of two raw eggs, salt, and a little 
cayenne pepper ; mix and cook ; pour over the salmon. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I4I 

SHRIMP SALAD. 
W. G. H. 
Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, mash and mix with 
two teaspoonfuls prepared mustard ; add enough 
melted butter to make a thick paste ; a little salt and 
cayenne pepper ; reduce with vinegar or juice of lemon 
to consistency of cream; pour over shrimps. If fresh 
can not be obtained, use canned shrimps. 

VEAL SALAD. No. i. 
Selma, Author's Cook. 
Two teacups cold roast veal (chopped fine), half a 
teacup celery, same cabbage (chopped fine), half a 
teacup vinegar, two tablespoonfuls olive oil, one table- 
spoonful butter, melted and browned lightly, one 
tablespoonful prepared mustard, one teaspoonful of 
salt and pepper, two hard-boiled eggs, whites chopped 
and yolks mashed; mix all the ingredients in the fol- 
lowing manner: Beat vinegar and mustard and mashed 
yolks to a smooth paste ; add pepper, salt, and melted 
butter, and lastly the oil, very slowly ; pour over the 
salad and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, either 
chopped fine or sliced. 

VEAL SALAD. No. 2. 
Author. 
Take celery and veal equal parts; mix one dessert 
spoonful of dry mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoonful 
of celery salt, one tablespoonful of butter ; add yolks 
of two eggs; heat well and stir in one cup of hot sweet 
cream, stir all together over the tea-kettle until it 
thickens like custard, take from the fire and add two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 



142 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTER SALAD WITH THREE EGGS. 

Author. 
One can lobster, two tablespoonfuls salad oil, two 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, three hard-boiled eggs, mus- 
tard, salt, and pepper to taste ; twice as much celery 
as lobster ; chop celery fine and mix with the lobster ; 
mash the yolks of the eggs, add mustard, salt, and 
pepper, then the oil, drop by drop, mixing thoroughly ; 
and lastly the vinegar ; garnish with sliced lemon, and 
the whites of the eggs cut in rings. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Author. 
Two teacups chicken (white meat), one teacup celery, 
both chopped coarse, two-thirds teacup vinegar, one- 
half teacup olive oil, one tablespoonful prepared mus- 
tard, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, one-half teaspoonful black pepper, two hard- 
boiled eggs, two raw eggs. Bring vinegar to boiling 
point, and stir in the two raw eggs, which have first 
been beaten separately, and then together. When 
this thickens take from stove, and add mustard and 
mashed yolks of eggs, butter, pepper and salt, and 
lastly very slowly the oil. Pour this over chicken, 
celery and chopped whites of hard-boiled eggs. 

TONGUE SALAD. 

Author. 
One scant cup of tongue chopped as fine as for 
chicken salad, one scant cup of cabbage chopped the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I43 

same, five parsley leaves, one hard-boiled egg chopped 
fine and added to the above. Make a dressing as fol- 
lows: Bring one-fourth teacup of vinegar to the boil- 
ing point, thicken this to the consistency of cream, 
with one well-beaten egg; add lump of butter the size 
of a chestnut. Take from the stove, and when nearly 
cool, stir one tablespoonful of olive oil, one teaspoon- 
ful prepared mustard, one tablespoonful sweet cream, 
one-half teaspoonful salt. Mix and pour over salad. 
Mix well together, and place in salad dish lined with 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with two hard-boiled eggs, by 
chopping the whites and grating the yolks, sprinkling 
alternately over top of the salad. 

WHITEFISH SALAD. 

Author. 

May be prepared the same way as tongue salad, sal- 
mon, or sweet-bread salad. 

For a can of salmon or the same quantity of sweet- 
breads or whitefish use the following mayonnaise: 
Mix drop by drop into the yolks of two raw eggs a 
small bottle of olive oil, one holding about one-half 
pint, to thick paste, then add one teaspoonful of salt, 
a little cayenne pepper, tablespoonful prepared mus- 
tard, the mashed yolks of two boiled eggs, and the 
juice of two lemons. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Author. 
The white part of one large chicken, twice the 
quantity of celery, the whites of three hard-boiled 



144 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

eggs ; chop the above separately about the size of 
small dice, 

DRESSING. 

Grate the yolks of the three boiled eggs, add to 
them the yolks of three raw eggs, a scant half teacup 
of vinegar, a scant half teacup of butter, mustard 
spoonful of raw mustard, the same quantity of salt 
and pepper, that is, a mustard spoonful of each. 

The chicken should make a coffee cupful when 
chopped ; the vinegar should not be too sharp ; if pre- 
ferred, juice of a lemon may be used instead of the 
vinegar, and olive oil instead of butter, and a table- 
spoonful of prepared mustard instead of the raw. If 
oil is used, it must be beaten into the mixture a little 
at a time, half a teacup or more, according to taste. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Author. 

One and one-half coffee cupfuls boiled potatoes, 
measured after being cut in half inch cubes ; four 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped coarse. 

DRESSING. 

One-half teacup vinegar, one-half teacup soft but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls olive oil, two raw eggs (yolks 
only), one onion, one teaspoonful salt. Prepare the 
vinegar, eggs, butter, and salt the same as the dress- 
ing for cabbage salad ; remove from the stove and 
add the oil, a little at a time, until all is used (if added 
too fast, will curdle) ; then squeeze with a lemon- 
squeezer (kept for this purpose) the onion over the 
dressing ; a few drops can be extracted ; then put the 
crushed onion in the dressing; place on the ice to 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I45 

chill. When required for dinner, strain it through a 
colander to free it from the pieces of onion, then pour 
the dressing over the chopped eggs and potatoes and 
serve. This is a delicious salad. 



WITH EIGHT EGGS. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Author. 
Two coffee cups of chicken chopped about the size of a 
pea, two coffee cups celery (only the white part), juice of 
four lemons or half a teacup of vinegar (lemons best), 
half a teacup fresh olive oil, half a teacup (scant) 
melted butter, six hard-boiled eggs, two raw eggs, half 
a teaspoonful clear mustard, two tablespoonfuls pre- 
pared mustard, one teaspoonful salt. Use all the white 
and enough of the dark meat of the chicken to fill the 
cups. It will require the best part of twelve heads of 
celery to make the desired quantity. Boil six eggs 
hard, cool, chop whites, mash yolks, to which add the 
mustard, salt, and melted butter. Bring the vinegar 
to a boil and stir in the two raw eggs which have been 
beaten separately and together ; allow to thicken, but 
not to curdle; take from stove and add the hard- 
boiled eggs, etc. Lastly, add the oil, drop by drop ; 
pour over the chicken and celery, and serve. If you 
do not wish to use the salad the day it is prepared, 
you may reserve the celery until two hours before 
sending to the table. Cut celery and chicken into 
half-inch pieces with scissors or shears kept for this 
purpose. This salad will keep for some time if cov- 



146 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ered with a cloth wrung out of vinegar; wet again 
whenever the cloth becomes dry. This salad is very 
choice for Christmas dinner. 



WITH NINE EGGS. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Author. 
Two large, cold, boiled fowls ; skin and cut them in 
small pieces ; twelve heads of celery (white part only) 
cut in small pieces ; yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs 
rubbed to a paste ; whites chopped and mixed with 
the chicken ; half a pint oil ; half a pint vinegar ; one 
gill mixed mustard ; one eighth teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper ; one small teaspoonful salt. Mix the mustard 
and oil together until perfectly smooth, then add eggs, 
vinegar, pepper, and salt ; chop the celery fine, mix 
with the chicken, then pour over the dressing, mixing 
very thoroughly, and set it in a cool place until needed 
for use. 



WITH FOURTEEN EGGS. 

EGG SALAD. No. i. 

Remove the shells and cut twelve hard-boiled eggs 
in half lengthwise, set aside the whites until wanted ; 
mash the yolks, add half a teacup finely chopped 
cooked chicken, two sticks celery cut rather fine, a 
pinch of salt ; mix ; fill the whites, and serve with the 
following 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I47 

DRESSING. 

Half a teacup of vinegar, half a teacup of butter, 
one tablespoonful olive oil, two yolks raw eggs, half a 
teaspoonful celery salt. Bring the vinegar to the boil- 
ing point, draw to the back of the stove, stir in the 
beaten yolks, add the butter and salt, remove from the 
stove and stir in the oil gradually. 

EGG SALAD. No. 2. 

Made as above, leaving out the chicken and celery, 
substituting one small spoonful celery salt ; serve with 
the above dressing. 



MISCELLANEOUS SALADS. 

HAM SALAD. 

Mrs. Nye, Chillicothe. 
One pound of boiled ham, chopped fine, half dozen 
pickles, chopped fine. Make a dressing as you would 
for chicken salad, adding a little celery seed, but not 
as much salt. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Mrs. Jane W. Little. . 

One pint celery, one quart oysters, one-third cup 
mayonnaise dressing, three tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
one tablespoonful oil, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
eighth teaspoonful pepper, one tablespoonful lemon 
juice. 

Let the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor. 
Skim well and drain. Season them with the oil, salt, 
pepper and lemon juice. When cold put in ice-chest 



148 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

for at least two hours. Scrape and wash the tenderest 
and whitest part of the celery, and with a sharp knife 
cut in very thin slices. Put in a bowl with lump of 
ice, and keep it in the ice-chest till serving time. When 
ready to serve, drain the celery and mix with oysters, 
and half the dressing. Arrange in dish. Pour the 
remainder of dressing over it, and garnish with white 
celery leaves. 

PLAIN LETTUCE SALAD. 

Author. 
Lay the crisp leaves of lettuce in a salad dish after 
having carefully picked and washed them; garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. Season when served with 
vinegar, salt and pepper, allowing a slice of egg to 
each person. Lettuce may be served with any of 
the vegetable salad dressings. 

SALAD A LA RUSSE. No. i. 
All kinds of salad vegetables in season, cut moder- 
ately, place in a bowl, add seasoning. One gill of 
vinegar, a pinch of powdered sugar, a gill of salad 
oil, a tablespoonful of milk. Mix well together. Orna- 
ment with eggs. 

SALAD A LA RUSSE. No. 2. 
Author. 
Three tablespoonfuls vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter, one-half teacup 
cream. This can be used for any kind of salad vege- 
table in season. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. If 
desired, two teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar may be 
added. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I49 

SWEET-BREAD SALAD. 

Mrs. H., Cincinnati. 
One dozen sweet-breads, (first soak an hour in clear 
water), boil and pick to pieces, removing all gristle 
and fat; break up into quite small pieces. Pour over 
this mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with lettuce, and 
if your sweet-breads are small mix with lettuce. This 
is sufficient quantity for forty guests, and is a delicious 
side dish. 



VEGETABLES. 



BURR ARTICHOKES. 

Author. 
Remove the outer leaves, cut the stalk, and lay three 
hours in cold water ; boil, with leaves downward, two 
and a half hours ; keep well covered. Serve with a 
sauce made of two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful butter, half a teaspoonful each of mustard, 
pepper and salt. Many prefer melted butter, served 
in little sauce dishes at each plate. 



WITHOUT EGGS. 
ASPARAGUS. No. i. 

Author. 
Skin the asparagus, tie in bunches and steam till 
done ; lay in vegetable dish, remove the string and 
pour over it melted butter, pepper and salt. 

ASPARAGUS. No. 2. 

Author. * 

Skin and cut in inch lengths, cook in a little boiling 
water till done ; season with butter, pepper and salt, 
and serve. 

ASPARAGUS. No. 3. 

Author. 
Skin the asparagus, cut off the tough ends (which 
should be reserved for the sauce), tie in bunches and 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 151 

Steam till done ; lay on pieces of toast ; cut diamond- 
shape and serve with the following. 

Sauce — Boil in very little water the tough ends ; 
when done strain the juice through a sieve ; to this 
juice, say half a teacup, add half a teacup cream, one 
teaspoonful butter, salt to taste, and thicken with one 
teaspoonful flour. 

BEETS. 
They are usually plain boiled, and dressed with 
melted butter, vinegar, pepper and salt. 

TO BOIL DRIED BEANS. 

Author. 
Soak over night in cold water, next day drain off ; 
pour on cold water, parboil, drain off water and pour 
on fresh hot water, adding water from time to time 
till done ; boil with them salt pork or ham. 

CABBAGE. 

Mrs. E. Morgan. 
Trim off outer leaves one-quarter of it, that it may 
be thoroughly washed, cut out the tough part of the 
stalk, cut up the cabbage in salted boiling water, boil 
fast and steadily until the stalk is tender; drain it; 
stir together a tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
put on the fire and stir in slowly a pint of water or 
milk; add salt, pepper and nutmeg and stir into the 
cabbage, then take to the table 

SAVOY CABBAGE. 

Mrs. J. F. 
Cook them until they are about half done in water, 
then pour that water off and put them in again with 



152 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

about half milk and water until they are done. 
Cooked in this way they are almost as nice as cauli- 
flower. . Dress them as you would cauliflower. Any 
strong vegetable like turnips, cabbage, etc., are better 
for changing the water when half done. 

HOT SLAW. 

Mother Knox^ 

Chop cabbage fine, stew in very little water ; when 

half done, pour over vinegar ; salt and pepper to taste. 

Just before taking up add cream, say half a teacup to 

one quart cooked cabbage. Very nice without vinegar. 

CAULIFLOWER. 
Take equal parts of milk and water, and when it 
boils put in the cauliflowers and boil till tender. When 
done, drain ; pour drawn butter over them and serve 
hot. Broccoli is cooked the same way. 

SEA KALE. 

Pick over carefully, tie up in bunches and lay for 
half an hour in cold water ; put into salted boiling 
water and cook twenty-five minutes. Put buttered 
toast in the bottom of a deep dish and lay the kale 
upon it ; pepper and pour a cupful of drawn butter 
over it. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

HOT SLAW. 

Aunt Hettie. 
Shave a medium-sized cabbage fine, put in saucepan 
and barely cover with vinegar ; cook until tender, 



GRADED COOK BOOK, 153 

then add a well-beaten egg, mixed with a teaspoonful 
of prepared mustard ; pepper and salt. Remove from 
fire and add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream and 
serve. 

HOT SLAW. 

Sister Fannie. 
One small cabbage shaved fine ; pour on one pint 
of boiling water and cook twenty minutes ; drain and 
add half a teacup of vinegar (previously heated), with 
lump of butter size of an egg ; let it come to the boil- 
ing point, then draw to the back of the stove and stir 
in the well-beaten yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful 
salt, a little cayenne pepper ; cook a minute or two 
and serve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Author. 
Take off the outer leaves and steam until done, or 
pour over boiling water with a little salt, and cook. 
Make a sauce as follows : Melt a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, then stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; when 
quite smooth pour into it a teacup of cream ; let it 
boil up once, and add the beaten white of one egg 
with a little salt, and lastly the juice of half a lemon. 
Serve at once. 



WITH THREE EGGS- 
COLD SLAW. 

Beat together the yolks of three eggs ; add a teacup 
of cream, three tablespoonfuls of best cider vinegar, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg ; put all together on 



154 GRADED COOK BOOK 

the fire, stirring constantly till it comes to a boil; 
pour over the cabbage, which must be previously cut 
fine , add a little salt, also a tablespoonful of grated 
horseradish or mixed mustard. 



SEA KALE 

Author. 
Wash carefully and soak in cold water one hour, 
then shake out the bunches ; pour boiling water over 
and boil ; when tender drain off from the water and 
put in sauce-pan; to enough sea kale for eight persons 
add three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, butter the 
size of a large egg, pepper and salt to taste. Just 
before taking up pour in half a teacup of vinegar; 
serve hot. When vinegar is not used lay cream toast 
in the bottom of the dish and pour the sea kale over. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. H. J. Jones. 
Boil until tender one large head of cabbage in salt 
water; when tender fold back the outer leaves, cut 
the heart out and chop fine; add to it three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine, half a teacup rolled cracker, a large 
spoonful of butter, any cold meat minced fine (sausage 
is the best), pepper and salt to taste; mix all thoroughly 
and replace in the cabbage, folding the outer leaves 
back and tying tightly with a string; then put back in 
the pot in part of the liquor in which it was first 
boiled, with a teaspoonful of butter rolled in flour 
added; stew slowly one-half hour. Serve on a platter, 
with parsley or some green around it. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 155 

WITH FOUR EGGS. 

COLD SLAW. 

(Very fine.) 
Take a plate of cut cabbage, a teacup of chopped 
celery, and a third of a teacup of grated horseradish ; 
season with salt ; make a dressing as for lettuce, with 
the yolks of four eggs boiled hard rubbed into a 
smooth paste with oil, mustard, salt, pepper and vine- 
gar ; stir this mixture into the cabbage a few moments 
before dinner. 



CORN. 



STEWED CORN. 

Author. 
Cut off the grain one-half; grate the rest, leaving 
the hull; stew in milk; when done add butter, salt and 
cream; serve hot. 

TO BOIL GREEN CORN. 

Author. 
Remove the husk and silk, reserving the inner leaves 
to lay over the corn while boiling. Put the corn into 
boiling water and cook fifteen minutes; lay on a plate 
log-cabin fashion, and serve. 

GREEN CORN PIE. 

Mrs. Scott. 
Grate enough juicy and tender corn to fill your pie 
plate, one tablespoonful butter, three tablespoonfuls 



156 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

cream; season with salt and pepper. Line a deep pie 
plate with a rich paste, pour in the mixture, cover 
with upper crust, and bake a light brown This is 
delicious. 

FRIED COLD CORN. 
Author. 
Cut off the top of the grain, scrape with a knife to 
get the pulp and not the hull. Fry in ham drippings. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Author. 
One-half can of corn, one tablespoonful granulated 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one cup of milk, one egg. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

CANNED CORN FRITTERS. 

Author, 

One-half can of corn, four tablespoonfuls milk, two 

tablespoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful butter, one-half 

teaspoonful salt, one egg, beaten separately. Mix 

and drop in butter and fry. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Author. 
One and one-half pint green corn. Cut half from 
cob, and scrape the rest. One teacup flour, with tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one egg, one teaspoonful 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, a pinch cayenne pepper. 
Drop from a spoon into boiling lard and fry until 
brown. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 157 

GREEN CORN CAKES. 
Take one pint of grated green corn, three table- 
spoonfuls of milk, and one teacupful of flour, mix 
with them a quarter teacupful of melted butter, one 
eggy one teaspoonful salt, and half a teaspoonful pep- 
per. Drop into hot butter by the spoonful, and let the 
cakes fry eight or ten minutes. These cakes are nice 
served up with meat for dinner. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 
GREEN CORN OYSTERS. 

Author. 
One pint grated corn, two well-beaten eggs, one- 
half cup cream, one-half cup flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Season with pepper, salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Fry in half lard and half butter. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Author. 
Take one dozen ears of green corn, cut each row 
through on the cob, and then scrape off. To this add 
whites of two eggs, well beaten; one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful melted butter, with salt and 
pepper; then add one quart sweet milk, put in a but- 
tered dish, and bake three quarters of an hour. This 
is eaten as a vegetable for dinner. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, two eggs, half cup of butter, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one dozen ears of corn. Grate 



158 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

the corn from the cob, beat up the eggs, add the corn, 
and stir hard, then add the butter, sugar, and a little 
salt and pepper, lastly the milk. Bake in a moderate 
oven about half an hour. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 
GREEN CORN CAKES. 

Author. 
Twelve ears grated corn, one-half cup milk, two 
tablespoonfuls flour, four eggs, a little salt and pepper. 
Make in flat cakes and fry in butter. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 
Twelve ears of corn grated, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, four eggs; a very little flour and salt. Drop a 
spoonful of the batter in boiling lard. 

LIMA BEANS. No. i. 
Shell and throw into cold water. Put in boiling 
water, salt, and cook one hour or more, till thor- 
oughly done. Drain and add a tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper if desired. 

LIMA BEANS. No. 2. 

After cooking thoroughly, drain and stew a few 
moments in cream, butter, pepper and salt. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of lima beans, one quart of sweet corn, 
cut from the cob. Cook in as little water as possible. 
When done, add cream, pepper, salt, and a lump of 
butter. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 159 

BOILED HOMINY. 
Wash it well, and put on the stove, in sufficient cold 
water to cover it; it must boil constantly for three or 
four hours, and as the water boils away, have your tea- 
kettle on the stove boiling, and fill up from it. It will 
be dark if you allow it to stop boiling, or if you do 
not always fill up with boiling water. Season with 
butter, salt and cream. 



EGG-PLANT. 



WITHOUT EGGS. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. No. i. 

Author. 

One large or two medium-sized egg plants, one-half 
coffee cup of grated bread, one teacup chicken broth, 
one-half teacup cream, one-half teacup (scant) butter, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful black pep- 
per ; steam the egg-plant, remove the skin ; mix with 
it the other ingredients, beat well, put in a pan, cover 
with grated bread, bake brown. This is a very nice 
dish. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. No. 2. 
Mother. 

Parboil the plant, divide it and take out the inside, 
leaving the shell unbroken ; mash the pulp, mix with 
bread crumbs ; butter, salt, and highly season with 
pepper ; if desired sage, thyme, or savory may be 
used; fill the shells, lay in pan, pulp upward, and 
bake a nice brown. To be eaten with meat. 



l6o GRADED COOK BOOK. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. No. 3. 

Mrs, J. C. Houghton, Vicksburg, Miss. 
Boil three or four medium-sized egg-plants until 
soft, then put them in cold water for a few moments 
to harden the shells , cut them lengthwise, take out 
the meat, and be careful not to break the shells ; beat 
into the egg-plant one teacup of grated bread crumbs, 
half a teacup of grated ham, one small onion grated 
or chopped, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper. Put this 
mixture in the shells and brown in a quick oven. 
Serve a shell to each person. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

EGG-PLANT. 

Cut in slices half an inch thick, sprinkle with salt 
and let them stand a few minutes to extract the bitter 
taste ; wash in cold water, wipe them dry ; season 
with pepper, dip in yolk of egg, and then flour or 
cracker crumbs, and fry in butter. If you wish them 
for breakfast, a good plan is to cut them the night 
before, sprinkle with salt, and soak in the morning in 
fresh water an hour before frying. 

EGG-PLANT PATTIES. 
A. E. I. 
Pare and steam ; when done chop rather fine, sea- 
son with butter, pepper, and salt, roll into patties, dip 
in cracker crumbs, egg, and cracker crumbs again, 
and fry in hot lard ; add a little suet or drippings to 
brown nicely. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. l6l 

EGG-PLANT FRITTERS. 

Author. 
One tablespoonful flour, half a teaspoonful salt, 
butter size of a hickory nut, one egg ; slice the egg- 
plant, lay in salt and water half an hour ; dip in the 
batter and fry. 

EGG-PLANT FRITTERS. 

Author. 
Pare, boil, or steam until soft enough to mash ; to 
every cup of the plant add one tablespoonful of cream, 
one tablespoonful flour, one egg, one teaspoonful but- 
ter ; beat, and drop from tablespoon in hot butter and 
lard, and fry nice brown ; season to taste. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

DIXIE BAKED EGG-PLANT. 
Pare, quarter and steam ; mash fine;' to one pint of 
egg-plant add one teacup bread crumbs, two eggs, 
one tablespoonful butter, pepper and salt to taste ; put 
in a scalloped dish and cover with one egg beaten in 
a tablespoonful of cream ; bake about ten minutes. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. 

Author. 

Six small egg-plants, one coffee cup of grated bread, 
half a teacup of cream, half a teacup of butter, one 
tablespoonful of powdered sage, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, two hard-boiled eggs. 
Boil the egg-plant until soft and put into cold water 
a few minutes to harden the shells, then cut in half 



l62 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

lengthwise, take out the meat, taking care not to break 
the shells ; mix with it the above ingredients, strew 
grated bread on top of each shell ^nd brown in the 
oven ; the whites of the eggs must be chopped very 
fine and the yolks mashed. This dish is nice made 
as above with two raw eggs instead of boiled eggs ; 
enough for twelve persons. 



ONIONS 



Author. 
Boil in water until nearly done, and then pour over 
fresh hot water, with milk in it. Drain, and dress 
with drawn butter, and a little salt and pepper sprin- 
kled over them ; lastly some rich cream. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Sister T. F. M. 
Boil until tender, but not very soft. Place in the 
dish in which they are to be baked. Take a sharp 
knife and make a hole in the centre of each onion, 
putting in a small piece of butter ; salt and pepper to 
taste ; sprinkle flour over all and cover with sweet 
milk, and bake three hours. 

ESCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Author. 
Six medium-sized white onions, one teacup of rolled 
cracker, one tablespoonfulof butter, one coffee cup of 
milk ; salt and pepper to taste. Grease the sides and 
bottom of a pint tin pan ; put a layer of fine rolled 
cracker, then bits of the butter, pepper and salt ; then 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 163 

a layer of sliced onion, again butter, pepper and salt 
and a layer of cracker. Proceed as above until all is 
used. The top layer must be cracker. Lastly pour 
over the milk. Bake one hour. The milk must rise 
above the mixture. It may be necessary to use a lit- 
tle more than a cup of milk. Enough for ten persons. 

A GOOD WAY TO COOK ONIONS. 

Boil them first in milk and water; this diminishes 
the strong taste ; then chop them up and put them 
into a stew-pan with a little milk, butter, salt and 
pepper, and let them stew about fifteen minutes ; this 
gives them a fine flavor, and they can be served up 
very hot. Any vegetable is improved by being boiled 
in water to which a little salt has been added ; it 
makes them much more tender. Onions are probably 
more improved by being cooked in salt water than any 
other vegetable. Much of their unpleasant smell is 
taken away, and a peculiar sweetness and improved 
aroma is decidedly apparent. 

FRIED ONIONS WITH EGGS. 

Aunt Sarah. 
Boil five or six eggs hard ; slice and lay in a dish 
and pour the fried onions over them. 



PARSNIPS. 



MOCK OYSTER PLANT. 

Author. 
Scrape, wash, and cut in one-inch lengths; put on a 
quick fire with just enough cold water to cook them. 



164 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

When tender pour off the water, and to about a quart 
of the vegetable add one cup sweet cream, one table- 
spoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, and pepper if 
you like. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

PARSNIPS. No. I. 

Author. 

Scrape, wash and boil till done; when nearly cold 

mash; add one egg to every pint, one tablespoonful 

butter, pepper and salt to taste; make into cakes and 

fry. Put in a little suet to brown. 

PARSNIPS. No. 2. 

Author. 
Scrape, and split them, and put into a pot of boiling 
water, cook until tender. Dress with plenty of butter, 
salt, and pepper. Or you may parboil them, mash, 
and make into little cakes, dip them into beaten egg, 
and grated crackers, and fry in hot lard. 

PARSNIPS. No. 3. 

, Author. 
Cook as above, cut lengthwise and fry in butter, the 
same as cold boiled sweet potatoes. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

PARSNIPS. 

Author. 

To one pint boiled mashed parsnips, cold, add two 

tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful melted butter, 

one teacup sweet milk, two well-beaten eggs, salt and 

pepper to taste. Fry like fritters. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 165 

PEAS. 



GREEN PEAS. No. i. 

Author. 
I find the following good for well-grown peas, and 
acceptable to persons of weak digestion: Pour cold 
water over the peas and cook until done; mash through 
a colander, season with one teaspoonful salt to a quart 
after being run through the colander, one heaping 
tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls cream; pass 
again through the colander and serve. It will look 
like coral potato, the last time it is passed through the 
colander. When I cook peas that lack sweetness I put 
in a very little sugar, and if old a little soda. 

GREEN PEAS. No. 2. 
Author. 
Peas to be good must be freshly picked and not 
shelled until time to prepare your dinner. If young 
they will cook in twenty minutes. Use as little boil- 
ing water as will cook them. Just before dishing add 
butter, pepper and salt, and a little cream or rich 
milk if desired. A few pods cooked with the peas is 
an improvement. 

TO COOK DRIED PEAS. 

Author. 
Soak over nigh, in cold water; drain off next day; 
pour on cold water and boil till done. Season with 
butter, pepper, salt and cream. 

FRIED PLANTAIN. 

Author. 
Get plantains if you can, if not, red or yellow firm 
bananas, full size; pare and slice lengthwise; brown 



l66 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

butter lightly in a sauce-pan, salt it a little, and lay 
the slices near each other. When brown on one side 
turn on the other. Just before taking up add a little 
rich cream, cook a minute longer, and serve hot. The 
cream permeates the plantain and leaves no liquid in 
the pan. 

POTATOES. 



WITHOUT EGGS, 
NEW POTATOES. 
Scrape the skins from them, and let them remain in 
cold water for an hour or two, then put them into 
the kettle, cover with water, and let them boil for a 
half hour, or until they are tender; then drain the 
water from them, and let them steam with the lid 
partly off for ten minutes; then mash them perfectly 
smooth, and beat a good deal; dress them with salt, 
butter, and cream. Serve them hot. A very nice way to 
serve them is to press them through a colander with 
the potato masher in the dish you serve them in, but 
the dish must be very hot, also the potatoes, and it 
must be done quickly. They will be very light, and 
will have the appearance of macaroni in the dish. 

BLOCK POTATOES. 

Author. 
Pare and boil potatoes till done. Cut into inch 
blocks, put into a sauce-pan, and to a quart of pota- 
toes make a gravy of one teacup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful butter, one teaspoonful flour dissolved in the 
milk, a little salt and pepper. When the gravy thick- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 167 

ens like cream, take from the stove, cover the top with 
a layer of grated crackers, put into the oven and brown. 
Garnish with parsley leaves as soon as taken from the 
stove. Serve hot. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Slice the potatoes very thin on a cabbage cutter; lay 
them in cold water for an hour, or if you desire them 
for breakfast, let them stand in the water over night; 
then drain them and spread on a dry towel; wipe each 
piece dry, and drop a few at a time in boiling lard as 
you would when frying crullers; brown lightly, and 
as they are done take out with a skimmer, lay on a 
plate, and sprinkle a little fine salt over them. A very 
nice dish for lunch, is to have some of these potatoes 
piled up in pyramid form on a platter, and place mut- 
ton chops around them, with the large end down, and 
bone standing up to help support the cone of the 
pyramid. Of course this must be served hot. 

BAKED CREAM POTATOES. 

Author. 
Take three coffee cups of sliced potatoes, lay in a 
pan, cover with one teacup of cream. Season one- 
fourth teaspoonful of sugar, some of salt and pepper, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Bake for one hour in a 
quick oven. 

FRIED POTATO. 

Fry a slice of salt pork until crisp brown, remove 
the pork, and fry in the grease cold boiled potatoes 
chopped into dice. Some persons chop the pork after 
it is fried and add to the potatoes. 



l68 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH ONE EGG. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Author. 
One coffee cup of mashed potatoes, one-half coffee 
cup of finely chopped boiled ham, one-half cup of 
cream, one egg, one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. Mix all the 
ingredients together, make into balls^ roll in flour and 
fry in half lard and butter. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

Mrs. E. Morgan. 
Take five or six large mealy potatoes, slice them 
lengthwise, one-fifth of an inch in thickness. Have 
ready some nice drippings in a spider on the fire, lay 
the slices in separately and sprinkle with salt; fry to a 
nice brown on both sides; as soon as a piece is done, 
dip it in the batter and return to the spider, and so on 
until all are done. Half a cup of sweet milk, one egg, 
a little salt, and flour to make as stiff as pound cake, 
is a good recipe for the batter. Apples cooked ditto 
and eaten with sugar, are a nice dessert. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Author. 
Two teacups mashed potatoes, one egg, beaten sep- 
arately.* Mix, make into balls, roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Aunt Sarah. 
Take cold mashed potatoes, make them into a paste 
with the yolk or the whole egg, according to the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 169 

quantity. Add pepper and salt, and a little minced 
parsley. Make the mixture into little round balls the 
size of a walnut, then roll them in bread crumbs. Dip 
them in beaten egg, and again roll them in bread 
crumbs. Fry them in hot lard, drain, and serve hot. 

POTATO PATTIES. No. i. 

Author. 
Two teacups grated cold boiled potato, one-half tea- 
cup milk, one egg, beaten together, two heaping table- 
spoonfuls flour, one heaping tablespoonful sugar, one 
teaspoonful salt, a little nutmeg. Mix together and 
drop from spoon into hot lard and butter — one-half 
each. 

POTATO PATTIES. No. 2. 

Author. 
Make same as above, omitting sugar and nutmeg, 
and roll in egg and cracker crumbs. 

NAPLES POTATO. 

Author. 

Beat boiled potatoes with a fork until very light; 
mix with one-fourth the quantity grated cheese, and 
the yolk of an egg, to a coffee cup potato. Make into 
balls and fry. 

BERLIN POTATO. 

Put into a sauce-pan a tablespoonful butter, with 
a teaspoonful of flour; stir it over the fire until it is 
well mixed. Then add a teacup of meat broth, then 
some cold boiled potatoes. Cut into dice; cook a few 
minutes, add pepper, salt and a tablespoonful chop- 
ped parsley, and the yolk of an egg. Cook three min- 
utes longer and serve. Serve with slices of lemon. 



170 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH TWO EGGS. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Author. 
One pint of cold mashed potatoes. Beat into them 
one-half teacup cream, one even teaspoonful butter, 
the whites of two eggs well beaten, and salt. Lay 
this in a scalloped dish, and cover with the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs stirred in one-fourth cup of milk. 
Brown. Nice for breakfast. 

MONT BLANC POTATO. 

Mrs. McBean, Oakland, Cal. 
Instead of mashing boiled potatoes, whip light and 
dry with a wooden or silver fork. At this point begin 
to whip in a cup of hot milk to a quart of mashed 
potato, and when all is in, add the frothed whites of 
two eggs. Heap conically in a deep silver or stone- 
ware dish; set in a quick oven until the surface hardens 
slightly. Withdraw before it catches a shade of brown, 
wash over lightly with butter, and send to the table. 

POTATO PUFFS. 
Two cups of smoothly mashed boiled potatoes, turn 
in two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and stir to a 
cream; then add two well-beaten eggs, and one cup of 
sweet cream or milk. Stir all together and pour into 
a deep dish. Bake quickly. 

POTATO SNOW. 

Author. 
One pint cold mashed potatoes, one-half teacup 
melted butter, one teacup milk, one teaspoonful salt, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 171 

two whites of eggs. Mix the above ingredients, add- 
ing the beaten whites last; brown lightly in the oven. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 

IRISH POTATO SNOW. 

Author, 
Pare and parboil the potatoes; grate them when 
nearly cold, and to one pint beat the yolks of three 
eggs, one teacup of cream, two tablespoonfuls butter, 
one teaspoonful of salt or three tablespoonfuls sugar, 
according to taste, if desired salt or sweet. If sugar 
is used grate in one-fourth of a nutmeg. Lastly stir 
in lightly the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake 
about fifteen minutes. Serve hot as a vegetable. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mrs. Anna Irwin. 
Take mashed potatoes, add milk until quite thin, 
five or six tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs well 
beaten and added, a small lump of butter melted, and 
a little salt; fry as griddle cakes. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Author. 
Two quarts mashed potato, one teacup cream, three 
eggs, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt. 
Beat the potatoes while hot very light with a fork; 
add the salt, cream and butter and beaten yolks, lastly 
the beaten whites; pile high on the baking dish, bake, 
five minutes and serve hot. 



172 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH FOUR EGGS. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Author. 
Wash well good-sized potatoes of uniform shape; 
cut a small piece from each end; bake until just done; 
cut each in half, remove the potato without breaking 
the shell. Pour into the potato one-half coffee cup of 
boiling milk, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, lastly the 
beaten whites. Fill the shells, sprinkle lightly with 
bread crumbs, return to the oven and brown. Leave 
a little space in the shell to fill with cream when eaten. 
Potatoes may be prepared in this way, and browned 
in a scalloped dish. 



SWEET POTATOES. 



SOUTHERN BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Author. 
Steam or boil about eight potatoes until done; pare, 
mash, and beat into them one-half teacup of cream or 
rich milk, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Beat well, and brown in 
a scalloped dish. The potatoes should be well beaten. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Author. 
Prepare same as above, except that the yolks of two 
eggs are beaten into the ingredients, and the whites 
whisked to a froth and added last. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 1 73 

WITH TWO EGGS, 

MOCK SWEET POTATO. 

Author. 
Two teacups mashed Irish potatoes run through a 
colander, one-half teacup milk, one-half teacup melted 
butter, one-half teacup sifted flour, two eggs, beaten 
separately and together, two tablespoonfuls granulated 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-third nutmeg, 
grated. Mix ingredients and bake twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

SWEET POTATO BALLS. 

Author. 
Boil, skin the potatoes and run through a colander. 
Mix with one quart of potatoes, one-half teacup cream 
or milk, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful but- 
ter. Make into balls, dip in flour, and fry in hot butter. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Author. 
Boil potatoes until half done, pare and slice cross- 
wise in one-half inches slices; butter a quart pan well, 
put in the slices in layers, sprinkle salt, pepper and bits 
of butter over the top, pour over them one-half cup of 
cream, and bake about twenty minutes, 

BAKED SLICED SWEET POTATOES. 

Author. 
Steam, pare and slice lengthwise. Brown butter 
lightly in a square tin pan, lay in the potatoes, sprinkle 
with sugar, salt and pepper, and bake a few minutes. 
Just before taking up pour over them a tablespoonful 
of cream to moisten them. 



174 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Author. 
Cold boiled or baked potatoes are nice when sliced 
and fried. 



TO BOIL RICE. 

Author. 
Pick and wash a teacupful of rice and put it in a 
rice-kettle, with a pint of cold water ; salt ; cover 
close, and let it boil until done. Let it steam a few 
minutes after it is tender, so that every grain will 
stand alone. It will cook in twenty minutes over a 
bright fire. Do not stir it while cooking. 



SALSIFY. 



BOILED SALSIFY. 

Author. 
Wash and scrape ; cut in pieces about an inch in 
length and boil until tender but not broken ; then 
make a dressing of a cup of cream or milk, thickened 
with flour, a piece of butter, salt and pepper ; boil it 
and pour over the salsify. Serve hot. 

SALSIFY WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
After scraping off the outside, parboil and slice the 
salsify. Dip the slices into a beaten egg, then into 
fine bread crumbs, and fry in lard. It is very good 
boiled, and then stewed a few minutes in milk, with a 
little salt and butter. Or make a batter of wheat 



GRADED COOK BOOK. T75 

flour, with milk and eggs, cut the salsify in thin slices 
(first boiling it tender), put them into the batter with 
a little salt, and drop the mixture into hot fat by 
spoonfuls ; cook them till a light brown. Parsnips, 
carrots, egg-plant and okra, cooked the same way, are 
excellent. 

SALSIFY WITH TWO EGGS. 

Author. 
Scrape the roots, dropping them in cold water to 
prevent turning dark. Cut in pieces about an inch 
long ; put them into a sauce-pan with hot water suffi- 
cient to cover, and let them stew till tender ; then 
turn off the water, mash them, and make a batter of 
two eggs, a little salt and butter, and flour sufficient 
for a thick batter ; add this to the salsify, mix, make 
into small cakes and fry in hot lard. Serve in hot- 
water dish. 



SPINACH. 



SPINACH AU BEURRE. 

Author. 
When well washed cover with boiling water, with a 
little salt, and boil till done. Drain the water through 
a colander and chop the spinach very fine. Have 
ready a sauce-pan with butter browned lightly ; add 
the spinach ; steam well through. Serve in vegetable 
dish and garnish with three-cornered pieces — an inch 
wide — of fried bread or toast. 



176 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SPINACH. No I. 
Wash free from sand, cook twenty-five minutes, 
chop fine, mash and run through a colander ; roll some 
butter into fliour, make smooth on the stove ; when 
it is heated through add the spinach, salt and pepper, 
then the stock and milk ; boil five minutes and serve. 
Of stock and milk enough to moisten. 

SPINACH. No. 2. 
Pick it over and wash thoroughly, then boil in salt 
and water ; pour over melted butter and vinegar, and 
sprinkle on some pepper, and serve either with poached 
eggs laid over the top, or with thinly sliced hard- 
boiled eggs. 

SQUASHES. 



Cut them up, and remove the seeds ; cook in hot 
water until tender ; then wash and dress with butter, 
salt and pepper. They are nice cut in thick slices and 
fried as egg-plant. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut the ends off, take out the seeds, cut in long 
strips, and set in the oven to bake until tender ; then 
send to the table in the skin in which they are baked. 
They are nearly equal to sweet potatoes. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH. 

Author. 
Pare and slice the same as egg-plant ; season with 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 177 

pepper and salt, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, or 
plain if you prefer, and fry in hot butter and lard, 
or beef drippings. 

SUMMER SQUASH OR CYMLINGS. 

Author. 
Boil, mash and season with butter, pepper and salt 
to taste, and serve ; or to a pint of squash add one 
teacup cream, one teaspoonful' salt, two teaspoonfuls 
flour, one well-beaten egg ; make into cakes and fry 
in a little butter. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 
SQUASH FRITTERS. 

Author. 
Pare and grate two flat summer squashes into a 
colander ; let the water drain off, then add two eggs, 
pepper and salt, butter the size of an egg, and suffi- 
cient flour to make a tolerably thick batter ; try one, 
and if it will not hold together add more flour. Fry 
quickly in»plenty of hot lard. 



BEANS. 



STRING BEANS. No. i. 

Author. 
String and cut in inch lengths ; boil in as little 
water as will cook them ; season to taste with butter, 
pepper and salt. About twenty-five minutes will be 
long enough to cook fresh string beans. 



178 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

STRING BEANS. No. 2. 

Author. 
String the beans, and cut slantingly in inch pieces ; 
pour over them just as little hot water as will boil 
them, and cook until soft — if young and tender, about 
twenty minutes will suffice. When done, to one quart 
of beans add half a pint rich milk, one teaspoonful 
flour moistened with milk, one tablespoonful butter, 
salt and pepper. If desired, hard-boiled eggs may be 
sliced and laid in the bottom of the vegetable dish. 
Many prefer to boil them with sliced salt pork or 
bacon. 

SOUR BEANS WITH ONE EGG. 

Mrs. J, J. Queuing, Author's Aunt. 
String, cut in pieces and boil string beans until they 
are done ; drain through a sieve perfectly dry ; put 
into a sauce-pan a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoon- 
ful of flour, about a tablespoonful of vinegar, salt and 
pepper ; add the beans and let all cook together about 
five minutes. Just before taking up, beat an egg light 
and add to it. « 



TOMATOES. 



BAKED TOMATOES. No. i. 

Author. 
Make a cavity in the heart of the tomato ; fill with 
a dressing made of sugar, butter and bread crumbs, 
and lay in the pan without water. ' If preferred, salt 
may be used in the dressing instead of sugar. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 1 79 

BAKED TOMATOES. No. 2. 
Wash the tomatoes, put them into a baking dish, 
and bake about three-quarters of an hour, or until the 
skin is thoroughly shrivelled. Take them upon a fork 
and drain them from the juice in the dish ; peel them 
in the dish in which they are to be served. After all 
the skins have been removed, season with salt and 
pepper. This is considered a healthful method of 
cooking tomatoes, as it frees them from much of the 
acid juice. 

FRIED TOMATOES. No. i. 
Sister Jennie. 
Fry two or three slices of breakfast bacon ; take 
out the blemishes and hearts from as many tomatoe-s 
as are required ; cut them in half (do not pare) and 
lay in the fat from the bacon, skin side down ; when 
nice and brown, turn ; then add one large raw onion, 
chopped or sliced, and cook all together till thoroughly 
done ; when cooked enough dredge in a little flour, 
just enough to make it creamy ; then add a cup of 
fresh milk ; when you want them particularly nice, 
use part cream ; after adding the milk, take imme- 
diately from the stove ; season highly with salt and 
pepper. These are nice without milk, but better with it. 

FRIED TOMATOES. No. 2. 

Author. 
Brown lightly in a skillet a tablespoonful of butter ; 
then cut tomatoes into half-inch slices, without paring, 
and lay close to each other one layer in the skillet ; 
when brown on one side turn and brown on the other ; 
salt and pepper to taste. Serve as a side dish with 
veal cutlets. Fresh tomatoes will not lose their form. 



l8o GRADED COOK BOOK. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Slice thin, with or without paring ; place in ice-box, 
and before serving lay bits of ice over them. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Place in a baking dish a layer of bread crumbs, 
then a layer of peeled tomatoes sliced, with bits of 
butter, a little pepper and salt, then bread crumbs, 
tomatoes, and so on, until the dish is full, having the 
bread crumbs on top. Place in the oven and bake. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Author. 
Canned tomatoes are greatly improved by stewing 
a long time — say stew a can down one-half. The ordi- 
nary way is simply to stew half an hour. Season with 
pepper, salt and butter, and if desired thicken with an 
even teaspoonful of flour dissolved in water, or bread 
crumbs or cracker. Good without any thickening. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 
Scoop out the inside of a dozen large tomatoes, 
without spoiling their shape ; pass the inside through 
a sieve, and then mix it with grated bread crumbs, 
salt, pepper, and any herbs you desire, or you may 
omit the herbs. Stew this about ten minutes, and 
then stuff the tomatoes with the mixture, tying a string 
round each to keep them in shape ; sprinkle them all 
over with fine bread crumbs ; set them in a buttered 
dish, and bake them in an oven ; before serving take 
off the strings. Egg-plant may be cooked in the same 
manner. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. l8l 

TO STEW TOMATOES. 

Wash, and pour boiling water over them ; peel off 
the skins, and cut them up. Season with pepper, 
salt and butter ; cook them in their own juice half an 
hour. Thicken with bread crumbs, and after ten min- 
utes take them up. 



TURNIPS 
Are boiled until tender, then mashed, and dressed like 
parsnips. 



MADE DISHES. 



WITHOUT EGGS. 
"ALLEZ COUCHEZ."; 

Mrs. Charlton H. Way, Savannah, Ga. 
Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one small garlic, two 
large onions, a slice of white bacon chopped fine. 
Chop onions and garlic, put all the ingredients in a 
double kettle ; after they have been fried a light 
brown, add to this one dozen large tomatoes, pressed 
through a colander, half a dozen ears corn, chopped, 
half a dozen large cucumbers, sliced, one pint Lima 
beans. Joint two spring chickens, and roll each piece 
in a rich pie-crust ; alternate the vegetables and 
chicken as you place them in the double kettle ; cover 
closely, and cook slowly four or five hours. 

BAKED MEAT DISH. 

Author. 
One pound of finely chopped steak, add half a tea- 
cup rolled soda crackers, a small piece of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls water, salt and pepper to taste ; sage, 
onion, or any savory herb may be added ; bake in a 
deep pan. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Author. 
Three pounds round steak, one pint of oysters, one 
pint of bread crumbs, half a teacup of butter; mix 

butter and crumbs, moisten with the liquor from the 

182 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 183 

oysters ; salt and pepper, add the oysters ; lay the 
dressing on the steak, fold, bind with tape and bake 
in a pan with bits of butter, but no water. Bake, and 
when done make a brown gravy to serve with it, or 
oyster sauce. 

ROLLED BEEFSTEAK. No. i. 

An Old Cincinnati Housekeeper. 
Take a flank steak, wash and pound it well ; chop 
one onion very fine and spread it over the steak ; then 
sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of salt, a little red pep- 
per, a teaspoonful of ground mace, a teaspoonful of 
ground allspice, quarter of a teaspoonful of ground 
cloves and a half teaspoonful of nutmeg. Roll it up, 
and as you roll it sprinkle it with pepper and salt and 
a small quantity of spice (the same you have just been 
using), tie firmly with a string ; put it into a pot and 
just cover with water. Let it boil two hours (keep it 
covered well with water), until so soft that a fork will 
penetrate easily, then remove it from the pot, and set 
it where it will keep hot, and allow the gravy to stew 
down to a half pint ; thicken this with a small quan- 
tity of flour, add a small piece of butter, and pour this 
over the steak after it has been put on the dish for 
the table. 

ROLLED BEEFSTEAK. No. 2. 

Mrs. A. D. U. 
Make a seasoning of bread, onions, pepper, salt, 
summer savory (and spice if you like) ; spread the 
seasoning on the steak ; roll and tie it with a string ; 
put it in a close kettle, with a slice of pork, and half a 
pint of water. Bake. 



184 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SMOTHERED BEEFSTEAK. 

Sister Fannie. 
One pound of round steak, cut in six pieces and 
placed in a spider containing meat grease or a table- 
spoonful of butter ; lay over the meat twelve onions 
sliced thin ; cover tightly with an earthen plate and 
cook a half hour slowly but steadily, so as not to 
toughen steak by too slow cooking, or burn by too 
brisk fire. 

ROAST BEEF HASH. 

Author. 
Cut the meat very fine with a chopping-knife, add 
salt, a little butter, and only sufficient water to mois- 
ten; heat it through, but do not let it cook, as it 
toughens the meat. This is a delicious breakfast dish; 
try it. 

FRENCH HASH. 

Cousin Alice. 
Chop up very fine any kind of cold meat, put it into 
a frying or stew pan ; season with butter, salt, pepper, 
put in some water and allow it to cook five minutes ; 
just before it is done put in a little cream ; have some 
bread nicely toasted, place it on a large dish, and put 
a spoonful of the hash on each piece, pouring any 
gravy that is in the dish over it. Makes a very nice 
breakfast dish. 

HASH. No. I. 

Mrs. L. M. 
Chop up the meat tolerably fine, also some cold 
boiled potatoes ; season with a little butter, salt and 
pepper ; add some water (very little) and let it cook 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 185 

well together ; have it almost dry, then put it on a 
dish, form it nicely in an oval shape, smooth over the 
top, place it in the oven and bake a dark brown. 
Serve on this same dish. Cold corned beef makes 
very nice hash. 

HASH. No. 2. 

Miss Harriet Rood. 
One-third chopped corned beef, one-third chopped 
boiled potatoes, one-third chopped sweet new beets ; 
season and add a very little water ; brown in the oven. 

FRIZZLED DRIED BEEF. No. i. 

Author. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter in a hot skillet and 
let it brown ; then add half a pound of chipped dried 
beef, cook four minutes and add one pint of milk 
thickened with a tablespoonful of flour. An egg added 
makes a richer dish. 

FRIZZLED DRIED BEEF. No. 2. 

Sister M. 
Chip some smoked beef and drop into boiling water 
to soften ; let it lie ten minutes, and then put into a 
skillet with a little boiling water, and stir gently for 
twenty minutes ; pour off the water, put in a little 
butter, and some pepper, and pour in a half teacup of 
cream five minutes before taking from the fire. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Author. 
Take a pan of clabber, pour off the whey, and put 
the clabber into a pointed muslin bag to drain. Let 
it drain twelve hours, then put the curd into a dish 



l86 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

and mash it until very smooth with a spoon, pouring 
over it some rich cream until the consistency of thin 
mush ; season with salt to your taste, and set it away 
in some cool place until tea time. Serve in a glass 
dish and sprinkle a little pepper over the top. Equal 
parts of buttermilk and thick milk, prepared as above, 
is very nice. Another simple way is to pour boiling 
water over the clabber, put it into a colander, pour 
over it a little cold water, drain off, and salt, pepper 
and butter and make into -balls. 

CHOICE LUNCH RELISH. 

Mrs. W. 
Quarter pound of cheese, cut in thin slices, put in a 
spider ; pour over it one large cup of milk (sweet), a 
little pepper, salt, and a small piece of butter ; stir all 
the time ; add gradually three Boston crackers rolled 
fine. Put in a hot dish and serve. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Contributed. 
Cut up a fowl as for a fricassee, boil until tender, 
take out the chicken, and chop it in small pieces; then 
to the broth add a little pepper, salt, and summer 
savory ; dissolve one-half ounce of gelatine, and stir 
it with the broth in a bowl. When it begins to con- 
geal add the chicken and pour the whole into a mould. 

CROQUETTES. 

Contributed. 

Chop veal, beef, or chicken very fine ; take equal 

quantities of the meat and of bread crumbs, with a 

little flour, allspice, salt, and one-half onion chopped 

very fine ; add two tablespoonfuls of bacon fat, with 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 187 

a very little milk ; mix the whole into balls of sugar- 
loaf shape, which drop into a sauce-pan of boiling 
drippings. After all are cooked, throw the drippings 
into a pan of hot water, and stir it up well ; the next 
day it will be a firm cake of grease, which may be kept 
for further use. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. No. i. 
Mrs. H. 
Five cups of chicken, one and a half cups of broth, 
one cup of rice, one cup of butter, salt, pepper and 
nutmeg. This makes twenty-four. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. No. 2. 
Mrs. E. B. M. 
One and a half cups picked white meat of chicken, 
one tablespoonful butter, three heaping tablespoon- 
fuls flour, two-thirds of a pint milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls chicken broth, salt and pepper to taste ; make in 
oblong balls ; roll in eggs and then in bread crumbs, 
and fry in half lard and butter. 

CHICKEN CURRY. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 
Cut up one large chicken, at least one year old, as 
for fricassee, one and a half pounds fresh pork, cut in 
pieces one inch square, two good-sized onions, sliced, 
one can tomatoes, one cup flour, with two teaspoon- 
fuls of curry powder mixed in it, one quart of milk. 
Have ready on the back of the stove a large porcelain 
kettle, in front a stewpan or spider ; put a piece of 
butter, the size of a large walnut, into each ; put the 
onions in the kettle, after which cover. Fry pork in 



l88 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

the spider until brown, but not cooked through ; 
transfer to kettle ; treat chicken in the same way as 
the pork ; then mix with it the flour and powder, after 
stirring thoroughly ; add tomatoes ; lastly add the 
milk, salt to taste ; cover closely ; stir frequently and 
scrape often from bottom of kettle, as it burns eas- 
ily; let simmer six or seven hours. Twenty minutes 
before dinner have a large kettle more than half 
filled with water boiling furiously ; add to it one- 
fourth pound rice ; let boil ten minutes, stirring from 
the bottom occasionally ; then add salt to taste and 
let boil ten minutes longer. Do not leave the rice on 
the stove too long, or it will be spoiled. Pour through 
a colander to drain. Serve in a soup tureen ; the other 
mixture serve on a platter, helping each guest to rice 
and the curry. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Author. 
Boil a chicken in two coffee cups of water until the 
meat separates from the bones ; remove all the bones 
and skin ; season with salt and pepper, add the liquid 
from the kettle in which the chicken was cooked ; put 
in a mould and place a weight on the chicken and set 
away to cool. Cut in slices. 

CHICKEN TAMALES. 

Mrs. McBean, San Francisco. 
Take a tender chicken, clean, and cut up into joints 
as for a fricassee ; stew slowly until tender, add a lit- 
tle salt. Take a dozen Chili peppers (red, green or 
dry), remove the seeds and wash the peppers ; boil 
the same until soft, press through a sieve with a 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 189 

wooden spoon, moistening with a little water, or soup 
from the chicken. Put a frying-pan containing a 
tablespoonful of lard over the fire, and when smoking 
hot add two medium-sized onions that have been 
peeled and sliced ; also two tomatoes and one large 
green pepper. Stir these for a moment in the hot fat 
before adding the pieces of stewed chicken and the 
pulp obtained by pressing the boiled Chili peppers 
through a sieve. Add a teaspoonful of flour wet with 
cold water, and a little of the soup of the chicken. 
Cover the pan closely and set aside to boil slowly for 
fifteen minutes. (After this it can be eaten as it is, or 
made up into tamales). Put into a saucepan three 
tablespoonfuls of lime with two quarts of water, stir 
and put it to boil, then add four pounds of clean, dry, 
whole corn (white corn, not the yellow), cover the pan 
and set aside where it will keep hot, but not boil, for 
from one to two hours, or until the skin gets loose, 
then wash several times in clear water and grind fine 
in a mortar. (White corn meal is a good substitute 
for this.) Mix this paste with a half pound of lard, 
not melted, and stir with the hand, always in one 
direction, moistening with the broth in which the 
chicken has been cooked, until you have a thick, 
smooth batter, or so that a piece dropped in water 
will float. It should be light and foaming. Have 
ready some corn husks that have been steeped in 
tepid water for twenty minutes, and spread half a 
spoonful of this paste in the middle of each of two 
wide husks ; take a third husk and put in the middle 
of it a piece of chicken with a little of the gravy and 
an olive, also two or three raisins. The stewed chicken 
should be first seasoned with salt to taste. Fold over 



ipo GRADED COOK BOOK. 

the husk containing the chicken and place over it one 
of the pieces of husk on which you have previously 
spread the paste ; turn it over and lay on the other 
piece. The wide ends of the husk should be trimmed 
off neatly with the scissors, and in putting on the 
husks containing the tortilla paste, lay the wide ends 
opposite ways ; tie the tamales about an inch and a 
half from each end with a narrow thong of the husk ; 
put in a steamer and cook one hour. Be careful that 
the water in the lower part of the steamer does not 
touch the tamales. The flour for making the paste 
can be purchased at stores where Spanish supplies are 
kept, as can also the corn husks. 

IRISH STEW. 

Sister Jennie. 
Two and one-half pounds breast of mutton or veal, 
one slice of fresh pork, boil the meat three hours, sea- 
son with salt and pepper. About half an hour before 
dinner, add two or three onions, and eight or ten 
potatoes, according to the size of the family; when the 
potatoes are done, thicken the gravy with a little but- 
ter and flour mixed together, and add one-half tea- 
spoonful marjoram. Use enough water to cover. 

PORK AND BEANS. 
Take two quarts of beans, and let them soak over 
night. In the morning, parboil them; then put them 
in a stone jar, with one small teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of sugar or molasses, and one pound of 
raw salt pork. Place them in the oven, and bake 
slowly for six or eight hours. Do not let them get too 
dry, adding water as will be necessary. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I9I 

POT PIE. 

Mrs. McK. 
When bread has risen the second time, and is ready 
to make into loaves, cut off a piece and throw into the 
boiling soup As soon as done pull apart with a knife 
to prevent getting heavy. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Mrs. N. 
To one hundred pounds of chopped meat, add two 
and a half pounds of salt, ten ounces of black pepper, 
and eight ounces of well-dried sage leaves. Mix well. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 
Wash well one cup of rice, cover with one inch cold 
water, add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, three medi- 
um-sized tomatoes, or same amount canned ones, one- 
half of a medium-sized onion, one tablespoonful beef 
dripping or gravy; add salt and pepper. Stew twenty- 
five minutes. 

SCOTCH OR RESURRECTION PIE. 
E. B. M. 
Mince fine any kind cold meat with onion to taste, a 
generous amount of gravy, cook tender; place in bak- 
ing dish; cover with mashed potatoes. Bake brown. 

TOMATO PIE. 

Sister Dona. 
Use fresh or canned. Put in a baking dish a layer 
of tomatoes, then a layer of cooked or uncooked meat 
chopped fine; butter, pepper and salt each layer. 
Cover with a rich biscuit crust and bake. 



192 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Tomatoes picked just before they turn are very nice 
sliced, dipped in beaten egg and cracker crumbs and 
fried in butter. Ripe cucumbers pared and sliced 
crosswise, laid in cold water half an hour, may be pre- 
pared like the fried tomatoes, or dipped in egg batter 
and fried. 

FRIED NOODLES. 

Sister Dona. 
Cook noodles or large macaroni until tender in just 
enough water to cover. When done drain; then melt 
a tablespoonful of butter in a skillet; add to it one- 
half teacup grated bread; lay over this the noodles, 
sprinkle salt and pepper. Cook a few minutes, or 
until the bread crumbs brown nicely. Stir the whole 
lightly and serve hot. ., 

VEAL OLIVES. No. i. 

Author. 
Have the veal one-half inch thick and cut in four- 
inch squares, fill with a dressing as for turkey, roll 
li4^e sausage and bind with linen thread; fry slowly in 
one-half lard and butter a light brown, then pour over 
sufficient boiling water to cook them. Cover the skil- 
let and let simmer till done, then add a teacup of 
cream for twelve olives and thicken with one table- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in a little cold milk, salt 
and pepper to taste; garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

VEAL OLIVES. No. 2. 

Author. 

They are cooked just like No. i, but the squares are 

not filled with turkey dressing, but are well buttered 

inside with a paste made of parsley, butter, pepper 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 193 

and salt. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley to 
two of butter (melted), roll and bind same as Olives 
No. 

VEAL PATE. 
Sister M. H. 
Three pounds of veal, chopped fine, before it is 
cooked. Five soda crackers rolled fine, a piece of but- 
ter larger than an egg, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of pepper. Mix thoroughly together, 
mould into a loaf and put into a pan with a little 
water. Roast three hours, basting it often. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
A nice way to use up bits of meat: Chop fine ; add 
to this one onion chopped fine. Beat one egg and 
put in, with pepper and salt. Make them into little 
balls and fry. 

BREAKFAST DISH. 

Author. 
One egg and one tablespoonful of flour beaten 
together, one coffee cup of sweet milk, salt to taste. 
Dip slices of stale bread in this batter, covering both* 
sides. Fry quickly on a hot griddle, well greased with 
sweet lard or butter. 

BEEF ROLL. No. i. 

Author. 
One pound rare beef chopped fine, three soda 
crackers, rolled and sifted, one tablespoonful Worces- 



194 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

tershire sauce, a pinch of sweet marjoram, one egg 
well beaten, one tablespoonful butter; form into rolls, 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve with tomato 
sauce or fried tomatoes. 

BEEF ROLL. No. 2. 

Cousin A. 

Two pounds of steak or veal, two slices of bread, 
one Ggg, one teaspoonful of butter, pepper, salt and 
sage. Chop together very fine, press in a ball, bake 
about half an hour. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. No. i. 

Mrs. A. B. 

Take the white and dark meat of a nicely roasted 
or boiled chicken, (the former preferred as it contains 
the most nutriment), chop it fine, and season highly 
with pepper and salt. Moisten it with a little of its 
own gravy, and form it into oval balls with the fingers, 
dip each one into an egg well beaten, and then roll in 
bread or cracker crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or 
butter. Serve on a hot platter, ornamenting the dish 
with slices of pickled beet, and sprigs of parsley or 
celery leaves. A good way to shape croquettes is by 
using a wine or jelly glass. 

CHICKEN, HAM OR VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Author. 

One cup grated bread, one cup meat chopped fine, 
one egg. Soak in one-half cup hot rich milk; mix 
with beaten egg; roll in fine cracker and fry brown. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I95 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. No. 2. 
Mrs. H. J. J. 
Make a strong stock, by boiling the bones of veal 
after the meat is cut off, in a little water. Put it in a 
frying pan, with a cup of cream, a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled in a tablespoonful of flour, add a little 
pepper, a little nutmeg, and a little mace. After this 
stews and thickens, add the cold meat of veal or 
chicken or both chopped fine and let it cook till well 
mixed; pour in a pan and set on the ice until perfectly 
cold. Then mould into croquettes with the hand, or 
form in a tin mould and roll in egg and cracker crumbs; 
fry in boiling lard in a deep vessel. 

CROQUETTES. 

Author. 

Remove the fibrous membranes, then tie a calf's 
brains in a cloth, boil until soft, then mix with one 
cup of cold cooked chicken or veal chopped fine, sea- 
son with three sprigs chopped parsley, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful thyme, one grating of nutmeg, one-half 
teaspoonful pepper, and same of salt. Moisten with 
one teacup chicken broth; heat through, add one egg, 
and a teaspoonful of butter rolled in a teaspoonful of 
flour. Cook three minutes, set away to chill, make 
into patties, and fry as oysters. 

DELMONICO'S CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Sister Dona. 
Two sweet-breads, boiled, one teacup boiled chicken, 
hashed; one boiled onion, one teacup boiled bread and 
milk, one-fourth pound butter, salt and pepper. Chop 



196 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

chicken and sweet-breads very fine, mix with the other 
ingredients, shape in rolls, dip in yolk of egg, then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. 

GRATED HAM. 

Mrs. Harris. 
Grate one pound of cold ham, mix with the yolk of 
an egg, and a little cream. Warm it and serve on 
buttered toast. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Author. 
Mix one teacup of finely chopped ham with one 
tablespoonful of French mustard, two tablespoonfuls 
piccalilli, and the yolk of one hard-boiled egg. 

LUNCH OMELET. 

Author. 
One teacup cooked meat, chopped; one-half teacup 
rolled cracker, one teacup raw potatoes, chopped as for 
hash, three tablespoonfuls milk, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, one egg. Season with pepper and salt. Mix and 
bake half an hour; five minutes before it is done beat 
an egg separately, and together, and pour over; let 
bake five minutes. Serve in the same dish; enough 
for six persons. 

REMNANT CAKE. 

Author. 
One cup cooked chopped meat or mixed meats, one 
egg, one-third cup of rice, one-third cup of mashed 
potatoes, one-third cup grated bread, one tablespoon- 
ful butter. Season with two sticks of chopped celery 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I97 

or one-half of an onion or chopped parsle3^ Make into 
flat cakes like potato patties; bind with a beaten egg 
and flour, fry in a little butter. 

SAUSAGE. 

Author. 
One pound of sausage or any kind of raw chopped 
meat, two medium-sized raw potatoes grated, one-half 
teacup bread crumbs, one egg, three tablespoonfuls 
milk; salt and pepper to taste. Make into patties and 
fry in a little butter and lard in a skillet. 

TONGUE ON tOAST 
Author. 
One coffee cup finely chopped tongue, one-half tea- 
cup sweet crearri, one egg. Put tongue in a saucepan, 
with just enough water to moisten. When it begins 
to simmer add the well-beaten egg and one-half tea- 
spoonful chopped parsley; cook three minutes, remove 
from fire, add cream, and pour over slices of toast. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. No. i 
Author. 
For breakfast, can be prepared the night before, and 
so be ready for the table in a few minutes. Chop the 
veal fine, mix half a cup of sweet milk with about a 
teaspoonful of flour. Melt a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, and stir the flour and milk in it, then let it 
come to a boil. Mix this thoroughly with the meat, 
form it in balls or flat cakes, lay in a platter, scatter a 
little pepper and salt over it, and let them stand till 
morning; then beat one egg very light, add a little 
milk, dip the meat balls in the egg, and then in 
cracker crumbs. Fry till brown in hot lard. 



198 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. No. 2. 
Author. 
One pound chopped raw veal, one-half teacup dry 
bread crumbs, one egg, three tablespoonfuls cream, 
one teaspoonful each salt and chopped parsley, one- 
half teaspoonful pepper. Make into pats, dip into 
beaten egg, then into bread crumbs, and fry slowly in 
butter and lard, one half each. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. No. 3. 

Author. 
One pound veal, one tablespoonful rice boiled, the 
yolk of one egg; add salt, cayenne pepper, and a little 
grated lemon. Make into croquettes, dip in beaten 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

BEEF OR VEAL OMELET 
Sister T. F. M. 
One pound of fresh beef or veal chopped as for sau- 
sages, three large crackers rolled line, two eggs well 
beaten, pepper, salt, sage to taste. Mix all together 
and form into rolls, and bake three-quarters of an 
hour, basting often. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Mrs. B. 
One and a half pounds of beefsteak (the round), 
raw; chop it fine ; season well with salt, pepper, sweet 
marjoram and summer savory ; beat two eggs thor- 
oughly and add to the beef ; mix all together, roll it 



GRADED COOK BOOK. I99 

up closely, put it into a dripping-pan and bake nearly 
one hour. It is to be eaten cold for tea, cut in thin 
slices, like tongue. 

BREAD OMELET. 

Sister Dona. 
Two slices half an inch thick of bread, stale and 
crumbled, one medium-sized coffee cup cold water, 
two eggs, salt and pepper to taste, one tablespoonful 
of butter, onion as desired. Bake as you would a 
bread pudding. It can be cooked in a skillet on top 
of the stove, and as quick as the eggs are set lift from 
the sides as you would an omelet. It is done when 
the eggs are set. It does not injure to stand. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. A. 
One boiled chicken, chopped very fine and seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg. Put into 
a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg, one 
tablespoonful of flour, two eggs, and one-half tumbler 
of cream. Mix till smooth, then boil till the flour is 
cooked, taking care not to let it turn too dark ; if too 
thick add a little more cream. Mix this with the 
chicken while warm ; then shape the croquettes and 
put them on the ice to harden. When cold roll them 
in egg beaten with crumbs, and fry in lard. 

DRESSING FOR COLD MEAT. 

Mrs. Harrisi 
To two eggs beaten add a cup of sweet cream (if 
you do not have it take milk), one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and salt and mustard to taste. Let 
this cook as for custard, then add a cup of vinegar. 
Pour it over cold chopped meat. 



200 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

JELLIED VEAL OR CHICKEN. 

Mrs. M. 
Put some veal on to boil, with a little salt. When 
well cooked mince it very fine and add a little of the 
liquor, with some pepper, thyme, sunimer savory 
rubbed fine, and a little mace. To one quart of the 
liquor that is left, add one-half ounce of Cox's gelatine, 
and if it is not clear put in the whites of one or two 
eggs. Put some of it in the bottom of moulds, add 
the veal pressed in them, fill the top with jelly. 

HAM SANDWICH. 

Mrs. W. 
Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of prepared mustard ; beat to a cream one- 
half pound of butter ; mix all together and spread 
your bread with this (the bread must be cut thin), and 
add upon each slice finely chopped ham free from fat. 

MOCK CREAM. 

Author. 
Heat one quart new milk ; work together a dessert 
spoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of flour ; thin 
it with a little of the milk (cold) ; cook, stirring con- 
stantly, till perfectly smooth ; add rest of milk, boil 
five minutes, stirring all the time. Take from fire. 
Have ready the yolks of two eggs beaten well ; stir 
into the cream while hot. Mix well, strain and beat 
until light. 

HOMINY PUFF. 

Cousin Eva. 
One pint boiled hominy grits ; measure as soon as 
cooked, and set aside till wanted ; one coffee cup of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 201 

milk, one dessert spoonful of melted butter, salt, two 
eggs thoroughly beaten; fill pudding dish and bake a 
rich brown. 

FRENCH TOAST WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Author, 
Dip slices of bread quickly in sweet milk on both 
sides, then in beaten eggs and fry in a little butter ; 
heat the liquor from a can of mushrooms, add tea- 
spoonful of butter, and nutmeg size of a grain of 
wheat ; chop mushrooms and add ; pour all over the 
toast and serve. Nice for breakfast or lunch. The 
small quantity of nutmeg is just enough, and must be 
grated. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Author. 
One pint finely chopped veal, two eggs, half a tea- 
cup of cream, one tablespoonful of melted butter ; 
salt, pepper, powdered sage, or thyme, according to 
taste. Mix ingredients all together ; make into rolls, 
dip in cracker dust and beaten egg, then into cracker 
dust again, and fry in a kettle of hot lard. 

VEAL LOAF. No. i. 

Mrs. N. 
Three pounds of clear veal, quarter of a pound of 
salt pork chopped fine, one teacup of cracker crumbs, 
a little nutmeg, two eggs well beaten, two teaspoon- 
fuls of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a little mace, 
parsley or sage, a little lemon peel and the juice of 
one lemon, a small piece of butter. Bake in pans, or 
steam it three hours, wrapped closely in a cloth. 



202 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

VEAL LOAF. No. 2. 
Author. 
Three pounds raw veal, one-fourth pound salt pork, 
two eggs, half a teacup cream, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, half a teaspoonful pepper, half a teaspoonful all- 
spice, oneteaspoonful salt, five crackers, one-fourth nut- 
meg. Chop the veal and the pork, add the rest of the 
ingredients, pack tightly in square tin, brush with 
beaten egg, dust with bread crumbs, and bake. Raw 
veal requires an hour and a half to bake, cooked veal 
one hour. Slice when cold for tea. 

VEAL LOAF. No. 3. 

Miss Prince. 
Three pounds of raw veal, chopped very fine ; while 
in the chopping bowl work in with your hands half a 
cup of butter, salt, pepper, and sage if you like, two 
eggs, one cup of grated cracker, and one cup of cream. 
Make into a loaf and bake slowly "in a pan well but- 
tered. 

BOILED WHITE^ISH FRITTERS. 

Author. 
One cup flaked fish, half a cup grated bread, half a 
cup mashed potatoes, half a cup cream, two eggs, 
pepper and salt. Mix ingredients, make into balls, 
dip into the beaten whites of the two eggs, then into 
cracker crumbs. Fry in a kettle of hot lard. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 

A MEAT PUDDING. 

Sister M. 
One quart milk, three ' eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
flour, two teaspoonfuls baking pov/der, one teaspoonful 



GRADED COOK BOOK, 203 

salt ; mix and pour into the baking pan around the 
meat. Bake one hour. 

NICE BREAKFAST DISH. 

Author. 

Slice a few cold biscuits, or some dry light bread, 
and fry slightly in butter or gravy ; beat three or four 
eggs into half a cup of milk, and salt to taste. Pour 
over the bread and cover for a few minutes, and shake 
lightly so all may be cooked. This is very nice in 
place of meat. 

CHEESE SCALLOP. 

Author. 

Soak one cup of bread crumbs in one cup of sweet 
milk ; beat three eggs separately ; add one teaspoon- 
ful butter and half a teacup grated cheese, and bake 
a light brown. The whites of the eggs must be beaten 
light and added just before baking. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. A. 

One plump chicken, two pounds of veal, cut from 
the round ; boil the veal and chicken separately, in 
cold water, just enough to cover. Pick to pieces and 
chop ; cut up one-third of a loaf of bread, and soak 
in the broth of the chicken while warm ; put all in a 
chopping bowl ; season with salt, pepper, mace and 
nutmeg; beat three eggs light and mix with the above 
ingredierts; make up in oblong balls ; fry brown in 
hot lard and butter, equal parts. 



204 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FRENCH RAREBIT. 

Mrs. W. 
Cut three ounces of cheese in small bits, and fry 
with a small piece of butter. When the cheese begins 
to melt, have three eggs, beaten with a little salt and 
pepper, and pour them upon the cheese, and roll into 
a sort of muff, then take from the fire. The whole 
operation should not take more than two minutes. 

FRIED CREAM. 

Author. 
One pint milk, one-half pint cream, two tablespoon- 
fuls corn starch, two tablespoonfuls flour, three whites 
of eggs, one-half teaspoonful butter, inch piece of cin- 
namon ; salt Heat the milk with the cinnamon ; stir 
in the flour and cornstarch, dissolved in a little extra 
milk ; cook three minutes. Add butter, cream, and 
beaten whites of eggs ; stir well and cook three min- 
utes. Take from fire and set away to cool. Mould 
in shallow biscuit tin. When wanted to fry, cut in 
two-inch squares, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry 
in butter. Maple syrup is a good addition. 

HAM ON TOAST. 

Author. 
Chop very fine one teacup of cooked ham (boiled is 
best), add three well-beaten eggs and one cup of milk. 
Cook slightly and spread over buttered toast. Moisten 
the toast a little. 

VEAL CUTLET. 

Cousin Alice. 
Pound your cutlets until tender ; beat up the yolks 
of two or three eggs, with pepper and salt ; grate a 



GRADED COOK BOOK. ^O^ 

quantity of bread crumbs. First drop your cutlets 
into the egg, and then in the bread crumbs, and fry. 
A little parsley improves the flavor. You may use 
flour instead of bread crumbs, if you prefer. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Author 
Three and a half pounds veal chopped fine, either 
raw or cooked (better raw), seven crackers, three eggs, 
butter size of an egg, one tablespoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pepper, two slices pork, half an inch thick, 
chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls fresh sage; mix and 
bake two hours. Put yolk of one egg over the out- 
side, and sprinkle some powdered cracker over the 
top ; if it bakes too fast, put in a little water. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Author. 
One chicken boiled in two cups of water until the 
bones can easily be removed; boil with chicken, one- 
half teaspoonful salt and one clove of red pepper or 
one-half teaspoonful of ground black pepper. Have 
ready the chopped whites and mashed yolks of four 
hard-boiled eggs, six chopped mushrooms, one teacup 
chicken broth, and two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, and two even tablespoonfuls gelatine which has 
been dissolved in just enough water to cover it. When 
it is sufficiently cooked pick in small pieces and add 
the above ingredients, heat through, but do not cook, 
put in a mould and press. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and serve each person with a piece of lemon. 



2o6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

POTTED CHICKEN. 

Author. 
Prepare the chicken as for stewing, boil it and set 
the liquor away to cool. When it congeals skim off 
the grease and scum. Put the jelly on the stove to 
boil, clear it with the white of an egg, and strain. 
Cut the white meat in small pieces, placing it in a 
mould alternately with four sliced hard-boiled eggs 
and parsley. Then pour over it the hot liquor, and 
set it away to congeal. 

TERRAPIN HASH. 

Miss E. T. 

Boil and chop fine a calf's head, four hard-boiled 
eggs, and four roast potatoes. Season well with cay- 
enne pepper and salt. Just before serving, mix in one 
tumblerful of sherry wine. 



WITH FIVE EGGS. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. H. 
Boil one large chicken, pick to pieces and chop fine; 
make a panada of three-quarters of a pound of light 
bread crumbs, a half pound of butter, and a little 
water; cook until the consistency of mush, and set 
away to cool. Add to the chicken a little nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt to taste, one teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, one of parsley and a very little mace. Boil 
five eggs hard, rub the yolks and mix with the chicken, 
add the panada, mix well, and make out in shape of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 207 

pears. Roll them in eggs beaten light, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry brown in hot lard, as you would fry 
doughnuts. You must have a pound of meat. Veal 
makes nice croquettes. 

VEAL OMELET. 

Author. 
Beat five eggs separately, mix and beat again; sea- 
son with salt and a little chopped parsley, pour into a 
skillet; when cooked sufficiently to turn without break- 
ing, spread over it roast veal chopped fine and warmed 
with a little butter and moistefied with a little cream; 
fold the omelet and serve. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 
PRESSED CHICKEN AND CAULIFLOWER. 

Author. 

Six boiled eggs, one chicken (boiled), one large 
head cauliflower, one large cup chicken broth, one full 
tablespoon gelatine, one full tablespoon prepared 
mustard, two full tablespoons vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Chop chicken and set aside. Mix gelatine with the 
cup of broth and set on the back part of the stove for 
half an hour. When dissolved mix with this the 
mustard and vinegar, then pour half of this mixture 
over the finely chopped chicken, and half with the 
chopped cauliflower. Next put half of chicken in the 
bottom of a bread-pan, then over this the chopped 
cauliflower, then place on the shelled hard-boiled eggs 
toward the narrow end of the pan. Put two eggs in 
a row, making three rows. Press the eggs into the 



2o8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

cauliflower until well set; then cover with remainder 
of cauliflower, then add remainder of chicken. Cover 
with lid that fits snugly; put on weights and set on 
ice. Serve with sliced lemon or Sauce Francois, Place 
the narrow end of egg toward narrow end of pan. 

TERRAPIN VEAL. 

Mrs.. M. 
Cold veal cut in dice, six hard-boiled eggs chopped, 
one wine-glass of wine, one cup of cream, pepper, 
salt, and spice. Serve hot. 



WITH TWELVE EGGS. 

EGG BASKETS. No. i. 

Author. 
One-half cup chopped cooked chicken, one-half tea- 
cup of melted butter, one-fourth teacup of thick sweet 
cream, one small teaspoonful celery salt. Boil the 
eggs hard, drop into cold water, when cold remove 
the shells, cut into halves and from the end of each 
half of the white, cut off a small piece so that the egg 
will set up. Mash the yolks, add the other ingredients, 
fill the whites, put in the oven, heat through when 
wanted; serve on triangular pieces of toast. 

EGG BASKETS. No. 2. 
Author. 
Twelve eggs, one-half teacup melted butter, three 
pieces celery, one tablespoonful French mustard, one 
teaspoonful salt, one (juice) lemon, one teacup chicken 
taken from the breast. Boil the twelve eggs hard, cut 
eggs in half, slice off the small end, so the egg will set 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 



209 



Up, take out the yolks and mash. Mix with the above 
ingredients and fill the whites. Serve cold with salad 
dressing; may serve warm with cream, by leaving out 
the mustard and lemon. 

EGG BASKETS WITH TONGUE. 

Author. 

Are made as above, except one-halt teacup of tongue 
instead of chicken, and two tablespoonfuls chopped 
parsley instead of celery. Use boiled salt or fresh 
boiled tongue, must be chopped fine, and measure, 
one-half teacup after it is chopped. 



MACARONI. 



MACARONI COOKED IN THE ITALIAN 
MANNER. 

Do not break the macaroni, but cook in as long pieces 
as possible. Pour boiling water over it and boil until 
tender ; put a good deal of salt in the water. When 
done take out of the water and put on a platter ; have 
ready a dish of grated cheese, or else sprinkle the 
macaroni thick with cheese ; have beef gravy to eat 
with it. 

MACARONI. No. i. 

Put the macaroni into a pot of boiling water, with 

a little salt in it, and let it cook ten minutes ; then 

pour on fresh hot water and milk in equal quantities, 

and boil ten minutes more then put it into a deep dish, 



2IO GRADED COOK BOOK. 

with alternate layers of butter and grated cheese, until 
the dish is full, having macaroni on the top, with a 
little butter on it without cheese ; bake in an oven for 
half an hour. 

MACARONI. No. 2. 

Author. 
(A dish that is palatable every month in the year.) 
Buy one pound package of the whitest and best; 
take one-third of it and break in small pieces ; 
boil it in water well salted twenty minutes, drain, off 
water, add half a cup of cream or milk, salt, pepper„ 
and butter, and a small half teacup of cheese ; cut in 
very small pieces ; bake from twenty to thirty min- 
utes. The macaroni and grated cheese are put into a 
pan in alternate layers. 

MACARONI WITH OYSTERS. 

Author. 
Boil macaroni in salt water, after which drain off 
water ; take a deep earthen dish, put in alternate lay- 
ers of macaroni and oysters ; sprinkle the layers with 
grated cheese ; bake until brown. 

WARMED-OVER MACARONI. 

Author. 
A nice way to serve macaroni and cheese left from 
dinner is to add a little boiled grated ham ; moisten 
with a little milk and heat through. 

AN ECONOMIC DISH. 

Author. 
Cook macaroni in just enough water to cover ; boil 
twenty minutes ; drain and fill a dish with alternate 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 211 

layers of macaroni, finely-chopped tongue, chicken, 
or ham, or all three ; pour over a little cream, heat 
and serve 

MACARONI WITHOUT CHEESE. 

Mrs. J. F. 
Put it on in a little water ; let it come to a hard 
boil, then drain off the water ; put it on again with 
milk and a large lump of butter ; boil until quite ten- 
der, and while hot mix in a little cream, and add some 
sugar, nutmeg or cinnamon, or you may omit them. 



EGGS. 



BAKED EGGS. 

Author. 
Break eggs carefully into a buttered pan, taking 
care to leave a little space between them; let them 
remain in the oven until the white is set. Serve on 
slices of buttered toast. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Author. 
Straia some boiling water into a frying-pan, and put 
into the water as many muffin rings as the pan will 
allow. Break the eggs separately into a saucer, and 
slip from this inside of the rings into the water. The 
rings prevent their spreading. Serve on toast. Salt, 
pepper and a little piece of butter on each Qgg. 



212 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

OMELET. No. i. 

Author, 
Beat eggs separately, then mix; add salt. Melt a 
tablespoonful of butter in a skillet, and pour the eggs 
in it, with a space between, making three omelets at a 
time; lift from the sides carefully as soon as set, turn 
over, cook a moment longer and serve with sprigs of 
parsley. Finely chopped onion or parsley may be 
added to the eggs before cooking, if preferred. 

OMELET. No. 2. 
Mrs. H. 
Take three tablespoonfuls of milk for each egg, a 
pinch of salt to each one also; beat the eggs lightly 
for three or four minutes, and pour them into a hot 
pan, in which a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
has been melted a moment before. The mass will 
begin to bubble, and rise in flakes immediately, and 
the bottom must be lifted incessantly with a knife, to 
allow the softer part to run in. An omelet should be 
cooked about three or four minutes, and made in uhis 
way will melt in the mouth. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

OMELET FOR ROAST MEAT. 

Author. 
Three slices of bread, or that amount of crumbs or 
bits of bread, two eggs beaten, two cups of cold water. 
Season with a very little onion, salt, pepper, and 
melted butter; herbs may be used if desired. Put all 
together and let stand a little while to soak bread. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 213 

When thoroughly soaked, bake as you would bread 
pudding. This may be cooked more quickly on top 
of the stove in a skillet, but must be lifted from the 
sides with a knife to see if the omelet is formed. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 

OMELET. 

Author. 
Beat the yolks of eggs very light. Set aside, then 
beat the whites to a stiff froth with a little salt; then 
mix yolks and whites evenly, and add one teacup 
milk, one-third teacup chopped boiled ham, one tea- 
spoonful each chopped onion and parsley. Melt butter 
in saucepan, then pour eggs into the pan, and when 
brown roll with pancake turner. Make in one large or 
three small omelets. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Author. 

Four eggs, whip together one medium cup of milk, 
one tablespoonful of flour; bring milk to a boil, 
thicken with the flour, stir in a lump of butter and 
eggs, salt and pepper. When the eggs are set it is 
done. The flour must be dissolved in a little of the 
cold milk from the cup. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Author. 
Heat three giljs milk with a dessert-spoonful of but- 
ter; beat four or five eggs well; wet a tablespoonful of 



214 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

flour in a little cold milk; one teaspoonful salt. Mix 
the eggs with the flour and cold milk, then add the 
hot milk, stirring very fast. Put in dish just large 
enough to contain it. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven. 

WITH FIVE EGGS. 

OMELET. No. i. 
Mrs. B. Wheeler. 
Five eggs, half cup milk, one tablespoonful flour, a 
little salt. Break the eggs separately, whites on a 
plate and yolks in a bowl. Beat each thoroughly, and 
stir milk and flour with yolks. Have skillet very hot 
and buttered well, turn half the yolks into it, and 
spread half the beaten whites on top. It will brown 
in a moment, then roll over and over as you would a 
jelly-cake roll. 

OMELET. No. 2. 
Author. 
Five eggs, one pint of bread crumbs, one coffee cup of 
milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper; soak 
bread crumbs in milk ten minutes, then add the but- 
ter and then the eggs which have been beaten separ- 
ately and together; bake in square tins fifteen minutes 
in a quick oven. Very nice. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 

EGGS NAPOLITAINE. 

Author. 
Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, season- 
ing as for omelet, and pour into a buttered baking tin. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 215 

Pour on the froth at equal distances, six tablespoon- 
fuls of cream and drop into each depression made by 
the cream, a yolk of egg whole. Bake in a good oven 
and serve hot. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 

OMELET. 

Author. 
Six eggs, one teacup warm sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful butter melted in the milk, one tablespoonful 
flour. Salt and pepper to taste. Beat yolks and mix 
above ingredients, adding the beaten whites last. 
Cook in hot butter and roll. Serve immediately. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Miss B. 
Take six eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately 
until you are worn out, then sweeten and flavor the 
yolks, mix them with the whites and beat until your 
patience gives out. Bake in a very hot oven until it 
rises very light, and browns nicely. Eat as soon as 
done with sauce. 

• - SCRAMBLED EGGS. No. i. 

Aunt Ellen Gushing. 
Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan; beat 
the yolks of six eggs a few minutes, then add to them 
six tablespoonfuls of milk, and a teaspoonful of salt, 
beat a little longer, and pour them into the melted 
butter. When they thicken slightly, pour in the whites 
unbeaten, and mix them with the yolks carefully with 
a fork. Serve on pieces of toast on a hot dish, or if 



2l6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

preferred omit the toast. The whites should not be 
beaten in hard, only stirred with the fork enough 
to mix slightly with the rest. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. No. 2. 

(A more simple way.) 
Beat six or eight eggs very light, add a little salt, 
and put into a warm frying-pan with a small quantity 
of butter. Stir them until they are well thickened, 
but not hard ; sprinkle a little pepper over them, and 
send to table in a hot dish. 

STUFFED EGGS. 
Mrs. Harris. 
Boil six eggs hard, cut them crosswise in two, soak 
some crumbs of bread in boiling milk, stir in the yolks 
till very smooth, mix in a good piece of butter, a little 
pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Stir well together 
and fill the whites of the eggs, being careful not to 
break them; butter a dish, lay in the eggs, cover them 
with a thick layer of the mixture, put small pieces of 
butter on top, and place in the oven to brown. 

GOOD WAY TO DISPOSE OF EGGS. 

The 07nclette aux Croutons is one of the simplest and 
daintiest ways of preparing eggs. Beat the yolks of 
six and the whites of four eggs; season with salt and 
spice according to taste. Cut some delicate little 
pieces of bread dice-sized, fry them in butter till they 
are well browned, then throw them quickly into boil- 
ing gravy or milk or sauce of any particular flavor ; 
mix them with the beaten ^^^ and fry as an ordinary 
omelet. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 217 

WITH EIGHT EGGS. 

OMELET. 

Mrs. S. 
Eight eggs, one teacup of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Beat the whites of four of the eggs separately, and the 
yolks of the eggs very light; mix in the other ingredi- 
ents, then pour into a frying-pan with a small quantity 
of butter; as it stiffens put the whites over it, cut into 
slices and roll over and over with a broad knife; salt 
and pepper as you turn it. Put only about a third of 
the yolks into the pan at a time, also reserving the 
same quantity of the whites, so as to send in to the 
table several times hot. 



PICKLED EGGS. 

Author. 
Boil a few beets ; when done, pare, slice, and cover 
with cold vinegar. In this lay hard-boiled eggs, hav- 
ing first removed the shells. They will be ready foi 
use the next day. Lay on a fancy dish, and garnish 
with the beets. The eggs may be either whole, quar- 
tered, or sliced. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST 
CAKES. 



BREAD AND STOVES. 

Ever}^ good cook knows that to make good bread 
requires good flour. As there are many kinds of 
yeast, we leave to the choice of the cook the kind to 
be used. Mix with milk-warm water ; set in a warm 
place to rise ; knead well ; mould into loaves or rolls, 
as you wish ; set to rise until it is light enough to 
bake ; be sure to take care that it does not sour. 
Many cooks are equally successful who make up the 
bread at once into loaves, baking it after it has risen 
once. This has been the practice in my family for 
many years. To secure good baking, proper knowledge 
of the stove or range is necessary. Care should be 
taken that your stove be free from ashes, and that the 
housekeeper see that her stove or range is well cleaned, 
both top and bottom, at least once a week. A great 
deal of tlie trouble that cooks have is from put- 
ting too much coal in the fire-box, thereby checking 
the draft, choking it with ashes and clinkers, cracking 
and warping the top, and springing the doors. Be 
careful not to allow water to be spilled on the stove, 
or watery vegetables, such as melons, etc., to be burned 
in it. A turkey wing is an excellent article with 
which to brush out the oven. Any good stove polish, 
applied with an old shoe-brush, will keep your stove 

bright ; always apply when the stove is cold. Oxalic 

218 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 219 

acid is excellent to brighten the copper reservoir (one 
ounce of crystal to a pint of water); this acid is a 
deadly poison, and care must be taken in handling it. 
A good cement to mend cracks in stoves is equal parts 
of wood ashes and clay ; mix well with cold water, 
using also a little salt. In preparing the ixMsh a pinch 
of brown sugar may be added ; rubbing with newspa- 
per is excellent to give an extra polish to the stove ; 
moisten polish with vinegar always. Oyster shells 
burned in the stove will remove clinkers from the 
grate. 

DIRECTIONS FOR OPERATING STOVES. 

Contributed by Col. Jas. A. Sexton, a well-known manufacturer of 
stoves. 

To secure good operation in cook stoves and ranges, 
see : 

1. That the flue-stopper is in its place. 

2. That the chimney is clear and has a good draught 
at pipe-hole. Many chimneys are made too low, and 
draw better when a ** smoke-stack " is put on them. 

3. That the pipe fits closely on the stove and in the 
chimney. No air should go in outside of the pipe. 

4. That the pipe does not go too far in the chimney. 

5. That no ashes from chimney get into the end of 
the pipe. 

6. Avoid having the pipe telescope at the elbow. If 
you have all these parts properly adjusted and well 
arranged, open the direct-draught damper and see if 
you can get a good fire in the stove, together with a 
strong draught. If the stove will not burn well then, 
the trouble is not in the stove, but above it. 

If the fire burns well on the above direct draught. 



220 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

close the oven damper ; then, if it will not heat the 
oven and bake well, please examine the flues and 
damper, and see : 

1. That all the flues are open and clear, so that 
smoke can freely pass through them. In cleaning 
flues many do not clean all the flues and frequently 
push soot and ashes into back corners, and in that way 
stop them up. 

2. Examine,all the dampers in the flues and see that 
they open and close tightly and do not get out of place. 

3. Be sure that you know how they operate, so they 
may not be open when you think they are closed. 

If you are trying a* stove ivithout a hot-water reser- 
voir and have everything in good order as heretofore 
described, it can not possibly fail in operation if you 
close the direct-draught damper and throw all the heat 
around the oven. Time should be giveu to get the 
oven hot before trying to bake. 

If you have a stove with a reservoir be sure that the 
damper (if one is in the stove) to force the heat under 
the reservoir is closed, so that all the heat must go 
around the oven. Many reservoir stoves have two 
dampers, and in that case both should be closed. 

We have known many persons who have tried to 
use such stoves with that damper under reservoir open 
when they thought it was closed. On that account 
the oven heated too slow, but worked fast enough 
when they closed the damper. 

BREAD. No. I 
Author. 
Three pints lukewarm water, in a little of this dis- 
solve the yeast; one cake of compressed yeast, one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 221 

tablespoonful of lard, one tablespoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls sugar, three and one-half quarts flour 
(should be sifted after measuring); put flour in pan, 
then the other ingredients. Knead until it does not 
stick to the pan. Set to rise in a warm place, about 
seven a. m. It should be ready to make into loaves 
about twelve o'clock. Let it stand in the baking pans 
about three-quarters of an hour before baking. This 
will make three loaves. 

BREAD. No. 2. 
Three pints water, cold in summer, milk-warm in 
winter; one teacup yeast, a little salt; sufficient flour to 
make a thick batter. Let it stand all night. In the 
morning stir into the sponge flour sufficient to mould 
it, knead it well^ put into the pans to rise one hour or 
until light, then bake, 

BREAD. No. 3. 
Mrs. N. 
Six potatoes boiled quickly, and mashed fine, one 
pint of flour, miixed with them, and three pints of 
potato water. When about lukewarm add one quart 
of yeast. Cover closely and set to rise. When light 
enough add seven quarts of flour, and knead well. 
Cover closely to exclude the air, let it rise until it 
cracks, work into loaves, put them into the pans to 
rise again, and then bake three-quarters of an hour. 
This makes eight loaves. 

SALT-RISING BREAD. 

Author. 
One tablespoonful lard, one pint lukewarm water, 
one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful sugar, one tea- 



222 GRADED COOK BOOK, 

Spoonful salt, one teacup corn meal, flour to make a 
thick batter. Put these ingredients together in a 
three-pint pitcher, which set in warm water on the 
back of the stove until it runs over, which will take 
from six to twelve hours. If the sponge is not risen 
then it is not good. Then take three pints lukewarm 
water and enough flour to make a thin sponge. Set 
it to rise one hour in a warm place. Then knead well 
and make into loaves. Scald the pitcher and spoon be- 
fore using. Rolls can be made without adding more 
lard. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. No. i. 

Miss F. 
One coffee cup of Indian meal, one of rye flour, half 
teacup of molasses, little less than one pint of milk, 
half a teaspoonful saleratus stirred into the molasses, 
a little salt. Steam four and a half hours, then place 
in the oven and brown. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. No. 2. 
Mrs. Buckingham. 
Two cups of corn meal, two cups of Graham flour, 
one cup of wheat flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two- 
thirds of a cup of molasses, one and a half pints of 
sweet milk, beat well and pour into a tin mould with 
a close lid; boil in a kettle of water from three to four 
hours, be sure that the water boils all the time and 
keep it filled up as high as the brea(d is in the vessel. 
Always fill up with boiling water. When sufficiently 
done take out of the mould, and set in a hot oven for 
ten minutes. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 223 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. C. C. Boyles. 
Three teacups of sour milk, one-half teacup of brown 
sugar, one-half teacup of molasses, two teacups of rye 
meal or Graham flour, four teacups of Indian meal, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful soda. Boil 
three hours' and bake one hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD, No. i. 
Auat Morgan. 
Three cups sour milk, one cup of molasses, one 
scant teaspoonful of soda, one scant teaspoonful of 
salt, Graham flour to stiffen as thick as you can stir; 
melt one spoonful of lard, and after greasing the pan, 
pour out into the dough, and stir in; steam three hours 
and set in the oven until brown. 

GRAHAM BREAD. No. 2. 
One cup of sweet milk, one cup of water, one table- 
spoonful of lard, one-fourth cup of sugar, add yeast 
(if compressed, less half a cake, if home-made, one 
cake), add white flour as for hard sponge. Set to rise, 
when light add half a cup of molasses and make thick 
as you can. Stir with Graham flour. Let rise again. 
When light turn into the baking-pan. Let it stand a 
half hour and then bake. 

BOILED BREAD. 

Mrs. N 
(To be eaten warm, with roast meats, at dinner). 
Two cups of brown flour, two cups of corn meal, one 
cup of molasses, one quart of sour milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda. Boil in a mould three hours closely 
covered. 



224 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CORN BREAD. 

Sister M. H. 
Two cups corn meal, one and a half cups flour, one 
and a half cups molasses, two cups sweet milk, one 
teaspoonfuls soda, a little salt. Steam three hours, 
then put in oven and brown twenty minutes. 

STEAMED INDIAN BREAD. 

To one quart of sour milk add one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of soda, one coffee cup of molasses, three 
coffee cups Indian meal, three coffee cups flour, one 
tablespoonful salt. Steam three hours and then bake 
in an oven one-half hour. 

TOAST. 

Author. 
Slice the bread one-half inch thick, lay in ^he oven 
a few minutes to dry, then toast on a broiler or toast- 
ing fork. Serve with or without butter. 

MILK TOAST. 

Author. 

Toast as above, and dip it in hot milk and cream, 

or if you have no cream, thicken the milk with a little 

flour, which has been dissolved in cold water; stir in a 

small piece of butter and dip in the bread. 

STEAMED BREAD. 

Author. 

A good way to use up old bread, is to lay the slices 
in a pan, moisten with a little water, add a few bits of 
butter. Set in a closed oven a few minutes and serve. 

Crackers heated in the oven or toasted are very 
nice. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 225 

BISCUITS. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Cousin Eva. 
One quart of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder in flour, salt, one large iron spoonful of 
lard. Rub the lard thoroughly through flour, and add 
nearly a pint of new milk, enough to form a soft 
dough. Mould enough to roll, using the hands as 
little as possible. Cut with small biscuit cutter and 
bake in brisk oven. 

BREAD PUFFS. 

Author. 
If the wheat bread is light enough for the oven at 
breakfast time, have ready some hot lard in a drop 
kettle, and with fingers pull out the dough very thin 
and cut in diamond-shaped pieces; drop in the hot lard 
and fry like doughnuts. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUITS. 
Author. 
One quart flour, one teacup of butter or lard, one 
teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot 
water, one pint of thick buttermilk, one-half pint cold 
water. Sift flour, rub in the lard and salt, add but- 
termilk, soda and water. Mix soft, roll into round 
cakes; flatten a little with the thumb. Bake in quick 
oven fifteen minutes. 

CREAM BISCUITS. 
One pint of sour cream, to which add one teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little warm water, a pinch of 
salt; add flour sufficient to roll and cut. 



226 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

Make some Graham mush. When cool mix with it 
Graham flour sufficient to roll well. Knead for a few 
minutes, roll three-fourths of an inch thick, cut with 
a common biscuit cutter, and bake in a hot oven from 
thirty to forty-five minutes. 

KENTUCKY BISCUITS. 

One quart of flour; a little salt, one tablespoonful 
lard, well rubbed in. Make a stiff dough with cold 
water and knead for one hour, or pound twenty min- 
utes with rolling pin, until the dough is soft. Roll out. 
Prick holes in biscuits before baking, and bake with- 
out raising in a quick oven. 

MISSISSIPPI BEATEN BISCUITS. 
B. B. S. 
"Now, Miss Bene, you are always axing me how I 
makes beat biscuits. Well, in de fust place I takes a 
quart of flour; I sifts dat, den I sprinkles a little salt, 
or what anybody wid common sense would know was 
right, den I takes a heaping — mind, honey, I say a heap- 
ing — tablespoon of lard. I rubs dis through and 
through the flour, den I pours in cold water enough 
to make my dough stiff. Now, honey, comes de work. 
You must beat, and beat on, keep on a-beating, den 
work 'em and keep on a- working 'em till they pop and 
crack like a whip, den pinch off a piece about the size 
of a large walnut, then mould wid de han' and put in 
warm pan. Be sure to stick a few holes in 'em wid a 
fork, bake in a hot oven and den. Miss Bene, dey is fit 
for de queen." — Au7it Diddy. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 227 

RAISED BISCUITS. 

Mrs. H. 
One quart of milk, three-quarters of a cup of lard, or 
butter (half and half will do), three-quarters of a cup 
of yeast, two of sugar (if liked), one teaspoonful of 
salt, flour sufficient for a soft dough. Mix over night, 
warm the milk, and melt the lard or butter in it. In 
the morning roll out into a sheet three-quarters of an 
inch thick, and cut into round cakes, let them rise 
twenty minutes, and bake about twenty minutes. 

SODA BISCUITS. 
One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
and one of soda, one tablespoonful of shortening; mix 
up with sour milk, put the cream of tartar and soda 
in the flour, and run through the sieve twice. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Author. 

One quart of flour after it is sifted, one even table- 
spoonful each of lard and butter, one teaspoonful salt, 
three scant teaspoonfuls baking powder, water enough 
to make a soft dough. Knead as little as possible. 



YEAST. 



BAKING POWDER. 

Dr. H. (Cousin.) 
Thirteen ounces tartaric acid, one pound bicarbon- 
ate soda; have these pulverized by a druggist and 



228 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

mix with twice the quantity of flour ; put through a 
sieve several times, and again the next day after mak- 
ing it, as it will be lumpy. 

YEAST. No. I. (Very fine.) 

Mrs. B. 
Boil five or six pared potatoes ; when soft, mash 
them in the boiling water over the fire ; put in half a 
teacup of dried hops and let them boil ten minutes 
(not longer), and then strain through a colander ; put 
in a pinch of salt and stir well ; thin it with milk- 
warm water until the consistency of thin waffle-batter; 
when lukewarm stir in a teacupful of liquid yeast ; set 
it near the back part of the stove, or in a tolerably 
warm place to rise, and in twelve or fourteen hours it 
will be light — if not, put in a little more yeast. If the 
weather is warm it will not require to be placed near 
the stove. If you wish to dry yeast rub in sifted corn 
meal until it is a dry dough, and spread thin on dishes 
or waiters to dry in the air, but not in the sun. 

YEAST. No. 2. 
To eight grated raw potatoes add one quart of boil- 
ing water, one cup brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
salt ; when nearly cold^ stir in a cup of yeast or two 
yeast cakes, size of the "National;" when it rises 
keep in a cool place. This will keep two months in 
winter and one in summer. 

YEAST. No. 3. 
Six good-sized potatoes boiled in two quarts of 
water, two handfuls of hops, four tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one tablespoonful salt ; boil hops and strain them ; 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 229 

add sugar and salt ; pour it hot on sufficient flour to 
make it raise well; when sufficiently cool add the yeast 
to raise. 

YEAST WITHOUT HOPS. 
One quart water, six potatoes, one cup yeast, one 
pint flour, one tablespoonful molasses, one teaspoonful 
ginger, a little salt ; boil the potatoes in the quart of 
water, then pour the water through a colander on the 
pint of flour ; mash the potatoes and mix with it ; add 
molasses, ginger and salt ; cool and add yeast ; let 
rise. This is good for biscuit or bread ; a tablespoon- 
ful to a loaf of bread. A handful of hops and three 
or four potatoes will make hop yeast. 

POTATO AND HOP YEAST. 
Sister M. 
Eight medium-sized potatoes and one handful of 
hops, boiled in two quarts water; strain through colan- 
der when soft; when cold add two tablespoonfuls salt, 
one-fourth cup brown sugar, one tablespoonful ginger, 
and one cup of cold yeast. Let it stand all night to 
ferment, then cork tightly in stone jug and put in a 
cool place. This will keep three or four weeks. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Author. 
Six potatoes, pared before boiling ; boil till very 
soft in three pints water, then mash fine ; add one 
pint sifted flour, one cup white sugar. When nearly 
cold add a scant cup of yeast to work it ; when 
worked cork it up tight and keep in a cool place. In 
making this yeast scald everything together with the 
water you boil the potatoes in ; when it is nearly cold 
add the yeast for seed. 



230 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ROLLS. 



ROLLS AND BREAD. 

Author. 
Two quarts flour. Make a soft sponge with half 
water and half milk, lukewarm ; two cents' worth 
compressed yeast (that which comes wi f /wu^ tinioil); 
after it rises add salt, one teacup granulated sugar, 
half a teacup butter; mix well and knead twenty min- 
utes, and let it rise again. When sufficiently light, 
draw out half the lightest part of the sponge from 
underneath the crust for the rolls; roll with the rolling- 
pin lightly till half an inch thick; cut with biscuit- 
cutter, and spread each roll with butter and fold 
together; set to rise again. Bake twenty minutes in 
hot oven — first rising, two hours; second rising, two 
hours; third rising, twenty minutes. The remainder 
of sponge mould into bread loaves. 

BUNS. 

Sister M. H. 
One cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup yeast, 
one-half pint milk; make stiff with flour; let it rise; 
add, if you wish, a little cinnamon and a few currants. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Author. 
Take a piece of bread dough when ready to put in 
pans and roll it out a little thicker than pie-crust, and 
not quite as thick as biscuit; spread with butter, then 
sprinkle with sugar, then with cinnamon, and roll it 
up; cut off slices about three-fourths of an inch thick 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 23 1 

and put into a pan with the cut side down ; set them 
where it is cool until supper time, then bake, and eat 
hot. They must have room enough in the pan to rise. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One pint milk, one tablespoonful lard, one table- 
spoonful butter, one tablespoonful sugar, one quart 
flour, one-half yeast cake; let rise; roll thin; butter 
and fold over before baking. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Cousin Eva. 

One pint new milk; scald it in the morning; at 
night put a quart of flour in a pan, stir in the milk till 
it forms a thin batter; add half a cup potato yeast, 
butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a little salt; place in warm temperature to rise over 
night; in the morning turn it out on a board and 
mould like bread; then leave it till three or four hours 
before tea, when you roll it out thin, cut into small 
rolls or cakes, and let them rise till twenty minutes 
before supper, then bake. 

ROLLS, WITH ONE EGG. 

Author. 
One pint each of lukewarm water and milk, one- 
half cake compressed yeast; make a thin sponge and 
set to rise in a tolerably warm place; when the sponge 
is light, take one egg, butter and lard each the size of 
an egg, one tablespoonful granulated sugar, one tea- 
spoonful salt; knead to light dough; make up into 
rolls and let rise three-quarters of an hour, then bake 
fifteen minutes in quick oven. Before baking rub 
over the top the beaten yolk of one egg. 



232 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TEA ROLLS. (Very nice.) 
Take two quarts of flour and rub into it one table- 
spoonful of lard; also scald one pint of milk and stand 
away until barely cool; then add one-fourth cup of 
yeast, or one-half yeast cake, one-fourth cup sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt, and pour all into a hole in the 
middle of the flour. In the morning stir and knead 
well and set away to rise until noon; then roll thin, 
cut in strips, and into each put a piece of butter the 
size of a pea, fold over and put into pans and let rise 
until about twenty minutes before tea, when bake a 
light brown. In summer mix in the morning instead 
of at night. 



BREAKFAST CAKES 



WITHOUT EGGS. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Sister Nettie. 
One and one-half pints buttermilk, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, pinch of salt, one tablespoonful molas- 
ses. Stir in buckwheat and form a medium batter. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

Author. 
One pint flour, one-half pint cold water, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt; mix 
flour, baking powder and salt dry; then add cold 
water; beat enough to mix; bake in muffin rings. It 
requires from ten to fifteen minutes to bake. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 233 

CRACKLIN CORN BREAD. 

Author. 
Mix well a medium sized cup of pork cracklins 
into a quart of corn meal, a heaping teaspoonful of 
salt and enough warm water to make into pones and 
bake; serve hot. 

CUSTARD CORN CAKE. 

Aunt M. 
One-half cup sour milk, one and o.ie-half cups 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, one tablespoon- 
ful melted butter, one tablespoonful brown sugar, four 
small handfuls Indian meal. Bake twenty minutes in 
a hot oven. 

LOTTIE CAKES. 

Author. 
One and one-half cups flour, one coffee cup corn 
meal, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, one pint 
milk, one teacup water, salt. Fry in butter. 

HOE CAKE. 

Author. 
This simple cake is made by pouring boiling water 
on corn meal, enough to moisten well; let it stand 
until cool, about an hour; cook on a well-larded grid- 
dle in one-half inch cakes; brown both sides well; 
should have a firm brown crust when done. Through 
the South these cakes are baked on the hearth of old- 
fashioned fire-places and covered with wood ashes, but 
in this case must be brushed off before eating to 
remove the ashes. Plain corn bread is made with cold 
water into a stiff dough and baked. 



234 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MISSISSIPPI CORN PONE. 

"Aunt Diddie," Colored Cook, Vicksburg, Miss., 1859. 

One quart of meal, sprinkle salt through it, then 
sift and put in three tablespoonfuls of bacon drippings, 
pour in cold water sufficient to make a stiff batter; 
mould with the hands in three pones and then bake. 

DIAMONDS. 

Pour boilir.^^ water on Graham flour, stirring rapidly 
until all the flour is wet. Too much stirring makes it 
tough. It should be about as thick as can be stirred 
easily with a strong iron spoon. Place the dough 
with plenty of flour upon a moulding board, and 
knead it for two or three minutes. Roll out one-half 
an inch thick and cut in small cakes or rolls. If a 
large quantity is required, roll about three-fourths of 
an inch, and cut with a knife in diamond shape. Bake 
in a very hot oven forty-five minutes. 

GEMS. 
Into cold water stir Graham flour sufficient to make 
a batter a trifle thicker than that used for ordinary 
griddle cakes. Bake from one-half to three-quarters 
of an hour in a hot oven, in small tin patty-pans two 
inches square and three-fourths of an inch deep. 

RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Author. 
Stir into sour milk sufficient rye flour to make a 
batter for griddle cakes, add a little salt, a little soda, 
and bake on a hot griddle. Very simple, but very 
nice. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 235 

WITH ONE EGG. 

BATTER CAKES. 

Author. 
One teacup of milk, one-half cup of flour, one egg 
beaten separately and together, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt. Dip vegetables — egg-plant, parsnips or any 
kind requiring batter — and fry. 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Aunt M. 
To be baked in iron gem-pans. Have pans hot. 
One egg, one teacup of milk, one cup of flour, salt, 
one teaspoonful of melted butter. If oven is pretty 
hot, put a brown paper over them until they rise nicely. 
Oven must be slow to be a success. Double the rule 
if irons are large. 

CORN BREAD. No. i. 

Mrs. W. 
One pint of milk or cream, one pint of corn meal, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one egg, half a teaspoonful of soda, half a tablespoon- 
ful of lard. 

CORN BREAD. No. 2. 
Bertha. 
Take one-third cup of sugar with one egg beaten 
together as light as possible, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one large cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one-third cup of corn meal, three-fourths of a cup of 
flour; put the corn meal in first and beat up light, 
then the flour; if the milk is not very rich, one heaping 



236 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

tablespoonful of lard boiling hot put in the very- 
last thing; make it as quick as you can, and the nicer 
it will be. 

DROP CAKES. 

One coffee cup of corn meal scalded with either 
milk or water, add a little salt, and one egg beaten 
light. Drop into hot lard, and fry until done. 

WHEAT FLOUR GEMS. 
Aunt R. 
Three cups of flour, one pint of milk, one table- 
spoonful sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful salt. Sift 
the flour once before measuring, and twice after; this 
is to make the gems light; bake in quick oven. 

JOHNNY CAKE. No. i. 

L. M. H. 
One egg, well beaten, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
butter size of a walnut, one teacup of sweet milk, one 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder. Mix with equal 
parts of corn meal (white meal is best), and wheat 
flour. Make it not much thicker than pancake batter, 
as the meal when wet swells. Grease pan with lard 
and pour in mixture, and bake in as hot an oven as 
can be done without burning. 

JOHNNY CAKE. No. 2. 

Author. 
One pint sour milk, one even pint corn meal, one 
even pint flour, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, one 
tablespoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of water, one egg. Mix all 
together and bake in square tin. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 237 

FRITTERS. 

Author, 
One pint sweet milk, one egg (large), one coffee 
saucer flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little 
salt. Drop in hot lard. 

GRAHAM BREAD. No. i. 

Aunt Martha. 
One quart of Graham flour, two teacups sour milk, 
one-half teacup brown sugar, one-half teacup molasses, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt, one 
egg. Butter size of a hickory nut. Dissolve the soda 
in the milk; mix all the ingredients. Bake in two- 
quart tins in a moderate oven. If you have not enough 
milk use one pint of molasses and no sugar, and only 
one-half cup of milk, 

GRAHAM BREAD. No. 2. 

Aunt M. 

Two cups of sour milk, one cup of molasses, one 

^SSf one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sal- 

eratus, one handful of flour, and Graham enough to 

make a batter stiff as cake; steam one hour and a half. 

GRAHAM GEMS. No. i. 

Author. 
Two teacups Graham flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one teaspoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt. 
Stir well; then add one beaten egg, one scant teacup 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful shortening. Drop in /w/ 
gem pans and bake on upper grate. Graham bread is 
made in the same way, only baked in the loaf and 
baked slowly. 



238 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM GEMS. No. 2. 

Cousin Mary, East Troy. 
One cup sweet milk, two cups Graham flour, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, salt. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. No. i. 

Author. 
One and a half teacups Graham flour, one table- 
spoonful sugar, one beaten egg, one-half teaspoonful 
salt. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. No. 2. 
Author. 
Two cups sour milk, one even teaspoonful soda, one 
egg, one tablespoonful shortening, salt, flour to make 
thin batter. Bake in rings. 

MUFFINS. No. I. 

One-half pint sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, three large spoonfuls flour. Bake in 
muflin rings. 

MUFFINS. No. 2. 
Aunt Hodgdon, Yazoo City. 
Make a thick batter with one or two eggs and thick 
sour milk; when well beaten add one teaspoonful 
of soda (more if the milk is very sour), a small table- 
spoonful of melted lard or butter. 

MUFFINS. No. 3. 

Author. 
One egg, one teacup sweet milk, one and a half tea- 
cup flour, two teaspoonfuls melted butter, one tea- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 239 

spoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls (small) baking 
powder. Bake in rings, or muffin pans. If desired a 
tablespoonful of sugar may be added. 

OSBORNE CAKES. 

One egg, one cup milk, one cup bread crumbs. Soak 
the bread (without crust) in water. Squeeze water 
out, being careful not to mash crumbs. Rub into 
cone-shaped cakes. Bake and serve with maple syrup. 
These cakes can be served for dessert, with a sauce 
made of sugar, butter and wine. 

RICE CAKES. 

Author. 
One teacup cold boiled rice, one coffee cup flour, 
one-half pint sweet milk, one teaspoonful salt, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, one egg. Bake on 
griddle. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Author. 
Three slices of bread wet with boiling water, two 
eggs, one cup of flour, one even teaspoonful soda. 
Mix with sour milk. 

COFFEE ROLLS. 

Two eggs, one quart warm milk, one-half cup but- 
ter, one-half cup granulated sugar, salt and flour, two 
cents' worth compressed yeast. Make a thick batter 
of flour and milk, yeast and salt; set to rise. When 



240 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ready to make up add two eggs, butter, sugar, and 
flour enough to roll out; let it rise again; fill four 
square tins. Let it rise again, then baste with butter 
and sugar and sprinkle layers of apple on this. Bake. 

CORN BREAD. No. i. 
Author. 
Mix into one pint of corn meal, one tablespoonful 
lard or butter, one teaspoonful salt, then two well- 
beaten eggs. Dissolve one teaspoonful soda in one 
pint of buttermilk or sour milk; mix with the above 
ingredients and bake in a quick oven. If more con- 
venient to use sweet milk, use three eggs instead of 
two, and dispense with the soda. One quart of sweet 
milk will be required. 

CORN BREAD. No. 2. 

One pint of milk, two eggs beaten light, a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, a little salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, enough 
meal to make a thin batter, or four eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one pint of milk, 
two coffee cups of Indian meal, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream tartar, small piece of butter and 
one cup of cream. 

CORN BREAD. No. 3. 

Author. 
Half pint of sour milk, butter the size of a small 
egg, half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, 
a little salt, one tablespoonful of molasses, two eggs, 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, and sufficient corn 
meal to make a thin batter. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 241 

LOTTIE CORN CAKES. 

Author. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of corn meal, one pint 
of cold water or milk, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Mix all 
ingredients at once and bake. 

SPIDER CORN CAKE. 

Aunt M. 
One and two-thirds cups of corn meal, one-third of 
a cup of flour, two eggs, one cup of sour milk and 
one of sweet, one small teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in the sour milk, one-fourth of a cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs, add the sugar and 
the sour and sweet milk, and mix the meal and flour 
with this preparation; dissolve the soda in a teaspoon- 
ful of hot water, and add to mixture; put a spider on 
the stove, and when it gets hot, melt in it two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, then turn in the mixture, and add 
to it one more cup of sweet milk, but do not stir at all 
Put the spider into the oven and bake from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. When done there should be a 
streak of custard through it. 

CORN DODGERS. 

Author. 
Beat well into one quart of corn meal a heaping 
tablespoonful of lard and a tablespoonful of sal:, then 
scald with one pint of boiling water; add cold milk to 
make a stiff batter, then two well-beaten eggs. Drop 
from a spoon into boiling hot lard, cook till brown 
and serve hot. 



242 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CRUMPETS. 

Aunt M. 
One and a half cups of flour, three pints of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of yeast, two fresh eggs; mix the 
milk just warm, beat the whole into a batter, let it 
stand until it rises. 

DUTCH LOAF. 

Author. 
One quart of bread sponge, one pint of new milk, 
one cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs. Let it 
rise the same as bread. When light, put into large 
shallow pans, to the thickness of about half an inch; 
spread with butter, sprinkle with sugar and powdered 
cinnamon, and let it stand till light. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 
One coffee cup of sour milk, two eggs beaten sepa- 
rately and very light, flour sufficient to make a good 
batter; just before baking add one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little water, also a little salt; add the 
whites of the eggs last. Bake on a hot griddle. 

INDIAN MEAL ROLLS. 

Miss B. 
One large cup of flour, two large cups of meal, 
from a tablespoonful to a half cup of sugar, according 
to ta, te, a pinch of salt, two eggs, one pint of sour 
milk, and one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half a 
cup of hot or cold water. If you do not use sour 
milk, wet it up with water, using soda and cream tar- 
tar, as you would make up sweet milk muffins. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 243 

BROWN FLOUR ROLLS. 

Miss B. 
Same as the above, only using brown flour instead 
of meal. 

MUSH GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Beat up one pint of mush (cold or fresh) with two 
eggs, and three pints of sour milk, add salt and soda, 
stir in flour to the consistency of pancakes, bake in 
small cakes on a well-buttered griddle, and you will 
not wish for better breakfast cakes, if you have good 
luck; if not, try again. 

WARNECKE MUFFINS. 

Author. 
Half teacup of butter rubbed in one quart of flour. 
Mix in three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a table- 
spoonful of granulated sugar and a teaspoonful of 
salt; add two eggs which have been beaten together, 
one pint of milk and water mixed. Beat all together 
and bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO BISCUIT. 

Two quarts flour, six good-sized boiled potatoes; 
when cold rub through a sieve, add salt and one cake 
yeast, large tablespoonful shortening, two eggs well 
beaten, add milk and water half and half to form a 
soft dough, then knead thoroughly; let rise over night. 
In the morning flour your board, handle as little as 
possible; cut out with biscuit cutter; put in pans to 
rise half an hour. 

PUMPKIN JOHNNY CAKES. 

One and one-half cups of steamed pumpkin mashed 
fine, one cup of §ugar, one-half cup of flour, two 



244 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

cups of Indian meal, one quart sour milk, two eggs 
well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake about ten 
minutes. 

PUMPKIN LOAF. 

Boston Budget. 
For two loaves, take two cups of buttermilk, three 
cups each of wheat flour and corn meal, one cup 
stewed pumpkin, one cup molasses, half cup butter, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful soda. Steam one and a 
half hours, then bake half an hour. 

RUSK. 

Mrs. H. 
One pint of warm milk, one-half cup of butter, one 
of sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of yeast; make a sponge with the milk, 
yeast and flour for a thin batter. In the morning add 
the butter, sugar and eggs beaten well together; add 
flour sufficient to make a soft dough; mould into rolls, 
and let rise until very light. 

SLAPJACKS. 

Mrs. Smyth. 
One pint Indian meal in a pan; pour over it boiling 
water sufficient to make it damp; add two eggs, salt, 
and milk sufficient to make a thin batter. A little 
flour may be used if they break in turning over. 

WAFFLES (Very Fine). 

One pint sweet milk, half a teacup of buttermilk or 

clabber, two eggs beaten separately, one pint and a 

half of flour, and a piece of lard size of a small egg 

melted, and put in the batter. Beat well for fifteen 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 245 

minutes. Grease the waffle irons, fill them with the 
batter, and bake quickly, turning. 

WHEAT CORN PONE. 

One pint bread sponge when it first rises, stir with 
it corn meal until quite thick; let it rise, then mix 
with it two eggs, two tablespoonfuls butter and lard 
mixed, one teaspoonful brown sugar, one tablespoonful 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful soda. 

Batter left from batter cakes in the morning may be 
put in the steamer (a thin cloth being first spread over 
bottom of steamer) with fruit of any kind and steamed 
or boiled thirty or forty minutes; allowed to boil until 
it leaves the side of pan. A little suet must be added 
to batter to make it rich, and also a little flour to 
thicken the batter if batter is too thin. Serve with 
sauce. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter not very stiff with one quart of milk 
and three eggs and flour; pare and core one dozen 
large apples, chop them to size of peas ; mix them well 
in the batter; fry in lard as doughnuts. 

CORN MEAL BATTER CAKES. 
Pour boiling milk over sifted corn meal and beat 
until lukewarm; then add a little salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and three eggs well beaten; bake on a 
griddle; the milk and meal must be in such propor- 
tion as will makf a thin batter, say a pint of meal to a 
quart of boiled milk. 



246 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CORN CAKES. 

Mrs. A. D. Gushing. 
One pint of cold mush, half teacup 01 flour, rubbed 
well into the mush, with one tablespoonful of lard, 
from one to three eggs. If the mush is too stiff, use 
water to thin it; bake rapidly on a gr-iddle. 

CORN MUFFINS.. 

Mrs. S. 

Three cups corn meal, one-half cup wheat flour, 

three eggs, beaten separately, two spoonfuls of butter, 

one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, one pint of sweet 

milk. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. P. 

One quart of sweet milk, one quart of sifted meal, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar dissolved in cold 
water, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, three eggs well beaten together, one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water, and put in 
last. 

WEST POINT CORN BREAD. 

Three-fourths of a pint of sifted Indian meal, three 
eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), one tea- 
spoonful of lard, one pint of milk, a little salt; add 
whites of eggs the last thing. The pans should be 
greased. Bake quickly. 

FINE CORN BREAD. 

Aunt M. 
Mix with one quart of milk two cups of Indian meal 
and three of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of cream tar- 
tar, one of salt; beat three eggs, whites and yolks 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 247 

separately; add the yolks to the batter, then a table- 
spoonful of butter or lard, and two of sugar; then add 
the whites, which must be very firm, and a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of boiling 
water. Bake in a buttered tin in a very quick oven 
half an hour. More sugar may be added if one likes 
the bread sweet. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Author. 
One teacup rich milk, one teacup flour (before sift- 
ing), one-half teaspoonful salt, three eggs; mix the 
flour, milk and salt smoothly, then add the beaten 
yolks and lastly the whites, beaten to a stiff froth just 
before baking. Bake on griddle. 

COUSIN MILLIE'S FRITTERS. 

One pint milk, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, flour enough to make thick batter. Fry in 
hot lard. 

MUFFINS. 
Three eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls butter, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, two cups sweet 
milk, little salt, flour to make thin batter; pour in 
rings and bake in quick oven. 

RICE AND FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Half a teacup of flour, one teacup of boiled rice, 
one pint and a half of milk, and three eggs, beaten 
separately. The batter must be as thin as for grid- 
dle cakes. Bake with a quick heat in muffin rings or 
gem pans. 



248 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

RICE PANCAKES. 

Cousin Eva. 

Three eggs, one pint of new milk, three tablespoon- 
fuls of boiled rice, a little sugar and cinnamon. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Three eggs beaten separately very light, one pint 
of milk warmed, half a teacup of butter melted, half a 
teacup of yeast, two pints of flour, and a teaspoonful 
and a half of salt; beat well and pour into a buttered 
pan in which it is to be baked, and when light bake 
with a quick heat. You can add to this a teacup of 
sugar if desired. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 

BREAD CAKES. 
Take dry bread, pour over it boiling water, and 
cover for a few minutes, then mash fine; add one pint 
of buttermilk, a small teaspoonful of saleratus, four 
eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and flour enough 
to bake well. Bake on griddle. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One quart of sour cream, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus, one teaspoonful of salt, flour sufficient 
for a stiff batter. Bake in muffin rings. 

FRITTERS. 

One pint milk, four eggs beaten separately, a little 
salt and flour sufficient to make a batter a little thicker 
than griddle cakes. Drop in hot lard. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 249 

GRAHAM CUP CAKES. 
One and a half pints of Graham flour, one-half pint 
of wheat flour, four eggs, half pint of milk, one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one of sugar. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 
Bake in gem cups. 

INDIAN CORN BISCUIT. 

One quart of corn meal, one pint of wheat flour, 
sifted together and stirred into three pints of milk; 
add a teaspoonful of salt. Beat four eggs, the yolks 
and whites separately. First stir the yolks into the 
batter; then add the whites, and a small teaspoonful 
of soda the last thing. Have ready buttered some 
small pans, nearly fill them with the batter, and set into 
the hot oven immediately. Bake quickly, and turn 
from the pans as soon as done, and serve at once. 
They should puff up so as to more than fill the pans. 

• MUFFINS. 
Take one pint of milk, four eggs beaten light, a 
teacup of home-made yeast, a few grated bread crumbs, 
and one quart of flour. Beat them into a smooth 
batter, and let them stand three or four hours to rise. 
Bake them in rings, which must be well buttered. 

PUFFS OR POP-OVERS. 

Mrs. N. 
One pint sour cream, one pint flour, three or four 
eggs beaten separately, one teaspoonful soda (not full) 
mixed in the flour, and a little salt. Bake in muffin 
tins. Nice for tea. 



250 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SALLY LUNN. 
One quart of flour, four eggs, half a cup of butter 
melted in one cup of milk, one cup of warm water, 
four tablespoonfuls of yeast, one teaspoonful salt, 
one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 
Beat the eggs light separately, add the milk, water, 
butter, soda, and salt. Stir in the flour and yeast, beat 
well. Set to rise in buttered pans, let stand six hours, 
and bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

WAFFLES. No. t. 
Author. 
Sift one and a half pints flour, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
one-half teacup soft butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
adding the whites last. 

WAFFLES. No. 2. 
Mrs. M. 
Four eggs, one pound of flour, one pint of milk, 
four tablespoonfuls of yeast, two ounces of butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs to a froth, put the 
butter into the milk, warm it until the butter melts, 
then let it cool, and add the milk, then the eggs and 
flour, stir in the salt and yeast; let it stand until light. 
Pour on well-greased waffle-irons, bake on both sides 
by turning the irons; butter and serve hot. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

One and a half teacups of boiled rice, warm it with 
a pint of milk. Mix it smooth, and then take it from 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 25 1 

the fire, stir in a pint of cold milk, and a teaspoonful 
of salt, beat four eggs very light, and stir in with 
flour enough for a stiff batter. 



WITH FIVE EGGS. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One pint milk, three pints sifted flour, one table- 
spoonful butter, five eggs, one-half teacup yeast, or 
half a cake dry yeast; bake on a griddle size of a 
plate ; butter and sugar them while hot. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Mrs. Scott. 
Six eggs beaten separately, one quart of milk, one- 
half cake yeast, a little salt, and flour to make a batter 
as for griddle cakes. Let it rise over night and bake 
on griddle. 

WAFFLES. 

Sister M. H. 
Mix flour and cold water to make a thick batter. 
To a quart of flour add six beaten eggs, one table- 
spoonful melted butter and one teaspoonful salt; bake 
immediately; add the beaten whites last. 



WITH SEVEN EGGS. 

MRS. WAY'S ROLLS. 

Two quarts of flour, two ounces of butter, or less, 
one pint of milk, the whites of seven eggs, one-half 



252 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonful of salt, one-half cup of yeast; mix into 
solid lump; mould half an hour and put away to rise. 

BRIOCHE. (French Paste.) 
Thos. J. Murrey on " Dainty Dishes." 
Mix together eight ounces of sifted flour and half a 
pint of brewers* yeast, with lukewarm milk enough to 
make a thick batter. Cover, set near the range, and 
allow it to rise until twice its original size. Sift 
together one ounce of salt and a pound and a half of 
flour; add an ounce of powdered sugar; cut a pound 
of unsalted butter into pieces and work into the flour; 
beat and add eight eggs; whip three pints of cream 
to a light foam, and work it evenly into the mixture. 
Now add the first mixture (if risen) and knead them 
well together. Cut and knead again, allow it to rise; 
knead again; put in well-greased moulds and bake in 
a quick oven. The French usually make it into balls 
hollowed at the top by pressing the thumb into them; 
beat an egg, then brush over them and much smaller 
dough balls are placed in the hollow part of each. 
Egg is again brushed over them, and the whole is then 
baked. A richer paste can be made by using more 
eggs and butter 



CEREALS, 



BROWN FLOUR MUSH. 

Put two pints of boiling water in a kettle on the 

stove; mix up a little of the brown meal in cold water 

as thick as you would to make starch, then pour it 

into the boiling water; stir in dry meal until you have 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 253 

it about as thick as for ordinary mush; then thin it 
again with boiling water, until about the consistency 
of starch, or as it was at the start; just let it come to 
a boil again, and pour into moulds, and eat as you 
would cracked wheat. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Author. 
Stir a pint of corn meal in a pint of milk: add one 
tablespoonful of salt in a quart of boiling water; boil 
half an hour, stirring constantly. 

CORN MUSH. 
Put a quart of water on to boil; stir a pint of milk 
with one pint of corn meal and one tablespoonful of 
salt. When the water boils pour in the mixture, gradu- 
ally stirring well; boil half an hour, stirring constantly. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Author. 
Mix with cold water, salt well, and steam in double 
boiler. All cereals need to be cooked a long time. 
When cold it makes a nice breakfast dish, cut in slices 
and fried in butter. 

OAT MEAL. 

Mix one pint of oat meal with one pint of cold 
water, then add one quart of cold water; cook imme- 
diately till done, in a double kettle. 

OAT MEAL PORRIDGE. 

Author. 
One pint of water, one-half pint of milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of oat meal, one-half teaspoonful of salt. 



254 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

When the water boils, dredge in the meal with the 
left hand, stirring with the right; cook about twenty- 
five minutes; add the milk, cook three minutes, and 
serve. 

OAT MEAL MUSH. 

Author. 
Have some boiling water on the stove and stir the 
oat meal into it. Let it boil until thick and well done, 
and just before lifting put in a little salt. If you put 
the salt in too soon it will turn it quite dark. Eat 
with sugar and cream. A splendid diet for children, 
or indeed for any one. 

SMALL HOMINY, OR SAMP. 

Author. 

Put it on in boiling water, and let it boil until it is 
thick, stirring frequently; just before taking up put in 
some salt. This is a very nice breakfast dish, eaten 
with sugar and cream, or butter and cream, as you 
prefer. If any is left over set it away, and fry the 
next morning as you would corn meal mush. 

FRIED HOMINY. 

Author. 
Take cold boiled hominy, mash it up well as you 
can; beat up one or two eggs (according to the quan- 
tity of hominy you have), stir it in, also a little flour, 
salt, and a very little butter; make into cakes and fry 
in hot lard. This is a very nice dish for breakfast. 



PASTRY. 



PIE CRUST. No. I. 
One quart flour, one and one half cups lard, one small 
cup butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little 
salt. Rub the lard, into the flour very lightly, so that 
there will be good-sized lumps of lard through it, and 
put in as little water as you can. Do not knead more 
than is absolutely necessary to mix. This makes three 
round pies. 

SUGGESTION. 

Brush the bottom crust of pies with the unbeaten 
white of egg to prevent absorption. The same on top 
of the crust will give a nice brown, 

PIE CRUST. No. 2. 

Author. 

One pint flour, one-half pint equal parts butter and 

lard, one-half teaspoonful salt, enough cold water to 

mix. Work very lightly with spoon and roll with as 

little handling as possible. 

PIE CRUST. No. 3. 
Aunt Robinson. 
One quart flour, two teacups lard, one teacup ice- 
water, one teaspoonful salt. Cut 'the ice-cold lard 
through the flour and salt with a knife; when mixed roll 
out half this quantity for the bottom crust ; the other 
half roll out and lay piecei of lard on it, fold over, 
roll out and lay on more pieces of lard, fold over and 



256 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

roll out again. Flour to use on the board to prevent 
paste from sticking. This half is for the upper crust, 
and the quantity of lard used is in proportion to the 
richness desired. I use one-half cup extra lard for 
the upper crust. I make it quite as flaky by adding; 
the above quantity to the upper crust at once ; sprinkle 
over a little flour, roll out and bake. 

PUFF PASTE. 
Mrs. Buckingham. 
One pound of flour. Break into it one egg, and a 
piece of butter size of an tgg, and a teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix with cold water, and work until it is a 
smooth paste. Divide one pound of butter into six 
parts, roll the paste one-half inch thick, and spread 
one part of butter on, fold up, roll out again, spread 
on another part, and so on until the six parts are all 
used. Some persons use lard instead of butter ; it 
makes very nice paste, but not quite as light, or so 
finely flavored as butter. 

SUET PASTE. 
One pound flour, one-half pound suet chopped fine, 
one-half teaspoonful salt. Kidney suet is the best. 

PASTRY FLOUR. 

Winter wheat makes the best pastry. 

TO RENDER LARD. 

Author. 
Fill the kettle with leaf lard slashed across length- 
wise, set the kettle on the back part of the stove to 
keep from burning, letting it cook hard and steadily ; 
when done the scraps will settle at the bottom of the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 257 

kettle. Pour in a colander to drip, and pour off when 
partly cool into glass jars and seal. It will require 
one and one-half hours to try out fifteen pounds of the 
leaf. Ten pounds is sufficient to try out at any one 
time in warm weather. One trial will convince any 
housekeeper of the advantage of trying out lard from 
the leaf, as everything made from it is much lighter 
and more flaky. 



PIES. 

WITHOUT EGGS. 

APPLE PIE. 

Mrs. Albert McDonald, South Bend. 

Make the crust the usual way, quite short; sprinkle 
sugar on the bottom crust, then fill the pan or dish 
with sour apples cut into eighths; sprinkle over 
sugar, nutmeg and bits of butter. Cook one hour; 
moisten the crust around the edges with a little water. 

CREAM PIE. No. i. 
Author. 
One cup sweet, thick cream, one dessert spoonful of 
gelatine soaked in a little milk three-quarters of an 
hour. Beat the cream to a stiff froth and then add the 
gelatine. Sweeten cream; flavor with vanilla. Bake 
the crust before pouring in the above. The gelatine 
must be set on the back of the stove where the very mod- 
erate heat will dissolve it, but it must not be cooked. 



258 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PIE. No. 2. 
Author. 
One pint of cream, two-thirds cup of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of but- 
ter, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla, a little grated nut- 
meg. Mix above ingredients and bake with under 
crust only in quick oven. 

MINCE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. No. i. 
Author. 
Five crackers chopped, not very fine; one cup chop- 
ped raisins, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one- 
half cup vinegar or juice of two large lemons, one 
pint water. Butter size of an egg; a little salt, and 
spice to taste. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 2. 
Sister J. H. 
Two pounds beef cooked, when cold chopped fine, 
one pound suet chopped fine, five pounds sour apples 
pared and chopped, three pounds raisins, seeded; two 
pounds currants, three-fourths pound citron, cut fine; ' 
two and a half pounds brown sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls cinnamon, one tablespoonful ground mace, two 
tablespoonfuls salt, one tablespoonful each cloves and 
allspice, one teaspoonful grated nutmeg. The rind 
(grated) and juice of two large lemons, one pint of 
brandy. Add boiled cider when you make the pies. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 3. 

Mother. 
Four pounds lean beef boiled in as little water as 
possible, seasoned with salt and pepper when half 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 259 

done; two pounds suet shredded fine, two pounds 
coffee sugar, two pounds raisins, seeded and chopped 
not too fine; two pounds currants, well washed and 
*!iried; one-half pound citron sliced thin, one-half 
pound candied orange sliced thin, one pint molasses, 
one ounce cinnamon, one-half ounce cloves, two nut- 
megs. Mix thoroughly and add enough boiled cider 
to make juice. Scald and when cool pack in jar and 
set in cool place. When ready to bake, taste; if neces- 
sary add sugar, salt or spice. To every quart of meat 
add one pint of chopped apples, and if desired one- 
half cup of brandy and grated rind and juice of two 
lemons. This is very nice. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 4. 
Mrs. G. 
Five pounds of beef, two and a half pounds of suet, 
five pounds of raisins, three pounds of currants, six 
pounds of chopped apples, one pound of citron, two 
and a half pounds of sugar, four lemons (juice aijd 
rind), four oranges, one pint of rose-water, three nut- 
megs, two tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, one pint of wine, one pint of 
brandy. Add stewed apples and cider before baking. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 5. 

Boil four pounds of beef and chop fine. Pick and 
chop three pounds of suet, wash two pounds of cur- 
rants, and stone one pound of raisins, grate the peel 
of two lemons, and add the juice, an ounce of sliced 
citron, and twelve large apples chopped fine. Mix 
these ingredients with three pounds of sugar, half a 



26o GRADED COOK BOOK. 

pint of wine, and the same of brandy or cider; add nut- 
meg and mace to your taste. Bake this in puff paste 
with a lid on top. 

MINCE MEAT. No. 6. 
Mrs. A. A. Sample. 
Three bowls chopped meat, five bowls chopped 
apples, one bowl chopped suet, one bowl molasses, one 
bowl vinegar, one bowl cider, five bowls sugar, one- 
third bowl citron, two bowls raisins, one bottle brandy, 
one bowl currants, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two 
nutmegs, one tablespoonful each salt and black pep- 
per, three lemon-rinds grated. Boil cider, vinegar, 
molasses, sugar and spices together for a few minutes, 
then add meat and suet. When perfectly cold add 
brandy. 

SUMMER MINCE PIES. No. 7. 
Author. 
One cup raisins, one cup molasses, one-half cup vin- 
egar, one-half cup water, one-half teaspoonful cloves, 
one teaspoonful cinnamon, nine butter crackers rolled 

fine. 

ORANGE PIE. 

E. B. M. 

Cover the inside of a dish with paste; lay in slices 

of oranges, then a layer of apples, more oranges, 

plenty of sugar, with water enough to moisten. Cover 

with an upper crust. 

PEACH PIE. No. I. 
Author. 
Line the bottom of a pie plate with rich paste. Put 
in a layer of pared, sliced and full ripe peaches, over 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 261 

each layer sprinkle granulated sugar and flour and 
bits of butter here and there. Cover with crust and 
bake in quick oven. Delicious. 

PEACH PIE. No. 2. 
Mrs. S. 
Select mellow, juicy peaches, wash them and place 
them in a deep pie-plate lined with paste, strew a 
thick layer of sugar on each of the peaches, adding a 
spoonful of water and a sprinkling of flour over the 
top of each layer; cover with a thick crust, and bake 
about an hour. The prussic acid of the stone imparts 
a most agreeable flavor to the pie. Stew peaches that 
are hard, before making them into pies. Also stew 
dried peaches soft, and sweeten them; and give them 
no other spice than a few of the kernels, blanched and 
pounded fine, in a little rose-water. 

RHUBARB PIE. No. i. 

Mrs. S. 
Strip off the skin, and slice thin, the tender stalks of 
rhubarb. Put the rhubarb in deep plates lined with 
pie crust with a thick layer of sugar to each layer of 
rhubarb, and over the top a sprinkling of flour. A 
little grated lemon peel may be added. Place over the 
top a thin crust. Press tightly round the edge of the 
plate and perforate it with a fork so that the crust may 
not burst while baking, and let the juices of the pie 
escape. Bake about one hour in a slow oven. Rhu- 
barb pie must not be baked quickly. 

RHUBARB PIE. No. 2. 

Author. 
Skin the rhubarb and cut in inch lengths, stew with 



262 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

very little water; sweeten to taste; thicken with one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold 
water; a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Bake 
with two crusts. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

LEMON PIE. 

Sister M. H. 
One lemon, one cup sugar, one cup of water, one 
egg, one tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls corn 
starch; bake under crust very little and prick with 
fork; two crusts; grate rind of lemon; take off white 
skin and grate lemon; dissolve the corn starch in a 
little cold water, then add the boiling water, and when 
cool add the other ingredients and bake. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Mrs. Harris. 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, one lemon with 
outside grated, two even tablespoonfuls flour. Beat the 
egg, sugar and flour together till like cream, then add 
the lemon and mix thoroughly. Add the milk last. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Author. 
To each cup of squash allow a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of granulated sugar, one teacup of milk, one-half 
teaspoonful ginger, and one egg. May be made with- 
out egg. A teaspoonful of ground cinnamon is an 
improvement. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 263 

WITH TWO EGGS. 
CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Aunt Robinson. 
Four lablespoonfuls of grated chocolate dissolved in 
one pint of boiling water; beat the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and three 
tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar; add this to the dis- 
solved chocolate and flavor with one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, and fill pastry; after pie is baked beat the 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth with three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, place over the top, and return 
to oven to brown slightly. 

LEMON PIE. No. i. 
Mrs. Harris. 
One-half teacup of sugar, piece of butter the size of 
an egg; stir together; beat two eggs, and add to the 
sugar and butter with nearly one-half cup of sweet 
milk; grate the outside of one lemon and add to the 
mixture, also the juice; put it in the crust; when 
nearly done make meringue of white of one egg and 
two teaspoonfuls of sugar, add to pie, and bake a light 
brown. 

LEMON PIE. No. 2. 
Mrs. E. R. Stetson. 
Line a pan with rich paste and bake immediately. 
While baking make filling of the following ingredi- 
ents: One coffee cup boiling water, one tablespoonful 
corn starch rubbed smooth in a little cold water; cook 
till thick like starch, stirring constantly; take the 
yolks of two eggs with one teacup of sugar and stir 
to a cream, after which add juice and grated rind of 



264 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one large lemon, adding the whole to the starch, and 
cook till the consistency of soft custard; after remov- 
ing from fire add piece of butter size of hickory nut, 
and fill the crust; return to oven till a thin scum is 
formed; remove and add meringue made of whites of 
eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Return to oven and bake a light brown. 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Mrs. Lawrence. 

Cut into small pieces the amount of pie plant you 
will require for a pie; as much sugar as you wish; 
stew till tender; when cool add one tablespoonful of 
flour, yolks of two eggs and grated rind of a lemon; 
bake as custard pie; make a meringue of the whites of 
eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 
after the pie is baked add and return to oven a few 
moments to brown. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. C. 

Two-thirds cup grated cocoanut to the amount of 
milk required for a pie; soak cocoanut in milk one 
hour, then add the yolks of three eggs well beaten 
with three tablespoonfuls of sugar; fill paste and bake 
to a delicate brown; remove from oven and add 
meringue made of whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Return to oven and brown slightly. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 265 

CREAM PIE. 

Cousin Eva. 
One eggj one cup of sugar, small piece butter (size 
of a walnut), one-half cup of milk, one and one-half 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder; 
flavor with lemon; bake in jelly tins with straight rim; 
bake a delicate brown. 

FILLING. 

One pint of sweet milk; two eggs, three large 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half teacup of sugar; stir 
the eggs, flour and sugar till perfectly smooth, and stir 
into the milk when it comes to a boil. Let it cook till 
very thick, and as you remove from the fire add a 
small piece of butter; when cold flavor with vanilla. 
The cakes will be cold by this time. Slice each cake 
through the centre and fill. This recipe makes two 
pies. Before bringing to the table sift fine sugar on 
the top. 

CUSTARD PIE. 
Author. 

One and one-half pints of new milk, three table- 
spoonfuls sugar, three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, 
flavor with vanilla; beat together; fill paste and place 
in quick oven at first so as not to toughen the crust 
when it begins to bake. Moderate the oven so as to 
prevent the custard from curdling. 

LEMON PIE. No. i. 

Mrs. M. A. H. 

Three eggs, three cups of sugar, two lemons, three 

tablespoonfuls of corn starch; place on the stove a 

pint and a half of water; when it boils stir the starch 



266 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

into it, then a piece of butter size of an egg; beat the 
yolks and sugar well together, and when the starch 
water is cool stir in the sugar and egg, then squeeze 
the juice of the lemon and grate the peel in (not quite 
all), and lastly add the whites beaten light. This is a 
delicious lemon pie; sufficient to make three. 

. LEMON PIE. No. 2. 
Mrs. H. 
One teacup of cold water, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, mixed smooth in water, two teacups of sugar, 
three eggs beaten separately, the whites added just as 
the mixture goes into the oven, juice and rind of one 
lemon. This will make two pies. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. L. A. Morgan. 
One cup of sour cream, three-fourths cup of sugar, 
three eggs; flavor with lemon or nutmeg; pinch of 
salt. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
Author. 
Take one coffee cup of mashed potatoes, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, three eggs; stir well together; use only an under 
crust. This will make two pies; a little grated nut- 
meg is liked by many in this pie. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 
COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. N. 
Soak two cups of dessicated cocoanut in two pints 
of milk, beat together the yolks of four eggs, and half 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 267 

cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, and half 
grated nutmeg. Mix all well together and put it in 
your crust (use no top crust) and bake. Beat the 
whites of the eggs with some sugar, and spread over 
the top after removing from oven, and return to oven 
and brown slightly. 

LEMON PIE. No. i. 

Mrs. A. B. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of cold water, four eggs, 

taking out the whites of two, two tablespoonfuls flour, 

one lemon grated. Make frosting of the two whites 

and put on top. 

LEMON PIE. No. 2. 
Aunt Hettie, 
Two lemons, two cups of sugar, two cups of warm 
water, two crackers, four eggs, reserving the whites of 
two eggs, which beat to a froth, with one-half tea- 
spoonful of sugar, spread over the top after the pie is 
baked, then put in the oven a minute. Recipe for two 
pies. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One cup molasses, two cups sugar, three cups water, 
one cup sharp vinegar, two tablespoonfuls chopped 
citron, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
ground cloves, one teaspoonful soda, one nutmeg, four 
eggs; stew one pound stoned raisins in three cups of 
water after being well chopped, four tablespoonfuls of 
brandy, wine to suit the taste; two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Dissolve soda in vinegar. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Author. 
Four eggs, one teacup powdered sugar, two table- 



268 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

spoonfuls butter, two oranges, one lemon; beat the 
yolks, sugar and butter together, add the juice of the 
two oranges and lemon, then the water; fill the crust 
and bake; when done, pour on the whites beaten, with 
a teacup powdered sugar on the top, and bake. 

IRISH POTATO PIE. 
Author. 
Yolks of four eggs, four potatoes, medium size, 
boiled and put through sieve; one pint milk, one-half 
cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter; bake without upper 
crust. After baking remove from oven and add frosting 
made of whites of four eggs and four tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar, and brown lightly. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. N. 
One quart of stewed and strained pumpkin, one 
teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a pound of butter, one 
pint of sugar, yolks of four eggs, one gill of rose- 
water, one-half grated nutmeg, three tablespoonfuls of 
cinnamon, and one pint of milk. Lastly, add the 
whites of the eggs well beaten. Line your pans with 
a nice crust, and fill with the above, using no top crust. 
May be made as above, substituting potatoes (either 
sweet or Irish) instead of the pumpkin. 



WITH FIVE EGGS. 
COCOANUT PIE. 

Sister J. H. 
One quart of milk boiled, one cocoanut grated, five 
eggs, two small sponge cakes, a small piece of butter, 
size of a walnut. This makes four pies. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 269 

PINE-APPLE PIE. 
Sister Mary. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet 
cream, five eggs well beaten, one pine-apple grated. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add beaten yolks of 
eggs, then pine-apple and cream, lastly the beaten 
whites, whipped in lightly. Bake with under crust 
only. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 
APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 
Take about one quart of stewed apples, half pound 
of sugar, small piece of butter; run through the colan- 
der. Then add the yolks of six eggs well beaten, 
a little cinnamon and nutmeg. 

LEMON CUSTARD CAKES. 

Mother. 
Six tablespoonfuls sugar, two lemons, six eggs. 
Beat yolks of eggs with sugar; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, and add them; grate in the lemon peel, 
and squeeze in the juice, and add piece of butter size 
of an egg. Bake like custard in patty tins lined with 
rich paste. 

POTATO PIE. 
Boil one pound of potatoes, peel them, mash them 
through a colander. Stir to a cream three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar and one-quarter of a pound of 
butter, add to this gradually a glass of wine and one 
of brandy, one-fourth teaspoonful of powdered mace 
and a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one small nutmeg 



270 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

grated, the juice and grated peel of one large lemon. 
Then beat six eggs very light, and add them by de- 
grees to the mixture alternately with the potato. 



PUDDINGS. 



WITHOUT EGGS. 

APRICOT OR PEACH COBBLER FOR WINTER. 

Author. 
Pour into a saucepan the syrup from a can of Cali- 
fornia fruit; add one-half teacup of granulated sugar, 
one teaspoonful of butter, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, some powdered cinnamon, boil five 
minutes, add the fruit and set away to cool; make a 
crust of one pint of flour, one-half cup of butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a little salt, enough 
milk or cold water to mix like biscuit; roll out, line the 
sides of a baking dish and fill with the fruit; cover 
with the rest of the crust and bake; when it begins to 
brown cover with a pan the size of the baking dish. 
Serve with cream. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Author. 

Pare and core the apples, put some sugar inside; 
make a crust as for baking powder biscuit, only use 
more shortening; roll the crust thin, and roll each 
apple in a piece; put them in a pan, and when the 
crust gets a little baked pour over the dumplings hot 
water in v/hich sugar and butter are melted, and let 
them bake well (say about one hour.) There should 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 271 

be a juice around it when done. Eat with cream. 
You can make the crust of bread dough if you wish. 
Spitzenbergs and winter greenings are good for 
baking. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

Sister Dona. 
Cut and butter slices of baker's bread. Cover each 
layer with blueberries which have been heated. Let 
it cook in oven half an hour before serving. Eat with 

cold sauce. 

BOMBAY PUDDING. 

To a good sweet boiled custard add a little butter, 
a little nutmeg, and a glass of wine. Mix in a grated 
cocoanut. Line a dish with puff paste, and bake a 
light brown. 

BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 
Author. 

Pare and slice a number of apples; butter a dish, 
and put in a layer of apples, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, with sugar, butter, nutmeg, cinnamon; alter- 
nate them until the dish is full. If the apples are not 
tart add lemon juice; put into the dish a teacup of 
water, and bake in a moderate oven until brown (an 
hour is generally sufficient). Serve in the same dish, 
or turn out on a platter, and eat either warm or cold 
with sauce or cream. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. 
One pint sweet milk, five Boston crackers, one cup 
raisins, one-half cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful ground cloves, one-half tea- 
spoonful ground cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful 



272 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

grated nutmeg. Soak the rolled crackers over night 
in the milk, then add the other ingredients and bake. 
Serve with sauce. 

CRISP BREAD PUDDING. 

Author. 
Five large tart apples chopped fine, one small cup 
breadcrumbs, one-half cup suet chopped, one-half cup 
raisins chopped, one cup milk, one cup sugar. Roll 
the bread, which has been made crisp and brown in 
the oven. Put in a dish a layer of crumbs, a layer of 
eaqh of the other ingredients, and pour the milk over 
to moisten. Bake. Eat with cream sauce. 

DAMSON DUMPLINGS. 

Author. 

Stem and wash fruit; make a crust as for apple 
dumplings; roll three damsons to each crust and pour 
over a sauce as for apple dumplings. 

FOREST PUDDING. 

Contributed. 

One cup of cold water, one cup of raisins or blue- 
berries; dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in a table- 
spoonful of boiling water, and stir it into one-half cup 
of molasses. Beat well with one-half cup of sugar 
and flour to make it about as thick as cup cake. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Author. 
Make a crust as for fruit roll; fill a two-quart pan 
with quartered apples, or any kind of tart fruit ; add 
one-half pint granulated sugar and one-fourth pint 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 273 

water. Cover the fruit with the crust. Cover the pan 
with another pan closely, so that as the fruit stews the 
crust will steam. Put on the top of the stove to cook. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

FRUIT ROLL. 

Author. 
One pint of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
butter size of a large egg (hen's), cold water enough 
to make a soft dough, one teaspoonful salt. Roll out 
and fill with plums, berries, cherries, or stewed fruit. 
Wet the edges with cold water and roll; close the 
edges; steam about an hour. Eat with cream sweet- 
ened and flavored, or with butter sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Aunt Eliza. 
Two quarts of new milk, one teacup of molasses, 
one pint of nice corn meal. Put the milk over the fire 
and let it come to a boil without scorching. Take it 
off from the fire, and stir in the meal gradually; add 
molasses and two tablespoonfuls of ginger, a small 
spoon of salt. Bake four hours in a good oven. 

INDIAN FRUIT PUDDING. 

Cousin Eva. 
One pint hot milk; stir in meal to make a stiff batter; 
add one teaspoonful of salt, one-half cup of molasses, 
one pint of berries (black raspberries preferred, either 
fresh or dried), and the same quantity of sweet apples 
chopped. . Boil in fluted boiler three hours. 

SAUCE. 

One pint thick sour cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. 



274 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Mrs. J. C. Houghton (Author's Mother). 
Line bottom and sides of pudding dish with short 
pie paste. Brush the bottom with white of egg, not 
beaten. Put ripe peaches in layers (leaving in the 
pits) to the top; over each layer sprinkle bits of butter, 
some granulated sugar, and dust a little flour. Use in 
all one tablespoonful butter and one teacup sugar, 
one-half cup water. Cover with crust. Five minutes 
before taking up pour in a wine-glass of brandy. It 
is very nice without the brand}^ 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Author. 
Make a rich paste and line the sides of a quart pan; 
put in a layer of very ripe peaches, a layer of sugar, 
and a dredging of flour; so on to the top; pour over 
all a teacup of cream. Cover with crust and bake. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. J. Quetting (Author's Aunt). 
One cup flour, one and one-half cups of bread^ 
crumbs, three-fourths cup raisins, three-fourths cup 
currants, three-fourths cup suet chopped very fine; one- 
half cup molasses, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half 
teaspoonful soda, one-half tablespoonful cinnamon, 
one-half tablespoonful cloves, a little salt. Mix well 
together and boil four hours. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Stir one pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and a little salt in milk, until very soft; place 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 275 

well-greased cups in a steamer, put in each a spoonful 
of batter, then one of fruit, then batter. Steam 
twenty minutes. Eat with sauce. 

RASPBERRY PUFFS. 

Roll out thin some fine puff paste, cut round or 
square, lay some raspberry jam into each, moisten the 
edges of the paste and press them together, and bake 
the puff ten or fifteen minutes. Strawberry or any 
other jam will serve as well. 

RICE PUDDING. No. i. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, one heaping tablespoonful of 
rice, two tablespoonfuls of raisins seeded, butter size 
of a walnut, a pinch of salt. Bake slowly. 

RICE PUDDING. No. 2. 

Sister M. 
One-half teacup rice well washed, one-half teacup 
water (cold), one-half teacup sugar, three pints new 
milk, a pinch of salt. Bake slowly three to four hours, 
or until it becomes like cream. If it bakes too fast, 
cover. Do not stir it. Eat cold. This is very nice. 
The rice must be soaked in the one-half cup of cold 
water on the back part of the stove for a short time. 

ROATA CRUSTA. 
Mrs. C. 
One cup sago, pour boiling water enough to dis- 
solve it, stir all the time until it becomes transparent; 
red currant jelly about one cupful, stir it well through 
until colored, add a little more sugar. Mould and eat 
cold, with cream, plain or flavored, as preferred. 



276 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SURPRISE PUDDING. 

Sister Fannie. 
Make the old-fashioned corn starch pudding. Put 
half a peach in bottom of cup, then pour over this the 
corn starch. When ready to serve turn from the cup 
into a saucer. Serve with a sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Author. 

Sift into one quart flour three teaspoonfuls (even) 
baking powder; rub well into the flour one tablespoon- 
ful lard, two tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful 
salt. Mix with enough cold water or milk to make a 
soft dough; roll about an inch thick and bake quickly. 
Open and butter while hot. Mash and sweeten the 
berries and spread between the layers and on top of 
the cake. 

Another way of baking the same cake is to roll out 
two cakes one-half inch thick from the same dough, lay 
one on the other and bake, then the cake will not have 
to be cut when done. 

SUET PUDDING. No. i. 
Cousin Eva. 
One cup of chopped suet, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of raisins, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful 
of soda in the milk, four cups of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful altogether of allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg. Steam 
three and one-half hours. 

SUET PUDDING. No. 2. 
Mother. 
Three cups of sifted flour, one cup of raisins, one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 277 

cup of chopped suet, pork or butter, one cup of milk, 
one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful saleratus. Mix 
well together and boil or steam three hours. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. 
Six tablespoonfuls tapioca in one quart of boiling 
water. Wash the tapioca in cold water, draining it 
dry; then add the boiling water, and a small piece 
of butter. Place it on the stove, where it will just 
keep warm, and let it stand an hour ; then pare and 
core three or four apples, and put them in a dish 
with sugar strewn over them, a little nutmeg, and a 
little salt; then add the tapioca, and bake until the 
apples are cooked. Eat with cream and sugar. 



WITH ONE EGG. 
COTTAGE PUDDING. No. i.. 
One teacup of white sugar, four tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of 
sweet milk, one pint of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar, and one egg. Beat the sugar and 
butter to a cream, then add the egg well beaten, then 
the milk with the soda in it, lastly the flour with the 
cream tartar in it. Bake. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. No. 2. 

Author. 

One egg, one-half cup milk, one cup sugar (even), 

butter size of an egg, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 

baking powder. Mix sugar, baking powder, salt and 



278 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

flour together; rub butter thoroughly through the 
flour, and add egg and milk. Serve hot with sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. No. 3. 
Cousin Eva. 
Two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one cup of milk, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Beat all together. Bake a half hour. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Aunt Martha. 

One egg, half a cup of molasses, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, butter size of an egg, half a cup of sweet or 
sour milk, two cups of Graham flour, one teaspoonful 
of soda, one of cinnamon, one-half of cloves, a little 
bit of allspice. Bake half or three-quarters of an hour. 

Sauce for Same. — Half cup of sugar, tablespoonful 
of vinegar, butter size of chestnut, little nutmeg, half 
a cup of water, thickened with flour. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Cousin Alice. 
One cup of flour and one egg, mix thoroughly to- 
gether. Place on the stove in a kettle, one quart of 
milk; sweeten the batter a little, and also flavor with 
vanilla to the taste; after the milk boils pour the 
mixture in, stirring constantly until it thickens, then 
turn into moulds. Eat with sugar and cream. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 
APPLE PUDDING. 
Author. 
One pint apple sauce, two yolks eggs; bake ten 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 279 

minutes, then cover with the whites of eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth with half a teacup powdered sugar. 
Flavor with fresh lemon. 

BETTY PUDDING. 

Aunt Robinson. 
One-half cup of molasses, three-fourths cup of 
sweet milk, two and one-half cups of flour, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, fruit and spices to taste. Steam 
two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

BAKED BREAD PUDDING. 

Aunt Hettie. 
Broken pieces of bread are good soaked in milk 
until soft, then add two eggs to a quart of bread and 
milk, a little salt, butter, lemon peel, nutmeg or cin- 
namon, and sugar to taste. Bake one hour. 

BOILED SUET PUDDING. 
Sister M. 
One cup of finely chopped suet, one cup molasses, 
one cup sweet milk, one cup (or more) of raisins, one 
cup currants, one-half cup citron cut fine, three cups 
flour, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, two 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar or two of baking powder, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful, cinnamon. Put in covered 
tin pail, place in kettle of boiling water and boil 
steadily three or four hours, 

CATSKILL PUDDING. 

Author. 
Two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two 



28o GRADED COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted into a quart of 
flour. Drain the syrup off of fruit (strawberries are 
excellent), mix the fruit in the batter, and steam or 
boil in a mould two hours. Sweeten the juice and 
pour over when serving. Cream also used with it 
after the juice is put on makes it very nice. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. No. i. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 

One cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one and 
one-half cups of flour, two eggs; butter the size of an 
egg; one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one quart of blackberries. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. No. 2. 

Sister J. H. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, one cup flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
two eggs. Ice cream sauce with this pudding. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Author. 

Seed and chop one cup of raisins, pour over them 
one cup of sweet milk and set aside until wanted. 
Work to a cream a scant half cup of butter with one 
cup of flour, then add two well-beaten eggs and one 
cup of granulated sugar, then the raisins and milk, and 
lastly, five large tart apples chopped the size of a pea. 
Bake, serve warm with cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. Excellent. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 281 

HAMILTON PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. 
Half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two-thirds 
cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, three teacups flour. Bake about three-quarters of 
an hour. 

HERODOTUS PUDDING. 

Aunt Hettie. 
One-half pound of bread crumbs, one-half pound 
of best figs, six ounces of suet, six ounces brown sugar; 
mince the suet and figs very nicely; a little salt, two 
eggs well beaten, nutmeg to your taste. Boil in a 
mould four hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Author. 
One teacup of flour, one teacup of grated bread, 
one of granulated sugar, one teacup shredded suet, 
one-half teacup (scant) cream, two eggs, grated rind 
and juice of one lemon. Boil one hour. To be eaten 
with cold sauce. 

ENGLISH LEMON PUDDING. 

Aunt M. 
Lay a paste in a deep dish, put a layer of any pre- 
serves you please in it. Take two ounces of sugar, 
two ounces of butter, two ounces of bread crumbs, 
one-half lemon, pulp and juice, rubbing some of the 
sugar on the rind. Mix together with the yolks of 
two eggs. Put this mixture on the preserves and bake 
one-half hour; take it out of the oven and beat the 



282 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and lay on top of 
the pudding; sift some white sugar over it and return 
pudding to the oven to brown. 

POP-OVER. 

Aunt M. 
Take one cup of milk, two eggs, and one cup of 
corn starch or flour if the starch happens to be out. 
Mix the starch or flour thoroughly with a little milk 
first to avoid lumps, then beat the whole together a 
few moments, add a pinch of salt, and pour into cups 
which have been buttered. Fill the cups half full. 
Set them in a quick oven and they will rise in baking, 
and will *'pop over" in the prettiest way imaginable. 
When done turn them out of the cups, make a sweet 
sauce, and each one at the table can have a pudding 
for himself. The above recipe is sufficient for four 
cups. 

PORCUPINE PUDDING. 

Cousin Eva. 
Boil a rich suet or plum pudding in a fluted boiler 
with pipe in the centre. When ready for serving stick 
full of unblanched almonds. Place in the top a shal- 
low tin dish fitted for the purpose, fill with brandy and 
set on fire just before bringing to the table. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
One tablespoonful of tapioca soaked two hours in a 
little milk, bring one pint of milk to a scald; yolks of 
two eggs, half a cup of sugar; beat light; pour in 
milk, let it thicken, add a little salt and vanilla; beat 
whites of two eggs and one tablespoonful of sugar, 
and place over the top. Bake a light brown. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 283 

WITH THREE EGGS. 

COFFEE PUDDING. 

Author. 
One pint of strong coffee, one pint of rich milk, two 
coffee cups of bread crumbs, one coffee cup of brown 
sugar, one teacup of raisins, three eggs. Soak the 
bread in the milk one hour, then beat into it the yolks 
of the eggs; add the sugar, beaten whites, coffee and 
seeded raisins. Some flavor with nutmeg, cinnamon 
and cloves. Bake. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
sugar, three square soda crackers rolled fine, a pinch 
of salt. Mix the ingredients, adding the beaten 
whites last; flavor to taste. Bake, 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Author. 
One pint of cream, one teacup of flour, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir smoothly together 
the flour and cream, add the beaten yolks, then the 
beaten whites and vanilla; bake and serve with jelly and 
cream sauce. This may be made with rich milk. 

DAUPHINES. 

Cousin Alice. 
Line a pudding dish with puff paste, and put into 
it a thin layer of sweetmeats or stewed apples. Boil 
a custard of a pint of milk, three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and one of flour, until it thickens; 



284 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

flavor with vanilla, and pour over the fruit. Bake in 
a moderate oven, and when it is cold make an icing of 
whites of eggs and sugar, and pour over the top; set 
it in a moderately heated oven to dry. 

ESTELLE PUDDING. 

Author. 
Rub to a cream one-half cup of butter with two 
heaping cups of flour and two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder; then add slowly one teacup of 
milk and the yolks of three eggs, then the well-beaten 
whites, one-half cup of seeded raisins, and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Steam an hour and a half. Eat 
with sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

Mrs. McK. 
One quart of berries, one small loaf of bread; soak 
in milk. One-fourth pound of suet, three eggs, one cup 
of flour. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

Aunt Sue. 
Three eggs beaten separately, three tablespoonfuls 
jelly, one large tablespoonful butter, one tablespoon- 
ful cream, two tablespoonfuls sugar, more if desired 
sweeter. Line a pan with paste, put in mixture and 
bake. Meringue on top. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING. 

One and one-half teacups boiled rice, one-half teacup 
sugar, one-half pint milk, yolks of three eggs, salt 
spoon of salt. Bake only till set. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a froth, season with lemon; return to the 
oven and brown. The rice is boiled in water. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 285 

RICE PUDDING. 

Sister M. H. 
Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk till soft; 
stir in yolks of three eggs and four tablespoonfuls 
sugar; grate in the rind of one lemon, and salt to taste. 
Take the whites of the eggs and the juice of the lemon 
with six tablespoonfuls sugar; make a stiff froth. 
When the rice is done and quite cool, pour over the 
top, put into a quick oven and brown. Eat it cold 
with sauce if desired. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Cousin Eva. 

Two-thirds cup of sago, one quart of milk, put it to 

soak in the morning, cook it in milk till it thickens, set it 

to cool, add three eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, 

sugar to taste, bake one-half hour. Flavor to taste. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 

Sister M. H. 
One pint sweet milk, three eggs beaten separately, 
eight tablespoonfuls flour. Bake in cups for twenty 
minutes. Serve with sauce. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Author. 
Three pounds sweet potatoes, one teacup granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of cream, two 
cups of milk, one-half grated nutmeg, one teaspoon- 
ful ground cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful salt, three 
eggs. Boil the potatoes, pare and run through a sieve, 
mix with the yolks, cream, sugar, butter, spice and 
salt; lastly the whites beaten light. Line a pan with 
puff paste fill with the mixture and bake in a quick 
oven. 



286 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH FOUR EGGS. 
BATTER PUDDING. 

Author. 
One pint of milk, four eggs beaten separately, ten 
tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, a little salt. Beat in 
the whites of the eggs the last thing before baking. 
Bake one-half hour. 

BAKED FLOUR PUDDING. 

One and a half pints of buttermilk, one cup of 
cream, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus in 
the milk, flour sufficient to make a batter. If you 
have no cream take one quart of buttermilk. Eat 
with cream and sugar or some kind of sauce. 

BIRDS' NEST PUDDING. 

Author. 
Pare and core tart apples and put them close 
together in a baking dish. Pour over them a batter 
made of one quart of milk, one pint of flour, four 
eggs, a little salt. Beat eggs separately and together, 
then mix smoothly the flour, salt and milk. Bake 
quickly. Serve with cream sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Author. 
One quart milk, two cups dry bread crumbs; soak 
in the milk; four eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter. Beat the yolks very light and stir in the milk 
and bread, then add the butter, and lastly the whites. 
Bake a fine brown and eat with sauce. I grate the 
bread. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 287 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Sister Fanny. 
Cut slices of light bread thin; spread each slice 
with sweet butter; put a layer of this bread in the 
bottom of the pudding dish; spread over this a 
layer of jelly, or any nice preserves, then a layer of 
bread, and so on until the dish is half full. Have 
ready a rich custard made in the usual way; pour this 
over the pudding; let it stand a few minutes and then 
bake carefully. It only wants to be baked until the 
custard is creamy. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Author. 
Grate the meat of half a cocoanut, stir it into a cus- 
tard made of four eggs to a quart of milk, one teacup 
of powdered sugar, a piece of butter the size of a 
hickory nut; beat all together, put into a dish and 
bake. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Cousin Eva. 

One and one-half pints of milk, four eggs, eight 

tablespoonfuls of flour, salt and a little butter, all well 

beaten. Bake in cups, and serve with wine sauce. 

The cups must be warmed before the batter is put in. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Aunt Robinson. 

One quart of milk, six small tablespoonfuls of meal, 

one-half cup of sugar, four eggs, one-half cup of 

molasses, one-half cup of suet chopped or a piece of 

butter the size of ^n tgg. Wet the meal in some of 



288 GRADED COOK BOOK. 






the milk, scald the remainder of the milk and stir in 
the meal. After it is thoroughly scalded add a half 
cup of cold milk and other ingredients; raisins as you 
like and a little ginger. Bake in slow oven two hours. 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING. 

Sister J. H. 

One quart milk, four eggs, one cup white sugar, one 
pint bread crumbs, rind of one lemon; beat yolks and 
sugar together; stir in the milk and other ingredients 
and bake a light brown. Beat whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; 
add juice of lemon and spread over pudding; put in 
the oven for a few minutes. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Author. 

Peel and slice the oranges, taking out the seed^ and 
cutting the slices in small pieces; sprinkle sugar 
through, having them in the dish which you wish to 
place on the table. Now prepare a boiled custard, 
making it a little thicker than is usually made; pour 
hot over the fruit; heap a meringue of the beaten 
whites of four eggs with sugar over them, and place in 
the oven a few minutes. To be eaten cold. This 
pudding is delightful, both to the eye and taste. Other 
fresh fruits are nice prepared this way. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Sister J, H. 

Measure eight tablespoonfuls of flour, put in an 
earthen dish and warm it in the oven. Then stir in 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 289 

one pint of milk, three beaten eggs, one teaspoonful 
iof salt (sugar if liked sweet), and bake in buttered 
cups twenty minutes. Serve with Foaming sauce. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 
Mrs. F. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one 
cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs well beaten, butter 
size of an egg, grated rind of one lemon; mix all well 
together. Put in a pudding dish and bake until done, 
but not watery. Whip the whites of the eggs, and 
then beat into them one cup of sugar, in which stir 
the juice of the lemon; after the pudding has cooled 
some spread over the top a layer of jelly or preserves 
of any kind. Pour the whites of the eggs on this and 
replace in the oven and bake lightly. Eat with cream. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Aunt Hettie. 

One-half box of gelatine, pour over it one-half pint 
of cold water; let it stand an hour, then pour over one- 
half pint of boiling water; strain, and add one cup of 
granulated sugar, beaten whites of four eggs, juice of 
four lemons. Set the bowl in a pan of cold water, then 
beat fast with Dover egg-beater until white and stiff 
then put in mould to form. 

THE CUSTARD TO PUT OVER. 

Yolks of four eggs, pint of milk, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of flour or corn starch; 
flavor with vanilla. Beat sugar, eggs and flour to- 
gether and stir into the boiling milk. Boil till thick 
as cream. 



290 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SOUR CREAM PUDDING. | 

Mrs. H. 

One pint of sour cream, four tablespoonfulsof flour^ 
four eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), hall 
teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt. Stir the 
whites in lightly at the last. Bake half an hour. Wine 
sauce, or butter and sugar rubbed to a cream, with 
nutmeg. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Aunt Hettie. 

Four tablespoonfuls of tapioca with one cup of 
water, soaked over night. Take the yolks of four 
eggs, one cup of sugar, one quart of boiling milk; stir 
in the mixture and thicken, then beat the whites. 
Put pudding in a dish, the whites on top, and dip 
custard over it. 



WITH FIVE EGGS. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 

Author. 
One-fourth pound shelled almonds, one pint milk, 
five eggs, whites only, one-half teacup powdered sugar. 
Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water over 
them; skin them, dry and grate on the grater. Beat 
the eggs and the sugar well together, then add the 
milk and the almonds. Bake half an hour in slow 
oven. When cold put bits of currant jelly on the top; 
eat with sweetened cream flavored with vanilla, or 
with whipped cream. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 291 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 
E. B. M. 

Butter a pie dish well, then cover the bottom with 
dried currants and candied peel, then a layer of bread 
and butter, in thin slices, until the dish is nearly full, 
having currants on top. Pour over this a custard. 

CREAM PUFFS. No. i. 
Author. 

One coffee cup of flour, one coffee cup of boiling 
water, one-half coffee cup of melted butter, three 
eggs, beaten separately. Pour the boiling water over 
the flour and butter, and stir till cool; then add the 
eggs. Drop in muffin rings and bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. When done split open and fill 
with custard. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. This 
makes twelve cakes. 

Custard for Puffs. — One teacup of milk, two eggs, 
one-half tablespoonful corn starch, one heaping table- 
spoonful sugar. 

CREAM PUFFS. No. 2. 
Author. 

To one-half pint of boiling water add a little salt, 
butter half the size of an egg, and stir into it one cup 
of flour well sifted. (Do not dissolve flour first). 
When this thickens like pastry stir in four or five eggs, 
beaten together. Take from the stove and drop here 
and there a tablespoonful in a pan, and bake. Open 
puff when done and fill with cold custard. Sift 
powdered sugar over the top. The puffs may be either 
hot or cold when filled. 



292 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, one cup of powdered sugar, four 
tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, five eggs, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Heat the milk and chocolate. When 
the chocolate is dissolved, remove from the stove, cool 
and add the yolks of eggs and vanilla. Bake twenty- 
five minutes. Beat the whites with four tablespoon- 
fuls powdered sugar, and put on top of pudding, and 
return to oven to brown. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Aunt Robinson. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls corn starchy 
five eggs. Mix the starch with a little cold milk, stir 
into the quart of milk just before it comes to the boil- 
ing point. Boil three minutes. Separate the yolks 
and whites of the eggs; beat the yolks with six even 
tablespoonfuls of fine sugar. Mix the hot corn starch 
with the eggs and sugar; flavor with vanilla. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth; add three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, flavor with vanilla. Put the custard in a deep 
dish. Put the icing on in the form of kisses. Bake a 
light brown. 

DELIGHT PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. 
Two cups milk, five eggs, four tablespoonfuls flour, 
one-half teaspoonful salt. Mix the flour with a little 
of the cold milk, and add it to the rest of the milk 
and the beaten yolks of the eggs. Then beat up three 
of the whites to a stiff froth with the salt; add to the 
pudding and bake. Eat with lemon sauce. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 293 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

A. E. I. 

Grate three-fourths pound stale bread, mix it with 
three-fourths pound suet shredded fine, the same 
quantity each of dried currants and chopped apples, 
five eggs, grated rind and juice of one lemon, one- 
half cup of water. Steam or boil in mould three 
hours. 

FARINA PUDDING. 
Mrs. McK. 

Four tablespoonfuls farina, one quart of milk, boil 
twenty minutes; put in a dish with yolks of five eggs 
and one-half cup of sugar, beat whites very stiff, and 
add two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and put it 
on the pudding in drops. Place in oven and bake 
ten minutes. Serve with wine sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Cousin Eva. 

Beat together three-fourths of a pound of sugar,, 
one-half pound of butter, five eggs beaten to a froth, 
two large spoonfuls of grated bread, the juice of one 
large lemon, and one-half the rind grated. Bake in 
plates with paste below. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Author. 

Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one pint boiling 
water; beat until nearly cold,, then add two teacups 
powdered sugar, and the juice of two lemons. 
When this is cold, but not hardened^ break into the com- 
pound the whites of two eggs, and beat the whole to a 



294 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Stiff froth. Make a soft custard, using the yolks of 
the two eggs with three others to a quart of milk. 
Flavor with vanilla when the custard is cold, and pour 
over the pudding w^hen served. 

VELVET PUDDING. 

Author. 
Five eggs beaten separately, two cups white sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls corn starch, three pints milk, pinch 
of salt. Bring the milk to boiling point, stir in the 
well-beaten yolks and one cup sugar, then the corn 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk, and the salt. 
Boil until it thickens, take from fire, pour into baking 
dish and bake. When nearly done pour over the top 
the well-beaten whites and the other cup of sugar. 
Brown lightly. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 

APPLE PUDDING WITHOUT PASTRY. 

Pare and cut up enough apples to weigh two pounds; 
boil them and rub through a colander; add a large 
spoonful of butter while they are hot, and when cold 
add half a pound of crushed white sugar, six well- 
beaten eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour 
the mixture into a deep dish and bake for half an hour. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Aunt Hettie. 
Six eggs, one quart of milk, ten spoonfuls flour, 
salt; bake one-half hour. Ice Cream sauce (see pud- 
ding sauces). 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 295 

CAKE PUDDING. 

Cousin Eva. 
One cup of butter, one cup of cream, three cups of 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one quart of 
sifted flour, six eggs, a little brandy. Bake it as a 
cake. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. No. i. 

Author. 
One pint of milk, six heaping tablespoonfuls pre- 
pared cocoanut, one-half teacup sugar, whites of six 
eggs beaten to a froth and added last. Bake slowly 
three-fourths of an hour. Eat with cream flavored 
with vanilla and sweetened. Very good without the 
cream. Eat either hot or cold. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. No. 2. 

Mrs. H. A. C. 

One coffee' cupful of grated cocoanut in one quart of 
cold milk. If it is the prepared cocoanut, let it stand 
ten or fifteen minutes in the milk to soften. Beat six 
eggs very light, then add one cup of fine sugar, stir- 
ring all together; bake in a rather quick oven until 
the eggs become firm, but not a minute longer. To be 
eaten cold. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Aunt Robinson. 

One pint sweet cream, one pint sour cream, six eggs, 
enough flour to make a thin batter, one teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in water or in the sour milk; a little 
salt. Bake an hour and eat hot with a rich wine 
sauce. 



296 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Aunt Robinson. 

Two large oranges grated and squeezed; beat six 
eggs and stir together a teacup of melted butter and 
the same quantity of sugar, after which add the 
oranges with one-half pint of cream; bake in a puff 
paste. Lemons can be used the same. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Cousin Eva. 

Six eggs, one pint of milk; beat the yolks and 
whites of eggs separately; smooth to a cream one- 
half teacup flour with a small portion of milk taken 
from the pint; place milk in double boiler, and when 
it reaches the boiling point add flour and a little salt, 
and cook until thick as custard, then add yolks of eggs 
and cook for three minutes. Remove from fire and 
add whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fill pud- 
ding dish and set in pan of boiling water and place in 
oven. Bake three-fourths of an hour. Allow this 
time so that the pudding will be eaten as soon as done, 
as it is liable to fall. To be eaten with Aurora sauce 
flavored with vanilla. 



WITH SEVEN EGGS. 



BREAD PUDDING. 



Take a baker's loaf of bread and cut it in slices, 
spread each slice with butter, put it in a pan, and 
pour a quart of boiling milk over it; let it stand over 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 297 

night. In the morning add seven eggs beaten very- 
light, one quarter pound of sugar, one pound of 
raisins, and spices to the taste, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
mace. Bake as you would pound cake and eat with 
sauce. 



WITH EIGHT EGGS. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Aunt Hettie. 

One quart of milk, eight eggs beaten separately, 
twelve tablespoonfuls of flour. To be eaten with Ice 
Cream sauce. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. 

One pound of brown sugar, half pound of butter, 

one pound of bread crumbs, one pound of stoned 

raisins, half pound of currants, quarter of a pound of 

citron, eight eggs, two nutmegs; boil six hours or 

Jonger. Can keep as you would fruit cake. 

PLUM PUDDING. (Baked). 

Mrs. J. J. Quetting (Author's Aunt). 

Into a quart of boiling milk put a sufficient quantity 
of grated bread crumbs to make a tolerably thick bat- 
ter. Let it stand until lukewarm, when it must be 
beaten well, and a half pound of butter and the same 
quantity of sugar be stirred into it; add eight eggs 
well beaten, half pound of raisins, stoned, cut and 



2gS GRADED COOK BOOK. 

floured, half pound of currants washed and dried and 
dredged with flour, quarter of a pound of citron 
sliced and floured, also a nutmeg; a little brandy or 
wine may be added if preferred. Beat all well to- 
gether, and pour into a buttered mould or. dish, and 
bake slowly for two hours. 

Make a sauce of three beaten eggs, a cup of sugar, 
and a gill of milk seasoned with lemon. Stir over the 
fire until it becomes as thick as cream, but do not let it 
boil, and add two wineglasses of brandy or sherry 
wine. This pudding may be boiled. Put it in a cloth 
which must be previously scalded and floured, lay it in 
a round-bottomed bowl while the mixture is being put 
in; leave room for it to swell, and tie up very tightly. 
Drop into boiling water, of which there must be 
enough to cover the pudding well, and replenish from 
the teakettle as it evaporates. Turn the pudding fre- 
quently. When it is done it should be dipped into a 
pan of cold water to prevent it adhering to the cloth. 

TIPSY PUDDING. 

Slice any kind of nice cake, sprinkle each piece with 
blanched almonds pounded. Fill a pudding dish with 
this; cover with nice egg-nog; set into the oven about 
five minutes, then pour over the whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth; serve this while hot. 

EGG-NOG FOR THE ABOVE. 

Yolks of eight eggs, one and one-half pounds of 
white sugar; beat very hard until all of the sugar is 
dissolved; add one teacup of rich cream and two and 
one-half cups of best whisky. Beat the whites of the 
eggs very light and stir into the egg-nog. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 299 

WITH TEN EGGS. 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. 

Miss S. 
To ten eggs well beaten add twenty-four tablespoon- 
fuls flour; beat this very thoroughly; add as much 
milk as will make it as thick as soft custard; pour into 
a hot buttered pudding dish; bake in a quick oven. 
Serve with a rich sauce. 

BATTER PUDDING. No. i. 

Cousin Eva. 

One quart of milk or cream, one pound of sugar, 
ten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour; bake or boil. 
Serve with Ice Cream sauce. 

BATTER PUDDING. No. 2. 
Cousin Eva. 

Three pints of milk, two pints of flour, ten eggs. 
COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Author. 

One quart sweet milk, one cup powdered sugar, ten 
tablespoonfuls grated cocoanut, whites of ten eggs 
well beaten. Bake one hour evenly and slowly, and 
serve cold with sugar and cream. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Miss B. 

Ten eggs beaten separately very light, one cup of 
sugar, one lemon, stir the yolks of the eggs and sugar 
together very light, then grate half the rind of the 



300 GRADED COOK BOOK, 

lemon and also the pulp in with the sugar and eggs, 
then beat the whites of the eggs light, and put in the 
other half of the lemon grated, and mix all together, 
beating very thoroughly. Bake in a pudding dish 
about a half hour. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Aunt R. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup of raisins, 
one and one-half cup currants, one cup baker's rusk 
grated fine, one-quarter cup of sugar, ten eggs, one 
slice of citron, one wineglass brandy, nutmeg, a little 
salt. Boil three hours in a kettle of boiling water 
with plate on bottom to keep from burning. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 
Warne. f 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one- 
fourth pound of Sultana raisins, one pound of suet 
three-fourths pound of bread crumbs, three-fourths 
pound of citron and orange peel mixed, one pint of 
milk, ten eggs, one small nutmeg, one glass brandy. 

Stone the raisins and divide them; wash and dry 
the currants and Sultanas and cut the peel into slices; 
mix all these with the bread crumbs, flour, and suet 
chopped very fine; add the grated nutmeg and then 
stir in the well-beaten eggs, brandy and milk. When 
the ingredients are well blended put the pudding 
into a mould, tie a floured cloth over it and boil 
it. When done turn it out, and serve it with burning 
brandy over it, or arrowroot sauce. Time to boil, six 
hours. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 3OI 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

One pound sugar, three-fourths pound butter, one 
pound flour, one-fourth pound currants, one-fourth 
pound cake crumbs, ten eggs, one-half pint milk, one 
teaspoonful mace; mix sugar and butter together; 
bake in a slow oven. Old cake broken up fine can be 
used. To be eaten hot with liquid sauce. 



WITH TWELVE EGGS. 
ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 
Mrs. A. Palmer. 
One pound of beef suet, chop fine, one pound of 
flour, one pound of currants, one pound of raisins 
stoned, one nutmeg, one dozen eggs, one-quarter 
pound of citron, one small teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half pint of sweet milk. After mixing well the above 
ingredients, put into buttered bowls; dip a cloth into 
boiling water and sprinkle well with flour. Tie the 
cloths carefully over the bowls to prevent the water 
from getting into the pudding. Put the bowls into 
boiling water which must be kept boiling for six 
hours. 

MARLBOROUGH PIE OR PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. 
One quart of apples after cooking, run through the 
colander. Take twelve eggs, beat separately very 
light, one-quarter of a pound of butter, six spoonfuls 
of sugar, one nutmeg, one lemon, grate the rind and 
add the juice. Bake in patty tins lined with puff 
paste. 



302 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PUDDING SAUCES. 



WITHOUT EGGS. 

CREAM SAUCE. No. i. 

Aunt Hettie. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup powdered sugar, 
one-fourth cup of cream, four tablespoonfuls of wine, 
or one teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, beating all the while. 
When light and creamy gradually add the wine, then 
the cream a little at a time. When all is beaten 
smooth, place the bowl in a basin of hot water and 
stir until the sauce is smooth and creamy; no longer. 
It will take only a few minutes. This is a delicious 
sauce, and if well beaten and not kept in the hot water 
long enough to melt the sugar, it will be white and 
foamy all through. 

CREAM SAUCE. No. 2. 
Sister M. H. 
One-half pound of sugar, one-fourth pound of but- 
ter, four tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, juice and rind 
of one lemon. 

CREAM SAUCE. No. 3. 

One-fourth cup of butter beaten to a cream, add 
one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn starch or 
more thickened with boiling water and stirred into 
the butter and sugar. Flavor before adding starch. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 303 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Sister J. H. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one lemon 
all the juice and half the grated rind, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg, three tablespoonfuls boiling water. 
Set in a pan of boiling water to keep hot. 

MAPLE SYRUP. 

Sister J. H. 
Four pounds of maple sugar, one quart of water. 
Boil till it thickens, and bottle. 

MOLASSES SAUCE FOR DUMPLINGS. 

One teaspoonful of butter, one coffee cup of molas- 
ses, juice of one lemon. Boil three minutes. 

WINE SAUCE. No. i. 
Author. 
One-half cup of butter, two cups of powdered sugar, 
one glass of sherry wine or brandy; warm the butter 
very slightly, then add the sugar, beat to a cream, and 
then the wine or brandy; fill a mould and set in a cold 
place until wanted, then grate the nutmeg over it. 

WINE SAUCE. No. 2. 
Author. 
One-half pint boiling water, thickened with flour 
dissolved in a little cold water, to the consistency of 
cream, a piece of butter size of a walnut, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of wine or 
brandy. Very nice made with cream instead of water. 



304 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH ONE EGG. 
AURORA OR ICE CREAM SAUCE. 

Author. 
One teacup of powdered sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Beat to a cream, then beat an egg lightly 
and add to the butter and sugar; pour in sufficient 
boiling water to make the sauce the consistency of thick 
cream. Flavor with vanilla; enough for four or five 
persons. Very fine. This sauce looks like ice cream if 
properly prepared. Care must be used in adding the 
boiling water, so small a quantity is required. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 
E. B. M. 
Beat a cup of sugar with a quarter of a pound of 
butter until it is light and creamy; add the well-beaten 
yolk of one egg, then the white beaten to a stiff froth, 
and beat vigorously. Stir in a wineglass of wine very 
gently, or use water and flavoring instead Set the 
bowl over the teakettle until the mixture is the thick- 
ness of cream. On no account allow it to boil or the 
sauce will be spoiled. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Cousin Millie. 
One large cup of sugar, one-half (scant) cup of but- 
ter, one lemon, all the juice and half the rind grated, 
one egg, three tablespoonfuls boiling water, nutmeg. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg to the lemon 
and nutmeg; beat hard ten minutes, add spoonful at a 
time to the boiling water. Put into a tin pail, and 
stand in a saucepan of boiling water, which keep boil- 
ing till it heats the sauce without boiling. Serve hot. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 305 

PUDDING SAUCE. No. i. 
Aunt Robinson. 
One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one wine- 
glass of wine, one egg well beaten, one cup of boiling 
water, added just before serving. Nutmeg to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE. No. 2. 
Mrs. S. 
Two tablespoonfuls of butter, four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, white of one egg. 
Beat to a cream in an earthen dish, the butter, sugar 
and flour, then add the white of an egg beaten to a 
stiff froth, and a teacup of cream. Boil up, flavor and 
serve. 

WINE SAUCE. No. 3. 

Aunt Robinson. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
wine, one egg. Beat the egg, butter and sugar together. 
Scald the wine and add; stirring all the time. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 
BRANDY SAUCE. 
Sister Fannie. 
One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour, the yolks of two eggs. Beat butter 
and sugar to a cream, then add flour and well-beaten 
yolks of eggs; add one pint of boiling water, and cook 
to the consistency of cream, and add whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Remove from fire, and flavor 
with two tablespoonfuls of brandy. 



$06 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WINE SAUCE. No. i. 
Author. 
Put into a tin basin two eggs and one cup of sugar, 
beat thoroughly. Have a pan of boiling water on the 
stove, place tin basin containing egg and sugar in it, 
stir constantly till it comes to a boil. Lay a piece 
of butter size of a walnut in sauceboat, pour the 
heated mixture over it, and flavor with sherry wine, 
vanilla or both. This can be made early in the morn- 
ing and set aside, as it should be cold when eaten. 
This is a very nice sauce for plum pudding. 

WINE SAUCE. No. 2. 
Author. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter stirred to 
a cream, whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
then beaten into the butter and sugar. Just as it is 
wanted at the table, pour on gradually half a cup of 
boiling water, and flavor with vanilla or a glass of 
wine. The sauce must not be put on the fire, or stand, 
as it will separate. 

WINE SAUCE. No. 3. 

Cousin Eva. 
Two cups of fine white sugar, one cup of butter, two 
eggs, one wineglass Madeira wine; beat all this 
together for half an hour. Let it scald, not boil. 
Serve hot. 

WINE SAUCE. No. 4. 

Cousin Eva. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to 
a cream, two eggs, one cup of hot water, wine or 
brandy to taste. Add whites of eggs last, beaten to 
a stiff froth. 



CAKES. 



SUGGESTIONS. 

Always for nice cake, sift the flour twice. I always 
add a little flour to the butter and sugar after it is 
creamed, then a little milk. In making pound cake, 
beat the flour and butter, then beaten yolks of the 
eggs which have had the sugar added. Put eggs in cold 
water to make them beat light. Dissolve soda in a 
little water, and strain into the milk. Mix cream of 
tartar with one cup of flour. Strain yolks of eggs. 
Stir butter with a wooden spoon until soft, then add 
the sugar until a cream is formed, next add the yolks, 
then a little flour, and very gradually the milk, stir- 
ring the batter all the time. Add the flavoring and 
spices. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and place one- 
half upon the mixture, then the remainder of the flour, 
except that containing the cream of tartar, which must 
be added after the other layer of whites. Beat care- 
fully until the ingredients are thoroughly incorpor- 
ated, and bake immediately. Avoid jarring the cake 
when in the oven, and also a draft of cold air while 
baking. If the oven is too hot, cover with a piece of 
brown paper. A stone jar and a clean piece of linen 
will keep cake best a long time. 

Spinach colors frosting green. 

307 



3o8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITHOUT EGGS. 

BREAD CAKE. 

H. M. C. 

One pint of bread dough, two cups of sugar, one 

cup of butter, one cup of raisins, one tablespoonful of 

cloves, one of allspice and one of cinnamon. Mix well 

together in pans in which they are to be baked. 

CHRISTMAS CAKES. 

One pint of golden syrup, one pound of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in half a cup of syrup. 
Boil the rest of the syrup; and, while warm, add a 
quarter pound of butter, one teacup of citron chopped 
very fine, one teacup of chopped blanched almonds, 
fifty cents' worth of cardamon seeds, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one of chopped lemon peel, the grated 
rind and the juice of one lemon. Roll out, cut with a 
small biscuit cutter, and put a whole blanched almond 
on the top of every cake before you put them in the 
oven. These are excellent. A German recipe. 

CHRISTMAS KISSES. 

Sister Fannie. 
One and a half cups of powdered sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, two cups of grated cocoanut, two table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Roll the cocoanut in the corn starch; then 
into the sugar; mix the butter with this. Add baking 
powder to flour, and sift six times. Mix the flour 
lightly through the above mixture, with a silver fork. 
Throw all out on a moulding board sprinkled with 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 309 

flour. Roll quarter of an inch thick, cut with cookie- 
cutter, and bake on paper not greased. 

COOKIES. No. I. 
Aunt Hettie. 
One cup of rich sour cream, two cups of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, nutmeg or caraway. Flour to 
roll. 

COOKIES. No. 2. 

One and a half teacups of sugar, two-thirds cup of 
shortening, one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

DELICIOUS PLAIN DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of sour milk, two tablespoonfuls of sour 
cream or melted butter, one small teaspoonful of soda, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt. Beat the soda 
into the milk and shortening till it is very foamy. 
Stir in flour with a spoon till stiff and perfectly smooth. 
Let them stand two or three hours, or over night. 
Roll out and fry without kneading. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One-third cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, 
two of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
one teaspoonful of cloves, and one of allspice, one cup 
raisins. 

COUNTRY GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of su^ar, one cup of New Orleans molasses, 
two cups of sour cream, four and a half cups of flour, 



3IO GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of ginger. 
Bake in a steady oven. 

GINGER CAKE. 

Author. 
One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, 
two-thirds cup of luke-warm water, one tablespoonful 
of lard, one teaspoonful of soda, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of each kind of spice. Flour to mix soft. Bake in 
square tin. 

MOLASSES GINGER CAKE. 

Cousin L. 
Two cups of molasses, one cup of sour milk or but- 
termilk, one teaspoonful of soda, ginger to taste, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. 

GINGER COOKIES. No. i. 
Sister M. 
One pint of molasses, one teacup of shortening, 
one-half butter, one-half lard, one tablespoonful of 
ginger, one tablespoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
salt. Put the ingredients in a pan and let all come 
to a boil. Pour this, milk warm, into flour enough to 
roll out thin. 

GINGER COOKIES. No. 2. 

Mrs. Sample. 
One cup of molasses, one-half cup of sugar, two- 
thirds cup of lard or drippings from fried sausage, 
one-third cup of butter, one small teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water, one small 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 311 

teaspoonful of cinnamon, one small teaspoonful of 
ginger. Flour to roll. Must be very soft. Put the 
drippings of fried sausage in a pan, pour over boiling 
water and gather the clear grease from the surface of 
the water as it rises, leaving the sediment in the bot- 
tom of the pan. Excellent. 

(DINGER COOKIES. No. 3. 

One and a half pounds of granulated sugar, one-half 
pound of butter, one pint of buttermilk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of soda dissolved in the milk, one teaspoonful of 
ginger. Flour to make it just thick enough to roll 
three-fourths inch thick; lay on square tm; cross with 
a wet knife the size you wish. Bake in moderate oven 
till when you press the top down with the finger, it 
raises again. 

GINGER COOKIES. No. 4. 

Cousin Abby. 
One cup of New Orleans molasses, one cup of white 
sugar, one cup of sour milk, one cup of shortening, 
one-half butter and one-half lard, one tablespoonful 
of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Mix soft with flour enough to roll out and 
cut nicely. Bake in a quick oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One pint of molasses, one and a half cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of lard, one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in hot water, one tablespoonful of ginger, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, scant teaspoonful of all- 
spice, two even quarts of flour sifted. Mix in gradually 



312 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

until it is so stiff it will not stick to the hands. Knead 
like bread, till thoroughly moulded. Roll out and cut 
with cookie cutter. 

GINGER WAFERS. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of coffee made, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. 
Flour to make soft dough. Roll very thin and bake 
in quick oven. 

JUMBLES. No. I. 
Aunt Robinson. 
One cup of butter, one. grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, one cup of sugar, flour to roll out. 

JUMBLES. No. 2. 
Aunt Hettie. 
One and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one and one- 
fourth pounds of butter, two pounds of flour, one nut- 
meg, a glass of brandy. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three 
cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful of lemon essence. 
Bake in jelly tins. 

MOLASSES DROPS. 

Mrs. Durlin. 
One and a half cups of molasses, two-thirds cup of 
cold water, one teaspoonful of saleratus, a piece of 
butter the size of an e:gg, a little nutmeg, and flour 
sufficient to drop from a spoon. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 313 

NUT CAKE. 

Miss N. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two cups of sugar, 
one cup of milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one 
pint of hickory-nut meats; flavor with vanilla. 

PORK CAKE. 

Sister M. H. 

One pound of fat salt pork chopped very fine, two 
cups of boiling water, two cups of molasses, two cups 
of sugar, one-half cup of sour milk with one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, two pounds of raisins, one-half 
pound of citron, five teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, three 
teaspoonfuls of allspice, one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
cloves, one nutmeg, eight cups of flour. Bake about 
two hours. Makes two loaves. 

SEED CAKES. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, one 
teacup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of caraway seeds, flour sufficient to roll 
out. Cut and bake in a quick oven. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Cousin B. B. S. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound 
flour, two pounds citron cut in long strips, two pounds 
of almonds blanched cut fine, two grated cocoanuts. 
After beating add the fruit. Bake slowly. 



314 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH ONE EGG. 
COFFEE CAKE. No. i. 
Sister Fredonia. 
One cup of molasses, one-half cup of sugar, two- 
thirds cup of lard and butter, mixed, one egg, one-half 
cup of cold coffee, one even teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one heaping teaspoonful of ginger. Flour to make 
stiff enough to drop in tins. Sprinkle a little cinna- 
mon on top. Half a cup of sour milk may be used 
instead of the coffee. Dissolve the saleratus in the 
coffee or milk. 

COFFEE CAKE No. 2. 
Mrs. Durlin. 
One cup of milk, one cup of water, one-half cup of 
raisins or currants, one-half cup of sugar, one egg, but- 
ter size of an egg, one-half cake of compressed yeast. 
Make as stiff with flour as you would for muffins. Mix. 
Let it stand over night. In the morning add the rai- 
sins. Stir and put in the pans you wish to bake in. 
Sprinkle sugar and powdered cinnamon over the top; 
let it stand half an hour, or till light; then bake. 

COOKIES THAT WILL KEEP THREE MONTHS 

Sister Mary. 
Four and one-half cups of flour, two and one-half 
cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of butter, one 
scant cup of water, white of one egg, one teaspoonful 
of soda. Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

SELMA'S COOKIES. 

Author's Cook. 
Two teacups of granulated sugar, one teacup of but- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 315 

ter, one teacup of sour milk or cream, four teacups of 
flour, one even teaspoonful of soda, one tgg. Beat 
sugar and butter to a cream, add egg which has 
been beaten, then the milk, and soda dissolved in the 
milk, and lastly the flour. Bake in a quick oven. In 
making these cookies, leave out one-third of a cup of 
the flour, to rub on the rolling pin and board. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Mrs. Sample. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of shortening, butter and 
lard, one-half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one egg, and 
flour. Mix soft. Excellent. 

CREAM SPONGE. 

Sister Fredonia. 
One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one-half 
cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of cream, of tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. 
Bake as jelly cake. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. Johnson. 
One and one half teacups of sugar, one-half teacup 
of sour cream or milk, one-third teacup of butter, one 
egg, one small teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, 
flour to roll to a tolerably stiff paste. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of cream, good and thick, one cup of sugar, 
one egg, nutmeg, and a little salt, almost one tea- 



3l6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Spoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar, flour 
enough to enable you to roll out; cut them with a 
biscuit tin. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 
One heaping cup of apples, barely cover with cold 
water; when they swell, stew slowly with a cup of molas- 
ses. When they look clear, set them aside to cool. Mix 
one and one-half cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, and one egg together; add one cup of sour 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. 
Spice to your taste, and flour to make stiff as any com- 
mon cake. Chop the apples, add them to the cake, 
then if needed stir in more flour. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

Cousin Mary, East Troy. 
One pint of flour, half teaspoonful of salt, half tea- 
spoonful of soda, sifted into the flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream tartar, one-fourth of a cup of butter, one egg, 
one scant cup of milk, four sour apples, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Mix in the order given, rub in 
the butter, mix the egg and milk, and stir into dry 
mixture. Cut the apples in eighths, press into dough 
in rows, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake 
twenty or thirty minutes. 

FAVORITES. 

Author. 
One egg, one teacup of granulated sugar, one-half 
teacup of butter, one and one-half teacups of flour, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 317 

one-half teacup of milk, one-half teacup of raisins, 
seeded and chopped, one tablespoonful of brandy, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful 
of ground cloves, one-half teaspoonful of allspice, 
one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon. Beat butter and 
sugar very light; add the egg, and beat thoroughly; 
then add milk, with flour mixed with the baking 
powder; then the spices, raisins and brandy. Two 
yolks of eggs makes a richer cake than one whole egg. 
This rule makes sixteen cakes, baked in patty tins. 

COMMON FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. H. S. 
Two cups of brown sugar, half cup of butter, two 
cups of milk, five cups of flour, two cups of raisins. 
Sometimes I add the yolk of one egg, spice to your 
taste, or about three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one 
of cloves, and one of nutmeg. If you have sour milk 
use one teaspoonful of soda; if sweet milk, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. • 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 

A cup of warm water, one cup of molasses, one egg, 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one teaspoonful 
of soda, one teaspoonful of ginger, one and a half cups 
of flour. 

PUMPKIN CAKES. 
Aunt Hettie. 

One pint of sour milk, one ordinary cup of pumpkin 
cooked, one tablespoonful of molasses, one heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, thicken with meal; two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, one of soda, one egg. 



3l8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ROULETTES. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 

One heaping tablespoonful of pulverized sugar, 
one-half heaping tablespoonful of butter, one Ggg^ 
one-half cup of flour, one cup of milk. 

VANITY CAKE. 

Author. 

One cup of sugar, one and one-half cups of flour, 
one-half cup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one and one-fourth teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in three layers. In the middle put a 
handful of chopped raisins, figs, almonds, or any fruit 
desired. Use cocoanut for frosting between the lay- 
ers. Nice baked in one cake without fruit. 

WALNUT CAKES. 

Sister Fredonia. 
One egg, one cup of sugar, one teacup of walnut 
kernels, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt. 
Drop on tins, teaspoonful at a time. Bake in a quick 
oven. 



WITH TWO EGGS, 

APPLE CAKE. 

Sister Mary. 

Take two cups of dried apples, stew just enough to 

cut easily; chop about as fine as raisins and boil them 

in two cups of molasses till preserved; drain off the 

molasses for the cake, then add two eggs, one cup of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 319 

butter, one cup of sour milk, four cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda, spices of all kinds, nearly one 
cup of sugar; add the apples the last thing. Soak the 
apples over night. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Mrs. Harris. 
One-half cup of sugar, two eggs, quarter of a cup 
of melted butter, one and one-half cups of water or 
milk. Stir in flour enough to make as stiff as cup- 
cake, adding one-half teaspoonful of soda, and one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and a ^w thin slices of apples. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

Cousin Eva. 
One pint of sour milk, one pint of blueberries, one 
cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of saleratus, two eggs, 
and flour sufficient for thick batter. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Sister Dona. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, two eggs beaten separately, two cups of 
flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Filling. — Two-thirds cup of sugar, two-thirds cup 
of chocolate, two-thirds cup of water. Boil until 
thick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

One-half pound of almonds blanched and chopped, 
one-half pound of sugar, two sticks of chocolate, two 
and one-half tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, one 



320 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves. 
Drop on buttered paper and brown in a moderate 
oven. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Aunt Robinson. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, one 
cocoanut grated, one small teaspoonful of soda, which 
must be mixed in the flour after it is sifted, flour 
enough to roll. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

Author. 
Take equal parts of grated cocoanut and powdered 
white sugar, and mix the beaten whites of two eggs 
until they form a thick paste. Bake on buttered paper 
until of a pale brown color. 

COFFEE CAKES. 

Aunt Robinson. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of molasses, one-half cup of strong coffee, one 
cup of raisins, two cups of flour, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves, cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Bake in 
square tins and cut in squares. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Sister M. H. 
One cup of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, two 
eggs, one and one-half teacups grated cocoanut, one- 
half teaspoonful of lemon extract, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Make soft dough. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 32I 

SOFT COOKIES. 

Aunt M. 
Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of butter- 
milk or sweet milk, five of flour, two eggs, or yolks of 
four; roll without kneading. If buttermilk, use one 
teaspoonful of soda, if sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder; flavor to taste. (Use less flour and 
make nice drop cakes.) 

CRULLERS. 

Sister H. 
One cup of sour cream, two cups of sugar, two eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful of saleratus or soda, one-half 
nutmeg. Mix soft. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

Cousin Alice. 
Three teacupfuls of dough, two of sugar, one of 
butter, half teacup of wine, two eggs, spice and fruit, 
one flat teaspoonful of soda or saleratus, mix and put 
it into the oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Jas. Vick, 
One heaping coffee cup of granulated sugar, two 
eggs beaten together, one-fourth cup of butter, one 
cofl^ee cup and three tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful each of cream tartar and soda, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Mix soft. Drop in hot lard. 

ELECTA'S DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of coffee sugar sifted, two eggs well beaten, 
one cup of sour milk, two even teaspoonfuls of cream 



322 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

tartar mixed in flour, one even teaspoonful of soda 
butter size of an egg. Salt. Mix soft. Roll one- 
fourth inch thick. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Aunt Harris. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one 
cup of shortening, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
large teaspoonful of ginger, one-half teaspoonful of 
cloves, one teaspoonful of soda, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, flour to mix soft. 

LEMON CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. G. 

Two eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups of milk or 
water, quite cold; butter size of two eggs, four cups of 
flour, four teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Filling. — One cup of sugar, one lemon, juice and 
grated rind, one tablespoonful of butter, one egg; boil 
until thick. Bake cake in jelly tins, and put filling 
between when cold. 

LOVE KNOTS. 

Sister Mary. 

Five cups of floiir, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, lard size of an egg, two eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Rub 
butter, sugar and flour together fine; add the remain- 
der, roll thin, cut in strips one inch wide and five 
inches long, lap across in true love knots; bake in 
quick oven. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 323 

LUNCH CAKES. 

Author. 
One cup of sugar, granulated; one and one-half cups 
flour, one-half cup of butter, scant, one-half cup of 
milk, two eggs, yolks, one heaping teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder mixed with the flour. Flavor with lemon 
or vanilla. Drop in little patties. Makes fourteen 
cakes. 

MOLASSES POUND CAKE. 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, 
two-thirds cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two 
cups of flour, two eggs, half a teaspoonful of ginger, 
half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder. 

PLAIN CAKE. No. i. 

Mrs. Mason. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs together, one coft'ee cup 
of granulated sugar, one coffee cup of currants, one 
coffee cup of water, two teacups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

PLAIN CAKE. No. 2. 

L. M. Hubbard. 

One teacup of sugar, one-half teacup of butter, 
scant, beaten to a cream, whites of two eggs, one cup 
of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 
Bake in slow over^. Frost with white of one egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, when cool. 



324 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SALLY LUNN OR TEA CAKE. 

Author. 

One pint of milk, one quart of flour, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, two eggs beaten separately, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half teacup of butter, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Rub baking powder, sugar, 
butter, salt and flour together, pour in the milk gradu- 
ally to mix it smooth; add the eggs. Bake in bread- 
tins. Eat hot. 

SAND TARTS. 

Aunt Sarah. 
Two cups of sugar, two eggs (leaving out white of 
one), two cups of butter, three of flour. Roll thin, 
cut in shape, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Press 
blanched almonds on top. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Author. 
Two eggs, half cup of butter, one cup of sour cream, 
one cup of brown sugar, two and a half cups of flour, 
one small teaspoonful of soda or saleratus, one cup of 
chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and all- 
spice each, half a teaspoonful of cloves. Flavor with 
one tablespoonful of French brandy or a wine-glass of 
whisky. Roll the chopped raisins in a little extra 
flour. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. i. 

Sister Fredonia. 
Two eggs whipped together, one teacup of flour, 
one small teacup of granulated sugar, one-half teacup 
of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one tea- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 325 

spoonful of vanilla, a pinch of salt. Beat all the in- 
gredients together and bake quickly. Warm water 
may be substituted for the milk. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. 2. 
Author, 

Two eggs beaten separately, add to the yolks two- 
thirds coffee cup of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, half teaspoonful of salt, half cup of flour, half 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Add beaten whites, 
and stir slightly. Bake ten minutes. In making this 
sponge cake, put all together before mixing. 

TEA CAKE. No. i. 

Author. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of water, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one small cup of flour. Flavor to 
taste. 

TEA CAKE. No. 2. 
Cousin Alice. 

Nice little tea-cakes to be baked in muffin-rings, are 
made of one cup of sugar, two eggs, one cup and a 
half of milk, one heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. In this batter stir a 
pint bowl full of fruit, currants are nice, fresh berries 
in their season, and even canned ones with the juice 
drained off. Serve while warm, and they are a dainty 
addition to the tea-table. 



326 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WAFERS. 

One pound of flour, one-half pound of butter, two 
eggs, one glass of wine and a nutmeg. 



WITH THREE EGGS. 
BREAD CAKE. No. i. 
Sister M. H. 
Three large cups of bread dough, two cups of sugar, 
three-fourths of a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Work these thor- 
oughly together and add one-half pound of raisins (and 
other fruit if you wish), one teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Let it rise, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not add 
any flour. 

BREAD CAKE. No. 2. 
Mrs. Risley. 
Four cups of dough, one large cup of butter, two 
cups of sugar, three eggs, half a nutmeg, chopped 
raisins, a little cinnamon, fresh lemon juice, one-third 
of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one tablespoon- 
ful of milk. Mix butter and sugar thoroughly, add 
the yolks, then put into the dough and beat a long 
time. Add whites, spices, brandy, etc., etc. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. 

Miss B. 
One pound of white sugar, quarter of a pound of 
butter, three eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in as little water as possible, two tablespoon- 
fuls of ground cinnamon, and flour sufficient to make 
stiff. Roll very thin and bake quickly. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 327 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Mrs. O. F. 
Three eggs, one and one-fourths cups of sugar, 
three-fourths cup of butter, one and three-fourths 
cups of flour, one and one-half cups of fruit, raisins 
and citron, one nutmeg, one pint of sour cream, one 
teaspoonful of soda. If preferred, less fruit, say one 
cup of raisins and citron, may be used. 

CONFECTIONERY CAKE. 

Mrs. Allen. 

Whites of three eggs well beaten, one teacup of 
sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, three-fourths 
of a cup of sweet milk, one cup of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder; flavor with lemon, add a little 
salt. Bake in two layers. 

Middle Layer. — Yolks of three eggs, half cup of 
sweet milk, small half cup of butter, scant cup of flour, 
and a scant cup of sugar; one even teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Make thick with any fruit desired, 
either almonds, figs, raisins, or currants, or all to- 
gether. A little salt. 

COOKIES. 

Aunt R. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of sour milk, one cup 
of butter packed, four cups of flour, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-fourth nutmeg and a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of caraway seed. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Author. 
Whites of three eggs,one-half cup of butter, one cup 



328 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one half cup of 
corn starch, one cup of flour, on^teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Flavor to taste — bitter almond, best. Stir 
butter and sugar to a cream; beat whites, and put in 
last. 

CRULLERS. 

Mrs. John Granger. 
Two cups of coffee sugar, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three eggs, one pint of buttermilk, one nutmeg, one 
heaping teaspoonful of soda in the milk, flour suffi- 
cient to roll out. Fry in hot lard. Splendid. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Aunt Mary. 
One cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one-half cup of 
milk, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, whites of three 
eggs. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Aunt Mary. 
One pint of milk, two quarts of flour, two cups of 
powdered sugar, or "A" sugar rolled until fine with 
ordinary rolling pin, three eggs, one small nutmeg, 
two large tablespoonfuls of baking powder, butter size 
of a small egg. Melt the butter before mixing, and 
drop the dough from a spoon into hot lard. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Maggie. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 329 

molasses, one cup of sour milk, two cups of flour, three 
eggs, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, and one of 
ginger. 

JELLY FRUIT CAKE. 

Cousin Alice. 
Two cups of sugar and two-thirds of a cup of butter 
beaten to a cream, one cup of sweet milk, three cups 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla. To one-half of the 
cake add one tablespoonful of molasses, one table- 
spoonful of brandy, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of cloves, one-half teaspoonful of 
allspice, one-half nutmeg, one cup of chopped rai- 
sins, one-half pound of citron. Bake in layers, two of 
light and two of dark. Spread jelly between the lay- 
ers when slightly cool. Have a light one on top. 
Spread a white frosting over all. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Sister J. H. 

One cup of white sugar, one cup of flour, three eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Bake in a flat pan; when nearly cool 
spread with currant or lemon jelly and roll. 

JUMBLES. No. I. 

Mrs. B. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sour cream, three 
cups of sugar, three eggs, one-half nutmeg, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda in a little hot water. Mix soft^ 



330 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

with just sufficient flour to roll out. Cut with around 
cutter with a hole in the middle. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

JUMBLES. No. 2. 
Sister M. 

One pound of butter, oqe pound of sugar, two 
pounds of flour, three eggs, nine teaspoonfuls of water, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; salt and flavor to 
taste. Roll and bake in a quick oven. These will 
keep a month. 

LANCASTER CAKE. 
Mrs. C. P. 
One pint of sour cream, blanch and pulverize one 
pound of almonds, whites of three eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; mix the almonds with the cream 
and sugar, beat the whites to a stiff froth with two 
extra tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add to the cream. 
Mix all together; it should be as thick as sponge cake 
batter. This is to be put between layers of cup or 
delicate cake, as you would in making jelly cake. 

LAYER CAKE. 

Author. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, whites of 
three eggs, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

JELLY. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, yolks of three eggs, one teaspoonful of butter. 
Mix well, and bake until thick enough to spread on 
layers — about ten minutes. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 33I 

LUNCH CAKE. 

Author. 
Three eggs, one full teacup of granulated sugar, 
one-half teacup of butter, one-half teacup of milk, two 
and one-half teacups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Sift the flour, 
and mix with it the baking powder; set aside till needed. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten 
yolks, then the flour and milk by degrees, then vanilla, 
and lastly the beaten whites. Beat together lightly 
and bake. 

MACAROONS. 

Author. 

Three eggs, half pound of loaf sugar, one pound of 
blanched almonds, quarter of a pound of bitter 
almonds. Beat eggs separately to a froth, add the 
sugar to the yolks, then the whites, and lastly the 
almonds. Drop on buttered paper, and bake on tins 
in a quick oven for fifteen minutes until of a pale 
brown color. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. C. P. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and a 
half cups of flour, three eggs, one cup of milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

For the Dark. — Take two tablespoonfuls of molas- 
ses, one teaspoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon, and one 
of nutmeg. Put this in a teacup of the above mixture, 
and then pour phe white and dark into the pan in 
alternate layers. 



332 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, two cups of brown sugar, one 
cup of lard and butter, half and half, one cup of sour 
milk, three eggs, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
soda, three teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of ground cloves, one-half teaspoonful of 
ground allspice, three and one-half cups of flour. 
Spread in tins, bake and cut when cold. It is also very 
nice to eat warm. 



NEW YORK CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Durlin. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, whites of three eggs. 
Mix butter and sugar together, add milk and flour* 
with baking powder, a little at a time; lastly the well- 
beaten whites. Bake in two layers in a quick oven, 
fifteen minutes. 

Filling and Frosting. — Yolks of three eggs, one 
cup of powdered sugar, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Beat fifteen minutes. The juice of a lemon may be 
substituted for vanilla if preferred. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. M. K. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, three eggs, 
beaten separately, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one grated orange. 
Save the white of one egg for frosting. 



GRADED COOK ROOK. 333 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

Aunt Robinson. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-fourths 
pound of butter, one cup of cream, three eggs, one- 
fourth teaspoonful each of grated nutmeg and ground 
mace, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, ' raisins 
and currants. 

RIBBON CAKE. 
A. E. L. 
Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, one-half cup of butter, three eggs. Beat 
the sugar and butter to a cream; then stir in the milk 
and flour by degrees; beat thoroughly. Add the beaten 
whites of eggs, and lastly two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder in a little of the flour, and one tea- 
spoonful of flavoring. Take half of this mixture, and 
make a nice pink with cochineal. Make another cake 
with the yolks of eggs, same as above. Take half 
and grate chocolate in it until it is a nice brown, then 
bake in layers. Put together with frosting, with chop- 
ped raisins and nuts of all kinds between the layers. 
May be made as above, with two eggs. 

ROCK CAKE. 

E. B. M. 
One pound of dried flour, one-third pound of pow- 
dered sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, beaten to a 
cream, one-half pound of dried currants, three well- 
beaten eggs. Flavor with grated lemon peel and a 
spoonful of brandy. Prepare the baking plates by 
sprinkling a little flour on them and drop the batter 



334 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

on them, a tablespoonful at a time. The batter should 
be stiff, so that the top of the cakes will remain rough; 
stick them with blanched almonds, sliced. Bake in a 
slack oven a light brown. 

SELMA CAKE. 

Author. 

One coffee cup of granulated sugar, one-half coffee 
cup of butter, two-thirds coffee cup of milk, two coffee 
cups of flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat butter 
sugar and yolks to a cream; add flour and powder, 
lastly whites of eggs. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. i. 

Author. 

Three eggs, not quite one teacup of sugar, one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of milk, one heaping teacup 
of flour, one teaspoonful (even) of baking powder. 
Flavor with lemon. Put all together. Beat well three 
minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE. No. 2. 

Cousin Alice. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, and one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, and two of water to every three 
eggs. Use the juice of one lemon instead of vinegar 
if convenient. Beat the yellows of the eggs very 
light, then add the sugar and beat well together, then 
the vinegar and water. After beating the whites to a 
froth add them, and lastly stir in the flour very gently. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 335 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. T. J. Stewart, Bangor, Me, 
One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, three-fourths cup of milk, two and one-half cups 
of flour, whites of three eggs, teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, and one-half of soda. Flavor with bitter al- 
mond. 



WITH FOUR EGGS. 
CITRON CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to 
a cream, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour,-, one 
cup of citron sliced very thin, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, whites 
of four eggs beaten stiff. Bake in one loaf. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Aunt Robinson. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
buttermilk, three cups of flour, one pound of fruit, 
one-half of a nutmeg grated, one-half teaspoonful of 
sal^ratus, four eggs. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

M. E. D. 
Make a sponge of one pint of warm water and one- 
half cup of yeast. When light add one pint of milk 
and one scant pint of lard, warmed together. Beat 
together four eggs and one and one-half pints of sugar, 
nutmeg and salt.^ Make a dough, the consistency of 
soda biscuits. Dissolve a small teaspoonful of soda in 



;^^6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

a little water, and add when mixing. Cut in squares, 
let it stand till light, and fry. In cool weather this 
dough will keep for several days. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

Take as much dough as you would for a loaf; it 
makes no difference whether it is sponge or after it is 
first worked. One cup of butter, two cups of brown 
sugar, four eggs, one cup of raisins, one cup of cur- 
rants, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one grated nutmeg, flour enough to stiffen. Let it 
rise and bake. 

COOKIES. No. I. 

Aunt Robinson. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of sour cream, half teaspoonful of soda, 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar. Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

COOKIES. No. 2. 

Mrs. Hutchinson. 

One cup of milk, two cups of sugar, four cups of 
flour, four yolks of eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of lemon, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Bring milk and sugar to the 
boiling point, stir in the flour; when it thickens, re- 
move from fire, cool, and add the yolks, soda, salt, 
lemon and vanilla. Take off a little of the dough at 
a time, roll out, cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake. 
No shortening is required. Delicious. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 337 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

Aunt M. 
Two cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, 
three cups of flour after it is sifted, one cup of cold 
water, two cups of walnut kernels added last, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, four eggs; or bake in 
layers, and put kernels in icing between the cakes. 

FEDORA CAKE. 

Aunt Robinson. 
One pound of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
pound of sugar, one wine-glass of brandy, one pound 
of flour, one-quarter of a nutmeg, one pound of raisins, 
one-half teaspoonful of ground cloves, one-half pint 
of sour cream, four eggs. 

FIG CAKE. 

Sister Dona. 
One pound of figs, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk, three cups of flour, two-thirds cup of butter, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of four 
eggs. Bake in two square pie tins. Split the figs and 
put on top of the cakes before baking. Put together 
with icing. Turn the cakes together so the figs are in 
the centre. Ice the top and sides, and cut in squares. 
Be sure and have the figs fresh and moist. 

FRIED CAKES. 
Mrs. Dodge. 
One pint of milk, two cups of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, four eggs; flour to mix 
very soft. 



338 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of sour milk, four eggs, one table- 
spoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger, one of 
cinnamon or nutmeg, four cups of flour, full measure. 
Bake in small tins. Excelloit. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Yolks of four eggs, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
sugar, half a cup of milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, one citron, one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. B. 
One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, three-fourths cup of sweet milk, two cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with 
the flour, whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
one cup of meats broken or chopped added last, rub- 
bed in a little flour to keep from sinking to the bottom 
of the cake. 

HONEY CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of honey, four eggs, 
beaten separately and together, one-half cup of sour 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
essence of lemon, flour enough to make it as stiff as 
can be well stirred. Quick oven. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one 
teaspoonful of water, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Bake in flat tin. Spread with jelly and roll. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 339 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. B. 
Four eggs beaten together, two cups of sugar, two 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two- 
thirds of a cup of boiling water, a pinch of salt. This 
is to be baked in jelly cake pans. Then take one 
large lemon (cut the outside rind off) grate it on a 
dish, stir half in the cake and half in the icing, which 
must be prepared in the usual way, keeping out suffi- 
cient icing without the lemon, to place on top the 
cake. Stir all well together before adding boiling 
water. Bake in a well-heated oven. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Author. 

White Part. — One cup of white sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, two cups of 
flour, whites of four eggs. 

Dark Part. — One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup 
of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
sour cream, yolks of four eggs, two and one-half cups 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and 
allspice, one-half nutmeg. 

NUT CAKE. 
Sister Dona. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of 
flour, one cup of cold water, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, two 
cups of hickory nuts or white walnut meats, carefully 
picked out, and added last of all. 



340 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

Half-pound of butter, three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, four eggs beaten together, one gill of sour 
cream, one teaspoonful of soda, one wineglass of 
brandy, one of wine, one pound of raisins, and one of 
currants. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. H. H. Risley. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 

cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful 

of baking powder, the whites of four eggs; flavor with 

rose. 

SPANISH BUNS. 

One pint of flour, one pint of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, one cup of butter, four eggs, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake, frost, and cut 
in bars. 

ROLLED SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of 
water. Spread with jelly, and roll if you wish. 

TRI-COLORED CAKE. 

Mrs. C. W. T. 
One coffee cup of white sugar, two-thirds of a coffee 
cup of cream or milk, one coffee cup of flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of cream of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 34I 

tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, whites of four 
eggs. Use three flavorings. 

Make another cake the samej using the yolks; then 
another, using red sand of white sugar. Bake in 
sheets three-fourths of an inch thick. Place the 
white on top, and the yellow on the bottom, using the 
beaten white of an egg to make them adhere. 

, WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Aunt Robinson. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths pound of butter, 
one and one-half pounds of flour, one pound of rai- 
sins, one-half pound of citron, one nutmeg, four eggs, 
one teacup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
two wineglasses of wine, one teaspoonful of rosewater. 
Bake slowly. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

Aunt Morgan. 

Two cups of pulverized sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, four 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat sugar 
and butter to a cream, add the beaten yolks, stir in 
flour and milk by degrees and beat thoroughly, lastly 
add the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Take out 
two-thirds of the mixture and put in cochineal until 
a light pink. Butter a pan and put in a layer of the 
pink mixture, then carefully a layer of seedless raisins, 
a layer of cake, until all is used up. Do not put any 
raisins in last layer. Add the rest of the mixture and 
put in oven to bake. Mix baking powder with the flour 
and sift flour twice. 



342 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PINK AND WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter 
beaten to a cream, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, 
whites of four eggs beaten stiff, three small teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder sifted with the flour, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. To one-half of the cake add one- 
half teaspoonful of fruit coloring syrup. Bake in two 
square tins. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. No. i. 

Aunt N. 
Four eggs, half a cup of butter, two cups of sugary 
one cup of milk, one cup of corn starch, two cups of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. No. 2. 

Four eggs well beaten, separately; two and one-half 
cups of sugar, one large cup of butter, one cup of 
sour milk, five cups of flour, one large cup of raisins, 
seeded and chopped, one-half cup of orange peel, 
shredded, one teaspoonful of soda. 



WITH FIVE EGGS. 
CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

^Mrs. Durlin. 
Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of sifted flour, one cup of 
corn starch, one teaspoonful of vanilla, whites of five 
eggs beaten stiff, level teaspoonful of baking powder 
sifted in with the flour, corn starch to be put in last. 
Bake in jelly tins. Beat sugar and butter to a cream. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 343 

Chocolate Paste Spread Between Layers. — Six 
tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate with just enough 
water to dissolve; set on the stove and stir until it is 
dissolved. Add yolks of five eggs well beaten with 
one-half cup of sugar and one teacup of milk. Set 
back on the stove and stir until it thickens. Add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Spread between layers, and on 
top. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. Durlin. 
One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, one cup mo- 
lasses, one cup strong clear coffee, five eggs, one-half 
pound raisins, one-half pound currants, one-half pound 
citron, one-half teaspoonful allspice, one-half tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, one teaspoonful ginger, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, four cups flour, a wineglass of 
brandy or wine if you wish to keep it. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

Aunt Hettie. 

To one quart of cream, sweet or sour, add one coffee 
cup sugar, five eggs and enough flour to form a soft 
dough. If sour cream is used, add one teaspoonful of 
soda, nutmeg. Roll thin. 

CRULLERS. 

Aunt Hettie. 
Five eggs, five tablespoonfuls of melted butter, ten 
spoonfuls of sugar, flour enough to mix just hard 
enough to roll well. Roll thin, one-third of an inch; 
cut in shapes, and fry in hot lard. 



344 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CUP CAKE. 

Maggie B.'s. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar beaten to a cream, 
one cup of milk, four cups tiour, five eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Author. 

One cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, five 
eggs, four cups of flour, one cup of sour cream, one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the cream, one pound 
of stoned raisins, one pound of citron cut fine, one 
pound of blanched almonds, one teaspoonful, ground, 
of mace, the same of cloves, allspice and cinnamon, 
and one nutmeg. Bake two hours in a slow oven. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Author. 
Yolks of five eggs, one cud of granulated sugar, one 
heaping tablespoonful of butter, two and one-half cups 
of sifted flour, one-half cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Flavor with lemon. 

JUMBLES. 

Aunt Hettie. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, five eggs. Must be stiffer than pound 
cake. Drop them in sugar, and put a good ways 
apart. Bake. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 345 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. Irwin. 
Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, four cups of flour sifted, five eggs beaten separ- 
ately, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the 
milk, juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Author. 

One coffee cup of granulated sugar, one-half coffee 
cup of butter, two-thirds coffee cup of milk, two coffee 
cups of flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, 
then milk, flour and baking powder, lastly the beaten 
whites. Flavor with lemon essence. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — Beat the yolks of two eggs with one 
teacup of granulated sugar, an even tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and juice and a little of the grated*rind 
of a large lemon. Cook ten minutes, stirring all the 
time. 

LENA CAKE. 

Author. 

Whites of four eggs, two cups of granulated sugar, 
one cup of milk, two and one-half cups of flour, one- 
half teacup of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
milk, then the beaten eggs, lastly flour with baking 
powder. This makes four layers. 

Fueling. — White of one egg, one cup powdered 
sugar, juice of half a lemon. Beat white to a froth; 
add sugar, beat again, add lemon. 



346 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 
One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three-fourths 
pounds of butter, five eggs, a cup of sweet milk, a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, or two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor 
with lemon. 

ORANGE CAKE. No. i. 

Aunt M. 
Two cups of sugar, two of flour, half of water, 
yolks of five eggs, whites of three, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, half of soda, a little salt, juice and 
grated rind of one orange; when thoroughly mixed 
add yolks well beaten, bake like jelly cake. For frost- 
ing use whites of two eggs, juice and rind of one 
orange, sugar enough to make it stiff. 

ORANGE CAKE. No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, half of butter, six tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet milk, whites of three eggs, yolks of five, 
one grated orange, rind and all, three cups of flour, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in jelly 
pans. 

Frosting to be put Between. — One whole orange 
grated, whites of two eggs beaten, sugar to taste. 
Frost on top of each cake as for any jelly cake. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Aunt Mary. • 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three- 
fourths pound of butter, one pound of raisins, one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 347 

pound of currants, five eggs, one teacup of sour cream, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cloves 
scant, one teaspoonful of nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of 
cinnamon. 

PYRAMID CAKE. 

Mrs. Risley. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of fruit, three-fourths of a pound of butter, five eggs, 
one teacup of cream, one gill of wine, one gill of 
brandy, one teaspoonful of saleratus, cinnamon, nut- 
meg and cloves. Bake one hour. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

Author, 
One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, four cups 
of flour, one-half cup of milk, one-half pound raisins, 
seeded and chopped, or currants, one-fourth pound of 
citron, five eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, cinnamon and 
cloves. 

WHITE CAKE. No. i. 

Author. 

Whites of five eggs, one-half cup of butter, one and 
three-fourths cups of sugar, two and one-half cups of 
flour, one cup of milk (sweet), two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, mixed with flour. Beat butter and 
flour to a cream; add sugar, then milk, lastly eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with anything pre- 
ferred. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — One cup of milk, one tablespoonful of 



348 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

corn starch, two tablespoonfuls of cocoanut, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Boil the cocoanut in the milk, 
and thicken with the corn starch, dissolved. 

WHITE CAKE. No. 2. 

Sister J. H. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 

flour, whites of five eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder, one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 

bitter almond. 



WITH SIX EGGS, 

ALMOND JUMBLES. 

Cousin Alice. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one and 

a half pounds of flour, six eggs, leaving out the 

whites of four; flavor with nutmeg; blanch the 

almonds, chop them up, mix with white sugar, and 

place on top. One-half pound of almonds in the 

shell is sufficient. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. No. i. 

Mrs. W. S. Harroun. 

Whites of six eggs, one cup of sugar, half cup of 
butter, half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of ^baking powder. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. No. 2. 

Sister Fredonia, 

One scant cup of butter, two cups sugar beaten to a 
cream, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 349 

cup corn starch, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
sifted with flour, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, 
whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth and added, 
with corn starch last. Bake in a loaf. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. G. P. Isham. Dunkirk, N. Y. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup milk, one table- 
spoonful butter, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; flavor to taste. Bake in layers. 

CUSTARD FOR THE ABOVE. 

Two heaping teaspoonfuls of corn starch dissolved 
in a cup of milk, and poured in a cup of scalding- 
milk; when thick, stir in two well-beaten eggs, a 
small half teacup of sugar, and a little salt. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. L. A. Morgan. 

One cup of butter beaten to a cream, two cups of 
powdered sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one small tea- 
spoonful of soda in the milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar in the flour, one cup of corn starch, two 
cups of flour, the whites of six eggs, one teacup of 
hickory nut meats. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. No. i. 

Author. 

Three cups of flour, two cups sugar, three-fourths 
cup of sweet milk, one-half cup butter, whites of six 
eggs, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in 
layers. 



3SO GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Filling. — Grated rind and juice of two lemons, 
yolks of three eggs, one-fourth cup butter, one cup 
sugar. Mix together and simmer slowly until as thick 
as honey; spread between the cakes when cool. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. No. 2. 

Author. 
Yolks of six eggs, juice of one and one-half lemons, 
grated rind of one, two-thirds teacup of fine white 
sugar, one-fourth teacup of butter. Beat the eggs, 
add the sugar, then the lemons, and lastly the butter 
melted; measure butter before melting; make a nice 
crust, line small patty pans, fill and bake quickly; 
when cold sprinkle powdered sugar over them. Citron 
sliced thin and laid on the crust before filling is nice. 

MEASURE CAKE. 

Cousin Eva. 
Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, one cup of 
milk, four cups of flour, six eggs, one pound of raisins, 
one-half pound of currants, one nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, one glass of wine. Cinnamon 
and cloves to your taste. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Sister M. H. 
One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, one-half pint sweet milk, six eggs, reserving 
whites of two for filling, one teaspoonful soda, two 
teaspoonfuls cream tartar. Bake same as jelly cake. 
Mix juice and grated rind of two sweet oranges, 
whites of two eggs, and sweeten to taste; spread 
between the cakes. Ice when cool. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 351 

PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

Mrs. Harris. -^ 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one scant half cup 
of butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of five 
eggs; flavor with lemon. 

Filling. — Make a soft frosting with white of one 
egg, together with some of the juice of the pineapple. 
Spread on the layer, first some of the frosting, then 
pineapple, then more frosting. One can of grated 
pineapple will nrake two cakes of three layers each. 

REGAL CAKE. (For Dessert.) 
Author. 

Whites of six eggs, one cup granulated sugar, one 
cup flour (sift flour after measuring), one-half cup 
corn starch, one-half cup sweet milk, one half cup 
butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Bake in two layers in square tin. 

Frosting and Filling. — Two teacups powdered 
sugar, two-thirds teacup boiling water. Let this mix- 
ture boil twenty-five minutes, when it will be clear and 
ropy; pour at once over the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs; add the juice of one lemon; divide this frosting, 
and into one-half beat a teacup of blanched and 
chopped almonds, and a sma// wineglass of sherry — 
about a tablespoonful; put this between the cake; 
spread the remaining half of the icing on the top of 
the cake, I add the wine the day the cake is to be 
eaten. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Sister Dona. 
Whites of six eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup 



352 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

butter, one-half cup milk, one-half cup corn starch 
one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Gold cake the same, using the yolks. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, three cups flour, one 
cup water, six eggs, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Flavor to taste. 

WAFERS. 

Mrs. L. A. Morgan. 

• 

Mix together, half pound of sugar, quarter of a 
pound of butter, and six well-beaten eggs, with flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. Beat the batter very 
smooth, and flavor with lemon or nutmeg. Heat and 
grease the wafer-irons every time you bake one. Roll 
up the cake while warm (shape of a horn), and sift 
powdered sugar over them while they are hot. 



WITH SEVEN EGGS. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, yolks of seven eggs, beaten very light, one 
teaspoonful of orange extract. Bake in two large 
square tins. 

ROUGH AND READY CAKE. 

Miss N. 
One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 353 

of cream of tartar, seven eggs, one pound of raisins, 
one pound and a half of blanched almonds, half-pound 
of citron, not quite four cups of flour. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Cousin Eva. 
Two-thirds of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
nearly three cups of flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, and one of cream of 
tartar^ or one teaspoonful of baking powder, the 
whites of seven eggs. 



WITH EIGHT EGGS. 
ARCTIC CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter (washed), 
two cups of flour, sifted, one cup of corn starch, one 
cup of sweet milk^ three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder in flour, whites of eight eggs. Beat the flour 
and butter to a cream, add corn starch, then the milk, 
sugar and eggs. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. E. M. H. 
One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of flour, eight eggs, one cup of molasses, two pounds 
of currants, two pounds of raisins, one pound of 
citron, one wineglassful of brandy, two tablespoon- 
fuls of^loves, two of mace, two of cinnamon and one 
tablespoonful of ginger. To make this cake the flour 
should be scorched a cinnamon color in the oven. 

CAROLINA CAKE. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three cups 



354 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of flour, half cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda. Rub the sugar and butter to a cream, put 
the soda in the milk, and add, then whip the whites, 
and add alternately with the flour ; the cream of tartar 
must be put into the flour. One grated cocoanut 
added to this makes a very nice cake. 

DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Morgan. 

The whites of eight eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, three full cups of flour, one cup of 
sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 
beat the butter to a cream, stir in the sugar and beat 
until light. Add the milk, then the flour and beaten 
whites. When well beaten, divide into equal parts, 
and into half of it grate a cake of sweet chocolate. 
Put alternate layers of white and dark. 

For custard, add tablespoonful of butter to one pint 
of milk and let come to a boil; stir into it the yolks of 
two eggs one cup of sugar and two teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch. 

COCOANUT CAKE. No. i. 

Two cups of sugar, two and one-half cups of flour, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda (scant), two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, whites of eight eggs, one cup 0]^grated 
cocoanut; flavor with a little lemon extract. 

COCOANUT CAKE. No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, four cups of sifted flour, whites of eight 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 355 

eggs, one teaspoonful of soda .n the milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar in the flour, one cocoa- 
nut, grated. Bake in a large cake-pan. 

GOLD CAKE. 
One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, yolks of 
eight eggs. 

NAPLES CAKE. 

Author. 

Cream three-quarters of a pound of butter, and 
beat it with a pound of powdered sugar. Beat eight 
eggs separately and light, and add the yolks to the 
sugar, butter and a teacupful of sweet cream. Stir 
in the flour and beaten whites, alternately. Beat well, 
and bake in a buttered mold, or small pound-cake 
pans. Use one pound of flour and three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

POUND CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 
Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound o'' 
sugar, one pound of flour, eight eggs. Mix as above. 

SILVER CAKE. No. i. 

Author. 
Whites of eight eggs, one delf teacup of butter, 
two delf teacups of granulated sugar, three delf tea- 
cups of sifted flour, two full teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one-half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of bitter almond. Beat butter and sugar together. 
Mix flour and baking powder. Add eggs last. 



356 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SILVER CAKE. No. 2. 
Three-quarters of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
two and one-half cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, one-half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar in the flour, the juice and grated rind 
of one lemon, lastly the whites of eight eggs. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 
One pound and three-quarters of flour, one pound 
of butter, one and one-half pounds of sugar, eight 
eggs, dessert-spoonful of soda, one wine-glass of 
brandy or wine, three pounds of raisins, one pint of 
sour cream with the soda in it, added last. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. S. 

Three-quarters of a coffee cup of butter, two of 
sugar, one of milk, not quite four of flour, whites of 
eight eggs, one teaspoonful of soda in the milk, and 
two of cream of tartar in the flour. Beat the sugar 
and butter to a cream, add the whites of the eggs 
without beating, and beat well; then half of the milk 
and half of the flour and beat well, then the other 
half and beat well. Bake one and a half hours. 



WITH NINE EGGS. 
FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. K. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half 

pound of butter, nine eggs, three pounds of raisins, 

three pounds of currants, one pound of citron, one cup 

of molasses, one cup of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 357 

cloves, four teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. Brown the 
flour; bake four hours. Add more fruit if you like; 
and if too dry, add a little wine. 

POUND CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 
One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, nine eggs, one nutmeg and a glass of wine. 

PRINCE CAKE. 

Whites of nine eggs, two cups of sugar (powdered), 
one-f.ourth cup of butter, three cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Flavor with lemon or bit- 
ter almond. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

Sister Fredonia. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, four 
cups of flour, whites of eight eggs, almost a cup of 
milk, four teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in 
layers. 

Filling for Raisin Cake. — One egg, beaten sep- 
arately, one coffee cup of chopped raisins, one-half 
coffee cup of sour cream, one-half coffee cup of sugar. 
Flavor delicately with vanilla; mix well and spread 
over the cake. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

Author. 
One pound sugar, three-fourths of a pound of but- 
ter, one pound of sifted flour, one pound of seeded 
raisins, one wine-glass of brandy, juice and rind of 



35^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one lemon, nine eggs, beaten separately; stir flour and 
butter to a cream, add sugar, then yolks, then whites, 
lemon, and lastly the raisins and brandy. Soak the 
raisins in the brandy. 



WITH TEN EGGS. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

Mrs. B. 

One and one-half teacups granulated sugar, one 
teacup of flour sifted, one teaspoonful cream tartar, 
whites of ten eggs, a pinch of salt beaten in with the 
whites. Flour, sugar and cream tartar sifted four 
times, the whites and flavoring beaten very lightly 
into the flour. Bake in a bright tube dish in a slow 
oven forty-five minutes. Turn bottom side up and let 
stand until cool. 

CHICAGO CAKE. 
Mrs. C. P. 
Four cups of flour, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, whites of ten eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, and one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, or two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor 
with lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Miss Young. 
One and one-half pounds of butter, one and one- 
half pounds of sugar, three pounds of raisins, three 
pounds of currants, one and one-half pounds of citron, 
ten eggs, one-half pint Lisbon or Madeira wine, one- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 359 

half pint best brandy, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
two nutmegs, one and one-half pounds of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Pick raisins and cur- 
rants, and pour liquor on over night. Seed raisins. 
Bake three or four hours in a slow oven. Half of this 
recipe makes a good-sized cake. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. Hodgdon (Author's Aunt). 
One and one-half cups well-creamed butter, ten 
eggs beaten separately, leaving out four yolks, three 
cups, even full, of granulated sugar, six cups, heaping, 
of flour, two cups of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Work well into the butter two 
cups of the flour, beat the yolks and sugar well 
together, soften with the milk, then beat the whites, 
add to the mixture with the remainder of the flour, 
then put in butter, and lastly baking powder through 
a sieve dry. Beat thoroughly. Bake in slow oven. 

LADY CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of flour, one pound of sugar, 
three-quarters pound of butter, one pound of almonds 
blanched and chopped, fine, one-half pound of raisins 
seeded and chopped, one-half pound of citron finely 
shredded, juice and rind of one lemon. Beat flour 
and butter to a cream, add sugar, then the yolks of 
eggs, well beaten, then the fruit (having previously 
sprinkled the raisins with flour) and lemons, and 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

POUND CAKE. 

Sister M. H. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound 



360 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of flour, ten eggs, beaten separately. Flavor with rose- 
water or bitter almond. Do not add milk or baking 
powder. Mix flour and butter to a cream; beat yolks 
of eggs thoroughly, add sugar and beat again; add 
this to flour and butter and beat again to a cream, 
and lastly add the whites. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. P. 

Whites of ten eggs, one coffee cup of flour, one and 
one-half cups of powdered sugar, juice of a small 
lemon, one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of extract of lemon. Put the sugar, 
cream of tartar and flour together, then stir in the 
eggs and bake at once. 

SNOW CAKE. No. i. 

Mrs. H. 

One-third of a tumbler of corn starch, fill up the 
tumbler with flour; one and one-half tumblers of pow- 
dered sugar, whites of ten eggs beaten stiff, one even 
teaspoonful of cream tartar. Mix the flour, corn 
starch and cream tartar together, put it in with the 
egg, and add one teaspoonful of vanilla and one of 
lemon. Bake in a quick oven three-quarters of an 
hour. 

SNOW CAKE. No. 2. 

Author. 

One and one-half tumblers of pulverized sugar, one 
tumbler of flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, a 
pinch of salt beaten with the whites of ten eggs. Sift 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 361 

flour, sugar and cream tartar together four times. 
Lastly, stir in lightly the whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Flavor with one teaspoonful of extract of 
lemon. Turn at once into an ungreased pan. Bake 
slowly forty minutes. Do not open the oven door for 
at least ten minutes after the cake is put in, and 
seldom as possible after. Be exceedingly careful not 
to jar the cake or stir it in any way while it is in the 
oven. When done, the cake will shrink slightly; it 
should then be removed carefully from the oven and 
inverted, resting the edges of the pan on two teacups, 
and thus remain until cool. 

SUNRISE CAKE. 

Yolks of ten eggs, butter size of an egg, two cups 
of granulated sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat butter 
and sugar to a cream; add eggs, beaten light; then 
the sifted flour and baking powder mixed; add milk 
a little at a time. Flavor with one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Bake half in cup cakes; to the other half add 
spice and fruit, with a little more flour, and bake in a 
loaf. 



WITH ELEVEN EGGS. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

E. B. M. 

Eleven eggs (whites only), one and one-half tum- 

blerfuls of powdered sugar, one tumblerful of flour, 

one teaspoonful of vanilla, one teaspoonful of cream 

tartar. Sift flouu four times, add cream of tartar and 

sift again; sift sugar and measure; beat eggs stiff on 



362 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

large platter; on same platter add sugar lightly, then 
flour, then vanilla. Do not stop beating until it is 
put in pans to bake. Bake forty minutes in a moder- 
ate oven; try with a straw — if too soft, remain in oven 
a few minutes longer. 

Turn Pan Upside Down to cool. When cold, 
loosen with knife from sides. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Author. 
Yolks of eleven eggs, beaten, two cups of sugar, one 
of milk, one of butter. Mix four cups of flour with 
four teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Just before put- 
ting in the oven, mix all thoroughly together and fla- 
vor with vanilla. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Author. 
Whites of eleven eggs; beat to a stiff froth, and stir 
in one and a half cups of fine sugar, sifted three or 
four times, then six beaten yolks, and one cup of flour 
with one teaspoonful of cream tartar, sifted four times, 
and flavoring. Bake in square tin. When done, take 
from oven, turn pan upside down, resting it on a brick 
to allow the air to reach the cake, and let remain until 
cold. Flavor with extract of orange — one teaspoon- 
ful. 



WITH TWELVE EGGS. 
ALMOND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, twelve eggs, beaten light, two pounds 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 363 

of almonds, blanched and pounded in a mortar with 
rose-water. Mix as pound cake. After pouring boil- 
ing water over the almonds, remove the skins, and 
drop them into cold water, to keep them white, until 
you are ready to pound them. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

Whites of twelve eggs, beaten very light, one coffee 
cup of flour, one and one-half coffee cups of powdered 
sugar, one scant teaspoonful of baking powder. Sift 
flour, baking powder and sugar together, twice. Fla- 
vor with vanilla. Bake forty minutes in pan for 
Angels' Food in very slow oven. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 
Three-fourths of a pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, one pound of flour, the whites of twelve eggs. 
Wash the butter and stir it to a cream. Flavor with 
rose or bitter almond. 

FRUIT CAKE. No. i. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, two pounds of currants, two pounds of rais- 
ins, one pound of citron, two nutmegs, twelve eggs, 
one wineglass of brandy, one wineglass of wine, one- 
half wineglass of rose-water, two teaspoonfuls of cin- 
namon, one teaspoonful of mace. Stone and halve 
the raisins; cut the citron in thin slices. Mix currants, 
raisins and citron with sifted flour to prevent their 
sinking to the bottom. Stir butter and sugar to a 
cream; beat eggs very light, stir them alternately with 



364 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

the flour into the butter and sugar, stirring very hard; 
add gradually the spices and liquor; stir the raisins 
and fruit into the mixture. After all is in, stir hard 
ten minutes. Bake from four to five hours. Ice the 
next day. 

FRUIT CAKE. No. 2. 
Author. 
Three-fourths of a pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar (powdered), one pound of flour, one pound of 
raisins, seed and cut in halves, one pound of currants, 
one-half pound of citron, sliced thin, one-half pound 
of almonds, blanched and cut, one-fourth pound figs, 
chopped fine; sift flour over the fruit; two wineglasses 
of brandy, one nutmeg, twelve eggs, leave out whites 
of three, one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of ground mace, one teaspoonful of 
ground cloves; teacup of molasses after all the other 
ingredients are mixed. Beat eggs separately; add 
whites last. Bake slowly. Soak the seeded raisins 
over night in the brandy. 

GENTLEMAN'S GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs. N. 
Beat very light one-half pound of butter and one- 
half pound of sugar, add the yolks of twelve eggs, 
beaten very light, two-thirds of a glass of brandy, one 
glass and a half of wine, the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon, one grated nutmeg, two large tablespoon- 
fuls of cinnamon and six tablespoonfuls of ginger; 
when well beaten, stir in one-half pound of flour, and 
beat the mixture thoroughly. Spread it very thin on 
buttered pans; bake in a quick oven, and cut in 
squares while warm. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 365 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Cousin Eva. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of 
flour, twelve eggs, a little lemon. 

Another Way. — Weigh the number of eggs you 
wish to take, and take the weight in sugar, and one- 
half the weight in flour. Flavor with lemon. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Mrs. P., Little Rock. 
Whites of twelve eggs, three teacups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, four cups of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, or two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 



WITH FOURTEEN EGGS. 
SPONGE CAKE. 

Miss S. 

Fourteen eggs, the weight of eleven eggs in sugar, 
and of seven in flour, the grated rind of two lemons, 
and the juice of one. 



WITH FIFTEEN EGGS„ 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Aunt Hettie. 

One poi nd of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of 
butter, three-quarters of a pound of flour, one pound 
of almonds, blanched and chopped, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, a little rose-water, the whites of 
fifteen eggs. 



366 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Author. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three- 
quarters, of a pound of butter, the whites of fifteen 
eggs. Flavor with one teaspoonful of bitter almond. 



WITH SIXTEEN EGGS. 

SNOW CAKE. . 

Author. 
One pound of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, 
one-half pound of butter, whites of sixteen eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder sifted with the flour; 
flavor with lemon. Put in moderate oven at first. The 
flour and baking powder must be sifted twice, and 
added to the well-creamed butter; then add the sugar, 
flavoring and the beaten whites. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

Author. 
One pound of flour, sifted twice, one pound of sugar 
(pulverized), three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
creamed with the flour; whites of sixteen eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, added last. Flavor with bitter almond. 
Very nice with the addition of one teacupful of citron, 
sliced thin, and one teacupful of almonds, blanched 
and cut. Sift flour over them to prevent their sinking 
to the bottom. 



WITH TWENTY-TWO EGGS. 
BRIDE'S CAKE. 
Whites of twenty-two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 367 

two pounds of flour, sift four times; one and one-half 
pounds of butter, two pounds of sugar (powdered), 
one teaspoonful of bitter almond. Beat the flour and 
butter to a cream, add sugar, then the eggs. Bake 
very quickly. 



WITH TWENTY-FOUR EGGS. 
FRUIT CAKE. 
Mrs. B. 
Three pounds of flour, one pound of citron, three 
pounds of raisins (stoned and chopped), six pounds 
of currants, three pounds of butter, three pounds of 
sugar, two dozen of eggs, one ounce each of mace, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, one-half ounce of cloves, one- 
half pint of brandy. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, and beat yolks, thoroughly. Mix fruit, spice 
and flour together. Beat all together thoroughly. 
Bake five or six hours for large loaf. This will keep 
any length of time covered in a stone jar. 



ICINGANDFILLINGS FOR CAKES 



SOFT FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two teaspoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in three 
tablespoonfuls of warm water; strain through a cloth 
and beat in powdered sugar, enough to make a 
firm frosting; flavor with lemon. For a large quantity 
use one and a h^f pints of boiling water, one and a 
half tablespoonfuls of gelatine, three and a half pounds 



368 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of powdered sugar, juice of one lemon. Dissolve the 
gelatine in the water, add the sugar and lemon, as 
above. Let it stand a few minutes. This is icing 
sufficient for two large cakes. 

CHEAP FROSTING. 

One teaspoonful of corn starch, just enough cold 
water to dissolve it, add a little hot water and cook 
until thick, do not let it get lumpy, stir in two-thirds 
cup of sugar. While it is hot spread the cake. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Boil one cake sweetened vanilla chocolate with one- 
half cup of milk, and one cup of sugar. When half 
cooled stir in one beaten egg. 

AUTHOR'S FROSTING. 

Two teacups of powdered sugar, two-thirds teacup 
of boiling water. Let this mixture boil twenty-five 
minutes, when it will be a clear, thick syrup. Then 
pour at once over the well-beaten whites of two eggs. 
Beat this hard until cold. When nearly cold add the 
juice of one lemon. This is very nice; may use granu- 
lated sugar. Half this recipe for one ordinary loaf. 

COLD ICING FOR CAKE. 

Author. 
Beat the whites of three eggs until they foam, but 
not to a stiff froth, and stir gradually into them one 
pound of pulverized sugar. Beat well, and flavor 
with lemon or one cocoanui; grated. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 369 

ALMOND ICING FOR BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Cousin Eva. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth. Beat 
a pound of Jordan almonds very fine, with rosewater. 
Mix the almonds and eggs lightly together, and add 
by degrees one pound XXX powdered sugar. After 
the cake is baked, while still warm, put on the icing, 
and return to oven a few moments to harden. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Mrs. W. 
Over one pound of the best white sugar pour just 
enough water to dissolve the lumps. Take the whites 
of three eggs and beat them a little, but not to a stiff 
froth, and add these to the sugar and water. Put it 
in a deep bowl, and place in a vessel of boiling water, 
and beat the mixture. It will at first become thin and 
clear, and afterwards thick. When it becomes quite 
thick, remove from the fire and continue the beating 
until it becomes quite cold and thicker, then spread it 
on the cake with a knife. It will be perfectly white 
when cold. 

BOILED ICING. 

Boil one pound of sugar and a half pint of water 
until it will drop in strings from the spoon, then pour 
it over the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
and beat it until cold. Flavor with lemon juice or 
rosewater, and apply with a wet knife. 

ICING. 

Author. 
Beat the whites of four eggs until slightly foaming, 



370 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

then add one pound of pulverized sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of citric 
acid, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and one of 
vanilla, added as soon as the eggs and sugar are well 
mixed. 

FILLING FOR FIG CAKE. 

Author. 

One pound of figs chopped very fine, set in a tin 
basin on back of stove; add two cups of water, and 
one cup of sugar. Boil slowly two hours, or until a 
smooth paste. Spread between the layers. 

Mixture Between Layers. — One pound of figs 
chopped fine, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of water. 
Boil sugar and water two minutes, then add chopped 
figs, and stir constantly a few minutes. 

CREAM FOR CAKE. 

Author. 
One pint of cream, one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat the cream, which 
must be rich, to a stiff froth, then add sugar, flavor- 
ing and one tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in a 
little cold milk. 

ALMOND FILLING FOR CAKE. No., i. 

Author. 
One-half teacup of almonds, blanched and chopped 
fine, one teacup of milk, one tablespoonful of granu- 
lated sugar, one egg beaten separately. Bring milk to 
boiling point, add sugar and egg; stir until about the 
consistency of soft custard. When cold add the 
almonds and a little vanilla. To blanch the almonds, 
pour boiling water over them. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 37 1 

ALMOND FILLING FOR CAKE. No. 2. 

Make a white mountain cake, and put the following 
mixture between: The yolks of four eggs and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, beaten light, the whites also 
beaten light with the same quantity of sugar, and 
then both mixed together; one-half glass of wine, one 
tablespoonful of vanilla, one pound of blanched 
almonds cut fine, and one-half pint of sour cream. 

APPLE JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Author. 
For one large or two small cakes, four apples grated, 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, one egg well 
beaten, one-half cup of sugar. Mix all together and 
cook about five minutes. 

FILLING FOR WAFERS. 
One teacup currant jelly, one-half teacup powdered 
sugar, white of one egg. Beat jelly and sugar well 
and add the beaten white of the egg. 

FILLING FOR WAFERS OR CAKE. 

One teacup of granulated sugar, two-thirds teacup 
of water, three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 
Cook ten minutes. 

FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Author. 
One cup of powdered sugar, one-fourth cup of 
water. Let simmer until ropy, and add white of one 
Ggg, beaten to a froth, one-half cup of chopped raisins, 
one-half cup of chopped walnut meats, one table- 
spoonful of cocoanut. Add a few drops of vanilla. 



372 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CUSTARD FOR CAKE. 

Author. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of corn starch, and one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter. Flavor with vanilla. Dissolve 
the corn starch in a little cold milk and stir into the 
milk when it reaches the boiling point, add the sugar, 
cook three minutes stirring constantly; remove from 
the fire and add the butter and vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one tea- 
cup of powdered sugar, three heaping tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate. Put in dish over teakettle of 
boiling water until thoroughly dissolved, but do not 
boil. 

FILLING. No. I. 

The whites of two eggs beaten stiff with one-half 
coffee cup of powdered sugar, spread on layers and 
sprinkle cocoanut on. 

FILLING. No. 2. 

Whites of two eggs beaten stiff with one-half cup of 
powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of orange extract. 
Can use fresh oranges. It takes the grated rind and 
juice of one in cake and another one in the filling. 

LEMON MIXTURE FOR CAKE. 

Miss N. 
Grate two or three lemons, and press out the juice, 
taking care to remove all the seeds, one coffee cup of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 373 

white sugar, two eggs, piece of butter the size of an 
egg. Beat the sugar and eggs together, add the 
lemon, and boil until smooth, stirring all the time. 

LEMON JELLY FOR TARTS. 
M. H. 
Juice and grated rind of three large lemons; one 
pound of sugar, one-fourth pound of butter. Rub 
these well together, then add yolks of six eggs well 
beaten, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Cook 
until as thick as honey. This will keep for a month. 

LEMON JELLY. 

One cup of sugar, one lemon, juice and rind, one 
tablespoonful of butter. Stir all together and boil 
until thick. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 
Author. 

Grate the pineapple coarse, pour off some of the 
juice if necessary, add half of a grated cocoanut, and 
sweeten to taste with pulverized sugar. Bake your 
cake in jelly tins, having four layers deep, and spread 
the above between. Grate cocoanut over the top 
layer and sprinkle with sugar; or cover with icing 
flavored with pineapple. Author's pineapple marma- 
lade very fine filling for cake. 



EXTRACTS FOR FLAVORING. 

LEMON EXTRACT. 

One-half ounce oil of lemon, one ounce of sugar, 
eight ounces of cologne spirits, eight ounces of water, 



374 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one ounce of carbonate magnesia. Rub the oil with 
the magnesia and water, add spirits and filter. 

VANILLA EXTRACT. 

One ounce of vanilla beans, one ounce of sugar, 
twelve ounces of cologne spirits, four ounces of water. 
Bruise the beans with the sugar until powdered, then 
add the spirits, and macerate in a warm place for two 
w^^eks, then filter. 



CREAMS, 



WITHOUT EGGS. 

AMBROSIA. 

Author. 

Peel and slice oranges thin, take out the seeds as 
you slice them, sprinkle with sugar and grated cocoa- 
nut. Fill a glass bowl with the oranges, sugar and 
cocoanut alternately, piling the cocoanut on top. You 
may also add pineapple if you wish. Use powdered 
sugar. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Author. 
One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one pint of 
powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix and 
freeze; when half frozen, stir in six ripe yellow 
bananas sliced very thin. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Author. 
One quart of cream, one scant teacup of powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip the cream 
to a froth, add sugar and vanilla, and pour this over 
six bananas sliced lengthwise and laid in a fruit dish. 
Set over the ice to chill. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. i. 
Mrs. Pierce. 
Take two-fifths of a box of gelatine, barely cover it 

375 



376 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

with cold water, let it stand ten minutes, and then 
pour on about one-quarter of a cup of boiling water. 
Set on back part of stove in a dish, and stir until dis- 
solved. One quart of best cream, whip twenty min- 
utes. Add one small cup of powdered sugar and a 
teaspoonful of vanilla; whip ten minutes. Then pour 
in gelatine while hot, and whip it hard while pouring 
in, until it is thick. The great trouble is in getting 
the gelatine in right. It must be hot, and beaten very 
hard while pouring in, or it is 2. failure. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. 2. 

Sister Dona. 
One pint of rich cream, one-half teacup (scant) 
of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls of gelatine, a 
scant half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, a pinch of 
salt. Whip the cream to a froth, but do not gather 
off; then add the sugar and other ingredients. The 
gelatine must be dissolved in a little milk on the back 
of the stove; thirty minutes will be required to dissolve 
it, and not allow it to become very warm. The cream 
will whip better if set on ice to chill. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. No. 3. 

Author. 
One quart of rich cream, one teacup of powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip cream until 
the froth is very firm; stop beating just before the 
turning point between froth and butter, sweeten and 
flavor. This will keep firm one day, even in a very 
moderate atmosphere. One quart of cream whipped 
to a froth, one coffee cup of powdered sugar, and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla make delicious ice cream. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 377 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Author. 
One qtiart of milk, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
shaved chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch. Wet the 
corn starch with a little extra milk, to make it smooth, 
and stir in the boiling milk. Pour two tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water over the chocolate and sugar, and 
add to the milk when it begins to thicken. Pour into 
cups, cool, and serve with sweetened cream flavored 
with vanilla. 

FLORIDA PYRAMIDS. 

Author. 
Alternate layers of sliced oranges (pared and seeded), 
powdered sugar, bananas, and grated cocoanut. Over 
this sprinkle with an atomizer enough sherry wine to 
flavor. Proceed in this way until the dish is full. 
Have the top layer of grated cocoanut. Serve at once. 

ICED COFFEE. 
One quart of strong coffee, one quart of cream, one 
and three-fourths of a pint of granulated sugar. 
Freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. No. i. 

Author. 
One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one coffee 
cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one-third 
of a box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in a little milk 
on the back of stove; when dissolved, add it to the 
milk and cream. Lastly, one-quarter of a teacup of 
granulated sugar browned (but not burnt) and added 
cold. 



378 GRADED COOK BOOK. 



ICE CREAM. No. 2. 
Cousin Eva. 
To two quarts of milk, one box of Cox's gelatine, 
one tablespoonful of corn starch dissolved in a little 
of the cold milk; mix and boil three minutes; when 
cool, add two quarts of whipped cream. Sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Put the sugar in the milk. 

ICE CREAM. No. 3. 

Cousin- Eva. 
One tablespoonful of arrowroot (Bermuda), one 
quart of milk — must be cooked. Sweeten and flavor 
to taste. Add one pint of cream if desired. 

NOYEAU CREAM. 

Dissolve one-half package of Cox's gelatine in juice 
of two lemons; add one wineglass of Noyeau. Whip 
one quart of cream to a stiff froth, sweeten and add 
other ingredients. Fill mould and set on ice. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

Cousin Alice. 
Pare ripe, soft free-stone peaches, and press them 
through a colander. Make very sweet, as the freezing 
makes them lose some sweetness. To make ice 
cream, add equal quantities of cream, with sugar suf- 
ficient for both. All fruits can be made in the same 
way, adding more or less sugar. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 
Mrs. B. 
One can of grated pineapple, juice of four lemons, 
three pints of cold water, one-half cup of sugar, or to 
taste. 






GRADED COOK BOOK. 379 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. No. i. 

Take one common-sized pineapple, slice and bruise 
it, and sprinkle with pulverized sugar. Let it stand 
one-half hour or more, to extract the flavor; then 
strain it into the cream. One pineapple is sufficient 
for four quarts of cream. Use half pound of sugar to 
each quart of cream. Freeze. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. No. 2. 
Author. 

One pineapple (sugar pine is best), one heaping 
pint of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
one quart of cream. Chop the pineapple in dice or 
quarter-inch pieces, cover with sugar out of the 
pint, add a tablespoonful of cold water to start the. 
juice, and let it stand two hours; then sweeten the 
quart of cream with the rest of the pint of sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla and put in freezer; add the pine- 
apple mixture and freeze at once. This recipe makes 
three pints of ice cream. 

Always use coarse salt for freezing, and crush the 
ice into small pieces. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

A pint-and-a-half can of pineapples, or if fresh fruit 
is used, one large pineapple; a small pint of sugar, a 
pint of water, one tablespoonful of gelatine. Soak the 
gelatine one or two hours in cold water to cover it. 
Cut the hearts and eyes from the fruit, chop it fine, 
and add sugar and the juice from the can. Have half 
of the water hot, and dissolve the gelatine in it. Stir 
this and the cold water into the pineapple. Freeze. 



380 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

This sherbet will be white and creamy. Mash the 
pineapple through a colander. If it is sweet, do not 
use a pint of sugar. 

SLIP. 

Mrs. Harris. 
Make a quart of rich milk a little warm, stir into it 
about a tablespoonful of prepared rennet, and when 
cold it will be of the consistency of jelly. Make it 
but a few hours before using. In summer set the dish 
on ice after it has jellied. Eat it with powdered sugar, 
nutmeg and cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. No. i. 

Author. 
For four quarts of cream take one quart of straw- 
berries, bruise and sprinkle them with sugar, and then 
proceed as with pineapple. In using fruits, always 
have enough to thicken the cream slightly, and impart 
a good flavor. Use fruit coloring syrup if you can- 
not get the fruit. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. No. 2. 
Author. 
One quart box of strawberries, one quart of cream, 
one and one-half pints of powdered sugar, one small 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Remove the stems from the 
berries, but do not wash them; cover with part of the 
sugar from the above, add one tablespoonful of cold 
water to start the juice, let stand two hours, then 
mash through a fine sieve; add more sugar to this 
mixture, leaving a teacupful for the cream; sweeten 
and flavor the cream; put it in the freezer. When the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 381 

cream begins to congeal, add the strawberries, and 
freeze quickly to prevent turning sour. After it is 
frozen, it will stand for hours without turning. The 
strawberries, after being sweetened and strained, will 
measure one pint, and with the cream make three 
pints of ice cream. 

SWISS CREAM. 
Sister Dona. 
Two-thirds of a box of gelatine, one pint of water, 
one pint of whipped cream, one coffee cup of sifted 
sugar, one coffee cup of wine. Cover the gelatine 
with as little of the water as will dissolve it, and set 
it on the back of the stove for an hour; then pour the 
rest of the water, boiling hot, over it; add the sugar 
and boil five minutes, then the wine, and lastly the 
whipped cream. 

VELVET BLANC MANGE. 

Author. 
Two cups of sweet cream, one-half ounce of gelatine 
soaked in a little cold water, one-half cup of pow- 
dered sugar, one teaspoonful of extract bitter almond, 
one glass of white wine. Bring the cream to a boil, 
stir in gelatine and sugar. As soon as dissolved, take 
from the fire. Beat ten minutes. Flavor, and add by 
degrees the wine, mixing it in well. Pour it into a 
mould wet with cold water, 

VELVET CREAM. 

Author. 
One teacup of wine, one teacup of sugar, rind and 
juice of one lemon, one pint of cream well whipped, 



382 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one ounce of gelatine. Put gelatine in a little cold 
water, gradually warm it. When dissolved, add wine 
and sugar. When cool, add whipped cream and place 
on ice. 



WITH ONE EGG. 

BOILED CUSTARD FOR ONE PERSON. 

Author. 
One Ggg, one coffee cup of sweet milk, one dessert- 
spoonful of granulated sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Beat the yolk of egg and sugar together, 
then add the beaten white, and stir into the milk when 
it reaches the boiling point. Cook in double kettle. 
When partly cold, add flavoring. The white of egg 
may be reserved and put on top of cup when cold. In 
this case, add teaspponful of powdered sugar to white. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Author. 

Dissolve one-half ounce of gelatine in just enough 
cold water to cover it; it will require about one hour 
in a moderately warm place. In the meantime whip 
and gather all the froth of one quart of rich cream. 
Beat the white of one egg^ add one teacup of 
powdered sugar, and the gelatine when dissolved. 
Lastly, the cream, flavored with one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Serve with lady-fingers, or mix with fresh 
fruit which has been pressed through a colander. Put 
in a mould, and place on ice. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. ^S;^ 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Mrs. L. G. Risley. 

One-half ounce of gelatine, one pint of water. Let 
it dissolve and stand till nearly cold. Add one-half 
pound of white sugar and the juice of three lemons. 
Whisk the white of one egg and put it in the mixture 
before serving. 



WITH TWO EGGS. 

CALEDONIA CREAM. 

To the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
add one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and two tablespoonfuls of 
currant jelly; all to be beaten with a spoon until the 
spoon will stand upright. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Author. 

One pint of cream, two eggs, one teacup of boiled 
coffee, one teacup of powdered sugar, one teacup of 
milk, one-half box of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in 
just enough cold water to cover, on back of stove, 
three-quarters of an hour. In the meantime bring the 
cup of milk to the boiling point, draw to the back of 
the stove, stir in the whites and yolks of the eggs, 
beaten separately and mixed together; add the sugar, 
cook three minutes, cool a little, add the coffee slightly 
warmed, then the warm gelatine, and lastly the whipped 
cream. 



384 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GENOA CREAM. 

Author. 
One quart of cream, two eggs, whites beaten to a 
stiff froth and stirred into the cream, one pint of milk, 
one-half box of gelatine dissolved in one-half cup of 
the milk, one teacup of powdered sugar beaten with 
yolks. Stir gelatine, milk, eggs and sugar together; 
cook three minutes, remove from fire, and add the 
cream, one teaspoonful of vanilla and one teaspoonful 
of sherry wine, and pour into moulds. 

HIDDEN MOUNTAIN. 

Author. 
One quart of cream, one teacup even full of pow- 
dered sugar, one teaspoonful of gelatine dissolved in 
one-fourth teacup of milk (on back of stove for one- 
half hour, when it must be cooled lukewarm), whites 
of two eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip the 
cream, gather the froth into a colander until all is 
used, then put back into the bowl. Lay the sugar 
over the froth, then beat the whites of eggs and add 
with gelatine and flavoring, then beat again with 
egg-beater three minutes. This is delicious poured 
over chopped peaches or pineapples. Set on ice. 

ICE CREAM. 

Author. 

One gallon of cream, one and one-half pounds of 

sugar, two eggs beaten light and mixed with the 

cream. Strain it and put in the freezer, stir until it is 

frozen. Break the ice fine and sprinkle coarse salt 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 385 

over it, filling it tightly around the freezer. Drain off 
water, and replenish with ice and salt when needed. 
When done, tie newspapers around the freezer and 
cover with an old blanket. Set aside until needed. 

SEA FOAM. 

Author. 
One scant pint of milk, two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls (heaping) 
of gelatine. Put the gelatine in the pint of cold milk, 
and place in kettle of boiling water. When dissolved 
and the milk has reached the boiling point, stir in the 
yolks of eggs and sugar. Let it thicken, take from 
stove, and stir in whites beaten to a stiff froth. Set 
away to cool. Serve with cream and sugar. 

SNOW CREAM. 

Author. 
One pint of good cream, heat it boiling hot; beat 
the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the 
cream; stir all the time until it thickens. Sweeten to 
taste. Flavor with almond. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Author. 
One-half box of Cox's gelatine, three-quarters of a 
cup of powdered sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in one- 
half pint of milk. Boil one and one-half pints of milk, 
pour it over the gelatine ancj milk. Beat the yolks 
of two eggs, with a cup of sugar; flavor to taste, then 
add to the gelatine and milk. Cook three minutes, 
stirring constantly. Beat the whites very light, with 



386 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

a cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon; spread it 
over the top of the cream, and allow it to stand two 
minutes in the oven. Set on ice. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Author. 
Put a small cup of tapioca to soak in cold water 
over night; add salt. In the morning boil a quart of 
milk and stir in the tapioca; add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs and one cup of sugar; let it come to a boil, 
then pour it over the whites of the eggs, which have 
been beaten to a stiff froth. Stir well together, and 
flavor with lemon. To be eaten cold. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Author. 
Three pints of milk, one-third box of gelatine, two 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. Heat 
the gelatine gradually in one pint of the milk, and 
into the other two pints stir, while milk is boiling hot, 
the well-beaten yolks and sugar. When it thickens, 
set on back of stove, stir in remainder of milk and 
gelatine. Take from the stove, and set in a cool place, 
and beat till cold, then add one teaspoonful of vanilla 
and the beaten whites, mixed with two tablespoonfuls- 
of powdered sugar. Stir lightly through. Place on 
ice. 

WITH THREE EGGS. 
APPLE FOAM. 

Cousin Eva. 
Eight Spitzenbergs or very tart apples, three whites 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 387- 

of eggs, one teacup of powdered sugar, the juice of 
half a lemon, or one teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake the 
apples quickly with skins on, without water or syrup. 
When done, remove from oven, pare at once, and 
scrape the pulp into a porcelain dish. When cold, 
beat a little, then add the beaten whites of eggs; beat 
very lightly. Lastly, add sugar and flavoring, and 
pile high in glass dish and set on ice. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Author. 
Make a soft custard of the yolks of three eggs and 
one quart of milk thickened with one heaping tea- 
spoonful of corn starch. Pour into a dish to cool; then 
beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth; grate 
four large tart apples and whip into eggs, with three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Or may be made with one 
pint of baked or stewed apples, whites of three eggs, 
four large tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Beat 
until stiff enough to stand alone. Fill a dish with the 
cold soft boiled custard; pile the float on top. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Author. 
One pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar. Place the pan containing the milk 
in a kettle of boiling water. When the milk reaches 
the boiling point, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, 
mixed with the sugar and one extra teaspoonful of 
milk. Stir until it thickens to the consistency of 
cream. When cold, add one-half teaspoonful of van- 
illa, and pour into glass dish. Beat the whites to a 



388 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Stiff froth, then add to them a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar and one-half teaspoonful of lemon essence, 
and drop from tablespoon on the custard. Sliced 
oranges or pineapple may be laid in the bottom of the 
dish. 

FRIED CREAM. 

Author. 

One pint of milk, one-half pint of thick sweet cream, 
three even tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch, one tablespoonful of flour, three yolks 
of eggs, piece of cinnamon two inches long. Bring 
the milk to the boiling point, with the cinnamon; stir 
in the corn starch and flour, which has previously been 
dissolved in a little cold milk; cook three minutes; 
add the beaten yolks of eggs, sugar and cream; cook 
three minutes; take from fire; add vanilla; remove 
the cinnamon; pour into a shallow biscuit tin, but- 
tered. When wanted to fry, cut in two-inch squares, 
roll in egg and cracker dust, and fry in butter. To be 
eaten with or without sauce. 



ICE CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, two dessertspoonfuls 
of corn starch, scant pint of sugar. Dissolve starch in 
milk; beat eggs separately. When milk reaches the 
boiling point, stir in starch; let it boil three minutes, 
then remove from stove, add yolks of eggs and sugar. 
Then flavor the whites and add; cook three min- 
utes; remove from the fire, cool and freeze. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 389 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Mrs. Dr. E. Morgan. 
Soak half a box of gelatine in one pint of cold water, 
then put in a porcelain kettle, pour on nearly one pint 
of boiling water. When the gelatine is dissolved, put 
in one coffee cup of coffee sugar; boil long enough to 
make jelly; then pour in, slowly, three beaten yolks of 
eggs; put in tartaric acid or lemon juice; flavor with 
vanilla; pour into a mould, and set it on ice to cool. 

LEMON ICE. 
Mrs. B. 
Six lemons, three pints of cold water, two cups of 
sugar, boiled in one cup of water until it strings, 
three beaten whites of eggs. Pour the hot syrup 
slowly in the beaten eggs; add lemon juice and water. 
Freeze. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Author. 
Alternate layers of oranges, grated cocoanut and 
powdered sugar. Over this pour a cold soft custard 
made of one pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and juice of half 
a lemon. Over the top spread a m6ringue made of 
the whites of the eggs whipped to a froth, with two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown slightly in 
the oven. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Sister Olive. 
The juice of six oranges and juice of six lemons, 
three pints of cold water, three beaten whites of eggs, 



390 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

two and one-half cups of granulated sugar boiled in 
one cup of water until it strings. Pour it slowly over 
the beaten whites, then add the juice of the lemon 
and orange and cold water when mixed. 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of tapioca, three tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, 
salt. Soak the tapioca in just enough cold water to 
cover for three hours, then stir it into the milk when 
it reaches the boiling point; boil fifteen minutes, and 
add the beaten yolks and sugar; cook five minutes, 
remove from the fire and flavor. Just before serving, 
spread over the top the whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and the 
juice of one lemon. Eat when cold, with sweetmeats 
or berries. 



VELVET CREAM. 

Author. 

One-third box of gelatine, one pint of milk, three 
tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, three eggs. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in the milk on the back of the stove; 
when dissolved, add the beaten yolks, and cook till 
the consistency of cream; take off the stove, and add 
the beaten whites; flavor with vanilla or lemon; put 
in grooved mould and set on ice. Serve with cream 
and sugar. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 39I 

WITH FOUR EGGS. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 
Mrs. C. P- 
One pint of new milk, one cup of fine sugar, quarter 
of a pound of blanched almonds (pounded), two table- 
spoonfuls of rosewater, the yolks of four eggs. Stir 
this over a slow fire until it is the consistency of 
cream, then remove it quickly and put it in a pudding 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with 
a little sugar, and spread on the top. 

AMBER CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar (heaping), one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, four eggs (yolks). When the milk be- 
gins to boil, stir in the corn starch, dissolved in a little 
cold milk, then the well-beaten yolks and sugar. 
Flavor when done and nearly cold. Put in mould at 
once. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla. 

This rule, using the whites instead of the yolks of 
the eggs and one-half of a cocoanut grated, makes a 
delicate cream. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. No. i. 
Cousin Eva. 
One pint of cream, sweeten and flavor; add the 
beaten yolks of four eggs; whip all to a froth; dis- 
solve one-half ounce of gelatine in warm water; when 
cold, add the cream, and pour into a mould lined with 
sponge cake. 



392 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. No. 2. 
Author. 
One quart of sweet cream, yolks of four eggs, one 
ounce of gelatine or isinglass, one small cup of sugar. 
Flavor to taste. Soak the gelatine in just enough cold 
water to cover it for an hour; strain, and stir it into a 
pi7it of the cream made boiling hot. Beat the yolks 
smooth with the sugar, and add to the boiling mixt- 
ure, a little at a time, until it thickens; then take 
from the fire; when nearly cool, flavor and stir in 
gradually the other pint of cream, whipped to a froth. 
Dip a mould in cold water, wipe, and fill with the 
mixture. Set on ice. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Author. 
One quart rich cream, one even teacup of powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one-third of a box 
of gelatine, whites of four eggs ; pour one-fourth tea- 
cup of milk over the gelatine, and set on the back 
part of the stove for half an hour. It must not be 
allowed to get more than luke-warm. Whip the 
cream, gather the froth into a colander. When all 
the cream is whipped, remove from the colander to 
bowl, pour the sugar over the froth, then beat the 
whites and add to the froth and sugar; lastly add the 
vanilla and gelatine dissolved. Whip all together 
three minutes with Dover egg-beater. (Delicious). 

CHATHAM CREAM. 

Author. 
One ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little milk on 
back of stove. Bring one pint of milk to the boiling 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 393 

point and draw to the back of the stove, stir in the 
beaten yolks of four eggs and one coffee cup sugar, 
draw forward again and cook until it thickens, stirring 
slowly. When this is partially cool stir in the dis- 
solved gelatine, and when slightly hardened, add a 
quart of rich cream whipped to a froth. Flavor with 
vanilla. Line a mould with slices of cake, or lady- 
fingers. Dip the edges of cake in white of egg so 
that the cake will cohere; then fill the mould and set 
on ice. When wanted turn out on a plate and ice the 
top. Beat the white of egg to stiff froth, add one tea- 
cup powdered sugar. Flavor with the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, 
three tablespoonfuls granulated sugar, two heaping 
tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, four eggs. Dissolve 
the corn starch in a little cold milk and stir into the 
boiling milk, when it begins to thicken stir in the well- 
beaten yolks and sugar, then the chocolate dissolved; 
cook about five minutes, and set away to cool. Before 
serving, beat the whites to a froth, add two table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar and one-half teaspoonful 
vanilla. Drop here and there on top of the chocolate 
cream. 

COCOANUT BLANC MANGE. 
Mattie. 

Let one quart of sweet milk come to a boil, then stir 
in one grated cocoanut, and three even tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch, mixed with enough cold water to dis- 
solve, and sugar sufficient to sweeten. Let this cook 



394 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

three-quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally, then 
take it off the fire, and stir in the beaten whites of 
four eggs. Pour into a mould and when cold serve 
with cream. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Author. 

One pint of cream, one tablespoonful of gelatine, 
whites of four eggs, one teacup of powdered sugar, 
one teacup of strong coffee. Soak gelatine on back of 
stove for three-quarters of an hour, in just, enough 
cold water to cover. In the meantime whip the cream, 
removing the froth until all the cream is used. Beat 
the whites well, and add the sugar; beat again, and 
add the coffee, and lastly the whipped cream. Set on 
ice. The coffee must be very strong. 

A good substitute for a French coffee-pot is a fun- 
nel-shaped perforated tin cup; lay an old linen nap- 
kin in this cup and pour one-half a teacup of ground 
coffee (Old Government Java) into this napkin, then 
pour, very slowly, boiling water over the grounds 
until you have a teacup of coffee extract. 



FRENCH CUSTARD. 

Aunt Risley. 

Four eggs to a quart of milk, one even tablespoonful 
of corn starch dissolved in a little milk. Beat the 
yolks and sugar together, and beat the whites separ- 
ately. Then stir the whites in with the yolks; let the 
milk be warm before putting in the eggs. Cook it in 
tin pail in a kettle of warm water, or double boiler. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 395 

LEMON ICE. No. i. 
Mrs. M. Wheeler. 
Eight lemons, two quarts of water, one and a half 
pounds of sugar, whites of four eggs. This will make 
three quarts to freeze. 

LEMON ICE. No. 2. 

Author. 
One quart of water, one quart of granulated sugar, 
nine lemons, whites of four eggs. Squeeze the lemons 
into a pint measure, fill the measure with water to 
complete the pint of juice, then pour the juice over 
the sugar, mix and add the quart of water, and put in 
the freezer; when it begins to congeal add the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs. Enough for twelve per- 
sons. 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM. 

Author. 
One full quart of cream, one coffee cup powdered 
sugar, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of vanilla — if the 
extract is very strong, less will be required. Beat the 
yolks and whites separately, then put together and 
stir in one pint of cream. When it reaches the boil- 
ing point draw the cream to th6 back of the stove 
until the whole is well mixed, then draw forward, stir 
until it thickens, about three minutes. Cool. Add 
the other pint of cream, then the vanilla, and freeze. 

NEW YORK CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, three tablespoonfuls 

of granulated sugar. Put milk in tin pail, and place 

this in a kettle of boiling water to prevent burning; 



396 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

cream the yolks of the eggs and sugar; add to this 
the well-beaten whites, and stir all in the milk when it 
reaches the boiling point; let it thicken to the consis- 
tency of rich cream; flavor with a teaspoonful of 
vanilla; pour in custard cups, and set in cool place. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, four eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, four 
oranges, cake. Bring milk to the boiling point, and 
stir in the beaten yolks and sugar; boil till as thick as 
cream; remove; add the lemon essence; cool, and 
pour over the sliced cake and orange. Cover all with 
the whites beaten to a stiff froth, with two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar and the juice of one lemon. 
Brown lightly. 

PINEAPPLE GLACE. 

Author. 
Soak one-third box of Cox's gelatine two hours in 
the juice of one can of pineapple. In the meantime, 
whip one pint of rich cream; remove the froth until 
all the cream is whipped; then beat the whites of 
four eggs to a froth, and to this froth add one tea- 
cup of powdered sugar; chop the pineapple in half- 
inch cubes, and stir into the gelatine; then add 
the beaten eggs and sugar; and lastly the whipped 
cream, stirring the latter lightly through, not enough 
to bring the apple to the top. This may be made of 
fresh pineapple, by chopping it, adding the sugar, and 
letting it stand long enough to extract one-half pint 
of juice, the amount in the can. The above is deli- 
cious. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 397 

PEACHES, FROZEN. 

Author. 
Pour the peaches from the can into a pan, with one 
coffee cup of sugar and one-half pint of water; boil 
ten minutes; then cool, and beat into it the well- 
whipped whites of four eggs; put into a form and 
freeze. If fresh peaches are used, select a dozen large 
ones, peel and mash them, and add a coffee cup of 
sugar, but no water, and the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a froth, and freeze. If made from canned peaches 
in the winter, it can be made in the morning and put 
out in the snow, and during the day will freeze. 

PUMPKIN CUSTARD. 

Sister Mary. 
One-fourth of a pumpkin steamed soft, four eggs, 
one-half pint cream, one wine-glass each brandy and 
wine, one-fourth pound butter, added to pumpkin 
while hot. Sweeten to taste with sugar. Cinnamon 
and nutmeg to taste. 

RADIANT CREAM. 

Author. 
One pint milk, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls strong 
coffee, two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Bring milk to the boiling point; 
draw to the back of stove, stir in the yolks and one 
white of egg with sugar w^ell beaten, and cook three 
minutes. Add coffee and vanilla. Set away to cool. 
When cold stir in lightly the beaten whites of eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Two table- 
spoonfuls of ground coffee will make the required 



39^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Strength. The first drops which fall from the coffee 
when making for breakfast may be reserved for flavor- 
ing. Three macaroons crushed fine and added with 
or without the coffee is delicious. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Cousin Eva. 
One-half box Cox's gelatine, one quart of milk. 
Let the gelatine soak for awhile in a portion of the 
milk. Beat the yolks of four eggs thoroughly, and 
add five tablespoonfuls po7vdered sugar. Beat whites 
separately and add five tablespoonfuls of same sugar. 
Place milk in tin pail and set in kettle of boiling 
water. When the milk is hot, add gelatine, and stir 
till dissolved, then add yolks of eggs and cook till 
thick as custard. Remove from fire, flavor with 
vanilla, and add whites of eggs, stirring rapidly; pour 
into moulds that have been rinsed with cold water. I 
forgot to say add pinch of salt. The success of this 
depends on having all the preparations made before- 
hand so there will be no delay. 

RICE BALLS. 

Miss B. 
Mould rice while hot into balls, or press it into 
shape in small cups. When cold take out some of the 
rice from each ball, and place instead some tart sweet- 
meats. Place all the balls in a flat glass dish, and 
pour a custard over them. 

RICE MERINGUE. 

Cousin Alice. 
Pick over one teacup of rice, wash clean and boil in 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 399 

water until it is soft. When done drain all the water 
from it; let it get cool, and then add one quart of new 
I milk, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, three table- 
[ spoonfuls of white sugar, and a little nutmeg; pour 
into a baking-dish and bake half an hour. Let it get 
cold; then beat the whites stiff, add two large spoon- 
fuls of sugar flavored with lemon or vanilla, and 
spread it over the pudding, and slightly brown in the 
oven. Be careful not to let it scorch. 

SUNSHINE PUDDING. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
three tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, four eggs, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, a pinch of salt. Mix the 
corn starch with just enough -milk to dissolve it, and 
stir smoothly into the quart of milk when it is warm. 
Boil three minutes, remove from the fire, and add the 
beaten yolks, sugar and vanilla; pour into a dish and 
bake about fifteen minutes. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, add one teacup of powdered sugar, mix 
and add two tablespoonfuls of plum, grape, or currant 
jelly; spread over the pudding and brown in the oven, 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Aunt Sue. 
Soak two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water over 
night. Pour off the water and put the tapioca into 
one quart of boiling milk, and boil ten minutes. Beat 
the yolks of four eggs with a cup of sugar, and add a 
cup of prepared cocoanut. Stir in and boil five min- 
utes longer, then pour into a dish, after flavoring with 
vanilla. Beat the whites to a stiff froth with three 



400 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour this over the pudding 
sprinkle cocoanut on top and brown, 

TIPSY CHARLOTTE. 

Author. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, on( 
cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful bak 
ing powder, whites of three eggs. Rub butter an( 
sugar to a cream; add milk and flour (in which ha 
been mixed the baking powder) alternately, and lastl; 
the whites of the eggs, and one teaspoonful of vanilla 
Bake in square tin fifteen minutes, in quick oven. This 
makes two layers. 

FILLING, 

Thicken one teacup of milk with one egg, beaten 
separately and together; add one tablespoonful granu- 
lated sugar. Take from the stove, cool, and stir into 
it one-half teacup almonds, blanched and chopped 
fine. Put one-half of this in one layer, and flavor 
with two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, then add the 
other layer, and the rest of the filling; serve each piece 
with a tablespoonful of whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla. The cream must be stiff like Charlotte 
Russe, Do not add the filling until the day you use 
the cake. Blanch the almonds by pouring over them 
boiling water. 

WITH FIVE EGGS. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 
Mrs. B. 
Two cups of apple sauce, two cups of sugar, juice 
and peel of one lemon, one tablespoonful of flour, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 40I 

yolks of five eggs. Bake it, and when done beat the 
whites of the eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, and spread over the top. Brown in the 
oven. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Author. 
To one-half cup of milk add one heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine (Cox's); soak on back of stove 
one-half hour; keep lukewarm. Whip one-half pint 
of cream; take off froth as it gathers, and set aside. 
This done, beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, 
and to this add one-half teacup of powdered sugar, 
and stir; then add gelatine and cream slowly. Flavor 
with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Set away to cool. 
Serve with lady-fingers or blocks of layer cake. 

FANCY BLANC MANGE. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, four even tablespoonfuls granulated sugar, five 
^ggs, (whites). Dissolve the corn starch and sugar in 
a little cold milk, and stir into the quart of milk when 
it reaches the boiling point. When it begins to thicken 
stir in the well-beaten whites. Stir constantly until it 
thickens sufficiently — about five minutes. Remove 
from the fire and divide into thirds. Into one-third 
stir a tablespoonful of chopped citron, and set aside a 
few moments. The other two-thirds put back on the 
fire, in separate tins. Stir into one a tablespoonful of 
grated chocolate dissolved in a little boiling water. 
Cook a minute longer and remove from the fire. Then 
into the other third stir the well-beaten yolks of two 



402 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

eggs. Cook three minutes and remove from the fire, 
and flavor both with one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 
When they begin to set, place in a mould, first the yellow 
in the bottom of the bowl, second, the chocolate, and on 
top the citron. Put on ice. When ready to serve turn 
out on a dish and surround with whipped cream, sweet- 
ened, and flavored with vanilla. This makes a pretty 
finish for the blanc mange. A similar dessert may be 
made without any eggs by using the recipe for choco- 
late blanc mange, using only one-third of the chocolate. 



ICE CREAM. 

Author. 

Three pints of cream, one even pint of powdered 
sugar, one even teacup of finely chopped raisins, one 
even teacup of finely chopped almonds, one table- 
spoonful of vanilla, five yolks of eggs. Put a pint of 
the cream in a double kettle, bring to the boiling 
point, then mix with it the yolks of eggs and one- 
fourth pint of the sugar, beaten together. Stir gently 
until it thickens and is smooth, (about three minutes). 
Remove to a cool place; wben cold add the rest of 
sugar, cream and the vanilla. When partly congealed 
add the almonds and raisins. The quantity is sufficient 
for thirteen persons. Very good made with milk. 
The raisins must be seeded and washed with milk to 
remove the specks, before chopping; use the soft shell 
sweet almond. Shell and pour boiling water over 
them; let them stand a few moments, and remove 
skins. Wash them in milk before chopping to remove 
any specks of skin which may adhere. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 403 

SNOWFLAKE. 

Author. 
One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, three tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, whites of 
five eggs, a small pinch of salt. When the milk comes 
to a boil, stir in the corn starch dissolved in a little of 
the cold milk. When this boils, stir in the five well- 
beaten whites, and let the whole come to a boil, and 
cook three minutes. Eat cold with cream, sweetened 
and flavored with vanilla. Put a lump of jelly in the 
center of each dish served. 



WITH SIX EGGS. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 
Mrs. A. D. Gushing. 
Fill a small deep dish half full of stewed apples, or 
any preserved acid fruit (peaches are very nice), and 
pour over an icing of the beaten whites of six eggs, 
and six tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Bake slowly. 
It can be eaten cold or hot. If the apple is stewed, 
only let it remain in the oven long enough to cook 
and brown the icing nicely. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Alice D. Gushing. 
Put on to boil in a kettle three pints of milk, with 
some cinnamon sticks broken into it; then take two 
eggs to a pint, breaking them into the bucket (leaving 
about two of the whites to whip up and place on top); 
beat the eggs wpll in the bucket, with sugar to 



404 GRADED COOK BOOK. « 

taste, and when the milk boils up, pour it in with the 
eggs, stirring all the while; then put some boiling 
water into the kettle, and place your bucket containing 
the custard in it, and stir constantly until it begins to 
thicken (be careful not to allow it to curdle); then 
remove it, and place it in a cool place until ready to 
serve. Have a glass bowl, in which you have placed 
some pieces of sponge cake, with sherry wine sprinkled 
over it; then strain your custard into this bowl (or 
you may omit the cake if you wish); then whip up the 
whites of the eggs, with some currant jelly, and just 
before serving, with a spoon pile the egg on the top as 
high as possible. This makes a very pretty dessert. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 
Mrs. Harris. 
Mix with one quart of milk two ounces of burnt 
whole coffee, cook twenty minutes, keeping it covered 
to preserve the aroma. Strain it through a fine siev«; 
sweeten it, and (if to boil) stir in six beaten eggs, 
strain, and put over the fire to cook until it thickens; 
and (if to bake) five eggs; put in a dish to bake, or 
cups, and eat cold. 

CAFE GLACE. 

Author. 
One pint strong Java coffee, one-half coffee cup 
ground coffee, yolks of six eggs, one teacup of granu- 
lated sugar, one-third box of gelatine. Soak the gela- 
tine three-quarters of an hour in a little cold water, 
on the back of the stove; then pour over it the coffee, 
boiling hot; add to this the beaten yolks and sugar; 
put on stove, cook till it is of the consistency of thick 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 405 

cream. When it begins to jelly, stir lightly in a pint 
of cream beaten to a froth. Set on ice. This is 
enough for twelve persons. The pint of strong coffee 
is made by pouring one pint of boiling water on the 
half cup of coffee mentioned above. Refer to direc- 
tions for Coffee Cream. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one even pint 
of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of vanilla, six 
eggs, one teacup grated chocolate. Mix sugar, choco- 
late, cream and milk, and bring to the boiling point 
in a porcelain kettle; then draw the kettle to the back 
of the stove, and stir in the mixture, six yolks and 
four whites, which have been well beaten separately 
and together. Draw the kettle forward again, stir 
constantly till the mixture looks like thick cream, then 
take it from the stove and add the remaining whites, 
which have been well beaten; when slightly cooled 
add the vanilla. When cold, pour into the freezer 
and freeze. This quantity is enough for twelve per- 
sons. The chocolate must be dissolved in a little 
boiling water. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Author. 

One quart of milk, one tablespoonful of corn starch 
whites of six eggs, three tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar. Currant jelly to color with. Serve with 
sponge cake. 



4o6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Author. 

Three pints of milk, one pint of cream, one coffee 
cup of sugar, one ounce of gelatine, six eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla. Soak the gelatine in just enough 
milk to dissolve it; place on the back of the stove for 
one hour. Bring the rest of the milk to the boiling 
point, draw to the back of the stove and stir in the 
well-beaten yolks and sugar. Draw forward and let 
it cook until it thickens like cream, stirring all the 
time. Remove from the stove, and add cream, the 
dissolved gelatine, then the beaten whites and vanilla. 
Put in a mould and place on ice to chill. 

LEMON BLANC MANGE. 

Author. 
One quart of boiling water, one-half box of Cox's 
gelatine, juice of two large lemons, one coffee cup of 
sugar. When almost cold pour over the beaten yolks 
of six eggs. Mix well; when cold put on ice. 

RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Sister Olive. 
Take a dozen of the square or oblong sponge cakes, 
spread over each a thick layer of jam, and place them 
in the bottom and around the sides of a glass bowl; 
take the whites of six eggs and mix with them six 
tablespoonfuls of raspberr}'- or currant jelly, beat the 
egg and jelly till very light, and fill the bowl with it; 
cream is still better than the white of egg: You can 
make a charlotte of any kind of jam or fruit jelly. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 407 

SHERRY WINE JELLY. 

Author. 
One-half box of gelatine, pour over this one-half 
cup of cold water. Set on back of stove one hour; 
keep warm, not hot. One-half coffee cup of granu- 
lated sugar, one pint boiling water. After the gelatine 
has soaked an hour, pour over it the sugar and boiling 
water. When it is cool and begins to jelly, stir in 
three tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Beat the whites 
of six eggs to a stiff froth, then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, stir together and beat into the 
gelatine. When mixed set away to cool. Serve with 
white cake. 

SWISS CREAM. 

Author. 

One quart of rich cream, one teacup of powdered 
sugar, let it boil, set it off the fire.' Beat the whites of 
six eggs very light. When the cream ceases to boil 
set it on the fire again; stir in the eggs rapidly, and 
keep stirring until it comes to a boil; cook three min- 
utes, remove from fire and flavor with one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. This rule, using a coffee cup of sugar and 
nine macaroons, crushed, makes delicious ice cream. 

SYLLABUB. 

One quart of cream, one gill of wine, the juice of 
three lemons, and beaten whites of six eggs, and sugar 
to your taste. Froth these ingredients with a syllabub 
churn, and put into glasses. Pass around with cut 
cake. 



4o8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WITH EIGHT EGGS. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Alice D. Gushing. 

Pare and quarter six mellow and tart apples; place 

them in a pan on the stove, with a cup of water. 

When they soften, put them in a pudding dish, and 

sprinkle sugar over them. Beat eight eggs quite light, 

and sweeten with sugar to the taste; then add three 

pints of milk; grate in half of a nutmeg, and turn 

the whole over the apples. Bake about twenty-five 

minutes. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 
Mrs. Harris. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs very light; pour on 
them one pint of boiling water; add the juice and 
grated rind of two lemons; sweeten to taste; then 
add one glass of Madeira wine or half glass of brandy; 
scald it over the fire till it thickens. When cool, put 
it in glass cups. To be eaten cold. One small tea- 
cup of powdered sugar. 



WITH TEN EGGS. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Mrs. H. 
Take ten eggs. Beat the whites of five to a stiff 
froth. Break the other five into a bowl and add the 
yolks of the first five to the same. Add white sugar 
sufficient to sweeten the whole. Put two quarts of 
new milk on the stove, and when it boils place the 
beaten whites carefully on the milk, and let it boil one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 409 

minute. Then skim the whites carefully into a dish. 
Beat the other eggs with sugar very thoroughly 
together. Flavor with vanilla, and stir this into the 
scalding milk until it begins to thicken. Then pour it 
through a sieve into a pan, after which pour this 
custard into your dish, and cut the whites into small 
squares andplace them on the top of the custard. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Mrs. N. 
Ten eggs, half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in 
a gill of warm milk. Make a custard of yolks of eggs 
and milk, as for snow-balls; as soon as done stir in the 
gelatine. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and when 
the custard is nearly cold, stir in the froth and 
set away to cool; whip what cream you have, and put 
in, the same time as the whites of the eggs. 



WITH FOURTEEN EGGS. 
BISCUIT GLACES. 

Francatelli. 
One pint of clarified syrup, yolks of twelve eggs, 
two whole eggs, a large wine-glass of maraschino. 
Mix the whole of the ingredients in an earthen basin; 
then pour the preparation into an egg-bowl, that has 
been previously heated with hot water and wiped dry. 
Whisk the souffle briskly (the egg-bowl being placed 
on a stove containing hot ashes) until it resembles a 
well-prepared, firm, sponge-cake batter. Fill the 
paper cases with the preparation, and smooth over the 



4IO GRADED COOK BOOK. 

tops. Place them in a tin pail or freezer, surrounded 
with ice and salt, and half a pound of saltpetre mixed, 
and let them remain well covered for three or four 
hours, at least, before serving, without stirring them; 
or they may be frozen all together in one mould, and 
some sifted macaroon powder or grated chocolate 
sprinkled over the surface, to imitate a baked souffle. 



WITH FIFTEEN EGGS. 
NESSELRODE PUDDING. 
Careme. 
Forty chestnuts, one pound of sugar, one pint of 
cream, twelve eggs (yolks), one glass of maraschino, 
one ounce of candied citron, two ounces of currants, 
two ounces of raisins; flavor with vanilla. Blanch the 
chestnuts in boiling water, remove the husks and 
pound them in a mortar until perfectly smooth, add- 
ing a few spoonfuls of the syrup; then rub them 
through a fine sieve, and mix them in a dish with a pint 
of syrup made from one pound of sugar, clarified, and 
flavored with vanilla, one pint of cream and the yolks 
of eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, stirring it 
constantly until the eggs begin to thicken, (without 
allowing them to curdle), then take it off. When it is 
cold put it in the freezer, adding the maraschino, and 
make the mixture set; then add the sliced citron, 
the currants and stoned raisins, (these two latter 
should be soaked the day previous in maraschino, and 
sugar pounded with vanilla), to the whole. Thus 
mingled add a plateful of whipped cream, mixed with 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. When the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 4II 

pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a mould, 
close the lid, place it in a freezer well surrounded with 
pounded ice and saltpetre, and let it remain till time 
of serving, when turn it out of the mould. 



TUTTI FRUTTI. 

Cousin Eva. 

When rich vanilla cream is partly frozen, add En- 
glish currants, chopped citron, chopped raisins, can- 
died cherries, or other candied fruits chopped rather 
fine. The rule is generally the same quantity of fruit 
as cream. Mould, and place in pounded ice and salt 
until ready to serve. A sufficient time must be al- 
lowed for the cream to harden. Blanched almonds 
chopped makes a nice addition. 

NAPOLITAINE CREAM. 

Author. 

Make a vanilla, a chocolate, and a strawberry cream; 
freeze in separate freezers, and fill a mould the form of 
a brick in three smooth layers of equal size. 



PICKLES, CATSUPS AND 
SPICED FRUITS. 



PICKLE FOR CUCUMBERS. 

Author. 

Put cucumbers fresh from the garden in a brine 
strong enough to bear the weight of an egg. They 
will keep all winter in this way. When fresh pick- 
les are wanted, soak the cucumbers in fresh water two 
days, changing the water once, then proceed accord- 
ing to rule for pickles. I make a firm green pickle 
by pouring the same brine boiling hot over cucum- 
bers three days in succession, leaving them in the 
brine twenty-four hours each time; the fourth day pour 
cold vinegar over them; add two ounces each of mus- 
tard and celery seed and two small stalks of horse- 
radish, and seal. If not sealed, cover with horse-radish 
leaves, and press the cucumbers under the vinegar 
with a weight. A teacup of rock salt and a gallon of 
water make a good brine. 

An excellent way to put up pickles that will keep a 
year or more: Drop them into boiling hot water, but 
not boil them; let them remain ten minutes; wipe 
them dry, and drop into cold spiced vinegar, and they 
will not need to be put into salt and water. The 
above is a rule which has been thoroughly tested, and 
found to be a most excellent one. Use a porcelain- 
lined kettle; never use tin for pickles. 

412 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 413 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. No. i. 
Mrs. L. G. Risley. 
One pint of salt to one gallon of boiling water. 
Pour this over one hundred small cucumbers, and let 
stand twenty-four hours; then pour over them clear 
boiling water, with a piece of alum half the size of an 
egg, and let stand twenty-four hours; then boiling 
vinegar, with one ounce of stick cinnamon, six red and 
six white peppers, one head of horse-radish (stripped), 
and one ounce of cloves, in a muslin bag. Sprinkle 
white mustard seed plentifully in the cucumbers. 

CUCUMBER PICKLE. No. 2. 

Aunt Hettie. 

Pick the cucumbers, leaving the stems on; wash 
carefully, so as not to bruise them. Make a brine of 
two quarts of coarse salt, lump of alum size of an egg, 
and three pails of water; pour this, boiling hot, over 
the pickles three days in succession; then pour over 
them equal parts of boiling water and vinegar three 
days in succession. The same brine and the same 
vinegar will do each time. Use a four-gallon jar. For 
each layer take two sticks of cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful of white mustard seed, one tablespoonful of 
horse-radish root, one teaspoonful of whole allspice, 
three slices, one inch wide, of green peppers, thirty-six 
small onions (all together). Cover all with cold vine- 
gar, adding one-half teacup of brown sugar to each 
quart. Cover all plentifully with horse-radish leaves. 
If these cannot be procured, put mustard seed and 
sliced horse-radish root on top. Thi?^ need not be 
sealed up; will keep a year. 



414 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. No. 3. 

Mrs. B. 

Wash the cucumbers, put in a jar and cover with 
water. For every one hundred pickles allow one pint of 
salt. Let them stand twenty-four hours; then drain off 
the brine and wipe dr3^ Take the same quantity of 
vinegar there is of brine, scald it, then pour over the 
pickles and let them stand twenty-four hours. Take 
the same vinegar and scald again and pour over the 
pickles and let them stand twenty-four hours longer. 
The last day dry each pickle and lay in the jar they 
are to be kept in. Take fresh vinegar, the same 
quantity, and boil together with one-half pound of 
sugar, one ounce of whole cloves and a lump of alum 
half as big as a hen's egg (alum is to harden pickle), 
pour over the pickle and cover tight. In a few days 
will be ready to eat. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES (Extra Nice). No. 4. 

Mrs. H., Cincinnati. 

Make a strong brine of salt and water, put the 
cucumbers into it fresh; let them remain in it for 
nine days, pouring it off, and scalding it every second 
day, pouring it on the cucumbers boiling. When this 
is done, take some vinegar (if it is very strong, two- 
thirds vinegar and one-third water), heat it boiling 
hot, pour over your pickles, having first covered them 
with cabbage or vine leaves, and let them stand 
twenty-four hours. Then take cider vinegar of the 
first quality, sweeten with brown sugar to taste ; say 
one and one-half pounds to two gallons of vinegar ; 
have ready allspice, sticks of cinnamon, black pepper 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 415 

(whole), mustard seed, caraway seed, celery seed and 
race ginger. Put these all into the vinegar while 
heating. Pour off the vinegar which you put on first, 
and pour on this last preparation. Tie up securely so 
as to exclude the air. This same process is used for 
mangoes. By no means omit the caraway seed and 
celery seed; also add horse-radish in slices. 

To one gallon of vinegar and one hundred cucum- 
bers use one ounce of race ginger sliced, two- ounces 
of whole pepper, one ounce each of (stick) cinnamon, 
whole allspice, mustard, caraway and celery seed, two 
small stalks of horse-radish. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. No. 5. 

Sister Mary. 

Wipe small cucumbers, lay in a jar, cover with one- 
third whisky and two-thirds water, then put on a lid 
which fits close so as to exclude the air. Will be 
ready for use in six weeks. Makes fine vinegar as 
well. May use horse-radish or spices to flavor pickle. 

TO PICKLE RIPE CUCUMBERS. 

Take large ripe cucumbers, split them, take out the 
seeds, peel them, put them in brine twenty-four hours; 
then in fresh water twenty-four hours; put half a 
pound of brown sugar to one quart of vinegar, scald 
and pour over them. They are very nice for tea. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Sister Dona. 
Pare ripe cucumbers, and scrape out seeds; cut 
lengthwise in inch strips; lay in vinegar and water 



4l6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

over night; place in kettle; cover with vinegar. To 
each quart of vinegar allow three-fourths cup of white 
sugar, one teaspoonful of whole cloves, a small stick 
of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of whole pepper, a very 
little salt. Boil until a fork will pass readily through 
them, which will be about twenty minutes. Put in a 
jar when cool. 

• TO COLOR PICKLE GREEN. 

Author. 
Mix and boil one gallon of water and two pounds 
of common salt; pour hot over the cucumbers; let 
stand three hours tightly covered; pour off; cover 
with vinegar, scalding hot; let stand three days; pour 
off, and scald in fresh vinegar. 

ONION PICKLES. 
Author. 

Peel one-half gallon of silver onions; put into strong- 
brine for three days; take out and simmer in milk and 
water for a short time; then take out and dry; put 
them in a jar, and pour hot vinegar over them, flavored 
with mace and pepper. 

A more simple way: Soak the onions in brine two 
days; change the brine once; then drain and pour 
over them boiling vinegar, mace and pepper. White 
mustard seed may be added. 

WHITE WALNUTS. 

Take them when so soft a pin will run through 
easily. Boil salt and water strong enough to bear an 
Ggg; skim it, and when cold pour over the walnuts. 



I GRADED COOK BOOK. 417 

i Let them stand in this brine fourteen days, and then 
P throw them into cold water for two days. Boil them 
I in weak vinegar, and let them lie in this a week. 
Simmer enough strong vinegar to cover them. Mix 
together grated horse-radish, cloves, mustard seed and 
red pepper. Put the walnuts into the jar, in alternate 
layers with the other ingredients, and pour the scald- 
ing vinegar over them. 

ALBEMARLE PICKLE. 

Cousin Alice. 

Chop very fine one peck of green tomatoes, one- 
fourth peck of white onions, twenty-four large cucum- 
bers, two large cabbages, six green peppers. Let this 
mixture stand twenty-four hours, covered with salt, 
and then squeeze very dry. Add to this one pound of 
brown sugar, two ounces of ground cinnamon, two 
ounces of celery seed, two ounces of white mustard 
seed, one ounce of ground mace, one ounce of ground 
cloves, one ounce of ground turmeric, sufficient vinegar 
to cover. Let it boil slowly one hour before bottling. 
Add the turmeric, dissolved in a little cold vinegar, 
five minutes before removing from the fire. This 
piccalilli cannot be excelled. 

CHOPPED PICKLE. 

Mrs. E. Morgan. 
One dozen green tomatoes, two large cucumbers, 
one head of cabbage, three heads of celery, three 
green peppers, half a dozen onions; chop these all 
together; scald in a weak brine; drain off, and scald 
in one quart of vinegar and water (equal proportion 



4l8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of each); drain this off; then pour on, hot, one gallon 
of vinegar, in which is put one pound and a half of 
sugar, quarter of a pound of white mustard seed, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful each of 
black pepper, red pepper, ground mustard, cloves and 
allspice. Put into earthen jars, with fresh horse- 
radish leaves over the top of the pickle. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Two large heads of cabbage, two heads of cauli- 
flower, one dozen cucumbers, one-fourth peck of small 
string beans, one quart of small onions, six peppers, 
one-fourth peck of small green tomatoes. Cut all 
into small pieces; sprinkle with salt; let stand twenty- 
four hours; then drain well. Take two gallons of 
vinegar, one-half pound of mustard, one-fourth pound 
of mustard seed, two pots of French mustard, one 
ounce of whole allspice, one ounce of ground pepper, 
one ounce of whole cloves. Put spices and vinegar in 
a kettle, and let them come to a boil; then add the 
vegetables, and let them scald until they become ten- 
der and yellow, and bottle. 

MIXED MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Mrs. Pratt. 

One quart of small cucumbers, two quarts of small 
onions, four heads of cauliflower, four green peppers, 
soaked in salt and water; one gallon of vinegar, one- 
half pound of mustard, six cups of sugar, two cups of 
flour. Make a paste of flour and mustard; one tea- 
spoonful of turmeric; mix with vinegar; boil all 
together. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 419 

MIXED PICKLE. 
Mrs. B. 

Two heads of cabbage, slice fine and cut into inch 
pieces; two heads of cauliflower, cut into small pieces; 
fifty cucumbers about three inches long, some quar- 
tered, and some sliced in round pieces about one- 
fourth of an inch thick; four quarts of string beans, 
boiled until tender in salted water; eight large green 
peppers (take seeds out), then cut up into small 
pieces; one quart of small white onions. Pour over 
all, excepting string beans, a strong brine, and let 
stand twenty-four hours; drain or squeeze well. 

For a three-gallon jar, take six quarts of vinegar, 
one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one-fourth pound 
of white pepper (ground), one tablespoonful of 
turmeric powder, one-fourth pound of whole mustard 
seed, a piece of alum one-half the size of a hen's egg. 
Pour vinegar and spices, hot, over all. When cool, 
add a pint of ground mustard; stir thoroughly. 

TURMERIC PICKLES. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 

Slice a peck of small green tomatoes thin, one-half 
peck of onions. Place them in layers in a stone jar, 
sprinkle each layer very lightly with salt. Put a 
weight on them and let them stand twelve hours; then 
drain and put in a porcelain kettle, sprinkling through 
them half a pound of mustard seed. In a bowl put 
two pounds of sugar, one-half teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper, two teaspoonfuls each of mace, allspice, and 
cloves, ground fine; also add two tablespoonfuls each 



420 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of cinnamon, ginger, black pepper, curry powder, tur- 
meric and celery seed. Mix until smooth with a little 
cold vinegar, add enough vinegar to make a gallon; 
pour it over the tomatoes, throw in some strips of 
horse-radish. Stew all together until the tomatoes 
are a bright yellow; stir with a wooden spoon. 

EAST INDIA PICKLE. 

Mrs. J. J. Queuing. (Aunt.) 

One-half peck of green tomatoes, one-half peck of 
sliced ripe tomatoes, two heads of cauliflower, one peck 
of small cucumbers; salt these and let them stand 
twenty-four hours; then drain and freshen a little; add 
a handful of scraped horse-radish, three heads of cel- 
ery, one-half ounce of turmeric, one-half ounce of 
cloves, one-eighth of a pound of ground pepper, one- 
half pound of white mustard seed, one-half pound of 
flour of mustard, one-eighth of a pound of sugar, one- 
half ounce of cinnamon; put in a kettle with cold vin- 
egar; let it boil fifteen minutes (watch carefully, as it 
burns easily); pour it on hot. Mix the turmeric, half a 
teacup of flour and mustard together in a paste with 
cold vinegar, and stir in when boiling, to thicken. 

ENGLISH PICKLE. 

Cousin Mary Josselyn. 

Two heads of cauliflower, one quart of small onions, 
two quarts of small cucumbers, one quart of green 
tomatoes, sliced, six green peppers, chopped fine, one- 
half pound white mustard seed, one-fourth pound 
of English mustard, one ounce of turmeric, one-half 
ounce of cloves^ one-half ounce of cinnamon^ one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 42I 

tablespoonful of table oil, four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one coffee cup of sugar. Salt the tomatoes, onions 
and cucumbers; let them stand twenty-four hours. 
Divide the cauliflower and salt separately. Drain 
thoroughly; add the peppers and put into a porcelain 
kettle and cover with cold vinegar; let it boil ten min- 
utes. Drain as before; when cold add in the follow- 
ing manner: Mix the English mujstard, cloves, 
cinnamon, flour and turmeric; smooth with three 
pints of vinegar and cook thoroughly; add the oil 
when done, and stir the dressing through the pickles, 
adding the mustard seed. Bottle. This makes six 
quarts. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 
Sister M, 

One peck of green tomatoes, sliced, six large onions, 
one head of cauliflower, cut in medium-sized pieces. 
Sprinkle over them one pint of salt and let them stand 
over night. In the morning drain off the salt and 
boil them in two quarts of water and one quart of vin- 
egar fifteen or twenty minutes. Drain well and add 
seven pints of vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, 
one-half pint of white mustard seed, two tablespoon- 
fuls of ground allspice, two ounces each of cloves, 
ginger, cinnamon and mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of ground cayenne pepper. Put all into a kettle and 
boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Stir and be careful 
not to burn the mixture. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

One quart of sliced cucumbers, one quart of sliced 
green tomatoes, one pint of small onions, one medium 



422 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

head cauliflower cut up in small pieces, one small 
spoonful of cayenne pepper, a few nasturtiums and 
sliced radishes; salt slightly and leave over night; 
scald in the morning in vinegar, after draining the 
pickles thoroughly. To every quart of vinegar, one 
cup of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, one- 
fourth pound of Colman's mustard. Dissolve the 
flour and mustard in a little cold water, and stir into 
the vinegar when it boils; then add the sugar and 
pickles. 

MUSHROOM PICKLES. 

Mrs. L. 

Take button mushrooms, wash in salt and water, 
dry on flannel and stem. Put in a shallow pan, 
sprinkle with a little salt and a good deal of pepper; 
cover with water and stew until the juice dries down; 
then cover with vinegar. Spice with mace and all- 
spice. Cover tightly in a jar when cold. 



TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. 

Sister. (T. F. M.) 

Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer 
with salt; let it drain two days, then put into jar and 
pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put in a 
few slices of red beet-root. Choose the purple red 
cabbage. Those who like the flavor of spice will 
boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in bunches 
and thrown in after being salted will look a beautiful 
red. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 423 

COUSIN SUSIE'S CHOW-CHOW. No. 2. 

One-fourth peck sliced tomatoes, fifteen large cucum- 
bers, or forty-five small ones, twenty-five large onions, 
sliced, two medium cabbages, cut fine, one-half pint 
of grated horse-radish, one-fourth pound white mus- 
tard seed, one-fourth pound mustard, ground, two 
ounces of celery seed, two ounces of cinnamon, two 
ounces of red pepper, three ounces of turmeric, one- 
fourth pound of black pepper. If cauliflower can 
be obtained use one head of cabbage and three heads 
of cauliflower. Put alternate layers of the vegetables 
in a jar, sprinkle salt lightly over, then alternate lay- 
ers of the four vegetables, then salt; continue to do 
this until all of the vegetables are used. In twenty- 
ifour hours squeeze dry, and cover with vinegar and 
water, each one-half; squeeze dry in twenty-four hours 
and cover with hot vinegar full strength. Add at 
once the rest of the ingredients save the ground 
mustard and one pound of sugar, which must be 
added cold the last day. This vinegar must be heated 
each twenty-four hours for three days more, thus 
making in all four days. Put away in stone jars. 
This is excellent. Fresh vinegar may be added if 
necessary. 

CHOW-CHOW. No. 3. 

Mrs. B. 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, one dozen onions, 
one dozen green peppers, chopped fine; sprinkle over 
the mass a pint of salt; let it stand over night, then 
drain off the brine; cover it with good vinegar; let it 
cook one hour slowly, then drain and pack in a jar. 



424 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Take two pounds of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cin- 
namon, same of allspice, one each of cloves and pep- 
per, half cup of ground mustard, one pint of horse- 
radish, and vinegar enough to mix thin. When boil- 
ing hot, pour over the pickle packed in the jar, and 
cover tight. Then it is ready for use, and will keep 
for months. 

CHOW-CHOW. No. 4. 
Sister Mary. 
One bushel of green tomatoes, sliced, two heads of 
cabbage, chopped, one-half peck of onions, sliced, 
twelve red peppers, chopped fine, four ounces of celery- 
seed, one-fourth pound of mustard seed, one ounce of 
ground cloves, one ounce of allspice, one ounce of 
mace. Cover with vinegar, and let all boil two hours;, 
add a little salt. Tomatoes, cabbage and onions 
should be sprinkled with salt over night. In the 
morning drain off the water. 

PICCALILLI. No. I. 

Author. 
One peck of green tomatoes, sliced, six green pep- 
pers, sliced, one quart of onions, sliced. Cover with 
salt over night; drain off, and add to one gallon of 
boiling vinegar, one-half ounce whole allspice, one- 
half ou,nce of ground cloves, four ounces of ground 
mustard (Colman's), two ounces of white mustard 
seed, two ounces of celery seed, one ounce of ground 
ginger, one ounce of turmeric, one teacup of brown 
sugar, one bottle of French mustard, one grated nut- 
meg. Boil till clear. Dissolve turmeric and ground 
mustard in a little cold vinegar, and add five minutes 
before it is done. 



Graded cook book. 425 

PICCALILLI. No. 2. 
Sister Dona. 
Take one peck of green tomatoes; slice them; 
sprinkle with one pint of salt, and let stand twenty- 
four hours, then wash in cold water; drain well and 
chop fine; add one head of cabbage, six onions, twelve 
peppers, and a little horse-radish. Chop all fine, and 
scald in vinegar. Drain well, and then add one ounce 
of mace, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of allspice, 
one pint of molasses. Boil fresh vinegar, and turn on 
it. Sprinkle a little brown sugar over the top, and set 
away in a jar covered tightly. In three or four days it 
will be fit for use. 

PICCALILLI. No. 3. 
Author. 
Take a peck of green tomatoes, cut in pretty thin 
slices, and sprinkle lightly with salt the night before 
cooking them. The next day, drain off the water, 
and having sliced twelve large onions, put in the kettle 
a layer of tomatoes, and over them a layer of onions; 
over this mixture put a layer from one bottle of French 
mustard (the best), one-fourth pound of mustard seed, 
one ounce of ground cloves, one ounce of ground 
pepper, one ounce of ground allspice; then another 
layer of tomatoes, and the above ingredients until all 
are used; cover with good vinegar, and let it simmer 
until the tomatoes look quite clear. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 
Sister J. H. 
One peck of green tomatoes, sliced, salted, and left 
standing over night; drain off very dry, and add one 



426 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

quart of small onions, one dozen green peppers, sliced 
fine, one-half pound of ground mustard, two tea- 
spoonfuls of turmeric, one-fourth pound of mustard 
seed, two ounces of ground ginger, one nutmeg, one 
teacup of sugar, one large tablespoonful each of whole 
allspice, pepper and cloves; vinegar sufficient to cover 
well. Mix all together, and cook until tomatoes are 
tender, stirring while cooking. Add the mustard and 
turmeric after taking from the fire, wet with cold 
vinegar. 

SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Aunt Mary. 
Slice the tomatoes thick, and put in layers, with salt; 
let stand over night, drain off next day; one peck of 
tomatoes, one gallon of vinegar, one pound of sugar, 
one ounce of whole cinnamon, one-half ounce of whole 
cloves. Boil all together about half an hour. 

MANGOES. 

Mrs. N. 
Put melons in brine for two weeks, then soak in 
clear water over night; simmer one day in vinegar, 
slit, take the seeds out, and fill with the following: 
Cut cabbage fine, and salt over night; squeeze out the 
water, and add one pint of grated horse-radish, half 
pint of mustard seed (brown and white), three cloves 
of garlic, one pound of brown sugar, quarter of a pint 
of olive oil, cloves, mace, ginger and allspice; (use the 
best cider vinegar.) Put one small pepper in each 
melon; when filled sew them up; pour boiling vine- 
gar (with a little sugar in it) over them, and tie up 
tight. Best when one year old. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 427 

OLD-FASHIONED MANGOES. 

Cousin Eva. 
Select medium-sized canteloupes, or nutmeg mel- 
ons; cut out a small section, cleanse, and steam over 
salted water till tender. When cold fill with small 
cucumbers, a few green grapes, small red peppers, 
shreds of horse-radish, bits of cauliflower, nasturtiums, 
white mustard seed, a few cloves; allspice and celery- 
seed if desired. Fit on closely the piece cut from the 
melon, tie firmly and fill crock. Cover with boiling 
hot vinegar. 

PEACH MANGOES. No. i. 

Miss J. H. 
One peck of peaches two-thirds ripe, throw into 
strong salt and water for twelve hours. Wipe dry, 
cut in halves, take out the stones and make the filling 
as follows: One-quarter pound white mustard seed, 
one-quarter pound black mustard seed, one pound of 
brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of turmeric, one 
tablespoonful of cloves, ground, four tablespoonfuls 
of sweet oil, one tablespoonful of celery seed, two 
onions chopped fine, two red peppers chopped fine. 
This makes enough for two dozen more peaches than 
the above. Sew up, and leave in vinegar containing 
one pound of brown sugar to the gallon, three or four 
red peppers, a little scraped horse-radish and some 
bruised ginger root. 

PEACH MANGOES. No. 2. 
Author. 
Select nearly ripe peaches, cut a slit in the side of 
each peach, remove the stone, and cover the fruit with 



428 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

a weak brine; let stand twelve hours, then rinse in 
cold water, and fill with preserved orange peel, pre- 
served ginger, canned cherries, sweet almonds, corian- 
der seed, chopped soft peaches, and a little mace and 
mustard seed. Make a syrup of one gallon of vinegar, 
five quarts of sugar, four ounces of cassia buds, one 
ounce of whole cloves. Sew up the peaches; put a 
few at a time into the boiling syrup, and cook until 
they can be easily pierced with a fork. When all are 
done, cook the syrup until thick, and pour over the 
peaches, and seal. An excellent way to prepare them 
is to pour this syrup, boiling hot, over the peaches, 
after they are filled and sewed, for three mornings in 
succession;, the fourth morning boil all together until 
tender; then seal while hot. 

STUFFING FOR CUCUMBER MANGOES. 
Mrs. H. 

Wash a pound of white race ginger very clean, pour 
boiling water on it, and let stand twenty-four hours; 
slice thin, and dry it; one pound of horse-radish dried 
and scraped, one pound of mustard seed, one pound 
of chopped onion, one ounce of mace, one nutmeg 
pounded fine, two ounces of turmeric, and a handful 
of whole black pepper. Make these ingredients into 
a paste with a quarter of a pound of mustard and a 
large cup of olive oil; put a clove of garlic into each 
mango. This is sufficient stuffing for forty mangoes. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

Author. 
One peck of sweet apples, three pounds of sugar, 
two quarts of vinegar, one-half ounce of cinnamon, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 429 

one-half ounce of cloves. Pare the apples, leaving 
them whole; boil them in part of the vinegar and 
sugar until you can put a fork through them; take 
them out. Heat the remainder of the vinegar and 
sugar and pour over them. Be careful not to boil 
them too long or they will break. 



PICKLED BLACKBERRIES. 

Three pounds of sugar to six pounds of fruit; one- 
half pint of vinegar, all kinds of spices, one table- 
spoonful of each; heat the vinegar three mornings and 
pour over the fruit while hot; the last time boil down 
until thick, and can hot. 



BLACKBERRY PICKLES. 

Author. 

• 

Seven pounds of berries, three pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, one-half ounce of cassia buds, one- 
half ounce of whole cloves; boil one-half hour, then 
skim out the fruit and boil down the juice. This 
recipe will answer for pears. 

PICKLED CURRANTS. 

Author. 

Five pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, 
one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon; boil the cur- 
rants in the vinegar a few minutes, then add the sugar 
and spices. Boil until it becomes a jelly. 



43^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, 
three-fourths of a pint of vinegar, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of ground cloves. Let currants, vine- 
gar and sugar come to a boil; skim out the currants, 
then boil one-half hour; then add currants, also spices 
tied up in a thin bag, and heat thoroughly through. 
Seal up hot or set away in stone jar in a cool place. 
One cup of raisins to two pounds is liked by many. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. No. i. 

To two gallons of fruit add nine pounds of sugar; 
boil together until soft and add one pint of good vin- 
egar, allspice, cloves and cinnamon to your taste. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. No. 2. 

» 

To five pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, cloves, cinnamon and allspice to taste. 
Boil twenty minutes. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Author. 

Seven pints of fruit, three and one-half pints of 
sugar, one pint of vinegar, three-fourths of an ounce 
each of ground cinnamon and cloves; squeeze the pulp 
from the skin; boil the pulps a few moments and then 
strain them through a fine colander to take the seeds 
out; put skins and pulp together, add vinegar and 
sugar, boil until quite thick, then add spices; seal up 
hot. Use this rule for spiced currants. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 43I 

SPICED PEACHES AND PLUMS. 

Miss J. H. 
One peck of peaches, pared, three pints of vinegar, 
three and a half pounds of sugar, three nutmegs, 
grated or broken up, one ounce of cloves, one ounce 
of cinnamon; pare the peaches, place them in a jar 
and strew the spices through them; or tie up in bags. 
Boil the sugar and vinegar together for a few min- 
utes, and pour hot over the peaches. Repeat this for 
three days in succession; the fourth day put the 
peaches in, and boil all together for ten minutes. Use 
the same rule for plums, but do not take quite so 
much vinegar. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Author. 
To one can of peaches, one teacup of sugar, one- 
half teacup of vinegar, one teaspoonful of whole 
cloves, one-half stick of cinnamon, or a tablespoonful 
of cassia buds; boil the sugar, vinegar and syrup of 
peaches about five minutes, then throw in spice; let 
boil up once, and pour over peaches. Canned pears 
can be prepared in the same way. 

PICKLED PEACHES. No. i. 

Author. 
Use large, firm peaches; rub well with a coarse 
cloth or flannel, or if you wish to skin them, throw 
them into boiling water for a minute, when the skin 
will readily come off. Into each peach stick two 
cloves, one on each side, if the peaches are very large; 
if medium size, stick one clove in each peach. Have 



43^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

rea^y a boiling syrup made of four quarts of cider 
vinegar, four quarts of granulated sugar, and one 
ounce of stick cinnamon or two ounces of cassia buds. 
Put in a few peaches at a time; let them boil until 
they can be easily pierced with a fork; take out, and 
place in glass jars until all are cooked; then to the 
syrup remaining add tw^o pounds of sugar, boil ten 
minutes longer; pour over the fruit, and seal. I 
usually select from the baskets all the soft peaches 
for canning and marmalade, and use only the- hard 
ones for pickling. Many prefer to pare the peaches 
with a sharp knife, instead of throwing them into 
boiling water. 

Do pears the same way, only not stick cloves in 
them. 

PICKLED PEACHES. No. 2. 
Author. 

Boil the peaches wnth the skins on for three 
minutes; spread on plates to cool; when cold, put 
them in a stone jar, and cover with good cider vinegar, 
dilute with one part water to nine parts vinegar, and 
sweeten to taste; put a small bag of cloves on the top; 
cover with a plate, and then tie thick paper on the top 
of the jar. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 
Author. 

One quart of vinegar, three and one-half pounds of 
sugar, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, 
nine pounds of plums. Boil the vinegar, sugar, spice 
and fruit together, or make boiling hot, and pour 
upon the plums three mornings; the fourth morning 
pour the plums and all in the kettle together; boil 
until you tliink the plums are done. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 433 

SPICED WHORTLEBERRIES. 

Author. 

Seven pounds of whortleberries, three and one-half 
pounds of sugar, one pint of strong cider vinegar, 
one-half ounce of ground cinnamon, one-half ounce of 
ground cloves. Boil twenty minutes. Let vinegar 
and spices come to a boil before putting in berries. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

Author. 
Seven pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, three-fourths ounce of cloves, three- 
fourths ounce of cinnamon. 

WATERMELON PICKLE. 

Author. 
The rind of one large melon, one gallon of vinegar, 
three and one-half pounds of granulated sugar, one 
ounce of stick cinnamon, or two ounces of cassia buds, 
one-half ounce of whole cloves, one whole nutmeg. 
Pare and cut melon in strips; lay in weak brine 
twelve hours; pour off; scald with water enough to 
cover, with one teaspoonful of alum, until clear. 
Drain and w^ash thoroughly in cold water. When the 
vinegar reaches the boiling point, put in melon, spices, 
and sugar, and boil till tender. One tablespoonful of 
ginger-root may be substituted for the nutmeg by 
those who prefer that flavor. Use one-half cup of salt 
to a two-gallon jar. 

WATERMELON SWEET PICKLES. 

Two pounds of watermelon, or muskmelon rinds, 
pared and cut in strips, boiled in pure water until 



434 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

tender; drain well. Then make a syrup of two pounds 
of sugar, one quart of vinegar, half an ounce of mace, 
an ounce of cinnamon, and some roots of ginger, 
boiled until thick, and pour over the melons boiling 
hot. Drain off the syrup, heat it until boiling hot and 
pour over the melons three days in succession. They 
are very nice, and will keep two years. 

CHILI SAUCE. No. i. 

Author. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, one ripe and one green 
pepper, two onions, two tablespoonfuls of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, three cups of vinegar; peel tomatoes and onions 
and cut very fine and separately; add the peppers 
chopped with the other ingredients; boil one and one- 
half hours; bottle. Stone jugs are better than glass 
cans. One quart of canned tomatoes may be used 
instead of twelve ripe tomatoes. This is very nice 
without cinnamon. 

CHILI SAUCE. No. 2. 

Author. 
One dozen of large ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, 
four onions, chopped fine, three tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, four teacups 
of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls each of ginger, allspice, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and about one red pepper; 
boil two hours; seal up in bottles. If much pepper is 
liked, take four red peppers for this rule. 

CHILI SAUCE. No. 3. 
Author. 
One dozen of ripe tomatoes, four green peppers. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 435 

four onions, all chopped line with three tablespoon- 
fuls of salt; add one pint of vinegar; cloves, mace, all- 
spice and cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls each, pounded 
up; boil three hours. Strain through thin muslin 
bag, and bottle. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. No. i. 
Sister J. H. 

Two dozen cucumbers, grated, three good-sized 
onions, salt to taste. Put into a dish and drain dry; 
then add one teaspoonful of red pepper, one of horse- 
radish and one of mustard. Mix well and put in a 
jar with vinegar enough to cover. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. No. 2. 
Sister Mary. 

Pare and take the seeds from one dozen of large 
ripe cucumbers; then grate them. Make a bag of 
some thin material, and hang them up to drain over 
night. The next morning chop two or three green 
peppers and two or three onions, a tablespoonful of 
salt, and add to the substance left in the bag, with 
one quart of vinegar. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Sister Mary. 

To eight pounds of gooseberries add four pounds of 
sugar, one pint of vinegar, two ounces each of cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice. Boil slowly four hours; stir 
frequently. 



436 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PLUM CATSUP.. 

Sister Mary. 
Five pints of plums, two pints of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of ground cloves, two tablespoonfuls of 
ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful of pepper, one-half 
pint of vinegar. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR BOTTLING. 

E. B. M.^ 
One quart of ripe tomatoes, four pods of red pep- 
per. Cook until tender, strain, and stir in thoroughly 
four tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls of 
ground black pepper, three tablespoonfuls of white 
mustard seed, one-half tablespoonful of allspice, one 
pint of vinegar; simmer slowly three or four hours. 
This will keep for years. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Sister M. H. 

To one bushel of ripe tomatoes, boiled and strained 
through a sieve, add one gallon of good vinegar, one 
pint of salt, six heads of garlic, one tablespoonful of 
cayenne pepper, four tablespoonfuls of black pepper, 
four tablespoonfuls of ground allspice. Boil until it 
becomes the proper consistency; bottle and seal. 

TOMATO CATSUP WITHOUT BOILING. 

Sister J. H. 

One-half peck of ripe tomatoes, chopped fine, one 
quart of vinegar, one-half cup of brown sugar, one- 
half cup of mustard seed, one-half cup of salt, one 
tablespoonful of ground cloves, one tablespoonful of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 437 

ground allspice, one tablespoonful of ground black 
pepper, two red peppers, cut up, two onions, cut up, 
teaspoonful of celery seed. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 
Mrs. D. 

Boil one bushel of tomatoes until tender, rub them 
through a colander, add two quarts of cider vinegar, 
one and one-quarter pounds of salt, one-quarter pound 
of black pepper, two ounces of cayenne pepper, three 
grated nutmegs, one-quarter pound of allspice, six 
onions, three pounds of brown sugar. Boil down and 
when cold, strain through a sieve to remove the onion; 
then bottle. This recipe I use constantly, and think 
it cannot be excelled. 

CELERY VINEGAR. 

Author. 

Put into a bottle one ounce of celery seed and a tea- 
cup of vinegar; bottle. Use to flavor salads, soup, or 
sauces. To make celery salt, dry and grate celery 
root and mix with one-third salt. Keep in a bottle 
well corked. 

CURRANT SAUCE. 

Author. 

Two quarts of currants, one quart of sugar, one- 
half pint vinegar, one tablespoonful of ground cinna- 
mon. The currants must measure two quarts after 
being picked from the stems. Mix and boil an hour, 
or until thick, 



43^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GOVERNOR'S SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes, six large onions, 
sprinkle with two teaspoonfuls of salt; let stand over 
night; drain in a colander. To one quart of vinegar, 
add one pound of brown sugar, one ounce of celery 
seed, two ounces of ground mustard, one tablespoon- 
ful of red pepper, a few cloves and allspice. Boil 
tomatoes and onions in vinegar until tender; add 
more vinegar and sugar, if necessary. Spice should 
be added whole and sprinkled through; celery chop- 
ped fine makes a nice addition. 

MUSTARD SAUCE FOR LETTUCE OR CAB- 
BAGE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one of made 
mustard, one of salt, pepper, butter the size of an egg, 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs; mix well together; vin- 
egar as you like, as much as is needed for the dish. 
Put all together on the stove to warm; then add two 
well-beaten eggs; pour over the cabbage or lettuce, 
which must be chopped fine. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Author. 

Two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one dessert spoonful 
of sugar, a salt spoonful of salt; pour over this three 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water. When cold, add one 
tablespoonful of olive oil, drop by drop. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 439 

SPICED VINEGAR. 

Anna. 
Put three pounds of sugar in a three-gallon jar with 
small mouth; two ounces each of mace, cloves, pepper, 
allspice, turmeric, celery seed, white ginger, in small 
bits, and ground mustard. Put in six small bags of 
thin muslin, lay in a jar and fill with cider vinegar. 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 



JELLIES. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON JELLIES AND PRE- 
SERVES. 
Author. 

Fruits should not be unripe, and should be free 
from blemishes. 

Small fruit for jelly should not be gathered right 
after a shower or while the dew is on. 

Pared fruit exposed to the air long will turn dark. 
If it must be kept awhile before preserving throw it 
into cold water. 

Use crushed loaf or granulated sugar for preserves 
or jelly. In making jelly^ the flavor is retained better 
by boiling the juice fifteen minutes before adding the 
sugar, and in the meantime heat the sugar; then a 
very quick boiling will suffice. When jelly commences 
to boil, do not let it stop boiling until the jelly is done. 

APPLE OR QUINCE JELLY 

Will look transparent if strained two or three times, 
not squeezed. It is sometimes necessary to strain 
quince jelly four times before it will be perfectly clear. 
Sprinkle crushed loaf sugar over the jelly after it has 
been poured into glasses, and cooled. This will pre- 
vent mould, and the jelly need not be covered or 

sealed. 

440 



GRADED COOK BOOK, 441 

The water over which the fruit is steamed for can- 
ning, may be used to fill up the jars, with the addi- 
tion of a little syrup. 

APPLE-SKIN JELLY. 
Author. 

Place a stone jar on the back of the stove; throw 
into it the parings and cores of one-half peck of 
greenings and one-half peck of spitzenburgs; pour 
over them just enough cold water to steam well, and 
extract the gluten. Leave them on the back of the 
stove a day or so; then strain through a flannel or 
towel, and to every pint of juice add a pound of granu- 
lated sugar. Boil until it jellies; the length of time it 
takes to jelly varies according to the amount of water 
used. The above amount makes ten tumblers. Mon- 
day morning is a good time to put the parings in the 
jar, and Tuesday afternoon the jelly can be made. 
The foregoing is a rule I follow because I live in a 
city, but if I lived in the country, or had a large 
family and used apples by the quantity, I would keep 
a jar on the stove and throw in parings of any winter 
apples, pour over a little water, and in a few days at 
my leisure would strain and make the jelly. The 
greenings alone make amber jelly, the spitzenburgs 
red jelly, and combined the color of sherry. The two 
named give the best flavor, but any winter apple will 
make the jelly. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Author. 
When apples are plenty quarter them without 
paring; wash, take off stem and flower, cover with 
cold water, and keeping them covered, let them cook 



442 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

slowly till done; squeeze through a towel or flannel, 
being careful not to squeeze any of the pulp through 
or you will have marmalade instead. To every pint 
of juice use one pound of granulated sugar. Boil 
twenty minutes. A very clear apple jelly can be made 
in this way. Pare, core and quarter the apples; boil 
them in sufficient cold water to cover them; when done 
strain twice, and to every pint of juice add one pound 
of granulated sugar; boil twenty minutes. 

This jelly is very fine with the addition of blanched 
almonds. When the jelly is partly congealed insert 
almonds with a small wire. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Aunt Morgan. 
Use only perfect fruit; boil until tender in enough 
water to keep the berries from burning. Strain 
through a flannel jelly bag, pressing out all the juice. 
Strain two or three times through a clean cloth, return 
the juice to a clean preserving kettle. For every pint 
of juice allow a pint of sugar, and the beaten white of 
an egg for the whole. Boil rapidly for twenty min- 
utes, counting from the time it begins to boil. It is 
well to test it by putting*a few drops in a tin on the 
ice. When done run through the jelly bag. If the 
first dripping is not entirely clear, return to the 
strainer until it runs clear. Put the jelly into glasses. 
When it has become firm, cut out little papers to fit 
the top, dip them in brandy and put over the jelly. 
Place over these larger papers, brushed over with the 
white of an egg, press the edges against the sides of 
the glasses, to exclude the air. These directions 
apply to the making of nearly all jellies. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 443 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Sister Dona. 
One quart of cranberries, one pound of granulated 
sugar; add a very little water to keep from burning. 
When done, strain. 

CRANBERRIES. 

/ Author. 

One pound of berries, one pound of granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of boiling water. Boil five min- 
utes. This will be transparent and not bitter. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Author. 
One part water, three parts cranberries, boiled in a 
porcelain kettle until soft. Strain through a colander, 
not pressing very hard, and without again putting on 
the stove, stir in two parts sugar. Beat quickly until 
thoroughly mixed, then pour into your moulds. The 
granulated sugar must be warmed in the ov^en before 
adding to the cranberries. 

BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Author. 
Remove the stem and flower, and put the currants 
in a porcelain-lined kettle with just enough cold water 
to keep from burning. Cook until soft, about one 
hour, then strain through a flannel bag without press- 
ing. Let this boil twenty minutes to evaporate the 
water, then add equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar, 
and boil until it jellies. Black currants may be put 
in jar and set in a kettle of cold water heated grad- 
ually with it until soft; then proceed as above, but 



444 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

this method is more tedious. Black currant jelly is 
served with dark game. It is very valuable for its 
soothing quality in sore throat, and as a remedy for 
indigestion. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Scribner's Monthly. 

This recipe has three advantages: First, it never 
fails, as the old plan is sure to do, five times out of 
eight; secondly, it requires but half the usual quantity 
of sugar, and so retains the grateful acidity and 
peculiar flavor of the fruit; thirdly, it is by far less 
troublesome than the usual method. Weigh the cur- 
rants without taking the trouble to remove the stems; 
do not wash them, but carefully remove leaves and 
whatever may adhere to them. To each pound of fruit 
allow half the weight of granulated or pure loaf 
sugar. Put a few currants into a porcelain-lined ket- 
tle, and press them with a potato-masher, or anything 
convenient in order to secure sufficient liquid to pre- 
vent burning; then add the remainder of the fruit and 
boil freely twenty minutes, stirring occasionally to 
prevent burning. Take out and strain carefully 
through a three-cornered bag of strong, close texture, 
putting the liquid into either earthen or wooden 
vessels — never in tin, as the action of the acid on tin 
materially affects both color and flavor. When strained 
return the liquid to the kettle, without the trouble of 
measuring and let it boil thoroughly for a moment or 
so, and then add the sugar. The moment the sugar 
is entirely dissolved the jelly is done, and must be im- 
mediately dished or placed in glasses. It will jelly 
upon the side of the cup as it is taken up, leaving no 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 445 

doubt as to the result. Gather the fruit early, as soon 
as fully ripe, since the pulp softens and the juice is 
less rich if allowed to remain long after ripening. In 
our climate the first week in July is usually considered 
the time to make currant jelly. Never gather currants 
or other soft or small seed fruit immediately after a 
rain or while the dew is on them, for preserving pur- 
poses, as they are greatly impoverished by the moist- 
ure absorbed. In preserving all fruits of this class, 
if they are boiled until tender or transparent in a 
small quantity of water, and the sugar is added after- 
ward, the hardness of the seeds, so objectionable in 
small fruits, will be thus avoided. A delicious jam 
maybe made of blackberries, currants, and raspberries, 
or with currants with a few raspberries to flavor, by 
observing the above suggestions and adding sugar 
pound for pound, and boiling about twenty minutes. 

CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT BOILING. 

Author. 
Press the juice carefully from freshly gathered cur- 
rants. Gather while the sun is high. To one pint of 
juice add one pound of cut or granulated sugar and 
expose it to the hot sun for three or four days. This 
makes very clear and beautiful jelly. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Author. 
Gather the currants when just ripe; remove the 
stems, bruise well with hands, and strain through a 
jelly bag without pressing. Let the juice come to a 
boil, skim and add an equal quantity of granulated 
sugar which has been heated in an oven. Boil ten 
minutes rapidly. ' 



446 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Author. 

Remove the stems from ripe grapes, mash and cool 
until well done, then strain without pressing; add 
pound of granulated sugar to each pint of juice. Boil" 
steadily for ten minutes, or until it jellies. Try with 
a spoon. Pour into glasses. When cold sift pulver- 
ized loaf sugar over the top. In this way the jelly 
will keep without being covered with paper. The 
granulated sugar must be heated before adding it to 
the grape juice. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY. 

Author. 

Make the same as ripe grape jelly, only a little 
water will have to be used, if the grapes are not juicy 
enough to keep from burning after being mashed. 
The grapes may be put in a jar and set in a kettle of 
cold water, heated gradually with it, and prepared as 
above. If a pink color is liked, add a few ripe grapes. 

LEMON JELLY. No. i. 

Author. 

One cup of granulated sugar, one pint of boiling 
water, one-third box of Cox's gelatine, the juice of 
three or four lemons, according to acid desired. Soak 
the gelatine in just enough cold water to cover, for 
one-half hour on back part of stove, where it will only 
get lukewarm; then add it to the other ingredients. 
Strain into a mould and put on ice to chill. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 447 

LEMON JELLY. No. 2. 
Aunt Robinson. 
One ounce of Cox's gelatine, one pound of crushed 
sugar, three lemons (pulps, juice and grated rind). 
Pour a quart of boiling water on gelatine, add the 
other ingredients, and a glass of wine, and put in a 
mould to congeal. 

LEMON ORANGE JELLY. 

Author. 
One-half box of Cox's gelatine soaked in one-half 
teacup of cold water one hour on back of stove; add 
one pint of boiling water, one-half teacup of sugar, 
rind grated and juice of one lemon, juice of two 
oranges; strain through napkin and put in mould. The 
sugar should be allowed to melt with the gelatine 
before adding the boiling water. Lemon jelly may 
be made the same as above by using the grated rind 
and juice of two lemons and omitting the orange. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. N. 
Peel and cut six oranges; be careful to remove the 
seeds and thick white skin. Put them into bowl, and 
sugar them well. For the jelly take half a box of 
gelatine, and pour on it one-half pint of cold water, let 
it soak an hour, then add one and a half pints of 
boiling water, and sugar to the taste. Flavor with 
the juice of two lemons. Stir until the gelatine 
and sugar are well dissolved; then pour it over the 
oranges. Put into a mould, or break up when cool in 
a glass dish. 



448 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PARFAIT AUX FRUITS. 

Author. 

Put one-half teacup cold water, one-half box Cox's 
gelatine, and one teacup of granulated sugar in 
bright tin and leave it on the back of the stove for an ij 
hour; then pour over it one pint of boiling water. Add 1 
to this the grated rind and juice of two lemons and a li 
wineglass of sherry. Put a mould upon the ice; pour 
into it an inch layer of this jelly, and let it set; then 
upon this a layer of full ripe, pared and sliced or 
quartered peaches; then another layer of jelly, and 
when it has set add another layer of peaches. Con- 
tinue in this manner till all the jelly has been used. 
While you are waiting for each layer to set, keep the 
remaining jelly in a warm place (not hot), so it will 
not congeal until poured in the mould. Pineapple, 
chopped in inch pieces, or berries may be used instead 
of peaches. 

QUINCE JELLY. No. i. 
Author. 

Do not peel the quince, but wipe well; boil the 
whole in sufficient water to cover, until soft, strain 
four times, when it will look clear; do not let the pulp 
run through. Use a pound of granulated sugar to a 
pound of juice. If quinces are full ripe, ten ounces of 
sugar to a pound will make jelly. 

If desired to make marmalade, the jelly can be made 
of the skins and cores and marmalade made in the fol- 
lowing manner.. Boil fruit in very little water until 
soft enough to run through a colander or mash smooth 
with a spoon. To each pound of fruit use three- 
quarters of a pound of granulated sugar; boil twenty 
minutes, stirring often. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 449 

QUINCE JELLY. No. 2. 
Author. 
Wash the quinces thoroughly, skin and cover the 
I fruit with .cold water; boil slowly until the fruit 
i becomes soft; strain through a jelly bag, conical shape, 
four times; add one pound granulated sugar to one 
pint of juice; boil twenty minutes. Do not squeeze the 
' fruit, but allow it to drain by suspending the bag of 
fruit over the receptacle for the juice. 

The quinces make very nice butter by themselves, 
or mixed with apples half and half. 

Sister Dona advises straining quince jelly four or 
five times, as it is a great improvement. It is then a 
delicate amber shade. Of course the fruit must be 
used for best jelly; not the cores or peel. 

WINE JELLY. No. i. 
Mrs. H. 
Soak one box of Cox's gelatine in one pint of 
cold water for fifteen minutes. Then add three pints 
of boiling water, one pint of wine, one and one-half 
pounds of crushed sugar, the juice of three lemons, 
the rind of one lemon, and a little brandy. Strain into 
the moulds, and let it stand until cold. 

WINE JELLY. No. 2. 
Mrs. H. 
To one package of Cox's gelatine, add one pint of 
cold water, the rind of one lemon, and the juice of two, 
four cloves, and some stick cinnamon broken up. Let 
it stand one hour; then add one pound of crushed 
sugar, three pints of boiling water, and one pint of 



450 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

wine. Stir all together and strain, and put in mould. 
In warm weather, put in one pint less of boiling 
water. Make it the day before it is to be used. 

WINE JELLY. No. 3. ' 
Author. 
Half a box of gelatine (Cox's), pour over as little 
cold water as will cover and let stand an hour. When 
it is moderately warm squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon. When dissolved, pour over a pint of boiling 
water, one cup of granulated sugar, one cup of sherry 
wine. Claret may be made in the same way, using 
the juice of two lemons. 

WINE JELLY. No. 4. 

Aunt Robinson. 
Two pounds of sugar, one pint of wine, pale sherry 
or white, one pint of cold water, one package of Cox's 
gelatine, juice of two lemons' and grated peel of one, 
one quart of boiling water, one good pinch of cinna- 
mon. Soak the gelatine in the cold water for one 
hour. Add to this the sugar, lemon and cinnamon; 
pour over all a quart of boiling water, and stir until 
the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Put in the wine, 
strain through a double flannel bag, without squeez- 
ing. Wet your moulds with cold water and set your 
jelly away in them to cool. I substitute a salt bag for 
a double flannel bag. 

TO MAKE ANY KIND OF JELLY QUICKLY. 

Miss C. 
One pound of sugar to one pint of juice. Heat the 
sugar as hot as possible without burning or dissolving 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 45 1 

it (in the oven of the stove). Boil the juice five min- 
utes, add the hot sugar, stir it well, and when it has 
boiled one minute again, set it off and fill your glasses. 
Observe the time strictly. 



PRESERVES. 



BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Author. 
Put into a kettle six quarts of ripe berries and three 
pounds of sugar, and boil two hours, stirring fre- 
quently. Put in any spices you like or omit them. 
When cool, put it into a jar, cover with brandied 
paper, and seal. It will keep for years. Use this rule 
for gooseberries, grapes, plums, currants and rasp- 
berries. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Author. 
Three and one-half pounds of citron melon, three 
and one-half pounds of granulated sugar, one-quarter 
pound of root ginger, juice of four lemons. Pare and 
remove seeds; then cut into strips an inch thick, or 
cubes; boil until clear in about two quarts of water 
with one even teaspoonful of alum, and one even tea- 
spoonful of salt, and lay in cold water over night. 
Boil the ginger in three pints of water until strongly 
flavored; cool, and strain or drain off water. To this 
water add the sugar, bring to the boiling point, then 



452 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

add the root ginger and the citron; boil five minutes, 
then add the juice and grated rind of one lemon, slice 
one lemon (rind and all, except seed), lastly the juice 
of two more lemons; boil ten minutes longer, then can 
and seal. 

FRESH FIG PRESERVES. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Olmsted, Savannah, Ga. 
Parboil the fruit in clear water. Drain off water 
and with a sharp pen-knife cut two or three slits in 
each fig to allow syrup to penetrate. Make a clear 
syrup of clear water; one pound of sugar to one pound 
of fruit. Boil figs in syrup till tender. Drain off 
syrup and boil it down thick. Season syrup with 
green ginger to taste. Put fruit in jar while hot and 
fill jars with syrup. 

FRUITS IN ALCOHOL. 
*Mrs. A. W. 
One pint of alcohol, one pint of fruit, one pint of 
crushed sugar. Mix and cover air-tight; will be ready 
for use in a short time. Add fruit from time to time, 
but each time fruit is added, the same quantity of 
sugar must be added, more alcohol when necessary. 
All kinds of fresh fruits, mixed, are nice prepared 
this way. Bananas, skinned, may be added whole or 
sliced. 

HONEY PRESERVES. 

Sister Fannie. 
Pare and halve the fruit, being extremely careful that 
each separate piece of the fruit is very sound and 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 453 

firm; better have fruit a little green than over ripe. 
Have on table spread smoothly a clean towel, on which 
spread the fruit until the quantity desired to be pre- 
served is pared. Fill a bowl one-half full of alcohol 
or best grade of whisky; allow each piece of the fruit 
to remain in bowl of alcohol one minute. Five pieces 
can be placed in the bowl at one time. Have close by 
the preserving jar; place the pieces in bottom of jar, 
don't drop or throw them in, but handle carefully, 
allowing the pieces to drain in the preserving jar. 
Pour over these five pieces enough clear honey to 
thoroughly cover each piece; better turn the pieces 
over once to allow honey to get on all sides of them 
before putting in more fruit. Repeat the above pro- 
cess, taking five pieces each time, and adding honey 
the same after each time until jar is completely filled, 
but not pressed down. Honey dripped from the comb 
is far superior to strained honey. Do not use under 
six weeks any way. 

TO PRESERVE LEMONS. 

Mrs. F. 

Squeeze the juice from the lemon and put the rind 
into a brine that will bear an egg. Let them remain 
from one to six weeks as convenient; then take from 
the brine, weigh them, cut in slices and soak for 
twenty-four hours in fresh cold water. Then put 
them on the stove in cold water and let them boil 
several hours until tender. Take pound for pound of 
sugar, with one-half of water to a pound, and cook 
until the syrup is rich and thick. Oranges can be 
done in the same' way. 



454 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GREEN OR YELLOW SOUR ORANGE PRE- 
SERVES. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Olmsted, Savannah, Ga. 
Grate the outside of oranges, and cut them in half. 
Squeeze out the juice and seeds without breaking the 
skin; then put them in very salted water for twenty- 
four hours. Wash in clear water, and put them in 
another clear water for twenty-four hours more. Wash 
again and boil them until tender, and most of the bit- 
ter is out. If one water is not enough, boil in two or 
three, then drain and weigh. A pound and a half of 
sugar is required to one pound of oranges, and a half 
pint of water to each pound and a half of sugar. Boil 
the sugar and water for about one hour; afterwards put 
the oranges in this syrup and boil until the oranges 
are transparent. Sour oranges make better preserves 
than sweet ones. 

STUFFED ORANGES. 

Mrs. Charlton H. Way, Savannah, Ga. 
Select small sour oranges. The sweet orange does 
not preserve well. Grate the outer rind, throw them 
in salt water as you grate them. Let them remain in 
one night. Then put them in clear cold water to soak 
the salt from them. Remove a small round piece 
from the top of the orange, and with a spoon remove 
pulp and seeds. Boil rind (not forgetting the small 
pieces taken off), in clear water till tender. If all salt 
taste has not been taken out, boil again. Then stuff 
them with grated cocoanut; and tie on the small pieces. 
Make syrup of one pound of sugar to one pound of 
fruit and boil the oranges in this and seal in air-tight 
cans. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 455 

CONSERVED PEACHES. 

Cousin Alice. 
Pare and cut fruit, and to each pound of fruit take 
three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Boil them 
until clear; take out, drain slightly, and spread 
on dishes to dry. Sprinkle a little sugar on them 
every day, and if any syrup is formed, remove them 
to fresh dishes. When quite dry, lay them lightly 
in a jar with alternate layers of sugar. Quinces are 
nice prepared in the same way. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Cousin Eva. 

I consider the Morris White the best kind of .pe^ch 
for preserves or canning; but many prefer the Craw- 
ford. 

Remove the skin by throwing fruit into boiling hot 
water, allowing it to remain a few minutes, and after- 
wards rubbing carefully with fine linen towel. Steam 
until tender, but not enough so as to break. Make a 
rich syrup, in which a few of the blanched peach pits 
are boiled. Fill jars and seal. 

BRANDY PEACHES. No. i. 

Sister M. H. 
Make a syrup of three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
to one pound of peaches, with as little water as will 
dissolve the sugar. Then boil the peaches (whole) in 
this syrup till soft. Lay the fruit in jar; to one cup of 
syrup add one cup. white brandy, and fill jar. Select 
large fine peaches. 



456 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

IMPROMPTU BRANDY PEACHES. No. 2. 

Author. 
One quart jar of the " Author's " pickled peaches, 
one teacup of granulated sugar, one teacup of best 
brandy. Pour the syrup into a porcelain kettle, bring 
to a boil; add sugar and peaches; boil five minutes, 
then add brandy; boil five minutes; cool and serve. 

BRANDY PEACHES. No. 3. 

Author. 
Select firm ripe peaches. Over a layer of peaches 
pour a little brandy, more peaches and more brandy; 
when spices are used one clove to each peach, and two 
long sticks of cinnamon broken up, to a gallon of 
brandy; and when sugar is used make a brandy syrup 
by mixing crushed sugar with brandy several days 
before it is needed for the peaches. Add crushed 
sugar every twenty-four hours until the syrup will dis- 
solve no more. You will know this by the sugar set- 
tling at the bottom. No cooking is required in pre- 
paring peaches in this manner. If you prefer you can 
dip the peaches in hot lye or boiling water a moment, 
then a moment in cold water and remove skin instead 
of paring with a knife. The jars should be sealed to 
keep the strength of the brandy or covered with paper 
dipped in the white of an egg. 

BRANDY PEACHES. No. 4. 

Cousin Eva. 

Eighteen pounds of loaf sugar to twenty pounds of 

peaches; boil the peaches slowly till they become 

transparent, take them out and spread on dishes, set 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 457 

in the sun till they cool; boil the juice to a thick 
syrup, one pint of brandy to a quart of syrup. 

PEARS PRESERVES WITH GINGER. 

Cousin Eva. 
Select large, good-flavored pears. Pare thin, leaving 
the stems on fruit, and throw into cold water till ready 
to cook, or enough to fill a steamer. Steam till ten- 
der. When cooked place on platter to cool. Make 
rich syrup, into which throw bag containing green gin- 
ger root, and boil till a strong flavor of ginger has 
been obtained. Fill jars with fruit and hot syrup and 
seal air-tight. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 

Miss C, Philadelphia. 

Peel the pineapples, and cut out all the eyes; then 

grate them; add a full pound of sugar for a pound of 

fruit. Boil until they form a rich jam. Stir a good 

deal, then seal up. 

PLUM OR GRAPE CONSERVE. 

Sister M. H. 
Six pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one-half 
pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful each of ground cloves 
and allspice, four teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon. 
Boil to a thick jam. 

PLANTATION STEWED FRUIT OR ECONOMY 
SAUCE. 

Author. 
Any fresh fruit or dried fruit stewed in molasses. 
If dried fruit is iised, soak over night in cold water. 



45^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Stew till nearly done in as little water as possible; 
then add the molasses; and stew five minutes longer. 
Maple syrup used in this way makes a delicious sauce. 

POOR MAN'S PRESERVES. 

Author. 
Bring one quart of best molasses to a boil, and 
while boiling break (do not beat) into it four eggs. 
Flavor with the juice of one lemon. Let it boil three 
minutes. 

PUMPKIN PRESERVES. 

Beatrice McK. 
An excellent and economical sweetmeat is thus 
prepared: To seven pounds of pumpkin take five 
pounds of sugar, four lemons and two ounces of green 
ginger root, to be obtained at most any grocery. Cut 
pumpkin in slices half an inch in thickness and in 
size and form to suit the fancy. Boil the pumpkin in 
the syrup until tender; then remove it and add lemons 
and ginger root. These should be sliced thickly and 
scalded before being put into the syrup. Boil it down 
until it is rich enough to keep without fermenting; 
then pour it over the pumpkin. If the ginger root 
cannot be obtained, lemons alone impart to it an 
agreeable flavor. 

RASPBERRY JAM. No. i. 

Author. 
Mash the raspberries, and to one pound of fruit add 
three-fourths pound of granulated sugar. Boil until 
well done. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 459 

RASPBERRY JAM. No. 2. 

Jam the fruit and add half the amount of sugar as 
fruit; let it boil, stirring often until thick enough to 
can. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Author. 

Select strawberries that are free from sand; to 
every pound of fruit, use three-fourths of a pound of 
granulated sugar. Sprinkle the sugar over the berries, 
and let them stand one hour; drain off the juice and 
bring it to a boil in a porcelain kettle; then add the 
fruit, and cook till it changes color and looks clear; 
don't cook too long c^ they will lose their form. 
Watch closely and take them off as soon as they 
change color. Seal air-tight. 

TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Author. 

Select small yellow egg tomatoes; pierce each one 
with a knitting needle to keep the skin from bursting, 
and to every pound of tomatoes add three-fourths 
pound of sugar. Mash a few tomatoes just enough 
to moisten the sugar, put on the stove in a porcelain 
kettle, and when the syrup boils add the other toma- 
toes. With every peck of tomatoes use nine lemons; 
slice in four lemons, removing the seeds, and squeeze 
in the juice of five. Cook until the preserves look 
clear. One large lemon for every two pounds of fruit 
is a good guide, and if the flavor of lemon is not 
decided enough more may be added. 



460 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TOMATO CONSERVE. 

Sister M. H. 
Seven pounds of tomatoes, four pounds of sugar, 
one pint of vinegar, one ounce of cloves, one ounce 
of cinnamon. Boil three or four hours. 



MARMALADES. 



BLACK CURRANT MARMALADE. 

Author. 
Boil the currants in just enough water to keep them 
from burning ; when soft sti'ain through a colander. 
Take one bowl of sugar to a bowl of pulp. Let it boil 
about ten minutes, then skim and bottle. 

CRAB-APPLE MARMALADE. 

Author. 
Siberian crab-apples are best. Cut in half, take out 
core and stem, cover with cold water, and boil moder- 
ately till soft enough to run through a sieve. To one 
pint of pulp add one pound of sugar. Cook about 
an hour. Twelve rose-geranium leaves to a peck of 
apples, gives the flavor of rose. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Sister Mary. 
Squeeze out the pulp, being careful to remove the 
seeds; do not use the rind. To one pint of pulp add 
one pound of melted granulated sugar, and boil 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 461 

twenty minutes. When made for present use, the 
grated rind may be used to flavor, and also lemon 
juice. 

PEACH MARMALADE. No. i. 

Author. 
Select full ripe peaches, pare and pit them; then 
squeeze fruit with the hands until reduced to a pulpy 
mass, with some coarse pieces through it; then add 
equal parts of sugar, and cook two hours. The sugar 
must be heated in the oven before adding. A potato- 
masher may be used if preferred rather than the 
hands. One-half teacup of the blanched pits, split, 
will greatly add to the flavor of the marmalade. This 
amount of pits to one gallon of the fruit. 

PEACH MARMALADE. No. 2. 

Pare the peaches, take out the stones, weigh chop up 
quite fine, add one-half pound of sugar to every 
pound of peaches; put in a few of the stones, and let 
it simmer for two hours, stirring with great care for 
fear it should burn. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Sister Jennie. 
Sugar pines, greenish cast. Pare and remove the 
eyes with a pen-knife; then weigh them; grate on a 
coarse grater the lengthwise of the apple, leaving the 
core. To seven pounds of fruit add six pounds of 
sugar. Boil pineapple about twenty minutes before, 
adding sugar, which you have had in the oven to 
warm. After the sugar has been added boil hard 



462 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

for one hour, stirring constantly. Put in glasses; one 
dozen pineapples make twenty-one glasses. The core 
will not cook. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Author. 

Wipe off the quinces, pare, core and quarter; lay the 
quarters in cold water to prevent them from turning 
dark. Boil the parings and cores in a little water till 
all the gluten is extracted; then strain through a 
flannel bag or a towel. Pour this juice in a porcelain 
kettle, and to it add the quarters; boil slowly until the 
quinces can be easily mashed through a colander; 
then add three-fourths pound of sugar to every pound 
of fruit; boil fifteen or twenty minutes longer. The 
juice of two oranges to every three pounds of fruit, 
imparts a fine flavor. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Author. 

Steam fruit till tender, mash very fine, and put three- 
quarters of a pound of granulated sugar to a pound 
of fruit. Put on the stove again, and as soon as it 
reaches the boiling point, seal. Sugar must be heated 
before adding to fruit. 

QUINCE CHEESE 

Is marmalade boiled down very thick, packed into 
small pots. It will turn out firm as cheese, and cut in 
slices for luncheon or tea. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 463 

RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Mrs. H. 

To one and one-half pounds of white sugar, add 
the rind of one lemon cut very fine; then pare and 
cut in small pieces two pounds of rhubarb. Put all 
in a deep dish; let it stand until next day. Then 
strain off all the juice, and boil it from half to three- 
quarters of an hour. Then add the fruit, and boil ten 
minutes. Can and seal. 



CANNED FRUITS. 



SYRUP. 

Author, 

Boil two pounds granulated sugar in one pint of 
water five minutes; take from the stove and add one 
pint of strained honey. Seal if not wanted at once. 

SYRUP FOR CANNING FRUIT. 

Author. 

Two pounds granulated sugar, one-quarter pint of 
water, white of one egg. When the syrup is warm, 
but not hot, stir in the slightly beaten white. When 
it boils skim well, and throw in any fruit you may 
wish to preserve, taking care not to let some of the 
fruit cook to pieces while the rest is not sufficiently 
cooked. Have jars at hand and take out the fruit 
when done, pour* over the syrup and seal. 



464 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CANNED FRUIT. No. i. 
Cousin Eva. 

Allow three-quarter pounds sugar to a pound of 
fruit. Put sugar in preserving kettle, and allow a 
coffee cup of water to five pounds sugar. Set it 
where it will melt rapidly, but not burn, and as soon 
as the syrup thickens put in the fruit and let it cook 
till tender, but not till it falls to pieces. Set empty 
jars in tin pan of hot water, fill the jars and seal air- 
tight. 

RICH CANNED FRUIT. No. 2. 

Author. 
Two pounds granulated sugar, one pint of water. 
Boil in a porcelain kettle; add the slightly beaten 
white of an egg before the syrup becomes hot; as the 
scum rises, skim. When clear, add with care the 
selected fruit, a little at a time, and cook until the 
color changes or it can be pierced with a fork easily. 
Place in jars, cover with the hot syrup and seal. 

CANNED FRUIT. No. 3. 

Mrs. R. 
Four pounds fruit, one pound sugar, one pint water. 

SWEETMEATS. 

Some sweetmeats taste like molasses. Gradgrind 
says it is because they are made with molasses; but 
this is not so; they have that flavor when crushed 
sugar is used. It is for this reason liquids that are 
dense have their boiling points much higher than 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 465 

lighter ones. The syrup of sweetmeats is compara- 
tively light at first, and is gradually reduced to the 
proper consistency. Do not boil the sugar with the 
fruit. 

TO CAN CORN. 

Mrs. M. 
The corn must be fresh from the garden. Remove 
the shocks and silk, cut from the cob, fill the cans 
and while filling press the corn so the milk will fill the 
spaces; seal. Use Mason jars; set in a boiler with 
sufficient cold water to cover; heat slowly and boil 
two hours, then loosen the cover and liberate the 
gases if there are any. Seal again and boil two hours 
and set away. Do not let the jars touch each other. 

A SUGGESTION. 

If cherries are very sour they can bear a delf teacup 
of granulated sugar to two delf coffee cups of cherries 
or one quart of pitted cherries. Put on the sugar 
with a little of the juice, let it boil five minutes, then 
add the cherries. Boil them five minutes; skim and 
can. (One quart of pitted cherries and a delf teacup 
of granulated sugar fills a pint jar when cooked.) 

TO CAN CHERRIES. 
Author. 
Stone the cherries with cherry stoner if one can be 
procured. Save the stones and boil with the juice 
fifteen minutes. Strain this juice over the fruit and 
sugar. Put one pound of granulated sugar to six 
pounds of fruit. Bring to a boil quickly, and boil 
until the cherries change color — generally about ten 



466 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

or fifteen minutes. Place the jar, with a silver spoon 
in it, on a wet cloth, when you can safely fill with the 
boiling fruit. Fill the can to the brim, and cover. 
Before putting away jars, tighten the covers again, 
and wrap the jar in paper. For sweet cherries use 
less sugar. 

CANNED GREEN GAGES. 

Author. 
Fill glass jars with the gages after having pierced 
each one. Set the jars in a boiler of cold water; heat 
the fruit with the water in the boiler. When cooked 
sufficiently to be easily pierced with a fork, take from 
the boiler, and pour over them a syrup made of one- 
half pound of sugar to one pint of water. Seal tight. 

CANNED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Author. 
Sweeten to taste, boil a few minutes till they change 
color, and can. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

Author. 
Pick over the gooseberries and put in a porcelain 
kettle with more water than will cover them, so they 
will readily rise to the surface as soon as they boil. 
Have the water boiling when the gooseberries are put 
in; as soon as they boil and rise to the surface take 
out and fill jars; then pour into the jars boiling water 
sufficient for juice and seal. The water the berries 
are cooked in is good for vinegar. Sweeten berries at 
the table. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 467 

CANNED PEACHES AND APRICOTS. 

Author. 

Pare and halve the peaches. Lay in a steamer 
enough at a time to cover the bottom, set it over a 
kettle containing a little boiling water; cover and 
steam until tender enough to pierce with a fork; 
remove to a glass jar, and pour over them a syrup 
made of one pint of water and one-half pound of 
granulated sugar. Proceed in this way until the 
peaches are done. Set the glass jar on a wet cloth 
and fill with the hot fruit; a few of the meats of the 
peach-stones blanched and split added to the syrup 
enriches it. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE. 
Author. 

Pare and cut lengthwise, sweeten to taste, and let 
stand over night. In the morning put the mixture in 
jars and set in cold water. Heat water gradually, and 
let boil around the jars till the fruit is tender. Allow 
two pineapples to a jar. When preparing pineapples 
for table, always cut them lengthwise. 

TO CAN RASPBERRIES. 

Author. 
Take one part red currants to three parts red rasp- 
berries. To one pound fruit add one-quarter pound 
granulated sugar; let boil just long enough to change 
color — about ten minutes — bottle and seal. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Author. 
These are prepared just like the preserved, using 
one-quarter pound of granulated sugar to a pound of 
the fruit. Cook fifteen minutes and can. 



468 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TO CAN STRAWBERRIES. 

Author. 
To twelve quarts of Wilson, or any acid berry, add 
eight pounds of granulated sugar. Get berries with- 
out sand; if this cannot be avoided, rinse off quickly 
and measure in a tin quart measure; then sprinkle over 
them the sugar, and let them stand one hour. Drain 
off the juice and bring it to a boil in a porcelain 
kettle; then throw in the berries and boil fifteen 
minutes, skimming well, and can. This rule makes 
them delicious as a sauce, a filling for cake, and a de- 
lightful addition to puddings and creams. There are 
other rules which insure their keeping for table sauce, 
such as three pounds of granulated sugar to ten, 
quarts of berries. This sweetens to taste any acid 
berry. Another safe rule is one-quarter pound of 
sugar to a quart of fruit. If preserves are desired, 
use three-quarters of a pound of sugar and proceed 
as stated above. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



APPLE HEDGE-HOG. 

Mrs. H. J. J. 
Pare and core twelve large apples and stew in a rich 
syrup until tender but not broken to pieces. Place in 
a baking-dish of odd shape; fill each apple with mar- 
malade or some rich jelly. Stick the top pretty thick 
with blanched almonds. Make a meringue and pour 
over the top. Put in oven and brown a light color. 
Eat with sweet cream. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 469 

BAKED APPLES. No. i. 

Author. 
Pare and halve the apples. Lay in a pan; put a 
little butter and sugar over each, and sprinkle over a 
little cinnamon. Nice for breakfast. 

BAKED APPLES. No. 2. 
Author. 
Pare, core and bake v^rithout any water in the pan. 
Then make a sauce of one teacup of white sugar, one- 
half cup of water; boil .to a thick syrup and pour over 
the apples while hot. A few cassia buds, nutmeg or 
lemon may be added if desired. 

BAKED APPLES. No. 3. 
Author. 
Pare, core, and fill cavity with butter and sugar. 
When about done, before taking from the oven, put a 
teaspoonful of brandy over each apple. Place in few 
minutes to allow the brandy to permeate the fruit. 
This will give an aromatic flavor. 

BAKED APPLES. No. 4. 
Author. 
Mix one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful melted but- 
ter, one teaspoonful mixed ground cloves and cinna- 
mon, one pinch of salt. Core the apples and fill the 
cavities with the mixture and bake. Just before 
serving pour in a teaspoonful of brandy in each cavity. 
A nice sauce is made with sweetened cream flavored 
with vanilla. 



470 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

GELATINE APPLES. 

Mrs. E. Morgan. 
Peel and core the apples, leaving thenv whole; put 
in a kettle and boil, adding a slice or two of lemon, a 
little green ginger and sugar. Cook the fruit till 
tender. Take them up carefully; boil down the syrup 
and add two tablespoonfuls of gelatine which has 
been dissolved in four spoonfuls of water, to a cup of 
this syrup. Pour it over the apples and set where it 
will cool. 

CODDLED APPLES. 

Author. 
Pare and core tart apples; pour over enough boiling 
water to cover. Simmer till nearly done; take them 
out and lay on a dish to cool. Add to the water in 
which they were boiled a cup of granulated sugar and 
one sliced lemon. Bring to a boil, return the apples 
and let them cook until clear. Take them out again 
and lay in a fruit dish. Strain the juice and add to it 
one-quarter box of gelatine, which has been dissolved 
in enough cold water to cover it. Let it boil up and 
pour over the apples. Set away to cool. 

APPLE COMPOTE. 

Sister Mary. 
Peel, core and halve six large apples, trimming them 
so as to get them all of one size; drop them as they 
are down into cold water, with the juice of a lemon 
squeezed into it to prevejit their turniiig brown. Have 
ready a rich syrup (made with one pound of sugar 
and one quart of water, boiling hot), put the apples 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 47I 

into this with the thin rind of a lemon and two or 
three cloves. As soon as they are cooked (great care 
must be taken that they do not break) take them out 
and place them, concave side uppermost, on a glass 
dish; place a piece of currant or quince jelly in the 
hollow of each apple; then boil the syrup until thick, 
and when cold pour as much of it as is necessary 
under the apples. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Author. 
Choose cooking apples. Boil- the parings and cores 
slowly in water enough to cover, until the gluten is 
extracted; strain and add this juice to the apples. To 
each gallon of the apples (chopped), add five quarts 
of boiled cider; cook all day. Put a little on a plate 
and invert it; if it adheres the butter is done. Put it 
in glass open-mouthed jars, and make air-tight. Many 
put it in stone jars, fitting over them pieces of letter 
paper dipped in brandy. Quinces and apples, half 
and half, prepared as above are nice. No spice should 
be used. 

SPICED QUINCE BUTTER. 

Author. 
Take one-half sour apples and one-half quinces; 
prepare the same way as for marmalade, but be sure 
to boil the apple parings and cores with the quince 
parings. Strain and pour over the fruit. After mash- 
ing fruit through a colander add to one pint of fruit 
three-fourths pound of granulated sugar, and to each 
gallon of butter one ounce each of cloves and cinna- 
mon (ground), and one-half gallon of boiled cider. 



472 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Boil Steadily all day until bed-time, stirring very often, 
as it burns easily. If it thickens too fast add a little 
more boiled cider. The spices must not be added 
until one-half hour before the butter is done. 

QUINCE AND APPLE BUTTER. 

Author. 
Spitzenberg or greenings should be used for this 
butter. To a half gallon of apples, and the same 
quantity of quinces mixed, add five quarts of boiled 
cider; boil all day; cover the parings with water and 
boil until the gluten is extracted, then strain, and add 
to the fruit; then add one coffee cup of sugar and two 
quarts of boiled cider, which has been boiled down to 
a thick syrup. Put a little of the mixture in a plate 
and invert, if it adheres the butter is done. Fill 
Mason jars and seal. 

BAKED PIE PLANT. 

Author, 
Put a layer of pie plant, cut in inch pieces, then a 
layer of sugar, so on to the top; sprinkle sugar thickly 
on the top, add a very little water to keep from burn- 
ing, cover closely and bake. 

QUINCES. 
Author. 
Baked and served with sugar and cream, are de- 
licious. 

APPLE SAUCE. 
Author. 
One pint apple sauce passed through colander, 
one tablespoonful of cream. Before serving add 
white of egg, well beaten. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 473 

FRIED APPLES. No. i. 

Take apples that are very sour, wash, quarter, and 
core them (but do not peel), put them into a frying- 
pan with a piece of butter the size of an egg^ and 
one teacup of sugar. Cover them with a plate, and 
let them fry slowly, stirring occasionally until done. 

FRIED APPLES. No. 2. 
Author. 
Slice the apples across without paring, and fry in 
hot butter. 



BEVERAGES AND SUM- 
MER DRINKS. 



BLACKBERRY BOUNCE. 

Mrs. S. 
Simmer the berries a very short time; strain, and 
to two parts of the juice put one of brandy or whisky, 
a little spice and sugar. (To two quarts of juice put 
about three-fourths of a pound of sugar.) 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. No. i. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 
Four quarts of juice, two quarts of whisky, two 
quarts of water, six ounces of paregoric, two ounces of 
tincture red pepper, two ounces of tincture of catechu, 
one ounce of oil of cloves, one ounce of oil of cinna- 
mon, three pounds of loaf sugar. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. No. 2. 

J. P. K. 
Two quarts of blackberry juice, one pound of loaf 
sugar, one-fourth ounce of powdered cloves, one-half 
ounce of powdered nutmeg, one-half ounce of pow- 
dered cassia, one-half ounce of powdered allspice. 
Boil fifteen minutes, and add one pint of brandy. 

474 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 475 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. No. 3. 

Author. 
Pick over blackberries; scald and strain; mix with 
two quarts of juice, one and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one-half ounce each of cinnamon, nutmeg and all- 
spice, and one-fourth ounce of cloves. Let the mixt- 
ure come to a boil, and bottle. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. No. 4. 

Mrs. P. B. 
To two quarts of juice add one pound of sugar, one- 
half ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of cinnamon, one- 
half ounce of nutmeg. Boil twenty minutes, and 
when cold add one pint of good brandy. This is 
splendid in cases of dysentery. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

Mrs. O. P. Knox. 
Two quarts of blackberry juice, one pound of loaf 
sugar, one ounce of nutmeg, one-half ounce of pulver- 
ized cinnamon, one-half ounce of ground cloves, one- 
fourth ounce of ground allspice. Boil together for a 
short time, and when cold, add one pint of fourth 
proof brandy. Cork tightly. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Aunt M. 
To every gallon of berries, after being well mashed, 
one quart of boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours; then strain and add three pounds of loaf sugar 
to every gallon of juice. Let it stand until it is done 
fermenting for three or four weeks with the bung laid 



476 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

on loosely. At the end of that time, stop it tightly 
and set away for some months, then bottle it. Straw- 
berry wine is made in the same way, except that no 
water is added to the juice. 

CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

Dr. H. 

Take a large glass pitcher half full of ice; slice into 

it two strips of cucumber rind, one orange, and one 

lemon; then pour over it a quart of Clicquot wine, and 

sweeten. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

Aunt M. 
Boil and skim the juice, and to every gallon of it, 
take two pounds of sugar. Dissolve the sugar in a 
little water, and when it comes to a boil, strain it and 
mix with the juice. To this quantity add one-half 
pint of spirits. Bottle when cold, 

CHERRY WINE. No. i. 
Author. 
One quart of cherry juice, one quart of water, one 
quart of sugar. Put in a jug and cover with muslin; 
as it ferments and runs off, fill up the jug with cherry 
juice. Fermentation will cease in six weeks; then bot- 
tle. In canning cherries there is always a great deal 
of juice not needed; this juice may be used to make 
the wine. There is also sufficient juice in the pan of 
cherry pits, which may be used to fill the jug, as it 
ferments, by pouring water on them. Set in the sun 
to ferment. This is a good recipe for other fruits. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 477 

CHERRY WINE. No. 2. 

Author. 
Two quarts cherry juice, one quart water, three 
pounds coffee A sugar. Put the ingredients in a jug 
and cover with a piece of muslin; then set in the sun 
during fermentation; fill up the jug with cherry juice 
as often as the foam runs off. It will require six 
weeks to clear up the wine; then fill bottles and cork. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP. 
A. C. V. 
Six ounces best chocolate grated, one ounce extract 
vanilla, three and one-fourth pounds sugar, two pints 
water. Rub the chocolate to a paste with a portion 
of the water, add the balance of the water and warm 
when mixed; dissolve and strain the sugar, and when 
cool add the vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE. No. i. 
Author. 
Chocolate is made according to taste. Four table- 
spoonfuls of grated chocolate to a pint of milk will make 
it very rich. Mix four tablespoonfuls of the chocolate 
with two of water; put over a rather slow fire, stir 
until melted unless it is placed over a tea-kettle to 
melt ; when melted, beat it into a pint of boiling hot 
milk, sweetened; beat fast for three minutes, when it 
will be frothy. 

CHOCOLATE. No. 2. 

Author. 
Four tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one-half teacup of 



47^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

water; rub into a smooth paste; melt this and add a 
pint of water; sweeten and whip all the while until it 
boils; add one-half pint of rich cream. 

CHOCOLATE. No. 3. 
Author. 
Three pints of milk, one pint of boiling water, six 
tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, four eggs (whites), 
one cup of sugar. Mix the grated chocolate with the 
boiling water; stir over the fire till melted, then add 
the milk and sugar; whip until it boils about three 
minutes; remove from the fire and stir in two of the 
beaten whites; beat the remaining whites with pow- 
dered sugar and put a spoonful on each cup of choco- 
late. 

CHOCOLATE. No. 4. 

Aunt M, 
Get the best Baker's chocolate, and allow for one 
quart of water, four tablespoonfuls of chocolate; mix 
it with a little water, and then stir it into the vessel 
of water. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then add one 
^quart of milk; let it all boil together a few minutes, 
then season with a little nutmeg. The sugar and 
cream may be added at the table. 

COCOA SHELLS. 

Author. 

Soak in water two hours; then boil in the same 

water until reduced one-half. Many persons pour 

boiling water on at once and cook until the aroma 

indicates the strength. This may require more cocoa. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 479 

SOUTHERN ROAST COFFEE. 

Author. 
To every pound of coffee put in the roaster, add a 
piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut, and one-half 
teaspoonful of granulated sugar. 

COFFEE. No. i. 
Author. 

Roast coffee once a week. Put in a roaster and 
place in a moderately hot oven at first, increase the 
heat after the coffee swells ; stir often during the 
process of roasting, and take from the oven or fire 
before the coffee is quite roasted; shake the roaster 
a few minutes until well roasted, for there will be 
sufficient heat in the coffee after its removal from the 
fire; mix well the beaten white of one egg to each 
pound of coffee; when cold put in a tight box and set 
away. If the coffee is to be boiled, allow one heaping 
tablespoonful to each person, or two full ones accord- 
ing to strength required, cover with cold water, heat 
gradually to the boiling point on the back part of the 
stove; then add a cup of boiling water to each spoon- 
ful of coffee, or add the same amount of water to the 
two if more strength is desired. One egg to six 
tablespoonfuls of ground coffee, break it and put it 
shell and all with the grounds; mix before adding the 
cold water. Use the French coffee-pot according to 
directions given. Delmonico allows one and one-half 
pounds of coffee to a gallon of water. 

A good substitute for a French coffee-pot is a funnel- 
shaped perforated tin cup; lay an old linen in this cup 
and put the ground coffee into this napkin or crash. 



480 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

then pour boiling water very slowly over the ground 
a little at a time, return the tea-kettle to the fire, le 
boil again, pour on until the strength is extracted. Th 
quantity of coffee required depends upon the strengtl 
desired, two tablespoonfuls to five. The coffee mus 
look clear and not muddy; one pound of coffee to j 
quart of water for black coffee is a good proportion 
In making cafe noir use Mocha and Old Governmeni 
Java mixed as follows : one-fourth Mocha to three- 
fourths Java. If you buy ground coffee test it b> 
rubbing the coffee between wet fingers, the grains 
will remain if pure coffee. Never grind coffee until 
needed. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 

Author. 
One pint of strong coffee, one pint of rich milk. 
Heat the milk until it boils, and add it to the hot 
coffee. Sweeten to taste. 

CAFE NOIR OR AFTER DINNER COFFEE 

Is made very strong. Gentlemen sometimes add a 

little cognac or rum; the ladies use cream and sugar. 

COFFEE. No. 2. 
Sister Nettie. 
Use a heaping tablespoonful of ground coffee for 
each person, for four or six persons add one-fourth of 
an egg, one-fourth cup of cold water, stir this well into 
the coffee; then pour over this boiling water and put 
on stove. Let it come to a boil slowly, and serve 
before the aroma passes off. One-third of Mocha, 
two-thirds Java, or all Java may be used. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 4^1 

CREAM BEER. 

Sister Fannie. 
Two pounds of white sugar, two ounces of tartaric 
sicid, juice of one lemon, three pints of water, boiled 
With the above one minute. When nearly cold add 
the beaten whites of three eggs, one-half cup of flour, 
one-half ounce of wintergreen. Bottle and cork 
tight. To one tumbler of water, two tablespoonfuls 
of mixture, one-fourth teaspoonful of soda. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

Author. 
One pint of currant juice, one pound of granulated 
sugar. Boil five minutes; remove from the fire; stir 
until it is sufficiently cool to bottle. 

CURRANT WINE. No. i. 
Aunt M. 
Crush the fruit, strain off the juice, put it into a tub, 
and let it stand three days, removing the scum once or 
twice a day. Then put it into a keg, and to each 
quart of juice add three pounds of the best white 
sugar, and water sufficient to make one gallon. If you 
do not like sweet wine, reduce the sugar two and a 
half pounds, or even less to the gallon. The cask 
must be full, and the bung left off until fermentation 
ceases (which is usually from twelve to fifteen days). 
Fill the cask up daily with water. When fermenta- 
tion ceases, rack the wine off carefully by a syphon; 
then cleanse the cask thoroughly with boiling water; 
return the wine to it, stop it tightly and let it stand 
four or five months. 



482 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CURRANT WINE. No. 2. 
Sister M. H. 

One quart of juice, three quarts of water, four 
^ pounds of sugar. Mix together, stand three days 
then strain through flannel; let it settle and bottle. 

EGG-NOG. No. i. 
Author. • 
One egg, one heaping tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, one-half tumbler of cream, one-fourth tumbler 
of milk, one tablespoonful of sherry or whisky. Beat 
the yolk and sugar very light; add the sherry or 
• whisky; next the beaten white, reserving a little for 
the top; lastly the cream and milk. Hot egg-nog is 
prepared the same way, except the milk is warmed. 

EGG-NOG. No. 2. 
Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs; 
stir into the yolks six tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar; beat until very light, and flavor with a little 
nutmeg; beat in six tablespoonfuls of brandy; boil a 
quart of thin cream or new milk; fill the goblet half 
full of the sugar and eggs, after stirring in the beaten 
whites just before putting into glasses; put a teaspoon 
into each goblet and place them on a waiter so 
they can be distributed immediately after the milk is 
poured in; pour the boiling milk into a pitcher and 
fill up the goblets with it as you hand them around. 
Stir the milk and eggs well together before drinking. 

EGG-NOG. No. 3. 
Author. 
Eight eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 483 

half a pint of rum or whisky, half a gallon of whip- 
ped cream, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat the eggs 
and sugar very light, add the rum or whisky, then* 
the cream and nutmeg. 

EGG-NOG. No. 4. 
A. D. C. 
Take the yolks of sixteen eggs, and twelve table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar; beat them to the con- 
sistency of cream; to this add two-thirds of a grated 
nutmeg, and beat well together; then mix in half a 
pint of good brandy or Jamaica rum, and two wine- 
glasses of Madeira wine. Have ready the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and beat them into 
the above mixture; when this is all done, stir in six 
pints of good rich milk. There is no heat used. Egg- 
nog made in this manner is digestible, and will not 
cause headache. It makes an excellent drink for 
debilitated persons, and a nourishing diet for con- 
sumptives. 

ENGLISH GINGER BEER. 
E. B. M. 
Pour four quarts of boiling water upon an ounce 
and a half of best ground ginger; an ounce of cream 
of tartar, a pound of granulated sugar, two fresh lem- 
ons, sliced thin, one-half pint of fresh yeast. Let it 
ferment twenty-four hours; then bottle. It is improved 
by keeping several weeks in a cool place. 

GINGER BEER. 

E. B. M. 
One and one-ha4f pounds of loaf sugar, two ounces 



484 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

of cream of tartar, two ounces of bruised ginger root, 
four quarts of boiling water, juice and rind of one 
lemon, one tablespoonful of yeast. Put all these ingre- 
dients into an earthen bowl, and pour over them the 
water; when quite cold, add the yeast. In six hours 
strain and put up in small stone bottles. 

KUMYSS. 
Dr. L. 
Mix five quarts of milk with three quarts of hot 
water. When bloodwarm, add half a teacup of sugar 
of milk and one bottle of old kumyss; stir it well, 
then let it stand until the mixture is curdled, then add 
half a cup of powdered coffee sugar; stir it again, and 
bottle. Ready for use in one week. 

LEMON TEA. No. i. 
Author. 
Cut into thin slices one large lemon, remove the 
seeds, and boil in one and one-half pints of water until 
the liquid is reduced to one-half. Drink this quan- 
tity once a day while needed to correct biliousness. 
Boil the mixture in a porcelain saucepan. 

LEMONADE. 

Author. 
One lemon, one heaping tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar, one goblet of cold water; if desired, a little 
grated nutmeg. 

LEMON TEA. No. 2. 
Author. 
Squeeze a lemon in a glass of hot water. Drink 
night and morning. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 485 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Author. 
One Ggg, one lemon. Break the egg in a goblet; 
grate the rind, squeeze the lemon, and add the sugar; 
whip a few moments, then add crushed ice and water. 

MEAD. 

Miss S. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, six gills of molasses, 
three pints of water (or if to be had, the same quan- 
tity of a decoction of sarsaparilla), four ounces of 
tartaric acid. Pour half a pint of the water (or of the 
decoction) boiling hot on the acid, and the remainder 
on the sugar and molasses; heat gently, and skim 
when cool; add the acid, and bottle. To each bottle 
add one teaspoonful of the essence of sassafras, or any 
pleasant essence you please. 

How TO USE. — Pour two tablespoonfuls into a tum- 
bler, add one-third or half of a tumbler of cold water, 
then add one-third of a teaspoonful of soda, stir and 
drink. 

MULLED CIDER. 
H. H. 
One quart of sweet cider, one cup of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of whole cloves. Beat the cider and 
cloves ten minutes, then pour over the well-beaten 
eggs and sugar, then pour from one bowl to another 
until it foams. 

NEGUS. 
Author. 
One-third wine, two-thirds cold water; lemon juice 
and sugar to taste. 



486 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PIE-PLANT WINE. 

s. o. 

Cut pie-plant in inch pieces; cook till soft, then add 
two and one-half pounds of sugar to each gallon of 
juice. Put in a keg and let ferment; when done sing- 
ing, cork it up. 

PINE-APPLE SHRUB. 

Pare and cut the pine-apple into pieces; add one 
quart of water; boil till soft, mash and strain. To 
one pint of juice add one pound of sugar; boil to rich 
syrup; bottle, and cork tightly. 

PINE-APPLE SYRUP. 
A. C. V. 
Three pints of pine-apple juice, five pints of syrup. 
Mix. 

ARTIFICIAL PINE-APPLE SYRUP. 
A. C. V. 
One ounce of essence of pine-apple, one-half ounce 
sol. citric acid, six pints of syrup. 

PINE-APPLE PUNCH. 

H. H. 
One bottle of claret wine, one bottle of Rhine wine, 
one pine-apple, cut fine or shredded. Sweeten to taste, 
and add cracked ice. 

PORTER SANGAREE. 

Mrs. Wood. 
One-third ale, two-thirds warm or cold water. 
Sweeten to taste. Grated nutmeg. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 487 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. No. i. 

Sister J. H. 
Four quarts of raspberries; cover with vinegar; let 
stand twenty-four hours; scald, strain and put one 
pound of sugar to a pint of juice; boil twenty minutes; 
bottle. A large spoonful to a glass of water. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. No. 2. 

Sister M. H. 
Fill a jar with raspberries (black) and cover with 
vinegar; leave the jar covered two days without stir- 
ring; then three days, stirring twice a day; strain the 
juice and boil a pound of sugar to a pint of juice as 
long as the scum gathers. Bottle while hot. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. No. 3. 
Mrs. A. D. C. 
Squeeze the juice from three pints of raspberries, 
and mix with one pint of the best white vinegar, and 
a pound of loaf sugar; simmer in a jar or pitcher set 
in boiling water for an hour; skim it, and when oold, 
bottle. Put a teaspoonful of this into half a pint of 
water. It makes a very pleasant drink. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. No. 4. 
Miss B. 
Pour half a pint of vinegar over four pounds of 
raspberries; place this in an earthen jar, cover tight, 
and place it in a sunny window for twelve hours; turn 
into a flannel bag and let all the juice drain through 
without pressure; put one pound of sugar to one pint 
of juice; boil until the scum rises; skim thoroughly, 
and then cork'up tight in bottles. 



488 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

REFRESHING SUMMER BEVERAGE. 

Author. 
One-half ounce of cream of tartar, one-fourth ounce 
of bruised ginger, one-half pound of loaf sugar, juice 
and rind of a lemon; pour over these half a gallon of 
boiling water; let it stand till cold, and strain through 
a hair sieve. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Author. 
Grate the yellow rinds of two lemons and one 
orange on a pound of sugar; squeeze over the juice 
and let it stand until well dissolved; strain and add 
half a pint bottle of champagne and the beaten whites 
of four eggs. It is nice frozen, but may be served 
without anything else than a little finely broken ice. 

SHERRY COBBLER. 

Author. 
Jyice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
wineglass of sherry; fill glass with cracked ice and 
water. Stir or shake; add one-half dozen strawber- 
ries. 

SPRUCE BEER. No. i. 

Mrs. W. 

Two gallons of water, one pint of molasses, one 

teacup of yeast, about an ounce of the essence of 

spruce. Let it stand in the sun half a day; then 

bottle. 

SPRUCE BEER. No. 2. 

An ounce of hops, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, 
a gallon of water. Boil, strain and put in a pint of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 489 

molasses and half an ounce of the essence of spruce. 
When cool, add a teacup of yeast, and let it ferment 
for about two days; then bottle for use. May boil a 
few sprigs of spruce fir in the essence. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 
A. C. V. 
One pint of strawberry juice, one-half pint of black 
raspberry juice, one-half pint of pine-apple juice, six 
pints of syrup. 

STRAWBERRY VINEGAR. 

Cousin Alice, 
Put four pounds of very ripe strawberries into three 
quarts of the best vinegar, and let them stand three 
or four days. Then drain the vinegar through a jelly- 
bag, and pour on to the same quantity of fruit. Then 
strain again, and to every pound of liquor add one 
pound of sugar; bottle and let it stand covered, but 
not corked, one week. Then cork tightly, and set in 
a dry, cool place. 

SUNSET LEMONADE. 

Sister Fannie. 
One pint of red-ripe berries of any kind, straw- 
berries giving the brightest color and effect. Jelly 
may be used in winter. Three large oranges, sliced 
but not pared, six lemons, pared and sliced exceed- 
ingly thin, one-half pound of coffee A sugar. Place in a 
quart pitcher the berries and sugar, and stir these 
together until all signs of roughness disappear. Roll 
until soft two of the lemons; grate in the rind and 



490 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

squeeze out all the juice; grate in the whole of one 
orange; crush one quart of ice to almost powder; lay 
in a layer of ice, then lemons sliced, then another 
layer of ice, and then sliced oranges, then ice, then 
fruit, having ice for last layer. Put away in cool 
place for one-half hour. 

TEA. 

Author. 
Have the tea-kettle boiling and you can always 
have a good cup of tea. Scald the teapot out first, 
then put one teaspoonful to each person; pour a little 
water out of the tea-kettle upon it, and let it stand 
two or three minutes where it will keep hot; then fill 
the pot up with boiling water. In making black tea, 
use the same quantity as for green; put it into a tin 
cup; fill it up with boiling water; set it on the stove, 
and let it boil up once; then put it into the teapot, and 
fill up with boiling water. Green and black tea mixed 
are very good. 

VANILLA SYRUP. 

Three ounces of extract vanilla, one gallon syrup. 

WHITE WINE WHEY. 
E. B. M. 
One-half pint of milk. Boil in saucepan, then add 
two glasses of wine, with a little sugar. 

WINTERGREEN POP. 

Sister Fannie. 
One teacup of hops. Boil in one quart of water 
three-fourths of an hour, then strain; add one pint of 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 49I 

New Orleans molasses and seven quarts of water. 
When lukewarm, add cup of yeast; let it stand twelve 
hours; then drain carefully from yeast. Flavor with 
wintergreen, and bottle. 



CANDIES. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. No. i. 
E. B. M. 
One pound of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, water to moisten it. Boil hard for ten min- 
utes; add one large tablespoonful of butter; boil until 
it hardens when tried; pour out on plates well but- 
tered, and when nearly cool, crease into squares. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. No. 2. 

Sister M. H. 
Three tablespoonfuls of new maple molasses, two 
tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, one tablespoonful 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of water. Boil until 
ropy. Before taking from the stove throw in soda 
half the size of a pea. 

CANDY. 

Mrs. E. B. M. 
One pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tar- 
tar, one tumbler of water, a piece of butter size of an 
G:ggy one teaspoonful of vinegar. Do not stir after it 
commences to boil. 

CARAMELS. No. i. 
Miss R. 
One cup of hot water, one cup of chocolate (grated), 
two, cups of brown sugar, half a cup of butter. If the 

492 



GRADED COOK BOOK., 493 

chocolate is not sweet, use three cups of sugar. Stir 
constantly until the mixture hardens; try it as you 
would ordinary taffy in cold water. 

CARAMELS. No. 2. 
Mrs. J. F. 
Three pounds of brown sugar, one-half pound of 
grated chocolate, one and one-half cups of milk, lump 
of butter the size of an egg. Boil like taffy. 

ANOTHER FOR SAME. No. 3. 

One cup of molasses, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk, one and one-half cups of grated chocolate, a 
piece of butter the size of a hickory nut. Flavor with 
vanilla, and boil like taffy. 

CARAMELS. No. 4. 

Mrs. C. C. B. 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, one-half pound of 

glucose, two ounces of paraffine, two ounces of butter, 

one pint of cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream 

tartar, four squares of Baker's chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. No. i. 
Sister J. H. 
Seven tablespoonfuls of chocolate, three tablespoon- 
fuls of milk, six tablespoonfuls of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, six tablespoonfuls of molasses. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. No. 2. 
Sister M. H. 
One cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of 
brown sugar, one cup of molasses. Boil together 



494 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

fifteen minutes, then add butter size of an egg rolled in 
a tablespoonful of flour. In the meantime melt one- 
half cake of Baker's chocolate; add to the other ingre- 
dients, and boil thick. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

Miss Loomis. 
One pound of refined crushed sugar, one-half pint 
of water. Boil to a thin syrup; add one pound of 
grated cocoanut; stir gently till the candy grows brit- 
tle. Butter plates, and pour on the mixture half an 
inch thick. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. No. i. 

Sister M. H. 
One pound of confectioner s powdered XXX sugar, 
white of one egg, one tablespoonful of cold water. 
Stir the ingredients well together, and roll into small 
balls. In the meantime have one-half pound of Baker's 
chocolate in a bowl over the tea-kettle; when it is very 
smooth, just before removing from the kettle, stir in a 
spoonful of vanilla; drop the balls, one by one, into 
the bowl with a fork, and place on a platter to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. No. 2. 

Miss L. 
Two cups of white sugar, half a cup of milk and 
water, and a small teaspoonful of corn starch. Boil 
until you can pull it with your finger. Flavor with 
just a drop of vanilla. Put the pan into a dish of cold 
water, and stir until you can mould it with your fin- 
gers, then mould into small balls and put away to 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 495 

harden. Put half a cake of Baker's chocolate into a 
bowl, and the bowl over the tea-kettle until dissolved, 
then dip the balls into the chocolate, and let them dry 
on buttered papers. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Author. 
One grated cocoanut, the weight in sugar, one white 
of an egg well beaten. Mix all together; let it stand 
on the stove till the sugar begins to dissolve, stirring 
all the time; then drop on a greased paper, put in a 
dripper and let brown. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 
Author. 
White of one egg, one cup of powdered sugar, two 
and one-half tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. Drop 
on tin. 

CHOCOLATE SQUARES. 

Author. 
Two and one-half pounds of Standard A sugar, one 
level teaspoonful of cream tartar, two bars of Baker's 
chocolate, one cup of cold water. Boil until it makes 
a soft ball in cold water. 

COCOANUT SQUARES OR BALLS. 

Author. 

The same recipe as French cream, with two teacups 
of grated cocoanut added. Boil until it balls, etc. 

All of these candies have to be cooled a little and 
paddled until thick: 



49^ . GRADED COOK BOOK. 1 

CREAM CANDY. No. i. 

One pound of granulated sugar, one teacup of 
water, one-half teacup of vinegar or juice of lemon. 
Boil without stirring and test in cold water. 

CREAM CANDY. No. 2. 

Mrs. Hutchinson. 
Two cups of coffee C sugar, one cup of thin cream. 
Boil slowly twenty-five minutes and pour over nuts. 
Do not stir this candy after it begins to boil 

FRENCH CREAM. 

Author. 
Two and one-half pounds coffee, standard A or con- 
fectioners' sugar, one cup of cold water, one level tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar. Boil until you can make a 
soft ball with the fingers in cold water. This is the 
basis of a great many candies. 

PADDLING OR SHOVELING. 

Author. 

I use a tin pan-cake turner to paddle the candy; I 
mean by paddling, to run the pan-cake turner under 
the candy, and throw the candy up towards the back 
of the pan, withdraw the turner, proceed as before 
until all the candy turns light and hardens enough to 
mould. All of the candy must be reached in the pro- 
cess of shoveling or paddling, taking care not to stir 
it enough to granulate it. 

All candies that have for their basis the French 
cream have to be paddled. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 497 

Here are a few of the varieties made from French 
cream for basis (a teaspoonful of vanilla added to 
most of the varieties when ready to paddle). 

METROPOLITAN CREAM. 

Chocolate for upper layer; pink, second layer; white, 
third layer. Pink cream, with Brazilian nuts (pared 
and sliced), laid in between the layers. 

White cream, with the small pieces of English wal- 
nut or hickory nuts stirred in when nearly through 
paddling. 

The cream for chocolate cream must be softer than 
for any other candy. 

All the candies are nice made in different shapes, 
and dipped in soft French cream melted. (It is melted 
in the same way as chocolate is to cover.) It can be 
colored with coffee and fruit extract. 

Maple cream is used to dip in for a light buff color. 

In making coffee cream, use a cup of strong coffee 
instead of water. 

Dipped grapes are very nice. 

They make little round balls of the cream, and put 
candied cherries, etc., on them. Make a round ball of 
cream, with a small piece of nut in the center, and dip. 

MRS. H.'S CANDY. 

One pound of white sugar, half cup of vinegar, half 
cup of water, half teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

HOREHOUND CANDY FOR HOARSENESS. 

A. C. V. 
One quart of good syrup, one cup of brown sugar, 
one large tablespoonful of butter, juice of two lemons, 



498 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one teaspoonful of potash, one-fourth package of 
horehound, infused in one cup of boiling water until 
the strength is fully extracted. Strain the horehound, 
using the liquor; boil all together, as you would fori 
ordinary candy; pour into boiling plates, and cool; 
cut into squares. 

HARD NUT CANDY. 

Mrs. B. 
Four coffee cups of granulated sugar, one teacup of 
cold water, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, if strong. 
Boil until it browns before pouring over water. Be 
very careful not to let it burn, using peanuts, sliced 
Brazilian nuts, etc. 

MAPLE SQUARE. 
Mrs. C. C. B. 
One and one-fourth pounds of confectioners' A 
sugar, one and one-fourth pounds of maple sugar, one 
level teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one teacup of 
cold water; boil hard until it balls with the fingers, 
(in cold water without sticking); pour into a porce- 
lain dripping-pan and let stand until a little cool, or 
will not stick to the fingers when pressed lightly, or 
wrinkle when you slightly tip the pan; then paddle 
until thick; form into a large square, set away until 
most cool, then cut into little squares. 

MARSH-MALLOWS. 

Mrs. F. 
One pound of gum arable, one pound of powdered 
sugar, one quart of water; boil until ingredients are 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 499 

dissolved; then remove from the fire, cool, and beat into 
the mixture the well-beaten whites of eight eggs; drop 
on corn starch. 

MOLASSES CREAM. 

Author. 
One and a half cups of best molasses, one cup of 
granulated or C sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla added when done; boil 
twenty minutes; pour on a buttered platter; place the 
platter, the next day, in a slow oven a few minutes to 
dry the candy, and it will cream; or it may be pulled 
when cooked and sufficiently cool. 

MOLASSES CANDY. No. i. 
Mrs. C. C. B. 
One quart of New Orleans molasses, one pint of 
granulated sugar, one-half pound of butter; boil hard 
until it breaks brittle in cold water; add a pinch of soda 
and stir in well; pour into buttered tins to cool enough 
to pull. 

MOLASSES CANDY. No. 2. 
Sister Dona. 
Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one 
teaspoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar or 
the juice of a lemon; boil twenty minutes and test. If 
you desire to make nut candy of this, add one pint of 
shelled peanuts or walnuts; cut in strips when cool. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

Mrs. F. 
Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup of 
water, twenty drops of peppermint. Cook five minutes. 



500 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

remove from the fire, add the peppermint and stir 
until it drops easily from a spoon, then drop on but- 
tered paper. 

TAFFY. No. I. 
Mrs. A. V. S. 
One pint of white sugar, half pint of water, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, piece of butter size of a 
walnut, one teaspoonful of vanilla, put in just before 
it is done. Boil twenty minutes after commencing to 
boil. 

TAFFY. No. 2. 
Sister M. H. 
One pound of granulated sugar, one tablespoonful 
of vinegar, butter size of a walnut, one tablespoonful 
of rich cream. Put in granite kettle and boil without 
stirring. Test in cold water. When done spread on 
buttered plates. 

WHITE FRENCH CANDY. 
Mrs. E. B. M. 
One pound of loaf sugar, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one teacup of water. Boil a few minutes. 
Test it by taking a little in a spoon and pouring cold 
water over it, then take between the thumb and finger 
and if it strings or forms a thread it is done. Remove 
from the stove and let cool fifteen minutes without 
stirring; then beat slowly one way with a silver spoon 
until it becomes opaque. Now you may add chopped 
nuts and fruit, vanilla or melted chocolate to taste. 
Pour it on a flat dish to cool; it should, when cold, 
cut easily like ice cream. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 50I 

WHITE CREAM CANDY. No. i. 

Sister Dona. 
Two pounds of loaf sugar, one level teaspoonful of 
cream tartar, one glass of water. Boil until hard 
when tried in cold water; do not stir; pour out into 
buttered plates, and when cool, pull it. 

WHITE CREAM CANDY. No. 2. 
Mrs. B. 
Four cups of granulated sugar, one cup of cold 
water, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 
Boil hard until it breaks brittle in cold water; pour 
into buttered tins to cool; pull when it is quite hot 
until white. 

WHITMAN'S TAFFY. 

One quart of granulated sugar, one pint of water, 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
butter. Cook until thick (try in water), and when you 
take off, add one tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Hickory nuts chopped very fine, or pounded into a 
paste, stirred into white cream, then made into rolls 
like sausage, and sliced when cool. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM, CHOCOLATE WAL- 
NUTS. 

Half meats of pecan and English walnuts laid on 
round pieces of different colored creams. 

For orange cream, put orange extract into the 
cream, and not vanilla. Make a large square, then cut 
into smaller ones, the same as chocolate squares. 



502 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SALTED ALMONDS. No. i. 
H. P. M. 
Soak blanched almonds in salt water ten minutes 
(they must be quite salt), then brown them in a sauce- 
pan, the same as you brown coffee. Just before remov- 
ing from fire add a little hot melted butter. Stir the 
almonds carefully, and take from range immediately. 

SALTED ALMONDS. No. 2. 
Mrs. W. G. N. 
Blanch almonds, and brown in half lard and half 
butter; turn constantly, and when browned sufficiently, 
remove from saucepan and sift salt over them. 



BILLS OF FARE, ETC. 



CHOICE OF WINES. 

BEST BRANDS. 

Champagne.' — Pommery Sec, Mumm's Extra Dry, Veuve Clicquot, 
Roederer. 

Of a cheaper grade the following are good: Heidseick, Krug, 
Charles Roederer, and Montebello. 

Claret. — Chateau La Rose, Chateau Lafitte, Chateau La Tour, 
Chateau Margeaux. 

Best cheaper brand: St, Julien. 

Sauterne. — La Tour Blanche, Chateau Yquem. 

Best cheaper: Haut-Sauterne. 

Burgundy. — Chablis, Clos Vougeot, Red Hermitage, Chamber- 
tin. 

Sherry. — Amontillado. 

Hock. — Marcobrunner, Steinberg Cabinet. 

Best sparkling wine: Hochheimer. 

The American dry wines, which I would recommend, and which 

are far better than many imported wines, are those made in Cali- 
fornia; also the Missouri and Ohio Catawbas, and Concord wines. 

BILL OF FARE TABLE. 

First Course — Raw oysters, or raw clams with lemon. 

Second Course — Soup; if two kinds, one light and the other dark. 

Third Course — Fish; if two kinds, one boiled and the other baked, 

with cucumber salad. 
Fourth Course — Roast meats, with two or three vegetables, 

celery. 
Fifth Course — Game or chicken; salad and currant jelly. 
Sixth Course — Pie or pudding. 
Seventh Course — Ice cream, jelly cake, Charlotte Russe, etc. 

503 



504 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Eighth Course — Fruit. 

Ninth Course — Bon-bons, dried fruits, nuts. 

Tenth Course — Coffee. 

Asparagus or cauliflower make a very nice course, between the 
meat and game courses. 

COMBINATIONS, GOOD TOGETHER. 
Mutton chops and tomato sauce. 
Roast mutton, currant jelly and turnips. 
Venison and currant jelly. 
Any kind of game and currant jelly 
Any kind of game and salad. 
Fish and cucumbers. 
Raw oysters and lemon. 
Roast goose and apple sauce. 
Roast duck and apple sauce. 
Turkey and cranberry sauce. 
Fried oysters and salad. 
Onions with all kinds of poultry. 
Lamb and peas. 
Salmon and peas. 
Sweetbreads and tomatoes. 
Boiled mutton and caper sauce, turnips. 
Roast lamb and mint sauce. 
Cresses with chicken. 
Tomatoes are nice with anything. 

MEASURES. 

Wheat Flour — One pound is one quart. 

Indian Meal — One pound and two ounces is a quart. 

Butter when soft — One pound is a pint. 

Loaf Sugar, broken — One pound is a quart. 

White Sugar, powdered — One pound and seven ounces is a quart. 

Best Brown Sugar — One pound and two ounces is a quart. 

Ten eggs are one quart. 

Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are one pint. 

A common size tumbler or delf teacup is one-half pint. 

A large tablespoonful is one-half ounce. 

Sixty drops equal to one teaspoonful. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 505 

CULINARY TERMS WHICH DOT OUR MENUS. 

Aspic — Savory jelly for cold dishes. 

Au Gratin. — Dishes prepared with sauce and baked crumbs. 

BoucHEES. — Very tiny patties or cakes ; or mouthfuls. 

Baba. — A peculiar sweet French yeast cake. 

Bechemel. — A rich white sauce made with stock. 

Bisque. — A white soup made of shell fish. 

To Blanch. — To place any article on the fire till it boils, and then 

plunge it in cold water. 
Bouillon, — A clear soup stronger than broth. 
Braise. — Meat cooked in a covered stew-pan so that it retains its 

own flavor, and vegetables cooked with it. 
Brioche. — A very rich unsweetened French cake made with yeast. 
Cannelon. — Stuffed rolled up meat. 
Consomme. — Clear soup or bouillon boiled down. 
Croquettes. — A savory mince of fish or fowl made with sauce 

into shapes and fried. 
Croustades. — Fried forms of bread to serve minces or other 

meats upon. 
Entree. — A small dish usually served between the courses at 

dinner. 
Fondue. — A light preparation of melted cheese. 
Fondant. — Sugar boiled and beaten to cream paste. 
Hollandaise Sauce. — A rich sauce something like hot mayon- 
naise. 
Matelote. — A rich fish-stew with wine. 
Mayonnaise. — A rich salad dressing. 
Meringue. — Sugar and white of egg beaten to a sauce. 
Marini^re. — A liquor of spices, vinegar, etc., in which fish or meats 

are steeped before cooking. 
MiROTON. — Cold meat warmed in various ways. 
Puree. — This name is given to very thick soups, the ingredients 

for thickening which have been rubbed through a sieve. 
Poulette Sauce. — A Bechemel sauce to which white wine and 

sometimes eggs are added. 
Ragout. — A rich brown stew with mushrooms, vegetables, etc. 
Piquante. — A sauce of several flavors, acid predominating. 



5o6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Quenelles. — Forcemeat with bx-ead, yolk of eggs, highly sea- 
soned and formed with a spoon to an oval shape, then poached 
and used either as a dish by themselves or to garnish. 

Remoulade — A salad dressing differing from mayonnaise in that 
the eggs are hard-boiled and rubbed in a mortar with mustard, 
herbs, etc. 

Rissoles. — Rich mince of meat or fish rolled in thin pastry and 
fried. 

Roux. — A cooked mixture of butter and flour for thickening 
soups and stews. 

Salmis. — A rich stew of game cut up and dressed when half 
roasted. 

Sauter. — To toss meat, etc., over the fire in a little fat. 

Souffle. — A very light, much whipped-up pudding or omelet. 

TiMBALE. — A sort of pie in a mould. 

Vol-au-Vent. — Patties of very light puff paste, made without a 
dish or mould, and filled with meats or preserves, etc. . 

WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES. 

ist - - - Paper. 30th - - - Cotton. 

5th - - - Wooden 35th - - - Linen, 

loth - - - Tin. 40th - - - Woolen. 

15th - - Crystal. 45th - - - Silk. 

20th - - - China. 50th - - - Golden. 

25th - - Silver. 75th - - - Diamond. 



SIMPLE MENUS. 



Breakfast. 

SUNDAY. 



Corn beef hash, stewed potatoes, poached eggs, griddle cakes, 
coffee. 

MONDAY. 

Codfish balls, fried mush, toast, coffee. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. . 507 

TUESDAY. 

Beef hash, fried potatoes, hominy, croquettes, hot biscuit, coffee. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Mutton chops, tomato sauce, potato balls, milk toast, coffee. 

THURSDAY. 

Veal cutlet breaded, brown gravy, potato chips, rolls, coffee. 

FRIDAY. 

Broiled fish, potatoes, oysters, toast, coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Fish croquettes, potato balls, beefsteak, muffins, coffee. 

Fruit is desirable for breakfast at all times, and with oatmeal, 
coffee and rolls, makes a hearty breakfast enough for most people 
the year round, simple breakfasts being the rule among even 
wealthy people. 

Dinner. 

SUNDAY. 

Roast beef, potatoes baked with meat, balapd macaroni, apple 
pie and cheese. 

MONDAY. 

Cold sliced beef, stewed potatoes, green corn, lemon pie. 

TUESDAY. 

Beefsteak, fried potatoes, escalloped tomatoes, bread pudding. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Roast veal, mashed potatoes, spinach, custard and cake. 

THURSDAY. 

Rice ragout, plain boiled potatoes, boiled onions, plain salad, rice 
pudding. 

FRIDAY. 

Baked fish, baked potatoes, lamb, green peas, cottage pudding. 

SATURDAY. 

Soup, cold lamb, mashed potatoes, asparagus, canned fruit and 
cake. 



5o8 • GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CHOICE MENUS, 



SUNDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Broiled Chicken, 

Saratoga Potatoes, Hominy Puff, 

Waffles. 



Coffee, Chocolate. 



DINNER. 

Soup Consomm6. 



Fish Croquettes, Green Grape Jelly, 

Roast of Beef, Olives, 

Mashed Potatoes, Stuffed Tomatoes, 

Plain Lettuce Salad. 



Pineapple Glace. 

Angel Cake, 

Fruit, Coffee. 



MONDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Corn Beef Hash, 
Omelet, Muffins. 



Tea, Coffee. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 509 

DINNER. 

Tomato Soup. 



Fried Oysters, 

Cold Roast of Beef, 

Coral Potatoes, Green Corn Pudding, 

Pickles. 



Cake, Preserves, 
Coffee. 



TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal porridge. 



Porter-House Steak, 

Lyonnaise Potatoes, Scrambled Eggs, 

Corn-Meal Griddle Cakes. 



Coffee. 



DINNER. 

Cream of Oysters. 

Chicken Croquettes, 

Sweetbreads, Bechemel Sauce, 

Southern Baked Sweet Potatoes, 

Cabbage Salad, Chili Sauce. 



Apple Pie, Neufchatel Cheese. 
Coffee. 



510 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WEDNESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Cracked Wheat. 

Lamb Chops, 

Potato Croquettes, Egg Baskets, 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 



Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Deviled Salmon. 



Roast Turkey, 

Cranberry Jelly, Pickles, 

Mashed Potatoes, Celery, 

Baked Hubbard Squash. 



Charlotte Russe, 
Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Hominy Grits. 



Turkey Hash, 

Fried Potatoes, Omelet Souffle, 

Corn Meal Muffins. 



Chocolate, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 

DINNER. 

Raw Oysters, 
Black Bean Soup. 



Pigeon Pie, Olives, 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce, 

Potatoes, Cream Dressing, 

Macaroni au Gratin, 

Chicken Salad. 



Porcupine Pudding, Fruit, Nuts, 
Coffee. 



FRIDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Rolled Oats. 

Codfish Balls, Eggs Boiled in the Shell, 

Pop-Overs. 



Coffee. 



Boiled Salmon, Roast of Lamb, 

Mashed Potatoes, 

Green Peas, Chow-Chow, 

Baked Tomatoes, 

Salad. 



Ice Cream, Cake, 
Coffee. 



512 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Oatmeal Porridge, 
Fried Liver and Bacon, 
Cream Potatoes, Rice Croquettes, 
Flannel Cakes. 



Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Vegetable Soup. 



Corn Beef, Veal Cutlets, 

Tomato Sauce, Boiled Potatoes, 

Cauliflower, Pickled Peaches, Olives, 

Worcestershire Sauce. 



Lemon Pie, Fromage de Brie, 
Fruits, Coffee. 



SUNDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Quail on Toast, 

Baked Potatoes, 

Fried Cream, (see made dishes), 

Parker House Rolls. 



Coffee, Chocolate. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 513 

DINNER, 

Vermicelli Soup. 



Escalloped Lobster, 

Pickles, 

Roast Turkey, 

Currant Jelly, Asparagus on Toast, 

Mashed Potatoes, 

Cold Slaw with Sauce Francois. 



Hidden Mountain, Assorted Cakes, 

Wine Jelly, White Grapes, 

Nuts, Coffee. 



MONDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Oatmeal Porridge, 

Stewed Kidney, cold Smoked Tongue, 

Potato Croquettes, 

Sally Lunn. 



Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Celery Soup. 



Porter-House Steak, 

Baked Sweet and Irish Potatoes, 

Fried Parsnips, Lettuce, 

Crab-apple Jelly. 



Cottage Pudding, 
Apples, Coffee, 



514 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Rolled Oats. 



Baked Apples, 

Veal Croquettes, 

Saratoga Potatoes, Omelet, 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 



Baked White Fish, 

Pickled Onions, 

Cold Turkey, Plum Jelly, 

Potato Salad, 

Stewed Tomatoes, Macaroni Plain. 



Estelle Pudding, Ice Cream Sauce, 
Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Ham and Eggs, 

Lyonnaise Potatoes, Fried Apples, 

Warnecke Muffins, 



Coffee. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 515 

DINNER. 
Bouillon. 

Reed Birds on Toast, 

Mixed Pickles, 

A la Mode Beef, 

Gooseberry Jelly, Coral Potatoes, 

French Peas, Shrimp Salad. 



Amber Pudding, 

Oranges and Bananas, 

Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Sweetbreads, 

Broiled Oysters, 

Fried Tomatoes, Baked Potatoes, 

English Muffins, Corn-Meal Batter Cakes. 



Coffee. 



DINNER. 

Oysters Escalloped in the Shell. 



Cucumber Pickles, 

Roast Ducks, 

Currant Jelly, 

Mushrooms on Toast, Coral Potatoes Baked, 

Boiled Onions, Cream Dressing, 

Tongue Salad. 



Apple Foam, Delicate Cake, 

Assorted Nuts, 

Rochefort Cheese, 

Coffee, 



5l6 GRADED COOK BOOK. 



FRIDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Oatmeal Porridge, 

Cream Codfish or Broiled Mackerel, 

Fried Potatoes, 

Rice Balls, Slap Jacks. 



Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Oyster Soup. 

Boiled Salmon Trout, Egg Sauce, 

Boiled Potatoes, Cream Sauce, 

Pickled Beets, 

String Beans, Green Peas, 

Lobster Salad. 



Cocoanut Pie, 
Fruit, Coffee. 



SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 



Tongue Hash, Frizzled Beef, 

Potato Croquettes, Poached Eggs on Toast, 

French Rolls, Johnny Cake. 

Coffee, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 517 

DINNER. 

Barley Soup. 



Pork and Beans, Veal Olives, 

Stewed Oyster Plant, 

Baked Potatoes, 

Celery. 



Author's Fruit Pudding, Cream or Wine Sauce, 

Apples, Oranges, 

Coffee. 



LUNCHEON, TWELVE COVERS. 

Blue points half shell, brown bread folds, salted almonds, olives, 

anchovies. 
Roman punch. 
Prairie chicken, wine sauce, sweet potato croquettes, cranberry 

ice, French peas. 
Tongue salad, cheese omelet. 
Vanilla cream, cake. 
Coffee. 

DINNER, TWELVE COVERS. 

Julienne soup, (can be bought canned), bread sticks. 

Cutlets of salmon, potatoes au naturel, cucumber salad. 

Chicken croquettes. 

Maraschino punch. 

Fillet of beef, potatoes a la neige,* cauliflower. 

Quail with aspic jelly. 

Celery salad, cheese sticks. 

Shells of ice cream with ice strawberries, assortment of cake. 

Coffee. 

Fruit, bon-bons and nuts can be served if wished. 

*A la neige — mashed potatoes pressed through a colander. 



5l8 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

DINNER BILL OF FARE (Spring). 

Soup, vermicelli, with grated cheese. 

Boiled salmon, lobster sauce, cucumbers. 

Chicken croquettes, tomato sauce. 

Sweetbreads in shells, sauce Hollandaise; roast beef with mush- 
rooms. 

Roman punch. 

Snipe, baked coral potatoes, lettuce with mayonnaise, asparagus, 
macaroni au gratin. 

Wine jelly, hidden mountain, Nessclrode pudding, delicate cake, 
fruits, cafe noir. 

DINNER BILL OF FARE (Summer). 

Soup consomme. 

Baked white fish, sauce Tartare, 

Chicken croquettes, green peas. 

Roast lamb, mint sauce; spinach, green corn pudding. 

Tomato salad with mayonnaise, cheese, wafers, olives. 

Whipped cream, fresh strawberries, pineapple sherbet. 

Assorted nuts, fruits, small cakes. 

DINNER BILL OF FARE (Autumn). 

Raw oysters served in block of ice, crab soup. 

Roasted chickens, with spinach. 

Fillet of beef, with mushrooms, sweet potatoes, lima beans, 

roasted tomatoes. 
Quail on toast, currant jelly, salad a la Russe. 
Cocoanut pie, biscuit glaces, nuts, fruits, cafe noir. 

DINNER BILL OF FARE (Winter). 

Mock turtle soup. 

Sweetbreads and cauliflower, with cream dressing, fried oysters, 

cabbage salad. 
Roast turkey, chestnut stuffing, jelly, celery, olives, mashed 

potatoes. 
Pigeon pie, spinach, French string beans, lobster salad. 
Porcupine pudding, wine jelly, vanilla ice cream, angel cake, 

fruits, cafe. 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. 



I offer a few suggestions in regard to the care of the 
sick, and in addition to this, append a few tried re- 
cipes for the invalid. 

First. — Quiet and cleanliness is a question that 
comes directly home to the nurse. In caring for those 
especially who are nervous or irritable, nurses and 
persons in the sick-room should act naturally; should 
avoid all whispering, but talk in a low, yet distinct 
tone of voice, doing it in such a manner that the 
patient will not realize that he or she is an object of 
attention. 

Any want of the patient should be attended to, 
however urgent it may be, without undue haste or 
noise, everything being done naturally, without con- 
fusion. 

To a patient who has passed through a hard siege 
of any disease, nothing is more irritating than the 
hoarse whisper, and half officious interference of 
friends — two or three of whom will start to do the 
same thing, and after creating confusion, leave it for 
the nurse. 

Medicine bottles should be kept out of sight; every 
dose when possible should be prepared in an adjoining 
room, taken quietly to the patient and administered. 

The sick room should be stripped of everything that 
would give it the appearance of a sick chamber, so 
that as far as may be the surroundings of the room 

519 



520 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

will encourage the patient, while if he constantly sees 
before him an array of bottles, glasses, and other 
paraphernalia of the sick room, it will be a constant 
reminder that he is sick, and many hours that might 
be spent comfortably will be spent dreading the next 
dose which he can see before him. 

Cleanliness above all things should be observed, not 
only so far as the person of the patient is concerned, 
but the bedding and other surroundings. 

There are but few diseases that will not permit of a 
patient receiving sponge baths, not only sufficiently 
frequent for the purposes of cleanliness, but so that 
the skin will be encouraged to perform its functions. 
If you have a physician you will follow his 
directions, but if away from medical aid, where the 
patient is feverish or skin dry, it is safe to give a 
sponge bath at least once in twenty-four hours, using 
tepid water, uncovering a small portion of the body at 
a time, sponging it well, then drying thoroughly and 
following from part to part until the entire body is 
sponged. The addition of a tablespoonful of com- 
mon salt or common table soda will be found very 
agreeable as well as advantageous. Dilute alcohol may 
also be used. As a rule, persons are more liable to 
err by neglecting such means of cleanliness, than by 
using them. " Cleanliness is akin to godliness," and 
if ever a saying was true this is true of a sick person 
and his surroundings. 

I append a number of recipes that will be found 
useful for soiled clothing and other articles that are 
used in a sick chamber. All clothing should be dis- 
infected before going to the laundry. This is espe- 
cially true so far as all fevers are concerned; but it 



GRADED COOK BOOK. ^21 

is best to err on the side of safety, and disinfect in all 
cases. The sick room should be well ventilated, but 
do not permit the air to fall directly upon the patient. 

THE BATH. 

Author. 
Frequent baths of sea salt and water are beneficial. 
If sea salt cannot be procured, the following will be 
found quite good: Rub the body with a cloth dipped 
in whisky and then in salt; rinse off with tepid water. 
Dry the body well and use a flesh brush or Turkish towel 
or glove. Rub well to bring the blood to the surface. 

ARROW-ROOT. 

Aunt L. 
Stir well into one pint of boiling milk, one tea- 
spoonful of arrow-root, made smooth with a little cold 
milk, and boil three or four minutes; when cool stir in 
two well-beaten eggs. Sweeten to taste; let it thicken, 
take from fire and pour into cups. Nutmeg may be 
used if desired. If for invalids use without the eggs. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Mrs. L. 

'Boil till soft two ounces of barley in two quarts of 

water. Strain and add enough currant jelly to give it 

a pleasant taste. Squeeze a lemon into it. Pearl 

barley is preferred. Sweeten with loaf sugar. 

BEEF TEA. 

Author. 
Take one pound of beef and one pint cold water. 
Set on back of stove and simmer till thoroughly cooked. 
Salt to taste. 



522 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

Author. 
Take of lean beef, sliced, a sufficient quantity to fill 
the body of a porter bottle, cork loosely, and place it 
in a pot of cold water, attaching the neck, by means of 
a string, to the handle of the pot. Boil for one hour 
and a half to two hours, then decant the liquid and 
skim it. To this preparation may be added spices, 
salt, wine, brandy, etc., according to the taste of the 
patient, and nature of the disease. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Author. 

Broil a thick piece of beefsteak three minutes, 

squeeze out all the juice with a lemon squeezer, salt 

lightly. Give like beef tea. This is good for bowel 

complaint or debility. 

BLACKBERRY TONIC. 
Mrs. D. 
Four quarts blackberries mashed; two pounds 
white sugar, one quart boiling water. Let it stand 
nine days, then strain; let it stand a week longer and 
strain again; put into bottles and cork lightly for a 
few days, then seal air tight. 

BOILED FLOUR. 

Author. 

Take of fine flour one pound, tie it up in a linen 

cloth as tight as possible, and after frequently dipping 

it into cold water, dredge the outside with flour till a 

crust is formed round it, which will prevent the water 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 523 

soaking into it while boiling. Boil for a long time, 
and permit to cool, when it will become a hard, dry- 
mass. This is to be grated, and prepared like arrow- 
root. A good diet for children in diarrhoea. 

CAUDLE. 

Author. 
Into a pint of thin gruel put while it is boiling hot, 
the yolk of one egg, beaten with sugar, and mix with 
a tablespoonful of cold water, a glass of wine and some 
nutmeg. Mix well together. This is nourishing given 
during convalescence. To rice or water gruel, made 
and strained, add one-half wine-glass of brandy or 
wine. Sweeten with loaf sugar. Nutmeg may be 
used if desired, and omit the egg. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Author. 
Take a small chicken, free it from the skin, and from 
all the fat between the muscles, divide it, remove the 
lungs, liver, etc., then cut it into small pieces and put 
into a pan with a little salt, add a quart of cold water, 
cover the pan and simmer slowly for two hours; then 
strain through a fine sieve. 

CREAM SOUP FOR INVALIDS. 

Author. 
One pint of cream and one pint of milk. Let it 
come to a boil; season to taste with salt (no pepper) 
and just a pinch of cinnamon. Beat three eggs; after 
removing the soup to the back of the stove to cool 
slightly so it will not cook the whites, then add the 



524 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

eggs. Toast bread and cut in pieces half an inch 
square, put a few of the pieces in each plate and pour 
the soup over. Stir the milk and cream or it will burn, 
and be very sure to let it cool just a little before adding 
the eggs. Bread cut into dice and browned nicely on 
both sides is preferable to toast. 

GINGER CORDIAL. 

Aunt Mary H. 
Two quarts of currants or raspberries, one gallon 
whisky or alcohol, four lemons shredded and seeds re- 
moved, four ounces ginger root bruised. Put all in a 
stone jar, keep closely covered for three weeks; then 
strain and add four pounds of loaf sugar, boil one 
minute and bottle. 

GRUEL. ' 

Author. 
Take about one tablespoonful of corn meal, arrow- 
root or oat meal, mix smooth with a little cold water; 
then pour over it one pint of boiling water; let it cook 
on the stove for thirty minutes, stirring frequently, add 
a little salt; if it thickens too much, add more boiling 
water. May add a little sugar, nutmeg, and a little 
milk or cream if desired. 

LEMON JELLY FOR ONE PERSON. 

Author. 
One lemon, two tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, 
one coffee cup of boiling water, one dessertspoonful of 
gelatine. Dissolve gelatine in as little cold water as 
will cover; squeeze the lemon, grate a little of the rind, 
add the sugar; pour over this the boiling water and 
add the warm gelatine; strain and cool. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 525 

MOSS JELLY. 

Aunt L. 
Steep Irish moss a few minutes to extract the bitter 
taste; turn off the water. To one-half ounce of moss 
aad one quart fresh water, one stick cinnamon. Boil 
to thick jelly, strain and flavor to taste with white 
wine; sweeten with loaf sugar. 

MULLED WINE. 

Cousin Alice. 
Take a quarter of an ounce of bruised cinnamon, 
half a nutmeg (grated), and ten bruised cloves; infuse 
them in half a pint of boiling water for an hour, strain 
and add half an ounce of white sugar. Pour the whole 
into a pint of hot port or sherry wine. This is a good 
cordial and restorative in the low stages of fever, or 
in the debility of convalescence from fevers. 

MUTTON TEA. 

Author. 
Take one pound of good mutton, free from the fat, 
and cut into thin slices; pour over it a pint and a half 
cold water, boil half an hour, then strain. If the 
invalid desires the addition of barley, an ounce of clean 
pearl barley, washed, and macerated in boiling water 
for an hour, may be boiled with the mutton tea, and 
the undissolved barley separated by straining. 

PANADA. 

Cousin Alice. 

Stale wheat bread one ounce, cinnamon one drachm, 

water one pint. Cover and let stand for an hour, 

beat up and boil for ten minutes, adding a little grated 

nutmeg and sugar. Wine may be added if required. 



526 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

RICE GRUEL. 

Mrs. L. 

Put into six gills of boiling water one teaspoonful 
of rice flour which has been made smooth with cold 
water. Boil a few moments and add one-half pint of 
new milk and a pinch of salt; boil a little longer. 
Sweeten and flavor with cinnamon or nutmeg. Rice 
can be used instead of rice flour, but must be strained. 

SAGO OR TAPIOCA. 

Two tablespoonfuls sago, one and one-half pints of 
water, lemon and sugar to taste. Soak the sago half 
an hour, then boil hard five or ten minutes. 

SODA MIXTURE. 

Aunt Nettie. 

Two teaspoonfuls baking soda, one teaspoonful of 
spirits of camphor, one-half teaspoonful of essence of 
peppermint. Put all into a quart of water. Dose for 
adults, one or two tablespoonfuls. 

TOAST WATER. 

Cousin Alice. 

Toast thoroughly a slice of stale bread, put it in a 
jug and pour over it a quart of water which has been 
boiled and cooled, and in two hours decant; a small 
piece of orange or lemon peel put into the jug with the 
bread improves the flavor greatly. This forms a good 
drink in febrile affections. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 527 

VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Cousin Alice. 
Take two potatoes, one carrot, one turnip and one 
onion. Slice them and boil in a quart of water for an 
hour, adding more water from time to time so as to 
keep the original quantity; flavor with salt and a 
small portion of pot-herbs, strain. When advisable, a 
small quantity of mushroom catsup added to this 
broth greatly improves its taste. This is a good sub- 
stitute for animal food, when the last is inadmissible. 

WATER GRUEL. 

Auntie. 
One tablespoonful wheat flour, two tablespoonfuls 
Indian meal. Mix with enough cold water to make a 
thick batter; add one pint of boiling water (more if 
desired thin) and cook till done. 

WINE, VINEGAR OR LEMON WHEY. 

Aunt L. 
Stir into a pint of boiling milk one teacup of wine, 
boil one minute; take from the fire, let it stand till the 
curd has settled; then pour off and sweeten with loaf 

sugar. 

INFANT DIET. 

Author. 
Take a scruple of Russia isinglass (or a piece two 
inches square of the cake in which it is sold), soak 
until soft in cold water, and then boil in half a pint 
of water until dissolved, about ten or fifteen minutes. 
To this is added just at the termination of the boiling 
seven or eight tabljsspoonfuls of milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream and a teaspoonful of arrow-root to half 



52^ GRADED COOK BOOK. 

a pint of water. Gradually increase the milk to half 
or two-thirds, and the cream a little more. The 
amount of isinglass and arrow-root need not be 
increased. 

CROUP. 

Author. 
For infants under six months, apply to the throat 
and chest a piece of flannel sprinkled with Scotch snuff 
and moistened with goose oil. Give one-half teaspoon- 
ful goose oil internally once an hour. If necessary to 
make the babe throw up the phlegm, give a few drops 
of syrup of squills. Your physician will direct accord- 
ing to age. 

MILK BEER FOR NURSING MOTHERS. 

Author. 
Heat one pint sweet milk, and add one-half pint 
beer. Must be hot enough to mix without curdling. 
Judgment must be used in making. To be used only 
in the first weeks of motherhood. 

EGGS AS FOOD AND AS REMEDIES. 

For burns and scalds, says the Medical Journal^ 
there is nothing more soothing than the white of an 
^gg> which may be poured over the wound. It is 
softer as a varnish for a burn than collodion, and being 
always on hand, can be applied immediately. It is 
also more cooling than the '' sweet oil and cotton" 
which was formerly supposed to be the surest appli- 
cation to allay the smarting pain. It is the contact 
with the air that gives the extreme discomfort experi- 
enced from ordinary accidents of this kind; and any- 
thing which excludes air and prevents inflammation 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 529 

is the best thing to be applied. The egg is also con- 
sidered one of the very best remedies for dysentery. 
Beaten up lightly, with or without sugar, and swallowed 
at a gulp, it tends by its emollient qualities to lessen 
the inflammation of the stomach and intestines, and 
by forming a transient coating for these organs enables 
nature to assume her healthful sway over the diseased 
body. Two, or, at the most, three eggs per day would 
be all that would be required in ordinary cases; and 
since the egg is not merely a medicine, but food as well, 
the lighter the diet otherwise, and the quieter the pa- 
tient is kept, the more certain and rapid is his recovery. 

WATER FOR THE SYSTEM. 
Pure, ripe, juicy fruits furnish the best, most whole- 
some and agreeable supply of water for the system, and 
there are few people who use one-quarter as much fruit 
as a state of perfect health would indicate or demand, 
but this fruit should be taken at or form the principal 
part of our meals and never be eaten between meals, 
especially so, if more than two regular meals are taken 
daily. Hot water drinking, which has amounted 
almost to a mania in many places during the past few 
years, was nothing more nor less than internal bathing. 
Suppose the system is filled with some form of impurity, 
causing congestion and disease, the patient drinks one, 
two or even three quarts of water daily, as many do 
who visit the springs and watering places. The same 
quantity of water must pass out of the system through 
the skin, kidneys or some other emunctories of the 
body, and in no case does it pass out as pure water, 
but becomes loaded with effete matter, which it takes 
up and expels. — HaW s Journal of Health. 



530 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

INTERESTING TO ASTHMATICS. 

The following will interest asthmatics: Dr. Holmes, 
it is said, has found nothing which did him so much 
good as this combination of drugs: Stramonium 
leaves, lobelia, saltpetre and black tea, equal parts by 
weight. These are powdered, mixed together, and 
then sifted. Some of this is burned on live coals and 
the smoke inhaled. — Boston Hei^ald. 

People suffering from hay fever or asthma should 
make a pillow of wild balsam (life everlasting), which 
grows wild in nearly all countries. It will soothe and 
cure if persevered in for a month. 

FOR BRONCHITIS. 
Dr. H. 
One-half ounce of jaborandi, one-half ounce of 
eucalyptus extract. Mix fifteen drops in half a cup of 
hot water. I7ihale through stone inhaler. 

FOR BRONCHIAL COUGH. 

Author. 
Ask your druggist for Brown's mixture. Dose: one- 
half teaspoonful for children three to ten years; two 
teaspoonfuls for adults, every two hours. Muriate of 
ammonia pellets are excellent also, one dissolved in 
the mouth about once in two hours. Ask your drug- 
gist for them. 

PLASTER FOR BRONCHITIS OR WEAK 
CHEST. 

Five ounces of pine tar boiled one-half hour; add 
two and one-half ounces of burgundy pitch, one 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 531 

ounce of mandrake root, one ounce of bloodroot, one 
ounce of poke root, one ounce of Indian turnip. (All 
finely ground). 

TO BREAK UP A COLD. 

Dr. W. 

When you find the first symptoms, take a Dover's 
powder, four grains, with a glass of hot lemonade, go 
to bed, wrap up warm, and by morning you will be 
entirely relieved. In addition the feet should be 
bathed in hot mustard water. 

FOR A SEVERE COLD WITH DIFFICULT 
BREATHING. 

Dover's powder twenty grains, camphor eight grains, 
carbonate of ammonia thirty grains. Make into five 
powders, one two or three times a day, and at bed 
time. 

A good pill to break up a cold, or if it is preferred 
it can be put in a capsule: Quinine fifteen grains, red 
pepper ten grains. Make into five pills or capsules. 
Take one four times a day, keeping the bowels free. 



HOARSENESS. 

Author. 

Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a bowl with one 
teaspoonful of glycerine, one tablespoonful of Scotch 
whisky, and a tumbler of boiling water. Drink hot 
on going to bed. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. 
Black currant jelly is also good for hoarseness. 



532 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FOR COLD IN THE HEAD. 

Put thirty drops of carbolic acid into a pint of warm 
water and snuff three times a day; salt may be used 
instead of the acid, or dilute camphor in water one- 
half, and snuff it up the nose. 

Also for cold in head, put a teaspoonful of sugar in 
a goblet, put on it six drops of camphor, stir it, and 
fill one glass half full of water. Stir till sugar is dis- 
solved. Take a dessertspoonful every twenty minutes. 

HOARSENESS. 

White of egg well beaten, lemon juice and sugar. 
Take a teaspoonful now and then. Also seven drops 
carbonate of ammonia in one-half glass of water. 
Take one teaspoonful every fifteen minutes. 

REMEDY FOR HOARSENESS OR LOSS OF 
VOICE. 

Dissolve in the mouth a lump of borax, size of a 
garden pea. If held in the mouth for ten minutes 
before speaking or singing, it will act like magic. 

Raw oysters are highly recommended for hoarseness. 

In catarrh, place alum in the stove, let it melt and 
burn until it becomes a dry powder, then use as snuff. 

REMEDY FOR COLD. 

Sister Jennie. 
Boil three medium sized lemons whole, six or eight 
minutes; then slice them thin with a sharp knife. Put 
them and their juice (having taken out the seeds) into 
a brown earthen pan with one pound of clean brown 
sugar, the browner the better, and set the pan on the 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 533 

top of the Stove so that the sugar may melt gradually. 
When it is melted move the pan to a hotter part of 
the stove and let it stew for about three hours. Take 
it off, let it stand half an hour, and then stir into it a 
small tablespoonful of the oil of sweet almonds. 
When it is cold, it is ready for use. A dose is a tea- 
spoonful whenever you choose, provided you do not 
eat it up too rapidly, as it is very tempting. Stir when 
taking it. 

REMEDY FOR COUGH OR DEBILITY. 
E. D. G. Gushing. 
One pint of whisky, or old rum is better, one-half 
pint of cream, one pound of strained honey, one-fourth 
pound of rock candy, whites of three eggs. Beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth, also beat cream and mix with 
eggs; then add whisky with rock candy dissolved in a 
little boiling water. Warm the honey that it may run 
freely, and beat all together and bottle. Dose: one 
tablespoonful frequently. This is a good tonic, as 
well as cough mixture. The dose given is for adults. 

COUGH REMEDY. 

Dr. A. 
One-half ounce of bloodroot, one-half pint of vine- 
gar, one-half pint of honey. Pour the vinegar over 
the bloodroot, and steep awhile. Pour off and add 
one-half pint more of vinegar, and allow to steep. 
When steeped so that a pint of vinegar is reduced to 
one-half pint, then add one-half pint of honey. Cool, 
then bottle. Dose: one tablespoonful for adults, one 
teaspoonful for children, three times a day. 



534 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

COUGH MIXTURE. 
A. C. V. 
Four ounces syrup of wild cherry, four ounces syrup 
of squills, two ounces syrup of tolu, two ounces syrup 
of seneka, two ounces syrup of paregoric, one and one- 
half ounces syrup of ipecac, one-half ounce tincture of 
bloodroot. Mix. Dose : a teaspoonf ul every three or 
four hours for adults. 

EXCELLENT FOR COUGHS AND COLDS. 

Mrs. Lydia C. White. 
Buy five cents' worth of balm of Gilead; cover with 
whisky; let stand twenty-four hours. Dose: three 
drops on sugar several times a day and also at night 
if required. This should be continued until the cough 
has gone. 

FOR COUGH. 
Sister Fannie. 
One-half pound of figs, cut in half the fiat way, three 
tablespoonfuls of white loaf sugar, one-half gill of 
Jamaica rum. Eat one-half fig several times a day. 

GOOD FOR COUGH. 

Cousin B. B. S. 

Equal parts of linseed oil (refined), white honey and 
rum. Mix thoroughly. Dose: one tablespoonful 
three times a day. 

This is also a good tonic. 

TAR SYRUP. 
A. C. V. 

One gill of tar, one quart of Jamaica rum. Put in 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 535 

tin pan on the back of the stove, closely covered, and 
simmer one hour. Cool and settle; then pour off 
liquid, and bottle. Dose: one teaspoonful three or 
four times a day. 

HINTS ON CROUP. 

Author. 

A hot pancake made of buckwheat and water retains 
the heat, and is valuable in croup. 

Make a poultice of flaxseed moistened with hot 
water, spread it on a cloth and pour goose oil over it. 
This is good for infants; for older children pour cam- 
phorated oil over the poultice instead, as it is more 
penetrating. At the same time give a teaspoonful of 
goose oil once an hour. If speedy relief is required, 
of course a physician must be consulted; but the 
above remedies are efficacious in connection with any 
treatment. Stafford's olive tar I have also used very 
successfully. It is always well when poultices are 
used to cover them with oiled silk, to retain the heat. 
The child's neck and chest should be well rubbed 
with goose oil night and morning until all traces of 
croup disappear. When a child has so far recovered 
from any of the infantile diseases as to be allowed to 
exercise out of doors, put on it a shirt made of canton 
flannel lined with oiled silk, to prevent cold from first 
exposure. Wear the canton flannel next to the skin. 

The following is recommended for croup: Make a 
bib of chamois skin, melt tallow and pine tar, rub on 
the bib, and let the child wear it. Renew it occasion- 
ally. 

REMEDY FOR DIPHTHERIA. 

Chlorate of potassa is a well-known means of arrest- 



536 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ing the progress of diphtheria. A solution should be 
kept in every family medicine chest, ready to be ad- 
ministered in every suspicious case of sore throat. 
The solution is made by dissolving half an ounce of 
the chlorate in a pint of boiling water. It should be 
preserved in a bottle, closely corked, and when used, 
the bottle should be shaken with sufficient violence to 
diffuse the crystalline sediments through the water. 
The dose is a teaspoonful every two hours for adults, 
and five to thirty grains for children. 

DIPHTHERITIC SORE THROAT. 

Author. 

Make a gargle of a teaspoonful of flowers of sulphur 
and a wineglass of water. If the patient is too weak 
to gargle, blow sulphur into the throat through a 
quill, or lay live coals on a shovel, sprinkle a tea- 
spoonful of sulphur on them, and let him inhale the 
fumes. 

The following is also an effectual remedy: Burn 
raw cotton, and lay in the bottom of a cup large 
enough to be covered by an ordinary funnel; fill the 
cup with boiling vinegar; place a funnel over the cup, 
and inhale. Immediate relief will be experienced. 

FOR ACUTE LARYNGITIS. 

Dr. A. 
Two ounces of liquor acetate of ammonia, two 
drachms of spirit of chloroform, one drachm of nitrate 
of potash (saltpetre), one ounce of syrup squills, water 
to make six ounces. A tablespoonful three or four 
times a day for adults. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 537 

TONSILITIS. 

Author. 
Swab the throat with clear alcohol; it will remove 
the membrane that forms. Holding very warm milk 
or gruel in the mouth, or inhaling boiling water con- 
taining a little iodine, ammonia and carbolic acid, 
or sweet spirits of nitre, either or all, will often re- 
move the pain. I append a formula which I keep 
prepared. It will soothe and cure all cases of this 
kind if used in time and persevered in. 

GLYCERINE LOTION. 
Dr. A. 
Sixty grains of carbolic acid, one ounce of glycer- 
ine, seven ounces of rosewater, twenty drops of oil of 
lemon. Shake the vial; pour out a teaspoonful and 
swab the throat for swollen tonsils every two hours. 
If used as a gargle, dilute with a little water. Do not 
swallow this medicine. 

OUTWARD APPLICATION FOR SORE 
THROAT OR SORE CHEST. 

One part of Venice turpentine and two parts of 
camphorated oil. Mix, bottle, and use when needed. 
If afflicted with a delicate throat, bathe the neck 
mornings with cold water and use the flesh brush at 
night. You will find a gradual strengthening of 
throat. 

COLD AND SORE THROAT. 
Author. 

Apply a thin slice of raw salt pork to the throat. 
When a cough is present, give one-half to one tea- 



538 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Spoonful of syrup of tolu to children from two to 
twelve years; adults, one tablespoonful. If the cough 
is very troublesome, add to the tolu five to twenty 
drops of paregoric according to age, or a few drops of 
syrup of squills. 

GARGLE FOR SORE THROAT. 

Author. 

One even teaspoonful of muriate of ammonia to 
one-half goblet of cold water. When dissolved, take 
as a gargle one teaspoonful every two hours; the 
alternate hour swallow a scant teaspoonful until the 
soreness is gone. Chlorate of potassa is also excel- 
lent, used in the same proportions, and taken in the 
same way. The above proportion is for adults. 

Directions for using muriate of ammonia must be 
followed strictly, as it is a powerful drug. 

GARGLE FOR SLIGHT SORE THROAT. 

Very black coffee; sweeten with loaf sugar, and add 
borax enough to taste. 

Another simple remedy is as follows: One table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

CHILDREN'S SORE MOUTH. 

Get the pulverized borax, and to about one-third of 
a teaspoonful of borax mix about one-half teaspoonful 
of powdered sugar. Mothers should wash their babies' 
mouths out every other morning with a solution of 
borax and water; they should keep a bottle of it dis- 
solved all the time; pour a little of it into a cup, and 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 539 

with a cloth wrapped around the finger and dipped 
into the solution, wipe the child's mouth out well with 
it. This will prevent children ever having sore 
mouths. 

WASH FOR SORE MOUTH. 
Author. 
One tablespoonful of borax, eight tablespoonfuls of 
glycerine, one-half cup of water. 

SPICE PLASTER. 

Sister Jennie. 
Sprinkle on a flannel cloth the size you need one- 
half teaspoonful of each kind of spice; moisten with 
goose oil. This is very valuable for croupy colds or 
any colds in children. It is well to keep the plaster on 
during the day, as well as night. I always keep on 
hand a piece of oiled silk to lay on the outside of 
flannel, laying the spice plaster directly on the skin, 
without any gauze between. 

CHICKEN POX. 

Author. 
I have tried successfully cream of tartar water, and 
most cheerfully commend it to anxious mothers. A 
glass of water and cream of tartar make a palatable 
drink; put bits of lemon peel in the glass, sweeten like 
lemonade, and give the child when a drink of water is 
asked for. The reason for adding the lemon peel is 
obvious; the child drinks the lemonade with keen 
relish. Keep the child well covered at night and out 
of draughts in the daytime; be careful about diet for 
a few days, and armed with cream of tartar water, 
the mother has nothing to fear from the fever which 
accompanies this disease. 



540 . GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEVER. 

Rubbing the body with hog's lard or fat reduces 
the temperature of the skin. A celebrated German 
physician recommends to incorporate one or two 
grammes of carbolic acid into one hundred grammes 
of lard, and with this to rub the whole body, except- 
ing the head, two or three times a day. The acid 
operates to destroy the germs or spores of the disease, 
the lard softens the skin and reduces the temperature. 

SUGGESTIONS ON SCARLET FEVER. 

Author. 
As soon as the premonitory symptoms of scarlet 
fever appear, which is indicated by violent headache 
and sore throat, dissolve a teaspoonful of chloride of 
potassa in half a glass of cold water, and give a tea- 
spoonful every two hours, and gargle with the same. 
The use of this remedy lessened the severity of a case 
in my own family after twenty-four hours' application. 
After this treatment it was only necessary to keep the 
patient out of draughts, and observe great care in the 
diet. 

ALUM CURD FOR INFLAMED EYES. 

Cousin Eva. 
Set a cup of sweet milk in a tin basin on the stove, 
with a small lump of alum. Let it reach the boiling 
point, remove from fire, and when cold a curd will 
have formed. Skim it from the whey, place on a 
cloth, and bind over the eyes. When the curd be- 
comes dry, make fresh allowance and apply until in- 
flammation has disappeared. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 541 

Scraped raw carrot is also good. 
Bathe inflamed eyes with borax water, and apply 
scraped raw carrot. 

CURES FOR EARACHE. 

Author. 

Put two drops of warm hickory sap into the ear. It 
is also good for deafness used twice daily as above. 

Roast an onion, take out the heart while hot and 
lay it in the ear. The relief will be almost instantan- 
eous. 

Injections of water as warm as you can bear in the 
ear will bring quick relief. 

A drop of glycerine in the ear is soothing; also 
sweet oil with a few drops of laudanum will relieve 
pain at once. 

EAR DROPS. 

Dr. M. 
One ounce of water, four drops of carbolic acid. In 
colds where the ears trouble one, a few drops dropped 
in the ear and permitted to remain a few minutes will 
give relief. 

FOR SWOLLEN FACE. 

Author. 

An application of mashed cranberries to the affected 
part will relieve the pain, and take out the soreness. 
If very bad, take internally in connection a dose of 
Epsom salts. 

When iodine is used, iodine ointment is preferable, 
as it does not break the skin. It can be purchased of 
any druggist. 



542 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

For neuralgia in the head apply macerated horse- 
radish to the wrists and forehead, then bandage. 

Powdered alum will not only relieve toothache, but 
will prevent the decay of the tooth by putting a small 
portion in the cavity and covering with cotton. 

REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM. ' 

One-half pint of turpentine, half pint of alcohol, 
one ounce of camphor, one ounce of saltpetre, one 
ounce of ammonia, one-eighth of an ounce of cayenne 
pepper. Shake well before applying. Camphor-gum 
and kerosene are also good. 

CURE FOR INFLAMMATORY RHEUMATISM. 

One-half ounce of pulverized saltpetre, put in one- 
half pint of sweet oil, bathe inflamed parts thoroughly. 

A strong solution of bicarb soda and warm water, 
applied to painful joints, often relieves. 

RHEUMATISM. 

Author. 

Lac sulphur in powder applied to the affected parts, 
and covered with roll cotton. 

For a sprain apply immediately a large piece of 
butter, cover thickly with table salt, and bind tightly 
with flannel. This gives relief at once. 

LINIMENT. No. i. 
J. F. Lloyd. 
One-third pint of olive oil, two-thirds pint of am- 
monia F. F. F., one-half drachm of cajaput, one 
drachm of oreganum, one drachm of wormwood. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 543 

LINIMENT. No. 2. 
Five ounces of sweet oil, four ounces of spirits tur- 
pentine, one ounce of alcohol. 

CHLOROFORM LINIMENT. 

Dr. M. 
One ounce of chloroform, one-half ounce of tincture 
opium, one-half ounce of tincture aconite, two ounces 
of compound soap^iniment. Mix. Rub well for sprains 
and bruises. 

FOR AGUE. No. i. 

Author. 
Slice two large lemons, removing the seeds, and 
place in a porcelain kettle with one cup of crushed 
loaf sugar. Let it simmer on back of stove until the 
rind is preserved; take out the lemon, and drink the 
syrup in one dose an hour before you expect the chill. 
Do not eat for two hours before the chill or four hours 
after. I can certify that this has cured a number of 
friends, as well as myself. I had ague for ten months. 

FOR AGUE. No. 2. 

Dr. M. 
One handful of cowslip root, one-half pint of good 
whisky. Take a tablespoonful every hour the day be- 
fore the chill is expected. This dose is for adults. 

FOR AGUE. No. 3. 

Col. Lodge. 

Fill a bottle with chamomile flowers, and cover them 

with good whisky. Dose for adults: a tablespoonful 

every hour the day the chill is expected, and three 

times a day for malaria. 



544 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FOR CONSTIPATION. 

Author. 

Get nice clean coarse bran from the mill. Put two 
teaspoonfuls of bran in a glass of cold water. Taken 
before breakfast has cured many obstinate cases of 
constipation. Two weeks will usually suffice. 

Castor oil is easily taken in a small quantity of clear 
strong coffee. 

Cod liver oil is made tasteless by pouring into a 
glass a teaspoonful of sherry wine, then the oil. 

TONIC FOR PERSONS SUFFERING FROM 

GENERAL DEBILITY. 

Dr. A. 

Four ounces of compound tincture of gentian, two 

ounces of simple syrup, two ounces of water, one and 

one-half drachms of pyrophosphate of iron. Mix. 

Two teaspoonfuls after each meal. 

THE VALUE OF LEMONS. 

The value of lemons is thoroughly appreciated in 
the South, and now that lemons and oranges from 
Florida are as common and almost as cheap as apples, 
their use cannot be too much insisted upon. A lead- 
ing physician recommends that the way to get the 
better of the bilious system without blue pills or qui- 
nine is to take the juice of one, two or three lemons, 
as appetite craves, in as much cold water as makes it 
pleasant to drink without sugar, before going to bed. 
In the morning on rising, at least half an hour before 
breakfast, take the juice of one lemon in a goblet of 
water. This will clear the system of humor and bile 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 545 

with efficiency without any of the weakening effect of 
calomel or congress water. People should not irritate 
the stomach by eating lemons clear; the powerful 
acid of the juice, which is always most corrosive, in- 
'variably produces inflammation after awhile; but 
properly diluted, so that it does not burn or draw the 
throat, does its medical work without harm, and when 
the stomach is clear of food has abundant opportunity 
to work over the system thoroughly. 

ORANGES AS A MEDICINE. 

A distinguished physician once said that if his 
patients would make a practice of eating a couple of 
good oranges every morning before breakfast, from 
February until June, his practice would be gone. 
The medicinal effect of pure fruit acids is excellent 
upon the physical system. 

GOOD TONIC. 

Mrs. Peck. 

One package of boneset, pour two quarts of boiling 

water over it. Let it stand twenty-four hours; then 

take a wineglass full before each meal. Hops steeped 

in the same way, and taken the same, is also excellent. 

TONIC FOR A PERSON SUFFERING FROM 

INDIGESTION. No. i. 

Dr. A. 

Subnitrate bismuth, bicarbonate soda, each two 

drachms, powdered gum arable, powdered ginger, 

povv^dered sugar,, each one drachm; make it into 

twelve powders. Take one after each meal. 



546 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TONIC FOR INDIGESTION. No. 2. 
Dr. M. 

Subnitrate of bismuth three grains, powdered 
cohimbo four grains. Mix. Take one after each meal. 

Wet woolen cloths in hot vinegar and apply for 
cramps and inflammation. Put them on the parts 
affected as hot as the skin can bear. 

If you wish pills to operate quickly, and give them 
no chance to remain in the system, drink a cup of hot 
sarsaparilla tea immediately after taking the medicine. 

TO RELIEVE DISTRESS IN STOMACH. 

One teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
brandy, one tablespoonful of warm water. 

MILK AS A REMEDY. 

An article appeared lately in which it is stated on 
the authority of a very celebrated physician, that in 
the East warm milk is used to a great extent as a spe- 
cific for diarrhoea, incipient cholera and dysentery. 
The milk should never be boiled, but only heated 
sufficiently to be agreeably warm, not too hot to 
drink. Milk which has been boiled is unfit for use. 
This writer says, " It has never failed in curing in six 
or twelve hours." 

SQUIBB'S MIXTURE FOR DIARRHOEA AND 
CHOLERA. 

Six ounces of tincture of opium, six ounces of tinct- 
ure of camphor, six ounces of tincture of capsicum, 
two and one-fourth ounces of purified chloroform, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 547 

nine and three-fourths ounces of alcohol. Mix. Dose: 
one teaspoonful for adults, one-half teaspoonful for 
ten to fourteen years of age, thirty drops six to ten 
years. Take in a little water. 

HAMLIN'S MIXTURE FOR CHOLERA AND 
DIARRHCEA. No. i. 

Tincture of opium, tincture of rhubarb, tincture of 
camphor, tincture of capsicum; equal parts. Mix. 
Dose: thirty to sixty drops on a lump of sugar after 
each movement of the bowels. 

CHOLERA MIXTURE. No. 2. 

Tincture of opium, tincture of capsicum, tincture of 
ginger, tincture of cardamon seeds; equal parts. 
Dose: thirty to forty drops in a little water. 

FOR DYSENTERY OR DIARRHCEA. No. i. 

Four tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy, one table- 
spoonful of loaf sugar, one tablespoonful of bicar- 
bonate soda, one tablespoonful of essence of camphor, 
one tablespoonful of essence of peppermint. For 
adults, one teaspoonful in a little warm water after 
each evacuation. For children a smaller dose, accord- 
ing to age and strength of patient. 

FOR DYSENTERY OR DIARRHCEA. No. 2. 

Dr. A. — A valuable prescription. 
Spirits chloroform, tincture of catechu, of each 
seven drachms ; tincture of opium, two drachms. 
Mix. One teaspoonful in a wineglassful of water 
hourly or as required. 



548 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

FOR ACUTE SORENESS OF THE BOWELS. 

Author. 
Mix a plaster of corn meal, molasses and a table- 
spoonful of dry mustard; spread on a cloth and lay- 
on the bowels without any gauze between. Warm 
fomentations, such as a bag of hot hops, moistened 
well, are good. Cloths wrung out of boiling hot water 
and applied frequently will allay pain. Flannel must 
be laid over warm applications to retain heat and 
prevent taking cold. 

GINGER AND MUSTARD PLASTER FOR 
CRAMP COLIC. 

Sister Jennie. 
One teaspoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of 
ground mustard, moistened with vinegar. Applied to 
the bowels will relieve pain in a few minutes. 

TO RELIEVE PAIN IN BOWELS. No. i. 
Author. 
Wet a cloth in boiling hot water, then sprinkle a 
few drops of turpentine on this hot cloth. Leave on 
bowels only a few minutes or it will blister. 

TO RELIEVE PAIN IN BOWELS. No. 2. 

Author. 

To prepare a mustard plaster, take one teaspoonful 
of mustard, two teaspoonfuls of wheat flour, a little 
vinegar and the white of an egg. The egg prevents a 
blister. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 549 

FOR BURNS. 

Author. 

Dampen carbonate soda to make it adhere, and 
apply. This is also excellent for bee sting. Salt and 
onion is said to be good for bee sting. 

CURE FOR BURNS. 

Take a tart apple and simmer in lard until it forms 
a salve. This heals quick and without a scar. 

SUN-BURN. 

Elder flowers steeped in boiling water; use when 
cold as a wash. Excellent. To make the ointment 
for the same purpose, simmer the flowers in an equal 
quantity of lard until crisp; strain while warm. 

EXCELLENT FOR BURNS. 

Make a strong solution of alum water, and bottle 
it. It will keep for years. When needed, soak cotton 
wool thoroughly, and bind immediately on the burn, 
keeping it from the air. Keep this constantly wet 
until the fire is extracted. If used immediately, it 
will prevent blistering, and is a simple remedy always 
ready. 

Salted butter applied is excellent for burns. 

LINIMENT FOR BURNS. 

Equal parts, fresh linseed oil and lime water. Mix 
well by thorough shaking. Apply after bathing the 
burn with a solution of soda. 



55° GRADED COOK BOOK. 

WOUNDS. 

Smoke the wound, or any bruise that is inflamed, 
with burning wool or woolen cloth. Twenty minutes 
in the smoke of wool will take the pain out of the 
worst wound; repeated two or three times, it will 
allay the worst cases of inflammation arising from it. 
This simple remedy saved lives during the war, and is 
given by an old lady who nursed at that time. 

Common brown wrapping paper stuffed under the 
upper lip wet will stop bleeding of nose, or powdered 
alum put into the nostrils. 

CUTS, BRUISES, ETC. 

Author. 

Stop the flow of blood with cold water; bring the 
flesh together and bind with old linen wet with laud- 
anum. 

Bind the cut with cobwebs and brown sugar, pressed 
on like lint; or if you cannot procure these, with the 
fine dust of tea, or linen and flour. After the wound 
has ceased bleeding, apply a healing salve. 

Author. 

For a bruise apply raw beef; it prevents discolora- 
tion. To take dov/n the swelling, press the bruise 
with the blade of a common steel knife. Dip the 
knife in cold water occasionally to keep it cool. 

Author. 

A piece of red flannel, spread with butter and sprin- 
kled thickly with table salt, is an excellent thing to 
apply to a sprain. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 55 1 

Author. 

Bathe the foot in a decoction of wormwood or a 
weak solution of carbolic acid, and apply a slice of 
raw salt pork when a rusty nail has been driven into 
the foot. 

Author. 

Use kerosene oil and camphor to rub on weak chest 
or lame backs. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Moisten common dry starch with cold water to the 
consistence of paste. Apply at night, remove in the 
morning. 

Another excellent remedy: bathe the affected part 
with a solution, one part nitric acid to forty of water. 

FOR CHILBLAINS. 

A. C. V. 

One-half drachm tannin, one drachm alum, five 
ounces distilled rain water. Mix and bathe the 
affected parts. 

Author. 

To remove the itching and fever of chilblains, use 
grated raw potato, with a little salt in it. Borax water 
is good also. 

FOR CORNS. 

Equal parts of carbolic acid and glycerine. Wet a 
piece of cotton batting with it, and apply. This draws 
out all inflammation. 



552 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Author. 

Application of common chalk is good for corns; also 
oil of cloves; also salt pork. Strong solution of sal 
soda is good for corns. I append a remedy which 
will cure corns, if directions are followed: 

Cut fresh raw beef in small pieces; let it soak in 
vinegar twenty-four hours; then apply a piece, night 
and morning, for one week. Wear a loose shoe with 
low heel. 

SOFT CORNS. 
Dr. M. 

Take a camel-hair brush and gently touch the corn 
with acetic acid, (strong), every night and morning. 
If the shoe is tight, it must be changed for an easy 
one. 

Much relief may be had by taking a piece of soft 
cloth and covering it with finely-powdered chalk and 

placing it between the toes. 

■ 

CURE FOR FELON OR RUNROUND. 

Author. 

Get from your butcher some beef spinal cord; open 
the cord and apply night and morning. It will require 
about three days to cure. Should there be much 
inflammation, apply several times a day. Be sure to 
ask your butcher for spinal cord, and not the marrow 
which you find in a soup-bone. This is a sure cure, 
and relieves pain in a very short time, besides being 
soothing and cooling. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 553 

PRESCRIPTION FOR HEMMORRHOIDS. 

Mrs. L. C. W. 

Fresh butter from the churn, not salted. To a 

piece the size of an egg^ add one and one-half teas- 

poonfuls of spirits of turpentine. Let it simmer in a 

tin cup, and when cold, apply. 

SIMPLE REMEDY FOR PILES. 
Dr. M. 
Linseed oil, such as you get at any drug store. Take 
a teaspoonful three or four times a day. If it is not 
borne kindly by the stomach, inject an ounce before 
having a passage, to be retained as long as possible 
after being used. This is very efficacious. 

Author. 
Ringworms can be cured by an application of a 
paste made of gunpowder and vinegar. Use when- 
ever the ringworm is troublesome — two or three 
times a day. Does not require bandaging. 

WARTS. 

Wash the warts with a strong solution of common 
washing soda and water, letting the soda dry on. 
Repeat several times, daily, until all disappear. Also 
rub morning and evening with muriate of ammonia. 

A strong solution of alum water, applied often, is 
the very best remedy known for the poison of " Poison 
Oak." 

B. B. S. (Cousin.) 
A solution of borax water is excellent for any erup- 
tion on the face. Apply night and morning. 



554 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

POISONS, ANTIDOTES, 

AND SOME SUGGESTIONS ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE 
CASE UNTIL A PHYSICIAN CAN BE CALLED. 

Dr. M. 

Poison may be introduced into the system by solids, 
liquids or gases, and may produce death instantly by 
shock, or later by the specific action of poison. For 
treatment they may be divided according to their 
action into two classes: 

Corrosive poisons. — Stronger acids or alkalis, act 
by destroying the tissues if used pure, by inflamma- 
tion if diluted. 

Neurotics. — Those that act on the nervous system, 
and by that the heart and circulation; opium, chloro- 
form, belladonna, strychnia, and drugs of that class. 

WHAT TO DO. 

Send at once for a physician; by the messenger 
send word what you suspect, so he will come pre- 
pared. 

While waiting use such means as may be at hand. 
The following indications are to be followed: 

First. — Get rid of the poison, by vomiting or stom- 
ach pump. 

Second. — Stop the action if it cannot be readily 
removed. 

To get rid of the poison an emetic should be 
given, sulphate of zinc in twenty-grain doses in a wine- 
glass of water, followed by copious draughts of warm 
water. Repeat until it acts. 

Mustard is also a safe emetic, and is to be found in 
most households. A tablespoonful in half a glass of 
warm water. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 555 

The stomach pump should only be used by an 
expert. 

If the person has taken any of the corrosive poisons, 
chalk, magnesia, and even plaster scraped from the 
wall, should be freely given. Sometimes by tickling 
the throat with a straw or feather vomiting may be 
produced. 

If the corrosive poison is applied to the skin, then 
oil should be applied. 

The second indication, to stop the action, is best 
carried out by giving substances slowly absorbed that 
will dilute and mix with the poison, and by giving 
known antidotes. 

Powdered charcoal given in large doses will absorb 
the poison, and prevent it being taken into the system. 
White of egg, flax-seed tea and sweet oil are good as a 
soothing application to the stomach. 

DISINFECTANTS. 

Dr. M. 

For disinfection of outside vaults, sulphate of iron, 
or chloride of lime, one pound to a gallon of water; 
thoroughly mix, and use such quantities as may be 
required. 

''Burnet's Liquid," an excellent disinfectant, is 
chloride of zinc — two ounces to a quart of water. 
For use, a pint of .this solution may be added to a 
gallon of water. 

For water-closets, stationary basins, use Labba- 
raque's Solution of Chlorinated Soda, (may be pro- 
cured at any drug store), or permanganate of potash, 



556 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ten grains to a quart of water; or carbolic acid crys- 
tals, twenty grains to a pint, or the fluid acid, one 
ounce to a gallon of water. 

Petroleum is not a bad disinfectant; common tar is 
a good one. 

Articles and clothing soiled, should be boiled thor- 
oughly, and one of the above disinfectants added. 

Woolens and bedding that can not be washed, 
should be exposed to dry heat. 

Occupied houses and rooms may be disinfected 
(besides ventilation) by diffusing spray, or sprinkling 
through the air and about the room a solution of 
nitrate of lead, made by dissolving one pound of lith- 
arge in seven ounces of nitric acid and two gallons of 
water, or by placing in shallow vessels the solid chlo- 
ride of lime. 

Whitewashing is very beneficial. 

Charcoal and quicklime are both good absorbents 
of gases, and thus aid in purifying the air. They may 
be combined in what is called "calx powder." 

Bromo chloralum is also an excellent disinfectant, 
and may be procured at any drug store. Directions 
are given with each bottle. 

DISINFECTANT FOR CLOSETS. 

Author. 

Get a few pounds of copperas, and put a handful in 
a pail of water, and flush the closet once a day for a 
few days, then occasionally until all smell has dis- 
appeared. If the pipes connecting stationary basins 
become greasy, so that the water does not run freely, 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 557 

Stop the basin, put in two tablespoonfuls of the cop- 
peras, fill the basin with water and let it dissolve; then 
remove the stopper and let the water run off. 

DISINFECTING WITH SULPHUR. 

FOR WHOOPING COUGH. 

Dr. Mohr, of Christiana, reports the following plan 
of treating whooping cough by disinfection with sul- 
'phur: The patient is robed in clean linen and taken 
out of the sleeping room in the morning, where are left 
all the bedding, linen, clothes and things that cannot 
be washed. Sulphur is then burned in the room in 
the proportion of twenty-five grains to every cubic 
meter of space in the apartment. After five hours the 
room is aired and the patient is returned; the atmos- 
phere is purified and medicated, and breathing it over 
night usually effects a cure of whooping cough within 
twenty-four hours. 

Plant a few onions in your cellar; they will purify 
the air and absorb dampness. 

Sunflowers planted in malarious districts are a great 
disinfectant. 

CURE FOR ASTHMATIC CANARIES. 

Dilute one teaspoonful of good whisky in two of 
water; sbak a piece of sponge cake in it; give twice a 
week; keep bird from cold draughts; give tepid baths 
twice a week; grass seed, lettuce leaf, (inside heart), 
chickweed, every day or two; berries rolled in sugar, 
(one at a time), only when in season; cuttle-fish 
always in cage; piece of rusty nail in water cup; 
change water every day; avoid hemp and rape seed, 
as they are too heating; good light sand on the bot- 
tom of cage every day — not white sand. 



558 GRADED COOK BOOK. 



. GERMAN PASTE FOR SINGING BIRDS. 

One pound of blanched sweet almonds, two pounds 
of pea meal, three ounces of butter, a few grains of 
saffron, a sufficient quantity of honey to form a paste. 
Granulate by pressing through a colander. Some 
add the yolks of two eggs. 



FOR THE TOILET. 



WASH FOR THE HEAD. 

Author. 

Four wineglassfuls of soft water, one wineglassful 
of alcohol, one tablespoonful of glycerine, one tea- 
spoonful each of ammonia and borax. Mix and keep 
well corked. This recipe, omitting the borax, and 
using two-thirds of a teaspoonful of ammonia, makes 
an excellent wash for hands, and should be on every 
toilet table. 

FOR BALDNESS. 

Shave the hair around the bald spots and paint the 
spots every day or two with tincture of cantharides 
(Spanish flies). If after six weeks' trial with the blister- 
ing fluid there be no appearance of hair on the bald 
spots, abandon its use. 

TO MAKE THE HAIR GROW. 

Rothaline (refined kerosene, which is odorless), is 
highly recommended for this purpose. To be applied 
night and morning for six weeks. May be bought at 
any druggist's, or at the Buffalo oil refinery. 



559 



560 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TO INVIGORATE THE HAIR. 

To one pint of boiling water add two tablespoonfuls 
of the best tar. Stir thoroughly and set away to cool. 
When perfectly cooled skim off any particles of tar 
that may float on it. Apply the water every day, or 
as much and as often as agreeable. Rub well into 
the scalp. 

A SIMPLE AND HARMLESS HAIR DYE. 

It is said that the water in which potatoes have 
been boiled with the skins on, forms a speedy and 
harmless dye for the hair and eyebrows. The parings 
of the potatoes before cooking may be boiled by them- 
selves, and the water strained off for use. To apply 
it, the shoulders should be covered with cloths to 
protect the dress, and a fine comb dipped in the water 
drawn through the hair, wetting it at each stroke, 
until the head is thoroughly soaked. Let the hair dry 
thoroughly before putting it up. If the result is not 
satisfactory the first time, repeat the wetting with a 
sponge, taking care not to discolor the skin of the 
brow and neck. No hesitation need be felt about try- 
ing this, for potato water is a safe article used in the 
household in a variety of ways. It relieves chilblains, 
if the feet are soaked in it while the water is hot, and 
is said to ease rheumatic gout. 

Keep the scalp clean with a solution of ammonia 
and water, used several times a week, and then give 
the head a thorough brushing afterwards. A child's 
head especially is too tender for the use of a fine 
comb. The proportions are two or three teaspoonfuls 
to a basin of water. Apply with a brush and dry 
well with a soft towel. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 561 

TO KEEP THE HAIR IN CRIMP. 

Ladies are annoyed by the tendency of their hair 
to come out of crimp or curl while boating, or horse- 
back riding. Apply the following bandoline before 
putting the hair in papers or irons: A quarter of an 
ounce of gum-tragacanth, one pint of rose-water, five 
drops of glycerine; mix and let stand over night. If 
the tragacanth is not dissolved, let it be for half a day 
longer; if too thick add more rose-water, and let it be 
some hours. When it is a smooth solution, nearly as 
thin as glycerine, it is fit for use. This is excellent 
for making the hair curl. Moisten a lock of hair with 
it, not too wet, and brush around a warm curling- 
iron, or put up in papillottes. If the curl comes out 
harsh or stiff, brush it around a cold iron or curling- 
stick. 

BANDOLINE. 

One-half ounce of gum-tragacanth, one-half ounce 
of flake, twelve ounces of rose-water. Macerate 
together three days, then squeeze through a muslin 
strainer; let stand three days and strain as before. 



- COCOANUT HAIR OIL. 

Four ounces cocoanut oil, three ounces castor oil, 
seven ounces alcohol, one-eighth ounce oil of lavender 
flowers, one-half drachm oil of bergamot, ten drops 
oil rose geranium. Melt the cocoanut oil, add the 
castor oil dissolved in the alcohol, lastly the essential 
oils. 



562 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

CARE OF THE FACE. 

Author. 

Wash the face freely at night with soft water; rub 
it gently with a towel until dry; then apply a little 
cold cream or sweet almond oil. In the morning 
sponge the face lightly with water, and dry with a 
towel; then apply a little sweet almond oil, cold cream 
or glycerine; rub it downward on the face until 
it is absorbed into the skin (about two minutes 
will be required); then apply Lubin's rice powder. 
This method of treating the skin protects it from 
dust, and is very cooling. Those who use chalk or 
other powders will find their continued use less in- 
jurious by following these suggestions each time 
before applying the chalk. Never use soap on the 
face, but if required to use anything but moder- 
ately cold water a little borax will suffice. The con- 
tinued use of warm water will wrinkle the face. Do 
not wash the face just before going out in the air. 

POWDER FOR THE SKIN. 

If ladies will use powder, the most harmless is re- 
fined chalk. Powder is often a protection and com- 
fort on long journeys, or in the city dust. If the pores 
of the skin must be filled, one would prefer clean 
dust to begin with. A layer of powder will prevent 
freckles and sunburn when properly applied. In all 
these cases, it is worth while to know how to use it 
well. The skin should be as clean and cool as pos- 
sible. A pellet of chalk, without any poisonous bis- 
muth in it, should be wrapped in coarse linen and 
crushed in water, grinding it well between the fingers; 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 563 

then wash the face quickly with the linen, and the 
wet powder oozes in its finest state through the 
cloth, leaving a pure white deposit when dry. Press 
the face lightly with a damp handkerchief, to remove 
superfluous powder, wiping the brows and nostrils 
free. This mode of using chalk is less easily de- 
tected than when it is dusted on dry. 

BLOOM OF YOUTH. 

Two ounces of oxide of bismuth, eight ounces of 
rose-water. Rub the oxide to a very fine powder, 
then triturate with the rose-water. Add a little car- 
mine, if a pink color is desired. 

AN INDISPENSABLE POWDER. 

A trouble, scarcely to be named among refined per- 
sons, is profuse perspiration, which ruins clothing and 
comfort alike. For this it is recommended to bathe 
frequently, putting into the water a cold infusion of 
rosemary, sage or thyme, and afterwards dust the 
undergarments with a mixture of two and a half 
drachms of camphor, four ounces of orris-root and 
sixteen ounces of starch, the whole reduced to impal- 
pable powder. Tie it in a coarse muslin bag, or one 
made of flannel is better if you wish to use it on the 
flesh, and shake it over the clothes. This makes a 
very fine bathing powder. 

A flannel bag filled with common starch makes a 
good bathing powder, and is generally used in the 
South. 



564 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE COMPLEXION. 

Author. 

One wineglass of lemon juice to one pint of rain 
water. Otto of roses perfume. 

Beet vinegar is an excellent rouge and will not 
injure the skin. 

One wineglass of lemon juice, one ounce of clarified 
honey, one drachm of powdered borax, one pint of 
soft water, one ounce of rose-water. 

Horseradish and warm milk is said to be an excel- 
lent complexion wash. 

Moisten flaxseed meal with cold water, then wash 
the face with it, and allow it to remain on the face 
over night. 

Rough skins from exposure to the wind in riding, 
rowing or yachting, trouble many ladies who will be 
glad to know that an application of cold cream or 
glycerine at night, washed off with fine carbolic soap 
in the morning, will render them presentable at the 
breakfast table. Another method is to rub the face, 
neck and arms well with cold cream or pure almond 
oil before going. out. 

A delicate and effective preparation for a rough 
skin, is found in a mixture of one ounce of glycerine, 
half an ounce of rosemary-water, and twenty drops of 
carbolic acid. In irritations of the skin, occurring 
in summer, such as hives or prickly heat, this wash 
gives soothing relief. A solution of this acid, say fifty 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 565 

drops to an ounce of the glycerine, applied at night, 
forms a protection from mosquitoes. Use the pure 
crystalized form ; it is far less overpowering in its 
fragrance than the common sort. Those who dislike 
it too much to use at night, will find the sting of the 
bites almost miraculously cured, and the blotches re- 
moved by touching them with the mixture in the 
morning. Babies and children should be touched 
with it in a reduced form. Two or three drops of 
otto of roses in the preparation will improve the 
smell so as to render it tolerable to human beings, 
though not so to mosquitoes. 

For eruptions of the skin the following will be 
found very soothing : two drachms of borax, two 
ounces of glycerine, two ounces of water. Mix and 
apply to the inflamed skin. 

To clear the complexion, take a teaspoonful of char- 
coal well mixed in water or honey for three nights, 
then use a simple purgative to remove it from the sys- 
tem. It acts like calomel with no bad effect, purifying 
the blood more effectually than anything else. But 
do not omit the aperient, or the charcoal will remain 
in the system. After this course tonics may be used. 

TO REMOVE FRECKLES. 

Take a large lump of saltpeter, wet the surface, and 
rub each freckle night and morning. After a time 
they will disappear. Use two or three weeks. 

A PREPARATION TO REMOVE WRINKLES. 

A little while ago I wrote something about a new 
discovery recently added to the pharmacopoeia by a 
Boston expert in chemical science, I have received so 



566 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

many letters since, containing inquiries as to the 
nature of this "woolfat" and the manner in which it 
may be obtained, that I suppose I may as well answer 
them in print. The stuff is not a proprietary remedy. 
It is merely a substance derived from the wool of sheep 
by steeping the clippings in hot alcohol. By this pro- 
cess a yellow grease is precipitated, chemically iden- 
tical with an element found in the human bile, and in 
certain vegetables, such as peas and beans. This 
grease has one very peculiar property. When applied 
with rubbing, it passes directly through the skin, and 
in this way acts as a nutrient to the fatty tissues 
beneath. Thus it has the effect of smoothing out the 
wrinkles produced by the attenuation of these tissues 
which comes with age. An antiquated relative of 
mine has nearly removed from her temples the unwel- 
come footprints of a thousand figurative crows by six 
weeks' use of this marvelous unguent. 

Likewise, when rubbed upon the scalp, it prevents 
baldness, by supplying to the hair an element of its 
growth, the lack of which causes it to fall out. It is 
useful as a base for ointments, the active ingredients 
of which it conveys through the cuticle. To manu- 
facture it in large quantities is enormously expensive, 
but it may be obtained at retail from the big apothe- 
caries at a small price. Unfortunately but few people 
know it as yet. Nevertheless, it was known to the 
ancients three thousand years ago. Let me add a 
warning. If you buy it, get it pure, and not in com- 
bination with some patent mixture. If necessary, 
gather your wool and boil it down yourself. Thus 
you may secure an artificial perpetuation of youth. 
My first information on this interesting subject was 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 567 

obtained from the city physician of Boston, Dr. Morton 
Prince. Anybody who wishes to know anything fur- 
ther had better write to him. — Boston Letter. 

TO REMOVE BLACK-HEADS FROM FACE. 

Author. 
One ounce of liquor of potassa, two ounces of 
cologne. Apply three times daily. 

SUGGESTIONS ON TEETH. 

Author. 

A celebrated dentist, whose formula for tooth 
powder I have given in this work, suggests the use of 
astringent mouth wash three times a week. Use the 
formula for tooth powder given, twice each day. 

Remove substances from between the teeth with 
white silk thread, and may also chew gum for this 
purpose five minutes only. 

Remove tartar from teeth with pumice stone, 
ground. 

After eating acids or sweets, allow a small quantity 
of this tooth powder to remain in the mouth a few 
minutes, or the same quantity of prepared chalk. 

For acidity of the stomach, which impairs the teeth, 
dissolve one teaspoonful of charcoal in a glass of 
water and drink. 

Have used the formula for Orris tooth powder for 
fifteen years and can safely indorse the merits claimed. 

Astringent mouth wash keeps the gums from 
receding. 

ORRIS TOOTH POWDER. 

One pound English prepared chalk, two ounces 
powdered orris root, one ounce powdered cuttle-bone, 



568 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one-half ounce powdered gum myrrh, one-eighth 
ounce powdered cinchona bark, one-half ounce 
powdered white soap, one-half ounce powdered bi- 
carb, soda. Mix and rub well together and sift 
through a fine sieve. 

WINTERGREEN TOOTH POWDER. 

Same as above, adding one-half ounce oil of winter- 
green. 

CARE OF FINGER NAILS. 

Wash the hands and rub the nails with very weak 
vinegar water. Cut the nails close at corners and 
round at the top; then with a chamois skin rub them 
with oil and pumice stone. 

RECIPES FOR SOFTENING THE HANDS. 

Author. 

Two ounces of glycerine, two ounces of rose-water. 
Shake well; apply on going to bed. 

TO RENDER MUTTON TALLOW. 

Cut it in small pieces, put in an earthen dish, and 
set this in another dish containing boiling water. As 
the grease melts strain off. Good for chapped hands. 

ARNICA JELLY. 

Two ounces of fluid extract arnica, six ounces of 
glycerine, four ounces of water, four ounces of alco- 
hol. Mix, and filter if necessary. 

One-fourth pound of lard washed with rose-water, 
yolks of two eggs, one-fourth pound of oatmeal sifted, 
one tablespoonful of honey. Apply frequently. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 569 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Sixteen ounces of oil of sweet almonds, one ounce 
of white wax, one ounce of spermaceti, one ounce of 
camphor, one-eighth ounce of oil of lavender flowers. 
Melt the wax and spermaceti; dissolve the camphor in 
the oil of almonds, and mix with the melted wax; 
lastly, add the oil of lavender. 

COLD CREAM. No. i. 
Melt together two ounces of oil of almonds and one 
drachm each of white wax and spermaceti; while 
warm add two ounces of rose-water and half an ounce 
of orange-flower water. Nothing better than this will 
be found in the range of toilet salves. 

COLD CREAM. No. 2. 
Sixteen ounces of oil of sweet almonds, sixteen 
ounces of rose-water, one ounce of white wax, one 
ounce of spermaceti, fifteen drops of oil of bitter 
almonds. Warm the wax and spermaceti by gentle 
heat until dissolved; add the oil of almonds, and 
again beat gently until the wax is dissolved, then add 
the rose-water slowly, beating until cold. 

GLYCERINE JELLY. 

Four ounces of white soft soap, six ounces of pure 
glycerine, one-fourth ounce of otto of thyme, three 
pounds of almond oil. Mix the soap and glycerine 
in a mortar, then gradually add the oils. 

GLYCERINE LOTION. 

Four ounces of pure glycerine, four ounces of 
cologne spirits, eight ounces of rose-water. Glycerine 
of starch sufficient to thicken. 



570 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

SOAP FOR WHITENING THE «ANDS. 

One wineglassful of cologne, one wineglassful of 
lemon juice, two cakes of Windsor soap, scraped to a 
powder; mix all in a mould. When hard, it will be an 
excellent soap for whitening the hands. 

WINDSOR CREAM, 
J. H. 
Grate one-half cake old English Windsor soap ; add 
to it the juice of a large lemon and a wineglassful of 
cologne ; stir to a cream and put in an open-mouthed 
bottle, such as are used for pomade. Use after wash- 
ing the hands. 

FOR WHITENING THE HANDS. 
Take a cake of brown Windsor soap, scrape it in 
flakes, add one tablespoonful of cologne, one of lemon 
juice ; mix thoroughly, put into a mould and allow to 
dry. Carbolic acid and glycerine are also good. 

COLOGNE. 

A fine cologne is prepared from one gallon of de- 
odorized alcohol ; to it add one ounce of oil of laven- 
der, one ounce of oil of orange, two drachms of oil of 
cedrat, one drachm of oil of neroli, or orange flowers, 
one drachm of oil of rose, and one drachm of amber- 
gris. Mix well, and keep for three weeks in a cool 
place. 

FARINA COLOGNE. 

One ounce neroli, one ounce neroli Bigarade, two 
ounces bergamot, one-quarter ounce rosemary, two 
ounces extract jasmine, two gallons cologne spirits, 
one-half gallon water. Mix ; let stand ten days and 
filter. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 57I 

EXTRACT JOCKEY CLUB. 

Twelve drachms extract jasmine, twenty drachms 
extract orris, three drachms extract vanilla, sixteen 
drachms extract musk, three-eighths drachm otto rose, 
three-eighths drachm otto sandal wood, five-eighths 
drachm otto bergamot, seventy-five drops otto neroli, 
one-half drachm benzoic acid, one-half gallon cologne 
spirits, one-half pint water. Mix and filter. 

LAVENDER WATER. 

Two ounces oil lavender, one-half ounce oil lemon, 
one-half ounce oil bergamot, one-fourth ounce oil 
cloves, one ounce extract musk, one pint extract white 
rose, five pints cologne spirits, one pint water. Let 
stand ten days, and filter. 

REPUBLIQUE COLOGNE. 

Two ounces oil of lemon, four ounces oil of berga- 
mot, one-half ounce oil of rose, three-fourths ounce 
oil lavender flowers, two and one-half drachms oil 
neroli, eight ounces extract musk, one pint orange- 
flower water, two gallons water. Mix; let stand ten 
days, and filter. 

EXTRACT WHITE ROSE. 

One-half ounce otto of roses, one-eighth drachm otto 
of orange, four drachms extract tuberose, six drachms 
extract orris, eight drachms extract jasmine, four 
drachms extract musk, twelve drops otto red cedar, 
eight drops otto patchouly, one-fourth ounce benzoic 
acid, six pints cologne spirits. Mix, and add eight 
drachms water.' Filter. 



572 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TOILET SOAP. 

Two ounces glycerine, one ounce oil sweet almonds, 
two ounces pulverized Florentine orris-root, four 
ounces mutton tallow, one pound English white Castile 
soap. Melt together and cut into cakes. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



AMMONIA FOR HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Author. 
For washing paint, put a tablespoonful in a quart 
of moderately hot water, dip in a flannel cloth, and 
with this merely wipe off the wood-work; no scrub- 
bing is necessary. For taking grease spots from any 
fabric, use the ammonia nearly pure, and then lay 
white blotting paper over the spot and iron it lightly. 
In washing laces, put twelve drops in a pint of warm 
suds. To clean silver, mix two teaspoonfuls of 
ammonia in a quart of hot soap-suds, put in your 
silver and wash it, using an old nail-brush for the 
purpose. It will also clean hair-brushes beautifully, 
simply shaking the brushes up and down in a mixture 
of one teaspoonful each of ammonia and borax to one 
pint of hot water; rinse them with cold water, and 
stand them, bristles down, in the wind, or in a hot 
place to dry. For washing finger marks from looking- 
glasses or windows, put a few drops of the ammonia 
on a moist rag, and make quick work of it. If you 
wish your house plants to flourish, put a few drops of 
the spirits in every pint of water you use in watering. 
It is good to cleanse the hair; always rinse it off with 
pure water. It should be purchased by the pound or 
half pound, as in that way it can be gotten much 
cheaper. 

573 



574 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Ammonia or vinegar is good with silver polish or 
whiting to clean silver, tin or brass. Copper boilers 
are best cleaned with oxalic acid, one ounce to one 
pint of water. Keep bottled and set away in a safe 
place, as it is poisonous; apply once or twice a week. 
This will keep the boiler very bright. 

To clean brass, mix one-half ounce of oxalic acid 
with three ounces of rotten stone, and enough sweet 
oil to make a soft paste. Rub with flannel, and polish 
with chamois skin. Oxalic acid should be kept out of 
the reach of children, as it is a deadly poison. 



ZINC. 

To clean zinc, use silver polish and kerosene. Pol- 
ish with old flannel, and use a little whiting. Use 
Bristol brick dampened with concentrated lye. 

STOVES. 

Author. 

Turpentine mixed with stove polish will remove 
rust and give a gloss to the stove. 

TO REMOVE RUST FROM STEEL. 

Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on. In 
forty-eight hours rub with finely-powdered unslacked 
lime until the rust disappears. 

When stoves are put away for the summer, cover 
well with thick brown paper. 

Rub your stove pipe with linseed oil, keep in a dry 
place, and it will not rust. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 575 

STOVE DRESSING. 

FOR MAKING ONE QUART. 

One ounce of gum tragacanth, boil fifteen minutes 
in one pint of water; then add four ounces of black 
lead, one large spoonful of molasses, and one pint of 
water. Apply it to the stove when nearly cold. It 
blacks the stove without dust, and protects it from rust. 

TO CLEAN POTS, KETTLES AND TINS. 

Author. 
Boil a double-handful of hay or grass in a new iron 
pot before attempting to cook with it; scrub out with 
sand and soap; then fill with fresh water and set on 
fire and boil an hour. As soon as you empty a pot or 
frying-pan of that which has been cooked in it, fill 
with hot water, and set back upon the fire to scald 
thoroughly. To clean a brown porcelain kettle, boil 
peeled potatoes in it. The porcelain will be rendered 
nearly as white as when new. New tins should stand 
near the fire with boiling water in them, in which has 
been dissolved a spoonful of soda, for an hour, then 
be scoured inside with soft soap, afterward rinse with 
hot water. Keep them clean by rubbing with sifted 
wood-ashes or whitening. Copper utensils should be 
cleaned with brick dust and flannel. Never set a 
vessel in the pot closet without cleaning and wiping 
it thoroughly. If grease be left in it, it will grow 
rancid. If set aside wet, it is apt to rust. 

TO CLEAN CHINA AND GLASS. 

Rinse the gfeasy plates and whatever is sticky with 
sugar or other sweet in hot water, and transfer to 



576 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

another pan. Wash glass first, silver next, then china, 
one piece at a time, although you may put several in 
the pan. Have a mop with a handle; rub upon the 
soap (over which the water should have been poured.) 
until you have a strong suds; wash both sides of plate 
and saucer, and wipe before putting out of your hand. 
Draining leaves streaks which can be felt by sensitive 
finger-tips if not seen. If china is rough to the touch, 
it is not clean. Hot, clean suds, a dry, clean towel, 
and quick wiping leave it bright and shining. Roll 
your glasses around in the water, filling them as soon 
as they touch it, and you need never crack one. 

TO CLEAN KNIVES. 
Clean with soft flannel and Bath brick. If rusty, 
use wood-ashes rubbed on with a newly-cut bit of Irish 
potato. This will remove spots when nothing else 
will. Keep your best set wrapped in soft white paper, 
then in linen, in drawer out of damp and dust. Never 
dip the ivory handles of knives in hot water. 

TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Author. 
Take two parts of soda, one part of pumice stone, 
and one part of finely-powdered chalk; sift through a 
fine sieve, and mix with water. Rub over the marble, 
and wash off with soap and water. 

TO CLEAN WALL PAPER. 

Author. 
Clean wall paper with rye bread from the baker's, 
cut into one-half loaves; remove the crust, and rub the 
inside over the paper downward, always one way, or 
the paper will show streaks. The bread must be 
baked the day before using. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 577 

TO CLEAN PAINT. 

Squeeze flannel nearly dry out of warm water, dip 
in whiting and apply. With a gentle rubbing it will 
remove grease and other stains. Wash in warm water 
and dry with a soft cloth. 

Wring a flannel out of warm soapsuds with a little 
ammonia, and apply sapolio to clean paint, being 
careful not to use too much sapolio. Good also for 
cleaning painted walls. In cleaning varnished sur- 
faces, weak ammonia water is good. Use no soap. 

TO REMOVE PAINT. 

Chloroform will remove paint from a garment, or 
elsewhere, when benzine or bisulphide of carbon fails; 
but do not inhale it. 

FURNITURE POLISH. No. i. 

A good furniture polish is made by mixing one- 
fourth white varnish with three-fourths linseed oil. 
Apply with a flannel; afterwards rub with a dry flan- 
nel or chamois skin. 

FURNITURE POLISH. No. 2. 

Four ounces of alcohol, two ounces of gum-shellac, 
one and a half ounces of yellow beeswax, two ounces 
of boiled linseed oil ; melt the beeswax, skim the dirt 
off, and mix all together. 

J. H. 
Lamp oil rubbed in well with soft cloth, when 
polished with another cloth and spirits of wine, will 
remove stains on furniture made by placing heated 
articles on them. 



57^^ GRADED COOK BOOK, 

PIANO POLISH. 

Safford Piano Makers. 
One-third turpentine; two-thirds lard oil. 

TO RUB VARNISHED FURNITURE. 

One wineglassful of sweet oil, one wineglassful of 
rum, half pint of rain water, shaken well together; 
rub on with flannel, then polish w^ith dry flannel. 

FOR GILT FRAMES. 

One ounce of powdered gold bronze, two ounces of 
olive oil, two ounces of alcohol; make a paste as thick 
as for paper-hanging, and apply with cotton batting. 

TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

' Author. 

To one gallon of water add two tablespoonfuls of 
spirits of hartshorn. Wring out canton flannel cloths 
in this mixture, and rub the carpet with the damp 
cloth. See that the cloth is not too wet, and dry the 
carpet off with a dry cloth. 

Fuller's earth made into a stiff paste will remove 
grease spots from carpets. 

The following is good also: Lay brown paper on 
spot, pass hot iron hard on the paper over the spot. 

Sweet milk will remove ink stains from a carpet. 

Mrs. Scott. 
To remove any soiled spots on mattresses or pillows, 
make a thick paste of buckwheat flour and cold water; 
spread over the articles with a brush, lay on a clean 
sheet in the hot sun. When dry, rub off. One appli- 
cation is usually sufficient; if not, repeat the operation. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 579 

TO CLEAN STRAW MATTING. 

Author. 

Never use soap on matting. When you want to 
clean it, wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and 
water. This prevents it from turning yellow. After 
washing, wipe dry at once. 

Author. 
Wash oil cloth with warm milk. Do not use soap 
unless you can apply a coat of varnish. 

Author. 
Do not throw away old ribbons; wash them in gas- 
oline; they will look bright and new again. 

FOR CLEANSING SILK OR WOOLEN 
GOODS. 

Author. 
One tablespoonful each ammonia and borax; one 
pint of cold water, one-half pint of alcohol; mix, strain 
and wash the goods with an old flannel cloth on the 
right side; lay the goods on a linen sheet, while damp, 
and iron on the wrong side. If the goods is not too 
much wrinkled, do not iron, but lay under weights 
smoothly, when partially damp. 

TO CLEAN CLOTH COATS. 

One-half ounce of white castile soap, one-fourth 
ounce of alcohol, one-half ounce of ammonia, one- 
fourth ounce of glycerine, one-fourth ounce of ether, 
one pint of rain water. Mix and bottle. 



580 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

TO REMOVE GREASE SPOTS FROM SILK. 

Apply French chalk; lay away for three days, then 
lay a brown paper over the spot, and iron with a hot 
iron. 

CLEANING SILK. 

Pare three Irish potatoes, cut into thin slices, and 
wash them well. Pour on them half a pint of boiling 
water, and let it stand until cold; strain the water, and 
add to it an equal quantity of alcohol. Sponge the 
silk on the right side, and when half dry, iron it on 
the wrong side. The most delicate colored silks may 
be cleansed by this process, which is equally applica- 
ble to cloth, velvet or crape. 

A black kid glove, boiled in water until it becomes 
a kind of soft glue, and sponge the silk with it, ironing 
it on the wrong side, is a very good way, too. 

There is an article called soap bark, which can be 
procured at the druggists', which is splendid for any 
kind of black woolen goods, making them as fresh as 
when new. Also good for silk. 

TO RENEW BLACK LACE. 

Author. 
Wind it around a bottle smoothly, then wash with 
ox gall and water; add a little gum arable to the 
rinsing water. Put in the shade to dry. 

TO PREVENT BLUE FROM FADING. 

Author. 
To one gallon of tepid water put one tablespoonful 
of salt, and the same of sugar of lead. Put in what- 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 581 

ever you want to wash, and let it soak fifteen or twenty 
minutes; then wash, and boil if you choose. 

A GOOD WAY TO WASH BLACK CALICO. 

Make a kettle of flour starch; allow it to cool suffi- 
ciently to bear the hand; then pour it over your 
calico. Let it stand a short time; wash out thor- 
oughly; then rinse in two clear waters, hang up to dry, 
and it will look as well as ever. 

TO PREVENT CALICO FROM FADING. 

Author. 
When a calico needs washing, dip it in salt water 
and let it dry, before washing. Once is sufficient, and 
should be done the first time it is washed. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW. 

Author. 

Pour one quart of boiling water over two ounces of 

chloride of lime; then add three quarts of cold water; 

soak the linen twelve hours, when every spot will be 

out. 

MILDEW. 

Mix salt with double the quantity of soft soap and 
powdered starch and the juice of a lemon. Apply, and 
leave the goods out of doors until the stain is removed. 

WASHING FLUID. No. i. 

One pound of stone lime, three pounds of sal soda, 
ten quarts of water. Let it just come to a boil, then 
stand until settled. Bottle the clear water; add three 



582 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

ounces of borax. After standing two days, it is ready 
for use. Put one and a half teacupfuls of this to a 
boiler of cold water, and put the clothes in it at once, 
after having soaked them over night, adding with the 
fluid one-fourth bar of soap. Suds and rinse. 

WASHING FLUID. No. 2. 

One pound concentrated lye or potash, one ounce 
of ammonia, one ounce salts of tartar, four quarts of 
boiling water. Dissolve the lye in the water; when it 
stops boiling, add the ammonia and tartar. Use one 
teacupful to four pails of water, or two-thirds of a 
cupful to first boiler. Do not soak the clothes in it. 
Put into the boiler, with this preparation, some sliced 
soap. 

BLUING. 

Author. 
Two ounces of Prussian blue, one ounce of oxalic 
acid, one quart of water. Mix and bottle. 

STARCH. 

Author. 
Three tablespoonfuls of starch, one quart of water, 
one teaspoonful of powdered gum arable, one tea- 
spoonful of butter, a pinch of salt. Dissolve the gum 
arable in the water; when the water reaches the boil- 
ing point, thicken with the starch, which has been 
dissolved in a little cold water; then add the butter 
and salt. Pour this mixture over the clothes to be 
starched while boiling hot, and let stand until cool 
enough to wring out; then smooth out all wrinkles 
and hang up to dry. Before ironing, dip in cold 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 583 

Starch, made of one-half tablespoonful of starch to one 
pint of cold water. Place over this a thin cloth, and 
allow the starch-water to come through. This pre- 
vents any specks of starch from settling on the 
clothes. 

FRENCH STARCH. 

Dissolve one ounce of best gum arable in half pint 
of soft water. Bottle and cork tight. To a quart of 
starch add a piece of white wax, and also a piece of 
spermaceti, each the size of a hickory-nut, cut up fine, 
and boil in the starch; add a teaspoonful of the gum 
arable. Have a smooth iron, and use it vigorously and 
thoroughly. 

GLOSS FOR STARCH. No. i. 

Take two ounces of gum arable powder, put it into 
a pitcher, and pour over it a pint of boiling water 
(according to the degree of strength you desire); and 
then, having covered it, let it stand all night. In the 
morning pour it carefully from the dregs into a clean 
bottle, cork it, and keep it for use. A tablespoonful 
of gum-water stirred into a pint of starch that has been 
made in the usual manner will give to lawns, either 
white or printed, a look of newness, when nothing else 
can restore them after washing. This will also give 
sufficient gloss to gentlemen's shirt bosoms. 

GLOSS FOR STARCH. No. 2. 

Author. 

One pound of mutton suet, one medium cake of 

white wax — about five cents' worth, piece of alum as 

large as a walnut. Render the suet in an earthen 



584 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

dish; add wax and alum powdered, until melted. Pour 
out in thin layer on a dish until cold. To a quart of 
starch, add a piece an inch square. 

SOAP FOR CLEANING. 

Fannie. 
Take four large bars of any good yellow soap, one 
pound box of boraxine, one package of concentrated 
lye, one-half pound of sal soda. Shave the soap very 
fine and place in a three-gallon jar. Pour over it one 
and a half gallons of boiling water, stirring constantly 
with a paddle made out of a shingle. Let this stand 
twenty-four hours; then put in a large receptacle over 
the fire, three gallons of water — I use the boiler. As 
soon as the water boils, put in the boraxine and soda; 
as soon as this is dissolved, add the soap that was 
fixed the night before; let this boil up once, hard, and 
it should nearly fill a five-gallon crock. When cool, 
add the rest of the ingredients, and stir every little 
while during the day. You will find this very strong, 
so use only in small quantities. To use this for wash- 
ing clothes or dishes, a small quantity will suffice. For 
scrubbing add sand, in proportion of a pint to a cup- 
ful of sand. If this soap be rubbed into stains on 
sheets or other clothes a few hours before washing 
them, it will remove any stain. If, by standing, it 
becomes too thick like hard jelly, add water in small 
quantities, boiling hot, and stir clear to the bottom. 

BLEACH FOR CLOTHES. 

Three tablespoonfuls of chloride of lime, the same 
of washing soda, well dissolved in hot water; pour it 
into a tub three-fourths full of water. Soak clothes 
one hour; wash, boil and rinse well. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 585 

Another good way is to boil the clothes thoroughly 
after rubbing them, and spread on the grass, putting 
or rubbing in a weak solution of chloride of lime on 
all stained places. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Sister Fannie. 
Ten quarts of rain water, four pounds of bar soap, 
one pound of sal soda; one ounce of powdered harts- 
horn. Shave the soap fine into the water, add other 
ingredients, set on stove to dissolve. When dissolved, 
set away to cool. A small quantity will be required 
at a time. 

HARD SOAP. 

Ten pounds of soda-ash, five pounds of unslacked 
lime, fifteen gallons of soft water. Put it all into a 
boiler, and stir until it is dissolved well; boil one hour, 
then pour it ofi into a tight barrel. When well settled, 
dip it off clear, and to every gallon of lye add ten 
pounds of grease. The soap may be finished in three 
hours. 

SOAP. 

Three ounces of borax, one gallon of rain water, 
four bars of common soap. Boil. Soap the clothes, 
cover with cold water, let stand one hour, then put 
them in boiler. 

FAMILY SOAP. No. i. 

One box of Babbitt's potash, five pounds of grease, 
twelve quarts of water, one small teacupful of salt. 
Open the box of potash carefully, and dissolve in about 



586 GRAt)ED COOK BOOK. 

a quart of warm water in an old vessel. Be careful 
not to put the face too near, as it is apt to boil up. 
Put the grease and twelve quarts of water in a kettle 
(or old wash-boiler), and add potash when dissolved; 
stir all together and boil five hours. Keep cold water 
handy, to throw in if it boils too fast, as it is apt to 
boil over. As it boils away add water, so there shall 
always be the same quantity in the kettle. Add salt 
half an hour before taking from the fire. Run into a 
box or tub, and when cold cut in blocks. If the 
grease has been previously rendered, the soap will be 
nicer. 

FAMILY SOAP. No. 2. 
Mrs. Johnson. 

Slice a pound bar of any washing soap; add just 
enough water to dissolve it; remove from the fire as 
soon as dissolved, and when nearly cold, add three 
tablespoonfuls of benzine. Soak the clothes over 
night in one-half of this soap, and use the rest to boil 
them. Use enough bluing to make the clothes clear. 
Keep the benzine away from the fire. 

WASHING BLANKETS. 
Author. 

Prepare strong borax water, having the water mod- 
erately hot. To each gallon of water, add one ounce 
of ammonia; strain, and dip the blankets up and down 
till thoroughly cleansed. Do not wring. Rinse in 
same temperature of water as you wash them. Take 
from water, hang on line, and let them drip dry. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 587 

USEFUL HINTS. 

Author. 

Wash woolen in soapsuds; rinse in warm water of 
the same temperature. If you wish them to shrink, 
pour clear cold water over last. White flannel may 
safely be left in warm water for a while, while red 
flannel must be washed at once, or it will run. 

Oil the palm of the hands occasionally, while iron- 
ing. This will keep the skin moist, and the hands 
will not swell. 

Lemon and salt will remove ink-stains. Apply also 
for iron mould. 

To take out fruit stains, pour boiling water over. 
Will also remove coffee stains. 

One pint of salt to a gallon of boiling water, will 
set color in calico or stockings. 

Woolen hose. — One ounce sugar of lead to a bucket 
of cold water; soak the woolen hose over night and 
they will not run. 

To raise the nap on velvet, place a damp cloth over 
a hot iron, and hold the wrong side of the velvet over 
this and the nap will soon rise. 

To remove rust from cotton or linen, take fine salt 
and cream of tartar and moisten and expose to the 
sun. 

Apply buttermilk for linen stains, then lay linen in 
the sun 

For dry cleatiing of white woolen knit goods, rub 
in flour until dirt is out; shake well. 



588 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

To clean lace curtains, sprinkle unsifted corn meal 
or bran over them; roll up for a few days, then shake 
and press with an iron. 

Butter or lard will remove tar spots. Soap and 
water will afterward take out the stain of grease. 

To remove paint splashed upon a window, use a hot 
solution of soda and a soft flannel. 

One teaspoonful of chloride of lime in three quarts 
of water will take stains from white goods. Rats and 
mice avoid chloride of lime. 

Vinegar will remove lime from carpets. 

In dusting, use a cloth or wool brush; feathers only 
set it afloat. 

Salts of lemon will take stains from ivory knives. 

To keep ice, line a bowl with flannel; cover ice with 
porous flannel; invert the bowl, so that the water can 
run off easily. 

Dip lead-pencil writing in sweet milk; dry care- 
fully. It will preserve the writing. 

Milk will not adhere to a well-polished knitting 
needle if there is water in it. 

The air may be kept from ice water by covering the 
pitcher with oiled silk, or a quilting of cotton batting 
between thick paper. 

An impromptu filter may be made by laying a 
cheese cloth over a sieve, and on this a layer of sand 
and powdered charcoal; then pour over it the water, 
and let it percolate into the receiver. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 589 

Pie tins and tins most used are improved by boiling 
in a solution of lye and water for one hour. 

Use white cloth, bound with red, back of kitchen 
table, washstands and under hooks, to hang tjn. 

Wash whitewashed walls with vinegar, to make 
paper stick. 

Add a little to paste, to hasten drying. 

TO MAKE WHITEWASH THAT WILL NOT 
RUB OFF. 

Mix up half a pailful of lime and water ready to put 
on the wall; then take one gill of flour and mix it with 
water; then pour on it boiling water sufficient to 
thicken it; pour it while hot into the whitewash; stir 
all well together, and it is ready for use. 

To remove moth eggs, lay a wet linen cloth over the 
carpet, and iron it well with a hot iron. 

Camphor will prevent moths. The gum near silver 
will keep it bright. 

Wormwood or pennyroyal will drive away ants. 

Charcoal put in a saucer and placed in pantry will 
keep meat sweet. 

Red peppers kept on pantry shelves, say one or two 
at each end, will keep ants out of pantry. 

To remove ants from sugar, wrap camphor gum in 
paper, and lay around the sugar bowl. 

A cloth dipped in oil of pennyroyal and laid at the 
head of your pillow, will keep mosquitos out of a 



59° GRADED COOK BOOK. 

Hot alum water will destroy red or black ants, or 
any other insects. Take two pounds of alum and dis- 
solve it in three or four quarts of boiling water. Let 
it stand on the fire until the alum disappears, then 
apply it-with a brush while nearly boiling hot. 

TO DESTROY COCKROACHES. 

Author. 

These nuisances can be exterminated by the free 
use of borax. Sprinkle it every night around the 
water pipes and on closet shelves, under the paper. 
I used insect powder in connection, at one time, when 
they were very bad. It is a good plan to keep pow- 
dered borax under the pantry papers, to prevent a 
return of them. 

When borax fails, get "Rough on Rats" poison 
powder. Sprinkle where cockroaches are trouble- 
some. You can, if you choose, mix with lard and pour 
in cracks. 

TO CLEAN BOTTLES. 

Wash the bottle, then cut a raw potato in small 
pieces, put them into it with a little cold water, shake 
well, rinse them out, and they will be very clear. 

TO REMOVE GLASS STOPPERS. 

Put a drop or two of sweet oil on the mouth of the 
bottle, heat the bottle a little, and knock gently each 
side of the stopper. 

To remove the disagreeable taste from new kegs or 
other wooden vessels, first scald them with boiling 
water, dissolve some soda in warm water, to which 
add a little lime, wash the vessel with this, after which 
scald with hot water before using. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 59I 

LIQUID CEMENT. 

Equal parts of compound tragacanth powder and 
powdered gum acacia (gum arabic) moistened, accord- 
ing to requirements at the time, with dilute acetic 
acid, or if the color will not be of any importance, with 
ordinary vinegar. This cement is recommended as 
superior to any that can be bought ready made. — 
Young Scientist. 

CEMENT FOR GLASS, CHINA, WOOD, ETC. 

Three ounces of Cooper's gelatine, two ounces of 
acetic acid, five drops of carbolic acid, water to make 
one pint. Dissolve the gelatine in the water and 
acetic acid by water bath, and add the carbolic acid; 
strain while warm, and bottle. 

CEMENT FOR BROKEN CHINA. 

Take a very thick solution of gum arabic and warm 
water, stir into it plaster of Paris until it is a thick 
paste, apply it with a brush to the fractured edges, 
stick together, and in three days it cannot be broken 
in the same place. 

INVISIBLE CEMENT, 

By placing a bottle of alcohol in hot water the alco- 
hol will become hot; while hot, dissolve Russia isin- 
glass in this, and it will stick firmly crockery or glass. 

LIQUID GLUE. 

Two ounces of gum arabic, one pint of boiling 
water, ten ounces of alcohol. 



592 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

MUCILAGE. 

Four ounces of dextrine, five drops of carbolic acid, 
one pint of water. Dissolve cold. 

SHELLAC. 

One pint of alcohol, one-half pound of shellac. Mix. 

WATER-PROOF POLISH FOR BOOTS 
AND SHOES. 
Mix together two pints of vinegar and one pint of 
soft water, stir into it one-fourth pound of glue, broken 
up, one-half pound of logwood chips, one-fourth pound 
of finely powdered indigo, one-fourth ounce of the 
best soft soap and one-fourth ounce of isinglass. Put 
the mixture over the fine, and after it comes to a boil 
continue to boil sixteen minutes. 

TO MAKE BOOTS WATER-PROOF. 
Two ounces each of beeswax. Burgundy pitch, and 
turpentine, one pint of boiled linseed oil. Apply it to 
the boots with the hands, before the fire, until saturated. 

HOW TO WEAVE HAIR. 

Nellie W. 

If you have cut hair it must be separated into little 
locks not larger than a fine steel knitting needle. Wet 
and twist the cut end of each little lock, so you can 
pick it up readil)^ The fineness and evenness of these 
bunches are what makes the weaving smooth. 

The Loom. — All that is necessary is some way to 
fix three threads of buttonhole twist in a horizontal 
position. They may be tied to tacks driven on each 
side of a window casing; or you may make a loom 
like mine: Take a piece of board about two feet long 
and four inches wide; near each end of the board bore 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 593 

a hole and insert a round stick eight inches high. Cut 
a groove around each stick, near the top, and through 
one stick have a little hole bored to pass the thread 
through. 

Fasten your threads firmly, so they shall be close 
together at your right hand stick, and separated a 
little at your left hand stick, which has the hole in it. 
Provide yourself with a long pin, take your hair on a 
newspaper or box-cover in your lap, with the cut or 
twisted-up ends toward your left, and set your loom 
across your knees, or on a low table in front of you. 
Pick up a lock of your hair in your left hand, lay it 
against the lowest thread, with about two inches of the 
twisted end projecting from the thumb and finger. 
Take your pin in your right tiand, and put the hair 
through between the first and second thread. Now, 
with the pin bring the end back between the second 
and third threads; now over the third or top thread, 
and through toward you; then away from you again, 
so weaving it in and out till your end of hair has 
been twice up and down, like the letter M, with the 
long end of the hair at the left or beginning of the 
M, and the short end toward the right end if about 
used up. Now slide this along the threads to the 
right, holding it firmly between the thumb and 
forefinger. Take another lock, using the central part 
of the warp or threads, and slide it up close against 
the first one woven, and so on until you have as 
much woven as you wish, when you cut it out, tying 
the ends of thread securely. As I write this all out 
it looks like a tedious operation, but it is very 
simple, and a little practice will enable you to get 
along faster with it than you at first think possible. 



594 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

To MAKE THE WOVEN HAIR INTO A SWITCH. Take 

a round shoe-lace, and a fine needle with a double silk 
thread. Sew the end of the weaving to the end of the 
shoe-string; wind the hair where woven around the 
string, sewing it fast as you go. If you want the 
switch thick, wind the hair as close as you can; if not, 
why stretch it along. 

Combings. — These must be straightened of course, 
and then you proceed the same as for cut hair. In 
the first place, do not wind the combings up into 
snarls, but lay them in the hair receiver just as you 
take them from the comb. Take a bunch of comb- 
ings and pick them apart into a loose mass. Now pick 
out single hairs by their roots, thus ending them. 
This is the nicest way, but I have not so much patience. 
I take a pair of No. 4 wool cards, lay a bunch of loose 
hair on one card, draw the other card across it, and 
grasp a handful of the ends that fall over the card, lay 
my other hand on the card and draw it out straight. 
I smooth the bunch out in my hand, and even the 
ends, by drawing out the longer hairs from the center, 
and place them on the side of the bunch in my fingers. 
This is the slowest part of the operation. If you get 
your bunches too large to weave, separate them. 
Draw them through the cards occasionally to 
straighten. 

I hope I have made this all plain; but if not, I will 
try to explain further. I am only an amateur; never 
wove any hair but my own, I suppose professionals 
do it differently in some respects, but the weaving is 
the same. If your hair is thin, just weave a little 
bunch of combings, and twist right in with your back 
hair, and see how much better it looks. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 595 

TO MAKE A CANDLE BURN ALL NIGHT. 

Put finely-powdered salt on the candle till it reaches 
the black part of the wick. In this way a mild steady 
light may be kept through the night b}' a small piece 
of candle. 

WRINKLES. 

Wrinkles are due to the gradual wearing away of 
flesh underneath the cuticle. Why does it wear away? 
Because the facial muscles have either too little or the 
wrong kind of exercise. It will be observed that 
wrinkles usually take a downward course. This is 
due to a wrong kind of exercise. What exercise? 
The wiping and washing of the face, to be sure. Re- 
verse the process, and instead of rubbing the face 
down in washing and wiping, always rub upward. 
This will have the effect of counteracting the tendency 
of the flesh to depart from the cuticle, and will keep 
the face free from wrinkles. It is rather an awkward 
habit to acquire at first, but perseverance will make it 
a second nature, and the result is worth many pains. 
This exercise is designed particularly for the benefit 
of the eyes and the upper part of the cheeks. Then 
for the lower and middle portions of the face, where 
hollowness rather than wrinkles is often noted, another 
plan must be taken. The facial muscles are subjected 
to very slight activity in the ordinary exertions of 
eating and talking. To fill the cheeks out round and 
plump it is necessary to develop the muscles there. 
These muscles are very slight at the best, and any 
special effort well directed will increase them in capa- 
city and size. An excellent exercise for this purpose 
is this: Take a piece of soft leather — kid or chamois 



596 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

skin will do — and put the end of it between the teeth; 
then chew gently upon it for several minutes, taking 
care not to raise the teeth from the leather. If the 
teeth are raised, it will bring into play only the ordi- 
nary muscles of mastication, whereas the purpose is to 
develop those that are seldom used. One who tries 
this method will find the cheek going through a queer 
action that is neither graceful nor pretty; neverthe- 
less, it is immensely effective, and will restore to its 
youthful plumpness even the most hollow cheek. Try 
it faithfully and you will be convinced. — Journal of 
Health. 

CANKER IN THE MOUTH. 

Apply pulverized alum to the canker three or four 
times a day. 

EARACHE. 

Use a poultice of bread and vinegar as hot as bear- 
able. 

Adhesive plaster relieves corns. To cure corns, 
apply bicarbonate soda; cover with felt; repeat four 
or five nights; wash off each morning. 

CURE FOR HEADACHE. 

Slices of lemon, freshly cut, bound tightly upon the 
temples, are said to be a sure cure for nervous head- 
ache, 

SEDATIVE LOTION FOR SICK HEADACHE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls of 
ammonia, two teaspoonfuls of camphor, one pint of 
cologne, one pint of water. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 597 

This lotion, applied freely to the forehead, will be 
found very soothing. 

SEDATIVE LOTION FOR SPRAINS. 

Same as above, using one quart of water, and omit- 
ting the cologne. 

LOTION FOR THE HANDS. 

Author. 

Six tablespoonfuls of soft water, two tablespoonfuls 
of alcohol, one teaspoonful of glycerine, one-third of 
a teaspoonful of ammonia. 

POT-POURRI. 

Author. 
Put into a small jar a layer of fresh rose leaves? 
then a small quantity of salt and ground spices, then 
another layer of rose leaves and so on until the jar is 
full. Cover close for a while. 

USEFUL HINTS AND RECIPES. 

A bit of soda will sweeten milk or cream when it 
begins to turn sour. 

A little soda put into the pot, when cooking green 
peas or beans, will make them tender if they are old. 

I put a teaspoonful of sugar into all vegetables con- 
taining starch; they are richer. 

Plums and gooseberries can be kept for the winter 
by putting them up with cold water, in good jars. 
Put the fruit in, fill up with cold water, cork tight and 



598 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

keep in a cool place. Blackberries will also keep well 
in this way, so it is said. 

Wash rancid butter in soda water. 

When cooking onions, sefa cup of vinegar on the 
stove, and you will not smell any odor from the 
onions. 

Prepared cocoa is more delicat*e in flavor than choc- 
olate for filling for cake. 

Condensed milk is a good- substitute for cream in 
egg-nog. 

When roasting coffee add a small lump of butter. 

Bake sweet potatoes with a little molasses. 

Cut okra with a silver knife, to prevent turning 
black in soup. 

To tell when bread is done — If it does not burn 
your hands, when you take it from the pan, it is done. 
Turn upside down to cool. 

If a dish of cold water be set in an oven while bak- 
ing and allowed to remain there, your bread, cake or 
custard will not burn. 

Eggs, when put in water, will, if good, invariably 
swim with the large end upward; if not; they are bad. 

Eggs should be put in an ice box, or in cold water, 
a little while before using. 

COLORED EGGS. 

E. B. M. 
The various shades of aniline, when dissolved in a 
little boiling water, may be added to the water in 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 599 

which the eggs are to be boiled, and in this manner 
the most brilliant crimson, purple and other shades 
may be produced. Saffron will make a nice yellow; 
also onion peelings, and beet juice will color crimson. 
When done, initials, names or other designs may be 
traced; then the lines scratched with a penknife, 
leaving white figures on a colored ground. 

TO KEEP EGGS. 

Wrap each egg separately in a piece of newspaper, 
and pack away in baskets. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. No. i. 

One pint of unslacked lime, one pint of salt, one 
gallon of water. Pack the eggs in stone jars, and 
after the mixture has settled, pour it over them. Set 
them where they will not freeze; they will keep for 
months, and be as fresh as when first put up. Be 
careful to always select the freshest and nicest eggs 
you can for putting up. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. No. 2. 
Author. 
Fill a skimmer with eggs; dip the skimmer in boil- 
ing water, or /ard nearly boiling hot, and take out at 
once, or the eggs will cook, but see that each egg is 
entirely covered with water, or lard, so that the pores 
will be closed; then pack the eggs (the small end 
down) in bran, salt or oats. 

LIME BRINE. 

One pint of coarse salt, one pint of unslacked lime. 



6oo GRADED COOK BOOK. 

one bucketful of water. Let stand until it settles; 
pour off and put over the eggs. 

VINEGAR, 

One pound of light-brown sugar, one gallon of 
water, a piece of brown paper, a little yeast. Keep 
in an uncorked jug until it has worked. 

To keep vinegar on pickles, put in a few pieces of 
horseradish root. 

HINTS ON WINE. 

Wine should be taken from the case, laid on its side 
where it is not exposed to the changes of temperature, 
and in a moderately warm place, though not near the 
furnace or register. Madeira, sherry and claret should 
be served neither warm nor cold, but of moderate 
temperature, while champagne should be served cold 
or frozen, as in champagne frappe. Claret is a favor- 
ite wine, often served throughout the entire dinner. 
Rhine wines are served with raw oysters, Madeira or 
sherry is served with soup or fish, champagne with 
roasts. Burgundy or port with dessert; Maraschino is 
served in small glasses after the coffee is served. 

REGENT PUNCH. 

Mrs. S. 
One quart of champagne, one pint of sherry, juice 
of two lemons. Sweeten to taste and add crushed ice. 

TO KEEP LEMONS. 

Pour cold water over them. Change the water 
once a week. 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 6oi 

TO PURIFY RANCID LARD. 

Take two ounces of chloride of soda and put it into 
a gallon of water. Make it almost boiling hot, then 
put your rancid lard into it and let it boil for two 
hours, if it is a large quantity — that is, many pounds; 
then take it off and set it aside to cool. When cool, 
take the lard off the water, give it a boil up by itself, 
in the usual way, let it cool again, and you will find 
your lard just as sweet as when it was first new. 

THE ART OF FRYING. 

There are only two methods of frying, and the 
French call one of those methods '^ saute." Frying 
means to immerse the chop, croquet, oyster, fritter, or 
whatever it may be, in a bath of hot fat; but most 
cooks think it is only necessary to drop a bit of butter 
or lard, or dripping, on the frying pan to prevent the 
chop, etc., from sticking. The result is a tough, 
greasy article not fit to be put on the table. 

To fry fish, or anything properly, you must have a 
deep iron pot, capable of holding two or three pounds 
of fat. Never attempt to fry anything with less than 
a pound — a wire basket and some sheets of blotting 
paper. When you put the fat into the pot, put the 
wire basket in also, so that it will heat with the fat. 
Cut the fish into nice filets, dip in eggy then in bread- 
crumbs, and set away in a cool place until the fat is 
hot enough. You can tell this by dropping a piece of 
bread the size of a marble into the fat — if it frizzles 
and produces large bubbles of steam, the fat is as hot 
as it possibly c^n be, and is ready for anything that 
demands quick frving — oysters, for instance. But if 



602 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

it frizzles slightly and only gives out small steam 
bubbles, the fat has reached the temperature de- 
manded for slow frying, and that is what fish, chops, 
and croquets require. 

As soon as the fish turns a nice brown, if it has not 
been in the fat long enough to cook, draw the pot 
back in a cooler part of the range and let it remain in 
a few minutes longer. Then take it up in the wire 
basket, if you have used one, or, if not, with a strainer, 
and put the fish on warm blotting paper just for a 
moment to absorb any grease that may be on the out- 
side; then place it on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, 
and serve immediately. 

Anything fried should be eaten as soon as cooked, 
otherwise it loses its flavor and becomes dry and hard. 
— Brooklyn Citizen. 

A LUNCH DISH. 

Dora. 
Slice cucumbers and onions, very thin, and place in 
alternate layers in a saucepan. Put a half cupful of 
vinegar in another saucepan with a little pepper and 
salt; bring to a boil, and pour over the cucumbers and 
onions; let it cook one minute, then remove from the 
fire; add a cupful of thick cream, and put all in a 
covered dish. Set in a pan of hot water five minutes 
before serving. 

YEAST MEAL. 

Mrs. J. C. Houghton. 
Cover a handful of hops with sufficient water to 
make a pint when steeped and strained; to this pint 
add six raw potatoes, or enough to make two quarts 



GRADED COOK BOOK. 6o$ 

when grated; one tablespoonful of salt, one-half cake 
of compressed yeast. Mix, and let it stand for one 
hour, or until light; then add enough corn meal to 
make it stiff; set this mixture in the sun to dry, stir- 
ring often; when dry, roll to a powder with a rolling 
pin, and put away in light-brown paper in a dry place. 
Use one tablespoonful of yeast meal for every two 
loaves. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 
Mrs. K. 

One quart of canned cherries, three-fourths of a 
package of gelatine, dissolved in a cupful of cold 
water on the back part of the stove; juice and grated 
rinds of two lemons, one tumblerful of sherry wine. 
Sweeten to taste, and put on ice until ready to serve. 

Sauce. — One cupful of cream, whipped, two table- 
spoonfuls of currant jelly, well beaten. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Author. 

Roll out some pastry rather thin, cut into strips 
about three inches long and two inches wide, strew 
over each strip some grated cheese, fold over, brush 
with the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. Lay a napkin in a plate, and 
on this lay the straws like a log-cabin, and serve at 
once. Some persons roll out the pastry three times, 
strewing cheese over each time. May brush with 
beaten egg just before taking them up; then strew a 
little grated cheese upon them and serve. 



6o4 GRADED COOK BOOK. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Author. 
One pineapple pared and grated, one teacupful of 
powdered sugar, juice of one lemon, whites of two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of melted butter. Line a pie- 
plate with crust, and fill with the pineapple, butter, 
and sugar; when nearly baked, cover the pie with a 
meringue made of the beaten whites of the eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and the juice 
of the lemon; put back in the oven until the meringue 
is set. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Mrs. Orcutt. 
Take four cans of best pineapple, separate the juice 
from the fruit, chop the fruit fine, and put it into a 
porcelain kettle with about one-half pound of granu- 
lated sugar; cook fifteen minutes; then remove from 
the fire, and when cold, add two pounds of sugar, a 
half teaspoonful of tartaric acid, and enough cold 
water to make four quarts in all; strain, and put into 
a freezer; when half frozen, add the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs. 



X 838 






.^^^^ 




























■ >> - ► ■•7- ' '-^ ■ L» ■* ^rA^N- 






