Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



K 



g 



2 

A 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 




Transferred from 
New England Deposit Library 



JL?, ^S^ \ 



r, 






^^ 



!^ 




7- 



WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS. 



SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Ninth Edition. Fcp. 

8vo. IS. boards. 

ENTREES A LA MODE. Fourth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 
IS. boards. 

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 

Second EdiiioE. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. 

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 
Fcp. 8vo. IS. 6d. boards. 

OYSTERS A LA MODE ; or, the Oyster and over 
One Hundred Ways of Cooking it ; to which are added a few 
Recipes for Cooking all kinds of Shelled Fish. Crown Bvo. 
IS. 6d. boards. 






London: LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 



PRINTED BY 
SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

LONDON 



DRESSED 



VEGETABLES 



A LA MODE 



BY 



M 



RS HE SALTS 



* ,A MODK' 'ENTRto -A LA MODE 
.„.„OK«>« OP '--"»- J^ - ^^^,„ ,„H , .. MODE- 

*"^^"":;.Ce::^-u.o.s„asx.AMo.E' 



Shakespeare 



Ube bountcon* !"»»«« X* *" 
ta«» bet full me«» Ut^f^ 



LONDON 

LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

AND NEW VORK .. .5 EAST x6. STREET 

1888 



All rights reserved 




c c ^ / 






HARVARD 
UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 
MAR 5 1641 



I 



>. •■ - B 



PREFACE. 



In * Sweets and Savouries a la Mode ' I mentioned 
I had completed the series, but, like so many of 
the members of the dramatic art who after their 
farewell are induced back again, I am making my 
reappearance in the gastronomic art with ' Vege- 
tables a la Mode,' as the public who have so kindly 
received my former little books are anxious that 
I should extend the series ; and as the vox populi 
should be respected, I have had much pleasure in 
culling from all the vegetable gardens of the 
culinary world the recipes which will be found 
in this little book, and am still hunting in the 
happy grounds of cookery to present my readers 
with one or two more of my a la mode volumes. 

HARRIET A. de SALIS. 






i 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 

A LA MODE. 



-•O^ 



American Yams k la Fran9aise. 

Cut the yams into slices about half an inch 
thick, trim into oval shapes, put them into a pan 
full of water ; wash and drain them upon a cloth ; 
next place them in a stewpan with two and a half 
ounces of butter, and season with salt and a grate 
of nutmeg. Moisten with a pint of water ; put 
the lid on and let them simmer for three-quarters 
of an hour, turning them over occasionally, so that 
they may be equally a bright yellow colour on both 
sides. Arrange in a circle, and pour the following 
sauce over them : — 

Mix an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful 
of flour ; put it into a stewpan with a gill of cream, 
a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a little salt, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Stir this over the fire 
till it thickens, when jt will be ready. 

Aiquebelle Fritters. 

Pound five potatoes ; add a pinch of Gruy^re 
cheese, eight eggs, half a pound of fresh butter; 
pepper and salt. Beat the eggs well before adding 

B 



■^-^ 



2 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

them to the other ingredients. Mix all together 
very thoroughly. Divide the mixture into pieces 
about the size of a milk biscuit, and fry in boiling 
fat. 

Artichokes k la Barigoule. 

Fonds d'Artichauts k la Barigoule. 

m 

Wash and trim three or four artichokes, remove 
the chokes, and fry the top of the leaves and the 
bottom of the artichokes in hot lard for three or 
four minutes. 

Fill the cavities with a forcemeat made with 
two ounces of finely-shred suet, two ounces of 
veal free from fat and fibre, two teaspoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, a trifle of marjoram and thyme, 
half a shalot chopped fine, a little salt and pepper, 
and a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel. Mix 
thoroughly, and work in the yolk of an egg. 
Fasten a piece of bacon on the top of each arti- 
choke. Bind them with string to keep them in 
their proper place. Put them in a stewpan, with 
enough brown gravy to cover them. Let them stew 
gently till tender. Take away the strings, and dish 
them with a little of the gravy thickened round 
them. 

Artichokes k la Barigoule. 

Fonds d'Artichauts k la Barigoule. 
(Another way. ) 

Parboil some globe artichokes. Strip off the 
leaves and take out the choke. Make a farce of 
bread-crumbs, parsley, mushrooms, truffles, shalots, 
and any savoury meat or game, minced very fine, 
and seasoned to taste. Put a slice of bacon or ham, 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 3 

two carrots, a bouquet garni at the bottom of a 
stewpan, and place the artichokes on the top of 
them ; pour over a glass of chablis. 

Artichoke Bottoms k la Carfeme. 

Fonds d'Artichauts ^ la Car^me. 
(Original Recipe.) 

Wash the artichokes thoroughly. Boil them 
till they are nearly tender ; drain them, remove the 
middle leaves and the chokes, and lay in each a 
little of a forcemeat composed of six oysters, one 
sardine, two anchovies, and a few shrimps or 
prawns or pieces of lobster, all minced finely to- 
gether, and put into a sauce made of a grated 
tablespoonful of horseradish, half a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a tea- 
spoonful of capers, and one gill of white sauce. 
Let this boil up, then stir in the fish mixture, fill 
the artichokes, and bake in the oven till tender and 
done. Scatter lobster coral on the top of each 
before serving, or alternately lobster coral and 
grated fried parsley. 

Cream of Artichokes. 

Cr^ine d'Artichauts. 

Parboil some artichokes, strip off the leaves, and 
press out the edible part of each leaf ; remove the 
chokes, and pass this pulp through a hair sieve. 
Add a very little onion pulp. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a tiny dust of cayenne. Mix this with 
double cream, and steam in a mould very slowly for 
twenty minutes. Turn out of the mould, and serve 
with a cream sauce round. 



B 2 



4 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 



Artichoke Bottoms k la Kaiser. 

Fonds d'Artichauts k la Kaiser. 
(Original Recipe.) 

Cook some artichoke bottoms ; season them 
with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Take some 
plain round glossy tomatoes and place one on 
each artichoke ; lay some mushroom pur^e on the 
top of each, taking care to smooth it well ; place 
each artichoke on a fried croiiton masked with the 
tomato pur^e, and put them in a deep tin dish and 
bake them in the oven (which must not be a fierce 
one) for about ten minutes. Just before serving 
sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley over, and 
curl an anchovy on the top of each round a sprig 
of parsley that has been heated in the oven. 

Artichokes k la Malay. 

Artichauts a la Malay. 
(Original Recipe.) 

Prepare the artichokes as in Artichokes a la 
Careme, and fill them with a mixture made of an 
onion minced very finely and put into a stewpan 
with half a pint of prawns, an ounce of butter and 
a grate of cinnamon, half a pint of good mutton 
broth, and a little salt. Let this stew over a 
moderate fire for half an hour, then stir in a spoon- 
ful of curry powder, and let it stew twenty minutes 
longer. Strain the gravy into a clean stewpan, 
add the prawns, and let it simmer again for ten 
minutes. Scrape a piece of cocoa-nut sufficient 
to fill a tablespoon into a gill of water, and press 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 5 

it through a sieve. Take half the milk from the 
cocoa-nut, thicken it with flour, stir it into the 
curry, toss it over the fire, and give a squeeze of 
lemon to it, and put in the artichokes. 

Dish them up on a rice mound, ornamented 
with gherkins and chillies. This is very good cold, 
and the rice should then be iced and ornamented 
with whipped aspic jelly and three leaves of the 
artichoke standing up in the middle of each. 



Artichokes k la Gouff6 

Artichauts k la Gouff(f . 

Wash and trim three young artichokes, cut 
them into thin slices, and as they are cut throw 
them into water with a cupful of vinegar in it. 
Drain them, and season with a little salt and pep- 
per. Make a batter with three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, and two of flour. When all are 
well mixed, put the slices of artichokes into it, and 
stir gently for about three minutes, until every piece 
of artichoke is well covered. Fry in hot fat, being 
careful that the vegetable is cooked through as 
well as being browned. Drain from the fat, and pile 
the slices high in the dish, and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Artichokes k Tltalienne. 

Artichauts k I'ltalienne. 

Take the bottoms of some French artichokes, 
put them in a stewpan with some butter, white 
wine, a little stock, and lemon-juice. When cooked 
serve up with sauce italienne over. 



6 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

Artichokes k Tltalienne. 

Artichauts ^ Tltalienne. 
(Another way. ) 

Is similar to the last recipe, only the stuffing is 
made of fried onion chopped very small, browned 
bread-crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese, and 
baked in the oven. 

Stuffed Artichokes k la Bechamel. 

Make a savoury stuffing with some chopped 
herbs, bread-crumbs, a mushroom, a pounded an- 
chovy, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Make 
this into a paste by cooking it in a little cream and 
gravy ; fill some artichoke bottoms with it, and put 
them to simmer in a bechamel sauce ; serve with 
fried sippets. The preserved artichokes (fonds 
d'artichauts) are very good for this purpose, and 
require very little cooking. 

Globe Artichokes aux Fines Herbes. 

Wash, soak, and trim all the bottom leaves from 
the artichokes ; boil in a large saucepan of boiling 
water till the leaves come easily out, and the 
bottoms are soft. When cold, pull off all the leaves 
and remove the chokes ; put them into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of fines herbes sauce (made 
of half a pint of good brown sauce, three small 
onions, two bunches of parsley, a tablespoonful 
of tomato sauce, two of chervil, four small button 
mushrooms chopped fine, and a little salt ; stew all 
these for twenty minutes, but do not boit), simmer 
for three or four minutes, and serve very hot with 
the sauce over them. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 7 



Globe Artichokes au Diable. 

Prepare the artichokes as for Artichokes aux 
Fines Herbes, and fill the bottoms with devilled 
shrimps which have been stewed in butter for three 
minutes ; sprinkle with cayenne pepper, and mask 
with Espagnole sauce.* 

To devil the shrimps, take a pint oji picked ones 
and put them into two ounces of butter ; warm only, 
and sprinkle with dry curry powder and cayenne 
pepper. 

Artichokes k la Chef. 

Trim the artichokes, cut out the chokes, and 
stuff them with minced bacon, parsley, mushrooms, 
and shalots which have been fried in butter. Line 
a stewpan with slices of bacon, add the artichokes, 
season with pepper and salt and a bouquet garni. 
Moisten with gravy, and cook over a slow fire with 
hot coals on the lid. When done, dish up covered 
with essence of ham. Essence of ham is made of 
ham finely pounded and warmed in butter in 
which a little flour has been stirred, and, when a 
good colour, moistened with stock seasoned with 
herbs, cloves, chopped mushrooms, and a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, and passed through a tammy. 

Artichoke Chips. 

Wash, peel, and cut into thin slices as many 
Jerusalem artichokes as are required. Throw them 
into cold water and dry them. Put them in a 
frying-basket. Plunge this into boiling lard, and 

' See Entries h la Mode for Espagnole sauce. 



8 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

fry a nice light brown. Put them before the fire 
and dry* Sprinkle with a little salt, and serve very 
hot 

Jerusalem Artichokes k la Reine. 

Wash the artichokes, cut off the end of each 
quite flat, and trim the other end into a point. Boil 
them in milk and water, and lift them out the 
moment they are done ; drain, and place them up- 
right in the dish into which they are to be served, 
and sauce them with a rich bechamel sauce. 

Jerusalem Artichokes au Parmesan. 

Boil till quite tender sufficient Jerusalem arti- 
chokes to fill up some scallop shells ; cut them up 
very small, and mix them up in a little bechamel 
sauce. Add a little pepper and salt, strew on 
thickly some grated Parmesan, and over that some 
bread-crumbs ; put little pieces of butter all over 
the top, and brown them with the salamander. 

Asparag:us with Cream. 

Asperges ^ la Cr^me. 

Cut up some heads of asparagus ; wash and 
drain them. Melt some fresh butter in a saucepan, 
warm the asparagus heads in it, and stir in some 
rich bechamel sauce. When done, serve ^covered 
with the sauce. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

Omelette aux Pointes d*Asperges. 

Boil about twenty-five heads of asparagus, and 
cut the green ends, when tender, in short pieces. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 9 

Mix with them four well-beaten eggs, adding a 
little pepper and salt. Melt an ounce of butter in 
an omelet-pan, pour in the mixture, stir till it 
thickens over the fire, and fold it nicely over. 
Asparagus sauce may be served with it. 

Asparagus k la Tod Heatley. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Cook the asparagus as usual, then lay them on 
ice or in a refrigerator. When properly cold, ar- 
range them in bunches like faggots, and tie them 
round with strips cut from lettuces to resemble a 
binder. Arrange them high on the dish, and pour 
over them whipped cream in which a little aspic 
jelly has been mixed. Garnish with croiitons of 
aspic and whipped aspic. This dish is also very 
good with simply a green mayonnaise over it. 

Asparagus k la Pompadour. 

Boil the asparagus in boiling salt and water. 
When cooked, cut it into lengths three inches long, 
drain them, and place them before the fire for a few 
moments. Take one ounce of fresh butter, two 
yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a saltspoonful of 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; cook in 
a saucepan till thick ; dish up the asparagus in a 
pyramid, and pour the sauce over. 

Asparagus Rolls. 

Cut a piece out of the crust of the tops of three 
French rolls, and take out all their crumb ; be careful 
that the crusts fit again in the places from whence 



lo DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

they were taken. Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter. 
Then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs 
beaten fine, and a little salt and nutmeg ; stir well 
together over a slow fire till it begins to be thick. 
Have ready a hundred of small grass boiled, and 
save tops enough to stick the rolls with. Cut the 
rest of the tops small, put them into the cream, and 
fill the rolls with them. Before frying the rolls, 
make a good many holes in the top to stick the 
grass in. Then lay on the pieces of crust and 
stick the grass in that it may look as if it were 
growing. 

Asparagus k la Rustic. 

Cut the green part of a hundred good spruce 
asparagus heads ; wash, boil, and strain them. Take 
three French rolls, cut a piece of the top crust neatly 
out, pick out all the crumb, and fry the outsides in 
butter ; take a gill of cream with the yolks of three 
eggs beaten up in it, add a little salt and a grate of 
nutmeg, and stir well together over a gentle fire 
till it begins to thicken ; put in three parts of the 
asparagus cut small ; fill the rolls with it ; put on 
the tops that were cut off, and with a sharp skewer 
make holes in the tops, and stick some asparagus in 
as if it were growing. Arrange them on a dish, and 
serve very hot. 

Asparagus k la Fran9aise. 

Wash and boil the asparagus till tender, drain 
them, cut off the heads and about two inches of the 
white part of the stalks ; mince them very small, 
and mix with them an onion also cut very small. 
Add the yolk of an egg well beaten, with salt and 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, ii 

pepper to taste. Make it hot in a stewpan, and dish 
it up on a slice of toast, and pour a good sauce 
over it * 

Asparagrus Pudding. 

Take about fifty young asparagus and cut up 
the green part into pea-sized pieces. Beat about 
an ounce of butter to a cream, add to it a cupful of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped ham, four 
well-beaten eggs, a little pepper and salt, and then 
the asparagus. Mix all well together, and add 
sufficient milk to make it into a stiff batter. Put 
it into a well-oiled mould, wrap it up in a floured 
cloth, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water. 
When sufficiently cooked, turn it out on to a hot 
dish and pour good clear clarified butter round it 
in which two drops of vinegar have been put. 



Dressed Beetroot 

Slice a parboiled beetroot in nice round slices, 
and stew it with small onions in a little cream with 
a very small piece of sugar, pepper and salt, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Dish the slices of beet- 
root with the small onions round them. 



Beetroot Fritters. 

Cut some boiled beetroot into slices. Take 
two pieces ^t a time, place a slice of raw onion 
sprinkled with chopped chervil, pepper, and salt 
between them, dip into batter, and plunge into 
boiling fat. When a good colour, dish up. 



12 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

Beetroot k la Savarin. 

Fry a slice of onion in butter, then mix toge- 
ther half a teaspoonful of salt, half of dry mustard, 
twelve drops of essence of anchovies, a dessert- 
spoonful of cornflour, a gill of cream, and a gill of 
milk. Put this with the onion, and boil for five 
minutes ; then slice in a nice-coloured boiled beet- 
root, and let all get cold. 

Stewed Beetroot 

Bake or boil a beet till it is tender, and let it 
remain till cold, then peel and cut it into slices, 
and stew it for a little while in some broth or pale 
gravy. Thicken this with a teaspoonful of arrow- 
root and two tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir in 
quickly, as you take it off the fire, a tablespoonful 
of chilli vinegar. 

Beetroot k la Crime. 

Peel a beetroot and cut it into slices, then cook 
it very slowly in white bechamel sauce ; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve. 

Brittany Beans. 

Cut some onions in thin shreds, scald and drain 
them. Fry them in butter till they are a nice 
golden brown ; then sprinkle over them flour, 
pepper, and salt, and saut^ them for five minutes. 
Add some stock and stew for twefity minutes, 
taking care to stir frequently ; then add some 
well-cooked haricot beans and butter, and saut^ 
together. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 13 

Broad Beans k la Crime. 

The beans must be very young. Boil them in 
water with a faggot of parsley and some salt. 
When done, drain in a colander; then put them 
into a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, 
some chopped parsley, and as much winter savoury 
as will cover the tip of a spoon, pepper, salt, and 
just one grate of nutmeg. Saut^ the beans over 
the fire for five minutes, and then mix in well with 
them a liaison of three eggs and the juice of half 
a lemon. When the liaison has become set, dish 
them up with fancy fried crofitons round them. 

French Beans k la Poulette. 

Take some young French beans, remove all 
fibres by breaking off the ends ; wash and boil 
them in boiling water. When done, toss them in 
melted butter seasoned with chopped chives and 
parsley ; stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, a pinch 
of salt, and a quarter of a pint of stock ; reduce 
the sauce; thicken with two yolks of eggs, and 
flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice when it is 
.ready to serve. 

Omelet of French Beans. 

Cut up finely two tablespoonfuls of French 
beans, stir into them three well-beaten eggs, then 
add a heaped-up tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, 
with a little pepper and salt to taste. When per- 
fectly mixed, put the whole, with two ounces of 
melted butter, into the omelet-pan, and fry a pale 
brown. The time varies from three to five 
minutes. 



14 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Fricasseed White Kidney Beans. 

Take a quart of white kidney beans ; if they 
are dried soak them for some hours first, but if 
fresh merely blanch them and rub off the skins. 
The dried ones must be boiled till tender and their 
skins slip off. 

Put them into a saucepan with half a pint of 
gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a grate 
of nutmeg, and a glass of marsala ; cover them 
close, and let them stew gently for about a quarter 
of an hour ; then take out the herbs, add a piece of 
butter mixed with flour, and shake it till thick. 
Beat up the yolks of two eggs in cream, put it in, 
and keep shaking the pan one way till thick and 
smooth ; squeeze in juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

French Beans k la Bechamel. 

Cut up some French beans ; soak them in cold 
water, and boil in boiling salt and water ; when 
done, plunge them into cold water and drain. 
Warm some chopped onions in fresh butter, but do 
not brown them ; and when nearly cooked, stir in 
a little flour, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, chives, 
and a wineglassful of stock ; add the beans, and 
when boiling thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs 
and flavour with lemon-juice. This sauce must not 
be thin. 

French Beans k la Cr^me. 

Take a pound of French beans, string them, 
and boil them in salt and water till tender, then 
drain them. Beat the yolks of tv/o fresh eggs in a 
gill of cream and about one ounce of fresh butter ; 




mmmm 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 15 

beat all well together, put it into a stewpan, and 
set over a clear iire. When hot, stir in a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, add the beans, and let all 
simmer for about six minutes, stirring constantly. 
Serve very hot. 



Broccoli k la Fermifere. 

Take three heads of broccoli — one large and two 
small heads. Put into a stewpan two and a half 
ounces of butter, and when melted stir in four well- 
beaten eggs till it becomes of the consistency of 
cream. Pour this over a slice of toasted bread 
which has been placed on a dish. Lay the largest 
broccoli in the middle, and the two smaller ones cut 
into sprigs and arranged round it. 



Fricassee of Brussels Sprouts k la Lucerne. 

Take some young sprouts and put them into 
boiling water with a lump of butter, a little salt, 
a piece of soda the size of a pea, and a bouquet 
garni. When they are cooked, take them out 
and drain them. Have ready some good white 
stock and rich bechamel sauce — say, half a pint of 
each — the yolk of an egg, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice ; put all these into a stewpan and stir 
over the fire till it is all well blended and the thick- 
ness of rich cream. Mix in the sprouts, and then 
dish them up ; garnish with fried croCitons cut in 
the shape of hearts, mask them over with a little 
Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg which has been passed through a wire 
sieve over the centre of the sprouts. 



i6 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 



Brussels Sprouts k la Parisienne. 

Trim and boil about thirty heads of sprouts in 
two quarts of water in which a handful of salt has 
been placed ; when done, strain them, and chop 
very fine. Then put an onion in a stewpan, cut in 
slices, with two ounces of butter, three sprigs of 
parsley, and an ounce of raw ham. Stir them ten 
minutes over the fire, then add the chopped sprouts 
and half a teaspoonful of flour ; mix all well toge- 
ther and add half a pint of white stock and half a 
pint of milk. Stir until it boils, then add a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar ; season with a little 
pepper and salt, and serve with fried sippets. 

Fried Brussels Sprouts. 

Boil the sprouts, drain and fry them in butter 
for a few minutes ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a firm white cabbage for fifteen minutes, 
changing the water from the boiling-kettle ; when 
tender, drain and set aside till cold. Then chop 
fine, and add two beaten eggs, an ounce of butter, 
pepper, salt, and three tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Stir all well together, and bake in a buttered pie- 
dish till brown. 

Cabbage Jelly. 

Boil a Savoy cabbage in water, chop it very 
fine and pass it through a sieve, and mix it with a 
little pepper, salt, and butter ; mould and bake it. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 17 



Cabbage it la Flamande. 

Cut a cabbage into quarters, parboil, and then 
place it in cold water, squeeze it dry, take out the 
heart and tie it round ; then stew it witlf half an ounce 
of butter, half a pint of good stock, seven onions, a 
bouquet garni, and salt and pepper to taste. When 
nearly cooked, put in a gill of vinegar ; and when it 
is sufficiently cooked take a crust of bread about 
four inches in diameter, fry it in butter, and put it 
in the bottom of a dish, upon which place the cab- 
bage and some fried sausages ; arrange the onions 
round. Skim the same, add a little cullis to it, and 
pour it over the whole. 

Cabbage and Rice Balls. 

(Italian Recipe.) 

Boil some rice with a little broth ; cut some 
onions small, fry them, and mix them well with the 
rice. Then fry the rice, adding a little water so 
that it should not thicken too much ; when cooked, 
add a little grated cheese and butter. 

Take some cabbages, separate the leaves, put 
them into hot water, half boil and rinse them. 
Take each leaf separately, spread the rice thickly 
on it, and roll it up. 

Then take a stewpan and put in some pieces 
of butter and onions cut ver>^ finely, cook them 
well with a little water ; then place the balls of rice 
in the stewpan and cook them until the cabbage 
is done. When cooked, sprinkle grated cheese over 
them, and serve with tomato sauce. 

C 



i8 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

Stuffed Cabbages k la Russe. 

Chop finely an onion and fry it in butter, but it 
must not brown ; add six chopped mushrooms and 
two tablespoonfuls of semolina, and warm all over 
the fire a few minutes, and take it off the fire. 
Pick the finest outside leaves off the cabbages and 
place them on one side ; cut the cabbages into 
quarters, blanch and drain them ; cut out the hard 
pieces from the centres, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and spread some of the stuffing between 
each leaf Tie up the pieces of cabbage to their 
original shape, with the large leaves placed round 
them, and boil in water seasoned with onions, 
carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a lump of 
butter. When done, drain and serve. Serve melted 
butter in a saucepan. 

Cardoons Boiled. 

Cut away the coarse outside of the cardoon, 
wash it free from sand, lay it in cold water to harden; 
then boil it in milk and water till tender, drain it 
on the back of a sieve. Cut each stalk in two ; 
place them in a vegetable-dish and pour white 
sauce over them. 

Cardoons k la Fromage. 

String three cardoons and cut them into pieces 
an inch long, stew them in half a pint of claret till 
quite tender, add an ounce of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little pepper and salt. Put them into a china 
baking-dish, add the juice of an orange, and grate 
three ounces of Parmesan cheese over. Brown with 
a salamander, and serve quickly. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 19 



Stewed Cardoons. 

Take four cardoons, take off the outside leaves, 
string the white part and cut them about two inches 
long ; wash them very clean, and put them into a 
stewpan with three-quarters of a pint of veal broth, 
a glass of sauterne, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a 
little pepper and salt. Cover over and stew gently 
till tender, then add a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and boil all gently till it becomes the proper con- 
sistency ; add the juice of half a lemon and dish up. 

Fillets of Carrot. 

Wash, scrape, and cut into slices about half an 
inch thick, and then into dice-shape, several young 
carrots ; boil them in water for five minutes, drain, 
and put into a stewpan with a gill of good brown 
sauce. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and stew till 
tender. 

Carrots k la Flamande. 

Boil half a dozen carrots till quite tender ; then 
stamp them out in fancy shapes and stew them in 
a little good melted butter, with five small onions, 
a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a 
little salt and pepper. Serve the carrots with the 
sauce poured over. 

Carrots k TAllemande. 

Trim some small carrots so that they are all of 
the same shape, that is, the real shape of the carrot, 
but not too sharp at one end or too thick at the 
other, and not longer than an inch and a half 

Parboil in water with a little salt ; drain. Then 

place in a saut6-pan with one pint of stock, two 

c 2 



20 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

ounces of butter, one ounce of sugar, and let simmer 
for half an hour ; then let it boil briskly till the 
sauce is reduced to a glaze. Roll each carrot in 
this, and form into a dome of carrots ; surround 
with a rich brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. 

Carrots k la Windsor. 

Take some carrots of equal size and cut the upper 
parts into even lengthsof about two and a half inches, 
and trim one end to a point in the shape of a cone. 
Then throw them into salted boiling water and let 
them boil for three-quarters of an hour. Take them 
out and drain well. Arrange them upright in a stew- 
pan, pour in good hot gravy to half their height ; 
add a little salt and a small teaspoonful of sugar, 
and boil quickly for half an hour longer. Dish them 
up standing upright, and pour over them a good 
brown thickened gravy with a dessertspoonful of 
parsley and a little lemon-juice in it. 

Carrot Fritters. 

Boil a large carrot till tender ; beat it to a pulp, 
pass it through a sieve, and mix with it a gill of 
cream, two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs and two 
well- beaten eggs. Fry the mixture, divided into the 
shape of fritters, in hot dripping, and serve with a 
good brown cullis. 

Carrots St la Mattre d*H6tel. 

Scrape, wash, and scald the carrots in boiling 
water ; cook them in hot water, with salt and a piece 
of butter the size of a small egg. When cooked, 
remove them, and put them to drain. Mix in a 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 21 

stewpan another piece of butter, chopped parsley, 
one chopped shalot, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Put in the carrots, toss them up for two minutes, 
and serve them with fried sippets. 

Curried Cauliflowers* 

Boil three or four small cauliflowers till tender, 
cut them up into little bouqtiets^ and put them into 
a stewpan with some curry sauce, prepared thus : — 

Take one sliced onion, a dessertspoonful of 
good curry-powder, two ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonful of grated cocoa-nut, a tablespoonful of the 
milk from tihe cocoa-nut, a teaspoonful of lemon- 
juice, a dessertspoonful of chutney ; let all these 
blend and cook well together for an hour, skimming 
it, and then passing it through a sieve. 

Pour this sauce over the pieces of cauliflower, 
and let all simmer for twenty minutes ; dish the 
pieces up en pyramidcy and pour the sauce all over. 

Cauliflower Fritters. 

Blanch a cauliflower, break it into neat pieces, 
and dip it into a nice thick white sauce ; leave them 
until cold, and then take each piece separately and 
dip it into batter and fry in boiling butter. Serve 
hot, with fried parsley. 

Cauliflower k la Mattre d'Hdtel. 

Take three heads of nice little white cauli- 
flowers, some maitre d'hdtel sauce in which a 
tablespoonful of tomato pur^e has been introduced ; 
put into a saucepan of water a small quantity oif 
flour, and when it boils put in the cauliflowers. 



22 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

When done, cut off the stalks, place the pieces head 
downwards into a hot basin, and press them gently 
together. Put the sauce into a dish, and turn the 
moulded cauliflowers out of the basin on it — ^which, 
if neatly done, will give the appearance of a very 
large cauliflower. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Choux-fleurs au Gratin. 

Wash and boil a cauliflower in the usual way, 
and when it is sufficiently boiled take it out of the 
saucepan and cut off all the outside green leaves. 
Now take a cloth and squeeze all the water out of 
the cauliflower, and put half an ounce of flour and 
the same quantity of butter into a stewpan and 
mix well together, and pour in a gill of cold water ; 
put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly till it 
boils and thickens. Then add one tablespoonful of 
cream, a dust of cayenne, and a little salt. Have 
grated two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and stir 
rather more than half into the white sauce. Place 
the cauliflower in the dish in which it is to be 
served, pour the sauce all over the cauliflower, 
and sprinkle the remainder of the grated cheese 
over the cauliflower, and brown the top with a hot 
salamander till it is a pale brown. This dish 
should be served very hot. 

Cauliflower au Parmesan. 

Choose four very small white cauliflowers, cut 
off the stalks and stems, making them flat, so that 
they will stand nicely in the dish. Cleanse 
thoroughly and boil till tender, but not sufficiently 
so to run any risk of breaking. Arrange them so 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 23 

as to make them look like one large cauliflower, 
and powder them thickly with grated Parmesan. 
Make a sauce with an ounce of butter, a little salt, 
half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, the yolks of two 
eggs beaten to a cream, and two tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan. Mix well together, and stir over 
the fire ; then pour over and around the cauliflower. 

Stuffed Cauliflower. 

Boil a cauliflower till cooked, but not so soft as 
to fall to pieces. With a sharp knife remove a 
small part of the heart of the flower ; fill the 
vacuum with a stuffing of the chopped heart, and 
four cooked mushrooms seasoned with cayenne. 
Make a good white sauce, mix in some grated 
Parmesan cheese, pour over the cauliflower, and 
serve very hot, garnished with crofltons. 

Moulded Cauliflower. 

Choufleur en fonne. 

Boil four nice and white cauliflowers, all of an 
equal size, in a little thin flour and water till 
tender ; then cut off" the stalks and press them, head 
downwards, into a hot basin ; then arrange them in 
a vegetable-dish, with some of the stalks arranged 
neatly round them, and pour over them some 
tomato sauce. 

Cauliflower Omelet. 

Take the white part of a boiled cauliflower 
after it is cold, chop it very small, and mix with 
it a sufficient quantity of well-beaten egg to make 
a very thick batter ; then fry in fresh butter and 
send it to table hot. 



24 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Cauliflower Fritters. 

When the cauliflowers are boiled and drained 
divide them into branches, and toss them up for a 
few minutes in a stewpan, with butter, pepper, salt, 
and a little nutmeg. Serve with fried sippets. 

Celery with Brown Sauce. 

Take five or six heads of celery with the rootSy 
break off" the coarse outer stalks, lay them in cold 
water for some hours, parboil them in water for ten 
minutes, drain, and place them in a stewpan with as 
much stock as will cover them ; add a small piece of 
glaze, pepper, salt, and a very little flour. Let all 
stew gently for about an hour. When done, dish up 
the celery, strtiin the sauce and pour it over the 
celery. 

Celery with Cream. 

Cut the white part of three heads of celery into 
lengths of about three inches long, boil it till quite 
tender, and strain the water from it. Beat up the 
yolks of three eggs and strain them into half a pint 
of cream ; season with a little salt, and put this 
and the celery into a stewpan, and place it over the 
fire till it boils and becomes tolerably thick, and 
then send it to table on toast. 

Celery k I'Espagnole. 

Select well-grown celery, cut it into lengths of 
six inches, and blanch in boiling water. Place two 
slices of bacon in a stewpan and place the celery 
on these ; mix four tablespoonfuls of Espagnole 
sauce {see * Entries k la Mode ') and the same 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 25 

quantity of broth. Simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour. Dish up the celery after removing the grease 
from the sauce, and pour it round the celery. 

Celery *au Jus/ 

Parboil some celery, drain it, and put it into a 
stewpan ; toss it in a little oil. Add some good 
meat gravy to it and a tomato. Simmer till the 
celery is quite cooked ; then strain the sauce and 
serve over it 

Stewed Celery. 

Cut five or six roots of celery to the length of 
the inside of the dish in which they are to be 
served, take away all the outer leaves and green 
tops, wash the celery till it is perfectly clean ; then 
stew it in good stock till it is tender, and sauce it with 
either a thick bechamel or a good Espagnole sauce. 

Celery k la Villeroi. 

Take three or four heads of celery, cut them 
into six-inch lengths, parboil them, and then dip 
them into cold water ; drain them, and then split 
the heads into halves ; mask them with some thick 
Allemande sauce, and place them on a dish to get 
cold. Now roll them in bread-crumbs ; and serve 
Villeroi sauce with this dish. 

Cucumbers 2t TEspagnole. 

Cut the cucumbers into pieces about two inches 
long and one inch wide, remove the seeds, strew a 
little salt over them, and let them remain between 
two plates for an hour or more. Drain off the juice 
and put them into a saucepan ; cover them with 



26 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

good stock and let them simmer gently till quite 
tender. Drain them, pile high on a dish, and pour 
some rich brown sauce over them. 

Celery Cream 2t TAmbrosia. 

(Original Recipe. ) 

Take two or three heads of celery, washing it 
well and scraping it clean ; place it in a mortar, 
and have ready a pint of good rich cream and pour 
in half a pint, one gill at a time, over the celery, 
and pound well together for a few minutes, and 
then rub it through a clean wire sieve. When it is 
passed put it back into the mortar, and keep adding 
cream, about a gill at a time, till all is well blended. 
Continue this till all the cream is used. Then add 
half a pint of nicely flavoured whipped aspic. 
Have prepared a buttered mould which has been 
decorated with cooked mushrooms arranged in 
tiers all round the mould, and arrange leaves of 
chervil fancifully about ; pour in the celery pur^e, 
and place on ice for some hours and turn out. If 
any of the mushrooms should adhere to the mould 
it is easy to attach them to the cream again ; place 
chopped aspic all round the base and on the top, 
sticking a small piece of the stalk of celery with 
leaf on it in the centre. 

Morels 2t TAndalouse. 

Cut half a pound of ham into dice, fry them in 
salad oil, and when a good colour put in some 
morels ; moisten with half a pint of sherry, a gill of 
madeira, and season with a mixture of a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a 
teaspoonful of capsicum powder, to which add a 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 27 

dessertspoonful of finely-minced parsley. Cook 
for forty-five minutes ; then dish up the morels in a 
pyramid and pour the sauce over, which should 
be thickened with flour and flavoured with lemon- 
juice. 

Colcannon. 

Mix in about equal proportions some well- 
mashed potatoes and some young sprouts, or greens 
of any kind, first boiled till quite tender and chopped 
up. Mash up all thoroughly together ; add a sea- 
soning of pepper and salt, a small bit of butter, and 
a spoonful or two of cream or milk ; put a raw 
onion in the middle of all, and stir over a clear 
fire till very hot and sufficiently dry to be moulded 
and turned out. The onion must be taken out 
before the dish is served. 

Turnips and carrots are often chopped up with 
the greens and potatoes. 

This can also be made with parsnips and 
potatoes. 

Colcannon. 

(Another way. ) 

Boil and mash greens, cabbage, carrots, turnips, 
a shred onion with mashed potatoes — half the quan- 
tity should consist of the latter; add two eggs, 
pepper and salt, and a good piece of butter ; put 
it into a plain mould or pudding-basin, boil for an 
hour, and turn out. 

Fillets of Cucumber. 

Divide through the middle a cucumber, remove 
the seeds and soft part, cut it into lengths of about 
one inch, trim them in oval shapes and all the 



28 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

same size. Put them in a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter, a little pepper, sugar, and salt, and let them 
stew till quite tender without acquiring any colour. 

Cucumber Mayonnaise. 

Put the beaten yolk of an egg in a glass dish, 
with very little salt, pepper, and a dust of cayenne 
and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Mix these to a 
cream, and then add the best salad oil, a few drops 
at a time, and well stirred till thick. A little more 
lemon-juice will thin it, and then add more oil till 
half a pint has been used in this alternate fashion. 

Fish served in this is very good. 

Cucumbers St la Poulette. 

Pare and slice two cucumbers very thinly, let 
them soak in a little vinegar, sprinkled with salt, 
for half an hour. Drain, and then press them dry 
in a cloth ; flour them, and put a piece of butter 
into a stewpan, and when it begins to boil throw in 
the cucumbers and shake them over a gentle fire 
for ten minutes, being careful they should not take 
the slightest colour. Pour on to them some very 
strong but pale gravy, enough to cover them ; when 
It boils, skim off the fat entirely, add a little salt 
and white pepper, and when the cucumbers are 
quite tender strew in a dessertspoonful of finely- 
minced parsley, and thicken the sauce with the 
yolks .of two eggs. 

Stewed Cucumbers. 

Pare and split into quarters about four young 
cucumbers, peel them, and then pare them round 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 29 

and round into thin ribbons until the watery part 
IS reached, which part must be thrown aside. 
Sprinkle these with cayenne and salt, and leave 
them to drain a little. Arrange them lightly on a 
dish, and sauce them with very fine oil well mixed 
with chilli vinegar and a trifle of common vinegar. 



Stuffed Cucumber. 

Peel a large cucumber, remove a narrow piece 
from the side and scoop out the seeds with a tea- 
spoon. Fill the cavity with a forcemeat made of 
lobster and salmon, replace the piece and bind it 
round with thread. Line the bottom of a saucepan 
with slices of bacon, put the cucumber upon it and 
then two or three more slices ; cover the whole with 
nicely flavoured stock ; season with salt and pepper, 
and simmer gently till the cucumber is sufficiently 
cooked ; then take it out, thicken the gravy with a 
little flour and butter, and serve very hot. 



Dressed Endive. 

Plunge three heads of celery into salted water, 
having removed the green leaves from them. 
When well washed, blanch, drain dry, and finely 
chop them. Put into a stewpan half a pint of good 
gravy and the endive heads, add a saltspoonful of 
castor sugar and a little salt, and stew till tender. 
When cooked, thicken with butter and flour, and 
stir in a gill of good rich brown sauce with a 
dessertspoonful of lemon-juice stirred into it, arid 
serve with poached eggs on the top. 



I* 



30 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Endive Ragoiit. 

Lay two heads of white endive in salt and 
water for three hours. Take fifty asparagus, cut 
off the heads, then chop the rest small as far as it 
is tender, and lay in salt and water. Take a bunch 
of celery, wash and scrape it clean and cut it into 
three-inch lengths. Put it into a saucepan with a 
pint of water and some mignonette pepper ; let it 
stew till quite tender, then put in the asparagus. 
Shake the saucepan, and let it simmer till the grass 
is cooked. Take the endive out of the water, drain 
it, and leave one large head whole. Take the other 
leaf by leaf, put it into the stewpan, and put to it a 
pint of sauterne. Cover the pan closely, and let it boil 
till the endive is done ; add a quarter of a pound of 
butter rolled in flour, cover the pan again and keep 
it shaking. Then take out the endive when cooked 
and lay the whole head in the middle ; take out the 
celery and asparagus and lay them round it, and 
the other part of the endive over that. Pour the 
liquor out of the saucepan into the stewpan, stir it 
together, and season it with salt Beat the yolk of 
an egg up with half a pint of cream, which mix 
into the sauce, keeping stirring till thick, and then 
pour it over the ragoiit 

Endive Stewed with Cream. 

Wash four heads of endive thoroughly, pluck 
off the outer green leaves, put them into a stewpan 
of boiling salt and water and boil them quickly 
till tender ; then drain and squeeze them dry, cut 
off the roots, and chop them very fine. Rub them 
through a wire sieve into a stewpan, add an ounce 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 31 

of butter and a little salt ; stir it over a slow fire for 
a few minutes ; then mix in two dessertspoonfuls of 
white sauce, a tablespoonful of cream, and a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar. Stir over the fire till 
thick, and pile up in a dish, and garnish with fried 
sippets. 

Greens St la Hottentot 

Take three onions and one chilli, and add 
sufficient batter to stew some greens in ; fry the 
onions and chilli till soft ; then wash the greens and 
put them with the butter, onions, and chilli into a 
stewpan without any water. Season with salt ; 
cover the stewpan and let them simmer gently over 
the fire till all the water from the greens is dried 
up. A few prawns added is a great improvement 

Haricot Beans k la Mattre d'H6tel. 

Take a quart of haricot beans, soak them in 
cold water for three or four hours, then boil them 
in salt and water till tender ; drain well, and put 
them into a stewpan, with three ounces of butter 
mixed with a teaspoonful of chopped chives, a 
sprig of parsley minced fine, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Shake the pan over the fire, but do not 
stir. When hot, and all well mixed together, 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

Kohlrabi au Gratin. 

Pare and cut a kohlrabi in thin slices ; simmer 
in salt and water for some hours till quite tender. 
Drain away the water ; then coat a china dish (fire- 
proof) with butter and browned bread-crumbs ; 
then put a layer of the sliced kohlrabi with a little 



32 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

cream, then a layer of forcemeat, then another of 
kohlrabi. Mix some broth and cream and pour in 
a small quantity. 

Strew the surface with bread-crumbs ; finish with 
a salamander to brown it 

Kohlrabi Steamed. 

Peel some young kohlrabi and cut it into thin 
slices. Put some gravy and a small piece of butter 
into a stewpan and steam them till soft. Have 
mixed a small tablespoonful of flour in melted 
butter, and stir this into the gravy till quite smooth ; 
season to taste ; boil up, and pour through a strainer 
over the kohlrabi, which ought to be quite soft. 
Cover whilst boiling. 

A dessertspoonful of sugar is boiled with them. 

Laven 

Have some mashed potatoes put upon a dish 
quite flatly, and cover it with some laver ; then 
another layer of potatoes, then another of laver. 

The laver is dressed like spinach. 

Laver to Stew. 

Stir in a stewpan over the fire two ounces of 
butter, a gill of stock, a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
pepper and salt to taste, and a pint of laver. Serve 
very hot. 

Curried Lentils. 

Fry three or four sliced onions in a little butter 
until of a nice brown colour ; put them into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of red lentils and one pint of 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 33 

water ; simmer one hour ; then add a dessert- 
spoonful of curry-powder and a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, and serve with boiled rice. 

Stewed Lettuces. 

Strip off the outer leaves and cut away the 
stalks. Wash the lettuces thoroughly and throw 
them into salted water. 

They will be tender in twenty-five minutes. Lift 
them out and press the water from them, chop them 
a little, and heat them up in a saucepan, with pepper 
and salt to taste, and a small slice of butter. Now 
dredge in a little flour and stir well ; then add a 
small cup of gravy ; boil quickly until they are 
tolerably dry ; then stir in a little lemon-juice, and 
serve them hot with fried sippets around them. 

Stuffed Lettuce. 

Take four large heads of lettuce, wash well, and 
boil them in salted water. After they have boiled 
a quarter of an hour take them out and put them 
into cold water. Then drain them well, cut then! 
open and stuff with a veal forcemeat, tying the ends 
of the lettuce round the meat securely. Place the 
stuffed heads in a stewpan, covering them with 
gravy, and seasoning with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 
Put the stewpan on the side of the stove to simnier 
for a quarter of an hour ; then take out the heads 
(removing the strings), and serve on a hot dish 
with the gravy poured round them. 

Mandram or Dressed Cucumbers. 

Take cucumbers, pare them, and chop them in 
small pieces. Take half the quantity of young 

D 



34 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

onions and cut them fine, add a piece of lemon, 
a trifle of cayenne, and a glass of sherry or madeira 
and dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar. This is very 
good with any roast meat. 

Morelles k TAndalouse. 

Cut half a pound of ham into dice, fry them in 
salad oil, and, when a -good colour, put in some 
morels. Moisten with a gill of madeira and half a 
pint of chablis, season with a mixture composed of 
a saltspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and a teaspoonful of capsicum powder, to which 
add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced parsley. 

Cook all this for forty-five minutes ; then dish 
up the morels in a pyramid and pour the sauce 
over, which must be thickened with flour and 
flavoured lemon-juice. 

Green Morels Stewed. 

Take some morels, wash them well, cut the 
large ones in quarters, leaving the smaller ones 
whole. Put them into a stewpan with gravy enough 
to cover them, a glass of sauterne, and a little pepper 
and salt. Cover them closely and let them stew 
gently for an hour ; then stir in a piece of butter 
mixed with flour and a dessert-spoonful of lemon. 
Boil till thick as cream, then serve. 

Mushrooms k la Bordelaise. 

Clean some large fresh-gathered mushrooms, 
skin and lightly score the under-side. Put them 
into a china dish and baste them with oil or butter, 
and strew pepper and salt over them. When they 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 35 

have been steeped in this marinade for a couple of 
hours, broil them on both sides for ten minutes over 
a clear fire, and serve with melted butter in which 
are parsley, young onions, a little garlic (all minced), 
and the juice of a lemon poured over them. 

Mushrooms k la Bordelaise. 

(Another way.) 

Take some large fresh mushrooms ; peel, wash, 
and drain them ; make one or two slits on the top 
side of the mushrooms ; let them soak for an hour 
in salad oil, salt and pepper. Broil them, taking 
care to turn them so that each side may be equally 
broiled. Warm the oil in which the mushrooms 
were soaked, season with finely chopped chives and 
parsley ; dish up the mushrooms, sprinkle over with 
a few drops of lemon-juice, and pour the hot oil 
over them. 

Mushrooms au Beurre. 

Cut the stems from some button mushrooms 
and clean them well with a soft cloth and some 
fine salt, and rinse them in water; drain them 
quickly. Spread them in a clean cloth and leave 
them to dry for ten minutes. Put an ounce and a 
half of fresh butter to a pint of mushrooms and 
place it in a thick saucepan, and shake over the 
fire until it just begins to brown ; then throw in 
the mushrooms, and continue shaking the sauce- 
pan over a clear fire that they may not bum, and 
when they have simmered three or four minutes 
strew over them a little salt and a dust of cayenne ; 
stew them till they are perfectly tender, and heap 
them high on a dish, and serve very hot. 

D 2 



36 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 



Croustades of Mushrooms. 

Chop an onion very finely ; fry it in butter a 
pale brpwn, stir it carefully, then add a quarter of 
a pound of finely-chopped mushrooms ; simmer 
together till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooked. 
Soak two anchovies ; pound them in a mortar 
with a teaspoonful of French mustard, three table- 
spoonfuls of brown sauce, and add this to the 
mushrooms. Boil together for two or three minutes, 
and fill the croustade case. 



Mushrooms au Gratin. 

Skin, wash, drain, and wipe dry some fresh 
mushrooms. Cut the stems to within a quarter of 
an inch, and fill the cup with a forcemeat made 
of one ounce grated bacon, quarter ounce of shred 
shalot, a sprig of chopped parsley, a tiny piece of 
thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer this 
for five minutes in butter, and add the yolk of an 
egg. Stand the mushrooms, well dredged with 
bread raspings, in a baking-dish smeared witH 
butter, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, 
serve piled on a hot dish with some rich brown 
sauce round. 

Stuffed Mushrooms k la LucuUus. 

Wash, dry, and trim some mushrooms ; chop 
up the stalks with a teaspoonful of minced parsley 
and tomato, and warm this mixture for a few 
moments in some butter. Fill the mushrooms 
(they should be large ones) with this mixture, 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 37 

« 

place them on a buttered baking-dish, and bake 
them six minutes, basting them with clarified 
butter. 



Mushroom Toast. 

Cr6ute aux Champignons. 

Take the stems off half a pound of small 
mushrooms, then peel them. Dissolve two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan, strew over them a dust 
of cayenne and a dust of pounded mace, and let 
them stew over a gentle fire from ten to fifteen 
minutes ; shake them all the time ; then add a 
smalll dessert-spoonful of flour, and shake the 
pan until it is browned a pale colour. Pour in 
slowly a gill of good gravy, and when the mush- 
rooms have stewed softly for a couple of nlinutes, 
throw in a little salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice, 
and pour them on a slice cut about an inch thick 
from the under part of a moderately-sized loaf and 
fried in butter a pale brown, after having been first 
slightly hollowed on the outside. 



Mushrooms and Tomatoes. 

Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and cut it into 
rounds two inches in diameter. Dip the tomatoes 
into hot water and peel them ; cut them into thick 
slices and lay them on the toast ; on the top of 
these place a peeled mushroom. These must be 
put into a buttered tin, and a little clarified melted 
butter poured over each ; then place the dish into 
the oven for two minutes and baste them whilst 
cooking. Serve hot and quickly. 



3S DRESSED. VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Baked Spanish Onions. 

Take a large onion : wash it clean ; take a 
corer and remove the core, and put in its place 
some butter, pepper, and salt, and let it bake with 
a thin piece of paper round it for an hour, or till 
done, in a slow oven. When done, peel it and put 
it into a vegetable-dish, and pour over some good 
brown gravy. 

Onions k la Bretonne. 

Brown four large onions over a slow fire in 
butter and salt, and when a good colour stir in a 
little flour. Moisten with good brown stock and 
reduce. Pass the same over a tammy, and pour 
the onions. 

Onions k la Bordeaux. 

Parboil some onions, not too large ; drain the 
water from them ; put them into a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter and a bouquet garni chopped 
fine ; add a gill of good rich gravy, and the same 
of claret ; simmer till the onions are fairly tender, 
and the sauce reduced. Squeeze over a table- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. Dish up, and serve hot. 

Spanish Onion k la C^lerie. 

Peel a large Spanish onion and bring it to the 
boil in the usual way. Let it drain thoroughly. 
Take an apple-corer and take out the centre, and 
fill in with a forcemeat of tomatoes and mushrooms, 
with a few drops of lemon-juice. Put the stuffed 
onion into a stewpan with one small carrot, one 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 39 

small turnip, a bouquet garni, a dust of cayenne, a 
lean piece of ham, and some good Espagnole, or 
rich brown sauce (about half a pint). Put them in 
the oven, with a few live coals on the lid, and let 
all stew for three hours, or perhaps a little longer, 
adding a little butter and gravy from time to 
time. When cooked, glaze the onion, remove all 
fat from the sauce, and pour round the onion ; and 
have strips of celery which have been cooked in 
thin broth in which some cheese had been sprinkled, 
drain them, and garnish the top of the onion with 
them. 

Onions k la Corsica. 

Peel four large onions. Cut them into quarters 
and then slice them. Throw them into boiling 
salad oil. Keep stirring till they are tender. After 
draining them, stir in enough cooked spinach to 
turn them green. Place them on a dish and serve, 
garnished with the white of hard-boiled egg cut 
in quarters and the yolk chopped and arranged in 
little bunches round. 

Onions k la Cr^me. 

Take four small Spanish onions and boil them 
in three waters ; drain them and put them into a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little flour 
rubbed smooth, pepper and salt, and a gill of 
cream. Put this over a slow fire and stir fre- 
quently till cooked. Serve with the same poured 
over them. 

Onion Fritters. 

Chop up an onion. Make a stiff batter with a 
table-spoonful of flour, an egg, a little milk, pepper, 



40 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

and salt. Mix all well together, and put a dessert- 
spoonful at a time into a frying-pan of boiling 
butter or dripping. Brown the fritters on both 
sides and serve them, alone or handed round with 
rump steak. 

Onions k la G6noise. 

Take a pint of small onions and boil them in 
good Lucca or olive oil. Drain them and pour this 
sauce over them. A tablespoonful of minced 
capers, gherkins, and sultana raisins, minced par- 
sley, a dust of cayenne pepper, a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of good gravy, and O. K. Sauce. When 
theise ingredients are hot, pour over the onions and 
serve. 

Onions ^au Jus.' 

Cook some young onions in boiling salt and 
water for fifteen minutes, then drain them. Mix 
some flour and butter well together over the fire 
until they are pale brown ; add a little claret and 
gravy. Now. put in the onions with a bouquet 
garni, a couple of cloves, and a bay leaf Simmer 
all together till the onions are quite cooked. 
Strain and dish up the onions with the sauce, and 
add some fried sippets, a few capers, and a couple 
of minced anchovies. 

Miroton of Onion. 

Take some onions, chop them up, and saut^ 
them in butter till they are browned. Dredge a 
little flour over them, then add hard-boiled eggs 
cut up up small, shred herbs, pepper, a gill of 



r 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 41 

mixture in a buttered mould, and bake it for about 
an hour. Turn it out and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Ragoiit of Onions. 

Peel and blanch six onions, strain the water 
from them, and place them in a stewpan with half 
a pint of cream, pepper, salt to taste, and a dust of 
cayenne. Simmer till the onions are done, then 
make a liaison with the yolks of two eggs into the 
cream sauce, and serve the onions with the sauce 
around, and garnished with fried sippets cut into 
shapes. 

Onions k I'Espagnole. 

Peel a large onion and stamp out the core with 
a vegetable-culler ; parboil in water for ten minutes, 
and drain on a sieve. Spread the bottom of a 
stewpan with butter, place the onion in it ; moisten 
with gravy just enough to cover it, and let it boil 
slowly, turning it occasionally. When nearly done, 
add a dessert-spoonful of castor sugar, and boil 
down quickly to a glaze ; add a little tomato pur6e, 
and roll the onion in it, and dish up. 

Spanish Onions. Stewed. 

Boil a large onion, and when done scoop out 
the middle and fill it with forcemeat, fry it a light 
brown, and make a rich gravy and pour over. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Parboil onion or onions in salted water for ten 
minutes. Remove the core with column-cutter. 



42 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

leaving the bottom intact. Fill up with a mixture 
of bread-crumbs, anchovies, well washed and cut- 
up small capers, pepper, and salt ; melt a piece of 
butter in a saucepan, and mix with it a table-spoonful 
of flour ; put in the onion ; take an equal quantity of 
broth and claret, pour enough into the saucepan to 
almost cover the onions ; add a bundle of herbs tied 
up, with a few cloves, and simmer gently till the 
onions are done ; remove the herbs and dish up the 
onions. 

Stuffed Onions. 

(Another way.) 

Peel a couple of fair-sized Portugal onions, par- 
boil and drain them ; scoop out the centre, but 
keeping the onions whole. Chop up the inside of 
the onion with a little meat and a little fat bacon ; 
add some bread-crumbs, a sprig of parsley, and a 
small piece of lemon peel, chopped fine ; add pepper 
and salt to taste ; then beat it all up to a paste 
with a well-beaten egg and stuff the onions with it, 
dredge them with flour, and fry them a nice brown ; 
then place them in a stewpan with a rich brown 
gravy to cover them, and let them stew gently for 
two hours. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Take three large parsnips and boil them till 
tender ; peel them and mash them very finely ; add 
a teaspoonful of flour, one well-beaten egg, and salt 
to taste. Make the mixture into small cakes with 
a spoon, and fry them on both sides, a delicate 
brown in good dripping or butter. Serve them up 
very hot and piled upon the dish. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 43 



Parsnip Balls. 

Parboil six parsnips, and let them get cold ; 
then peel them and grate them. Beat two eggs till 
very light and mix with the grated parsnip, adding 
enough flour to bind the mixture. Make this mix- 
ture into small flat balls. Have some boiling lard or 
clarified dripping and drop the balls gently into it ; 
fry them until a golden brown on both sides. Send 
to the table hot, gc^nished with fried parsley. 



Petits Pois k la Demi-Bourgeoise. 

Put a quart of young peas into a stewpan, with 
a good-sized piece of butter, one onion, one cabbage 
lettuce cut in four. Let them be stewed in their 
own juice upon a very slow fire. When they are 
done and there is hardly any sauce left, add a little 
sugar, very fine salt, and afterwards the yolks of 
two eggs with some cream ; mix the whole on the 
fire and serve up. 

Peas Stewed with Lettuces and Ham. 

Shell a peck of young green peas and put them 
into a bowl of cold water and two ounces of butter. 
Work them well with the fingers to make the peas 
stick together, and then drain them in a colander. 
Put them then in a stewpan with the hearts of two 
cabbage lettuces finely shred, a large onion cut into 
thin slices, a handful of parsley, and half a pound 
of ham cut into small pieces ; cover the saucepan 
closely and let the peas stew till the peas are tender ; 
shake the saucepan now and again to prevent the 



44 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

peas sticking. When they are done, take out the 
ham and the onion, put in two ounces of butter 
mixed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour 
and a table-spoonful of cream. A sprig of mint 
stewed with the peas is an improvement. Simmer 
gently for four minutes, and serve as hot as possible, 
with fried sippets round, and slices of broiled ham 
on the top. 

Potato- Balls, 

Bak« half a dozen potatoes ,- rub them through 
a wire sieve, and put them into a stewpan with an 
ounce of butter, two yolks of eggs, a little pepper 
and salt ; stir over the fire till the paste leaves the 
sides of the pan ; then put it between two plates 
to get cold ; then shape this potato-paste into 
small balls or pears (the stalks being represented 
by parsley stalks) ; dip these into beaten egg, roll 
them in bread-crumbs and fry of a pale colour in 
hot frying fat ; dish them up high in a pyramid 
shape. 

Potato-Balls k la Duchesse. 

Take half a dozen potatoes, boil and pass them 
through a sieve, and work into them in a bowl one 
gill of cream and the yolks of three eggs ; add 
pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg to taste, with 
some finely-chopped parsley. When well mixed 
and smooth, take them up by little spoonfuls, roll 
each into a ball, flatten and flour it slightly. Lay 
them all on a saut^-pan, with plenty of melted 
butter, and cook them slowly. Turn them when 
one side is done, and serve hot as soon as both 
sides are coloured. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 45 



Potato-Ball Ragoiit 

Mash, roll up with yolk of egg, grated ham or 
tongue, minced parsley, one onion, pepper, salt, and 
a little bit of butter ; roll them in beaten egg and 
a little flour, and fry them in good dripping. 



Potatoes k la Bonn. 

(German Recipe.) 

Cut some raw potatoes into slices half an, inch 
thick, and cut them into four or five strips ; fry 
them in plenty of very hot butter till a nice golden 
colour, turning them so that all sides should be 
equally golden. 

Have ready one ounce of Parmesan cheese and 
one ounce of Gruy^re cheese, and a gill of cream 
which has been stirred over the fire till the cheese 
is hot and melted ; add a dust of cayenne. Put in 
the potatoes and give one stir round, and arrange 
in a dish which will hold hot water. 

Potato Boulettes. 

Boil some good potatoes, dry, mash a pound of 
them smoothly, and mix with them two ounces of 
fresh butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, 
the beaten and strained yolks of four eggs, and then 
the whites well whisked. Mould the mixture with 
a teaspoon, and drop it into a small pan of boiling 
butter, and fry these boulettes for five minutes over 
a moderate fire a pale brown colour ; drain, and 
dish them up high. 



46 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Potatoes in Cases. 

Take as many potatoes as may be required and 
bake them ; cut a small piece from the top of each 
and with a spoon scoop out the insides. Mash 
them smoothly, and pass through a sieve ; mix 
with this potato-paste an ounce of fresh butter and 
a giU of cream. Put it into a stewpan over a slow 
fire to boil, and during the time stir quickly in the 
whites of a couple of eggs whipped to a very stiff 
froth ; then fill the potato-skins with the mixture, 
bake quickly in the oven, and serve in a folded 
napkin. 

Potato-Chips or Ribbons. 

Wash a pound of potatoes well in cold water, 
and scrub them clean ; peel them, and cut out the 
eyes, and any black specks there may be ; then ■ 
peel the potatoes very thinly into ribbons and twist 
them into fancy shapes. Put into a saucepan about 
a pound of clarified dripping, and heat it to frying 
heat ; then take a frying-basket and put the 
potato- ribbons in when the fat is quite hot, for 
about six minutes. Place a piece of paper on a 
plate, and when the chips are done — which they 
will be when they become quite crisp and of a pale 
brown colour — turn them out on to the paper and 
drain off the grease, and sprinkle salt over them, 
serve them very hot 

Potatoes Ji la Crime. 

'ut a piece of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 
with some salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, 
all well together and add a gill of cream ; then 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 47 

place the sauce on the fire and stir round till it 
boils. 

Have ready some potatoes cut in slices ; put 
them into the sauce, and after warming them up 
serve very hot. Sometimes a little chopped parsley 
and green onions are added to the sauce. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Boil some potatoes very dry ; mash them quite 
smoothly ; season them with salt and white pepper ; 
warm them with about an ounce and a half of 
butter, pound it, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
good cream. Boil them till dry ; let them cool a 
little, and then roll them into balls ; sprinkle over 
them crushed vermicelli, and fry them a pale brown. 
Sometimes they are rolled in egg and bread-crumbs 
instead of the vermicelli. 

Potato Croquettes. 

(Another way. ) 

Take two pounds of potatoes, boil them, and 
pass them through a wire sieve with a wooden 
spoon ; then put into a stewpan an ounce of butter 
and a tablespoonful of milk and put it on the fire, 
and when this is hot stir in smoothly the sifted 
potato ; then take off the stewpan from the fire, 
and break the yolks of two eggs into a basin and 
stir them one at a time into the sifted potato ; then 
take three sprigs of parsley, wash them in cold 
water, dry them in a cloth and chop them very 
finely. Sprinkle the parsley into the stewpan and 
season the potato with a little pepper and salt. 
Turn the potato on to a plate and let it get cold ; 
then put some clarified dripping into a deep stew- 



48 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

pan and put it on the fire to heat, and have some 
bread-crumbs ready. When the potato-mixture is 
cold form it into balls ; then egg and bread-crumb 
these balls and fry them in a frying-basket, taking 
care the balls do not touch each other. When the 
fat is hot and smoking put in the frying-basket for 
two minutes and fry a pale yellow ; drain them, 
and mount them up high on a dish, and ornament 
with fried parsley. 

Potatoes k la Cr^me au Gratin. 

Take some boiled potatoes and cut them into 
slices about an inch in diameter. Make a white 
bechamel sauce in which grated Parmesan cheese 
has been well mixed ; place some neat little fried 
croutons round the bottom of the dish in the form 
of a coronet ; place inside it a close circular row of 
the sliced potatoes, and then spread a layer of the 
Parmesan mixture over them ; repeat the row of 
potatoes and the mixture till the dish is full ; 
smooth the top over with some of the sauce ; shake 
some fried bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese over all. Put all into the oven for twenty 
minutes, and then serve. 

Potato Cheese. 

Follow the recipe exactly as for Potato Souffl^e, 
adding only three ounces of grated cheese, Par- 
mesan or othen\'ise, to the ingredients. 

Potato Fritters, 

Take a pint of milk, put into it three ounces of 
potato -flour, warm it up for a quarter of an hour ; 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 49 

flavour it with an ounce of powdered macaroons, a 
dessertspoonful of sugar, and six drops of orange- 
flower water. Boil, and then add two yolks of 
eggs ; stir till it becomes a thick batter ; pour into 
a dish to get cold, when it should be rolled into 
small balls the size of a walnut ; egg and bread- 
crumb them and fry. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar before serving. 

Potatoes au Gratin. 

Boil the potatoes, then peel them and pound 
them smooth. Place a layer of them on a baking- 
dish and sprinkle over them a little grated Par- 
mesan cheese, with a few little bits of butter ; then 
add another layer of potato, cheese, and butter 
until all the potato is used up. 

Salamander this and send to table quickly. 

Fried Potatoes k la Hollandaise. 

Boil some potatoes in salt and water, peel and 
mash them and rub them through a sieve ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a bouquet garni, and moisten 
with a gill of good gravy — the pur^e should be 
very thick ; then make it into balls, which should 
be dipped in beaten egg and fried> and served with 
fried parsley. 

Potatoes k Fltalienne. 

Bake some potatoes ; cut off the tops and scoop 
out the pulp, and mix with a third proportion of 
well-boiled rice; season with grated Parmesan 
cheese, pepper, and salt. Put this mixture back 
into the potato-shells, replace the tops, and bake 
them in the oven for a few minutes. This makes 
a very nice savoury. 

E 



50 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

Italian Potatoes. 

(Another way.) 

Boil one pound of potatoes, then peel and 
pound them ; add three ounces of butter, a little 
bread-crumb soaked in milk ; beat the mixture 
smooth but not liquid ; beat the yolks of three eggs 
well ; add them to the mixture with the beaten 
whites of two. Dish this high up on a dish, smooth 
it with a knife, pour over some hot butter, and bake 
in the oven. Serve quickly. 

Potato Kldsse. 

Take about six baked potatoes and scoop out 
the floury part till there are about six ounces. 
Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it 
with the potato-flour ; add the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs, a grate of nutmeg, and a little pepper 
and salt to taste. Beat the mixture thoroughly, and 
mould it into small balls. Drop these in boiling 
salt and water, and be careful to do this with a 
metal spoon, and to dip it into boiling water each 
time it is used. Or they may be made with two 
ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs and one ounce 
of Parmesan, the white of one of the eggs, then 
moulded and boiled as above. Sprinkle fried 
bread-crumbs over when dishing them up. 

Potatoes k la Lyonnaise. 

Cut up in rounds about a quarter of an inch 
thick six potatoes that have been boiled, and fry 
them a pale golden colour, with an ounce and a 
half of butter, in a frying-pan ; season with chopped 
parsley and shallot, pepper and salt, and a table- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, yi 



Potatoes k la Mattre d'Hdtel. 

Wash half a dozen potatoes ; boil them in salt 
and water. When done, drain, and let them cool. 
Then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices ; 
put one and a half ounce of butter, a little pepper 
and salt to taste, four tablespoonfuls of good gravy, 
and one table-spoonful of minced parsley. Mix all 
well together, put in the potatoes, shake them well 
in the sauce to cover them, and when quite hot 
through squeeze in the lemon-juice and serve. 

Potatoes k la Milanese. 

Take as many potatoes as are required ; choose 
the largest ; bake them well, and cut off the tops 
and scoop out the insides. Pass the potato through 
a sieve, and add a table-spoonful of grated Parme- 
san and Gruyfere cheese mixed, pepper and salt. 
Melt a good tablespoonful of butter (or more ac- 
cording to number of potatoes) in a stewpan, put 
in the potato and make it hot, and fill the skins of 
the potatoes with it. Put them in the oven and 
serve up very hot 

Potatoes k la Mode. 

Peel as many potatoes as are wanted, cut them 
in slices lengthways half an inch thick, dry them in 
a cloth. Have a frying-pan with almost boiling 
fat in it, put in the potatoes and let them fry for 
ten minutes. Take them out and drain them ; let 
them get nearly cold. Boil the fat up again, and 
when boiling put in the potatoes and fry them for 

E 2 



52 DRESSED VEGETABLE^ A LA MODE, 

four minutes, when they should come out perfectly 
dry and a pale gold colour, and much swollen. 
Sprinkle with salt, and serve quickly. 



Potatoes k la Moltke. 

Take about eight good-sized potatoes, peel and 
cut them into long thin slices. Have ready three 
ounces of butter mixed with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and put them in a stewpan and stir over the 
fire till the butter is a good brown colour ; then add 
half a pint of broth and two tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar. Put the potatoes in this gravy and let them 
simmer gently till tender, which will be in twelve 
or fifteen minutes. Serve very hot. Some cooks 
put in a bay-leaf to simmer in with the potatoes. 



Potatoes k la Napolitaine. 

Put a large tablespoonful of gravy into a stew- 
pan with two ounces of butter, one ounce of grated 
Parmesan, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, pepper 
and salt to taste, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolks of 
two well-beaten eggs, and set it over the fire to 
become hot. Place a border of fried crotitons 
round a dish. Put a row of potato cut into slices 
within the border ; pour over some of the above 
sauce ; then place some more slices of potato in a 
smaller circle, then a layer of the same, and so on 
until a raised centre is formed. Put a little sauce 
over the top, and cover it well over with the re- 
maining, with an ounce of grated cheese and some 
bread-crumbs. Bake for twenty minutes and serve. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 53 



Potato Omelet 

Take a large hot baked potato, break it open 
and scoop out the inside. Beat this till smooth, 
and mix with it a little pepper, salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, and the yolks of three 
eggs. Just before frying the omelet, add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth. Fry in the usual 
way, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Potatoes Moulded with Parmesan. 

Mash some potatoes very smooth, and work 
into them a couple of well-beaten eggs. Put them 
into one of the French china fireproof pie-dishes, 
and shape them high in a dome-like form. Smooth 
the surface, and then draw the back of a fork over 
it in different directions and sprinkle some grated 
Parmesan over it. Put little bits of butter over it 
at equal distances, and bake in the oven till the 
potatoes are of a nice gold colour. 

Potatoes k la Proven^ale. 

Mash two pounds of potatoes, pass them through 
a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt. Grate 
two ounces of Gruyere cheese and pound it in the 
mortar with enough butter to make a paste ; add 
a quarter of a pint of milk and a little minced 
parsley. Put this into a frying-pan, stirring in the 
potatoes, and fry till of a pale brown. Dish it up 
high, en pyramide. 

Potato Pudding. 

Boil about eight potatoes, take out the potato- 
flour, mash and mix it with one ounce of suet, a 



54 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

quarter-pint of milk, and one ounce of grated Par- 
mesan cheese ; add as much boiling water to make 
it a proper consistency, and bake in an earthen 
dish. 

Potatoes k la Russe. 

Cut up the potatoes in small pieces and fry 
them in olive oil, with some mushrooms minced 
small. 

Potatoes Sautd 

Wash a couple of pounds of potatoes in cold 
water, scrape them, and cut them into shapes like 
the quarters of an orange. Let them boil up in a 
saucepan of cold water and wipe them dry. Put 
two ounces of butter into a stewpan and toss the 
potatoes in it for about twenty minutes over a 
quick fire. They should brown on all sides alike. 
Strain off the butter, sprinkle some salt over the 
potatoes, and serve. 

Savoury Potatoes. 

Take six good-sized potatoes, parboil, and cut 
them into slices about a quarter inch thick. Melt 
one ounce of butter and one ounce of fat bacon, cut 
up into a saucepan, add an onion and a small shalot, 
and let all stew till tender. Dredge in a table- 
spoonful of flour, and stir till it is smooth and 
brown ; then pour in, a little at a time, as much 
hot gravy as will bring the sauce to the consistence 
of cream. Add half an ounce of chopped parsley, 
a bouquet garni, a bay-leaf, and one grate of nut- 
meg. Let all this simmer for five minutes, when 
the sliced potatoes must be put in ; and, when 
tender, place them on a dish and serve very hot. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 55 



Potato Snow. 

Take some fine large white potatoes, boil them 
in their skins in salt and water till quite tender ; 
drain, and dry them thoroughly before the fire ; rub 
the potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish ; 
do not touch them afterwards, or the flakes will 
fall. Send to table as hot as possible. 

Potato Souffle. 

Make a smooth paste of two table-spoonfuls of 
mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful of flour, with a 
gill of milk, or sufficient to make it into a paste ; 
add salt and pepper and half a pint more milk ; 
put this into a stewpan with an ounce of butter. 
Stir over the fire till it is as thick as cream, then 
add four well-beaten yolks of eggs, and then stir in 
the whites beaten to a froth. When this mixture 
is stiff" enough to bear the weight of an egg, pour it 
into the souffle dish and bake it in a moderate 
oven. When done, just hold a red-hot salamander 
over for a few seconds, and send quickly to table. 

Potato Souffle. 

(Another way. ) 

Take as many potatoes as are required, wash 
and scrub them well. Bake them gently in the 
oven, and, when done, cut the top off" one end of each 
and get the potato out without breaking the skins. 
Cut a small piece off* the other end of each, so 
that they may stand up. Work the potato quite 
smooth, mixing with it pepper, salt, and four drops 
of essence of anchovy. Take the whites of two 



56 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

eggs and beat to a stiff froth. Mix this lightly with 
the potatoes, return all into the skins, put them in 
the oven to become quite hot, and serve. 

Potato SoufiE16 au Parmesan. 

Make this souffle the same as the preceding 
recipe, only adding two table-spoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese into the egg-mixture, and 
sprinkling Parmesan over the top just before 
serving. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan, one 
chopped onion, a table-spoonful of parsley, a little 
celery and table-salt mixed. Cut half a pound of 
potatoes into pieces, put them in a saucepan with 
three tablespoonfuls of water ; when quite soft, add 
a gill of cream and a little vinegar ; sprinkle a little 
flour in and boil up, and serve. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Hollow out some large potatoes and fill them 
with mealy potatoes beaten to a paste in a mortar, 
mixed with chopped parsley, chives, shallot, butter, 
and fat bacon cut into dice, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Butter the insides of the potatoes and 
nearly fill them with this paste ; put them on a 
buttered tin and bake in a Dutch oven. 

Potato Straws. 

Cut raw potatoes about two inches long and 
about one-eighth of an inch thick. Fry in boiling 
fat till a golden brown and crisp, drain well on a 
sieve before the fire, and serve in the centre of a 
dish of cutlets. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 57 



Potatoes and Tomatoes. 

Bake some potatoes ; cut off the tops carefully, 
so that they may be replaced. Scoop out all the 
potato, mix it with a little butter, a dust of 
cayenne, a little garlic butter about the size of a 
pea, a little finely chopped parsley, and some 
tomato pur^e. Mix all these well together in a 
saucepan, stir well over the fire, and then refill the 
potato-cases with it, replace the tops, and strew a 
few baked bread-crumbs over, and serve very hot. 

Red Cabbai:e Stewed. 

(Flemish Recipe.) 

Take a fresh cabbage and strip the outer leaves, 
wash it, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices, 
beginning from the top. Place it in a stewpan, with 
about two ounces of clarified melted butter ; add 
some pepper and salt, and stew it very slowly for 
about four hours in its own juice, stirring it often 
and pressing it down. When quite tender, add a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and mix up thoroughly ; 
keep the cabbage in a hot dish, and serve broiled 
sausages round it 

Salsify. 

Wash and scrape the salsify very white, put it 
into water with a dessertspoonful of vinegar in it ; 
then put it into a pan of boiling water with two 
ounces of butter, salt, and a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. When quite tender, put it to drain on a sieve. 
Then cut it into short pieces, and again put it into 
a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of white sauce, the 



58 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

remainder of the butter, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Shake it over the fire for a few minutes till it is 
well mixed and very hot, and serve piled high, 
garnished with fried crotitons. 

Salsify Dressed. 

Scrape and soak some salsify in water and 
vinegar ; next boil them in plenty of water with salt 
and a little flour. After they are boiled, toss them 
up, with a little melted butter and grated cheese. 

Fried Salsify. 

Wash and scrape the roots of their dark outside 
skin, and cut it into lengths of three or four inches, 
when boil it till tender ; drain it. Make some 
French batter, throw the bits of salsify into it, and 
take them out separately and fry them a light 
brown ; drain w:ell from the fat, and sprinkle a little 
salt over it and dish quickly. 

Salsify or Mock Oysters. 

(American Recipe.) 

Scrape the roots thoroughly and lay in cold 
water ten or fifteen minutes. Boil whole till tender, 
drain, and when cold mash with a wooden spoon to 
a smooth paste, picking out all the fibres. Moisten 
with a little milk. Add a tablespoonful of butter, 
and an egg and a half for every cupful of salsify. 
Beat the eggs light. Make into round cakes, 
dredge with flour, and fry brown ; or it may be sent 
up in a fireproof china dish, with bread-crumbs on 
the top, browned, and steeped in butter. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 59 



Salsify Scalloped. 

Scrape some salsify, cut it into very short 
pieces, and boil it till tender. When sufficiently 
cooked, drain it, and make a white sauce of butter, 
flour, and cream, with a teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovy added to it, a little pepper and celery 
salt. Mix in an egg, and flavour with a little lemon- 
juice. Put this mixture into scallop-shells, and 
sprinkle fried bread-crumbs on them, and slightly 
brown with the salamander. 

Scorzonera in Brown Sauce. 

Wash the roots and scrape the skin gently off 
them, and cut them into lengths of three or four 
inches ; put them into boiling water, with a little 
salt, a small bit of butter, and the juice of a 
lemon ; boil them for an hour, then drain, and serve 
with a rich Espagnole sauce over them ; or a sauce 
tourn^e may be substituted for the brown sauce. 

Seakale au Parmesan. 

Boil the seakale in boiling water for about 
twenty minutes, and pour over it half a pint of 
Parmesan sauce, and sprinkle with grated Parme- 
san, and serve. 

Seakale Stewed in Gravy. 

Boil the kale for ten minutes in salt and water, 
drain it well, and put it into a saucepan with as 
much good brown gravy as will nearly cover it ; 
stew it gently for ten minutes till tender, and send 
it to table In the gravy very hot. 



6o DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 

Seakale, Timbale of. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Take three or four heads of celery, boil it till 
quite soft, drain it on a cloth, cut it in pieces half 
an inch long ; well butter a plain mould, line it 
with buttered paper, place it in the celery endways 
so as to give the appearance of honeycomb when 
turned out. Make a paste thus : put a gill of 
water, a small piece of butter, into a little stewpan 
to boil. When boiling, throw into it a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, leave it a few minutes, then stir in one 
egg and turn it out on a plate until wanted. Take 
about a pound or rather more of Spanish chest- 
nuts, remove the skin, and pound in a mortar, 
and then add to it half the quantity of the above 
paste and a quarter of the quantity of butter, with 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together, add 
one whole egg and three yolks, pass it through a 
wire sieve, stir in a gill of white stock or cream, 
pour it into a mould and steam for half an hour. • 
Serve with truffle sauce ; and have ready some 
truffles cut into fancy shapes, and dipped in white 
of egg, and quickly ornament the sides and top of 
the timbale. Little mounds of chopped beetroot 
should be placed at intervals round the base. 

Spinach. 

Pick the spinach very carefully ; put it into 
plenty of boiling water and salt, pressing it down 
with a spoon ; boil for ten minutes. Drain and 
squeeze it, and throw it into cold water to preserve 
the green colour. Pass it through a wire sieve and 
return it to the stewpan, with a little salt, a piece of 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 6i 

fresh butter, an eggspoonful of castor sugar, the 
squeeze of a lemon, and a gill of cream. Heat it 
up in the saucepan after stirring it well, then press 
it into a plain mould and turn it out, and serve it 
in the form of diamonds ; garnish with fried sippets 
glazed. 

Spinach Chartreuse. 

(Original. ) 

Make a good pur^e of spinach, with cream and 
two eggs to make a liaison ; add a squeeze of 
lemon. Take a plain mould and place it on ice. 
Then take a tumbler and half-fill it with cold 
water and stand it in the centre of the mould. 
Pour the pur^e, into which a little aspic jelly has 
been whipped, into the mould itself ; let it remain 
on ice till firm, then empty the water from the 
centre and fill the same with warm water ; after a 
minute take out the tumbler carefully ; then place 
in the interior a mayonnaise of hard-boiled eggs in 
which some aspic jelly has been stirred into the 
mayonnaise, and when quite iced turn the mould 
out, and ornament the top with hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters and red aspic cut in dice, and place 
mounds of chopped aspic round. 

Curried Spinach. 

Take some well-cooked spinach and fry it in 
boiling butter into which a tablespoonful of curry 
powder has been already fried ; add to this a dozen 
prawns or shrimps and fry all together slowly for 
one hour. 

Serve very hot as an entree. 



62 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Spinach, Croustades of. 

Cut some bread into the shape of hearts and 
slit them all round ; fry them in batter. Arrange 
the hearts in the form of a rosette. Then cut a 
round of bread, which slit in the same way, and 
place it in the centre over the points of the hearts. 
Fry them till they are of a fine brown, then cut out 
the interior, remove all the crumb, and fill the space 
left with spinach cream. 



Spinach k la Cr^me. 

Take two good pounds of spinach, boil it till 
quite tender, chop it very fine, and rub it through 
a coarse wire sieve ; season with pepper and salt. 
Place it in a stewpan, stir over the fire till warm ; 
then pour in a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, 
and a good saltspoonful of castor sugar. Stir over 
the fire for five minutes, and press it into a form, 
turn it out, and garnish with small fried croutons. 



Spinach Fritters. 

Boil spinach, thoroughly drain, and mince it ; 
add some grated bread, one grate of nutmeg, and a 
small piece of sugar. Add as much cream and yolks 
and whites of eggs as will make the preparation of 
the consistence of batter, drop the batter into a 
frying-pan of boiling lard. When the fritters rise, 
take them out and send to table. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 63 

Spinach and Eggs. 

Prepare the spinach as for dressing spinach, and 
cut in the form of large sippets, with a poached egg 
served on each, and with glazed fried sippets ar- 
ranged around. 

Spinach Omelet 

Make a pur^e of spinach in the usual way ; take 
two tablespoonfuls of it and stir it into four eggs 
which have been previously beaten, yolks and whites 
separately ; add a little piece of shalot which has 
been rubbed through the sieve, add pepper and salt 
to taste. When thoroughly mixed, put the whole 
into an omelet-pan, with two ounces of butter, and 
fry a pale brown ; serve very hot. 

Spinach Souffle. 

(Original.) 

Make a thick pur^e of spinach, using good broth 
to mix with it ; add half a spoonful of flour, a little 
salt, and an ounce of butter ; let all this boil till 
very thick ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs, 
a gill of cream, and mix all well together. Just 
before sending to table whip up and add the whites 
of the eggs and put into the oven for the proper 
time. Strew hard-boiled egg (yolk and white) 
passed through the sieve over the top. 

Tomato Chartreuse. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Make a good pur^e of tomatoes in which some 
shalot has been minced, and mix with it three well- 
beaten eggs, and a little salt and cayenne. Have 



64 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

a plain double mould, which must be well buttered ; 
pour some tomato pur^e into the outer mould, and 
pour into the centre some rich white sauce in which 
two whole eggs have been beaten up ; add some 
small button mushrooms, and put this into the 
inner mould. Tie the mould down with a cloth 
and steam it like an ordinary custard pudding. It 
should be kept quite upright ; and when turned out 
on the dish, pour round some Tourn^e sauce ; 
sprinkle a little grated parsley over the top. 

Tomato Cream k llrr^sistible. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Cut some tomatoes in slices, oil a plain mould, 
and arrange the tomatoes all round in circles and 
at the bottom of the mould ; make a white pur^e 
of mushrooms, which has been cooked and allowed 
to cool, and in which, after cooking, half a pint of 
aspic jelly has been well stirred in. Put this pur^e 
into the mould, and put on ice for some hours ; 
turn out, and serve with a little chervil and tarragon 
salad round the base, and arrange aspic jelly cut 
in devices on the top. Hard-boiled eggs in quarters 
should be placed at equal distances on the chervil 
salad. 

Curried Tomatoes. 

Cut tomatoes in slices, bake them, grate an 
apple, chop a shalot small> and fry these in butter 
till quite tender ; add a heaped-up dessertspoonful 
of curry-powder, four tablespoonfuls of good gravy ; 
simmer all together for a few minutes. Add the 
tomatoes and a tablespoonful of cocoa-nut milk, a 
squeeze of lemon-juice, and a tiny bit of sweet 
chutnee. Serve hot. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 65 



Tomato Fritters. 

Bake some tomatoes till nearly cooked (they 
must be rather uncooked), add some Parmesan 
cheese, and a little very finely chopped shalot. 
Add as much cream and the white of one egg as 
will make the preparation of the consistency of 
batter ; drop this batter into a frying-pan of boil- 
ing butter, and when the fritters rise take them out 
and send them to table, just dusting them over 
with grated Parmesan cheese. 

Stuffed Tomatoes k la Financiere. 

Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, peel them, 
and scoop out the centres with a small spoon, 
and place them on a tin dish. Take a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut, a little mushroom 
liquor, a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful of olive oil, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and shalots in equal quantities, a little salt 
and pepper to taste ; mix and stir all in a stewpan 
till quite hot and thoroughly mixed. Fill each 
tomato with some of this stuffing, and sprinkle them 
with grated bread-crumbs. Pour a few spoonfuls of 
olive oil into the dish, and bake for tpn minutes 
and brown with a salamander. 

Iced Tomatoes. 

(American Recipe.) 

Scald the tomatoes for a minute or so and peel 
carefully, cut out the stalks with a sharp knife, 
remove about one teaspoonful of the contents and 

F 



66 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

put in a pinch of salt, sugar, and pepper, and as 
much minced parsley, shalot, and tarragon as will 
fill the space ; boil (that is, reduce) some cream, 
with an onion and some salt, until quite thick, put 
a dessertspoonful under each tomato ; ice the 
whole and serve in the dish it is dressed in. 

Tomato au Gratin. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes in slices, place them in 
a china baking dish in layers with some chopped 
onion and bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt, and a 
little gravy between each layer ; cover the top with 
a last layer of bread-crumbs and a few lumps of 
butter. Bake for about twenty minutes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes k la Milanese. 

Take six ripe tomatoes of equal size, cut a 
circle off the top of each and scoop out the insides. 
Press the pulp through a sieve, and mix in with it 
a little salt, cayenne, two ounces of butter broken 
into little pieces, two tablespoonfuls of bread- 
crumbs, a large shalot finely minced, a teaspoonful 
of parsley, and two very large tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan. Fill the tomatoes with this 
mixture, put on the tops again, and bake in a 
moderate oven, or fry them in oil till cooked brown. 
Mushroom sauce or sauce espagnole round them. 

Tomato Omelet. 

Take four tomatoes, peel and mince them finely. 
Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a little milk till 
it is quite smooth, add three eggs to it (beaten), a 






DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, (yj 

little salt, and a dust of cayenne, the tomatoes, and 
half a minced shalot. Fry the omelet in the usual 
way, and serve very hot. 

Tomatoes ^ la Portugaise. 

Slice half-a-dozen ripe tomatoes, season with 
pepper and salt, and put little pieces of butter here 
and there upon them. Mince two onions finely, 
sprinkle over the tomatoes, cover the saucepan 
slowly, and steam them for fifteen minutes. Then 
pour a gill of good brown gravy over them, stir 
often, and let them simmer till done. Have ready 
four ounces of freshly boiled rice. Stir this in with 
the tomatoes and mix thoroughly. Turn out on 
a hot dish and send brown mushroom sauce in a 
tureen to hand with it. 

Tomatoes k la Proven9ale. 

Choose nicely shaped tomatoes, and of an 
equable shape ; divide them in the middle, leaving 
the blossom side the largest ; empty them neatly 
of their seeds and juice, and have ready a mixture 
made of two ounces of minced ham, two ounces 
of mushrooms, two ounces of bread-crumbs, six 
shalots, a teaspoonful of parsley, a quarter salt- 
spoonful of cayenne, a little bit of salt, two ounces 
of butter, two yolks of eggs ; stew all together, 
except the eggs and bread-crumbs. After stewing 
let this mixture cool, then mix in the bread- 
crumbs and eggs ; fill the tomatoes, cover them 
with fine bread-crumbs and moisten them with 
clarified butter, and bake them in a brisk oven 
till they are well coloured. 

F 2 



68 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Tomatoes ^ la San Francisco. 

Procure some small round bell-shaped tomatoes, 
peel and core them with a column cutter, and fill 
up the inside with three or four anchovies, cut very 
small, and stirred in mayonnaise sauce. Have 
some melted aspic jelly, just beginning to set, in a 
deep basin ; pass with a bodkin or trussing needle 
a piece of string through the top of each tomato, 
so that you may dip them into the basin of aspic 
till they are well coated with the aspic ; lay them 
on ice and remove the string when quite cold ; cut 
little fancy rounds of aspic and lay on the top of 
each, and on this place a sprig of tarragon which 
has been dipped into mayonnaise. Cut hard- 
boiled eggs in quarters and place round the toma- 
toes, and garnish with chopped aspic, with chervil 
leaves placed at a distance on it, or arranged in a 
wreath on the chopped aspic. 

Tomato Souffle. 

Prepare some tomato pulp — it must not be too 
liquid — stir in the yolks of three eggs, and after- 
wards the whites well beaten. Fill a large souffle 
case or a number of small ones, and bake as other 
souffles. 

Tomato Toast 

Take two good sized-tomatoes, put them into 
boiling water for two minutes, peel and mince them 
very fine with two red chillies, a little salt, and a 
small shalot. Put half an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan with a dessertspoonful of milk ; add the 
tomato mixture, cook it for a few minutes, and 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 69 

mix in a well-beaten egg. Go on cooking till it is 
the thickness of scrambled eggs, and serve on slices 
of fried bread, and strew a little parsley passed 
through the sieve on the top. 

Buisson of Truffles. 

Cleanse thoroughly as many good-shaped round 
truffles as may be required, stew them as for truffles 
a la serviette, and let them cool in the liquor. 
Take a stale quartern loaf, cut off all the rest, and 
stamp out or cut the crumb to an oval shape. 
Cover this with parsley all round and stick a dozen 
truffles all round it with silver skewers. Pile the 
rest on the top and serve. 

Truffles in Champagne. 

Take a dozen black truffles, pick out the eyes, 
and soak them in warm water for an hour, and 
then clean with a scrubbing-brush. Wash well. 
Place at the bottom of a stewpan three slices of fat 
bacon, a sliced carrot and turnip, three onions, a 
bayleaf, a bouquet garni, and six cloves. Put in 
the truffles and half cover them with white stock, 
let them simmer for half an hour, then add a pint 
of champagne, and simmer for another half-hour, 
keeping the lid closed. Let them cool, then place 
the stewpan on ice with a weight over the cover. 
Drain dry and serve cold. When they are served 
hot they are not allowed to cool, and served in the 
gravy. 

Green Truffles Stewed. 

Peel six large green truffles, cut them into thin 
slices and put them into a stewpan with half a pint 



70 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

of gravy, a glass of sherry, a bouquet garni, pepper 
and salt to taste. Cover them close, and let Uiem 
simmer very slowly for an hour, then add a piece 
of butter and flour. Stew till thick, then squeeze 
in the juice of half a lemon, crisp the top of a 
French roll, arrange it in the centre of the dish. 
Remove the herbs and put the truffles over the 
roll. 

TnifiSes ^ ritalienne. 

Wash clean, wipe, and peel some truffles very 
thin ; put them in a saut^-pan, with a slice of fresh 
butter, some very finely chopped parsley, shalot, 
salt and pepper, and put them on Ae fire and stir 
them well ; in ten minutes they will be done, then 
drain off part of the butter, and throw in a bit of 
fresh butter, a small ladleful of sauce espagnole, the 
juice of one lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. 

TrufiSes k Tltalienne* 

(Another way.) 

Cut the truffles in fillets and sauce them with 
sauce italienne, and garnish with glazed sippets. 

Truffles k la Serviette. 

Take some fine large truffles, wash and brush 
them well in cold water. When perfectly clean, 
line a stewpan with slices of bacon, put in the 
truffles with a bunch of parsley, green onions, and 
thyme, two bayleaves, half a dozen cloves, and a 
little sweet basil ; pour in sufficient rich veal gravy 
to cover them, with the addition of a pint of cham- 
pagne, boil them very gently for an hour, then 
draw them aside and let them cool in the gravy. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 71 

Heat them up afresh when they are wanted for 
table ; they must be lifted out very tenderly and 
drained on a clean cloth, and dished up on a snow- 
white napkin. 

Turnips ^ la Bechamel. 

Cut some finely-grained turnips in quarters and 
pare them into balls of equal size ; arrange them 
in a stewpan, and nearly cover them with good veal 
stock ; add a little salt, a small lump of sugar, and 
boil them quickly until they are quite tender, but 
not at all broken ; dish them up and pour over a 
rich thick white bechamel sauce. 

Turnips k la Fran9aise. 

Cut them into cubes or scoop them out as balls 
with cutters, then boil them in salt and water with 
a piece of butter. White sauce in which a little 
.nutmeg has been grated should be poured over 
them. 

Turnips stewed in Butter. 

Take some young turnips, wash and dry them, 
pare them, slice them to half an inch thick, and 
divide them into dice. Now dissolve one ounce of 
butter for each half-pound of turnips, and stew 
them gently for nearly an hour. When half cooked, 
add salt and white pepper to taste. These can be 
served by themselves or dished up in the centre of 
an entree. 

Turnip Pudding k la Brisse. 

Wash, blanch, and peel some large turnips. 
Cut them into slices and warm in a saucepan with 
melted butter ; add salt, pepper, and pinch of pow- 




72 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

dered sugar, and stir in some very thick bechamel 
sauce, boil for a minute, pass through a tammy and 
add sufficient eggs to make the pur^e a good sub- 
stance, pass it into a well-buttered mould, which 
has a well in the centre, cook it in a bain-marie or 
some substitute, and when done turn out of the 
mould, garnish the centre with prettily cut vege- 
tables which have been cooked in bechamel sauce. 
This dish can also be made with carrots or 
spinach. 

Vegetables Curried. 

Take the remains of any cooked vegetables, the 
greater variety the better ; fry them in butter, with 
a little onion and a dessertspoonful of curry pow- 
der, a teaspoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut, and 
half a teacupful of milk. Let all these stew slowly 
for an hour. Serve with rice. 

Vegetable Mac^doine. 

Take any vegetable that is in season, such as 
carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, small onions, 
asparagus tops, branches of cauliflower, cucumbers, 
peas, French beans, &c. Boil them separately, 
drain them, toss them up in a yellow sauce, and 
serve. 

Vegetable Marrow Chips. 

Bake partially a vegetable marrow, then cut it 
into pieces like potato chips, or into lengths like 
potato ribbons, throw some salt over and fry them 
in hot dripping, mount them high in a dish, and 
sprinkle Parmesan cheese over. This dish can also 
be served without the cheese. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 73 



Vegetable Marrow k TEspagnole. 

Slice a Spanish onion and two good-sized to- 
matoes, and fry them in about half an ounce of 
butter. Then cut a vegetable marrow into neat 
square pieces, add a little hot stock, and pepper 
and salt. Let all simmer together till the marrow 
is cooked, and serve very hot. 

Vegetable Marrow k lltalienne. 

Take a couple of vegetable marrows as near the 
same size as possible, slice them as thin as cucum- 
ber is sliced, dry them on a cloth, and fry them in 
very hot butter, dredge with pepper and salt, and 
serve up on a napkin. The fat must be very hot, 
as they are done in a minute. 

Vegetable Marrow k TOrient. 

Squeeze the water out of a vegetable marrow, 
grate it small; grate also some new cheese, add a 
couple of eggs and a small quantity of fried onions 
and pistachio nuts. Make this into a paste, and 
beat it up well together. Then take some slices of 
vegetable marrow, spread the paste upon them 
rather thickly, having first put a little butter on the 
slices. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 

Vegetable Marrow au Parmesan. 

Peel, cut in half a vegetable marrow, take out 
the seeds and soft part, and cut it into neat oval- 
shaped fillets about two and a half inches long and 
two wide. Put them in a saut^-pan with a piece of 



74 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

butter, and stew till tender. Add pepper and salt, 
serve on fried crofltons of toast, and pour over them 
Parmesan sauce. 

Vegetable Marrow Stuffed* 

Boil a marrow tender in stock, cut it lengthways 
in half, hollow out the insides and fill them with a 
rich mince of white meat, or scalloped lobsters or 
oysters, or minced mushrooms. Put the two sides 
together again and dish up with a rich sauce or a 
piquant sauce round. 

Vegetable Pie k la Grimed de la Reyni^re. 

Cook green peas, young broad beans, small 
carrots, and tender French beans separately in a 
rich bechamel sauce ; place these in a baked pie 
case, divided into compartments by thin pieces of 
paste, and serve. 

White Kidney Beans. 

(Haricots Blancs.) 

Throw the haricots into boiling salt and water 
with a small bit of butter in it, having soaked them 
previously for a couple of hours. Bring them gently 
to the boil and then simmer gently till tender. 
Drain them when they are cooked, and place them 
in a clean stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter 
and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Toss the beans gently 
till they are quite hot and equally covered with the 
sauce, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and 
serve quickly. 



DkMSS£D VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 75 



SALADS. 



Artichoke and Tomato Salad. 

Take some artichoke bottoms, boiled, and some 
slices of raw tomato. Mix some tarragon, chervil 
oil, pepper, salt, and vinegar together. Dip the 
artichokes and tomatoes in separately and lay them 
alternately in a salad bowl. Pour the dressing 
over. 

Artichoke Salad. 

Cut up six artichoke bottoms into thin strips, 
slice two medium-sized cucumbers very thin, chop 
up two very young onions ; toss these ingredients ; 
then shape neatly in the dish, garnish with small 
radishes, sprinkle half a teaspoonful of celery salt 
over the dish, pour a simple salad dressing over all, 
and serve. 

Salad of Asparagus. 

Large white asparagus. Boil till quite done, 
cut in half-inch lengths, throwing away any part 
not absolutely tender. Place in the bowl, cover 
with good sauce ; then sprinkle over with grated 
ham. Or add tiny strips of smoked sausage. 



;5 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 



Broccoli Salad. 

Choose the whitest and closest heads, trim off 
all the outside leaves and outsides of the stalks, and 
place the broccoli in salted water a few minutes ; 
when well washed, put them into a saucepan and 
cover with hot water, add a little salt and boil for 
fifteen minutes ; drain quietly and plunge into a 
basin of cold water. Mash a chive of garlic, and 
chop it up fine with a few sprigs of chervil or 
parsley, a little grated horse-radish, and a leaf of 
mint ; add a vineglass of the best vinegar and three 
wineglasses of oil and a dust of cayenne, mix well 
together and pour over the broccoli, and serve. 

Iced Salad k Tlnspiration. 

(Original Recipe ) 

Take two large heads of celery, cleanse it well 
and chop it up very finely ; take a small onion, 
parboil it, also a small shalot ; chop them up very 
finely also ; mix all together thoroughly. 

Make a mayonnaise sauce by taking a dessert- 
spoonful of Swiss milk, the yolks of two eggs, and 
beat them up well together ; then add a mustard- 
spoonful of made mustard, a tablespoonful of tar- 
ragon vinegar, a dessertspoonful of plain vinegar, 
and stir up again ; then pour in a tablespoonful of 
cream (this can be omitted), and after that four or 
five tablespoonfuls of best salad oil drop by drop, 
stir till it is as thick as cream ; now add half a pint 
of whipped aspic jelly and whip up in it. 

Oil a plain round mould and fill in this salad 
mixture, let it stand on ice for twelve hours and 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 77 

turn it out. Have ready cut some rounds of beet- 
root stamped out with a cutter about the size of a 
florin, with scalloped edges, and decorate the outside 
of the moulded salad with it ; on the top cut the 
rounds of beetroot into halves and stand them up all 
round the edge ; put a little piece of the celery with 
the green top on it in the middle of the top, strew 
a little finely chopped aspic over the top and serve 
some more all round the base, with hard-boiled 
eggs cut in half-quarters here and there on the 
aspic garnish. 

Little dariole moulds can be filled with this 
mixture as a variety, but the beetroot decoration 
must then be cut the size of sixpences. 



Iced Salad a la Tentation. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Take some cabbage lettuces, thoroughly cleanse 
them, cut out the hearts and white leaves only, 
also endive, some peas, haricots, asparagus heads 
if in season, cucumber, beetroot and watercress, and 
two or three spring onions ; chop up all very finely 
and mix them thoroughly together ; then make a 
mayonnaise and aspic sauce exactly the same as 
for iced salad k Tlnspiration, and mould it in the 
same fashion. Decorate it with hard-boiled eggs 
cut in devices alternately yellow and white, and 
here and there a truffle cut in dice. 

Have some chopped red aspic jelly and strew 
all over the mould and round the base, and have 
rolled anchovies arranged round the top of the 
mould, and in the centre half of the yolk of a hard- 
boiled tggy on which four fillets of anchovy should 



78 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

rest; a few capers, olives, and rolled anchovies 
should be placed about the aspic garnish at the 
base. 

Nantese Salad. 

Peel half a dozen small Spanish onions, take 
out the core, put a little butter inside each, and bake 
them in a moderate oven till quite tender. Let 
them get cold, cut them into slices and lay them 
at the bottom of a salad bowl. Scrape half a dozen 
sardines, remove the skin, take the flesh from the 
bones, and lay the fish in neat-sized pieces on the 
onion. Slice half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, place 
these on the fish and strew over the whole with two 
tablespoonfuls of finely minced parsley and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil each. 
Serve with the following salad dressing. Beat up 
the yolks of four eggs with two ounces of butter, 
half a teacupful of cream, a gill of vinegar, and a 
tablespoonful of made mustard. Put this in a jar 
and stand it in a pan of boiling water, and stir till 
it is thicker than custard. When quite cold, thin 
it by beating in the juice of half a lemon, and 
pepper and salt to taste. 

Rochelle Salad. 

Wash a couple of heads of celery and dry them. 
Cut the stalks into three-inch lengths and place 
them in a salad bowl mixed with the whites of 
three hard-boiled eggs, thinly shred. Press the 
yolks of the eggs through a wire sieve, then pour 
over a pint of * sauce tartare.' Sprinkle over this 
first the powdered yolks of eggs, and then three 
finely shred truffles. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 79 

Garnish the salad with curled anchovies, beet- 
root cut in stars, and slices of German sausage. 



Onion and Tomato Salad. 

Parboil a large Spanish onion, scald and peel 
six or eight tomatoes ; slice them and put them 
in the salad bowl. Add a little chopped parsley, 
tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt. Stir in 
thoroughly some oil, then vinegar to taste. 

Potato Salad. 

Bake some potatoes, peel and slice them, and 
put them in the salad bowl with two onions and 
one shalot cut in quarters, pour over them two wine- 
glassfuls of claret, add a little salt and pepper, and 
stir till thoroughly mixed ; after which pour in a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar and a wineglassful of 
best Lucca oil, and stir up well ; then add some 
chervil leaves chopped fine, remove the onion and 
ornament with a hard-boiled egg, the white cut in 
strips and the yolk passed through the sieve and 
sprinkled over all. 

Potato and Truffle Salad. 

Bake, peel, and slice some potatoes, cut up some 
truffles which have been boiled in saumur into very 
thin slices, and arrange them in alternate layers in 
a salad bowl with the sliced potatoes — the last layer 
must be of truffles. Garnish with small pickled 
onions, fillets of anchovy, and either stoned or 
stuffed olives ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Mix 
a dressing of oil and vinegar and pour over. 



8o DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 



Red Cabbag:e Salad a la Russe. 

Cut up a red cabbage into very fine narrow strips, 
plunge for a minute into boiling salt and water, cool 
in cold water, drain. Lay in a deep dish and 
sprinkle with salt and tarragon vinegar. 

Stir some mashed hard-boiled yolks of eggs 
into half a tumbler full of sour cream, season with 
salt, pepper, chopped chervil, and tarragon leaves. 

Pour over the cabbage and garnish with a few 
slices of black radish. 

Salsify Salad. 

Boil the salsify till perfectly tender, drain it, and 
cut it into inch lengths. Pour over it any simple 
salad dressing or toss it up lightly with oil, vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and chopped ravigote. 

Salad of Seakale. 

Boil seakale till quite tender, let it cool, and 
cut it into half-inch lengths. Take care that it is 
quite dry. Put in the salad bowl. An hour before 
serving, pour over some good mayonnaise or tartare 
sauce, and add fillets of anchovy, laid on the top. 

Shikaree Salad. 

Wash, dry, and break up some lettuces in the 
usual way, with cress, endive, beetroot, &c., and 
pour over a salad dressing made as follows : Mix 
a teaspoonful of cayenne with a tablespoonful of 
powdered white sugar. Put the mixture into a 
small saucepan and pour over it two glassfuls of 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A ,LA MODE. 8i 

mushroom ketchup, two glassfuls of claret, and the 
strained juice of a large lemon. Stir the liquor over 
the fire till the sugar is dissolved and it is quite hot ; 
then let it cool, and add to it the yolk of an ^^'g 
and four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and well mix. 

Tomato Salad. 

Choose four round red tomatoes, throw them 
into a saucepan of fast boiling water for two 
minutes or less, take them up quickly and throw 
them into cold water for two minutes. The skin 
will now quickly peel oflf. Cut up the tomatoes in 
thick rounds, lay them on a dish, sprinkle over a 
little salt and sugar, a scrape of onion, and a few 
drops of salad oil ; then drip vinegar over and serve 
directly. 

Salad of Tomatoes en Surprise. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Chop up some tomatoes small, flavour them 
with a bead of garlic and a shalot chopped up and 
rubbed through the sieve, which then mix in with 
the tomatoes ; add four tablespoonfuls of whipped 
aspic jelly and mix into the pur^e. 

Decorate a mould with hard-boiled eggs stamped 
out in rounds or stars, and arrange them in tiers one 
above the other. Between each layer of egg place a 
little chervil leaf and a sprig of tarragon alternately ; 
fill the mould with the tomato pur^e, place on ice, 
and when ready turn out. Garnish with small salad 
mixed with mayonnaise sauce round the base. 
Arrange watercress prettily on the top and sprinkle 
red aspic jelly all over it. 

G 



82 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 



Vegetable Salad. 

Boil equal quantities of carrots, peas, asparagus 
heads, French beans, potatoes, and half the quantity 
of turnips ; when done, drain carefully and place 
in a salad bowl in separate groups with a head of 
boiled cauliflow^er in the centre. Cover with a sauce 
made of twelve tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a 
little salt, pepper, a dust of cayenne, and a rub of 
garlic, all stirred well together 

Watercress Salad. 

Get some nice young watercress, cleanse it 
thoroughly in salt and water, and put it in a salad 
bowl with a few sliced young radishes and four 
hard-boiled eggs cut into half-quarters. Pour a 
simple salad sauce over it. 



INDEX. 



AiQUEBELLE fritters, i 
American yams, I 
Artichokes k la Barigoule, 2 

— ^ la Careme, 3 

— cream of, 3 

— ^ la kaiser, 4 

— ^ la Malay, 4 

— i la Gouff(6, 5 

— k ritalienne, 5, 6 

— stuffed, k la b6chamel, 6 

— aux fines herbes, 6 

— au diable, 7 

— kla. chef, 7 

— chips, 7 

— Jerusalem, k la reine, 8 
au parmesan, 8 

— salad, 75 
Asparagus with cream, 8 

— omelet, 8 

— i la Tod Heatly,9 

— klsi Pompadour, 9 

— rolls, 9 

— k la rustic, 10 

— ^ la Fran9aise, 10 

— pudding, 1 1 

— salad, 75 



Beans, broad, k la creme, 13 

— Brittany, 12 

— French, k la poulette, 13 

— omelet of, 1 3 

— French, k la bechamel, 14 

— white kidney, fricasseed, 

14 
k la cr^me, 14 

Beetroot, dressed, 1 1 



Beetroot fritters, 1 1 

— ^la Savarin, 12 

— stewed, 12 
Broad beans, 13 
Broccoli k la fermiere, 1 5 

— salad, 76 

Brussels sprouts a la Lucerne, 

15 

^ la Parisienne, 16 

fried, 16 



Cabbage, ladies^ 16 

— k la Flamande, 17 

— and rice balls, 17 

— jelly, 16 

— stuffed, k la Russe, 18 

— red, stewed, 57 
Cardoons, boiled, 18 

— ^ la fromage, 18 

— stewed, 19 
Carrots, fillets of, 19 

— k I'Allemande, 19 

— ^ la Flamande, 19 

— k la Windsor, 20 

— fritters, 20 

— ^ la mattre d'hotel, 20 
Cauliflowers, curried, 21 

— fritters, 21, 24 

— i la mattre d'h6tel, 21 

— au gratin, 22 

— au parmesan, 22 

— stuffed, 23 

— moulded, 23 

— omelet, 23 

Celery with brown sauce, 24 

— with cream, 24 



84 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 



Celery a I'Espagnole, 24 

— au jus, 25 

— stewed, 25 

— i la Villeroi, 25 

— a I'ambrosia, 25 
Colcannon, 27 
Cucumber k I'Espagnole, 25 

— fillets of, 27 



Endive ragout, 30 / 

— stewed, with cream, 30 



Onions, Spanish, k la celeri, 38 

— i la Corsica, 39 

— - ^ la cr^me, 39 

— fritters, 39 

— i la Genoise, 40 

— au jus, 40 

— miroton of, 40 

— ragout of, 40 

— \ I'Espagnole, 41 

— Spanish, stewed, 41 

— stuffed, 41, 42 

— and tomato salad, 79 



Greens i la Hottentot, 31 

Haricot beans a la maitre 
d'hotel, 31 

Iced salad, 77 

Kohlrabi au gratin, 31 

— steamed, 32 

Layer, 32 

— stewed, 32 
Lentils, curried, 32 
Lettuces, stewed, 33 

— stuffed, 33 

Mandarins, 33 
Morelles i PAndalouse, 34 

— green, stewed, 34 
Mushrooms ^ la Bordelaise,34, 

35 

— au beurre, 35 

— croustades of, 36 

— stuffed, ^ la Lucullus, 37 

— toast, 37 

— and tomatoes, 37 

Nantese salad, 78 

Onions, Spanish, baked, 38 

— ^ la Bretonne, 38 

— i la Bordeaux, 38 



Parsnip fritters, 42 

— balls, 43 

Peas a la demi-bourgeoise, 43 

— stewed, with lettuce and 
ham, 43 

Potato balls, 44 
i la duchesse, 44 

— — ragodt, 45 

— a la Bonn, 45 

— boulettes, 45 

— in cases, 46 

— chips or ribbons, 46 

— ^ la creme, 46 

— croquettes, 47 

— 4 la creme au gratin, 47, 
48 

— cheese, 48 

— fritters, 48 
au gratin, 49 

— fried, a la Hollandaise, 49 

— k ritalienne, 49, 56 

— klosse, 50 

— ^ la Lyonnaise, 50 

— a la maitre d'hotel, 51 

— a la Milanese, 51 

— a la mode, 51 

— ^ la Moltke, 52 

— ^ la Napolitaine, 52 

— omelet, 53 

— moulded with parmesan, 53 

— ^ la Proven9ale, 53 

— pudding, 53 

— ^ la Russe, 54 



INDEX. 



85 



Potato saute, 54 

— salad, 79 

— savoury, 54 

— snow, 55 

— souffle, 55 

au parmesan, 55 

— stewed, 56 

— stuffed, 56 

— straws, 56 

— - and tomatoes, 57 

— and truffle salad, 79 



Red cabbage, stewed, 57 



Salads, 75-82 
Salsify, 57 

— dressed, 58 

— fried, 58 

— or mock oysters, 58 

— salad, 80 

— scalloped, 59 
Scorzonera in brown sauce, 59 
Seakale au parmesan, 59 

— stewed, in gravy, 59 

— timbale of, 60 
Shikaree salad, 80 
Spinach, 60 

— chartreuse of, 61 

— curried, 61 

— croustades of, 62 

— ^ la cr^me, 62 

— fritters, 62 

— and eggs, 63 

— omelet, ^4 

— souffle, 63 



Tomato chartreuse, 63 
— cream k Pirresistible, 64 



Tomato, curried, 64 

— fritters, 65 

— stuffed, a la financiere, 65 

— iced, 65 

— au gratin, 66 

— a la Milanese, 66 

— omelet, 66 

— a la Portugaise, 67 

— ^ la Proven9ale, 67 

— a la San Francisco, 68 

— salad, 81 

en surprise, 81 

— souffle, 68 

— toast, 68 
Truffles, buisson of, 69 

— in champagne, 69 

— green, stewed, 69 

— a ritalienne, 70 

— ^ la serviette, 70 
Turnips i la b^hamel, 71 

— ^ la Fran9aise, 71 

— stewed, in butter, 71 

— pudding ^ la Brisse, 71 



Vegetables, curried, 72 

— mac^doine, 72 
Vegetable-marrow chips, 72 

a I'Espagnole, 73 

a ritalien, 73 

i rOrient, 73 

au parmesan, 73 

stuffed, 74 

— pie a la Grimod, 74 

— salad, 82 



White kidney beans, 74 
Watercress salad, 82 



Yams, American, i 



Spottiswoode <5r* Co. Printers^ Nenv-street Square ^ London. 



New and Cheaper Edition, in crown 8vo. with 8 full-page Coloured 

Plates and 37 Woodcuts, price $s, 

COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING 

A MANUAL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY FOR 
LARGE AND SMALL FAMILIES. 

By Mrs. HENR Y REE VE, 



* We can but hope that this book, which is both a manual for the 
givers of dinner parties and a recipe-book for cooks, and is adapted 
to all sorts and conditions of diners, may not only lead to a consider- 
able extension of culinary knowledge, but induce those who have 
gained that knowledge to practise what they know.' — Observer. 

* It is impossible within the space of a notice to point out all the 
merits of this book, or to give in anything like detail the various points 
advocated by Mrs. Reeve ; but we can heartily recommend her Cookery 
and Housekeeping as one of the best, as it is certainly one of the least 
technical books ever written on household and kitchen economics.' 

Bell's Life in London. 

* Bears the signs of a careful endeavour to get as izx on the road to 
culinary perfection as possible. Mrs. Reeve has evidently made a 
serious study of domestic economy and the food of households, and her 
book is not a mere compilation tossed together without experience or 
counsel.'— Daily Telegraph, 

* If I had only had this book when I first married^ what a number of 
foolish mistakes and ignorant extravagances I should haive been spared I 

was the exclamation of a lady, now an experienced and most successful 
housekeeper, as she looked through Mrs. Reeve's cookery-book. The 
book is deserving of great praise, both in its arrangement and treat* 
ment, in which it differs greatly from most books of its class, and we 
think it will be found most practicable and reliable in the way the 

scheme is carried out Mrs. Reeve need not fear that the 

publication of this book will be deemed presumptuous ; it will, on the 
contrary, be found most helpful, as it amply fulfils the intention with 
which it was undertaken,'— Spectator. 

London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO, 





NMtolnllMr 



8 




0329 



I 



78 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

rest; a few capers, olives, and rolled anchovies 
should be placed about the aspic garnish at the 
base. 

Nantese Salad. 

Peel half a dozen small Spanish onions, take 
out the core, put a little butter inside each, and bake 
them in a moderate oven till quite tender. Let 
them get cold, cut them into slices and lay them 
at the bottom of a salad bowl. Scrape half a dozen 
sardines, remove the skin, take the flesh from the 
bones, and lay the fish in neat-sized pieces on the 
onion. Slice half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, place 
these on the fish and strew over the whole with two 
tablespoonfuls of finely minced parsley and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil each. 
Serve with the following salad dressing. Beat up 
the yolks of four eggs with two ounces of butter, 
half a teacupful of cream, a gill of vinegar, and a 
tablespoonful of made mustard. Put this in a jar 
and stand it in a pan of boiling water, and stir till 
it is thicker than custard. When quite cold, thin 
it by beating in the juice of half a lemon, and 
pepper and salt to taste. 

Rochelle Salad. 

Wash a couple of heads of celery and dry them. 
Cut the stalks into three-inch lengths and place 
them in a salad bowl mixed with the whites of 
three hard-boiled eggs, thinly shred. Press the 
yolks of the eggs through a wire sieve, then pour 
over a pint of * sauce tartare.' Sprinkle over this 
first the powdered yolks of eggs, and then three 
finely shred truffles. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 79 

Garnish the salad with curled anchovies, beet- 
root cut in stars, and slices of German sausage. 



Onion and Tomato Salad. 

Parboil a large Spanish onion, scald and peel 
six or eight tomatoes ; slice them and put them 
in the salad bowl. Add a little chopped parsley, 
tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt. Stir in 
thoroughly some oil, then vinegar to taste. 

Potato Salad. 

Bake some potatoes, peel and slice them, and 
put them in the salad bowl with two onions and 
one shalot cut in quarters, pour over them two wine- 
glassfuls of claret, add a little salt and pepper, and 
stir till thoroughly mixed ; after which pour in a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar and a wineglassful of 
best Lucca oil, and stir up well ; then add some 
chervil leaves chopped fine, remove the onion and 
ornament with a hard-boiled egg, the white cut in 
strips and the yolk pcissed through the sieve and 
sprinkled over all. 

Potato and Truffle Salad. 

Bake, peel, and slice some potatoes, cut up some 
truffles which have been boiled in saumur into very 
thin slices, and arrange them in alternate layers in 
a salad bowl with the sliced potatoes— the last layer 
must be of truffles. Garnish with small pickled 
onions, fillets of anchovy, and either stoned or 
stuffed olives ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Mix 
a dressing of oil and vinegar and pour over. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



N'Tl 



\ 






\ 



-^ 




^i ^^- 






WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS. 

* Those excellent cookery books that have made Mrs. De Salis 
an authority in every kitchen that has any pretensions to high art.' 

Scotsman. 

CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. 
Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. is, 6d, boards. 

DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. 
Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. xs, 6d. boards. 

DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Ihird 
Eklition. Fcp. 8vo. xs, 6d. boards. 

DRINKS A LA MODE, is, 6d. 

ENTREES A LA MODE. Seventh Edition. Fcp. 
Bvo. IS. 6d, boards. 

FLORAL DECORATIONS : Suggestions and Descrip- 
tions. \s. 6d, 

OYSTERS A LA MODE. Second Edition. Fcp. 
Bvo. IS. 6d. boards. 

PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Third 

Edition. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. 

SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Twelfth Edition. 

Revised and Enlarged. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. 

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 
Fourth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. 

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 
FouKh Edition. Fcp. Bvo. is, 6d, boards. 

TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. 
Third Edition. Fcp. Bvo. is. td. boards. 

WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY 
HOUSEHOLD. Third Edition. Fcp. Bvo. is. 6d. cloth. 

NEW-LAID EGGS: Hints for Amateur Poultry- 
Rearers. Fcp. Bvo. 



'\yv/vyv/v/v/v>\^\-/v/>-'^ 



London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 



PRINTED HY 
SPOTTISWOODB AND CO., NEW-STKEET SQl^ARE 

LONDON 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 



A LA MODE 



J 



BY 



MRS DE SALIS 

T 

AUTMORKSS OF ' SAVOURIES X LA IfODS' 'ENTRIES X LA MODE* 
'oysters X LA mode' ' SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH X LA MOOB* 
AMD 'sweets and SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE* 



Ube eattb batb roots; 

Ube bounteous buswife lUture on eacb busb 

Xaie0 bet full mc00 before lee' 

Shakespeare 



THIRD EDITION 

J LONDON 

LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

AND NEW YORK : 15 BAST 16* STREET 

1893) 

^ii rights retgrvd 



IBE NEW YORK 
PUBLIC LIBRARY 

364771 B 

A8T0R. LENOX AND 

TILDEN FOl'NDAT.ONS 

B 1946 L 



PREFACE. 

^ In * Sweets and Supper Dishes k la Mode * I men- 

X tioned I had completed the series, but, like so many 

V^of the members of the dramatic art who after their 

j^farewell are induced back again, I am making my 

^ reappearance in the gastronomic art with * Vege* 

tables k la Mode,' as the public who have so kindly 

received my former little books are anxious that 

r I should extend the series ; and as the vox popuh 

i should be respected, I have had much pleasure in 

{> culling from the vegetable gardens of the culinary 

world the recipes printed in this little book, several 

of which I am indebted for to Madame de Jon- 

I court's * Wholesome Cookery/ which she has kindly 

allowed me to use. 

HARRIET A. PE SALIS. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES 

A LA MODE. 



American Yams k la Fran^aise. 

Cut the yams into slices about half an inch 
thick, trim into oval shapes, put them into a pan 
full of water ; wash and drain them upon a cloth ; 
next place them in a stewpan with two and a half 
ounces of butter, and season with salt and a grate 
of nutmeg. Moisten with a pint of water ; put 
the lid on and let them simmer for three-quarters 
of an hour, turning them over occasionally, so that 
they may be equally a bright yellow colour on both 
sides. Arrange in a circle, and pour the following 
sauce over them : — 

Mix an ounce of butter with a dessertspoonful 
of flour ; put it into a stewpan with a gill of cream 
a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a little salt, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Stir this over the fire 
till it thickens, when it will be ready. 

Aiquebelle Fritters. 

Pound five potatoes ; add a pinch of Gruyere 
cheese, eight eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, 
pepper and salt. Beat the eggs well before adding 



2 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

them to the other ingredients. Mix all together 
very thoroughly. Divide the mixture into pieces 
about the size of a milk biscuit, and fry in boiling 
fat 

Artichokes k la Barigoule. 

Fonds d'Artichauts k la Barigoule. 

Wash and trim three or four artichokes, remove, 
the chokes, and fry the top of the leaves and the 
bottom of the artichokes in hot lard for three or 
four minutes. 

Fill the cavities with a forcemeat made with 
two ounces of finely-shred suet, two ounces of 
veal free from fat and fibre, two teaspoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, a trifle of marjoram and thyme, 
half a shalot chopped fine, a little salt and pepper, 
and a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel. Mix 
thoroughly, and work in the yolk of an egg. 
Fasten a piece of bacon on the top of each arti- 
choke. Bind them with string to keep them in 
their proper place. Put them in a stewpan, with 
enough brown gravy to cover them. Let them stew 
gently till tender. Take away the strings, and dish 
them with a little of the gravy thickene^ round 
them. 

Artichokes k la Barigoule. 

Fonds d'Artichauts k la Barigoule. 
(Another way. ) 

Parboil some globe artichokes. Strip off the 
leaves and take out the choke. Make a farce of 
bread-crumbs, parsley, mushrooms, truffles, shalots, 
and any savoury meat or game, ftiinced very fine, 
and seasoned to taste. Put a slice of bacon or ham, 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 3 

two carrots, a bouquet garni at the bottom of a 
stewpan, and place the artichokes on the top of 
them ; pour over a glass of chablis. 

Artichoke Bottoms k la Carfeme. 

Fonds d'Artichauts k la Car&me. 
(Original Recipe.) 

Wash the artichokes thoroughly. Boil them 
till they are nearly tender ; drain them, remove the 
middle leaves and the chokes, and lay in each a 
little of a forcemeat composed of six oysters, one 
sardine, two anchovies, and a few shrimps or 
prawns or pieces of lobster, all minced finely to- 
gether, and put into a sauce made of a grated 
tablespoonful of horseradish, half a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a tea- 
spoonful of capers, and one gill of white sauce. 
Let this boil up, then stir in the fish mixture, fill 
the artichokes, and bake in the oven till tender and 
done. Scatter lobster coral on the top of each 
before serving, or alternately lobster coral and 
grated fried parsley. 

^ Cream of Artichokes. 

Crhne d*Artichauts. 

Parboil some artichokes, strip off the leaves, and 
press out the edible part of each leaf ; remove the 
chokes, and pass this pulp through a hair sieve. 
Add a very little onion pulp. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a tiny dust of cayenne. Mix this with 
double cream, and steam in a mould very slowly for 
twenty minutes.^ Turn out of the mould, and serve 
with a cream sauce round. 



^ a 



4 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Artichoke Bottoms & la Kaiser. 

Fonds d*Artichauts ^ la Kaiser. 
(Original Recipe.) 

Cook some artichoke bottoms ; season them 
with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Take some 
plain round glossy tomatoes and place one on 
each artichoke ; lay some mushroom pur^e on the 
top of each, taking care to smooth it well ; place 
each artichoke on a fried crotiton masked with the 
tomato pur^e, and put them in a deep tin dish and 
bake them in the oven (which must not be a fierce 
one) for about ten minutes. Just before serving 
sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley over, and 
curl an anchovy on the top of each round a sprig 
of parsley that has been heated in the oven. 

Artichokes k la Malay. 

Artichauts ^ la Malay. 
(Original Recipe.) 

Prepare the artichokes as in Artichokes k la 
Carfeme, and fill them with a mixture made of an 
onion minced very finely and put into a stewpan 
with half a pint of prawns, an ounce of butter and 
a grate of cinnamon, half a pint of good mutton 
broth, and a little salt. Let this stew over a 
moderate fire for half an hour, then stir in a spoon- 
ful of curry powder, and let it stew twenty minutes 
longer. Strain the gravy into a clean stewpan, 
add the prawns, and let it simmer again for ten 
minutes. Scrape a piece of cocoa-nut sufficient 
to fill a tablespoon into a gill of water, and press 



l 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 5 

it through a sieve. Take half the milk from the 
cocoa-nut, thicken it with flour, stir it into the curry 
mixture, toss it over the fire, and give a squeeze 
of lemon to it, and then put in the artichokes. 

Dish them up on a rice mound, ornamented 
with gherkins and chillies. This is very good cold, 
and the rice should then be iced and ornamented 
with whipped aspic jelly and three leaves of the 
artichoke standing up in the middle of each. 



Artichokes k la Gouffd 

Artichauts k la Gouff(6. 

Wash and trim three young artichokes, cut 
them into thin slices, and as they are cut throw 
them into water with a cupful of vinegar in it. 
Drain them, and season with a little salt and pep- 
per. Make a batter with three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, and two of flour. When all are 
well mixed, put the slices of artichokes into it, and 
stir gently for about three minutes, until every piece 
of artichoke is well covered. Fry in hot fat, being 
careful that the vegetable is cooked through as 
well as being browned. Drain from the fat, and pile 
the slices high in the dish, and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Artichokes k Tltalienne. 

Artichauts k Pltalienne. 

Take the bottoms of some French artichokes, 
put them in a stewpan with some butter, white 
wine, a little stock, and lemon-juice. When cooked 
serve up with sauce italienne over. 



6 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

Artichokes k I'ltalienne, 

Artichauts k Pltalienne. 
(Another way. ) 

Is similar to the last recipe, only the stuffing is 
made of fried onion chopped very small, browned 
bread-crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese, and 
baked in the oven. 

Stuffed Artichokes k la Bechamel. 

Make a savoury stuffing with some chopped 
herbs, bread-crumbs, a mushroom, a pounded an- 
chovy, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Make 
this into a paste by cooking it in a little cream and 
gravy ; fill some artichoke bottoms with it, and put 
tiiem to simmer in a bechamel sauce ; serve with 
fried sippets. The preserved artichokes (fonds 
d*artichauts) are very good for this purpose, and 
require very little cooking. 

Globe Artichokes aux Fines Herbes. 

Wash, soak, and trim all the bottom leaves from 
the artichokes ; boil in a large saucepan of boiling 
water till the leaves come easily out, and the 
bottoms are soft When cold, pull off all the leaves 
and remove the chokes ; put them into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of fines herbes sauce (made 
of half a pint of good brown sauce, three small 
onions, two bunches of parsley, a tablespoonful 
of tomato sauce, two of chervil, four small button 
mushrooms chopped fine, and a little salt ; stew all 
these for twenty minutes, but do not boit)y simmer 
for three or four minutes, and serve very hot with 
tb^ sauc^ over them. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 7 



Globe Artichokes au Diable. 

Prepare the artichokes as for Artichokes aux 
Fines Herbes, and fill the bottoms with devilled 
shrimps which have been stewed in butter for three 
minutes ; sprinkle with cayenne pepper, and mask 
with Espagnole sauce.^ 

To devil the shrimps, take a pint of picked ones 
and put them into two ounces of butter ; warm only, 
and sprinkle with dry curry powder and cayenne 
pepper. 

Artichokes k la Chef. 

Trim the artichokes, cut out the chokes, and 
stuff them with minced bacon, parsley, mushrooms, 
and shalots which have been fried in butteik Line 
a stewpan with slices of bacon, add the artichokes, 
season with pepper and salt and a bouquet garni. 
Moisten with gravy, and cook over a slow fire with 
hot coals on the lid. When done, dish up covered 
with essence of ham. Essence of ham is made of 
ham finely pounded and warmed in butter in 
which a little flour has been stirred, and, when a 
good colour, moistened with stock seasoned with 
herbs, cloves, chopped mushrooms, and a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, and passed through a tammy. 

Artichoke Chips. 

Wash, peel, and cut into thin slices as many 
Jerusalem artichokes as are required. Throw them 
into cold water and dry them. Put them in a 
frying-basket. Plunge this into boiling lard, and 

' See Entries d la Mode for Espagnole sauce. 



8 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

fry a nice light brown. Put them before the fire 
and dry. Sprinkle with a little salt, and serve very 
hot 

Jerusalem Artichokes k la Reine. 

Wash the artichokes, cut off the end of each 
quite flat, and trim the other end into a point Boil 
them in milk and water, and lift them out the 
moment they are done ; drain, and place them up- 
right in the dish into which they are to be served, 
and sauce them with a rich bechamel sauce. 

Jerusalem Artichokes au Parmesan. 

Boil till quite tender sufficient Jerusalem arti- 
chokes to fill up some scallop shells ; cut them up 
very small, and mix them up in a little bechamel 
sauce. Add a little pepper and salt, strew on 
thickly some grated Parmesan, and over that some 
bread-crumbs ; put little pieces of butter all over 
the top, and brown them with the salamander. 

Asparag^us with Cream. 

Asperges ^ la Cr^me. 

Cut up some heads of asparagus ; wash and 
drain them. Melt some fresh butter in a saucepan, 
warm the asparagus heads in it, and stir in some 
rich bechamel sauce. When done, serve covered 
with the sauce. 

Asparagus Omelet 

Omelette aux Pointes d' Asperges. 

Boil about twenty-five heads of asparagus, and 
cut the green ends, when tender, in short pieces. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 9 

Mix with them four well-beaten eggs, adding a 
little pepper and salt. Melt an ounce of butter in 
an omelet-pan, pour in the mixture, stir till it 
thickens over the fire, and fold it nicely over. 
Asparagus sauce may be served with it 

Asparagus k la Tod Heatley. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Cook the asparagus as usual, then lay them on 
ice or in a refrigerator. When properly cold, ar- 
range them in bunches like faggots, and tie them 
round with strips cut from lettuces to resemble a 
binder. Arrange them high on the dish, and pour 
over them whipped cream in which a little aspic 
jelly has been mixed. Garnish with crotitons of 
aspic and whipped aspic. This dish is also very 
good with simply a green mayonnaise over it 

Asparagus k la Pompadour. 

Boil the asparagus in boiling salt and water. 
When cooked, cut it into lengths three inches long, 
drain them, and place them before the fire for a few 
moments. Take one ounce of fresh butter, two 
yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a saltspoonful of 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; cook in 
a saucepan till thick ; dish up the asparagus in a 
pyramid, and pour the sauce over. 

Asparagus Rolls. 

Cut a piece out of the crust of the tops of three 
French rolls, and take out all their crumb ; be careful 
that the crusts fit again in the places from whence 



lo JDRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

they were taken. Fiy the rolls brown in fresh butter. 
Then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs 
beaten fine, and a little salt and nutmeg ; stir well 
together over a slow fire till it begins to be thick. 
Have ready a hundred of small grass boiled, and 
save tops enough to stick the rolls with. Cut the 
rest of the tops small, put them into the cream, and 
fill the rolls with them. Before frying the rolls, 
make a good many holes in the top to stick the 
grass in. Then lay on the pieces of crust and 
stick the grass in that it may look as if it were 
growing. 

Asparagus k la Rustic. 

Cut the green part of a hundred good spruce 
asparagus heads ; wash, boil, and strain them. Take 
three French rolls, cut a piece of the top crust neatly 
out, pick out ^//the crumb, and fry the outsides in 
butter ; take a gill of cream with the yolks of three 
eggs beaten up in it, add a little salt and a grate of 
nutmeg, and stir well together over a gentle fire 
till it begins to thicken ; put in three parts of the 
asparagus cut small ; fill the rolls with it ; put on 
the tops that were cut off, and with a sharp skewer 
make holes in the tops, and stick some asparagus in 
as if it were growing. Arrange them on a dish, and 
serve very hot 

Asparagus k la Fran9aise. 

Wash and boil the asparagus till tender, drain 
them, cut off the heads and about two inches •of the 
white part of the stalks ; mince them very small, 
and mix with them an onion also cut very small. 
Add the yolk of an egg well beaten, with salt and 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, ii 

pepper to taste. Make it hot in a stewpan, and dish 
it up on a slice of toast, and pour a good sauce 
over it 

Asparagus Pudding. 

Take about fifty young asparagus and cut up 
the green part into pea-sized pieces. Beat about 
an ounce of butter to a cream, add to it a cupful of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped ham, four 
well-beaten eggs, a little pepper and salt, and then 
the asparagus. Mix all well together, and add 
sufficient milk to make it into a stiff batter. Put 
it into a well-oiled mould, wrap it up in a floured 
cloth, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water. 
When sufficiently cooked, turn it out on to a hot 
dish and pour good clear clarified butter round it 
in which two drops of vinegar have been put. 



Dressed Beetroot. 

Slice a parboiled beetroot in nice round slices, 
and stew it with small onions in a little cream with 
a very small piece of sugar, pepper and salt, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Dish the slices of beet- 
root with the small onions round them. 



Beetroot Fritters. 

Cut some boiled beetroot into slices. Take 
two pieces at a time, place a slice of raw onion 
sprinkled with chopped chervil, pepper, and salt 
between them, dip into batter, and plunge into 
boiling fat. When a good colour, dish up. 



12 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Beetroot k la Savarin. 

Fry a slice of onion in butter, then mix toge- 
ther half a teaspoonful of salt, half of dry mustard, 
twelve drops of essence of anchovies, a dessert- 
spoonful of cornflour, a gill of cream, and a gill of 
milk. Put this with the onion, and boil for five 
minutes ; then slice in a nice-coloured boiled beet- 
root, and let all get cold. 

Stewed Beetroot 

Bake or boil a beet till it is tender, and let it 
remain till cold, then peel and cut it into slices, 
and stew it for a little while in some broth or pale 
gravy. Thicken this with a teaspoonful of arrow- 
root and two tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir in 
quickly, as you take it off the fire, a tablespoonful 
of chilli vinegar. 

Beetroot k la Crfeme. 

Peel a beetroot and cut it into slices, then cook 
it very slowly in white bechamel sauce ; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve. 

Brittany Beans. 

Cut some onions in thin shreds, scald and drain 
them. Fry them in butter till they are a nice 
golden brown ; then sprinkle over them flour, 
pepper, and Scdt, and saut^ them for five minutes. 
Add some stock and stew for twenty minutes, 
taking care to stir frequently; then add some 
well-cooked haricot beans and butter, and saut^ 
together. 



bl^ESSEb VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 13 

Broad Beans & la Cr^me. 

The beans must be very young. Boil them in 
water with a faggot of parsley and some salt. 
When done, drain in a colander ; then put them 
into a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, 
some chopped parsley, and as much winter savoury 
as will cover the tip of a spoon, pepper, salt, and 
just one grate of nutmeg. Saut^ the beans over 
the fire for five minutes, and then mix in well with 
them a liaison of three eggs and the juice of half 
a lemon. When the liaison has become set, dish 
them up with fancy fried crofttons round them. 

French Beans k la Poulette. 

Take some young French beans, remove all 
fibres by breaking off the ends ; wash and boil 
them in boiling water. When done, toss them in 
melted butter seasoned with chopped chives and 
parsley ; stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, a pinch 
of salt, and a quarter of a pint of stock ; reduce 
the sauce ; thicken with two yolks of eggs, and 
flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice when it is 
ready to serve. 

Omelet of French Beans. 

Cut up finely two tablespoonfuls of French 
beans, stir into them three well-beaten eggs, then 
add a heaped-up tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, 
with a little pepper and salt to taste. When per- 
fectly mixed, put the whole, with two ounces of 
melted butter, into the omelet-pan, and fry a pale 
brown. The time varies from three to five 
minutes. 



14 l^RESSEp VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Fricasseed White Kidney Beans. 

Take a quart of white kidney beans ; if they 
are dried soak them for some hours first, but if 
fresh merely blanch them and rub off the skins. 
The dried ones must be boiled till tender and their 
skins slip off. 

Put them into a saucepan with half a pint of 
gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a grate 
of nutmeg, and a glass of marsala ; cover them 
close, and let them stew gently for about a quarter 
of an hour ; then take out the herbs, add a piece of 
butter mixed with flour, and shake it till thick. 
Beat up the yolks of two eggs in cream, put it in, 
and keep shaking the pan one way till thick and 
smooth ; squeeze in juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

French Beans k la Bechamel. 

Cut up some French beans ; soak them in cold 
water, and boil in boiling salt and water ; when 
done, plunge them into cold water and drain. 
Warm some chopped onions in fresh butter, but do 
not brown them ; and when nearly cooked, stir in 
a little flour, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, chives, 
and a wineglassful of stock ; add the beans, and 
when boiling thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs 
and flavour with lemon-juice. This sauce must not 
be thin. 

French Beans k la Creme. 

. Take a pound of French beans, string them, 

\ and boil them in salt and water till tender, then 

- drain them. Beat the yolks of tv/o fresh eggs in a 

gill of cream and about one ounce of fresh butter ; 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 15 

beat all well together, put it into a stewpan, and 
set over a clear fire. When hot, stir in a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, add the beans, and let all 
simmer for about six minutes, stirring constantly. 
Serve very hot. 



Broccoli k la Fermi^re. 

Take three heads of broccoli — one large and two 
small heads. Put into a stewpan two and a half 
ounces of butter, and when melted stir in four well- 
beaten eggs till it becomes of the consistency of 
cream. Pour this over a slice of toasted bread 
which has been placed on a dish. Lay the largest 
broccoli in the middle, and the two smaller ones cut 
into sprigs and arranged round it 



Fricassee of Brussels Sprouts k la Lucerne. 

Take some young sprouts and put them into 
boiling water with a lump of butter, a little salt, 
a piece of soda the size of a pea, and a bouquet 
garni. When they are cooked, take them out 
and drain them. Have ready some good white 
stock and rich bechamel sauce —say, half a pint of 
each — the yolk of an egg, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice ; put all these into a stewpan and stir 
over the fire till it is all well blended and the thick- 
ness of rich cream. Mix in the sprouts, and then 
dish them up ; garnish with fried cro(itons cut in 
the shape of hearts, mask them over with a little 
Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg which has been passed through a v/ire 
sieve over the centre of the sprouts. 



i6 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Brussels Sprouts k la Parisienne. 

Trim and boil about thirty heads of sprouts in 
two quarts of water in which a handful of salt has 
been placed ; when done, strain them, and chop 
very fine. Then put an onion in a stewpan, cut in 
slices, with two ounces of butter, three sprigs of 
parsley, and an ounce of raw ham. Stir them ten 
minutes over the fire, then add the chopped sprouts 
and half a teaspoonful of flour ; mix all well toge- 
ther and add half a pint of white stock and half a 
pint of milk. Stir until it boils, then add a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar ; season with a little 
pepper and salt, and serve with fried sippets. 

Fried Brussels Sprouts. 

Boil the sprouts, drain and fry them in butter 
for a few minutes ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

(American Recipe.) 

Boil a firm white cabbage for fifteen minutes, 
changing the water from the boiling-kettle ; when 
tender, drain and set aside till cold. Then chop 
fine, and add two beaten eggs, an ounce of butter, 
pepper, salt, and three tablespoonfuls of cream 
Stir all well together, and bake in a buttered pie- 
dish till brdWn. 

Cabbage Jelly. 

Boil a Savoy cabbage in water, chop it very 
fine and pass it through a sieve, and mix it with a 
little pepper, salt, and butter ; mould and bake it 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 17 



Cabbage k la Flamande. 

Cut a cabbage into quarters, parboil, and then 
place it in cold water, squeeze it dry, take out the 
heart and tie it round ; then stew it with half an ounce 
of butter, half a pint of good stock, seven onions, a 
bouquet garni, and salt and pepper to taste. When 
nearly cooked, put in a gill of vinegar ; and when it 
is sufficiently cooked take a crust of bread about 
four inches in diameter, fry it in butter, and put it 
in the bottom of a dish, upon which place the cab- 
bage and some fried sausages ; arrange the onions 
round. Skim the same, add a little cullis to it, and 
pour it over the whole. 

Cabbage and Rice Balls. 

(Italian Recipe.) 

Boil some rice with a little broth; cut some 
onions small, fry them, and mix them well with the 
rice. Then fry the rice, adding a little water so 
that it should not thicken too much ; when cooked, 
add a little grated cheese and butter. 

Take some cabbages, separate the leaves, put 
them into hot water, half boil and rinse them. 
Take each leaf separately, spread the rice thickly 
on it, and roll it up. 

Then take a stewpan and put in some pieces 
of butter and onions cut wtry finely, cook them 
well with a little water ; then place the balls of rice 
in the stewpan and cook them until the cabbage 
is done. When cooked, sprinkle grated cheese over 
tbciTi, and serve with tomato sauce. 



1 8 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Stuffed Cabbages k la Russe. 

Chop finely an onion and fry it in butter, bu1 
must not brown ; add six chopped mushrooms a 
two tablespoonfuls of semolina, and warm all o^ 
the fire a few minutes, and take it off the fi 
Pick the finest outside leaves off the cabbages a 
place them on one side ; cut the cabbages ii 
quarters, blanch and drain them ; cut out the he 
pieces from the centres, sprinkle with salt a 
pepper, and spread some of the stuffing betwe 
each leaf Tie up the pieces of cabbage to th 
original shape, with the large leaves placed rou 
them, and boil in water seasoned with onio 
carrots, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and a lump 
butter. When done, drain and serve. Serve melt 
butter in a saucepan. 

Cardoons Boiled. 

Cut away the coarse outside of the cardo< 
wash it free from sand, lay it in cold water to hard( 
then boil it in milk and water till tender, drain 
on the back of a sieve. Cut each stalk in tw 
place them in a vegetable-dish and pour wh 
sauce over them. 

Cardoons k la Fromage. 

String three cardoons and cut them into pie< 
an inch long, stew them in half a pint of claret 
quite tender, add an ounce of butter rolled in flo 
and a little pepper and salt. Put them into a chi 
baking-dish, add the juice of an orange, and gn 
three ounces of Parmesan cheese over. Brown w 
a 5aJamander, and serve quickly. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 19 



Stewed Cardoons. 

Take four cardoons, take off the outside leaves, 
string the white part and cut them about two inches 
long ; wash them very clean, and put them into a 
stewpan with three-quarters of a pint of veal broth, 
a glass of sauterne, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a 
little pepper and salt Cover over and stew gently 
till tender, then add a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and boil all gently till it becomes the proper con- 
sistency ; add the juice of half a lemon and dish up. 

Fillets of Carrot. 

Wash, scrape, and cut into slices about half an 
inch thick, and then, into dice-shape, several young 
carrots ; boil them in water for five minutes, drain, 
and put into a stewpan with a gill of good brown 
sauce. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and stew till 
tender. 

Carrots k la Flamande. 

Boil half a dozen carrots till quite tender ; then 
stamp them out in fancy shapes and stew them in 
a little good melted butter, with five small onions, 
a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a 
little salt and pepper. Serve the carrots with the 
sauce poured over. 

Carrots k rAllemande. 

Trim some small carrots so that they are all of 
the same shape, that is, the real shape of the carrot, 
but not too sharp at one end or too thick at the 
other, and not longer than an inch and a half. 

Parboil in water with a little salt ; drain. Then 
place in a saut6-pan with one pint of slock, \ni^ 



20 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

ounces of butter, one ounce of sugar, and let simmer 
for half an hour ; then let it boil briskly till the 
sauce is reduced to a glaze. Roll each carrot in 
this, and form into a dome of carrots ; surround 
with a rich brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. 

Carrots k la Windsor. 

Take some carrots of equal size and cut the upper 
parts into even lengths of about two and a half inches, 
and trim one end to a point in the shape of a cone. 
Then throw them into salted boiling water and let 
them boil for three-quarters of an hour. Take them 
out and drain well. Arrange them upright in a stew- 
pan, pour in good hot gravy to half their height ; 
add a little salt and a small teaspoonful of sugar, 
<jind boil quickly for half an hour longer. Dish them 
up standing upright, and pour over them a good 
brown thickened gravy with a dessertspoonful of 
parsley and a little lemon-juice in it 

Carrot Fritters. 

Boil a large carrot till tender ; beat it to a pulp, 
pass it through a sieve, and mix with it a gill of 
cream, two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs and two 
well-beaten eggs. Fry the mixture, divided into the 
shape of fritters, in hot dripping, and serve with a 
good brown cullis. 

Carrots k la Mattre d'H6tel. 

,1 
Scrape, wash, and scald the carrots in boiling ■ 

water ; cook them in hot water, with salt and a piece 

of butter the size of a small egg. When cooked, 

remove them, and put them to drain. Mix in a 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 21 

stewpan another piece of butter, chopped parsley, 
one chopped shalot, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Put in the carrots, toss them up for two minutes, 
and serve them with fried sippets. 

Curried Cauliflowers. 

Boil three or four small cauliflowers till tender, 
cut them up into little bouquets^ and put them into 
a stewpan with some curry sauce, prepared thus : — 

Take one sliced onion, a dessertspoonful of 
good curry-powder, two ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonful of grated cocoa-nut, a tablespoonful of the 
milk from the cocoa-nut, a teaspoonful of lemon- 
juice, a dessertspoonful of chutney ; let all these 
blend and cook well together for an hour, skimming 
it, and then passing it through a sieve. 

Pour this sauce over the pieces of cauliflower, 
and let all simmer for twenty minutes ; dish the 
pieces up en pyramide^ and pour the sauce all over. 

Cauliflower Fritters. 

Blanch a cauliflower, break it into neat pieces, 
and dip it into a nice thick white sauce ; leave them 
until cold, and then take each piece separately and 
dip it into batter and fry in boiling butter. Serve 
hot, with fried parsley. 

Cauliflower k la Mattre d'Hdtel. 

Take three heads of nice little white cauli- 
flowers, some mattre d*h6tel sauce in which a 
tablespoonful of tomato pur^e has been introduced ; 
put into a saucepan of water a small quantity of 
; flour, and when it boils put in the cauliflowers. 



22 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

When done, cut off the stalks, place the pieces head 
downwards into a hot basin, and press them gently 
together. Put the sauce into a dish, and turn the 
moulded cauliflowers out of the basin on it — ^which, 
if neatly done, will give the appearance of a very 
large cauliflower. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Choux-fleurs au Gratin. 

Wash and boil a cauliflower in the usual way, 
and when it is sufficiently boiled take it out of the 
saucepan and cut off* all the outside green leaves. 
Now take a cloth and squeeze all the water out of 
the cauliflower, and put half an ounce of flour and 
the same quantity of butter into a stewpan and 
mix well together, and pour in a gill of cold water ; 
put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly till it 
boils and thickens. Then add one tablespoonful of 
cream, a dust of cayenne, and a little salt Have 
grated two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and stir 
rather more than half into the white sauce. Place 
the cauliflower in the dish in which it is to be 
served, pour the sauce all over the cauliflower, 
and sprinkle the remainder of the grated cheese 
over the cauliflower, and brown the top with a hot 
salamander till it is a pale brown. This dish 
should be served very hot. 

Cauliflower au Parmesan. 

Choose four very small white cauliflowers, cut 
off* the stalks and stems, making them flat, so that 
they will stand nicely in the dish. Cleanse 
thoroughly and boil till tender, but not sufficiently 
so to run any risk of breaking. Arrange them so 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 23 

as to make them look like one large cauliflower, 
and powder them thickly with grated Parmesan. 
Make a sauce with an ounce of butter, a little salt, 
half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, the yolks of two 
eggs beaten to a cream, and two tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan. Mix well together, and stir over 
the fire ; then pour over and around the cauliflower. 

Stuffed Cauliflower. 

Boil a cauliflower till cooked, but not so soft as 
to fall to pieces. With a sharp knife remove a 
small part of the heart of the flower ; fill the 
vacuum with a stuffing of the chopped heart, and 
four cooked mushrooms seasoned with cayenne. 
Make a good white sauce, mix in some grated 
Parmesan cheese, pour over the cauliflower, and 
serve very hot, garnished with cro(itons. 

Moulded Cauliflower. 

Choufleur en forme. 

Boil four nice and white cauliflowers, all of an 
equal size, in a little thin flour and water till 
tender ; then cut off the stalks and press them, head 
downwards, into a hot basin ; then arrange them in 
a vegetable-dish, with some of the stalks arranged 
neatly round them, and pour over them some 
tomato sauce. 

Cauliflower Omelet. 

Take the white part of a boiled cauliflower 
after it is cold, chop it very small, and mix with 
It a sufficient quantity of well-beaten egg to make 
a very thick batter ; then fry in fresh butter and 
send it to table hot. 



24 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Cauliflower Fritters. 

When the cauliflowers are boiled and drained 
divide them into branches, and toss them up for a 
few minutes in a stewpan, with butter, pepper, salt, 
and a little nutmeg. Serve with fried sippets. 

Celery with Brown Sauce. 

Take five or six heads of celery with the roots^ 
break off the coarse outer stalks, lay them in cold 
water for some hours, parboil them in water for ten 
minutes, drain, and place them in a stewpan with as 
much stock as will cover them ; add a small piece of 
glaze, pepper, salt, and a very little flour. Let all 
stew gently for about an hour. When done, dish up 
the celery, strain the sauce and pour it over the 
celery. 

Celery with Cream. 

Cut the white part of three heads of celery into 
lengths of about three inches long, boil it till quite 
tender, and strain the water from it Beat up the 
yolks of three eggs and strain them into half a pint 
of cream ; season with a little salt, and put this 
and the celery into a stewpan, and place it over the 
fire till it boils and becomes tolerably thick, and 
then send it to table on toast 

Celery k TEspag^nole. 

Select well-grown celery, cut it into lengths of 
six inches, and blanch in boiling water. Place two 
slices of bacon in a stewpan and place the celery 
on these; mix four tablespoonfuls of Espagnole 
sauco (see * Entries k la Mode ') and the same 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 15 

quantity of broth. Simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour. Dish up the celery after removing the grease 
from the sauce, and pour it round the celery. 

Celery *au Jus.' 

Parboil some celery, drain it, and put it into a 
stewpan ; toss it in a little oil. Add some good 
meat gravy to it and a tomato. Simmer till the 
celery is quite cooked ; then strain the sauce and 
serve over it. 

Stewed Celery. 

Cut five or six roots of celery to the length of 
the inside of the dish in which they are to be 
served, take away all the outer leaves and green 
tops, wash the celery till it is perfectly clean ; then 
stew it in good stock till it is tender, and sauce it with 
either a thick bechamel or a good Espagnole sauce. 

Celery k la Villeroi. 

Take three or four heads of celery, cut them 
into six-inch lengths, parboil them, and then dip 
them into cold water ; drain them, and then split 
the heads into halves ; mask them with some thick 
Allemande sauce, and place them on a dish to get 
cold. Now roll them in bread-crumbs ; and serve 
Villeroi sauce with this dish. 

Cucumbers k TEspag^nole. 

Cut the cucumbers into pieces about two inches 
long and one inch wide, remove the seeds, strew a 
little salt over them, and let them remain between 
two plates for an hour or more. Drain off the juice 
and put them into a saucepan ; cover them with 



26 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

good stock and let them simmer gently till quite 
tender. Drain them, pile high on a dish, and pour 
'some rich brown sauce over them. 

Celery Cream k rAmbrosia. 

(Original Recipe. ) 

Take two or three heads of celery, washing it 
well and scraping it clean ; place it in a mortar, 
and have ready a pint of good rich cream and pour 
in hall a pint, one gill at a time, over the celery, 
and pound well together for a few minutes, and 
then rub it through a clean wire sieve. When it is 
passed put it back into the mortar, and keep adding 
cream, about a gill at a time, till all is well blended. 
Continue this till all the cream is used. Then add 
half a pint of nicely flavoured whipped aspic 
Have prepared a buttered mould which has been 
decorated with cooked mushrooms arranged in 
tiers all round the mould, and arrange leaves of 
chervil fancifully about ; pour in the celery pur^e, 
and place on ice for some hours and turn out. If 
any of the mushrooms should adhere to the mould 
it is easy to attach them to the cream again ; place 
chopped aspic all rqund the base and on the top, 
sticking a small piece of the stalk of celery with 
leaf on it in the centre. 

Morels k TAndalouse. 

Cut half a pound of ham into dice, fry them in 
salad oil, and when a good colour put in some 
morels ; moisten with half a pint of sherry, a gill of 
madeira, and season with a mixture of a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a 
teaspoonful of capsicum powder, to which add a 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 2J 

dessertspoonful of finely-minced parsley. Cook 
for forty-five minutes ; then dish up the morels in a 
pyramid and pour the sauce over, which should 
be thickened with flour and flavoured with lemon- 
juice. 

Colcannon. 

Mix in about equal proportions some well- 
mashed potatoes and some young sprouts, or greens 
of any kind, first boiled till quite tender and chopped 
up. Mash up all thoroughly together ; add a sea- 
soning of pepper and salt, a small bit of butter, and 
a spoonful or two of cream or milk ; put a raw 
onion in the middle of all, and stir over a clear 
fire till very hot and sufficiently dry to be moulded 
and turned out. The onion must be taken out 
before the dish is served. 

Turnips and carrots are often chopped up with 
the greens and potatoes. 

This can also be made with parsnips and 
potatoes. 

Colcannon. 

(Another way.) 

Boil and mash greens, cabbage, carrots, turnips, 
a shred onion with mashed potatoes — half the quan- 
tity should consist of the latter ; add two eggs, 
pepper and salt, and a good piece of butter ; put 
it into a plain mould or pudding-basin, boil for an 
hour, and turn out. 

Fillets of Cucumber. 

Divide through the middle a cucumber, remove 
the seeds and soft part, cut it into lengths of about 
one inch, trim them in oval shapes and all the 



28 DkESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

same size. Put them in a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter, a little pepper, sugar, and salt, and let them 
stew till quite tender without acquiring any colour. 

Cucumber Mayonnaise. 

Put the beaten yolk of an egg in a glass dish, 
with very little salt, pepper, and a dust of cayenne 
and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Mix these to a 
cream, and then add the best salad oil, a few drops 
at a time, and well stirred till thick. A little more 
lemon-juice will thin it, and then add more oil till 
half a pint has been used in this alternate fashion. 

Fish served in this is very good. 

Cucumbers k la Poulette. 

Pare and slice two cucumbers very thinly, let 
them soak in a little vinegar, sprinkled with salt, 
for half an hour. Drain, and then press them dry 
in a cloth ; flour them, and put a piece of butter 
into a stewpan, and when it begins to boil throw in 
the cucumbers and shake them over a gentle fire 
for ten minutes, being careful they should not take 
the slightest colour. Pour on to them some very 
strong but pale gravy, enough to cover them ; when 
it boils, skim off the fat entirely, add a little salt 
and white pepper, and when the cucumbers are 
quite tender strew in a dessertspoonful of finely- 
minced parsley, and thicken the sauce with the 
yolks of two eggs. 

Stewed Cucumbers. 

Pare and split into quarters about four young 
cucumbers, peel them, and then pare them round 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 29 

and round into thin ribbons until the watery part 
is reached, which part must be thrown aside. 
Sprinkle these with cayenne and salt, and leave 
them to drain a little. Arrange them lightly on a 
dish, and sauce them with very fine oil well mixed 
with chilli vinegar and a trifle of common vinegar. 



Stuffed Cucumber. 

Peel a large cucumber, remove a narrow piece 
from the side and scoop out the seeds with a tea- 
spoon. Fill the cavity with a forcemeat made of 
lobster and salmon, replace the piece and bind it 
round with thread. Line the bottom of a saucepan 
with slices of bacon, put the cucumber upon it and 
then two or three more slices ; cover the whole with 
nicely flavoured stock ; season with salt and pepper, 
and simmer gently till the cucumber is sufficiently 
cooked ; then take it out, thicken the gravy with a 
little flour and butter, and serve very hot 



Dressed Endive. 

Plunge three heads of celery into salted water, 
having removed the green leaves from them. 
When well washed, blanch, drain dry, and finely 
chop them. Put into a stewpan half a pint of good 
gravy and the endive heads, add a saltspoonful of 
castor sugar and a little salt, and stew till tender. 
When cooked, thicken with butter and flour, and 
stir in a gill of good rich brown sauce with a 
dessertspoonful of lemon-juice stirred into it, an4 
serve with poached eggs on the top. 



30 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Endive RagoCit. 

Lay two heads of white endive in salt and 
water for three hours. Take fifty asparagus, cut 
off the heads, then chop the rest small as far as it 
is tender, and lay in salt and water. Take a bunch 
of celery, wash and scrape it clean and cut it into 
three-inch lengths. Put it into a saucepan with a 
pint of water and some mignonette pepper ; let it 
stew till quite tender, then put in the asparagus. 
Shake the saucepan, and let it simmer till the grass 
is cooked. Take the endive out of the water, drain 
it, and leave one large head whole. Take the other 
leaf by leaf, put it into the stewpan, and put to it a 
pint of sauterne. Cover the pan closely, and let it boil 
till the endive is done ; add a quarter of a pound of 
butter rolled in flour, cover the pan again and keep 
it shaking. Then take out the endive when cooked 
and lay the whole head in the middle ; take out the 
celery and asparagus and lay them round it, and 
the other part of the endive over that Pour the 
liquor out of the saucepan into the stewpan, stir it 
together, and season it with salt. Beat the yolk of 
an egg up with half a pint of cream, which mix 
into the sauce, keeping stirring till thick, and then 
pour it over the ragoOt. 

Endive Stewed with Cream. 

Wash four heads of endive thoroughly, pluck 
off the outer green leaves, put them into a stewpan 
of boiling salt and water and boil them quickly 
till tender ; then drain and squeeze them dry, cut 
off the roots, and chop them very fine. Rub them 
through a wire sieve into a stewpan, add an ounce 



DRESSED VEGETABLES ,A LA MODE, 31 

of butter and a little salt ; stir it over a slow fire for 
a few minutes ; then mix in two dessertspoonfuls of 
white sauce, a tablespoonful of cream, and a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar. Stir over the fire till 
thick, and pile up in a dish, and garnish with fried 
sippets. 

Greens k la Hottentot 

Take three onions and one chilli, and add 
sufficient batter to stew some greens in ; fry the 
onions and chilli till soft ; then wash the greens and 
put them with the butter, onions, and chilli into a 
stewpan without any water. Season with salt ; 
cover the stewpan and let them simmer gently over 
the fire till all the water from the greens is dried 
up. A few prawns added is a great improvement. 

Haricot Beans ^ la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Take a quart of haricot beans, soak them in 
cold water for three or four hours, then boil them 
in salt and water till tender ; drain well, and put 
them into a stewpan, with three ounces of butter 
mixed with a teaspoonful of chopped chives, a 
sprig of parsley minced fine, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Shake the pan over the fire, but do not 
stir. When hot, and all well mixed together, 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

Kohlrabi au Gratin. 

Pare and cut a kohlrabi in thin slices ; simmer 
in salt and water for some hours till quite tender. 
Drain away the water ; then coat a china dish (fire- 
proof) with butter and browned bread-crumbs ; 
then put a layer of the sliced kohlrabi with a little 



32 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

cream, then a layer of forcemeat, then another of 
kohlrabi. Mix some broth and cream and pour in 
a small quantity. 

Strew the surface with bread-crumbs ; finish with 
^ salamander to brown it 

Kohlrabi Steamed. 

Peel some young kohlrabi and cut it into thin 
slices. Put some gravy and a small piece of butter 
into a stewpan and steam them till soft. Have 
mixed a small tablespoonful of flour in melted 
butter, and stir this into the gravy till quite smooth ; 
season to taste ; boil up, and pour through a strainer 
over the kohlrabi, which ought to be quite soft. 
Cover whilst boiling. 

A dessertspoonful of sugar is boiled with them. 

Laver. 

Have some mashed potatoes put upon a dish 
(juite flatly, and cover it with some laver ; then 
another layer of potatoes, then another of laver. 

The laver is dressed like spinach. 

Laver to Stew. 

Stir in a stewpan over the fire two ounces of 
butter, a gill of stock, a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
pepper and salt to taste, and a pint of laver. Serve 
very hot. 

Curried Lentils. 

Fry three or four sliced onions in a little butter 
until of a nice brown colour ; put them into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint gf red lentils and one pint ot 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 33 

water ; simmer one hour ; then add a dessert- 
spoonful of curry-powder and a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, and serve with boiled rice. 

Stewed Lettuces. 

Strip off the outer leaves and cut away the 
stalks. Wash the lettuces thoroughly and throw 
them into salted water. 

They will be tender in twenty-five minutes. Lift 
them out and press the water from them, chop them 
a little, and heat them up in a saucepan, with pepper 
and salt to taste, and a small slice of butter. Now 
dredge in a little flour and stir well ; then add a 
small cup of gravy ; boil quickly until they are 
tolerably dry ; then stir in a little lemon-juice, and 
serve them hot with fried sippets around them. 

Stuffed Lettuce. 

Take four large heads of lettuce, wash well, and 
boil them in salted water. After they have boiled 
a quarter of an hour take them out and put them 
into cold water. Then drain them well, cut them 
open and stuff with a veal forcemeat, tying the ends 
of the lettuce round the meat securely. Place the 
stuffed heads in a stewpan, covering them with 
gravy, and seasoning with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 
Put the stewpan on the side of the stove to simmer 
for a quarter of an hour ; then take out the heads 
(removing the strings), and serve on a hot dish 
with the gravy poured round them. 

Mandram or Dressed Cucumbers. 

Take cucumbers, pare them, and chop them in 
small pieces. Take half the quantity of young 

D 



34 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

onions and cut them fine, add a piece of lemc 
a trifle of cayenne, and a glass of sherry or made 
and dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar. This is ve 
good with any roast meat 

Morelles k TAndalouse. 

Cut half a pound of ham into dice, fry them 
salad oil, and, when a good colour, put in soi 
morels. Moisten with a gill of madeira and hal 
pint of chablis, season with a mixture composed 
a saltspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepp 
and a teaspoonful of capsicum powder, to whi 
add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced parsley. 

Cook all this for forty-five minutes ; then di 
up the morels in a pyramid and pour the sau 
over, which must be thickened with flour ai 
flavoured lemon-juice. 

Green Morels Stewed. 

Take some morels, wash them well, cut t 
large ones in quarters, leaving the smaller on 
whole. Put them into a stewpan with gravy enoui 
to cover them, a glass of sauterne, and a little pepf 
and salt. Cover them closely and let them st< 
gently for an hour ; then stir in a piece of buti 
mixed with flour and a dessert-spoonful of lem< 
Boil till thick as cream, then serve. 

Mushrooms k la Bordelaise. 

Clean some large fresh-gathered mushroon 
skin and lightly score the under-side. Put the 
into a china dish and baste them with oil or butt 
and strew pepper and salt over them. When th 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 35 

have been steeped in this marinade for a couple of 
hours, broil them on both sides for ten minutes over 
a clear fire, and serve with melted butter in which 
are parsley, young onions, a little garlic (all minced), 
and the juice of a lemon poured over them. 

Mushrooms k la Bordelaise. 

(Another way.) 

Take some large fresh mushrooms ; peel, wash, 
and drain them ; make one or two slits on the top 
side of the mushrooms ; let them soak for an hour 
in salad oil, salt and pepper. Broil them, taking 
care to turn them so that each side may be equally 
broiled. Warm the oil in which the mushrooms 
were soaked, season with finely chopped chives and 
parsley ; dish up the mushrooms, sprinkle over with 
a few drops of lemon-juice, and pour the hot oil 
over them. 

Mushrooms au Beurre. 

Cut the stems from some button mushrooms 
and clean them well with a soft cloth and some 
fine salt, and rinse them in water ; drain them 
quickly. Spread them in a clean cloth and leave 
them to dry for ten minutes. Put an ounce and a 
half of fresh butter to a pint of mushrooms and 
place it in a thick saucepan, and shake over the 
fire until it just begins to brown ; then throw in 
the mushrooms, and continue shaking the sauce- 
pan over a clear fire that they may not bum, and 
when they have simmered three or four minutes 
strew over them a little salt and a dust of cayenne ; 
stew them till they are perfectly tender, and heap 
them high on a dish, and serve very hot. 



36 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Croustades of Mushrooms. 

Chop an onion very finely ; fry it in butter 
pale brown, stir it carefully, then add a quarter 
a pound of finely-chopped mushrooms ; simm 
together till the mushrooms are two-thirds cooke 
Soak two anchovies ; pound them in a mort 
with a teaspoonful of French mustard, three tabl 
spoonfuls of brown sauce, and add this to ti 
mushrooms. Boil together for two or three minut< 
and fill the croustade case. 



Mushrooms au Gratin. 

Skin, wash, drain, and wipe dry some fres 
mushrooms. Cut the stems to within a quarter < 
an inch, and fill the cup with a forcemeat mac 
of one ounce grated bacon, quarter ounce of shn 
shalot, a sprig of chopped parsley, a tiny piece 
thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer tl 
for five minutes in butter, and add the yolk of j 
egg. Stand the mushrooms, well dredged wi 
bread raspings, in a baking-dish smeared wi 
butter, and bake in a moderate oven. When doi 
serve piled on a hot dish with some rich bro\ 
sauce round. 

Stuffed Mushrooms k la Lucullus. 

Wash, dry, and trim some mushrooms ; ch 
up the stalks with a teaspoonful of minced parsl 
and tomato, and warm this mixture for a f 
moments in some butter. Fill the mushrooi 
(they should be large ones) with this mixtu 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 37 

place them on a buttered baking-dish, and bake 
them six minutes, basting them with clarified 
butter 



Mushroom Toast 

Crdute aax Champignons. 

Take the stems off half a pound of small 
mushrooms, then peel them. Dissolve two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan, strew over them a dust 
of cayenne and a dust of pounded mace, and let 
them stew over a gentle fire from ten to fifteen 
minutes ; shake them all the time ; then add a 
small dessert-spoonful of flour, and shake the 
pan until it is browned a pale colour. Pour in 
slowly a gill of good gravy, and when the mush- 
rooms have stewed softly for a couple of minutes, 
throw in a little salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice, 
and pour them on a slice cut about an inch thick 
from the under part of a moderately-sized loaf and 
fried in butter a pale brown, after having been first 
slightly hollowed on the outside. 



Mushrooms and Tomatoes. 

Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and cut it into 
rounds two inches in diameter. Dip the tomatoes 
into hot water and peel them ; cut them into thick 
slices and lay them on the toast ; on the top of 
these place a peeled mushroom. These must be 
put into a buttered tin, and a little clarified melted 
butter poured over each ; then place the dish into 
the oven for two minutes and baste them whilst 
cooking. Serve hot and quickly. 



38 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Baked Spanish Onions. 

Take a large onion : wash it clean ; take a 
corer and remove the' core, and put in its place 
some butter, pepper, and salt, and let it bake with 
a thin piece of paper round it for an hour, or till 
done, in a slow oven. When done, peel it a!nd put 
it into a vegetable-dish, and pour over some good 
brown gravy. 

Onions k la Bretonne. 

Brown four large onions over a slow fire in 
butter and salt, and when a good colour stir in a 
little flour. Moisten with good brown stock and 
reduce. Pass the same over a tammy, and pour 
the onions. 

Onions k la Bordeaux. 

Parboil some onions, not too large ; drain the 
water from them ; put them into a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter and a bouquet garni chopped 
fine ; add a gill of good rich gravy, and the same 
of claret ; simmer till the onions are fairly tender, 
and the sauce reduced. Squeeze over a table- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. Dish up, and serve hot 

Spanish Onion k la C^lerie. 

Peel a large Spanish onion and bring it to the 
boil in the usual way. Let it drain thoroughly. 
Take an apple-corer and take out the centre, and 
fill in with a forcemeat of tomatoes and mushrooms, 
with a few drops of lemon-juice. Put the stuffed 
onion into a stewpan with one small carrot, one 



■* 

M 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 39 

small turnip, a bouquet garni, a dust of cayenne, a 
lean piece of ham, and some good Espagnole, or 
rich brown sauce (about half a pint). Put them in 
the oven, with a few live coals on the lid, and let 
all stew for three hours, or perhaps a little longer, 
adding a little butter and gravy from time to 
time. When cooked, glaze the onion, remove all 
fat from the sauce, and pour round the onion ; and 
have strips of celery which have been cooked in 
thin broth in which some cheese had been sprinkled, 
drain them, and garnish the top of the onion with 
them. 

Onions k la Corsica. 

Peel four large onions. Cut them into quarters 
and then slice them. Throw them into boiling 
salad oil. Keep stirring till they are tender. After 
draining them, stir in enough cooked spinach to 
turn them green. Place them on a dish and serve, 
garnished with the white of hard-boiled egg cut 
in quarters and the yolk chopped and arranged in 
little bunches round. 

Onions k la Cr&me. 

Take four small Spanish onions and boil them 
in three waters ; drain them and put them into a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little flour 
rubbed smooth, pepper and salt, and a gill of 
cream. Put this over a slow fire and stir fre- 
quently till cooked. Serve with the same poured 
over them. 

Onion Fritters. 

Chop up an onion. Make a stiff batter with a 
table-spoonful of flour, an egg, a little milk, ^e^^^et^ 



40 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

and salt. Mix all well together, and put a dessert- 
spoonful at a time into a frying-pan of boilinj 
butter or dripping. Brown the fritters on hot" 
sides and serve them, alone or handed round wit 
rump steak. 

Onions k la G6noise. 

Take a pint of small onions and boil them i 
good Lucca or olive oil. Drain them and pour th^ 
sauce over them. A tablespoonful of minc^ 
capers, gherkins, and sultana raisins, minced pa 
sley, a dust of cayenne pepper, a tablespoonful c 
vinegar, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a table 
spoonful of good gravy, and O. K. Sauce. Wher 
these ingredients are hot, pour over the onions anc 
serve. 

Onions *au Jus.' 

Cook some young onions in boiling salt and 
water for fifteen minutes, then drain them. Mix 
some flour and butter well together over the fire 
until they are pale brown ; add a little claret anc 
gravy. Now put in the onions with a bouque 
garni, a couple of cloves, and a bay leaf Simme: 
all together till the onions are quite cooked 
Strain and dish up the onions with the sauce, anc 
add some fried sippets, a few capers, and a coupl< 
of minced anchovies. 

Miroton of Onion. 

Take some onions, chop them up, and saut 

them in butter till they are browned. Dredge « 

little flour over them, then add hard-boiled egg 

cut up up small, shred herbs, pepper, a gfill o 

cream, and a teaspoonful of sauterne Place thi; 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 41 

mixture in a buttered mould, and bake it for about 
an hour. Turn it out and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Ragoiit of Onions. 

Peel and blanch six onions, strain the water 
from them, and place them in a stewpan with half 
a pint of cream, pepper, salt to taste, and a dust of 
cayenne. Simmer till the onions are done, then 
make a liaison with the yolks of two eggs into the 
cream sauce, and serve the onions with the sauce 
around, and garnished with fried sippets cut into 
shapes. 

Onions k TEspagnole. 

Peel a large onion and stamp out the core with 
a vegetable-culler ; parboil in water for ten minutes, 
and drain on a sieve. Spread the bottom of a 
stewpan with butter, place the onion in it ; moisten 
with gravy just enough to cover it, and let it boil 
slowly, turning it occasionally. When nearly done, 
add a dessert-spoonful of castor sugar, and boil 
down quickly to a glaze ; add a little tomato pur^e, 
and roll the onion in it, and dish up. 

Spanish Onions Stewed. 

Boil a large onion, and when done scoop out 
the middle and fill it with forcemeat, fry it a light 
brown, and make a rich gravy and pour over. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Parboil onion or onions in salted water for ten 
minutes. Remove the core with coIutmx-o^^Xrxh 



42 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

leaving the bottom intact. Fill up with a mixture 
of bread-crumbs, anchovies, well washed and cut- 
up small capers, pepper, and salt ; melt a piece of 
butter in a saucepan, and mix with it a table-spoonful 
of flour ; put in the onion ; take an equal quantity of 
broth and claret, pour enough into the saucepan to 
almost cover the onions ; add a bundle of herbs tied 
up, with a few cloves, and simmer gently till the 
onions are done ; remove the herbs and dish up the 
onions. 

Stuffed Onions. 

(Another way.) 

Peel a couple of fair-sized Portugal onions, par- 
boil and drain them ; scoop out the centre, but 
keeping the onions whole. Chop up the inside of 
the onion with a little meat and a little fat bacon ; 
add some bread-crumbs, a sprig of parsley, and a 
small piece of lemon peel, chopped fine ; add pepper 
and salt to taste ; then beat it all up to a paste 
with a well-beaten egg and stuff the onions with it, 
dredge them with flour, and fry them a nice brown ; 
then place them in a stewpan with a rich brown 
gravy to cover them, and let them stew gently for 
two hours. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Take three large parsnips and boil them till 
tender ; peel them and mash them very finely ; add 
a teaspoonful of flour, one well-beaten egg, and salt 
to taste. Make the mixture into small cakes with 
a spoon, and fry them on both sides, a delicate 
brown in good dripping or butter. Serve them up 
very hot and piled upon the dish. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 43 

Parsnip Balls. 

Parboil six parsnips, and let them get cold ; 
then peel them and grate them. Beat two eggs till 
very light and mix with the grated parsnip, adding 
enough flour to bind the mixture. Make this mix- 
ture into small flat balls. Have some boiling lard or 
clarified dripping and drop the balls gently into it ; 
fry them until a golden brown on both sides. Send 
to the table hot, garnished with fried parsley. 

Petits Pois k la Demi-Bourgeoise. 

Put a quart of young peas into a stewpan, with 
a good-sized piece of butter, one onion, one cabbage 
lettuce cut in four. Let them be stewed in their 
own juice upon a very slow fire. When they are 
done and there is hardly any sauce left, add a little 
sugar, very fine salt, and afterwards the yolks of 
two eggs with some cream ; mix the whole on the 
fire and serve up. 

Peas Stewed with Lettuces and Ham. 

Shell a peck of young green peas and put them 
into a bowl of cold water and two ounces of butter. 
Work them well with the fingers to make the peas 
stick together, and then drain them in a colander. 
Put them then in a stewpan with the hearts of two 
cabbage lettuces finely shred, a large onion cut into 
thin slices, a handful of parsley, and half a pound 
of ham cut into small pieces ; cover the saucepan 
closely and let the peas stew till the peas are tender ; 
shake the saucepan now and again to prevent the 



44 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

peas sticking. When they are done, take out the 
ham and the onion, put in two ounces of butter 
mixed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour 
and a table-spoonful of cream. A sprig of mint 
stewed with the peas is an improvement. Simmer 
gently for four minutes, and serve as hot as possible, 
with fried sippets round, and slices of broiled ham 
on the top. 

Potato- Balls. 

Bake half a dozen potatoes ; rub them through 
a wire sieve, and put them into a stewpan with an 
ounce of butter, two yolks of eggs, a little pepper 
and salt ; stir over the fire till the paste leaves the 
sides of the pan ; then put it between two plates 
to get cold ; then shape this potato-paste into 
small balls or pears (the stalks being represented 
by parsley stalks) ; dip these into beaten egg, roll 
them in bread-crumbs and fry of a pale colour in 
hot frying fat ; dish them up high in a pyramid 
shape. 

Potato-Balls k la Duchesse. 

Take half a dozen potatoes, boil and pass them 
through a sieve, and work into them in a bowl one 
gill of cream and the yolks of three eggs ; add 
pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg to taste, with 
some finely-chopped parsley. When well mixed 
and smooth, take them up by little spoonfuls, roll 
each into a ball, flatten and flour it slightly. Lay 
them all on a saut^-pan, with plenty of melted 
butter, and cook them slowly. Turn them when 
one side is done, and serve hot as soon as both 
sides are coloured. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 45 



Potato- Ball Rago{it. 

Mash, roll up with yolk of egg, grated ham or 
tongue, minced parsley, one onion, pepper, salt, and 
a little bit of butter ; roll them in beaten egg and 
a little flour, and fry them in good dripping. 



Potatoes k la Bonn. 

(German Recipe.) 

Cut some raw potatoes into slices half an inch 
thick, and cut them into four or five strips ; fry 
them in plenty of very hot butter till a nice golden 
colour, turning them so that all sides should be 
equally golden. 

Have ready one ounce of Parmesan cheese and 
one ounce of Gruy^re cheese, and a gill of cream 
which has been stirred over the fire till the cheese 
is hot and melted ; add a dust of cayenne. Put in 
the potatoes and give one stir round, and arrange 
in a dish which will hold hot water. 

Potato Boulettes. 

Boil some good potatoes, dry, mash a pound of 
them smoothly, and mix with them two ounces of 
fresh butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, 
the beaten and strained yolks of four eggs, and then 
the whites well whisked. Mould the mixture with 
a teaspoon, and drop it into a small pan of boiling 
butter, and fry these boulettes for five minutes over 
a moderate fire a pale brown colour ; drain, and 
dish them up high. 



46 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Potatoes in Cases. 

Take as many potatoes as may be required and 
bake them ; cut a small piece from the top of each 
and with a spoon scoop out the insides. Mash 
them smoothly, and pass through a sieve ; mix 
with this potato-paste an ounce of fresh butter and 
a gill of cream. Put it into a stewpan over a slow 
fire to boil, and during the time stir quickly in the 
whites of a couple of eggs whipped to a very stiff 
froth ; then fill the potato-skins with the mixture, 
bake quickly in the oven, and serve in a folded 
napkin. 

Potato-Chips or Ribbons. 

Wash a pound of potatoes well in cold water, 
and scrub them clean ; peel them, and cut out the 
eyes, and any black specks there may be ; then 
peel the potatoes very thinly into ribbons and twist 
them into fancy shapes. Put into a saucepan about 
a pound of clarified dripping, and heat it to frying 
heat ; then take a frying-basket and put the 
potato-ribbons in when the fat is quite hot, for 
about six minutes. Place a piece of paper on a 
plate, and when the chips are done — which they 
will be when they become quite crisp and of a pale 
brown colour — turn them out on to the paper and 
drain off the grease, and sprinkle salt over them, 
and serve them very hot. 

Potatoes ci la Crfeme. 

Put a piece of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 
pan, with some salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. 
Mix all well together and add a gill of cream ; then 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 47 

place the sauce on the fire and stir round till it 
boils. 

Have ready some potatoes cut in slices ; put 
them into the sauce, and after warming them up 
serve very hot. Sometimes a little chopped parsley 
and green onions are added to the sauce. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Boil some potatoes very dry ; mash them quite 
smoothly ; season them with salt and white pepper ; 
warm them with about an ounce and a half of 
butter, pound it, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
good cream. Boil them till dry ; let them cool a 
little, and then roll them into balls ; sprinkle over 
them crushed vermicelli, and fry them a pale brown. 
Sometimes they are rolled in egg and bread-crumbs 
instead of the vermicelli. 

Potato Croquettes. 

(Another way. ) 

Take two pounds of potatoes, boil them, and 
pass them through a wire sieve with a wooden 
spoon ; then put into a stewpan an ounce of butter 
and a tablespoonful of milk and put it on the fire, 
and when this is hot stir in smoothly the sifted 
potato ; then take off the stewpan from the fire, 
and break the yolks of two eggs into a basin and 
stir them one at a time into the sifted potato ; then 
take three sprigs of parsley, wash them in cold 
water, dry them in a cloth and chop them very 
finely. Sprinkle the parsley into the stewpan and 
season the potato with a little pepper and salt. 
Turn the potato on to a plate and let it get cold ; 
then put some clarified dripping into a deep stew- 



48 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

pan and put it on the fire to heat, and have some 
bread-crumbs ready. When the potato-mixture is 
cold form it into balls ; then egg and bread-crumb 
these balls and fry them in a frying-basket, taking 
care the balls do not touch each other. When the 
fat is hot and smoking put in the frying-basket for 
two minutes and fry a pale yellow ; drain them, 
and mount them up high on a dish, and ornament 
with fried parsley 

Potatoes k la Cr^me au Gratin. 

Take some boiled potatoes and cut them into 
slices about an inch in diameter. Make a white 
bechamel sauce in which grated Parmesan cheese 
has been well mixed ; place some neat little fried 
croiitons round the bottom of the dish in the form 
of a coronet ; place inside it a close circular row of 
the sliced potatoes, and then spread a layer of the 
Parmesan mixture over them ; repeat the row of 
potatoes and the mixture till the dish is full ; 
smooth the top over with some of the sauce ; shake 
some fried bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese over all. Put all into the oven for twenty 
minutes, and then serve. 

Potato Cheese. 

Follow the recipe exactly as for Potato Souffl^e, 
adding only three ounces of grated cheese, Par- 
mesan or otherwise, to the ingredients. 

Potato Fritters. 

Take a pint of milk, put into it three ounces of 
potato-flour, warm it up for a quarter of an hour ; 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 49 

flavour it with an ounce of powdered macaroons, a 
dessertspoonful of sugar, and six drops of orange- 
flower water. Boil, and then add two yolks of 
eggs ; stir till it becomes a thick batter ; pour into 
a dish to get cold, when it should be rolled into 
small balls the size of a walnut ; egg and bread- 
crumb them and fry. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar before serving. 

Potatoes au Gratin. 

Boil the potatoes, then peel them and pound 
them smooth. Place a layer of them on a baking- 
dish and sprinkle over them a little grated Par- 
mesan cheese, with a few little bits of butter ; then 
add another layer of potato, cheese, and butter 
until all the potato is used up. 

Salamander this and send to table quickly. 

Fried Potatoes k la Hollandaise. 

Boil some potatoes in salt and water, peel and 
mash them and rub them through a sieve ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a bouquet garni, and moisten 
with a gill of good gravy — the pur^e should be 
very thick ; then make it into balls, which should 
be dipped in beaten egg and fried, and served with 
fried parsley. 

Potatoes k Tltalienne. 

Bake some potatoes ; cut off* the tops and scoop 
out the pulp, and mix with a third proportion of 
well-boiled rice ; season with grated Parmesan 
cheese, pepper, and salt. Put this mixture back 
into the potato-shells, replace the tops, and bake 
them in the oven for a few minutes. This makes 
a very nice savoury. 



50 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

Italian Potatoes. 

(Another way.) 

Boil one pound of potatoes, then peel and 
pound them ; add three ounces of butter, a little 
bread-crumb soaked in milk ; beat the mixture 
smooth but not liquid ; beat the yolks of three eggs 
well ; add them to the mixture with the beaten 
whites of two. Dish this high up on a dish, smooth 
it with a knife, pour over some hot butter, and bake 
in the oven. Serve quickly. 

Potato Kl5sse. 

Take about six baked potatoes and scoop out 
the floury part till there are about six ounces. 
Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it 
with the potato-flour; add the well-beaten yolks 
of two eggs, a grate of nutmeg, and a little pepper 
and salt to taste. Beat the mixture thoroughly, and 
mould it into small balls. Drop these in boiling 
salt and water, and be careful to do this with a 
metal spoon, and to dip it into boiling water each 
time it is used. Or they may be made with two 
ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs and one ounce 
of Parmesan, the white of one of the eggs, then 
moulded and boiled as above. Sprinkle fried 
bread-crumbs over when dishing them up. 

Potatoes k la Lyonnaise. 

Cut up in rounds about a quarter of an inch 
thick six potatoes that have been boiled, and fry 
them a pale golden colour, with an ounce and a 
half of butter, in a frying-pan ; season with chopped 
parsley and shallot, pepper and salt, and a table* 
spoonful of lemon-]uice. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MOVE. 51 



Potatoes k la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Wash half a dozen potatoes ; boil them in salt 
and water. When done, drain, and let them cool. 
Then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices ; 
put one and a half ounce of butter, a little pepper 
and salt to taste, four tablespoonfuls of good gravy, 
and one table-spoonful of minced parsley. Mix all 
well together, put in the potatoes, shake them well 
in the sauce to cover them, and when quite hot 
through squeeze in the lemon-juice and serve. 

Potatoes k la Milanese. 

Take as many potatoes as are required ; choose 
the largest ; bake them well, and cut off the tops 
and scoop out the insides. Pass the potato through 
a sieve, and add a table-spoonful of grated Parme- 
san and Gruy^re cheese mixed, pepper and salt. 
Melt a good tablespoonful of butter (or more ac- 
cording to number of potatoes) in a stewpan, put 
in the potato and make it hot, and fill the skins of 
the potatoes with it. Put them in the oven and 
serve up very hot. 

Potatoes k la Mode. 

Peel as many potatoes as are wanted, cut them 
in slices lengthways half an inch thick, dry them in 
a cloth. Have a frying-pan with almost boiling 
fat in it, put in the potatoes and let them fry for 
ten minutes. Take them out and drain them ; let 
them get nearly cold. Boil the fat up again, and 
when boiling put in the potatoes and fry them. iox. 



S^ DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

four minutes, when they should come out perfectlj 
dry and a pale gold colour, and much swollen 
Sprinkle with salt, and serve quickly. 



Potatoes k la Moltke. 

Take about eight good-sized potatoes, peel and 
cut them into long thin slices. Have ready three 
ounces of butter mixed with two tablespoonfuls ol 
flour and put them in a stewpan and stir over the 
fire till the butter is a good brown colour ; then adc 
half a pint of broth and two tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar. Put the potatoes in this gravy and let them 
simmer gently till tender, which will be in twelve 
or fifteen minutes. Serve very hot Some cooks 
put in a bay-leaf to simmer in with the potatoes. 



Potatoes k la Napolitaine. 

Put a large tablespoonful of gravy into a ste 
pan with two ounces of butter, one ounce of gra' 
Parmesan, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, pep 
and salt to taste, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk 
two well-beaten eggs, and set it over the fir 
become hot. Place a border of fried croO 
round a dish. Put a row of potato cut into ; 
within the border ; pour over some of the i 
sauce ; then place some more slices of potato 
smaller circle, then a layer of the same, and 
until a raised centre is formed. Put a little 
over the top, and cover it well over with f 
maining, with an ounce of grated cheese anc 
bread-crumbs. Bake for twenty minutes an- 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 53 



Potato Omelet 

Take a large hot baked potato, break it open 
and scoop out the inside. Beat this till smooth, 
and mix with it a little pepper, salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, and the yolks of three 
eggs. Just before frying the omelet, add the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth. Fry in the usual 
way, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Potatoes Moulded with Parmesan. 

Mash some potatoes very smooth, and work 
into them a couple of well-beaten eggs. Put them 
into one of the French china fireproof pie-dishes, 
and shape them high in a dome-like form. Smooth 
the surface, and then draw the back of a fork over 
it in different directions and sprinkle some grated 
Parmesan over it Put little bits of butter over it 
at equal distances, and bake in the oven till the 
potatoes are of a nice gold colour. 

Potatoes k la Proven^ale. 

Mash two pounds of potatoes, pass them through 
a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt Grate 
two ounces of Gruy^re cheese and pound it in the 
mortar with enough butter to make a paste ; add 
a quarter of a pint of milk and a little minced 
parsley. Put this into a frying-pan, stirring in the 
potatoes, and fry till of a pale brown. Dish it up 
high, en pyramide. 

Potato Pudding. 

Boil about eight potatoes, take out the potato- 
flour, mash and mix it with one ounce of suet, a 



54 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 

quarter-pint of milk, and one ounce of grated 
mesan cheese ; add as much boiling water to i 
it a .proper consistency, and bake in an eai 
dish. 

Potatoes k la Russe. 

Cut up the potatoes in small pieces and 
them in olive oil, with some mushrooms mi 
small. 

Potatoes Sautd 

Wash a couple of pounds of potatoes in 
water, scrape them, and cut them into shapes 
the quarters of an orange. Let them boil up 
saucepan of cold water and wipe 'them dry. 
two ounces of butter into a stewpan and toss 
potatoes in it for about twenty minutes o\ 
quick fire. They should brown on all sides z 
Strain off the butter, sprinkle some salt ovei 
potatoes, and serve. 

Savoury Potatoes. 

Talce six good-sized potatoes, parboil, anc 
them into slices about a quarter inch thick, 
one ounce of butter and one ounce of fat bacor 
up into a saucepan, add an onion and a small st 
and let all stew till tender. Dredge in a t 
spoonful of flour, and stir till it is smooth 
brown ; then pour in, a little at a time, as r 
hot gravy as will bring the sauce to the consist 
of cream. Add half an ounce of chopped pai 
a bouquet garni, a bay-leaf, and one grate of 
meg. Let all this simmer for five minutes, \ 
the sliced potatoes must be put in ; and, \ 
tender, place them on a dish and serve very he 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 55 



Potato Snow. 

Take some fine large white potatoes, boil them 
in their skins in salt and )yater till quite tender ; 
drain, and dry them thoroughly before the fire ; rub 
the potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish ; 
do not touch them afterwards, or the flakes will 
fall. Send to table as hot as possible. 

Potato Souffld 

Make a smooth paste of two table-spoonfuls of 
mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful of flour, with a 
gill of milk, or sufficient to make it into a paste ; 
add salt and pepper and half a pint more milk ; 
put this into a stewpan with an ounce of butter. 
Stir over the fire till it is as thick as cream, then 
add four well-beaten yolks of eggs, and then stir in 
the whites beaten to a froth. When this mixture 
is stiff enough to bear the weight of an ^'g^^ pour it 
into the souffle dish and bake it in a moderate 
oven. When done, just hold a red-hot salamander 
over for a few seconds, and send quickly to "table. 

Potato SoufH6. 

(Another way.) 

Take as many potatoes as are required, wash :i 
and scrub them well. Bake them gently in the 
oven, and, when done, cut the top off one end of each 
and get the potato out without breaking the skins. 
Cut a small piece off the other end of each, so 
that they may stand up. Work the potato quite 
smooth, mixing with it pepper, salt, and four drops 
of essence of anchovy. Take the whites of two 



56 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

eggs and beat to a stiff froth. Mix this lightly with 
the potatoes, return all into the skins, put them in 
the oven to become quite hot, and serve. 

Potato Soufia^ au Parmesan. 

Make this souffle the same as the preceding 
recipe, only adding two table-spoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese into the egg-mixture, and 
sprinkling Parmesan over the top just before 
serving. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan, one 
chopped onion, a table-spoonful of parsley, a little 
celery and table-salt mixed. Cut half a pound of 
potatoes into pieces, put them in a saucepan with 
three tablespoonfuls of water ; when quite soft, add 
a gill of cream and a little vinegar ; sprinkle a little 
flour in and boil up, and serve. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Hollow out some large potatoes and fill them 
with mealy potatoes beaten to a paste in a mortar, 
mixed with chopped parsley, chives, shallot, butter, 
and fat bacon cut into dice, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Butter the insides of the potatoes and 
nearly fill them with this paste ; put them on a 
buttered tin and bake in a Dutch oven. 

Potato Straws. 

Cut raw potatoes about two inches long and 
about one-eighth of an inch thick. Fry in boiling 
fat till a golden brown and crisp, drain well on a 
sieve before the fire, and serve in the centre of a 
dish of cutlets. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 57 



Potatoes and Tomatoes. 

Bake some potatoes ; cut off the tops carefully, 
so that they may be replaced. Scoop out all the 
potato, mix it with a little butter, a dust of 
cayenne, a little garlic butter about the size of a 
pea, a little finely chopped parsley, and some 
tomato pur^e. Mix all these well together in a 
saucepan, stir well over the fire, and then refill the 
potato-cases with it, replace the tops, and strew a 
few baked bread-crumbs over, and serve very hot. 

Red Cabbage Stewed. 

(Flemish Recipe.) 

Take a fresh cabbage and strip the outer leaves, 
wash it, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices, 
beg^inning from the top. Place it in a stewpan, with 
about two ounces of clarified melted butter ; add 
some pepper and salt, and stew it very slowly for 
about four hours in its own juice, stirring it often 
and pressing it down. When quite tender, add a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and mix up thoroughly ; 
keep the cabbage in a hot dish, and serve broiled 
sausages round it. 

Salsify. 

Wash and scrape the salsify very white, put it 
into water with a dessertspoonful of vinegar in it ; 
then put it into a pan of boiling water with two 
ounces of butter, salt, and a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. When quite tender, put it to drain on a sieve. 
Then cut it into short pieces, and again put it into 
a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of white sauce^ the 



58 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 

remainder of the butter, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Shake it over the fire for a few minutes till it is 
well mixed and very hot, and serve piled high, 
garnished with fried croiitons. 

Salsify Dressed. 

Scrape and soak some salsify in water and 
vinegar; next boil them in plenty of water with salt 
and a little flour. After they are boiled, toss them 
up, with a little melted butter and grated cheese. 

Fried Salsify. 

Wash and scrape the roots of their dark outside 
skin, and cut it into lengths of three or four inches, 
when boil it till tender ; drain it. Make some 
French batter, throw the bits of salsify into it, and 
take them out separately and fry them a light 
brown ; drain well from the fat, and sprinkle a little 
salt over it and dish quickly. 

Salsify or Mock Oysters. 

(American Recipe.) 

Scrape the roots thoroughly and lay in cold 
water ten or fifteen minutes. Boil whole till tender, 
drain, and when cold mash with a wooden spoon to 
a smooth paste, picking out all the fibres. Moisten 
with a little milk. Add a tablespoonful of butter, 
and an egg and a half for every cupful of salsify. 
Beat the eggs light Make into round cakes, 
dredge with flour, and fry brown ; or it may be sent 
up in a fireproof china dish, with bread-crumbs on 
the top, browned, and s<-eeped in butter. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 59 

Salsify Scalloped. 

Scrape some salsify, cut it into very short 
pieces, and boil it till tender. When sufficiently 
cooked, drain it, and make a white sauce of butter, 
flour, and cream, with a teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovy added to it, a little pepper and celery 
salt Mix in an egg, and flavour with a little lemon- 
juice. Put this mixture into scallop-shells, and 
sprinkle fried bread-crumbs on them, and slightly 
brown with the salamander. 

Scorzonera in Brown Sauce. 

Wash the roots and scrape the skin gently off* 
them, and cut them into lengths of three or four 
inches ; put them into boiling water, with a little 
salt, a small bit of butter, and the juice of a 
lemon ; boil them for an hour, then drain, and serve 
with a rich Espagnole sauce over them ; or a sauce 
toum^e may be substituted for the brown sauce. 

Seakale au Parmesan. 

Boil the seakale in boiling water for about 
twenty minutes, and pour over it half a pint of 
Parmesan sauce, and sprinkle with grated Parme- 
san, and serve. 

Seakale Stewed in Gravy. 

Boil the kale for ten minutes in salt and water, 
drain it well, and put it into a saucepan with as 
much good brown gravy as will nearly cover it ; 
stew it gently for ten minutes till tender, and send 
it to table in the gravy very hot 



6o DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 

Seakale, Timbale of. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Take three or four heads of seakale, boil it 
till quite soft, drain it on a cloth, cut it in pieces 
half an inch long ; well butter a plain mould, line 
it with buttered paper, place it in the seakale end- 
ways so as to give the appearance of honeycomb 
when turned out. Make a paste thus : put a gill of 
water, a small piece of butter, into a little stewpan 
to boil. When boiling, throw into it a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, leave it a few minutes, then stir in one 
egg and turn it out on a plate until wanted. Take 
about a pound or rather more of Spanish chest- 
nuts, remove the skin, and pound in a mortar, 
and then add to it half the quantity of the above 
paste and a quarter of the quantity of butter, with 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together, add 
one whole egg and three yolks, pass it through a 
wire sieve, stir in a gill of white stock or cream, 
pour it into a mould and steam for half an hour. 
Serve with truffle sauce; and have ready some 
truffles cut into fancy shapes, and dipped in white 
of egg, and quickly ornament the sides and top of 
the timbale. Little mounds of chopped beetroot 
should be placed at intervals round the base. 

Spinach. 

Pick the spinach very carefully; put it into 
plenty of boiling water and salt, pressing it down 
with a spoon ; boil for ten minutes. Drain and 
squeeze it, and throw it into cold water to preserve 
the green colour. Pass it through a wire sieve and 
return it to the stewpan, with a little salt, a piece of 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 6i 

fresh butter, an eggspoonful of castor sugar, the 
squeeze of a lemon, and a gill of cream. Heat it 
up in the saucepan after stirring it well, then press 
it into a plain mould and turn it out, and serve it 
in the form of diamonds ; garnish with fried sippets 
glazed. 

Spinach Chartreuse. 

(Original.) 

Make a good pur^e of spinach, with cream and 
two eggs to make a liaison ; add a squeeze of 
lemon. Take a plain mould and place it on ice. 
Then take a tumbler and half-fill it with cold 
water and stand it in the centre of the mould. 
Pour the purde, into which a little aspic jelly has 
been whipped, into the mould itself ; let it remain 
on ice till firm, then empty the water from the 
centre and fill the same with warm water ; after a 
minute take out the tumbler carefully ; then place 
in the interior a mayonnaise of hard-boiled eggs in 
which some aspic jelly has been stirred into the 
mayonnaise, and when quite iced turn the mould 
out, and ornament the top with hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters and red aspic cut in dice, and place 
mounds of chopped aspic round. 

Curried Spinach. 

Take some well-cooked spinach and fry it in 
boiling butter into which a tablespoon ful of curry 
powder has been already fried ; add to this a dozen 
prawns or shrimps and fry all together slowly for 
one hour. 

Serve very hot as an entrc^e. 



62 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Spinach, Croustades of. 

Cut some bread into the shape of hearts and 
slit them all round ; fry them in batter. Arrange 
the hearts in the form of a rosette. Then cut a 
round of bread, which slit in the same way, and 
place it in the centre over the points of the hearts. 
Fry them till they are of a fine brown, then cut out 
the interior, remove all the crumb, and fill the space 
left with spinach cream. 



Spinach k la Crime. 

Take two good pounds of spinach, boil it till 
quite tender, chop it very fine, and rub it through 
a coarse wire sieve ; season with pepper and salt 
Place it in a stewpan, stir over the fire till warm ; 
then pour in a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, 
and a good saltspoonful of castor sugar. Stir over 
the fire for five minutes, and press it into a form, 
turn it out, and garnish with small fried croutons. 



Spinach Fritters. 

Boil spinach, thoroughly drain, and mince it 
add some grated bread, one grate of nutmeg, and a 
small piece of sugar. Add as much cream and yolks 
and whites of eggs as will make the preparation of 
the consistence of batter, drop the batter into a 
frying-pan of boiling lard. When the fritters rise, 
take them out and send to table. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 63 

Spinach and Eggs. 

Prepare the spinach as for dressing spinach, and 
cut in the form of large sippets, with a poached egg 
served on each, and with glazed fried sippets ar- 
ranged around. 

Spinach Omelet. 

Make a pur^e of spinach in the usual way ; take 
two tablespoonfuls of it and stir it into four eggs 
which have been previously beaten, yolks and whites 
separately ; add a little piece of shalot which has 
been rubbed through the sieve, add pepper and salt 
to taste. When thoroughly mixed, put the whole 
into an omelet-pan, with two ounces of butter, and 
fry a pale brown ; serve very hot. 

Spinach Souffle. 

(Original. ) 

Make a thick pur^e of spinach, using good broth 
to mix with it ; add half a spoonful of flour, a little 
salt, and an ounce of butter ; let all this boil till 
very thick ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs, 
a gill of cream, and mix all well together. Just 
before sending to table whip up and add the whites 
of the eggs and put into the oven for the proper 
time. Strew hard-boiled egg (yolk and white) 
passed through the sieve over the top. 

Tomato Chartreuse. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Make a good pur^e of tomatoes in which some 
shalot has been minced, and mix with it three well- 
beaten eggs, and a little salt and cayenne. Have 



64 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

a plain double mould, which must be well buttered ; 
pour some tomato puree into the outer mould, and 
pour into the centre some rich white sauce in which 
two whole eggs have been beaten up ; add some 
small button mushrooms, and put this into the 
inner mould. Tie the mould down with a cloth 
and steam it like an ordinary custard pudding. It 
should be kept quite upright ; and when turned out 
on the dish, pour round some Toum^e sauce; 
sprinkle a little grated parsley over the top. 

Tomato Cream k ITrr^sistible. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Cut some tomatoes in slices, oil a plain mould, 
and arrange the tomatoes all round in circles and 
at the bottom of the mould ; make a white pur^ 
of mushrooms, which has been cooked and allowed 
to cool, and in which, after cooking, half a pint of 
aspic jelly has been well stirred in. Put this pur^e 
into the mould, and put on ice for some hours ; 
turn out, and serve with a little chervil and tarragon 
salad round the base, and arrange aspic jelly cut 
in devices on the top. Hard-boiled eggs in quarters 
should be placed at equal distances on the chervil 
salad. 

Curried Tomatoes. 

Cut tomatoes in slices, bake them, grate an 
apple, chop a shalot small, and fry these in butter 
till quite tender ; add a heaped-up dessertspoonful 
of curry-powder, four tablespoonfuls of good gravy ; 
simmer all together for a few minutes. Add the 
tomatoes and a tablespoonful of cocoa-nut milk, a 
squeeze of lemon-juice, and a tiny bit of sweet 
chutnoc. Serve hot. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 65 



Tomato Fritters. 

Bake some tomatoes till nearly cooked (they 
must be rather uncooked), add some Parmesan 
cheese, and a little very finely chopped shalot 
Add as much cream and the white of one egg as 
will make the preparation of the consistency of 
batter ; drop this* batter into a frying-pan of boil- 
ing butter, and when the fritters rise take them out 
and send them to table, just dusting them over 
with grated Parmesan cheese. 

Stuffed Tomatoes k la Financi^re. 

Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, peel them, 
and scoop out the centres with a small spoon, 
and place them on a tin dish. Take a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut, a little mushroom 
liquor, a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful of olive oil, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and shalots in equal quantities, a little salt 
and pepper to taste ; mix and stir all in a stewpan 
till quite hot and thoroughly mixed. Fill each 
tomato with some of this stuffing, and sprinkle them 
with grated bread-crumbs. Pour a few spoonfuls of 
olive oil into the dish, and bake for ten minutes 
and brown with a salamander. 

Iced Tomatoes. 

(American Recipe.) 

Scald the tomatoes for a minute or so and peel 
carefully, cut out the stalks with a sharp knife, 
remove about one teaspoonful of the contents and 



66 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

put in a pinch of salt, sugar, and pepper, and as 
much minced parsley, shalot, and tarragon as will 
fill the space ; boil (that is, reduce) some cream, 
with an onion and some salt, until quite thick, put 
a dessertspoonful under each tomato ; ice the 
whole and serve in the dish it is dressed in. 

Tomato au Gratin. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes in slices, place them in 
a china baking dish in layers with some chopped 
onion and bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt, and a 
little gravy between each layer ; cover the top with 
a last layer of bread-crumbs and a few lumps ol 
butter. Bake for about twenty minutes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes k la Milanese. 

Take six ripe tomatoes of equal size, cut a 
circle off the top of each and scoop out the insides. 
Press the pulp through a sieve, and mix in with it 
a little salt, cayenne, two ounces of butter broken 
into little pieces, two tablespoonfuls of bread- 
crumbs, a large shalot finely minced, a teaspoonful 
of parsley, and two very large tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan. Fill the tomatoes with this 
mixture, put on the tops again, and bake in a 
moderate oven, or fry them in oil till cooked brown. 
Mushroom sauce or sauce espagnole round them. 

Tomato Omelet. 

Take four tomatoes, peel and mince them finely. 
Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a little milk tul 
it is quite smooth, add three eggs to it (beaten), a 



bkSSSEb Vegetables A la Mob^, 67 

little salt, and a dust of cayenne, the tomatoes, and 
half a minced shalot Fry the omelet in the usual 
way, and serve very hot 

Tomatoes k la Portugaise. 

Slice half-a-dozen ripe tomatoes, season with 
pepper and salt, and put little pieces of butter here 
and there upon them. Mince two onions finely, 
sprinkle over the tomatoes, cover the saucepan 
slowly, and steam them for fifteen minutes. Then 
pour a gill of good brown gravy over them, stir 
often, and let them simmer till done. Have ready 
four ounces of freshly boiled rice. Stir this in with 
the tomatoes and mix thoroughly. Turn out on 
a hot dish and send brown mushroom sauce in a 
tureen to hand with it 

Tomatoes k la Proven9ale. 

Choose nicely shaped tomatoes, and of an 
equable shape ; divide them in the middle, leaving 
the blossom side the largest ; empty them neatly 
of their seeds and juice, and have ready a mixture 
made of two ounces of minced ham, two ounces 
of mushrooms, two ounces of bread-crumbs, six 
shalots, a teaspoonful of parsley, a quarter salt- 
spoonful of cayenne, a little bit of salt, two ounces 
of butter, two yolks of eggs ; stew all together, 
except the eggs and bread-crumbs. After stewing 
let this mixture cool, then mix in the bread- 
crumbs and eggs ; fill the tomatoes, cover them 
with fine bread-crumbs and moisten them with 
clarified butter, and bake them in a brisk oven 
till they are well coloured. 



68 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Tomatoes k la San Francisco. 

Prcx:ure some small round bell-shaped tomatoes, 
peel and core them with a column cutter, and fill 
up the inside with three or four anchovies, cut very 
small, and stirred in mayonnaise sauce. Have 
some melted aspic jelly, just beginning to set, in a 
deep basin ; pass with a bodkin or trussing needle 
a piece of string through the top of each tomato, 
so that you may dip them into the basin of aspic 
till they are well coated with the aspic ; lay them 
on ice and remove the string when quite cold ; cut 
little fancy rounds of aspic and lay on the top of 
each, and on this place a sprig of tarragon which 
has been dipped into mayonnaise. Cut hard- 
boiled eggs in quarters and place round the toma- 
toes, and garnish with chopped aspic, with chervil 
leaves placed at a distance on it, or arranged in a 
wreath on the chopped aspic. 

Tomato Souffld. 

Prepare some tomato pulp — it must not be too 
liquid — stir in the yolks of three eggs, and after- 
wards the whites well beaten. Fill a large souffle 
case or a number of small ones, and bake as other 
souffles. 

Tomato Toast 

Take two good sized-tomatoes, put them into 
boiling water for two minutes, peel and mince them 
very fine with two red chillies, a little salt, and a 
small shalot. Put half an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan with a dessertspoonful of milk ; add the 
tomato mixture, cook it for a few minutes, and 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, 69 

mix in a well-beaten egg. Go on cooking till it is 
the thickness of scrambled eggs, and serve on slices 
of fried bread, and strew a little parsley passed 
through the sieve on the top. 

Buisson of Truffles. 

Cleanse thoroughly as many good-shaped round 
truffles as may be required, stew them as for truffles 
k la serviette, and let them cool in the liquor. 
Take a stale quartern loaf, cut off all the rest, and 
stamp out or cut the crumb to an oval shape. 
Cover this with parsley all round and stick a dozen 
truffles all round it with silver skewers. Pile the 
rest on the top and serve. 

Truffles in Champagne. 

Take a dozen black truffles, pick out the eyes, 
and soak them in warm water for an hour, and 
then clean with a scrubbing-brush. Wash well. 
Place at the bottom of a stewpan three slices of fat 
bacon, a sliced carrot and turnip, three onions, a 
bayleaf, a bouquet garni, and six cloves. Put in 
the truffles and half cover them with white stock, 
let them simmer for half an hour, then add a pint 
of champagne, and simmer for another half-hour, 
keeping the lid closed. Let them cool, then place 
the stewpan on ice with a weight over the cover. 
Drain dry and serve cold. When they are served 
hot they are not allowed to cool, and served in the 
gravy. 

Green Truffles Stewed. 

Peel six large green truffles, cut them into thin 
slices and put them into a stewpan with half a pint 



70 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

of gravy, a glass of sherry, a bouquet garni, pepper 
and salt to taste. Cover them close, and let them 
simmer very slowly for an hour, then add a piece 
of butter and flour. Stew till thick, then squeeze 
in the juice of half a lemon, crisp the top of a 
French roll, arrange it in the centre of the dish. 
Remove the herbs and put the truffles over the 
roll 

Truffles k I'ltalienne. 

Wash clean, wipe, and peel some truffles very 
thin ; put them in a saut^-pan, with a slice of fresh 
butter, some very finely chopped parsley, shalot, 
salt and pepper, and put them on the fire and stir 
them well ; in ten minutes they will be done, then 
drain off part of the butter, and throw in a bit of 
fresh butter, a small ladleful of sauce espagnole, the 
juice of one lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. 

Truffles k Tltalienne. 

(Another way.) 

Cut the truffles in fillets and sauce them with 
sauce italienne, and garnish with glazed sippets. 

Truffles k la Serviette. 

Take some fine large truffles, wash and brush 
them well in cold water. When perfectly clean, 
line a stewpan with slices of bacon, put in the 
truffles with a bunch of parsley, green onions, and 
thyme, two bayleaves, half a dozen cloves, and a 
little sweet basil ; pour in sufficient rich veal gravy 
to cover them, with the addition of a pint of cham- 
pagne, boil them very gently for an hour, then 
^raw them aside 8^t\d \et; thetn pool iq the gravy. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 71 

Heat them up afresh when they are wanted for 
table ; they must be lifted out very tenderly and 
drained on a clean cloth, and dished up on a snow- 
white napkin. 

Turnips k la Bechamel. 

Cut some finely-grained turnips in quarters and 
pare them into balls of equal size ; arrange them 
in a stewpan, and nearly cover them with good veal 
stock ; add a little salt, a small lump of sugar, and 
boil them quickly until they are quite tender, but 
not at all broken ; dish them up and pour over a 
rich thick white bechamel sauce. 

Turnips k la Fran9aise. 

Cut them into cubes or scoop them out as balls 
with cutters, then boil them in salt and water with 
a piece of butter. White sauce in which a little 
nutmeg has been grated should be poured over 
them. 

Turnips stewed in Butter. 

Take some young turnips, wash and dry them, 
pare them, slice them to half an inch thick, and 
divide them into dice. Now dissolve one ounce of 
butter for each half-pound of turnips, and stew 
them gently for nearly an hour. When half cooked, 
add salt and white pepper to taste. These can be 
served by themselves or dished up in the centre of 
an entree. 

Turnip Pudding k la Brisse. 

Wash, blanch, and peel some large turnips. 
Cut them into slices and warm in a saucepan with 
melted butter ; add salt, pepper, and pinch of pow- 



\-y 



72 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

dered sugar, and stir in some very thick bechamel 
sauce, boil for a minute, pass through a tammy and 
add sufficient eggs to make the pur^e a good sub- 
stance, pass it into a well-buttered mould, which 
has a well in the centre, cook it in a bain-marie or 
some substitute, and when done turn out of the 
mould, garnish the centre with prettily cut vege- 
tables which have been cooked in bechamel sauce. 
This dish car also be made with carrots or 
spinach. 

Vegetables Curried, 

Take the remains of any cooked vegetables, the 
greater variety the better ; fry them in butter, with 
a little onion and a dessertspoonful of curry pow- 
der, a teaspoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut, and 
half a teacupful of milk. Let all these stew slowly 
for an hour. Serve with rice. 

Vegetable Mac^doine. 

Take any vegetable that is in season, such as 
carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, small onions, 
asparagus tops, branches of cauliflower, cucumbers, 
peas, French beans, &c. Boil them separately, 
drain them, toss them up in a yellow sauce, and 
serve. 

Vegetable Marrow Chips. 

Bake partially a vegetable marrow, then cut it 
into pieces like potato chips, or into lengfths like 
potato ribbons, throw some salt over and fry them 
in hot dripping, mount them high in a dish, and 
sprinkle Parmesan cheese over. This dish can also 
be served without the cheese. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 73 



Vegetable Marrow k TEspagrnole. 

Slice a Spanish onion and two good-sized to- 
matoes, and fry them in about half an ounce of 
butter. Then cut a vegetable marrow into neat 
square pieces, add a little hot stock, and pepper 
and salt Let all simmer together till the marrow 
is cooked, and serve very hot 

Vegetable Marrow k I'ltalienne. 

Take a couple of vegetable marrows as near the 
same size as possible, slice them as thin as cucum- 
ber is sliced, dry them on a cloth, and fry them in 
very hot butter, dredge with pepper and salt, and 
serve up on a napkin. The fat must be very hot, 
as they are done in a minute. 

Vegetable Marrow k I'Orient 

Squeeze the water out of a vegetable marrow, 
grate it small, grate also some new cheese, add a 
couple of eggs and a small quantity of fried onions 
and pistachio nuts. Make this into a paste, and 
beat it up well together. Then take some slices of 
vegetable marrow, spread the paste upon them 
ratfier thickly, having first put a little butter on the 
slices. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour 

Vegetable Marrow au Parmesan. 

Peel, cut in half a vegetable marrow, take out 
the seeds and soft part, and cut it into neat oval- 
shaped fillets about two and a half inches long and 
two wide. Put them in a saut^-pan with a piece of 



74 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

butter, and stew till tender. Add pepper and salt, 
serve on fried croiitons of toast, and pour over them 
Parmesan sauce. 

Vegetable Marrow Stuffed. 

Boil a marrow tender in stock, cut it lengthways 
in half, hollow out the insides and fill them with a 
rich mince of white meat, or scalloped lobsters or 
oysters, or minced mushrooms. Put the two sides 
together again and dish up with a rich sauce or a 
piquant sauce round. 

Vegetable Pie k la Grimed de la Reynifere. 

Cook green peas, young broad beans, small 
carrots, and tender French beans separately in a 
rich bechamel sauce ; place these in a baked pie 
case, divided into compartments by thin pieces of 
paste, and serve. 

White Kidney Beans. 

(Haricots Blancs. ) 

Throw the haricots into boiling salt and water 
with a small bit of butter in it, having soaked them 
previously for a couple of hours. Bring them gently 
to the boil and then simmer gently till tender. 
Drain them when they are cooked, and place them 
in a clean stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter 
and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Toss the beans gently 
till they are quite hot and equally covered with the 
sauce, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and 
serve quickly. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 75 



SALADS. 



Artichoke and Tomato Salad 

Take some artichoke bottoms^ boiled, and some 
ilices of raw tomato. Mix some tarragon, chervil 
)il, pepper, salt, and vinegar together. Dip the 
irtichokes and tomatoes in separately and lay them 
Jtemately in a salad bowl. Pour the dressing 
)ver. 

Artichoke Salad. 

Cut up six artichoke bottoms into thin strips, 
lice two medium-sized cucumbers very thin, chop 
ip two very young onions ; toss these ingredients ; 
hen shape neatly in the dish, garnish with small 
adishes, sprinkle half a teaspoonful of celery salt 
ver the dish, pour a simple salad dressing over all 
nd serve. 

Salad of Asparagus. 

Large white asparagus. Boil till quite done, 
ut in half-inch lengths, throwing away any part 
ot absolutely tender. Place in the bowl, cover 
ith good sauce ; then sprinkle over with grated 
am. Or add tiny strips of smoked sausage. 



76 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 



Broccoli Salad. 

Choose the whitest and closest heads, trim c 
all the outside leaves and outsides of the stalks, ai 
place the broccoli in salted water a few minute 
when well washed, put them into a saucepan ai 
cover with hot water, add a little salt and boil f 
fifteen minutes; drain quietly and plunge into 
basin of cold water. Mash a chive of garlic, ai 
chop it up fine with a few sprigs of chervil 
parsley, a little grated horse-radish, and a leaf 
mint ; add a wineglass of the best vinegar and thr 
wineglasses of oil and a dust of cayenne, mix w 
together and pour over the broccoli, and serve. 

Iced Salad H Tlnspiration. 

(Oiiginal Recipe.) 

Take two large heads of celery, cleanse it w 
and chop it up very finely ; take a small onic 
parboil it, also a small shalot ; chop them up ve 
finely also ; mix all together thoroughly. 

Make a mayonnaise sauce by taking a dessei 
spoonful of Swiss milk, the yolks of two e^fs, ai 
beat them up well together ; then add a mustar 
spoonful of made mustard, a tablespoonful of ta 
ragon vinegar, a dessertspoonful of plain vineg; 
and stir up again ; then pour in a tablespoonful 
cream (this can be omitted), and after that four 
five tablespoonfuls of best salad oil drop by drc 
stir till it is as thick as cream ; now add half a pi 
of whipped aspic jelly and whip up in it, and m 
in the celery and onion. 

Oil a plain round mould and fill in this sal; 
mixturCf let it stand otv \ce Vox t<N^lve hours ai 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE, n 

turn it out. Have ready cut some rounds of beet- 
root stamped out with a cutter about the size of a 
florin, with scalloped edges, and decorate the outside 
of the moulded salad with it ; on the top cut the 
rounds of beetroot into halves and stand them up all 
round the edge ; put a little piece of the celery with 
the green top on it in the middle of the top, strew 
a little finely chopped aspic over the top and serve 
some more all round the base, with hard-boiled 
eggs cut in half-quarters here and there on the 
aspic garnish. 

Little dariole moulds can be filled with this 
mixture as a variety, but the beetroot decoration 
must then be cut the size of sixpences. 



Iced Salad a la Tentation. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Take some cabbage lettuces, thoroughly cleanse 
them, cut out the hearts and white leaves only, 
also endive, some peas, haricots, asparagus heads 
if in season, cucumber, beetroot and watercress, and 
two or three spring onions ; chpp up all very finely 
and mix them thoroughly together ; then make a 
mayonnaise and aspic sauce exactly the same as 
for iced salad k Tlnspiration, and mould it in the 
same fashion. Decorate it with hard-boiled eggs 
cut in devices alternately yellow and white, and 
here and there a truffle cut in dice. 

Have some chopped red aspic jelly and strew 
all over the mould and round the base, and have 
rolled anchovies arranged round the top of the 
mould, and in the centre half of the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, on which four fillets of anchovy should 



7^ DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 

rest; a few capers, olives^ and rolled anchovies 
should be placed about the aspic garnish at the 
base. 

Nantese Salad. 

Peel half a dozen small Spanish onions, take 
out the core, put a little butter inside each, and bake 
them in a moderate oven till quite tender. Let 
them get cold, cut them into slices and lay them 
at the bottom of a salad bowL Scrape half a dozen 
sardines, remove the skin, take the flesh from the 
bones, and lay the fish in neat-sized pieces on the 
onion. Slice half a dozen hard-boiled 'eggs, place 
these on the fish and strew over the whole with two 
tablespoonfuls of finely minced parsley and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil each. 
Serve with the following salad dressing. Beat up 
the yolks of four eggs with two ounces of butter, 
half a teacupful of cream, a gill of vinegar, and a 
tablespoonful of made mustard. Put this in a jar 
and stand it in a pan of boiling water, and stir till 
it is thicker than custard. When quite cold, thin 
it by beating in the juice of half a lemon, and 
pepper and salt to taste. 

Rochelle Salad. 

Wash a couple of heads of celery and dry them. 
Cut the stalks into three-inch lengths and place 
them in a salad bowl mixed with the whites of 
three hard-boiled eggs, thinly shred. Press the 
yolks of the eggs through a wire sieve, then pour 
over a pint of * sauce tartare.' Sprinkle over this 
first the powdered yolks of eggs, and then three 
finely shred truffles. 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 79 

Garnish the salad with curled anchovies, beet- 
root cut in stars, and slices of German sausage. 



Onion and Tomato Salad. 

Parboil a large Spanish onion, scald and peel 
six or eight tomatoes ; slice them and put them 
in the salad bowl. Add a little chopped parsley, 
tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt. Stir in 
thoroughly some oil, then vinegar to taste. 

Potato Salad. 

Bake some potatoes, peel and slice them, and 
put them in the salad bowl with two onions and 
one shalot cut in quarters, pour over them two wine- 
glassfuls of claret, add a little salt and pepper, and 
stir till thoroughly mixed ; after which pour in a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar and a wineglassful of 
best Lucca oil, and stir up well ; then add some 
chervil leaves chopped fine, remove the onion and 
ornament with a hard-boiled egg, the white cut in 
strips and the yolk passed through the sieve and 
sprinkled over all. 

Potato and Truffle Salad. 

Bake, peel, and slice some potatoes, cut up some 
truffles which have been boiled in saumur into very 
thin slices, and arrange them in alternate layers in 
a salad bowl with the sliced potatoes — the last layer 
must be of truffles. Garnish with small pickled 
onions, fillets of anchovy, and either stoned or 
stuffed olives ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Mix 
a dressing of oil and vinegar and pour over. 



8o DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 



Red Cabbage Salad H la Russe. 

Cut up a red cabbage into very fine narrow strips, 
plunge for a minute into boiling salt and water, cool 
in cold water, drain. Lay in a deep dish and 
sprinkle with salt and tarragon vinegar. 

Stir some mashed hard-boiled yolks of eggs 
into half a tumbler full of sour cream, season with 
salt, pepper, chopped chervil, and tarragon leaves. 

Pour over the cabbage and garnish with a few 
slices of black radish. 

Salsify Salad. 

Boil the salsify till perfectly tender, drain it, and 
cut it into inch lengths. Pour over it any simple 
salad dressing or toss it up lightly with oil, vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and chopped ravigote. 

Salad of Seakale. 

Boil seakale till quite tender, let it cool, and 
cut it into half-inch lengths. Take care that it is 
quite dry. Put in the salad bowl. An hour before 
serving, pour over some good mayonnaise or tartare 
sauce, and add fillets of anchovy, laid on the top. 

Shikaree Salad 

Wash, dry, and break up some lettuces in the 
usual way, with cress, endive, beetroot, &c., and 
pour over a salad dressing made as follows : Mix 
a teaspoonful of cayenne with a tablespoonful of 
powdered white sugar. Put the mixture into a 
small saucepan and pour over it two glassfuls of 



DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 8i 

mushroom ketchup, two glassfuls of claret, and the 
strained juice of a large lemon. Stir the liquor over 
the fire till the sugar is dissolved and it is quite hot ; 
then let it cool, and add to it the yolk of an egg 
and four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and well mix. 

Tomato Salad. 

Choose four round red tomatoes, throw them 
into a saucepan of fast boiling water for two 
minutes or less, take them up quickly and throw 
them into cold water for two minutes. The skin 
will now quickly peel off. Cut up the tomatoes in 
thick rounds, lay them on a dish, sprinkle over a 
little salt and sugar, a scrape of onion, and a few 
drops of salad oil ; then drip vinegar over and serve 
directly. 

Salad of Tomatoes en Surprise. 

(Original Recipe.) 

Chop Up some tomatoes small, flavour them with 
a bead of garlic and a shalot chopped up and rub- 
bed through the sieve ; add four tablespoonfuls of 
whipped aspic jelly and mayonnaise sauce, and mix 
into the pur^e. 

Decorate a mould with hard-boiled eggs stamped 
out in rounds or stars, and arrange them in tiers one 
above the other. Between each layer of egg place a 
little chervil leaf and a sprig of tarragon alternately ; 
fill the mould with the tomato pur^e, place on ice, 
and when ready turn out. Garnish with small salad 
mixed with mayonnaise sauce round the base. 
Arrange watercress prettily on the top and sprinkle 
red aspic jelly all over it. 



82 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE 



Vegetable Salad. 

Boil equal quantities of carrots, peas, asparagus 
heads, French beans, potatoes, and half the quantity 
of turnips ; when done, drain carefully aad place 
in a salad bowl in separate groups with a head of 
boiled cauliflower in the centre. Cover with a sauce 
made of twelve tablespoon fuls of salad oil, two of 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a 
little salt, pepper, a dust of cayenne, and a rub of 
garlic, all stirred well together 

Watercress Salad. 

Get some nice young watercress, cleanse it 
thoroughly in salt and water, and put it in a salad 
bowl with a few sliced young radishes and four 
hard-boiled eggs cut into half-quarters. Pour a 
simple salad sauce over it 



INDEX. 



AiQUEBELLE fritters, I 
American 3rams, i 
Artichokes k la Barigoule, 2 

— kla. Car^me, 3 

— cream of, 3 

— ^ la kaiser, 4 

— ^ la Malay, 4 

— k la Gouflfe, 5 

— k I'ltalienne, 5, 6 

— stuffed, k la bechamel, 6 

— aux fines herbes, 6 

— au diable, 7 

— ^ la chef, 7 

— chips, 7 

— Jerusalem, k la reine, 8 
au parmesan, 8 

— salad, 75 
Asparagus with cream, 8 

— omelet, 8 

— ^ la Tod Heatly, 9 

— ^ la Pompadour, 9 

— rolls, 9 

-7- k la rustic, 10 

— klsi Fran9aise, 10 

— pudding, 1 1 

— salad, 75 



Beans, broad, k la cr^me, 13 

— Brittany, 12 

— French, k lapoulette, 13 

— omelet of, 13 

— French, k la bechamel, 14 

— white kidney, fricasseed, 

klsi cr^me, 14 

Beetroot, dressed, 11 



Beetroot fritters, 1 1 

— klaSavarin, 12 

— stewed, 12 
Broad beans, 13 
Broccoli k la fermi^e, 15 

— salad, 76 

Brussels sprouts k la Luceme, 

15 

khi Parisienne, 16 

fried, 16 



Cabbage, ladies*, 16 

— kla. Flamande, 17 

— and rice balls, 17 

— jelly, 16 

— stuffed, k la Russe, 18 

— red, stewed, 57 
Cardoons, boiled, 18 

— kla. fromage, 18 

— stewed, 19 
Carrots, fillets of, 19 

— k TAllemande, 19 

— klsL Flamande, 19 

— klsL Windsor, 20 

— fritters, 20 

— ^ la mattre d*h6tel, 20 
Cauliflowers, curried, 21 

— fritters, 21, 24 

— khi mattre d*h&tel, 21 

— au gratin, 22 

— au parmesan, 22 

— stuffed, 23 

— moulded, 23 

— omelet, 23 

Celery with brown sauce, 24 

— with cream, 24 



84 DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. 



Celery ^ TEspagnole, 24 

— au jus, 25 

— stewed, 25 

— ^ la Villeroi, 25 

— k Pambrosia, 25 
Colcannon, 27 
Cucumber k PEspagnole, 25 

— fillets of, 27 



Endive ragoiit, 30 

— stewed, with cream, 30 



Onions, Spanish, k la c^leri, 38 

— ^ la Corsica, 39 

— 4 la cr^me, 39 

— fritters, 39 

— klz. G^noise, 40 

— au jus, 40 

— miroton of, 40 

— ragoiit of, 40 

— k TEspagnole, 41 

— Spanish, stewed, 41 

— stuffed, 41, 42 

— and tomato salad, 79 



Greens k la Hottentot, 31 

Haricot beans k la maitre 
d*h6tel, 31 

Iced salad, 77 

Kohlrabi au gratin, 31 

— steamed, 32 

Layer, 32 

— stewed, 32 
Lentils, curried, 32 
Lettuces, stewed, 33 

— stuffed, 33 

Mandarins, 33 
Morelles k PAndalouse, 34 

— green, stewed, 34 
Mushrooms k la Bordelaise,34, 

35 

— au beurre, 35 

— croustades of, 36 

— stuffed, k la LucuUus, 37 

— toast, 37 

— and tomatoes, 37 

Nantese salad, 78 

Onions, Spanish, baked, 38 

— i la Bretonne, 38 

— kla Bordeaux, 38 



Parsnip fritters, 42 

— balls, 43 

Peas k la demi-bourgeoise, 43 

— stewed, with lettuce and 
ham, 43 

Potato balls, 44 

k\z. duchesse, 44 

ragodt, 45 

— i la Bonn, 45 

— boulettes, 45 

— in cases, 46 

— chips or ribbons, 46 

— ^ la cr^me, 46 

— croquettes, 47 

— ^ la cr^me au gratin, 47, 
48 

— cheese, 48 

— fritters, 48 
au gratin, 49 

— fried, k la Hollandaise, 49 

— k ritalienne, 49, 50 

— klosse, 50 

— ^ la Lyonnaise, 50 

— 4 la mattre d*h&tel, 51 

— k la Milanese, 51 

— ^ la mode, 51 

— k la Moltke, 52 

— 4 la Napolitaine, 52 

— omelet, 53 

— moulded with parmesan, 53 

— k la Proven9ale, 53 

— pudding, 53 

— a la Russe, 54 



INDEX. 



85 



Potato sautfi, 54 

— salad, 79 

— savoury, 54 

— snow, 55 

— souffle, 55 

^~ — au parmesan, 55 

— stewed, 56 

— stuffed, 56 

— straws, 56 

— and tomatoes, 57 

— and truffle salad, 79 



Red cabbage, stewed, 57 



Salads, 75-82 
Salsify, 57 

— dressed, 58 

— fried, 58 

— or mock oysters, 58 

— salad, 80 

— scalloped, 59 
Scorzonera in brown sauce, 59 
Seakale au parmesan, 59 

— stewed, m gravy, 59 

— timbale of, 60 
Shikaree salad, 80 
Spinach, 60 

— chartreuse of, 61 

— curried, 61 

— croustades of, 62 

— k la cr^me, 62 

— fritters, 62 

— and ^gs, 63 

— omelet, 64 

— souffle, 63 



Tomato chartreuse, 63 
^~ cream k Tirr^sistible, 64 



Tomato, curried, 64 

— fritters, 65 

— stuffed, ^ la financiere, 65 

— iced, 65 

— au gratin, 66 

— 4 la Milanese, 66 

— omelet, 66 

— ^ la Portugaise, 67 

— ^ la Proven9ale, 67 

— 4*la San Francisco, 68 

— salad, 81 

— — en surprise, 81 

— souffle, 68 

— toast, 68 
Truffles, buisson of, 69 

— in champagne, 69 

— green, stewed, 69 

— \ ritalienne, 70 

— i la serviette, 70 
Turnips ^ la bechamel, 71 

— k la Fran9aise, 71 

— stewed, in butter, 71 

— pudding k la Brisse, 71 



Vegetables, curried, 72 

— mac^oine, 72 
Vegetable-marrow chips, 72 

^ I'EspagnoIe, 73 

k ritalien, 73 

^ rOrient, 73 

au parmesan, 73 

stuffed, 74 

— pie k la Grimod, 74 

— salad, 82 



White kidney beans, 74 
Watercress salad, 82 



Yams, American, i 



Spoitiswoodt &* Co. Printers^ New-street Square^ London, 



\ 



'^^^ 14 :348 



