ALBERT 1^. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 



DOMESTIC 

COOK BOOK. 



A COMPANION TO 



PULTE'S DOMESTIC PHYSICIAN, 

Being a practical guide in the preparation of food 

for the well and the sick, and containing 

also useful hints for the household, 

BY 

MRS. DR. J. H. PULTE. 



" Good Cheer Brings Content," 



" If dinrjftr has oppressed one 

I think it is perhaps the gloofriiest houK , 

Which turns up out of the whole twenty-four." 

— Byron, 



GEO. W. SMITK., 

Cincinnati, 

1888. 



To THAT 

Noble Charity, 

The Ohio Hospital 

For Women and Children, 

This Work is Cordially 

Inscribed by its 

Friend and Well- 

WlSHER, 

The Author. 



PREFACE. 



This work was originally a suggestion of the late 
Dr. Pulte, and was intended as a companion to 
Pulte's Domestic Physician, to be a practical 
guide in the preparation of food for the well and the 
sick; for the former that he might remain well, and 
for the latter that he might be aided to recover his 
health. 

It is a fact, too little understood, that many of the 
ills that afflict mankind are directly traceable to the 
use of poorly prepared and unsuitable food. 

The poor cook is the modern Pandora, and her 
kitchen is the box from which are issuing dyspep- 
sia, gout, rheumatism and a host of other evils. 

Your energetic business inan, of happy mood 
and contented at home and abroad, will be found to 
have a good digestion; whereas, your sour, morose 
and irritable man for whom " there is no music in 
this life,'" will as surel}^ be found to be a miserable 
dyspeptic. 

Every recipe in this book has been carefully 
tested by the author, and directions for preparing 
them so plainly and accurately written down, that 
even the most inexperienced housekeeper, by fol- 



PREFACE. 



lowing them may be so successful that her cooking 
" will shine with reputation." 

Attention is called particularly to the diet for the 
sick; every article of which was tested, tried and 
approved by Dr. Pulte, in memory of whom this 
work is published; not with any desire or expecta- 
tion of profit, but in further aid to a cause to which 
my late husband had devoted his life and talents. 

A part of the net proceeds from the sale of the 
work are to be devoted to the uses of that excel- 
lent charity — The Ohio Hospital for Women 
AND Children. Mrs. DR. PULTE. 



June ist, i 



Copyright, 
By MAEY J. PULTE. 

1888. 



CENCINNATI: 

W. H. Sloan, Printer, 
140 & 142 W. Front St. 



CONTENTS. 



CONTENTS. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Baking, Bread, Yeas1, Bread, Biscuit, Bis- 
cuit, Buckwheat, Buckwheat Harrison's, 
Buckwheat, Cinnamon Cake, Coffee Cake, 
Doughnuts, Doctor's Cake, Corn Griddle 
Cakes, Corn Mush, Corn Mush Fried, 
Corn Bread, Corn Muffins, Flannel Cakes, 
Graham Gems, Muffins, Muffins,, Pan 
Cakes, Pan Cake Rolls, Puff Balls, Potato 
Cakes, Rolls, Rusk, Strawberry Short 
Cake, Waffles , 1-17 

EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Eggs in Stand, Eggs Soft, Eggs Hard, 
Eggs Poached, Eggs Scrambled, Omelet, 
Omelet Souffle, Omelet, Omelet with 
Cheese, Omelet with Ham, Omelet w^ith 
Herbs 1 8-22 



CONTENTS. Vll 



CSOTTAGE CHEESE-OAT GROATS— WHEAT AND 

BICE. 

Cottage Cheese, Cottage Cheese Wine, Oat 

Groats, Hulled Wheat, Rice to Boil 23-25 

COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE. 

Coffee Pot, CofFee to Make, Coffee the Best, 
Chocolate, Cocoa Baker's. Cocoa, Tea, 
Mock Cream '. 26-29 

SOUPS. 

Beef, Beef Clear, etc., Bean, Bouillon, 
Chicken, Corn, Crab, Dumplings for 
Beef, Dumplings for Chicken, Dumplings 
for Oyster, Gumbo, Mock Turtle, Miit- 
ton, Noodles, Noodles to Make, Noodles 
as a Vegetable, Ox Tail, Oyster, Oyster . 
Pea, Pea without Meat, Tomato, Veal, 
Vegetable 3P-f|-8 

FISH. 

Codfish Boiled, Codfish Cakes, Eels Stewed, 
Eels Boiled, Eels Fried, Halibut Smoked, 
Herring Dutch Pickled, Mackerel Fresh 
Broiled, No. i Mackerel Salt Boiled", No. 
I Mackerel Salt Broiled, Perch and Bull- 
heads Fried, Salmon Canned, Salmon ' 
Boiled, Shad Fresh Baked, Stuffing for 



Vlll CONTENTS. 



FISH.— Continued. - 

Shad, Shad Fresh Boiled, Shad Fresh 
Fried, Trout Boiled, White Fish Baked, 
Stuffing for White Fish 49-59 

SHELL FISH. 

Crabs Deviled, Crabs Deviled, Oyster Soup, 
Oysters ' Escaloped, Oysters Fricasseed, 
Oysters Fried, Oyster Patties, Oysters 
Raw^, Shrimp Salad, Shrimp Stewed, Ter- 
rapin 60-66 

■' '' BEEF. 

Beef Roast, Beef Steak, Beef Steak & Onions, 
Beef, a la m,ode, , Beef Corned and Cab- 
bafre. Beef , Tripe Stewed, Beef Corned 
Hash, Spiced Pickle for Beef Venison and 
Rabbits, Beef Spiced, Beef Tongue 
Spiced, Beef Tongue Fresh, Sauce for 
. Beef Tohgue 67—75 

VEAL. 

A la mdde Veal, a la Strasburg Veal, Cut- 
let Veal, i Fricassee Veal, Fricandean, 
Fricassee With Sweet Breads, Hash Veal, 
Roast Veal, Sweet Breads Fricassee 
Sweet Breads Fried, Liver Calves 76-84 



CONTENTS. IX 



LAMB AND MUTTON. 

Lamb and Turnips Stewed, Leg of Lamb 
Roasted, Leg of Lamb Roasted, Lamb 
Chops Fried, Leg of Lamb Boiled, Mut- 
ton Chops Broiled 86-89 

PORK. 

Ham Boiled, Ham Roasted, Pig Roasted, 
Pig Stuffing, Pig's Feet Soused, Pork 
and Beans, Sausages, Spare Ribs Stuffed, 90—94 

POUIiTBY. 

Chicken Boiled, Chicken Fricassee, Chicken 
Fricassee, Chicken Pie, Chicken Spring, 
Ducks Roasted, Duck Stuffing, Goose 

' Roasted, Goose Stuffing, Turkey Boiled, 
Turkey Roasted, Turkey Stuffing, Turkey 
and Chicken Stuffing, Turkey how to 
know a Young one 96-105 

GAME. 

Hazenpfeffer, Quails Roasted, Quail and 
Bird Stuffing, Rabbit Spiced, Venison 
Saddle Roasted, Venison Saddle Spiced, 
Venison Steak 106-1 1 1 

SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEAT. 

Cape, Drrawn Butter, Egg, Hollandish, 
Horseradish, Mayonaise, Maj'onaise, New 
Oyster, Parsley, Pickle, Tomato, Tomatoiia-iiy 



CONTENTS. 



PlCKLiES— CATSUP AND MUSTAKD. 

Beans, Beets, Cabbage, Cucumbers, Onions, 

Tomato Catsup, Mustard 1 18-123 

SALADS. 

Bean, Cabbage Cold Slaw, Celery, Chicken, 
Corn, Cucumber, Dressing No. i, Dres- 
sing No. 2, Endive, Fish, Fish Dressing, 
Herring, Italian, Lettuce, "Oyster, Oyster 
Dressing, Potato, Potato Dressing, Shrimp 
Shrimp Dressing, Tongue 124-136 

CROQUETTES-MACARONI. 

Chicken, Chicken Sauce, Oyster, Oyster 
Sauce, Tongue, Tongue Sauce, Macaroni 
with Herb Cheese, Macaroni w^ith To- 
matos 138-142 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus, Beans Marrowfat, Beans Lima, 
Beans Yellow Wax, Beets Young, Cab- 
bage White, Cabbage Red, Cabbage 
Curled Savoy, Carrots, Cauliflower, Corn 
Boiled, Corn Oysters, Corn Stewed, 
Greens Wild, Kale, Kale with Bacon, 
Kohlrabe, Leek, Onions Stewed, Pars- 
nip Cakes, Parsnips Fried, Parsnips 
Stewed, Peas Green, Peas and Carrots, 



CONTENTS. XI 



VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Potatoes Boiled, New Potatoes, Potatoes 
Mashed, Potatoes Dresden, Potatoes 
Fried, Potatoes Baked, Potatoes Fried, 
Potatoes Mashed, Saurkraut to Make, 
Saurkraut, Saurkraut with Pork Ribs, 
Slaw Hot, Spinach, Succtash, Tomatoes, 
Turnips 1 44-165 



PASTRY— PIES AND TARTS. 

Puff Paste No. i, Puff Paste No. 3, Pie 
Crust, Apples for Pies, Apple, Cran- 
berry, Curd, Custard, Currants to Wash, 
Lemon, Mince Meat, Peaches for Pies, 
Peach, Pumpkin 166-174 



PUDDINGS AND FRITTERS. 

Almond, Apple and Rice, Apple Dumplings, 
Batter, Bread and Butter, Bread, Cocoa- 
nut, Corn Starch Baked, Corn Starch 
Boiled, Egg German Eierkase, Fruit, Mar- 
malade, Peach, Plum Baked, Plum 
Boiled, Prune, Quince Tapioca, Quince 
Sauce, Rice Flour Boiled, Rice Baked, 
Rusk, Sago, Tapioca, Fritters Apple, 
Fritter Batter, Fritter Bread 175-194 



XU CONTENTS. 

SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

Apple, Apricots, Butter Sauce, Chocolate, 
Cider, Cranberry, Cream, Cream, Custard, 
Hard, Milk, Peaches,. Prunes, Raspberry, 
Strawberry, Vanilla, Wine German,Wine 
Sherry 195-204 

CUSTARDS. 

Almond, Apple, Chocolate, Cocoanut, Corn 
Starch, Corn Starch Snow Balls, Pump- 
kin, Raspberry, Snow Ball, Wine 205-211 

CREAMS— SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 

Almond, Chocolate, Cincinnati, Raspberry, 
Strawberry, Vanilla, Wine, to make Ice 
Cream, Chocolate, Lemon, Raspberry, 
Strawberry, Vanilla, Vanilla without 
Cream, Syrups for Ice Creams, Jellies and 
Sauces, Raspberry, Strawberry 212-223 

JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

Calfs' Foot, Cider, Lemon, Raspberry, 

Strawberry, Wine 224-228 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLASTC MANGE. 

Charlotte Russe, Almond Blanc Mange, 

Blanc Mange 229-23 1 



CONTENTS. 



CAKE MACAROONS MERINGUE. 

Almond, Almond Jumbles, Almond Maca- 
roons, Almond Macaroons 2, Almond 
Sponge, Almonds to Blanch and Grind, 
Bride's, Cake, Chocolate Macaroons, Cit- 
ron, Cocoaaut, Cocoanut Jumbles, Cocoa- 
nut Macaroons, Cocoanut and Raspberry 
Mixture, Cookies Berlin, Cookies Grand- 
mother, Cookies Sugar, Cream Cincin- 
nati, Cream Filling, Cup Cake, Currant, 
Fruit, Fruit, Gingerbread Soft, Ginger- 
bread White, Golden, Groom's, Icing, 
Icing Chocolate, Jelly, Marble, Meringue, 
Pound, Silver, Sno"w, Sponge, Sponge 
Almond, Sponge Muffins, Sponge White, 
White 233-257 

BEVERAGES. 

Apple Wine, Cider to keep sweet. Cider 
Syrup, Milk Punch, Mulled Cider, Mulled 
Wine, Roman Punch, Raspberry Vine- 
kept Sweet, Egg Nog Warm, Egg Nog 
Cold, Lemonade, Lemon Punch, Lemon 
gar. Raspberry Shrub 258-265 

CANNED VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus, Beans Lima, Beans String, 
Cauliflower, Corn, Peas Green, Toma- 
toes 286-289 



XIV CONTENTS. 



DIET FOB THE SICK. 

Apple Water, Apple Water, Arrowroot 
Gruel, Arrowroot Jelly, Blackberry Syrup, 
Barley Water, Barley Boiled, Beef Broth, 
Beef Tea, Broth and Milk, Bread and 
Milk Poultice, Cranberry Water, Chicken 
Broth, Cracker Panada, Cocoa, Crisped 
Ham, Dry Toast, Egg Nog, Farina Gruel, 
Flaxseed Tea, Ice its preservation, Ice- 
land Moss Tea, Iceland Moss Jelly, Kou- 
miss, Lemonade warm. Lemonade cold, 
Milk Porridge, Milk Toast, Milk Punch, 
Mulled Wine, Mutton Broth, Mustard 
Plaster, Mustard Poultice, Oat Meal Gruel, 
Oat Meal Porridge, Oat Groats Boiled, 
Pap, Panada, Raspberry Water, Rasp- 
berry Vinegar, Rice Water, Rice Boiled, 
Rice Jelly, Rusk Panada, Roasted Apples, 
Sago Gruel, Slipper}^ Elm Tea, Slippery 
Elm Poultice, Tamarind Water, Toast 
Water, Tapioca Gruel, Tapioca Jelly, Tea, 
Whey I, Whej^ 2, Wine Whey, Wine 
Cottage Cheese 291-313 



CANNED FRUITS— MARMALADE -JELLIES AND 
PRESERVES. 

Cherries, Peaches Clings,^ Peaches Free- 
stones, Pears . Seckel, Plums Damson, 



CONTENTS. XV 



CANNED FEUITS, MARMALADES, JELLIES, ETC.— Continued. 

Plums Green Gage, Quinces, Raspber- 
ries, Strawberries, Marmalade, Peach, 
Quince, Raspberry Red, Strawberry, 
Jellies to make, Apple Siberian Crab, 
Cranberry, Currant, Green Gage, Quince, 
Raspberry Red, Green Gages, Peaches, 
Peaches Brandy, Quince, Strawberry... 266-285 

REMEDIES. 

Arnica Tincture, Bruises, Burns, Cough, 

Cut, Felon, Scalds, Sprains 316-319 

HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

Blankets to Wash, Black Satin and Silk, 
Black Lace Renewed, Bed Bugs Des- 
troyed, Butter Kept Sweet, Cool House, 
Cloths to Soak, Cloths to Wash, Carpet 
Cleaning, Cockroaches Destroyed, Chap- 
ped Hands Prevented, Cashmere Shawl 
or Dress to Wash, Disinfectant, Eggs 
Kept Fresh, Flannels to Wash, Fresh . 
Paint Removed, Flour Paste, Fruit Stains 
Removed, Grease Removed, Glove Paste, 
Gloves to Clean, Gray Gloves Colored, 
House Cleaning, Chamber, House Clean- 
ing and Parlor, Honsekeeping, Hair Pre- 
vented from Turning Gray, Lard Kept 



XVI CONTENTS. 



Sweet, Lisle Gloves Cleaned, Lawn Dress 
Washed, Mucilage, Paintings Cleaned, 
Paintings Restored, Pile on Velvet Raised, 
Bats and Mice Destroyed, Rancid Butter 
Restored, Rancid Oil Restored, Starch 
to Cook, Starch Cold, Spots Removed 
from Furniture, Sink Pipe to Clear, 
Spermacetic and Sterrine removfed. Satin 
and Silk Ribbons Cleaned Spots on 
Light Ribbons Removed, Spots from 
Rust Removed, To Clean Busts, To Clean 
Brass and Copper Kettles, To Clean 
ChandeHers, To Clean Marble, To Wash 
a Table Cover, Varnish for Furniture, 
Velvet Cloak to Clean, Water to Clear, 
White Wash, Whitening for Ceilings, 
Water Closet to Clean, White Dresses and 
Lawns, White Goods Kept, Wrinkles 
on Velvet Taken Out 336-34S 



Sfekd ki^d dkke^. 



BAKING OVEN TO HEAT. 

To ascertain the right heat of the oven, put a 
piece of writing paper into it, and if it is a choco- 
late brown in five minutes it is the right heat for 
biscuits, muffins and small pastry. It is called a 
quick oven. If the paper is dark yellow it is the 
right heat for bread, pound cake, puddings and 
puff paste pies. When the paper is light yellow it 
i& right for sponge cake. 

BREAD. 

Peel and wash as many medium sized potatoes 
as you intend to have loaves of bread and boil 
them in water enough to cover them. Cut up 
fine a two cent cake of compressed yeast in half a 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



cup full of luke warm water with one teaspoonful 
of white granulated sugar in it. Sift the flour, and 
when the potatoes are done put them into a colan- 
der, mash them fine and rub them through. Then 
mix enough flour with the potatoes and the scald- 
ing hot potato water as will make a sponge a 
little thicker than flannel cakes. When it is luke 
warm stir in the yeast and salt. Then set the 
pan with the sponge into a pan with luke warm' 
water and put it where the water w^ill keep at a 
uniform heat until the sponge is very light. TheVi 
put in one tablespoonful of melted lard, and stir in 
flour enough to make a soft dough. Put it on the 
bread board and knead it twenty or thirty minutes. 
Then make it into loaves and set it where it will 
rise aga^in. Then bake it. 



YEAST. 

After the hqps have been- boiled in water, strain 
them out and whilst the hop water is still scalding 
hot stir in flour enough«to make it as thick as grid- 
dle cakes; then put in cold watei; until you can 
hold your finger in it; then put in some yfwst, cork 
it tight and set it in a cool place. It will keep a 
week or more in Summer. 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



BREAD. 

Peel four large potatoes and boil them in water 
until they are soft; then mash them up fine and 
press them through a colander and mix them with 
the flour; then take the water that the potatoes 
were boiled in scalding hot and stir it into the 
flour and potatoes; then put in cold water till you 
can hold your finger in it; then put in the yeast 
and salt and set it in a warm place over night. 

BISCUITS,— (EXCELLENT.) 

Two pints of unsifted flour; three heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder sifted in the flour; 
one and a half ounces of butter rubbed into the 
flour; one and a half ounces of lard rubbed into the 
flour; one teaspoonful of salt, two-thirds of a pint 
of cold sweet milk. Mix quick, roll out half an 
inch thick; cut with a cake cutter and bak-e twenty 
minutes. If the oven is a little hotter in the bottom 
than it is on top, the biscuits will be lighter, and 
when done they should be a light brown. 

BISCUIT. 

One heaped quart of sifted flour; four teaspoon- 



4 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 

fuls of baking powder; three gills of rich sweet 
milk; four ounces of fresh butter, or two ounces 
of butter and two of lard, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix the flour and baking powder together; 
put the milk, butter and salt over the fire, and as 
soon as the butter is melted stir the -whole into the 
flour. The milk must not be scalding hot, only 
warm enough to melt the butter. Make it into a 
soft dough as quick as possible. Roll it out half an 
inch thick. Cut it with a small cake cutter and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour; half a cup of 
corn meal scalded; tw^o cent cake of Fleischmann's 
compressed yeast; tw^o tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar; one teaspoonful of salt, and warm water 
enough to make a thin batter. Beat all well 
together and set to rise in a warm place. 

HARRISON'S 

Self raising buckwheat flour; mix with cold 
milk or water enough to make a thin batter and 
bake immediately on a hot griddle. 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of flour; one teaspoonful of salt; one 
quart of warm water and a two cent paper of 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast. Cut the yeast 
up in a cup half full of warm water taken from 
the quart and let it dissolve. Put the flour and 
salt into a stone crock and stir in the ■warm water 
until it is a smooth batter. Then add the yeast 
and set it in a warm place to rise. If they are for 
breakfast make them up just before going to bed, 
for Fleischmann's yeast rises quicker than an}' 
other that I have used. When you are ready to 
bake, stir in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
It makes them sweet and tender. Have the 
griddle hot, grease it with a piece of fat pork and 
bake. Have ready some fresh butter that is soft 
enough to spread, and butter the cakes w^ell. Send 
them to table hot, a few at a time. 

CINNAMON CAKE. 

One cent cake of Fleischmann's compressed 
yeast cut up in half a cup full of luke v^^arm water; 
one quart of flour; half a pint of warm s-weet rhilk, 
half a pint of w^hite sugar dissolved in the milk. 
Then make a hole in the flour and stir in the milk, 
sugar and yeast. Stir it into a batter and set it in 



6 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES 

a warm place to rise over night. In the morning 
make it into a thicker batter and let it rise again. 
Then stir in two ounces of soft butter. Then put 
in one egg and beat it in w^ith your hand. Then 
put in another egg and beat it in the same manner. 
Then pour it into a baking pan and let it rise halt 
an hour longer. Then put it into the oven and 
when it has baked ten minutes spread some soft 
butter over it and then strew pow^dered sugar and 
cinnamon on it and let it bake five minutes longer. 

COFFEE CAKE 

One pound of sifted flour with tw^o teaspoonfuls 
of Ro3'al baking pow^der in it, half a pound of white 
granulated sugar, four ounces of butter, four fresh 
eggs beaten separately, half a teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, beat the sugar and butter to a light cream, beat 
the j^olks and stir them into the sugar and butter, 
then beat the w^hites -with tw^o teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar to a stiff" foam and stir them io, then add the 
cinnamon and mix in the flour and baking powder 
last, roll it out, put it into a baking pan and bake 
it a yellow brow^n. 

DOUGH NUTS. 

One pint of rich sweet milk made warm, four 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 7 

. . ^ ^ 

ounces of fresh butter melted in the milk, one 
pint and a half of white granulated sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of grated nutmeg and one teaspoonful of 
salt all put into the milk, four yolks beaten with 
one tablespoonful of sugar and stirred into the milk, 
two quarts and one pint of sifted flour with seven 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed wth it, four 
whites beaten with one tablespoonful of sugar to a 
stiff foam, make a hole in the centre of the flour and 
stir in the milk with the other ingredients until it is 
as thick as batter cakes, then stir in the whites and 
the remainder of the flour, make the dough quick 
and as moist as possible, roll out half an inch thick 
and cut with a cake cutter. The lard should be hot 
enough to brown when the cakes are put in, and 
only cakes enough to cover the top of the lard 
should be put in at a time. They will rise in two 
minutes, then turn them and fry two minutes 
longer. 

DOCTORS' CAKE. 

One pint of sweet milk, two ounces of fresh but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a pint of white granulated su- 
gar, four fresh eggs beaten separately, one quart of 
flour, four teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder. 
Put the milk, butter, nutmeg, salt and sugar into a 



BREAI> AND CAKE RECIPES. 



sauce pan over the fire, and when the butter is melt- 
ed and sugar dissolved, set it on the side of the range 
where it-Tvill keep warm, but not hot. Beat the 
yoJks and stir them into the milk, beat the whites 
with one 'tarblespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam, mix the flour and baking powder together. 
Stir the milk 'into the flour until it is as thick 
as batter cakes'^, then stir in the whites and the rest 
of the flour. 

CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stir one pint of sweet milk boiling hot into one 
pint of sifted meal, then stir in one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one even teaspoonful of salt, beat 
the yolks of four fresh eggs with one tablespoonful 
of cold milk, and when the meal is not scalding hot 
stir them in, then stir in one heaped tablespoonful 
of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking po^vder; 
beat the w^hites -with one tablespoonful of white 
granulated s.ugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
last; set the pari of cakes into a pan of warm (not 
hot) water whilst they are being baked; it will 
make them very light. Bake as soon as the whites 
are in. 

GORN MUSH. 

Put three pints of boiling water into an iron pot 
over the fire, sift one full pint of corn meal into a 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



large bowl and stir into it one pint of rich sweet 
milk boiling hot, and stir into the boiling water, 
then put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir it constantly and boil it thir- 
ty minutes; pour it into a flat bottomed dish; it 
cuts out better when cold if it Is to be fried. 

FRIED CORN^ MUSH. 

Cut the cold mush in slices half an inch thick 
and of equal lengths. Have ready on the fire a 
frying pan containing one tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter and one of fresh lard, and ■when it is hot enough 
lay in the slices of mush and fry them on both sides 
a light brown. 

CORN BREAD. 

Take one pint and a half of sifted corn meal and 
stir into it one pint of boiling sweet milk, then put 
in one teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
butter. Beat the yolks of four eggs with one ta- 
blespoonful of white granulated sugar and stir them 
in, then beat the whites with one tablespoonful of 
sugar to a stiff foam, then stir in three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and the whites last. Put it into 
the oven as soon as the whites are in and bake it 
thirty minutes. 



lO BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



CORNMEAL MUFFINS. 



Haifa pint of sweet milk boiling hot, half a pint 
of sifted meal, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar, tw^o fresh eggs separated, one 
heaped tablespoonful of flour and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder; stir the boiling milk and meal 
together, then put in the butter, salt and sugar, 
beat the yolks and stir them in when the meal is 
not scalding hot, then stir in the flour and baking 
powder, beat the whites with one teaspoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff" foam and stir them in last. 
Put them into muffin pans that have been greased, 
and bake them tw^enty minutes in a quick oven. 



FLANNEL CAKES. 

One pint of boiled sweet milk, one pint of sifted 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful ot 
fresh butter, four fresh eggs separated, one table- 
spoonful of white granulated sugar beaten with the 
whites to a stiff" foam, one tablespoonful of sugar 
beaten with the yolks, and two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Put half of the milk into the pan that 
the cakes are to be made in and stir in the flour; 
stir it until it is a smooth batter, then stir in the 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. II 

other half of the milk with the salt and the batter, 
then stir in the yolks and the baking powder. Put 
the whites in last and bake as soon as they are in. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cups of Graham flour; one cup of white 
flour; one teaspoonful of salt; one heaped table- 
Spoonful of lard; two and a half cups of warm 
sw^eet milk; three eggs beaten separately; three 
teaspoonfuls of baking pow^der; mix the graham 
and white flour, salt and lard together; then add 
the warm milk and beaten yolks; then beat the 
whites with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a 
stiff" foam and stir them in, and last, add the bak- 
ing pow^der. Heat the gem pans, grease them, put 
in the batter quickly and bake in a quick oven. 

MUFFmS. 

One quart of sifted flour, w^ith three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking pow^der in it, and one teaspoonful of 
salt, one pint of milk with three ounces of fresh 
butter, and one tablespoonful of white sugar melted 
in the milk, but not hot, six fresh eggs separated, 
one tablespoonful of white sugar beaten with 
the whites to a stiff foam; beat the yolks and stir 
in the milk, butter and sugar; then stir in half 



12 BREAD AND CAKK RECIPES. 

of the flour, mix it well together and then stir in the 
whites with the other half of the flour. Put them 
into the oven as soon as they are mixed; they bake 
in t^venty minutes. 

MUFFmS. 

One pint of cold sweet milk; one teaspoonful of 
salt; one pint of flour with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder sifted w^ith it; two eggs beaten sep- 
arately; beat the whites with one teaspoonful of 
w^hite sugar to a stiff" foam, beat the yolks in the 
pan that you make the muffins in, then stir in the 
milk, salt, flour and baking pow^der, and last, Stir 
in \vhites. Grease the muffin pans, fill them half 
full, put them into a quick oven and bake twenty 
minutes. 

PAN CAKES 

Three quarters of a pint of sifted flour, with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder in it, one pint of milk, 
Avarm, but not hot, one teaspoonful of salt, one ta- 
blespoonful of fresh butter melted, four fresh eggs 
separated, and one tablespoonful of white gran- 
ulated sugar beaten with the whites to a stiff" foam. 
Put the yolks into the pan that the cakes are to be 
mixed in and beat them a minute or two, then stir 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 1 3 

in the melted butter and salt, then half of the milk 
and the flour; beat it until it is smooth and then 
add the other half of the milk; stir in the whites 
last and bake immediately. Put a small quantity 
of butter or lard into the baking pan, and when it 
is hot enough to brown put in two large kitchen 
spoonfuls of the batter and let it spread all over 
the pan. 

pa:n^cake rolls. 

Are made according to the preceding receipt, 
with this exception that five eggs are used instead 
of four, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar with 
half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg is put into the 
milk. Bake them a light brown, then put them on 
to a napkin and spread them with strawberry mar- 
malade. Roll them up, trim off the ends and lay 
them in a warm dish until all are done. Serve them 
with a wine sauce. 

PUFF BALLS. 

One pint of rich sweet milk; two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh lard; two tablespoonfuls of white granula- 
ted sugar; one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; one 
teaspoonful of salt; six ounces of sifted flour with 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with It; 



14 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 

six fresh eggs beaten separately. Put half of the 
milk, lard, sugar, nutmeg and salt into an iron skil- 
let over a slow fire and let it come to a boil. Mix 
the flour and baking powder wth the other half of 
the milk until it is a smooth batter, then stir it into 
the boiling milk and keep stirring it until it is a 
smooth dough, then take it off the fire to cool and 
beat the yolks, and stir them in, then beat the 
whites w^ith one tablespoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir them in last. Have ready on 
the fire a skillet with hot lard and drop in half a 
tablespoonful of the dough at a time, fry them a 
light brown, sift pow^dered sugar over them and 
send them to table v^^arm. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Peel a quarter of a peck of the best potatoes, 
wash them in cold w^ater and put them into a col- 
ander to drain, then grate them on a horseradish 
grater. When they are all done put them into a 
linen cloth and squeeze out all the water; then put 
the grated potatoes into a pan with two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt and the yolks of five fresh eggs; beat 
them together a few minutes and then stir in one 
pint of rich sweet milk; beat the whites to a stift' 
foam and stir them in when you are ready to bake. 
Bake them in fresh lard and send them to table in a 
warm chapping dish. 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 1 5 

ROLLS. 

Three pints of unsifted flour; three ounces of 
butter melted; one pint of sweet milk scalded and 
then used lukewarm; half a cake of Fleischmann's 
compressed yeast dissolved in half a cup full of the 
warm milk taken out of the pint, two tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar; one teaspoonful of salt; 
sift the flour and put into a large bowl, make a hole 
in the centre of it and stir in all the ingredients 
until you have a thin spvonge; cover the bowl, set 
it in a warm place and let it rise three and a half 
hours, then make it into a dough and put it on the 
bread board with half a pint more flour and knead 
it five minutes, then let it rise again one hour, then 
roll out half an inch thick, cut with a cake cutter, 
rub a little melted butter over the tops, fold one 
half over and let them' rise half an hour; bake 
twenty-five minutes. 

RUSK.— DOUBLE BAKED. 

One pint of sweet milk scalded and then used 
lukewarm; half a cake of Fleischmann's compress- 
ed yeast dissolved in half a cup full of the warm milk 
taken out of the pint; three ounces of fresh butter 
melted; two tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar; one teaspoonful of salt; three pints ofun- 



1 6 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 

sifted flour; sift the flour and put it into a large 
bowl, make a hole in the centre of it and stir in all 
the ingredients until you have a thin sponge, cover 
the bovi^l, set it in a w^arm place and let it rise three 
and a half hours; then make it into a dough and 
put it on the bread board with half a pint more 
flour and knead it five minutes, then let it rise again 
one hour, then make it into a loaf and bake it. 
When it is done and cold cut it into slices half an 
inch thick and bake them on both sides. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One heaped pint of sifted flour; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; two ounces of fresh butter; 
half a teaspoonful of salt; one gill and a half of rich 
sweet milk; one quart of strawberries, and half a 
pint of fine pow^dered ^vhite sugar; mix the flour 
and baking powder together; put the milk, butter 
and salt into a sauce pan over the fire, and when 
the milk is warm enough to melt the butter stir it 
into the flour. Make it quickly into a soft dough, 
divide it in two parts, roU them out half an inch 
thick and large enough to cover the bottom of two 
tin pie plates. Bake in a quick oven fifteen min- 
utes. When done spHt them whilst hot and butter 
them with fresh butter. Mash the strawberries 
and sugar together, then put a layer of cake crust 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 1 7 



down and a layer of strawberries, then another cake 
crust down and strawberries, and so on, finishing 
with the strawberries. Sift powdered sugar over 
the top and serve with sweetened cream or a cus- 
tard sauce; both are excellent. 

WAFFLES. 

Five fresh eggs separated, the yolks put into the 
pan the waffles are to be mixed in, one pint of 
milk warmed, but not hot, one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter melted, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
heaped pint of flour, with three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder mixed with it, and one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar beaten with the whites to a stiff 
foam; beat the yolks and stir in the milk, butter 
and salt, then stir in the flour, and last, the whites. 
Bake as soon as the whites are in. 



1 8 EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 



%^g^ kr(d On\elet^. 



EGGS IN A STAND SOFT BOILED. 



It takes twelve eggs twelve minutes to cook in 
the winter and ten minutes in the summer. It 
takes six eggs eight minutes to cook in the winter 
and seven minutes in the summer, and three eggs 
takes seven minutes in the winter and six minutes 
in the summer. Wash the eggs and place them in 
the stand. Then be sure that the water is boiling 
before it is poured on, and it must be half an inch 
deep over the eggs. Close the can as soon as the 
water is in and look at the time. If the eggs are 
small it takes one minute less time to cook them. 

SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

A soft boiled egg takes just four minutes to 
cook it. The water must be boiling when the 
eggs are put in. 



EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 1 9 

HARD BOILED EGGS. 

It takes just eight minutes to boil an egg hard. 
The water must be boiling fast when the eggs are 
put in. 

EGGS POACHED. 

Put boiling water half an inch deep (with a little 
salt in it) into a frying pan and set it on the range 
"where it will stand perfectly even and keep boiling 
hot, but not boil; then break the eggs one at a 
time in a saucer and put them into the water. 
When all are in if the water does not cover the 
whites add a little more boiling water with a large 
spoon. As soon as the whites are set divide them 
with a cake turner and lift carefully. 

EGGS SCRAMBLED. 

Take twelve fresh eggs and break them one at 
a time into a saucer and put them into a deep dish, 
.then put one tablespoonful of fresh butter into a 
large frying pan and set it over a good fire. As 
soon as the butter is melted put in the eggs and 
sprinkle over them one even teaspoonful of salt. 
Break the yolks with a spoon and as soon as the 
whites begin to harden turn them up from the bot- 



20 EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 

torn of the pan in large flakes. They must not be 
stirred together Hke mush, it spoils the taste and 
looks bad. They must be soft when done and lift- 
ed immediately. It takes less than five minutes to 
cook them. Serve in a warm chafing dish. When 
served half a teaspoonful of swiss herb cheese 
sprinkled over them is verv fine. 



OMELET. 



Six fresh eggs beaten separately; half a pint of 
rich sweet milk; one tablespoonful of flour mixed 
wth a little cold milk; one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter; half a teaspoonful of salt; one pinch of 
pepper; one teaspoonful of Royal baking powder; 
mix the flour with a little of the cold milk. Put 
the rest of the milk, butter, salt and pepper into a 
saucepan over the fire, and when it comes to a 
boil stir in the flour paste and let it boil two min- 
utes; then take it off" the fire, then beat the yolks 
and stir them in, then beat the whites with one 
teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff' foam and stir 
them in, then add the baking powder and put it 
quickly into a warm baking pan that has a spoon- 
ful of melted butter in it and set it in the oven and 
bake it a yellow brown. A gas oven bakes them 
beautifully. 



EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 21 



SWEET OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Six fresh eggs beaten separately; half a pint of 
rich -sweet milk (with enough taken out to make 
the corn starch;) one tablespoonful of corn starch; 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter; four tablespoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar; one pinch of salt; 
one tablespoonful of lemon extract or grated nut- 
meg; one teaspoonful of Royal baking powder. 
Put the milk, sugar and salt into a sauce pan and 
set it into a pan of boiling -water over the fire; mix 
the corn starch ^vith a little cold milk and stir it 
until it boils three minutes, then take it off the fire 
and put in the butter and flavoring. Beat the 
yolks well and stir them in when the milk is not 
scalding hot; then beat the w^hites %vith one table- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff" foam and stir them 
in quickly, and last, add the baking powder. Put 
it into a well buttered pan, set it into a quick oven 
and bake it a light yellow brown. 

OMELET. 

Three fresh eggs; two tablespoonfuls of cream; 
half a salt spoonful of salt; one ounce of fresh but- 
ter; beat the eggs, cream and salt together lightly 
until the froth begins to rise; have a brisk clear fire, 
then set the omelet pan on the range and grease it 



2 2 EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 

with beef suet, then take one ounce of fresh butter, 
cut it into small pieces and put it into the pan. As 
soon as it is melted and begins to bubble, pour in 
the beaten egg, distributing it evenly over the pan 
and when it begins to set, put a spoon under the 
edge and fold it over. The moment it is done 
place a plate over the pan and turn the omelet on 
to it. It should be a Hght yellow when done. 

OMELET WITH CHEESE 

Has two tablespoonfuls of grated Swiss herb 
cheese and two tablespoonfuls of crushed double 
baked rusk. 

OMELET WITH HAM 

Has two tablespoonfuls of grated sugar-cured 
ham. 

OMELET WITH HERBS 

Has one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one 
tablespoonfulofHves or onion, and one teaspoonful 
of crushed celery seed. 



COTTAGE CHEESE RECIPES. 



23 



Cottk^e dl(ee^e, Okt 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put one quart of rich sweet milk into a porce- 
lain saucepan over the fire, and when it is just hot 
enough to drink stir into it two tablespoonfuls of 
cider vinegar; stir the inilk fast whilst you put the 
vinegar in slow^ly, cover the saucepan and keep it 
where it will keep hot but not scalding. In four 
hours the curd "will have formed, then put it into a 
linen cloth, hang it up until the "whey has run out, 
then put the curd into a bowl wi1;h one gill of sweet 
cream and rub it together with the back of the 
spoon against the bowl until it is very fine, then 
stir in one tablespoonful of "white granulated sugar 
and serve with cream, sugar and powdered cinna- 
mon or a cream sauce. Milk can be turned with 
rennet, sour wine, lemon and vinegar. 



24 COTTAGE CHEESE RECIPES. 



WINE COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put two quarts of rich sour unskimmed milk 
with half a pint of sherry wine into a porcelain 
saucepan, cover it and set it where it will be quite 
warm, but not scalding hot. When the curd has 
formed put it all into a linen cloth, hang it up, and 
when the whey has run out put the curd into a 
bowl "with one gill of thick s-weet cream and rub it 
together with the back of the spoon against the 
bowl until it is very fine, then put in two even ta- 
blespoonfuls of white granulated sugar and serve 
w^ith sweetened cream. Cottage cheese made by 
this receipt is very fine; the wine gives it a deli- 
cious flavor, and the whey with the addition of a 
little more wine and sugar makes a fine healthy 
drink. 



OAT GROATS. 

Haifa pint of Groats; one pint of cold water; 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Pick the groats care- 
fully, wash them in cold water and put them with 
the pint of water and salt into a tin saucepan that 
has a steam pipe through the lid and set it into a 
pan of boihng water over the fire and boil it three 
quarters of an hour; don't stir it until it is done. 
The water should be all boiled down before it is 



WHEAT AND RICE RECIPES. 25 



lifted. Serve with powdered white sugar and 
cream or with rich sweet milk. 



HULLED WHEAT. 



Hulled wheat is prepared in the same manner as 
it groats and is cooked the 
and served in the same way. 



oat groats and is cooked the same length of time 



RICE, TO BOIL. 

One pint of rice; one pint of cold water; one 
even teaspoonful of salt. Cook the rice in a tin 
saucepan that has a steam pipe through the centre 
of the cover. After the rice is picked and washed 
put it into the saucepan with the water and salt, 
cover it and set it into a larger saucepan containing 
boiling water, enough to be even with the rice, but 
it must not boil into it. Don't put any more water 
into the rice nor stir it until it is done. Boil it three 
quarters of an hour, then set it on the side of the 
range v^^here it does not boil, for thirty minutes, 
then stir it up with a fork and every grain will be 
separate. Serve with a milk sauce. 



26 BEVERAGES. 



Coffee, (5l\odolkte, 
dodok, ^ek. 



COFFEE POT. 

My coflfee pot has a close fitting cover and a cap 
attached to a chain to shut up the spout to prevent 
the aroma from escaping. Inside is a narrow hoop 
pierced "with holes, to which I attach a bag made 
of double white crinoline which reaches to within 
a quarter of an inch of the bottom, into which the 
coffee is put. 

COFFEE, TO MAKE. 

Haifa pint of browned coffee beans before they 
are ground; three pints of boiling water. After the 
coffee is ground put it into the bag and pour the 
boiling water on it; then set the coffee pot on the 
range where it will keep hot (but not boil) for half 
an hour. 



BEVERAGES. 27 

THE BEST COFFEE. 

To ascertain which was the best coffee, I made 
three different kinds and then invited three con- 
noisseurs to pass judgment on them. The three 
kinds were the following: first, three parts Java, 
one part Mocha; second, three parts Java, one part 
Golden Rio; third, Santos. Now the connoisseurs 
all decided that Santos was the best. 

CHOCOLATE, (BAKERS). 

Three ounces of chocolate; half a pint of cold 
water; half a pint of boiling water; one quart ot 
rich sweet milk boiling hot; three ounces of white 
granulated sugar. Scrape the chocolate up fine 
and put it into a saucepan with the half pint of 
cold water and set it into a pan of boiling water 
over the fire when it will be dissolved in ten min- 
utes; then stir in the boiling water, milk and sugar; 
stir it constantly and boil it five minutes. 

COCOA, (BAKERS.) 

Three tablespoonfuls of cocoa; one pint of cold 
water; one pint of hot rich sweet milk; three ta- 
blespoonfuls of white granulated sugar. Put the 



28 BEVERAGES. 

cocoa and cold water into a saucepan over the fire, 
and when it is dissolved and hot, add the hot milk 
and sugar and boil it fifteen minutes. 



COCOA 

Can be made with water alone and is very good. 
Put three tablespoonfiils of cocoa into a saucepan 
with one pint of cold water and set it over the fire 
until it is dissolved; then add one pint of boiling 
water and boil it fifteen minutes. Serve it at table 
with cream or rich milk and sugar according to 
taste. 



TEA. 

When tea! is drawn in a teapot the aroma escapes 
through the spout and half of the strength is lost 
by not having a uniform heat. Tea should be drawn 
in a close covered vessel that is used for no other 
purpose. Allow three teaspoonfuls of tea to one 
pint of boiHng water, set it on the side of the fire 
for half an hour' where it will keep hot without 
boiling, then put the tea strainer into the teapot 
and pour in the tea. Send it to table with a water 
pot of boiHng water. 



BEVERAGES. 29 

MOCK CREAM. 

Put one pint of rich sweet milk into a porcelain 
saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling water over 
the fire, beat the white of one fresh egg with one 
teaspoonful of white granulated sugar to a stiff 
foam, then beat the yolk and stir the white into it 
and stir it quickly into the hot milk, (it must not boil) 
and take it off the fire. Beat it together a minute 
and then pour it into a cream pitcher. It is a good 
substitute for cream and gives the coffee a fine 
taste. 



30 SOUP RECIPES. 



^OUJ), 



BEEF SOUP. 

The best beef soup is made from the leg of the 
beef that has been cut up into soup bones. Eight 
pounds will make two quarts of excellent soup. 
Six pounds will make three pints, and four pounds 
will make one quart. Wash the meat in cold water 
and put it into the soup kettle with cold water 
enough to cover it, and just before it begins to boil 
skim it as long as anything rises to the surface. 
Cover the kettle, set it over a slow fire and cook 
the soup five hours. If it boils down too low replen- 
ish with boiling water. When the soup has boiled 
three hours put in the following vegetables: one 
half of a celery root the size of an egg; two bunches 
of parsley and celery leaves; two small leeks 
and one tablespoonful of rice. Peel the celery ro6t, 
cut it in thin slices then in strips as wide as a straw 
and then in squares and put it into the soup first. 
Wash the parsley and celery leaves in cold warer 



SOUP RECIPES. 31 



and cut them up fine. Peel the leeks and cut 
them up fine. Pick and wash the rice and put it 
in last. When the soup has cooked five hours take 
out all the meat and bones, skim it carefully and 
put in salt and pepper to the taste. Put scant half 
a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg into the soup tu-' 
reen, pour in the soup, stir it and send it to the 
table hot. 

CLEAR BEEF SOUP WITH 
DUMPLmGS. 

After the leg of beef has been cut into three or 
four pieces, wash them in cold water and take out 
the marrow for dumplings. Put the soup bones intb 
the kettle'with cold water enough to cover them, 
and just before it begins to boil skim it as long as 
anything rises to the surface. Keep it covered and 
boil it slowly five hours, then take the meat and bones 
out and skim off the fat, then add salt and pepper to 
the taste and put in the dumplings and cook them 
five minutes. Put half a teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg into the soup tureen and pour in the soup. 
The dumpling must not be broken up in the soup. 

DUMPLINGS FOR BEEF SOUP. 

Four ounces of bread, without the crust, dipped 
in cold water and squeezed out quick; two ounces 



3-i SOUP RECIPES. 



of marroAV melted and strained; one yolk of an egg 
Avell beaten; one teaspoonful of celery seed; half a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Stir the whole well together, then add 
the white of one egg beaten to a stiff foam, flour the 
hands and make it into small balls the size of a 
pigeon's egg and cook them in the soup five min- 
utes. They must be put into the soup as soon as 
they are all made or they will not be light. 



BOUILLON^. 

The leg of the beef makes the best bouillon and 
six pounds will make three pints strong enough to 
become a jelly when cold. After the leg hasbeen 
cut up into four or five pieces wash them in cold 
water and put them into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover them. Just before the wa- 
ter begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises 
to the surface. Cover the kettle and set it over a 
slow fire to boil five hours. If the -water boils down 
too low replenish with boiling water. When it is 
done take out with a skimmer all the meat and 
bones. Skim off" all the fat and season with one 
even teaspoonful of salt to one pint of bouillon, then 
strain it through a fine wire sieve and add half a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 



SOUP RECIPES. 



DOODLE SOUP. 

Take one quart of beef bouillon that has two even 
teaspoonfuls of salt in it and put half a pint of 
noodles in it and cook them thirty minutes. Put a 
pinch of grated nutmeg into the soup tureen and 
four in the soup. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP OR YEG- 
ETABLES. 

Beat three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sweet 
milk together. Sift soine flour into a pan, make a 
hole in the centre of it, stir in the eggs and milk 
and make it into a stiff dough, then divide it into 
two parts and roll it out as thin as paper and let it 
lay two hours to dry, then roll them up close into 
a roll and cut them in fine rings as broad as a fine 
broom straw and shake them out loose. When 
dried they keep a long time. 

NOODLES AS A VEGETABLE. 

One quart of noodles; half a pint of rich sweet 
milk; half a teaspoonful of salt; three fresh eggs; 
three ounces of fresh butter; three ounces of grated 
Swiss herb cheese. Put the noodles into boiling 



34 SOUP RECIPES. 



water that has one teaspoonful of salt to each pint 
of water and boil them twenty minutes, (stir them 
up from the bottom to prevent them from sticking.) 
Then take them out with a skimmer into a colander 
to drain. Warm the milk and put the salt into it. 
Beat the eggs together and stir them into the milk. 
Melt the butter by itself. Take a deep tin pie-plate 
or small tin pudding pan and put in a layer of 
noodles and two or three tablespoonfuls of the 
milk and eggs; one tablespoonful of the butter and 
one tablespoonful of the grated cheese. Then 
another layer of noodles, and so on, until all are in. 
Put it into the oven in a pan that has a Httle boil- 
ing v^^ater in it and bake tw^enty minutes. 



NOODLES AS A VEGETABLE. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk; three ounces of 
fresh butter; one teaspoonful of corn starch; three 
fresh eggs beaten with tw^o tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar; half a pint of grated apples with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar mixed with them; one 
teaspoonful of nutmeg, and one quart of noodles that 
have been boiled in salted water and drained in the 
colander. Melt the butter in the milk and s-tir in 
the corn starch, then take it off the fire and beat 
the eggs and sugar together and stir them into the 
milk. Mix the apples, sugar and nutmeg together. 



SOUP RECIPES. 35 



Now take a small pudding pan and put in a layer 
of noodles and a layer of apples and two or three 
tablespoonfuls of the milk, then another layer of 
noodles, and so on, until all are in, finishing with 
the milk. Set it into the oven in a pan containing 
a little boiling water and bake thirty minutes. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP- (YeryFine.) 

Six pounds of the leg of beef, cut up into soup 
bones; six bay leaves; six w^hole cloves and six 
whole pepper corns. Wash the soup bones in 
cold water and put them into the soup-kettle with 
cold water enough to cover them, and just before 
it begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises 
to the surface. Cover the kettle and boil it slowly 
five hours. If the water boils down too low re- 
plenish with boiling water. When it has boiled 
three hours put in the bay leaves, cloves and pep- 
per corns. When it is done take out the soup- 
bones; strain it through a wire sieve and return 
the soup to the kettle. Put the calPs head on to 
boil at the same time that the beef is put on. One 
calf's head spHt open in the middle and the brains 
taken out; one celery root peeled, sliced thin, cut 
in strips and cross cut; three small leeks, peeled, 
split down and cut off; two tablespoonfuls of green 
parsley and two tablespoonfuls of celery leaves, 
cut UD fine; one blade of mace the size of a five- 



36 SOUP RECIPES. 



cent piece. Wash the head in cold water and put 
it into a kettle with cold water enough to cover it, 
and just before it begins to boil skim it and boil it 
four hours. When it has boiled two hours put in 
the vegetables and mace. Half an houir before the 
soup is done take out the tongue, skin it and let it 
get cold. When the soup is done take out the 
bones, strain it through a wire sieve and pour it in 
with the beef soup. Now skim off all the fat, 
then put two tablespoonfuls of browned flour and 
two ounces of fresh butter into a skillet, and when 
it is hot stir into it a small ladle full of the soup and 
let it boil until it is thick and then stir it into the 
soup. Cut the tongue into slices half an inch 
thick, then in squares, and put it into the soup. 
Then put in salt and pepper to the taste. Pour 
the soup into the soup tureen and stir in one gill 
of sherry wine. There should be only two quarts 
of soup. 

VEGETABLE SOUP.— (Julienne.) 

Six pounds of the leg of beef cut up into soup 
bones; three tablespoonfuls of celery root; three 
tablespoonfuls of carrots; one pint full of cut up cab- 
bage; three tablespoonfuls of w^hite skinned onions; 
three small leeks; two tablespoonfuls of green 
parsley. After the soup bones have been washed in 
cold water put them into the soup kettle with cold 



SOUP RECIPES. 37 



water enough to cover them, and just before it 
begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises to 
the surface. Cover the kettle and boil the soup 
five hours. When it has boiled three hours put in 
the vegetables. First prepare the celery root, 
carrots and cabbage; it takes them longest to cook. 
Peel the celery root, cut it irf thin slices and then 
cut it and cross cut it up fine. Scrape the carrots, 
split them dov^^n from the top, then cross split them 
the size of a fork prong, and then cut them off 
short. Take off the outside leaves of the cabbage, 
w^ash it in cold w^ater, cut it in slices half an inch 
w^ide and an inch long. Peel the onions, slice them 
and cut them up. Peel the leeks, split them and 
cut them off an inch long. Wash the parsley and 
cut it up fine. Boil the vegetables two hours, 
then take out all the meat and bones and put in 
salt and pepper to the taste. There should be only 
three pints of soup. Grate one quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg into the soup tureen and pour 
in the soup. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Three ox tails cut in pieces three inches long; 
two ounces of fresh butter; three white skinned 
onions, peeled and sliced; one celery root peeled, 
sliced and cut up fine; two small carrots, scraped, 
split, cross split and cut small, two tablespoonfuls 



38 SOUP RECIPES. 



of green parsley, washed and cut fine; one leek 
peeled and cut up fine; four bay leaves and six 
whole cloves. After the oxtails have been cut ►up 
and washed, fry them in the butter until they are 
brown on both sides. Then put them into the soup- 
kettle with one gallon of water and set it over the 
fire. Then fry the onions in the same butter until 
they are a light brown, and then put in a gill of 
hot water and stir them up from the bottom, and 
put the whole, butter and onions, into the soup ket- 
tle. Cover the kettle and let it cook slowly four 
hours. When it has boiled two hours put in the vege- 
tables, bay leaves and cloves. Half an hour before 
the soup is done put one tablespoonful of browned 
flour and two tablespoonfuls of the fat from the top 
of the soup into a skillet and when it is hot add a 
few spoonfuls of the soup, stir it and let it boil a 
minute then stir it into the soup and let it cook 
thirty minutes. Then add salt and pepper to the 
taste and lift. Serve one piece of the ox tail with 
each plate of soup. When done there should be 
only one quart of soup. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Six pounds of the leg of old mutton will make 
three pints of good soup. Afterit has been cut up 
into four or five pieces wash it in cold water and put 
it into the soup kettle with cold water enough to 



SOUP RECIPES. 39 

cover it. When it begins to boil skim it as long 
as anything rises to the surface. Cover the kettle 
ai\d boil it slow^ly five hours. When the soup has 
boiled three hours w^ash three tablespoonfuls of 
barley and put it in. The barley must boil tvv^o 
hours. Then put in one tablespoonful of celery 
that has been washed, and cut up fine one table- 
spoonful of parsley and one leek. When the soup 
is done take out all the meat and bones, skim it and 
put in salt and oepper to the taste. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of veal cut into four 
pieces; one celery root peeled sliced thin and cut 
up fine; two tablespoonfuls of green parsley wash- 
ed and cut up fine; one pint of middle sized oysters 
and the dumplings. After the veal has been wash- 
ed in cold water put it into the soup kettle with 
cold wafer enough to cover it, and just before it 
begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises to 
the surface. Cover the kettle and boil slowly three 
hours. When the soup has cooked one hour put 
in the celery root (it takes the longest to cook) and 
then the parsley. Put the oysters into a porcelain 
saucepan with half a pint of cold water, and as soon 
as they are scalding hot (they must not boil) take 
them off the fire and pour them into a colander that 
has been placed over a porcelain dish, then take 



40 SOUP RECIPES. 



but the soup, meat and bones and put the Hquor 
from the oysters into the soup kettle. Now put in 
salt and pepper to the taste and then put in the 
dumplings for oyster soup and cook them five min- 
utes, then add the oysters and lift. The soup must 
not boil after the oysters are in. There should be 
three pints of soup when done. 



CRAB SOUP. 

Six pounds of the leg of beef cut into four pieces 
makes three pints of good bouillon. This is the 
quantity for this soup: two tablespoonfuls of cut 
up parsley leaves; two tablespoonfuls of cut up 
celery leaves, or half of a celery root cut up fine; 
two tablespoonfulsof leeks or white skinned onion; 
one quart of tomatoes measured after they are 
peeled and cut up; one tablespoonful of browned 
flour mixed with one tablespoonful of fresh butter; 
half a pint of crab meat. Wash the soup meat in 
cold water and put it into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover it, and just before it begins , 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face, Cover the kettle and let it boil slowly four 
hours. Put the crabs into boiling water for fifteen 
minutes or until the claws will come off", then take 
them out break them open and take out all the 
meat. When the soup has boiled three hours put 



SOUP RECIPES. 41 

in the parsley, celery and leeks and let it boil one 
hour longer, then take out all the soup meat when 
there should be three pints of soup in the kettle. 
Skim off the fat, then put in the tomatoes and cook 
them slowly three quarters of an hour. Put the 
browned flour and butter into- a skillet and when 
it is hot stir into it a small ladle full of the soup and 
let it boil a few minutes, then stir it into the soup 
five minutes before the tomatoes are done, then 
put in the crab meat and as soon as it is hot take 
the soup off" the fire. It must not boil after the 
crab meat is in. There should be two quarts of 
soup when it is done. I have made this soup with 
canned crab meat and it was excellent. 

CORN SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of beef, cut in four 
pieces; one pint of tomatoes, measured after they 
have been peeled and cut up fine; two tablespoon- 
fuls of parsley leaves cut up fine; two tablespoon- 
fuls of celery leaves cut up fine; six ears of sugar 
•corn grated and scraped off the cob, and measured; 
there should be half a pint.- Put the soup meat 
into the kettle with cold water enough to cover it, 
and just before it begins to boil skim it as long as 
anything rises to the surface. Then cover it and 
boil it slowly five hours. When it has boiled four 
hours put in the tomatoes, parsley and celery, and 



42 SOUP RECIPES. 



boil them three quarters of an hour, then take out 
the soup meat and put in the half pint of grated corn, 
and let it cook fifteen minutes after it begins to boil 
again. Then put in salt and pepper to the taste. 
There should be three pints of soup when it is done. 
This is an excellent soup and can be made in' the 
winter with canned tomatoes and canned corn, but 
the corn must be put into a procelain mortar and 
made fine. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of beef, cut in four 
pieces; one celery root, peeled, sliced thin and cut 
up fine; one tablespoonful of parsley leaves, cut up 
fine; one tablespoonful of celery leaves cut up fine; 
two tablespoonfuls of white skinned onions cut 
fine; one quart of tomatoes measured after they are 
peeled and cut fine; one tablespoonful of browned 
flour; one tablespoonful of fresh butter. After the 
beef has been washed in cold water put it into the 
soup kettle with cold water enough to cover it, and 
just before it begins to boil skim it as long as any- 
thing rises to the surface. Then cover it, and let 
it boil slowly five hours. When it has boiled three 
hours put in the celery root, parsley, celery leaves 
and onions. When it has boiled four hours put in 
the tomatoes. Then put the browned flour and 
butter into a skillet, and when it is hot stir into it a 



SOUP RECIPES. 43 



small ladle full of the soup and let it boil until it is 
as thick as cream. Then take out all the soup 
meat and put in the flour and butter, with salt and 
pepper to the taste and let it boil a few minutes 
longer. There should be only three pints of soup 
when done. 



CHICKEN SOUP. 



An old, fat, yellow-legged hen makes the 
best soup. After the chicken has been dressed, 
washed and cut up, put it into the soup kettle with 
cold water enough to cover it, and when it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and cook it slowly four 
hours. When it has boiled two hours put in one 
celery root that has been peeled, sliced and cut up 
fine; one tablespoonful of green parsley and one 
tablespoonful of celery leaves that have been wash- 
ed and cut fine; one tablespoonful of rice that has 
been picked and washed. When the soup is done 
take out the chicken, skim off the fat and add salt 
and pepper to the taste. Put scant half a teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg into the soup tureen, pour in 
the soup, stir it up and send it to the table hot. 
This soup is excellent with dumplings or a pint of 
oysters put in just before lifting. 



44 SOUP RECIPES. 



DUMPLINGS FOR CHICKEN 
AND OYSTER SOUP. 

Two ounces of butter melted but not hot; one 
yolk of an egg beaten and mixed with the butter; 
one teaspoonful of celery seed crushed; half a tea- 
spoonful of pow^dered macCij half a teaspoonful of 
salt and four ounces of bread w^ithout the crust, 
dipped in cold water and squeezed out. Mix the 
"whole well together, then add the w^hite of one egg 
beaten to a stiff foam, flour the hands and make 
into small balls and cook them in the soup five 
minutes. The dumplings must be put into the soup 
as soon as all are made. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

One large fat old hen, an old chicken makes the 
best soup; one tablespoonful of fresh butter; one 
tablespoonful ot fresh lard; three quarts of boiling 
water, (it boils down one-half); one quart of green 
gumbo measured before it is sliced up fine; one cel- 
ery root peeled, sliced thin and cut up fine; one 
pint of tomatoes measured after they are peeled 
and cut up fine; one tablespoonful of parsley leaves 
cut up fine; one tablespoonful of celery leave cut 
up fine; one even tablespoonful of browned 
flour. Alter the chicken has been dressed and 



SOUP RECIPES. 45 



washed in cold water, cut it up by the joints, split 
the breast and back down the middle, salt and 
pepper it and dredge it with flour. Have ready 
on the fire a frying pan with the butter and lard in 
it, and when it is hot enough to brown lay in the 
chicken and fry it a golden brown on both sides. 
Then put the chicken into the soup kettle with the 
three quarts of boiling water. Cover the kettle and 
let it boil slowly three hours. Set the frying pan with 
the fat in it on the side of the range until the soup 
is nearly done. When the soup has boiled one hour 
put in the gumbo, celery root, tomatoes and soup 
greens and let them boil two hours, then put the 
browned flour into the frying pan, and when it is 
hot stir in a small ladle full of hot water and let it 
boil a few minutes, stirring it up well from the bot- 
tom, then stir it into the soup with salt and pepper 
to the taste. Let it boil two or three minutes, then 
strain it through the colander into the soup tureen. 
There should be only two and a half pints of soup 
after it is strained. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Put one quart of fresh oysters into a colander 
and let cold water run through them. Then put 
them into a porcelain saucepan with half a pint of 
cold water; one pint of rich, sweet milk, three 
ounces of fresh butter and one teaspoonful of salt 



46 SOUP RECIPES. 



or salt to the tastd. Set them over a slow fire and 
then crush four double baked rusks fine, with the 
rolling pin, and just before the soup begins to boil 
stir in four large kitchen spoonfuls of the rusks. 
Now watch it closely. As soon as it begins to boil 
take it off the fire and pour it into the soup tureen. 
Serve it with crackers and celery, or cold slaw. 
If oysters boil one minute they become tough and 
tasteless. Therefore they must be watched closely 
and taken from the fire the moment they begin to 
boil. 

PEA SOUP. 

Take six pounds of the leg of beef that has been 
cut into, four pieces, and wash it in cold water, put 
it into the soup kettle with cold water enough to 
cover it, and just before it begins to boil skim it 
as long as anything rises to the surface. Cover the 
kettle, and cook it slowly five hours. Measure one 
pint and a half of split peas after they have been 
picked. Wash them in cold water and put them 
into a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and 
cook them two hours and a half. Half an hour be- 
fore the soup is done take out the soup bones, and 
put in two tablespoonfuls of green parsley that has 
been washed, and cut up fine. Then press the 
peas through a colander into the soup and cook 
half an hour. Then put in salt and pepper to the 



SOUP RECIPES. . 47 

taste, and when ready to lift set the colander over 
the soup tureen and press the soup ■ through. 
When done there should be only two quarts of 
soup. 



BEAK SOUP. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt. 

PEA SOUP— Without Meat. 

Take one pound of split peas, and after they 
have been picked and washed in cold water, put 
them into the soup kettle with three quarts of cold 
water, and set it over a fire where it will cook 
slowly for three hours. Half an hour before the 
soup is done peel and slice up four raw potatoes 
and put them into the soup with two tablespoon- 
fuls of green parsley, cut up fine, and salt and pep- 
per to the taste. Then put half a tablespoonful of 
browned flour and three ounces of fresh butter 
into a skillet, and when it is hot put in one gill of 
hot water, stir it and let it boil five minutes. 
Then stir it into the soup and boil it a few minutes 
longer. Now^ place a colander over the soup 
tureen and press the soup through. 



48 SOUP RECIPES. 



VEAL SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of veal; one tablespoon- 
ful of rice; one small celery root peeled, sliced thin. 
and cut up fine; one tablespoonful of celery leaves 
cut up fine; one small parsley root sliced thin and 
cut up fine; one tablespoonful of parsley leaves cut 
up fine; one tablespoonful of flour made yellow; 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter; half a teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg. Wash the veal in cold wa- 
ter and put it into the soup kettle with cold water 
enough to cover it, and just before it begins to 
boil skim it well. Cover the kettle and boil it slo-vC^- 
ly two and a half hours. When it has boiled half 
an hour put in the rice, celery root, parsley root and 
soup greens. When the soup has boiled two and 
a half hours take out all the soup meat. Put the 
flour into a skillet over the fire, and when it has 
become yellow (not brown) put in the butter, then 
stir in a small ladle full of hot water and let it boil 
until it is as thick as cream, then stir it into the soup 
w^ith salt and pepper to the taste. Let it boil five 
minutes longer, then put the nutmeg into the soup 
tureen and pour in the soup. There should be 
only one quart of soup. 



FISH RECIPES. 49 



J^i^l\. 



SALT CODFISH, BOILED. 

Pound the codfish with a wooden mallet; it 
makes it tender and soaks quicker. If it is for 
breakfast put it into a pan with only cold water 
enough to cover it, at ten o'clock or just before 
going to bed. In the morning boil it in clear water 
thirty minutes. Serve with a drawn butter or an 
egg sauce. 

CODFISH CAKES. 

One pint of picked up codfish; two ounces of 
fresh butter; two yolks of fresh eggs; one pint of 
mashed potatoes. After the codfish has been 
pounded, soaked and boiled as in the preceding re- 
ceipt, pick it up fine and measure it, then put the 
butter into a small saucepan and set it into a pan 
of boiling water, apd as soon as it is melted put in 
the codfish and stir it together, then stir in the 
yolks and when it is scalding hot take it off the 



50 FISH RECIPES. 



lire. Mash the boiled potatoes with butter alone, 
measure them and put them into a large bowl with 
the codtish andinixthemw^ell together, (this quan- 
tity makes seven cakes,) then flour your hands and 
make them into balls, then flatten them into cakes 
and fry them in butter, a golden brow^n. 

STEWED EELS. 

Take two large eels, skin them, dress them 
■wash them in cold w^ater, dry them off and cut them 
in pieces, three inches long. Put them into 
a stew^ pan or deep skillet, Avhere they can all lay on 
the bottom, -with cold water enough to be even 
with the fish. Then put in six bay leaves, an even 
teaspoonful of powdered mace, an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper and three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar 
Let the fish boil fifteen minutes from the time they 
begin to boil. Mix one heaped tablespoonful of 
browned flour with two ounces. of fresh butter in 
a skillet, and when the butter is melted stir in four 
tablespoonfuls of the water the fish is cooking in 
and let it boil until it is as thick as cream. Then 
stir it in with the fish, and add two tablespoonfuls 
of crushed baked rusk. 

BOILED EELS— (Cold.) 

Take the largest sized eels, and after they are 
dressed and washed in cold water, put them into 



FISH RECIPES. 51 



the fish kettle with cold -water enough to cover 
them, that has in it one gill of cider vinegar, and 
one teaspoonful of salt to one quart of water. Then 
put in six bay leaves and let them boil slowly 
fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size of 
fish. When cold garnish with sprigs of green, 
curled parsley, and serve v^ith a ne^v Mayonaise 
sauce that has three tablespoonfuls of my tomato 
catsup in it. 



FRIED EELS. 



After the eels are skinned, dressed, heads taken 
off and washed in cold water, cut them in pieces 
three inches long; salt and pepper them and dredge 
them well with flour. Have ready on the fire a 
frying pan with one tablespoonful of fresh butter 
and one of fresh lard in it, and when it is hot 
enough to brown lay in the eels, cover the pan and 
fry them a light brown. When they have 
fried ten minutes, turn them, baste them and 
fry them ten minutes longer. Then lift them into 
a warm chafing-dish, and put one gill of hot 
water into the gravy, let it boil a minute, stir it up 
from the bottom, then stir in three tablespoonfuls 
of my tomato catsup and pour it into the gravy 
dish. 



52 FISH RECIPES, 



SMOKED HALIBUT. 

Smoked halibut makes a fine breakfast dish if 
prepared in the following manner: for a family of 
five or six persons take two pounds of halibut, 
score the skin through, wash it in cold water and 
put it into a pan with only enough cold water to 
cover it, at ten o'clock or before going to bed. In the 
morning put it into the fish kettle, skin side down, 
with cold water enough to cover it and let it boil 
forty-five minutes. Serve it with an egg sauce or 
a drawn butter sauce and poached egg. 

DUTCH HERRINa, PICKLED. 

Take the smallest sized herring, as they are the 
youngest and fattest, wash them in cold water, 
scale them and skin them. The skin must all be 
taken off, then cut off their heads, take out the in- 
side, wash them again and dry them oft". Peel a 
quantity of small white skinned onions and sHce 
them, then put into a glass jar a layer of herring 
and a layer of onions until the jar is full, finishing 
with a layer of herring. Fill the jar with good cider 
vinegar and close it. The vinegar must cover the 
herring. They are ready to use in twenty four 
hours and are an excellent relish with bread and 
butter. Serve someof the onions with the herring. 
They are also used as a salad with pea soup. 



FISH RECIPES. 53 



A No. 1 SALT MACKEREL, 
BOILED. 

Wash the mackerel in two waters, and if it is for 
breakfast put it into a pan half full of cold water 
at six o'clock in the evening and change the water 
at ten o'clock, before going to bed. In the morn- 
ing put it into a fish pan, skin side under, with 
water enough to cover it and boil it thirty minutes, 
then lift it whole into a warm chafing-dish, skin 
side under, and pour drawn butter over it. 

SALT MACKEREL, BROILED. 

After the mackerel has been washed and soaked 
the same length of time as in the preceding receipt 
take it out of the water, dry it off with a hnen cloth, 
split it down the back and cut it across in pieces 
three inches long. Rub the gridiron with a piece 
of fat pork or a little lard on a cloth and lay on the 
mackerel, skin side under, and broil it thirty min- 
utes. When it has broiled fifteen minutes turn it. 
Serve with drawn butter. A No. i mackerel pre- 
pared in this way and broiled by gas is excellent. 

FRESH MACKEREL, BROILED. 

Broiling is the best way of cooking fresh 
mackerel. After they are dressed and washed 



54 FISH RECIPES. 



in cold water, dry them off with a Hnen cloth, 
then split them down the back and cut them 
across, in pieces three or four inches long; salt and 
pepper them, then rub the gridiron -with a piece of 
fat pork or lard, place the mackerel on it and broil 
it thirty minutes. When it has broiled fifteen 
minutes turn it, and when it is done put it into a 
warm chafing-dish and serve with a parsley sauce 

FRIED PERCH AND BULL 
HEADS. 

Perch are our best river fish. Next comes the 
bull heads, salmon and bass. They are all good 
breakfast fish. After the fish have been scaled and 
dressed, wash them in cold water, and lay them on 
the meat board and dry them off. Then put a 
pinch of salt and pepper inside and out, and 
dredge the upper side with flour. Have 
ready on the fire a frying pan with a tablespoonful 
of fresh butter and one of lard, and when it is hot 
enough to brown lay in the fish with the flour side 
in the butter, and then dredge the other side. 
Cover the pan and cook them slowly. When they 
have cooked fifteen minutes, turn them, baste them 
and cook them fifteen minutes longer. When they 
are lifted put one teaspoonful of browned flour, one 
teaspoonful of anchovy paste and one gill of hot 
water into the gravy. Stir it up well from the bot- 
tom of the pan and let it boil five minutes. 



FISH RECIPES. 55 



CANNED SALMON. 

Put the can of salmon into boiling water for 
thirty minutes. The water must not boil after the 
can is put in, but be kept at boiling heat. Then 
take the can out, wipe it oflf, and with the oyster 
scissors make a small hole in the top of the can, 
pour the juice out into a tin cup, and set it on the 
range where it will keep hot, but not boil. If 
there is not quite juice enough for the gravy add a 
tablespoonful of boiling water. Then mix one 
teaspoonful of fresh butter with half a teaspoonful 
of flour and stir it into the juice. Let it boil two 
minutes then add a pinch of salt and one table- 
spoonful of my tomato catsup. Cut the whole top 
out of the can and let the salmon out whole into a 
warm chafing-dish. Put the yravy.into a gravy 
dish and send it to table hot. 

BOILED SALMON. 

A salmon weighing six pounds, if it is to be 
cooked whole, takes thirty minutes. After it is 
scaled, dressed and washed in cold v/ater, put it 
into the fish kettle, with hot water enough to cover 
it, that has one teaspoonful of salt in it to a pint of 
water. When it begins to boil skim it and let it 
cook slowly thirty minutes. If the salmon is cut 
in slices one inch thick, boil them ten minutes in 
salted water. Serve with a Hollandish sauce. 



$6 FISH RECIPES. 

STUFFING FOR FISH, (Shad.) 

Five ounces of fresh butter; two tablespoonfuls 
of green parsley after it is washed and cut up fine; 
one teaspoonful of crushed celery seed; one tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg; one teaspoonful of salt; 
half a teaspoonful of pepper; three fresh eggs beaten 
separately; three ounces of stale bread without 
the crust, dipped in cold water, taken out quickly 
and squeezed out. Put the butter into a skillet, and 
when it is melted put in the parsley, celery, nutmeg, 
salt and pepper, then take the skillet off the fire. 
Beat the yolks and stir them in w^ith the butter, then 
stir in the bread, then beat the whites to a stiff 
foam, and stir them in when you are ready to fill 
the fish. 

BAKED SHAD. 

After the shad has been scaled and dressed, wash 
it in cold ^vater and dry it off. Fill it with 1;he stuff- 
ing, leaving room for it to sw^ell, then sew it up 
with a small cord, sprinkle salt and pepper on it, 
and dredge it with flour. Have ready on ihe fire 
the fish pan with one tablespoonful of fresh butter 
and one of fresh lard in it, and when it is hot enough 
to brown lay in the fish, put it into the oven and 
bake it three quarters of an hour. Baste it often 



FISH RECIPES. 57 



and when it is lifted put a gill of hot water into the 
gravy and one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce and 
two tablespoonfuls of my tomato catsup. Let it 
boil a minute, stir it up from the bottom of the pan 
and pour it into a gravy dish. Cut the cord the 
fish was sewed with in short pieces with a pair of 
scissors and draw it out carefully. 



FRIED SHAD. 



A fresh shad weighing two and a half pounds 
is the best size for frying and makes a most de- 
licious breakfast dish. After the fish has been 
scaled and split down the belly, dressed and wash- 
ed in cold water, dry it off" with a linen cloth, then 
salt and pepper it inside and out and dredge it v/ith 
flour on both sides. Have ready on the fire a fry- 
ing pan w^ith one tablespoonful of fresh butter and 
one of lard in it, and when it is hot enough to 
brown lay in the fish whole, cover the pan and fry 
it slowly forty minutes. When it has cooked twen- 
ty minutes turn it, and when done lift it into a warm 
chafing-dish and put one teaspoonful of browned 
flour and one gill of hot water into the gravy and 
let it boil five minutes. Stir it up well from the 
bottom and then put in three tablespoonfuls of my 
tomato catsup and pour it into the gravy dish. 



58 FISH RECIPES. 



FRESH SHAD BOILED 

Is prepared in the same manner as in tlie preced- 
ing receipt, but it must be broiled forty minutes, it 
being a thicker fish, and it is best served with drawn 
butter that has three tablespoonfuls of my tomato 
catsup in it. 

BOILED TROUT, (Cold.) 

A lake trout weighing three pounds will take 
twenty minutes to cook. Scale it thin, dress it with 
the head on and wash it in cold Avater, Put it into 
the fish kettle with cold water enough to cover it 
that has one teaspoonful of salt to a pint of water. 
When it begins to boil skim it and cook it slowly 
twenty minutes. Sift it carefully and put it on the 
dish that is to be sent to table. When it is cold 
garnish it with sprigs of curled parsley ajid serve 
with a Mayonaise sauce. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Take a six pound -white fish and after it is scaled 
and dressed (leaving the head on) wash it in cold 
water and dry it off, then put a pinch of salt and 
pepper inside and fill it with stuffing, lea^•ing• room 



FISH RECUSES. 59 

for it to swell; then sew it up with a small cord, 
salt and pepper the outside and dredge it well with 
flour. Have ready on the fire a fish pan with one 
tablespoonful of fresh butter and one of fresh lard 
in it and when it is hot enough to brown, lay in 
the fish put it into the oven and bake it three quar- 
ters of an h«ur. Baste it often and when it is lift- 
ed put one gill of hot water into the gravy; let it 
boil up a minute, stir it up well from the bottom 
and put in three tablespoonfuls of my tomato catsup; 
cut the cord the fish "was served with in short 
pieces with a pair of scissors and draAV it out care- 
fully. 

STUFFING FOR FISH. 

One pint of sliced onions cut up fine, measured 
after they are cut up; five ounces of fresh butter, 
four ounces of bread without the crust, two fresh 
eggs separated, one tablespoonful of parsley after 
it has been cut up fine, one teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the butter and onions into a 
skillet and cook them soft; dip the bread into cold 
water, take it out quickly, squeeze it out and stir it 
in with the onions and butter. Then put in the 
parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper and mix it well 
together. Then take it oflf the fire and beat the 
yolks and stir them in, now beat the whites to a 
stiff" foam and stir them in when you are ready to 
fill the fish. The stuffing should be warm when it 
is put in. 



6o OYSTER RECIPES. 



^\q11 ^{^\ Oy^tef^, 



OYSTER SOUP. 

Put one quart of fresh oysters into a colander 
and let cold water run through them. Then put 
them into a porcelain saucepan, with half a pint of 
cold water; one pint of rich sweet milk. Three 
ounces of fresh butter and one teaspoonful of salt, 
oi salt to taste. Set them over a slow fire, and 
then crush four double baked rusks fine with a roll- 
ing pin, and just before the soup begins to boil stir 
in a few large kitchen spoonfuls of the rusks. 
Now watch it closely. As soon as it begins to boil 
take it off t^ie fire and pour it into the soup tureen. 



OYSTER RECIPES. 6l 

Serve it with crackers and celery or cold slaw. If 
oysters boil one minute they become tough and 
tasteless. Therefore they must be watched closely 
and taken from the fire the moment they begin to 
boil. 



ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 



Three dozen large fresh oysters. One pint of 
crushed double baked rusk, made fine. One tea- 
spoonful of salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. One teaspoonful of dried summer savory, 
after it has been made fine and sifted. Two 
ounces of fresh butter, melted. Haifa pint of rich 
sweet milk. Put the oysters into a colander and 
let cold water run through them, then let them 
drain. Put the rusk into a deep dish and mix 
the salt and pepper and summer savory with it, 
mix it well together. Take a deep tin pie plate 
and cover the bottom with the rusk, then put in a 
layer of oysters, then a layer of rusk, then part of 
the butter, then with a tablespoon part of the milk 
evenly over the rusk. Then another layer of 
oysters in the same manner until all are in, finish- 
ing with the rusk, butter and the remainder of the 
milk. Put it into a quick oven and bake twenty 
minutes. 



62 OYSTER RECIPES. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

One quart of large fresh oysters; half a pint of 
■water; one tablespoonful of green parsley washed 
and cut up fine; one teaspoonful of crushed cel- 
ery seed; one gill of rich sweet milk; two tea- 
spoonfuls o± flour; three yolks of fresh eggs; three 
ounces of fresh butter; one teaspoonful of salt; 
half a teaspoonful of pepper; three tablespoonfuls 
of crushed double baked rusk. Put the oysters into 
a colander and let cold water run through them. 
Put the half pint of water,parsley and celery seed into 
a saucepan and let it come to a boil, then put in the 
milk. Mix the flour with a spoonful of cold milk, 
then beat the yolks and flour together and stir them 
in. Stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must not 
boil. Then put in the butter, salt, pepper and the 
oysters. As soon as the oysters are fringed and 
swollen, (they must not boil) stir in the rusk, take 
them quickly off the fire and put them into a warm 
chafing-dish. 



'tj 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

One quart of large fresh oysters; one pint of oys- 
ter crackers; one teaspoonful of salt; quarter of a 
teaspoonful of pepper; one large kitchen spoonful 
of fresh butter. If they are canned oysters put 



OYSTER RECIPES. 63 



them into a colander and let cold water run through 
them, let them drain only a minute, then put them 
into a porcelain dish. Put the crackers on to a clean 
paper and crush them fine with a rolling pin, then 
put them into a pie plate and mix the salt and 
pepper with them. Roll the oysters over (one at 
a time) in the crackers and lay them on a large 
plate. Have ready on the fire a frying pan "with 
the butter in it hot enough to brown (try it first 
with one oyster) then lay in the oysters, one at a 
time, let them fry one minute, then turn them, fry 
them another minute, then lift. Put them into a 
warm chafiing dish and send to table hot. 03's- 
ters prepared in this -way are much better than when 
they are dipped in eggs. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

If they are canned oysters put them mto a col- 
ander and let cold w^ater run through them. Then 
let them drain and then put them into china dish- 
es with small pieces of clear ice strewn amongst 
them. Serve with tomato catsup made by my re- 
ceipt, celery salad or cold slaw and Albert or 
English crackers. 



'&'^ 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

Put some large fresh oysters into a colander and 
let cold water run through them, then let them 



64 OYSTER RECIPES. 

drain. Rub the small patty-plates with fresh but- 
ter and line them with puff paste; fill the plates 
with oysters and put a very little salt on each oys- 
ter, cut up some fresh butter into small pieces the 
size of a hazel nut, roll them in powdered cracker 
and put six of them into each plate, or one to each 
oyster; cover with puff paste and bake in a quick 
oven. 

'DEVILED CRABS. 

One pint of crab meat; half a pint crushed 
double baked rusks or bread crumbs; one gill of 
vinegar; two ounces of fresh butter; one teaspoon- 
ful of my made mustard; half a teaspoonful of salt; 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper; one gill of 
rich sweet milk and three yolks of fresh eggs; put 
the vinegar, butter, mustard, salt and pepper over 
the fire to get hot, but not to boil. Beat the yolks 
and milk together and stir them into the vinegar 
and the other ingredients until it is thick, but it 
must not boil after the eggs are in. Now take a 
deep pie-plate and cover the bottom with a thin 
layer of rusk, then a layer of crabs, and rusk again, 
with a couple of spoonfuls of the sauce distributed 
over it, then another layer of crabs, rusks and 
sauce and so on until all are in, finishing with the 
rusk and sauce. Put it into a quick oven where it 
will brown lightly in ten minutes. 



OYSTER RECIPES. 65 

DEVILED CRABS. (Excellent.) 

Haifa pint of crab meat; half a pint of beef soup; 
half a pint of tomatoes; one tablespoonful of 
butter; one teaspoonful of my made mustard; 
half a teaspoonful of salt; one quarter of 
a teaspoonful of pepper; one gill of crushed 
double baked rusk; cook the tomatoes in the 
soup until they are all broken up. Then put in 
the butter, mustard, salt and pepper and take it oft 
the fire, then put in the crab meat and rusk and 
mix it together. Then put it into a dish and set it 
in a quick oven for ten minutes and then serve. 

SHRIMPS STEWED. 

One quart of shrimps, that is two cans; two 
ounces of fresh butter w^ith tw^o teaspoonfuls of 
flour mixed in it; half a pint of hot rich sw^eet milk; 
half a pint of hot water; one teaspoonful of crushed 
celery seed; one pinch of nutmeg; one teaspoon- • 
ful of salt; half a teaspoonful of pepper; four yolks 
of fresh eggs, mix the butter and flour together 
and put it into a stew pan and let it fry a minute, 
then stir in the milk and water and let it 
come to a boil, then add the celery, nutmeg, salt 
and pepper, and put in the shrimps, and when 
they are hot, but not boiling, beat the yolks with 
two tablespoonfuls of milk and stir them in, w^hen 
they are scalding hot take them off the fire, they 
must not boil. 



66 OYSTER RECIPES. 



TERRAPIN. 

Put the terrapin into boiling \vater and boil un- 
til the skin and toe nails come off easily. Then 
take it out, pull off the skin, take out the toe nails 
and wash it in warm water and boil it again in salt- 
ed w^ater until the flesh is tender; then take it out 
of the shell, remove the sand bag and gall w^hich 
you must be careful not to break, as it will make 
the terrapin bitter and uneatable. Cut the terrapin 
into small pieces and save the juice that comes out 
in the cutting w^ith as much of the water it was 
boiled in as will make half a pint. One quart of 
terrapin meat; half a pint of the juice and water it 
was boiled in; four ounces of fresh butter with 
tw^o teaspoonfuls of flour mixed in it; four table- 
spoonfuls of cider vinegar; one teaspoonful crush- 
ed celery seed; one teaspoonful of my made mus- 
tard; one teaspoonful of salt; half a teaspoonful of 
pepper; three yolks of fresh eggs; four tablespoon- 
fuls of rich sweet milk; mix the butter and flour to- 
gether and put it in a stew pan and let it fry a minute, 
then stir in the juice and water and let it come to a 
boil, then add the vinegar, celery seed, mustard, 
salt and pepper and when it is hot put in the ter- 
rapin and let it boil five minutes. Then beat the 
yolks and milk together and stir them in, let it get 
scalding hot, but not to boil, and then lift. 



BKEF RECIPES. 67 



Seef. 



ROAST BEEF. 

Have the oven hot before you begin to prepare 
the meat. Take six pounds of beef, -wash it in cold 
water, dry it, salt and pepper it with two teaspoon- 
fulsof saltand half a teaspoonful of ground black pep- 
per. Dredge it well with flour, mix one tablespoon- 
ful of fresh butter and one of lard with one teaspoon- 
ful of flour and put it into the roasting pan and let it 
brown a minute. Then stir in half a pint of hot 
water and put in the beef the outside up. After it 
has roasted fifteen minutes begin to baste. When 
the water has boiled down in the gravy add a 
kitchen spoonful of hot water from time to time 
and baste often. Cook it one hour and a half. 
After it is lifted skim off part of the fat and put in 
half a pint of boiling water. Stir it up well from 
the bottom and let it boil a few^ minutes, then lift. 
Six pounds of beef take one hour and a half to roast. 
Ten pounds two hours. 



68 BEEF RECIPES. 



BEEF STEAK BROILED BY GAS. 

Since I have become the possessor of one of Mr. 
Thomas Gaussen's gas cooking stoves, we have 
had the most deHcious beef steaks. Take a young 
porterhouse steak one inch thick, v^^ash it in cold 
water, but don't let it lay in the water to soak the 
juice out, then lay it on the meat board, dry it off, 
pound it w^ith a w^ooden mallet and then nick the out 
side skm to prevent it from curling. Salt and pep- 
per it on both sides, then place the gridiron over the 
pan that is to catch the gravy, put the steak on it 
and set it into the broiler, then let on the gas, and 
m ten minutes turn the steak and broil it ten min- 
utes longer. Lift it into a warm chafing-dish and 
pour the gravy over it. This is the real juice of 
the beef without butter or water. 

BEEF STEAK SMOTHERED IN 
ONIONS. 

Prepare a porterhouse steak in the same man- 
ner as in the preceding receipt, and whilst it is broil- 
ing put one pint of sliced onions, cut up, into a skil- 
let with two ounces of fresh butter, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a pinch of pepper, and fry them a 
light brown. When the steak is done and put into 
a w^arm chafing-dish with the gravy poured over it, 
cover the steak with the onions, close the chafing- 
dish and send it to table hot. 



BEEF RECIPES. 69 



BEEF A LA MODE. 

Four pounds of beef from the rump without bone 
and two inches thick; half a pound of fat bacon; 
two ounces of fresh butter; six bay leaves; half a 
tables poonful of juniper berries; one teaspoonful 
of cloves; one gill of cider vinegar; two onions 
peeled and cut in quarters. Wash the beef in cold 
water, dry it off, pound it with a wooden mallet 
and lard it with fat bacon. Cut the bacon in slices, 
cut off the skin, trim off the edges and cut it in 
pieces wedge shaped. Make the incisions deep 
with a sharp pointed knife and press in the bacon, 
then salt and pepper it on both sides and dredge 
it with flour. Have ready on the fire a dutch oven 
with the two ounces of butter in it, and when it is 
hot enough to brown lay in the beef and bro^wn it 
well on both sides, then put in hot "water enough to 
half cover the beef and the bay leaves, juniper ber- 
ries, cloves, vinegar and onions. Keep the oven 
covered and cook it slov^^ly two hours if young, two 
and a half if old. When it has cooked one hour 
turn it, and if the water boils down too low replen- 
ish with a little boiling w^ater. When the beef is 
done the water should be boiled down and there 
should be a brown gravy, then lift it, skim off part 
of the fat from the gravy, put in a gill or more of 
hot water, let it boil a minute, stir it up well from 
the bottom and pour it through the gravy strainer 
into the gravy dish. It is good warm or cold serv- 
ed with the gravy. 



7© BKEF RECIPES. 



CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

Take five pounds of the brisket piece of sugar 
cured corned beef that is fat, wash it in cold water 
and if it is too salt let it lay in cold water for an 
hour or so. Put it into a pot with cold water enough 
to cover it, and when it begins to boil skim it as 
long as anything rises to the surface, then set it 
where it will cook slowrly for three hours. The 
cabbage should be the Dutch flat heads and of the 
smallest size. Trim off the outside leaves, cut off 
the stalk and cut the cabbage in tw^o if it is very 
small, if not, quarter them. Put them into a large 
pan of cold water for half an hour, examine them 
carefully, shake them up and dow^n in the w^ater 
and then put them into the colander to drain. As 
soon as the corned beef is well skimmed put the cab- 
bage in with it and cook it slov^^ly tw^o and a half 
hours. If the water boils down too low replenish 
with a little boiling water, but there must not be 
much water in the pot when it is done or the cab- 
bage will not be rich enough. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

One quart of fine chopped corned beef from the 
brisket piece; four middle sized onions peeled, 
sliced and chopped fine; two raw potatoes peeled. 



BEEF RECIPES. "Jl 



sliced and chopped fine; half a pint of water; half 
a teaspoonful of pepper. The beef is salt enough 
without any extra salt. Put the whole into a fry- 
ing pan and cook it half an hour. Just before lift- 
ing stir in scant half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg 
and the yolks of two eggs. It must be almost dry 
when it is lifted. 

TRIPE, STEWED. 

Tripe must be cooked five hours; take five 
pounds of tripe, cut it in pieces half an inch wide 
and two inches long. Wash it in warm water, put 
it into a stew pan with boiling water enough to 
cover it and boil it three hours. If the water boils 
down replenish with boiling water, then put it into 
a colander, drain off the water and return the tripe 
to the stew pan with boiling water enough to cover 
it. Now put in six bay leaves and two blades of 
mace as large as a five cent piece and boil it one 
hour and a half, then put in one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter, half a teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt and half a pint of 
good cider vinegar. Now put two tablespoonfuls 
of browned flour and one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter into a frying pan with as much liquor from 
the tripe as will mix it together, and let it boil two 
or three minutes, then stir it in with the tripe, then 
add two tablespoonfuls of crushed double baked 
rusk and let it simmer twenty minutes. 



72 BEEF RECIPES. 



SPICED PICKLE FOR BEEF, 
YENISON AND RABBITS. 

One gallon of good cider vinegar; one quarter 
of a pound of bay leaves; two tablespoonfuls of 
cloves; two tablespoonfuls of whole pepper; three 
large spoonfuls of juniper leaves; two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt. Put the whole together into a porce- 
lain kettle and let it boil five minutes. Have ready 
four large onions sliced and put them into the pickle 
as soon as it is taken off the fire. Keep it covered 
closely. It is ready for use as soon as it is cold. 
It is very fine for beef, venison and rabbits. Six 
pounds of beef should lay in the pickle eight days, 
six pounds of venison six days and a rabbit three 
days. This pickle can be used three times in the 
winter by adding a little more vinegar the last time. 

SPICED BEEF ALA MODE. (Very 

Fine.) 

Take six or seven pounds of beef without any 
bones in it and four or five inches thick, (the butch- 
ers have it ready cut for this purpose) wash it, 
wipe it and pound it well. Then lard it with one 
pound and a half of fat bacon, cut the bacon in 
slices half an inch thick, take. off the skin and cut 



BEEF RECIPES. 73 



the bacon wedge shaped, tnen take a strong sharp 
pointed knife and make the incisions deep; lard 
it close on both sides and stick a clove in each 
piece of bacon. Now take part of the bay leaves 
out of the pickle, lay in the beef and put the bay 
leaves on top, the pickle must cover the beef and the 
kettle must be close covered. When the beef has 
been in four days turn it, when it has been in eight 
days take it out and put it into an iron dutch oven 
w^ith hot water enough to come half way up to the 
top of the beef, cover the oven and cook it slowly 
three hours. When it has cooked t^wo hours turn 
it, brown it on both sides and when it is lifted stir 
into the gravy half a tablespoonful of browned 
flour and half a pint of hot water, let it boil a few 
minutes, stir it up well from the bottom and skim 
off part of the fat before sending it to table. It is 
excellent cold, served with the gravy and when 
chopped up makes nice sandv\^iches. Mashed po- 
tatoes, stewed carrots, parsnips or turnips should 
be served with spiced beef. 

BEEF'S TONGUE, SPICED. 

Prepare a fresh beef's tongue in the following 
manner: Wash it in two waters, trim off the 
back part and put it into a sauce pan with cold 
water enough to cover it and boil it two hours. 



74 BEEF RECIPES. 



Then take it out on a platter and take off the skin 
and cut out the meat from underneath the tongue, 
Then put it into my spiced pickle for beef and 
game, and let it remain in it eight days, 
then take it out and put it into a dutch oven with 
cold water enough to half cover the tongue and 
boil it two hours. Keep the oven covered and when 
it has cooked one hour turn it, then mix one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter with one tablespoonful of 
browned flour and put it into a skillet with a small 
ladle full of the water from the tongue and let it 
boil until it is as thick as cream, then stir it in with 
the tongue. When the tongue is done there should 
be about half a pint of gravy. It is good either 
warm or cold, is very nice for lunch and makes 
fine sandwiches. 



BEEF'S TONGUE, FRESH. 

Take a young fresh beef's tongue and wash it in 
two waters with a coarse linen cloth, then Jet clear 
water run over it and put it into a sauce pan with 
cold water enough to cover it, and when it begins 
to boil skim it well, then put in six bay leaves and 
a teaspoonful of salt, cover the sauce pan and let 
it cook slowly four hours. When it has cooked 
two hours turn it and if the water has boiled down 
too low, replenish with a little boiling water, when 



BEEF RECIPES. 75 



it is done take off the skin, trim off the back part 
and cut out the meat from underneath the tongue. 
Send it to table whole or cut it in slices and lay 
it in rows. Serve it with the following sauce: 

SAUCE FOR BEEF TONGUE. 

Put one tablespoonful of browned flour into a 
skillet and when it is hot put in two ounces of fresh 
butter and half a pint of the water that the tongue 
was cooked in, poured through a gravy strainer, then 
put in half a teaspoonful of powdered mace, half a 
teaspoontul of powdered cloves, one quarter of a 
teaspoonful of ground black pepper and two table- 
spoonfuls of good cider vinegar. Stir it together 
and let it boil slowly fifteen minutes. 



76 VEAL RECIPES. 



Yekl. 



VEAL A LA MODE. 

Four pounds of veal cut two inches thick (from 
the round); one pound of fat bacon; two ounces 
of fresh butter; six bay leaves; half a teaspoonful 
of powdered mace; half a teaspoonful of powder- 
ed cloves; four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar; 
two teaspoonfuls of browned flour. Wash the veal 
in cold water, dry it off", cut the outside skin to pre- 
vent it from curling, and pound it well on both 
sides. Cut the bacon in slices, take off" the skin, 
trim off" the outside edges and cut it in pieces wedge 
shaped, then make the incisions deep with a sharp 
pointed knife and lard it half an inch apart. Have 
ready on the fire a dutch oven with two ounces of 
fresh butter in it, and when it is hot enough to 
brown, salt, pepper and dredge the veal with flour 
on the upper side and lay it in, flour side down, 
then season and dredge the other side, cover the 
oven close, and brown it on both sides a yellow 



VEAL RECIPES. 77 



brown, then put in the bay leaves and hot water 
enough to reach half of the veal. Cover the oven 
and cook it slowly one hour. Baste it often and 
when done lift it into a warm chafing-dish, skim 
off part of the fat from the gravy, then put in two 
teaspoonfuls of browned flour, half a pint of hot 
water, the mace, cloves and vinegar. Let it boil a 
few minutes, stir it up from the bottom, put m salt 
and pepper to the taste and pour it through the 
gravy strainer into the gravy dish. 

CmCINNATI PATES A LA 
STRASBOURGH. 

One pound of young calf's liver weighed after it 
is cooked; six bay leaves; half a teaspoonful of 
salt; one gill of the water the liver was cooked in; 
Haifa teaspoonful of powdered cloves; half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered mace; half a teaspoonful of 
pepper; half a teaspoonful of salt; four ounces of 
fresh butter with one teaspoonful of browned flour 
mixed with it. Wash the Hver in cold water and 
put it into a stew pan with cold water enough to 
cover it, and when it begins to boil skim it as long 
as anything rises to the surface, then put in the bay 
leaves and half a teaspoonful of salt, boil it until it 
is very tender; it takes about two hours. When 
done put it into a deep porcelain dish, pour the wa- 



78 VEAL RECIPES. 



ter and bay leaves over it and let it stand until cold. 
The water should have boiled down to about half 
a pint. Strain the water through a gravy strainer 
or wire sieve, put one gill of it into a skillet, add 
all the spices and seasoning, set it over the fire, 
mix the browned flour and butter together, stir it 
in, let boil a minute and take it off. Weigh the 
liver, cut it in to thin small pieces and grind it in a 
porcelain mortar to a fine paste, moistening it each 
ime with two tablespoonfuls of the sauce. It can 
be put into small molds or one large one, and cut in 
slices when served. It is very nice for lunch or tea. 

VEAL CUTLET. 

A veal cutlet should be cut from the thickest part 
of the round and should be one inch and a half 
thick. After it is washed in cold water and dried 
off, cut the outside skin to prevent it from curling, 
then pound it on both sides, salt and pepper it and 
dredge it with flour on the upper side. Have ready 
on the fire a frying pan with a tablespoonful of 
fi-esh butter and one of lard, and when it is hot 
enough to brown lay in the cutlet, flour side down, 
then salt, pepper and dredge the other side. Cover 
the frying pan close, (the steam makes the veal 
tender) and cook it slowly twenty minutes, then 
turn it and cook it twenty minutes longer. When 
it is done lift it into a warm chafing-dish, put two 



VEAL RECIPES. 79 



teaspoonfuls of browned flour and a gill of hot wa- 
ter into the gravy. Let it boil a few minutes, stir 
it up well from the bottom, then pour it over the 
cutlet, 

VEAL FRICASSEE. 

Take four pounds of the breast of veal and cut 
it up according to the bones. Wash it in cold wa- 
ter and put it into a flat iron dutch oven that has a 
cover to it, and put in cold water enough to cover 
it. Just before it begins to boil skim it well, 
then put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter, 
SIX bay leaves, and a blade of mace the size of a ten 
cent piece. Keep it covered and cook it one hour 
and a half. When it has cooked one hour put in 
pepper and salt to the taste, then take two table- 
spoonfuls of browned flour, and whilst it is hot stir 
into it one tablespoonful ot fresh butter and as much 
of the liquor from the veal as will mix it well to- 
gether and stir it in with the veal, then stir in two 
large spoonfuls of crushed double baked rusk and 
let it simmer half an hour longer. Before sending 
to table remove the bay leaves and mace. 

YEAL FRICANDEAU, (Excellent.) 

Take two pounds of veal that is cut from the 
thickest part of the leg and is one inch and a half 



8o VEAL RECIPES. 



thick, wash it in cold water, dry it off, cut the out- 
side skin to prevent it from curhng, and pound it 
well on both sides, then lard it w^ith tw^o dozen 
anchovies. The anchovies that I used for this pur- 
pose were rolled up in a coil the size of a silver 
quarter of a dollar and were put up in olive oil. 
Make the incisions in the cutlet deep w^ith a sharp 
pointed knife and wide enough to insert the anchovy 
(coiled up) without breaking. The anchovies 
are salt enough to season the cutlet; sprinkle a lit- 
tle pepper over it and dredge the upper side thick- 
ly with flour. Have ready on the fire a deep skil- 
let with one gill of olive oil in it, and when it is 
hot enough to brown lay in the cutlet flour side 
down, then pepper and dredge the other side with 
flour; cover the skillet close and cook it a yellow 
brown, then turn it carefully, baste it often and 
cook it slowly thirty minutes longer. Keep the 
skillet covered and when it is done lift it into a 
warm chafing-dish, then put in one teaspoonful of 
browned flour, one gill of hot water and three 
tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar into the gravy; let 
it boil up a few minutes, stir it up well from the 
bottom and if required add a pinch of salt and 
pepper, then pour it over the veal. 

YEAL FRICASSEE. (With 
Sweet-breads.) 

Take three pounds of the breast of veal an 



VEAL RECIPES. 8 1 



cut it up according to the bones. Wash it in cold 
water and put it into a flat iron dutch oven with 
a cover to it. Put in cold water enough to cover 
the veal, then take one sweet-bread for each per- 
son you are to have at table. Trim them, wash 
them and put them in with the veal; set it over a 
slow fire and before it begins to boil skim it well, 
then put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter, six 
bay leaves and a blade of mace the size of a five 
cent piece. Keep it covered and cook it one hour 
and a half. When it has cooked one hour take out 
the sweet-breads on a porcelain plate and set them 
where they will keep warm; now put in salt and 
pepper to the taste. Take two tablespoonfuls of 
browned flour and while it is hot stir in one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and as much of the liquor 
from the veal as will mix it well together, then 
stir it in with the veal, then stir in two large spoon- 
fuls of crushed double baked rusk, now put in the 
sweet-breads without breaking them and let the 
whole simmer half an hour longer. Before send- 
ing to table remove the bay leaves and mace. 



ROAST OF VEAL. (The Kidney 

Piece.) 

Wash the veal in cold water and dry it off", salt 
and pepper it on both sides with an even table- 
spoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful ot black 



82 VEAL RECIPES. 



pepper; dredge it well with flour. Have ready on 
the fire an iron dutch oven w^ith one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter and one of fresh lard in it, and as 
soon as it is hot enough to brown put in the veal, 
the out side down, and cover the oven. Let it 
cook slowly until it is nicely browned, then turn it 
over and brown the other side; then put in tw^o or 
three tablespoonfuls of hot w^ater and baste after. 
Keep the oven covered, the steam makes the meat 
tender and juicy. Five pounds of veal take one 
hour and a half to cook. After the veal is lifted 
put half a pint of hot water into the gravy and stir 
it up well from the bottom, let it boil a few 
minutes, then pour it into the gravy dish. 

YEAL HASH. (Very fine.) 

One quart of fine chopped, cold roast veal ; 
four middle sized onions; peeled, sliced and .chop- 
ped fine ; two raw potatoes, pared, sliced and 
chopped fine; and half a pint of water; put the whole 
into a frying pan w^ith the gravy that w^as left from 
the roast of veal; if there is no gravy, mix one 
tablespoo'nful of fresh butter, and one tablespoon- 
ful of lard, with two teaspoonfuls of browned 
flour and stir it in; then add salt and pepper to the 
taste, and cook it half an hour; just before lifting 
stir in scant half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
and the yolks of two eggs; it must be almost dry 
when it is lifted. 



VEAL RECIPES. 83 



SWEET-BREADS FRICASSEED. 
(Very fine.) 

Six sweet-breads of equal size; one pint of beef 
broth; six bay leaves; two blades of mace, the size 
of a five cent piece; halt a teaspoonful of salt; one 
pinch of pepper; two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
one tablespoonful of browned flour; one tablespoon- 
ful of crushed double baked rusk; wash the sweet- 
breads in cold water and boil them in salted water 
thirty minutes; there should be water enough to 
cover them, that has one teaspoonful of salt in 
it to one pint of water. Then take them out 
trim them off" nicely and put them into a deep skil- 
let with the beef broth, bay leaves, mace, salt and 
pepper; cover the skillet and let them cook slowly 
thirty minutes longer. Mix the butter and flour 
together, then add to it three tablespoonfuls of the 
liquor from the sweet-breads and stir it into the 
gravy without breaking the sweet-breads; then 
stir in the rusks and let it simmer ten minutes 
longer. Remove the bay leaves and mace before 
sending them to table. 

SWEET-BREADS, FRIED. 

Wash them in cold water and put them into a 
stew pan with cold salted water enough to cover 



84 VEAL RECIPES. 



them, and when it begins to boil skim it; then put 
in one bay leaf and one blade of mace the size of a 
bean for each sweet-bread and boil them thirty 
minutes, if large size, forty minutes; then take 
them out and save the w^ater they were boiled in 
for the gravy. Trim them off nicely, salt and pep- 
per them and dredge them well with flour. Have 
ready on the fire a frying pan with a large kitchen- 
spoonful of fresh butter in it, and when it is hot 
enough to brow^n put in the sw^eet-breads, cover 
the pan; fry them a light brown, baste them and 
cook them slowly thirty minutes. When lifted put 
some of the spiced w^ater they w^ere boiled in into 
the gravy, let it boil a minute, stir it up well from 
the bottom and then pour it over the sweet-breads. 



CALF'S LIVER. 

A young calPs liver is light red, and an old one 
is dark red, and not fit to eat. Take a young 
calf s liver, wash it in cold water, dry it off and lay 
it on the meat board, cut it in slices half an inch 
thick, sprinkle a pinch of salt and pepper over 
them and dredge themi thickly with flour. Have 
ready on the fire a skillet with one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one of fresh lard in it and when 
it is hot enough to brown lay in the liver, flour 
side in the butter; then sprinkle the other side 



VEAL RECIPES. 85 



with salt and pepper and dredge it with flour; cov- 
er the skillet and cook it slowly ten minutes, then 
turn it and cook it ten minutes longer. Lift it in- 
to a warm chafing-dish and put half a pint of hot 
water into the gravy; let it boil a few minutes, stir- 
ring it up well from the bottom, and add another 
pinch of salt and pepper. The gravy should be 
rich and plenty of it. 



86 LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES. 



I<kii\1b ki\(i JVEtitton. 



LAMB AND TURNIPS. 

Three pounds of the breast of fat lamb is enough ' 
to cook with one quarter of a peck of turnips. 
Peel the turnips and chip them up in thin pieces as 
you do apples for pies. Wash them in cold water 
and put them into a colander. Mix one tablespoon- 
ful of fresh butter with one teaspoonful of flour 
and put it into a stew pan and let it boil a minute, 
then put in a pint of boiling water and the turnips 
with one teaspoonful of salt. The water must 
cover the turnips and they must cook slowly three 
hours. Wash the lamb, dry it off" and sprinkle it 
with salt and pepper. When the turnips have 
cooked one hour put in the lamb, skin side down, 
and cook them together two hours longer. If the 
lamb is very fat omit the butter. There must be 
very little water in the stew pan when the lamb and 
turnips are done. 



LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES. 87 



LEG OF LAMB, LARDED. 

Wash the lamb in cold water and dry it off with 
a linen cloth, then lard it with small pickled button 
onions. Make the incisions deep with a sharp 
pointed knife and put the onions in out of sight. 
Salt and pepper it and dredge it with flour. Put 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter and one of fresh 
lard into a dutch oven, and when it is hot enough 
to brown lay in the lamb and brown it on both 
sides. Put in a tablespoonful of hot water from 
time to time and baste often. Cover the oven to 
keep in the steam and cook it slowly one hour. 
When lifted put into the gravy one teaspoonful of 
browned flour and one gill of hot water. Let it 
boil five minutes, stirring it up well from the bot- 
tom, then put in three tablespoonfuls of my tomato 
catsup and lift. 

LEG OF LAMB, ROASTED. 

Take a leg of young lamb that weighs three and 
a half pounds, wash it in cold water, dry it, salt 
and pepper it with a teaspoonfiil of salt and scant 
half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dredge it well on 
both sides with flour; put one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one of lard into a dutch oven and 
when it is hot enough to brown lay in the leg of 



88 LAM3 AND MUTTON RECIPES. 

lamb; brown it on both sides and baste often; put 
in a tablespoonful of hot water before basting, and 
keep the oven covered. Cook it slowly for one 
hour; after it is lifted put in one gill of hot water; 
let it boil a miuute, stir the gravy up well from the 
bottom and lift. Serve with young turnips, green 
peas and new potatoes. 

LAMB CHOPS, FRIED. 

Wash the lamb chops in cold water and dry 
them off, then salt and pepper them and dredge, 
them with flour; have ready on the fire a skillet 
with one tablespoonful of butter and one of lard, 
and when it is hot enough to brown lay in the 
chops; cook them ten minutes, then turn them and 
cook them ten minutes longer, then lift into a warm 
chafing-dish, pour one gill of hot vi^ater into the 
gravy, let it boil a few minutes, stirring it up well 
from the bottom, then put in three tablespoonfuls 
of my tomato catsup and lift. 

A LEG OF SOUTHDOWN MUT- 
TON, BOILED. 

Cut the knuckle from the leg, then wash the 
mutton in cold water and put it into a kettle with 



LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES. 89 

cold water enough to cover it that has one table- 
spoonful of salt in it; just before the water begins 
to boil skim it well; cover the kettle and let it boil 
slowly one hour and a half if young, if old, two 
hours. If the water boils down too low replenish 
with boiling water. Serve with caper, mint or 
tomato sauce. 

SOUTHDOWN MUTTON CHOPS, 
BROILED BY GAS. 

After the chops have been washed in cold wa- 
ter and dried off pound them with the beef steak 
pounder, then salt and pepper them; rub the grid- 
iron with a piece of fat pork or some lard tied in 
cloth and lay the chops on it; place the gridiron 
over the pan that is to catch the gravy and set it 
into the broiler, then let the gas on and in ten min- 
utes turn the chops and broil them ten minutes 
longer. 



90 PORK RECIPES. 



f^ofk. 



BOILED HAM. 

Take a sugar cured ham weighing ten pounds; 
cut off the end bone, scrape off the underside, wash 
it in warm water and put it into a large kettle with 
cold water enough to cover it and let it heat slow- 
ly until it begins to boil, then boil it three hours 
from the time it begins to boil. When it is done 
take it out on to a large platter, skin side down and 
trim off all the outside and put the trimmings on to 
another plate, then turn the ham upside down and 
take off the skin. Spot it with black pepper and 
wind fringed paper around the bone. 

ROASTED HAM. 

After the ham has been boiled, trimmed off and 
skinned, put it into a roasting pan (skin side up) 



PORK RECIPES. 91 



with half a pint of sherry wine, one gill of hot water 
and three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
then put it into an oven that is hotter on top than 
it is in the bottom and baste it with the wine 
every five minutes. Roast it a yellow brown. It 
takes about thirty minutes if the oven is right. 
When it is done lift it into a warm chafing-dish 
and skim off all the fat in the pan, then mix a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour with a little water and 
stir it into the pan. Let it boil a few minutes, then 
add a little more wine, water and sugar. Put it 
into a gravy dish and serve it w^ith the ham. 

ROAST PIG. 

Take a young pig four weeks old that has been 
well cleaned, wash it in cold water, lay it on the 
meat board and dry it off. Make a stuffing with 
the following ingredients: Put two quarts of peeled 
and sliced sour apples into a saucepan with one gill 
of cold water, and when they are cooked soft put 
in three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
then mix tw^o teaspoonfuls of corn starch wth a 
tablespoonful of cold water and stir it in. Let it 
boil five minutes and then take it off. 

STUFFING. 

Pick and wash one pound of dried German 
prunes and put them into a saucepan with cold wa- 



92 PORK RECIPES. 



ter enough to just cover them. Cook them until 
they are soft but not to break. Fifteen minutes 
before they are done put in three tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, and when they are done measure them 
without the juice and put them into a large bowl, 
then measure the same quantity of apples and mix 
it with the prunes, then take one tablespoonful of 
anise seed to one quart of fruit. Rub the anise seed 
through the hands to take off the stems and then 
sift it and mix it with the apples and prunes and 
then stuff the pig, sew it up w^ith a small cord, put 
a small block of wood in its mouth to keep it open; 
salt and pepper it and dredge it w^ith flpur. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter with two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour inixed with it into the baking 
pan and let it fry one minute, then put in half a pint 
of hot water and the pig. After the flour on the 
pig is browned baste often, putting in a spoonful 
of hot water from time to time. Bro^vn it well and 
cook it two hours and a half. When it is lifted 
put half a pint of water into the gravy, stir it up 
from the bottom, put in salt and pepper to the 
taste and let it boil a few minutes. Cut the cord in 
short pieces with a pair of scissors and draw it out. 
Take the block out of its mouth and put in a red 
apple. Garnish with green parsley. 

PIGS' FEET, SOUSED. 

Select the smallest pigs' feet, they are the young- 



PORK RECIPES, 93 



est; wash them in cold water and put them into a 
kettle with cold water enough to cover them, and 
when they begin to boil skim off whatever rises to 
the surface. If the water boils down replenish 
with boiling water; the feet must be covered with 
water until they are done; cook them four hours, 
or until they are very tender. Then take them 
out onto a large platter, split them open between the 
hoofs and take out the large bones; now take a 
large flat stone crock and put in a layer of the pigs 
feet, cut side up, and sprinkle over them a pinch 
of salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of cloves; 
then another layer with salt, pepper and cloves, 
and so on until all are in. Then fill the crock 
with good cider vinegar and cover it close. They 
will be ready to use in twenty-four hours; they 
can be eaten cold or w^arm, but they are better 
warm. Put them into a skillet with some of the 
congealed vinegar and cloves, and when they are 
hot if they are too sour add a little water and salt 
if required. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

The white marrow beans are the richest and 
easiest cooked. Take one quart of beans, pick 
them, wash them in two waters and put them into 
a pan that holds two quarts and a half, then take 
one pound of fat, pickled pork, wash it in warm 



94 PORK RECIPES. 



water and trim off the parts that are not fresh cut, 
then cut the skin in cross-bars and put the pork 
down in the middle of the beans, leaving only the 
skin in sight. Now^ put in one teaspoonful of salt 
and one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar 
and fill up the pan with cold water to within half 
an inch of the top; put it into the oven and bake 
them three hours and a half. Replenish with hot 
water from time to time, keeping the water even 
with the beans until half an hour before they are 
done; then let the water cook down and if they 
are browned a little on top remove them before 
sending to table. 

SAUSAGES. 

Wash the sausages in cold water, then separate 
them and put them into a skillet with half a pint 
of hot water and boil them ten minutes; then turn 
them and prick them with a fork and boil them 
until the water is boiled down; then brown them 
on both sides in their own fat. They are done in 
thirty minutes. 

SPARE RIB, STUFFED. 

Take a whole young spare rib that has small 
bones, and after it is washed in cold water lay it on 



PORK RECIPES. 95 



the meat board and dry it off, then crack the bones 
exactly in the middle with a hatchet, but they must 
not be cut clear through, then fold the two edges 
together, trim off the ends to make it even and sew 
it up with a small cord leaving the largest end open 
for the filling. Fill it with the following ingredi- 
ents: Haifa pint of cooked sour apples that have 
two teaspoonfuls of sugar in them, half a pint of 
cooked prunes with two teaspoonfuls of sugar in 
them and two teaspoonfuls of anise seed. Put the 
apples and prunes into a bow^l and mix them to- 
gether, then stir in the anise seed, fill and sew up, 
salt and pepper it on both sides and dredge it with 
flour. Put two ounces of fresh butter into the 
roasting pan with half a pint of water and lay in 
the spare rib. Brown it on both sides, baste it often, 
putting in a spoonful of hot water from time to 
time. Keep the oven closed and cook it two hours. 
When it is lifted cut the cord in short pieces with 
a pair of scissors and draw it out. Put half a pint 
of hot water into the gravy, stir it up well from the 
bottom and let it boil a few minutes. 



96 POULTRY RECIPES. 



Poultry. 



HOW TO KJ^OW A YOUNG TUR- 
KEY. 

If the lower joints of the legs are a dark red it 
is a young turkey. If they are white it is an old 
one. This is a sure sign. I never knew it to fail. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Take ayounghen turkey that weighs six or seven 
pounds and wash it inside and out with cold water 
and dry it with a clean napkin. Rub the inside oi 
the turkey with half a tablespoonful of fresh butter 
and a pinch of salt and pepper. Stuff it, sew it up 
and sprinkle a little salt and pepper on it. Put 
some small pieces of butter on the outside of it, put 
it into the roasting pan with half a pint of water 
and a tablespoonful of fresh butter. Baste it often. 
It takes one hour and a half to roast a young tur- 



POULTRY RECIPES. 97 

key of this size in the range. Put the giblets on to 
boil when the turkey is put into the oven. Cook 
them until they are soft, then cut them up and mash 
the liver. After the turkey is lifted skim off part of 
the fat from the gravy and stir in half a tablespoon- 
ful of brow^ned flour, then put in the giblets w^ith the 
water they were cooked in which should be half a 
pint, then add salt and pepper to the taste and stir it 
up well from the bottom of the pan. Let it cook a 
few minutes and lift. 



TURKEY STUFFING. 

One quart of fresh oysters; eight ounces of fresh 
butter; eight ounces of bread, without the crust, 
dipped in cold water and squeezed out quickly; three 
fresh eggs beaten separatel)'; one tablespoonful of 
green parsley leaves cut up fine; one tablespoon- 
ful of celery leaves cut up fine; two teaspoonfuls of 
dried summer savory after it has been made fine 
and sifted; one teaspoonful of salt; half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the oysters into a saucepan and 
let them scald, but not boil, then pour them into a 
colander to drain. Put the butter into a deep skil- 
let and set it where it will melt, but not get hot, 
beat the yolks and stir them in with the butter, then 
put in the parsley, celery, summer savory, salt and 
pepper and then sti'- in the bread. Beat the whites 



98 POULTRY RECIPES. 

to a stiff foam, stir them in then put in the oysters 
and fill quickly. The stuffing should be warm when 
it i? put into the turkey. 

STUFFING FOR A TURKEY OR 
CHICKENS. 

One quart of sliced onions, cut up fine, meas- 
ured after they are cut up; eight ounces of fresh 
butter; eight ounces of bread without the crust; 
four fresh eggs beaten separately; two tablespoon- 
fuls of parsely after it has been w^ashed and cut up 
fine; two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg; two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt; one teaspoonful of pepper. After 
the onions are peeled and sliced, cut them up fine, 
then put them into a skillet with the butter and cook 
them soft, but not brow^n. Dip the bread into cold 
water, take it out quick, squeeze it out and stir it 
in w^ith the butter and onions, then put in the 
parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper and mix it well 
together. Then take it off the fire and beat the 
yolks and stir them in, now beat the .whites to a 
stiff foam and stir them in when you are ready to 
fill. The stuffing should be warm when it is put 
in. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Choose a young hen turkey, and after it has been 
dressed and washed in cold water dry it off with a 



POULTRY RECIPES. 99 



linen cloth, then take half a pound of fat pickled 
porktrim off the outside, that is not fresh cut, wash 
it in warm water and put it inside of the turkey. 
Tie the legs fast to the body, turn the wings behind 
and tie them, then put the turkey into a porcelain 
kettle with cold water enough to cover it, and just 
before it begins to boil skim it, then set it where it 
will boil slowly for two hours, if it is an old one 
two and a half hours. When it has boiled one 
hour turn it and if the water boils down too low 
replenish with boiling water. Serve with oyster or 
egg sauce. Save the w^ater the turkey was boiled 
in for soup next day. Skim off the fat, it is good 
to fry potatoes with. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Take a young lull grow^n yellow^ legged chicken 
and after it has been dressed and washed in cold 
water dry it off with a linen cloth, take one quar- 
ter of a pound of fat pickled pork, trim off the out- 
side edges, wash it in warm water and put it inside 
the chicken, then tie the legs fast to the body, turn 
the wings behind and tie them, then put the chick- 
en into a large saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover it, and when it begins to boil skim it, then 
set it where it will boil slowly one hour. If the 
water boils down too low replenish with boiHng 
water. Serve with oyster or egg sauce. 



lOO POULTRY RECIPES. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Select a young full grown chicken and after it is 
dressed, cut up and washed, put it into a stew pan 
with cold water enough to cover it and just before 
it begins to boil, skim it. Peel four celery roots, 
slice them thin, wash them and put them in with 
the chicken, then put in one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter, and when the chicken has cooked one hour 
put in two tablespoonfuls ot green parsley leaves 
cut up fine, one teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of pepper. Now mix one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter with one heaped table- 
spoonful of flour and stir it in with the chicken. 
Let it simmer slowly fifteen minutes then put in 
two dozen fresh oysters and as soon as it begins 
to boil again take it off the fire and lift. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

After the chicken has been dressed, cut up and 
washed, put it into a stew pan with cold water 
enough to cover it and just before it begins to boil 
skim it; then take three quarters of a pound of 
pickled pork, trim off all the outside that is not 
fresh cut, wash it, cut it in slices and put it in with 
the chicken; then put in six bay leaves and two 
blades of mace the size of a five cent piece. When 



POULTRY RECIPES. lOI 

the chicken has cooked one hour, or until it begins 
to be tender, add one quarter of a teaspoonful ot 
pepper and salt if required, then roll out some 
pastry dough a quarter of an inch thick, cut it in 
squares, put it in with the chicken and cook it 
slowly thirty minutes. Remove the bay leaves 
and mace before sending it to table. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

A young chicken that is not quite fully grown 
is the best for a chicken pie. After it has been 
cut up by the joints split the back in three pieces, 
cut out the wish bone piece and split the breast in 
two, wash it in cold water and put it into a stew pan 
with just cold water enough to cover it. Just before 
it begins to boil skim it, then put in one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley leaves, one blade of mace 
the size of a five cent piece, half a grated lemon 
peel, two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter with two 
teaspoonfuls of flour mixed in it, one teaspoonful 
of salt and a pinch of pepper. Cover the kettle 
and cook it until tender, then take the chicken out 
and boil the water down to half a pint and then 
strain it through a gravy strainer or wire sieve. 
Roll out some pastry one fourth of an inch thick 
and cut it in squares. Line a deep well buttered ' 
dish with some of the pastry and then put in a layer 
Df chicken cut side up and a layer of pastry squares, 



I02 POULTRY RECIPES. 

with two large spoonfuls of the broth, then another 
layer, and so on, finishing with the chicken and 
broth. Cover with pastry and cut a few slits in it 
with a sharp knife, put it in the oven and bake 
thirty minutes. 

SPRING CHICKENS, COOKED 
WHOLE. 

Yellow legged chickens are the best and the best 
way to cook them is in a dutch oven with a cover 
to it and in the following manner: After they are 
picked and dressed hght a paper and singe them*. 
Wash them in cold water, dry them off, salt and 
pepper them with one teaspoonful of salt and a 
pinch of pepper to each chicken. Dredge them 
well with flour. Put one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter with one of fresh lard into the dutch oven, 
and when it is hot enough to brown put in the 
chickens. Brown them on both sides. Put in from 
time to time a kitchen spoonful of hot water and 
baste them every fifteen minutes. Let them cook 
slowly and keep the oven covered. The steam 
makes them tender and juicy. If the chickens are 
full grown cook them one hour, if not full grown 
three quarters of an hour. Afterthe chickens are 
lifted put half a pint of boiling water in the gravy. 
Let it boil a few minutes, stir it up well from the 
bottom and lift. 



POULTRY RECIPES. I03 

ROAST DUCKS. (Young ones.) 

After the ducks have been dressed and washed 
in cold water, dry them off with a soft linen cloth 
then rub the inside of each duck with ateaspoonful 
of fresh butter and a pinch of salt and pepper; now 
fill them, sew them up, put a pinch ot salt and pep- 
per over them, dredge them with flour and put 
them into the roasting pan with half a pint of wa- 
ter, a large spoonful of fresh butter and a double 
baked rusk. When the flour on the ducks has 
browned baste them from time to time and cook 
them one hour; when lifted put half a pint of hot 
water into the gravy, let it boil up a minute, stir 
it up well from the bottom and pour it into the 
gravy dish. Serve with currant or cranberry jelly. 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS. (One 
pair.) 

One quart of shced white onions cut up fine; 
six ounces of fresh butter; eight ounces of stale 
bread without the crust, dipped in cold water and 
squeezed out quick; three fresh eggs beaten 
separately; one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; 
one teaspoonful of salt; half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the butter and onions into a 
deep skillet and cook the onions soft, then put in 



I04 POULTRY RECIPES. 

the bread, nutmeg, salt and pepper and mix it well 
together, then take it off the fire and beat the 
yolks and stir them in, then beat the whites with 
one teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in w^hen you are ready to fill. 



YOUXG GOOSE. ROASTED, 

A young goose has yellow^ feet and red joints of 
the leg and an old one has red feet and white 
joints. After the goose has been picked light a 
paper and singe it off, then dress it, wash it in cold 
water and take out the fat and save the giblets for 
the gravy; cut off part of the neck and tie the skin 
over it with a small cord; cut up half a tablespoon- 
ful of fresh butter in small pieces and put it inside 
of the goose, then fill and sew it up with a small 
cord; tie the legs to the body "with the cord, salt 
and pepper the outside and dredge it with flour, 
mix one tablespoonful of fresh butter w^ith one tea- 
spoonful of flour and put it into the roasting pan and 
let it brown two minutes, then put in half a pint of 
hot -wsLter and the goose; baste often, putting in a 
little hot w^ater from time to time; keep the oven 
closed and cook it one hour and a half. Put the 
giblets on to boil when the goose is put into the 
oven, boil them until they are very tender, then 
cut them up and put them in with the gravy; then 



POULTRY RECIPES. I05 

put in half a pint of the water the giblets were 
cooked in, stir it up well from the bottom of the 
pan, let it boil a few minutes and put in salt and 
pepper to the taste. Cut the cord the goose was 
sewed with with a pair of scissors in short pieces 
and draw it out. A young goose takes one hour 
and- a half to cook, and an old one two hours and 
a half. 

STUFFma FOR A GOOSK 

Take one pound and a half of dried prunes, 
wash them in cold water and put them into a 
saucepan with cold -water enough to cover them 
and cook them until. they are soft, but not scft 
enough to break. Fifteen minutes before they 
are done stir in three tablespoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar. Put two quarts of sliced sour 
apples (pippins are the best) into a porcelain sauce- 
pan with one gill of water and three tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar and cook them until they are soft, 
then mix two teaspoonfuls of corn starch with a 
little cold water and stir it in, let it cook four min- 
utes. Then measure one pint a:nd a half of the 
apples and one pint and a half of the prunes and put 
them together in a large bowl, then take one table- 
spoonful and a half of anise seed and rub off the 
little stems and then sift it and mix it with the ap- 
ples and prunes. 



Io6 GAME RECIPES. 



G^kii\e. 



HASENPFEFFER. 

One rabbit, eight bay leaves, one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter, six onions the size of an egg with 
six cloves stuck in each onion, half a pint of hot 
cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of browned 
flour w^ith one tablespoonful of fresh butter mixed 
in it, two tablespoonfuls of crushed double baked 
rusk. After the rabbit has been skinned, cut up 
and washed in cold water, put it into a dutch oven or 
flat ste v\^ kettle with cold -water enough to cover it and 
just before it begins to boil skim it, then put in the 
bay leaves and one tablespoonful of butter and 
cover the kettle. Peel the onions and stick six 
cloves in each one; when the rabbit has cooked 
one hour put in the vinegar, onions, salt and pep- 
per, put the browned flour and butter into a skil- 
let and when it is hot stir in a few spoonfuls of the 
liquid from the rabbit and let it boil a minute or 



GAME RECIPES. I07 



two, as soon as the onions are soft stir in the flour 
and butter, then stir in the rusk and let it simmer 
slowly twenty minutes, or until the gravy is thick 
enough. Remove the bay leaves before sending it 
to table. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. 

After the quails have been picked and dressed, 
wash them in cold water, dry them with a napkin 
and put a pinch of salt and pepper inside of each 
one. Put a large kitchen spoonful of fresh butter 
into a dutch oven or deep skillet over the fire, and 
when it is hot enough to brown, lay in the quails. 
Then put in six crushed juniper berries for each 
quail, cover the oven or skillet and brow^n them on 
both sides. Then put in a tablespoonful of hot 
water from time to time, and baste often. Cook 
them slowly thirty minutes, and when they are 
lifted, put a gill of hot water into the gravy, stir it 
up from the bottom, let it boil a few minutes, and 
then pour it through the gravy strainer. 

GAME STUFFING FOR QUAILS, 
PIGEONS AND BIRDS. 

One gill of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fresh 
butter, half a pound of crushed double baked rusk. 



Io8 GAME RECIPES. 



three fresh eggs beaten separately, two tablespoon- 
fuls of green parsley leaves, cut up fine, two tea- 
spoonfuls of crushed celery seed, one teaspoonftil 
of powdered mace, one teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper. Put the milk and butter 
into a deep skillet and let it get ' warm enough to 
melt the butter. Then put in the parsley, celery, 
mace, salt and pepper. Beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir them in. Then put 
in the rusk and beat the whites with one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
just when vou are ready to fill. 



RABBIT, SPICED. 



Skin the rabbit, dress it and leave it whole with 
the head on, wash it in cold water, take out the 
eyes and lay it on the meat board and lard it with 
fat bacon, cut the bacon one quarter of an inch 
thick, cut off the skin, trim off the edges and cut 
It in wedge shaped pieces, make the incisions in 
the thick part of the rabbit with a sharp pointed 
knife and press in the bacon; put the rabbit into 
the pickle and let it stay in three days, then take it 
out, dry it off, sprinkle a Httle salt over it and 
dredge it with flour; have ready on the fire a fry- 
mg pan containing half a tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter and half a tablespoonful of lard, and when it is hot 



GAME RECIPES. 109 



enough to brown lay in the rabbit, cover the pan, 
brown it on both sides, baste it from time to time 
and cook it slowly thirty minutes. When it is lift- 
ed put a gill of hot water into the gravy, let it boil 
a iew minutes, stir it up from the bottom of the 
pan, then pour it into the gravy dish. 

SADDLE OF VEKISON, 
ROASTED. 

A six pound saddle of venison should be larded 
with one pound of fat bacon. Wash the venison 
in warm water and dry it off with a linen cloth, 
then cut the bacon in slices half an inch thick, cut 
off the skin, trim off the outside edges and cut it in 
pieces wedge shaped, make the incisions deep in 
the venison with a sharp pointed knife and press 
in the bacon, then salt and pepper it and dredge 
it with flour. Have ready on the fire a dutch oven 
with two ounces of fresh butter in it and when if 
is hot enough to brown put in the venison and 
brown it on both sides, then put in half a pint of 
hot water, six bay leaves, half a tablespoonful of 
juniper berries, one teaspoonful of cloves, two 
onions peeled and cut in quarters and one gill of 
cider vinegar. Cover the oven and cook it slowly 
two hours; baste it from time to time, and if the 
water boils down too low replenish with a little 
boiling water. When it has cooked one hour turn 



no GAME RECIPES. 



it, and when it is done lift it into a warm chafing- 
dish and skim off part of the fat from the gravy, 
then put in one gill of hot water, let it boil up a 
minute, stir it up well from the bottom of the oven 
and pour it through the gravy strainer into the 
gravy dish. Serve with currant or cranberry jelly, 
mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes, celery or cold 
slaw. 

SADDLE OF VEmSON, SPICED. 

Take six pounds of the saddle of venison, wash 
it in w^arm w^ater and dry it with a clean linen* 
cloth and lard it with one pound of fat bacon; cut 
the bacon into slices half an inch thick, take off the 
skin and cut it into wedge shaped pieces an inch 
and a half long. Make the incisions with a sharp 
pointed knife clear through the thick part of the 
venison and press the bacon into it a far as possi- 
ble. After it is closely larded; put it into the 
pickle and let it remain in it six days. Then take 
it out dry it off and dredge it with flour; have 
ready on the fire a dutch oven with two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter in it and when it is hot, put 
in the venison and brown it on both sides as quickly 
as possible. Then put in a little hot water from 
time to time and baste often with the gravy, keep 
it covered and cook it slowly for two hours and a 
half. When it is lifted stir into the gravy half a 



GAME RECIPES. Ill 



pint of hot water and let it boil a few minutes stir- 
ring it up well from the bottom. Serve with 
stewed carrots, turnips and mashed potatoes, cur- 
rant or cranberry jelly. 

YENISON STEAK. 

Take a venison steak one inch thick, wash it 
quickly in warm water, not letting it lay in the 
water. Then pound it with a wooden mallet nick 
the outside skin to keep it from curling; salt and 
pepper it and dredge it with flour. Have ready 
on the fire a frying pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
fresh butter in it, and w^hen it is hot enough to 
brown put in the steak. Brown it on both sides, 
cover the pan and cook twenty minutes. Then 
lift it into a warm chafing-dish and put one gill 
of hot water into the gravy; let it boil up a min- 
ute, stir it up from the bottom of the pan, then put 
in one tablespoonful of currant jelly and pour the 
gravy over the steak. Venison is such a lean, 
close meat the gravy should be rich and plenty of 
it. 



112 SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 



>iekt. 



HOLLANDISH FISH SAUCE, 
(Warm,) — (Excellent.) 

Haifa pint of the water the fish has been boiled 
in, one teaspoonful of flour, three yolks of fresh 
eggs, three ounces of fresh butter, one saltspoon- 
fhl of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper; four table- 
spoonfuls of my tomato catsup. Put the water 
into a saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling wa- 
ter over the fire and let it get hot, but not boiling. 
Mix the flour with a little cold water then beat the 
yolks and flour together and then stir them into the 
water, stir it until it is thick (but it must not boil) 
then take it off" the fire and stir in the butter, then 
add the salt, pepper and last the catsup. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. II3 



MAYONAISE SAUCE, FOR FISH 
OR SALAD. 

Three yolks of hard boiled eggs; one yolk raw; 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil; two teaspoonfuls 
of my made mustard; one teaspoonful of grated 
white onion; one salt spoonful of salt; half a 
spoonful of pepper; four tablespoonfuls of good 
vinegar. Slice the boiled yolks up fine into a por- 
celain bowl and mix the raw yolk with them. 
Then rub them together until they are fine and 
smooth; then put in the oil a little at a time, and 
rub it in with the back of the spoon. Then add 
the mustard, onion, salt and pepper, and last add 
the vinegar. 

NEW MAYOXAISE SAUCE, FOR 
FISH OR SALAD, (Excellent.) 

One gill of cider vinegar, two" teaspoonfuls of 
my made mustard, two teaspoonfuls of grated white 
onion, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
pepper, six yolks of fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil, one gill of rich sweet milk; put the 
vinegar, mustard, onion, salt and pepper into a skil- 
let over the fire and let it get hot but not boil; beat 
the yolks and oil together then stir in the milk and 



I 14 SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 

then stir it into the vinegar, stir it until it thickens 
but it must not boil. It can be used cold or warm. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

One pint of beef broth, six tablespoonfuls of 
grated horse-radish, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
one teaspoonful of pounded mace, two teaspoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of crushed double baked rusk. Put the 
beef broth and horse-radish into a saucepan over a 
slow fire, then put in the vinegar, mace, sugar, salt 
and butter, crush the rusk with a rolling-pin and 
put them in last; let it cook slowly for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. To be served with beef or veal. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One pint of oysters, half a pint of rich sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful of green parsley washed 
and cut fine, one even teaspoonful of crushed cel- 
ery seed, one teaspoonful of flour, two yolks of 
fresh eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, halfasaltspoonful of pepper. Put 
the oysters into a colander and let cold water run 
through them, then let them drain; put the milk, 
parsley and celery into a saucepan and set it into 



SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. II5 



a pan of boiling water over the fire and let it get 
hot, but not to boil, mix the flour with a little cold 
milk, then beat the yolks and flour together and 
then stir them into the milk, stir it until it becomes 
as thick as cream, but it must not boil, then add 
the butter, and when it is melted, put in the oys- 
ters and as soon as they are fringed and swollen 
(they must not boil) take them off the fire and add 
the salt and pepper, then pour it into a sauce 
tureen. Serve w^ith boiled turkey and chicken. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Four ounces of fresh butter j one teaspoonful of 
flour; one gill of hot water; one third of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Mix the flour and one table- 
spoonful of the butter together in a tin cup; then 
stir in slowly the hot water and set the tin cup in- 
to a tin pan that contains a little boiling water. 
Stir it until it becomes thick or begins to boil. 
Then take it off the fire and stir in the remainder 
of the butter and of one third of a teaspoonful of 
salt. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

is made by putting two tablespoonfuls'of chopped 
parsley into half a pint of drawn butter sauce. 



Il6 SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Half a pint of drawn butter; two hard boiled 
eggs chopped up and one tablespoonful of parsley 
chopped fine. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk and stir it 
in the drawn butter. Stir it until it is thickj then 
put in the hard boiled eggs, the parsley, and salt 
to the taste. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Caper sauce is made by stirring three table-, 
spoonfuls of capers and two tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar into half a pint of drawn butter sauce. 
Then add salt and pepper to the taste. 

PICKLE SAUCE. 

Take some small cucumber pickles that are made 
by my receipt; slice them thin and chop them up 
fine. Then put three tablespoonfuls of the pickles 
and two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar into half 
a pint of drawn butter-sauce with salt and pepper 
to the taste and mix it well together. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One pint of canned tomatoes, one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter, one tablespoonful of chopped white 



SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. ll'J 

onions, one tablespoonful of flour, three table- 
spoonfuls ot cider vinegar, half a teaspoonful of 
ground allspice, half a teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
half a teaspoonful of my made mustard, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
ground black pepper. Fry the onions in the but- 
ter until they are soft, then stir in the flour and let 
it cook tw^o minutes, then put in the tomatoes and 
all the other ingredients, stir them v^ell together 
and let them boil fifteen minutes, then strain it 
through the gravy strainer into the sauce tureen. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put one tablespoonful of browned flour into a 
skillet and w^hen it is hot put in two ounces of 
fresh butter and half a pint of beef broth, let it 
boil until it is as thick as cream, then stir in one gill 
of my tomato catsup. 



Il8 PICKLES RECIPES. 






WAX BEAliTS, PICKLED. 

Beans for pickling must be young, round and 
full, string them carefully with a knife and let 
them remain whole, after they are washed in cold 
water put them into a kettle of boiling water over 
a brisk fire, and after the waiter begins to boil again 
cook them thirty minutes, then take them out and 
spread them on a table that is covered with a 
cloth. When they are cold put them into 
glass jars that hold one gallon; first put in a layer 
of beans then, four bay leaves, then another lay- 
er of beans and bay leaves until the jar is within 
one inch of being full; then put in one tablespoon- 
ful of ground pepper, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
black mustard and three tablespoonfuls of salt. 
Fill the jar with cold cider vinegar to within half 



PICKLES RECIPES. II9 



an inch of the neck, and then put in two table- 
spoonfuls of whole black pepper, close the jar with 
a ground glass stopper and pour a little melted 
beeswax around it. The vinegar must not touch 
the stopper. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Peel half a peck of small, white-skinned button 
onions without cutting off the tops. Put them in- 
to a porcelain kettle with one quart of cold water 
and one pint and a half of sweet milk. When 
they are hot, but not to boil, set them on the side 
of the range for fifteen minutes. Then take them 
out and spread them on a table that is covered 
with a cloth. When they are cold put them into 
half-pint, wide-necked glass jars. Then put in a 
blade of mace the size of a five cent piece, and 
one even teaspoonful of salt. Fill up with cold 
cider vinegar, cork tight and seal w^ith wax. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Put a tablespoonful of cloves into a pint of ci- 
der vinegar and set it over the fire for half an 
hour where it will get hot, but not boil. Then let 
it get cool. Take small dark red beets that have 
been boiled and skinned. SHce them and let them 



I20 PICKLES RECIPES. 

get cold. Then take some small white onions and 
cut them in thin slices. Take a glass or stone jar 
and put in first a layer of beets, then a few slices 
of onion, then a spoonful or two of the vinegar 
and cloves and a pinch of salt; then another layer 
in the same manner until the jar is almost full. 
Fill up with cold cider vinegar. They are ready 
to use in twenty-four hours. 



RED CABBAGE PICKLED. 

Take some small firm heads of dark red cab- 
bage and trim off the outside leaves and cut the 
stalk off even with the cabbage. Then cut it in 
quarters lengthwise and then in half quarters; take 
a gallon jar and put in a layer of cabbage six bay 
leaves, three blades of mace each the size of a five 
cent piece, half a teaspoonful of w^hole cloves and 
half a teaspoonful of whole black pepper; then 
another layer of cabbage, bay leaves and • spices 
until the jar is within an inch of being full. Then 
put in three tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of whole cloves and two tablespoonfuls of 
whole pepper; then fill up the jar with cold cider 
vinegar until the vinegar and spices come into the 
neck of the jar, but they must not touch the stopper; 
close up with ground glass or stone stoppers and 
pour a little melted bees-wax around them. 



PICKLES RECIPES. 121 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS, (Very 

fine.) 

Cucumbers for pickling should be small, and 
have the stems on; put them into cold water for 
half an hour, then wash them in two waters, rub- 
bing them carefully with the hands. Put a double 
cloth on a table and spread the cucumbers on it to 
drain and dry; now assort them, putting each size 
by itself, and if there are any without stems, or 
broken, lay them aside. Pickles should be put into 
glass or stone jars; take a jar one gallon in size 
and put in a layer of cucumbers then five bay 
leaves, then another layer of cucumbers and five 
bay leaves; and so on until the jar is within an 
inch of being full, then put in one tablespoonful of 
ground black pepper, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
allspice and three tablespoonfuls of salt; fill up the 
jar with cold cider vinegar and put on the top two 
tablespoonfuls of whole black pepper and two 
tablespoonfuls of whole allspice. The vinegar and 
spice should come into the neck of the jar, but not 
touch the stopper. Close up with ground glass 
stoppers and pour a little melted bees-wax around 
them. If the vinegar is pure cider vinegar the 
pickles will be as hard and crisp at the end of a 
year as they were when first put up. The spices 
should be ground at home, you cannot depend 
upon what you buy at the groceries. 



122 PICKLES RECIPES. 



TOMATO CATSUP. (Excellent.) 

One gallon of peeled tomatoes; four pods of cay- 
enne pepper; (they are very small, about one inch 
long,) three tablespoonfuls of black pepper, ground 
at home; four tablespoonfuls of black mustard, 
made fine in the mortar; three tablespoonfuls of all- 
spice, ground at home; three tablespoonfuls of salt; 
one quart of strong cider vinegar; one long root of 
horse-radish chipped up thin. Boil four hours. Two 
bushels of tomatoes make thirty bottles of catsup. 
After the tomatoes have boiled two hours put in 
all the spices — everything excepting the vinegar 
and horse-radish. (It must be stirred at the bot- 
tom all the time it is boiling.) Set the vinegar on 
the side of the fire where it will get hot, but not 
boil. Then chip up the horse-radish in thin chips. 
Half an hour before the catsup is done put in the 
vinegar, and when the catsup has boiled four 
hours stir in the horse-radish and take it off the 
fire. Put it into large wooden vessels or large 
stone crocks. Cover it closely, so that the aroma 
cannot escape, and let it stand over night. Then 
strain through a wire sieve, and with a wooden 
spoon press as much through as you can. What 
is left in the sieve take into your hands and 
squeeze it out. Bottle it. Drive the ' corks in 
with a wooden beetle, and put a strong twine over 
the corks and make it fast around the neck of the 



PICKLES RECIPES. I23 

bottle. Then dip it into hot seaHng-wax, and 
when it is cold tie a piece of cotton cloth over it 
to prevent the wax from being knocked off. This 
catsup will keep any length of time. It is excel- 
lent with raw oysters, fresh meats of all kinds, 
salads, sauces and gravys. 

MUSTARD. 

One pint of yellow Enghsh mustard flour, half a 
pint of white granulated sugar, one gill of fine salt, 
one gill of cider vinegar. Put the mustard flour 
into a porcelain bowl and pour in slowly boiling 
water enough to make it into a dough, stir it until 
it is all scalded and perfectly smooth. Then stir 
in the sugar and mix it well together, then add the 
salt and last the vinegar, mix it well together, then 
put it into small, wide mouthed glass jars, and cork 
it tight, it will keep good a long time. It is very 
fine for the castor and for salad dressing. 



124 SALADS RECIPES. 




SALAD DRESSma. (No. 1, the 

best.) * 

Three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, 
three yolks of fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive 
oil, three tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Put 
the vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper into a small 
skillet and let it get hot, but it must not boil, beat 
the yolks and olive oil together and then stir 
in the milk, then stir it into the vinegar; stir it un- 
til it is thick, but it must not boil. Put it into a 
porcelain bow^l and when it is cold mix it with the 
salad. 

SALAD DRESSmG. (No. 2.) 

Three yolks of hard boiled eggs, one yolk of 
raw egg, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one tea- 



sa!lads recipes. 125 



spoonful of my made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
grated white onion, one saltspoonful of salt, half a 
saltspoonful of pepper, three tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar. Slice the yolks into a porcelain bowl, 
mix the raw yolk in with them and rub them to- 
gether with the back of the spoon until they are 
very smooth, then put in the oil, a little at a time, 
rubbing it well together, then add the mustard, 
onion, salt and pepper and last the vinegar. 



CABBAGE SALAD, OR COLD 
SLAW. 

Two quarts of cut cabbage, one tablespoonful of 
.fresh butter, with one teaspoonful of flour mixed in 
it; one gill of cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of my 
made mustard, one heaped teaspoonful of salt, (cel- 
ery salt,) quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, three 
yolks of fresh eggs, one gill of rich sweet milk. 
Mix the butter and flour together, put it into a skil- 
let and let it fty one minute, then stir in the vine- 
gar, mustard, salt and pepper and let it get hot, 
but it must not boil, then beat the yolks and milk 
together and stir them into the vinegar, stir it until 
it is as thick as cream, but it must not boil, pour it 
into a bowl, and when it is cold enough, mix 
it with the cabbage. Take a small flat dutch head 
of cabbage and trim off the outside leaves, cut it in 



120 SALADS RECIPES. 

halves, wash it in cold water, then cut it on the 
cabbage cutter, but not too fine, spread a clean 
napkin into the colander, put in the cabbage, take 
the four corners together and shake out the water, 
then measure and put it into the salad dish. 
When ready to serve mix the dressing and cab- 
bage well together. It is excellent with raw or 
fried oysters. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take the head of lettuce and strip off all the out- 
side leaves; then separate the inside leaves from 
the stalk, and put them into cold water and let them 
remain in it half an hour. Then spread a clean 
napkin into the colander, pick the lettuce careful- 
ly over and throw it into the colander; then take 
the four corners of the napkin together and shake 
it to get the water oiF the lettuce. Put it into the 
salad dish, and when ready to serve, mix the dres- 
sing w^ith it. 

e:n^diye salad. 

Only the yellow part of endive can be used for 
salad. After the green leaves have all been tak- 
en off, put the yellow part into cold water. Sepa- 
rate the leaves, pick it carefully and wash it in' 
two waters. Cut the leaves' off two inches long, 
put them in the salad dish with the curled ends on 
top. Serve with lettuce salad dressing. 



SALAD RECIPES. 1 27 



CORN SALAD. 

Corn salad is so small and grows so near the 
ground that it has to be carefully pickedj examine 
every bunch closely, then take off the under leaves 
and cut off the root and wash it twice in cold wa- 
ter, let it remain half an hour in the last water. 
Then put it into the colander to drain, serve with 
lettuce salad dressing. 

BEAK SALAD. 

The yellow wax beans are the best for salad ; 
string them and boil them whole, when they are 
boiled tender; take them out on to a table that is 
covered with a clean cloth and let them get cold 
then put them into the salad dish; mix one table- 
spoonful of olive oil, one saltspoonful of salt, half a 
saltspoonful of pepper and one teaspoonful of my 
made mustard together; then add four tablespoon 
fuls of cider vinegar. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cucumbers for salad should only be a little more 
than a finger length long and a little thicker than 
a thumb. They have a much finer taste than those 
large unwholesome cucumbers which are gener- 



128 SALAD RECIPES. 

Jilly used for salad. Put them into cold water, peel 
them, cut off the stem end and throw them into a 
pan of cold water until it is time to serve; then slice 
them thin and send them to table with a separate 
plate of sliced small white onions; serve them at 
table to siiit the taste, some prefer them with only 
vinegar, salt and pepper, whilst others prefer them 
with the addition of oil. When oil is used it should 
be put on first and mixed with the cucumber be- 
fore the vinegar Is put on. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Take the yellow stalks of the celery and wash 
them in cold water, spread a clean cloth on a ta- 
ble and put the celery on it to drain, then split the 
stalks down lengthwise in four or five pieces, cut 
them off half an inch long and put them into the 
salad dish, make a dressing with the following in- 
gredients: Two yolks of fresh eggs, one table- 
spoonful of olive oil, three tablespoonfuls of 
rich sweet milk, three tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of my made mustard, half 
a teaspoonful of salt. Put the vinegar, mustard 
and salt into a small skillet and let it get hot, but 
not boil; beat the yolks and oil together, then stir 
in the milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it 
until it is the thickness of cream, (but it must not 
boil,) then put it into a bowl and when it is cold 
mix it with the celery. Garnish the top with the 
yellow leaves. 



SALAD RECIPES. I 29 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One pint of small oysters measured after they 
have been scalded and drained, one pint of eels, or 
lake trout, after it has been boiled and cut up, one 
pint of celery measured after it is cut up, six small 
cucumber pickles the size of a little finger^ 

DRESSING. 

Four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, four yolks of 
fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of oHve oil, four 
tablespoonfuls of rich S'weet milk. Put the oysters, 
w^ith their own liquor, into a saucepan over the 
fire and just when they begin to boil take them off 
and pour them quickly into a wire sieve to drain; 
when cold put them into a salad dish; Boil the 
fish in salted water fifteen minutes, and when cold 
take out the bones, cut the fish into pieces the size 
of a five cent piece and put into the salad dish. 
Wash the celery in cold w^ater, split the stalks 
lengthwise in four or five pieces, then cut them off 
half an inch long and put it with the oysters and 
flsh. Cut the pickles lengthwise in quarters, then 
in thin sHces, and mix the whole together. Put 
the vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper into a skil- 



130 oALAD RECIPES. 

let over the fire where it will get hot, but not boil, 
beat the yolks and oil together, then stir in the 
milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it until it 
is thick,' (it must not boil) then pour it into a bowl 
and when it is cold mix it v^^ith the salad. 



ITALIA]^ SALAD. 



One pint of shrimps, one pint of eels, measured 
after they are boiled and cut up, one quart of cel- 
ery, after it is cut up, one gill of small cucumber 
pickles, after they are cut up, one gill of pickled 
button onions, after the outside is taken off, one 
gill of cider vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of my made 
mustard, two teaspoonfuls of grated white onions, 
one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, six yolks of fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, one gill of rich sweet milk. Put the 
shrimps into a colander, let cold water run through 
them, let them drain, then put them into a large 
bowl. Boil the eels in salted water fifteen minutes 
and when cold separate the bones from the fish, 
then cut the fish up in pieces as large as the 
shrimps and put them into the bowl. Wash the 
white stalks of the celery in cold water, split down 
lengthwise in four or five pieces, then cut them off 
half an inch long and put them with the fish; take 
the smallest cucumber pickles that are made by 



SALAD RECIPES. I3I 



my receipt, split them lengthwise in quarters, then 
slice them up; take the outside layer off the pickled 
onions to make them small enough, then mix 
the pickles with the other ingredients, put the vin- 
egar, mustard, onions, salt and pepper into a skil- 
let where it will get hot, but not boil; beat the 
yolks and oil together, then stir the milk and stir 
it into the vinegar, stir it until it is thicker than 
cream, (it must not boil) then pour it into a bowl 
and when cold mix it with the salad; place some 
head lettuce leaves around the salad dish, put in the 
salad and garnish with young celery leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

One young full-grown chicken boiled till tender; 
half a pint of the water the chicken was boiled in; 
two ounces of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls 
of flour mixed with it; one teaspoonful of 
crushed celery seed; one teaspoonful of pow- 
dered mace; one teaspoonful of salt; half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. When the chicken is done 
and cold remove the bones and cut the chicken up 
in pieces half an inch square and put them into a 
salad dish. Boil down the water the chicken was 
cooked in to about half a pint; measure it and 
pour it through the gravy strainer into a skillet 
over the fire; then put in the celery seed, mace, salt 
and pepper. Mix the butter and flour together and 



132 SALAD RECIPES. 

stir it in; stir it until it boils up as thick as cream; 
then pour it over the chicken and mix jt together. 
The head butter lettuce is the best, and there 
should be an equal quantity of lettuce and chick- 
en. Separate the leaves from the stalks, wash 
them in cold water; then drain it well, cut it in 
pieces, put it into a large bowl, and when ready 
to serve dress it with No i Salad Dressing and 
then mix it with the chicken. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One pint of shrimps, one pint of celery, after it 
has been cut up. 

DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, three 
yolks of fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, 
three tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Put the 
shrimps into a colander and let cold water run 
through them, let them drain, then put them into 
a large bowl. Wash the white stalks of the celery 
in cold water, split them lengthwise in four or five 
pieces, then cut them off half an inch long, put 
them in w^ith the shrimps and mix them together. 
Put the vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper into a 
skillet over the fire where it will get hot, but. not 



SALAD RECIPES. I33 

boil; beat the yolks and oil together, then stir in 
the milk and then stir it into the vinegar; stir it 
until it is thick, but it must not boil, then put it in- 
to a bowl and when it is cold mix it with the salad. 
Place some head lettuce leaves around the salad 
dish, put in the salad and garnish the top with hard 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

FISH SALAD. (Lobster and 
Trout.) ' 

One pint of lobster, after it has been cut up, 
one pint of trout, after it has been cut up, one pint 
of celery, measured after it is cut up, one pint of 
the inside leaves of head lettuce. Cut the lobster 
and trout in pieces an inch long and put them into 
a large bowl. Wash the white stalks of the celery 
in cold water, split them lengthwise in four or five 
pieces, then cut them off an inch long and mix 
them with the fish. Wash the lettuce in cold wa- 
ter, let it drain and put it into the bowl. 

DRESSING. 

Four yolks of fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, four tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk, 
four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful of my made mustard, one teaspoonful of grated 
white onion,one teaspoonful of salt,half a teaspoonful 



134 SALAD RECIPES. 



of pepper. Put the vinegar, mustard, onion, salt and 
pepper into a skillet over the fire to get hot, but 
not boil; beat the yolks and oil together, then stir 
in the milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it 
until it is thick, (it must not boil) then put it into a 
small boM^l to get cold and when ready to serve 
mix it with the salad. Place some large head let- 
tuce leaves around the salad dish, put in the salad 
and garnish w^ith hard boiled eggs cut to suit the 
fancy. 

TONGUE SALAD. (Excellent.) 

One beef's tongue boiled four houro; six bay 
leaves; half a teaspoonful of salt; one tablespoon- 
ful of brow^n flour mixed with one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter; half a pint of the water the 
tongue w^as cooked in; half a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cloves; half a teaspoonful of powdered mace; 
half a teaspoonful of salt; quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper; twelve small cucumber pickles the 
size of a little finger, cut up fine; an equal quanti- 
ty of celery and tongue. Wash the tongue in 
three waters; then put it into a stev\^ pan with cold 
water enough to cover it and when it begins to 
boil skim it. Then put in the bay leaves and salt 
and cook it slow^ly four hours. When it has 
cooked two hours turn it. The -water should have 
boiled down to about half a pint when the tongue 



SALAD RECIPES. I35 



is done; then lift it on to a large platter, skin it 
carefully, trim off the back part and cut out the 
meat underneath the tongue. When it is cold cut 
it in slices half an inch thick, then in pieces half 
an inch square and put them in a salad dish. Put 
the flour and butter into a skillet and when melted, 
put in the half pint of water the tongue was 
cooked in. Then put in the cloves, mace, salt, 
pepper and vinegar, and let it boil until it is as* 
thick as cream; then mix it with the tongue. Cut 
the pickles fine and put them in with the tongue. 
Wash the white stalks of the celery in cold water, 
split them down lengthwise in four pieces, cut 
them off half an inch long and put them into a 
separate bowl. Then dress the celery "with Salad 
Dressing No. i and mix it with the tongue. Gar- 
nish with young celery leaves. 

HERRmG SALAD. 

Two dutch herring, one quart of sliced cold po-. 
tatoes that were boiled with the skins on, one saucer 
full of sliced white onions, young ones are the best, 
one saucer full of red pickled beets, four table- 
spoonfuls of cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of my 
made mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter 
of a teaspoonful of pep^-er, four yolks of fresh 
eo-o-s, one tablespoonful of oHve oil, four table- 



136 SALAD RECIPES. 

spoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Wash the herring 
in cold water, scale them, then skin them, cut off 
their heads and take out the inside; wash them 
again, dry them off and put them into a. deep dish 
with vinegar enough to cover them, let them re- 
main in the vinegar eight hours, then take them 
out, remove the bones, cut the fish up fine and put 
it into a salad dish. Boil the potatoes with the 
■skins, and when cold peel them, cut them length- 
wise in quarters, slice them up and put them in 
with the fish; cut up the sliced onions fine, then 
cut the beets half an inch square and mix the 
w^hole together. Put the vinegar, mustard, salt 
and pepper into a skillet to get hot, but not to boil. 
Beat the yolks and oil together, then stir in the 
milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it until it 
is thick, but it must not boil. When it is cold mix 
it with the salad. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One quart of sliced cold boiled potatoes, one sau- 
cer full of sliced white onions, one tablespoonful 
of green parsley leaves cut up fine. 

DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, ope tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, half a teaspoonful of 



SALAD RECIPES. I37 

salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, three yolks 
of fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, three 
tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Boil the pota- 
toes with the skins on then peel them, cut them 
lengthwise in quarters, slice them and put them 
into the salad dish, cut the sliced onions up fine and 
put them in with the potatoes, then put in the pars- 
ley and mix it together. Put the vinegar, mustard, 
salt and pepper into a small skillet and let it get hot, 
but not to boil. Beat the yolks and oil together 
then stir in the milk and then stir it into the vin- 
egar; stir it until it is as thick as cream (but it must 
not boil) then poi^r it over the salad and mix it 
well together. 



138 MACARONI RECIPES. 



}/Lh6kfoi\i. 



MACARONI WITH HERB 
CHEESE. 

Half a pound of macaroni; four ounces of but- 
ter; four ounces of grated cheese. Put the mac- 
aroni into boiling water that has one teaspoonful 
of salt to a pint of Avater and cook it ten minutes, 
or until it is done. It must not break up. Then 
put it into a colander to drain; then take a deep 
porcelain dish and put first a layer of macaroni, 
then a tablespoonful of melted butter; then a ta- 
blespoonful of grated cheese, and so on until the 
dish is full. Then put it into the oven and bake it 
a light brown. 

MACARONI, WITH TOMATOES. 

Half a pound of macaroni, one pint of 
beef soup that has one teaspoonful of salt 



MACARONI RECIPES. I39 

in it, half a pint of tomatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of crushed double' baked rusk. Boil 
the macaroni in the soup fifteen minutes, or until 
it is soft, not broken; after the tomatoes are peeled, 
cut up and measured, put them into a stew pan 
with the butter, salt and pepper and cook them 
until they are all broken up, then stir in the rusk 
and mix them with the macaroni. Put it into a 
deep dish and set it into a quick oven for ten min- 
utes. 



140 CROQJJETTES RECIPES. 



dfoc^uette^. 



CHICKEK CROQUETTES. 

Three quarters of a pound of chicken chopped 
fine and mixed with one tespoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of crushed 
celery seed and one tablespoonful of green parsley, 
chopped fine. Mix it well together. 

SAUCE rOR CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Half a pint of the water the chicken was boiled 
in into w^hich stir one tablespoonful of butter and 
tw^o tablespoonfuls (not heaped) of corn starch 
wet with a little cold water and stir it into the 
boiling chicken water, stir it until it becomes a 
thick sauce, then pour it over the chopped chicken 
and mix it well together, then spread it on a shal- 
low^ plate to cool, then shape it into balls and let it 
stand half an hour longer in a cool place, then 
shape it into rolls. Take half a pint of crushed 



CROQUETTE RECIPES. I4I 

double baked rusk and roll them very fine, then 
take one egg, to which add two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, and beat it together; now roll the cro- 
quettes, one at a time, first in the crumbs then in 
the beaten egg, then in the crumbs "again. Have 
ready on the fire a frying pan with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one of lard in it and when it is 
hot enough to brown lay in the rolls, turn them 
quickly and lift in a minute. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Three quarters of a pound of oysters, put the 
oysters into a colander and let cold water run 
through them. Then put them into a saucepan 
with half a pint of sweet milk and let them scald, 
then take them out into a colander and let them 
get cold; then weigh them and chop them, not 
very fine. 

SAUCE FOR OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Put half a pint of milk the oysters were scalded 
in, in a saucepan over the fire, two ouces ofbutter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, half a tea- 
spoonful of summer savory after it is made fine 
and sifted, half a teaspoonful of crushed celery 
seed, five tablespoonfuls of crushed oyster crack- 
ers, rolled fine. Mix the flour and butter to- 



142 CROQUETTE RECIPES. 

gether and stir it in, then put in the salt, pepper, 
summer savory and celery seedj then put in the 
crushed oyster crackers and pour it over the oys- 
ters. Mix it M^ell together and spread it on a shal- 
low plate to cool, then make it into balls and let it 
stand half an hour in a cool place, then make it into 
rolls. Take half a pint of double baked rusk and 
roll them very fine, then take one egg, to which 
add t^wo tablespoonfuls of cold water and heat it 
together, then roll the croquettes one at a time, first 
in the crumbs then the egg, then in the crumbs 
again. Have ready on the fire a frying pan with 
one tablespoonful of butter and one of lard in it. 
and when it is hot enough to brown, lay in the rolls, 
turn them quick and lift in a minute. 

TOJ^GUE CROQUETTES. 

Three quarters of a pound of tongue chopped, 
not very fine. 

SAUCE FOR TONGUE CROQUETTES. 

Half a pint of the water the tongue was cooked 
in, half a teaspoonful of powdered mace, half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered cloves, one quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls 



CROQUETTE RECIPES. I43 

of crushed double baked rusk. Put the half pint 
of water the tongue was cooked in into a sauce- 
pan over the fire, then put in all the spices and 
vinegar and mix the flour and butter together and 
stir it in, stir it until it becomes a thick sauce, then 
stir in the crushed rusk, then pour it over the 
chopped tongue and mix it well together, then 
spread it on a shallow plate to cool, then shape it 
into balls and let it stand half an hour longer in a 
cool place, then shape it into rolls. Take half a 
pint of crushed double baked rusk and roll them 
very fine, then take one egg, to which add two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and beat it together. 
Now roll the croquettes one at a time, first in the 
crumbs then in the beaten egg, then in the crumbs 
again. Have ready on the fire a frying pan with 
one tablespoonful of butter and one of lard, and 
when it is hot enough to brown lay in the rolls, 
turn them quickly and lift in a minute. 



144 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



Ye^etkMe^. 



POTATOES, BOILED. 

Select potatoes that are nearly of the same size, 
peel them carefully, take out the eyes, wash them 
in cold water and put them into boiling water that 
has a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of water. The 
w^ater must cover the potatoes and should begin to 
boil half an hour before you are ready to lift din- 
der and must be kept boiling until it is poured off. 
Cover the kettle and in twenty minutes try them 
with a fork (the time depends upon the size of the 
potatoes) and if they are almost done, pour off the 
water quick, set them on the side of the range and 
leave the cover a little open; shake them up two 
or three times to let the steam out and they will be 
floury and dry. They must be lifted as soon as 
they are done. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. I45 



NEW POTATOES. 

Must not be peeled, the skins must be scraped 
off, the potatoes washed in cold water and put into 
boiling water that has a little salt in it. The water 
must be kept boiling until the potatoes are done, 
then pour off the water, set them on the side of 
the range and leave the cover a little open to let 
out the steam. An excellent way of dressing 
new potatoes is to put some fresh butter with a 
tablespoonful of green parsley that has been washed 
and cut up fine into a saucepan and set it into a pan 
of boiling water and let it boil one minute, then 
pour it over the potatoes after they are lifted; serve 
with drawn butter from a sauce tureen. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

After one quarter of a peck of potatoes have 
been boiled in salted water, cut them open to see 
if any of them are hollow, then put them into a flat 
stone crock that has been made warm, and mash 
them fine with a wooden beetle, then put in half 
a pint of hot sweet milk or cream and four ounces 
of fresh butter cut up in small pieces; mash them 
until they are light and smooth, then put them in- 
to a warm deep dish with a cover to it, and send 
to table hot. 



146 VKGETABLE RECIPES. 

DRESDEN POTATOES. (Very 
Fine.) 

Half a pound of pickled pork, half a pint of 
sliced onions, one tablespoonful of browned flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a pint of vinegar, 
and three pints of sliced cold boiled potatoes. Cut 
the pork in thin slices, then cut in strips the size of 
the prong of a fork and then cut them up fine, put 
it into a frying pan and fry it brown and crispy, 
peel the onions, slice them, cut them up fine and 
put them in with the pork and cook them fifteen 
minutes, mix the flour with just water enough to 
make a thin paste and stir it in, then put in 
the salt, vinegar and potatoes last, stir it all to- 
gether, but not to break the potatoes. As soon as 
it is hot lift. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Potatoes can be fried either in fresh butter, veal 
gravy or the marrow from beef soup bones, or 
the fat that is skimmed from the top of the soup, 
they are all very good. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
fresh butter into a frying pan and when it is hot 
put in one quart of sHced cold boiled po- 
totoes, and one teaspoonful of salt and one half a 
saltspoonful of pepper. Fry them a light brown 
and send to table hot. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 47 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

Take one quarter of a peck of yellow sweet po- 
tatoes that are of equal size; trim off the roots, 
wash them, put them into a pot of boiling water 
and cook them half an hour, then take them out, 
peel them and put them into a warm stone crock 
and mash them with a potato beetle, then add one 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter cut in small 
pieces and mash them until they are smooth. Send 
to table hot. They are excellent. 

SWEET POTATOES, FRIED. 

Boil the potatoes as in the preceding receipt, 
then take off the skins and when they are cold cut 
them in slices half an inch thick and fry them in 
butter a light brown. 

SWEET POTATOES, BAKED. 

Select potatoes that are of equal size and after 
they are washed and trimmed off put them into an 
oven hot enough to bake a yellow brown, and if 
they are of middle size they will be done in three 
quarters of an hour, large potatoes take longer, 
the time depends on the size of the potato and the 
heat of the oven. 



148 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

KALE. 

Take one peck of young kale, strip the leaves 
from the stalks and put them into cold water for 
half an hour, then pick it, wash it in two waters 
and put it into a saucepan w^ith cold water enough 
to cover it, and let it boil two hours and a half. 
Then take it out into a colander to drain, then put 
it into a wooden bowl and chop it up fine. Now 
mix one tablespoonful of fresh butter and one of 
fresh lard with two teaspoonfuls of flour and put 
it into a large deep skillet and let it boil one minute, 
then put in the kale with two teaspoonfuls of salt 
and let it simmer slowly thirty minutes longer. 

KALE WITH BREAKFAST BA- 
CON. 

After a peck of kale has been in cold water half 
an hour then picked over and washed in two wa- 
ters, put it into a large saucepan with cold water 
enough to cover it, and cook it two and a half 
hours. When it has cooked one hour, take one 
pound and a half of breakfast bacon, wash it in 
warm water, trim oflT the outside edges that are not 
fresh cut and cut the skin through half an inch 
wide, then put it down in the middle of the kale 
and cook it one hour and a half longer. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 49 

SPmACH. 

Put one peck of spinach into cold water for halt 
an hour then pick it carefully, wash it in two wa- 
ters and put it into a large saucepan with cold wa- 
ter enough to cover it, and boil it three quarters 
of an hour. Then take it out into a colander and 
let the water all drain off, then put it into a wooden 
bowl and chop it up fine. Now mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour and put it into a large deep skillet, and when 
it has boiled one ininute put in the spinach with two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and let it simmer slowly thirty 
minutes. 

WILD, OR COUNTRY GREENS, 
WITH BREAKFAST BACON. 

DandeHons, lambs-quarters, mustard and sour 
dock are all good greens, and are good all cooked 
together. Put them into cold water for half an 
hour, then pick them carefully over, take off the 
outside leaves, wash them in two waters and put 
them into a pot of boiling water and boil*them two 
hours and a half. When they have boiled one hour 
take one pound and a half of breakfast bacon, trim 
off the outside edges that are not fresh cut, wash 
it in warm water, score the skin to keep it from 



150 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



curling and put it down in the middle of the greens 
and cook them one hour and a half longer. The 
water should be boiled down low when the greens 
are done. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Take three or four bunches of asparagus (the 
thickest is the best) and scrape off the white part 
and throw them into cold water, then tie them up 
in bunches, heads together, and put them into 
boiling -water that has one teaspoonful of salt to a 
pint of water, and cook them thirty minutes, then 
take them out to drain. Have ready on the fire 
an iron skillet with half a pint of rich sweet milk 
in it, mix tw^o tablespoonfuls of fresh butter and 
two teaspoonfuls of flour together and when the 
milk is hot stir in the butter and flour; take the 
strings off the asparagus and lay it into the milk 
and butter, heads together, and let it simmer slow- 
ly for thirty minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off the outside leaves of a large cauliflower 
and cut off the stalks one inch from the branches, 
put it into cold water that covers it, and let it re- 
main in it one hour, then wash it carefully and see 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 151 

that thfe sand is all out of it; tie a string around the 
stalks to lift it out with, and put it into boiling Ava- 
ter that has one teaspoonful of salt to a pint of 
water. Let it boil thirty minutes, then lift it out 
carefully by the string. Have ready on the fire 
a skillet with one pint of rich sweet milk in it, 
mix two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter and two 
teaspoonfuls of flour together, and when the milk 
is hot stir in the butter and flour. Take the string 
off and split the stalk into four parts without break- 
ing the flowers and lay it carefully into the milk 
and butter, baste it from time to time with the 
milk and butter and let it cook slo^wly thirty min- 
utes. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Take one quart of shelled young green peas and, 
after they are picked and washed in cold water, 
put them into a colander to drain, then put them 
into a stew pan with one pint of cold water and 
let them boil thirty minutes, then put in one table- 
spoonful of chopped green parsley leaves, one 
tablespoonful of "white granulated sugar and two 
teapoonfuls of salt, then mix two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour and 
stir it in with the peas and let them simmer slowly 
thirty minutes longer. They must be almost dry 
Avhen they are done. The best peas are those 
which have flat pods. 



152 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



GREEN PEAS AND YOUNG 
CARROTS. 

To one pint of shelled peas one pint of cut car- 
rots; they are prepared in the same manner as in 
the preceding receipt. The carrots are scraped 
and cut lengthwise, the size of the prong of a din- 
ner fork, and then cut off an inch long, wash them, 
drain them and put them into the stew pan at the 
same time the peas are put in, and cook them the 
same length of time. 

KOHL RABI, OR TURNIPS 
ABOYE THE GROUND. 

(Brossica Kohlrape.) 

Take two dozen of young kohl rabi and peel 
them deep enough to reach the soft part of the 
turnip, then cut them in thin sHces and wash them 
in cold water, mix one tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter with one teaspoonful of flour and put it into a 
saucepan with one pint of boiling water and let it 
boil a minute, then put in the kohl rabi with boil- 
ing ^vater enough to cover them and boil them 
two hours, then mix a tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter w^ith a tablespoonful of flour and stir it in, 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 53 

then add salt to the taste and cook them slo^vly 
thirty minutes longer. They are as fine as cauli- 
flower. 

YOUNG BEETS, STEWED. 

Boil two dozen young beets from two to three 
hours (the time depends upon the size of the 
beets.) They must be very tender and when they 
are done put them in cold water, skin them and 
then slice them. Mix two tablespoonfuls of fresh 
butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour and put it 
into a large deep skillet and boil it one minute. 
Then put in three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of chopped green parsley leaves, 
two teaspoonfurs of salt, one pinch of pepper and 
the beets. When they have simmered fifteen min- 
utes turn them carefully without breaking them 
and let them simmer slowly fifteen minutes longer. 

TOMATOES, STEWED. 

One quarter of a peck of tomatoes, not over ripe, 
pink color, three large white skinned onions, peeled 
sliced and cut up, two tablespoonfuls of fresh but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one pinch of pepper, one 
pint of bread cut up fine (measured after it is cut,) 



154 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

put the onions into a large deep skillet with half a 
pint of water and cook them twenty minutesj 
scald the tomatoes, peel, cut them up and put them 
in with the onions; then put in the butter, sugar, 
salt and pepper and let them cook thirty minutes. 
Then put in the bread and let it cook thirty min- 
utes longer. Tomatoes without the onions, pre- 
pared in the same manner as in the preceding re- 
ceipt, are very good. 

CURLED SAYOY CABBAGE. 

Take four small heads of savoy cabbage, remove 
the outside leaves, cut them in halves, wash them 
in cold water and put them into a saucepan with 
cold water enough to cover them that has one 
tablespoonful of salt in it, and boil them three 
hours. Then put them into a colander to drain 
and mix two large spoonfuls of fresh butter with 
two teaspoonfuls of flour and put it into a large 
deep frying pan with three large spoonfuls of hot 
water, or beef broth is better j then put in the cab- 
bage, cut side down, and let it simmer fifteen min- 
utes; then turn it and with a spoon pour the but- 
ter over it and let it simmer fifteen minutes lonsjer. 



'ta^ 



LIMA BEANS. 



Take one quaY-t of young lima beans, wash them 
in cold watpr and put them into a stew pan with 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 155 

cold water enough to cover them, and cook them 
two hours; then put in two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
half a pint of rich, sweet milk, and t^vo tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter, with two teaspoonfuls of flour 
mixed with it, and let them simmer slo-wly for 
thirty minutes longer. The beans must not be 
broken when done. 

BEAXS STEWED. (Marrowfat.) 

Some persons prefer dried beans cooked in this 
way: After one quart of beans have been picked 
and washed, put them into a pot with two quarts 
of cold water, four ounces of fresh butter, and two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and cook them slowly three 
hours; if the water boils down, replenish with a lit- 
tle boiling water. The beans must be whole and 
almost dry when done. If soup is making at the 
same time, put a few spoonfuls from the top of the 
soup in with the beans; in that case, it will take a 
little less butter. One pint of beans is enough for 
a small family. 

RED CABBAGE STEWED. 

Take two small firm heads of dark red cabbage 
and remove the outside leaves and stalks and cut 
it in halves, wash it, cut it fine with the cabbage 



156 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

cutter, then wash it again in cold water and put it 
into a colander to drain. Now mix two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour 
and put it into a large deep skillet and let it boil one 
minute, then put in half a pint of boiling water, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt and the cabbage, cover it 
and ■when it has cooked thirty minutes put in three 
large spoonfuls of cider vinegar, then take half a 
cup full of rich s^veet milk and the yolks of three 
fresh eggs well beaten together and stir them in and 
let it simmer slowly thirty minutes longer. It must 

be almost dry when it is lifted. 

I 

SUGAR CORN TO BOIL. 

Take young sugar corn that is in the milk, husk 
and silk it and remove the blemishes, then put it 
into a pot of boiling water and after it begins to 
boil again let it boil just five minutes, then take it 
out immediately. If it boils longer it will become 
hard and lose its sweetness. 

SUGAR CORN, STEWED. 

Put half a pint of rich sweet milk into a sauce- 
pan and set it over the fire to boil. Take one 
dozen ears of young sugar corn that is in the milk, 
cut it off the cob and put it into the boiling milk 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 57 

with one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar 
and one teaspoonful of salt, then mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls 
of flour, and stir it into the corn. When it begins 
to boil again after the butter is in, let it boil just 
five minutes. 

COR^ OYSTERS. 

Take one dozen ears of young sugar corn that 
is in the milk and grate it off the cob into a pan, 
then mix with the grated corn one tablespoonful 
of flour and one teaspoonful of salt, then add the 
yolks of five fresh eggs and beat the whole mix- 
ture together. Have ready on the fire a frying 
pan in which you have put equal proportions of 
fresh butter and fresh lard, and when it is hot 
enough to brown, put in the mixture the size of an 
oyster and not quite half an inch thick. Fry them 
on both sides a golden brown and send them to 
table in a hot chafing-dish. They are very sim- 
ilar in taste to oysters and make a nice breakfast 
or supper dish. 

STRING BEANS, YELLOW WAX. 

Take one quarter of a peck of yellow wax beans, 
string ithem with a knife, break them in two, throw 



158 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

thena into cold water and let them remain in it half 
an hour, then wash them and put them into a sauce- 
pan "with cold watei- enough to cover them and 
boil them slowly three hours. If the water boils 
down too low, replenish "with boiling \vater. When 
the beans have boiled two hours mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour and stir it in with the beans, then add one tea- 
spoonful of salt and cook them slowly one hour 
longer, or until they are very soft. The water 
should be boiled do"wn lo"w before they are lifted. 
Half a pint of beef broth adds very much to the 
taste. 

SUCCOTASH, STRING BEANS 
AND CORN. 

The beans are prepared in the same manner and 
cooked the same length of time as in the preceding 
receipt. Cut the corn off" of six ears of sugar corn 
that is in the milk and stir it in with the beans, 
then put in one more tablespoonful of fresh butter 
"with one teaspoonful of flour mixed with it and one 
salt spoonful of salt and let it boil five minutes from 
the time it begins to boil again after the corn is put 
in. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Take one dozen and a half of full grown carrots, 
scrape them and split them lengthwise from the 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 59 

top down, then cross split them the size of the 
prong of a dinner fork and cut them off an inch 
long; wash them in cold water and put them into 
a stew pan with cold water enough to cover them 
and boil them f"wo hours. If the w^ater boils down 
too low replenish with boiling water. When the 
carrots have boiled tw^o hours put in one table- 
spoonful of chopped green parsley leaves, one 
tablespoonful of white granulated sugar and two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, then mix two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls' of flour, and 
stir it in and let it cook slowly thirty minutes 
longer. They should be almost dry before they 
are lifted. A few spoonfuls of beef broth adds 
very much to the taste. This is the best way to 
cook carrots. Red carrots are sweeter than yel- 
low ones and don't require any sugar. 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips prepared in the same manner as in the 
preceding receipt are excellent. Only they re- 
quire one more tablespoonful of butter. 

OmONS, STEWED. 

Peel one quarter of a peck of white skinned 
onions that are of equal size, wash them and put 



l6o VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

them into a stew pan with cold water enough to 
cover them, and boil them one hour. Then mix 
together two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter and 
two teaspoonfuls of flour and stir it in with the on- 
ions. Then put in one gill of rich sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt and half a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and let them simmer slowly thirty minutes 
longer. 

LEEKS. 

are prepared in the same manner and cooked the 
same length of time as onions. 

PARSNIPS, FRIED. 

Select parsnips that are of equal size and not 
too large; after they are scraped and washed, split 
them lengthwise in halves and put thein into boil- 
ing water that has a little salt in it and boil them 
two hours, or until they are very tender, (the 
length of time depends on the size of the parsnips) 
then take them out and let them drain. Put one 
large spoonful of fresh butter and one of fresh lard 
into a large frying pan and when it is hot enough 
to brown lay in the parsnips, cut side down, brown 
them on both sides and leave them in the frying 
pan until ready to serve. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. l6l 

PARSNIP CAKES. 

One quart of mashed parsnips, two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Scrape the 
parsnips and boil them until they are soft, then 
mash them, and while they are warm put in the 
butter, salt and pepper, mix it well together, then 
make it into cakes three quarters of an inch thick. 
Have ready on the fire a frying pan with equal 
quantities of fresh butter and fresh lard, and when 
it is hot enough to brown, lay in the cakes and 
brow^n them well on both sides. 

SAUR KRAUT, HOW TO MAKE IT. 

The Dutch flat head cabbage makes the best 
saurkraut and a lard barrel is the best to make it 
in. The barrel should be cleaned and filled with 
hot "water two or three days before it is used. It 
takes one hundred heads of cabbage and two 
quarts and one pint of salt to make a large barrel 
full of saurkraut. Trim off all the outside leaves 
of the cabbage until you come to the white part, 
then cut off the coarse ribs and take out the stalk. 
It must be done carefully by an experienced kraut 
cutter. I have a very nice German woman who 
makes it for me every year. The cutting machine 



1 62 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



is placed over a clean tub and the cut cabbage falls 
into it. Then put a layer of cut cabbage about one 
inch deep mto the barrel, with a handful of salt 
sprinkled over it, and pound it with a long handled 
wooden beetle that has two cross pieces as wide as 
your hand fastened onto the end of it. Pound it 
for a few minutes until the cabbage is wet, then 
put in another layer of cabbage with salt, and so 
on, until you have the barrel as full as you want it. 
Then take some of the best whole cabbage leaves, 
wash them in cold water and place them over the 
sauT kraut Then take one half of a linen table- 
cloth that IS out of use, double it, wring it out of 
cold water, put it over the cabbage leaves and tuck 
it down all around the sides of the barrel. Then 
put on the head of the barrel which has been made 
small enough to fit inside, lay two cross pieces on 
top and put on two or three large stones for weights. 
The w^ater must stand half an inch deep on the 
boards after the stonec are put on. T^vo weeks 
after it is made take all the water out, remove the 
weights, boards, cloth and leaves, wash them in 
cold water and replace them just as 1 hey were be- 
fore; then put in sufficient water (that has a little 
salt in it,) to cover the boards half an inch deep. 
The saurkraut will be ready to use in three or four 
weeks from the time it is made. Every time the 
kraut is taken out of the barrel the things on top 
must be wasjaed clean and replaced again with salt 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 63 

and water half an inch deep over the boards. Saur- 
kraut that is made and kept in this manner has a 
different look and taste from what you get in the 
market. 

SAURKRAUT, HOW TO COOK. 

Put two quarts of saurkraut into a colander and 
set the colander into a pan of cold water and stir 
it half a minute, (it must not be longer in the wa- 
ter) then take it out and drain off the water; take 
one large spoonful of fresh lard and one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, mix together and put it into a stew 
pan and let it boil one minute, then put in half a 
pint of hot water, the saurkraut, and as much more 
hot water as will cover it. When it has boiled 
one hour put in half a pound of fat pickled pork in 
the center and down on the bottom of the stew 
pan, cook the saurkraut two hours and a half, and 
if the water boils down too low replenish with 
boiling water, but there must be very little water 
in it when it is done. It is very good warmed 
over and makes nice salad when cold. 

SAUR KRAUT WITH FRESH PORK SPARE- 
RIBS, (this is the best way.) 

Take three or four pounds of pork spare-ribs, 
wash them and cut them in pieces large enough 



164 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



to lay flat in the stew pan, cover them with water 
and cook them three quarters ot an hour, then 
take them out and mix one tablespoonful of fresh 
lard with one tablespoonful of flour and stir it into 
the water that the ribs were cooked in; after the 
kraut, has been washed in cold water and drained, 
put it into the stew pan and lay the pork ribs on 
top. If there is not water enough in the stew 
pan to cover the kraut add a sufficient quantity of hot 
water cover the stew pan and cook the saurkraut 
two hours and a half. Before lifting put in salt to 
the ta-ste and at table serve the spare-ribs with the 
saurkraut. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

The best boiled cabbage is cooked with a brisket 
piece of sugar cured corned beef, and the best cab- 
bage to cook is the dutch flat head. Take the 
smallest heads, trim off" the outside leaves, cut the 
cabbage in two in the middle and put it into cold 
water for half an hour, then turn the cut side 
down and shake it up and down in the water to get 
out the sand; then put it into the pot with the corned 
beef and cold water enough to cover it' and when 
it begins to boil skim it, cover the pot and boil it 
slowly three hours. If the water boils down too 
fast replenish with boiling water. The water must 
be boiled down low just before the cabbage is 
lifted. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 165 



HOT SLAW. 

Two quarts of cut cabbage prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner: Mix one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter with one teaspoonful of flour, and put it into 
a skillet and let it fry one minute, then put in one 
gill of cider vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper and one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard. Let it get hot, but 
not boil, .then beat the yolks of three fresh eggs 
with one gill of rich sweet milk, and stir it in with 
the other ingredients; stir it until the egg thickens, 
but not to boil, then put in the cabbage and stir it 
until the cabbage is hot, then lift. 

TURNIPS. 

Pare one quarter of a peck of turnips and chip 
them up in thin pieces as you do apples for sauce or 
pies, and put them into cold water; put two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter mixed with two teaspoon- 
fuls of flour into a saucepan and let it boil one 
minute, then put in the turnips with hot water 
enough to cover them, then two teaspoonfuls 
of salt. Haifa pint of beef broth adds very much 
to the taste. If the water boils down too low re- 
plenish with boihng water; cook them slowly two 
hours and a half They must be almost dry when 
they are done. This is the best way to cook tur- 
nips; they retain all their flavor. 



l66 PASTRY RECIPES. 






PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of fresh butter, the salt washed out 
of half of it, one pound of sifted flour, with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed in it, half a 
pint of cold water, ice cold; divide half a pound of 
the butter into three parts and have it soft enough 
to spread; mix the baking powder with the flour 
and rub in the half pound of butter without salt, 
then make it into a stiff" dough and roll it out long 
and square at the ends, then spread on one third 
of the butter and set it in the coldest place, w^here 
the butter will harden in fifteen minutes, then fold 
over one third of the dough and turn the other on 
top of it, roll out again, spread on the butter, fold 
over and repeat the same until the butter is all in, 
then divide the dough into as many parts as are 



PASTRY RECIPES. 167 



needed and roll out quickly. The dough must not 
be worked with the hands after the first butter is 
spread on. To be successful with puff paste in 
the summer time it must be made in a cool room, 
and mixed with ice water and rolled out on a 
marble slab. After the butter has been spread on 
put some broken ice into a long tinpan and place 
it over the butter, but not near enough to touch it. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of sifted flour, with two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in it; half a pound of fresh 
lard, half a pint of cold water — ice cold — half a 
pound of fresh butter, dividefi into three parts and 
soft enough to spread. Mix the baking powder 
and flour together, then rub in the lard and make 
it into a stiff dough; roll it out long and square at 
the ends and spread on one-third of the butter, 
set in a cold place until the butter is hard, then fold 
over one-third of the dough and turn the other on 
top of it; roll out again and repeat the same until 
the butter is all in, then fold over, roll out quick 
and divide the dough into as many crusts as you 
want to make. The dough must not be worked 
after the first butter is spread on. I have made the 
two preceding receipts of puff paste on the same 
day, and the one made with half lard and half but- 
ter w^as the best. 



1 68 PASTRY RECIPES. 



PIE CRUST. 

Two pourifds of sifted flour, with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in it, half a pound of fresh 
butter, three quarters of a pound of fresh lard, one 
pint, scant measure, of cold water; mix the baking 
po"wder and flour together, then rub in the butter 
and lard and make it into a dough just stiff" enough 
to roll out. The quicker it is made and put into 
the oven the lighter and better it will be. This 
quantity is enough for five or six pies w^ith lower 
and upper crusts. This is a very good pie crust 
and much more economical than pufF paste. 

APPLES FOR PIES. 

Two quarts of sliced sour apples (pippins are the 
best,) half a pint of water, half a pint of sugar, 
two ounces of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch, two teaspoonfuls of powdered cinna- 
mon or lemon extract, put the apples and water 
into a saucepan and cook them until they are soft 
then put in the sugar and mix the corn-starch with 
a little cold water and stir it in, stir until it boils 
two minutes, then add the butter and spice and 
take it off" the fire. 

PEACHES FOR PIES. 

Peaches for pies should have one quarter of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of peaches. Peel 



PASTRY RECIPES. 1 69 

the peaches, quarter them and half quarter them, 
then put them into a saucepan with the sugar and 
very Httle water and cook them five minutes, or 
until they are soft, but not broken. 

PEACH PIE. 

Butter a deep tin pie plate and hne it with puff 
paste then put in a layer of peaches and cover it 
with puff paste and bake it a light brown, then take 
it out of the oven and put in another layer of peaches 
and cover again with puff paste and bake again a 
light brown. It is excellent served with sweetened 
cream, but also good without it. 

APPLE PIE 

made in the same manner as in the preceding re- 
ceipt is excellent. 

CRAIsTBERRY PIE. 

After the cranberries are picked and washed, 
measure them. To one quart of cranberries allow 
one pint of cold water; put them into a porcelain 
saucepan and boil them fifteen minutes, stir them 
constantly with a wooden spoon until done, then 



170 PASTRY RECIPES, 

measure them, and to one pint of the cooked cran- 
berries put one pint of white granulated sugar and 
cook them together two minutes, then take it off 
the fire to cool. Butter the pie plates, line them 
with puff paste and put in the cranberries, cut- 
some of the puff paste into narrow strips and lay 
them in cross-bars over the top of the pie. 

CURD PIE. 

One pint of curds after the whey has been 
strained out, one pinch of salt, half a pint of thick 
sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of white granu- 
lated sugar, three fresh eggs beaten separately, 
Haifa pint ot raspberry syrup. Put the curds, salt 
and cream into a bowl and rub them together wth 
the back of a spoon against the side of the bowl 
until they are perfectly smooth, beat the yolks and 
sugar together and stir them into the curds, then 
stir in the raspberry syrup and beat the w^hites with 
two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in last. Put it into a deep tin pie plate 
that has been buttered and hned with puff paste 
and bake about t'wenty minutes. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, one tablespoonful 
of corn-starch, three tablespoonfuls of white gran- 



PASTRY RECIPES. I7I 

ulated sugar, three fresh eggs beaten separately, 
one pinch of salt, one easpoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract or cinnamon; mix the corn starch with a lit- 
tle of the cold milk and stir it into the milk, beat 
the yolks and sugar together and stir them in, then 
beat the whites with two teaspoonfuls of white su- 
gar to a stiff foam and stir them in, then add the 
salt and vanilla. Butter a deep tin pie plate, line it 
with puff paste, put in the custard and bake a light 
brown. 

CURRANTS TO WASH. 

Dried currants have alw^ays more or less sand 
mixed with them, and in order to get it out they 
must be treated in the following manner: Put the 
currants into a large pan full of cold or tepid wa- 
ter, make them all loose and rub them gently 
through the hands as quickly as possible, then 
pour off the water with all that floats on top, then 
fill tw^o pans with clean, cold water, and put a 
small quantity of the currants at a time into a wire 
sieve and shake it »p and doAvn in the water. 
When they come out of the last water put them 
into an iron baking pan and set them into a mod- 
erate oven to dry, stir them from time to time, and 
when the water has all dried off take them out, 
they must not stay in the oven until they are hard; 
now pick them over carefully, for they may have 
some small stones among them. 



172 PASTRY RECIPES. 

LEMON PIE. 

One large lemon, one pint of rich sweet milk, 
one pinch of salt, one tablespoonful of corn-starch, 
four tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
three fresh eggs beaten separately. Grate off the 
yellow skin of the lemon (that contains the oil fla- 
voring) then peel off the white skin that is always 
bitter, then grate the lemon and take out the seeds. 
Put the milk and salt into a saucepan and set it in- 
to a pan of boiHng water over the fire. Mix the 
corn-starch with a little cold milk and stir it in; stir 
it until it boils two minutes then take it off the fire, 
beat the yolks and sugar together and stir them in, 
then add the grated peel and lemon, beat the whites 
with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into a deep tin 
pie plate that has been buttered and hned with 
puff paste, and bake a light brown. It takes about 
twenty minutes. 

MmCE M*EAT. 

Two pounds of beef, weighed after it is cooked 
and the fat, gristle and strings taken out, one 
pound of beef suet, weighed after it is broken up 
and string taken out, four pounds of apples, weighed 
after they are peeled and sliced, six pounds of 



PASTRY RECIPES. I 73 

currants, weighed after they are washed and dried, 
one pound of citron cut in small pieces, six pounds 
of white granulated sugar, four large nutmegs 
grated fine, two tablespoonfuls of powdered mace, 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, four 
large lemons grated, peel, pulp and juice, one gal- 
lon and one quart of sw^eet cider and one quart of 
brandy. Cook five pounds of lean beef five hours 
the day before you intend to make mince meat, it 
shrinks very much in cooking. Wash, dry and 
pick eight f^ounds of currants the day before they 
are to be used. They lose in weight by washing 
and picking. Mix the mince meat in a porcelain 
kettle, after the fat, skin and strings have been 
removed from the meat, pick it to pieces, weigh 
it, chop it up very fine and put it into the kettle, 
break up the suet, take out the strings, chop it up 
very fine and mix it with the meat. After the 
apples are peeled, sliced and weighed,chop them fine 
and put them in with the meat, weigh the currants 
and put them in with the meat, then put in the 
citron, lemon and ^ices and mix them well to- 
gether, then put in the cider and brandy and set 
the kettle over the fire and let it cook five minutes, 
then put it hot into glass jars hermetically sealed, 
with a tablespoonful of hot brandy in the neck of 
each jar. This mince meat will keep a year. 



174 PASTRY RECIPES. 



PUMPKIN OR SQUASH PIE. 

A striped long necked winter squash makes the 
best pies. Cut it in rings half an inch wide; 
take out the inside, peel off the skin and cut it up in 
thin chips, as you do apples for pies. Then -put in- 
to a saucepan with half a pint of cold w^ater and 
cook it over a slow fire until it is very soft and the 
water is all boiled dow^n,then press it through a wire 
sieve and measure to it, one quart of.pumpkin or 
squash, one quart of rich sweet milk, ten fresh 
eggs, beaten separately, twelve ounces of white 
granulated sugar, two teaspoonfuls of powdered 
cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
Mix the pumpkin, spices and salt together, beat 
the yolks and sugar together and stir them into the 
pumpkin, then stir in the milk and beat the whites 
with two tablespoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into deep tin 
pie plates that have been buttered and lined with 
puff paste and bake a light brown. It takes about 
thirty minutes. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 



175 






ALMOJfD PUDDING. 

Three ounces of almonds, blanched and ground 
fine in the mortar, with a spoonful of cold milk, 
one pint of rich sweet milk, two ounces of fresh 
butter, six ounces of white granulated sugar, five 
fresh eggs, beaten separately, six ounces of crushed 
double baked rusk or stale bread crumbs made fine, 
one teaspoonful of lemon ex,tract, two teaspoon- 
fuls of rose extract. Put the milk, almonds and 
butter into f saucepan over the fire and let it get 
warm enough to melt the butter, then take it off 
the fire and heat the yolks and sugar together and 
stir them in; then stir in the rusk and the flavoring, 
beat the whites with one tablespoonful of sugar 
to a stiflF foam and stir them in last. Put it quickly 
into a pudding pan and set it into a pan in the oven 
containing boiling water and bake twenty minutes. 



176 PUDDING RECIPES. 

APPLE AND RICE PUDDmG. 

One pint of boiled rice, half a pint of grated ap- 
ples, pippins or bellflowers, are the best; one pint 
of rich SAveet milk, one pinch of salt, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, four fresh eggs beaten 
separately, four tablespoonfuls of ^vhite granulated 
sugar, three ounces of fresh butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls of the extract of lemon, one gill of sherry 
wine. First cook the rice, every grain should he 
separate, then measure it, peel, and grate the ap- 
ples, then measure them and mix two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar with them, beat the yolks with four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the whites with one 
tablespoonful to a stiff foam. Put the milk and 
salt into a saucepan and set it into another contain- 
ing boiling w^ater, when the milk is hot mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, 
let it come to a boil, then stir in the yolks, butter, 
rice and apples, then take it off the fire and put in 
the lemon, wine and the whites last. Put it into 
the pudding pan, set it into another containing a 
little boiling water and bake it forty minutes. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Take sour apples of one size, peel them, take 
out the cores, leaving the apples whole, and fill 



PUDDING RECIPES. I 77 

the opening with brown sugar, then take rich pie 
crust (which you will find under pastry) and roll 
it out a quarter of an inch thick and cut it into 
squares, then put in the apples and close up the 
paste tight. Put them into a steamer and steam 
them half an hour, or until the apples are soft. 
Serve with hard sauce or custard sauce. 



BATTER PUDDING. 



Four ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of sifted 
flour, half a pint of rich sweet milk, six fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, four ounces of 'white granulated 
sugar, tw^o teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, two 
ounces of crushed double baked rusk or bread 
crumbs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Put 
the milk and butter over the fire and when the but- 
ter is melted stir in the flour, stir it until it is smooth 
batter and scalded through; then take it off" the fire, 
beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and 
stir them in, then put in the sugar, lemon, rusk and 
baking powder, beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff" foam and stir 
them in last, set the pudding pan into a pan in the 
oven containing boihng water, and bake one hour. 
Serve with a sherry wine sauce or fruit sauce. 



178 PUDDING RECIPES. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Four ounces of stale bread, weighed after it is 
cut in thin slices and the crust taken off, four 
ounces of fresh butter soft enough to spread, rasp- 
berry marmalade enough to spread half of the 
bread, one pint of rich sweet milk, four ounces of 
white granulated sugar, two teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch, six fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, four tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Butter all of the bread, then spread half 
of the slices with raspberry marmalade and lay 
the other half on top like sandwiches, then cut 
them with a sharp knife in pieces an inch square. 
Put the milk, sugar and butter that is left from the 
bread over the fire and when it is hot mix the 
corn starch w^ith a little cold milk and stir it in, 
stir it until it boils two minutes, then take it off 
the fire. Beat the yolks and stir them in, set it 
over the fire again until the eggs thicken, but must 
not boil, then pour it into the pudding pan and stir 
in the nutmeg and brandy, beat the whites with 
one tablespoonflil of white sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir them in, then put in the bread, carefully 
covering every piece with the custard, set it in a 
pan of boiling water in the oven and bake twenty 
minutes. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 179 

BREAD PUDDING. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fresh 
butter, four ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
fresh eggs beaten together, two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla extract, four tablespoonfuls of brandy and 
four ounces of stale bread, weighed after it is cut 
in slices and the crust taken off. Make the milk 
warm, but not scalding hot, beat the butter and 
sugar together to a cream and stir it into the milk, 
then take it off the fire and beat the eggs all to- 
gether with one tablespoonful of white sugar and 
stir them in, then put in the vanilla and brandy, 
cut the bread into pieces half an inch square and 
stir them in last. Set the pudding pan into the 
oven in a pan of boihng water and bake fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, six ounces of 
grated cocoanut weighed after it is grated, four 
ounces of fresh butter, twelve ounces of white 
granulated sugar, ten fresh eggs, beaten separately, 
twelve ounces of crushed double baked rusk or 
stale bread crumbs made fine, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon extract, three teaspoonfuls of rose extract. 
Take out two even tablespoonfuls of the sugar to 



l8o PUDDING RECIPES. 

beat with the whites, and they will beat easier with 
a machine egg beater if put into two bowls instead 
of one. Put the milk, cocoanut and butter into a 
saucepan over the fire and let it get warm enough 
to melt the butter, then take it off and beat the 
yolks and sugar together and stir them in, then stir 
in the rusk and flavoring, beat the whites to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it quickly into a pud- 
ding pan and set it into a pan of boiling water in 
the oven and bake forty-five minutes. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING, 
BOILED. 

One pint and a half of rich sweet milk, four 
tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon extract, one pinch of salt, two 
heaped tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and three fresh eggs beaten 
together. Put the milk, sugar, lemon and salt 
into a porcelain saucepan over the fire; mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk or water and 
when the milk is scalding hot stir in the corn starch, 
stir it until it has boiled four minutes,then set it on the 
side of the fire, where it will not boil. Beat the eggs 
all together and stir them in, then set it overthe fire 
again till the eggs are set, then stir in the butter 
and pour the pudding into a porcelain mold, or 



PUDDING RECIPES. l8l 

what is still prettier, put it into small porcelain 
molds just large enough for one person. Serve it 
with a wine sauce, custard sauce or fruit sauce. 
This pudding is excellent, warm or cold. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING, 
BAKED. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, five tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, one pinch of salt, six fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, three ounces of fresh butter, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon and three tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy. When the milk and sugar are hot 
mix the corn starch and salt with a little cold milk 
or water and stir it in; stir it until it boils three min- 
utes, then take it otf the fire and put in the butter 
and cinnamon, beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them in. Then beat the whites 
with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in. Then add three tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy, set the pudding pan into a low iron 
pan containing a little hot water and bake half an 
hour. 

EGG PUDDING (GERMAN EIER- 

KASE.) 

One quart of richsv^^eet milk, twelve fresh eggs, 
beaten together, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla ex- 



l82 PUDDING RECIPES. 

tract, one teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk, vanil- 
la and salt into a porcelain saucepan, beat the eggs 
well together and stir them into the milk, then set 
the saucepan into a pan of boiling water over a 
slow fire and stir it until it is thick enough to drop 
from the spoon, but it must not boil or itwill curdle. 
It takes about fifteen minutes to be done. Then 
pour it into a tin mold that is pierced with holes to 
let out the whey. Set it over a stone crock, turn 
a wire sieve over it, put a paper over it and let the 
pudding stand four or five hours. When it is to be 
served put a china or glass plate over it and turn it 
out. Serve with a vanilla, fruit or wine sauce. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

One pint of rich s^sveet milk, one pinch of salt, 
four tablespoonfuls of farina, four tablespoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar, three ounces of fresh but- 
ter, six fresh eggs beaten separately, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
four tablespoonfuls of brandy. Put the milk and 
salt into a saucepan and set it into a pan over the 
fire, containing boiling water, when the milk is 
boiling hot mix the farina Avith a little cold water 
and stir it in, stir it constantly, and boil it five min- 
utes, then put in the butter and sugar and set it off 
the fire, beat the yolks and stir them in, then put 



PUDDING RECIPES. 183 

in the cinnamon, lemon and brandy, beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar to 
a stiff foam and stir them in last. Put it into a 
pudding pan and set it into the oven in a pan of 
boiling water and bake thirty minutes. 



FRUIT PUDDING. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk warm, but not 
hot, two ounces of fresh butter melted in the milk, 
four fresh eggs beaten separately, four ounces of 
sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar, five ounces of stale bread, weighed after 
the crust is taken off and into bread crumbs, four 
ounces of currants, weighed after they have been 
washed and dried, one teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg, half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Put the yolks into a pan and stir in half 
the milk and butter, then stir in the flour and beat 
it together till it is a smooth batter, then put in the 
other half of the milk and the sugar, then put in 
the bread crumbs and the currants; mix it well to- 
gether and then put in the nutmeg, salt, baking 
powder and brandy, beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiflf foam and 
stir them in. Put it into a tin buttered mold that 
closes tight, set it into a saucepan cantaining boilr. 



184 PUDDING RECIPES. 

ing water, close it to keep the steam in and boil it 
constantly two hours. If the water boils dow^n too 
low replenish with boiling water. Serve with 
wine sauce. 



MARMALADE CRACKER PUD- 
DING. 



Five Boston crackers broken up in small pieces 
and soaked very soft in half a pint of boiled sweet 
milk, half a pint of raspberry marmalade, one pint- 
of rich sweet milk, three ounces of fresh butter, 
four tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, five 
fresh eggs bealen separately, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Put 
a layer of soaked cracker and a layer of marma- 
lade into the pudding pan until all are in, let the 
milk come to a boil then take it off the fire and 
put the butter into it, put the yolks, sugar add cin- 
namon into a large bowl and beat them well to- 
gether, then stir into them the hot milk, and then 
add the brandy; beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in the bowl, then put it into the pudding pan 
with a large spoon or a small ladle and set it into 
a pan in the oven containing boiling water. Bake 
three quarters of an hour. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 1 85 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Four ounces of rice, one pint of rich sweet milk, 
two ounces of white granulated sugar, three ounces 
of fresh butter, four fresh eggs, beaten separately, 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract and one pint of 
canned peaches. Pick and wash the rice and put 
it into a tin saucepan with as much cold water as 
there is rice; set the saucepan into a pan of boiling 
water and cook the rice half an hour; then let it 
dry off and stir it up with a fork. Every kernel 
should be separate. Put the milk and sugar into 
a saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling -water 
over the fire; beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them into the hot milk, stir it un- 
til the eggs thicken, but it must not boil; then put 
in the butter and vanilla and take it off the fire to 
cool five minutes before the whites are put in. 
Beat the whites with one tablespoonful of white 
sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. Then stir 
in the rice. Now put a layer of rice custard and 
a layer of peaches into the pudding pan until all 
are in, finishing with the rice custard. Set it into 
an iron pan in the oven containing a little boiling 
water and bake thirty minutes. 

PLUM-PUDDING, BAKED. 

Six fresh eggs beaten separately, six ounces of 
white granulated sugar, three gills of rich sweet 



1 86 PUDDING RECIPES. 

milk, six ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of beef 
suet chopped fine, eight ounces of crushed double 
baked rusk or dry stale bread crumbs, one even 
teaspoonful of salt, one grated nutmeg, one gill oi» 
sherry wine, six ounces of seedless or stoned rais- 
ins, six ounces of currants, after they have been 
washed and dried, foui ounces of citron cut as fine 
as paper, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Beat the yolks and sugar together until very light, 
warm the milk and stir half of it into the yolks and 
sugar, then stir in the flour until it is a smooth bat- 
ter, then put in the other half of the milk and add 
the suet, bread crumbs and salt; then add the nut- 
meg, wine and baking powder and then stir in the 
raisins, currants and citron; beat the w^hites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff" foam 
and stir them in last. Mix it well together and 
put it quickly mto a well buttered pudding pan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water in the oven and 
bake one hour. The oven should be hotter in the 
bottom than on top. Serve with a wine fruit or 
custard sauce. 



PLUM-PUDDING, BOILED. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk, six fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, four ounces of white granulated 
sugar, four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of 



PUDDING RECIPES. 1 87 

beef suet chopped very fine, six ounces of stale 
bread crumbs stirred in dry, four ounces of stoned 
raisins, four ounces of currants weighed after they 
have been washed and dried, two ounces of citron 
cut as thin as paper, one grated nutmeg, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt^ two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, four tablespoonfuls of brandy. Warm the 
milk, beat the yolks and sugar together and then 
stir in half of the milk; then stir in the flour and 
mix it into a smooth batter, then add the other half 
of the milk, then put in the suet and bread crumbs 
and then add the fruit. Mix it well together and 
then stir in the nutmeg, salt, baking powder and 
brandy. Beat the whites with one tablespoonful 
of white sugar to a stiff" foam and stir them in last. 
Put the pudding into a tin buttered mold, leaving 
room for it to rise; put it into boiling water and 
boil it two hours. The w^ater should not be deep 
enough to float the mold. If the w^ater boils down 
too low replenish with boiling water. Keep the 
saucepan or pot covered to keep in the steam. 
Serve with a wine sauce. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

One pound of dried prunes, one gill of oat meal 
groats, one pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of 



1 88 PUDDING RECIPES. 

cinnamon, one pinch of salt, five fresh eggs beaten 
separately and two tablespoonfuls of crushed 
double baked rusk. Wash the prunes, put them 
into a saucepan with cold water enough to cover 
them and cook them until they are soft, but not 
to break. Fifteen minutes before they are done 
put in three tablespoonfuls of white sugar; pick the 
oat groats, w^ash them in cold water and put them 
into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water and 
set them into a pan of boiling w^ater over the fire 
and cook them three quarters of an hour; put the 
milk, sugar, cinnamon and salt into a saucepan 
over the fire; beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them into the warm milk, stir it 
until it thickens, but it must not boil, then stir in 
the warm oat meal, rusk and prunes and take it 
off the fire. Beat the whites with two teaspoon* 
fuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
last. Serve warm, without sauce. 



QUmCE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Four ounces of tapioca soaked until soft in half 
a pint of cold water, one pint of canned quinces 
without the syrup, one pint of rich sweet milk, 
three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
two ounces of fresh butter and four fresh eggs. 
Put the tapioca into a colander and let cold water 



PUDDING RECIPES. 1 89 

run over it before putting it to soak. Boil the soaked 
tapioca in the milk until it is all dissolved. It takes 
from ten to fifteen minutes and must be stirred con- 
stantly. Then put in the sugar and butter, beat the 
eggs together, stir them in and when they are set 
move the saucepan to the side of the range, cut 
the quinces up fine then put a layer of tapioca in- 
to the pudding pan, then a layer of quinces and 
so on, until all are in, finishing vi^ith the tapioca. 
Set it into a pan in the oven containing a little boil- 
ing water and bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
a quince syrup sauce, made in the following man- 
ner: 

SAUCE. 
Put half a pint of quince syrup with two table- 
ppoonfuls of white sugar into a saucepan and when 
it is hot mix one even teaspoonful of corn starch 
with a little cold milk' and stir it in; stir it until it 
boils a minute then take it off" the fire. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs with a spoonful of cold milk and 
stir them in. Set it over the fire again until the 
eggs are set, then take it off and stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy; beat the whites with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in last. 

RICE FLOUR PUDDING. 

Four ounces of rice flour, one pint and a half of 



190 PUDDING RECIPES. 

rich sweet milk, four ounces of white granulated 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, one 
pinch of salt. Put one pint of the milk, the sugar, 
lemon and salt into a saucepan, and set it into a 
pan of boiling water over the fire. Mix the rice 
flour and the half pint of milk together. When 
the milk is hot in the saucepan stir in the rice flour 
and milk, stir it constantly until it is thick and has 
boiled about fifteen minutes. Then pour it into a 
porcelain mold that has been dipped in cold water, 
and when it has cooled, turn it out. Serve with 
a milk sauce- 



RICE PUDDING. 

Three quarters of a pint of boiled rice, one pint 
and a half of rich sweet milk, one pinch of salt, 
one tablespoonful of corn starch, four ounces of 
butter, five fresh eggs beaten separately, four 
ounces of white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, and tree tablespoonfuls of brandy. 
Put the milk and salt into a saucepan, and set it 
into another one containing boiling water. Mix 
the corn starch with a little cold milk or water, 
and when the milk is hot stir it in. Stir it until it 
boils three minutes. Then take it off the fire and 
stir in the butter. Beat the yolks with the sugar, 
and stir them in. Then add the rice, cinnamon, 



PUDDING RECIPES. I9I 

and brandy. Beat the whites with one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar to a stiff foam, and stir them in. Put 
it into the pudding pan, set it into another pan con- 
taining a little hot water, and bake it half an hour. 

RUSK PUDDmG. 

Six double baked rusks, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
one pinch of salt, three ounces of fresh butter, five 
fresh eggs beaten separately, and half a glass of 
raspberry jelly. Crush the rusk fine with a rolling 
pin ; put the milk, sugar and salt over the fire, and 
let it get boiling hot. Then take it off, and put in 
the butter. Put the yolks and jelly into a large 
bowl, and beat them together. Then stir in slow- 
ly the milk. Beat the whites with one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam, and stir them in. 
Then put in the rusk, and mix it well together. 
Set the pudding pan into another pan containing 
boiling water, and bake half an hour. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Three ounces of sago, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, three table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar, four fresh 
eggs beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 



192 PUDDING RECIPES. 

extract, and one pinch of salt. Wash the sago in 
cold water and put it into a bowl with half a pint of 
cold w^ater to soak until soft. Then put the sago 
with the w^ater it was soaked in, and the milk into 
a saucepan, and set it into a pan of boiling water 
and boil it until the sago is all dissolved and clear. 
It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes, and must 
be stirred constantly. Then put in the sugar, salt 
and lemon. Mix the corn starch with a little cold 
milk and stir it in ; stir it until it boils two minutes. 
Then beat the yolks ■with a spoonful of cold milk 
and stir them in. Let them cook a minute, then 
take it off the fire and beat the whites with two 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in last. Put it into a porcelain mold that has 
been dipped in cold water, and when cold turn it 
out. Serve with a raspberry, strawberry, or wine 
sauce. 



TAPIOCA PUDDTNG. 

Three ounces of tapioca washed and soaked 
until very soft in half a pint of cold water, one pint 
of rich sweet milk, one pinch of salt, three table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar, one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter, four fresh eggs beaten 
together, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Put 
the milk, salt and soaked -tapioca into a saucepan 



PUDDING RECIPES. 1 93 

and set it into another pan over the fire coptain- 
ing boiling water and boil it until the tapioca is all 
dissolved. It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
and must be stirred constantly, then put in the 
sugar, butter and vanilla, beat the eggs well together 
with a little cold milk and stir them in, let them 
cook two minutes, then put the pudding into a 
porcelain mold that has been dipped in cold w^ater 
and when the pudding is set turn it out. Serve 
with a fruit, custard or wine sauce. 



BATTER FRITTERS. 



One pint of sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
baking pow^der, one pint of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter, half ateaspoonful of salt, 
four fresh eggs beaten separately. Put the flour 
into a pan and set it into a pan containing warm 
water, put the milk, butter and salt over the fire 
and when the butter is melted take it off" and stir 
one half of it into the flour, stir it untif it is a 
smooth batter, then stir in the other half; beat the 
yolks and stir them in, then put in the baking 
powder and beat the whites with one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff" foam, stir them in and 
fry immediately in hot lard. Serve with a wine 
sauce. 



[94 PUDDING RECIPES. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Can be ma4e ]}y the above directions, with the 
addition of ripe sour apples chopped fine. Serve 
with a hard s^vfce or a wine sauce. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Three fresh eggs, three tablespoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, one pint of rich sweet milk. Beat the 
eggs, sugar and cinnamon together, cut the bread 
in slices half £),n jnch thick, then cut them in two in 
the middle and leave the crust on to keep them 
from breaking, then lay them into the custard and 
let them sqak through. Have ready on the fire a 
frjdng pan with a large kitchen spoonful of fresh 
butter in it and when it is hot enough to brown 
lay the brea4 in carefully and fry it on both sides a 
light brown, turn and lift it with a cake turner. 
Make a sauce with the ciastard that is left, by ad- 
ding a tg,blespoonful of sugar and a little wine. 
Serve it wth a w^ine sauce. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. I95 






APPLE SAUCE. 

One quart of sliced sour apples, (pippins are the 
best) one gill of water, one gill of white granu- 
lated sugar, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of 
lemon or cinnamon extract. Put the apples and 
water into a saucepan and cook them until they 
are soft, then press them through a wire sieve and 
return them to the saucepan over the fire; now put 
in the sugar and butter, then mix the corn starch 
with a little cold water and stir it in, stir it until it 
boils three minutes, then take it off the fire and 
add the lemon or cinnamon according to taste. 
Anise seed is a fine flavoring for apple sauce. 



196 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

APRICOTS FROM CALIFORNIA. 

One pint of apricots, one quart of cold water, 
one pint of white 'granulated sugar. After the 
apricots are washed in cold w^ater put them into a 
stew pan with cold water enough to cover them, 
and when it is scalding hot pour the water off, 
then put in the quart of cold water, and when it 
begins to boil cook them fifteen minutes, then put 
in the sugar and let them simmer fifteen minutes 
longer. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick the cranberries, wash them in cold water 
and pour off all that floats on top of the water, then 
put them into a colander to drain, and then meas- 
ure them. To one quart of cranberries allow one 
pint of water; put them into a porcelain saucepan 
and boil them fifteen minutes, stir them constantly 
with a wooden spoon to prevent them from stick- 
ing; then press them through a wire sieve, all but 
the skins. Now measure them and to one pint 
of strained cranberries put one pint of white gran- 
ulated sugar; mix it well together before putting it 
on the fire, as soon as it begins to boil skim it 
quickly and take it off the fire. It is done in two 
minutes. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. ig'J 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Three ounces of butter, five tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, half a pint of water, two tea- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls of brandy. 
Put the sugar, w^ater and cinnamon over the fire, 
and when boiling hot put in the butter and mix 
the corn starch with a little cold water and stir it 
in, let it boil two minutes, then take it off and stir 
in the brandy. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Cut up two ounces of chocolate and cook it in 
half a pint of sweet milk until it is all dissolved, 
then put in half a pint of sweet cream, four table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar and one tea- 
spoonful of the extract of vanilla; beat the yolks 
of two eggs -with a little cold milk and stir them 
in, stir it until it is thick, but it must not boil; then 
take it off the fire and beat the whites with a tea- 
spoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. 

CIDER SAUCE. (Very Good.) 

Half a pint of cider, (Siberian crab apple is the 
best,) four tablespoonfuls of white granulated 



IgS SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

sugar, two fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed with two teaspoonfuls of 
cold water, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 
Put the cider, sugar and lemon into a saucepan 
and set it on the side of the range where it will 
get warm but not hot. Beat the whites with one 
teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam, then 
beat >the yolks and flour together and stir them 
into the whites. Then stir them quickly into the 
cider, and set it over a quick fire; stir it fast until 
it begins to rise (it must not boil) then take it 
quickly from the fire, pour it into a sauce tureen 
and stir it a minute until the foam goes down a 
little. This sauce when made with Siberian crab 
apple cider is equal if not superior to any w^ine 
sauce. 



CUSTARD SATJCE. (Very Fine.) 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch, four fresh eggs beaten separately, two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, one gill of sherry 
wine. Put the milk, sugar and lemon into a sauce- 
pan and set it into a pan of boiling water over the 
fire. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in; stir it until it boils three minutes. 
Then beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. I99 

and stir them in; stir it until the yolks thicken, but 
it must not boil. Then take it off the fire and stir 
in the wine. Beat the whites with twb teaspoon- 
fuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
last. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Haifa pint of sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls 
of white powdered sugar, half a teaspoonfuU of 
powdered cinnamon. Beat fhe cfeam and sugar 
together until it foams, then stir in the cinnamon. 
Serve w^ith cottage cheese. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One gill of raspberry jelly, onfe gill of sweet 
cream, one tablespoonful of brandy. Put the jelly 
into a small bowl and set it into a pan of hot water 
until it dissolves. Then take it out and put in the 
cream. Beat it together until it foarhs, then put in 
the brandy. 

HARD SAUCE FOR APPLE 
DUMPLINGS. 

One ounce of fresh butter, two ounces of white 
granulated sugar, half a teaspoonful 6f grated nut- 
meg. Rub the butter and sugar to a thick cream, 
then add the nutmeg. 



200 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

MILK SAUCE. (Very Fine with a 
Boiled Corn Starch Pudding.) 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one dessert spoonful 
of corn starch, one dessert spoonful of fresh but- 
ter, two fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Put 
the milk, sugar, salt and cinnamon into a sauce- 
pan and set it into a pan of boiling "water over the 
fire, mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and 
stir it in, stir it until it boils three minutes. Beat 
the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and stir 
them in, stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must 
not boil, after the yolks are in; then take it off the 
fire and stir in . the butter and brandy; beat the 
■whites with one teaspoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir them in, beat it together a min- 
ute before putting it into the sauce tureen. 

PRUNES, STEWED. 

The French and Turkish prunes are the best. 
Pick them, wash them in cold water and put them 
into a porcelain saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover them, cook them until they are soft, but 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 20I 



not to break; fifteen minutes before they are done 
put in three tablespoonfuls of sugar. When the 
prunes are done take them out and stir into the 
juice one even teaspoonful of corn starch that has 
been mixed with a Httle cold water. Let it boil 
three minutes, then take it off the fire and stir in 
three tablespoonfuls of sherry wine and pour it over 
the prunes. 

PEELED PEACHES FROM 
CALIFORmA, 

One quart of peaches, one quart of cold water, 
one pint of white granulated sugar. Wash the 
peaches in cold water and put them into a sauce- 
pan with the quart of cold water, and when they 
begin to boil cook them twenty minutes, then put 
in the sugar and let it simmer ten minutes longer. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Half a quart of raspberry jelly, four tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water, one teaspoonful of corn starch, 
one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar, three 
fresh eggs, beaten separately. Put the jelly and 
water into a saucepan and set it into a pan of boil- 
ing water over the fire. Break up the jelly and 



202 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS, 

when it is all dissolved mix the corn starch with a 
little cold water and stir it inj stir it untilit boils two 
minutes, then put in the sugar and beat the yolks 
with a teaspoonful of cold water and stir them in; 
stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must not boil. 
Then take it off the fire to cool five minutes before 
the whites are put in, beat the whites with one.tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in, a spoonful at a time. This sauce can be 
made of fresh raspberry juice with more sugar 
added. 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Half a pint of strawberry syrup, one teaspoonful 
of corn starch, one tablespoonful of white gran- 
ulated sugar, three fresh eggs, beaten separately 
and one gill of sherry wine. Put the syrup into a 
saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling water 
over the fire, mix the corn starch with a little cold 
syrup or water and stir it in, stir it until it boils two 
minutes, then put in the sugar and beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them in, stir 
it until the sauce thickens, but it must not boil 
after the yolks are in, then take it off the fire and 
stir in the wine; beat the whites with one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, 
beat it well together and pour it into the sauce 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 203 

tureen. This sauce can be made with the juice 
of fresh strawberries, with more sugar added, or 
with the syrup of canned strawberries, or with 
marmalade mixed with a Httle water and strained. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, ten ounces of white 
granulated sugar, six yolks of fresh eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract, three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan 
and set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire; 
beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and 
stir them into the hot milk, stir it until it is as thick 
as cream, (but it must not boil or it will curdle) 
then take it off the fire and add the vanilla and 
brandy. This sauce can be used cold or warm. 

WmE SAUCE. 

Half a pint of sherry wine, one gill of water, 
four tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter, two fresh eggs beaten separately, two 
teaspoonfuls of the extract of lemon. Put the wa- 
ter, sugar and butter into a saucepan over the fire, 
and when it is hot mix the corn starch with a lit- 
tle cold water and stir it in, stir it until it boils two 



204 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

minutes, then take it off the fire. Beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold water and stir them in, set 
it over the fire again and stir it until the eggs thicken, 
but it must not boil, then add the wine and 
lemon, and when it is hot but not scalding, take it 
off the fire, beat the whites with one teaspoonful 
of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in last. 

WmE SAUCE (YeryFine.) 

Haifa pint of German wine, three tablespoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar, two fresh eggs 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of flour mixed 
with two teaspoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon extract, one teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Put the wine, sugar, cinnamon and lemon 
into a saucepan and set it on the side of the range 
where it will get warm, but not hot, beat the 
whites with one teaspoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam, then beat the yolks and flour together 
and stir them into the whites, then stir them 
quickly into the wine and set it over a quick fire 
and stir it fast until it begins to rise, (it must not 
boil) then take it quickly from the fire and pour it 
into a sauce tureen. This sauce can be made 
with sherry or Madeira wine, with half wine and 
half water. 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 205 



du^tkfd^. 



ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, two ounces of 
almonds blanched and ground fine, with two des- 
sert spoonfuls of cold sweet milk, four ounces of 
white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, five fresh eggs beaten separately, two table- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract, one teaspoonful of 
lemon extract. Put the milk, almonds and sugar 
into a saucepan and set it into another pan over 
the fire containing boiling w^ater and let it come to 
a boil, mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in, stir it until it boils two minutes; beat 
the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and stir 
them in, stir it until it thickens, but it must not boil, 
now take it off the fire and add the flavoring; 
then beat the whites with one tablespoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. Put 
it into custard cups and serve with jelly cake. 



2o6 CUSTARD RECIPES. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one heaped tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, five fresh eggs beaten separately, 
half a pint of grated apples, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon. Put the milk and sugar into a sauce- 
pan and set it into another containing boiHng water, 
mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in, stir it until it boils two minutes. Beat the 
yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them 
in, stir it until they thicken, but it must not boil, 
then take it off the fire and stir in the apples and 
cinnamon; beat the whites with one tablespoonful 
of white sugar to a stifi'foam and stir them in, then 
put it into a custard dish or cups and set it into a 
pan in the oven with a little boiling water in it and 
bake twenty-five minutes. It can be served warm 
or cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD . 

Two ounces of chocolate, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, four ounces of white granulated sugar, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, five fresh eggs beaten 
separately, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon. Scrape the chocolate up 
fine and put it into a saucepan with four tablespoon- 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 207 



fuls of cold water and set it into a pan of boiling water 
over the fire, stir it until it is dissolved into a 
smooth paste, which will be in five minutes, then 
stir in the milk and sugar, then mix the corn starch 
with a little cold milk and stir it in, stir it until it 
boils two minutes, then beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir them in, stir it until 
it thickens, but it must not boil; now add the flav- 
oring and take it off" the fire to cool five minutes 
before the whites are put in; beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff" 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into custard 
cups and serve with sponge cake. 
/ 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

One quart of rich sw^eetmilk, four ounces of fine 
grated cocoanut, eight ounces ot white granulated 
sugar, ten fresh eggs, beaten separately, two table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, two teaspoonfuls of rose 
extract, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Put 
the milk, cocoanut and sugar into a saucepan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water and let it come to 
a boil. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in; stir it until it boils two minutes, then 
beat the yolks with two spoonfuls of cold milk, and 
stir them in; stir it until it thickens, but it must not 
boil. Now take it off" the fire and add the flavor- 



2o8 CUSTARD RECIPES. 

ing, then beat the whites with two tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. 
Put it into a custard cups, sprinkle a little cocoa- 
nut on top and serve with white cake. 

CORN STARCH CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch, one dessert spoonful of fresh butter, 
two fresh eggs, beaten separately, one pinch of 
salt, one teaspoonful of lemon or cinnamon. Put 
the milk, sugar, cinnamon and salt into a saucepan 
and set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in; stir until it boils two minutes then put in the 
butter, beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk 
and stir them in. Then take it off the fire and beat 
the whites with one teaspoontul of white sugar to 
a stiff foam and stir them in last. 

SNOW BALL CORN STARCH 
CUSTARD. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, four fresh eggs 
beaten separately, four tablespoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter, one saltspoonful 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 209 

of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 
Let the milk get scalding hot, but not to boil. 
Beat the whites with two teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar to a stiff foam. Then form them with a 
spoon into balls and put them into the hot milk 
without touching each other. Turn them over and 
they are poached in a minute. Then lay them on 
a platter till the custard is made. Then put the 
sugar and salt into the milk and mix the corn starch 
with a little cold milk and stir it in ; stir it until it 
boils two minutes. Beat the yolks with a spoonful 
of cold milk and stir them in. Then put in the 
biitter and vanilla, and take it off the fire. Pour 
it into a custard bowl and put the snowballs on top. 
Serve it with sponge cake. 

PUMPKIN CUSTARD. 

One quart of stewed pumpkin pressed through a 
sieve, twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, ten 
fresh eggs beaten separately,two quarts of rich sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of mace, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
After the pumpkin has been pressed through a 
sieve, beat the yolks and sugar together and stir 
them into the pumpkin. Then add the milk, mace, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, and then beat the whites 
v^^ith three teaspoonfuls of w^hite sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into a custard 
dish and bake it light brown. 



2IO CUSTARD RECIPES. 



RASPBERRY CUSTARD. 

One pitit of rich sweet milk, one heaped table- 
spoonful of corn starch, three tablespoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar, five fresh eggs beaten 
separate, one gill of raspberry syrup. Put the 
milk and sugar into a saucepan and set it into 
another containing boiling water, mix the corn 
starch with a little cold milk and stir it until it boils 
two minutes; beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold 
milk and stir them in, stir it until they thicken, but 
it must not boil, then take it off the fire and stir in 
the raspberry syrup, then beat the w^hites w^ith one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in and then put it into custard cups and serve 
it warm or cold. 

SI^OW BALL CUSTARD. 

One quart of rich svi^eet milk, twelve fresh eggs, 
separated yolks from the whites, eight ounces. of 
white granulated sugar, two teaspoonfuls of the 
extract of vanilla, two teaspoonfuls of the extract 
of cinnarnon. Put the milk into a porcelain kettle 
over the fire, beat the whites with two tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar to a stiff foam. When the milk 
is hot enough to scald, but not to boil, take rather 
more than half of the whites that have been beaten 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 211 

and form them into balls with a tablespoon and 
dessertspoon. Then put them into the hot milk, 
turn them over. They are done in a minute. 
Then lay them on a porcelain plate until the cus- 
tard is ready. Put the sugar into the milk and 
when it is dissolved beat the yolks w^ith a little cold 
milk and stir them in; keep stirring it until it is 
thick, but it must not boil. Take it off the fire and 
add the vanilla and cinnamon and when it has 
cooled a little, stir in the rest of the whites. When 
it is cool enough put it into a glass bowl, place the 
snowballs on top. and ornament each one with a 
piece of bright colored jelly. 

WINE CUSTARD. 

One gill of sherry wine, one gill of rich sweet 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of w^hite granulated 
sugar, one tablespoonful of corn starch, four fresh 
eggs, beaten separately, one teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Put the milk, sugar and lemon into a 
saucepan and set it into a pan over the fire con- 
taining boiling water. Mix the corn starch with a 
little cold milk and stir it in, stir it until it boils 
two minutes, then be'at the yolks with a spoonful 
of cold milk and stir them in; stir it until they 
thicken, but it must not boil, then take it off" the fire 
and stir in the wine. Beat the whites with two 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff" foam and stir 
them in last. Serve it with sponge cake. 



212 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 






ALMOND CREAM. (Delicious 
and a beautiful color.) 

One pint of sweet cream, two ounces of sweet 
almonds olanched and pounded fine with two 
dessert spoonfuls of sweet milk, eight ounces of 
white granulated sugar, six fresh eggs beaten 
separately, one ounce of redgelatine,(light w^eight,) 
two teaspoonfuls of rose extract. Cut the gela- 
tine up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into a 
saucepan with one gill of cold water and set it into 
a pan of boiling water, let it stand in the warm 
water until it has to be used. Put the cream, 
almonds and sugar into a saucepan and set it into 
a pan over the fire of boiling water; beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them in, stir 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 213 

it until they thicken, but it must not boil, then take 
it off the fire and stir in the gelatine and rose 
extract, set the saucepan into a pan of cold water 
to cool, while the whites are beaten with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam, then 
stir them in and put it into small molds that have 
been dipped in cold water. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. (Yery 
Fine.) 

Two ounces of chocolate, one pint of sweet 
cream, eight ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
fresh eggs beaten separately, one ounce of gela- 
tine, (light weight,) two teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
extract. Cut the gelatine up fine with a pair of 
scissors and put it into a small saucepan with one 
gill of cold sweet milk and set it into a pan of boil- 
ing w^ater. It will dissolve in ten or fifteen min- 
utes; let it stand in the warm water until you are 
ready to use it. Scrape the chocolate up fine and 
put it into a saucepan with four tablespoonfuls of 
cold water and then set it into a pan of boiling 
water and stir it until it is a smooth paste, then stir 
in the cream and sugar and beat the yolks light 
and stir them in, stir it until they thicken, but it 
must not boil, then take it off the fire and stir in 
the gelatine and vanilla; set the saucepan into a 



214 



pan of cold water to cool while you beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam, then stir them in and put it into small 
molds that have been dipped in cold water. 



CINCmNATI CREAM. (Very 
Fine.) 

One pint oi sweet cream, eight ounces of white 
granulated sugar, five fresh eggs separated, half an 
ounce of gelatine, tw^o teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
extract and one gill of sherry wine. Cut the gela- 
tine up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into 
a small saucepan with one gill of cold sweet milk, 
then set it into another pan containing boiling 
water. It will be all dissolved in fifteen minutes; 
let it stand in the warm water until you are ready 
to use it. Take out one tablespoonful of the sugar 
to beat with the whites, then put the cream and 
the rest of the sugar into a porcelain saucepan and 
stir it into another one containing boiling water; 
beat the yolks very light and stir them in, stir it 
until they thicken, but it must not boil, then take it 
off the fire and stir in the gelatine and vanilla, set 
the saucepan into a pan half full of cold water and 
stir it until it is lukewarm, then beat the whites 
with the tablespoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in, then stir in one gill of sherry wine and 



21' 



put it into a porcelain mold and set it on ice. 
Before serving turn it out onto a china plate. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. (Yery 
Fine.) 

Put three pints of ripe red raspberries and one pint 
of ripe red currants into a porcelain kettle and mash 
them a little to keep them from sticking, stir them 
with a wooden spoon and boil them two minutes, 
then strain through a linen cloth and measure, to 
one pint of juice, ten ounces of white granulated 
sugar, one tablespoonful of corn starch and six 
fresh eggs separated, the yolks from the w^hites. 
Put the juice and the sugar into a porcelain sauce- 
pan over the fire and mix the corn starch with a 
little of the cold juice; when the juice is hot, but 
not boiling, stir in the corn starch, stir it fast and 
let it boil two minutes, then take it off the fire to 
cool a little; beat the yolks with a little of the cold 
raspberry juice and stir them in, set it over the fire 
and stir it fast until the yolks are set, but it must 
not boil after they are in, then take it off the fire 
and stir it five minutes to cool; beat the whites 
with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in, a little at a time, beat it well 
together and put it into a glass dessert dish that has 
a cover to it, or it can be put into a mold and 
frozen. 



2l6 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Hull the strawberries, put them into a porcelain 
kettle, mash them with a wooden beetle and boil 
them two minutes, then strain through a linen 
cloth and measure. To one pint of juice allow 
nine ounces of white granulated sugar, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch and six fresh eggs sepa- 
rated. Put thejuice and sugar into a porcelain 
saucepan and set it into another one over the fire, 
containing boiling water. Mix the corn starch 
with a little cold juice or water and stir it in; stir it 
until it boils two minutes. Beat the yolks w^ith a 
little cold juice and stir them in; stir it until it 
thickens, but it must not boil after they are in. 
Then take it off the fire to cool five minutes before 
the whites are put in. Beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in, a little at a time. Mix it well together, 
set it in a cold place and when cool enough set it 
on ice. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

One pint of sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, four -tablespoonfuls of white granu- 
lated sugar, two fresh eggs and three teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla extract. Put the cream into a small 



217 



saucepan and set it into another containing boiling 
water. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in until it boils two minutes. Then put 
in the sugar and then beat the yolks and stir them 
in. Stir it until they thicken, -but it must not boil; 
then take it off the fire and beat the whites with 
one teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in; then add the vanilla. 

WmE CREAM. (Very Fine,) 

Half a pint of sherry wine, one gill of water, 
three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
one gill of sweet cream, one teaspoonful of corn 
starch four fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract. Put the wine, water 
and sugar into a saucepan and let it get warm 
enough to dissolve the sugar; put the cream into 
a small saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling 
water over the fire, mix the corn starch with a 
little cold milk and stir it into the cream, stir it 
until it boils two minutes, then take it off the fire 
and let it stand in the hot water until needed; beat 
the whites with two teaspoonfuls of sugar to a stiff 
foam, beat the yolks and stir them into the whites 
and then stir them into the wine, set it quickly 
over a hot fire and stir it fast, and as soon as it 
begins to rise (it must not boil) take it off the fire; 



2l8 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 



now stir a little of the wine in with the cream and 
mix it well together, then stir the cream into the 
wine and add the lemon. Put it into glasses or 
custard cups and serve with white or sponge cake. 

FREEZING ICE CREAM. 

First the ice must be broken up very fine and 
there must be plenty of coarse salt on hand; then 
place the freezer in the center of the bucket and 
put on the covers, fasten them on tight, put on the 
crank and turn it to see if it runs smoothly. Then 
put a folded cloth on the cover to keep the salt 
and ice water from getting in; now put into the 
bucket a layer of ice and a layer of salt thick enough 
to cover the ice, then another layer of ice and salt 
and so on until it is within half an inch of where 
the cover closes; then wipe off the cover and edge 
of the bucket, open the freezer, put in the cream, 
close tight and turn the crank slowly at first. If it 
is Gooch's patent freezer the cream will be frozen 
in thirty minutes.. When the cream has been in 
fifteen minutes fill up the bucket again with ice 
and salt. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One ounce of chocolate, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, eight ounces of white granulated sugar, one 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 219 

teaspoonful of corn starch, one fresh egg beaten 
separately, one pint of sweet cream, three tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract. Scrape the chocolate 
up fine and put it into a saucepan with four table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and set it into a pan of 
boiling water and stir it until it becomes a smooth 
paste, then stir in the milk and sugar and mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, stir 
it until it boils two minutes, then beat the yolks 
with a teaspoonful of cold milk and stir it in, stir it 
until it thickens, but it must not boil, then take it 
off the fire and strain it through a fine cloth and 
then set it into a pan of cold water to cool; beat 
the white with half a teaspoonful of sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir it in, then add the cream and 
vanilla and if it is not cold enough put it into the 
freezer. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of corn starch, two fresh eggs separated, half a 
pint of strawberry syrup, one pint of sweet cream. 
Put the milk into a saucepan and set it into a pan 
containing boiHng water, mix the corn starch with 
a spoonful of cold milk and stir it in, stir it until it 
boils two minutes; beat the yolks with one table- 
spoonful of white granulated sugar and stir them 
in, stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must not 



220 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 



boil, then take it off the fire to cool five minutes 
before the whites are put in; beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in, then stir in the strawberry syrup and 
set it in a cold place. When the custard is cold 
beat- the cream with the machine egg beater until 
it foams, then stir it in and put the whole into the 
freezer. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preced- 
ing receipt and is excellent. In making ice cream 
with fruit syrups the custard must be made before 
the syrup is put in. If the syrup w^as put into the 
milk or cream alone it would curdle and spoil the 
whole. 

VAMLLA ICE CREAM. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, half a pound of 
white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of corn 
starch, one fresh egg separated, one pint of sweet 
cream and three teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 
Put the milk into a saucepan and set it into another 
pan over the fire containing a little boiling water. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in; stir it until it boils two minutes then put in 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 221 

the sugar and beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir it in; stir it until it thickens, but 
it must not boil after the yolk is in. Then take it 
off the fire and strain it through a thin cloth, then 
set it into a pan of cold water to cool a few min- 
utes and beat the white with half a teaspoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff foam and stir it in. As soon 
as the custard is cold stir in the cream" and vanilla 
and put the whole into the freezer. A piece of 
white paper muslin with the stiffening washed out 
makes a good strainer, or a square of cheese cloth 
washed out in clear water is also good. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt with three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract in- 
stead of the vanilla. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

(Without Cream.) 

One quart of rich sweet milk, half a pound of 
white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful, (not 
heaped) of corn starch. Three fresh eggs sepa- 
rated and three teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 
Put the milk and half of the sugar into a saucepan 



222 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 

and set it into another pan containing boiling water. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in; stir it until it boils two minutes then take two 
teaspoonfuls out of the other half of the sugar to 
beat with the whites and put the rest of it in with 
the corn starch and milk. Then beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them in; stir 
it until it thickens, but it must not boil. Then take 
it off the fire and strain through a fine cloth, then 
set it into a pan of cold water whilst you beat the 
whites with the two teaspoonfuls of sugar to a 
stiff foam and then stir them in. Then add the 
vanilla and set it in a cool place until it is cold 
enough to put into the freezer. You cannot tell 
the difference between this ice cream and that 
which is made with cream. 



STRAWBERRY SYRUP, FOR ICE 
CREAM, JELLIES AND 

SAUCES. 

The dark red strawberries are the finest flavored, 
and should be gathered in dry weather. After 
they are hulled put them into a porcelain kettle and 
mash them with a wooden beetle, set them over 
the fire and boil them five minutes, then strain 
them through a linen cloth and measure. To one 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 223 

pint of juice allow three quarters of a pound of white 
granulated sugar, stir the juice and sugar well 
together and when it begins to boil skira quickly 
and boil ten minutes. When cold, bottle, cork 
tight and seal. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP FOR ICE 
CREAM, JELLIES AN^D 

SAUCES. 

Take the ripe red raspberries that have been 
gathered in dry weather and after they have been 
picked over, put them into a porcelain kettle and 
mash them with a wooden beetle, then boil them 
five minutes and strain them through a linen cloth 
and measure. To one pint of juice allow three 
quarters of a pound of white granulated sugar; as 
soon as it begins to boil skim it well and boil it 
ten minutes. When cold bottle, cork tight and 
seal. 



224 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 



Jellied Witli Gfelk- 
tii\e. 



CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

CalPs feet with the skins on make the best jelly. 
If they have to be dressed at home it is easily done. 
Have a teakettle of boiling water ready, then take 
one foot at a time and pour the hot water over it, 
removing the hair as fast as scalded, then take off" 
the hoofs and throw the feet into cold water. Take 
four calf's feet, split them, unjoint them and put 
them into a large saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover them. When the water begins to boil 
pour it all off" and cover the feet again with cold 
water, when it begins to boil again skim it as long 
as anything rises to the surface; boil it slowly four 
hours, then there should be one quart of the jelly. 
With a skimmer take out all the meat and bones, 
then strain the jelly through a linen cloth into a 



JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 225 

large bowl, cover it and let it stand over night. 
With a broad knife take off all the fat and then go 
over it with a small tea napkin, then turn the jelly 
out on to a plate, and if there is any sediment on 
the bottom take it off, cut up the jelly into small 
pieces, put it into a porcelaini saucepan, cover it 
and set it into a larger saucepan containing a little 
boiling water. The jelly will be dissolved in five 
minutes; then set the sauce pan containing the jelly 
over the fire and put into it one pound of white 
granulated sugar, the yellow rind peeled very 
thinly from two lemons and the juice of three large 
lemons or four small ones; wash and wipe four 
fresh eggs, put the whites into a bowl and beat 
them a very little, then break the shells in with 
them and stir whites and shells into the boiling 
jelly. Skim it and let it boil fifteen minutes, then 
set it on the side of the range where it will not 
boil and stir in one pint of sherry wine, let it stand 
for twenty minutes, then strain through a flannel 
cloth, (not a bag.) Put it into molds or jelly 
glasses. 

* 

CIDER JELLY. (Very Fine.) 

One pint and a half of cider, (Siberian crab 
apple is the best,) eight ounces of white granulated 
sugar, three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half" 
white, half red, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 



226 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

Cut the gelatine up fine with a pair of scissors and 
put it into a small saucepan with half ia pint of the 
cider and set it into a pan of boiling water where 
it will be dissolved in ten minutes. Put the pint 
of cider and sugar into a saucepan and let it get 
warm enough to dissolve the sugar; when the gela- 
tine is dissolved stir it into the cider and let it get 
hot, but it must not boil, then take it off the fire 
and strain through a fine cloth into a bowl, then 
add the lemon and set the bowl into a pan of cold 
water and stir it until the jelly is cold, but not set, 
then put it into porcelain molds that have been 
rubbed with oHve oil and set it in a cool place. 
When ready to serve set the mold into warm water 
(not hot) for a minute, then turn it out. This 
jelly is beautiful in color and if made of Siberian 
crab apple cider is equal to any wine jelly. 

LEMON JELLY. (Yery Fine.) 

One pint of rich sweet milk, eight ounces ot 
white granulated sugar, threelemons, half a pint of 
white wine, one ounce of gelatine, half white and 
half red, one gill of cold water. Cut the gelatine 
up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into a 
small saucepan with the gill of cold water and 
set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire where 
it will dissolve in ten minutes. Grate the yellow 
peel of the lemon off very thin, then peel off the 



JELLIES WITH GELATINE. ^42/ 

white part and squeeze out the juice; put the milk, 
sugar and grated lemon peel into a saucepan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire and 
let it come to a boil, then take it off the fire and 
put in the lemon juice, wine and gelatine, then 
strain it through a linen cloth into a bowl and set 
the bowl into a pan of cold water and stir it until 
it is cold, but not set, then put it into porcelain 
molds that have been rubbed with olive oil and 
set it in a cool place. When ready to serve turn 
it out. It has a beautiful color. 

RASPBERRY JELLY WITH 
GELATINE. 

One pint of raspberry syrup, one lemon, (the 
juice only) three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, 
half a pint of cold water. After the gelatine has 
been cut up put it and the water into a small sauce- 
pan and set it into a pan of boiling water where it 
will dissolve in ten minutes. Put the syrup and 
lemon juice into a porcelain saucepan and set it 
where it will get warm. When the gelatine is all 
dissolved stir it into the syrup and let it get hot, 
then take it off the fire and strain through a fine 
cloth into a bowl and set the bowl into a pan of 
cold water and stir it until the jelly is cold but 
not set. Then put it into porcelain molds that have 



228 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

been rubbed with olive oil and set in a cool place. 
When ready to serve turn it out and serve it with 
ice cream. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY WITH 
GELATINE. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt. 

WINE JELLY WITH GELATINE. 

Three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half white 
and half red, half a pint of cold water, one pint of 
sherry wine, eight ounces of white granulated 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Cut the 
gelatine up fine w^ith a pair of scissors and put it 
into a small saucepan with the half pint of water 
and set it into a pan of boiling water. Put the 
wine and sugar into a saucepan and let it get warm 
enough to dissolve the sugar. When the gelatine 
is dissolved stir it into the wine and let it get hot, 
but it must not boil. Then take it off the fire and- 
strain through a fine cloth into a bowl. Then add 
the lemon and set the bowl into a pan of cold 
water and stir it until the jelly is cold but not set. 
Then put it into porcelain molds that have been 
rubbed with olive oil and set it in a cool place. 
When ready to serve turn it out and serve it with 
ice cream. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 229 






ALMOND BLANC MANGE. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, three ounces of sweet 
almonds blanched and ground fine in the mortar, 
six whole peach kernels blanched and ground fine, 
three ounces of white graniilated sugar, two ounces 
of corn starch and five whites of fresh eggs. Put 
the milk, almonds, peach kernels and sugar into a 
porcelain saucepan and set it into another pan con- 
taining boiling water. When it has come to a boil 
mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it 
in, stir it until it boils three minutes then take it off the 
fire to cool a little before the whites are put in. 
Beat the whites with one tablespoonful of white 



230 CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 

sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, then put it 
quickly into a porcelain mold that has been dipped 
in- cold "water, and when it is cold turn it out. Make 
a sauce with the yolks that are left. One pint of 
sweet milk, four ounces of white sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of corn starch, five yolks, two teaspoon- 
fuls of vanilla extract and one gill of sherry wine 
or three tablespoonfuls of brandy, according to 
taste. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan and 
set it into another containing boiling w^ater. Mix 
the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in; 
stir it until it boils three minutes. Beat the yolks 
and stir them in; stir it until they thicken, but it 
must not boil. Then take it off the fire and stir 
in the vanilla, wine or brandy. 



BLANC MANGE. 

One pint and a half of rich sweet milk, four 
ounces of white granulated sugar, two ounces and 
a half of corn starch, one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter, three fresh eggs beaten separately, three 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Put the milk and 
sugar into a porcelain saucepan and set it into 
another containing boiling water, mix the corn 
starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, stir it 
until it boils three minutes, then stir in the butter; 
beat the yolks and stii- them in, stir it until they 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 23 1 

thicken, but it must not boil after they are in, then 
take it off the fire and beat the whites with one 
teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in, then stir in the lemon and put it into a 
porcelain mold that has been dipped in cold water. 
When it is cold turn it out and serve with a wine 
custard or fruit sauce. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. (Very 
Fine.) 

One pint of sweet cream, eight ounces of white 
granulated sugar, six fresh eggs beaten separately, 
half an ounce of gelatine, three teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla extract- Before commencing the charlotte 
russe get everything ready. First cut the gelatine 
up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into a 
small saucepan with one gill of cold sweet milk, 
then set it into another pan containing boiling 
water and it will be dissolved in fifteen minutes; 
let it remain in the warm water until you are ready 
to use it. Double a large sheet of writing paper, 
place a porcelain mold on it and mark it close 
around the bottom with a lead pencil, then cut it a 
straw's breadth inside the pencil mark and it will 
fit the inside of the mold; place it in the bottom, 
butter the paper and place a weight in the middle 
to keep it in place. Cut the sponge cake half an 
inch thick, dip the crust edges into the beaten 



232 CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 



white of an egg and place them close together 
around the mold. Now prepare the charlotte in 
the following manner: First take out one table- 
spoonful of the sugar to beat with the whites, then 
put the cream and the rest of. the sugar into a 
porcelain saucepan and set it into another contain- 
ing boiling water, beat the yolks well and stir them 
in, stir it until they ihicken, but it must not boil, 
then take it off the fire and stir in the gelatine and 
vanilla, then set the saucepan into a pan half full of 
broken ice and w^ater and stir it constantly until it 
is lukewarm, then beat the whites with the table- 
spoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, 
stir it well together, then put it into the mold and 
set it on ice. When ready to serve place, a china 
or glass dish over it and turn it upside down and 
remove the paper. 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 233 






CAKE. 

The day before you intend making caKe have the 
currants washed, dried in the oven and picked over. 
If you cannot get CaHfornia seedless raisins stone 
the others and cut them in two. Cut the citron up 
as thin as paper and if almonds are to be used 
blanch, skin and grind them. It is a slow process 
and takes time. Before commencing the cake 
butter the cake pans, then sift the flour, "w =igh it 
and mix the baking powder with it. Then set the 
vessel containing the flour into a pan of hot water 
to warm and stir it occasionally until needed. Mix 
the fruit together and dredge it with a spoonful or 
two of the weighed flour. Weigh the butter and 



234 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

sugar and put it into the vessel you are going to 
make the cake in (a large earthen bowl is the best) 
and if the butter is too hard set the bowl into a 
pan of hot water for a minute until it softens but it 
must not melt. Then beat them together with the 
back of the spoon against the side of the bowl to 
a very light cream. Separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks and stir them in with the butter and sugar, 
then beat the whites with one teaspoonful of white 
sugar to every two whites, to a stiff foam. Now 
stir the flour in with the butter, sugar and yolks, 
then stir in the whites and the flavoring. If it 
is a fruit cake, the dredged fruit is put in last. The 
whites of eggs beat better in a bowl with a ma- 
chine egg beater than in any other vessel and not 
more than six whites should be beaten at a time. 
A w^ooden skewer is necessary to ascertain when 
the cake is done. It should be six inches long and 
the size of a large knitting needle. 

ALMONDS, TO BLA:^CH A]^D 
GRIND. 

Put the almonds into boiling water and just as 
soon as the water begins to boil again after they 
are in, take them off the fire, pour off the water, 
slip off the skins. The sooner they are out of the 
water the better the almonds will be. They should 



235 



be ground in the mortar as soon as the skins are off. 
One ounce of almonds is enough to grind at a time 
and after they are broken up fine put in one des- 
sert spoonful of sweet milk to one ounce of almonds 
and grind them until they are white and creamy. 
A white porcelain mortar and pestle is the best to 
grind the almonds in. Bitter almonds or peach 
kernels are prepared in the same manner as in the 
preceding receipt, but they should be ground sep- 
arately. 

CING FOR CAKES. 

Four ounces of finely powdered sugar to one 
white of an egg. Beat the white and sugar together 
two or three minutes, not longer; then spread it on 
the cake with a broad knife. The cake can be 
more evenly iced w^hen only warm than when first 
taken out of the oven. The icing can be flavored 
with a few drops of lemon or rose extract. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

One ounce of chocolate, one tablespoonful of 
cold water, four ounces of finely powdered white 
sugar, one white of an egg. Scrape the chocolate 
up very fine and put it into a porcelain cup with 
one tablespoonful of cold water and set it into a pan 



236 



over the fire that has a little boiling "water in it, 
stir it until it is a smooth paste, which will be in 
two or three minutes; then take the cup out of 
the water and beat the white and sugar 
together two or three minutes, then stir in the 
chocolate, mix it well together and spread it on 
the cake with a broad knife. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Eight ounces of sifted flour w^ith three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, six ounces of 
fresh butter, eight ounces of white granulated 
sugar, six fresh eggs beaten separately, one nutmeg, 
four ounces pf almonds blanched and ground fine 
with a dessert spoonful of sweet milk to an ounce 
of almonds. Set the vessel containing the flour 
into a pan of hot water until needed, beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of the sugar to a 
stiff" foam, beat the butter and sugar to a light 
cream, beat the yolks and stir them into the butter 
and sugar, then add the nutmeg and almonds, 
mix it well together and then stir in half of the 
flour, then half of the whites, then the other half 
of the flour and the whites. Put it qaickly into a 
well buttered cake pan and bake forty-five or fifty 
minutes. Try it with a wooden skewer and if it 
comes out dry it is done. 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 237 

ALMOND JUMBLES. 

Four ounces of sifted flour with one heaped 
teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with it, four 
ounces of white granulated sugar, two ounces of 
fresh butter, two ounces of almonds blanched and 
pounded fine, two fresh eggs beaten separately, 
one teaspoonful of lemon extract. Beat the whites 
with one teaspoonful of sugar to a stiff foam, beat 
the butter and sugar to a light cream, beat the 
yolks and stir them into the butter and sugar, then 
stir in the almonds and lemon and mix it evenly 
together, then stir in half of the flour, then the 
whites, then the rest of the flour. Put it into well 
buttered muffin pans and bake a light brown. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Are made in the same manner, -with fine grated 
cocoanut. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Four ounfces of almonds blanched and pounded 
with two dessert spoonfuls of milk, four ounces of 
white granulated sugar, one white of an egg, two 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of rose 



238 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

extract. Mix the almonds and sugar together, 
beat the white with one teaspoonful of sugar to 
a stiff foara and stir it in, then stir in the corn 
starch dry and then add the rose extract. Cover 
the bottom of a baking pan with "white paper and 
butter it, then lay on the paper half a teaspoonful 
of the mixture one inch apart £.nd bake in a slow 
oven for three quarters of an hour, or until they 
are a light brown and are hard and dry. 

COCOAKUT MACAROON^S. 

Are made in the same manner, with grated 
cocoanut. 



ALMOND MACAROONS. 



Haifa pound of almonds blanched, dried and 
pounded to a paste, with one teaspoonful of rose 
water. Beat together the whites of three eggs and 
half a cup of white granulated sugar, adding the 
sugar a teaspoonful at a time, then add the pounded 
almonds, and if too soft to be shaped add one 
tablespoonful of flour, roll out, cut with a small 
cake cutter, place some distance apart on buttered 
paper and bake slowly three quarters of an hour, 
or until hard and dry. 



MERINGUE. 239 



ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. 

Three ounces of sweet almonds blanched and 
ground fine in the mortar, with one dessert spoon- 
ful of SAveet milk ground in with each ounce of 
almonds, half an ounce of peach kernels blanched 
and prepared in the same manner as the almonds, 
six fresh eggs beaten separately, nine ounces of 
■white granulated sugar, nine ounces of sifted flour 
with three teasDoonfuis of baking powder mixed 
with it, one nutmeg grated. Beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of the suga'-to a stiff foam, beat 
the yolks and the sugar until very light, then stir 
in the almonds and peach kernels, then stir in half 
ofthe flour and baking powder, then the whites 
and then the other half of the flour. Put it quickly 
into a buttered cake pan and bake one hour, the 
time depends upon the heat of the oven. Try it 
with a wooden skewer when the cake has been in 
fifty minutes, and if it comes out clean the cake is 
done. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. (Yerj Fine.) 

One pound of sifted flour with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, one pound 
of white granulated sugar, ten ounces of fresh 



240 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

butter, sixteen whites of fresh eggs, three tea- 
fuls of the extract of lemon, six teaspoonfuls of 
the extract of roses, one gill of sherry wine, and 
eight ounces of citron cut as thin as paper; set the 
vessel containing the flour and baking powder into 
a pan of hot water and stir it occasionally until 
needed; take out one tablespoonful of the weighed 
flour and dredge the citron with it; put the whites 
into two bowls with one tablespoonful of the 
weighed sugar in each bowl and beat them with a 
machine egg beater to a stift' foam; beat the butter 
and sugar together to a light cream, then stir in half 
of the flour, then half of the w^hites, then the other 
half of the flour and the whites, then add the flavor- 
ing and wine, and last the citron. Mix it evenly 
together, put it quickly into a buttered cake pan and 
bake one hour and tw^enty minutes. Try it with a 
wooden skewer when it has been in the oven one 
hour, and if it comes out clean, it is done. The 
bride's and groom's cakes should be made on the 
same day. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

Two ounces of chocolate scraped up very fine, 
two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded 
very fine, with two teaspoonfuls of sweet milk, 
four ounces of white granulated sugar, one white 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 24 1 



of an egg, one teaspoonful of corn starch, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract, half a teaspoonful 
of cinnamon. Mix the chocolate and almonds 
well together then stir in the sugar and beat the 
white with a teaspoonful of sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir it in, then add the vanilla and cinnamon and 
stir in the dry corn starch. Cover the bottom of a 
baking pan with white paper and then butter it. 
Then put on the paper half a teaspoonful of the 
mixture one inch apart and put them into a slow 
oven and bake three quarters of an hour or until 
they are hard and dry. 



CITRON CAKES. (Excellent.) 



Half a pound of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder in it, half a pound of white 
granulated sugar, three fresh eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, three ounces of citron cut fine, three ounces 
of currants, three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 
Beat the yolks and sugar to a Hght cream; beat the 
whites with two teaspoonfuls of the sugar to a 
stiff foam then stir in the whites, citron and cur- 
rants, then stir in the flour, baking powdfer and the 
lemon. Make them into small cakes and put 
them into a well buttered pan and bake them a 
yellow brown. 



Z/\.2 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Four ounces of fine grated cocoanut weighed after 
it is grated,six ounces of fresh butter, eight ounces of 
■white granulated sugar, six fresh eggs, beaten sep- 
arately, one nutmeg, eight ounces of sifted flour 
with three teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed 
with it. Set the vessel containing the flour into a 
pan of hot water and stir it occasionally until need- 
ed. Beat the whites with one tablespoonful of the 
sugar to a stiff" foam, beat the butter and sugar to- 
gether to a light cream. Beat the yolks and stir 
them into the butter and sugar, then add the nut- 
meg and cocoanut and mix it evenly together. Then 
stir in half of the flour, then half of the whites, 
then the other half of the flour and the whites. 
Put it quickly into a well buttered cake pan and 
bake forty-five or fifty minutes. The time depends 
upon the heat of the oven; try it with a wooden 
skewer and if it comes dry and clean the cake is 
done. 

GRANDMOTHER'S COOKIES. 

One pound of white granulated sugar, half a 
pound of butter, four eggs beaten separately, one 
pound and.a. quarter of flour. Beat the butter and 
sugar together to a cream, then add the yolks and 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 243 



stir in the flour. Beat the whites with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff" foam and stir 
them in last. Drop the batter from a teaspoon 
into large greased baking pans and bake. Put the 
cookies into a cake box and they will become soft 
in two or three days. They will keep a long time. 

BERLIN COOKIES. 

One pound and three quarters of flour, one 
pound of w^hite granulated sugar, half a pound of 
butter, four eggs, beaten separately, beat the butter 
and sugar to a cream then add the yolks. Beat 
the whites with one teaspoonful of w^hite sugar to 
a stiff" foam and stir them in. Then stir in the flour 
last, make it into a soft dough and roll out thin. 
Cut it with a cake cutter or cut it into forms. 
If kept in a cake box they will become soft and 
nice. 

SUGAR COOKIES. (Very Good.) 

Half a pound of butter, one pound of white 
granulated sugar, three eggs, beaten separately, 
two pounds of flour with four teaspoonfuls of Royal 
baking powder in it, half a pint of cold sweet 
milk and two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream then beat in 



244 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

the yolks and half of the flour; then add the milk 
and nutmeg. Beat the whites with one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
with the rest of the flour; then roll them out thin, 
cut them with a small cake cutter and bake in a 
quick oven ten minutes. Keep them in a cake 
box. 



CINCmNATI CREAM CAKES. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fresh 
butter, one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar, 
.one teaspoonful of grated nutirieg,^half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, six ounces of sifted flour with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, six 
fresh eggs beaten separately. Put half of the 
milk, butter, sugar, nutmeg and salt into an iron 
skillet over a slow fire and let it come to a boil, 
mix the flour and baking powder with the other 
half of the milk until it is a smooth batter, then stir 
it into the boiling milk and continue stirring it until 
it is a sriiooth dough, then take it off the fire to 
cool and beat the yolks and stir them in, then beat 
the whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar 
to a stiff foam and stir them in last. Mix it well 
together and put a dessert spoonful of the mixture 
into each well buttered muffin pan and bake them 
a dark yellow. It takes from fifteen to twenty 



245 



minutes. When done open them at the side with 
a sharp pointed knife and put in one heaped tea- 
spoonful of the cream. This quantity makes 
twenty-four cakes. 

FILLING FOR CREAM CAKE. 

Haifa pint of sweet cream, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch, two tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar, one fresh egg beaten separately, two tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. Put the cream into a 
small saucepan and s'et it into another containing 
boiling Avater, mix the corn starch with a little cold 
milk and stir it in, stir it until it boils two minutes, 
then put in the sugar and beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir it in, then take it off 
the fire and beat the whites with half a teas-poon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir it in, then 
add the vanilla and when it is cold fill the cakes. 
This quantity will fill twenty-four cakes. The 
fining should be made before the cakes are made. 

CUP CAKE. 

Three quarters of a cup of butter, one cup of 
white granulated sugar, five eggs beaten separately, 
three cups of flour, one cup of cold sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, three teaspoon- 



246 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

fuls of Royal baking powder, (not heaped.) Let 
the butter be a Httle soft, but not melted, beat the 
butter and sugar together until it is a light cream, 
then put in the yolks and beat them a few minutes, 
then stir in one cup of the flour with one third of 
the milk and so on until the flour and milk is all in, 
then put in the lemon extract and beat the whites 
with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in, then add the baking powder 
last. Let it bake one hour. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Half a pound of flour with one teaspoonful of 
baking powder in it, half a pound of white gran- 
ulated sugar, four ounces of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of extract of lemon, five fresh eggs beaten 
separately, four ounces of currants. Beat one half 
of the sugar with the butter and the other half with 
the yolks, then mix them together and stir in the 
flour and the lemon; beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of sugar to a stiff" foam and stir them 
in, then dredge the currants with flour and stir 
them in last. 

FRUIT CAKE. (Very fine.) 

Twelve ounces of sifted flour with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, twelve 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 247 



ounces of white granulated sugar, six ounces of 
fresh butter, six fresh eggs, beaten separately, one 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, 
eight ounces of seedless California raisins, eight 
ounces of currants, six ounces of citron cut as 
thin as paper, one gill of brandy. Put the fruit all 
together into a deep dish and dredge it with two 
tablespoonfuls of the weighed flour. Set the ves- 
sel containing the flour into a pan of hot water until 
needed. Beat the whites with one tablespoonful 
of the sugar to a stiff foam. Beat the butter and 
sugar together to a light cream. Beat the yolks 
and stir them into the butter and sugar. Then 
add the spices and stir in half of the flour, then half 
of the whites, then the other half of the flour and the 
whites then add the brandy and stir in the fruit 
last. Mix it well together and put it quickly into 
a well buttered cake pan and bake one hour' and a 
quarter. When it has been in one hour, try it with 
a wooden skewer and if it comes out dry and clean 
it is done. 



FRUIT CAKE. 



Four ounces of California seedless raisins, four 
ounces of currants after they have been washed and 
dried, four ounces of citron cut in thin chips as 
thin as paper, ten ounces of sifted flour with three 



248 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, four 
ounces of fresh butter, eight ounces of white gran- 
ulated sugar, six fresh eggs separated and one 
grated nutmeg. Dredge the raisins, currants and 
citron out of the weighed flour. Take out one 
tablespoonful of the sugar to beat w^ith the whites. 
Beat the butter and the rest of the sugar to a light 
cream; beat the yolks and stir them in with the 
butter and sugar, then put in the nutmeg and stir 
in the flour and baking powder. Beat the whites 
with the one tablespoonful of sugar to a stiff" foam 
and stir the;m in, and last add the fruit, mix it 
well together, put it quickly into the oven and 
bake. 



GOLDEN CAKE. 



Twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
ounces of fresh butter, twelve yolks of fresh eggs, 
twelve ounces of sifted flour, with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, two nutmegs 
grated, one gill of brandy, six ounces of currants, 
weighed after they have been washed and dried. 
Dredge the currants with one tablespoonful of the 
weighed flour. Warm the flour by setting the vessel 
containing lit into a pan of hot water, beat the butter 
and sugar to a hght cream; beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir them in with the 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 249 

butter and sugar, beat them together until very 
light, then add the nutmeg; then stir in the flour 
and baking powder, then add the brandy and last 
the currants. Mix it well together and put it 
quickly into a buttered cake pan and bake one 
hour. 

GROOM'S CAKE. 

One pound of white granulated siagar, ten ounces 
of fresh butter, sixteen^ yolk? of fresh eggs, one 
pound of sifted flour, with four teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder mixed with it, two nutmegs grated, 
one gill of brandy, one gill of sherry, wine, eight 
ounces of currants, weighed after they have been 
"washed and dried. Dredge the currants with one 
tablespoonfyl of the weighed flour, warm the flour 
by setting the vessel containing it in hot water. 
Beat the butter and sugar together to a light 
cream, beat the 3'olks with a spoonful of cold milk 
and stir them into the butter and sugar, beat them 
together until very light, then add the nutmeg; then 
stir in the flour and baking powder. Then add the 
brandy and wine and last the currants; mix it well 
together and put it quickly into a buttered cake 
pan and bake one hour and twenty minutes. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Eight ounces of fresh butter, one pint of the best 
sugar house molasses, seven ounces of brown 



250 



sugar, six fresh eggs beaten separately, two 
tablespoonfuls of ginger, one tablespoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, half of a grated 
nutmeg, one quart of sifted flour, with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it. Put 
the molasses and butter into a saucepan and let it 
get warm enough to melt the butter, then take it 
off the fire, beat the yolks and sugar together to a 
light cream and stir them into the molasses and 
butter, then stir in the ginger, cinnamon and nut- 
meg and then add the flour and baking powder, 
beat the w^hites with one tablespoonful of white 
sugar to a stiff" foam and stir them in last. The 
whites should be beaten and ready to put in as 
soon as the flour is in. Put it into an iron baking 
pan and bake three quarters of an hour. 



WHITE GmGER BREAD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, eight ounces of 
fresh butter, eight fresh eggs, beaten separately, 
two tablespoonfuls of white ginger, one tablespoon- 
ful of powdered cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, 
one large lemon, grated, peel and juice, one quart 
of sifted flour with four teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder mixed with it. Melt the butter in the milk, 
beat the yolks and sugar to a light cream and stir 
them into the milk and butter. Then put in the 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 25 I 

ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and lemon; then stir in 
the flour and baking powder. Beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir them in last. The whites should be beaten 
and ready to put in as soon as the flour is in. Put 
it into an iron baking pan and bake three quarters 
of an hour. 



JELLY CAKE. 



Eight ounces of w^hite granulated sugar, four 
ounces of fresh butter, six fresh eggs, beaten sep- 
arately, eight ounces of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder in, three teaspoonfuls of 
lemon extract. Beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of sugar to a stiff foam. Beat the butter 
and sugar to a light cream; beat the yolks and stir 
them into the butter and sugar, then stir in half of 
the flour, then half of the whites, then the other 
half of the flour and the whites. Then add the 
lemon and put the mixture half an inch deep into 
w^ell buttered jelly cake plates and bake in a quick 
oven. Spread them with strawberry or raspberry 
marmalade and lay them one above another, or 
roll them, trim off the ends and cut them in slices 
half an inch thick. 



252 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

THE WHITE PAKT. 

Whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff foam, half a 
pound of white granulated sugar, four ounces of 
butter, half a cup of sweet milk, half a pound of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

THE BROWN PART. 

Yolks of five eggs, half a pound of brown sugar, 
half a pound of flour, four ounces of butter, half a 
cup of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon, cloves, pepper, nutmeg, ginger and baking 
powder. Stir the butter in separate bowls, the 
white part in one bowl and the brown part in 
another. When it is well stirred grease your pan 
and put in a large spoonful of brown batter, then a 
spoonful of white batter beside it and so on until 
all is used, always putting a white over a brown 
part. Bake One hour in a moderate oven. 

MERINGUE. 

Two ounces of white powdered sugar, two 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff foam with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to every two whites, then 
stir in the sugar and add the flavoring according 
to taste. 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 253 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sifted flour with three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder mixed in it, one pound of white 
granulated sugar, twelve ounces of fresh butter, 
ten fresh eggs beaten separately, and two middle 
sized nutmegs grated. Take out two tablgspoon- 
fuls of the w^eighed sugar to beat with the whites 
to a stiff foam, beat the butter and sugar together 
to a light cream, beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them in with the butter and 
sugar, beat them together until very light, then 
add the nutmeg; then stir in half of the flour, 
then half of the whites, then the other half of the flour 
and the remainder of the whites last. Put it 
quickly into a buttered cake pan and bake one hour. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Twelve whites of fresh eggs, six ounces of fresh 
butter, twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, 
twelve ounces of sifted flour with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, two teaspoon- 
fuls of the extract of lemon, four teaspoonfuls of 
the extract of roses, one gill of sherry wine, six 
ounces of citron cut thin as paper. Take out one 
tablespo'onful of the weighed flour and dredge the 
citron. Set the vessel containing the flour and 



254 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

baking po'wder into a pan of hot water and stir it 
occasionallj' until needed. Put the whites into two 
bowls with one tablespoonful of the weighed sugar 
in each bow^l and beat them with a machine egg 
beater to a stiff foam. Beat the butter and sugar 
together to a light cream, then stir in half of the 
flour then half of the whites, then the other half of 
the flour and the whites, then add the flavoring and 
wine, and last the citron. Mix it evenly together, 
put it quickly into a buttered cake pan and bake 
one hour. 



SNOW CAKE. 

Whites of twelve fresh eggs, six ounces of fresh 
butter, twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, 
twelve ounces of sifted flour with three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder mixed in it, three 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Put the whites 
into two bowls with one tablespoonful of the 
weighed sugar in each bowl and beat them with a 
machine egg beater to a stiff foam. Set the vessel 
containing the flour into a pan of boiling water 
and stir it occasionally until needed. Beat the 
butter and sugar together to a light cream, then 
stir in half of the flour, then half of the whites, 
then the other half of the flour and the whites, 
then add the lemon and put it half an inch deep 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 255 



into well buttered jelly cake plates and bake a light 
brown. It takes it about ten minutes. 'Then put 
a layer of cake and a layer of grated cocoanut and 
raspberry mixture, then a layer of cake, and so on, 
finishing with cake and an icing with cocoanut 
sprinkled over the top whilst the icing is wet. 



COCOANUT AND RASPBERRY 
MIXTURE. 

Eight ounces of grated cocoanut, mixed with 
half a pint of raspberry syrup. 

SPONGE CAKE. (Yery Fine.) 

Six fresh eggs beaten separately, eight ounces 
of white granulated sugar, six ounces of sifted flour, 
with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed 
with it, three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Beat 
the whites with one tablespoonful of the sugar to a 
stiff foam, beat the yolks with the rest of the sugar 
until very light, put the sug'ar in with the yolks a 
spoonful at a time. It is easier beaten than if the 
whole was put in at once, then slirin half of the flour, 
then the whites, then the other half of the flour 
and the lemon. Put it quickly into a well buttered 
cake pan and bake forty minutes. If baked in 



256 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

small cakes, twenty minutes. Try it with a 
wooden skewer, and if it comes out clean and dry 
the cake is done. 

SPONGE MUFFINS. (For Tea.) 

Five fresh eggs beaten separately, six ounces 
of white granulated sugar, five ounces of sifted 
flour, with one heaped teaspoonful of baking 
powder mixed in it. Beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of the sugar to a stiff foam, beat the 
yolks with the rest of the sugar, then stir half of 
the flour into the yolks and sugar, then the whites, 
then the other half of the flour. Put it quickly 
into well buttered muffin pans and bake twenty 
minutes. Serve them hot, split them open and 
butter them. They are excellent. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve whites of eggs, eight ounces of white 
granulated sugar, six ounces of sifted flour, with 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with 
it, three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of the sugar to a 
stiff"foam, then beat the rest of the sugar into the 
whites and then add the lemon and stir in the flour 
last. Put it quickly into a well buttered cake pan 
and bake forty minutes. Try it with a wooden 
skewer and if it comes out dry and clean it is done' 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 257 

WHITE CAKE. (Excellent.) 

Whites of six fresh eggs, three ounces of fresh 
butter, six ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
ounces of sifted flour, with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder mixed with it, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon extract. Beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of the sugar to a stiff foam, beat the butter 
and sugar to a light cream and then stir in half of 
the flour, then stir in half of the whites, then the 
other half of the flour and the whites; then add the 
lemon and put it quickly into a well buttered pan 
and bake thirty minutes. 



Z^S BEVERAGES. 



Sevef^^e^. 



CIDEE, TO KEEP SWEET. 

As soon as the cider begins to ferment bore a 
small gimlet hole through the bung of the barrel 
and put in a wooden plug. Once a day this plug 
must be taken out to let the gas escape, otherwise 
the barrel would burst. Then take one pint of 
yellow English mustard seed, divide it' into four 
parts and put it into four small thin muslin bags, 
one gill in each bag; tie the mouth of the bags 
with a cord and drop them into the cider through 
the bung hole, make the bungtight, putin theplug, 
turn the barrel on end, put in the faucet tight and 
place the barrel high enough to allow the cider to 
be drawn off without moving the barrel. Cider 
prepared in this manner will keep sweet a long 
time 

SIBERIAN CRAB APPLE WWE. 
(Very Fine.) 

Prepare the crab apple cider in the same man- 
ner as in the preceding receipt, and after the 



BEVERAGES. 259 

mustard seed has been in the cider four or six 
weeks it is ready to bottle. Ten gallons of cider 
will fill fifty wine bottles. Put the corks to soak 
in warm water. Clean the bottles inside with 
shot and warm water and have a ball of thick 
twine ready. Then put one large raisin into each 
bottle and fill with cider. Pound in the corks with 
a wooden mallet, tie them in with twine and lay 
the bottles on their side in a cool place. 



CIDER, KEPT SWEET. 



The following is a scientific method of treating 
cider to preserve its sweetness: When the sac- 
charine matter, by fermenting, is being converted 
into alcohol, if a bent tube be inserted air tight 
into the bung with the other end into a pail of 
water, to allow the carbonic acid gas evolved to 
pass off without admitting any air into the barrel a 
beverage will be attained that is a fit nectar for the 
gods. A handy way is to fill your cask nearly up 
to the faucet, when the cask is rolled so that the 
bung is down. Get a common rubber tube and 
slip it over the end of the plug in the faucet, with 
the other end in the pail of water. Then turn the 
plug so the cider can have communication with the 
pail. After the water ceases to bubble, bottle or 
store it away. — Farm, Field and Fireside. 



26o BEVERAGES. 

EGG NOG, WARM. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, half a pint of 
brandy or- whiskey, six ounces of- white granulated 
sugar, one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, three 
fresh eggs, beaten separately. Put the milk, brandy, 
sugar and nutmeg into a saucepan and set it on the 
side of the range, where it will get warm but not 
hot. Beat the whites to a stiff foam then beat the 
yolks and stir them into the whites, then stir them 
into the "warm milk and set it over a quick fire, stii 
it fast and as soon as it begins to rise (it must not 
boil) take it off the fire and pour it into a bowl or 
pitcher and serve it in glasses. It is' a very re- 
freshing drink on a cold day. 



EGG NOG, COLD. 

Four fresh eggs, beaten separately, six ounces of 
white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, half a pint of brandy or whisky, one quart 
of rich sweet milk. Beat the whites with two tea- 
spoonfuls of the sugar to a stiff foam. Beat the 
yolks and sugar together to a light cream, then put 
in the nutmeg and the brandy, then add half of the 
milk and stir in the whites, then add the other half 
of the milk. 



BEVERAGES. 26 1 



LEMONADE. 

Three large lemons, five tablespbonfuls of white 
sugar, three pints of ice water. Wash and wipe 
the lemons, then peel off the yellow part of the 
rind very thin (that contains the oil) and put it into 
a porcelain pitcher. Then peel off the white part 
(which is always bitter) and cut the lemon in two 
in the middle; put them into the lemon squeezer 
and squeeze the" juice into the pitcher. Then take 
out the seeds and put the squeezed lemon into the 
pitcher. Now put in the sugar and beat the whole 
together a minute or two, then add the water and 
stir it until the sugar is dissolved. It is then ready 
to use. 

LEMON PUNCH. 

Half a pint of lemon syrup and half a pint of 
sherry' wine put into one quart of ice water. It 
makes a refreshing summer drink. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Three pints of ice water, half a pint of rasp- 
berry syrup, one gill of brandy, one large lemon. 
Peel the lemon and squeeze the juice into a porce- 
lain pitcher, then put in the water and raspberry 
syrup. Then add the brandy and stir it well to- 
gether. It makes a pleasant summer drink. 



2D2 BEVERAGES. 



LEMON SYRUP. 

Wash and wipe the lemons, then grate the yellow 
rind very thin off of one half of the lemons, 
then peel off the white part and throw it away, it is 
always bitter. Then peel the other half of the 
lemons and cut them all in two in the middle and 
put them into the lemon squeezer and squeeze out 
all the juice, then take out all the seeds and throw 
the squeezed lemon into a bowl of hot -water, a 
good deal of the acid remains in the lemon after it 
is squeezed. When the lemons are all squeezed 
measure the juice in a pint and mark it down on 
paper, then strain the lemon and w^ater through a 
wire sieve and measure one pint of the water to 
each pint of the lemon juice and mark it down 
beside the juice, keep the water separate and 
weigh the sugar. To each pint of the Avater and 
juice allow one pound and a quarter of white gran- 
ulated sugar. Put the sugar and grated lemon 
peel into a porcelain kettle and mix it together, 
then put in the water and boil it five minutes, then 
add the lemon juice, take it off the fire and strain 
through a linen cloth. Bottle it, and when it is 
cold cork tight and seal. Half a pint of lemon 
syrup to one quart of ice water makes a delightful 
drink in warm weather. Three tablespoonfuls of 
lemon syrup is the right quantity for a goblet of 
ice water. One tablespoonful of lemon" syrup is 
enough for one lemonade glass of ice water. 



BEVERAGES. 263 



MILK PUNCH. 

Five lemons, six ounces of white granulated 
su^ar, one pint of rich sweet milk, one pint of 
water, one grated nutmeg, one pint of rum or 
brandy and the juice of the lemon. Grate the 
yellow skin off the lemons and mix it with the 
sugar, put the milk, water, grated lemon and sugar 
into a saucepan and let it come to a boil, then take 
it off the fire and put in the nutmeg, rum and 
lemon juice; strain the whole through a jelly cloth 
and serve when cold. 



MULLED CIDER. 



One quart of good cider, six ounces of white 
granulated sugar, four fresh eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg. Put 
the cider, sugar and nutmeg into a saucepan and 
set it on the range where it will get warm, but not 
scalding hot. Beat the whites with three tea- 
spoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam, then beat 
the yolks and stir them into the whites, and then 
stir them into the cider. Set it quickly over a hot 
fire and stir it fast until it begins to rise (it must not 
boil) then take it off the fire and pour it into a 
pitcher. Serve it warm. 



264 BEVERAGES. 



MULLED WINE. 

One pint of sherry wine, one pint of water, six 
ounces of white granulated sugar, four fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 
or nutmeg, according to taste. Put the wine, 
water, cinnamon and sugar into a saucepan and 
set it on the side of the range where it will get 
warm, but not hot. Beat the whites with three 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar to, a stiff foam, then 
beat the yolks and stir them into the whites, then 
stir them into the wine and set it over a quick 
fire and stir it fast until it begins to rise (it must 
not boil) then take it quickly off the fire and pour 
it into a pitcher. Put it into glasses and serve it 
warm. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Four lemons, half a pound of white granulated 
sugar, two quarts of boihng water, half a pint of 
Jamaica rum. After the lemons have been washed 
and wiped, peel off the yellow skin very thin and 
put it into the vessel the punch is to be made in, 
then peel off the white skin, "which is bitter, and 
throw it away; then cut the lemons in two and 
squeeze the juice into the vessel, then take out the 
seeds and put the squeezed lemon in with the juice, 



BEVERAGES. 265 

then put in the sugar and rub the sugar and lemons 
together a few minutes, then pour in, the boiling 
water and let it stand until it is cold, then place a 
fine sieve over the punch bowl and pour it through, 
then add the rum and slice two lemons into 
the punch bowl. 

RASPBERRY VmEGAR. 

Put four quarts of ripe red raspberries into a 
porcelain preserving kettle and mash them with a 
wooden beetle, then boil them five minutes and 
take them off" the fire. Then stir into them one 
quart of strong cider vinegar, then strain through 
a linen cloth and measure. To one pint of the 
juice allow three quarters of a pound of white gran- 
ulated sugar, set it over the fire, and when 
it begins to boil skim it well and boil it ten min- 
utes. When cold bottle, cork tight and seal, when 
it is to be used put two tablespoonfuls of the rasp- 
berry vinegar into a goblet two thirds full of ice 
water. 



266 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



ir\klkde^, Jellied 
ki|d rfe^efTe^. 



JELLY, TO MAKE. 

To make fine jelly of the small fruits, the fruit 
must be boiled ten minutes with the skins, cores 
and seeds. The skins increase the flavor and the 
cores and seeds contain the gluten which makes 
the jelly. For a strainer I use a jelly cloth instead 
of a jelly bag. I find it more convenient and much 
quicker done. I take a piece of fine Russia linen 
crash three yards long and wring it out of warm 
water. Place a wire sieve over a flat stone crofck 
and put one end of the linen over the sieve, then 
put in a ladle full of the fruit, fold the two sides 
together and twist the two ends in opposite direc- 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 267 

tions. It takes two persons to do it. Then re- 
move to another part of the Hnen, and so on, until 
all is strained. If the linen is right the jelly will be 
perfectly clear. I have never failed to have fine 
jelly although I never have used gelatine. 

MARMALADE. 

To make the finest marmalade the fruit must be 
boiled ten minutes before the sugar is put in with 
it. The marmalade will be smoother, finer flavored 
and quicker made than according to the old method. 
Sugar always hardens the fruit and prevents it from 
mashing easily. 

STRAWBERRIES, CANNED. 

The dark red Wilson strawberries are the best 
for all purposes. They should be gathered in dry 
weather and be fresh from the vines. After they 
are hulled, weigh them, and to one pound of straw- 
berries allow half a pound of white granulated 
sugar. Spread the strawberries on porcelain plates, 
strew the sugar thickly over them and let them 
stand in a cool place until the next morning. The 
sugar will extract the juice and harden the fruit. 
Use a silver knife or spoon to take them off" the 
plates into the kettle. Use a wooden spoon in the 



268 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

kettle. Let them heat very slowly and when they 
come to a boiling heat (they must not boil) they 
are ready to put up. Put them into glass jars her- 
metically sealed. 

STRAWBERRY MARMALADE. 

To one pound of strawberries, three quarters of 
a pound of white granulated sugar. Put the straw- 
berries into a porcelain preserving kettle and mash 
them with a wooden beetle until there is juice 
enough to cover the bottom of the kettle. Let 
them boil ten minutes then add the sugar and cook 
them thirty minutes, stirring them constantly with 
a wooden spoon to prevent it from sticking. Put 
it warm into jelly glasses, cover with double 
writing paper, cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy, 
and close with metal covers, or put it into glass jars 
hermetically sealed. 

STRAWBERRIES, PRESERVED. 

To one pound of Wilson strawberries allow one 
pound of white granulated sugar, spread the straw- 
berries thinly on porcelain plates and strew all the 
sugar over them and let them remain in it over 
night, in the morning the plates will be full of 
juice. With a silver knife or spoon take all from 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 269 

the plates into a porcelain preserving kettle, set it 
over a slow^ fire until it comes to a boiling heat, 
but not to boil, then take the kettle off and w^ith a 
skimmer take the strawberries out, a few at a time, 
and spread them on the same plates to cool; strain 
the syrup through a linen cloth and return it to the 
kettle, boil it two minutes, skimming it well. Take 
it off the fire, put the strawberries into the syrup, 
cover the kettle and set it in a cool place until the 
next morning. The strawberries must not be 
taken out of the syrup again until they are done. 
In the morning set them over the fire and as soon 
as they are hot take them off, cover them, and put 
them in a cool place until the next morning. Re- 
peat this for four mornings and the strawberries 
will be perfectly clear and not one broken. Put 
them into pint or half pint, wide mouthed,glass jars, 
cover with double writing paper cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy, cork and seal them. 

RED RASPBERRY JELLY. 



To three pints of raspberry juice put one pint of 
currant juice, and one pound of white granulated 
sugar to each pint of juice. The raspberries and 
currants must be ripe and gathered in dry weather. 
Mash the raspberries with a wooden beetle in 
a porcelain preserving kettle and boil them ten 



270 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

minutes; then strain them through a linen cloth 
and measure. Put the currants into a preserving 
kettle, stems and all; mash them and boil ten min- 
utes, then strain and measure; mix the currant and 
raspberry juice together in the kettle and stir in 
the sugar, as soon as it begins to boil skim it as 
quick as possible, for it often jellies in five minutes. 
Put it hot into jelly glasses vv^ith double writing 
paper cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy. Use 
jelly glasses with metal covers, and the jelly should 
be cold before the covers are made tight. 



RED RASPBERRY MARMA- 
LADE. 



To three pounds of raspberries put one pound 
of currants and three quarters of a pound of white 
granulated sugar to each pound of fruit; mash the 
raspberries and currants together in the kettle and 
boil them ten minutes; then add the sugar and boil 
twenty minutes longer, stir it all the time with a 
wooden spoon to prevent it from sticking. Put 
it hot into small glass jars or jelly glasses with 
double writing paper cut to fit the inside, dipped in 
brandy. Close the marmalade when cold, if put 
in jelly glasses. 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 27 I 

BLACK EASPBERRIES, Canned 
for Pies Tarts and Sauce. 

To three pounds of raspberries put one pound of 
ripe currants, and two pounds of white granulated 
sugar to four pounds of fruit; after the currants are 
picked and weighed mash them with a wooden 
beetle and put them in the bottom of the preserv- 
ing kettle and sprinkle a handful of sugar over 
them, then put in a layer of raspberries and a layer 
of sugar until all are inj set the kettle on the side 
of the range where they will heat slowly for one 
hour, or until the juice is extracted; then stir them 
up from the bottom, let them get hot and they are 
ready to put up. Put them into glass jars, hermet- 
ically sealed. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

To one pint of currant juice put one pound of 
white granulated sugar. Pick the leaves out from 
the currents, then mash them stems and all 
together, with a wooden beetle and put them into 
a porcelain preserving kettle and boil them ten 
minutes; then strain through a linen cloth, meas- 
ure and return the juice to the kettle. Mix the 
sugar and juice together before the juice is hot 
and stir it with a wooden spoon until it begins to 



272 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

boil, then skim it as quickly as possible, for it will 
be jelly in about five minutes. Put it hot into 
jelly glasses, cover w^ith double wanting paper cut 
to fit the inside, dipped in brandy. Close w^ith metal 
covers when the jelly is cold. 

CHERRIES, CA]^:N^ED. 

After the cnerries are stemmed and stoned, 
weigh them, and to each pound of cherries allow 
half a pound of w^hite granulated sugar. Put them 
into a porcelain kettle, a layer of cherries and a 
layer of sugar until all are in. Then add one quart 
of water to six pounds of cherries. Put the water 
in at the side of the kettle, set them over a slow 
fire and let them heat gradually for two hours, or 
until the juice is extracted, then let them come to a 
boiling heat and they are ready to put up. Put 
them into glass jars hermetically sealed. 

GREEN GAGE PLUMS, PRE- 
SERVED. 

To one pound of plums allow one pound of 
white granulated sugar, and one-half a pint of 
water to each pound of sugar. Take large fine 
green gage plums that are not fully ripe but have 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 273 

turned a little yellowish, pick them, weigh and 
wash them in two waters. Put the sugar and 
water into a porcelain preserving kettle, and as soon 
as the sugar is dissolved put in the plums, turn 
them over with a skimmer, that they may heat 
evenly. As soon as the skins are curled and cracked 
move them to the side of the range, where they 
will not boil. Let them stand for one hour, or 
until the juice is extracted; then cover the kettle 
and set it in a cool place over night. In the morn- 
ing set them on the fire and when they are at a 
boiling heat take the plums out onto large porce- 
lain dishes. Boil the syrup, skim it and return the 
plums to the kettle; let them get hot, but not to 
boil, cover the kettle and set it away until the next 
morning, when they are ready to put up. The 
syrup must cover the plums. Put them into glass 
jars hermetically sealed. 



GREEN GAGE JELLY. 

The plums for jelly should be fully ripe. Wash 
them or wipe them off with a wet cloth, take off 
the stems and cut out the spots, weigh them, and 
to one pound of plums allow half a pint of water. 
Put the plums and water into a porcelain preserv- 
ing kettle and boil them twenty minutes, then 
strain them through a linen cloth; after they are 



274 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

all strained, strain the juice over again; measure it 
and to each pint of juice allow one pound of white 
granulated sugar. Put the juice and sugar into 
the preserving kettle and stir it until the sugar is 
all dissolved, as soon as it begins to boil look at 
your watch, skim it well and let it boil ten minutes. 
Put it hot into the jelly glasses with double writing 
paper cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy. When 
it is cold close up with metal covers. 



GREEN GAGE PLUMS, CANNED. 

Plums for canning should not be fully ripe. To 
four pounds of plums allow two pounds of white 
granulated sugar and half a pint of water; pick the 
plums carefully, taking out all the spotted ones and 
those that are fully ripe, for jelly. Weigh them 
and w^ash them in two w^aters, put the sugar and 
water into a porcelain preserving kettle and as 
soon as the sugar is dissolved put in the plums, 
set them over a slow fire and turn them over care- 
fully from the bottom of the kettle with a large 
skimmer that they may heat evenly and not break. 
This must be done as soon as they are put on the 
fire and continued until they are done. As soon 
as the skins curl and split open and they are scald- 
ing hot they are ready to put up; they must not 
boil nor break. If there is not syrup enough add 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 275 

a little hot water and mix it well together. The 
quantity of syrup depends a great deal on the 
ripeness of the plums. Put them into glass jars 
hermetically sealed. 

WHITE HEATH FREE-STONE 
PEACHES, CANNED. 

To four pounds of peaches, one pound of white 
granulated .sugar. In putting up peaches for the 
table I prefer the White Heath. They are rich in 
flavor and delicate in color. They should not be 
over ripe. Pare them and cut them in halves, or 
if they are very large, quarter them and take out 
the stones. Put into the preserving kettle a layer 
of peaches and a layer of sugar until all are in, 
then put in one pint of water to one bushel of 
peaches, sprinkle the water over the top of the 
peaches, set them on the side of the fire where 
they will heat very slowly. They should stand 
one hour and a half before they are put over the 
fire, or until the juice is extracted. Crack one 
quarter of the peach stones and put the kernels 
into a small saucepan with water enough to cover 
them and boil them thirty minutes; then strain off 
the water and mix it with the peaches. It gives 
them a fine flavor. As soon as the juice is ex- 
tracted set the kettle over the fire, and when they 



276 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



are at boiling heat (but not to boil) they are ready 
to put up. Put them into glass jars hermetically 
sealed. Peaches for pies are put up in the same 
manner. 

WHITE HEATH CLING-STO^E 
PEACHES, CANJ^ED. 

Take cling-stone peaches that are ripe and after 
they are pared, divide them into quarters and cut 
them from the stones. To four pounds of peaches 
allow one pound of white granulated sugar and 
one pint of water. Put the peaches into the pre- 
serving kettle with a layer of sugar between each 
layer of peaches, then put in the water at the side 
of the kettle and set them on the side of the fire 
where they will heat slowly. Crack one quarter 
of the peach stones and put the kernels into a small 
saucepan with water enough to cover them and 
boil them thirty minutes. Then strain the water 
off and mix it with the peaches. Cook the peaches 
until they are tender, but they must not break. Try 
them with a fork and when they are soft they are 
ready to put up. Put them into glass jars hermet- 
ically sealed. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

To one pound of free-stone peaches one pound 
of white granulated sugar and half a pint of water. 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 277 

Pare the peaches, cut them in halves and take out 
the stones, put them into a porcelain preserving 
kettle, the cut side uppermost, w^ith a layer of 
sugar and a layer of peaches, finishing with a layer 
of sugar. Then put the water in at the side of the 
kettle; set them on the side of the range where 
they will heat slowly for one hour and a half; crack 
one quarter of the stones, take out the kernels and 
boil them in one pint of water for thirty minutes, 
then strain off the water and put it in with the 
peaches, set the kettle of peaches over the fire, and 
as soon as it comes to a boiling heat, but not to 
boil, take it off, cover it and let it stand over night. 
In the morning let it get boiling hot, butit must not 
boil; then take the peaches out with a skimmer 
onto large porcelain dishes; boil the syrup long 
enough to skim it well and then return the peaches 
to the kettle, set it over a slow fire and as soon as 
the peaches look clear they are ready to put up. 



PEACH MARMALADE. 

To one pound of peaches allow three quarters 
of a pound of white granulated sugar and one pint 
of water to four pounds of peaches. Take ripe, 
juicy free-stone peaches; pare them, take out the 
stones and crack one quarter of them, put the 
kernels into a saucepan with water enough to cover 



278 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

them and cook them thirty minutes, then strain 
off the water, cut the 'peaches into thin sHces and 
put them into a porcelain preserving kettle with 
one pint of water to four pounds of peaches and 
cook them ten minutes from the time they begin 
to boil; then add the sugar and the water from the 
kernels, stir it well with a wooden spoon and cook 
it twenty minutes longer. Put it into glass jars or 
jelly glasses with double writing paper cut to fit 
the inside, dipped in brandy. 



BRAJ^DY PEACHES. 

White Heath "cHngs" are the best for brandy 
peaches. Weigh them before they are skinned and 
mark it down on paper with a pencil. To one 
pound of peaches allow half a pound of white 
granulated sugar, one gill of water and half a pint 
of white brandy. Put eight ounces of cooking 
soda with two quarts of cold water into an iron pot 
and let it get scalding hot, then put in one dozen of 
the peaches at a time and let them stay in just five 
minutes, then take them out with a skimmer into 
a colander. Rub off the skin wilh a dry, coarse 
linen cloth and put the peaches into a large pan full 
of cold water. Put the sugar with one gill of 
water to half a pound of sugar into the preserving- 
kettle and when it is dissolved take the peaches out 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 279 

of the water into a colander, let them drain a min- 
ute and then put them into the syrup, turn them 
over from time to time and skim when anything 
rises. Cook them slowly until they are soft enough 
for a silver fork to go easily through, then take 
them out onto flat porcelain dishes and boil the 
syrup down to one half, skim it as long as anything 
rises to the surface, and then take it oflf the fire and 
let it cool ten minutes. Then put in the brandy 
and return the peaches to the brandy syrup. Set 
the kettle over the fire again and when it is hot 
(but not to boil) take it oflf the fire and fill the glass 
jars first with the peaches and then with the 
brandy syrup. The syrup must cover the peaches. 
Close the jars hermetically. 



SECKEL PEARS, CANNED. 

To four pounds of pears, one pound of white 
granulated sugar, tw^o quarts of water, one ounce 
of whole cinnamon, tw^o large lemons and one pint 
of red wine. Wash the lemons, slice them and 
take out the seeds. The pears must not be over 
ripe. Pare them, leaving on the stems and taking 
out the blossom end. Put them into the preserving 
kettle with the water, cinnamon, lemons and sugar 
•and boil them one hour, or until they are tender; 
try them with a fork; it depends upon the size and 



28o CANNED FRUITS, JELI.IES, ETC. 

ripeness of the pears. Then take them out onto 
large porcelain dishes and strain the syrup through 
a linen cloth; return the syrup and pears to the 
kettle and put in the wine. When it comes to a 
boiling heat they are ready to put up. It must not 
boil after the wine is put in. Put them into glass 
jars hermetically sealed. They are excellent. 



SIBERIAN CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

There are two kinds of crab apples. The largest 
size is mellow and has very little juice, the smallef 
size is juicy and the best for jelly. They are ripe 
the latter part of August. Wash the crab apples 
in two waters and spread them on a table that is 
covered with a cloth, select the finest, cut off the 
stems, take out the blossom end and slice them in 
three pieces, skins, cores and seeds all together. 
Weigh them, and to four pounds of apples put one 
quart of cold water and one lemon; wash the lemons, 
wipe them, slice them and take out the seeds; put 
the whole into a porcelain preserving kettle and 
boil it thirty minutes, then strain through a linen 
cloth. Put a small quantity of the apples in at a 
time, it will be quicker done; after they are all 
strained, strain the juice over again. To one pint 
of the juice allow one pound of white granulated 
sugar, put it into the preserving kettle and stir it 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 281 

well together; when it begins to boil skim it and 
boil five minutes. I have had it jelly in that time. 
Put it into jelly glasses with double writing paper 
cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy, and when 
the jelly is cold close with metal covers. 

QUmCE JELLY. 

After the quinces have been washed, wiped and 
the blemishes and blossom end removed, pare them, 
quarter them and cut out the cores; put them with 
the cores, seeds and skins from the canned quinces. 
Weigh them, and to one pound of skins and cores, 
allow one pint of water. Boil them twenty min- 
utes; put them into a wire sieve, and when the 
juice has run through strain it through a linen cloth. 
Cut the quartered quinces in thin slices and to one 
pound of quinces put one pint of the juice; cook 
them until they are soft, but not to break; strain 
through a linen cloth. To one pint of the juice 
put one pound of white granulated sugar, mix the 
juice and sugar well together before putting it on 
the fire. As soon as it begins to boil skim quickly, 
it is jelly in five minutes. Put it into jelly glasses 
with double writing paper cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy. This jelly can be colored beau- 
tifully with cranberry juice, one pint of cranberry 
juice to four pints of quince juice, but there must be 
one pound of sugar to a pint of juice. 



282 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

DAMSON PLUMS FOR SAUCE 
OR TARTS. 

Take ripe damson plums, pick them carefully 
and wash them in two waters, measure them and 
to three quarts of plums, allow one pint of water. 
Put them into a porcelain preserving kettle and boil 
them twenty minutes; then put them into a wire 
sieve, a small quantity at a time, and press all through 
excepting the skins and stones. Then measure 
them and to one quart of the strained plums put 
one pint and a half of sugar; mix it well together 
and set it over a slow fire and boil it thirty min- 
utes, stir it with a wooden spoon all the time it is 
on the fire. 



DAMSON PLUMS, CANNED. 



Wash the plums in cold water and drain them 
through a colander, then pick them carefully, 
taking out all the blemished ones, then weigh them. 
To eight pounds of plums, allow six pounds of 
sugar and one pint of water, put the sugar and 
and water into a preserving kettle, and when it 
comes to a boil put in the plums and keep turning 
them over with a skimmer until they begin to boil. 
Then let them boil just five minutes, put them hot 
into glass jars hermetically sealed. 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 283 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Pick and wash the cranberries and then measure 
them. To one quart of cranberries put one pint of 
water and boil them fifteen minutes, stirring them 
with a wooden spoon to prevent them from stick- 
ing, then rub them through a wire sieve, all 
excepting the skins. To one pint of the cranberry 
juice put one pint of white granulated sugar; mix 
it well together before putting it on the fire. As 
soon as it boils skim it as quick as you can, it is 
jelly in two minutes. Put it into jelly glasses or 
jars. It moulds beautifully. 

QUmCES, CANNED. 

The pear shaped quinces are the best for all 
purposes. Wash the quinces, wipe them, remove 
the blemishes and blossom end, pare them, cut 
them in halves and divide each half in three pieces. 
Take out the cores and save them and the skins 
for jelly. To one pound of quinces allow half 
a pound ofwhite granulated sugar and half a pint of 
water, mix the sugar and water together in the 
preserving kettle and put in the quinces. The 
water should be even with the quinces; cook them 
over a low fire until they are soft enough for a fork 
to go easily through them, but must not break 
them. Put them hot into glass jars hermetically 
sealed. 



284 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC, 

QUmCE PRESERYES. 

To one pound of quinces put one pound of white 
granulated sugar and half a pint of juice. Take 
large, yellow, ripe, pear shaped quinces, and after 
they are washed, wiped, blemishes and blossom 
end removed, pare them, quarter them and take 
out the cores. To one pound of skins, cores and 
seeds, put one pint of water. Boil them twenty 
minutes, then put them into a wire sieve and then 
strain the juice through a linen cloth. If there is 
not juice enough add some water; put the quinces 
and juice into the preserving kettle with half of the 
sugar and cook them until they are soft enough for 
a fork to go through them, then put in the other 
half of the sugar, and when it is all dissolved and 
begins to boil take them off the fire, cover them 
and let them stand two days, then set the kettle 
on the fire and when it is boiling hot take the 
quinces out onto large plates, boil up the syrup and 
skim it well, return the quinces to the kettle and 
when they are hot again put them into glass jars 
with double writing paper cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

To one pound of quinces, put three quarters of 
a pound of white granulated sugar. Wash and 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 285 



wipe the quinces after the blemishes and blossom 
end are removed, pare them and cut out the cores. 
To one pound of skins and cores put one pint of 
cold water and boil them twenty minutes, then put 
them into a wire sieve, and when the juice is all 
through, strain it through a linen cloth; cut the 
quinces in thin slices and to one pound of quinces 
put one pint of the juice. If there is not juice 
enough add some water. Cook them until they 
are soft but not broken, and then rub them all 
through a coarse wire sieve; mix the sugar and 
quinces well together and cook it thirty minutes, 
stir it all the time with a wooden spoon to prevent 
it from sticking. Put it into jelly glasses or glass 
jars with double writing paper, cut to fit the inside. 
dipped in brandy. 



i86 CANNED VEGETABLES. 



Ckni^ed Ve^etkMe^. 



ASPARAGUS, CANNED. 

The best cans for putting up asparagus are flat 
and square and just as long as the asparagus and 
deep enough to hold three or four bunches, with a 
cover as large as the can, that has an opening in 
it the size of a half dollar. Wash the asparagus 
in cold water and place it in the cans, heads to- 
gether, until the can is full, then put on the cover 
and solder it tight with lead, then fill the cans with 
cold water and put one teaspoonful of salt into 
each can, then solder the opening in the covers and 
put the cans into a large boiler with cold water 
enough to cover them, and boil them slowly thirty 
minutes. After they begin to boil then take out 
the cans and puncture a small hole in the top of 
each can, to let out the steam, then solder them 
quickly and return them to the boiler,and let them 
boil slowly thirty minutes longer. When the as- 
paragus has to be used pour off all the water in 



CANNED VEGETABLES. 287 



the can, then put half a pint of rich sweet milk 
into a stew pan over the fire and mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour and stir it into the hot milk and let it boil two 
minutes, then put in the asparagus and let it come 
to a boil and simmer a few minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER, CA:^NED. 

Is put up in the same manner and boiled the 
same length of time and prepared for the table in 
the same manner as asparagus. 

GREEN CORN, CANNED. 

Select young sugar corn that is in the milk, and 
after it is husked, silked and the blemishes taken 
out, cut it off the cob and scrape out what is left 
in the cob, it is the best part of the corn. Then 
fill the cans full with the corn and the milk Lhat 
came out of it and put one teaspoonful of salt to 
each pint of corn and solder the cans tight with 
lead and put them into a large boiler with cold 
water enough to cover them, and let them boil 
slowly two hours; then take the cans out and 
puncture a small hole in the top of each can to let 
out the steam, then solder them quickly and return 
them to the boiler and boil them two hours longer. 



CANNED VEGETABLES. 



STRING BEANS. 

The yellow wax beans are the best. String them 
with a knife, break them into two or three pieces 
and throw them into cold water for half an hour, 
then wash them and drain them in a colander and 
fill the cans, then put in cold water enough to fill 
the cans with one teaspoonful of salt to each pint 
can and solder them tight with lead, then put them 
into a large boiler w^ith cold water enough to cover 
them, and boil them one hour and a half, 

GREEN PEAS, CANNED. 

The best peas are those which have flat pods. 
After the peas have been shelled, picked over and 
put into cold water, pour off" all that floats on top 
of the waterj then put them into a colander to 
drain, and then fill the cans full and pour in cold 
water enough to just cover the peas, then put in 
one teaspoonful of salt to each pint, cover the peas 
and solder the cans tight with lead. When all are 
ready put them into a large boiler with cold water 
enough to cover them and heat them slowly and 
boil them thirty minutes. Then take the cans out 
and puncture a small hole in the top of each can 
to let out the steam, then solder them quickly and 
return them to the boiler and boil them thirty min- 
utes longer. 



CANNED VEGETABLES. 289 



LIMA BEANS, CANNED. 



Take young lima beans and after they are 
picked over and washed in cold water and drained 
in a colander, fill the cans and pour in cold water 
enough to cover the beans, and put in one tea- 
spoonful of salt to each pint of beans; then solder 
the cans tight with lead, and when all are ready, 
put them into a large boiler with cold water 
enough to cover them and boil them one hour, 
then take the cans out and puncture a small hole 
in the top of each can to let out the steam, then 
solder them quickly and return them to the boiler 
and boil them one hour longer. 

TOMATOES, CANNED. 

Tomatoes that are a dark red are over ripe and 
unfit to use for canning or any other culinary 
purpose. They should be pale pink red, and 
should be put up the last week in August, they are 
the best at that time. Have a kettle with boiling 
water over the fire and put in a small quantity of 
tomatoes at a time, and let them remain in it about 
two minutes, or until the skins begin to crack, then 
take them out quickly with a large skimmer into a 
colander and put them onto waiters to cool. After 
they are all peeled and cut up put them into a large 



290 CANNED VEGETABLES. 

kettle with one gill of salt to one bushel of toma- 
toes; let them heat slowly and boil them twenty 
minutes. They must be boiling hot, but not boil, 
while the cans are filhng, or there will be air bub- 
bles in them. Hold the covers down tight with 
a knife while the hot wax is poured around them. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 29I 



Diet fof tl\e ^idk. 



BROTH AND MILK. 

Dr. Pulte says there are cases where the moth- 
er's milk is too poor to nourish the babe, even 
when there is plenty of milk. In such cases he 
prescribes -warm beef broth or mutton broth with 
warm cow's milk, half and half. 

PAP. 

Mix one full teaspoonful of flour with one table- 
spoonful of cold milk, and then stir it into half a 
pint of boiling milk that has a pinch of salt in it. 
Boil it five minutes and then stir in one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar. 

PANADA. 

Grate half of a double baked rusk, or half of a 
Boston cracker into half a pint of cold new milk 



292 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

that has one teaspoonful of white sugar in it; boil 
it three minutes from the time it begins to boil, 
stir it constantly from the time it is put on the fire 
until it is done. 

BEEF BROTH. 

The leg of beef makes the best broth, and four 
pounds will make one quart. After the leg has 
been cut up into four or five pieces, wash it in cold 
water and put it into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover it, and just when it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and boil it slowly five 
hours; if the water boils dow^n too low replenish 
with a little boiling water. When it is done take 
out all the meat and bones, skim off all the fat, 
and season only with salt; then strain it through a 
wire sieve and serve it in a china cup and saucer 
with double baked rusk or crackers. A cup full 
of this broth, with a double baked rusk is very re- 
freshing to a patient, as I can speak from ex- 
perience. If rice is permitted in the broth it must 
boil one hour. When cold this broth will become 
a jelly. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

An old chicken makes the best broth, and it is 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 293 

much clearer and nicer by cooking the chicken 
whole. After the chicken is dressed, light a paper 
and singe it off, then wash it in cold water and put 
it whole into the soup kettle, with cold water 
enough to cover it, and when it begins to boil skim 
it, keep the kettle covered and cook it slowly five 
hours. When it has cooked two hours turn it, 
and if the water boils down too low replenish with 
a little boiling water. When it is done lift the 
chicken, skim off the fat and season only with salt. 
There should be only one pint and a half of broth. 
Serve it with double baked rusk or crackers. If 
rice is permitted in the broth it must cook one hour. 
This broth w^hen cold will become a jelly. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Old meat makes better broth and soup than 
young. Four pounds of the leg of old muttonwill 
make one quart of good broth. After it has been 
cut up into three or four pieces wash it in cold 
water and put it into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover it, and just when it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and boil it slowly five hours 
then take out all the meat and bones and skim off 
all the fat and season only with salt. If pearl bar- 
ley is permitted in the broth, one tablespoonful is 
enough for one quart of broth, and it must cook 
two hours. 



294 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Haifa pint of rich sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of flour mixed with a little cold milk and a pinch 
of salt. Put the milk into a small saucepan and 
set it into another one containing boiling water 
and let it get boiling hot, mix the flour with a little 
cold milk until it is very smooth; then add a little 
more milk to make it thin enough to stir into the 
boiling milk, stir it until it boils three minutes, then 
take it off". If the physician permits, and the 
patient desires it, sugar and sherry wine or brandy 
can be added according to prescription and taste. 

OAT MEAL PORRIDGE. 

Pick one gill of oat groats carefully, seeing that 
all the hulls are taken out; then wash them in cold 
water and put them into a tin saucepan with one 
pint of cold water and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
cover it close and then set it into a larger saucepan 
containing boiling water and boil it one hour. The 
water in the larger pan must not stop boiling until 
the porridge is done. 

BARLEY BOILED. 

One gill of pearl barley, one pint of cold water 
and one saltspoonful of salt; after the barley has 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 295 



been washed in cold water put it and the pint of 
cold water and salt into a small tin saucepan that 
has a steam pipe through the cover and set it into 
another saucepan containing boiling water and 
boil it two hours. The water must not stop boil- 
ing until the barley is done. It may be served 
with sugar, cream or milk. 

OAT GROATS. 

Wash half a pint of the groats in cold water and 
put them into a tin saucepan with one pint of cold 
water and a saltspoonful of salt. Cover the sauce- 
pan and set it into another pan containing boihng 
water. Don't stir it nor put any more water in it 
and boil it three quarters of an hour; then set it on 
the side of the range until the groats are about as 
thick as mush. Serve it with white powdered 
sugar and sweet cream or rich sweet milk. It is 
a very healthy diet, and is considered by some a 
remedy for dyspepsia and constipation of the 
bowels. In such cases it must be taken in the 
morning on an empty stomach before breakfast. 

RICE BOILED. 

Pick the hulls out of one gill of rice and wash 
it in cold water, then put the rice and one gill of 



296 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

cold water into a small tin saucepan that has a 
steam pipe through the cover and set it into another 
saucepan containing boiling water. Put a pinch 
of salt in with the rice; cover it and boil it three 
quarters of an hour, then set it on the side of the 
range for a few minutes until the water is all dried 
out, then stir it up with a fork. It will be soft and 
every kernel separate. Serve it with a milk sauce 
that has a little brandy in it. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

Mix one tablespoonful of arrowroot with three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water; then put one pint of 
cold water and a salt spoonful of salt into a porce- 
lain saucepan and stir in the arrowroot; stir it and 
boil it five minutes from the time it begins to boil. 
With the permission of the physician it can be made 
of milk, and if preferred wine and sugar can be 
added. 

SAGO GRUEL. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of sago to soak over 
night in one pint of cold water. In the morning 
put the sago and the water in which it was soaked 
into a porcelain saucepan, w^ith one salt spoonful of 
salt in it, and boil it slowly five minutes from the 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 297 

time it begins to boil. If permitted it can be made 
with sweet milk and sugar and flavored with lemon 
or wine, if desired. 

TAPIOCA GRUEL. 

Soak one tablespoonful of tapioca over night in 
one pint of cold water or milk, then put the tapioca 
and water or milk in which it was soaked into a 
small porcelain saucepan with one salt spoonful of 
salt in it and boil it slowly ten minutes, that is from 
the time it begins to boil. Lemon, wine and sugar 
can be used, with the consent of the physician. 

FARINA GRUEL. 

Put one quart of boiling water over the fire, 
with one teaspoonful of salt in it. Mix three table- 
spoonfuls of farina with three tablespoonful s 
of cold water and stir it into the boiling 
water; stir it all the time and boil it five minutes 
from the time it begins to boil. This is one of the 
finest gruels that is made. With the permission of 
the physician a little wine and sugar can be put in, 
but patients generally prefer it seasoned only with 
salt. 

OAT MEAL GRUEL. 

One quart of cold water, one gill of oat groats 
and one even teaspoonful of salt. Pick the groats 



298 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

carefully, taking out all the hulls. Wash them in 
cold water and put them into a tin saucepan, with 
one quart of cold water and the salt. Cover it 
and set it into a larger saucepan containing 
boiling water and boil it one hour and a half. The 
water in the large pan must be kept constantly 
boiling. When the gruel is done, strain it through 
a fine wire sieve. If wine and sugar are used it 
must be by the permission of the physician. This 
is the best way to make oatmeal gruel. 

ICELAN^D MOSS TEA. 

One ounce of moss, soaked over night in one 
quart of cold -water, then boil in the water in which 
it "was soaked, for thirty minutes from the time it 
commenced boiling. Then strain it through a 
linen cloth and serve it as you would a cup of black 
tea, with cream and sugar or milk and sugar, to 
suit the taste of the patient. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take one pound of lean beef and make it fine 
by cutting it up like mince meat. First cut it in 
very thin slices and then it cuts easily. Put it into 
a tin saucepan with half a pint of cold water and 
a salt spoonful of salt; cover it closely and set it 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 299 

into a larger saucepan containing boiling water. 
The water must come up around the sides of the 
saucepan that contains the beef; set it over a brisk 
fire and boil it two hours; then strain it through a 
fine wire sieve pressing the meat with the back of 
a spoon, to extract all the juice. 

FLAX SEED TEA. 

From the whole flax seed, the best flax seed tea 
is made. Put five ounces of flax seed into a bowl 
half full of cold water, stir it up and pour off" what- 
ever floats on top. Then pour the flax seed into a 
tin strainer. Peel off" very thinly the yellow skin 
of one large lemon and put it into a pitcher with 
three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, stir 
it together with a spoon and then squeeze the lemon 
juice in with it; then put in the washed flax seed 
and three pints of boiling water; stir it up from 
time to time. Cover the pitcher with a folded nap- 
kin and when it is cool enough to drink it is ready 
to use. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA. 

Break up four ounces of sHppery elm bark and 
put it into a pitcher with two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar; then pour in three pints of boiling 



300 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

water, stir it up now and then, cover the pitcher 
and when the tea is thick enough it is ready for the 
patient to take. If it becomes too thick to be 
pleasant add a little more water and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Put one tablespoonful of tapioca to soak over 
night in half a pint of cold water; then put the 
tapioca and the water in which it was soaked into 
a small porcelain saucepan and boil it five minutes 
from the time it commenced boiling. It must be 
stirred constantly; then stir in two teaspoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar and half a teaspoonful of 
extract of lemon and pour it into little molds that 
have been dipped in cold water. Serve it with 
sweetened cream flavored with lemon or wine 

RICE JELLY. 

Mix one tablespoonful of rice flour with three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, then stir it into half 
a pint of boiling water with two teaspoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar in it and boil it ten minutes, 
stirring it constantly; then stir in half a teaspoon- 
ful of the extract of lemon and mold it. Serve it 
with cream and sugar and if the patient has fever 
flavor the cream with lemon, but if the patient has 
diarrhea flavor with brandy. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 3OI 

ARROWROOT JELLY. 

Put half a pint of cold water and two teaspoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar into a porcelain 
saucepan, then mix one tablespoonful of arrow 
root with two tablespoonfuls of cold water and 
stir it into the half pint of cold water; stir it con- 
stantly and boil it three minutes from the time it 
begins to boil, then stir in half a teaspoonful of the 
extract of lemon and put it into Httle molds. The 
molds must be dipped in cold water before they 
are filled. I have used small glass salt cellars for 
molds and they looked very nice. Serve it with 
cream and sugar, and wine if permitted. 

ICELAND MOSS JELLY. 

Soak one ounce of moss over night in one pint 
of cold water; then put it into a saucepan, the moss 
and the water it was cooked in, and boil it thirty 
minutes from the time it commenced boihng, then 
strain it through a linen cloth, wash out the sauce- 
pan and put the strained jelly into it with two 
teaspoonfuls of white granulated sugar and boil it 
twenty minutes longer. It must be stirred con- 
stantly to keep it from sticking. Put it into little 
molds that have been dipped in cold water, and 
serve it with cream, wine and sugar. 



302 DIET FOR THE SICK, 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

The Lawton blackberry is the finest and should 
be gathered in dry weather. Pick them carefully, 
put them into a porcelain kettle, mash them with a 
wooden beetle and boil them five minutes, then 
strain through a linen cloth and measure. To one 
pint of juice allow three quarters of a pound of 
white granulated sugar and boil ten minutes; skim 
it well and "when cold put it into small glass bottles, 
cork tight and seal. It is often used in children's 
bowel complaints. 

WINE WHEY. 

Put one pint of rich, sour, unskimmed milk with 
four tablespoonfuls of sherry wine into a porcelain 
saucepan, coAcr it and set it where it will be quite 
warm, but not scalding hot. When the curd has 
formed pour it all into a linen cloth, hang it up and 
let the whey run out, then put into the whey one 
tablespoonful of white granulated sugar and four 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. This is a very 
pleasant drink for a weak patient. 

WINE COTTAGE CHEESE. 

The curd from the wine whey makes a deHcious 
cottage cheese. The wine gives it a fine flavor. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 303 

Put the curd into a porcelain bowl with three table- 
spoonfuls of rich sweet cream and rub it together 
with the back of the spoon against the bowl until 
it is very fine and smooth; then stir in one dessert 
spoonful of white granulated sugar. It can be 
served with more cream and sugar, according to 
taste and is very fine for a convalescing patient if 
permitted by the physician. 

WHEY. 

Put half a gallon of rich new milk into a large 
porcelain pitcher, then take a piece of rennet four 
inches square, wash it in cold water and put it 
into a piece of white musquito bar lace; tie it in 
with a srnall cord and put it into the milk, fasten- 
ing the cord to the handle of the pitcher. Cover 
the pitcher and set it where it will keep warm 
until the curd is formed, then take out the rennet 
and pour off the whey. Sweeten it with white 
sugar and flavor it with sherry wine, if desired and 
permitted. 

WHEY. From Wyeth's Liquid 
Rennet. 

Put one quart of rich new milk into a tin sauce- 
pan and set it over the fire until it is warm enough 



304 DIET FOR THE SICK. 



to drink ■without burning, then stir in four tea- 
spoonfuls of the liquid rennet and set the saucepan 
where it will keep at the same heat. In thirty 
minutes the curd w^ill be formed, but by letting it 
stand one hour there will be double the quantity of 
whey. Serve it as desired, with or without wine. 
The curd will make fine cottage cheese, but must 
not be given to a patient. 

APPLE WATER. 

Take half a pound of the best dried apples and 
wash them quickly in cold water and put them into 
a porcelain pitcher, then put in three pints of boil- 
ing water; cover the pitcher and stir them up from 
time to time, let them draw two hours; the water 
is then ready to use. The best dried apples are 
those which are sliced and dried by steam. 

APPLE WATER. 

The best apples for making apple water are the 
bellflowers and the pippins. Take four good sized 
apples, wash them and without paring them, put 
them into a tin pie plate with one gill of cold water 
and roast them until they are very soft, then put 
them into a porcelain pitcher with the juice that is 
in the plate and pour in one quart of boiling water. 
When it is cool enough to drink it can be used. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 305 



TAMARTND WATER. 

Put half a pound of tamarinds into, a pitcher and 
pour over them one quart of cold water, stir them 
up from time to time; cover the pitcher and let 
them stand half an hour. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Put one ounce of pearl barley into three pints 
of cold water, with one salt spoonful of salt in it, 
and boil it one hour and a half. There should be 
one pint and a half of water when it is done, then 
strain it through a fine wire sieve. ' If the patient 
desires it, sweeten it with sugar and flavor it with 
lemon. 

RICE WATER. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of rice into a quart of 
cold water that has a salt spoonful of salt in it and 
boil it slowly one hour. When it begins to boil the 
rice lays on bottom of the saucepan and 
will stick fast if it is not stirred for a 
minute. When it is done strain through 
a fine wire sieve; there should be one pint of 
water. Rice water can be taken cold or warm, 
sweetened with sugar or seasoned with salt, just as 
the patient desires. 



3o6 DIET FOR THE SICK. 



TOAST WATER. 

Cut two vsllces of' bread half an inch to three 
quarters of an inch thick the whole length of the 
loaf and with the crust on, toast it on both sides a 
dark brown, but be careful not to let it get black. 
That would spoil it entirely. When it is done 
break it in tAvo and put it warm into a porcelain 
pitcher and pour three pints of boiling water into 
it; cover the pitcher and when it is cool enough to 
drink it is ready to use. 

RASPBERRY WATER. 

This is a very cooling and refreshing drink for 
a fever patient. Put one tables poonful of rasp- 
berry jelly that is made with one-fourth currant 
juice into a goblet of cold water and let it dissolve. 
If the jelly is made with raspberries alone it is too 
sweet and insipid; then take one tablespoonful of 
raspberry jelly and one teaspoonful of currant 

jelly- 

CURRANT JELLY AND CRAN- 
BERRY JUICE. 

Are both made in the same manner as in the 
preceditig receipt, and make a very pleasant drink 
for a patient. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 307 

ICE, ITS PRESERVATION AT 
THE BEDSIDE. 

A piece of flannel about nine inches square is 
secured by a cord about the mouth of an ordinary 
tumbler, so as to leave a cup shaped depression of 
flannel within the tumbler to about half its depth. 
Small pieces of ice placed in this flannel cup and 
loosely covered with another piece of flannel may 
be preserved for hours. Cheap flannel with com- 
paratively open meshes is preferable, as it allows 
the water to drain through and the ice is thus kept 
quite dry. The ice should be broken in pieces 
suitable for sucking. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put two tablespoonfulsof raspberry vinegar into 
a goblet two-thirds full of ice water. This makes 
a refreshing drink for a fever patient. 

MULLED WINE. 

Half a pint of German wine, one tablespoonful 
of white granulated sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, one fresh egg beaten separately. 
Put the wine, sugar and lemon into a small sauce- 



3o8 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

pan and let it get warm, but not hot; beat the 
yolks with one teaspoonful of sugar, beat the whites 
with one teaspoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir it into the yolks. Then stir it all into the wine 
and set it over a quick fire and beat it with an egg 
beater until the foam begins to rise, (it must not 
boil,) then take it off the fire, stir it a minute or 
two and then pour it into a goblet and serve it 
warm. This is a very refreshing drink for a con- 
sumptive patient. If mulled wine is made of 
sherry or Madeira wine it must be half w^ine and 
half water. If made of German wine no water. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Put half a pint of rich sweet milk and one table- 
spoonful of white granulated sugar into a small 
saucepan and let it get boiling hot; then take it 
from the fire and stir in three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy or rum and half a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. 

EGG NOG. 

Put a little less than half a pint of rich sweet 
milk into a tin pint and let it get warm, but not 
hot; put the yolk of one fresh egg and two tea- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar into a goblet 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 309 

and beat it well together, then stir in one table- 
spoonful of brandy and the warm milk. Beat the 
white with one teaspoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir it in last. This is a very refresh- 
ing drink for a weak patient. 

WARM LEMONADE. 

Wash three large lemons and wipe them, then 
peel off the yellow part very thin (that contains 
the oil,) and put it into a porcelain pitcher, then 
peel off the white part, which is always bitter, and 
cut the lemons in two in the middle; put them into 
the lemon squeezer and squeeze the juice into the 
pitcher, then take out the seeds and pi- the 
squeezed lemon into the pitcher, then put in five 
tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar and beat 
the whole together a minute or two; then add 
three pints of boiling water; stir it until the sugar 
is dissolved, then cover the pitcher with a napkin 
and when it is cool enough to drink it is ready to 
use. 

COLD LEMONADE. 

Is made in the same manner, and with the same 
proportions as in the preceding receipt, with one 
exception only, that of using cold water instead of 
hot. 



3IO DIET FOR THE SICK. 

KOUMISS. 

A very nourishing and nutritious drink. In- 
gredients: One quart of rich sweet milk, two 
ounces of white granulated sugar and one half of 
a quarter of a two cent cake of compressed yeast. 
Put the milk and sugar over a slow fire and stir it 
until the sugar is dissolved and the milk is only 
lukewarm; then take it off the fire and cut up the 
yeast in a cup with two tablespoonfuls of the warm 
milk. When the yeast is all dissolved stir it into 
the milk, then put it into bottles, not quite full, and 
leave them uncorked for twenty-four hours, or 
until it has fermented. Then cork the bottles tight 
and tie the corks in with a strong twine. Lay the bot- 
tles on their side in a cool place for eight days, by 
which time the koumiss is ready for use. 

ROASTED APPLES. 

Bellflowers or pippins are the best apples for 
roasting; their tartness and sweetness being suf- 
ficiently blended to make them agreeable, without 
the addition of sugar. Wash them, wpe them and 
put them into a bright tin pie plate with one gill of 
cold water in it. Put them into the oven and roast 
them very soft. Some apples take half an hour, 
others again take three quarters; it depends in some 
measure upon the size of the apples. 



DIET FOR THE SICK., 3 II 



MILK TOAST. 

Cut a slice half an inch thick from a loaf of 
wheat bread and then cut it in two. Toast it on 
both sides a yellow brown and whilst it is still hot 
spread a little fresh butter on both sides, lay it into 
a small toast dish and pour over it as much boiling 
milk (that has a pinch of salt in it) as the toast will 
absorb. Set it in a warm place until the toast is 
very soft. 

DRY TOAST. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt, with the exception of the milk. If the 
the patient desires it a little boihhg water can be 
put on the toast to soften it. 

CRISPED HAMS. 

When patients are convalescing they generally 
want something salt and tasty. A nice rehsh is 
prepared in the following manner: Cut some very 
thin slices from the lean part of a sugar cured ham, 
put them into a skillet that is hot enough to brown 
arid not burn; brown them on both sides and fry 
them until they are crispy; serve them without any 



312 DIET FOR THE SICK. 



fat or gravy. Let the patient chew the ham, suck 
out the juice and then put the ham out of the 
mouth. The patient must be watched at such a 
time; the ham creates such an appetite there is 
danger of its being swallowed. 

RUSK PANADA. 

Take two double baked rusk that are well baked 
and break them into pieces about an inch in size 
and put them into a bowl, then pour over them 
half a pint of boiling water and then stir in one 
tablespoonful of w^hite granulated sugar and four . 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. 

CRACKER PANADA. 

Boil half a pint of new milk one minute, just to 
take off the raw taste; break up two Boston crackers 
in small pieces into a bowl and then pour the 
boiling milk over them. Then stir in one table- 
spoonful of white sugar and two tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. It is rejidy to use as soon as it is cool 
enough. 

TEA. 

Black tea only should be used for the sick and 
should not be drawn in a teapot. When drawn in 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 3I3 

a teapot the aroma escapes through the spout and 
half the strength is lost by not having a uniform 
heat. Tea should be drawn in a bright tin cup 
that is used only for that purpose and has a close 
cover to it. Put three teaspoonfuls of the best 
black tea into a tin cup with one pint of boiling 
water, cover it close and set it on the side of the 
range where it will keep hot for half an hour, but 
it must not boil. When it is to be served, set the 
tea strainer into the teapot and pour in the tea. 

COCOA. (Baker's.) 

Put half a pint of cold milk and half a pint of 
cold water into a saucepan, then stir in one table- 
spoonful and a half of cocoa and set it over the fire, 
stir it all the time and boil it fifteen minutes from 
the time it commenced boiling, serve it with milk 
and sugar, as desired. 



314 , PLASTERS AND POULTICES. 

tide^. 



MUSTARD PLASTER. 

Put the ground black mustard into a small bowl 
and stir in boiling water until it is thick enough to 
spread without running, then take a piece of thin 
book muslin more than double as large as the plas- 
ter will be and spread the mustard in the middle of 
one half, leaving an inch all around of the muslin 
clear, then turn over the other half of the muslin 
and lay the plaster onto a bandage and apply it 
warm. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 

A mustard poultice is made in the same manner 
and apphed in the same way as in the preceding 
receipt, with the exception that you take one-half 
mustard and one-half corn meal. 



PLASTERS AND POULTICES. 315 

BREAD AND MILK POULTICE 

A small milk poultice is made with one gill of 
sweet milk and three tablespoonfuls of stale bread 
that has been made fine. Put the cold milk and 
bread into a tin cup over the fire, stir it and boil it 
two minutes; spread it between book muslin that 
is more than double as large as the poultice. Fold 
a piece of old linen, four thicknesses and lay the 
poultice on it, apply it warm and put a bandage 
over it. 

SLIPPERY ELM POULTICE. 

If a small poultice is wanted, one tablespoonful 
of slippery elm flour is enough. Put it into a small 
bowl and stir in boiling water until it is thick enough 
not to run, then spread it between thin book mus- 
lin that is more than double the size of the poultice 
and lay it onto a piece of folded linen; apply it warm 
and cover it with a bandage to keep it warm. 



3l6 RE.MEDIEb. 



i^eiqedie^. 



ARNICA TmCTURE. 

Arnica tincture is an article that every family 
should keep in the house to use in case of accidents. 
The ingredients can be bought at the drugstore very 
cheap. Put two ounces of arnica flowers into a 
clear glass bottle that you can see through, then 
put in one pint of pure alcohol and one pint of 
clear soft water. Cork the bottle tight, shake it 
up and let it stand forty-eight hours before using it. 
When using it dilute it with water in the propor- 
tion of one teaspoonful of arnica tincture to half a 
pint of water. 

REMEDY FOR SPRAINS. 

Bathe the parts affected with arnica and water 
in the proportion of one teaspoonful of the tincture 
of arnica to half a pint of water; fold a cloth into 



REMEDIES. 317 



four thicknesses ana saturate it with the mixture 
and put it on the parts affected; put a bandage 
around the whole to keep it in place and moisten 
it from time to time with the arnica water and 
take a teaspoonful internally. If it is a sprained 
ankle, the foot should be kept elevated. If it is an 
arm it should be put in a sling. 

FOR A COUGH FROM A COLD. 

Wash whole flax-seed twice in cold water 
and pour off whatever floats on the top; then put it 
into a strainer to drain. Measure it, and to one 
gill of the flax-seed put three tablespoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar and one quart of boiling 
water. Peel one large lemon, cut it in two and 
squeeze the juice in with the flax-seed; take the 
seeds out of the lemon, cut it up and put it in with 
the other ingredients, stir it up from time to time 
and when it is cool enough to drink it is ready for 
use. \ 

TO CURE A FELON. 

As soon as you feel the pain apply aconite tinc- 
ture to the part affected. Apply it every time you 
feel the pain; if it is a thumb or a finger put a cloth 
around it and keep moist with the tincture. — Dr. 
Pulte. 



3l8 REMEDIES. 



TO CURE SCALDS AND BURNS. 

Castile soap is the best, but any other good hard 
soap that has no rosin in it will do. Dip the soap 
in to hot or cold water to soften it and then rub it 
onto linen cloth until the cloth is all covered, or 
shave the soap up fine and moisten it with water 
until it is very soft and then spread it on, which- 
ever way can be done the quickest. The burn or 
scald must be all covered with the soaped linen 
and then a bandage put around whole. If the 
burn is a large one it is best to cut the linen into 
smaller pieces after the soap has been spread on, 
they can be handled better. They must not be 
removed until they fall off; moisten the outside of 
the soaped linen with a sponge dipped in cold 
water from time to time as long as the burn pains. 
—Dr. Pulte. 

TO HEAL A CUT. 

If the cut is long and deep, wash it off in 
cold water that has a few drops of the tincture of 
arnica in it and close up the wound with sticking 
plaster. Put the sticking plaster on in strips, leav- 
ing spaces between in case it should suppurate. 
Cover the wound to keep out the air and it will 
heal in a short time. If it is a small cut, or if the 
skin is broken in any other way, cover it with a 
piece of court plaster. 



REMEDIES. 319 



TO CURE A BRUISE. 

If you have bruised yourself by falling or run- 
ning against something until you are black and 
blue, bathe the parts affected with arnica and 
water in the proportion of one teaspoonful of the 
tincture of arnica to half a pint of water; fold a 
linen cloth into four thicknesses and saturate it 
with the mixture and bind it on to the parts affected; 
keep the cloth moistened with the arnicated water 
from time to time, and take a teaspoonful internally. 



320 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



SotL^el}ol(i ^edeipt^. 



HOUSE CLEAmNG. (Chambers.) 

Before I commence house cleaning I buy a web 
of low priced yellow muslin and tear it off in yard 
lengths and hem it on the sewing machine, then 
have it boiled and rinsed, and it is ready to use for 
wiping cloths. Just before the fires are put out 
and whilst it is raining I light two newspapers and 
push them up each chimney; this burns them out 
clean. It must be done whilst there is a little fire 
in the grate to create a draught. When the chim- 
neys are done burning and the fires are out in the 
grate take some coarse linen or tow^ cloth and make 
bags of it and fill them with paper and cork the 
chimneys up tight; this keeps everything nice and 
clean during the summer. Now take up the carpet, 
and the right way to do it is to fold it, according to 
the breadths until you come to the middle, then fold 
the other side until you come to the middle then fold 
the ends until you come to the middle, then put one 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 321 

end on top of the other and tie a string around it. 
The carpet is now ready to have the dust taken 
out of it. If you have pictures on the walls put 
them on the beds, glass side down, then cover up 
the beds and have the ceiling whitened, then take 
the covers off the beds, shake them and then have 
the floor scrubbed up. If the walls are painted, 
clean them. Take "a piece of a woolen blanket 
and fold it the size that you can hold comfortably 
in your hand, wet it in warm water, soap it and rub 
the wall as far as you can reach. Then take a 
sponge with clean water and go over it, then dry 
it with a clean cloth. Now clean the pictures with 
a sponge dipped in soapy water and squeezed out, 
and then with a sponge in clear w^ater, then dried 
with a clean cloth and hung on the walls. Now 
clean the window frames, windows and doors. 
Then spread a large counterpane on the floor and 
put the beds and bedclothes on it and wash the 
bedsteads with soap and water and dry them off, 
then apply the corrosive sublimate with a small 
brush or goose quill to all the cracks and crevices 
and you will never be troubled with bed bugs. 
Now. make up the bed and take all the clothes out 
of the wardrobes and dressing bureaus and lay 
them on it. Then clean the furniture, inside and 
out with soap and water, and when it is dry enough 
put the clothes back again. Now if there is a sofa 
in the room take it out and beat the dust out of it, 



322 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



and if it is covered with haircloth take a sponge 
and clean it with soap and water. Now wash off 
the rest of the furniture in the same manner and 
you are ready to put down the carpet. 

PARLOR. 

After the carpet has been taken up, take the 
ornaments off the mantels into another room, then 
take the globes from the chandeliers and take them 
out, then take a sheet and cover the chandelier 
and pin it close up to the ceiling; then cover up 
the mirrors in the same manner. Now take the 
paintings down, the large ones first, dust them ofl 
with a feather duster and stand them on the floor 
against the wall, then cover them with a cloth, 
cover the piano with a thick cloth and the furniture 
that cannot be taken out of the room, place length- 
wise in the middle of the room and cover it. Now 
have the ceiling whitened, then take off the 
covers, shake them and then scrub up the floor; 
now clean the painted walls and then clean the 
paintings and hang them up. 

HOW TO CLEAN PAUSTTmGS. 

I have a bar of old castile soap which is thirty 
years old which I use for cleaning my paintings, and 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 323 

this is the way I do it: I place a painting on a table 
and at the end of the table I place two chairs with 
a bucket of warm water on each one and into each 
one a soft sponge, with one I apply the soap quickly 
and with the other rinse off, then dry off with a 
fine linen cloth that has no starch in it, and then 
go over it with a silk handkerchief, which puts a 
gloss on it. 



HOW TO RESTORE PAINTINGS. 



When paintings have hung for a long time the 
paint cracks and they look badly; this was the case 
with mine. I thought perhaps it w^as the heat from 
the furnace and they needed a coat of varnish, so 
I sent for an artist to come and see them. He said 
paintings should never be varnished, and that all 
mine needed was a coat of popp)' oil, so I sent to 
the druggist and got it. After the painting is clean 
and dry place it on a table, then pour some of the 
poppy oil into a saucer, then take . a small, soft, 
loose sponge and dip it into water and squeeze it 
out tight, then put it into the oil and squeeze it out 
tight; then go over the painting gently and not a 
crack will be seen. The poppy oil should be ap- 
pHed every four years, not oftener. 



324 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



HOW TO COOL A HOUSE IN 
SUMMER. 

Rise at five o'clock in the morning and open all 
the windows in the house and leave them open for 
one hour; then close them and shut the shutters. 
A darkened room is always cooler than a light one. 
Light gives heat. At six o'clock in the evening 
open up the house and leave it open until bed time. 
Now when you open the windows don't raise one 
six inches, another one foot and another two feet, 
for it has a ragged look from the street. When I 
see a house in this condition I say to myself, the 
mistress of that house has not the bump of order 
fully developed. 

HOUSEKEEPING. 

A systematic housekeeper has a place for every- 
thing and everything in its place, a time for every- 
thing and everything done in its time. Monday, wash 
day; Tuesday, ironing day; Wednesday, kitchen 
and laundry cleaned, ironed clothes mended, folded 
and put in the drawers; rest in the afternoon. 
Thursday, windows cleaned, rest in the afternoon; 
Friday, sweeping day and cleaning of silver; Sat- 
urday, baking and preparing for Sunday; Sunday, 
go to church. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 325 

CLOTHES, TO SOAK. 

A piece of washing soda the size of an egg to 
ten gallons of water is enough for one tub full of 
clothes. Dissolve the soda in one gallon of boiling 
water, then pour it into the tub containing the other 
water, which should be just warm enough to put 
the hands in; assort the clothes, the fine from the 
coarse, and put them to soak (in separate tubs) 
over night. 

CLOTHES, TO WASH. 

When the clothes are wrung out of the soak, 
wash them through two tubfuls of warm soapsuds, 
rubbing them carefully on the washboard, then rub 
them with soap and put them into the wash bag 
and boil them twenty minutes; then wash them out 
of the boiling suds and rinse them through three 
waters, the last one having a little bluing in it; put 
them through the clothes wringer and shake them 
out well before hanging them up to dry. 

TO CLEAR WATER. 

As much powdered alum as will lay on a dime, 
stirred into a bucket of water, will clear it in five 
minutes. 



326 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

STARCH, TO COOK. 

Half a gallon of boiling water, half a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, half a tablespoonful of lard, one piece of 
alum the size of a five cent piece, half a pint of 
starch. Put the boiling water, salt, lard and alum 
into a kettle over the fire; put the starch into a 
bowl with half a pint of cold water and stir it until 
it is all dissolved, then stir it into the boiling water 
and let it boil ten minutes from the time it begins 
to boil again, stirring it constantly; then strain it. 
Now it is ready for use. This starch is thick 
enough for collars, bosoms and wristbands. The 
alum gives a fine gloss to the clothes and makes 
them stiff even in wet weather. 

COLD STARCH. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of starch and two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and mix them well together, 
then stir it into a pint of clear cold water and add 
a few drops of indigo water. Put the articles into 
it, squeeze them out and iron them while wet, with 
a hot iron. Rub the iron on a greased cloth to 
keep it from sticking. 

FLANNELS, TO WASH. 

Prepare three tubs, each half full of warm w^ater, 
in two of the tubs make a strong soapsuds by 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 327 



rubbing the soap on the hands in the water, or by 
rubbing it on a small piece of Cloth. The soap 
must not be rubbed on the flannels; the water in 
the third tub must only have a very little soap in 
it. Don't begin to wash the flannels until you 
have the three waters ready; flannels must not 
lay wet any time, and must not be washed with 
other clothes, nor in the same water that other 
clothes have been washed in. Wash the flannels 
with the hands, never on a wash board, that shrinks 
them and makes them hard. When they are 
wrung out of the vs^ater shake them out well before 
hanging them up to dry. Don't dampen them 
before ironing them; iron them dry. 

BLANKETS, TO WASH. 

Blankets should be washed on a warm sunny day, 
and two pounds of hard soap is enough to wash 
twelve blankets. Cut up two pounds of good hard 
soap very fine and put it into aji, iron pot with two 
quarts of cold water and let it soak over night, 
then set it over the fire and stir it until it is as 
smooth and thick as honey. Then prepare three 
tubs of warm water; in two of them make a strong 
soapsuds and in the third tub put a very little soap 
and a little bluing. After the blankets^ have been 
washed out of the second suds and wrung out of 



328 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



the third water, s^iake them out well and stretch 
them before putting them on the line. When 
blankets are tp. be put away for the summer, if the 
chest they are to be kept in is measured and the 
blankets folded according to the measurement, you 
can pack away double the quantity that you could 
if they were laid in in disorder. 

CARPET CLEANIT^G. 



Olive soap, one pound; soda, one quarter pound; 
borax, two ounces; alum, two ounces; alcohol,-, 
eight ounces. Cut the soap up fine and put it into 
an iron pot with one gallon of cold water, and let it 
stand over night. In the morning set it over a 
slow fire and put in all the other articles; stir itimtii 
all are dissolved, then boil it five minutes. Pour it 
into a tub and add four gallons of cold soft water; it 
is then ready to use. After the carpets have been 
shaken and tacked down the w^ash is applied with a 
hair scrubbing brush that has a handle on the back 
and a strip of India rubber inserted in one side of 
the brush'.' Have two buckets, one containing the 
w^ash and the other clear water and alarge sponge. 
Scrub the carpet gentiv with the brush, then with 
the rubber draw the dirty water towards you and 
take it up with thje sponge then squeeze the sponge 
out of the clear water and go quickly over the 



HOUSEHOJLD RECEIPTS. 329 

carpet and then dry it with a clean cloth. This 
quantity will clean forty yards of velvet orbrusseis 
carpeting, and if it is done right it will look as 
bright as when it was new. 

TO REMOVE WHITE SPOTS 

FROM FURNITURE AND 

RESTORE ITS LUSTRE. 

Alcohol, ten and a half ounces; linseed oil, seven 
ounces; gum benzoine, one ounce; gum 
shellac, one ounce; oxalic acid, half an ounce, 
white rosin, one ounce. Dissolve all the 
gums and acids In alcohol and let it stand 
twenty-four hours, then add the linseed oil and 
mix it well together. After the furniture has been 
washed with soap and water and dried with a 
clean cloth, then apply the varnish with a piece of 
white canton flannel. It will remove all the white 
spots from furniture and restore it to its original 
lustre. 

VARNISH FOR FURNITURE. 

Four ounces oi' alcohol, two ounces of gum 
shellac, one ounce of yellow beeswax, one ounce 



SSO HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

of boiled linseed oil. Put the alcohol and gum 
shellac into a large wide mouthed bottle and let 
it stand twelve hours, then melt the beeswax and 
all together. Shake it up well and it is ready to 
use. 

WHITEWASH. 

The following is the receipt for the preparation 
used in whitew^ashing the White House: Take 
a half bushel of unslaked lime and slake it with 
boiling water, covering it during the process. 
Strain it and add a peck of salt dissolved in warm 
water and three pounds of ground rice boiled to a 
thin paste and put in boiling hot half a pound of 
Spanish whiting and a pound of clear glue dissolved 
in hot water, mix and let it stand for several days, 
then keep it in a kettle and apply it as hot as pos- 
sible with a paint or whitewash brush. 

WHITENmG FOR CEILINGS. 

Fourteen pounds of Paris whitening and half a 
pound of transparent glue. Put the glue into cold 
water at night and the next morning heat it over 
the fire until it is all dissolved; stir hot water into 
the Paris whitening until it is as thick as cream, then 
stir in the glue. If the ceiling has been whitened 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 33 I 

with lime then it must be wet and all scraped off, 
If it has been done with whiting wash it off with 
a sponge. 

AN EFFICIENT DISINFECTANT. 



Nitrate of lead, one half teaspoonful; salt two 
tablespoonfuls. Dissolve the lead in a quart of hot 
water and let cool. Dissolve the salt in tw^o buck- 
ets of cold w^ater; mix the two solutions. Direc- 
tions — Sprinkle the carpet, or room, with it, or 
w^ring out cloths in it and hang up in the room. 
Pour down closets and sinks. 



TO CLEAR A SINK PIPE. 



How often the waste pipe of a sink is filled up 
with grease and the plumber has to be sent for to 
open it. Now, to avoid this expense and keep 
everything sweet and clean about the sink, take a 
can of concentrated lye, open it, set it into a pan 
under the hot water faucet in the sink and let the 
water run slowly on it until half of it is dissolved 
and gone through the waste pipe. If this is sys- 
tematically done once a week, say every Saturday, 
it will save a plumber's bill. 



332 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

TO CLEAN WATER CLOSET 
BASINS. 

One pound and three quarters of oxalic acid dis- 
solved in two quarts of hot water. Apply it with 
a small stiff broom with a short handle to it. If 
the basin has not been cleaned for a long time it 
will take hard rubbing. After rubbing it with the 
oxalic acid dip the broom into coarse sand, and 
scrub it well; then let the water on. After the sand 
has been washed down apply the oxaHc acid again 
and then take a cake of Sapolio and go over it 
again. If this is done twice a year you will 
always have clean water closets. 

TO DESTROY BED BUGS. 

Put four ounces of corrosive sublimate into a 
bottle with one pint of whiskey, cork the bottle tight 
and put a label on it marked poison, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours, before using it; then shake it up 
and apply it with a goose quill or a small paint brush, 
going into all cracks and crevices. It is certain 
death to bed bugs, but it must be carefully used, 
for it is a dangerous poison. When not used the 
goose quill or brush should be tied to the neck of 
the bottle and both put in a safe place. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 333 

TO GET RID OF COCKROACHES. 

Take the powdered borax and put it between 
and around all the water pipes, and in the cracks 
and corners of the closets and drawers. This is 
an effectual way to rid the house of these trouble- 
some insects. 

TO DESTROY RATS AND MICE. 

Take two ounces of arsenic and mix it with one 
quarter of a pound of lard, (it must be mixed well 
together,) then take a five cent loaf of bread and 
cut it in sheas not quite half an inch thick, and 
spread on the lard generously, so that every part 
of the bread is covered; then cut it into pieces an 
inch and a half square and put the larded sides 
together like sandwiches, then put it into the rat 
holes and close them up. It must be carefully done 
and carefully disposed of, for arsenic is a danger- 
ous thing to handle. 

BUTTER KEPT SWEET. 

Half an ounce of white granulated sugar; one 
pound of fresh butter. The butter must be fresh 
and have all the milk washed out of it and be 



334 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



salted; then mix in the sugar evenly and pack the 
butter into stone crocks, then make a brine strong 
enough to bear an egg, strain it and put it two 
inches deep over the butter, cover the crock close 
and when the butter is to be used cut it out with- 
out removing the brine. 

HOW TO KEEP EGGS FRESH. 

To two gallons of water add one pint of salt, 
one pint of air-slaked lime and two tablespoonfuls 
of tartaric acid. Let it stand twelve hours, stir- 
ring it occasionally before putting in the eggs, then 
cover the eggs with a lid and keep the eggs well 
below the liquid. 

RANCID OIL RESTORED. 

If hair oil or any other oil has become rancid, it 
can be restored in the following manner: Take 
half a teaspoonful of soda and dissolve it in four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and stir it into one 
ounce of rancid oil. Put it into a large vial, and 
shake it together for five minutes. Then pour it 
into a vessel that contains one quart of cold water. 
Stir it together, then let it stand until the oil rises 
to the top of the water when it can be easily re- 
moved. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 335 



RANCID BUTTER RESTORED. 

Rancid butter can be restored by putting one 
teaspoonful of cooking soda into one pint of clear, 
cold, soft water, and working the butter in it until 
every particle comes in contact with the soda water. 
Then pour the water off and work the butter in 
clear, cold water three times. Two teaspoonfuls 
of salt is enough for one pound of butter. 

LARD KEPT SWEET. 

Put one pound of white granulated sugar to 
twenty-five pounds of lard. After the lard has 
been tried out and strained, let it get cool enough 
to congeal until it is just stiff enough for a stick to 
stand upright in it, then stir in the sugar and mix 
it evenly together. Put it into stone crocks or 
wooden firkins that have covers, and it will keep 
sweet for a year. 

SPERMACETI AND STEARINE 
REMOVED. 

To remove spermaceti and stearine spots from 
woolen goods and carpets, place a piece of brown 
paper over the spots and set a hot iron on them, 



336 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

don't let the iron remain on theui more than a 
second, then place a clean part of the paper over 
the spots, and replace the iron and repeat this as 
long as there is a spot on the paper. 

GREASE CAN BE REMOVED 



From woolen goods and carpets with turpentine. 
Saturate a piece of woolen cloth or canton flannel 
with turpentine, and rub the grease spots with it. 



FRESH PAINT 

Can be removed in the same manner with turpen- 
tine as in the preceding receipt. 

TO CLEAN BUSTS OF PLASTER 
OF PARIS. 



Take a piece of the finest sand paper and rub 
the bust gently all over with it. This will restore 
it to its original whiteness without injuring it if 
done carefully. A fine stiff brush will restore it in 
the same manner. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 337 



TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Take a piece of canton flannel, wet it in warm 
water, and rub Sapolio on it until it lathers, then 
rub the marble all over with it. Sponge it off with 
clear water and dry it off with a clean soft cloth. 

HOW TO CLEAN BRASS CHAN- 
DELIERS, BRASSES, ETC. 

Put one ounce of oxalic acid into one pint of 
cold water. Apply it with a brush, or if the sur- 
face is even apply it with a piece of canton flannel. 

HOW TO CLEAN A BRASS OR 
COPPER KETTLE. 

Take salt and vinegar and a piece of canton 
flannel and wash the kettle with it. 

SATIN AND SILK RIBBONS 
CLEANED. 

Satin and silk ribbons of the most delicate colors 
can be cleaned beautifully with the spirits of tur- 



338 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

pentine without changing the color in the least. 

Fold a linen towel lengthways, four double, and 
lay it on a press-board, then place the ribbon on it 
right side'uppermostj then take a piece of an old 
fine linen pocket handkerchief that has no starch 
in it, and saturate it with turpentine. Rub the 
ribbon gently all over with it, then place it on the 
ironing table, spread a gentleman's linen pocket 
handkerchief over it and iron it, then hang it in 
front of an open window until the odor of the tur- 
pentine is gone. 

GREASE SPOTS ON LIGHT COL- 
ORED SILKS. 

Can be taken out with magnesia. If the aress is 
lined make an opening in the lining and rub the 
magnesia on the under side of the silk and let it 
remain there. At the drugstores they have it made 
in squares and put up in small boxes for this pur- 
pose. It is very convenient to have in the house, 
or in traveling in case of an accident. 

BLACK SATIN AND SILK. 

That is soiled and has grease spots on it can be 
cleaned with spirits of turpentine; to look bright 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 339 

and new. Apply the turpentine with a soft Hnen 
cloth, rubbing gently all the parts that are soiled 
and greased, then hang it in the open air until the 
the odor is gone. 

FLOUR PASTE. 

Mix one pint of flour with one pint of cold water. 
Pour the water in slowly and work it with the back 
of the spoon until it is perfectly smooth. Then 
stir it into a pint of boiling water over the fire and 
keep stirring it until it begins to boil, then take it 
off the fire and it is ready to use. 

This is the paste that is used for putting on wall 
paper. 

MUCILAGE. 

Fill your mucilage glass not quite full with gum 
arable, then fill up with cold water and it will dis- 
solve in a few hours when it will be ready to use. 

I 

GLOVE PASTE. 

Take one pound of old white castile soap and 
cut it up fine, then put it into an iron pot with one 
pint of clear soft water, and boil it fifteen minutes 



34° HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



or until it is perfectly smooth, stir it all the time it 
is boiling to keep it fi-om sticking. Then pour it 
into a wooden bowl and stir it with a wooden spoon 
until it cools five minutes; then put in one table- 
spoonful ,of alcohol and beat it well together, then 
add three tablespoonfuls of cold water and beat it 
together until it is a stiff fine paste. Put it into 
gallipots, and if it becomes too dry for use moisten 
it with a few drops of water, beat it up and it will 
be just as good as when first made. This paste will 
clean the most delicate colored gloves to look just 
like new. 

KID GLOVES, TO CLEAN. 

Stretch the fingers of the glove on a vv^ooden pin 
that is made for that purpose, and apply the paste 
with a white woolen cloth. Turn the cloth over the 
end of the forefinger of her tight hand, and take 
a small quantity of the paste on it at a time. Rub it on 
gently, and take a clean part of the cloth every 
time that you apply the paste. 

LISLE GLOVES CLEANED AND 
COLOBED. 

Lisle gloves always fade in washing. After the 
gloves have been washed, clean with soap and 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 34I 



water, rinse them in two waters and wring 
them out tight. Then take half a pint of 
strong black coffee (if you want a dark shade 
of cream color) and put the wet gloves into 
it and wring them out quick. Then put them wet 
onto your hands and dry them. If you want them 
a light cream color, dilute the cotfee with water. 
Remember the gloves must be wet when they are 
put into the coffee, and they must be dried oa 
your hands. 

GRAY GLOVES. 

Gray gloves, the color can be restored by put- 
ting one tablespoonful of ink into half a pint of 
water, or two tablespoonfuls of strong indigo 
water. 

RENEWING BLACK LACE. 

Take two bowls and put half a pint of whisky 
into each one. Then take two teaspoonfuls of 
dissolved gum arabic and stir it into two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water. Then stir it into the last 
bowl of whisky that you are going to use. Now 
put the lace into the first bowl and squeeze it gently 
two or three minutes. Then put it all into the 



342 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

second bo"wl at one time, otherwise one part would 
be stiff and the other not. If you have a large 
quantity of lace, you must double the quantities. 

LAWN DRESS WASHED WITH- 
OUT FADING. 



Wash the dress quickly in two and a half gallons 
of tepid water with half a pint of cider vinegar in 
it; rinse it in two and a half gallons of tepid water 
with half a pint of salt in it, then rinse it again in 
tepid blue water and dry it in the shade. 



TO WASH A MAROON WOOLEN 
TABLE COYER, EMBROID- 
ERED IN SILK. 



Make a strong suds with Ivory Soap and hot 
water. Let the soap lay in the hot wafer until it 
is soft. The soap must not be rubbed on the table 
cover. After it is washed clean, rinse it in two 
waters that are warm. When it is half dry, iron 
it on the under side until it is dry. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. ' 343 

WHITE DRESSES AND LAWNS 
WITH A WHITE GROUND 



Can be kept white in the following manner: 
Have the starch all washed out of them, and 
into the last rinsing water put one-third more in- 
digo bluing than you have formerly done. This 
will keep the dresses white as snow until they are 
used again. 



TO PREVENT HANDS FROM 
CHAPPING. 



Take a two-ounce bottle and fill it half full of 
glycerine, then fill up with cold water to within 
half an inch of the top and shake it well, then fill 
up with water. 

Just before going to bed wash your hands clean 
in soap and water, then rinse them and dry 
them; now shake up the bottle and pour not quite 
a teaspoonful into your left hand and rub it over 
both hands. Rub them for two or three minutes 
and the glycerine will all disappear, leaving the 
hands smooth and soft. 



344 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



TO PREVENT HAIR FROM 

TURNING GRAY AND 

FALLING OUT. 

Take a half pint bottle . and put into it one-fifth 
glycerine and fill up with bay rum. Shake it well 
together and cork it tight; pour a little of it into 
a small vessel and apply it with a hair brush until 
you can feel it on the the scalp. 

I have used it for several years, and it has pre- 
vented my hair from turning gray and falling out. 

There must not be more than one-fifth glycerine. 

INK SPOTS IRON RUST, STAINS 
AND MILDEW 

Can be removed from white cotton and linen goods 
with lemon juice. The goods must be dry when 
the lemon juice is applied; then rub the juice mto, 
the spots with the fingers and lay the goods in the 
sun. As soon as they are dry wet them again rub- 
bing the juice in until the spots disappear. 

HOW TO KEEP WHITE GOODS 
FROM TURNING YELLOW. 

Table linen, muslin, linen for beds and under- 
clothes w^hen laid away for any length of time will 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 345 

become yellow. Now to prevent this: the last 
time they are washed before putting them away, 
put a little more indigo bluing into the last rinsing 
of water than you have formerly done. This will 
keep the clothes white as snow until they are used 
again. 

FRUIT STAINS ON THE HANDS 

Can be removed by rubbing the hands with 
strong cider vinegar before the hands have been 
washed in soap and water. 

TO RAISE THE PILE ON 
VELVET. 

Hold the velvet side over the steam of a tea- 
kettle. It must not be held long enough over the 
steam to become wet; then shake it. 

TO TAKE THE WRINKLES OUT 
OF VELVET. 

Take a hot smoothing iron and turn it upside 
down and place it so it will stand firm; then take 
the velvet and put the under side on the iron and 
move it back and forth until the wrinkles are out. 



346 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

HOW TO CLEAN A VELVET 
CLOAK. 

In a city where coal is used for fuel, a velvet 
cloak will become soiled and rusty looking in one 
winter's wearing. Now to clean velvets and make 
it look new it must be-done in the following man- 
ner: In the first place you must have half a dozen 
old fine linen pocket handkerchiefs that have no 
starch in them; gentlemen's handkerchiefs are the 
best for this purpose. Then half a gallon of the 
spirits of turpentine that is fresh from the drug 
store. Place a pine table or skirt board near a 
w^indow where you have the light on your left 
hand. Spread the cloak on the table and stick 
pins through it into the table to keep it in its place; 
then tear one of the handkerchiefs into four pieces 
and put one of them into the turpentine and 
squeeze it out, then rub the velvet with it a small 
part at a time, rub it gently both ways; then take 
a clean handkerchief and rub it lightly until the 
turpentine is all out, as the cloths become soiled 
change them for clean ones. After the cloak is 
cleEtned, hang it in the open air until the odor of 
the turpentine is gone; then brush it with a clean 
soft clothes brush, and you will have a new cloak. 
It is best to clean velvet two or three weeks before 
you want to use it. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 347 

TO WASH A CASHMERE SHAWL 
OR DRESS. 

Take one pound of white castile soap, cut it up 
fine and put it with one quart of soft water into a 
stone pan to stand over night; then put it in an 
iron pot and boil it until it is very smooth; then 
set it off the fire, and whilst it is hot put in half a 
pint of alcohol; stir it and pour it into a larger ves- 
sel, and add five quarts of hot water; then put in 
half a pint of alcohol and one quart of spirits of 
turpentine; it must be used warm. Have the irons 
hot and the ironing table ready before you begin 
to wash. Wash it as quick as possible and wring 
it tight. Spread it on the ironing table underside 
up, and iron it while it is wet. Iron only a small 
part at a time, but iron it perfectly dry; don't let 
the iron come on the upper side of the shawl. If 
you want to crease it as it was when new, fold it, 
spread a cambric handkerchief on the fold and 
iron on it. Let it hang on the clothes-horse an 
hour or so before you put it away. If there is a 
great deal of white in the shawl, put in a small 
quantity of indigo water before the shawl is put in 
the wash. 



INDEX. 349 



INDEX. 



Bbead AI7D Bbeakfast Gakes. 

Baking, 1 

Bread, 1 

Yeast, 2 

Bread, 3 

Biscuit, 3 

Biscuit, 3 

Buckwheat, 4 

Buckwheat, Harrison's, , . . . • 4 

Buckwheat, 5 

Cinnamon Cake, 5 

Coffee Cake, ........ 6 

Doughnuts, » ....... 6 

Doctor's Cake, • 7 

Corn Griddle Cakes, ..... 8 

Corn Mush, 8 

Corn Mush, Fried, 9 

Corn Bread, ....... 9 

Corn Muffins, 10 

Flannel Cakes, 10 

Graham Gems, ....,• 11 

Muffins, 11 

Muffins, 12 



350 



INDEX. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES.-Continued. 

Pan Cakes, 12. 

Pan Cake Rolls, ....;. 13 

Puff Balls, ........ 13 

Potatoe Cakes, 14 

Rolls, 15 

Rusk, 15 

Strawberry Short Cake, 16 

Waffles, 17 



Eggs and Omelets. 

Eggs in Stand, 

Eggs, Soft, . . 

Eggs, Hard, 

Eggs, Poached, 

Eggs, Scrambled, 

Omelet, 

Omelet, Souffle, 

Omelet, 

Omelet, with Cheese, 

Omelet, with Ham, 

Omelet, with Herbs, 



Cottage Cheese— Oat Groats — Wheat and 

Cottage Cheese, 

Cottage Cheese Wine, .... 

Oat Groats, 

Hulled Wheat 

Rice to Boil, 



Rice 



18 
18 
19 
19 
19 
20 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 



23 
24 
24 
25 
25 



INDEX. 



351 



Coffee aiid Chocolate. 

Coffee Pot, 26 

Coffee, to Make, 26 

Coffee, the Best, 27 



Chocolate, 
Cocoa, Baker's, 
Cocoa, 
Tea, . 
Mock Cream, 



27 
27 
28 
28 
29 



Soups. 

Beef,|r .... 

Beef, clear, . . . 

Bean^ .... 

Bouillon, 

Chicken 

Corn, A . . . 

Crab, .... 

Dumplings for Beef, . 

Dumplings for Chicken, 

Dumplings for Oysters, 

Gumbo, 

Mock Turtle, . 

Mutton, 

Noodles, 

Noodles to make. 

Noodles as a vegetable. 

Noodles as a vegetable, 

Ox tail 

Oyster Veal, 



30 
31 

47' 
32 
43 
41 
40 
31 
44 
44 
44 
85 
38 
33 
33 
33 
34 
37 
39 



352 



INDEX. 



SOUPS.— Continued. 

Oyster, , . . . 45 

Pea, 46 

Pea without Meat, .47 

Tomato, 42 

Veal 48 

Vegetable, 36 



Fish. 



Codfish, boiled, .... 


49 


Codfish Cakes, 


49 


Eels, stewed, .... 


60 


Eels, boiled, 


60 


Eels, fried, .... 


61 


Halibut, smoked, .... 


. 62 


Herring, Dutch pickle(^ . 


52 


Mackerel, fresh broiled, 


53 


No 1, Mackerel, salt boiled, . 


63 


No 1, Mackerel, salt boiled. 


53 


Perch and Bullheads, fried, 


54 


Salmon, canned, .... 


65 


Salmon, boiled, .... 


65 


Shad, fresh baked, .... 


66 


Stufifing for Shad, 


58 


Shad, fresh boiled, .... 


57 


Shad, fresh fried. 


. ■ 68 


Trout, boiled, >» 


68 


White Fish, baked. 


58 


Stuffing for White Pish, 


69 



INDEX. 353 

Shell Fish. 

Crabs, deviled, . 64 

Crabs, deviled, ....... 65 

Oyster Soup 60 

Oysters, escaloped, ...,,. 61 

Oysters, fricasseed, ...«„. 62 

Oysters, fried, ..,,,. 62 

Oyster Patties, „.•••» 63 

Oysters, raw, . o , , , . . 63 

Shrimp Salad, •....• 132 

Shrimps, stewed, . „ . o . , 65 

Terrapin, ,..•<■•. 66 

Beef. 

Beef Roast, . • , , =67 

Beef Steak, 68 

Beef Steak and Onions, . . . .68 

Beef, a la mode, .... 69 

Beef, Corned and Cabbage, . . .70 

Beef Tripe, stewed, .... 71 
Beef, Corned Hash, .... 70 

Spiced Pickle for Beef Venison and Rabbits, 72 

Beef, spiced ..... 72 

Beef Tongue, spiced, . . . .73 

Beef Tongue, fresh, .... 74 

Sauce for Beef Tongue, , . . .75 

Veal. 

A la Mode Veal, 76 

A la Strasburgh Veal, 77 



354 INDEX. 

VEAL.— Continued. 

Cutlet Veal 78 

Fricassee Veal, ...... 79 

Fricandeau Veal, 79 

Fricassee with Sweet breads, ... 80 

Hash Veal, 82 

Roast Veal, 81 

Sweet Breads, Fricassee, .... 83 

Sweet Breads, Fried, 83 

Liver, Calf's, (f 84 



Lamb and Mutton. 

Lamb and Turnips Stewed, .... 86 

Leg of Lamb, Roasted, .... 87 

Leg of Lamb, Roasted, (>..... 87 

Lamb Chops, Fried, ..... 88 



Leg of Lamb, Boiled, . 
Mutton Chops, Broiled, 



Pork. 



Ham, Boiled, 


• 


« a g • 


90 


Ham, Roasted, 


• 


A o a 


90 


Pig, Roasted, 


. 


• « o - 


. ,..^^91 


Pig Stuffing, 


a 


• • « e 


. ^ 91 


Pig's Feet, Soused, 


• 


• • « ft 


92 


Pork and Beans, 


• 


• •.> • • 


93 


Sausage, 





• • ■ 


94 


Spare Ribs, 


e 


« • • • 


94 



INDEX. 



355 



POULTEY. 



Chicken Boiled, . : 

Chicken Fricasse, . . 

Chicken Fricasse, . . 

Chicken Pie, . , . . 

Chicken, Spring, . . 

Ducks, Roasted, 

Duck Stuffing, . . . 

Goose, Roasted, 

Goose Stuffing, . . . 

Turkey, Boiled, 

Turkey, Roasted, 

Turkey Stuffing, .... 

Turkey and Chicken Stuffing, 

Turkey, How to Know a Young One, 



99 

100 

100 

101 

102 

103 

103 

104 

105 

98 

96 

97 

98 

96 



Game. 

Hasenpfeffer, 106 

Quails, Roasted, 107 

Quail and Bird Stuffing, 107 

Rabbit, Spiced, 108 

Venison, Saddle,Roasted, 109 

Venison, Saddle, Spiced, .... 110 

Venison Steak, Ill 



Sauces foe Fish, Fowls and Meat. 

Caper, 

Drawn Butter, . . , 



116 
115 



^S^ INDEX. 



SAUCES FOR FISH, FOWLS AND MBAT.-Continued. 

Egg 116 

HoUandish Fish, 112 

Horseradish, 114 

Mayonaise, 113 

New Mayonaise, 113 

Oyster, , . 114 

Parsley, ........ 115 

Pickles, 116 

Tomato, 116 

Tomato, 117 



Pickles, Catsup and Mustabd. 

Beans, 118 

Beets, 119 

Cabbage, 120 

Cucumbers, . 121 

Onions, •..•.•.• 119 

Tomato Catsup, ..•♦•. 122 

Mustard, ........ 123 

Salads. 

Bean, ......... 127 

Cabbage, Cold Slaw, 125 

Celery, 128 

Chicken, 131 

Corn, 127 

Cucumber, ....... 127 

Dressing, No. 1, ...... • 124 



INDEX. 


357 


SALADS.— Continued. 




Dressing, No. 2, .... 


124 


Endive, 


. 126 


Fish, 


133 


B'ish Dressing, • . • • . 


. 133 


Herring, ...... 


135 


Italian, 


. 130 


Lettuce, 


126 


Oyster, 


. 129 


Oyster Dressing, . , . . 


129 


Potato, 


. 136 


Potato Dressing, .... 


136 


Shrimp, . ..... 


. 132 


Shrimp Dressing, , , . 


132 


Tongue, . . . . * < 


. 134 


Ceoquettes — Macaroot. 




Chicken, 1 


. 140 


Chicken Sauce, . . : : 


. . 140 


Oyster, 


. 141 


Oyster Sauce, 


. . 141 


Tongue, 


. 142 


Tongue Sauce, .... 


142 


Macaroni, with Herb Cheese, 


. 138 


Macaroni, with Tomatoes, 


. . 138 


Vegetables. 




Asparagus, . . • 


. 150 


Beans, Marrowfat, . . • 


155 


Beans, Lima, 


. 154 



358 



INDEX. 



VEGETABLES.-Continued. 

Beans, Yellow Wax, 
Beets, Young, . , 
Cabbage, White, 
Cabbage, Red, 
Cabbage, Curled Savoy, 
Carrots, 
Cauliflower, 
Corn, Boiled, 
Corn, Oysters, 
Corn, Stewed, 
Greens, Wild, . 
Kale, . . , . 
Kale, with Bacon, 
Kohlrabe, ■ • k 
Leek; 

Onions, Stewed, • 
Parsnip Cakes, . 

Parsnips, Fried, 
Parsnips, Stewed, 
Peas; Green, 
Peas and Carrots, 
Potatoes, Boiled, 
Potatoes, New, 
Potatoes, Mashed, 
Potatoes, Dresden, 
Potatoes, Fried, • 
Potatoes, Baked, 
Potatoes, Fried, • 
Potatoes, Mashed, 



INDEX. 359 

VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Saurkraut, to Make, • 161 

Saurkraut, ■ • . . • . , 163 

Saurkraut, with Pork Ribs, .... 163 

Slaw, Hot,' 165 

Spinach, . 149 

Succatash, 158 

Tomatoes, • • 153 

Turnips, 165 

Pastey — Pies and Takts. 

•Puff Paste, No. 1, ...... 166 

Pufif Paste, No. 2, , , 167 

Pie Crust, . 168 

Apples, for Pies, 168 

Apple, ........ 169 

Cranberry, .... ... 169 

Curd, . . 170 

Custard, 170 

Currants, to Wash, ...... 171 

Lemon, 172 

Mince Meat, ...... . 172 

Peaches, for Pies, 168 

Peach, . . 169 

Pumpkin, 174 

Puddings and Fritters 

Almond, . , , » • 175 

Apple and Rice, ..... 176 

Apple Dumplings, .... 176 



360 



INDEX. 



PUDDIKGS AND FRITTBRS.-Continued. 

Batter, 

Bread- and Butter, 

Bread, . . . 

Cocoanut, 

Cora Starch, baked, 

Corn Starch, boiled. 

Egg, German fi)ierkase, 

Fruit, 

Marmalade, . . 

Peach, . . . 

Plum, baked, . . 

Plum, boiled. 

Prunes, 

Quince, Tapioca, . . 

Quince Sauce, . . 

Rice Flour, boiled, , ; 

Rice, baked. 

Rusk, . . . 

Sago, 

Tapioca, . o • 

Fritters, Apple, . 

Fritter Batter, 

Fritter Bread 



177 
178 
179 
179 
181 
180 
181 
183 
184 
185 
185 
186 

187 

188 

189 
189 
190 
191 
191 
192 
194 
193 
194 



Sweet Sauces for Puddings. 

Apple, 

Apricots, 

Butter Sauce, . . 

Chocolate, . .. . 



195 
196 
197 
197 







INDEX. 




301 


SWEET-SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS.— Continued. 






Cider, 




' * ? 


• 


. 197 


Cranberry, 


, 






196 


Cream, 




• w • 


• 


. 199 


Cream, 


• 






• 199 


Custard, 




• • * 


9 


. 198 


Hard, . 


a 






199 


Milk, 




• • • 


• 


. 200 


Peaches, . 


• 






201 


Prunes, 




• • • 


• 


. 200 


Raspberry, 


» 






201 


Strawberry, . 




• • • 


• 


. 202 


Vanilla, 


< 






203 


Wine, German 




• • • 


f 


. 204 


Wine, Sherry, 


• 






203 


CUSTAKDS. 










Almond, 


• 






205 


Apple, 




• • • 


• 


. 206 


Chocolate, 


• 






206 


Cocoanut, 




• e > 


• 


. 207 


Corn Starch, 


. 






208 


Corn Starch Snow Ball, 


• 


. 208 


Pumpkin, 




« e 


> 


. 209 


Raspberry, 


. 


• « 




210 


Snow Ball, . 




• ■ 


• 


. 210 


Wine, 


• 


• • 




211 


Creams, Syrups and 


Ice Creams. 






Almond, 


, 


, 




212 


Chocolate, . 




. 


« 


. 213 



362 



INDEX. 



CREAMS, SYETJPS AND ICE CKBAMS.-Continued. 




Cincinnati, ..... 


214 


Raspberry, ..... 


215 


Strawberry, ..... 


216 


Vanilla, ..... 


216 


Wine, 


217 


To make Ice Cream, 


218 


Chocolate, ..... 


218 


Lemon, ..... 


. 221 


Raspberry, .... 


. 220 


Strawberry, ..... 


219 


Vanilla, ..... 


220 


Vanilla without Cream, 


. 221 


Syrups for Ice Creams Jellies and Sauces. 




Raspberry, - . , . . 


223 


Strawberry, .... 


, 222 



Jellies with Gelatiote. 

Calf's Foot, 224 

Cider, 225 

Lemon, 226 

Raspberry, 227 

Strawberry. 228 

Wine, 228 

Chablotte Russe aud Blanc Makqe. 

Charlotte Russe, 231 

Almond Blanc Mange, 229 

Blanc Mange, 230 



INDEX. 363 



Cake Macaroons Meringue. 

Almond, 236 

Almond Jumblee, ...... 237 

Almond Macaroons, 237 

Almond Macaroons, 238 

Almond Sponge, 230 

Almonds to Blanch and Grind, . . . 284 

Bride's, 239 

Cake, 233 

Chocolate Macaroons, . ^ . . . . 240 

Citron .... ... 24l 

Cocoanut, 242 

Cocoanut Jumbles, 237 

Cocoanut Macaroons, 238 

Cocoanut and Raspberry, . . . 255 

Cookies, Berlin, 243 

Cookies, Grandmother, 242 

Cookies, Sugar, ...... 243 

Cream, Cincinnati, 244 

Cream Filling, 245 

Cup Cake, 245 

Currant, 246 

Fruit, 246 

Fruit, 247 

Gingerbread, Soft, 249 

Gingerbread, White, 250 

Golden 248 

Groom's 249 

Icing, .......". 235 

Icing, Chocolate, . . . . ; 235 



364 



INDEX. 



CAKE MACAROONS MEBINGUES.-Continued.I 

Jelly 

Marble, 

Meringue, .... 

Pound, . ; . . : 

Silver, 

Snow, • . , . . 

Sponge, ... 

Sponge, Muffins, 

Sponge, White, 

White, 



Beverages. 

Apple Wine, 
Cider, to Keep Sweet, 
Cider, Kept Sweet, 
Egg-Nog, Warm, 
Egg-Nog, Cold, . 
Lemonade, 
Lemon Punch, , 
Lemon Syrup, 
Milk Punch, 
Mulled Cider, 
Mulled Wine, 
Roman Punch, 
Raspberry Vinegar, 
Raspberry Shrub, 



251 
252 
252 
253 
253 
254 
255 
256 
256 
267 

258 
258 
259 
260 
260 
261 
261 
262 
263 
263 
264 
264 
265 
261 



Canned Feuits, Marmalade — Jeix,ies and Preserves. 

Cherries, 272 

Peaches, Clings, 276 



INDEX. 



365 



CANNED FRUITS, MARMALADES, 

Peaches, Freestones, 

Pears, Seckel, 

Plums, , Damson, 

Plums, , Green Gage, 

Quinces, 

Raspberries, 

Strawberries, 

Marmalade, 

Peach, 

Quince, 

Raspberry, Red, 

Strawberry, 

Jellies, to Make, 

Apple, Siberian Crab, 

Cranberry, 

Currant, 

Green Gage, 

Quince, 

Raspberry, 

rreserves, 

Green Gages, 

Peaches, 

Peaches, Brandy, 

Quince, 

Strawberry, 



JELLIES, ETC.— Continued 



Canned Vegetables. 
Asparagus, , 

Beans, Lima, 



286 
289 



3be) 


INDEX. 






CANNED VESBTABLBS.-Continued. 








Beans, String, 








288 


Cauliflower, 




• • 




. 287 


Corn, . , 


• 






287 


Peas, green, . 




a • 




. 288 


Tomatoes, ; 


• 






289 


Diet foe the Sick. 










Apple Water, . 








. 304 


Apple Water, . 


• 






304 


Arrowroot Gruel, . 








. 296 


Arrowroot Jelly, 


• 






301 


Blackberry Syrup, , 








, 302 


Barley Water, 


• 






305 


Barley, boiled, ; 








. 294 


Beef Broth, 


• 






292 


Beef Tea, . 








. 298 


Broth and Milk, 


, 






291 


Bread and Milk Poultice, 






. 315 


Cranberry Water, 








. 306 


Chicken Broth, . 








292 


Cracker Panada, ; 








. 312 


Cocoa, 








313 


Crisped Ham, 








. 311 


Dry Toast, 








311 


Egg Nog, . 








. 308 


Farina Gruel, . 








297 


Flaxseed Tea, 








. 299 


Ice, its Preservation, 








307 


Iceland Moss Tea, 








. ■ 298 



INDEX. 



367 



DIET f OR THE SICK.-Continued. 

Iceland Moss Jelly, 
Koumiss, 
Lemonade, warm, 
Lemonade, cold, 
Milk Porridge, 
Milk Toast, 
Milk Punch, 
MulM Wine, 
Mutton Broth, 
Mustard Plasters, , 
Mustard Poultice, 
Oat Meal Gruel, 
Oat Meal Porridge, 
Oat Groats, boiled, . 
Pap, 
Panada, 

Easpberry Water, 
Raspberry Vinegar, 
Rice Water, 
Rice, boiled, 
Rice Jelly, 
Rusk Panada, 
Roasted Apples, 
Sago Gruel, 
Slippery Elm Tea, 
Slippery Elm Poultice, 
Tamarind Water, 
Toast Water, 
Tapioca Gruel, 



368 



INDEX. 



DIET FOK THE SICK.— Continued. 

Tapioca Jelly, 

Tea, 

Whey 1, Whey 2, 

Wine Whey, 

Wine Cottage Cheese, 



300 
312 
303 
302 
302 



Remedies. 

Arnica Tincture, 

Bruises, 

Burns, 

Cough, , 

Cut, 

Felon, 

Scalds, 

Sprains, , 



316 
319 
318 
317 
818 
317 
318 
316 



Household Receipts. 

Blankets, to Wash, 
Black Satin and Silk, 
Black Lace Renewed, 
Bedbugs Destroyed, 
Butter Kept Sweet, 
Cool House, 
Cloths to Soak, 
Cloths to Wash, 
Carpet Cleaning, 
Cockroaches Destroyed, 
Chapped Hands Prevented, 



327 
338 
341 
332 
333 
324 
325 
325 
328 
333 
343 



INDEX. 369 



HOUSEHOLD KBCEIPTS.-Coutinued. 

Cashmere Shawl or Dress to Wash, . . 347 

Disinfectant, . • 331 

Eggs Kept Fresh, ...... 384 

Flannels to Wash, 326 

Fresh Paint Removed, ■ • .336 

Flower Paste, ....... 330 

Fruit Stains Removed, ..... 345 

Grease Removed, ...... 336 

Glove Paste, ...... 339 

Gloves to Clean, ■ 340 

Gray Gloves Colored, ... . 341 

House Cleaning, Chambers, .... 320 

House Cleaning, Parlor, . . 322 

Housekeeping, ....... 324 

Hair Prevented from Turning Gray, . . 344 

Lard Kept Sweet, . . 335 

Lisle Gloves Cleaned, - • . 340 

Lawn Dress Washed, • • . 342 
Mucilage, . • ■ -339 

Paintings Cleaned, 322 

Paintings Cleaned, 323 

Pile on Velvet Raised, . . . 345 

Rats and Mice Destroyed, .... 333 

Rancid Butter Restored, .335 

Rancid Oil Restored, . . 334 

Starch to Cook, 326 

Starch, Cold, .326 

Spots Removed from Furniture, . . . 329 

Sink Pipe to Clear, . . . . 331 

Spermaceti and Stearine Removed, . . . 335 



37° INDEX. 



Satin and Silk Ribbons Cleaned, . . • 337 
Spots on Light Silk Removed, .... 338 

Spots from Rust Renwved, . . 344 

To Clean Busts, . . . . 836 

To Clean Brass and Copper Kettle, . . . 337 

To Clean Chandeliers, .... 337 

To Clean Marble, . . 337 

To Wash a Table Cover, 342 

Varnish for Furniture, 329 

Velvet Cloak to Clean, . 346 

Water to Clear, . 325 

White Wash, .... .330 

Whitening for Ceilings, . . 330 

Water Closet to Clean, 332 

White Dresses and Lawns, . . . 343 

White Goods Kept, . . . .344 

Wrinkles on Velvet Taken Out, . 345 



Thirteenth Edition. Fifty-Seventh Thousand. 

DR. PULTE'S 

UNRIVALED AND UNAPPROACHABLE 

HOM(EOPATHie 

DOMESTIC PHYSICIAN 

Has undergone an ENTIBE and COMPLKTE EEVISION, 
witliTery important additions as to the use of the new remedies 
so essential, especially in the treatment of CHILDREN and 
FEMALES. 

In almost every chapter tlie reader will find alterations, addi- 
tions and improvements, containing tlie newest discoveries in 
therapeutics ; in pathology several new chapters have been de- 
voted to diseases hitherto excluded from works on Domrstic 
Practice, such as the chapter on trichiNjE, etc. 

As no work of the kind has attained one-third the sale in this 
or other countries of PuUe's ITomcepathic Physician, it is scarcely 
necessary to say that it lias received the strongest commenda- 
tions of the most eminent practitioners in tlie United States, 
South America and Europe, as a proof of which it should be 
stated here, that a London reprint of this work exists in England 
and the British Colonies of 50,000 copies, and a translation in 
Spain and South America, also of 50,000. 

1 Vol., 12mo., 743 pages, 83.00. 



PUBLISHED AND FOK SALE AT 

Cincinnati Homceopathic Pharmacy, 

GEO. W. SSIITH, Proprieior. 

Publisher, Manufacturer and Importer, 

143 West Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio. 



MED/CINE CASES FOR FAMILY USE A SPECIALTY. 



NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736331 9 






■<7i >;;•;-, 




-M- CJvv. 



MTI 



y^w 



e^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/domesticcookbookOOpult 



DOMESTIC 



COOK BOOK 



A COMPANION TO 



PULTE'S DOMESTIC PHYSICIAN. 



Being a practical guide in the preparation of food 

for the well and the sick, and containing 

also useful hints for the household. 



BY 



MRS. DR J. H. PULTE. 



\l ... 



" Good Cheer Brings Content ' ' 



" If dinner has oppressed one 

I think it is perhaps the gloomiest hour 

Which turns up out of the whole twenty-four. 



■ 



—Byron. 



V 



t/ 



GEO. W. SMITH, 

Cincinnati, 

1888. 



THE NEW YORK 
PUBLi: LIBRARY 

789457 A 

ASTOR, LENOX AND 

tiIJSn foundations 

r 1935 I 



TO THAT 

. Noble Charity, 
The Ohio Hospital 
For Women and Children, 
This Work is Cordially 
Inscribed by its 
Friend and Well- 
Wisher, 

The Author. 



■ 



PREFACE. 



This work was originally a suggestion of the late 
Dr. Pulte, and was intended as a companion to 
Pulte's Domestic Physician, to be a practical 
guide in the preparation of food for the well and the 
sick; for the former that he might remain well, and 
for the latter that he might be aided to recover his 
health. 

It is a fact, too little understood, that many of the 
ills that afflict mankind are directly traceable to the 
use of poorly prepared and unsuitable food. 

The poor cook is the modern Pandora, and her 
kitchen is the box from which are issuing dyspep- 
sia, gout, rheumatism and a host of other evils. 

Your energetic business man, of happy mood 
and contented at home and abroad, will be found to 
have a good digestion; whereas, your sour, morose 
and irritable man for whom " there is no music in 
this life," will as surety be found to be a miserable 
dyspeptic. 

Every recipe in this book has been carefully 
tested by the author, and directions for preparing 
them so plainly and accurately written down, that 
even the most inexperienced housekeeper, by fol- 



PREFACE. 



lowing them may be so successful that her cooking 
" will shine with reputation." 

Attention is called particularly to the diet for the 
sick; every article of which was tested, tried and 
approved by Dr. Pulte, in memory of whom this 
work is published; not with any desire or expecta- 
tion of profit, but in further aid to a cause to which 
my late husband had devoted his life and talents. 

A part of the net proceeds from the sale of the 
work are to be devoted to the uses of that excel- 
lent charity — The Ohio Hospital for Women 
and Children. Mrs. DR. PULTE. 



June ist, 1888. 



Copyright, 
By MARY J. PULTE. 

1888. 



CINCINNATI: 

W. H. Sloan, Printer, 
140 & 142 W. Front St. 



CONTENTS. 



CONTENTS. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Baking, Bread, Yeasl, Bread, Biscuit, Bis- 
cuit, Buckwheat, Buckwheat Harrison's, 
Buckwheat, Cinnamon Cake, Coffee Cake, 
Doughnuts, Doctor's Cake, Corn Griddle 
Cakes, Corn Mush, Corn Mush Fried, 
Corn Bread, Corn Muffins, Flannel Cakes, 
Graham Gems, Muffins, Muffins,, Pan 
Cakes, Pan Cake Rolls, Puff Balls, Potato 
Cakes, Rolls, Rusk, Strawberry Short 
Cake, Waffles i-i 7 

EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Eggs in Stand, Eggs Soft, Eggs Hard, 
Eggs Poached, Eggs Scrambled, Omelet, 
Omelet Souffle, Omelet, Omelet with 
Cheese, Omelet with Ham, Omelet with 
Herbs 18-22 



CONTENTS. vii 



COTTAGE CHEESE-OAT GROATS— WHEAT AND 

RICE. 

Cottage Cheese, Cottage Cheese Wine, Oat 

Groats, Hulled Wheat, Rice to Boil 2 3~ 2 5 

COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE. 

Coffee Pot, Coffee to Make, Coffee the Best, 
Chocolate, Cocoa Baker's. Cocoa, Tea, 
Mock Cream ... 26-29 

SOUPS. 

Beef, Beef Clear, etc., Bean, Bouillon, 
Chicken, Corn, Crab, Dumplings for 
Beef, Dumplings for Chicken, Dumplings 
for Oyster, Gumbo, Mock Turtle, Mut- 
ton, Noodles, Noodles to Make, Noodles 
as a Vegetable, Ox Tail, Oyster, Oyster 
Pea, Pea without Meat, Tomato, Veal, 
Vegetable ,...,. 30-48 

FISH. 

Codfish Boiled, Codfish Cakes, Eels Stewed, 
Eels Boiled, Eels Fried, Halibut Smoked, 
Herring Dutch Pickled, Mackerel Fresh 
Broiled, No. 1 Mackerel Salt Boiled, No. 
1 Mackerel Salt Broiled, Perch and Bull- 
heads Fried, Salmon Canned, Salmon 
Boiled, Shad Fresh Baked, Stuffing for 



Vlll CONTENTS. 



FISH. -Continued. 

Shad, Shad Fresh Boiled, Shad Fresh 
Fried, Trout Boiled, White Fish Baked, 
Stuffing for White Fish 49~59 

SHELL. FISH. 

Crabs Deviled, Crabs Deviled, Oyster Soup, 
Oysters Escaloped, Oysters Fricasseed, 
Oysters Fried, Oyster Patties, Oysters 
Raw, Shrimp Salad, Shrimp Stewed, Ter- 
rapin 60-66 

BEEF. 

Beef Roast,.Beef Steak, Beef Steak & Onions, 
Beef, a la mode, Beef Corned and Cab- 
bage, Beef Tripe Stewed, Beef Corned 
Hash, Spiced Pickle for Beef Venison and 
Rabbits, Beef Spiced, Beef Tongue 
Spiced, Beef Tongue Fresh, Sauce for 
Beef Tongue 67—75 

VEAL. 

A la mode Veal, a la Strasburg Veal, Cut- 
let Veal, Fricassee Veal, Fricandean, 
Fricassee with Sweet Breads, Hash Veal, 
Roast Veal, Sweet Breads Fricassee 
Sweet ; Breads Fried, Liver Calves 76-84 



CONTENTS. IX 



LAMB AND MUTTON. 

Lamb and Turnips Stewed, Leg of Lamb 
Roasted, Leg of Lamb Roasted, Lamb 
Chops Fried, Leg of Lamb Boiled, Mut- 
ton Chops Broiled 86-89 

PORK. 

Ham Boiled, Ham Roasted, Pig Roasted, 
Pig Stuffing, Pig's Feet Soused, Pork 
and Beans, Sausages, Spare Ribs Stuffed, 90-94 

POULTRY. 

Chicken Boiled, Chicken Fricassee, Chicken 
Fricassee, Chicken Pie, Chicken Spring, 
Ducks Roasted, Duck Stuffing, Goose 
Roasted, Goose Stuffing, Turkey Boiled, 
Turkey Roasted, Turkey Stuffing, Turkey 
and Chicken Stuffing, Turkey how to 
know a Young one 96-105 

GAME. 

Hazenpfeffer, Quails Roasted, Quail and 
Bird Stuffing, Rabbit Spiced, Venison 
Saddle Roasted, Venison Saddle Spiced, 
Venison Steak 106-1 1 1 

SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEAT. 

Cape, Drrawn Butter, Egg, Hollandish, 
Horseradish, Mayonaise, Mayonaise, New 
Oyster, Parsley, Pickle, Tomato, Tomatoii2-ii7 



CONTENTS. 



PICKLES— CATSUP AND MUSTARD. 

Beans, Beets, Cabbage, Cucumbers, Onions, 

Tomato Catsup, Mustard 1 18-123 

SALADS. 

Bean, Cabbage Cold Slaw, Celery, Chicken, 
Corn, Cucumber, Dressing No. 1, Dres- 
sing No. 2, Endive, Fish, Fish Dressing, 
Herring, Italian, Lettuce, Oyster, Oyster 
Dressing, Potato, Potato Dressing, Shrimp 
Shrimp Dressing, Tongue 124-136 

CROQUETTES-M XCARONI. 

Chicken,' Chicken Sauce, Oyster, Oyster 
Sauce, Tongue, Tongue Sauce, Macaroni 
with Herb Cheese, Macaroni with To- 
matos 138-142 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus, Beans Marrowfat, Beans Lima, 
Beans Yellow Wax, Beets Young, Cab- 
bage White, Cabbage Red, Cabbage 
Curled Savoy, Carrots, Cauliflower, Corn 
Boiled, Corn Oysters, Corn Stewed, 
Greens Wild, Kale, Kale with Bacon, 
Kohlrabe, Leek, Onions Stewed, Pars-- 
nip Cakes, Parsnips Fried, Parsnips 
Stewed, Peas Green, Peas and Carrots, 



CONTENTS. XI 



VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Potatoes Boiled, New Potatoes, Potatoes 
Mashed, Potatoes Dresden, Potatoes 
Fried, Potatoes Baked, Potatoes Fried, 
Potatoes Mashed, Saurkraut to Make, 
Saurkraut, Saurkraut with Pork Ribs, 
Slaw Hot, Spinach, Succtash, Tomatoes, 
Turnips 144-165 



PASTRY— PIES AND TARTS. 

Puff Paste No. 1, Puff Paste No. 2, Pie 
Crust, Apples for Pies, Apple, Cran- 
berry, Curd, Custard, Currants to Wash, 
Lemon, Mince Meat, Peaches for Pies, 
Peach, Pumpkin 166-174 



PUDDINGS AND FRITTERS. 

Almond, Apple and Rice, Apple Dumplings, 
Batter, Bread and Butter, Bread, Cocoa- 
nut, Corn Starch Baked, Corn Starch 
Boiled, Egg German Eierkase, Fruit, Mar- 
malade, Peach, Plum Baked, Plum 
Boiled, Prune, Quince Tapioca, Quince 
Sauce, Rice Flour Boiled, Rice Baked, 
Rusk, Sago, Tapioca, Fritters Apple, 
Fritter Batter, Fritter Bread 1 75-194 



Xll CONTENTS. 



SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

Apple, Apricots, Butter Sauce, Chocolate, 
Cider, Cranberry, Cream, Cream, Custard, 
Hard, Milk, Peaches, Prunes, Raspberry, 
Strawberry, Vanilla, Wine German,Wine 
Sherry 195-204 

CUSTARDS. 

Almond, Apple, Chocolate, Cocoanut, Corn 
Starch, Corn Starch Snow Balls, Pump- 
kin, Raspberry, Snow Ball, Wine 205-211 

CREAMS— SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 

Almond, Chocolate, Cincinnati, Raspberry, 
Strawberry, Vanilla, Wine, to make Ice 
Cream, Chocolate, Lemon, Raspberry, 
Strawberry, Vanilla, Vanilla without 
Cream, Syrups for Ice Creams, Jellies and 
Sauces, Raspberry, Strawberry 212-223 

JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

Calfs' Foot, Cider, Lemon, Raspberry, 

Strawberry, Wine 224-228 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 

Charlotte Russe, Almond Blanc Mange, 

Blanc Mange 229-231 



CONTENTS. 



CAKE MACAROONS MERINGUE. 

Almond, Almond Jumbles, Almond Maca- 
roons, Almond Macaroons 2, Almond 
Sponge, Almonds to Blanch and Grind, 
Bride's, Cake, Chocolate Macaroons, Cit- 
ron, Cocoanut, Cocoanut Jumbles, Cocoa- 
nut Macaroons, Cocoanut and Raspberry 
Mixture, Cookies Berlin, Cookies Grand- 
mother, Cookies Sugar, Cream Cincin- 
nati, Cream Filling, Cup Cake, Currant, 
Fruit, Fruit, Gingerbread Soft, Ginger- 
bread White, Golden, Groom's, Icing, 
Icing Chocolate, Jelly, Marble, Meringue, 
Pound, Silver, Snow, Sponge, Sponge 
Almond, Sponge Muffins, Sponge White, 
White 233-257 

BEVERAGES. 

Apple Wine, Cider to keep sweet, Cider 
Syrup, Milk Punch, Mulled Cider, Mulled 
Wine, Roman Punch, Raspberry Vine- 
kept Sweet, Egg Nog Warm, Egg Nog 
Cold, Lemonade, Lemon Punch, Lemon 
gar, Raspberry Shrub 258-265 

CANNED VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus, Beans Lima, Beans String, 
Cauliflower, Corn, Peas Green, Toma- 
toes 286-289 



XIV CONTENTS. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 

Apple Water, Apple Water, Arrowroot 
Gruel, Arrowroot Jelly, Blackberry Syrup, 
Barley Water, Barley Boiled, Beef Broth, 
Beef Tea, Broth and Milk, Bread and 
Milk Poultice, Cranberry Water, Chicken 
Broth, Cracker Panada, Cocoa, Crisped 
Ham, Dry Toast, Egg Nog, Farina Gruel, 
Flaxseed Tea, Ice its preservation, Ice- 
land Moss Tea, Iceland Moss Jelly, Kou- 
miss, Lemonade warm. Lemonade cold, 
Milk Porridge, Milk Toast, Milk Punch, 
Mulled Wine, Mutton Broth, Mustard 
Plaster, Mustard Poultice, Oat Meal Gruel, 
Oat Meal Porridge, Oat Groats Boiled, 
Pap, Panada, Raspberry Water, Rasp- 
berry Vinegar, Rice Water, Rice Boiled, 
Rice Jelly, Rusk Panada, Roasted Apples, 
Sago Gruel, Slippery Elm Tea, Slippery 
Elm Poultice, Tamarind Water, Toast 
Water, Tapioca Gruel, Tapioca Jelly, Tea, 
Whey i, Whey 2, Wine Whey, Wine 
Cottage Cheese 291-313 



CANNED FRUITS— MARMALADE -JELLIES AND 
PRESERVES. 

Cherries, Peaches Clings, Peaches Free- 
stones, Pears Seckel, Plums Damson, 



CONTENTS. XV 



CANNED FRUITS, MARMALADES, JELLIES, ETC.-Continued. 

Plums Green Gage, Quinces, Raspber- 
ries, Strawberries^ Marmalade, Peach, 
Quince, Raspberry Red, Strawberry, 
Jellies to make, Apple Siberian Crab, 
Cranberry, Currant, Green Gage, Quince, 
Raspberry Red, Green Gages, Peaches, 
Peaches Brandy, Quince, Strawberry... 266-285 

REMEDIES. 

Arnica Tincture, Bruises, Burns, Cough, 

Cut, Felon, Scalds, Sprains 316-319 

HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

Blankets to Wash, Black Satin and Silk, 
Black Lace Renewed, Bed Bugs Des- 
troyed, Butter Kept Sweet, Cool House, 
Cloths to Soak, Cloths to Wash, Carpet 
Cleaning, Cockroaches Destroyed, Chap- 
ped Hands Prevented, Cashmere Shawl 
or Dress to Wash, Disinfectant, Eggs 
Kept Fresh, Flannels to Wash, Fresh 
Paint Removed, Flour Paste, Fruit Stains 
Removed, Grease Removed, Glove Paste, 
Gloves to Clean, Gray Gloves Colored, 
House Cleaning, Chamber, House Clean- 
ing and Parlor, Housekeeping, Hair Pre- 
vented from Turning Gray," Lard Kept 



XVI 'CONTENTS. 



Sweet, Lisle Gloves Cleaned, Lawn Dress 
Washed, Mucilage, Paintings Cleaned, 
Paintings Restored, Pile onVelvet Raised, 
Bats and Mice Destroyed, Rancid Butter 
Restored, Rancid Oil Restored, Starch 
to Cook, Starch Cold, Spots Removed 
from Furniture, Sink Pipe to Clear, 
Spermacetic and Sterrine removed, Satin 
and Silk Ribbons Cleaned Spots on 
Light Ribbons Removed, Spots from 
Rust Removed, To Clean Busts, To Clean 
Brass and Copper Kettles, To Clean 
Chandeliers, To Clean Marble, To Wash 
a Table Cover, Varnish for Furniture, 
Velvet Cloak to Clean, Water to Clear, 
White Wash, Whitening for Ceilings, 
Water Closet to Clean, White Dresses and 
Lawns, White Goods Kept, Wrinkles 
on Velvet Taken Out 336-345 



Si^ead kqd Ckke$. 



BAKING OVEN TO HEAT. 

To ascertain the right heat of the oven, put a 
piece of writing paper into it, and if it is a choco- 
late brown in rive minutes it is the right heat for 
biscuits, muffins and small pastry. It is called a 
quick oven. If the paper is dark vellow it is the 
right heat for bread, pound cake, puddings and 
puff paste pies. When the paper is light yellow it 
is right for sponge cake. 

BREAD. 

Peel and wash as many medium sized potatoes 
as you intend to have loaves of bread and boil 
them in water enough to cover them. Cut up 
fine a two cent cake of compressed yeast in half a 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



cup full of luke warm water with one teaspoonful 
of white granulated sugar in it. Sift the flour, and 
when the potatoes are done put them into a colan- 
der, mash them fine and rub them through. Then 
mix enough flour with the potatoes and the scald- 
ing hot potato water as will make a sponge a 
little thicker than flannel cakes. When it is luke 
warm stir in the yeast and salt. Then set the 
pan with the sponge into a pan with luke warm 
water and put it where the water will keep at a 
uniform heat until- the sponge is very light. Then 
put in one tablespoonful of melted lard, and stir in 
flour enough to make a soft dough. Put it on the 
bread board and knead it twenty or thirty minutes. 
Then make it into loaves and set it where it will 
rise again. Then bake it. 



YEAST. 



After the hops have been boiled in water, strain 
them out and whilst the hop water is still scalding- 
hot stir in flour enough to make it as thick as grid- 
dle cakes; then put in cold water until you can 
hold your finger in it; then put in some yeast, cork 
it tight and set it in a cool place. It will keep a 
week or more in Summer. 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



BREAD. 

Peel four large potatoes and boil them in water 
until they are soft; then mash them up fine and 
press them through a colander and mix them with 
the flour; then take the water that the potatoes 
were boiled in scalding hot and stir it into the 
flour and potatoes; then put in cold water till you 
can hold your finger in it; then put in the yeast 
and salt and set it in a warm place over night. 

BISCUITS— (EXCELLENT.) 

Two pints of unsifted flour; three heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder sifted in the flour; 
one and a half ounces of butter rubbed into the 
flour; one and a half ounces of lard rubbed into the 
flour; one teaspoonful of salt, two-thirds of a pint 
of cold sweet milk. Mix quick, roll out half an 
inch thick; cut with a cake cutter and bake twenty 
minutes. If the oven is a little hotter in the bottom 
than it is on top, the biscuits will be lighter, and 
when done they should be a light brown. 

BISCUIT. 

One heaped quart of sifted flour; four teaspoon- 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



fuls of baking powder; three gills of rich sweet 
milk; four ounces of fresh butter, or two ounces 
of butter and two of lard, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix the flour and baking powder together; 
put the milk, butter and salt over the fire, and as 
soon as the butter is melted stir the whole into the 
flour. The milk must not be scalding hot, only 
warm enough to melt the butter. Make it into a 
soft dough as quick as possible. Roll it out half an 
inch thick. Cut it with a small cake cutter and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour; half a cup of 
corn meal scalded; two cent cake of Fleischmann's 
compressed yeast; two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar; one teaspoonful of salt, and warm water 
enough to make a thin batter. Beat all well 
together and set to rise in a warm place. 



HARRISON'S 

Self raising buckwheat flour; mix with cold 
milk or water enough to make a thin batter and 
bake immediately on a hot griddle. 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of flour; one teaspoonful of salt; one 
quart of warm water and a two cent paper of 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast. Cut the yeast 
up in a cup half full of warm water taken from 
the quart and let it dissolve. Put the flour and 
salt into a stone crock and stir in the warm water 
until it is a smooth batter. Then add the yeast 
and set it in a warm place to rise. If they are for 
breakfast make them up just before going to bed, 
for Fleischmann's yeast rises quicker than any 
other that I have used. When you are ready to 
bake, stir in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
It makes them sweet and tender. Have the 
griddle hot, grease it with a piece of fat pork and 
bake. Have ready some fresh butter that is soft 
enough to spread, and butter the cakes well. Send 
them to table hot, a few at a time. 

CINNAMON CAKE. 

One cent cake of Fleischmann's compressed 
yeast cut up in half a cup full of luke warm water; 
one quart of flour; half a pint of warm sweet milk, 
half a pint of white sugar dissolved in the milk. 
Then make a hole in the flour and stir in the milk, 
sugar and yeast. Stir it into a batter and set it in 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES 



a warm place to rise over night. In the morning 
make it into a thicker batter and let it rise again. 
Then stir in two ounces of soft butter. Then put 
in one egg and beat it in with your hand. Then 
put in another egg and beat it in the same manner. 
Then pour it into a baking pan and let it rise hall 
an hour longer. Then put it into the oven and 
when it has baked ten minutes spread some soft 
butter over it and then strew powdered sugar and 
cinnamon on it and let it bake live minutes longer. 

COFFEE CAKE 

One pound of sifted flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of Royal baking powder in it, half a pound of white 
granulated sugar, four ounces of butter, four fresh 
eggs beaten separately, half a teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, beat the sugar and butter to a light cream, beat 
the yolks and stir them into the sugar and butter, 
then beat the whites with two teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, then add the 
cinnamon and mix in the flour and baking powder 
last, roll it out, put it into a baking pan and bake 
it a yellow brown. 

DOUGH NUTS. 

One pint of rich sweet milk made warm, four 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



ounces of fresh butter melted in the milk, one 
pint and a half of white granulafed" sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of grated nutmeg and one teaspoonful of 
salt all put into the milk, four yolks beaten with 
one table spoonful of sugar and stirred into the milk, 
two quarts and one pint of sifted' flour with seven 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, four 
whites beaten with one tablespoo'nful of sugar to a 
stiff foam, make a hole in the centreof the flour and 
stir in the milk with the other ingredients until it is 
as thick as batter cakes, then stir in the whites and 
the remainder of the flour, make the dough quick 
and as moist as possible, roll out half an inch thick 
and cut with a cake cutter. The lard should be hot 
enough to brown when the cakes -are put in, and 
only cakes enough to cover the top of the lard 
should be put in at a time. They will rise in two 
minutes, then turn them and fry two minutes 
longer. 

DOCTORS' CAKE. 

One pint of sweet milk, two ounces of fresh but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a pint of white granulated su- 
gar, four fresh eggs beaten separately, one quart ot 
flour, four teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder. 
Put the milk, butter, nutmeg, salt and sugar into a 



8 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 

sauce pan over the fire, and when the butter is melt- 
ed and sugar dissolved, set it on the side of the range 
where it will keep warm, but not hot. Beat the 
yolks and stir them into the milk, beat the whites 
with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam, mix the flour and baking powder together. 
Stir the milk into the flour until it is as thick 
as batter cakes, then stir in the whites and the rest 
of the flour. 

CORNMEM, GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stir one pint of sweet milk boiling hot into one 
pint of sifted meal, then stir in one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one even teaspoonful of salt, beat 
the yolks of four fresh eggs with one tablespoonful 
of cold milk, and when the meal is not scalding hot 
stir them in, then stir in one heaped tablespoonful 
of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 
beat the whites with one tablespoonful of white 
granulated sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
last; set the pan of cakes into a pan of warm (not 
hot) water whilst they are being baked; it will 
make them very light. Bake as soon as the whites 
are in. 

CORN MUSH. 

Put three pints of boiling water into an iron pot 
over the' fire, sift one full pint of corn meal into a 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



large bowl and stir into it one pint of rich sweet 
milk boiling hot, and stir into the boiling water, 
then put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir it constantly and boil it thir- 
ty minutes; pour it into a flat bottomed dish; it 
cuts out better when cold if it is to be fried. 

FRIED C0R3T MUSH. 

Cut the cold mush in slices half an inch thick 
and of equal lengths. Have ready on the fire a 
frying pan containing one tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter and one of fresh lard, and when it is hot enough 
lay in the slices of mush and fry them on both sides 
a light brown. 

CORX BREAD. 

Take one pint and a half of sifted corn meal and 
stir into it one pint of boiling sweet milk, then put 
in one teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
butter. Beat the yolks of four eggs with one ta- 
blespoonful of white granulated sugar and stir them 
in, then beat the whites with one tablespoonful of 
sugar to a stiff foam, then stir in three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and the whites last. Put it into 
the oven as soon as the whites are in and bake it 
thirty minutes. 



IO BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



CORNMEAL MUFFINS. 

Haifa pint of sweet milk boiling hot, half a pint 
of sifted meal, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar, two fresh eggs separated, one 
heaped tablespoonful of flour and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder; stir the boiling milk and meal 
together, then put in the butter, salt and sugar, 
beat the yolks and stir them in when the meal is 
not scalding hot, then stir in the flour and baking 
powder, beat the whites with one teaspoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in last. 
Put them into muffin pans that have been greased, 
and bake them twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One pint of boiled sweet milk, one pint of sifted 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful ot 
fresh butter, four fresh eggs separated, one table- 
spoonful of white granulated sugar beaten with the 
whites to a stiff foam, one tablespoonful of sugar 
beaten with the yolks, and two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Put half of the milk into the pan that 
the cakes are to be made in and stir in the flour; 
stir it until it is a smooth batter, then stir in the 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. II 

other half of the milk with the salt and the batter, 
then stir in the yolks and the baking powder. Put 
the whites in last and bake as soon as they are in. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cups of Graham flour; one cup of white 
flour; one teaspoonful of salt; one heaped table- 
spoonful of lard; two and a half cups of warm 
sweet milk; three eggs beaten separately; three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix the graham 
and white flour, salt and lard together; then add 
the warm milk and beaten yolks; then beat the 
whites with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir them in, and last, add the bak- 
ing powder. Heat the gem pans, grease them, put 
in the batter quickly and bake in a quick oven. 

MUFFIXS. 

One quart of sifted flour, with three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in it, and one teaspoonful of 
salt, one pint of milk with three ounces of fresh 
butter, and one tablespoonful of white sugar melted 
in the milk, but not hot, six fresh eggs separated, 
one tablespoonful of white sugar beaten with 
the whites to a stiff foam; beat the yolks and stir 
in the milk, butter and sugar; then stir in half 



12 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 

of the flour, mix it well together and then stir in the 
whites with the other half of the flour. Put them 
into the oven as soon as they are mixed; they bake 
in twenty minutes. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint of cold sweet milk; one teaspoonful of 
salt; one pint of flour with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder sifted with it; two eggs beaten sep- 
arately; beat the whites with one teaspoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff foam, beat the yolks in the 
pan that you make the muffins in, then stir in the 
milk, salt, flour and baking powder, and last, stir 
in whites. Grease the muffin pans, All them half 
full, put them into a quick oven and bake twenty 
minutes. 

PAN CAKES 

Three quarters of a pint of sifted flour, with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder in it, one pint of milk, 
warm, but not hot, one teaspoonful of salt, one ta- 
blespoonful of fresh butter melted, four fresh eggs 
separated, and one tablespoonful of white gran- 
ulated sugar beaten with the whites to a stiff foam. 
Put the yolks into the pan that the cakes are to be 
mixed in and beat them a minute or two, then stir 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 1 3 

in the melted butter and salt, then half of the milk 
and the flour; beat it until it is smooth and then 
add the other half of the milk; stir in the whites 
last and bake immediately. Put a small quantity 
of butter or lard into the baking pan, and when it 
is hot enough to brown put in two large kitchen 
spoonfuls of the batter and let it spread all ovei' 
the pan. 



PANCAKE ROLLS. 

Are made according to the preceding receipt, 
with this exception that five eggs are used instead 
of four, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar with 
half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg is put into the 
milk. Bake them a light brown, then put them on 
to a napkin and spread them with strawberry mar- 
malade. Roll them up, trim off the ends and lay 
them in a warm dish until all are done. Serve them 
with a wine sauce. 

PUFF BALLS. 

One pint of rich sweet milk; two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh lard; two tablespoonfuls of white granula- 
ted sugar; one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; one 
teaspoonful of salt; six ounces of sifted flour with 
tavo teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it; 



T 4 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 



six fresh eggs beaten separately. Put half of the 
milk, lard, sugar, nutmeg and salt into an iron skil- 
let over a slow fire and let it come to a boil. Mix 
the flour and baking powder with the other half of 
the milk until it is a smooth batter, then stir it into 
the boiling milk and keep stirring it until it is a 
smooth dough, then take it off the fire to cool and 
beat the yolks, and stir them in, then beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir them in last. Have ready on 
the fire a skillet with hot lard and drop in half a 
tablespoonful of the dough at a time, fry them a 
light brown, sift powdered sugar over them and 
send them to table warm. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Peel a quarter of a peck of the best potatoes, 
wash them in cold water and put them into a col- 
ander to drain, then grate them on a horseradish 
grater. When they are all done put them into a 
linen cloth and squeeze out all the water; then put 
the grated potatoes into a pan with two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt and the yolks of five fresh eggs; beat 
them together a few minutes and then stir in one 
pint of rich sweet milk; beat the whites to a stiff 
foam and stir them in when you are ready to bake. 
Bake them in fresh lard and send them to table in a 
warm chapping dish. 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 1 5 

ROLLS. 

Three pints of unsifted flour; three ounces of 
butter melted; one pint of sweet milk scalded and 
then used lukewarm; half a cake of Fleischmann's 
compressed yeast dissolved in half a cup full of the 
warm milk taken out of the pint, two tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar; one teaspoonful of salt; 
sift the flour and put into a large bowl, make a hole 
in the centre of it and stir in all the ingredients 
until you have a thin sponge; cover the bowl, set 
it in a warm place and let it rise three and a half 
hours, then make it into a dough and put it on the 
bread board with half a pint more flour and knead 
it five minutes, then let it rise again one hour, then 
roll out half an inch thick, cut with a cake cutter, 
rub a little melted butter over the tops, fold one 
half over and let them rise half an hour; bake 
twenty-five minutes. 

RUSK.— DOUBLE BAKED. 

One pint of sweet milk scalded and then used 
lukewarm; half a cake of Fleischmann's compress- 
ed yeast dissolved in half a cup full of the warm milk 
taken out of the pint; three ounces of fresh butter 
melted; two tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar; one teaspoonful of salt; three pints ofun- 



l6 BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 

sifted flour; sift the flour and put it into a large 
bowl, make a hole in the centre of it and stir in all 
the ingredients until you have a thin sponge, cover 
the bowl, set it in a warm place and let it rise three 
and a half hours; then make it into a dough and 
put it on the bread board with half a pint more 
flour and knead it five minutes, then let it rise again 
one hour, then make it into a loaf and bake it. 
When it is done and cold cut it into slices half an 
inch thick and bake them on both sides. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One heaped pint. of sifted flour; two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder; two ounces of fresh butter; 
half a teaspoonful of salt; one gill and a half of rich 
sweet milk; one quart of strawberries, and half a 
pint of fine powdered white sugar; mix the flour 
and baking powder together; put the milk, butter 
and salt into a sauce pan over the fire, and when 
the milk is warm enough to melt the butter stir it 
into the flour. Make it quickly into a soft dough, 
divide it in two parts, roll them out half an inch 
thick and large enough to cover the bottom of two 
tin pie plates. Bake in a quick oven fifteen min- 
utes. When done split them whilst hot and butter 
them with fresh butter. Mash the strawberries 
and sugar together, then put a layer of cake crust 



BREAD AND CAKE RECIPES. 1 7 

dawn and a layer of strawberries, then another cake 
crust down and strawberries, and so on, finishing 
with the strawberries. Sift powdered sugar over 
the top and serve with sweetened cream or a cus- 
tard sauce; both are excellent. 

WAFFLES. 

Five fresh eggs separated, the yolks put into the 
pan the waffles are to be mixed in, one pint of 
milk warmed, but not hot, one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter melted, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
heaped pint of flour, with three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder mixed with it, and one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar beaten with the, whites to a stiff 
foam; beat the yolks and stir in the milk, butter 
and salt, then stir in the flour, and last, the whites. 
Bake as soon as the whites are in. 



l8 EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 



%£0 kqd Omelet^. 



EGGS IN A STAND SOFT BOILED. 



It takes twelve eggs twelve minutes to cook in 
the winter and ten minutes in the summer. It 
takes six eggs eight minutes to cook in the winter 
and seven minutes in the summer, and three eggs 
takes seven minutes in the winter and six minutes 
in the summer. Wash the eggs and place them in 
the stand. Then be sure that the water is boiling 
before it is poured on, and it must be half an inch 
deep over the eggs. Close the can as soon as the 
water is in and look at the time. If the eggs are 
small it takes one minute less time to cook them. 

SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

A soft boiled egg takes just four minutes to 
cook it. The water must be boiling when the 
eggs are put in. 



EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 19 

HARD BOILED EGGS. 

It takes just eight minutes to boil an egg hard. 
The water must be boiling fast when the eggs are 
put in. 

EGGS POACHED. 

Put boiling water half an inch deep (with a little 
salt in it) into a frying pan and set it on the range 
where it will stand perfectly even and keep boiling 
hot, but not boil; then break the eggs one at a 
time in a saucer and put them into the water. 
When all are in if the water does not cover the 
whites add a little more boiling water with a large 
spoon. As soon as the whites are set divide them 
with a cake turner and lift carefully. 

EGGS SCRAMBLED. 

Take twelve fresh eggs and break them one at 
a time into a saucer and put them into a deep dish, 
then put one tablespoonful of fresh butter into a 
large frying pan and set it over a good rlre. As 
soon as the butter is melted put in the eggs and 
sprinkle over them one even teaspoonful of salt. 
Break the yolks with a spoon and as soon as the 
whites begin to harden turn them up from the bot- 



20 EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 

torn of the pan in large flakes. They must not be 
stirred together like mush, it spoils the taste and 
looks bad. They must be soft when done and lift- 
ed immediately. It takes less than five minutes to 
cook them. Serve in a warm chafing dish. When 
served half a teaspoonful of swiss herb cheese 
sprinkled over them is very fine. 



OMELET. 



Six fresh eggs beaten separately; half a pint of 
rich sweet milk; one tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with a little cold milk; one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter; half a teaspoonful of salt; one pinch of 
pepper; one teaspoonful of Royal baking powder; 
mix the flour with a little of the cold milk. Put 
the rest of the milk, butter, salt and pepper into a 
saucepan over the fire, and when it comes to a 
boil stir in the flour paste and let it boil two min- 
utes; then take it off the fire, then beat the yolks 
and stir them in, then beat the whites with one 
teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in, then add the baking powder and put it 
quickly into a warm baking pan that has a spoon- 
ful of melted butter in it and set it in the oven and 
bake it a yellow brown. A gas oven bakes them 
beautifully. 



EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 21 



SWEET OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Six fresh eggs beaten separately; half a pint of 
rich sweet milk (with enough taken out to make 
the corn starch;) one tablespoonful of corn starch; 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter; four tablespoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar; one pinch of salt; 
one tablespoonful of lemon extract or grated nut- 
meg; one teaspoonful of Royal baking powder. 
Put the milk, sugar and salt into a sauce pan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire; mix 
the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it 
until it boils three minutes, then take it off the fire 
and put in the butter and flavoring. Beat the 
yolks well and stir them in when the milk is not 
scalding hot; then beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them 
in quickly, and last, add the baking powder. Put 
it into a well buttered pan, set it into a quick oven 
and bake it a light vellow brown. 



OMELET. 

Three fresh eggs; two tablespoonfuls of cream; 
half a salt spoonful of salt; one ounce of fresh but- 
ter; beat the eggs, cream and salt together lightly 
until the froth begins to rise; have a brisk clear fire, 
then set the omelet pan on the range and grease it 



22 EGG AND OMELET RECIPES. 

with beef suet, then take one ounce of fresh butter, 
cut it into small pieces and put it into the pan. As 
soon as it is melted and begins to bubble, pour in 
the beaten egg, distributing it evenly over the pan 
and when it begins to set, put a spoon under the 
edge and fold it over. The moment it is done 
place a plate over the pan and turn the omelet on 
to it. It should be a light yellow when done. 

OMELET WITH CHEESE 

Has two tablespoonfuls of grated Swiss herb 
cheese and two tablespoonfuls of crushed double 
baked rusk. 

OMELET WITH HAM 

Has two tablespoonfuls of grated sugar-cured 
ham. 

OMELET WITH HERBS 

Has one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one 
tablespoonful of lives or onion, and one teaspoonful 
of crushed celery seed. 



COTTAGE CHEESE RECIPES. 



2 3 



Cottkge Cfyeejgfe, Okt 

G^okt^ f^ice kqd 

Wl\ekt. 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put one quart of rich sweet milk into a porce- 
lain saucepan over the fire, and when it is just hot 
enough to drink stir into it two tablespoonfuls of 
cider vinegar; stir the milk fast whilst you put the 
vinegar in slowly, cover the saucepan and keep it 
where it will keep hot but not scalding. In four 
hours the curd will have formed, then put it into a 
linen cloth, hang it up until the whey has run out, 
then put the curd into a bowl with one gill of sweet 
cream and rub it together with the back of the 
spoon against the bowl until it is very fine, then 
stir in one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar 
and serve with cream, sugar and powdered cinna- 
mon or a cream sauce. Milk can be turned with 
rennet, sour wine, lemon and vinegar. 



2\ COTTAGE CHEESE RECIPES. 



WINE COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put two quarts of rich sour unskimmed milk 
with half a pint of sherry wine into a porcelain 
saucepan, cover it and set it where it will be quite 
warm, but not scalding hot. When the curd has 
formed put it all into a linen cloth, hang it up, and 
when the whey has run out put the curd into a 
bowl with one gill of thick sweet cream and rub it 
together with the back of the spoon against the 
bowl until it is very fine, then put in two even ta- 
blespoonfuls of white granulated sugar and serve 
with sweetened cream. Cottage cheese made by 
this receipt is very fine; the wine gives it a deli- 
cious flavor, and the whey with the addition of a 
little more wine and sugar makes a fine healthy 
drink. 



OAT GROATS. 

Haifa pint of Groats; one pint of cold water; 
half a teaspoonful of salt. Pick the groats care- 
fully, wash them in cold water and put them with 
the pint of water and salt into a tin saucepan that 
has a steam pipe through the lid and set it into a 
pan of boiling water over the fire and boil it three 
quarters of an hour; don't stir it until it is done. 
The water should be all boiled down before it is 



WHEAT AND RICE RECIPES. 25 



lifted. Serve with powdered white sugar and 
cream or with rich sweet milk. 



HULLED WHEAT. 

Hulled wheat is prepared in the same manner as 
oat groats and is cooked the same length of time 
and served in the same way. 

RICE, TO BOIL. 

One pint of rice; one pint of cold water; one 
even teaspoonful of salt. Cook the rice in a tin 
saucepan that has a steam pipe through the centre 
of the cover. After the rice is picked and washed 
put it into the saucepan with the water and salt, 
cover it and set it into a larger saucepan containing 
boiling water, enough to be even with the rice, but 
it must not boil into it. Don't put any more water 
into the rice nor stir it until it is done. Boii it three 
quarters of an hour, then set it on the side of the 
range where it does not boil, for thirty minutes, 
then stir it up with a fork and every grain will be 
separate. Serve with a milk sauce. 



26 BEVERAGES. 



Coffee, (5l}odolate, 
Codok, ^ek. 



COFFEE POT. 

My coffee pot has a close fitting cover and a cap 
attached to a chain to shut up the spout to prevent 
the aroma from escaping. Inside is a narrow hoop 
pierced with holes, to which I attach a bag made 
of double white crinoline which reaches to within 
a quarter of an inch of the bottom, into which the 
coffee is put. 

COFFEE, TO MAKE. 

Haifa pint of browned coffee beans before they 
are ground; three pints of boiling water. After the 
coffee is ground put it into the bag and pour the 
boiling water on it; then set the coffee pot on the 
range where it will keep hot (but not boil) for half 
an hour. 



BEVERAGES. 27 

THE BEST COFFEE. 

To ascertain which was the best coffee, I made 
three different kinds and then invited three con- 
noisseurs to pass judgment on them. The three 
kinds were the following: first, three parts Java, 
one part Mocha; second, three parts Java, one part 
Golden Rio; third, Santos. Now the connoisseurs 
all decided that Santos was the best. 

CHOCOLATE, (BAKERS). 

Three ounces of chocolate; half a pint of cold 
water; half a pint of boiling water; one quart ot 
rich sweet milk boiling hot; three ounces of white 
granulated sugar. Scrape the chocolate up fine 
and put it into a saucepan with the half pint of 
cold water and set it into a pan of boiling water 
over the fire when it will be dissolved in ten min- 
utes; then stir in the boiling water, milk and sugar; 
stir it constantly and boil it five minutes. 

COCOA, (BAKERS.) 

Three tablespoonfuls of cocoa; one pint of cold 
water; one pint of hot rich sweet milk; three ta- 
blespoonfuls of white granulated sugar. Put the 



28 BEVERAGES. 

cocoa and cold water into a saucepan over the fire, 
and when it is dissolved and hot. add the hot milk 
and sugar and boil it fifteen minutes. 



COCOA 

Can be made with water alone and is very good. 
Put three tablespoonfuls of cocoa into a saucepan 
with one pint of cold water and set it over the fire 
until it is dissolved; then add one pint of boiling 
water and boil it fifteen minutes. Serve it at table 
with cream or rich milk and sugar according to 
taste. 



TEA. 

When tea is drawn in a teapot the aroma escapes 
through the spout and half of the strength is lost 
by not having a uniform heat. Tea should be drawn 
in a close covered vessel that is used for no other 
purpose. Allow three teaspoonfuls of tea to one 
pint of boiling water, set it on the side of the fire 
for half an hour where it will keep hot without 
boiling, then put the tea strainer into the teapot 
and pour in the tea. Send it to table with a water 
pot of boiling water. 



BEVERAGES. 2Q, 



MOCK CREAM. 

Put one pint of rich sweet milk into a porcelain 
saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling water over 
the fire, beat the white of one fresh egg with one 
teaspoonful of white granulated sugar to a stiff 
foam, then beat the yolk and stir the white into it 
and stir it quickly into the hot milk, (it must not boil) 
and take it off the fire. Beat it together a minute 
and then pour it into a cream pitcher. It is a good 
substitute for cream and gives the coffee a fine 
taste. 



30 SOUP RECIPES. 



jSoticp. 



BEEF SOUP. 

The best beef soup is made from the leg of the 
beef that has been cut up into soup bones. Eight 
pounds will make two quarts of excellent soup. 
Six pounds will make three pints, and four pounds 
will make one quart. Wash the meat in cold water 
and put it into the soup kettle with cold water 
enough to cover it, and just before it begins to boil 
skim it as long as anything rises to the surface. 
Cover the kettle, set it over a slow fire and cook 
the soup five hours. If it boils down too low replen- 
ish with boiling water. When the soup has boiled 
three hours put in the following vegetables: one 
half of a celery root the size of an egg; two bunches 
of parsley and celery leaves; two small leeks 
and one tablespoonful of rice. Peel the celery root, 
cut it in thin slices then in strips as wide as a straw 
and then in squares and put it into the soup first. 
Wash the parsley and celery leaves in cold water 



SOUP RECIPES. 31 



and cut them up line. Peel the leeks and cut 
them up fine. Pick and wash the rice and put it 
in last. When the soup has cooked five hours take 
out all the meat and bones, skim it carefully and 
put in salt and pepper to the taste. Put scant half 
a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg into the soup tu- 
reen, pour in the soup, stir it and send it to the 
table hot. 

CLEAR BEEF SOUP WITH 
DUMPLINGS. 

After the leg of beef has been cut into three or 
four pieces, wash them in cold water and take out 
the marrow for dumplings. Put the soup bones into 
the kettle with cold water enough to cover them, 
and just before it begins to boil skim it as long as 
anything rises to the surface. Keep it covered and 
boil it slowly five hours, then take the meat and bones 
out and skim off the fat, then add salt and pepper to 
the taste and put in the dumplings and cook them 
live minutes. Put half a teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg into the soup tureen and pour in the soup. 
The dumpling must not be broken up in the soup. 

DUMPLINGS FOR BEEF SOUP. 

Four ounces of bread, without the crust, dipped 
in cold water and squeezed out quick; two ounces 



32 SOUP RECIPES. 



of marrow melted and strained; one yolk of an egg 
well beaten; one teaspoonful of celery seed; half a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Stir the whole well together, then add 
the w^hite of one egg beaten to a stiff foam, flour the 
hands and make it into small balls the size of a 
pigeon's egg and cook them in the soup five min- 
utes. They must be put into the soup as soon as 
they are all made or they will not be light. 



BOUILLON. 



The leg of the beef makes the best bouillon and 
six pounds will make three pints strong enough to 
become a jelly when cold. After the leg has been 
cut up into four or five pieces wash them in cold 
water and put them into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover them. Just before the wa- 
ter begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises 
to the surface. Cover the kettle and set it over a 
slow fire to boil five hours. If the water boils down 
too low replenish with boiling water. When it is 
done take out with a skimmer, all the meat and 
bones. Skim off all the fat and season with one 
even teaspoonful of salt to one pint of bouillon, then 
strain it through a fine wire sieve and add half a 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 



SOUP RECIPES. 33 



NOODLE SOUP. 

Take one quart of beef bouillon that has two even 
teaspoonfuls of salt in it and put half a pint of 
noodles in it and cook them thirty minutes. Put a 
pinch of grated nutmeg into the soup tureen and 
four in the soup. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP OR VEG- 
ETABLES. 

Beat three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sweet 
milk together. Sift some flour into a pan, make a 
hole in the centre of it, stir in the eggs and milk 
and make it into a stiff dough, then divide it into 
two parts and roll it out as thin as paper and let it 
lay two hours to dry, then roll them up close into 
a roll and cut them in fine rings as broad as a fine 
broom straw and shake them out loose. When 
dried they keep a long time. 

NOODLES AS A VEGETABLE. 

One quart of noodles; half a pint of rich sweet 
milk; half a teaspoonful of salt; three fresh eggs; 
three ounces of fresh butter; three ounces of grated 
Swiss herb cheese. Put the noodles into boiling 



34 SOUP RECIPES. 



water that has one teaspoonful of salt to each pint 
of water and boil them twenty minutes, (stir them 
up from the bottom to prevent them from sticking.) 
Then take them out with a skimmer into a colander 
to drain. Warm the milk and put the salt into it. 
Beat the eggs together and stir them into the milk. 
Melt the butter by itself. Take a deep tin pie-plate 
or small tin pudding pan and put in a layer of 
noodles and two or three tablespoonfuls of the 
milk and eggs; one tablespoonful of the butter and 
one tablespoonful of the grated cheese. Then 
another layer of noodles, and so on, until all are in. 
Put it into the oven in a pan that has a little boil- 
ing water in it and bake twenty minutes. 



NOODLES AS A VEGETABLE. 

Haifa pint of rich sweet milk; three ounces of 
fresh butter; one teaspoonful of corn starch; three 
fresh eggs beaten with two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar; half a pint of grated apples with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar mixed with them; one 
teaspoonful of nutmeg, and one quart of noodles that 
have been boiled in salted water and drained in the 
colander. Melt the butter in the milk and stir in 
the corn starch, then take it off the fire and beat 
the eggs and sugar together and stir them into the 
milk. Mix the apples, sugar and nutmeg together. 



SOUP RECIPES. 35 



Now take a small pudding pan and put in a layer 
of noodles and a layer of apples and two or three 
tablespoonfuls of the milk, then another layer of 
noodles, and so on, until all are in, finishing with 
the milk. Set it into the oven in a pan containing 
a little boiling water and bake thirty minutes. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP- (YeryFine.) 

Six pounds of the leg of beef, cut up into soup 
bones; six bay leaves; six whole cloves and six 
whole pepper corns. Wash the soup bones in 
cold water and put them into the soup-kettle with 
cold water enough to cover them, and just before 
it begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises 
to the surface. Cover the kettle and boil it slowly 
five hours. If the water boils down too low re- 
plenish with boiling water. When it has boiled 
three hours put in the bay leaves, cloves and pep- 
per corns. When it is done take out the soup- 
bones; strain it through a wire sieve and return 
the soup to the kettle. Put the calf's head on to 
boil at the same time that the beef is put on. One 
calf's head split open in the middle and the brains 
taken out; one celery root peeled, sliced thin, cut 
in strips and cross cut; three small leeks, peeled, 
split down and cut off; two tablespoonfuls of green 
parsley and two tablespoonfuls of celery leaves, 
cut up fine; one blade of mace the size of a five- 



36 SOUP RECIPES. 



cent piece. Wash the head in cold water and put 
it into a kettle with cold water enough to cover it, 
and just before it begins to boil skim it and boil it 
four hours. When it has boiled two hours put in 
the vegetables and mace. Half an hour before the 
soup is done take out the tongue, skin it and let it 
get cold. When the soup is done take out the 
bones, strain it through a wire sieve and pour it in 
with the beef soup. Now skim off all the fat, 
then put two tablespoonfuls of browned flour and 
two ounces of fresh butter into a skillet, and when 
it is hot stir into it a small ladle full of the soup and 
let it boil until it is thick and then stir it into the 
soup. Cut the tongue into slices half an inch 
thick, then in squares, and put it into the soup. 
Then put in salt and pepper to the taste. Pour 
the soup into the soup tureen and stir in one gill 
of sherry wine. There should be only two quarts 
of soup. 

VEGETABLE SOUP.— (Julienne.) 

Six pounds of the leg of beef cut up into soup 
bones; three tablespoonfuls of celery root; three 
tablespoonfuls of carrots; one pint full of cut up cab- 
bage; three tablespoonfuls of white skinned onions; 
three small leeks; two tablespoonfuls of green 
parsley. After the soup bones have been washed in 
cold water put them into the soup kettle wilh cold 



SOUP RECIPES. 37 



water enough to cover them, and just before it 
begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises to 
the surface. Cover the kettle and boil the soup 
five hours. When it has boiled three hours put in 
the vegetables. First prepare the celery root, 
carrots and cabbage; it takes them longest to cook. 
Peel the celery root, cut it in thin slices and then 
cut it and cross cut it up fine. Scrape the carrots, 
split them down from the top, then cross split them 
the size of a fork prong, and then cut them off 
short. Take off the outside leaves of the cabbage, 
wash it in cold water, cut it in slices half an inch 
wide and an inch long. Peel the onions, slice them 
and cut them up. Peel the leeks, split them and 
cut them off an inch long. Wash the parsley and 
cut it up fine. Boil the vegetables two hours, 
then take out all the meat and bones and put in 
salt and pepper to the taste. There should be only 
three pints of soup. Grate one quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of nutmeg into the soup tureen and pour 
in the soup. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Three ox tails cut in pieces three inches long; 
two ounces of fresh butter; three white skinned 
onions, peeled and sliced; one celery root peeled, 
sliced and cut up fine; two small carrots, scraped, 
split, cross split and cut small, two tablespoonfuls 



^8 SOUP RECIPES. 



of green parsley, washed and cut fine; one leek 
peeled and cut up fine; four bay leaves and six 
whole cloves. After the oxtails have been cut up 
and washed, fry them in the butter until they are 
brown on both sides. Then put them into the soup- 
kettle with one gallon of water and set it over the 
fire. Then fry the onions in the same butter until 
they are a light brown, and then put in a gill of 
hot water and stir them up from the bottom, and 
put the whole, butter and onions, into the soup ket- 
tle. Cover the kettle and let it cook slowly four 
hours. When it has boiled two hours put in the vege- 
tables, bay leaves and cloves. Half an hour before 
the soup is done put one tablespoonful of browned 
flour and two tablespoonfuls of the fat from the top 
of the soup into a skillet and when it is hot add a 
few spoonfuls of the soup, stir it and let it boil a 
minute then stir it into the soup and let it cook 
thirty minutes. Then add salt and pepper to the 
taste and lift. Serve one piece of the ox tail with 
each plate of soup. When done there should be 
only one quart of soup. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Six pounds of the leg of old mutton will make 
three pints of good soup. After it has been cut up 
into four or five pieces wash it in cold water and put 
it into the soup kettle with cold water enough to 



SOUP RECIPES. 39 

cover it. When it begins to boil skTm it as long 
as anything rises to the surface. Cover the kettle 
and boil it slowly five hours. When the soup has 
boiled three hours wash three tablespoonfuls of 
barley and put it in. The barley must boil two 
hours. Then put in one tablespoonful of celery 
that has been washed, and cut up fine one table- 
spoonful of parsley and one leek. When the soup 
is done take out all the meat and bones, skim it and 
put in salt and oepper to the taste. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of veal cut into four 
pieces; one celery root peeled sliced thin and cut 
up, line; two tablespoonfuls of green parsley wash- 
ed and cut up fine; one pint of middle sized oysters 
and the dumplings. After the veal has been wash- 
ed in cold water put it into the soup kettle with 
cold water enough to cover it, and just before it 
begins to boil skim it as long as anything rises to 
the surface. Cover the kettle and boil slowly three 
hours. When the soup has cooked one hour put 
in the celery root (it takes the longest to cook) and 
then the parsley. Put the oysters into a porcelain 
saucepan with half a pint of cold water, and as soon 
as they are scalding hot (they must not boil) take 
them off the fire and pour them into a colander that 
has been placed over a porcelain dish, then take 



40 SOUP RECIPES. 



out the soup, meat and bones and put the liquor 
from the oysters into the soup kettle. Now put in 
salt and pepper to the taste and then put in the 
dumplings for oyster soup and cook them five min- 
utes, then add the oysters and lift. The soup must 
not boil after the oysters are in. There should be 
three pints of soup when done. 



CRAB SOUP. 

Six pounds of the leg of beef cut into four pieces 
makes three pints of good bouillon. This is the 
quantity for this soup: two tablespoonfuls of cut 
up parsley leaves; two tablespoonfuls of cut up 
celery leaves, or half of a celery root cut up fine; 
two tablespoonfuls of leeks or white skinned onion; 
one quart of tomatoes measured after they are 
peeled and cut up; one tablespoonful of browned 
flour mixed with one tablespoonful of fresh butter; 
half a pint of crab meat. Wash the soup meat in 
cold water and put it into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover it, and just before it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and let it boil slowly four 
hours. Put the crabs into boiling water for fifteen 
minutes or until the claws will come off, then take 
them out break them open and take out all the 
meat. When the soup has boiled three hours put 



SOUP RECIPES. 41 

in the parsley, celery and leeks and let it boil one 
hour longer, then take out all the soup meat when 
there should be three pints of soup in the kettle. 
Skim off the fat, then put in the tomatoes and cook 
them slowly three quarters of an hour. Put the 
browned flour and butter into a skillet and when 
it is hot stir into it a small ladle full of the soup and 
let it boil a few minutes, then stir it into the soup 
five minutes before the tomatoes are done, then 
put in the crab meat and as soon as it is hot take 
the soup off the fire. It must not boil after the 
crab meat is in. There should be two quarts of 
soup when it is done. I have made this soup with 
canned crab meat and it was excellent. 

CORN SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of beef, cut in four 
pieces; one pint of tomatoes, measured after they 
have been peeled and cut up fine; two tablespoon- 
fuls of parsley leaves cut up fine; two tablespoon- 
fills of celery leaves cut up fine; six ears of sugar 
corn grated and scraped off the cob, and measured; 
there should be half a pint. Put the soup meat 
into the kettle with cold water enough to cover it, 
and just before it begins to boil skim it as long as 
anything rises to the surface. Then cover it and 
boil it slowly five hours. When it has boiled four 
hours put in the tomatoes, parsley and celery, and 



43 SOUP RECIPES. 



boil them three quarters of an hour, then take out 
the soup meat and put in the half pint of grated corn, 
and let it cook fifteen minutes after it begins to boil 
again. Then put in salt and pepper to the taste. 
There should be three pints of soup when it is done. 
This is an excellent soup and can be made in the 
winter with canned tomatoes and canned corn, but 
the corn must be put into a procelain mortar and 
made fine. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of beef, cut in four 
pieces; one celery root, peeled, sliced thin and cut 
up fine; one tablespoonful of parsley leaves, cut up 
fine; one tablespoonful of celery leaves cut up fine; 
two tablespoonfuls of white skinned onions cut 
fine; one quart of tomatoes measured after they are 
peeled and cut fine; one tablespoonful of browned 
flour; one tablespoonful of fresh butter. After the 
beef has been washed in cold water put it into the 
soup kettle with cold water enough to cover it, and 
just before it begins to boil skim it as long as an}^- 
thing rises to the surface. Then cover it, and let 
it boil slowly five hours. When it has boiled three 
hours put in the celery root, parsley, celery leaves 
and onions. When it has boiled four hours put in 
the tomatoes. Then put the browned flour and 
butter into a skillet, and when it is hot stir into it a 



SOUP RECIPES. 43 



small ladle full of the soup and let it boil until it is 
as thick as cream. Then take out all the soup 
meat and put in the flour and butter, with salt and 
pepper to the taste and let it boil a few minutes 
longer. There should be only three pints of soup 
when done. 



CHICKEN SOUP. 



An old, fat, yellow-legged hen makes the 
best soup. After the chicken has been dressed, 
washed and cut up, put it into the soup kettle with 
cold water enough to cover it, and when it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and cook it slowly four 
hours. When it has boiled two hours put in one 
celery root that has been peeled, sliced and cut up 
fine; one tablespoonful of green parsley and one 
tablespoonful of celery leaves that have been wash- 
ed and cut fine; one tablespoonful of rice that has 
been picked and washed. When the soup is done 
take out the chicken, skim off the fat and add salt 
and pepper to the taste. Put scant half a teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg into the soup tureen, pour in 
the soup, stir it up and send it to the table hot. 
This soup is excellent with dumplings or a pint of 
oysters put in just before lifting. 



44 SOUP RECIPES. 



DUMPLINGS FOR CHICKEN 
AND OYSTER SOUP. 

Two ounces of butter melted but not hot; one 
yolk of an egg beaten and mixed with the butter; 
one teaspoonful of celery seed crushed; half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered mace; half a teaspoonful of 
salt and four ounces of bread without the crust, 
dipped in cold water and squeezed out. Mix the 
whole well together, then add the white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff foam, flour the hands and make 
into small balls and cook them in the soup five 
minutes. The dumplings must be put into the soup 
as soon as all are made. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

One large fat old hen, an old chicken makes the 
best soup; one tablespoonful of fresh butter; one 
tablespoonful ol fresh lard; three quarts of boiling 
water, (it boils down one-half); one quart of green 
gumbo measured before it is sliced up fine; one cel- 
ery root peeled, sliced thin and cut up fine; one 
pint of tomatoes measured after they are peeled 
and cut up fine; one tablespoonful of parsley leaves 
cut up fine; one tablespoonful of celery leave cut 
up fine; one even tablespoonful of browned 
flour. After the chicken has been dressed and 



SOUP RECIPES. 45 



washed in cold water, cut it up by the joints, split 
the breast and back down the middle, salt and 
pepper it and dredge it with flour. Have ready 
on the fire a frying pan with the butter and lard in 
it, and when it is hot enough to brown lay in the 
chicken and fry it a golden brown on both sides. 
Then put the chicken into the soup kettle with the 
three quarts of boiling water. Cover the kettle and 
let it boil slowly three hours. Set the frying pan with 
the fat in it on the side of the range until the soup 
is nearly done. When the soup has boiled one hour 
put in the gumbo, celery root, tomatoes and soup 
greens and let them boil two hours, then put the 
browned flour into the frying pan, and when it is 
hot stir in a small ladle full of hot water and let it 
boil a few minutes, stirring it up well from the bot- 
tom, then stir it into the soup with salt and pepper 
to the taste. Let it boil two or three minutes, then 
strain it through the colander into the soup tureen. 
There should be only two and a half pints of soup 
after it is strained. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Put one quart of fresh oysters into a colander 
and let cold water run through them. Then put 
them into a porcelain saucepan with half a pint of 
cold water; one pint of rich, sweet milk, three 
ounces of fresh butter and one teaspoonful of salt 



46 SOUP RECIPES. 



or salt to the taste. Set them over a slow fire and 
then crush four double baked rusks fine, with the 
rolling pin, and just before the soup begins to boil 
stir in four large kitchen spoonfuls of the rusks. 
Now watch it closely. As soon as it begins to boil 
take it off the fire and pour it into the soup tureen. 
Serve it with crackers and celery, or cold slaw. 
If oysters boil one minute they become tough and 
tasteless. Therefore they must be watched closely 
and taken from the fire the moment they begin to 
boil. 

PEA SOUP. 

Take six pounds of the leg of beef that has been 
cut into four pieces, and wash it in cold water, put 
it into the soup kettle with cold water enough to 
cover it, and just before it begins to boil skim it 
as long as anything rises to the surface. Cover the 
kettle, and cook it slowly five hours. Measure one 
pint and a half of split peas after they have been 
picked. Wash them in cold water and put them 
into a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and 
cook them two hours and a half. Half an hour be- 
fore the soup is done take out the soup bones, and 
put in two tablespoonfuls of green parsley that has 
been washed, and cut up fine. Then press the 
peas through a colander into the soup and cook 
half an hour. Then put in salt and pepper to the 



SOUP RECIPES. 47 

taste, and when ready to lift set the colander over 
the soup tureen and press the soup through. 
When done there should be only two quarts of 
soup. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt. 



PEA SOUP— Without Meat. 

Take one pound of split peas, and after they 
have been picked and washed in cold water, put 
them into the soup kettle with three quarts of cold 
water, and set it over a fire where it will cook 
slowly for three hours. Half an hour before the 
soup is done peel and slice up four raw potatoes 
and put them into the soup with two tablespoon- 
fuls of green parsley, cut up fine, and salt and pep- 
per to the taste. Then put half a tablespoonful of 
browned flour and three ounces of fresh butter 
into a skillet, and when it is hot put in one gill of 
hot water, stir it and let it boil five minutes. 
Then stir it into the soup and boil it a few minutes 
longer. Now place a colander over the soup 
tureen and press the soup through. 



48 SOUP RECIPES. 



VEAL SOUP. 

Four pounds of the leg of veal; one tablespoon- 
ful of rice; one small celery root peeled, sliced thin 
and cut up fine; one tablespoonful of celery leaves 
cut up fine; one small parsley root sliced thin and 
cut up fine; one tablespoonful of parsley leaves cut 
up fine; one tablespoonful of flour made yellow; 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter; half a teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg. Wash the veal in cold wa- 
ter and put it into the soup kettle with cold water 
enough to cover it, and just before it begins to 
boil skim it well. Cover the kettle and boil it slow- 
ly two and a half hours. When it has boiled half 
an hour put in the rice, celery root, parsley root and 
soup greens. When the soup has boiled two and 
a half hours take out all the soup meat. Put the 
flour into a skillet over the fire, and when it has 
become yellow (not brown) put in the butter, then 
stir in a small ladle full of hot water and let it boil 
until it is as thick as cream, then stir it into the soup 
with salt and pepper to the taste. Let it boil five 
minutes longer, then put the nutmeg into the soup 
tureen and pour in the soup. There should be 
only one quart of soup. 



FISH RECIPES. 



49 



tfifa 



SALT CODFISH, BOILED, 

Pound the codfish with a wooden mallet; it 
makes it tender and soaks quicker. If it is for 
breakfast put it into a pan with only cold water 
enough to cover it, at ten o'clock or just before 
going to bed. In the morning boil it in clear water 
thirty minutes. Serve with a drawn butter or an 
egg sauce. 

CODFISH CAKES. 

One pint of picked up codfish; two ounces of 
fresh butter; two yolks of fresh eggs; one pint of 
mashed potatoes. After the codfish has been 
pounded, soaked and boiled as in the preceding re- 
ceipt, pick it up fine and measure it, then put the 
butter into a small saucepan and set it into a pan 
of boiling water, and as soon as it is melted put in 
the codfish and stir it together, then stir in the 
yolks and when it is scalding hot take it off the 



50 FISH RECIPES. 



fire. Mash the boiled potatoes with butter alone, 
measure them and put them into a large bowl with 
the codfish and mix them well together, (this quan- 
tity makes seven cakes,) then flour your hands and 
make them into balls, then flatten them into cakes 
and fry them in butter, a golden brown. 

STEWED EELS. 

Take two large eels, skin them, dress them 
wash them in cold water, dry them off and cut them 
in pieces, three inches long. Put them into 
a stew pan or deep skillet, where they can all lay on 
the bottom, with cold water enough to be even 
with the fish. Then put in six bay leaves, an even 
teaspoonful of powdered mace, an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper and three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar 
Let the fish boil fifteen minutes from the time they 
begin to boil. Mix one heaped tablespoonful of 
browned flour with two ounces of fresh butter in 
a skillet, and when the butter is melted stir in four 
tablespoonfuls of the water the fish is cooking in 
and let it boil until it is as thick as cream. Then 
stir it in with the fish, and add two tablespoonfuls 
of crushed baked rusk. 

BOILED EELS— (Cold.) 

Take the largest sized eels, and after they are 
dressed and washed in cold water, put them into 



FISH RECIPES. 51 



the fish kettle with cold water enough to cover 
them, that has in it one gill of cider vinegar, and 
one teaspoonful of salt to one quart of water. Then 
put in six bay leaves and let them boil slowly 
fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size of 
fish. When cold garnish with sprigs of green, 
curled parsley, and serve with a new Mayonaise 
sauce that has three tablespoonfuls of my tomato 
catsup in it. 



FRIED EELS. 



After the eels are skinned, dressed, heads taken 
off and washed in cold water, cut them in pieces 
three inches long; salt and pepper them and dredge 
them well with flour. Have ready on the fire a 
frying pan with one tablespoonful of fresh butter 
and one of fresh lard in it, and when it is hot 
enough to brown lay in the eels, cover the pan and 
fry them a light brown. When they have 
fried ten minutes, turn them, baste them and 
fry them ten minutes longer. Then lift them into 
a warm chafing-dish, and put one gill of hot 
water into the gravy, let it boil a minute, stir it up 
from the bottom, then stir in three tablespoonfuls 
of my tomato catsup and pour it into the gravy 
dish. 



52 FISH RECIPES. 



SMOKED HALIBUT. 

Smoked halibut makes a tine breakfast dish if 
prepared in the following manner: for a family of 
live or six persons take two pounds of halibut, 
score the skin through, wash it in cold water and 
put it into a pan with only enough cold water to 
cover it, at ten o'clock or before going to bed. In the 
morning put it into the fish kettle, skin side down, 
with cold water enough to cover it and let it boil 
forty-five minutes. Serve it with an egg sauce or 
a drawn butter sauce and poached egg. 

DUTCH HERRING, PICKLED. 

Take the smallest sized herring, as they are the 
youngest and' fattest, wash them in cold water, 
scale them and skin them. The skin must all be 
taken off, then cut off their heads, take out the in- 
side, wash theiri again and dry them off. Peel a 
quantity of small white skinned onions and slice 
them, then put into a glass jar a layer of herring 
and a layer of onions until the jar is full, finishing 
with a layer of herring. Fill the jar with good cider 
vinegar and close it. The vinegar must cover the 
herring. They are ready to use in twenty four 
hours and are an excellent relish with bread and 
butter. Serve some of the onions with the herring. 
They are also used as a salad with pea soup. 



FISH RECIPES. 53 



A No. 1 SALT MACKEREL, 
BOILED. 

Wash the mackerel in two waters, and if it is for 
breakfast put it into a pan half full of cold water 
at six o'clock in the evening and change the water 
at ten o'clock, before going to bed. In the morn- 
ing put it into a fish pan, skin side under, with 
water enough to cover it and boil it thirty minutes, 
then lift it whole into a warm chafing-dish, skin 
side under, and pour drawn butter over it. 

SALT MACKEREL, BROILED. 

After the mackerel has been washed and soaked 
the same length of time as in the preceding receipt 
take it out of the water, dry it off with a linen cloth, 
split it down the back and cut it across in pieces 
three inches long. Rub the gridiron with a piece 
of fat pork or a little lard on a cloth and lay on the 
mackerel, skin side under, and broil it thirty min- 
utes. When it has broiled fifteen minutes turn it. 
Serve with drawn butter. A No. i mackerel pre- 
pared in this way and- broiled by gas is excellent. 

FRESH MACKEREL, BROILED. 

Broiling is the best way of cooking fresh 
mackerel. After thev are dressed and washed 



54 FISH RECIPES. 



in cold water, dry them off with a linen cloth, 
then split them down the back and cut them 
across, in pieces three or four inches long; salt and 
pepper them, then rub the gridiron with a piece of 
fat pork or lard, place the mackerel on it and broil 
it thirty minutes. When it has broiled fifteen 
minutes turn it, and when it is done put it into a 
warm chafing-dish and serve with a parsley sauce 

FRIED PERCH AND BULL 
HEADS. 

Perch are our best river fish. Next comes the 
bull heads, salmon and bass. They are all good 
breakfast fish. After the fish have been scaled and 
dressed, wash them in cold water, and lay them on 
the meat board and dry them off. Then put a 
pinch of salt and pepper inside and out, and 
dredge the upper side with flour. Have 
ready on the fire a frying pan with a tablespoonful 
of fresh butter and one of lard, and when it is hot 
enough to brown lay in the fish with the flour side 
in the butter, and then dredge the other side. 
Cover the pan and cook them slowly. When they 
have cooked fifteen minutes, turn them, baste them 
and cook them fifteen minutes longer. When they 
are lifted put one teaspoonful of browned flour, one 
teaspoonful of anchovy paste and one gill of hot 
water into the gravy. Stir it up well from the bot- 
tom of the pan and let it boil five minutes. 



FISH RECIPES. 55 



CANNED SALMON. 

Put the can of salmon into boiling water for 
thirty minutes. The water must not boil after the 
can is put in, but be kept at boiling heat. Then 
take the can out, wipe it off, and with the oyster 
scissors make a small hole in the top of the can, 
pour the juice out into a tin cup, and set it on the 
range where it will keep hot, but not boil. If 
there is not quite juice enough for the gravy add a 
tablespoonful of boiling water. Then mix one 
teaspoonful of fresh butter with half a teaspoonful 
of flour and stir it into the juice. Let it boil two 
minutes then add a pinch of salt and one table- 
spoonful of my tomato catsup. Cut the whole top 
out of the can and let the salmon out whole into a 
warm chafing-dish. Put the gravy into a gravy 
dish and send it to table hot. 

BOILED SALMON. 

A salmon weighing six pounds, if it is to be 
cooked whole, takes thirty minutes. After it is 
scaled, dressed and washed in cold water, put it 
into the fish kettle, with hot water enough to cover 
it, that has one teaspoonful of salt in it to a pint of 
water. When it begins to boil skim it and let it 
cook slowly thirty minutes. If the salmon is cut 
in slices one inch thick, boil them ten minutes in 
salted water. Serve with a Hollandish sauce. 



56 FISH RECIPES. 

STUFFING FOR FISH, (Shad.) 

Five ounces of fresh butter; two tabiespoonfuls 
of green parsley after it is washed and cut up fine; 
one teaspoonful of crushed celery seed; one tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg; one teaspoonful of salt; 
half a teaspoonful of pepper; three fresh eggs beaten 
separately; three ounces of stale bread without 
the crust, dipped in cold water, taken out quickly 
and squeezed out. Put the butter into a skillet, and 
when it is melted put in the parsley, celery, nutmeg, 
salt and pepper, then take the skillet off the fire. 
Beat the yolks and stir them in with the butter, then 
stir in the bread, then beat the whites to a stiff 
foam, and stir them in when you are ready to rill 
the fish. 

BAKED SHAD. 

After the shad has been scaled and dressed, wash 
it in cold water and dry it off. Fill it with the stuff- 
ing, leaving room for it to swell, then sew it up 
with a small cord, sprinkle salt and pepper on it, 
and dredge it with flour. Have ready on the fire 
the fish pan with one tablespoonful of fresh butter 
and one of fresh lard in it, and when it is hot enough 
to brown lay in the fish, put it into the oven and 
bake it three quarters of an hour. Baste it often, 



FISH RECIPES. 57 



and when it is lifted put a gill of hot water into the 
gravy and one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce and 
two tablespoonfuls of my tomato catsup. Let it 
boil a minute, stir it up from the bottom of the pan 
and pour it into a gravy dish. Cut the cord the 
fish was sewed with in short pieces with a pair of 
scissors and draw it out carefully. 



FRIED SHAD. 



A fresh shad weighing two and a half pounds 
is the best size for frying and makes a most de- 
licious breakfast dish. After the fish has been 
scaled and split down the belly, dressed and wash- 
ed in cold water, dry it off with a linen cloth, then 
salt and pepper it inside and out and dredge it with 
flour on both sides. Have ready on the fire a fry- 
ing pan with one tablespoonful of fresh butter and 
one of lard in it, and when it is hot enough to 
brown lay in the fish whole, cover the pan and fry 
it slowly forty minutes. When it has cooked twen- 
ty minutes turn it, and when done lift it into a warm 
chafing-dish and put one teaspoonful of browned 
flour and one gill of hot water into the gravy and 
let it boil five minutes. Stir it up well from the 
bottom and then put in three tablespoonfuls of my 
tomato catsup and pour it into the graw dish. 



58 FISH RECIPES. 



FRESH SHAD BOILED 

Is prepared in the same manner as in the preced- 
ing receipt, but it must be broiled forty minutes, it 
being a thicker fish, and it is best served with drawn 
butter that has three tablespoonfuls of my tomato 
catsup in it. 

BOILED TROUT, (Cold.) 

A lake trout weighing three pounds will take 
twenty minutes to cook. Scale it thin, dress it with 
the head on and wash it in cold water. Put it into 
the fish kettle with cold water enough to cover it 
that has one teaspoonful of salt to a pint of water. 
When it begins to boil skim it and cook it slowly 
twenty minutes. Sift it carefully and put it on the 
dish that is to be sent to table. When it is cold 
garnish it with sprigs of curled parsley and serve 
with a Mayonaise sauce. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Take a six pound white fish and after it is scaled 
and dressed (leaving the head on) wash it in cold 
water and dry it off, then put a pinch of salt and 
pepper inside and fill it with stuffing, leaving room 



FISH RECIPES. 59 



for it to swell; then sew it up with a small cord, 
salt and pepper the outside and dredge it well with 
flour. Have ready on the fire a fish pan with one 
tablespoonful of fresh butter and one of fresh lard 
in it and when it is hot enough to brown, lay in 
the fish put it into the oven and bake it three quar- 
ters of an hour. Baste it often and when it is lift- 
ed put one gill of hot water into the gravy; let it 
boil up a minute, stir it up well from the bottom 
and put in three tablespoonfuls of my tomato catsup; 
cut the cord the fish was sewed with in short 
pieces with a pair of scissors and draw it out care- 
fully. 

STUFFING FOR FISH. 

One pint of sliced onions cut up fine, measured 
after they are cut up; five ounces of fresh butter, 
four ounces of bread without the crust, two fresh 
eggs separated, one tablespoonful of parsley after 
it has been cut up fine, one teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the butter and onions into a 
skillet and cook them soft; dip the bread into cold 
water, take it out quickly, squeeze it out and stir it 
in with the onions and butter. Then put in the 
parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper and mix it well 
together. Then take it off the fire and beat the 
yolks and stir them in, now beat the whites to a 
stiff foam and stir them in when you are ready to 
fill the fish. The stuffing should be warm when it 
is put in. 



6o OYSTER RECIPES. 






OYSTER SOUP. 

Put one quart of fresh oysters into a colander 
and let cold water run through them. Then put 
them into a porcelain saucepan, with half a pint of 
cold water; one pint of rich sweet milk. Three 
ounces of fresh butter and one teaspoonful of salt, 
01 salt to taste. Set them over a slow fire, and 
then crush four double baked rusks fine with a roll- 
ing pin, and just before the soup begins to boil stir 
in a few large kitchen spoonfuls of the rusks. 
Now watch it closely. As soon as it begins to boil 
take it ofF the fire and pour it into the soup tureen. 



OYSTER RECIPES. 6l 



Serve it with crackers and celery or cold slaw. If 
oysters boil one minute they become tough and 
tasteless. Therefore they must be watched closely 
and taken from the fire the moment they begin to 
boil. 



ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 



Three dozen large fresh oysters. One pint of 
crushed double baked rusk, made fine. One tea- 
spoonful of salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. One teaspoonful of dried summer savory, 
after it has been made fine and sifted. Two 
ounces of fresh butter, melted. Haifa pint of rich 
sweet milk. Put the oysters into a colander and 
let cold water run through them, then let them 
drain. Put the rusk into a deep dish and mix 
the salt and pepper and summer savory with it, 
mix it well together. Take a deep tin pie plate 
and cover the bottom with the rusk, then put in a 
layer of oysters, then a layer of rusk, then part of 
the butter, then with a tablespoon part of the milk 
evenly over the rusk. Then another layer of 
oysters in the same manner until all are in, finish- 
ing with the rusk, butter and the remainder of the 
milk. Put it into a quick oven and bake twenty 
minutes. 



62 OYSTER RECIPES. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

One quart of large fresh oysters; half a pint of 
water; one tablespoonful of green parsley washed 
and cut up fine; one teaspoonful of crushed cel- 
ery seed; one gill of rich sweet milk; two tea- 
spoonfuls ot flour; three yolks of fresh eggs; three 
ounces of fresh butter; one teaspoonful of salt; 
half a teaspoonful of pepper; three tablespoonfuls 
of crushed double baked rusk. Put the oysters into 
a colander and let cold water run through them. 
Put the half pint of water,parsley and celery seed into 
a saucepan and let it come to a boil, then put in the 
milk. Mix the flour with a spoonful of cold milk, 
then beat the yolks and flour together and stir them 
in. Stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must not 
boil. Then put in the butter, salt, pepper and the 
oysters. As soon as the oysters are fringed and 
swollen, (they must not boil) stir in the rusk, take 
them quickly off the Are and put them into a warm 
chafing-dish. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

One quart of large fresh oysters; one pint of oys- 
ter crackers; one teaspoonful of salt; quarter of a 
teaspoonful of pepper; one large kitchen spoonful 
of fresh butter. If they are canned oysters put 



OYSTER RECIPES. 6$ 



them into a colander and let cold water run through 
them, let them drain only a minute, then put them 
into a porcelain dish. Put the crackers on to a clean 
paper and crush them fine with a rolling pin, then 
put them into a pie plate and mix the salt and 
pepper with them. Roll the oysters over (one at 
a time) in the crackers and lay them on a large 
plate. Have ready on the fire a frying pan with 
the butter in it hot enough to brown (try it first 
with one oyster) then lay in the oysters one at a 
time, let them fry one minute, then turn them, fry 
them another minute, then lift. Put them into a 
warm chafiing dish and send to table hot. Oys- 
ters prepared in this way are much better than when 
they are dipped in eggs. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

If they are canned oysters put them into a col- 
ander and let cold water run through them. Then 
let them drain and then put them into china dish- 
es with small pieces of clear ice strewn amongst 
them. Serve with tomato catsup made by my re- 
ceipt, celery salad or cold slaw and Albert or 
English crackers. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Put some large fresh oysters into a colander and 
let cold water run through them, then let them 



64 OYSTER RECIPES. 

drain. Rub the small patty-plates with fresh but- 
ter and line them with puff paste; rill the plates 
with oysters and put a very little salt on each oys- 
ter, cut up some fresh butter into small pieces the 
size of a hazel nut, roll them in powdered cracker 
and put six of them into each plate, or one to each 
oyster; cover with puff paste and bake in a quick 
oven. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

One pint of crab meat; half a pint crushed 
double baked rusks or bread crumbs; one gill of 
vinegar; two ounces of fresh butter; one teaspoon- 
ful of my made mustard; half a teaspoonful of salt; 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper; one gill of 
rich sweet milk and three yolks of fresh eggs; put 
the vinegar, butter, mustard, salt and pepper over 
the lire to get hot, but not to boil. Beat the yolks 
and milk together and stir them into the vinegar 
and the other ingredients until it is thick, but it 
must not boil after the eggs are in. Now take a 
deep pie-plate and cover the bottom with a thin 
layer of rusk, then a layer of crabs, and rusk again, 
with a couple of spoonfuls of the sauce distributed 
over it, then another layer of crabs, rusks and 
sauce and so on until all are in, finishing with the 
rusk and sauce. Put it into a quick oven where it 
will brown lightly in ten minutes. 



OYSTER RECIPES. 65 

DEYILED CRABS. (Excellent.) 

Haifa pint of crab meat; half a pint of beef soup; 
half a pint of tomatoes; one tablespoonful of 
butter; one teaspoonful of my made mustard; 
half a teaspoonful of salt; one quarter of 
a teaspoonful of pepper; one gill of crushed 
double baked rusk; cook the tomatoes in the 
soup until they are all broken up. Then put in 
the butter, mustard, salt and pepper and take it oft 
the fire, then put in the crab meat and rusk and 
mix it together. Then put it into a dish and set it 
in a quick oven for ten minutes and then serve. 

SHRIMPS STEWED. 

One quart of shrimps, that is two cans; two 
ounces of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour mixed in it; half a pint of hot rich sweet milk; 
half a pint of hot water; one teaspoonful of crushed 
celery seed; one pinch of nutmeg; one teaspoon- 
ful of salt; half a teaspoonful of pepper; four yolks 
of fresh eggs, mix the butter and flour together 
and put it into a stew pan and let it fry a minute, 
then stir in the milk and water and let it 
come to a boil, then add the celery, nutmeg, salt 
and pepper, and put in the shrimps, and when 
they are hot, but not boiling, beat the yolks with 
two tablespoonfuls of milk and stir them in, when 
they are scalding hot take them oft" the fire, they 
must not boil. 



66 OYSTER RECIPES. 



TERRAPIN. 

Put the terrapin into boiling water and boil un- 
til the skin and toe nails come off easily. Then 
take it out, pull off the skin, take out the toe nails 
and wash it in warm water and boil it again in salt- 
ed water until the flesh is tender; then take it out 
of the shell, remove the sand bag and gall which 
you must be careful not to break, as it will make 
the terrapin bitter and uneatable. Cut the terrapin 
into small pieces and save the juice that comes out 
in the cutting with as much of the water it was 
boiled in as will make half a pint. One quart of 
terrapin meat; half a pint of the juice and water it 
was boiled in; four ounces of fresh butter with 
two teaspoonfuis of flour mixed in it; four table- 
spoonfuls of cider vinegar; one teaspoonful crush- 
ed celery seed; one teaspoonful of my made mus- 
tard; one teaspoonful of salt; half a teaspoonful of 
pepper; three yolks of fresh eggs; four tablespoon- 
fuls of rich sweet milk; mix the butter and flour to- 
gether and put it in a stew pan and let it fry a minute, 
then stir in the juice and water and let it come to a 
boil, then add the vinegar, celery seed, mustard, 
salt and pepper and when it is hot put in the ter- 
rapin and let it boil five minutes. Then beat the 
yolks and milk together and stir them in, let it get 
jcalding hot, but not to boil, and then lift. 



BEEF RECIPES. &J 



Seef. 



ROAST BEEF. 

Have the oven hot before you begin to prepare 
the meat. Take six pounds of beef, wash it in cold 
water, dry it, salt and pepper it with two teaspoon- 
fulsof saltand half a teaspoonful of ground black pep- 
per. Dredge it well with flour, mix one tablespoon- 
ful of fresh butter and one of lard with one teaspoon- 
ful of flour and put it into the roasting pan and let it 
brown a minute. Then stir in half a pint of hot 
water and put in the beef the outside up. After it 
has roasted fifteen minutes begin to baste. When 
the water has boiled down in the gravy add a 
kitchen spoonful of hot water from time to time 
and baste often. Cook it one hour and a half. 
After it is lifted skim off part of the fat and put in 
half a pint of boiling water. Stir it up well from 
the bottom and let it boil a few minutes, then lift. 
Six pounds of beef take one hour and a half to roast. 
Ten pounds two hours. 



68 BEEF RECIPES. 



BEEF STEAK BROILED BY GAS. 

Since I have become the possessor of one of Mr. 
Thomas Gaussen's gas cooking stoves, we have 
had the most delicious beefsteaks. Take a young 
porterhouse steak one inch thick, wash it in cold 
water, but don't let it lay in the water to soak the 
juice out, then lay it on the meat board, dry it off, 
pound it with a wooden mallet and then nick the out 
side skin to prevent it from curling. Salt and pep- 
per it on both sides, then place the gridiron over the 
pan that is to catch the gravy, put the steak on it 
and set it into the broiler, then let on the gas, and 
in ten minutes turn the steak and broil it ten min- 
utes longer. Lift it into a warm chafing-dish and 
pour the gravy over it. This is the real juice of 
the beef without butter or water. 

BEEF STEAK SMOTHERED IN 

OMONS. 

Prepare a porterhouse steak in the same man- 
ner as in the preceding receipt, and whilst it is broil- 
ing put one pint of sliced onions, cut up, into a skil- 
let with two ounces of fresh butter, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a pinch of pepper, and fry them a 
light brown. When the steak is done and put into 
a warm chafing-dish with the gravy poured over it, 
cover the steak with the onions, close the chafing- 
dish and send it to table hot. 



BEEF RECIPES. 69 



BEEF A LA MODE. 

Four pounds of beef from the rump without bone 
and two inches thick; half a pound of fat bacon; 
two ounces of fresh butter; six bay leaves; half a 
tables poonful of juniper berries; one teaspoonful 
of cloves; one gill of cider vinegar; two onions 
peeled and cut in quarters. Wash the beef in cold 
water, dry it off, pound it with a wooden mallet 
and lard it with fat bacon. Cut the bacon in slices, 
cut off the skin, trim off the edges and cut it in 
pieces wedge shaped. Make the incisions deep 
with a sharp pointed knife and press in the bacon, 
then salt and pepper it on both sides and dredge 
it with flour. Have ready on the fire a dutch oven 
with the two ounces of butter in it, and when it is 
hot enough to brown lay in the beef and brown it 
well on both sides, then put in hot water enough to 
half cover the beef and the bay leaves, juniper ber- 
ries, cloves, vinegar and onions. Keep the oven 
covered and cook it slowly two hours if young, two 
and a half if old. When it has cooked one hour 
turn it, and if the water boils down too low replen- 
ish with a little boiling water. When the beef is 
done the water should be boiled down and there 
should be a brown gravy, then lift it, skim off part 
of the fat from the gravy, put in a gill or more of 
hot water, let it boil a minute, stir it up well from 
the bottom and pour it through the gravy strainer 
into the gravy dish. It is good warm or cold serv- 
ed with the gravy. 



70 BEEF RECIPES. 



CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

Take live pounds of the brisket piece of sugar 
cured corned beef that is fat, wash it in cold water 
and if it is too salt let it lay in cold water for an 
hour or so. Put it into a pot with cold water enough 
to cover it, and when it begins to boil skim it as 
long as anything rises to the surface, then set it 
where it will cook slowly for three hours. The 
cabbage should be the Dutch flat heads and of the 
smallest size. Trim off the outside leaves, cut off 
the stalk and cut the cabbage in two if it is very 
small, if not, quarter them. Put them into a large 
pan of cold water for half an hour, examine them 
carefully, shake them up and down in the water 
and then put them into the colander to drain. As 
soon as the corned beef is well skimmed put the cab- 
bage in with it and cook it slowly two and a half 
hours. If the water boils down too low replenish 
with a little boiling water, but there must not be 
much water in the pot when it is done or the cab- 
bage will not be rich enougho 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

One quart of fine chopped corned beef from the 
brisket piece; four middle sized onions peeled, 
sliced and chopped fine; two raw potatoes peeled, 



BEEF RECIPES, /I 



sliced and chopped fine; half a pint of water; half 
a teaspoonful of pepper. The beef is salt enough 
without any extra salt. Put the whole into a fry- 
ing pan and cook it half an hour. Just before lift- 
ing stir in scant half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg 
and the yolks of two eggs. It must be almost dry 
when it is lifted. 

TRIPE, STEWED. 

Tripe must be cooked five hours; take five 
pounds of tripe, cut it in pieces half an inch wide 
and two inches long. Wash it in warm water, put 
it into a stew pan with boiling water enough to 
cover it and boil it three hours. If the water boils 
down replenish with boiling water, then put it into 
a colander, drain off the water and return the tripe 
to the stew pan with boiling water enough to cover 
it. Now put in six bay leaves and two blades of 
mace as large as a five cent piece and boil it one 
hour and a half, then put in one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter, half a teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt and half a pint of 
good cider vinegar. Now put two tablespoonfuls 
of browned flour and one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter into a frying pan with as much liquor from 
the tripe as w r ill mix it together, and let it boil two 
or three minutes, then stir it in with the tripe, then 
add two tablespoonfuls of crushed double baked 
rusk and let it simmer twenty minutes. 



72 BEEF RECIPES. 



SPICED PICKLE FOR BEEF, 
VENISON AND RABBITS. 

One gallon of good cider vinegar; one quarter 
of a pound of bay leaves; two tablespoonfuls of 
cloves; two tablespoonfuls of whole pepper; three 
large spoonfuls of juniper leaves; two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt. Put the whoie together into a porce- 
lain kettle and let it boil five minutes. Have ready 
four large onions sliced and put them into the pickle 
as soon as it is taken off the fire. Keep it covered 
closely. It is ready for use as soon as it is cold. 
It is very fine for beef, venison and rabbits. Six 
pounds of beef should lay in the pickle eight days, 
six pounds of venison six days and a rabbit three 
days. This pickle can be used three times in the 
winter by adding a little more vinegar the last time. 

SPICED BEEF ALA MODE. (Very 

Fine.) 

Take six or seven pounds of beef without any 
bones in it and four or five inches thick, (the butch- 
ers have it ready cut for this purpose) wash it, 
wipe it and pound it well. Then lard it with one 
pound and a half of fat bacon, cut the bacon in 
slices half an inch thick, take off the skin and cut 



BEEF RECIPES. 73 



the bacon wedge shaped, tnen take a strong sharp 
pointed knife and make the incisions deep; lard 
it close on both sides and stick a clove in each 
piece of bacon. Now take part of the bay leaves 
out of the pickle, lay in the beef and put the bay 
leaves on top, the pickle must cover the beef and the 
kettle must be close covered. When the beef has 
been in four days turn it, when it has been in eight 
days take it out and put it into an iron dutch oven 
with hot water enough to come half way up to the 
top of the beef, cover the oven and cook it slowly 
three hours. When it has cooked two hours turn 
it, brown it on both sides and when it is lifted stir 
into the gravy half a tablespoonful of browned 
flour and half a pint of hot water, let it boil a few 
minutes, stir it up well from the bottom and skim 
off part of the fat before sending it to table. It is 
excellent cold, served with the gravy and when 
chopped up makes nice sandwiches. Mashed po- 
tatoes, stewed carrots, parsnips or turnips should 
be served with spiced beef. 



BEEF'S TONGUE, SPICED. 

Prepare a fresh beefs tongue in the following 
manner: Wash it in two waters, trim off the 
back part and put it into a sauce pan with cold 
water enough to cover it and boil it two hours. 



74 BEEF RECIPES. 



Then take it out on a platter and take off the skin 
and cut out the meat from underneath the tongue, 
Then put it into my spiced pickle for beef and 
game, and let it remain in it eight days, 
then take it out and put it into a dutch oven with 
cold water enough to half cover the tongue and 
boil it two hours. Keep the oven covered and when 
it has cooked one hour turn it, then mix one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter with one tablespoonful of 
browned flour and put it into a skillet with a small 
ladle full of the water from the tongue and let it 
boil until it is as thick as cream, then stir it in with 
the tongue. When the tongue is done there should 
be about half a pint of gravy. It is good either 
warm or cold, is very nice for lunch and makes 
fine sandwiches. 



BEEF'S TONGUE, FRESH. 

Take a young fresh beef's tongue and wash it in 
two waters with a coarse linen cloth, then let clear 
water run over it and put it into a sauce pan with 
cold water enough to cover it, and when it begins 
to boil skim it well, then put in six bay leaves and 
a teaspoonful of salt, cover the sauce pan and let 
it cook slowly four hours. When.it has cooked 
two hours turn it and if the water has boiled down 
too low, replenish with a little boiling water, when 



BEEF RECIPES. 75 



it is done take off the skin, trim off the back part 
and cut out the meat from underneath the tongue. 
Send it to table whole or cut it in slices and lay 
it in rows. Serve it with the following sauce: 

SAUCE FOR BEEF TONGUE. 

Put one tablespoonful of browned flour into a 
skillet and when it is hot put in two ounces of fresh 
butter and half a pint of the water that the tongue 
was cooked in, poured through a gravy strainer, then 
put in half a teaspoonful of powdered mace, half a 
teaspoonful of powdered cloves, one quarter of a 
teaspoonful of ground black pepper and two table- 
spoonfuls of good cider vinegar. Stir it together 
and let it boil slowly fifteen minutes. 



j6 VEAL RECIPES. 



VekL 



VEAL A LA MODE. 

Four pounds of veal cut two inches thick (from 
the round); one pound of fat bacon; two ounces 
of fresh butter; six bay leaves; half a teaspoonful 
of powdered mace; half a teaspoonful of powder- 
ed cloves; four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar; 
two teaspoonfuls of browned flour. Wash the veal 
in cold water, dry it off, cut the outside skin to pre- 
vent it from curling, and pound it well on both 
sides. Cut the bacon in slices, take off the skin, 
trim off the outside edges and cut it in pieces wedge 
shaped, then make the incisions deep with a sharp 
pointed knife and lard it half an inch apart. Have 
ready on the fire a dutch oven with two ounces of 
fresh butter in it, and when it is hot enough to 
brown, salt, pepper and dredge the veal with flour 
on the upper side and lay it in, flour side down, 
then season and dredge the other side, cover the 
oven close, and brown it on both sides a yellow 



VEAL RECIPES. 77 



brown, then put in the bay leaves and hot water 
enough to reach half of the veal. Cover the oven 
and cook it slowly one hour. Baste it often and 
when done lift it into a warm chafing-dish, skim 
off part of the fat from the gravy, then put in two 
teaspoonfuls of browned flour, half a pint of hot 
water, the mace, cloves and vinegar. Let it boil a 
few minutes, stir it up from the bottom, put m salt 
and pepper to the taste and pour it through the 
gravy strainer into the gravy dish. 

CINCINNATI PATES A LA 
STRASBOURG!!. 

One pound of young calf s liver weighed after it 
is cooked; six bay leaves; half a teaspoonful of 
salt; one gill of the water the liver was cooked in; 
half a teaspoonful of powdered cloves; half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered mace; half a teaspoonful of 
pepper; half a teaspoonful of salt; four ounces of 
fresh butter with one teaspoonful of browned flour 
mixed with it. Wash the liver in cold water and 
put it into a stew pan with cold water enough to 
cover it, and when it begins to boil skim it as long 
as anything rises to the surface, then put in the bay 
leaves and half a teaspoonful of salt, boil it until it 
is very tender; it takes about two hours. When 
done put it into a deep porcelain dish, pour the wa- 



78 VEAL RECIPES. 



ter and bay leaves over it and let it stand until cold. 
The water should have boiled down to about half 
a pint. Strain the water through a gravy strainer 
or wire sieve, put one gill of it into a skillet, add 
all the spices and seasoning, set it over the fire, 
mix the browned flour and butter together, stir it 
in, let boil a minute and take it off. Weigh the 
liver, cut it in to thin small pieces and grind it in a 
porcelain mortar to a fine paste, moistening it each 
ime with two tablespoonfuls of the sauce. It can 
be put into small molds or one large one, and cut in 
slices when served. It is very nice for lunch or tea. 

VEAL CUTLET. 

A veal cutlet should be cut from the thickest part 
of the round and should be one inch and a half 
thick. After it is washed in cold water and dried 
off, cut the outside skin to prevent it from curling, 
then pound it on both sides, salt and pepper it and 
dredge it with flour on the upper side. Have ready 
on the fire a frying pan with a tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one of lard, and when it is hot 
enough to brown lay in the cutlet, flour side down, 
then salt, pepper and dredge the other side. Cover 
the frying pan close, (the steam makes the veal 
tender) and cook it slowly twenty minutes, then 
turn it and cook it twenty minutes longer. When 
it is done lift it into a warm chafing-dish, put two 



VEAL RECIPES. 79 



teaspoonfuls of browned flour and a gill of hot wa- 
ter into the gravy. Let it boil a few minutes, stir 
it up well from the bottom, then pour it over the 
cutlet, 

VEAL FRICASSEE. 

Take four pounds of the breast of veal and cut 
it up according to the bones. Wash it in cold wa- 
ter and put it into a flat iron dutch oven that has a 
cover to it, and put in cold water enough to cover 
it. Just before it begins to boil skim it well, 
then put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter, 
six bay leaves, and a blade of mace the size of a ten 
cent piece. Keep it covered and cook it one hour 
and a half. When it has cooked one hour put in 
pepper and salt to the taste, then take two table- 
spoonfuls of browned flour, and whilst it is hot stir 
into it one tablespoonful ot fresh butter and as much 
of the liquor from the veal as will mix it well to- 
gether and stir it in with the veal, then stir in two 
large spoonfuls of crushed double baked rusk and 
let it simmer half an hour longer. Before sending 
to table remove the bay leaves and mace. 

VEAL FRICANDEAU, (Excellent.) 

Take two pounds of veal that is cut from the 
thickest part of the leg and is one inch and a half 



8o VEAL RECIPES. 



thick, wash it in cold water, dry it off, cut the out- 
side skin to prevent it from curling, and pound it 
well on both sides, then lard it with two dozen 
anchovies. The anchovies that I used for this pur- 
pose were rolled up in a coil the size of a silver 
quarter of a dollar and were put up in olive oil. 
Make the incisions in the cutlet deep with a sharp 
pointed knife and wide enough to insert the anchovy 
(coiled up) without breaking. The anchovies 
are salt enough to season the cutlet; sprinkle a lit- 
tle pepper over it and dredge the upper side thick- 
ly with flour. Have ready on the fire a deep skil- 
let with one gill of olive oil in it, and when it is 
hot enough to brown lay in the cutlet flour side 
down, then pepper and dredge the other side with 
flour; cover the skillet close and cook it a yellow 
brown, then turn it carefully, baste it often and 
cook it slowly thirty minutes longer. Keep the 
skillet covered and when it is done lift it into a 
warm chafing-dish, then put in one teaspoonful of 
browned flour, one gill of hot water and three 
tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar into the gravy; let 
it boil up a few minutes, stir it up well from the 
bottom and if required add a pinch of salt and 
pepper, then pour it over the veal. 

VEAL FRICASSEE. (With 
Sweet-breads.) 

Take three pounds of the breast of veal an 



VEAL RECIPES. 



cut it up according to the bones. Wash it in cold 
water and put it into a flat iron dutch oven with 
a cover to it. Put in cold water enough to cover 
the veal, then take one sweet-bread for each per- 
son you are to have at table. Trim them, wash 
them and put them in with the veal; set it over a 
slow fire and before it begins to boil skim it well, 
then put in one tablespoonful of fresh butter, six 
bay leaves and a blade of mace the size of a five 
cent piece. Keep it covered and cook it one hour 
and a half. When it has cooked one hour take out 
the sweet-breads on a porcelain plate and set them 
where they will keep warm; now put in salt and 
pepper to the taste. Take two tablespoonfuls of 
browned flour and while it is hot stir in one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and as much of the liquor 
from the veal as will mix it well together, then 
stir it in with the veal, then stir in two large spoon- 
fuls of crushed double baked rusk, now put in the 
sweet-breads without breaking them and let the 
whole simmer half an hour longer. Before send- 
ing to table remove the bay leaves and mace. 

ROAST OF VEAL. (The Kidney 
Piece.) 

Wash the veal in cold water and dry it off, salt 
and pepper it on both sides with an even table- 
spoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of black 



82 VEAL RECIPES. 



pepper; dredge it well with flour. Have ready on 
the fire an iron dutch oven with one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter and one of fresh lard in it, and as 
soon as it is hot enough to brown put in the veal, 
the out side down, and cover the oven. Let it 
cook slowly until it is nicely browned, then turn it 
over and brown the other side; then put in two or 
three tablespoonfuls of hot water and baste after. 
Keep the oven covered, the steam makes the meat 
tender and juicy. Five pounds of veal take one 
hour and a half to cook. After the veal is lifted 
put half a pint of hot water into the gravy and stir 
it up well from the bottom, let it boil a few 
minutes, then pour it into the gravy dish. 

VEAL HASH. (Very fine.) 

One quart of fine chopped, cold roast veal ; 
four middle sized onions; peeled, sliced and chop- 
ped fine ; two raw potatoes, pared, sliced and 
chopped fine; and half a pint of water; put the whole 
into a frying pan with the gravy that was left from 
the roast of veal; if there is no gravy, mix one 
tablespoonful of fresh butter, and one tablespoon- 
ful of lard, , with two teaspoonfuls of browned 
flour and stir it in; then add salt and pepper to the 
taste, and cook it half an hour; just before lifting 
stir in scant half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
and the yolks of two eggs; it must be almost dr} T 
when it is lifted. 



VEAL RECIPES. 83 



SWEET-BREADS FRICASSEED. 

(Very fine.) 

Six sweet-breads of equal size; one pint of beef 
broth; six bay leaves; two blades of mace, the size 
of a five cent piece; hall a teaspoonful of salt; one 
pinch of pepper; two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
one tablespoonful of browned flour; one tablespoon- 
ful of crushed double baked rusk; wash the sweet- 
breads in cold water and boil them in salted water 
thirty minutes; there should be water enough to 
cover them, that has one teaspoonful of salt in 
it to one pint of water. Then take them out 
trim them off nicely and put them into a deep skil- 
let with the beef broth, bay leaves, mace, salt and 
pepper; cover the skillet and let them cook slowly 
thirty minutes longer. Mix the butter and flour 
together, then add to it three tablespoonfuls of the 
liquor from the sweet-breads and stir it into the 
gravy without breaking the sweet-breads; then 
stir in the rusks and let it simmer ten minutes 
longer. Remove the bay leaves and mace before 
sending them to table. 



SWEET-BREADS, FRIED. 



Wash them in cold water and put them into a 
stew pan with cold salted water enough to cover 



84 VEAL RECIPES. 



them, and when it begins to boil skim it; then put 
in one bay leaf and one blade of mace the size of a 
bean for each sweet-bread and boil them thirty 
minutes, if large size, forty minutes; then take 
them out and save the water they were boiled in 
for the gravy. Trim them off nicely, salt and pep- 
per them and dredge them well with flour. Have 
ready on the fire a frying pan with a large kitchen- 
spoonful of fresh butter in it, and when it is hot 
enough to brown put in the sweet-breads, cover 
the pan; fry them a light brown, baste them and 
cook them slowly thirty minutes. When lifted put 
some of the spiced water they were boiled in into 
the gravy, let it boil a minute, stir it up well from 
the bottom and then pour it over the sweet-breads. 



CALF'S LIVER. 

A young calf's liver is light red, and an old one 
is dark red, and not fit to eat. Take a young 
calfs liver, wash it in cold water, dry it off and lay 
it on the meat board, cut it in slices half an inch 
thick, sprinkle a- pinch of salt and pepper over 
them and dredge them thickly with flour. Have 
ready on the fire a skillet with one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one of fresh lard in it and when 
it is hot enough to brown lay in the liver, flour 
side in the butter; then sprinkle the other side 



VEAL RECIPES. 85 



with salt and pepper and dredge it with flour; cov- 
er the skillet and cook it slowly ten minutes, then 
turn it and cook it ten minutes longer. Lift it in- 
to a warm chafing-dish and put half a pint of hot 
water into the gravy; let it boil a few minutes, stir- 
ring it up well from the bottom, and add another 
pinch of salt and pepper. The gravy should be 
rich and plenty of it. 



86 LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES, 



I^kn^b kqd JVTuttoq. 



LAMB AND TURNIPS. 

Three pounds of the breast of fat lamb is enough 
to cook with one quarter of a peck of turnips. 
Peel the turnips and chip them up in thin pieces as 
you do apples for pies. Wash them in cold water 
and put them into a colander. Mix one tablespoon- 
ful of fresh butter with one teaspoonful of flour 
and put it into a stew pan and let it boil a minute, 
then put in a pint of boiling water and the turnips 
with one teaspoonful of salt. The water must 
cover the turnips and they must cook slowly three 
hours. Wash the lamb, dry it off and sprinkle it 
with salt and pepper. When the turnips have 
cooked one hour put in the lamb, skin side down, 
and cook them together two hours longer. If the 
lamb is very fat omit the butter. There must be 
very little water in the stew pan when the lamb and 
turnips are done. 



LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES. 87 



LEG OF LAMB, LARDED. 



Wash the lamb in cold water and dry it off with 
a linen cloth, then lard it with small pickled button 
onions. Make the incisions deep with a sharp 
pointed knife and put the onions in out of sight. 
Salt and pepper it and dredge it with flour. Put 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter and one of fresh 
lard into a dutch oven, and when it is hot enough 
to brown lay in the lamb and brown it on both 
sides. Put in a tablespoonful of hot water from 
time to time and baste often. Cover the oven to 
keep in the steam and cook it ; slowly one hour. 
When lifted put into the gravy one teaspoonful of 
browned flour and one gill of hot water. Let it 
boil five minutes, stirring it up well from the bot- 
tom, then put in three tablespoonfuls of my tomato 
catsup and lift. . ■!..- 

LEG OF LAMB. ROASTED. 

Take a leg of young lamb that weighs three and 
a half pounds, wash it in cold water, dry it, salt 
and pepper it with a teaspoonful of salt and scant 
half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dredge it well on 
both sides with flour; put one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter and one of lard into a dutch oven and 
when it is hot enough to brown lay in the leg of 



88 LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES. 

lamb; brown it on both sides and baste often; put 
in a tablespoonful of hot water before basting, and 
keep the oven covered. Cook it slowly for one 
hour; after it is lifted put in one gill of hot water; 
let it boil a miuute, stir the gravy up well from the 
bottom and lift. Serve with young turnips, green 
peas and new potatoes. 

LAMB CHOPS, FRIED. 

Wash the lamb chops in cold water and dry 
them off, then salt and pepper them and dredge 
them with rlour; have ready on the fire a skillet 
with one tablespoonful of butter and one of lard, 
and when it is hot enough to brown lay in the 
chops; cook them ten minutes, then turn them and 
cook them ten minutes longer, then lift into a warm 
chafing-dish, pour one gill of hot water into the 
gravy, let it boil a few minutes, stirring it up well 
from the bottom, then put in three tablespoonfuls 
of my tomato catsup and lift. 

A LEG OF SOUTHDOWN MUT- 
TON, BOILED. 

Cut the knuckle from the leg, then wash the 
mutton in cold water and put it into a kettle with 



LAMB AND MUTTON RECIPES. 89 



cold water enough to cover it that has one table- 
spoonful of salt in it; just before the water begins 
to boil skim it well; cover the kettle and let it boil 
slowly one hour and a half if young, if old, two 
hours. If the water boils down too low replenish 
with boiling water. Serve with caper, mint or 
tomato sauce. 

SOUTHDOWN MUTTON CHOPS, 
BROILED BY GAS. 

After the chops have been washed in cold wa- 
ter and dried off pound them with the beefsteak 
pounder, then salt and pepper them; rub the grid- 
iron with a piece of fat pork or some lard tied in 
cloth and lay the chops on it; place the gridiron 
over the pan that is to catch the gravy and set it 
into the broiler, then let the gas on and in ten min- 
utes turn the chops and broil them ten minutes 
longer. 



90 PORK RECIPES. 



fWk. 



BOILED HAM. 

Take a sugar cured ham weighing ten pounds, 
cut off the end bone, scrape off the underside, wash 
it in warm water and put it into a large kettle with 
cold water enough to cover it and let it heat slow- 
ly until it begins to boil, then boil it three hours 
from the time it begins to boil. When it is done 
take it out on to a large platter, skin side down and 
trim off all the outside and put the trimmings on to 
another plate, then turn the ham upside down and 
take off the skin. Spot it with black pepper and 
wind fringed paper around the bone. 

ROASTED HAM. 

After the ham has been boiled, trimmed off and 
skinned, put it into a roasting pan (skin side up) 



PORK RECIPES. 



with half a pint of sherry wine, one gill of hot water 
and three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
then put it into an oven that is hotter on top than 
it is in the bottom and baste it with the wine 
every five minutes. Roast it a yellow brown. It 
takes about thirty minutes if the oven is right. 
When it is done lift it into a warm chafing-dish 
and skim off all the fat in the pan, then mix a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour with a little water and 
stir it into the pan. Let it boil a few minutes, then 
add a little more wine, water and sugar. Put it 
into a gravy dish and serve it with the ham. 

ROAST PIG. 

Take a young pig four weeks old that has been 
well cleaned, wash it in cold water, lay it on the 
meat board and dry it off. Make a stuffing with 
the following ingredients: Put two quarts of peeled 
and sliced sour apples into a saucepan with one gill 
of cold water, and when they are cooked soft put 
in three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
then mix two teaspoonfuls of corn starch with a 
tablespoonful of cold water and stir it in. Let it 
boil five minutes and then take it off. 

STUFFING. 

Pick and wash one pound of dried German 
prunes and put them into a saucepan with cold wa- 



92 PORK RECIPES. 



ter enough to just cover them. Cook them until 
they are soft but not to break. Fifteen minutes 
before they are done put in three tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, and when they are done measure them 
without the juice and put them into a large bowl, 
then measure the same quantity of apples and mix 
it with the prunes, then take one tablespoonful of 
anise seed to one quart of fruit. Rub the anise seed 
through the hands to take off the stems and then 
sift it and mix it with the apples and prunes and 
then stuff the pig, sew it up with a small cord, put 
a small block of wood in its mouth to keep it open; 
salt and pepper it and dredge it with flour. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter with two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour mixed with it into the baking 
pan and let it fry one minute, then put in half a pint 
of hot water and the pig. After the flour on the 
pig is browned baste often, putting in a spoonful 
of hot water from time to time. Brown it well and 
cook it two hours and a half. When it is lifted 
put half a pint of water into the gravy, stir it up 
from the bottom, put in salt and pepper to the 
taste and let it boil a few minutes. Cut the cord in 
short pieces with a pair of scissors and draw it out. 
Take the block out of its mouth and put in a red 
apple. Garnish with green parsley. 

PIGS' FEET, SOUSED. 

Select the smallest pigs' feet, they are the young- 



PORK RECIPES, 93 



est; wash them in cold water and put them into a 
kettle with cold water enough to cover them, and 
when they begin to boil skim off whatever rises to 
the surface. If the water boils down replenish 
with boiling water; the feet must be covered with 
water until they are done; cook them four hours, 
or until they are very tender. Then take them 
out onto a large platter, split them open between the 
hoofs and take out the large bones; now take a 
large flat stone crock and put in a layer of the pigs 
feet, cut side up, and sprinkle over them a pinch 
of salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of cloves; 
then another layer with salt, pepper and cloves, 
and so on until all are in. Then fill the crock 
with good cider vinegar and cover it close. They 
will be ready to use in twenty-four hours; they 
can be eaten cold or warm, but they are better 
warm. Put them into a skillet with some of the 
congealed vinegar and cloves, and when they are 
hot if they are too sour add a little water and salt 
if required. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

The white marrow beans are the richest and 
easiest cooked. Take one quart of beans, pick 
them, wash them in two waters and put them into 
a pan that holds two quarts and a half, then take 
one pound of fat, pickled pork, wash it in warm 



94 PORK RECIPES. 



water and trim off the parts that are not fresh cut, 
then cut the skin in cross-bars and put the pork 
down in the middle of the beans, leaving only the 
skin in sight. Now put in one teaspoonful of salt 
and one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar 
and fill up the pan with cold water to within half 
an inch of the top; put it into the oven and bake 
them three hours and a half. Replenish with hot 
water from time to time, keeping the water even 
with the beans until half an hour before they are 
done; then let the water cook down and if they 
are browned a little on top remove them before 
sending to table. 

SAUSAGES. 

Wash the sausages in cold water, then separate 
them and put them into a skillet with half a pint 
of hot water and boil them ten minutes; then turn 
them and prick them with a fork and boil them 
until the water is boiled down; then brown them 
on both sides in their own fat. They are done in 
thirty minutes. 

SPARE RIB, STUFFED. 

Take a whole young spare rib that has small 
bones, and after it is washed in cold water lay it on 



PORK RECIPES. 95 



the meat board and dry it off, then crack the bones 
exactly in the middle with a hatchet, but they must 
not be cut clear through, then fold the two edges 
together, trim off the ends to make it even and sew 
it up with a small cord leaving the largest end open 
for the filling. Fill it with the following ingredi- 
ents: Haifa pint of cooked sour apples that have 
•two teaspoonfuls of sugar in them, half a pint of 
cooked prunes with two teaspoonfuls of sugar in 
them and two teaspoonfuls of anise seed. Put the 
apples and prunes into a bowl and mix them to- 
gether, then stir in the anise seed, fill and sew up, 
salt and pepper it on both sides and dredge it with 
flour. Put two ounces of fresh butter into the 
roasting pan with half a pint of water and lay in 
the spare rib. Brown it on both sides, baste it often, 
putting in a spoonful of hot water from time to 
time. Keep the oven closed and cook it two hours. 
When it is lifted cut the cord in short pieces with 
a pair of scissors and draw it out. Put half a pint 
of hot water into the gravy, stir it up well from the 
bottom and let it boil a few minutes. 



96 POULTRY RECIPES. 



fWtfy. 



HOW TO KNOW A YOUNG TUR- 
KEY. 

If the lower joints of the legs are a dark red it 
is a young turkey. If they are white it is an old 
one. This is a sure sign. I never knew it to fail. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Take a young hen turkey that weighs six or seven 
pounds and wash it inside and out with cold water 
and dry it with a clean napkin. Rub the inside of 
the turkey with half a tablespoonful of fresh butter 
and a pinch of salt and pepper. Stuff it, sew it up 
and sprinkle a little salt and pepper on it. Put 
some small pieces of butter on the outside of it, put 
it into the roasting pan with half a pint of water 
and a tablespoonful of fresh butter. Baste it often. 
It takes one hour and a half to roast a young tur- 



POULTRY RECIPES. 97 

key of this size in the range. Put the giblets on to 
boil when the turkey is put into the oven. Cook 
them until they are.soft, then cut them up and mash 
the liver. After the turkey is lifted skim off part of 
the fat from the gravy and stir in half a tablespoon- 
ful of browned flour, then put in the giblets with the 
water they were cooked in which should be half a 
pint, then add salt and pepper to the taste and stir it 
up well from the bottom of the pan. Let it cook a 
few minutes and lift. 



TURKEY STUFFING. 

One quart of fresh oysters; eight ounces of fresh 
butter; eight ounces of bread, without the crust, 
dipped in cold water and squeezed out quicklv; three 
fresh eggs beaten separately; one tablespoonful of 
green parsley leaves cut up line; one tablespoon- 
ful of celery leaves cut up fine; two teaspoonfuls of 
dried summer savory after it has been made fine 
and sifted; one teaspoonful of salt; half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the oysters into a saucepan and 
let them scald, but not boil, then pour them into a 
colander to drain. Put the butter into a deep skil- 
let and set it where it will melt, but not get hot, 
beat the yolks and stir them in with the butter, then 
put in the parsley, celery, summer savory, salt and 
pepper and then stir in the bread. Beat the whites 



gS POULTRY RECIPES. 



to a stiff foam, stir them in then put in the oysters 
and fill quickly. The stuffing should be warm when 
it is put into the turkey. 

STUFFING FOR A TURKEY OR 
CHICKENS. 

One quart of sliced onions, cut up fine, meas- 
ured after they are cut up; eight ounces of fresh 
butter; eight ounces of bread without the crust; 
four fresh eggs beaten separately; two tablespoon- 
fuls of parseiy after it has been washed and cut up 
fine; two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg; two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt; one teaspoonful of pepper. After 
the onions are peeled and sliced, cut them up fine, 
then put them into a skillet with the butter and cook 
them soft, but not brown. Dip the bread into cold 
water, take it out quick, squeeze it out and stir it 
in with the butter and onions, then put in the 
parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper and mix it well 
together. Then take it off the fire and beat the 
yolks and stir them in, now beat the whites to a 
stiff foam and stir them in when you are ready to 
fill. The stuffing should be warm when it is put 
in. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Choose a young hen turkey, and after it has been 
dressed and washed in cold water dry it off with a 



POULTRY RECIPES. 



99 



linen cloth, then take half a pound of fat pickled 
pork trim off the outside, that is not fresh cut, wash 
it in warm water and put it inside of the turkey. 
Tie the legs fast to the body, turn the wings behind 
and tie them, then put the turkey into a porcelain 
kettle with cold water enough to cover it, and just 
before it begins to boil skim it, then set it where it 
will boil slowly for two hours, if it is an old one 
two and a half hours. When it has boiled one 
hour turn it and if the water boils down too low 
replenish with boiling water. Serve with oyster or 
egg sauce. Save the water the turkey was boiled 
in for soup next day. Skim off the fat, it is good 
to fry potatoes with. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

Take a young lull grown yellow legged chicken 
and after it has been dressed and washed in cold 
water dry it off with a linen cloth, take one quar- 
ter of a pound of fat pickled pork, trim off the out- 
side edges, wash it in warm water and put it inside 
the chicken, then tie the legs fast to the body, turn 
the wings behind and tie them, then put the chick- 
en into a large saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover it, and when it begins to boil skim it, then 
set it where it will boil slowly one hour. If the 
water boils down too low replenish with boiling- 
water. Serve with oyster or egg sauce. 



789457A 



IOO POULTRY RECIPES. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Select a young full grown chicken and after it is 
dressed, cut up and washed, put it into a stew pan 
with cold water enough to cover it and just before 
it begins to boil, skim it. Peel four celery roots, 
slice them thin, wash them and put them in with 
the chicken, then put in one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter, and when the chicken has cooked one hour 
put in two tablespoonfuls ot green parsley leaves 
cut up fine, one teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of pepper. Now mix one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter with one heaped table- 
spoonful of flour and stir it in with the chicken. 
Let it simmer slowly fifteen minutes then put in 
two dozen fresh oysters and as soon as it begins 
to boil again take it off the fire and lift. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

After the chicken has been dressed, cut up and 
washed, put it into a stew pan with cold water 
enough to cover it and just before it begins to boil 
skim it; then take three quarters of a pound of 
pickled pork, trim off all the outside that is not 
fresh cut, wash it, cut it in slices and put it in with 
the chicken; then put in six bay leaves and two 
blades of mace the size of a five cent piece. When 



POULTRY RECIPES. IOI 



the chicken has cooked one hour, or until it begins 
to be tender, add one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
pepper and salt if required, then roll out some 
pastry dough a quarter of an inch thick, cut it in 
squares, put it in with the chicken and cook it 
slowly thirty minutes. Remove the bay leaves 
and mace before sending- it to table. 

CHICKEN PIE-. 

A young chicken that is not quite fully grown 
is the best for a chicken pie. After it has been 
cut up by the joints split the back in three pieces, 
cut out the wish bone piece and split the breast in 
two, wash it in cold water and put it into a stew pan 
with just cold water enough to cover it. Just before 
it begins to boil skim it, then put in one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley leaves, one blade of mace 
the size of a five cent piece, half a grated lemon 
peel, two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter with two 
teaspoonfuls of flour mixed in it, one teaspoonful 
of salt and a pinch of pepper. Cover the kettle 
and cook it until tender, then take the chicken out 
and boil the water down to half a pint and then 
strain it through a gravy strainer or wire sieve. 
Roll out some pastry one fourth of an inch thick 
and cut it in squares. Line a deep well buttered 
dish with some of the pastry and then put in a laver 
Df chicken cut side up and a layer of pastry squares, 



102 POULTRY RECIPES. 

with two large spoonfuls of the broth, then another 
layer, and so on, finishing with the chicken and 
broth. Cover with pastry and cut a few slits in it 
with a sharp knife, put it in the oven and bake 
thirty minutes. 

SPRING CHICKENS, COOKED 
WHOLE. 

Yellow legged chickens are the best and the best 
way to cook them is in a dutch oven with a cover 
to it and in the following manner: After they are 
picked and dressed light a paper and singe them. 
Wash them in cold water, dry them off, salt and 
pepper them with one teaspoonful of salt and a 
pinch of pepper to each chicken. Dredge them 
well with flour. Put one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter with one of fresh lard into the dutch oven, 
and when it is hot enough to brown put in the 
chickens. Brown them on both sides. Put in from 
time to time a kitchen spoonful of hot water and 
baste them every fifteen minutes. Let them cook 
slowly and keep the oven covered. The steam 
makes them tender and juicy. If the chickens are 
full grown cook them one hour, if not full grown 
three quarters of an hour. After the chickens are 
lifted put half a pint of boiling water in the gravy. 
Let it boil a few minutes, stir it up well from the 
bottom and lift. 



POULTRY RECIPES. IO3 



ROAST DUCKS. (Young ones.) 

After the ducks have been dressed and washed 
in cold water, dry them off with a soft linen cloth 
then rub the inside of each duck with ateaspoonful 
of fresh butter and a pinch of salt and pepper; now 
fill them, sew them up, put a pinch ol salt and pep- 
per over them, dredge them with flour and put 
them into the roasting pan with half a pint of wa- 
ter, a large spoonful of fresh butter and a double 
baked rusk. When the flour on the ducks has 
browned baste them from time to time and cook 
them one hour; when lifted put half a pint of hot 
water into the gravy, let it boil up a minute, stir 
it up well from the bottom and pour it into the 
gravy dish. Serve with currant or cranberry jelly. 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS. (One 
pair.) 

One quart of sliced white onions cut up fine; 
six ounces of fresh butter; eight ounces of stale 
bread without the crust, dipped in cold water and 
squeezed out quick; three fresh eggs beaten 
separately; one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; 
one teaspoonful of salt; half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the butter and onions into a 
deep skillet and cook the onions soft, then put in 



104 POULTRY RECIPES. 



the bread, nutmeg, salt and pepper and mix it well 
together, then take it off the fire and beat the 
yolks and stir them in, then beat the whites with 
one teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in when you are ready to rill. 



YOUNG GOOSE. ROASTED. 

A young goose has yellow feet and red joints of 
the leg and an old one has red feet and white 
joints. After the goose has been picked light a 
paper and singe it off, then dress it, wash it in cold 
water and take out the fat and save the giblets for 
the gravy; cut off part of the neck and tie the skin 
over it with a small cord; cut up half a tablespoon- 
ful of fresh butter in small pieces and put it inside 
of the goose, then fill and sew it up with a small 
cord; tic the legs to the body with the cord, salt 
and pepper the outside and dredge it with flour, 
mix one tablespoonfui of fresh butter with one tea- 
spoonful of flour and put it into the roasting pan and 
let it brown two minutes, then put in half a pint of 
hot water and the goose; baste often, putting in a 
little hot water from time to time; keep the oven 
closed and cook it one hour and a half. Put the 
giblets on to boil when the goose is put into the 
oven, boil them until they are very tender, then 
cut them up and put them in with the gravy; then 



POULTRY RECIPES. I05 

put in half a pint of the water the giblets were 
cooked in, stir it up well from the bottom of the 
pan, let it boil a few minutes and put in salt and 
pepper to the taste. Cut the cord the goose was 
sewed with with a pair of scissors in short pieces 
and draw it out. A young goose takes one hour 
and a half to cook, and an old one two hours and 
a half 

STUFFING FOR A GOOSE. 

Take one pound and a half of dried prunes, 
wash them in cold water and put them into a 
saucepan with cold water enough to cover them 
and cook them until they are soft, but not scft 
enough to break. Fifteen minutes before they 
are clone stir in three tablespoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar. Put two quarts of sliced sour 
apples (pippins are the best) into a porcelain sauce- 
pan with one gill of water and three tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar and cook them until they are soft, 
then mix two teaspoonfuls of corn starch with a 
little cold water and stir it in, let it cook four min- 
utes. Then measure one pint and a half of the 
apples and one pint and a half of the prunes and put 
them together in a large bowl, then take one table- 
spoonful and a half of anise seed and rub off the 
little stems and then sift it and mix it with the ap- 
ples and prunes. 



Io6 GAME RECIPES. 



Grkrqe. 



HASENPFEFFER. 

One rabbit, eight bay leaves, one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter, six onions the size of an egg with 
six cloves stuck in each onion, half a pint of hot 
cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of browned 
flour with one tablespoonful of fresh butter mixed 
in it, two tablespoonfuls of crushed double baked 
rusk. After the rabbit has been skinned, cut up 
and washed in cold water, put it into a dutch oven or 
flat stew kettle with cold water enough to cover it and 
just before it begins to boil skim it, then put in the 
bay leaves and one tablespoonful of butter and 
cover the kettle. Peel the onions and stick six 
cloves in each one; when the rabbit has cooked 
one hour put in the vinegar, onions, salt and pep- 
per, put the browned flour and butter into a skil- 
let and when it is hot stir in a few spoonfuls of the 
liquid from the rabbit and let it boil a minute or 



GAME RECIPES. I07 



two, as soon as the onions are soft stir in the flour 
and butter, then stir in the rusk and let it simmer 
slowly twenty minutes, or until the gravy is thick 
enough. Remove the bay leaves before sending it 
to table. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. 

After the quails have been picked and dressed, 
wash them in cold water, dry them with a napkin 
and put a pinch of salt and pepper inside of each 
one. Put a large kitchen spoonful of fresh butter 
into a dutch oven or deep skillet over the fire, and 
when it is hot enough to brown, lay in the quails. 
Then put in six crushed juniper berries for each 
quail, cover the oven or skillet and brown them on 
both sides. Then put in a tablespoonful of hot 
water from time to time, and baste often. Cook 
them slowly thirty minutes, and when they are 
lifted, put a gill of hot water into the gravy, stir it 
up from the bottom, let it boil a few minutes, and 
then pour it through the gravy strainer. 

GAME STUFFING FOR QUAILS, 
PIGEONS AND BIRDS. 

One gill of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fresh 
butter, half a pound of crushed double baked rusk. 



I08 GAME RECIPES. 



three fresh eggs beaten separately, two tablespoon- 
fuls of green parsley leaves, cut up fine, two tea- 
spoonfuls of crushed celery seed, one teaspoonful 
of powdered mace, one teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper. Put the milk and butter 
into a deep skillet and let it get warm enough to 
melt the butter. Then put in the parsley, celery, 
mace, salt and pepper. Beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir them in. Then put 
in the rusk and beat the whites with one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
just when vou are ready to fill. 



RABBIT, SPICED. 

Skin the rabbit, dress it and leave it whole with 
the head on, wash it in cold water, take out the 
eyes and lay it on the meat board and lard it with 
fat bacon, cut the bacon one quarter of an inch 
thick, cut off the skin, trim off the edges and cut 
it in wedge shaped pieces, make the incisions in 
the thick part of the rabbit with a sharp pointed 
knife and press in the bacon; put the rabbit into 
the pickle and let it stay in three days, then take it 
out, dry it off, sprinkle a little salt over it and 
dredge it with flour; have ready on the fire a fry- 
ing pan containing half a tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter and half a tablespoonful of lard, and when it is hot 



GAME RECIPES. IO9 



enough to brown lay in the rabbit, cover the pan, 
brown it on both sides, baste it from time to time 
and cook it slowly thirty minutes. When it is lift- 
ed put a gill of hot water into the gravy, let it boil 
a few minutes, stir it up from the bottom of the 
pan, then pour it into the gravy dish. 

SADDLE OF VENISON, 
ROASTED. 

A six pound saddle of venison should be larded 
with one pound of fat bacon. Wash the venison 
in warm water and dry it off with a linen cloth, 
then cut the bacon in slices half an inch thick, cut 
off the skin, trim off the outside edges and cut it in 
pieces wedge shaped, make the incisions deep in 
the venison with a sharp pointed knife and press 
in the bacon, then salt and pepper it and dredge 
it with flour. Have ready on the fire a dutch oven 
with two ounces of fresh butter in it and when it 
is hot enough to brown put in the venison and 
brown it on both sides, then put in half a pint of 
hot water, six bay leaves, half a tablespoonful of 
juniper berries, one teaspoonful of cloves, two 
onions peeled and cut in quarters and one gill of 
cider vinegar. Cover the oven and cook it slowly 
two hours; baste it from time to time, and if the 
water boils down too low replenish with a little 
boiling water. When it has cooked one hour turn 



IIO GAME RECIPES. 

it, and when it is done lift it into a warm chafing- 
dish and skim off part of the fat from the gravy, 
then put in one gill of hot water, let it boil up a 
minute, stir it up well from the bottom of the oven 
and pour it through the gravy strainer into the 
gravy dish. Serve with currant or cranberry jelly, 
mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes, celery or cold 
slaw, 

SADDLE OF VENISON, SPICED. 

Take six pounds of the saddle of venison, wash 
it in warm water and dry it with a clean linen 
cloth and lard it with one pound of fat bacon; cut 
the bacon into slices half an inch thick, take off the 
skin and cut it into wedge shaped pieces an inch 
and a half long. Make the incisions with a sharp 
pointed knife clear through the thick part of the 
venison and press the bacon into it a far as possi- 
ble. After it is closely larded; put it into the 
pickle and let it remain in it six days. Then take 
it out dry it off and dredge it with flour; have 
ready on the fire a dutch oven with two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter in it and when it is hot, put 
in the venison and brown it on both sides as quickly 
as possible. Then put in a little hot water from 
time to time and baste often with the gravy, keep 
it covered and cook it slowly for two hours and a 
half. When it is lifted stir into the gravy half a 



GAME RECIPES. Ill 



pint of hot water and let it boil a few minutes stir- 
ring it up well from the bottom. Serve with 
stewed carrots, turnips and mashed potatoes, cur- 
rant or cranberry jelly. 

VENISON STEAK. 

Take a venison steak one inch thick, wash it 
quickly in warm water, not letting it lay in the 
water. Then pound it with a wooden mallet nick 
the outside skin to keep it from curling; salt and 
pepper it and dredge it with flour. Have ready 
on the fire a frying pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
fresh butter in it, and when it is hot enough to 
brown put in the steak. Brown it on both sides, 
cover the pan and cook twenty minutes. Then 
lift it into a warm chafing-dish and put one gill 
of hot water into the gravy; let it boil up a min- 
ute, stir it up from the bottom of the pan, then put 
in one tablespoonful of currant jelly and pour the 
gravy over the steak. Venison is such a lean, 
close meat the gravy should be rich and plenty of 
it. 



112 SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 

SWe£ iof $i0\, 
jJLekt. 



HOLLANDISH FISH SAUCE, 
(Warm,) — (Excellent.) 

Half a pint of the water the fish has been boiled 
in, one teaspoonful of flour, three yolks of fresh 
eggs, three ounces of fresh butter, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper; four table- 
spoonfuls of my tomato catsup. Put the water 
into a saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling wa- 
ter over the fire and let it get hot, but not boiling. 
Mix the flour with a little cold water then beat the 
yolks and flour together and then stir them into the 
water, stir it until it is thick (but it must not boil) 
then take it off the fire and stir in the butter, then 
add the salt, pepper and last the catsup. 



SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. II3 

MAYONAISE SAUCE, FOR FISH 
OR SALAD. 

Three yolks of hard boiled eggs; one yolk raw; 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil; two teaspoonfuls 
of my made mustard; one teaspoonful of grated 
white onion; one salt spoonful of salt; half a 
spoonful of pepper; four tablespoonfuls of good 
vinegar. Slice the boiled yolks up fine into a por- 
celain bowl and mix the raw yolk with them. 
Then rub them together until they are fine and 
smooth; then put in the oil a little at a time, and 
rub it in with the back of the spoon. Then add 
the mustard, onion, salt and pepper, and last add 
the vinegar. 

NEW MAYONAISE SAUCE, FOR 
FISH OR SALAD, (Excellent.) 

One gill of cider vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of 
my made mustard, two teaspoonfuls of grated white 
onion, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
pepper, six yolks of fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil, one gill of rich sweet milk; put the 
vinegar, mustard, onion, salt and pepper into a skil- 
let over the fire and let it get hot but not boil; beat 
the yolks and oil together then stir in the milk and 



114 SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 



then stir it into the vinegar, stir it until it thickens 
but it must not boil. It can be used cold or warm. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

One pint of beef broth, six tablespoonfuls of 
grated horse-radish, one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
one teaspoonfal of pounded mace, two teaspoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of crushed double baked rusk. Put the 
beef broth and horse-radish into a saucepan over a 
slow fire, then put in the vinegar, mace, sugar, salt 
and butter, crush the rusk with a rolling-pin and 
put them in last; let it cook slowly for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. To be served with beef or veal. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One pint of oysters, half a pint of rich sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful of green parsley washed 
and cut fine, one even teaspoonful of crushed cel- 
ery seed, one teaspoonful of flour, two yolks of 
fresh eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper. Put 
the oysters into a colander and let cold water run 
through them, then let them drain; put the milk, 
parsley and celery into a saucepan and set it into 



SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 115 



a pan of boiling water over the fire and let it get 
hot, but not to boil, mix the flour with a little cold 
milk, then beat the yolks and flour together and 
then stir them into the milk, stir it until it becomes 
as thick as cream, but it must not boil, then add 
the butter, and when it is melted, put in the oys- 
ters and as soon as thev are fringed and swollen 
(they must not boil) take them off the fire and add 
the salt and pepper, then pour it into a sauce 
tureen. Serve with boiled turkey and chicken. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Four ounces of fresh butter; one teaspoonful of 
flour; one gill of hot water; one third of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Mix the flour and one table- 
spoonful of the butter together in a tin cup; then 
stir in slowly the hot water and set the tin cup in- 
to a tin pan that contains a little boiling water. 
Stir it until it becomes thick or begins to boil. 
Then take it off the fire and stir in the remainder 
of the butter and of one third of a teaspoonful of 
salt. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

is made by putting two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley into half a pint of drawn butter sauce. 



Il6 SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Half a pint of drawn butter; two hard boiled 
eggs chopped up and one tablespoonful of parsley 
chopped fine. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of sweet milk and stir it 
in the drawn butter. Stir it until it is thick; then 
put in the hard boiled eggs, the parsley, and salt 
to the taste. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Caper sauce is made by stirring three table- 
spoonfuls of capers and two tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar into half a pint of drawn butter sauce. 
Then add salt and pepper to the taste. 

PICKLE SAUCE. 

Take some small cucumber pickles that are made 
by my receipt; slice them thin and chop them up 
line. Then put three tablespoonfuls of the pickles 
and two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar into half 
a pint of drawn butter-sauce with salt and pepper 
to the taste and mix it well together. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One pint of canned tomatoes, one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter, one tablespoonful of chopped white 



SAUCES FOR MEATS RECIPES. 117 

onions, one tablespoonful of flour, three table- 
spoonfuls ot cider vinegar, half a teaspoonful of 
ground allspice, half a teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
half a teaspoonful of my made mustard, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
ground black pepper. Fry the onions in the but- 
ter until they are soft, then stir in the flour and let 
it cook two minutes, then put in the tomatoes and 
all the other ingredients, stir them well together 
and let them boil fifteen minutes, then strain it 
through the gravy strainer into the sauce tureen. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put one tablespoonful of browned flour into a 
skillet and when it is hot put in two ounces of 
fresh butter and half a pint of beef broth, let it 
boil until it is as thick as cream, then stir in one gill 
of my tomato catsup. 



Il8 PICKLES RECIPES. 



ridfele^. (5at$ti<p, 
JVttL0tktd. 



WAX BEAXS, PICKLED. 



Beans for pickling must be young, round and 
full, string them carefully with a knife and let 
them remain whole, after they are washed in cold 
water put them into- a kettle of boiling water over 
a brisk fire, and after the water begins to boil again 
cook them thirty minutes, then take them out and 
spread them on a table that is covered with a 
cloth. When they are cold put them into 
glass jars that hold one gallon; first put in a layer 
of beans then four bay leaves, then another lay- 
er of beans and bay leaves until the jar is within 
one inch of being full; then put in one tablespoon- 
ful of ground pepper, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
black mustard and three tablespoonfuls of salt. 
Fill the jar witb cold cider vinegar to within half 



PICKLES RECIPES. 1 1< 



an inch of the neck, and then put in two table- 
spoonfuls of whole black pepper, close the jar with 
a ground glass stopper and pour a little melted 
beeswax around it. The vinegar must not touch 
the stopper. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Peel half a peck of small, white-skinned button 
onions without cutting off the tops. Put them in- 
to a porcelain kettle with one quart of cold water 
and one pint and a half of sweet milk. When 
they are hot, but not to boil 3 set them on the side 
of the range for fifteen minutes. Then take them 
out and spread them on a table that is covered 
with a cloth. When they are cold put them into 
half-pint, wide-necked glass jars. Then put in a 
blade of mace the size of a five cent piece, and 
one even teaspoonful of salt. Fill up with cold 
cider vinegar, cork tight and seal with wax. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Put a tablespoonful of cloves into a pint of ci- 
der vinegar and set it over the fire for half an 
hour where it will get hot, but not boil. Then let 
it get cool. Take small dark red beets that have 
been boiled and skinned. Slice them and let them 



120 PICKLES RECIPES 



get cold. Then take some small white onions and 
cut them in thin slices. Take a glass or stone jar 
and put in first a layer of beets, then a few slices 
of onion, then a spoonful or two of the vinegar 
and cloves and a pinch of salt; then another layer 
in the same manner until the jar is almost full. 
Fill up with cold cider vinegar. They are ready 
to use in twenty-four hours. 



RED CABBAGE PICKLED. 

Take some small firm heads of dark red cab- 
bage and trim off the outside leaves and cut the 
stalk off even with the cabbage. Then cut it in 
quarters lengthwise and then in half quarters; take 
a gallon jar and put in a layer of cabbage six bay 
leaves, three blades of mace each the size of a five 
cent piece, half a teaspoonfui of whole cloves and 
half a teaspoonfui of whole black pepper; then 
another layer of cabbage, bay leaves and spices 
until the jar is within an inch of being full. Then 
put in three tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of whole cloves and two tablespoonfuls of 
whole pepper; then fill up the jar with cold cider 
vinegar until the vinegar and spices come into the 
neck of the jar, but they must not touch the stopper; 
close up with ground glass or stone stoppers and 
pour a little melted bees-wax around them. 



PICKLES RECIPES. 121 



PICKLED CUCUMBERS, (Yery 



fine.) 



Cucumbers for pickling should be small, and 
have the stems on; put them into cold water for 
half an hour, then wash them in two waters, rub- 
bing them carefully with the hands. Put a double 
cloth on a table and spread the cucumbers on it to 
drain and dry; now assort them, putting each size 
by itself, and if there are any without stems, or 
broken, lay them aside. Pickles should be put into 
glass or stone jars; take a jar one gallon in size 
and put in a layer of cucumbers then five bay 
leaves, then another layer of cucumbers and five 
bay leaves; and so on until the jar is within an 
inch of being full, then put in one tablespoonful of 
ground black pepper, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
allspice and three tablespoonfuls of salt; fill up the 
jar with cold cider vinegar and put on the top two 
tablespoonfuls of whole black pepper and two 
tablespoonfuls of whole allspice. The vinegar anj 
spice should come into the neck. of the jar, but not 
touch the stopper. Close up with ground glass 
stoppers and pour a little melted bees-wax around 
them. If the vinegar is pure cider vinegar the 
pickles will be as hard and crisp at the end of a 
year as they were when first put up. The spices 
should be ground at home, you cannot depend 
upon what you buy at the groceries. 



122 PICKLES RECIPES. 



TOMATO CATSUP. (Excellent.) 

One gallon of peeled tomatoes; four pods of cay- 
enne pepper; (they are very small, about one inch 
long,) three tablespoonfuls of black pepper, ground 
at home; four tablespoonfuls of black mustard, 
made fine in the mortar; three tablespoonfuls of all- 
spice, ground at home; three tablespoonfuls of salt; 
one quart of strong cider vinegar; one long root of 
horse-radish chipped up thin. Boil four hours. Two 
bushels of tomatoes make thirty bottles of catsup. 
After the tomatoes have boiled two hours put in 
all the spices — everything excepting the vinegar 
and horse-radish. (It must be stirred at the bot- 
tom all the time it is boiling.) Set the vinegar on 
the side of the fire where it will get hot, but not 
boil. Then chip up the horse-radish in thin chips. 
Half an hour before the catsup is done put in the 
vinegar, and when the catsup has boiled four 
hours stir in the horse-radish and take it off the 
fire. Put it into large wooden vessels or large 
stone crocks. Cover it closely, so that the aroma 
cannot escape, and let it stand over night. Then 
strain through a wire sieve, and with a wooden 
spoon press as much through as you can. What 
is left in the sieve take into your hands and 
squeeze it out. Bottle it. Drive the corks in 
with a wooden beetle, and put a strong twine over 
the corks and make it fast around the neck of the 



PICKLES RECIPES. I23 

bottle. Then dip it into hot sealing-wax, and 
when it is cold tie a piece of cotton cloth over it 
to prevent the wax from being knocked off. This 
catsup will keep any length of time. It is excel- 
lent with raw oysters, fresh meats of all kinds, 
salads, sauces and gravys. 

MUSTARD. 

One pint of yellow English mustard flour, half a 
pint of white granulated sugar, one gill of fine salt, 
one gill of cider vinegar. Put the mustard flour 
into a porcelain bowl and pour in slowly boiling 
water enough to make it into a dough, stir it until 
it is all scalded and perfectly smooth. Then stir 
in the sugar and mix it well together, then add the 
salt and last the vinegar, mix it well together, then 
put it into small, wide mouthed glass jars, and cork 
it tight, it will keep good a long time. It is very 
fine for the castor and for salad dressing. 



124 SALADS RECIPES. 




SALAD DRESSING. (No. 1, the 

best.) 

Three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, 
three yolks of fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive 
oil, three tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Put 
the vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper into a small 
skillet and let it get hot, but it must not boil, beat 
the yolks and olive oil together and then stir 
in the milk, then stir it into the vinegar; stir it un- 
til it is thick, but it must not boil. Put it into a 
porcelain bowl and when it is cold mix it with the 
salad. 

SALAD DRESSING. (No. 2.) 



Three yolks of hard boiled eggs, one yolk of 
raw egg, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one tea- 



SALADS RECIPES. 1 25 



spoonful of my made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
grated white onion, one saltspoonful of salt, half a 
saltspoonful of pepper, three tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar. Slice the yolks into a porcelain bowl, 
mix the raw yolk in with them and rub them to- 
gether with the back of the spoon until they are 
very smooth, then put in the oil, a little at a time, 
rubbing it well together, then add the mustard, 
onion, salt and pepper and last the vinegar. 



CABBAGE SALAD, OR COLD 
SLAW. 

Two quarts of cut cabbage, one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter, with one teaspoonful cf flour mixed in 
it; one gill of cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of my 
made mustard, one heaped teaspoonful of salt, (cel- 
ery salt,) quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, three 
yolks of fresh eggs, one gill of rich sweet milk. 
Mix the butter and flour together, put it into a skil- 
let and let it fry one minute, then stir in the vine- 
gar, mustard, salt and pepper and let it get hot, 
but it must not boil, then beat the yolks and milk 
together and stir them into the vinegar, stir it until 
it is as thick as cream, but it must not boil, pour it 
into a bowl, and when it is cold enough, mix 
it with the cabbage. Take a small flat dutch head 
of cabbage and trim off the outside leaves, cut it in 



126 SALADS RECIPES. 

halves, wash it in cold water, then cut it on the 
cabbage cutter, but not too fine, spread a clean 
napkin into the colander, put in the cabbage, take 
the four corners together and shake out the water, 
then measure and put it into the salad dish. 
When ready to serve mix the dressing and cab- 
bage well together. It is excellent with raw or 
fried oysters. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take the head of lettuce and strip off all the out- 
side leaves; then separate the inside leaves from 
the stalk, and put them into cold water and let them 
remain in it half an hour. Then spread a clean 
napkin into the colander, pick the lettuce careful- 
ly over and throw it into the colander; then take 
the four corners of the napkin together and shake 
it to get the water off the lettuce. Put it into the 
salad dish, and when ready to serve, mix the dres- 
sing with it. 

ENDIVE SALAD. 

Only the yellow part of endive can be used for 
salad. After the green leaves have all been tak- 
en off, put the yellow part into cold water. Sepa- 
rate the leaves, pick it carefully and wash it in 
two waters. Cut the leaves off two inches long, 
put them in the salad dish with the curled ends on 
top. Serve with lettuce salad dressing. 



SALAD RECIPES. 1 27 



CORN SALAD. 

Corn salad is so small and grows so near the 
ground that it has to be carefully picked^ examine 
every bunch closely, then take off the under leaves 
and cut off the root and wash it twice in cold wa- 
ter, let it remain half an hour in the last water. 
Then put it into the colander to drain, serve with 
lettuce salad dressing. 

BEAN SALAD. 

The yellow wax beans are the best for salad ; 
string them and boil them whole, when they are 
boiled tender; take them out on to a table that is 
covered with a clean cloth and let them get cold 
then put them into the salad dish; mix one table- 
spoonful of olive oil, one saltspoonful of salt, half a 
saltspoonful of pepper and one teaspoonful of my 
made mustard together; then add four tablespoon 
fuls of cider vinegar. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cucumbers for salad should only be a little more 
than a finger length long and a little thicker than 
a thumb. They have a much finer taste than those 
large unwholesome cucumbers which are gener- 



128 SALAD RECIPES. 



ally used for salad. Put them into cold water, peel 
them, cut off the stem end and throw them into a 
pan of cold water until it is time to serve; then slice 
them thin and send them to table with a separate 
plate of sliced small white onions; serve them at 
table to suit the taste, some prefer them with only 
vinegar, salt and pepper, whilst others prefer them 
with the addition of oil. When oil is used it should 
be put on first and mixed with the cucumber be- 
fore the vinegar is put on. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Take the yellow stalks of the celery and wash 
them in cold water, spread a clean cloth on a ta- 
ble and put the celery on it to drain, then split the 
stalks down lengthwise in four or five pieces, cut 
them off half an inch long and put them into the 
salad dish, make a dressing with the following in- 
gredients: Two yolks of fresh eggs, one table- 
spoonful of olive oil, three tablespoonfuls of 
rich sweet milk, three tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar, half a teaspoonful of my made mustard, half 
a teaspoonful of salt. Put the vinegar, mustard 
and salt into a small skillet and let it get hot, but 
not boil; beat the yolks and oil together, then stir 
in the milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it 
until it is the thickness of cream, (but it must not 
boil,) then put it into a bowl and when it is cold 
mix it with the celery. Garnish the top with the 
yellow leaves. 



SALAD RECIPES. 1 29 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One pint of small oysters measured after they 
have been scalded and drained, one pint of eels, or 
lake trout, after it has been boiled and cut up, one 
pint of celery measured after it is cut up, six small 
cucumber pickles the size of a little finger, 

DRESSING. 

Four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, four yolks of 
fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, four 
tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Put the oysters, 
with their own liquor, into a saucepan over the 
fire and just when they begin to boil take them off 
and pour them quickly into a wire sieve to drain; 
when cold put them into a salad dish. Boil the 
fish in salted water fifteen minutes, and when cold 
take out the bones, cut the fish into pieces the size 
of a five cent piece and put into the salad dish. 
Wash the celery in cold water, split the stalks 
lengthwise in four or five pieces, then cut them off 
half an inch long and put it with the oysters and 
fish. Cut the pickles lengthwise in quarters, then 
in thin slices, and mix the whole together. Put 
the vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper into a skil- 



130 »ALAD RECIPES. 

let over the tire where it will get hot, but not boil, 
beat the yolks and oil together, then stir in the 
milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it until it 
is thick, (it must not boil) then pour it into a bowl 
and when it is cold mix it with the salad. 



ITALIAN SALAD. 



One pint of shrimps, one pint of eels, measured 
after they are boiled and cut up, one quart of cel- 
ery, after it is cut up, one gill of small cucumber 
pickles, after they are cut up, one gill of pickled 
button onions, after the outside is taken off, one 
gill of cider vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of my made 
mustard, two teaspoonfuls of grated white onions, 
one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, six yolks of fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, one gill of rich sweet milk. Put the 
shrimps into a colander, let cold water run through 
them, let them drain, then put them into a large 
bowl. Boil the eels in salted water fifteen minutes 
and when cold separate the bones from the fish, 
then cut the fish up in pieces as large as the 
shrimps and put them into the bowl. Wash the 
white stalks'of the celery in cold water, split down 
lengthwise in four or five pieces, then cut them off 
half an inch long and put them with the fish; take 
the smallest cucumber pickles that are made by 



SALAD RECIPES. 131 



my receipt, split them lengthwise in quarters, then 
slice them up; take the outside layer off the pickled 
onions to make them small enough, then mix 
the pickles with the other ingredients, put the vin- 
egar, mustard, onions, salt and pepper into a skil- 
let where it will get hot, but not boil; beat the 
yolks and oil together, then stir the milk and stir 
it into the vinegar, stir it until it is thicker than 
cream, (it must not boil) then pour it into a bowl 
and when cold mix it with the salad; place some 
head lettuce leaves around the salad dish, put in the 
salad and garnish with young celery leaves. 

CHICKEX SALAD. 

One young full-grown chicken boiled till tender; 
half a pint of the water the chicken was boiled in; 
two ounces of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls 
of flour mixed with it; one teaspoonful of 
crushed celery seed; one teaspoonful of pow- 
dered mace; one teaspoonful of salt; half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper. When the chicken is done 
and cold remove the bones and cut the chicken up 
in pieces half an inch square and put them into a 
salad dish. Boil down the water the chicken was 
cooked in to about half a pint; measure it and 
pour it through the gravy strainer into a skillet 
over the fire; then put in the celery seed, mace, salt 
and pepper. Mix the butter and flour together and 



I32 SALAD RECIPES. 



stir it in; stir it until it boils up as thick as cream; 
then pour it over the chicken and mix it together. 
The head butter lettuce is the best, and there 
should be an equal quantity of lettuce and chick- 
en. Separate the leaves from the stalks, wash 
them in cold water; then drain it well, cut it in 
pieces, put it into a large bowl, and when ready 
to serve dress it with No 1 Salad Dressing and 
then mix it with the chicken. 



SHRIMP SALAD. 

One pint of shrimps, one pint of celery, after it 
has been cut up. 

DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, three 
yolks of fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, 
three tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Put the 
shrimps into a colander and let cold water run 
through them, let them drain, then put them into 
a large bowl. Wash the white stalks of the celery 
in cold water, split them lengthwise in four or five 
pieces, then cut them off half an inch long, put 
them in with the shrimps and mix them together. 
Put the vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper into a 
skillet over the fire where it will get hot, but not 



SALAD RECIPES. 1 33 

boil; beat the yolks and oil together, then stir in 
the milk and then stir it into the vinegar; stir it 
until it is thick, but it must not boil, then put it in- 
to a bowl and when it is cold mix it with the salad. 
Place some head lettuce leaves around the salad 
dish, put in the salad and garnish the top with hard 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

FISH SALAD. (Lobster and 
Trout.) 

One pint of lobster, after it has been cut up, 
one pint of trout, after it has been cut up, one pint 
of celery, measured after it is cut up, one pint of 
the inside leaves of head lettuce. Cut the lobster 
and trout in pieces an inch long and put them into 
a large bowl. Wash the white stalks of the celery 
in cold water, split them lengthwise in four or five 
pieces, then cut them off an inch long and mix 
them with the fish. Wash the lettuce in cold wa- 
ter, let it drain and put it into the bowl. 

DKESSIXG. 

Four yolks of fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, four tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk, 
four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful of my made mustard, one teaspoonful of grated 
white onion,one teaspoonful of salt,half a teaspoonful 



134 



SALAD RECIPES. 



of pepper. Put the vinegar, mustard, onion, salt and 
pepper into a skillet over the fire to get hot, but 
not boil; beat the yolks and oil together, then stir 
in the milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it 
until it is thick, (it must not boil) then put it into a 
small bowl to get cold and when ready to serve 
mix it with the salad. Place some large head let- 
tuce leaves around the salad dish, put in the salad 
and garnish with hard boiled eggs cut to suit the 
fancy. 

TOXGUE SALAD. (Excellent.) 

One beef's tongue boiled four hours; six bay 
leaves; half a teaspoonful of salt; one tablespoon- 
ful of brown flour mixed with one tablespoonful 
of fresh butter; half a pint of the water the 
tongue was cooked in; half a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cloves; half a teaspoonful of powdered mace; 
half a teaspoonful of salt; quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper; twelve small cucumber pickles the 
size of a little finger, cut up fine; an equal quanti- 
ty of celery and tongue. Wash the tongue in 
three waters; then put it into a stew pan with cold 
water enough to cover it and when it begins to 
boil skim it. Then put in the bay leaves and salt 
and cook it slowly four hours. When it has 
cooked two hours turn it. The water should have 
boiled down to about half a pint when the tongue 



SALAD RECIPES. 



J 35 



is done; then lift it on to a large platter, skin it 
carefully, trim off the back part and cut out the 
meat underneath the tongue. When it is cold cut 
it in slices half an inch thick, then in pieces half 
an inch square and put them in a salad dish. Put 
the flour and butter into a skillet and when melted, 
put in the half pint of water the tongue was 
cooked in. Then put in the cloves, mace, salt, 
pepper and vinegar, and let it boil until it is as 
thick as cream; then mix it with the tongue. Cut 
the pickles fine and put them in with the tongue. 
Wash the white stalks of the celery in cold water, 
split them down lengthwise in four pieces, cut 
them off half an inch long and put them into a 
separate bowl. Then dress the celery with Salad 
Dressing No. i and mix it with the tongue. Gar- 
nish with young celery leaves. 



HERRIXG SALAD. 

Two dutch herring, one quart of sliced cold po- 
tatoes that were boiled with the skins on, one saucer 
full of sliced white onions, young ones are the best, 
one saucer full of red pickled beets, four table- 
spoonfuls of cider vinegar, one teaspoonful of my 
made mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter 
of a teaspoonful of pepper, four yolks of fresh 
eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, four table- 



I36 SALAD RECIPES. 

spoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Wash the herring 
in cold water, scale them, then skin them, cut off 
their heads and take out the inside; wash them 
again, dry them off and put them into a deep dish 
with vinegar enough to cover them, let them re- 
main in the vinegar eight hours, then take them 
out, remove the bones, cut the fish up fine and put 
it into a salad dish. Boil the potatoes with the 
skins, and when cold peel them, cut them length- 
wise in quarters, slice them up and put them in 
with the fish; cut up the sliced onions fine, then 
cut the beets half an inch square and mix the 
whole together. Put the vinegar, mustard, salt 
and pepper into a skillet to get hot, but not to boil. 
Beat the yolks and oil together, then stir in the 
milk and then stir it into the vinegar, stir it until it 
is thick, but it must not boil. When it is cold mix 
it with the salad. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One quart of sliced cold boiled potatoes, one sau- 
cer full of sliced white onions, one tablespoonful 
of green parsley leaves cut up fine. 

DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard, half a teaspoonful of 



SALAD RECIPES. 1 37 



salt, quarter of ateaspoonful of pepper, three yolks 
of fresh eggs, one tablespoonful of olive oil, three 
tablespoonfuls of rich sweet milk. Boil the pota- 
toes with the skins on then peel them, cut them 
lengthwise in quarters, slice them and put them 
into the salad dish, cut the sliced onions up fine and 
put them in with the potatoes, then put in the pars- 
ley and mix it together. Put the vinegar, mustard, 
salt and pepper into a small skillet and let it get hot, 
but not to boil. Beat the yolks and oil together 
then stir in the milk and then stir it into the vin- 
egar; stir it until it is as thick as cream (but it must 
not boil) then pour it over the salad and mix it 
well together. 



I38 MACARONI RECIPES. 



JVtkdkfor^i. 



MACARONI WITH HERB 
CHEESE. 

Half a pound of macaroni; four ounces of but- 
ter; four ounces of grated cheese. Put the mac- 
aroni into boiling water that has one teaspoonful 
of salt to a pint of water and cook it ten minutes, 
or until it is done. It must not break up. Then 
put it into a colander to drain; then take a deep 
porcelain dish and put first a layer of macaroni, 
then a tablespoonful of melted butter; then a ta- 
blespoonful of grated cheese, and so on until the 
dish is full. Then put it into the oven and bake it 
a light brown. 

MACARONI, WITH TOMATOES. 

Half a pound of macaroni, one pint of 
beef soup that has one teaspoonful of salt 



MACARONI RECIPES. 1 39 

in it, half a pint of tomatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of crushed double baked rusk. Boil 
the macaroni in the soup fifteen minutes, or until 
it is soft, not broken; after the tomatoes are peeled, 
cut up and measured, put them into a stew pan 
with the butter, salt and pepper and cook them 
until they are all broken up, then stir in the rusk 
and mix them with the macaroni. Put it into a 
deep dish and set it into a quick oven for ten min- 
utes. 



I40 CROQUETTES RECIPES. 



dfo(|iiette$. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Three quarters of a pound of chicken chopped 
fine and mixed with one tespoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of crushed 
celery seed and one tablespoonful of green parsley, 
chopped fine. Mix it well together. 

SAUCE FOR CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Half a pint of the water the chicken was boiled 
in into which stir one tablespoonful of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls (not heaped) of corn starch 
wet with a little cold water and stir it into the 
boiling chicken water, stir it until it becomes a 
thick sauce, then pour it over the chopped chicken 
and mix it well together, then spread it on a shal- 
low plate to cool, then shape it into balls and let it 
stand half an hour longer in a cool place, then 
shape it into rolls. Take half a pint* of crushed 



CROQUETTE RECIPES. I4I 

double baked rusk and roll them very fine, then 
take one egg, to which add two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, and beat it together; now roll the cro- 
quettes, one at a time, first in the crumbs then in 
the beaten egg, then in the crumbs again. Have 
ready on the fire a frying pan with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and one of lard in it and when it is 
hot enough to brown lay in the rolls, turn them 
quickly and lift in a minute. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Three quarters of a pound of oysters, put the 
oysters into a colander and let cold water run 
through them. Then put them into a saucepan 
with half a pint of sweet milk and let them scald, 
then take them out into a colander and let them 
get cold; then weigh them and chop them, not 
very fine. 

SAUCE FOR OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Put half a pint of milk the oysters were scalded 
in, in a saucepan over the fire, two ouces ofbutter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, half a tea- 
spoonful of summer savory after it is made fine 
and sifted, half a teaspoonful of crushed celery 
seed, five tablespoonfuls of crushed oyster crack- 
ers, rolled fine. Mix the flour and butter to- 



I42 CROQUETTE RECIPES. 

gether and stir it in, then put in the salt, pepper, 
summer savory and celery seed; then put in the 
crushed oyster crackers and pour it over the o}^s- 
ters. Mix it well together and spread it on a shal- 
low plate to cool, then make it into balls and let it 
stand half an hour in a cool place, then make it into 
rolls. Take half a pint of double baked rusk and 
roll them very fine, then take one egg, to which 
add two tablespoonfuls of cold water and heat it 
together, then roll the croquettes one at a time, first 
in the crumbs then the egg^ then in the crumbs 
again. Have ready on the fire a frying pan with 
one tablespoonful of butter and one of lard in it 
and when it is hot enough to brown, lay in the rolls, 
turn them quick and lift in a minute. 

TONGUE CROQUETTES. 

Three quarters of a pound of tongue chopped, 
not very fine. 

SAUCE FOR TONGUE CROQUETTES. 

Haifa pint of the water the tongue was cooked 
in, half a teaspoonful of powdered mace, half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered cloves, one quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls 



CROQUETTE RECIPES. I43 

of crushed double baked rusk. Put the half pint 
of water the tongue was cooked in into a sauce- 
pan over the fire, then put in all the spices and 
vinegar and mix the flour and butter together and 
stir it in, stir it until it becomes a thick sauce, then 
stir in the crushed rusk, then pour it over the 
chopped tongue and mix it well together, then 
spread it on a shallow plate to cool, then shape it 
into balls and let it stand half an hour longer in a 
cool place, then shape it into rolls. Take half a 
pint of crushed double baked rusk and roll them 
very fine, then take one cgg y to which add two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and beat it together. 
Now roll the croquettes one at a time, first in the 
crumbs then in the beaten egg, then in the crumbs 
again. Have ready on the fire a frying pan with 
one tablespoonful of butter and one of lard, and 
when it is hot enough to brown lay in the rolls, 
turn them quickly and lift in a minute. 



144 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



VegfetciKLe^. 



POTATOES, BOILED. 

Select potatoes that are nearly of the same size, 
peel them carefully, take out the eyes, wash them 
in cold water and put them into boiling water that 
has a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of water. The 
water must cover the potatoes and should begin to 
boil half an hour before you are ready to lift din- 
der and must be kept boiling until it is poured off 
Cover the kettle and in twenty minutes try them 
with a fork (the time depends upon the size of the 
potatoes) and if they are almost done, pour off the 
water quick, set them on the side of the range and 
leave the cover a little open; shake them up two 
or three times to let the steam out and they will be 
floury and dry. They must be lifted as soon as 
they are done. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. I45 

NEW POTATOES. 

Must not be peeled, the skins must be scraped 
off, the potatoes washed in cold water and put into 
boiling water that has a little salt in it. The water 
must be kept boiling until the potatoes are done, 
then pour off the water, set them on the side of 
the range and leave the cover a little open to let 
out the steam. An excellent way of dressing 
new potatoes is to put some fresh butter with a 
tablespoonful of green parsley that has been washed 
and cut up fine into a saucepan and set it into a pan 
of boiling water and let it boil one minute, then 
pour it over the potatoes after they are lifted; serve 
with drawn butter from a sauce tureen. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

After one quarter of a peck of potatoes have 
been boiled in salted water, cut them open to see 
if any of them are hollow, then put them into a flat 
stone crock that has been made warm, and mash 
them fine with a wooden beetle, then put in half 
a pint of hot sweet milk or cream and four ounces 
of fresh butter cut up in small pieces; mash them 
until they are light and smooth, then put them in- 
to a warm deep dish with a cover to it, and send 
to table hot. 



I46 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

DRESDEN POTATOES. (Very 
Fine.) 

Haifa pound of pickled pork, half a pint of 
sliced onions, one tablespoonful of browned flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a pint of vinegar, 
and three pints of sliced cold boiled potatoes. Cut 
the pork in thin slices, then cut in strips the size of 
the prong of a fork and then cut them up fine, put 
it into a frying pan and fry it brown and crispy, 
peel the onions, slice them, cut them up fine and 
put them in with the pork and cook them fifteen 
minutes, mix the flour with just water enough to 
make a thin paste and stir it in, then put in 
the salt, vinegar and potatoes last, stir it all to- 
gether, but not to break the potatoes. As soon as 
it is hot lift. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Potatoes can be fried either in fresh butter, veal 
gravy or the marrow from beef soup bones, or 
the fat that is skimmed from the top of the soup, 
they are all very good. Put two tablespoonfuls of 
fresh butter into a frying pan and when it is hot 
put in one quart of sliced cold boiled po- 
tatoes, and one teaspoonful of salt and one half a 
saltspoonful of pepper. Fry them a light brown 
and send to table hot. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. I47 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

Take one quarter of a peck of yellow sweet po- 
tatoes that are of equal size; trim off the roots, 
wash them, put them into a pot of boiling water 
and cook them half an hour, then take them out, 
peel them and put them into a warm stone crock 
and mash them with a potato beetle, then add one 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter cut in small 
pieces and mash them until they are smooth. Send 
to table hot. They are excellent. 



SWEET POTATOES, FRIED 



Boil the potatoes as in the preceding receipt, 
then take off the skins and when they are cold cut 
them in slices half an inch thick and fry them in 
butter a light brown. 

SWEET POTATOES, BAKED. 

Select potatoes that are of equal size and after 
they are washed and trimmed off put them into an 
oven hot enough to bake a yellow brown, and if 
they are of middle size they will be done in three 
quarters of an hour, large potatoes take longer, 
the time depends on the size of the potato and the 
heat of the oven. 



I48 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



KALE. 

Take one peck of young kale, strip the leaves 
from the stalks and put them into cold water for 
half an hour, then pick it, wash it in two waters 
and put it into a saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover it, and let it boil two hours and a half. 
Then take it out into a colander to drain, then put 
it into a wooden bowl and chop it up fine. Now 
mix one tablespoonful of fresh butter and one of 
fresh lard with two teaspoonfuls of rlour and put 
it into a large deep skillet and let it boil one minute, 
then put in the kale with two teaspoonfuls of salt 
and let it simmer slowly thirty minutes longer. 

KALE WITH BREAKFAST BA- 
CON. 

After a peck of kale has been in cold water half 
an hour then picked over and washed in two wa- 
ters, put it into a large saucepan with cold water 
enough to cover it, and cook it two and a half 
hours. When it has cooked one hour, take one 
pound and a half of breakfast bacon, wash it in 
warm water, trim off the outside edges that are not 
fresh cut and cut the skin through half an inch 
wide, then put it down in the middle of the kale 
and cook it one hour and a half longer. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. I 49 

SPINACH. 

Put one peck of spinach into cold water for halt 
an hour then pick it carefully, wash it in two wa- 
ters and put it into a large saucepan with cold wa- 
ter enough to cover it, and boil it three quarters 
of an hour. Then take it out into a colander and 
let the water all drain off, then put it into a wooden 
bowl and chop it up fine. Now mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls ol 
flour and put it into a large deep skillet, and when 
it has boiled one minute put in the spinach with two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and let it simmer slowly thirty 
minutes. 

WILD, OR COUNTRY GREENS, 
WITH BREAKFAST BACON. 

Dandelions, lambs-quarters, mustard and sour 
dock are all good greens, and are good all cooked 
together. Put them into cold water for half an 
hour, then pick them carefully over, take off the 
outside leaves, wash them in two waters and put 
them into a pot of boiling water and boil them two 
hours and a half. When they have boiled one hour 
take one pound and a half of breakfast bacon, trim 
off the outside edges that are not fresh cut, wash 
it in warm water, score the skin to keep it from 



150 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



curling and put it down in the middle of the greens 
and cook them one hour and a half longer. The 
water should be boiled down low when the greens 
are done. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Take three or four bunches of asparagus (the 
thickest is the best) and scrape off the white part 
and throw them into cold water, then tie them up 
in bunches, heads together, and put them into 
boiling water that has one teaspoonful of salt to a 
pint of water, and cook them thirty minutes, then 
take them out to drain. Have ready on the fire 
an iron skillet with half a pint of rich sweet milk 
in it, mix two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter and 
two teaspoonfuls of flour together and when the 
milk is hot stir in the butter and flour; take the 
strings off the asparagus and lay it into the milk 
and butter, heads together, and let it simmer slow- 
ly for thirty minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off the outside leaves of a large cauliflower 
and cut off the stalks one inch from the branches, 
put it into cold water that covers it, and let it re- 
main in it one hour, then wash it carefullv and see 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 151 

that the sand is all out of it; tie a string around the 
stalks to lift it out with, and put it into boiling wa- 
ter that has one teaspoonful of salt to a pint of 
water. Let it boil thirty minutes, then lift it out 
carefully by the string. Have ready on the fire 
a skillet with one pint of rich sweet milk in it, 
mix two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter and two 
teaspoonfuls of flour together, and when the milk 
is hot stir in the butter and flour. Take the string 
off and split the stalk into four parts without break- 
ing the flowers and lay it carefully into the milk 
and butter, baste it from time to time with the 
milk and butter and let it cook slowly thirty min- 
utes. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Take one quart of shelled young green peas and, 
after they are picked and washed in cold water, 
put them into a colander to drain, then put them 
into a stew pan with one pint of cold water and 
let them boil thirty minutes, then put in one table- 
spoonful of chopped green parsley leaves, one 
tablespoonful of white granulated sugar and two 
teapoonfuls of salt, then mix two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour and 
stir it in with the peas and let them simmer slowly 
thirty minutes longer. They must be almost dry 
when they are done. The best peas are those 
which have flat pods. 



152 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



GREEN PEAS AND YOUNG 
CARROTS. 

To one pint of shelled peas one pint of cut car- 
rots; they are prepared in the same manner as in 
the preceding receipt. The carrots are scraped 
and cut lengthwise, the size of the prong of a din- 
ner fork, and then cut off an inch long, wash them, 
drain them and put them into the stew pan at the 
same time the peas are put in, and cook them the 
same length of time, 

KOHL RABI ? OR TTTRXIPS 
ABOVE THE GROUND. 

(Brossica Kohlrape.) 

Take two do'zen of young kohl rabi and peel 
them deep enough to reach the soft part of the 
turnip, then cut them in thin slices and wash them 
in cold water, mix one tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter with one teaspoonful of flour and put it into a 
saucepan with one pint of boiling water and let it 
boil a minute, then put in the kohl rabi with boil- 
ing water enough to cover them and boil them 
two hours, then mix a tablespoonful of fresh but- 
ter with a tablespoonful of flour and stir it in, 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 53 

then add salt to the taste and cook them slowly 
thirty minutes longer. They are as fine as cauli- 
flower. 

YOUNG BEETS, STEWED. 

Boil two dozen young beets from two to three 
hours (the time depends upon the size of the 
beets.) They must be very tender and when they 
are done put them in cold water, skin them and 
then slice them. Mix two tablespoonfuls of fresh 
butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour and put it 
into a large deep skillet and boil it one minute. 
Then put in three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of chopped green parsley leaves, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one pinch of pepper and 
the beets. When they have simmered fifteen min- 
utes turn them carefully without breaking them 
and let them simmer slowly fifteen minutes longer. 

TOMATOES, STEWED. 

One quarter of a peck of tomatoes, not over ripe, 
pink color, three large white skinned onions, peeled 
sliced and cut up, two tablespoonfuls of fresh but- 
ter, one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one pinch of pepper, one 
pint of bread cut up fine (measured after it is cut,) 



154 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

put the onions into a large deep skillet with half a 
pint of water and cook them twenty minutes; 
scald the tomatoes, peel, cut them up and put them 
in with the onions; then put in the butter, sugar, 
salt and pepper and let them cook thirty minutes. 
Then put in the bread and let it cook thirty min- 
utes longer. Tomatoes without the onions, pre- 
pared in the same manner as in the preceding re- 
ceipt, are very good. 

CURLED SAVOY CABBAGE. 

Take four small heads of savoy cabbage, remove 
the outside leaves, cut them in halves, wash them 
in cold water and put them into a saucepan with 
cold water enough to cover them that has one 
tablespoonful of salt in it, and boil them three 
hours. Then put them into a colander to drain 
and mix two large spoonfuls of fresh butter with 
two teaspoonfuls of flour and put it into a large 
deep frying pan with three large spoonfuls of hot 
water, or beef broth is better; then put in the cab- 
bage, cut side down, and let it simmer fifteen min- 
utes; then turn it and with a spoon pour the but- 
ter over it and let it simmer fifteen minutes longer. 

LIMA BEAXS. 

Take one quart of young lima beans, wash them 
in cold water and put them mto a stew pan with 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 1 55 



cold water enough to cover them, and cook them 
two hours; then put in two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
half a pint of rich, sweet milk, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter, with two teaspoonfuls of flour 
mixed with it, and let them simmer slowly for 
thirty minutes longer. The beans must not be 
broken when done. 



BEANS STEWED. (Marrowfat.) 

Some persons prefer dried beans cooked in this 
way: After one quart of beans have been picked 
and washed, put them-into a pot with two quarts 
of cold water, four ounces of fresh butter, and two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and cook them slowly three 
hours; if the water boils down, replenish with a lit- 
tle boiling water. The beans must be whole and 
almost dry when done. If soup is making at the 
same time, put a few spoonfuls from the top of the 
soup in with the beans; in that case, it will take a 
little less butter. One pint of beans is enough for 
a small family. 

RED CABBAGE STEWED. 

Take two small firm heads of dark red cabbage 
and remove the outside leaves and stalks and cut 
it in halves, wash it, cut it fine with the cabbage 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



cutter, then wash it again in cold water and put it 
into a colander to drain. Now mix two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour 
and put it into a large deep skillet and let it boil one 
minute, then put in half a pint of boiling water, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt and the cabbage, cover it 
and when it has cooked thirty minutes put in three 
large spoonfuls of cider vinegar, then take half a 
cup full of rich sweet milk and the yolks of three 
fresh eggs well beaten together and stir them in and 
let it simmer slowly thirty minutes longer. It must 
be almost dry when it is lifted. 

SUGAR CORN TO BOIL. 

Take young sugar corn that is in the milk, husk 
and silk it and remove the blemishes, then put it 
into a pot of boiling water and after it begins to 
boil again let it boil just five minutes, then take it 
out immediately. If it boils longer it will become 
hard and lose its sweetness. 

SUGAR CORN, STEWED. 

Put half a pint of rich sweet milk into a sauce- 
pan and set it over the fire to boil. Take one 
dozen ears of young sugar corn that is in the milk, 
cut it off the cob and put it into the boiling milk 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 157 

with one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar 
and one teaspoonful of salt, then mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls 
of flour, and stir it into the corn. When it begins 
to boil again after the butter is in, let it boil just 
live minutes. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Take one dozen ears of young sugar corn that 
is in the milk and grate it off the cob into a pan, 
then mix with the grated corn one tablespoonful 
of flour and one teaspoonful of salt, then add the 
yolks of five fresh eggs and beat the whole mix- 
ture together. Have ready on the fire a frying 
pan in which you have put equal proportions of 
fresh butter and fresh lard, and when it is hot 
enough to brown, put in the mixture the size of an 
oyster and not quite half an inch thick. Fry them 
on both sides a golden brown and send them to 
table in a hot chafing-dish. They are very sim- 
ilar in taste to oysters and make a nice breakfast 
or supper dish. 

STRING BEANS, YELLOW WAX. 

Take one quarter of a peck of yellow wax beans, 
string them with a knife, break them in two, throw 



158 VEGETABLE RECIPES, 



them into cold water andletthem remain in it half 
an hour, then wash them and put them into a sauce- 
pan with cold watei* enough to cover them and 
boil them slowly three hours. If the water boils 
down too low, replenish with boiling water. When 
the beans have boiled two hours mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour and stir it in with the beans, then add one tea- 
spoonful of salt and cook them slowly one hour 
longer, or until they are very soft. The water 
should be boiled down low before they are lifted. 
Half a pint of beef broth adds very much to the 
taste. 

SUCCOTASH, STRING BEANS 
AND CORN. 

The beans are prepared in the same manner and 
cooked the same length of time as in the preceding 
receipt. Cut the corn off of six ears of sugar corn 
that is in the milk and stir it in with the beans, 
then put in one more tablespoonful of fresh butter 
with one teaspoonful of flour mixed with it and one 
salt spoonful of salt and let it boil five minutes from 
the time it begins to boil again after the corn is put 
in. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Take one dozen and a half of full grown carrots, 
scrape them and split them lengthwise from the 



VEGETABLE RECIPES, 



J 59 



top down, then cross split them the size of the 
prong of a dinner fork and cut them or! an inch 
long; wash them in cold water and put them into 
a stew pan with cold water enough to cover them 
and boil them two hours. If the water boils down 
too low replenish with boiling water. When the 
carrots have boiled two hours put in one table- 
spoonful of chopped green parsley leaves, one 
tablespoonful of white granulated sugar and two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, then mix two tablespoonfuls 
of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of flour, and 
stir it in and let it cook slowly thirty minutes 
longer. They should be almost dry before they 
are lifted. A few spoonfuls of beef broth adds 
very much to the taste. This is the best way to 
cook carrots. Red carrots are sweeter than yel- 
low ones and don't require any sugar. 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips prepared in the same manner as in the 
preceding receipt are excellent. Only they re- 
quire one more tablespoonful of butter. 

OXIONS, STEWED. 

Peel one quarter of a peck of white skinned 
onions that are of equal size, wash them and put 



l6o VEGETABLE RECIPES. 

them into a stew pan with cold water enough to 
cover them, and boil them one hour. Then mix 
together two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter and 
two teaspoonfuls of flour and stir it in with the on- 
ions. Then put in one gill of rich sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt and half a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and let them simmer slowly thirty minutes 
longer. 

LEEKS. 

are prepared in the same manner and cooked the 
same length of time as onions. 

PARSNIPS, FRIED. 

Select parsnips that are of equal size and not 
too large; after they are scraped and washed, split 
them lengthwise in halves and put them into boil- 
ing water that has a little salt in it and boil them 
two hours, or until they are very tender, (the 
length of time depends on the size of the parsnips) 
then take them out and let them drain. Put one 
large spoonful of fresh butter and one of fresh lard 
into a large frying pan and when it is hot enough 
to brown lay in the parsnips, cut side down, brown 
them on both sides and leave them in the frying 
pan until ready to serve. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. l6l 

PARSXIP CAKES, 

One quart of mashed parsnips, two tabiespoon- 
fuls of fresh butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Scrape the 
parsnips and boil them until they are soft, then 
mash them, and while they are warm put in the 
butter, salt and " »epper, mix it well together, then 
make it into cakes three quarters of an inch thick. 
Have ready on the fire a frying pan with equal 
cv. entities of fresh butter and fresh lard, and when 
it is hot enough to brown, lay in the cakes and 
brown them well on both sides. 

SAUR KRAUT, HOW TO MAKE IT. 

The Dutch flat head cabbage makes the best 
saurkraut and a lard barrel is the best to make it 
in. The barrel should be cleaned and rilled with 
hot water tw T o or three days before it is used. It 
takes one hundred heads of cabbage and two 
quarts and one pint of salt to make a large barrel 
full of saurkraut. Trim off all the outside leaves 
of the cabbage until you come to the white part, 
then cut off the coarse ribs and take out the stalk. 
It must be done carefully by an experienced kraut 
cutter. I have a very nice German woman who 
makes it for me every year. The cutting machine 



1 62 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



is placed over a clean tub and the cut cabbage falls 
into it. Then put a layer of cut cabbage about one 
inch deep into the barrel, with a handful of salt 
sprinkled over it, and pound it with a long handled 
wooden beetle that has two cross pieces as wide as 
your hand fastened onto the end of it. Pound it 
for a few minutes until the cabbage is wet, then 
put in another layer of cabbage with salt, and so 
on, until you have the barrel as full as you want it. 
Then take some of the best whole cabbage leaves, 
wash them in cold water and place them over the 
saurkraut Then take one half of a linen table- 
cloth that is out of use, double it, wring it out of 
cold water, put it over the cabbage leaves and tuck 
it down all around the sides of the barrel. Then 
put on the head of the barrel which has been made 
small enough to fit inside, lay two cross pieces on 
top and put on two or three large stones for weights. 
The water must stand half an inch deep on the 
boards after the stones are put on. Two weeks 
after it is made take all the water out, remove the 
weights, boards, cloth and leaves, wash them in 
cold water and replace them just as 1 hey were be- 
fore; then put in sufficient w^ater (that has a little 
salt in it,) to cover the boards half an inch deep. 
The saurkraut will be ready to use in three or four 
weeks from the time it is made. Every time the 
kraut is taken out of the barrel the things on top 
must be washed clean and replaced again with salt 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 163 

and water half an inch deep over the boards. Saur- 
kraut that is made and kept in this manner has a 
different look and taste from what you get in the 
market. 

SAURKRAUT, HOW TO COOK. 

Put two quarts of saurkraut into a colander and 
set the colander into a pan of cold water and stir 
it half a minute, (it must not be longer in the wa- 
ter) then take it out and drain off the w r ater; take 
one large spoonful of fresh lard and one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, mix together and put it into a stew 
pan and let it boil one minute, then put in half a 
pint of hot water, the saurkraut, and as much more 
hot water as will cover it. When it has boiled 
one hour put in half a pound of fat pickled pork in 
the center and down on the bottom of the stew 
pan, cook the saurkraut two hours and a half, and 
if the water boils down too low replenish with 
boiling water, but there must be very little w r ater 
in it when it is done. It is very good warmed 
over and makes nice salad when cold. 

SAURKRAUT WITH FRESH PORK SPARE- 
RIBS. (THIS IS THE BEST WAY.) 

Take three or four pounds of pork spare-ribs, 
wash them and cut them in pieces large enough 



164 VEGETABLE RECIPES. 



to lay flat in the stew pan, cover them with water 
and cook them three quarters ot an hour, then 
take them out and mix one tablespoonful of fresh 
lard with one tablespoonful of flour and stir it into 
the water that the ribs were cooked in; after the 
kraut, has been washed in cold water and drained, 
put it into the stew pan and lay the pork ribs on 
top. If there is not water enough in the stew 
pan to cover the kraut add a sufficient quantity of hot 
water cover the stew pan and cook the saurkraut 
two hours and a half. Before lifting put in salt to 
the taste and at table serve the spare-ribs with the 
saurkraut. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

The best boiled cabbage is cooked with a brisket 
piece of sugar cured corned beef, and the best cab- 
bage to cook is the dutch flat head. Take the 
smallest heads, trim off the outside leaves, cut the 
cabbage in two in the middle and put it into cold 
water for half an hour, then turn the cut side 
down and shake it up and down in the water to get 
out the sand; then put it into the pot with the corned 
beef and cold water enough to cover it and when 
it begins to boil skim it, cover the pot and boil it 
slowly three hours. If the water boils down too 
fast replenish with boiling water. The water must 
be boiled down low just before the cabbage is 
lifted. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES. 165 



HOT SLAW. 

Two quarts of cut cabbage prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner: Mix one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter with one teaspoonful of flour, and put it into 
a skillet and let it fry one minute, then put in one 
gill of cider vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper and one tea- 
spoonful of my made mustard. Let it get hot, but 
not boil, then beat the yolks of three fresh ea^s 
with one gill of rich sweet milk, and stir it in with 
the other ingredients; stir it until the egg thickens, 
but not to boil, then put in the cabbage and stir it 
until the cabbage is hot, then lift. 

TURNIPS. 

Pare one quarter of a peck of turnips and chip 
them up in thin pieces as you do apples for sauce or 
pies, and put them into cold water; put two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter mixed with two teaspoon- 
fuls of flour into a saucepan and let it boil one 
minute, then put in the turnips with hot water 
enough to cover them, then two teaspoonfuls 
of salt. Haifa pint of beef broth adds very much 
to the taste. If the water boils down too low re- 
plenish with boiling water; cook them slowly two 
hours and a half. They must be almost dry when 
they are done. This is the best way to cook tur- 
nips; they retain all their flavor. 



l66 PASTRY RECIPES. 



Tkrt^. 



PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of fresh butter, the salt washed out 
of half of it, one pound of sifted flour, with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed in it, half a 
pint of cold water, ice cold; divide half a pound of 
the butter into three parts and have it soft enough 
to spread; mix the baking powder with the flour 
and rub in the half pound of butter without salt, 
then make it into a stiff dough and roll it out long 
and square at the ends, then spread on one third 
of the butter and set it in the coldest place, where 
the butter will harden in fifteen minutes, then fold 
over one third of the dough and turn the other on 
top of it, roll out again, spread on the butter, fold 
over and repeat the same until the butter is all in, 
then divide the dough into as many parts as are 



PASTRY RECIPES. 167 



needed and roll out quickly. The dough must not 
be worked with the hands after the first butter is 
spread on. To be successful with puff paste in 
the summer time it must be made in a cool room, 
and mixed with ice water and rolled out on a 
marble slab. After the butter has been spread on 
put some broken ice into a long tinpan and place 
it over the butter, but not near enough to touch it. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of sifted flour, with two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in it; half a pound of fresh 
lard, half a pint of cold water — ice cold; — half a 
pound of fresh butter, divided into three parts and 
soft enough to spread. Mix the baking powder 
and flour together, then rub in the lard and make 
it into a stiff dough; roll it out long and square at 
the ends and spread on one-third of the butter, 
set in a cold place until the butter is hard, then fold 
over one-third of the dough and turn the other on 
top of it; roll out again and repeat the same until 
the butter is all in, then fold over, roll out quick 
and divide the dough into as many crusts as you 
want to make. The dough must not be worked 
after the first butter is spread on. I have made the 
two preceding receipts of puff paste on the same 
day, and the one made with half lard and half but- 
ter was the best. 



1 68 PASTRY RECIPES. 



PIE CRUST. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in it, half a pound of fresh 
butter, three quarters of a pound of fresh lard, one 
pint, scant measure, of cold water; mix the baking 
powder and flour together, then rub in the butter 
and lard and make it into a dough just stiff enough 
to roll out. The quicker it is made and put into 
the oven the lighter and better it will be. This 
quantity is enough for five or six pies with lower 
and upper crusts. This is a very good pie crust 
and much more economical than puff paste. 

APPLES FOR PIES. 

Two quarts of sliced sour apples (pippins are the 
best,) half a pint of water, half a pint of sugar, 
two ounces of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch, two teaspoonfuls of powdered cinna- 
mon or lemon extract, put the apples and water 
into a saucepan and cook them until they are soft 
then put in the sugar and mix the corn-starch with 
a little cold water and stir it in, stir until it boils 
two minutes, then add the butter and spice and 
take it off the fire. 

PEACHES FOR PIES. 

Peaches for pies should have one quarter of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of peaches. Peel 



PASTRY RECIPES. 169 

the peaches, quarter them and half quarter them, 
then put them into a saucepan with the sugar and 
very little water and cook them five minutes, or 
until they are soft, but not broken. 

PEACH PIE. 

Butter a deep tin pie plate and line it with puff 
paste then put in a layer of peaches and cover it 
with purf paste and bake it a light brown, then take 
it out of the oven and put in another layer of peaches 
and cover again with puff paste and bake again a 
light brown. It is excellent served with sweetened 
cream, but also good without it. 

APPLE PIE 

made in the same manner as in the preceding re- 
ceipt is excellent. 

CRAXBERRY PIE. 

After the cranberries are picked and washed, 
measure them. To one quart of cranberries allow 
one pint of cold water; put them into a porcelain 
saucepan and boil them fifteen minutes, stir them 
constantly with a wooden spoon until done, then 



170 PASTRY RECIPES. 

measure them, and to one pint of the cooked cran- 
berries put one pint of white granulated sugar and 
cook them together two minutes, then take it off 
the fire to cool. Butter the pie plates, line them 
with puff paste and put in the cranberries, cut 
some of the puff paste into narrow strips and lay 
them in cross-bars over the top of the pie. 

CURD PIE. 

One pint of curds after the whey has been 
strained out, one pinch of salt, half a pint of thick 
sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of white granur 
lated sugar, three fresh- eggs beaten separately, 
half a pint ot raspberry syrup. Put the curds, salt 
and cream into a bowl and rub them together with 
the back of a spoon against the side of the bowl 
until they are perfectly smooth, beat the yolks and 
sugar together and stir them into the curds, then 
stir in the raspberry syrup and beat the whites with 
two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in last. Put it into a deep tin pie plate 
that has been buttered and lined with puff paste 
and bake about twenty minutes. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, one tablespoonful 
of corn-starch, three tablespoonfuls of white gran- 



PASTRY RECIPES. 171 

ulated sugar, three fresh eggs beaten separately, 
one pinch of salt, one easpoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract or cinnamon; mix the corn starch with a lit- 
tle of the cold milk and stir it into the milk, beat 
the yolks and sugar together and stir them in, then 
beat the whites with two teaspoonfuls of white su- 
gar to a stiff foam and stir them in, then add the 
salt and vanilla. Butter a deep tin pie plate, line it 
with puff paste, put in the custard and bake a light 
brown. 

CURRANTS TO WASH. 

Dried currants have always more or less sand 
mixed with them, and in order to get it out they 
must be treated in the following manner: Put the 
currants into a large pan full of cold or tepid wa- 
ter, make them all loose and rub them gently 
through the hands as quickly as possible, then 
pour off the water with all that floats on top, then 
fill two pans with clean, cold water, and put a 
small quantity of the currants at a time into a wire 
sieve and shake it up and down in the water. 
When they come out of the last water put them 
into an iron baking pan and set them into a mod- 
erate oven to dry, stir them from time to time, and 
when the water has all dried off take them out, 
they must not stay in the oven until they are hard; 
now pick them over carefully, for they may have 
some small stones among them. 



172 PASTRY RECIPES. 

LEMON PIE. 

One large lemon, one pint of rich sweet milk, 
one pinch of salt, one tabiespoonful of corn-starch, 
four tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
three fresh, eggs beaten separately. Grate off the 
yellow skin of the lemon (that contains the oil fla- 
voring) then peel off the white skin that is always 
bitter, then grate the lemon and take out the seeds. 
Put the milk and salt into a saucepan and set it in- 
to a pan of boiling water over the fire. Mix the 
corn-starch with a little cold milk and stir it in; stir 
it until it boils two minutes then take it off the fire, 
beat the yolks and sugar together and stir them in, 
then add the grated peel and lemon, beat the whites 
with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into a deep tin 
pie plate that has been buttered and lined with 
puff paste, and bake a light brown. It takes about 
twenty minutes. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Two pounds of beef, weighed after it is cooked 
and the fat, gristle and strings taken out, one 
pound of beef suet, weighed after it is broken up 
and string taken out, four pounds of apples, weighed 
after they are peeled and sliced, six pounds of 



PASTRY RECIPES. 1 73 

currants, weighed after they are washed and dried, 
one pound of citron cut in small pieces, six pounds 
of white granulated sugar, four large nutmegs 
grated fine, two tablespoonfuls of powdered mace, 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, four 
large lemons grated, peel, pulp and juice, one gal- 
lon and one quart of sweet cider and one quart of 
brandy. Cook five pounds of lean beef five hours 
the day before you intend to make mince meat, it 
shrinks very much in cooking. Wash, dry and 
pick eight pounds of currants the day before they 
are to be used. They lose in weight by washing 
and picking. Mix the mince meat in a porcelain 
kettle, after the fat, skin and strings have been 
removed from the meat, pick it to pieces, weigh 
it, chop it up very fine and put it into the kettle, 
break up the suet, take out the strings, chop it up 
very fine and mix it with the meat. After the 
apples are peeled, sliced and weighed,chop them fine 
and put them in with the meat, weigh the currants 
and put them in with the meat, then put in the 
citron, lemon and spices and mix them well to- 
gether, then put in the cider and brandy and set 
the kettle over the fire and let it cook five minutes, 
then put it hot into glass jars hermetically sealed, 
with a tablespoonful of hot brandy in the neck of 
each jar. This mince meat will keep a year. 



I 74 PASTRY RECIPES. 



PUMPKIN OR SQUASH PIE. 

A striped long necked winter squash makes the 
best pies. Cut it in rings half an inch wide; 
take out the inside, peel off the skin and cut it up in 
thin chips, as you do apples for pies. Then put in- 
to a saucepan with half a pint of cold water and 
cook it over a slow fire until it is very soft and the 
water is all boiled down, then press it through a wire 
sieve and measure to it, one quart of pumpkin or 
squash, one quart of rich sweet milk, ten fresh 
eggs, beaten separately, twelve ounces of white 
granulated sugar, two teaspoonfuls of powdered 
cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
Mix the pumpkin, spices and salt together, beat 
the yolks and sugar together and stir them into the 
pumpkin, then stir in the milk and beat the whites 
with two tablespoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into deep tin 
pie plates that have been buttered and lined with 
puff paste and bake a light brown. It takes about 
thirty minutes. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 175 






ALMOND PUDDING. 

Three ounces of almonds, blanched and ground 
fine in the mortar, with a spoonful of cold milk, 
one pint of rich sweet milk, two ounces of fresh 
butter, six ounces of white granulated sugar, five 
fresh eggs, beaten separately, six ounces of crushed 
double baked rusk or stale bread crumbs made fine, 
one teaspoonful of lemon extract, two teaspoon- 
fuls of rose extract. Put the milk, almonds and 
butter into p saucepan over the fire and let it get 
warm enough to melt the butter, then take it off 
the fire and heat the yolks and sugar together and 
stir them in; then stir in the rusk and the flavoring, 
beat the whites with one tablespoonful of sugar 
to a stiff foam and stir them in last. Put it quickly 
into a pudding pan and set it into a pan in the oven 
containing boiling water and bake twenty minutes. 



176 PUDDING RECIPES. 

APPLE AND RICE PUDDING. 

One pint of boiled rice, half a pint of grated ap- 
ples, pippins or bellflowers, are the best; one pint 
of rich sweet milk, one pinch of salt, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, four fresh eggs beaten 
separately, four tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar, three ounces of fresh butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls of the extract of lemon, one gill of sherry 
wine. First cook the rice, every grain should be 
separate, then measure it, peel and grate the ap- 
ples, then measure them and mix two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar with them, beat the yolks with four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the whites with one 
tablespoonful to a stiff foam. Put the milk and 
salt into a saucepan and set it into another contain- 
ing boiling water, when the milk is hot mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, 
let it come to a boil, then stir in the yolks, butter, 
rice and apples, then take it off the fire and put in 
the lemon, wine and the whites last. Put it into 
the pudding pan, set it into another containing a 
little boiling water and bake it forty minutes. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Take sour apples of one size, peel them, take 
out the cores, leaving the apples whole, and fill 



PUDDING RECIPES. I 77 



the opening with brown sugar, then take rich pie 
crust (which you will find under pastry) and roll 
it out a quarter of an inch thick and cut it into 
squares, then put in the apples and close up the 
paste tight. Put them into a steamer and steam 
them half an hour, or until the apples are soft. 
Serve with hard sauce or custard sauce. 



BATTER PUDDING. 



Four ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of sifted 
flour, half a pint of rich sweet milk, six fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, four ounces of white granulated 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, two 
ounces of crushed double baked rusk or bread 
crumbs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Put 
the milk and butter over the fire and when the but- 
ter is melted stir in the flour, stir it until it is smooth 
batter and scalded through; then take it off the fire, 
beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and 
stir them in, then put in the sugar, lemon, rusk and 
baking powder, beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in last, set the pudding pan into a pan in the 
oven containing boiling water, and bake one hour. 
Serve with a sherry wine sauce or fruit sauce. 



178 PUDDING RECIPES. 



BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Four ounces of stale bread, weighed after it is 
cut in thin slices and the crust taken off, four 
ounces of fresh butter soft enough to spread, rasp- 
berry marmalade enough to spread half of the 
bread, one pint of rich sweet milk, four ounces of 
white granulated sugar, two teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch, six fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, four tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Butter all of the bread, then spread half 
of the slices with raspberry marmalade and lay 
the other half on top like sandwiches, then cut 
them with a sharp knife in pieces an inch square. 
Put the milk, sugar and butter that is left from the 
bread over the fire and when it is hot mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, 
stir it until it boils two minutes, then take it off 
the fire. Beat the yolks and stir them in, set it 
over the fire agairr until the eggs thicken, but must 
not boil, then pour it into the pudding pan and stir 
in the nutmeg and brandy, beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir them in, then put in the bread, carefully 
covering every piece with the custard, set it in a 
pan of boiling water in the oven and bake twenty 
minutes. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 1 



BREAD PUDDING. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fresh 
butter, four ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
fresh eggs beaten together, two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla extract, four tablespoonfuls of brandy and 
four ounces of stale bread, weighed after it is cut 
in slices and the crust taken off. Make the milk 
warm, but not scalding hot, beat the butter and 
sugar together to a cream and stir it into the milk, 
then take it off the fire and beat the eggs all to- 
gether with one tablespoonful of white sugar and 
stir them in, then put in the vanilla and brandy, 
cut the bread into pieces half an inch square and 
stir them in last. Set the pudding pan into the 
oven in a pan of boiling water and bake fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, six ounces of 
grated cocoanut weighed after it is grated, four 
ounces of fresh butter, twelve ounces of white 
granulated sugar, ten fresh eggs, beaten separately, 
twelve ounces of crushed double baked rusk or 
stale bread crumbs made fine, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon extract, three teaspoonfuls of rose extract. 
Take out two even tablespoonfuls of the sugar to 



l8o « PUDDING RECIPES. 

beat with the whites, and they will beat easier with 
a machine egg beater if put into two bowls instead 
of one. Put the milk, cocoanut and butter into a 
saucepan over the fire and let it get warm enough 
to melt the butter, then take it off and beat the 
yolks and sugar together and stir them in, then stir 
in the rusk and flavoring, beat the whites to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it quickly into a pud- 
ding pan and set it into a pan of boiling water in 
the oven and bake forty-five minutes. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING, 
BOILED. 

One pint and a half of rich sweet milk, four 
tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon extract, one pinch of salt, two 
heaped tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and three fresh eggs beaten 
together. Put the milk, sugar, lemon and salt 
into a porcelain saucepan over the fire; mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk or water and 
when the milk is scalding hot stir in the corn starch, 
stir it until it has boiled four minutes,then set it on the 
side of the fire, where it will not boil. Beat the eggs 
all together and stir them in, then set it overthe fire 
again till the eggs are set, then stir in the butter 
and pour the pudding into a porcelain mold, or 



PUDDING RECIPES. l8l 

what is still prettier, put it into small porcelain 
molds just large enough for one person. Serve it 
with a wine sauce, custard sauce or fruit sauce. 
This pudding is excellent, warm or cold. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING, 
BAKED. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, five tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, one pinch of salt, six fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, three ounces of fresh butter, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon and three tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy. When the milk and sugar are hot 
mix the corn starch and salt with a little cold milk 
or water and stir it in; stir it until it boils three min- 
utes, then take it off the fire and put in the butter 
and cinnamon, beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them in. Then beat the whites 
with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in. Then add three tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy, set the pudding pan into a low iron 
pan containing a little hot water and bake half an 
hour. 

EGG PUDDING (GERMAN EIER- 

KASE.) 

One quart of rich sweet milk, twelve fresh eggs, 
beaten together, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla ex- 



l82 PUDDING RECIPES. 



tract, one teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk, vanil- 
la and salt into a porcelain saucepan, beat the eggs 
well together and stir them into the milk, then set 
the saucepan into a pan of boiling water over a 
slow fire and stir it until it is thick enough to drop 
from the spoon, but it must not boil or it will curdle. 
It takes about fifteen minutes to be done. Then 
pour it into a tin mold that is pierced with holes to 
let out the whey. Set it over a stone crock, turn 
a wire sieve over it, put a paper over it and let the 
pudding stand four or five hours. When it is to be 
served put a china or glass plate over it and turn it 
out. Serve with a vanilla, fruit or wine sauce. 



FARINA PUDDING. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, one pinch of salt, 
four tablespoonfuls of farina, four tablespoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar, three ounces of fresh but- 
ter, six fresh eggs beaten separately, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
four tablespoonfuls of brandy. Put the milk and 
salt into a saucepan and set it into a pan over the 
fire, containing boiling water, when the milk is 
boiling hot mix the farina with a little cold water 
and stir it in, stir it constantly, and boil it five min- 
utes, then put in the butter and sugar and set it off 
the fire, beat the yolks and stir them in, then put 



PUDDING RECIPES. 183 

in the cinnamon, lemon and brandy, beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar to 
a stiff foam and stir them in last. Put it into a 
pudding pan and set it into the oven in a pan of 
boiling water and bake thirty minutes. 



FRUIT PUDDING. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk warm, but not 
hot, two ounces of fresh butter melted in the milk, 
four fresh eggs beaten separately, four ounces of 
sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar, five ounces of stale bread, weighed after 
the crust is taken off and into bread crumbs, four 
ounces of currants, weighed after they have been 
washed and dried, one teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg, half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Put the yolks into a pan and stir in half 
the milk and butter, then stir in the flour and beat 
it together till it is a smooth batter, then put in the 
other half of the milk and the sugar, then put in 
the bread crumbs and the currants; mix it well to- 
gether and then put in the nutmeg, salt, baking 
powder and brandy, beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in. Put it into a tin buttered mold that 
closes tight, set it into a saucepan cantaining boil- 



184 PUDDING RECIPES. 

ing water, close it to keep the steam in and boil it 
constantly two hours. If the water boils down too 
low replenish with boiling water. Serve with 
wine sauce. 



MARMALADE CRACKER PUD- 
DING. 



Five Boston crackers broken up in small pieces 
and soaked very soft in half a pint of boiled sweet 
milk, half a pint of raspberry marmalade, one pint 
of rich sweet milk, three ounces of fresh butter, 
four tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, live 
fresh eggs bealen separately, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Put 
a layer of soaked cracker and a layer of marma- 
lade into the pudding pan until all are in, let the 
milk come to a boil then take it olT the fire and 
put the butter into it, put the yolks, sugar add cin- 
namon into a laro-e bowl and beat them well to- 
gether, then stir into them the hot milk, and then 
add the brandy; beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in the bowl, then put it into the pudding pan 
with a large spoon or a small ladle and set it into 
a pan in the oven containing boiling water. Bake 
three quarters of an hour. 



PUDDING RECIPES. 185 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Four ounces of rice, one pint of rich sweet milk, 
two ounces of white granulated sugar, three ounces 
of fresh butter, four fresh eggs, beaten separately, 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract and one pint of 
canned peaches. Pick and wash the rice and put 
it into a tin saucepan with as much cold water as 
there is rice; set the saucepan into a pan of boiling 
water and cook the rice half an hour; then let it 
dry off and stir it up with a fork. Every kernel 
should be separate. Put the milk and sugar into 
a saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling w ater 
over the fire; beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them into the hot milk, stir it un- 
til the eggs thicken, but it must not boil; then put 
in the butter and vanilla and take it off the fire to 
cool rive minutes before the whites are put in. 
Beat the whites with one tablespoonful of white 
sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. Then stir 
in the rice. Now put a layer of rice custard and 
a layer of peaches into the pudding pan until all 
are in, finishing with the rice custard. Set it into 
an iron pan in the oven containing a little boilmg 
water and bake thirty minutes. 

PLUM-PUDDING, BAKED. 

Six fresh eggs beaten separately, six ounces of 
white granulated sugar, three gills of rich sweet 



1 86 PUDDING RECIPES. 



milk, six ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of beef 
suet chopped fine, eight ounces of crushed double 
baked rusk or dry stale bread crumbs, one even 
teaspoonful of salt, one grated nutmeg, one gill of 
sherry wine, six ounces of seedless or stoned rais- 
ins, six ounces of currants, after they have been 
washed and dried, foui ounces of citron cut as fine 
as paper, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Beat the yolks and sugar together until very light, 
warm the milk and stir half of it into the yolks and 
sugar, then stir in the flour until it is a smooth bat- 
ter, then put in the other half of the milk and add 
the suet, bread crumbs and salt; then add the nut- 
meg, wine and baking powder and then stir in the 
raisins, currants and citron; beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir them in last. Mix it well together and 
put it quickly into a well buttered pudding pan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water in the oven and 
bake one hour. The oven should be hotter in the 
bottom than on top. Serve with a wine fruit or 
custard sauce. 



PLUM-PUDDING, BOILED. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk, six fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, four ounces of white granulated 
sugar, four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of 



PUDDING RECIPES. 187 

beef suet chopped very fine, six ounces of stale 
bread crumbs stirred in dry, four ounces of stoned 
raisins, four ounces of currants weighed after they 
have been washed and dried, two ounces of citron 
cut as thin as paper, one grated nutmeg, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, four tablespoonfuls of brandy. Warm the 
milk, beat the yolks and sugar together and then 
stir in half of the milk; then stir in the flour and 
mix it into a smooth batter, then add the other half 
of the milk, then put in the suet and bread crumbs 
and then add the fruit. Mix it well together and 
then stir in the nutmeg, salt, baking powder and 
brandy. Beat the whites with one tablespoonful 
of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in last. 
Put the pudding into a tin buttered mold, leaving 
room for it to rise; put it into boiling water and 
boil it two hours. The water should not be deep 
enough to float the mold. If the water boils down 
too low replenish with boiling water. Keep the 
saucepan or pot covered to keep in the steam. 
Serve with a wine sauce. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

One pound of dried prunes, one gill of oatmeal 
groats, one pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of 



1 88 PUDDING RECIPES. 

cinnamon, one pinch of salt, five fresh eggs beaten 
separately and two tablespoonfuls of crushed 
double baked rusk. Wash the prunes, put them 
into a saucepan with cold water enough to cover 
them and cook them until they are soft, but not 
to break. Fifteen minutes before they are done 
put in three tablespoonfuls of white sugar; pick the 
oat groats, wash them in cold water and put them 
into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water and 
set them into a pan of boiling water over the fire 
and cook them three quarters of an hour; put the 
milk, sugar, cinnamon and salt into a saucepan 
over the fire; beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them into the warm milk, stir it 
until it thickens, but it must not boil, then stir in 
the warm oat meal, rusk and prunes and take it 
off the fire. Beat the whites with two teaspoon* 
fuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
last. Serve warm, without sauce. 



QUINCE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Four ounces of tapioca soaked until soft in half 
a pint of cold water, one pint of canned quinces 
without the syrup, one pint of rich sweet milk, 
three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
two ounces of fresh butter and four fresh eggs. 
Put the tapioca into a colander and let cold water 



PUDDING RECIPES. 189 

run over it before putting it to soak. Boil the soaked 
tapioca in the milk until it is all dissolved. It takes 
from ten to fifteen minutes and must be stirred con- 
stantly. Then put in the sugar and butter, beat the 
eggs together, stir them in and when they are set 
move the saucepan to the side of the range, cut 
the quinces up fine then put a layer of tapioca in- 
to the pudding pan, then a layer of quinces and 
so on, until all are in, finishing with the tapioca. 
Set it into a pan in the oven containing a little boil- 
ing water and bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
a quince syrup sauce, made in the following man- 
ner: 

SAUCE. 

Put half a pint of quince syrup with two table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar into a saucepan and when 
it is hot mix one even teaspoonful of corn starch 
with a little cold milk and stir it in; stir it until it 
boils a minute then take it off the fire. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs with a spoonful of cold milk and 
stir them in. Set it over the fire again until the 
eggs are set, then take it off and stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy; beat the whites with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foarn and stir 
them in last. 

RICE FLOUR PUDDING. 

Four ounces of rice flour, one pint and a half of 



I90 PUDDING RECIPES. 

rich sweet milk, four ounces of white granulated 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, one 
pinch of salt. Put one pint of the milk, the sugar, 
lemon and salt into a saucepan, and set it into a 
pan of boiling water over the fire. Mix the rice 
flour and the half pint of milk together. When 
the milk is hot in the saucepan stir in the rice flour 
and milk, stir it constantly until it is thick and has 
boiled about fifteen minutes. Then pour it into a 
porcelain mold that has been dipped in cold water, 
and when it has cooled, turn it out. Serve with 
a milk sauce. 



RICE PUDDING. 

Three quarters of a pint of boiled rice, one pint 
and a half of rich sweet milk, one pinch of salt, 
one tablespoonful of corn starch, four ounces of 
butter, five fresh eggs beaten separately, four 
ounces of white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, and tree tablespoonfuls of brandy. 
Put the milk and salt into a saucepan, and set it 
into another one containing boiling water. Mix 
the corn starch with a little cold milk or water, 
and when the milk is hot stir it in. Stir it until it 
boils three minutes. Then take it off the fire and 
stir in the butter. Beat the yolks with the sugar, 
and stir them in. Then add the rice, cinnamon, 



PUDDING RECIPES. I9I 

and brandy. Beat the whites with one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar to a stiff foam, and stir them in. Put 
it into the pudding pan, set it into another pan con- 
taining a little hot water, and bake it half an hour. 

RUSK PUDDING. 

Six double baked rusks, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
one pinch of salt, three ounces of fresh butter, five 
fresh eggs beaten separately, and half a glass of 
raspberry jelly. Crush the rusk fine with a rolling 
pin ; put the milk, sugar and salt over the fire, and 
let it get boiling hot. Then take it off, and put in 
the butter. Put the yolks and jelly into a large 
bowl, and beat them together. Then stir in slow- 
ly the milk. Beat the whites with one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam, and stir them in. 
Then put in the rusk, and mix it well together. 
Set the pudding pan into another pan containing 
boiling water, and bake half an hour. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Three ounces of sago, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, three table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar, four fresh 
eggs beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 



I92 PUDDING RECIPES. 

extract, and one pinch of salt. Wash the sago in 
cold water and put it into a bowl with half a pint of 
cold water to soak until soft. Then put the sago 
with the water it was soaked in, and the milk into 
a saucepan, and set it into a pan of boiling water 
and boil it until the sago is all dissolved and clear. 
It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes, and must 
be stirred constantly. Then put in the sugar, salt 
and lemon. Mix the corn starch with a little cold 
milk and stir it in ; stir it until it boils two minutes. 
Then beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk 
and stir them in. Let them cook a minute, then 
take it off the fire and beat the whites with two 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in last. Put it into a porcelain mold that has 
been dipped in cold water, and when cold turn it 
out. Serve with a raspberry, strawberry, or wine 
sauce. 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three ounces of tapioca washed and soaked 
until very soft in half a pint of cold water, one pint 
of rich sweet milk, one pinch of salt, three table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar, one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter, four fresh eggs beaten 
together, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Put 
the milk, salt and soaked tapioca into a saucepan 



PUDDING RECIPES. I93 

and set it into another pan over the fire contain- 
ing boiling water and boil it until the tapioca is all 
dissolved. It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
and must be stirred constantly, then put in the 
sugar, butter and vanilla, beatthe eggs well together 
with a little cold milk and stir them in, let them 
cook two minutes, then put the pudding into a 
porcelain mold that has been dipped in cold water 
and when the pudding is set turn it out. Serve 
with a fruit, custard or wine sauce. 



BATTER FRITTERS. 



One pint of sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder, one pint of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of fresh butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
four fresh eggs beaten separately. Put the flour 
into a pan and set it into a pan containing warm 
water, put the milk, butter and salt over the fire 
and when the butter is melted take it off and stir 
one half of it into the flour, stir it until it is a 
smooth batter, then stir in the other half; beatthe 
yolks and stir them in, then put in the baking 
powder and beat the whites with one tablespoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam, stir them in and 
fry immediately in hot lard. Serve with a wine 
sauce. 



194 PUDDING RECIPES. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Can be made by the above directions, with the 
addition of ripe sour apples chopped fine. Serve 
with a hard sauce or a wine sauce. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Three fresh eggs, three tablespoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, one pint of rich sweet milk. Beat the 
eggs, sugar and cinnamon together; cut the bread 
in slices half an inch thick, then cut them in two in 
the middle and leave the crust on to keep them 
from breaking, then lay them into the custard and 
let them soak through. Have ready on the fire a 
frying pan with a large kitchen spoonful of fresh 
butter in it and when it is hot enough to brown 
lay the bread in carefully and fry it on both sides a 
light brown, turn and lift it with a cake turner. 
Make a sauce with the custard that is left, by ad- 
ding* a tablespoonful of sugar and a little wine. 
Serve it with a wine sauce. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 195 



$weet $£ttide$ fof 
riiddir^. 



APPLE SAUCE. 

One quart of sliced sour apples, (pippins are the 
best) one gill of water, one gill of white granu- 
lated sugar, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of 
lemon or cinnamon extract. Put the apples and 
water into a saucepan and cook them until they 
are soft, then press them through a wire sieve and 
return them to the saucepan over the fire; now put 
in the su^ar and butter, then mix the corn starch 
with a little cold water and stir it in, stir it until it 
boils three minutes, then take it off the fire and 
add the lemon or cinnamon according to taste. 
Anise seed is a fine flavoring for apple sauce. 



I.96 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

APRICOTS FROM CALIFORNIA. 

One pint of apricots, one quart of cold water, 
one pint of white granulated sugar. After the 
apricots are washed in cold water put them into a 
stew pan with cold water enough to cover them, 
and when it is scalding hot pour the water off, 
then put in the quart of cold water, and when it 
begins to boil cook them fifteen minutes, then put 
in the sugar and let them simmer fifteen minutes 
longer. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick the cranberries, wash them in cold water 
and pour off all that floats on top of the water, then 
put them into a colander to drain, and then meas- 
ure them. To one quart of cranberries allow one 
pint of water; put them into a porcelain saucepan 
and boil them fifteen minutes, stir them constantly 
with a wooden spoon to prevent them from stick- 
ing; then press them through a wire sieve, all but 
the skins. Now measure them and to one pint 
of strained cranberries put one pint of white gran- 
ulated sugar; mix it well together before putting it 
on the fire, as soon as it begins to boil skim it 
quickly and take it off the fire. It is done in two 
minutes. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. I97 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Three ounces of butter, five tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar, half a pint of water, two tea- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls of brandy. 
Put the sugar, water and cinnamon over the fire, 
and when boiling hot put in the butter and mix 
the corn starch with a little cold water and stir it 
in, let it boil two minutes, then take it off and stir 
in the brandy. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Cut up two ounces of chocolate and cook it in 
half a pint of sweet milk until it is all dissolved, 
then put in half a pint of sweet cream, four table- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar and one tea- 
spoonful of the extract of vanilla; beat the yolks 
of two eggs with a little cold milk and stir them 
in, stir it until it is thick, but it must not boil; then 
take it off the fire and beat the whites with a tea- 
spoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. 

CIDER SAUCE. (Very Good.) 

Haifa pint of cider, (Siberian crab apple is the 
best,) four tablespoonfuls of white granulated 



I98 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

sugar, two fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed with two teaspoonfuls of 
cold water, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 
Put the cider, sugar and lemon into a saucepan 
and set it on the side of the range where it will 
get warm but not hot. Beat the whites with one 
teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam, then 
beat the yolks and flour together and stir them 
into the whites. Then stir them quickly into the 
cider, and set it over a quick fire; stir it fast until 
it begins to rise (it must not boil) then take it 
quickly from the fire, pour it into a sauce tureen 
and stir it a minute until the foam goes down a 
little. This sauce when made with Siberian crab 
apple cider is equal if not superior to any wine 
sauce. 



CUSTARD SAUCE. (Very Fine.) 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch, four fresh eggs beaten separately, two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, one gill of sherry 
wine. Put the milk, sugar and lemon into a sauce- 
pan and set it into a pan of boiling water over the 
fire. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in; stir it until it boils three minutes. 
Then beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. I99 

and stir them in; stir it until the yolks thicken, but 
it must not boil. Then take it off the lire and stir 
in the wine. Beat the whites with two teaspoon- 
fuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
last. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Haifa pint of sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls 
of white powdered sugar, half a teaspoon-full of 
powdered cinnamon. Beat the cream and sugar 
together until it foams, then stir in the cinnamon. 
Serve with cottage cheese. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

One gill of raspberry jelly, one gill of sweet 
cream, one tablespoonful of brandy. Put the jelly 
into a small bowl and set it into a pan of hot water 
until it dissolves. Then take it out and put in the 
cream. Beat it together until it foams, then put in 
the brandy. 

HARD SAUCE FOR APPLE 
DUMPLINGS. 

One ounce of fresh butter, two ounces of white 
granulated sugar, half a teaspoonful of grated nut- 
meg. Rub the butter and sugar to a thick cream, 
then add the nutmeg. 



200 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

MILK SAUCE. (Very Fine with a 
Boiled Corn Starch Pudding.) 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one dessert spoonful 
of corn starch, one dessert spoonful of fresh but- 
ter, two fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Put 
the milk, sugar, salt and cinnamon into a sauce- 
pan and set it into a pan of boiling water over the 
fire, mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and 
stir it in, stir it until it boils three minutes. Beat 
the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and stir 
them in, stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must 
not boil, after the yolks are in; then take it off the 
fire and stir in the butter and brandy; beat the 
whites with one teaspoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir them in, beat it together a min- 
ute before putting it into the sauce tureen. 

PRUNES, STEWED. 

The French and Turkish prunes are the best. 
Pick them, wash them in cold water and put them 
into a porcelain saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover them, cook them until they are soft, but 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 201 

not to break; fifteen minutes before they are done 
put in three tablespoonfuls of sugar. When the 
prunes are done take them out and stir into the 
juice one even teaspoonful of corn starch that has 
been mixed with a little cold water. Let it boil 
three minutes, then take it off the fire and stir in 
three tablespoonfuls of sherry wine and pour it over 
the prunes. 

PEELED PEACHES FROM 
CALIFORNIA, 

One quart of peaches, one quart of cold water, 
one pint of white granulated sugar. Wash the 
peaches in cold water and put them into a sauce- 
pan with the quart of cold water, and when they 
begin to boil cook them twenty minutes, then put 
in the sugar and let it simmer ten minutes longer. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Half a quart of raspberry jelly, four tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water, one teaspoonful of corn starch, 
one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar, three 
fresh eggs, beaten separately. Put the jelly and 
water into a saucepan and set it into a pan of boil- 
ing water over the lire. Break up the jelly and 



202 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

when it is all dissolved mix the corn starch with a 
little cold water and stir it in; stir it until it boils two 
minutes, then put in the sugar and beat the yolks 
with a teaspoonful of cold water and stir them in; 
stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must not boil. 
Then take it off the fire to cool live minutes before 
the whites are put in, beat the whites with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in, a spoonful at a time. This sauce can be 
made of fresh raspberry juice with more sugar 
added. 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Half a pint of strawberry syrup, one teaspoonful 
of corn starch, one tablespoonful of white gran- 
ulated sugar, three fresh eggs, beaten separately 
and one gill of sherry wine. Put the syrup into a 
saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling water 
over the fire, mix the corn starch with a little cold 
syrup or water and stir it in, stir it until it boils two 
minutes, then put in the sugar and beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them in, stir 
it until the sauce thickens, but it must not boil 
after the yolks are in, then take it off the fire and 
stir in the wine; beat the whites with one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, 
beat it well together and pour it into the sauce 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 203 

tureen. This sauce can be made with the juice 
of fresh strawberries, with more sugar added, or 
with the syrup of canned strawberries, or with 
marmalade mixed with a little water and strained. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, ten ounces of white 
granulated sugar, six yolks of fresh eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract, three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan 
and set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire; 
beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and 
stir them into the hot milk, stir it until it is as thick 
as cream, (but it must not boil or it will curdle) 
then take it off the fire and add the vanilla and 
brandy. This sauce can be used cold or warm. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Half a pint of sherry wine, one gill of water, 
four tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, one tablespoonful of 
fresh butter, two fresh eggs beaten separately, two 
teaspoonfuls of the extract of lemon. Put the wa- 
ter, sugar and butter into a saucepan over the fire, 
and when it is hot mix the corn starch with a lit- 
tle cold water and stir it in, stir it until it boils two 



204 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

minutes, then take it otf the fire. Beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold water and stir them in, set 
it over the fire again and stir it until the eggs thicken, 
but it must not boil, then add the wine and 
lemon, and when it is hot but not scalding, take it 
off the fire, beat the whites with one teaspoonful 
of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in last. 

WINE SAUCE (Very Fine.) 

Haifa pint of German wine, three tablespoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar, two fresh eggs 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of flour mixed 
with two teaspoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon extract, one teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Put the wine, sugar, cinnamon and lemon 
into a saucepan and set it on the side of the range 
where it will get warm, but not hot, beat the 
whites with one teaspoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam, then beat the yolks and flour together 
and stir them into the whites, then stir them 
quickly into the wine and set it over a quick fire 
and stir it fast until it begins to rise, (it must not 
boil) then take it quickly from the fire and pour it 
into a sauce tureen. This sauce can be made 
with sherry or Madeira wine, with half wine and 
half water. 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 2d 



du^tkfd^. 



ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, two ounces of 
almonds blanched and ground fine, with two des- 
sert spoonfuls of cold sweet milk, four ounces of 
white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, five fresh eggs beaten separately, two table- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract, one teaspoonful of 
lemon extract. Put the milk, almonds and sugar 
into a saucepan and set it into another pan over 
the fire containing boiling water and let it come to 
a boil, mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in, stir it until it boils two minutes; beat 
the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and stir 
them in, stir it until it thickens, but it must not boil, 
now take it off the fire and add the flavoring; 
then beat the whites with one tablespoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. Put 
it into custard cups and serve with jelly cake. 



206 CUSTARD RECIPES. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one heaped tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, five fresh eggs beaten separately, 
half a pint of grated apples, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon. Put the milk and sugar into a sauce- 
pan and set it into another containing boiling water, 
mix the corn starch "with a little cold milk and stir 
it in, stir it until it boils two minutes. Beat the 
yolks with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them 
in, stir it until they thicken, but it must not boil, 
then take it off the fire and stir in the apples and 
cinnamon; beat the whites with one tablespoonful 
of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, then 
put it into a custard dish or cups and set it into a 
pan in the oven with a little boiling water in it and 
bake twenty-five minutes. It can be served warm 
or cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD . 

Two ounces of chocolate, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, four ounces of white granulated sugar, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, five fresh eggs beaten 
separately, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon. Scrape the chocolate up 
fine and put it into a saucepan with four tablespoon- 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 207 



fuls of cold water and set it into a pan of boiling water 
over the fire, stir it until it is dissolved into a 
smooth paste, which will be in five minutes, then 
stir in the milk and sugar, then mix the corn starch 
with a little cold milk and stir it in, stir it until it 
boils two minutes, then beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir them in, stir it until 
it thickens, but it must not boil; now add the flav- 
oring and take it off the fire to cool five minutes 
before the whites are put in; beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into custard 
cups and serve with sponge cake. 



COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fine 
grated cocoanut, eight ounces ot white granulated 
sugar, ten fresh eggs, beaten separately, two table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, two teaspoonfuls of rose 
extract, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Put 
the milk, cocoanut and sugar into a saucepan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water and let it come to 
a boil. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in; stir it until it boils two minutes, then 
beat the yolks with two spoonfuls of cold milk, and 
stir them in; stir it until it thickens, but it must not 
boil. Now take it off the fire and add the flavor- 



208 CUSTARD RECIPES. 

ing, then beat the whites with two tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in. 
Put it into a custard cups, sprinkle a little cocoa- 
nut on top and serve with white cake. 

CORN STARCH CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch, one dessert spoonful of fresh butter, 
two fresh eggs, beaten separately, one pinch of 
salt, one teaspoonful of lemon or cinnamon. Put 
the milk, sugar, cinnamon and salt into a saucepan 
and set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in; stir until it boils two minutes then put in the 
butter, beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk 
and stir them in. Then take it off the fire and beat 
the whites with one teaspoonful of white sugar to 
a stiff foam and stir them in last. 

SNOW BALL CORN STARCH 
CUSTARD. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, four fresh eggs 
beaten separately, four tablespoonfuls of white 
granulated sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
one tablespoonful of fresh butter, one saltspoonful 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 209 

of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 
Let the milk get scalding hot, but not to boil. 
Beat the whites with two teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar to a stiff foam. Then form them with a 
spoon into balls and put them into the hot milk 
without touching each other. Turn them over and 
they are poached in a minute. Then lay them on 
a platter till the custard is made. Then put the 
sugar and salt into the milk and mix the cornstarch 
with a little cold milk and stir it in ; stir it until it 
boils two minutes. Beat the yolks with a spoonful 
of cold milk and stir them in. Then put in the 
butter and vanilla, and take it off the fire. Pour 
it into a custard bowl and put the snowballs on top. 
Serve it with sponge cake. 

PUMPKIN CUSTARD. 

One quart of stewed pumpkin pressed through a 
sieve, twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, ten 
fresh eggs beaten separately,two quarts of rich sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of mace, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
After the pumpkin has been pressed through a 
sieve, beat the yolks and sugar together and stir 
them into the pumpkin. Then add the milk, mace, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, and then beat the whites 
with three teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in last. Put it into a custard 
dish and bake it li^ht brown. 



2IO CUSTARD RECIPES. 



RASPBERRY CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, one heaped table- 
spoonful of corn starch, three tablespoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar, five fresh eggs beaten 
separate, one gill of raspberry syrup. Put the 
milk and sugar into a saucepan and set it into 
another containing boiling water, mix the corn 
starch with a little cold milk and stir it until it boils 
two minutes; beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold 
milk and stir them in, stir it until they thicken, but 
it must not boil, then take it off the fire and stir in 
the raspberry syrup, then beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in and then put it into custard cups and serve 
it warm or cold. 

SNOW BALL CUSTARD. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, twelve fresh eggs, 
separated yolks from the whites, eight ounces of 
white granulated sugar, two teaspoonfuls of the 
extract of vanilla, two teaspoonfuls of the extract 
of cinnamon. Put the milk into a porcelain kettle 
over the fire, beat the whites with two tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar to a stiff foam. When the milk 
is hot enough to scald, but not to boil, take rather 
more than half of the whites that have been beaten 



CUSTARD RECIPES. 211 

and form them into balls with a tablespoon and 
dessertspoon. Then put them into the hot milk, 
turn them over. They are done in a minute. 
Then lay them on a porcelain plate until the cus- 
tard is ready. Put the sugar into the milk and 
when it is dissolved beat the yolks with a little cold 
milk and stir them in; keep stirring it until it is 
thick, but it must not boil. Take it off the fire and 
add the vanilla and cinnamon and when it has 
cooled a little, stir in the rest of the whites. When 
it is cool enough put it into a glass bowl, place the 
snowballs on top and ornament each one with a 
piece of bright colored jelly. 

WINE CUSTARD. 

One gill of sherry wine, one gill of rich sweet 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar, one tablespoonful of corn starch, four fresh 
eggs, beaten separately, one teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Put the milk, sugar and lemon into a 
saucepan and set it into a pan over the fire con- 
taining boiling water. Mix the corn starch with a 
little cold milk and stir it in, stir it until it boils 
two minutes, then beat the yolks with a spoonful 
of cold milk and stir them in; stir it until they 
thicken, but it must not boil, then take it off the fire 
and stir in the wine. Beat the whites with two 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in last. Serve it with sponge cake. 



212 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 






ALMOND CREAM. (Delicious 
and a beautiful color.) 

One pint of sweet cream, two ounces of sweet 
almonds olanched and pounded fine with two 
dessert spoonfuls of sweet milk, eight ounces of 
white granulated sugar, six fresh eggs beaten 
separately, one ounce of red gelatine,(light weight,) 
two teaspoonfuls of rose extract. Cut the gela- 
tine up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into a 
saucepan with one gill of cold water and set it into 
a pan of boiling water, let it stand in the warm 
water until it has to be used. Put the cream, 
almonds and sugar into a saucepan and set it into 
a pan over the fire of boiling water; beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them in, stir 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 213 

it until they thicken, but it must not boil, then take 
it off the fire and stir in the gelatine and rose 
extract, set the saucepan into a pan of cold water 
to cool, while the whites are beaten with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam, then 
stir them in and put it into small molds that have 
been dipped in cold water. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. (Very 
Fine.) 

Two ounces of chocolate, one pint of sweet 
cream, eight ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
fresh eggs beaten separately, one ounce of gela- 
tine, (light weight,) two teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
extract. Cut the gelatine up fine with a pair of 
scissors and put it into a small saucepan with one 
gill of cold sweet milk and set it into a pan of boil- 
ing water. It will dissolve in ten or fifteen min- 
utes; let it stand in the warm water until you are 
ready to use it. Scrape the chocolate up fine and 
put it into a saucepan with four tablespoonfuls of 
cold water and then set it into a pan of boiling 
water and stir it until it is a smooth paste, then stir 
in the cream and sugar and beat the yolks light 
and stir them in, stir it until they thicken, but it 
must not boil, then take it off the fire and stir in 
the gelatine and vanilla; set the saucepan into a 



214 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 



pan of cold water to cool while you beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam, then stir them in and put it into small 
molds that have been dipped in cold water. 



CINCINNATI CREAM. (Very 
Fine.) 

One pint of sweet cream, eight ounces of white 
granulated sugar, five fresh eggs separated, half an 
ounce of gelatine, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
extract and one gill of sherry wine. Cut the gela- 
tine up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into 
a small saucepan with one gill of cold sweet milk, 
then set it into another pan containing boiling 
water. It will be all dissolved in fifteen minutes; 
let it stand in the warm water until you are ready 
to use it. Take out one tablespoonful of the sugar 
to beat with the whites, then put the cream and 
the rest of the sugar into a porcelain saucepan and 
stir it into another one containing boiling water; 
beat the yolks very light and stir them in, stir it 
until they thicken, but it must not boil, then take it 
off the fire and stir in the gelatine and vanilla, set 
the saucepan into a pan half full of cold water and 
stir it until it is lukewarm, then beat the whites 
with the tablespoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in, then stir in one gill of sherry wine and 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 2 1 5 

put it into a porcelain mold and set it on ice. 
Before serving turn it out onto a china plate. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. (Very 

Fine.) 

Put three pints of ripe red raspberries and one pint 
of ripe red currants into a porcelain kettle and mash 
them a little to keep them from sticking, stir them 
with a wooden spoon and boil them two minutes, 
then strain through a linen cloth and measure, to 
one pint of juice, ten ounces of white granulated 
sugar, one tablespoonful of corn starch and six 
fresh eggs separated, the yolks from the whites. 
Put the juice and the sugar into a porcelain sauce- 
pan over the fire and mix the corn starch with a 
little of the cold juice; when the juice is hot, but 
not boiling, stir in the corn starch, stir it fast and 
let it boil two minutes, then take it off the fire to 
cool a little; beat the yolks with a little of the cold 
raspberry juice and stir them in, set it over the fire 
and stir it fast until the yolks are set, but it must 
not boil after they are in, then take it off the fire 
and stir it five minutes to cool; beat the whites 
with one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in, a little at a time, beat it well 
together and put it into a glass dessert dish that has 
a cover to it, or it can be put into a mold and 
frozen. 



2l6 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 



STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Hull the strawberries, put them into a porcelain 
kettle, mash them with a wooden beetle and boil 
them two minutes, then strain through a linen 
cloth and measure. To one pint of juice allow 
nine ounces of white granulated sugar, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch and six fresh eggs sepa- 
rated. Put the juice and sugar into a porcelain 
saucepan and set it into another one over the fire, 
containing boiling water. Mix the corn starch 
with a little cold juice or water and stir it in; stir it 
until it boils two minutes. Beat the yolks with a 
little cold juice and stir them in; stir it until it 
thickens, but it must not boil after they are in. 
Then take it off the fire to cool five minutes before 
the whites are put in. Beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in, a little at a time. Mix it well together, 
set it in a cold place and when cool enough set it 
on ice. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

One pint of sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, four tablespoonfuls of white granu- 
lated sugar, two fresh eggs and three teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla extract. Put the cream into a small 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 217 

saucepan and set it into another containing boiling 
water. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk 
and stir it in until it boils two minutes. Then put 
in the sugar and then beat the yolks and stir them 
in. Stir it until they thicken, but it must not boil; 
then take it off the fire and beat the whites with 
one teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in; then add the vanilla. 

WINE CREAM. (Very Fine.) 

Half a pint of sherry wine, one gill of water, 
three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, 
one gill of sweet cream, one teaspoonful of corn 
starch four fresh eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract. Put the wine, water 
and sugar into a saucepan and let it get warm 
enough to dissolve the sugar; put the cream into 
a small saucepan and set it into a pan of boiling 
water over the fire, mix the corn starch with a 
little cold milk and stir it into the cream, stir it 
until it boils two minutes, then take it off the fire 
and let it stand in the hot water until needed; beat 
the whites with two teaspoonfuls of sugar to a stiff 
foam, beat the yolks and stir them into the whites 
and then stir them into the wine, set it quickly 
over a hot fire and stir it fast, and as soon as it 
begins to rise (it must not boil) take it off the fire; 



2l8 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 



now stir a little of the wine in with the cream and 
mix it well together, then stir the cream into the 
wine and add the lemon. Put it into glasses or 
custard cups and serve with white or sponge cake. 

FREEZING ICE CREAM. 

First the ice must be broken up very fine and 
there must be plenty of coarse salt on hand; then 
place the freezer in the center of the bucket and 
put on the covers, fasten them on tight, put on the 
crank and turn it to see if it runs smoothly. Then 
put a folded cloth on the cover to keep the salt 
and ice water from getting in; now put into the 
bucket a layer of ice and a layer of salt thick enough 
to cover the ice, then another layer of ice and salt 
and so on until it is within half an inch of where 
the cover closes; then wipe off the cover and edge 
of the bucket, open the freezer, put in the cream, 
close tight and turn the crank slowly at first. If it 
is Gooch's patent freezer the cream will be frozen 
in thirty minutes. When the cream has been in 
fifteen minutes fill up the bucket again with ice 
and salt. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One ounce of chocolate, one pint of rich sweet 
milk, eight ounces of white granulated sugar, one 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 2IO, 



teaspoonful of corn starch, one fresh egg beaten 
separately, one pint of sweet cream, three tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract. Scrape the chocolate 
up fine and put it into a saucepan with four table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and set it into a pan of 
boiling water and stir it until it becomes a smooth 
paste, then stir in the milk and sugar and mix the 
corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, stir 
it until it boils two minutes, then beat the yolks 
with a teaspoonful of cold milk and stir it in, stir it 
until it thickens, but it must not boil, then take it 
off the fire and strain it through a fine cloth and 
then set it into a pan of cold water to cool; beat 
the white with half a teaspoonful of sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir it in, then add the cream and 
vanilla and if it is not cold enough put it into the 
freezer. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Half a pint of rich sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of corn starch, two fresh eggs separated, half a 
pint of strawberry syrup, one pint of sweet cream. 
Put the milk into a saucepan and set it into a pan 
containing boiling water, mix the corn starch with 
a spoonful of cold milk and stir it in, stir it until it 
boils two minutes; beat the yolks with one table- 
spoonful of white granulated sugar and stir them 
in, stir it until the yolks thicken, but it must not 



220 CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 

boil, then take it off the fire to cool five minutes 
before the whites are put in; beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir them in, then stir in the strawberry syrup and 
set it in a cold place. When the custard is cold 
beat the cream with the machine egg beater until 
it foams, then stir it in and put the whole into the 
freezer. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preced- 
ing receipt and is excellent. In making ice cream 
with fruit syrups the custard must be made before 
the syrup is put in. If the syrup was put into the 
milk or cream alone it would curdle and spoil the 
whole. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, half a pound of 
white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of corn 
starch, one fresh egg separated, one pint of sweet 
cream and three teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 
Put the milk into a saucepan and set it into another 
pan over the fire containing a little boiling water. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in; stir it until it boils two minutes then put in 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS. 221 

the sugar and beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir it in; stir it until it thickens, but 
it must not boil after the yolk is in. Then take it 
off the fire and strain it through a thin cloth, then 
set it into a pan of cold water to cool a few min- 
utes and beat the white with half a teaspoonful of 
white sugar to a stiff foam and stir it in. As soon 
as the custard is cold stir in the cream and vanilla 
and put the whole into the freezer. A piece of 
white paper muslin with the stiffening washed out 
makes a good strainer, or a square of cheese cloth 
washed out in clear water is also good. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt with three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract in- 
stead of the vanilla. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

(Without Cream.) 

One quart of rich sweet milk, half a pound of 
white granulated sugar, one tablespoonful, (not 
heaped) of corn starch. Three fresh eggs sepa- 
rated and three teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. 
Put the milk and half of the sugar into a saucepan 



222 



and set it into another pan containing boiling water. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir 
it in; stir it until it boils two minutes then take two 
teaspoonfuls out of the other half of the sugar to 
beat with the whites and put the rest of it in with 
the corn starch and milk. Then beat the yolks 
with a spoonful of cold milk and stir them in; stir 
it until it thickens, but it must not boil. Then take 
it off the fire and strain through a fine cloth, then 
set it into a pan of cold water whilst you beat the 
whites with the two teaspoonfuls of sugar to a 
stiff foam and then stir them in. Then add the 
vanilla and set it in a cool place until it is cold 
enough to put into the freezer. You cannot tell 
the difference between this ice cream and that 
which is made with cream. 



STRAWBERRY SYRUP, FOR ICE 
CREAM, JELLIES AND 

SAUCES. 

The dark red strawberries are the finest flavored, 
and should be gathered in dry weather. After 
they are hulled put them into a porcelain kettle and 
mash them with a wooden beetle, set them over 
the fire and boil them five minutes, then strain 
them through a linen cloth and measure. To one 



223 



pint of juice allow three quarters of a pound of white 
granulated sugar, stir the juice and sugar well 
together and when it begins to boil skim quickly 
and boil ten minutes. When cold, bottle, cork 
tight and seal. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP FOR ICE 
CREAM, JELLIES AND 

SAUCES. 

Take the ripe red raspberries that have been 
gathered in dry weather and after they have been 
picked over, put them into a porcelain kettle and 
mash them with a wooden beetle, then boil them 
five minutes and strain them through a linen cloth 
and measure. To one pint of juice allow three 
quarters of a pound of white granulated sugar; as 
soon as it begins to boil skim it well and boil it 
ten minutes. When cold bottle, cork tight and 
seal. 



224 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 



Jellied Witlt G^elk- 
ti:qe. 



CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

Calf's feet with the skins on make the best jelly. 
If they have to be dressed at home it is easily done. 
Have a teakettle of boiling water ready, then take 
one foot at a time and pour the hot water over it, 
removing the hair as fast as scalded, then take off 
the hoofs and throw the feet into cold water. Take 
four calf's feet, split them, unjoint them and put 
them into a large saucepan with cold water enough 
to cover them. When the water begins to boil 
pour it all off and cover the feet again with cold 
water, when it begins to boil again skim it as long 
as anything rises to the surface; boil it slowly four 
hours, then there should be one quart of the jelly. 
With a skimmer take out all the meat and bones, 
then strain the jelly through a linen cloth into a 



JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 225 

large bowl, cover it and let it stand over night. 
With a broad knife, take off all the fat and then go 
over it with a small tea napkin, then turn the jelly 
out on to a plate, and if there is any sediment on 
the bottom take it off, cut up the jelly into small 
pieces, put it into a porcelain saucepan, cover it 
and set it into a larger saucepan containing a little 
boiling water. The jelly will be dissolved in five 
minutes; then set the sauce pan containing the jelly 
over the fire and put into it one pound of white 
granulated sugar, the yellow rind peeled very 
thinly from two lemons and the juice of three large 
lemons or four small ones; wash and wipe four 
fresh eggs, put the whites into a bowl and beat 
them a very little, then break the shells in with 
them and stir whites and shells into the boiling 
jelly. Skim it and let it boil fifteen minutes, then 
set it on the side of the range where it will not 
boil and stir in one pint of sherry wine, let it stand 
for twenty minutes, then strain through a flannel 
cloth, (not a bag.) Put it into molds or jelly 
glasses. 

CIDER JELLY. (Very Fine.) 

One pint and a half of cider, (Siberian crab 
apple is the best,) eight ounces of white granulated 
sugar, three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half 
white, half red, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 



226 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

Cut the gelatine up fine with a pair of scissors and 
put it into a small saucepan with half a pint of the 
cider and set it into a pan of boiling water where 
it will be dissolved in ten minutes. Put ' the pint 
of cider and sugar into a saucepan and let it get 
warm enough to dissolve the sugar; when the gela- 
tine is dissolved stir it into the cider and let it get 
hot, but it must not boil, then take it off the fire 
and strain through a fine cloth into a bowl, then 
add the lemon and set the bowl into a pan of cold 
water and stir it until the jelly is cold, but not set, 
then put it into porcelain molds that have been 
rubbed with olive oil and set it in a cool place. 
When ready to serve set the mold into warm water 
(not hot) for a minute, then turn it out. This 
jelly is beautiful in color and if made of Siberian 
crab apple cider is equal to any wine jelly. 

LEMON JELLY. (Very Fine.) 

One pint of rich sweet milk, eight ounces ot 
white granulated sugar, three lemons, half a pint of 
white wine, one ounce of gelatine, half white and 
half red, one gill of cold water. Cut the gelatine 
up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into a 
small saucepan with the gill of cold water and 
set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire where 
it. will dissolve in ten minutes. Grate the yellow 
peel of the lemon off very thin, then peel off the 



JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 227 

white part and squeeze out the juice; put the milk, 
sugar and grated lemon peel into a saucepan and 
set it into a pan of boiling water over the fire and 
let it come to a boil, then take it off the fire and 
put in the lemon juice, wine and gelatine, then 
strain it through a linen cloth into a bowl and set 
the bowl into a pan of cold water and stir it until 
it is cold, but not set, then put it into porcelain 
molds that have been rubbed with olive oil and 
set it in a cool place. When ready to serve turn 
it out. It has a beautiful color. 

RASPBERRY JELLY WITH 
GELATINE. 

One pint of raspberry syrup, one lemon, (the 
juice only) three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, 
half a pint of cold water. After the gelatine has 
been cut up put it and the water into a small sauce- 
pan and set it into a pan of boiling water where it 
will dissolve in ten minutes. Put the syrup and 
lemon juice into a porcelain saucepan and set it 
where it will get warm. When the gelatine is all 
dissolved stir it into the syrup and let it get hot, 
then take it off the fire and strain through a fine 
cloth into a bowl and set the bowl into a pan of 
cold water and stir it until the jelly is cold but 
not set. Then put it into porcelain molds that have 



228 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

been rubbed with olive oil and set in a cool place. 
When ready to serve turn it out and serve it with 
ice cream. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY WITH 
GELATINE. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt. 

WINE JELLY WITH GELATINE. 

Three quarters of an ounce of gelatine, half white 
and half red, half a pint of cold water, one pint of 
sherry wine, eight ounces of white granulated 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Cut the 
gelatine up fine with a pair of scissors and put it 
into a small saucepan with the half pint of water 
and set it into a pan of boiling water. Put the 
wine and sugar into a saucepan and let it get warm 
enough to dissolve the sugar. When the gelatine 
is dissolved stir it into the wine and let it get hot, 
but it must not boil. Then take it off the fire and 
strain through a fine cloth into a bowl. Then add 
the lemon and set the bowl into a pan of cold 
water and stir it Until the jelly is cold but not set. 
Then put it into porcelain molds that have been 
rubbed with olive oil and set it in a cool place. 
When ready to serve turn it out and serve it with 
ice cream. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 229 



kr^d ¥>lkqd 
JVIkr^e. 



ALMOND BLANC MANGE. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, three ounces of sweet 
almonds blanched and ground fine in the mortar, 
six whole peach kernels blanched and ground fine, 
three ounces of white granulated sugar, two ounces 
of corn starch and five whites of fresh eggs. Put 
the milk, almonds, peach kernels and sugar into a 
porcelain saucepan and set it into another pan con- 
taining boiling water. When it has come to a boil 
mix the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it 
in, stir it until it boils three minutes then take it off the 
fire to cool a little before the whites are put in. 
Beat the whites with one tablespoonful of white 



23O CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 

sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, then put it 
quickly into a porcelain mold that has been dipped 
in cold water, and when it is cold turn it out. Make 
a sauce with the yolks that are left. One pint of 
sweet milk, four ounces of white sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of corn starch, five yolks, two teaspoon- 
fuls of vanilla extract and one gill of sherry wine 
or three tablespoonfuls of brandy, according to 
taste. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan and 
set it into another containing boiling water. Mix 
the corn starch with a little cold milk and stir it in; 
stir it until it boils three minutes. Beat the yolks 
and stir them in; stir it until they thicken, but it 
must not boil. Then take it off the lire and stir 
in the vanilla, wine or brandy. 



BLANC MANGE. 

One pint and a half of rich sweet milk, four 
ounces of white granulated sugar, two ounces and 
a half of corn starch, one tablespoonful of fresh 
butter, three fresh eggs beaten separately, three 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Put the milk and 
sugar into a porcelain saucepan and set it into 
another containing boiling water, mix the corn 
starch with a little cold milk and stir it in, stir it 
until it boils three minutes, then stir in the butter; 
beat the yolks and stir them in, stir it until they 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 23 I 



thicken, but it must not boil after they are in, then 
take it off the fire and beat the whites with one 
teaspoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in, then stir in the lemon and put it into a 
porcelain mold that has been dipped in cold water. 
When it is cold turn it out and serve with a wine 
custard or fruit sauce. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. (Very 
Fine.) 

One pint of sweet cream, eight ounces of white 
granulated sugar, six fresh eggs beaten separately, 
half an ounce of gelatine, three teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla extract. Before commencing the charlotte 
russe get everything ready. First cut the gelatine 
up fine with a pair of scissors and put it into a 
small saucepan with one gill of cold sweet milk, 
then set it into another pan containing boiling 
water and it will be dissolved in fifteen minutes; 
let it remain in the warm water until you are ready 
to use it. Double a large sheet of writing paper, 
place a porcelain mold on it and mark it close 
around the bottom with a lead pencil, then cut it a 
straw's breadth inside the pencil mark and it will 
fit the inside of the mold; place it in the bottom, 
butter the paper and place a weight in the middle 
to keep it in place. Cut the sponge cake half an 
inch thick, dip the crust edges into the beaten 



232 CHARLOTTE RUSSE AND BLANC MANGE. 



white of an egg and place them close together 
around the mold. Now prepare the charlotte in 
the following manner: First take out one table- 
spoonful of the sugar to beat with the whites, then 
put the cream and the rest of the sugar into a 
porcelain saucepan and set it into another contain- 
ing boiling water, beat the yolks well and stir them 
in, stir it until they ihicken, but it must not boil, 
then take it off the lire and stir in the gelatine and 
vanilla, then set the saucepan into a pan half full of 
broken ice and water and stir it constantly until it 
is lukewarm, then beat the whites with the table- 
spoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in, 
stir it well together, then put it into the mold and 
set it on ice. When ready to serve place a china 
or glass dish over it and turn it upside down and 
remove the paper. 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 233 



foon$, JVLeiiq- 
ehie. 



CAKE. 

The day before you intend making caKe have the 
currants washed, dried in the oven and picked over. 
If you cannot get California seedless raisins stone 
the others and cut them in two. Cut the citron up 
as thin as paper and if almonds are to be used 
blanch, skin and grind them. It is a slow process 
and takes time. Before commencing the cake 
butter the cake pans, then sift the flour, v\ ?Agh it 
and mix the baking powder with it. Then set the 
vessel containing the flour into a pan of hot water 
to warm and stir it occasionally until needed. Mix 
the fruit together and dredge it with a spoonful or 
two of the weighed flour. Weigh the butter and 



234 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

sugar and put it into the vessel you are going to 
make the cake in (a large earthen bowl is the best) 
and if the butter is too hard set the bowl into a 
pan of hot water for a minute until it softens but it 
must not melt. Then beat them together with the 
back of the spoon against the side of the bowl to 
a very light cream. Separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks and stir them in with the butter and sugar, 
then beat the whites with one teaspoonful of white 
sugar to every two whites, to a stiff foam. Now 
stir the flour in with the butter, sugar and yolks, 
then stir in the whites and the flavoring. If it 
is a fruit cake, the dredged fruit is put in last. The 
whites of eggs beat better in a bowl with a ma- 
chine egg beater than in any other vessel and not 
more than six whites should be beaten at a time. 
A wooden skewer is necessary to ascertain when 
the cake is done. It should be six inches long and 
the size of a large knitting needle. 

ALMONDS, TO BLANCH AND 
GRIND. 

Put the almonds into boiling water and just as 
soon as the water begins to boil again after they 
are in, take them off the fire, pour off the water, 
slip off the skins. The sooner they are out of the 
water the better the almonds will be. They should 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 235 

be ground in the mortar as soon as the skins are off. 
One ounce of almonds is enough to grind at a time 
and after they are broken up fine put in one des- 
sert spoonful of sweet milk to one ounce of almonds 
and grind them until they are white and creamy. 
A white porcelain mortar and pestle is the best to 
grind the almonds in. Bitter almonds or peach 
kernels are prepared in the same manner as in the 
preceding receipt, but they should be ground sep- 
arately. 

CLTO FOR CAKES. 

Four ounces of finely powdered sugar to one 
white of an egg. Beat the white and sugar together 
two or three minutes, not longer; then spread it on 
the cake with a broad knife. The cake can be 
more evenly iced when only warm than when first 
taken out of the oven. The icing can be flavored 
with a few drops of lemon or rose extract. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

One ounce of chocolate, one tablespoonful of 
cold water, four ounces of finely powdered white 
sugar, one white of an egg. Scrape the chocolate 
up very fine and put it into a porcelain cup with 
one tablespoonful of cold water and set it into a pan 



236 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

over the fire that has a little boiling water in it, 
stir it until it is a smooth paste, which will be in 
two or three minutes; then take the cup out of 
the water and beat the white and sugar 
together two or three minutes, then stir in the 
chocolate, mix it well together and spread it on 
the cake with a broad knife. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Eight ounces of sifted flour with three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, six ounces of 
fresh butter, eight ounces of white granulated 
sugar, six fresh eggs beaten separately, one nutmeg, 
four ounces of almonds blanched and ground fine 
with a dessert spoonful of sweet milk to an ounce 
of almonds. Set the vessel containing the flour 
into a pan of hot water until needed, beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of the sugar to a 
stiff foam, beat the butter and sugar to a light 
cream, beat the yolks and stir them into the butter 
and sugar, then add the nutmeg and almonds, 
mix it well together and then stir in half of the 
flour, then half of the whites, then the other half 
of the flour and the whites. Put it quickly into a 
well buttered cake pan and bake forty-five or fifty 
minutes. Try it with a wooden skewer and if it 
comes out dry it is done. 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 237 

ALMOND JUMBLES. 

Four ounces of sifted flour with one heaped 
teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with it, four 
ounces of white granulated sugar, two ounces of 
fresh butter, two ounces of almonds blanched and 
pounded fine, two fresh eggs beaten separately., 
one teaspoonful of lemon extract. Beat the whites 
with one teaspoonful of sugar to a stiff foam, beat 
the butter and sugar to a light cream, beat the 
yolks and stir them into the butter and sugar, then 
stir in the almonds and lemon and mix it evenly 
together, then stir in half of the flour, then the 
whites, then the rest of the flour. Put it into well 
buttered muffin pans and bake a light brown. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Are made in the same manner, with fine grated 
cocoanut. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Four ounces of almonds blanched and pounded 
with two dessert spoonfuls of milk, four ounces of 
white granulated sugar, one white of an egg y two 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, one teaspoonful of rose 



238 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

extract. Mix the almonds and sugar together, 
beat the white with one teaspoonful of sugar to 
a stiff foam and stir it in, then stir in the corn 
starch dry and then add the rose extract. Cover 
the bottom of a baking pan with white paper and 
butter it, then lay on the paper half a teaspoonful 
of the mixture one inch apart £.nd bake in a slow 
oven for three quarters of an hour, or until they 
are a light brown and are hard and dry. 

C0C0ANUT MACAROON'S. 

Are made in the same manner, with grated 
cocoanut. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Haifa pound of almonds blanched, dried and 
pounded to a paste, with one teaspoonful of rose 
water. Beat together the whites of three eggs and 
half a cup of white granulated sugar, adding the 
sugar a teaspoonful at a time, then add the pounded 
almonds, and if too soft to be shaped add one 
tablespoonful of flour, roll out, cut with a small 
cake cutter, place some distance apart on buttered 
paper and bake slowly three quarters of an hour, 
or until hard and dry. 



239 



ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. 

Three ounces of sweet almonds blanched and 
ground fine in the mortar, with one dessert spoon- 
ful of sweet milk ground in with each ounce of 
almonds, half an ounce of peach kernels blanched 
and prepared in the same manner as the almonds, 
six fresh eggs beaten separately, nine ounces of 
white granulated sugar, nine ounces of sifted flour 
with three teasooonfuis of baking powder mixed 
with it, one nutmeg grated. Beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of the suga** to a stiff foam, beat 
the yolks and the sugar until very light, then stir 
in the almonds and peach kernels, then stir in half 
of the flour and baking powder, then the whites 
and then the other half of the flour. Put it quickly 
into a buttered cake pan and bake one hour, the 
time depends upon the heat of the oven. Try it 
with a wooden skewer when the cake has been in 
fifty minutes, and if it comes out clean the cake is 
done. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. (Very Fine.) 

One pound of sifted flour with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, one pound 
of white granulated sugar, ten ounces of fresh 



240 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 



butter, sixteen whites of fresh eggs, three tea- 
fuls of the extract of lemon, six teaspoonfuls of 
the extract of roses, one gill of sherry wine, and 
eight ounces of citron cut as thin as paper; set the 
vessel, containing the flour and baking powder into 
a pan of hot water and stir it occasionally until 
needed; take out one tablespoonful of the weighed 
flour and dredge the citron with it; put the whites 
into two bowls with one tablespoonful of the 
weighed sugar in each bowl and beat them with a 
machine egg beater to a stiff foam; beat the butter 
and sugar together to a light cream, then stir in half 
of the flour, then half of the whites, then the other 
half of the flour and the whites, then add the flavor- 
ing and wine, and last the citron. Mix it evenly 
together, put it quickly into a buttered cake pan and 
bake one hour and twenty minutes. Try it with a 
wooden skewer when it has been in the oven one 
hour, and if it comes out clean, it is done. The 
bride's and groom's cakes should be made on the 
same day. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

Two ounces of chocolate scraped up very fine, 
two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded 
very fine, with two teaspoonfuls of sweet milk, 
four ounces of white granulated sugar, one white 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 24 1 



of an egg, one teaspoonful of corn starch, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract, half a teaspoonful 
of cinnamon. Mix the chocolate and almonds 
well together then stir in the sugar and beat the 
white with a teaspoonful of sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir it in, then add the vanilla and cinnamon and 
stir in the dry corn starch. Cover the bottom of a 
baking pan with white paper and then butter it. 
Then put on the paper half a teaspoonful of the 
mixture one inch apart and put them into a slow 
oven and bake three quarters of an hour or until 
they are hard and dry. 



CITRON CAKES. (Excellent.) 



Half a pound of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder in it, half a pound of white 
granulated sugar, three fresh eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, three ounces of citron cut fine, three ounces 
of currants, three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. 
Beat the yolks and sugar to a light cream; beat the 
whites with two teaspoonfuls of the sugar to a 
stiff foam then stir in the whites, citron and cur- 
rants, then stir in the flour, baking powder and the 
lemon. Make them into small cakes and put 
them into a well buttered pan and bake them a 
yellow brown. 



242 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE, 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

Four ounces of fine grated cocoanut weighed after 
it is grated,six ounces of fresh butter, eight ounces of 
white granulated sugar, six fresh eggs, beaten sep- 
arately, one nutmeg, eight ounces of sifted flour 
with three teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed 
with it. Set the vessel containing the flour into a 
pan of hot water and stir it occasionally until need- 
ed. Beat the whites with one tablespoonful of the 
sugar to a stiff foam, beat the butter and sugar to- 
gether to a light cream. Beat the yolks and stir 
them into the butter and sugar, then add the nut- 
meg and cocoanut and mix it evenly together. Then 
stir in half of the flour, then half of the whites, 
then the other half of the flour and the whites. 
Put it quickly into a well buttered cake pan and 
bake forty-five or fifty minutes. The time depends 
upon the heat of the oven; try it with a wooden 
skewer and if it comes dry and clean the cake is 
done. 

GRANDMOTHER'S COOKIES. 

One pound of white granulated sugar, half a 
pound of butter, four eggs beaten separately, one 
pound and a quarter of flour. Beat the butter and 
sugar together to a cream, then add the yolks and 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 243 

stir in the flour. Beat the whites with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir 
them in last. Drop the batter from a teaspoon 
into large greased baking pans and bake. Put the 
cookies into a cake box and they will become soft 
in two or three days. They will keep a long time. 

BERLIN COOKIES. 

One pound and three quarters of flour, one 
pound of white granulated sugar, half a pound of 
butter, four eggs, beaten separately, beat the butter 
and sugar to a cream then add the yolks. Beat 
the whites with one teaspoonful of white sugar to 
a stiff foam and stir them in. Then stir in the flour 
last, make it into a soft dough and roll out thin. 
Cut it with a cake cutter or cut it into forms. 
If kept in a cake box they will become soft and 
nice. 

SUGAR COOKIES. (Very Good.) 

Half a pound of butter, one pound of white 
granulated sugar, three eggs, beaten separately, 
two pounds of flour with four teaspoonfuls of Royal 
baking powder in it, half a pint of cold sweet 
milk and two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream then beat in 



244 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

the yolks and half of the flour; then add the milk 
and nutmeg. Beat the whites with one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in 
with the rest of the flour; then roll them out thin, 
cut them with a small cake cutter and bake in a 
quick oven ten minutes. Keep them in a cake 
box. 



CINCINNATI CREAM CAKES. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, four ounces of fresh 
butter, one tablespoonful of white granulated sugar, 
one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, six ounces of sifted flour with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, six 
fresh eggs beaten separately. Put half of the 
milk, butter, sugar, nutmeg and salt into an iron 
skillet over a slow fire and let it come to a boil, 
mix the flour and baking powder with the other 
half of the milk until it is a smooth batter, then stir 
it into the boiling milk and continue stirring it until 
it is a smooth dough, then take it off the fire to 
cool and beat the yolks and stir them in, then beat 
the whites with one tablespoonful of white sugar 
to a stiff foam and stir them in last. Mix it well 
together and put a dessert spoonful of the mixture 
into each well buttered muffin pan and bake them 
a dark yellow. It takes from fifteen to twenty 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 24^ 

minutes. When done open them at the side with 
a sharp pointed knife and put in one heaped tea- 
spoonful of the cream. This quantity makes 
twenty-four cakes. 

FILLING FOR CREAM CAKE. 

Half a pint of sweet cream, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch, two tablespoonfuls of white granulated 
sugar, one fresh egg beaten separately, two tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. Put the cream into a 
small saucepan and set it into another containing 
boiling water, mix the corn starch with a little cold 
milk and stir it in, stir it until it boils two minutes, 
then put in the sugar and beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir it in, then take it off 
the fire and beat the whites with half a teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar to a stiff foam and stir it in, then 
add the vanilla and when it is cold fill the cakes. 
This quantity will fill twenty-four cakes. The 
filling should be made before the cakes are made. 

CUP CAKE. 

Three quarters of a cup of butter, one cup of 
white granulated sugar, five eggs beaten separately, 
three cups of flour, one cup of cold sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, three teaspoon- 



246 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 



fuls of Royal baking powder, (not heaped.) Let 
the butter be a little soft, but not melted, beat the 
butter and sugar together until it is a light cream, 
then put in the yolks and beat them a few minutes, 
then stir in one cup of the flour with one third of 
the milk and so on until the flour and milk is all in, 
then put in the lemon extract and beat the whites 
with two teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff 
foam and stir them in, then add the baking powder 
last. Let it bake one hour. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Half a pound of flour with one teaspoonful of 
baking powder in it, half a pound of white gran- 
ulated sugar, four ounces of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of extract of lemon, five fresh eggs beaten 
separately, four ounces of currants. Beat one half 
of the sugar with the butter and the other half with 
the yolks, then mix them together and stir in the 
flour and the lemon; beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and stir them 
in, then dredge the currants with flour and stir 
them in last. 

FRUIT CAKE. (Very fine.) 

Twelve ounces of sifted flour with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, twelve 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 247 



ounces of white granulated sugar, six ounces of 
fresh butter, six fresh eggs, beaten separately, one 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, 
eight ounces of seedless California raisins, eight 
ounces of currants, six ounces of citron cut as 
thin as paper, one gill of brandy. Put the fruit all 
together into a deep dish and dredge it with two 
tablespoonfuls of the weighed flour. Set the ves- 
sel containing the flour into a pan of hot water until 
needed. Beat the whites with one tablespoonful 
of the sugar to a stiff foam. Beat the butter and 
sugar together to a light cream. Beat the volks 
and stir them into the butter and sugar. Then 
add. the spices and stir in half of the flour, then half 
of the whites, then the other half of the flour and the 
whites then add the brandy and stir in the fruit 
last. Mix it well together and put it quickly into 
a well buttered cake pan and bake one hour and a 
quarter. When it has been in one hour, try it with 
a wooden skewer and if it comes out dry and clean 
it is done. 



FRUIT CAKE 



Four ounces of California seedless raisins, four 
ounces of currants after they have been washed and 
dried, four ounces of citron cut in thin chips as 
thin as paper, ten ounces of sifted flour, with three 



248 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE, 

teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it, four 
ounces of fresh butter, eight ounces of white gran- 
ulated sugar, six fresh eggs separated and .one 
grated nutmeg. Dredge the raisins, currants and 
citron out of the weighed flour. Take out one 
tablespoonful of the sugar to beat with the whites. 
Beat the butter and the rest of the sugar to a light 
cream; beat the yolks and stir them in with the 
butter and sugar, then put in the nutmeg and stir 
in the flour and baking powder. Beat the whites 
with the one tablespoonful of sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir them in, and last add the fruit, mix it 
well together, put it quickly into the oven and 
bake. 



GOLDEN CAKE 



Twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
ounces of fresh butter, twelve yolks of fresh eggs, 
twelve ounces of sifted flour, with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, two nutmegs 
grated, one gill of brandy, six ounces of currants, 
weighed after they have been washed and dried. 
Dredge the currants with one tablespoonful of the 
weighed flour. Warm the flour by setting the vessel 
containing it into a pan of hot water, beat the butter 
and sugar to a light cream; beat the yolks with a 
spoonful of cold milk and stir them in with the 



249 



butter and sugar, beat them together until very 
light, then add the nutmeg; then stir in the flour 
and. baking powder, then add the brandy and last 
the currants. Mix it well together and put it 
quickly into a buttered cake pan and bake one 
hour. 

GROOM'S CAKE. 

One pound of white granulated sugar, ten ounces 
of fresh butter, sixteen yolks of fresh eggs, one 
pound of sifted flour, with four teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder mixed with it, two nutmegs grated, 
one gill ot brandy, one gill of sherry wine, eight 
ounces of currants, weighed after they have been 
washed and dried. Dredge the currants with one 
tablespoonful of the weighed flour, warm the flour 
bv setting the vessel containing it in hot water. 
Beat the butter and sugar together to a light 
cream, beat the yolks with a spoonful of cold milk 
and stir them into the butter and sugar, beat them 
together until very light, then add the nutmeg; then 
stir in the flour and baking powder. Then add the 
brandy and wine and last the currants; mix it well 
together and put it quickly into a buttered cake 
pan and bake one hour and twenty minutes. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Eight ounces of fresh butter, one pint of the best 
sugar house molasses, seven ounces of brown 



250 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

sugar, six fresh eggs beaten separately, two 
tablespoonfuls of ginger, one tabiespoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, half of a grated 
nutmeg, one quart of sifted flour, with four tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder mixed with it. Put 
the molasses and butter into a saucepan and let it 
get warm enough to melt the butter, then take it 
off the fire, beat the yolks and sugar together to a 
light cream and stir them into the molasses and 
butter, then stir in the ginger, cinnamon and nut- 
meg and then add the flour and baking powder, 
beat the whites with one tabiespoonful of white 
sugar to a stiff foam and stir them in last. The 
whites should be beaten and ready to put in as 
soon as the flour is in. Put it into an iron baking 
pan and bake three quarters of an hour. 



WHITE GIXGER BREAD. 

One pint of rich sweet milk, eight ounces of 
fresh butter, eight fresh eggs, beaten separately, 
two tablespoonfuls of white ginger, one tabiespoon- 
ful of powdered cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, 
one large lemon, grated, peel and juice, one quart 
of sifted flour with four teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder mixed with it. Melt the butter in the milk, 
beat the yolks and sugar to a light cream and stir 
them into the milk and butter. Then put in the 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 25 I 

ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and lemon; then stir in 
the iiour and baking powder. Beat the whites with 
one tablespoonful of white sugar to a stiff foam 
and stir them in last. The whites should be beaten 
and ready to put in as soon as the flour is in. Put 
it into an iron baking pan and bake three quarters 
of an hour. 



JELLY CAKE 



Eight ounces of white granulated sugar, four 
ounces of fresh butter, six fresh eggs, beaten sep- 
arately, eight ounces of flour with two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder in, three teaspoonfuls of 
lemon extract. Beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of sugar to a stiff foam. Beat the butter 
and sugar to a light cream; beat the yolks and stir 
them into the butter and sugar, then stir in half of 
the flour, then half of the whites, then the other 
half of the flour and the whites. Then add the 
lemon and put the mixture half an inch deep into 
well buttered jelly cake plates and bake in a quick 
oven. Spread them with strawberry or raspberry 
marmalade and lay them one above another, or 
roll them, trim off the ends and cut them in slices 
half an inch thick. 



252 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 



MARBLE CAKE. 

THE WHITE PART. 

Whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff foam, half a 
pound of white granulated sugar, four ounces of 
butter, half a cup of sweet milk, half a pound of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

THE BROWN PART. 

Yolks of five eggs, half a pound of brown sugar, 
half a pound of flour, four ounces of butter, half a 
cup of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon, cloves, pepper, nutmeg, ginger and baking 
powder. Stir the butter in separate bowls, the 
white part in one bowl and the brown part in 
another. When it is well stirred grease your pan 
and put in a large spoonful of brown batter, then a 
spoonful of white batter beside it and so on until 
all is used, always putting a w T hite over a brown 
part. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

MERINGUE. 

Two ounces of white powdered sugar, two 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff foam with one tea- 
spoonful of white sugar to every two whites, then 
stir in the sugar and add the flavoring according 
to taste. 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 253 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sifted flour with three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder mixed in it, one pound of white 
granulated sugar, twelve ounces of fresh butter, 
ten fresh eggs beaten separately, and two middle 
sized nutmegs grated. Take out two tablespoon- 
fuls of the weighed sugar to beat with the whites 
to a stiff foam, beat the butter and sugar together 
to a light cream, beat the yolks with a spoonful of 
cold milk and stir them in with the butter and 
sugar, beat them together until very light, then 
add the nutmeg; then stir in half of the flour, 
then half of the whites, then the other half of the flour 
and the remainder of the whites last. Put it 
quickly into a buttered cake pan and bake one hour. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Twelve whites of fresh eggs, six ounces of fresh 
butter, twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, 
twelve ounces of sifted flour with four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed with it, two teaspoon- 
fuls of the extract of lemon, four teaspoonfuls of 
the extract of roses, one gill of sherry wine, six 
ounces of citron cut thin as paper. Take out one 
tablespoonful of the weighed flour and dredge the 
citron. Set the vessel containing the flour and 



254 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 

baking powder into a pan of hot water and stir it 
occasionally until needed. Put the whites into two 
bowls with one tablespoonful of the weighed sugar 
in each bowl and beat them with a machine egg 
beater to a stiff foam. Beat the butter and sugar 
together to a light cream, then stir in half of the 
flour then half of the whites, then the other half of 
the flour and the whites, then add the flavoring and 
wine, and last the citron. Mix it evenly together, 
put it quickly into a buttered cake pan and bake 
one hour. 



SNOW CAKE. 

Whites of twelve fresh eggs, six ounces of fresh 
butter, twelve ounces of white granulated sugar, 
twelve ounces of sifted flour with three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder mixed in it, three 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Put the whites 
into two bowls with one tablespoonful of the 
weighed sugar in each bowl and beat them with a 
machine egg beater to a stiff foam. Set the vessel 
containing the flour into a pan of boiling water 
and stir it occasionally until needed. Beat the 
butter and sugar together to a light cream, then 
stir in half of the flour, then half of the whites, 
then the other half of the flour and the whites, 
then add the lemon and put it half an inch deep 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 255 



into well buttered jelly cake plates and bake a light 
brown. It takes it about ten minutes. Then put 
a layer of cake and a layer of grated cocoanut and 
raspberry mixture, then a layer of cake, and so on, 
finishing with cake and an icing with cocoanut 
sprinkled over the top whilst the icing is wet. 

COCOANUT AND RASPBERRY 
MIXTURE. 

Eight ounces of grated cocoanut, mixed with 
half a pint of raspberry syrup. 

SPONGE CAKE. (Very Fine.) 

Six fresh eggs beaten separately, eight ounces 
of white granulated sugar, six ounces of sifted flour, 
with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed 
with it, three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Beat 
the whites with one tablespoonful of the sugar to a 
stiff foam, beat the yolks with the rest of the sugar 
until very light, put the sugar in with the yolks a 
spoonful at a time. It is easier beaten than if the 
whole was put in at once, then stir in half of the flour, 
then the whites, then the other half of the flour 
and the lemon. Put it quickly into a well buttered 
cake pan and bake forty minutes. If baked in 



256 CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 



small cakes, twenty minutes. Try it with a 
wooden skewer, and if it comes out clean and dry 
the cake is done. 

SPONGE MUFFINS. (For Tea.) 

Five fresh eggs beaten separately, six ounces 
of white granulated sugar, live ounces of sifted 
flour, with one heaped teaspoonful of baking 
powxler mixed in it. Beat the whites with one 
tablespoonful of the sugar to a stiff foam, beat the 
yolks with the rest of the sugar, then stir half of 
the flour into the yolks and sugar, then the whites, 
then the other half of the flour. Put it quickly 
into well buttered muffin pans and bake twenty 
minutes. Serve them hot, split them open and 
butter them. They are excellent. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve whites of eggs, eight ounces of white 
granulated sugar, six ounces of sifted flour, with 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed with 
it, three teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Beat the 
whites with one tablespoonful of the sugar to a 
stiff foam, then beat the rest of the sugar into the 
whites and then add the lemon and stir in the flour 
last. Put it quickly into a well buttered cake pan 
and bake forty minutes. Try it with a wooden 
skewer and if it comes out dry and clean it is done* 



CAKES AND MACAROONS, MERINGUE. 257 

WHITE CAKE. (Excellent.) 

Whites of six fresh eggs, three ounces of fresh 
butter, six ounces of white granulated sugar, six 
ounces of sifted flour, with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder mixed with it, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon extract. Beat the whites with one table- 
spoonful of the sugar to a stiff foam, beat the butter 
and sugar to a light cream and then stir in half of 
the flour, then stir in half of the whites, then the 
other half of the flour and the whites; then add the 
lemon and put it quickly into a well buttered pan 
and bake thirty minutes. 



258 BEVERAGES. 



8evefkfife$. 



CIDER, TO KEEP SWEET. 

As soon as the cider begins to ferment bore a 
small gimlet hole through the bung of the barrel 
and put in a wooden plug. Once a day this plug 
must be taken out to let the gas escape, otherwise 
the barrel would burst. Then take one pint of 
yellow English mustard seed, divide it into four 
parts and put it into four small thin muslin bags, 
one gill in each bag; tie the mouth of the bags 
with a cord and drop them into the cider through 
the bung hole, make the bung tight, put in the plug, 
turn the barrel on end, put in the faucet tight and 
place the barrel high enough to allow the cider to 
be drawn off without moving the barrel. Cider 
prepared in this manner will keep sweet a long 
time 

SIBERIAN CRAB APPLE WINE. 

(Very Fine.) 

Prepare the crab apple cider in the same man- 
ner as in the preceding receipt, and after the 



BEVERAGES. 259 

mustard seed has been in the cider four or six 
weeks it is ready to bottle. Ten gallons of cider 
will rill fifty wine bottles. Put the corks to soak 
in warm water. Clean the bottles inside with 
shot and warm water and have a ball of thick 
twine ready. Then put one large raisin into each 
bottle and fill with cider. Pound in the corks with 
a wooden mallet, tie them in with twine and lay 
the bottles on their side in a cool place. 



CIDER, KEPT SWEET. 

The following is a scientific method of treating 
cider to preserve its sweetness: When the sac- 
charine matter, by fermenting, is being converted 
into alcohol, if a bent tube be inserted air tight 
into the bung with the other end into a pail of 
water, to allow the carbonic acid gas evolved to 
pass off without admitting any air into the barrel a 
beverage will be attained that is a fit nectar for the 
gods. A handy way is to fill your cask nearly up 
to the faucet, when the cask is rolled so that the 
bung is down. Get a common rubber tube and 
slip it over the end of the plug in the faucet, with 
the other end in the pail of water. Then turn the 
plug so the cider can have communication with the 
pail. After the water ceases to bubble, bottle or 
store it away. — Farm, Field and Fireside. 



260 BEVERAGE^. 



EGG NOG, WARM. 

One quart of rich sweet milk, half a pint of 
brandy or whiskey, six ounces of white granulated 
sugar, one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, three 
fresh eggs, beaten separately. Put the milk, brandy, 
sugar and nutmeg into a saucepan and set it on the 
side of the range, where it will get warm but not 
hot. Beat the whites to a stiff foam then beat the 
yolks and stir them into the whites, then stir them 
into the warm milk and set it over a quick fire, sth 
it fast and as soon as it begins to rise (it must not 
boil) take it off the lire and pour it into a bowl or 
pitcher and serve it in glasses. It is a very re- 
freshing drink on a cold day. 



EGG NOG, COLD. 

Four fresh eggs, beaten separately, six ounces of 
white granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, half a pint of brandy or whisky, one quart 
of rich sweet milk. Beat the whites with two tea- 
spoonfuls of the sugar to a stiff foam. Beat the 
yolks and sugar together to a light cream, then put 
in the nutmeg and the brandy, then add half of the 
milk and stir in the whites, then add the other half 
of the milk. 



BEVERAGES. 26 1 



LEMONADE. 

Three large lemons, live tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, three pints of ice water. Wash and wipe 
the lemons, then peel off the yellow part of the 
rind very thin (that contains the oil) and put it into 
a porcelain pitcher. Then peel off the white part 
(which is always bitter) and cut the lemon in two 
in the middle; put them into the lemon squeezer 
and squeeze the juice into the pitcher. Then take 
out the seeds and put the squeezed lemon into the 
pitcher. Now put in the sugar and beat the whole 
together a minute or two. then add the water and 
stir it until the sugar is dissolved. It is then ready 
to use. 

LEMOX PUNCH. 

Half a pint of lemon syrup and half a pint of 
sherry wine put into one quart of ice water. It 
makes a refreshing summer drink. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Three pints of ice water, half a pint of rasp- 
berry syrup, one gill of brandy, one large lemon. 
Peel the lemon and squeeze the juice into a porce- 
lain pitcher, then put in the water and raspberry 
svrup. Then add the brandy and stir it well to- 
gether. It makes a pleasant summer drink. 



262 BEVERAGES. 



LEMON SYRUP. 

Wash and wipe the lemons, then grate the yellow 
rind very thin off of one half of the lemons, 
then peel off the white part and throw it away, it is 
always bitter. Then peel the other half of the 
lemons and cut them all in two in the middle and 
put them into the lemon squeezer and squeeze out 
all the juice, then take out all the seeds and throw 
the squeezed lemon into a bowl of hot water, a 
good deal of the acid remains in the lemon after it 
is squeezed. When the lemons are all squeezed 
measure the juice in a pint and mark it down on 
paper, then strain the lemon and water through a 
wire sieve and measure one pint of the water to 
each pint of the lemon juice and mark it down 
beside the juice, keep the water separate and 
weigh the sugar. To each pint of the water and 
juice allow one pound and a quarter of white gran- 
ulated sugar. Put the sugar and grated lemon 
peel into a porcelain kettle and mix it together, 
then put in the water and boil it five minutes, then 
add the lemon juice, take it off the fire and strain 
through a linen cloth. Bottle it, and when it is 
cold cork tight and seal. Half a pint of lemon 
syrup to one quart of ice water makes a delightful 
drink in warm weather. Three tablespoonfuls of 
lemon syrup is the right quantity for a goblet of 
ice water. One tablespoonful of lemon syrup is 
enough for one lemonade glass of ice water. 



BEVERAGES. 263 



MILK PUXCH. 

Five lemons, six ounces of white granulated 
sugar, one pint of rich sweet milk, one pint of 
water, one grated nutmeg, one pint of rum or 
brandy and the juice of the lemon. Grate the 
yellow skin off the lemons and mix it with the 
sugar, put the milk, water, grated lemon and sugar 
into a saucepan and let it come to a boil, then take 
it off the lire and put in the nutmeg, rum and 
lemon juice; strain the whole through a jelly cloth 
and serve when cold. 



MULLED CIDER. 



One quart of good cider, six ounces of white 
granulated sugar, four fresh eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, two teaspoonfuls of grated nutmeg. Put 
the cider, sugar and nutmeg into a saucepan and 
set it on the range where it will get warm, but not 
scalding hot. Beat the whites with three tea- 
spoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam, then beat 
the yolks and stir them into the whites, and then 
stir them into the cider. Set it quickly over a hot 
fire and stir it fast until it begins to rise (it must not 
boil) then take it off the fire and pour it into a 
pitcher. Serve it warm. 



264 BEVERAGES, 



MULLED WINE. 

One pint of sherry wine, one pint of water, six 
ounces of white granulated sugar, four fresh eggs, 
beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 
or nutmeg, according to taste. Put the wine, 
water, cinnamon and sugar into a saucepan and 
set it on the side of the range where it will get 
warm, but not hot. Beat the whites with three 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar to a stiff foam, then 
beat the yolks and stir them into the whites, then 
stir them into the wine and set it over a quick 
fire and stir it fast until it begins to rise (it must 
not boil) then take it quickly off the fire and pour 
it into a pitcher. Put it into glasses and serve it 
warm. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Four lemons, half a pound of white granulated 
sugar, two quarts of boiling water, half a pint of 
Jamaica rum. After the lemons have been washed 
and wiped, peel off the yellow skin very thin and 
put it into the vessel the punch is to be made in, 
then peel off the white skin, which is bitter, and 
throw it away; then cut the lemons in two and 
squeeze the juice into the vessel, then take out the 
seeds and put the squeezed lemon in with the juice, 



BEVERAGES. 265 



then put in the sugar and rub the sugar and lemons 
together a few minutes, then pour in the boiling 
water and let it stand until it is cold, then place a 
fine sieve over the punch bowl and pour it through, 
then add the rum and slice two lemons into 
the punch bowl. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put four quarts of ripe red raspberries into a 
porcelain preserving kettle and mash them with a 
wooden beetle, then boil them five minutes and 
take them off the fire. Then stir into them one 
quart of strong cider vinegar, then strain through 
a linen cloth and measure. To one pint of the 
juice allow three quarters of a pound of white gran- 
ulated sugar, set it over the fire, and when 
it begins to boil skim it well and boil it ten min- 
utes. When cold bottle, cork tight and seal, when 
it is to be used put two tablespoonfuls of the rasp- 
berry vinegar into a goblet two thirds full of ice 
water. 



266 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC, 



iqklkde^, Jellied 
ctr^d fVe^efve^. 



JELLY, TO MAKE. 

To make fine jelly of the small fruits, the fruit 
must be boiled ten minutes with the skins, cores 
and seeds. The skins increase the flavor and the 
cores and seeds contain the gluten which makes 
the jelly. For a strainer I use a jelly cloth instead 
of a jelly bag. I find it more convenient and much 
quicker done. I take a piece of fine Russia linen 
crash three yards long and wring it out of warm 
water. Place a wire sieve over a flat stone crock 
and put one end of the linen over the sieve, then 
put in a ladle full of the fruit, fold the two sides 
together and twist the two ends in opposite direc- 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 267 



tions. It takes two persons to do it. Then re- 
move to another part of the linen, and so on, until 
all is strained. If the linen is right the jelly will be 
perfectly clear. I have never failed to have fine 
jelly although I never have used gelatine. 

MARMALADE. 

To make the finest marmalade the fruit must be 
boiled ten minutes before the sugar is put in with 
it. The marmalade will be smoother, finer flavored 
and quicker made than according to the old method. 
Sugar always hardens the fruit and prevents it from 
mashing easily. 

STRAWBERRIES, CANNED. 

The dark red Wilson strawberries are the best 
for all purposes. They should be gathered in dry 
weather and be fresh from the vines. After they 
are hulled, weigh them, and to one pound of straw- 
berries allow half a pound of white granulated 
sugar. Spread the strawberries on porcelain plates, 
strew the sugar thickly over them and let them 
stand in a cool place until the next morning. The 
sugar will extract the juice and harden the fruit. 
Use a silver knife or spoon to take them off the 
plates into the kettle. Use a wooden spoon in the 



268 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

kettle. Let them heat very slowly and when they 
come to a boiling heat (they must not boil) they 
are ready to put up. Put them into glass jars her- 
metically sealed. 

STRAWBERRY MARMALADE. 

To one pound of strawberries, three quarters of 
a pound of white granulated sugar. Put the straw- 
berries into a porcelain preserving kettle and mash 
them with a wooden beetle until there is juice 
enough to cover the bottom of the kettle. Let 
them boil ten minutes then add the sugar and cook 
them thirty minutes, stirring them constantly with 
a wooden spoon to prevent it from sticking. Put 
it warm into jelly glasses, cover with double 
writing paper, cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy, 
and close with metal covers, or put it into glass jars 
hermetically sealed. 

STRAWBERRIES, PRESERVED. 

To one pound of Wilson strawberries allow one 
pound of white granulated sugar, spread the straw- 
berries thinly on porcelain plates and strew all the 
sugar over them and let them remain in it over 
night, in the morning the plates will be full of 
juice. With a silver knife or spoon take all from 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 269 

the plates into a porcelain preserving kettle, set it 
over a slow fire until it comes to a boiling heat, 
but not to boil, then take the kettle off and with a 
skimmer take the strawberries out, a few at a time, 
and spread them on the same plates to cool; strain 
the syrup through a linen cloth and return it to the 
kettle, boil it two minutes, skimming it well. Take 
it off the fire, put the strawberries into the syrup, 
cover the kettle and set it in a cool place until the 
next morning. The strawberries must not be 
taken out of the syrup again until they are done. 
In the morning set them over the fire and as soon 
as they are hot take them off, cover them, and put 
them in a cool place until the next morning. Re- 
peat this for four mornings and the strawberries 
will be perfectly clear and not one broken. Put 
them into pint or half pint, wide mouthed,glass jars, 
cover with double writing paper cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy, cork and seal them. 

RED RASPBERRY JELLY. 



To three pints of raspberry juice put one pint of 
currant juice, and one pound of white granulated 
sugar to each pint of juice. The raspberries and 
currants must be ripe and gathered in dry weather. 
Mash the raspberries with a wooden beetle in 
a porcelain preserving kettle and boil them ten 



270 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

minutes; then strain them through a linen cloth 
and measure. Put the currants into a preserving 
kettle, stems and all; mash them and boil ten min- 
utes, then strain and measure; mix the currant and 
raspberry juice together in the kettle and stir in 
the sugar, as soon as it begins to boil skim it as 
quick as possible, for it often jellies in five minutes. 
Put it hot into jelly glasses with double writing 
paper cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy. Use 
jelly glasses with metal covers, and the jelly should 
be cold before the covers are made tight. 



RED RASPBERRY MARMA 
LADE. 



To three pounds of raspberries put one pound 
of currants and three quarters of a pound of white 
granulated sugar to each pound of fruit; mash the 
raspberries and currants together in the kettle and 
boil them ten minutes; then add the sugar and boil 
twenty minutes longer, stir it all the time with a 
wooden spoon to prevent it from sticking. Put 
it hot into small glass jars or jelly glasses with 
double writing paper cut to fit the inside, dipped in 
brandy. Close the marmalade when cold, if put 
in jelly glasses. 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 27 I 

BLACK EASPBERRIES, Canned 
for Pies Tarts and Sauce. 

To three pounds of raspberries put one pound of 
ripe currants, and two pounds of white granulated 
sugar to four pounds of fruit; after the currants are 
picked and weighed mash them with a wooden 
beetle and put them in the bottom of the preserv- 
ing kettle and sprinkle a handful of sugar over 
them, then put in a layer of raspberries and a layer 
of sugar until all are in; set the kettle on the side 
of the range where they will heat slowly for one 
hour, or until the juice is extracted; then stir them 
up from the bottom, let them get hot and they are 
ready to put up. Put them into glass jars, hermet- 
ically sealed. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

To one pint of currant juice put one pound of 
white granulated sugar. Pick the leaves out from 
the currents, then mash them stems and all 
together, with a wooden beetle and put them into 
a porcelain preserving kettle and boil them ten 
minutes; then strain through a linen cloth, meas- 
ure and return the juice to the kettle. Mix the 
sugar and juice together before the juice is hot 
and stir it with a wooden spoon until it begins to 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC, 



boil, then skim it as quickly as possible, for it will 
be jelly in about five minutes. Put it hot into 
jelly glasses, cover with double writing paper cut 
to fit the inside, dipped in brandy. Close with metal 
covers when the jelly is cold. 

CHERRIES, CANNED. 

After the cnerries are stemmed and stoned, 
weigh them, and to each pound of cherries allow 
half a pound of white granulated sugar. Put them 
into a porcelain kettle, a layer of cherries and a 
layer of sugar until all are in. Then add one quart 
of water to six pounds of cherries. Put the water 
in at the side of the kettle, set them over a slow 
fire and let them heat gradually for two hours, or 
until the juice is extracted, then let them come to a 
boiling heat and they are ready to put up. Put 
them into glass jars hermetically sealed. 

GREEN GAGE PLUMS, PRE- 
SERVED. 

To one pound of plums allow one pound of 
white granulated sugar, and one-half a pint of 
water to each pound of sugar. Take large fine 
green gage plums that are not fully ripe but have 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 273 

turned a little yellowish, pick them, weigh and 
wash them in two waters. Put the sugar and 
water into a porcelain preserving kettle, and as soon 
as the sugar is dissolved put in the plums, turn 
them over with a skimmer, that they may heat 
evenly. As soon as the skins are curled and cracked 
move them to the side of the range, where they 
will not boil. Let them stand for one hour, or 
until the juice is extracted; then cover the kettle 
and set it in a cool place over night. In the morn- 
ing set them on the fire and when they are at a 
boiling heat take the plums out onto large porce- 
lain dishes. Boil the syrup, skim it and return the 
plums to the kettle; let them get hot, but not to 
boil, cover the kettle and set it away until the next 
morning, when they are ready to put up. The 
syrup must cover the plums. Put them into glass 
jars hermetically sealed. 



GREEN GAGE JELLY. 

The plums for jelly should be fully ripe. Wash 
them or wipe them off with a wet cloth, take off 
the stems and cut out the spots, weigh them, and 
to one pound of plums allow half a pint of water. 
Put the plums and water into a porcelain preserv- 
ing kettle and boil them twentv minutes, then 
strain them through a linen cloth; after they are 



274 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

all strained, strain the juice over again; measure it 
and to each pint of juice allow one pound of white 
granulated sugar. Put the juice and sugar into 
the preserving kettle and stir it until the sugar is 
all dissolved, as soon as it begins to boil look at 
your watch, skim it well and let it boil ten minutes. 
Put it hot into the jelly glasses with double writing 
paper cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy. When 
it is cold close up with metal covers. 



GREEN GAGE PLUMS, CANNED. 

Plums for canning should not be fully ripe. To 
four pounds of plums allow two pounds of white 
granulated sugar and half a pint of water; pick the 
plums carefully, taking out all the spotted ones and 
those that are fully ripe, for jelly. Weigh them 
and wash them in two waters, put the sugar and 
water into a porcelain preserving kettle and as 
soon as the sugar is dissolved put in the plums, 
set them over a slow fire and turn them over care- 
fully from the bottom of the kettle with a large 
skimmer that they may heat evenly and not break. 
This must be done as soon as they are put on the 
fire and continued until they are done. As soon 
as the skins curl and split open and they are scald- 
ing hot they are ready to put up; they must not 
boil nor break. If there is not syrup enough add 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 275 

a little hot water and mix it well together. The 
quantity of syrup depends a great deal on the 
ripeness of the plums. Put them into glass jars 
hermetically sealed. 

WHITE HEATH FREE-STONE 
PEACHES, CANNED. 

To four pounds of peaches, one pound of white 
granulated sugar. In putting up peaches for the 
table I prefer the White Heath. They are rich in 
flavor and delicate in color. They should not be 
over ripe. Pare them and cut them in halves, or 
if they are very large, quarter them and take out 
the stones. Put into the preserving kettle a layer 
of peaches and a layer of sugar until all are in, 
then put in one pint of water to one bushel of 
peaches, sprinkle the water over the top of the 
peaches, set them on the side of the fire where 
they will heat very slowly. They should stand 
one hour and a half before they are put over the 
fire, or until the juice is extracted. Crack one 
quarter of the peach stones and put the kernels 
into a small saucepan with water enough to cover 
them and boil them thirty minutes; then strain off 
the water and mix it with the peaches. It gives 
them a fine flavor. As soon as the juice is ex- 
tracted set the kettle over the fire, and when they 



276 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



are at boiling heat (but not to boil) they are ready 
to put up. Put them into glass jars hermetically 
sealed. .Peaches for pies are put up in the same 
manner. 

WHITE HEATH CLING-STONE 
PEACHES, CANNED. 

Take cling-stone peaches that are ripe and after 
they are pared, divide them into quarters and cut 
them from the stones. To four pounds of peaches 
allow one pound of white granulated sugar and 
one pint of water. Put the peaches into the pre- 
serving kettle with a layer of sugar between each 
layer of peaches, then put in the water at the side 
of the kettle and set them on the side of the fire 
where they will heat slowly. Crack one quarter 
of the peach stones and put the kernels into a small 
saucepan with water enough to cover them and 
boil them thirty minutes. Then strain the^ water 
off and mix it with the peaches. Cook the peaches 
until they are tender, but they must not break. Try 
them with a fork and when they are soft they are 
ready to put up. Put them into glass jars hermet- 
ically sealed. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

To one pound of free-stone peaches one pound 
of white granulated sugar and half a pint of water. 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 277 

Pare the peaches, cut them in halves and take out 
the stones, put them into a porcelain preserving 
kettle, the cut side uppermost, with a layer of 
sugar and a layer of peaches, finishing with a layer 
of sugar. Then put the water in at the side of the 
kettle; set them on the side of the range where 
they will heat slowly for one hour and a half; crack 
one quarter of the stones, take out the kernels and 
boil them in one pint of water for thirty minutes, 
then strain off the water and put it in with the 
peaches, set the kettle of peaches over the fire, and 
as soon as it comes to a boiling heat, but not to 
boil, take it off, cover it and let it stand over night. 
In the morning let it get boiling hot, butit must not 
boil; then take the peaches out with a skimmer 
onto large porcelain dishes; boil the syrup long 
enough to skim it well and then return the peaches 
to the kettle, set it over a slow fire and as soon as 
the peaches look clear they are ready to put up. 



PEACH MARMALADE. 

To one pound of peaches allow three quarters 
of a pound of white granulated sugar and one pint 
of water to four pounds of peaches. Take ripe, 
juicy free-stone peaches; pare them, take out the 
stones and crack one quarter of them, put the 
kernels into a saucepan with water enough to cover 



278 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

them and cook them thirty minutes, then strain 
off the water, cut the peaches into thin slices and 
put them into a porcelain preserving kettle with 
one pint of water to four pounds of peaches and 
cook them ten minutes from the time they begin 
to boil; then add the sugar and the water from the 
kernels, stir it well with a wooden spoon and cook 
it twenty minutes longer. Put it into glass jars or 
jelly glasses with double writing paper cut to fit 
the inside, dipped in brandy. 



BRANDY PEACHES. 

White Heath "clings" are the best for brandy 
peaches. Weigh them before they are skinned and 
mark it down on paper with a pencil. To one 
pound of peaches allow half a pound of white 
granulated sugar, one gill of water and half a pint 
of white brandy. Put eight ounces of cooking 
soda with two quarts of cold water into an iron pot 
and let it get scalding hot, then put in one dozen of 
the peaches at a time and let them stay in just five 
minutes, then take them out with a skimmer into 
a colander. Rub off the skin wilh a dry, coarse 
linen cloth and put the peaches into a large pan full 
of cold water. Put the sugar with one gill of 
water to half a pound of sugar into the preserving 
kettle and when it is dissolved take the peaches out 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 279 



of the water into a colander, let them drain a min- 
ute and then put them into the syrup, turn them 
over from time to time and skim when anything 
rises. Cook them slowly until they are soft enough 
for a silver fork to go easily through, then take 
them out onto flat porcelain dishes and boil the 
syrup down to one half, skim it as long as anything 
rises to the surface, and then take it off the fire and 
let it cool ten minutes. Then put in the brandy 
and return the peaches to the brandy syrup. Set 
the kettle over the fire again and when it is hot 
(but not to boil) take it off the fire and rill the glass 
jars first with the peaches and then with the 
brandy syrup. The syrup must cover the peaches. 
Close the jars hermetically. 



SECKEL PEARS, CANNED. 

To four pounds of pears, one pound of white 
granulated sugar, two quarts of water, one ounce 
of whole cinnamon, two large lemons and one pint 
of red wine. Wash the lemons, slice them and 
take out the seeds. The pears must not be over 
ripe. Pare them, leaving on the stems and taking 
out the blossom end. Put them into the preserving 
kettle with the w T ater, cinnamon, lemons and sugar 
and boil them one hour, or until they are tender; 
try them with a fork; it depends upon the size and 



:8o CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



ripeness of the pears. Then take them out onto 
large porcelain dishes and strain the syrup through 
a linen cloth; return the syrup and pears to the 
kettle and put in the wine. When it comes to a 
boiling heat they are ready to put up. It must not 
boil after the wine is put in. Put them into glass 
jars hermetically sealed. They are excellent. 



SIBERIAN CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

There are two kinds of crab apples. The largest 
size is mellow and has very little juice, the smaller 
size is juicy and the best for jelly. They are ripe 
the latter part of August. Wash the crab apples 
in two waters and spread them on a table that is 
covered with a cloth, select the finest, cut orT the 
stems, take out the blossom end and slice them in 
three pieces, skins, cores and seeds all together. 
Weigh them, and to four pounds of apples put one 
quart of cold water and one lemon; wash the lemons, 
wipe them, slice them and take out the seeds; put 
the whole into a porcelain preserving kettle and 
boil it thirty minutes, then strain through a linen 
cloth. Put a small quantity of the apples in at a 
time, it will be quicker done; after they are all 
strained, strain the juice over again. To one pint 
of the juice allow one pound of white granulated 
sugar, put it into the preserving kettle and stir it 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 28l 

well together; when it begins to boil skim it and 
boil five minutes. I have had it jelly in that time. 
Put it into jelly glasses with double writing paper 
cut to fit the inside, dipped in brandy, and when 
the jelly is cold close w T ith metal covers. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

After the quinces have been washed, wiped and 
the blemishes and blossom end removed, pare them, 
quarter them and cut out the cores; put them with 
the cores, seeds and skins from the canned quinces. 
Weigh them, and to one pound of skins and cores, 
allow one pint of water. Boil them twenty min- 
utes; put them into a wire sieve, and when the 
juice has run through strain it through a linen cloth. 
Cut the quartered quinces in thin slices and to one 
pound of quinces put one pint of the juice; cook 
them until they are soft, but not to break; strain 
through a linen cloth. To one pint of the juice 
put one pound of white granulated sugar, mix the 
juice and sugar well together before putting it on 
the fire. As soon as it begins to boil skim quickly, 
it is jelly in five minutes. Put it into jelly glasses 
with double writing paper cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy. This jelly can be colored beau- 
tifully with cranberry juice, one pint of cranberry 
juice to four pints of quince juice, but there must be 
one pound of sugar to a pint of juice. 



282 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

DAMSON PLUMS FOR SAUCE 
OR TARTS. 

Take ripe damson plums, pick them carefully 
and wash them in two waters, measure them and 
to three quarts of plums, allow one pint of water. 
Put them into a porcelain preserving kettle and boil 
them twenty minutes; then put them into a wire 
sieve, a small quantity at a time, and press all through 
excepting the skins and stones. Then measure 
them and to one quart of the strained plums put 
one pint and a half of sugar; mix it well together 
and set it over a slow fire and boil it thirty min- 
utes, stir it with a wooden spoon all the time it is 
on the fire. 

DAMSON PLUMS, CANNED. 

Wash the plums in cold water and drain them 
through a colander, then pick them carefully, 
taking out all the blemished ones, then weigh them. 
To eight pounds of plums, allow six pounds of 
sugar and one pint of water, put the sugar and 
and water into a preserving kettle, and when it 
comes to a boil put in the plums and keep turning 
them over with a skimmer until they begin to boil. 
Then let them boil just five minutes, put them hot 
into glass jars hermetically sealed. 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 283 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Pick and wash the cranberries and then measure 
them. To one quart of cranberries put one pint of 
water and boil them fifteen minutes, stirring them 
with a wooden spoon to prevent them from stick- 
ing, then rub them through a wire sieve, all 
excepting the skins. To one pint of the cranberry 
juice put one pint of white granulated sugar; mix 
it well together before putting it on the fire. As 
soon as it boils skim it as quick as you can, it is 
jelly in two minutes. Put it into jelly glasses or 
jars. It moulds beautifully. 

QUINCES, CANNED. 

The pear shaped quinces are the best for all 
purposes. Wash the quinces, wipe them, remove 
the blemishes and blossom end, pare them, cut 
them in halves and divide each half in three pieces. 
Take out the cores and save them and the skins 
for jelly. To one pound of quinces allow half 
a pound ofwhite granulated sugar and half a pint of 
water, mix the sugar and water together in the 
preserving kettle and put in the quinces. The 
water should be even with the quinces; cook them 
over a low fire until they are soft enough for a fork 
to go easily through them, but must not break 
them. Put them hot into glass jars hermetically 
sealed. 



284 CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



QUINCE PRESERVES. 

To one pound of quinces put one pound of white 
granulated sugar and half a pint of juice. Take 
large, yellow, ripe, pear shaped quinces, and after 
they are washed, wiped, blemishes and blossom 
end removed, pare them, quarter them and take 
out the cores. To one pound of skins, cores and 
seeds, put one pint of water. Boil them twenty 
minutes, then put them into a wire sieve and then 
strain the juice through a linen cloth. If there is 
not juice enough add some water; put the quinces 
and juice into the preserving kettle with half of the 
sugar and cook them until they are soft enough for 
a fork to go through them, then put in the other 
half of the sugar, and when it is all dissolved and 
begins to boil take them off the fire, cover them 
and let them stand two days, then set the kettle 
on the fire and when it is boiling hot take the 
quinces out onto large plates, boil up the syrup and 
skim it well, return the quinces to the kettle and 
when they are hot again put them into glass jars 
with double writing paper cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

To one pound of quinces, put three quarters of 
a pound of white granulated sugar. Wash and 



CANNED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 285 



wipe the quinces after the blemishes and blossom 
end are removed, pare them and cut out the cores. 
To one pound of skins and cores put one pint of 
cold water and boil them twenty minutes, then put 
them into a wire sieve, and when the juice is all 
through, strain it through a linen cloth; cut the 
quinces in thin slices and to one pound of quinces 
put one pint of the juice. If there is not juice 
enough add some water. Cook them until they 
are soft but not broken, and then rub them all 
through a coarse wire sieve; mix the sugar and 
quinces well together and cook it thirty minutes, 
stir it all the time with a wooden spoon to prevent 
it from sticking. Put it into jelly glasses or glass 
jars with double writing paper, cut to fit the inside, 
dipped in brandy. 



^86 CANNED VEGETABLES. 



£kqi)ed Ve^etkMe^. 



ASPARAGUS, CANNED. 

The best cans for putting up asparagus are flat 
and square and just as long as the asparagus and 
deep enough to hold three or four bunches, with a 
cover as large as the can, that has an opening in 
it the size of a half dollar. Wash the asparagus 
in cold water and place it in the cans, heads to- 
gether, until the can is full, then put on the cover 
and solder it tight with lead, then fill the cans with 
cold water and put one teaspoonful of salt into 
each can, then solder the opening in the covers and 
put the cans into a large boiler with cold water 
enough to cover them, and boil them slowly thirty 
minutes. After they begin to boil then take out 
the cans and puncture a small hole in the top of 
each can, to let out the • steam, then solder them 
quickly and return them to the boi«ler ? and let them 
boil slowly thirty minutes longer. When the as- 
paragus has to be used pour off all the water in 



CANNED VEGETABLES. 287 



the can, then put half a pint of rich sweet milk 
into a stew pan over the fire and mix two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh butter with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour and stir it into the hot milk and let it boil two 
minutes, then put in the asparagus and let it come 
to a boil and simmer a few minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER, CANNED. 

Is put up in the same manner and boiled the 
same length of time and prepared for the table in 
the same manner as asparagus. 

GREEN CORN, CANNED. 

Select young sugar corn that is in the milk, and 
after it is husked, silked and the blemishes taken 
out, cut it off the cob and scrape out what is left 
in the cob, it is the best part of the corn. Then 
rill the cans full with the corn and the milk that 
came out of it and put one teaspoonful of salt to 
each pint of corn and solder the cans tight with 
lead and put them into a large boiler with cold 
water enough to cover them, and let them boil 
slowly two hours; then take the cans out and 
puncture a small hole in the top of each can to let 
out the steam, then solder them quickly and return 
them to the boiler and boil them two hours longer. 



288 CANNED VEGETABLES. 

STRING BEANS. 

The yellow wax beans are the best. String them 
with a knife, break them into two or three pieces 
and throw them into cold water for half an hour, 
then wash them and drain them in a colander and 
fill the cans, then put in cold water enough to fill 
the cans with one teaspoonful of salt to each pint 
can and solder them tight with lead, then put them 
into a large boiler with cold water enough to cover 
them, and boil them one hour and a half. 

GREEN PEAS, CANNED. 

The best peas are those which have flat pods. 
After the peas have been shelled, picked over and 
put into cold water, pour off all that floats on top 
of the water; then put them into a colander to 
drain, and then fill the cans full and pour in cold 
water enough to just cover the peas, then put in 
one teaspoonful of salt to each pint, cover the peas 
and solder the cans tight with lead. When all are 
ready put them into a large boiler with cold water 
enough to cover them and heat them slowly and 
boil them thirty minutes. Then take the cans out 
and puncture a small hole in the top of each can 
to let out the steam, then solder them quickly and 
return them to the boiler and boil them thirty min- 
utes longer. 



CANNED VEGETABLES. 289 



LIMA BEANS, CANNED 



Take young lima beans and after they are 
picked over and washed in cold water and drained 
in a colander, fill the cans and pour in cold water 
enough to cover the beans, and put in one tea- 
spoonful of salt to each pint of beans; then solder 
the cans tight with lead, and when all are ready, 
put them into a large boiler with cold water 
enough to cover them and boil them one hour, 
then take the cans out and puncture a small hole 
in the top of each can to let out the steam, then 
solder them quickly and return them to the boiler 
and boil them one hour longer. 

TOMATOES, CANNED. 

Tomatoes that are a dark red are over ripe and 
unfit to use for canning or any other culinary 
purpose. They should be pale pink red, and 
should be put up the last week in August, they are 
the best at that time. Have a kettle with boiling 
water over the fire and put in a small quantity of 
tomatoes at a time, and let them remain in it about 
two minutes, or until the skins begin to crack, then 
take them out quickly with a large skimmer into a 
colander and put them onto waiters to cool. After 
they are all peeled and cut up put them into a large 



29O CANNED VEGETABLES. 

kettle with one gill of salt to one bushel of toma- 
toes; let them heat slowly and boil them twenty 
minutes. They must be boiling hot, but not boil, 
while the cans are filling, or there will be air bub- 
bles in them. Hold the covers down tight with 
a knife while the hot wax is poured around them. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 29I 



Diet ioi the $idk. 



BROTH AND MILK. 

Dr. Pulte says there are cases where the moth- 
er's milk is too poor to nourish the babe, even 
when there is plenty of milk. In such cases he 
prescribes warm beef broth or mutton broth with 
warm cow's milk, half and half. 

PAP. 

Mix one full teaspoonful of flour with one table- 
spoonful of cold milk, and then stir it into half a 
pint of boiling milk that has a pinch of salt in it. 
Boil it five minutes and then stir in one teaspoon- 
ful of white sugar. 

PANADA. 

Grate half of a double baked rusk, or half of a 
Boston cracker into half a pint of cold new milk 



292 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

that has one teaspoonful of white sugar in it; boil 
it three minutes from the time it begins to boil, 
stir it constantly from the time it is put on the fire 
until it is done. 

BEEF BROTH. 

The leg of beef makes the best broth, and four 
pounds will make one quart. After the leg has 
been cut up into four or five pieces, wash it in cold 
water and put it into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover it, and just when it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and boil it slowly five 
hours; if the water boils down too low replenish 
with a little boiling water. When it is done take 
out all the meat and bones, skim off all the fat, 
and season only with salt; then strain it through a 
wire sieve and serve it in a china cup and- saucer 
with double baked rusk or crackers. A cup full 
of this broth, with a double baked rusk is very re- 
freshing to a patient, as I can speak from ex- 
perience. If rice is permitted in the broth it must 
boil one hour. When cold this broth will become 
a jelly. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

An old chicken makes the best broth, and it is 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 293 

much clearer and nicer by cooking the chicken 
whole. After the chicken is dressed, light a paper 
and singe it off, then wash it in cold water and put 
it whole into the soup kettle, with cold water 
enough to cover it, and when it begins to boil skim 
it, keep the kettle covered and cook it slowly five 
hours. When it has cooked two hours turn it, 
and if the water boils down too low replenish with 
a little boiling water. When it is done lift the 
chicken, skim off the fat and season only with salt. 
There should be only one pint and a half of broth. 
Serve it with double baked rusk or crackers. If 
rice is permitted in the broth it must cook one hour. 
This broth when cold will become a jelly. 

MUTTOX BROTH. 

Old meat makes better broth and soup than 
young. Four pounds of the leg of old muttonwill 
make one quart of good broth. After it has been 
cut up into three or four pieces wash it in cold 
water and put it into the soup kettle with cold 
water enough to cover it, and just when it begins 
to boil skim it as long as anything rises to the sur- 
face. Cover the kettle and boil it slowly five hours 
then take out all the meat and bones and skim off 
all the fat and season only with salt. If pearl bar- 
ley is permitted in the broth, one tablespoonful is 
enough for one quart of broth, and it must cook 
two hours. 



294 DIET FOR THE SICK. 



MILK PORRIDGE. 

Haifa pint of rich sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of flour mixed with a little cold milk and a pinch 
of salt. Put the milk into a small saucepan and 
set it into another one containing boiling water 
and let it get boiling hot, mix the flour with a little 
cold milk until it is very smooth; then add a little 
more milk to make it thin enough to stir into the 
boiling milk, stir it until it boils three minutes, then 
take it off. If the physician permits, and the 
patient desires it, sugar and sherry wine or brandy 
can be added according to prescription and taste. 

OAT MEAL PORRIDGE. 

Pick one gill of oat groats carefully, seeing that 
all the hulls are taken out; then wash them in cold 
water and put them into a tin saucepan with one 
pint of cold water and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
cover it close and then set it into a larger saucepan 
containing boiling water and boil it one hour. The 
water in the larger pan must not stop boiling until 
the porridge is done. 

BARLEY BOILED. 

One gill of pearl barley, one pint of cold water 
and one saltspoonful of salt; after the barley has 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 295 



been washed in cold water put it and the pint of 
cold water and salt into a small tin saucepan that 
has a steam pipe through the cover and set it into 
another saucepan containing boiling water and 
boil it two hours. The water must not stop boil- 
ing until the barley is done. It may be served 
with sugar, cream or milk. 

OAT GROATS. 

Wash half a pint of the groats in cold water and 
put them into a tin saucepan with one pint of cold 
water and a saltspoonful of salt. . Cover the sauce- 
pan and set it into another pan containing boiling 
water. Don't stir it nor put any more water in it 
and boil it three quarters of an hour; then set it on 
the side of the range until the groats are about as 
thick as mush. Serve it with white powdered 
sugar and sweet cream or rich sweet milk. It is 
a very healthy diet, and is considered by some a 
remedy for dyspepsia and constipation of the 
bowels. In such cases it must be taken in the 
morning on an empty stomach before breakfast. 

RICE BOILED. 

Pick the hulls out of one gill of rice and wash 
it in cold water, then put the rice and one gill of 



296 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

cold water into a small tin saucepan that has a 
steam pipe through the cover and set it into another 
saucepan containing boiling water. Put a pinch 
of salt in with the rice; cover it and boil it three 
quarters of an hour, then set it on the side of the 
range for a few minutes until the water is all dried 
out, then stir it up with a fork. It will be soft and 
every kernel separate. Serve it with a milk sauce 
that has a little brandy in it. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

Mix one tablespoonful of arrowroot with three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water; then put one pint of 
cold water and a salt spoonful of salt into a porce- 
lain saucepan and stir in the arrowroot; stir it and 
boil it five minutes from the time it begins to boil. 
With the permission of the physician it can be made 
of milk, and if preferred wine and sugar can be 
added. 

SAGO GRUEL. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of sago to soak over 
night in one pint of cold water. In the morning 
put the sago and the water in which it was soaked 
into a porcelain saucepan, with one salt spoonful of 
salt in it, and boil it slowly five minutes from the 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 297' 

time it begins to boil. If permitted it can be made 
with sweet milk and sugar and flavored with lemon 
or wine, if desired. 



i &' 



TAPIOCA GRUEL. 

Soak one tablespoonful of tapioca over night in 
one pint of cold water or milk, then put the tapioca 
and water or milk in which it was soaked into a 
small porcelain saucepan with one salt spoonful of 
salt in it and boil it slowly ten minutes, that is from 
the time it begins to boil. Lemon, wine and sugar 
can be used, with the consent of the physician. 

FARINA GRUEL. 

Put one quart of boiling water over the fire, 
with one teaspoonful of salt in it. Mix three table- 
spoonfuls of farina with three tablespoonfuls 
of cold water and stir it into the boiling 
water; stir it all the time and boil it five minutes 
from the time it begins to boil. This is one of the 
finest gruels that is made. With the permission of 
the physician a little wine and sugar can be put in, 
but patients generally prefer it seasoned only with 
salt. 

OAT MEAL GRUEL. 

One quart of cold water, one gill of oat groats 
and one even teaspoonful of salt. Pick the groats 



298 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

carefully, taking out all the hulls. Wash them in 
cold water and put them into a tin saucepan, with 
one quart of cold water and the salt. Cover it 
and set it into a larger saucepan containing 
boiling water and boil it one hour and a half. The 
water in the large pan must be kept 'constantly 
boiling. When the gruel is done, strain it through 
a fine wire sieve. If wine and sugar are used it 
must be by the permission of the physician. This 
is the best way to make oatmeal gruel. 

ICELAND MOSS TEA. 

One ounce of moss, soaked over night in one 
quart of cold water, then boil in the water in which 
it was soaked, for thirty minutes from the time it 
commenced boiling. Then strain it through a 
linen cloth and serve it as you would a cup of black 
tea, with cream and sugar or milk and sugar, to 
suit the taste of the patient. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take one pound of lean beef and make it fine 
by cutting it up like mince meat. First cut it in 
very thin slices and then it cuts easily. Put it into 
a tin saucepan with half a pint of cold water and 
a salt spoonful of salt; cover it closely and set it 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 299 

into a larger saucepan containing boiling water. 
The water must come up around the sides of the 
saucepan that contains the beef; set it over a brisk 
fire and boil it two hours; then strain it through a 
fine wire sieve pressing the meat with the back of 
a spoon, to extract all the juice. 

FLAX SEED TEA. 

From the whole flax seed, the best flax seed tea 
is made. Put rive ounces of flax seed into a bowl 
half full of cold water, stir it up and pour offwhat- 
ever floats on top. Then pour the flax seed into a 
tin strainer. Peel off very thinly the yellow skin 
of one large lemon and put it into a pitcher with 
three tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar, stir 
it together with a spoon and then squeeze the lemon 
juice in with it; then put in the washed flax seed 
and three pints of boiling water; stir it up from 
time to time. Cover the pitcher with a folded nap- 
kin and when it is cool enough to drink it is ready 
to use. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA. 

Break up four ounces of slippery elm bark and 
put it into a pitcher with two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar; then pour in three pints of boiling 



300 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

water, stir it up now and then, cover the pitcher 
and when the tea is thick enough it is ready for the 
patient to take. If it becomes too thick to be 
pleasant add a little more water and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Put one tablespoonful of tapioca to soak over 
night in half a pint of cold water; then put the 
tapioca and the water in which it was soaked into 
a small porcelain saucepan and boil it five minutes 
from the time it commenced boiling. It must be 
stirred constantly; then stir in two teaspoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar and half a teaspoonful of 
extract of lemon and pour it into little molds that 
have been dipped in cold water. Serve it with 
sweetened cream flavored with lemon or wine 

RICE JELLY. 

Mix one tablespoonful of rice flour with three 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, then stir it into half 
a pint of boiling water with two teaspoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar in it and boil it ten minutes, 
stirring it constantly; then stir in half a teaspoon- 
ful of the extract of lemon and mold it. Serve it 
with cream and sugar and if the patient has fever 
flavor the cream with lemon, but if the patient has 
diarrhea flavor with brandy. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 3OI 

ARROWROOT JELLY. 

Put half a pint of cold water and two teaspoon- 
fuls of white granulated sugar into a porcelain 
saucepan, then mix one tablespoonful of arrow 
root with two tablespoonfuls of cold water and 
stir it into the half pint of cold water; stir it con- 
stantly and boil it three minutes from the time it 
begins to boil, then stir in half a teaspoonful of the 
extract of lemon and put it into little molds. The 
molds must be dipped in cold water before they 
are filled. I have used small glass salt cellars for 
molds and they looked very nice. Serve it with 
cream and sugar, and wine if permitted. 

ICELAND MOSS JELLY. 

Soak one ounce of moss over night in one pint 
of cold water; then put it into a saucepan, the moss 
and the water it was cooked in, and boil it thirty 
minutes from the time it commenced boiling, then 
strain it through a linen cloth, wash out the sauce- 
pan and put the strained jelly into it with two 
teaspoonfuls of white granulated sugar and boil it 
twenty minutes longer. It must be stirred con- 
stantly to keep it from sticking. Put it into little 
molds that have been dipped in cold water, and 
serve it with cream, wine and sugar. 



302 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

The Lawton blackberry is the finest and should 
be gathered in dry weather. Pick them carefully, 
put them into a porcelain kettle, mash them with a 
wooden beetle and boil them five minutes, then 
strain through a linen cloth and measure. To one 
pint of juice allow three quarters of a pound of 
white granulated sugar and boil ten minutes; skim 
it well and when cold put it into small glass bottles, 
cork tight and seal. It is often used in children's 
bowel complaints. 

WINE WHEY. 

Put one pint of rich, sour, unskimmed milk with 
four tablespoonfuls of sherry wine into a porcelain 
saucepan, cover it and set it where it will be quite 
warm, but not scalding hot. When the curd has 
formed pour it all into a linen cloth, hang it up and 
let the whey run out, then put into the whey one 
tablespoonful of white granulated sugar and four 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. This is a very 
pleasant drink for a weak patient. 

WINE COTTAGE CHEESE. 

The curd from the wine whey makes a delicious 
cottage cheese. The wine gives it a fine flavor. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 303 



Put the curd into a porcelain bowl with three table- 
spoonfuls of rich sweet cream and rub it together 
with the back of the spoon against the bowl until 
it is very fine and smooth; then stir in one dessert 
spoonful of white granulated sugar. It can be 
served with more cream and sugar, according to 
taste and is very fine for a convalescing patient if 
permitted by the physician. 



WHEY. 

Put half a gallon of rich new milk into a large 
porcelain pitcher, then take a piece of rennet four 
inches square, wash it in cold water and put it 
into a piece of white musquito bar lace; tie it in 
with a small cord and put it into the milk, fasten- 
ing the cord to the handle of the pitcher. Cover 
the pitcher and set it where it will keep warm 
until the curd is formed, then take out the rennet 
and pour off the whey. Sweeten it with white 
sugar and flavor it with sherry wine, if desired and 
permitted. 

WHEY. From VTyeth's Liquid 
Rennet. 

Put one quart of rich new milk into a tin sauce- 
pan and set it over the fire until it is warm enough 



304 DIET FOR THE SICK, 



to drink without burning, then stir in four tea- 
spoonfuls of the liquid rennet and set the saucepan 
where it will keep at the same heat. In thirty 
minutes the curd will be formed, but by letting it 
stand one hour there will be double the quantity of 
whey. Serve it as desired, with or without wine. 
The curd will make fine cottage cheese, but must 
not be given to a patient. 

APPLE WATER. 

Take half a pound of the best dried apples and 
wash them quickly in cold water and put them into 
a porcelain pitcher, then put in three pints of boil- 
ing water; cover the pitcher and stir them up from 
time to time, let them draw two hours; the water 
is then ready to use. The best dried apples are 
those which are sliced and dried by steam. 

APPLE WATER. 

The best apples for making apple water are the 
bellflowers and the pippins. Take four good sized 
apples, wash them and without paring them, put 
them into a tin pie plate with one gill of cold water 
and roast them until they are verv soft, then put 
them into a porcelain pitcher with the juice that is 
in the plate and pour in one quart of boiling water. 
When it is cool enough to drink it can be used. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 305 

TAMARIND WATER. 

Put half a pound of tamarinds into a pitcher and 
pour over them one quart of cold water, stir them 
up from time to time; cover the pitcher and let 
them stand half an hour. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Put one ounce of pearl barley into three pints 
of cold water, with one salt spoonful of salt in it, 
and boil it one hour and a half. There should be 
one pint and a half of water when it is done, then 
strain it through a fine wire sieve. If the patient 
desires it, sweeten it with sugar and flavor it with 
lemon. 

RICE WATER. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of rice into a quart of 
cold water that has a salt spoonful of salt in it and 
boil it slowly one hour. When it begins to boil the 
rice lays on bottom of the saucepan and 
will stick fast if it is not ^stirred for a 
minute. When it is done strain through 
a fine wire sieve; there should be one pint of 
water. Rice water can be taken cold or warm, 
sweetened with sugar or seasoned with salt, just as 
the patient desires. 



306 DIET FOR THE SICK. 



TOAST WATER. 

Cut two slices of bread half an inch to three 
quarters of an inch thick the whole length of the 
loaf and with the crust on, toast it on both sides a 
dark brown, but be careful not to let it get black. 
That would spoil it entirely. When it is done 
break it in two and put it warm into a porcelain 
pitcher and pour three pints of boiling water into 
it; cover the pitcher and when it is cool enough to 
drink it is ready to use. 

RASPBERRY WATER. 

This is a very cooling and refreshing drink for 
a fever patient. Put one tablespoonful of rasp- 
berry jelly that is made with one-fourth currant 
juice into a goblet of cold water and let it dissolve. 
If the jelly is made with raspberries alone it is too 
sweet and insipid; then take one tablespoonful of 
raspberry jelly and one teaspoonful of currant 
jelly. 

CURRANT JELLY AND CRAN- 
BERRY JUICE. 

Are both made in the same manner as in the 
preceding receipt, and make a very pleasant drink 
for a patient. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 307 

ICE, ITS PRESERVATION AT 
THE BEDSIDE. 

A piece of flannel about nine inches square is 
secured by a cord about the mouth of an ordinary 
tumbler, so as to leave a cup shaped depression of 
flannel within the tumbler to about half its depth. 
Small pieces of ice placed in this flannel cup and 
loosely covered with another piece of flannel may 
be preserved for hours. Cheap flannel with com- 
paratively open meshes is preferable, as it allows 
the water to drain through and the ice is thus kept 
quite dry. The ice should be broken in pieces 
suitable for sucking. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of raspberry vinegar into 
a goblet two-thirds full of ice water. This makes 
a refreshing drink for a fever patient. 

MULLED WINE. 

Half a pint of German wine, one tablespoonful 
of white granulated sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, one fresh egg beaten separately. 
Put the wine, sugar and lemon into a small sauce- 



308 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

pan and let it get warm, but not hot; beat the 
yolks with one teaspoonful of sugar, beat the whites 
with one teaspoonful of sugar to a stiff foam and 
stir it into the yolks. Then stir it all into the wine 
and set it over a quick fire and beat it with an egg 
beater until the foam begins to rise, (it must not 
boil,) then take it off the- fire, stir it a minute or 
two and then pour it into a goblet and serve it 
warm. This is a very refreshing drink for a con- 
sumptive patient. If mulled wine is made of 
sherry or Madeira wine it must be half wine and 
half water. If made of German wine no water. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Put half a pint of rich sweet milk and one table- 
spoonful of white granulated sugar into a small 
saucepan and let it get boiling hot; then take it 
from the fire and stir in three tablespoonfuls of 
brandy or rum and half a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. 

EGG NOG. 

Put a little less than half a pint of rich sweet 
milk into a tin pint and let it get warm, but not 
hot; put the yolk of one fresh egg and two tea- 
spoonfuls of white granulated sugar into a goblet 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 309 

and beat it well together, then stir in one table- 
spoonful of brandy and the warm milk. Beat the 
white with one teaspoonful of white sugar to a 
stiff foam and stir it in last. This is a very refresh- 
ing drink for a weak patient. 

WARM LEMONADE. 

Wash three large lemons and wipe them, then 
peel off the yellow part very thin (that contains 
the oil,) and put it into a porcelain pitcher, then 
peel off the white part, which is always bitter, and 
cut the lemons in two in the middle; put them into 
the lemon squeezer and squeeze the juice into the 
pitcher, then take out the seeds and pu the 
squeezed lemon into the pitcher, then put in five 
tablespoonfuls of white granulated sugar and beat 
the whole together a minute or two; then add 
three pints of boiling water; stir it until the sugar 
is dissolved, then cover the pitcher with a napkin 
and when it is cool enough to drink it is ready to 
use. 

COLD LEMONADE. 

Is made in the same manner, and with the same 
proportions as in the preceding receipt, with one 
exception only, that of using cold water instead of 
hot. 



3IO DIET FOR THE SICK. 

KOUMISS. 

A very nourishing and nutritious drink. In- 
gredients: One quart of rich sweet milk, two 
ounces of white granulated sugar and one half of 
a quarter of a two cent cake of compressed yeast. 
Put the milk and sugar over a slow fire and stir it 
until the sugar is dissolved and the milk is only 
lukewarm; then take it off the fire and cut up the 
yeast in a cup with two tablespoonfuls of the warm 
milk. When the yeast is all dissolved stir it into 
the milk, then put it into bottles, not quite full, and 
leave them uncorked for twenty-four hours, or 
until it has fermented. Then cork the bottles tight 
and tie the corks in with a strong twine. Lay the bot- 
tles on their side in a cool place for eight days, by 
which time the koumiss is ready for use. 

ROASTED APPLES. 

Bellflowers or pippins are the best apples for 
roasting; their tartness and sweetness being suf- 
ficiently blended to make them agreeable without 
the addition of sugar. Wash them, wipe them and 
put them into a bright tin pie plate with one gill of 
cold water in it. Put them into the oven and roast 
them very soft. Some apples take half an hour, 
others again take three quarters; it depends in some 
measure upon the size of the apples. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 3II 



MILK TOAST. 

Cut a slice half an inch thick from a loaf of 
wheat bread and then cut it in two. Toast it on 
both sides a yellow brown and whilst it is still hot 
spread a little fresh butter on both sides, lay it into 
a small toast dish and pour over it as much boiling 
milk (that has a pinch of salt in it) as the toast will 
absorb. Set it in a warm place until the toast is 
very soft. 

DRY TOAST. 

Is made in the same manner as in the preceding 
receipt, with the exception of the milk. If the 
the patient desires it a little boiling water can be 
put on the toast to soften it. 

CRISPED HAMS. 

When patients are convalescing they generally 
want something salt and tasty. A nice relish is 
prepared in the following manner: Cut some very 
thin slices from the lean part of a sugar cured ham, 
put them into a skillet that is hot enough to brown 
and not burn; brown them on both sides and fry 
them until they are crispy; serve them without any 



312 DIET FOR THE SICK. 



fat or gravy. Let the patient chew the ham, suck 
out the juice and then put the ham out of the 
mouth. The patient must be watched at such a 
time; the ham creates such an appetite there is 
danger of its being swallowed. 

RUSK PANADA. 

Take two double baked rusk that are well baked 
and break them into pieces about an inch in size 
and put them into a bowl, then pour over them 
half a pint of boiling water and then stir in one 
tablespoonful of white granulated sugar and four 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. 

CRACKER PANADA. 

Boil half a pint of new milk one minute, just to 
take off the raw taste; break up two Boston crackers 
in small pieces into a bowl and then pour the 
boiling milk over them. Then stir in one table- 
spoonful of white sugar and two tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. It is ready to use as soon as it is cool 
enough. 

TEA. 

Black tea only should be used for the sick and 
should not be drawn in a teapot. When drawn in 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 313 

a teapot the aroma escapes through the spout and 
half the strength is lost by not having a uniform 
heat. Tea should be drawn in a bright tin cup 
that is used only for that purpose and has a close 
cover to it. Put three teaspoonfuls of the best 
black tea into a tin cup with one pint of boiling 
water, cover it close and set it on the side of the 
range where it will keep hot for half an hour, but 
it must not boil. When it is to be served, set the 
tea strainer into the teapot and pour in the tea. 

COCOA. (Baker's.) 

Put half a pint of cold milk and half a pint of 
cold water into a saucepan, then stir in one table- 
spoonful and a half of cocoa and set it over the fire, 
stir it all the time and boil it fifteen minutes from 
the time it commenced boiling, serve it with milk 
and sugar, as desired. 



314 , PLASTERS AND POULTICES. 



tide$. 



MUSTARD PLASTER. 

Put the ground black mustard into a small bowl 
and stir in boiling water until it is thick enough to 
spread without running, then take a piece of thin 
book muslin more than double as large as the plas- 
ter will be and spread the mustard in the middle of 
one half, leaving an inch all around of the muslin 
clear, then turn over the other half of the muslin 
and lay the plaster onto a bandage and apply it 
warm. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 

A mustard poultice is made in the same manner 
and applied in the same way as in the preceding 
receipt, with the exception that you take one-half 
mustard and one-half corn meal. 



PLASTERS AND POULTICES. 315 

BREAD AND MILK POULTICE 

A small milk poultice is made with one gill of 
sweet milk and three tablespoonfuls of stale bread 
that has been made fine. Put the cold milk and 
bread into a tin cup over the fire, stir it and boil it 
two minutes; spread it between book muslin that 
is more than double as large as the poultice. Fold 
a piece of old linen, four thicknesses and lay the 
poultice on it, apply it warm and put a bandage 
over it. 

SLIPPERY ELM POULTICE. 

If a small poultice is wanted, one tablespoonful 
of slippery elm flour is enough. Put it into a small 
bowl and stir in boiling water until it is thick enough 
not to run, then spread it between thin book mus- 
lin that is more than double the size of the poultice 
and lay it onto a piece of folded linen; apply it warm 
and cover it with a bandage to keep it warm. 



316 REMEDIES. 



f\eir\e<!ie$. 



ARNICA TINCTURE. 

Arnica tincture is an article that every family 
should keep in the house to use in case of accidents. 
The ingredients can be bought at the drug store very 
cheap. Put two ounces of arnica flowers into a 
clear glass bottle that you can see through, then 
put in one pint of pure alcohol and one pint of 
clear soft water. Cork the bottle tight, shake it 
up and let it stand forty-eight hours before using it. 
When using it dilute it with water in the propor- 
tion of one teaspoonful of arnica tincture to half a 
pint of water. 

REMEDY FOR SPRAINS. 

Bathe the parts affected with arnica and water 
in the proportion of one teaspoonful of the tincture 
of arnica to half a pint of water; fold a cloth into 



REMEDIES. 317 



four thicknesses ana saturate it with the mixture 
and put it on the parts affected; put a bandage 
around the whole to keep it in place and moisten 
it from time to time with the arnica water and 
take a teaspoonful internally. If it is a sprained 
ankle, the foot, should be kept elevated. If it is an 
arm it should be put in a sling. 

FOR A COUGH FROM A COLD. 

Wash whole flax-seed twice in cold water 
and pour off whatever floats on the top; then put it 
into a strainer to drain. Measure it, and to one 
gill of the flax-seed put three tablespoonfuls of 
white granulated sugar and one quart of boiling 
water. Peel one large lemon, cut it in two and 
squeeze the juice in with the flax-seed; take the 
seeds out of the lemon, cut it up and put it in with 
the other ingredients, stir it up from time to time 
and when it is cool enough to drink it is ready for 
use. 

TO CURE A FELON. 

As soon as you feel the pain apply aconite tinc- 
ture to the part affected. Apply it every time you 
feel the pain; if it is a thumb or a finger put a cloth 
around it and keep moist with the tincture. — Dr. 
Pulte. 



318 REMEDIES. 

TO CURE SCALDS AM) BURNS. 

Castile soap is the best, but any other good hard 
soap that has no rosin in it will do. Dip the soap 
in to hot or cold water to soften it and then rub it 
onto linen cloth until the cloth is all covered, or 
shave the soap up fine and moisten it with water 
until it is very soft and then spread it on, which- 
ever way can be done the quickest. The burn or 
scald must be all covered with the soaped linen 
and then a bandage put around whole. If the 
burn is a large one it is best to cut the linen into 
smaller pieces after the soap has been spread on, 
they can be handled better. They must not be 
removed until they fall off; moisten the outside of 
the soaped linen with a sponge dipped in cold 
water from time to time as long as the burn pains. 
—Dr. Pulte. 

TO HEAL A CUT. 

If the cut is long and deep, wash it off in 
cold water that has a few drops of the tincture of 
arnica in it and close up the wound with sticking 
plaster. Put the sticking plaster on in strips, leav- 
ing spaces between in case it should suppurate. 
Cover the wound to keep out the air and it will 
heal in a short time. If it is a small cut, or if the 
skin is broken in any other way, cover it with a 
piece of court plaster. 



REMEDIES. 319 



TO CURE A BRUISE. 

If you have bruised yourself by falling or run- 
ning against something until you are black and 
blue, bathe the parts affected with arnica and 
water in the proportion of one teaspoonful of the 
tincture of arnica to half a pint of water; fold a 
linen cloth into four thicknesses and saturate it 
with the mixture and bind it on to the parts affected; 
keep the cloth moistened with the arnicated water 
from time to time, and take a teaspoonful internally. 



320 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



flotL^el^old f\ede:bpt$. 



HOUSE CLEANING. (Chambers.) 

Before I commence house cleaning I buy a web 
of low priced yellow muslin and tear it off in yard 
lengths and hem it on the sewing machine, then 
have it boiled and rinsed, and it is ready to use for 
wiping cloths. Just before the fires are put out 
and whilst it is raining I light two newspapers and 
push them up each chimney; this burns them out 
clean. It must be done whilst there is a little fire 
in the grate to create a draught. When the chim- 
neys are done burning and the fires are out in the 
grate take some coarse linen or tow cloth and make 
bags of it and fill them with paper and cork the 
chimneys up tight; this keeps everything nice and 
clean during the summer. Now take up the carpet, 
and the right way to do it is to fold it, according to 
the breadths until you come to the middle, then fold 
the other side until you come to the middle then fold 
the ends until you come to the middle, then put one 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 32 1 



end on top of the other and tie a string around it. 
The carpet is now ready to have the dust taken 
out of it. If you have pictures on the walls put 
them on the beds, glass side down, then cover up 
the beds and have the ceiling whitened, then take 
the covers off the beds, shake them and then have 
the floor scrubbed up. If the walls are painted, 
clean them. Take a piece of a woolen blanket 
and fold it the size that you can hold comfortably 
in your hand, wet it in warm water, soap it and rub 
the wall as far as you can reach. Then take a 
sponge with clean water and go over it, then dry 
it with a clean cloth. Now clean the pictures with 
a sponge dipped in soapy water and squeezed out, 
and then with a sponge in clear water, then dried 
with a clean cloth and hung on the walls. Now 
clean the window frames, windows and doors. 
Then spread a large counterpane on the floor and 
put the beds and bedclothes on it and wash the 
bedsteads with soap and water and dry them off, 
then apply the corrosive sublimate with a small 
brush or goose quill to all the cracks and crevices 
and you will never be troubled with bed bugs. 
Now make up the bed and take all the clothes out 
of the wardrobes and dressing bureaus and lay 
them on it. Then clean the furniture, inside and 
out with soap and water, and when it is dry enough 
put the clothes back again. Now if there is a sofa 
in the room take it out and beat the dust out of it, 



322 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



and if it is covered with haircloth take a sponge 
and clean it with soap and water. Now wash off 
the rest of' the furniture in the same manner and 
you are ready to put dow *~he carpet. 

PARLOR. 

After the carpet has been taken up, take the 
ornaments off, the mantels into another room, then 
take the globes from the chandeliers and take them 
out, then take a sheet and cover the chandelier 
and pin it close up to the ceiling; then cover up 
the mirrors in. the same manner. Now take the 
paintings down, the large ones first, dust them oft 
with a feather duster and stand them on the floor 
against the wall, then cover them with a cloth, 
cover the piano with a thick cloth and the furniture 
that cannot be taken out of the room, place length- 
wise in the middle of the room and cover it. Now 
have the ceiling whitened, then take off the 
covers, shake them and then scrub up the floor- 
now clean the painted walls and then clean the 
paintings and hang them up. 

HOW TO CLEAN PAINTINGS. 

I have a bar of old castile soap which is thirty 
years old which I use for cleaning my paintings, and 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 323 

this is the way I do it: I place a painting on a table 
and at the end of the table I place two chairs with 
a bucket of warm water on each one and into each 
one a soft sponge, with one I apply the soap quickly 
and with the other rinse off, then dry off with a 
fine linen cloth that has no starch in it, and then 
go over it with a silk handkerchief, which puts a 
gloss on it. 



HOW TO RESTORE PAINTINGS 



When paintings have hung for a longtime the 
paint cracks and they look badly; this was the case 
with mine. I thought perhaps it was the heat from 
the furnace and they needed a coat of varnish, so 
I sent for an artist to come and see them. He said 
paintings should never be varnished, and that all 
mine needed was a coat of poppy oil, so I sent to 
the druggist and got it. After the painting is clean 
and dry place it on a table, then pour some of the 
poppy oil into a saucer, then take a small, soft, 
loose sponge and dip it into water and squeeze it 
out tight, then put it into the oil and squeeze it out 
tight; then go over the painting gently and not a 
crack will be seen. The poppy oil should be ap- 
plied every four years, not oftener. 



324 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



HOW TO COOL A HOUSE IN 
SUMMER. 

Rise at five o'clock in the morning and open all 
the windows in the house and leave them open for 
one hour; then close them and shut the shutters. 
A darkened room is always cooler than a light one. 
Light gives heat. At six o'clock in the evening 
open up the house and leave it open until bed time. 
Now when you open the windows don't raise one 
six inches, another one foot and another two feet, 
for it has a ragged look from the street. When I 
see a house in this condition I say to myself, the 
mistress of that house has not the bump of order 
fully developed. 

HOUSEKEEPING. 

A systematic housekeeper has a place for every- 
thing and everything in its place, a time for every- 
thing and everything done in its time. Monday, wash 
day; Tuesday, ironing day; Wednesday, kitchen 
and laundry cleaned, ironed clothes mended, folded 
and put in the drawers; rest in the afternoon. 
Thursday, windows cleaned, rest in the afternoon; 
Friday, sweeping day and cleaning of silver; Sat- 
urday, baking and preparing for Sunday; Sunday, 
go to church. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 325 

CLOTHES, TO SOAK. 

A piece of washing soda the size of an egg to 
ten gallons of water is enough for one tub full of 
clothes. Dissolve the soda in one gallon of boiling 
water, then pour it into the tub containing the other 
water, which should be just warm enough to put 
the hands in; assort the clothes, the fine from the 
coarse, and put them to soak (in separate tubs) 
over night. 

CLOTHES, TO WASH. 

When the clothes are wrung out of the soak, 
wash them through two tubfuls of warm soapsuds, 
rubbing them carefully on the washboard, then rub 
them with soap and put them into the wash bag 
and boil them twenty minutes; then wash them out 
of the boiling suds and rinse them through three 
waters, the last one having a little bluing in it; put 
them through the clothes wringer and shake them 
out well before hanging them up to dry. 

TO CLEAR WATER. 

As much powdered alum as will lay on a dime, 
stirred into a bucket of water, will clear it in five 
minutes. 



326 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



STARCH, TO COOK. 

Half a gallon of boiling water, half a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, half a tablespoonful of lard, one piece of 
alum the size of a five cent piece, half a pint of 
starch. Put the boiling water, salt, lard and alum 
into a kettle over the fire; put the starch into a 
bowl with half a pint of cold water and stir it until 
it is all dissolved, then stir it into the boiling water 
and let it boil ten minutes from the time it begins 
to boil again, stirring it constantly; then strain it. 
Now it is ready for use. This starch is thick 
enough for collars, bosoms and wristbands. The 
alum gives a fine gloss to the clothes and makes 
them stiff even in wet weather. 

COLD STARCH. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of starch and two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and mix them well together, 
then stir it into a pint of clear cold water and add 
a few drops of indigo water. Put the articles into 
it, squeeze them out and iron them while wet, with 
a hot iron. Rub the iron on a greased cloth to 
keep it from sticking. 

FLANNELS, TO WASH. 

Prepare three tubs, each half full of warm water, 
in two of the tubs make a strong soapsuds by 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 327 



rubbing the soap on the hands in the water, or by 
rubbing it on a small piece of cloth,. The soap 
must not be rubbed on the flannels; the water in 
the third tub must only have a very little soap in 
it. Don't begin to wash the flannels until you 
have the three waters ready; flannels must not 
lay wet any time, and must not be washed with 
other clothes, nor in the same water that other 
clothes have been washed in. Wash the flannels 
with the hands, never on a wash board, that shrinks 
them and makes them hard. When they are 
wrung out of the water shake them out well before 
hanging them up to dry. Don't dampen them 
before ironing them; iron them dry. 

BLANKETS, TO WASH. 

Blankets should be washed on a warm sunny day, 
and two pounds of hard soap is enough to wash 
twelve blankets. Cut up two pounds of good hard 
soap very fine and put it into an iron pot with two 
quarts of cold water and let it soak over night, 
then set it over the fire and stir it until it is as 
smooth and thick as honey. Then prepare three 
tubs of warm water; in two of them make a strong 
soapsuds and in the third tub put a very, little soap 
and a little bluing. After the blankets have been 
washed out of the second suds and wrung out of 



328 -HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



the third water, shake them out well and stretch 
them before putting them on the line. When 
blankets are to be put away for the summer, if the 
chest they are to be kept in is measured and the 
blankets folded according to the measurement, you 
can pack away double the quantity that you could 
if they were laid in in disorder. 

CARPET CLEANING. 



Olive soap, one pound; soda, one quarter pound; 
borax, two ounces; alum, two ounces; alcohol, 
eight ounces. Cut the soap up fine and put it into 
an iron pot with one gallon of cold water, and let it 
stand over night. In the morning set it over a 
slow fire and put in all the other articles; stir it until 
all are dissolved, then boil it five minutes. Pour it 
into a tub and add four gallons of cold soft water; it 
is then read) 7 to use. After the carpets have been 
shaken and tacked down the wash is applied with a 
hair scrubbing brush that has a handle on the back 
and a strip of india rubber inserted in one side of 
the brush. Have two buckets, one containing the 
wash and'the other clear water and a large sponge. 
Scrub the carpet gentlv with the brush, then with 
the rubber draw the dirty water towards you and 
take it up with the sponge then squeeze the sponge 
out of the clear water and go quickly over the 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 329 



carpet and then dry it with a clean cloth. This 
quantity will clean forty yards of velvet orbrusseis 
carpeting, and if it is done right it will look as 
bright as when it was new. 

TO REMOVE WHITE SPOTS 

FROM FURNITURE AND 

RESTORE ITS LUSTRE. 

Alcohol, ten and a half ounces; linseed oil, seven 
ounces; -gum benzoine, one ounce; gum 
shellac, one ounce; oxalic acid, half an ounce, 
white rosin, one ounce. Dissolve all the 
gums and acids in alcohol and let it stand 
twenty-four hours, then add the linseed oil and 
mix it well together. After the furniture has been 
washed with soap and water and dried with a 
clean cloth, then apply the varnish with a piece of 
white canton flannel. It will remove all the white 
spots from furniture and restore it to its original 
lustre. 

VARNISH FOR FURNITURE. 

Four ounces of alcohol, two ounces of gum 
shellac, one ounce of yellow beeswax, one ounce 



330 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

of boiled linseed oil. Put the alcohol and gum 
shellac into a large wide mouthed bottle and let 
it stand twelve hours, then melt the beeswax and 
all together. Shake it up well and it is ready to 
use. 

WHITEWASH. 



The following is the receipt for the preparation 
used in whitewashing the White House: Take 
a half bushel of unslaked lime and slake it with 
boiling water, covering it during the process. 
Strain it and add a peck of salt dissolved in warm 
water and three pounds of ground rice boiled to a 
thin paste and put in boiling hot half a pound of 
Spanish whiting and a pound of clear glue dissolved 
in hot water, mix and let it stand for several days, 
then keep it in a kettle and apply it as hot as pos- 
sible with a paint or whitewash brush. 



WHITENING FOR CEILINGS. 

Fourteen pounds of Paris whitening and half a 
pound of transparent glue. Put the glue into cold 
water at night and the next morning heat it over 
the fire until it is all dissolved; stir hot water into 
the Paris whitening until it is as thick as cream, then 
stir in the glue. If the ceiling has been whitened 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 33 I 

with lime then it must be wet and all scraped off, 
If it has been done with whiting wash it off with 
a sponge. 

AN EFFICIENT DISINFECTANT. 



Nitrate of lead, one half teaspoonful; salt two 
tablespoonfuls. Dissolve the lead in a quart of hot 
water and let cool. Dissolve the salt in two buck- 
ets of cold water; mix the two solutions. Direc- 
tions — Sprinkle the carpet, or room, with it, or 
wring out cloths in it and hang up in the room. 
Pour down closets and sinks. 



TO CLEAR A SINK PIPE. 



How often the waste pipe of a sink is filled up 
with grease and the plumber has to be sent for to 
open it. Now, to avoid this expense and keep 
everything sweet and clean about the sink, take a 
can of concentrated lye, open it, set it into a pan 
under the hot water faucet in the sink and let the 
water run slowly on it until half of it is dissolved 
and gone through the waste pipe. If this is sys- 
tematically done once a week, say every Saturday, 
it will save a plumber's bill. 



332 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

TO CLEAN WATER CLOSET 
BASINS. 

One pound and three quarters of oxalic acid dis- 
solved in two quarts of hot water. Apply it with 
a small stiff broom with a short handle to it. If 
the basin has not been cleaned for a long time it 
will take hard rubbing. After rubbing it with the 
oxalic acid dip the broom into coarse sand, and 
scrub it well; then let the water on. After the sand 
has been washed down apply the oxalic acid again 
and then take a cake of Sapolio and go over it 
again. If this is done twice a year you will 
always have clean water closets. 

TO DESTROY BED BUGS. 

Put four ounces of corrosive sublimate into a 
bottle with one pint of whiskey, cork the bottle tight 
and put a label on it marked poison, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours, before using it; then shake it up 
and apply it with a goose quill or a small paint brush, 
going into all cracks and crevices. It is certain 
death to bed bugs, but it must be carefully used, 
for it is a dangerous poison. When not used the 
goose quill or brush should be tied to the neck of 
the bottle and both put in a safe place. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 333 

TO GET RID OF COCKROACHES. 

Take the powdered borax and put it between 
and around all the water pipes, and in the cracks 
and corners of the closets and drawers. This is 
an effectual way to rid the house of these trouble- 
some insects. 

TO DESTROY RATS AND MICE. 

Take two ounces of arsenic and mix it with one 
quarter of a pound of lard, (it must be mixed well 
together,) then take a five cent loaf of bread and 
cut it in slices not quite half an inch thick, and 
spread on the lard generously, so that every part 
of the bread is covered; then cut it into pieces an 
inch and a half square and put the larded sides 
together like sandwiches, then put it into the rat 
holes and close them up. It must be carefully done 
and carefully disposed of, for arsenic is a danger- 
ous thing to handle. 

BUTTER KEPT SWEET. 

Half an ounce of white granulated sugar; one 
pound of fresh butter. The butter must be fresh 
and have all the milk washed out of it and be 



334 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

salted; then mix in the sugar evenly and pack the 
butter into stone crocks, then make a brine strong 
enough to bear an egg, strain it and put it two 
inches deep over the butter, cover the crock close 
and when the butter is to be used cut it out with- 
out removing the brine. 

HOW TO KEEP EGGS FRESH. 

To two gallons of water add one pint of salt, 
one pint of air-slaked lime and two tablespoonfuls 
of tartaric acid. Let it stand twelve hours, stir- 
ring it occasionally before putting in the eggs, then 
cover the eggs with a lid and keep the eggs well 
below the liquid. 

RANCID OIL RESTORED. 

If hair oil or any other oil has become rancid, it 
can be restored in the following manner: Take 
half a teaspoonful of soda and dissolve it in four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and stir it into one 
ounce of rancid oil. Put it into a large vial, and 
shake it together for five minutes. Then pour it 
into a vessel that contains one quart of cold water. 
Stir it together, then let it stand until the oil rises 
to the top of the water when it can be easily re- 
moved. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 335 

RANCID BUTTER RESTORED. 

Rancid butter can be restored by putting one 
teaspoonful of cooking soda into one pint of clear, 
cold, soft water, and working the butter in it until 
every particle comes in contact with the soda water. 
Then pour the water off and work the butter in 
clear, cold water three times. Two teaspoonfuls 
of salt is enough for one pound of butter. 

LARD KEPT SWEET. 

Put one pound of white granulated sugar to 
twenty-five pounds of lard. After the lard has 
been tried out and strained, let it get cool enough 
to congeal until it is just stiff enough for a stick to 
stand upright in it, then stir in the sugar and mix 
it evenly together. Put it into stone crocks or 
wooden firkins that have covers, and it will keep 
sweet for a year. 

SPERMACETI AND STEARINE 
REMOVED. 

To remove spermaceti and stearine spots from 
woolen goods and carpets, place a piece of brown 
paper over the spots and set a hot iron on them, 



336 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

don't let the iron remain on them more than a 
second, then place a clean part of the paper over 
the spots, and replace the iron and repeat this as 
long as there is a spot on the paper. 



GREASE CAN BE REMOVED 



From woolen goods and carpets with turpentine. 
Saturate a piece of woolen cloth or canton flannel 
with turpentine, and rub the grease spots with it. 



FRESH PAINT 

Can be removed in the same manner with turpen- 
tine as in the preceding receipt. 

TO CLEAN BUSTS OF PLASTER 
OF PARIS. 



Take a piece of the finest sand paper and rub 
the bust gently all over with it. This will restore 
it to its original whiteness without injuring it if 
done carefully. A fine stiff brush will restore it in 
the same manner. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 337 



TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Take a piece of canton flannel, wet it in warm 
water, and rub Sapolio on it until it lathers, then 
rub the marble all over with it. Sponge it off with 
clear water an r l dry it off with a clean soft cloth. 

HOW TO CLEAN BRASS CHAN- 
DELIERS, BRASSES, ETC. 

Put one ounce of oxalic acid into one pint of 
cold water. Apply it with a brush, or if the sur- 
face is even apply it with a piece of canton flannel. 

HOW TO CLEAN A BRASS OR 
COPPER KETTLE. 

Take salt and vinegar and a piece of canton 
flannel and wash the kettle with it. 

SATIN AND SILK RIBBONS 
CLEANED. 

Satin and silk ribbons of the most delicate colors 
can be cleaned beautifully with the spirits of tur- 



338 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

pentine without changing the color in the least. 

Fold a linen towel lengthways, four double, and 
lay it on a press-board, then place the ribbon on it 
right side uppermost, then take a piece of an old 
fine linen pocket handkerchief that has no starch 
in it, and saturate it with turpentine. Rub the 
ribbon gently all over with it, then place it on the 
ironing table, spread a gentleman's linen pocket 
handkerchief over it and iron it, then hang it in 
front of an open window until the odor of the tur- 
pentine is gone. 

GREASE SPOTS ON LIGHT COL- 
ORED SILKS. 

Can be taken out with magnesia. If the aress is 
lined make an opening in the lining and rub the 
magnesia on the under side of the silk and let it 
remain there. At the drugstores they have it made 
in squares and put up in small boxes for this pur- 
pose. It is very convenient to have in the house, 
or in traveling in case of an accident. 

BLACK SATIN AND SILK. 

That is soiled and has grease spots on it can be 
cleaned with spirits of turpentine; to look bright 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 339 

and new. Apply the turpentine with a soft linen 
cloth, rubbing gently all the parts that are soiled 
and greased, then hang it in the open air until the 
the odor is gone. 

FLOUR PASTE. 

Mix one pint of flour with one pint of cold water. 
Pour the water in slowly and work it with the back 
of the spoon until it is perfectly smooth. Then 
stir it into a pint of boiling water over the fire and 
keep stirring it until it begins to boil, then take it 
off the fire and it is ready to use. 

This is the paste that is used for putting on wall 
paper. 

MUCILAGE. 

Fill your mucilage glass not quite full with gum 
arabic, then fill up with cold water and it will dis- 
solve in a few hours when it will be ready to use. 

GLOVE PASTE. 

Take one pound of old white castile soap and 
cut it up fine, then put it into an iron pot with one 
pint of clear soft water, and boil it fifteen minutes 



34-0 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

or until it is perfectly smooth, stir it all the time it 
is boiling to keep it from sticking. Then pour it 
into a wooden bowl and stir it with a wooden spoon 
until it cools five minutes; then put in one table- 
spoonful of alcohol and beat it well together, then 
add three tablespoonfuls of cold water and beat it 
together until it is a stiff fine paste. Put it into 
gallipots, and if it becomes too dry for use moisten 
it with a few drops of water, beat it up and it will 
be just as good as when first made. This paste will 
clean the most delicate colored gloves to look just 
like new. 

KID GLOVES, TO CLEAN. 

Stretch the fingers of the glove on a wooden pin 
that is made for that purpose, and apply the paste 
with a white woolen cloth. Turn the cloth over the 
end of the forefinger of her tight hand, and take 
a small quantity of the paste on it at a time. Rub it on 
gently, and take a clean part of the cloth every 
time that you apply the paste. 

LISLE GLOVES CLEANED AND 
COLORED. 

Lisle gloves always fade in washing. After the 
gloves have been washed, clean with soap and 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 34I 



water, rinse them in two waters and wring 
them out tight. Then take half a pint of 
strong black coffee (if you want a dark shade 
of cream color) and put the wet gloves into 
it and wring them out quick. Then put them wet 
onto your hands and dry them. If you want them 
a light cream color, dilute the cotfee with water. 
Remember the gloves must be wet when they are 
put into the coffee, and they must be dried on 
your hands. 

GRAY GLOYES. 

Gray gloves, the color can be restored by put- 
ting one tablespoonful of ink into half a pint of 
water, or two tablespoonfuls of strong indigo 
water. 

RENEWING BLACK LACE. 

Take two bowls and put half a pint of whisky 
into each one. Then take two teaspoonfuls of 
dissolved gum arabic and stir it into two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water. Then stir it into the last 
bowl of whisky that you are going to use. Now 
put the lace into the first bowl and squeeze it gently 
two or three minutes. Then put it all into the 



342 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

second bowl at one time, otherwise one part would 
be stiff and the other not. If you have a large 
quantity of lace, you must double the quantities. 

LAWN DRESS WASHED WITH- 
OUT FADING. 

Wash the dress quickly in two and a half gallons 
of tepid water with half a pint of cider vinegar in 
it; rinse it in two and a half gallons of tepid water 
with half a pint of salt in it, then rinse it again in 
tepid blue water and dry it in the shade. 

TO WASH A MAROON WOOLEN 
TABLE COVER, EMBROID- 
ERED IN SILK. 



Make a strong suds with Ivory Soap and hot 
water. Let the soap lay in the hot water until it 
is soft. The soap must not be rubbed on the table 
cover. After it is washed clean, rinse it in two 
waters that are warm. When it is half dry, iron 
it on the under side until it is dry. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. » 343 

WHITE DRESSES AND LAWNS 
WITH A WHITE GROUND 



Can be kept white in the following manner: 
Have the starch all washed out of them, and 
into the last rinsing water put one-third more in- 
digo bluing than you have formerly done. This 
will keep the dresses white as snow until they are 
used again. 



TO PREVENT HANDS FROM 
CHAPPING. 



Take a two-ounce bottle and fill it half full of 
glycerine, then fill up with cold water to within 
half an inch of the top and shake it well, then fill 
up with water. 

Just before going to bed wash your hands clean 
in soap and water, then rinse them and dry 
them; now shake up the bottle and pour not quite 
a teaspoonful into your left hand and rub it over 
both hands. Rub them for two or three minutes 
and the glycerine will all disappear, leaving^ the 
hands smooth and soft. 



344 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 



TO PREVENT HAIR FROM 

TURNING GRAY AND 

FALLING OUT. 

Take a half pint bottle and put into it one-fifth 
glycerine and fill up with bay rum. Shake it well 
together and cork it tight; pour a little of it into 
a small vessel and apply it with a hair brush until 
you can feel it on the fhe scalp. 

I have used it for several years, and it has pre- 
vented my hair from turning gray and falling out. 

There must not be more than one-fifth glycerine. 

INK SPOTS IRON RUST, STAINS 
AND MILDEW 

Can be removed from white cotton and linen goods 
with lemon juice. The goods must be dry when 
the lemon juice is applied; then rub the juice into 
the spots with the fingers and lay the goods in the 
sun. As soon as they are dry w r et them again rub- 
bing.the juice in until the spots disappear. 

HOW TO KEEP WHITE GOODS 
FROM TURNING YELLOW. 

Table linen, muslin, linen for beds and under- 
clothes when laid away for any length of time will 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 345 



become yellow. Now to prevent this: the last 
time they are washed before putting them away, 
put a little more indigo bluing into the last rinsing 
of water than you have formerly done. This will 
keep the clothes white as snow until they are used 
again. 

FRUIT STAINS ON THE HANDS 

Can be removed by rubbing the hands with 
strong cider vinegar before the hands have been 
washed in soap and water. 

TO RAISE THE PILE ON 
VELVET. 

Hold the velvet side over the steam of a tea- 
kettle. It must not be held long enough over the 
steam to become wet; then shake it. 

TO TAKE THE WRINKLES OUT 
OF VELVET. 

Take a hot smoothing iron and turn it upside 
down and place it so it will stand firm; then take 
the velvet and put the under side on the iron and 
move it back and forth until the wrinkles are out. 



346 HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 

HOW TO CLEAN A VELYET 
CLOAK. 

In a city where coal is used for fuel, a velvet 
cloak will become soiled and rusty looking in one 
winter's wearing. Now to clean velvets and make 
it look new it must be done in the following man- 
ner: In the first place you must have half a dozen 
old fine linen pocket handkerchiefs that have no 
starch in them; gentlemen's handkerchiefs are the 
best for this purpose. Then half a gallon of the 
spirits of turpentine that is fresh from the drug 
store. Place a pine table or skirt board near a 
window where you have the light on your left 
hand. Spread the cloak on the table and stick 
pins through it into the table to keep it in its place; 
then tear one of the handkerchiefs into four pieces 
and put one of them into the turpentine and 
squeeze it out, then rub the velvet with it a small 
part at a time, rub it gently both ways; then take 
a clean handkerchief and rub it lightly until the 
turpentine is all out, as the cloths become soiled 
change them for clean ones. After the cloak is 
cleaned, hang it in the open air until the odor of 
the turpentine is gone; then brush it with a clean 
soft clothes brush, and you will have a new cloak. 
It is best to clean velvet two or three weeks before 
you want to use it. 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS. 347 

TO WASH A CASHMERE SHAWL 
OR DRESS. 

Take one pound of white castile soap, cut it up 
fine and put it with one quart of soft water into a 
stone pan to stand over night; then put it in an 
iron pot and boil it until it is very smooth; then 
set it off the fire, and whilst it is hot put in half a 
pint of alcohol; stir it and pour it into a larger ves- 
sel, and add five quarts of hot water; then put in 
half a pint of alcohol and one quart of spirits of 
turpentine; it must be used warm. Have the irons 
hot and the ironing table ready before you begin 
to wash. Wash it as quick as possible and wring 
it tight. Spread it on the ironing table underside 
up, and iron it while it is wet. Iron only a small 
part at a time, but iron it perfectly dry; don't let 
the iron come on the upper side of the shawl. If 
you want to crease it as it was when new, fold it, 
spread a cambric handkerchief on the fold and 
iron on it. Let it hang on the clothes-horse an 
hour or so before you put it away. If there is a 
great deal of white in the shawl, put in a small 
quantity of indigo water before the shawl is put in 
the wash. 



INDEX. 



349 



INDEX. 



Bread and Breakfast Cakes. 

Baking, 1 

Bread, ......•* 1 

Yeast, 2 

Bread, ........ 3 

Biscuit, 3 

Biscuit, ........ 3 

Buckwheat, 4 

Buckwheat, Harrison's, . 4 

Buckwheat, ....... 5 

Cinnamon Cake, 5 

Coffee Cake, 6 

Doughnuts, 6 

Doctor's Cake, ....... 7 

Corn Griddle Cakes, ..... 8 

Corn Mush, ........ 8 

Corn Mush, Fried, 9 

Corn Bread, ....... 9 

Corn Muffins, . 10 

Flannel Cakes, 10 

Graham Gems, ...... 11 

Muffins, 11 

Muffins, 12 



35° 



INDEX. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES.— Continued. 

Pan Cakes, 12 

Pan Cake Rolls, ...... 13 

Puff Balls, ........ 13 

Potatoe Cakes, 14 

Rolls, 15 

Rusk, 15 

Strawberry Short Cake, 16 

Waffles, . 17 



Eggs and Omelets. 

Eggs in Stand, . . • • . 
Eggs, Soft, , 

Eggs, Hard, 

Eggs, Poached, • • • . 

Eggs, Scrambled, .... 

Omelet, 

Omelet, Souffle, . . 

Omelet, . 
Omelet, with Cheese, 
Omelet, with Ham, „ 

Omelet, with Herbs, . 

Cottage Cheese— Oat Groats — Wheat and 

Cottage Cheese, . 
Cottage Cheese Wine, . 

Oat Groats, 

Hulled Wheat, 

Rice to Boil, 



Rice 



18 
18 
19 
19 
19 
20 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 



23 
24 
24 
25 
25 



INDEX. 


35 1 


Coffee and Chocolate. 




Coffee Pot, 


26 


Coffee, to Make, .... 


26 


Coffee, the Best, ..... 


27 


Chocolate, . 


27 


Cocoa, Baker's, .... 


27 


Cocoa, . 


28 


Tea, 


: . 28 


Mock Cream, 


29 


Soups. 




Beef, 


30 


Beef, clear, ...... 




Bean ....... 


47 


Bouillon, ...... 




Chicken ..-.,. 


43 






Crab, 


40 






Dumplings for Chicken, 


44 


Dumplings for Oysters, . 




Gumbo, 


44 


Mock Turtle, 


35 


Mutton, 


38 


Noodles 


33 


Noodles to make, .... 


3Z 






Noodles as a vegetable, 


34 


Ox tail 


37 


Oyster Veal, , , 


39 



35 



INDEX, 



SOUPS.-Continued. 

Oyster, ...... . . 45 

Pea, . 46 

Pea without Meat, .47 

Tomato, 42 

Veal, 48 

Vegetable, ........ 36 



Fish. 



Codfish, boiled, .... 


49 


Codfish Cakes, 


49 


Eels, stewed, .... 


50 


Eels, boiled, ..... 


50 


Eels, fried, .... 


51 


Halibut, smoked, .... 


. ' . 52 


Herring, Dutch pickled . 


52 


Mackerel, fresh broiled, 


53 


No 1, Mackerel, salt boiled, . 


53 


No 1, Mackerel, salt boiled. 


53 


Perch and Bullheads, fried, 


54 


Salmon, canned, .... 


55 


Salmon, boiled, .... 


55 


Shad, fresh baked, .... 


. . 56 


Stuffing for Shad, 


58 


Shad, fresh boiled, .... 


57 


Shad, fresh fried, . . „ 


58 


Trout, boiled, ..... 


58 


White Fish, baked, 


58 


Stuffing for White Fish, . t , 


59 



INDEX. 3^, 



Shell Fish. 

Crabs, deviled, , 64 

Crabs, deviled, . . e , 9 . 60 

Oyster Soup . . . o . . , 60 

Oysters, escaloped, . <> a , , 61 

Oysters, fricasseed, . 62 

Oysters, fried, . . „ , . -., . 62 

Oyster Patties, „ „ 63 

Oysters, raw, « . , . . • 63 

Shrimp Salad, . . 132 

Shrimps, stewed, • o • » »' 60 

Terrapin, *,„• = »» QQ 

Beef. 

Beef Roast, 9 . 67 

Beef Steak, . . ... . 68 

Beef Steak and Onions, . . e 68 

Beef, a la mode, . 69 

Beef, Corned and Cabbage, . . ,70 

Beef Tripe, stewed, . . 71 

Beef, Corned Hash, . . . .70 

Spiced Pickle for Beef Venison and Rabbits, 72 

Beef, spiced ..... 72 

Beef Tongue, spiced, . . . .73 

Beef Tongue, fresh, . 74 

Sauce for Beef Tongue, . • . 75 

Veal. 

A la Mode Veal, ..•«•• 76 

A la Strasburgh Veal, . 77 



354 INDEX. 



VEAL.— Continued. 

Cutlet Veal, 78 

Fricassee Veal, . ■ 79 

Fricandeau Veal, ...... 79 

Fricassee with Sweet breads, ... 80 

Hash Veal, ........ 82 

Roast Veal, 81 

Sweet Breads, Fricassee, .... 83 

Sweet Breads, Fried, 83 

Liver, Calf's, 84 



Lamb and Mutton. 

Lamb and Turnips Stewed, ... 86 

Leg of Lamb, Roasted, .... 87 

Leg of Lamb, Roasted, . • . . . 87 

Lamb Chops, Fried, . 88 

Leg of Lamb, Boiled, e . 88 

Mutton Chops, Broiled, 89 



Pork. 



Ham, Boiled, 90 

Ham, Roasted, . 90 

Pig, Roasted, ; . . . 91 

Pig Stuffing, ....... 91 

Pig's Feet, Soused, ...... 92 

Pork and Beans, ...... 93 

Sausage, . 94 

Spare Ribs, ....... 94 



INDEX. 



355 



Poultry. 



Chicken Boiled, . 

Chicken Fricasse, 

Chicken Fricasse, 

Chicken Pie, 

Chicken, Spring, 

Ducks, Roasted, 

Duck Stuffing, 

Goose, Roasted, 

Goose Stuffing, 

Turkey, Boiled, 

Turkey, Roasted, 

Turkey Stuffing, 

Turkey and Chicken Stuffing, 

Turkey, How to Know a Young One, 



99 

100 

100 

101 

102 

103 

103 

104 

105 

98 

96 

97 

98 

96 



Game. 

Hasenpfeffer, 106 

Quails, Roasted, • • 107 

Quail and Bird Stuffing, 107 

Rabbit, Spiced, 108 

Venison, Saddle, Roasted, 109 

Venison, Saddle, Spiced, .... 110 

Venison Steak, Ill 



Sauces for Fish, Fowls and Meat. 

Caper, 

Drawn Butter, 



116 
115 



356 INDEX. 



SAUCES FOR FISH. FOWLS AND MEAT.— Continued. 

Egg, 116 

Hollandish Fish, ...... 112 

Horseradish, 114 

Mayonaise, 113 

New Mayonaise, 113 

Oyster, , 114 

Parsley, 115 

Pickles, 116 

Tomato, 116 

Tomato, . . . . . . .117 



Pickles, Catsup and Mustard. 

Beans, 118 

Beets, ........ 119 

Cabbage, 120 

Cucumbers, . . . ' . . . 121 

Onions, . . . . . . , ; 119 

Tomato Catsup, .•♦.♦. 122 

Mustard, ........ 123 

Salads. 

Bean, . . . . ♦ . . . ■ . 127 

Cabbage, Cold Slaw, . 125 

Celery, 128 

Chicken, 131 

Corn, • . • 127 

Cucumber, 127 

Dressing, No. 1, ....... 124 



INDEX. 


357 


SALADS.— Continued. 




Dressing, No. 2, 


124 


Endive, ........ .• - . 


126 


Fish, . 


133 


Fish Dressing, • •••... 


133 


Herring, . . . • . « . 


135 


Italian, 


130 


Lettuce, . . 


126 


Oyster, 


129 


Oyster Dressing, .,.••<> 


129 


Potato, a 


136 


Potato Dressing, ...... 


136 


Shrimp, ........ 


132 


Shrimp Dressing, . • . . . 


132 


Tongue, . • . . • • 


134 






Chicken, 1 • 


140 


Chicken Sauce, ..;;•* 


140 


Oyster, 


141 


Oyster Sauce, . 


141 


Tongue, • 


142 


Tongue Sauce, 


142 


Macaroni, with Herb Cheese, 


138 


Macaroni, with Tomatoes, . 


138 


Vegetables. 




Asparagus, 


150 


Beans, Marrowfat, 


155 


Beans, Lima, 


154 



358 



INDEX, 



VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Beans, Yellow Wax, 
Beets, Young, . , 
Cabbage, White, 
Cabbage, Red, 
Cabbage, Curled Savoy, 
Carrots, 
Cauliflower, 
Corn, Boiled, 
Corn, Oysters, 
Corn, Stewed, 
Greens, Wild, . 
Kale, . 

Kale, with Bacon, 
Kohlrabe, • • b 
Leek. 

Onions, Stewed, • 
Parsnip Cakes, 
Parsnips, Fried, 
Parsnips, Stewed, 
Peas; Green, 
Peas and Carrots, 
Potatoes, Boiled, 
Potatoes, New, 
Potatoes, Mashed, 
Potatoes, Dresden, 
Potatoes, Fried, • 
Potatoes, Baked, 
Potatoes, Fried, 
Potatoes, Mashed, 



157 
153 
164 
155 
154 
158 
150 
156 
157 
156 
149 
148 
14S 
152 
160 
159 
161 
160 
159 
151 
152 
144 
145 
145 
146 
146 
147 
147 
147 



index. 359 



VEGETABLES.— Continued. 

Saurkraut, to Make, • . . . . 161 

Saurkraut, • *..#»• i 163 

Saurkraut, with Pork Ribs, • 163 

Slaw, Hot, 165 

Spinach, 149 

Succatash, • 158 

Tomatoes, ••••-••• 153 

Turnips, ..»,••<■• 165 

Pastry — Pies and Tarts. 

Puff Paste, No. 1, ...... 166 

Puff Paste, No. 2, 167 

Pie Crust, 168 

Apples, for Pies, 168 

Apple, . 169 

Cranberry, .... ... 169 

Curd, ...... . 170 

Custard, < 170 

Currants, to Wash, ...... 171 

Lemon, • 172 

Mince Meat, • 172 

Peaches, for Pies, . . , • . . 168 

Peach, 169 

Pumpkin, I" 4 

Puddings and Fritters 

Almond, , • « 175 

Apple and Rice, . 176 

Apple Dumplings, . • • 176 



3 6 ° 



INDEX. 



PUDDINGS AND FRITTERS. -Continued. 

Batter, 

Bread and Butter, 

Bread, 

Cocoanut, 

Corn Starch, baked, 

Corn Starch, boiled. 

Egg, German Eierkase, 

Fruit, 

Marmalade, 

Peach, 

Plum, baked, 

Plum, boiled, 

Prunes, 

Quince, Tapioca, 

Quince Sauce, . 

Rice Flour, boiled, , 

Rice, baked, 

Rusk, 

Sago, 

Tapioca, . 

Fritters, Apple, 

Fritter Batter, 

Fritter Bread 



177 
178 

179 
179 
181 
180 
181 
183 
184 
185 
185 
186 

187 

188 

189 
189 
190 
191 
191 
192 
194 
193 
194 



Sweet Sauces for Puddings. 

Apple, 

Apricots, 

Butter Sauce, . 

Chocolate, , . • 



195 
196 
197 
197 



INDEX. 



361 



SWEET-SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS.-Continued. 

Cider, 

Cranberry, 

Cream, 

Cream, • 

Custard, , . 

Hard, 

Milk, 

Peaches, . . 

Prunes, . , 

Raspberry, ; 

Strawberry, . • 

Vanilla, 

Wine, German, 

Wine, Sherry, . 

Custards. 

Almond, • 

Apple, . . 

Chocolate, • 

Cocoanut, 

Corn Starch, 

Corn Starch Snow Ball, 

Pumpkin, 

Raspberry, 

Snow Ball, . 

Wine, . 

Creams, Syrups and Ice Creams 
Almond, 
Chocolate, , 



212 
213 



3 62 



INDEX. 



CREAMS, SYRUPS AND ICE CREAMS.-Continued. 




Cincinnati, ..... 


214 


Raspberry, ...... 


215 


Strawberry, . 


216 


Vanilla, . . . « 


216 


Wine, ..... 


217 


To make Ice Cream, 


218 


Chocolate, ..... 


218 


Lemon, ..... 


. 221 


Raspberry, .... 


. 220 


Strawberry, ..... 


219 


Vanilla, ..... 


220 


Vanilla without Cream, 


. 221 


Syrups for Ice Creams Jellies and Sauces. 




Raspberry, - . , . . 


223 


Strawberry, .... 


, 222 


Jellies with Gelatine. 




Calf's Foot, 


. 224 


Cider, 


225 


Lemon, . , 


. 226 


Raspberry, 


227 



Strawberry. 228 

Wine, 228 



Charlotte Russe and Blanc Mange. 
Charlotte Russe, . . . 

Almond Blanc Mange, 
Blanc Mange, . 



231 
229 
230 



INDEX. 



3 6 3 



Cake Macaroons Meringue. 
Almond, 

Almond Jumbles, 
Almond Macaroons, 
Almond Macaroons, 
Almond Sponge, 
Almonds to Blanch and Grind 

Bride's, 

Cake, .... 

Chocolate Macaroons, 

Citron .... 

Cocoanut, 

Cocoanut Jumbles, 

Cocoanut Macaroons, 

Cocoanut and Raspberry, 

Cookies, Berlin, 

Cookies, Grandmother 

Cookies, Sugar, 

Cream, Cincinnati, 

Cream Filling, 

Cup Cake, 

Currant, 

Fruit, 

Fruit, 

Gingerbread, Soft, 

Gingerbread, White, 

Golden, 

Groom's, 

Icing, 

Icing, Chocolate, 



3 6 4 



INDEX. 



CAKE MACAROONS MERINGUES.-Continued.l 

Jelly, 

Marble, 

Meringue, . 

Pound, i . . : 

Silver, » 

Snow, • 

Sponge, ... 

Sponge, Muffins, 

Sponge, White, 

White, 



Beverages. 

Apple Wine, 
Cider, to Keep Sweet, 
Cider, Kept Sweet, 
Egg-Nog, Warm, 
Egg-Nog, Cold, . 
Lemonade, 
Lemon Punch, 
Lemon Syrup, 
Milk Punch, 
Mulled Cider, 
Mulled Wine, 
Roman Punch, 
Raspberry Vinegar, 
Raspberry Shrub, 



251 
252 
252 
253 
253 
254 
255 
256 
256 
257 

258 
258 
259 
260 
260 
261 
261 
262 
263 
263 
264 
264 
265 
261 



Canned Fruits, Marmalade — Jellies and Preserves. 

Cherries, 272 

Peaches, Clings, 276 



INDEX. 



365 



CANNED FRUITS, MARMALADES, JELLIES, ETC 

Peaches, Freestones, 

Pears, Seckel, 

Plums, , Damson, 

Plums, , Green Gage, 

Quinces, . . # 

Raspberries, 

Strawberries, 

Marmalade, 

Peach, 

Quince, 

Raspberry, Red, 

Strawberry, 

Jellies, to Make, , 

Apple, Siberian Crab, 

Cranberry, 



—Continued 



Currant, 

Green Gage, 

Quince, 

Raspberry, 

rreserves, 

Green Gages, 

Peaches, 

Peaches, Brandy, 

Quince, 

Strawberry, 



275 

279 
282 
274 
283 
271 
267 
267 
277 
284 
270 
268 
266 
280 
283 
271 
273 
281 
269 

272 
276 

278 
284 
286 



Canned Vegetables. 
Asparagus, , 

Beans, Lima, 



286 
289 



3 66 



INDEX, 



CANNED VEGETABLES.-Continued. 

Beans, String, 

Cauliflower, 

Corn, . . . 

Peas, green, . 

Tomatoes, . . 



Diet for the Sick. 

Apple Water, . 

Apple Water, , . 

Arrowroot Gruel, . 
Arrowroot Jelly, 
Blackberry Syrup, . 
Barley Water, 
Barley, boiled, ; 

Beef Broth, 
Beef Tea, 
Broth and Milk, 
Bread and Milk Poultice, 
Cranberry Water, 
Chicken Broth, . 
Cracker Panada, 
Cocoa, . . 

Crisped Ham, 
Dry Toast, 
Egg Nog, . 
Farina Gruel, . 
Flaxseed Tea, 
Ice, its Preservation, . 
Iceland Moss Tea, 



INDEX. 



367 



DIET FOR THE SICK.-Continued. 

Iceland Moss Jelly, 
Koumiss, 
Lemonade, warm, 
Lemonade, cold, 
Milk Porridge, 
Milk Toast, 
Milk Punch, 
Mulled Wine, 
Mutton Broth, 
Mustard Plasters, , 
Mustard Poultice, 
Oat Meal Gruel, 
Oat Meal Porridge, 
Oat Groats, boiled, . 
Pap, 
Panada, 

Raspberry Water, 
Raspberry Vinegar, 
Rice Water, 
Rice, boiled, 
Rice Jelly, 
Rusk Panada, 
Roasted Apples, 
Sago Gruel, 
Slippery Elm Tea, 
Slippery Elm Poultice, 
Tamarind Water, 
Toast Water, 
Tapioca Gruel, 



3 68 



INDEX. 



DIET FOR THE SICK.— Continued. 

Tapioca Jelly, 

Tea, 

Whey 1, Whey 2, 

Wine Whey, 

Wine Cottage Cheese, 



300 
312 
303 
302 
302 



Remedies. 

Arnica Tincture, 

Bruises, 

Burns, - , 

Cough, , f 

Cut, 

Felon, 

Scalds, , 

Sprains, , 



316 
319 
318 
317 
318 
317 
318 
316 



Household Receipts. 

Blankets, to Wash, 
Black Satin and Silk, 
Black Lace Renewed, 
Bedbugs Destroyed, 
Butter Kept Sweet, 
Cool House, 
Cloths to Soak, 
Cloths to Wash, 
Carpet Cleaning, 
Cockroaches Destroyed, 
Chapped Hands Prevented, 



327 
338 
341 
332 
333 
324 
325 
325 
328 
333 
343 



INDEX. 



[69 



HOUSEHOLD RECEIPTS.-Continued. 

Cashmere Shawl or Dress to Wash, 

Disinfectant, • • . • 

Eggs Kept Fresh, 

Flannels to Wash, 

Fresh Paint Removed, 

Flower Paste, • . . ■ . 

Fruit Stains Removed, 

Grease Removed, 

Glove Paste, . 

Gloves to Clean, 

Gray Gloves Colored, 

House Cleaning, Chambers, 

House Cleaning, Parlor, . 

Housekeeping, . . . 

Hair Prevented from Turning Gray, 

Lard Kept Sweet, 

Lisle Gloves Cleaned, 

Lawn Dress Washed, 

Mucilage, 

Paintings Cleaned,. 

Paintings Cleaned, 

Pile on Velvet Raised, 

Rats and Mice Destroyed, 

Rancid Butter Restored, 

Rancid Oil Restored, 

Starch to Cook, .... 

Starch 5 Cold, 

Spots Removed from Furniture, 

Sink Pipe to Clear, 

Spermaceti and Stearine Removed, 



347 

331 

334 

326 

336 

330 

345 

336 

339 

340 

341 

320 

322 

324 

344 

335 

340 

342 

339 

322 

323 

345 

333 

335 

334 

326 

326 

329 

331 

335 



37° INDEX. 



Satin and Silk Ribbons Cleaned, . . . 337 

Spots on Light Silk Removed, .... 338 

Spots from Rust Removed, . . 344 

To Clean Busts, 336 

To Clean Brass and Copper Kettle, . . . 337 

To Clean Chandeliers. 337 

To Clean Marble, . . . . . .337 

To Wash a Table Cover, 342 

Varnish for Furniture, ..... 329 
Velvet Cloak to Clean, . . . . .346 

Water to Clear, 325 

White Wash, 330 

Whitening for Ceilings, . . . . 330 

Water Closet to Clean, ..... 332 

White Dresses and Lawns, . . . . 343 

White Goods Kept, .344 

Wrinkles on Velvet Taken Out, . . . 345 



Thirteenth Edition. Fifty-Seventh Thousand. 

DR. PULTE'S 

UNRIVALED AND UNAPPROACHABLE 

HOMEOPATHIC 

DOMESTIC PHYSICIAN 

Has undergone an ENTIRE and COMPLETE REVISION, 
with very important additions as to the use of the new remedies 
so essential, especially in the treatment of CHILDREN and 
FEMALES. 

In almost every chapter the reader will find alterations, addi- 
tions and improvements, containing the newest discoveries in 
therapeutics ; in pathology several new chapters have been de- 
voted to diseases hitherto excluded from works on Domestic 
Practice, such as the chapter on trichinae, etc. 

As no work of the kind has attained one-third the sale in this 
or other countries of Pulte's Homcepathic Physician, it is scarcely 
necessary to say that it has received the strongest commenda- 
tions of the most eminent practitioners in the United States, 
South America and Europe, as a proof of which it should be 
stated here, that a London reprint of this work exists in England 
and the British Colonies of 50,000 copies, and a translation in 
Spain and South America, also of 50,000. 

1 Vol., 12mo., 743 pages, $3.00. 



PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE AT 

Cincinnati Homoeopathic Pharmacy, 

GEO. W. SMITH, Proprieior. 

Publisher, Manufacturer and Importer, 

143 West Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio, 



MEDICINE CASES FOR FAMILY USE A SPECIALTY 




I RICHARD S. WORMSER 
22 West 48th Street 
New York 



