
m 



^iBiiiMliilll 









¥: 



W3^ 









/>.\^ 



^^i^^#: 



^^. 









^-i^-i^ 



iiv,i^'*j 






Jk .^^W =. 



— THE 



KENTON COOK-BOOK 



PUBLISHED BY THE 



KENTON COOK-BOOK CO. 



n 



\\ 



t- 



Tln'ir various cares in one great ]>oint combine, 
The biisines.s of their lis'es — that is, to dine. 

— Lnve of Fame% 

The turni)i]<e road to people's hearts. I fln<l. 
Lies tliiu' llieir months, or I mistake mankind. 

— Peter Pindar- 



W. M. BKCKMAN, 

KENTON, OHIO. 







Elittuvd ac-oriling to Act of Congress, in llic yc.-ir ISSS. Iiy 

TllK KKNTON <()()i<-U()()K (().. 
In the Olli -e of the Lilii-,-ii'i:in ol' ConLCi'i'ss. :U Wa^liinLrtun. 



The PiiblislKT's Compliments to the Reader. 



DEAR MADAM: 

The ladies of St. Paul Episcopal church who publish this 
book, for the purpose of raising enough money for furnishing 
their new church, have spent much time in preparing the follow- 
ing recipes [for substantiarand dainty dishes. All have been 
thoroughly tested by the ladies whose names are attached. They 
hope that as a result of their use, you will recommend its pur- 
chase to your friends. 



CONTENTS. 



Soups n 



Fish 



14 



Oysters 1 y 

Meats ■ . . . . 3 1 

Meat and Fish Sauces 27 

PoultiT and Game '^o 

Entrees t^t^ 

Eggs 40 

Salads 4 ^ 

Sandwiches . . 49 

Vegetables •. z^o 

Breads 62 

Pies and Puddings 72 

Sauces for Puddings S-^ 

Desserts . ... S6 

Cakes . . .' 100 

Beverages 115 

Preserving . i 1 S 

Pickles and Catsu[). 12^ 

Candies 126 

Miscellnneous 1 28 

Things Wortii Knowing 131 

Dinner Giving i ^4 

Menus 1 38 



PREFACE. 

T have been requested b\' some fair women of Kenton to 
contribute a preface to a cook-book that is to aid in its sale the 
building of an Episcopal Church. I could as well l)e asked to 
put up a prayer, or preach a sermon, intlie churcli after it is ded- 
icated. Nevertheless I comply. 

It has been terselv said bv a French scientist that man is to be 
disting-uished from other animals by the fact that he cooks. I 
cannot say that this is correct, for cookins^ does not come, like 
D )gb3rrv's reading and -writing. In nature: and so far as our in- 
stinctive nature goes we share it with the buz/.ard. Tliis scaven- 
ger leaves the sun to do its cooking, and we let decav go tar 
enough to make meat tender, before we add the artiticial process 
of cooking to complete the work. That definition of man — that 
he is a laughing animal — is better, for we share that with the dog. 
The dog is nobler than the buzzaixl; in many respects it is nobler 
than man. True, the dog laughs with his tail, and man with his 
mouth. But all extremes meet, and from the moutlis of some men 
t') the tails of all dogs is no great distance. However, whether 
we are cooking animals or not, cooking has come in the exolutiou 
ofhumanitv fo be a necessitv. We can not feed upon the raw 
material, although the latest reach of science in that direction is 
to fetch us verv clos.' t ) uncooked nature. The doctors prescribe 
r.jw steaks for invalids, while th.- canv.iss-back du.'ks are merely 
dressed and carried through the kitclien to the table, when ])er- 
fectl\ prej^ared for the culine.ted taste of epicures. 



PREFACE. 



This does not appl}- to clucks generally. I remember once, on 
a hunting fexpedition, we, the hunters, attempted to roast a duck. 
We followod the instruction of the cook book, and our duck was 
as tough as the conscience of a County Commissioner. A cynical 
old scoundrel, w'ho had been looking on, said, "Boys, you don't 
know duck, and your cook book isn't worth a North Pacific toad." 
T'.iis was when those famous Cookes, of the North Pacific R-N- 
mess, failed. "Let me show you — nail your duck by the tail to 
your tint pole and let it hang there till it drops, then roast and 
eal." The gamey flavor of wood-cock and snipe comes from the 
same process. Frogs' legs are stringy if put on the griddle, or in 
the pan, kicking. They must first be subjected to what Byron 
sings of, as "decay's effacing fingers." 

This is not the case, however, with terrapin, according to my 
genial old friend, the Hon. Beverly Tucker. That is not the 
Tjcker referred to in the negro melody, who was too late for sup- 
per — it must have been in a chilly condition of atmosphere when 
dear old Bev. was left in that way. Bev. says the way to stew ter- 
rapin is to put the insects alive in cold water, place them over a 
slow fire, and stew for an hour. This is good for epicures, but 
bad for terrapin. One can imagine the sin-prise of the living deli- 
c.xcies to find the water warming, and how they disported them- 
selves in the genial liquid, then, as it grew rather too warm, their 
disgust at the Signal Office that had not foretold the warm wave, 
aid their wonder as to when it would moderate, and so on until 
the extreme heat ended in wrathful indignation and death. 

Putting aside these philosophical speculations,* and coming 
down to practical facts, the dear, sweet girls of Kenton ask me 
for a preface to their cook book, that like Liberty — not West Lib- 
erty, but New York Libertv — is not only to enlighten the world, 
but aid in building an Episcopal Church at their town. I am the 
last man in the world to ask for such a work. Some vears since, 



PRKFACE. VII. 

my liver awakened me to the fact that T have a stomach, and when 
that happens to any one it is a farewell, a lonjj;- farewell, to favin*:^ 
well in that direction. Ah me ! Our life begins witli a deadly 
attack on that pa'^t of our body where we li\e. The poor infant 
is lifted into that infernal invention, cilled a hij^h chair, and per- 
mitted to swallow all the indig-estion of the table that would kill 
alligators. The tender little stoiivich is poisoned. Smiill wonder 
that over half of the human family die in childhood, and only the 
tougher and coarser live on to afFiict each other with dyspepsia, 
the seeds of which are planted in the high chair. 

A woman is taught everything on eaith but the proper care of 
children. This is considered indelicate, and so it is omitted from 
homes and boarding schools. How to catch a husband, through 
finished extremities, is th;; aim of all tniiuing and ir.struction of 
•girls. 

However this valuabL^ and practiced v.'ork is no' food for babies, 
but strong meat for men. A> snch i!^ mxist be priz_'d ar.d prac- 
ticed upon in order that we ma\ learn the t;'uth of the ma>im of 
Chas. Granmiller, "the i-tomacli is the source of erj.\rinn1 cf 
life;" and avoid the blessing indulged in by Charles L '.n^b, \vb,o 
was wont to ask when requested to solicit one. "'is lb,e cock 
about r Xo; then let us be thankfr. 1." 

Mac o-Chee. DOXX PIATT. 



ERRATA. 

Pao^e 17 In Broiled Oysters, — ////// slices instead oi three slices. 

Page 20 In Oyster Pie, — i'/z/T?/^^ instead oi thinning. 

Page 27 Broiled Pork Chops instead of Broiled Pork Roasted. 

Page 27 In White Sauce, — ,?//> instead of steam. 

Page 30 Chicken Saute instead of Chicken Saiice. 

Page 33. In ^wQet-hreAd?, —parboil thirty minutes after draining 
oft' water. 

Page 34 In Broiled Sweet- Breads, — A ^a/r instead oi vl pan. 

Page 35 In Larded Sweet-breads — one tt acupful hvead crumbs. 

^'^ftS 3S ^^ Larded Sweet-Breads, — A pait instead of a ^a«. 

Page 73 In Mince Meat, — Boiled r/i^i?r instead oi vinegar. 

Page 76 In Raisin Pudding — tw^ cupfuls of raisins. 

Page 94 In Caramel Ice Cream — one quart of boiling cream 

Page 102 In Vanity Cake — iviutes four eggs. 

Page 103 In Ginger Drop Cake — two eggs. 

Page 104 In Cream for Layer Cake — one pint of milk. 

Page loS In French Cake — three eggs. 

Page III In Washington Cake — one cupful oi' butter, not water. 

Page 112 Custard not Mtistard Cream Cake. 

Page 115 — In Columbia Cake — four eggs 

Page 123 — In Canned Peaches — add more 5?/^^r instead o{ eggs. 

Page 124 In Ax Jar Pickles — mix turmeric with cold vinegar. 

Page 127 Chocolate Creams, — ^a>^^ instead o^ sack. 

Page 127 In Chocolate Creams — one cupful of water. 



., .. ''• 



:^" 



.'Q\ ■ SOUP. . . ■ ""''t: 

HOV/, TO MAKE SOUR. .;,. .<- 

Buy a good sized Soup-Bone, about equal amount of bone and 
meat, have the bone well bVciken at the meat market and all fat 
removed. Put into a kettle of cold w^ater, a quaj-t of water to a 
pound of soup- bone; let it simm,er gently far half an hour, then 
bqil slowly for five or six hours. An hour before taking from the 
fire, put in a good sized potato, a c;arrot and an onion. When 
done strain through the colander and set away in a cool place. 
The next day skim off all the fat, the stock should then be the 
consistency of jelly. It is now ready for use. In the winter it 
will keep for a week; in w^arm weathej", three days if kept in a 
cool place. Every range should have a soup-pot, into which can 
be thrown trimmings of fresh meat, bones and pieces of meat left 
from roast and broils (when not the least scorched); the stock 
will not be so clear as one can obtain from a soup-bone, but is 
as rich in flavor. Never throw away the smallest bone, save for 
the soup-pot. Stock is also valuable forsauce, gravies and stews. 
Each day before dinner it is only necessary to cut off some of the 
stock and heat it. Always adding aside from the thickening, salt. 
celery salt, a little catsup or Worcestershire sauce. 

Have hot water in soup tureen. Never remove soup from the 
range unless at a boiling point. As nothing is more unpalatable 
than half warmed soup. Serve each guest one ladle full of soup- 

Mrs. Innes. 



lO SOUP. 

THICKENINGS FOR SOUP. 

To thicken with flour — Put a small piece of butter in a cup 
and when boiling add sifted flour, boil well together, then add to 
the soup. 

To thicken with tapioca — Soak tapioca two or more hour;^ in 
cold water, then boil until like jelly, add to the soup. 

Vermicelli is to be added a few minutes before removing the 
soup from the fire. 

Macaroni should be boiled tender before adding to soup 

If you wish to flavor with tomato, add before using thickening. 

Rice and barley should be boiled tender before adding to soup, 
as it is only necessary to cook soup-stock a few minutes before 
serving. 

BOUILLON. 

Heat clear soup-stock, add pepper, salt, celery salt, cloves, a 
little catsup or Worcestershire sauce, port or sherry to suit the 
taste. Serve in cups for breakfast and luncheon. When used 
for dinner call Consomme, and serve in soup-plates. 

Egg-Dice, Bread-Dice, and Force-meat balls are put in the 
tureen, and the hot soup is poured over them. Of course only one 
kind is used at a time. 

EGG DICE. 

Two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one- fourth teaspoonful 
of salt. Beat eggs with a spoon, add milk and salt. Turn into a 
buttered cup and place in a pan of warm water. Cook in a slow 
oven until firm in the center. Set away to cool. Cut into dice. 

Mrs. Montgomery. 

FORCE-MEAT BALLS. 

Chop some veal, one-fourth as much butter as veal, season with 

sa't, pepper, a few drops of lemon juice. Bind with a raw egg. 

some crackers or bread crumbs. Roll into small balls and fry 

brown in boiling lard. 

Miss HOGE. 



SOUP. 



BREAD DICE. 

Take stale bread and cut in dice, fry brown in hot butter; allow 
to cool before dropping into the soup tureen. 

Mrs. Innes. 

NOODLES. 

To three eggs well beaten, add two tablespoonfuls of water and 
a little salt; enough flour to make stiff dough. Work well for fif- 
teen minutes, adding flour when necessary. When pliable cutoff" 
a portion at a time, roll very thin, sprinkle over flour, and begin- 
ning atone side, roll into rather a tight roll. With a sharp knife 
cut it from the end into very thin slices. Let them dry an hour or 
two. Cook in the soup about ten minutes. 

Miss Hoge. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

A quart can of tomatoes, three pints of milk, a large tablespoonful 
of flour, butter the size of an egg pepper and salt to taste, a scant 
teaspoonful of soda, a pinch ot cayenne. Put the tomato on to 
stew and the milk in a double boiler to boil, reserving half a cup- 
ful to mix with flour. Mix the flour smoothly with this cold milk, 
stir into the boiling milk and cook ten minutes. To the tomato 
add the soda; stir well, and rub through a strainer that is fine 
enough to keep back the seed. Add butter, pepper, salt to the 
milk and then the tomato. Serve immediately. 

POTATO SOUP. 

A quart of milk, six large potatoes, one stalk of celery, an onion 
and two small tablespoonfuls of butter. Put milk to boil with 
onion and celery. Pare potatoes and boil thirty minutes, turn ofl' 
the water, mash fine and light. Add boiling- milk and butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. Rub through a strainer, and serve im- 
mediately. A cupful of whipped cream should be added when in 
tureen. 



12 SOUP. 

CREAM OF celery; SOUP. 

A pint of milk, a tablespdonful of flour, one of butter, a head of 
celen', a large slice of onion and small piece of mace. Boil celery 
in a pint of water from thirty to forty-live minutes, boil mace, 
onion and milk together. Mix flour with two tablespoonfuls of 
cold milk, and add to boiling milk. Mash celery in the water in 
which it has been cooked and stir into boiling milk, add one pint 
chicken or veal stock, butter, pepper and salt to taste. 

Miss Hoge. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

A pint of black beans, soaked over night in three quarts of 
water. In the morning pour ofl'this water, and add three quarts 
of fresh. Boil gently six hours. When done there should be one 
quart. Add a quart of stock, six whole allspice, a small piece of 
mace, a small piece of cinnamon, a stock of celery, aboquet of 
sweet herbs, also two small onions and one small slice each 
of turnip and carrot, all cut fine and fried in three tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Into the butter remaining in the pan put a spoonful 
of flour and cook until brown. Add to soup and simmer all to- 
gether one hour. Season with salt and rub through a fine sieve. 
Serve with slices of lemon and egg balls, the lemon to be put in 
the tureen with the soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart can of tomatoes, one pint of water, and a slice of an 
onion, let simmer thirty minutes. Mix one tablespoonful of flour 
and one of butter with a tablespoonful of the tomato; stir into the 
boiling mixture, add one-half teaspjonful of salt and a pinch of 
cayenne. Let all boil for fifteen minutes, strain through a sieve, 
and serve immediately. 

Mrs. W. S, Robinson. 



OYSTERS. 13 

OYSTER SOUP WITH MILK. 

Roil one quart of rich milk, season with pepper, salt and a 
large tablespoonful of butter, then add one quart of oysters and 
just let it come to the, |:)oiling point, a.ud serve. 

Miss HOGE. 

OYSTER SOUP WITH WATER. 

One pint of oysters and one quart of boiling water, let boil five 
minutes, then skim out the oysters. Add a pint of fresh o\ sters. 
pepper, salt to taste, tvs^o tablespoonfiils of butter and one ot 
rolled cracker. Bring to ihe boiling point and serve. 

Miss Robinson. 

WHITE BEAN SOUP. 

Soak a quart of navy beans over night. Then put on the fire 
with three quarts of water, three onions fried or sauted in a little 
butter, one small carrot, two potatoes partly boiled in other water, 
a small piece of pork, a little red pepper and salt. Let it all boil 
slowly for five or six hours, then add one quart of stock. Strain 
through a colander. Return the pulp to the fire, season with salt 
and pepper. Put bread-dice in the tureen and pour over the soup. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

One chicken for a gallon of water. Cut up chicken and place 
in cold water then let it boil tor five or six hours. Strain through 
a colander and set a^ide until the next day. when the fat will be 
ready to skim off and th.- stock like jelly . Fifteen minutes before 
dinner put the jelly on the fire; when it comes to a boil add a pint 
of cream or milk. Thicken with a little flour which has been 
stirred smooth with a tablespoonful of cold milk, season with salt 
and pepper. Just before taking up the soup pour in a cupful of 
thoroughly cooked rice. Some like a tew drops of onion juice. 

Mrs. Lxnes, 



14 SOUP. 

This soup must be taken off the fire at a boiling point. 

The bones and meat left from a roast chicken make nice chicken 
stock for this same soup. Mrs. Innes. 

THE JOHN CARLIN SOUP. 

Three pints of stock, one pint of tapioca after it is cooked to a 
jelly consistency. (Soak tapioca over night.) Season with salt, 
pepper and celery salt, Worcestershire sauce and tomato catsup. 
When the soup is in the tureen, drop in slices of lemon, one for 
each plate. Take the soup from the fire at a boiling point. 

Mrs. Innes. 

OXTAIL SOUP. 

Take two oxtails, an onion, two carrots, two stalks of celery, a 
little parsley and a small cut of pork. Cut the oxtails at the 
joints, slice the vegetables and mince the pork. Put the pork, 
onion and oxtails into a stewpan and fry them a short time. Now 
put the oxtails and fried onions into soup kettle, with four quarts 
(*f cold water. Let simmer for about four hours; then add the 
other vegetables, with four cloves, pepper and salt. As soon as 
the vegetables are well cooked, the soup is done. Strain it. 

Miss A. Powell, 



FISH. 

BROILED FISH 

Any small fish, and the steaks of very large fish are nice broiled. 
Dry the fish with a coarse cloth, rub the bars of the gridiron with 
lard to prevent the fish from sticking. Put the fish in broiler 
and turn often. A fish weighing three pounds will broil in ten 
minutes. Season with pepper, salt and melted butter. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. A double broiler is better. Be careful 
tiiat the fish does not scorch. 

Miss Robinson. 



FISH. 15 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Take a piece of haiibut weighing five or six pounds, and lay in 
salt and water for two hours. Wipe dry and score the outer 
vkin. Set in the baking pan in a tolerably hot oven, and bake an 
hour, basting often with butter and water heated together in a 
tincup or sauce pan. When a fork will penetrate it easily it is 
done. It should be a fine brown. Take the gravy in the drip- 
ping pan, add a little boiling water. Should there not be 
enough, stir a tablespoonful of catsup, the juice of a lemon and 
thicken with browned flour, previously wet with cold water. 
Boil up once and put into sauce boat. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

BAKED FISH. 

Clean, wash and wipe the fish, which should be a large one. 
Make a stuffing of grated bread-crumbs, butter, salt, pepper and 
sweet herbs. Stuff" the fish and sew it up. Lay in the baking pan, 
with a cupful of water to keep it from burning, and bake an hour, 
basting with butter and water until it is tender throughout ai)d 
well browned. Take it up, put in a hot dish and cover tightly, 
while you boil up the gravy with a great spoonful of catsup, a 
tablespoonful of browred flour which has been wet with cold 
vyater, the juice of a lemon, and if you vvjnt to have it very fine 
a glass of sherry. Of course you take out the thread with which 
it has been sewed up before serving the fish. 

Mr.s. W. S. Rohixson. 

STEAMED FISH. 

A five pound fish should be steamed one hour or longer until 
thoroughly done, as there is nothing more unwholesome than 
under-done fish. Wash it in cold water, then wrap in a cloth and 
]5ut into the steamer. It will not break the fish to curl it up when 
when putting into the stc.'imcr. Serve with ca]:er <-ai;ce. If the 
fish is to be served whole do not cut ofl' the head and tail. 

Miss. I.nnes. 



l6 FISH. 

BROILED MA C K£ R E L. 

• Soak over night in lukewarm water, charige ^in the morning 
for very cold, let the fish lie in this until tirqe to cook.^ ._ JBrpii pve<i:. 
aclear fire. • Bour over melted.butte)r,,^S|),rUiJk;l#i ,>v.i^.J;j pepjifer, aiid. 
sprve with. sliced lemon. ,; .vitMiss ^Hoge. , : 

■-SPICED MACKEREL. :^ ■» 

Soak half a doz'eft mackerel over night, IBoil uhtil tender, remove 
b'onesand'lay in'a'stone jar. ' Boil one quart of 'vinegar vvith one 
gVat'ed' nutmeg, three blades of mace and three cloves; pour 'oyer 
the fis'h. "Will be ready for use in about two dafys. "",'''. 

Mrs. 'A. Listen. '• 
TURBOT. 

Two pounds of white fishV Steamed until done, remove bones 
wlirle h&t.- Set away to cool. Orie and one-half'pint5i''(!)Pifn'i-ltf,'''four 
tablespoonfuls of butter, pepper and salt; boil. andi^cTd-'clTOpped 
pai'sley. Set a'way to cool. Butter tnrbot dishes, fi^M^ with layers of 
fish and dressing, sprinkle top with bread or critcker-crumbs, little 
butter, pepper and salt. Mrs. Innks. 

- CODFISH BALLS. 

Seven ordinary sized potatoes and th? sam^ aniDunt offish picked 
up very fine. Boil potatoes, and a little while before draining put 
iri the fish. Let all come to a boil, drain and mash together, add 
one egg and a small piece of butter. Let cool and then make into 
finger rolls and drop into boiling lard. They must brown quickly 
so asjnot to soak up the lard. Let the codfish soak over night in 
cold water. Mrs. Childs. 

STEWED CODFISH. 

Pick the codfish very fine, soaking in cold water over night, in 
the morning drain oflf water and simmer gently ten minutes, pour 
oft'water, and dress with milk, or cream if you have it, butter, a 
sprinkling of flour, pepper and salt. Poar into center of a good 
sized meat plate garnised with mashed potatoes. 

Mrs. Innes. 



OYSTERS. 

OYSTER SAUTE. 

Drain one quart of oysters on a coarse cloth; season with salt 
and pepper. Put slices of bacon to cover the bottom of a hot skil- 
let, and let it fry until brown. Put oysters in same pan and cook, 
turning each oyster. Serve on squares of buttered toast. Garnish 
with slices of bacon and parsley. 

Mrs. Carlin. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Lay large oysters on a close gridiron. Cook on one side, then 
on the other. Season with pepper, salt and melted butter. Serve 
on squares of toast, and garnish with three slices of lemon. 

Miss Robinson. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Lay some oysters, in the shell, on a steamer. Set over a pot of 
boiling water until the shells open. Serve at once with salt, pep- 
per and butter. Lemon can also be used. 

OYSTERS IN THE SHELL. 

Open the shell, melt some butter, with pepper and salt, roll the 
oysters in it and lay back in the shells, putting more than one 
oyster in each shell if 3'ou wish, cover with bread crumbs and 
small pieces of butter. Place in pan and set in oven. Serve in 
the hot shells with lemon, 

Mrs. Robinson. 



OYSTERS. 



OYSTER CHARTREUSE. 



One quart of oysters, one pint of cream, one sm.ill slice of 
onion, half a cupful of milk, whites of four eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one cupful 
of fine, dry bread crumbs, six potatoes, one tablespoonful of 
minced parsley. Pare and boil potatoes, mash fine and light, 
add the milk, salt, pepper, one tablespoonful of butter and then 
the whites of the egg beaten to a stifl' froth, and the parsley 
Have a two quart Charlotte Russe mould well buttered and 
sprinkle the bottom and sides with bread crumbs, (there must be 
butter enough to hold the crumbs). Line the mould with the 
potato and let stand a few minutes. Put the cream and onion on 
to boil, mix the flour with a little cold cream or milk, — about one- 
fourth of a cupful — and stir into the boiling cream. Season well 
with salt and pepper and cook eight minutes. Let the oysters come 
to a boil in their own liquor, skim them and drain oft'all the juice. 
Take the onion from the sauce and add the oysters. Taste to see 
if seasoned enough, and turn into the inould very gently, cover 
with the remainder of the potato, being careful not to put on too 
much at once. When covered bake half an hour in a hot oven. 
Take from the oven ten minutes before dishing time, and let it stand 
on the table. It should be baked half an hour. Place a large 
platter over the mould and turn both dish and mould at the same 
time. Remove the mould very gently. Garnish the d^sh with 
parsley and serve. A word of caution. Eveiy part of the mould 
must have a thick coating of mashed potato and when the covering 
of potato is put on no opening must be left for sauce to escape. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Drain the liquor from the o}sters, and to a cupful of this add 
one half a cupful of milk, three eggs, pinch of salt, and flour to 
make a thin batter. Have in a fr} ing pan some butter smoking 
hot, drop in the batter by the spoonful. Fry brown and serve 
very hot. 



OVSTEKS. 19 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain and wipe oysters dry. Beat an egg with a little milk, 
pepper and salt, dip o>\sters into the egg, then into rolled cracker 
or bread crumbs. Fry in a kettle of hot lard or put butter in skil- 
let and let get hot, then fry oysters a delicate brown. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Season large oysters with pepper and salt. Cut fat English 
bacon in very thin slices. Wrap an oyster in each slice and fasten 
with a little wooden skewer (toothpicks are best). Heat a fry- 
ing pan and put in the little pigs. Cook just long enough to 
crisp the bacon — about two minutes. Place on slices of toast cut 
into small pieces and serve immediately. Garnish with parsley. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 

Eighteen large oysters or thirty small ones, one teaspoonful of 
flour, one tablespoonful of butter, salt, pepper and three slices of 
toast. Have the toast buttered and on a hot dish. Put the butter 
in a small saucepan, and wdien hot add the dry flour. Stir until 
smooth, but not brown, then add one and a half cups of cream and 
let it boil up once. Put the oysters (in their own liquor) into the 
hot oven for three minutes, then add them to the hot cream, 
season and pour over the toast. Garnish the dish with thin slices 
of lemon. Serve hot. A nice dish for lunch or tea. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters in a colander. Have a fryingpan very hot. 
pour in the oysters, a lump of butter size of an egg (for a pint of 
oysters), one tablespoonful of cracker crumbs, teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, salt and cayenne pej^per. Let all cook together for 
a minute or so, just until the oysters commence to curl. 

Mrs. Innes. 



OYSTERS. 20 

OYSTER PIE. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of milk, one half pint of water, one 
half cupful of hutter. Put milk, water and hutter on stove and let 
get scalding hot, add one heaping tablespoon ful of flour rubbed 
smooth in a little milk, and cook until it thickens. Add three eggs 
well beaten, then two tablespoonfuls of rolled cracker and the oys- 
ters and let scald, thinning all the tune. Season with pepper and salt 

Turn this into baked crust. For crust, make after rule for puft' 
paste, line the baking dish and bake. Cut the upper crust to fit dish 
and bake on heavy paper if you haven't pan the right size. Prick 
the bottom crust with a fork to prevent it blistering. 

Mrs.. Gage. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters. Put a thin layer of cracker crumbs in the 
bottom of a buttered pudding-dish, cover with a 'deep layer of 
oysters, season well with pepper, salt, and sprinkle with bits of 
butter. Add another layer of cracker crumbs, then oysters, pepper, 
salt and butter, and so on until the dish is full. Let the top layer 
be of crumbs, stick pieces of butter thickly over it, cover the dish, 
set in the oven, bake half an hour, remove cover, pour over half 
a cup of hot cream and set on the grate to brown. Use at least 
three-fourths oyster to one-fourth cracker. A little mace or nut- 
meg can be used in seasoning. 

Miss Hoge. 



MEATS. 

HOW TO SELECT MEAT. 

Good HKKK should he of a hn^ht red color, the tat "yellowish 
and firni. When the lean is streaked with the fat it indicates 
<^radual fattening- and is sure to be good. The fat should he a clear 
light yellow, a dull appearance shows a poor quality of beef 

Beef sJioiild be Jiuvg seine time before using. 

V^EAL should have white fat and the lean be of a pinkish hue. 
White meat shows poor blood; and when too young, the lean is ot 
a bluish color. \'eal is not nutritious and is indigestible, but noth- 
ing can take its place for entrees and soups. 

Mutton should be a rather bright red, not too dark, and with 
plent}' of hard white fat. It grows more tender by hanging. 

Lamb will not keep as long as mutton; the bone should be rather 
red and the fat a clear white, the lean a light red almost pink. 

Chicken. The light meat of chicken should be white, and the 
fat a light yellow. Young chicken' have not much fat, and are 
best for broiling or smothering. When bending back the wing, 
of the skin cracks, the chicken is a young one. Chickens should 
be thoroughly chilled after killing, or they will be stringy. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

ROAST BEEF. 

See that the meat is of good color with plenty of fat. AVrrr 
wash a roast of beef Put the pan in which the roast is to be 
baked, on top of stove, and let get smoking hot. Take roast and 
sear on three sides in the hot pan. Season well with pepper and 
salt and put in a hot oven. Cook an eight pound roast from one 
and a half to one and three-fourth hours. The hour and a half 
will leave the center of the roast quite rare, but not raw. Baste 
often. Never put'water in the pan while cooking. If the roast 
is not fat enough add some beef drippings or butter to baste with. 

Mrs. Robinson, 



ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

A rib or surloiu roast sht>iild be prepared as directed for roasting. 
When within three-quarters of an hour of being^ done, have the 
pudding made. Butter a pan like that in which the meat is cooking 
and pour in the batter. Place in oven and baste occasionally with 
beef drippings. Cut in squares and garnish the beef with these. For 
Yorkshire pudding, one pint of milk, two-thirds of a cupful of 
Hour, three eggs and one scant teaspoonful of salt will be needed, 
one teaspoonful of Royal Baking Powder. Beat the eggs verv 
light, add salt and milk and then pour about half a cupful of the 
mixture on the flour and baking powder, and when perfectly 
smooth add the remainder. This makes a small pudding, enough 
for six persons. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Innes. 

BROILED BEEF STEAK. 

Hiive the st^ak cut from three-quarters to an inch thick. Broil 
over a clear fire and turn constantly to keeq from burning. When 
cooked season with pepper and salt. Many like melted butter 
poured over meat and pressed in. Never pound stea'<, as much of 
the juice is lost in that way. Is nice served with mushroom sauce 
or tomato sauce. 



BEEF A-LA-MODE. 

Take a round of beef, remove the bone fro n the middle, trim 
away tne tough bits about the edges and the gristle. Bind the beef 
into a symmetrical shape by passing a strip of stoutmuslin around 
it. Have readv at least a pound of salt fdt pork, cut into strips as 
thick as your middle finger and long enough to reach from top to 
l^ottom of the trussed round. Put a half pint of vinegar over the 
lire in porcelain saucepan; season with two onions, two teaspoonfuls 
of made mustard, one teaspoonful grated nutmeg, one of cloves, half 



2-; 



as imicli allspice, half tca>-pDonfiil ofl^lack pepper, with a hunch ol' 
sweet herbs niiiiced tine, and a tahlespoonful of brown sugai . 

Let all simmer for live minutes, then boil up at once, and pour, 
whilescaldin^ hot, upon tlie strips of pork, which .should be laid in 
a deep dish. Let all stand toijether until cold. Remove the por.x 
to a plate, and mix with the liquor left in the dish enough bread - 
crimibs to make a tolerably stifl forcemeat. If the vinej^jar is very 
strong^ dilute with a little water before moistening the crumbs 

With a long-bladed knife or larding needle, make perpendiculai- 
incisions in the beef, not more than half an inch apart; thrust into 
these the strips of fat pork, so far down that the upper ends arc- 
just level with the surface, and work into the cavities with them ;i 
litle of the forcemeat. Fill the hole from which the bone was taken 
with the dressing and bits of pork. Put into a porcelain kettle 
with about half a pint of boiling water, cover the top of the meat 
with slices of carrot and turnip; cover the kettle tight and steam 
tor four hours. Remove from the kettle and piltjn a b :\ ing-par. 
roast for half an hour. Remove the muslin, and serve either hot 
or cold. Carve horizontally into very thin slices. 

This seems like a good deal of trouble, but will find j-our- 
selves well repaid. Mrs. S. L. Hoge. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Score the top of the roast and lay thin pieces of pickled porl; 
where it has been scored. Season well with pepper and salt and 
put small pieces of butter over top and dredge with flour. Let 
cook until a little brown on top, adil a half pint of boiling water 
and baste often. Cook a six pound roasi from one and three- 
fourths to two hours. You may have to add a little boiling watei" 
again. If vou cai'e for gravv. make when the roast has been 
taken up. Put one-half pint of boiling water and one-half pint of 
cream in pan. Stir smooth two tablespoonfuls of flour in a little 
milk, add to water and cream wliile cooking, season with pepper 
ill d salt an 1 cook thoro'iglily. ]Mhs. Roin.vsox. 



MEATS. 24 



ROAST PIG. 

Prepare a dressing as for turkey, of fine bread-crumbs (about 
two quarts), a tablespoonful of salt, half a cup of butter, half a 
tablespoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful each of chopped parsley, 
thyme, and sage. Moisten with the yolks of two eggs, half a 
wine-glassful of sherry wine, the juice of half a lemon. This 
'[uantity will be sufficient for a six weeks' old pig. Salt and pepper 
the inside of the pig, fill with the dressing and having bent the 
legs under so that he will kneel, place in the pan with a well 
greased paper under. Rub the whole surface once with melted 
butter and dredge with flour (this keeps the skin from cracking). 
Put a half cup of hot water with some butter in the pan and set 
in a moderate oven. Have a pan of hot water and butter on the 
stove; baste the pig with this every ten minutes until the skin 
becomes quite brown, then stop basting but rub over the surface 
with a cloth dipped in melted butter. Do this very often, it will 
make the skin crisp and keep it from cracking. For an older pig 
double the quantity of dressing will be needed. Be sure your pig 
is thoroughly cooked. From three to four hours is not too much 
tor a month old pig; six to eight hours for one three months old. 

Mrs W. S. Robinson. 

BROILED VEAL CHOPS. 

Veal chops broiled are very nice. Have a steady heat and cook 
longer than beef or mutton. Season with pepper, salt and melted 
butter. Lemon juice is an addition. Garnish with parsley. 

Miss Robinson. 

VEAL CUTLETS, BREADED, 

Dip the cutlets in beaten egg, with a little milk, pepper and 

salt added, then roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot butter. Can 

he served with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Robinson. 



MEATS. 25 

BRISKET OF VEAL. 

Get ;i loin roast of veal, make a dressing of bread crumbs, butter, 
salt, pepper and thyme or sage, and a little chopped pickled pork. 
Put this dressing on the under part of the veal, and roll, bind with 
a strip of muslin. Put into a pan with a little hot water, and bake, 
basting- often. Cook a six pound roast from one and three- fourths 
to two hours. Make gravy as for roast veal. 

Miss Hoge 

ROAST VEAL WITH RICE AND ONION. 

Prepare veal the same as in above receipt, when about half done 
pour over the top rice and onion. Boil the rice until tender, five 
minutes before draining; put in two onions chopped fine, boil to- 
gether for the five minutes, drain, stir well together, paste on top 
of veal, bake until veal is done. 

Mrs. Damox. 

VEAL" SCALLOP. 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine, put a layer in 
the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish, and season with pepper 
and salt. Have next a layer of cracker crumbs, sprinkle with bits 
of butter and moisten with a little milk, then more seasoned veal 
and another la} er of cracker crumbs. When the dish is full wet 
with gravy or broth. Have a laver of crackers on top wet with 
milk and two beaten eggs. Bake from halt to three-quarters of 
an hour. Do not get it too dry. 

Miss Hoge. 

ROAST SPRING LAMB. 

Season the quarter of lamb with pepper, salt and spread 

thickly with butter, dredge with flour. If the meat is not fat 

lay thin pieces of pickled pork over it. After the meat has cooked 

thirty minutes add one-half cupful of water and baste often. 

Cook an eight pound roast two hours in a brisk oven to have 

well done. Serve with mint sauce. 

Mrs. Childs. 



26 MEATS. 

BOILED FRESH TONGUE. 

Wash well and put into boiling water to cover, with three table- 
spoonfuls of salt and one tablespoonful of pepper. Cook six hours 
or until very tender. Cook down in kettle, being careful that it 
does not burn. Peel oft' the skin while hot. 

SMOKED TONGUE. 

Soak over night and cook from five to six hours. Peel oft' skin 
while hot. 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS. 

Lamb chops are broiled -as steak is br-.iled and served with salt 
pepper and melted butter. They are nice served with green peas. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Broiled as lamb chops are broiled. Many like them breaded and 
cooked like veal cutlets, and served with tomato sauce. 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Season the legf of mutton with pepper and salt and put in a kettle 
with just enough water to keep from burning, add a little water from 
time to time as needed. The rule is to boil a quarter of an hour for 
each pound of meat. Caper sauce should be served with this meat. 

BOILED HAM. 

Soak the ham over night in cold water. In the morning wash 
and scrape clean. Put into a kettle and cover with cold water 
and boil slowly. Allow fifteen minutes to each pound of meat in 
cooking. Put a few whole cloves and allspice into the water. 
When done remove from the kettle, and take off' the skin. Cover 
the top of the ham with brown sugar, stick in a few cloves and 
set in the oven to brown. Do not cut until eld then slice very 
thin. Garnish the plate with parsley. 

Mrs Hoge. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 27 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut in slices; if salty, pour boiling water over the meat and let 
it stand five or ten minutes. Wipe dry and boil over a clear fire. 
Pepper before serving. If the ham looks dry, pour a little melted 
butter on it. 

PORK ROASTED. 

Season w ith pepper, salt, and sage. Add one-half cup of boiling 
w^ater, baste often and allow twenty-five minutes to the pound for 
roasting. Have a moderate oven. Serve with apple-sauce. 
Many prefer a well seasoned bread crumb dressing. 

BROILED PORK ROASTED. 

Broil over a hot fire. Season with pepper and salt. Be sure to 
cook them enougfh. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter, four of flour, 
a small slice of onion, two sprigs of parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Put the milk, onion, and parsley on the double boiler. 
Mix the butter and flour together until smooth and light. When 
the milk boils, stir four tablespoonfuls of it into the butter and flour, 
and when it is well mixed, stir it into the boiling milk, cook eight 
minutes. Steam and serve. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One pint of cream, one tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to 
taste. Let the cream come to a boil, add the flour mixed smooth 
with a little cold cream; boil three minutes. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

One quart of canned tomatoes, two and a half tablespoonfuls of 
butter, two of flour, ten cloves, and a slice of onion grated. 
Cook tomatoes, cloves, onion, ten minutes. Heat the butter in a 
pan and add the flour, stir over the fire until smooth and brown, 
then stir into the tomatoes. Cook two minutes, rub thrtnigh a 
sieve, season with pepper and salt. 

Miss Hoge. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Pour the grease oft' the drippings of roast lamb, add a table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup and some green mint chopped fine. 

Miss Hoge. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green mint, one of powdered 
sugar, and half a teacupful of cider vinegar, stir all together and 
serve with roast lamb. 

Miss A. Powell. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, half a cupful of butter and one pint 
of boiling water. Work the flour and butter together until light and 
creamy, and gradually add the boiling water. Stir constantly until 
it comes to a boil, but do not let it boil. A tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and a speck of cayenne may be added if desired. 

Mrs W. S. Robinson. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Six hard boiled eggs, chopped fine with a silver knife or spoon, 
half a cupful of boiling cream or milk and the butter sauce. Make 
the sauce, add the boiling milk and then the eggs. Stir well and 
serve. The juice of half a lemon makes this a sharp sauce. May 
add one tablespoonful of parsley. 



MKAT AND I-ISH SAUCES. 29 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Make the buttei' sauce atid stir into it four tablespoonfuls of 
essence of anchovv, and one of lemon juice. Best for fish. 

Mrs. W. S. Rorinsox. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Make a butter s.iuce, and stir into it one tablcspoonful of lemon 
juice, two of capers, and a speck of cayenne. This sauce is for stew- 
ed or boiled fish or mutton. 

Mrs. W. S. Robi.nsox. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR GAME. 

Two cups of milk, (tnc-third cupful of fine dry bread crumbs. .1 
slice of onion, one tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper. Put the 
milk, bread crumbs and onion on to boil together. Boil fifteen mii\ 
utes; add the butter and seasoning. Skim out the onion and pour 
around the birds or in a gravy boat 

Mrs. W. S. Roiri.vsox. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Make the cream sauce, and when boiling add one pint of oxsters. 
Let them boil only just long enough to swell. 

Mrs. W. S. Rob ix son. 

IVIUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Make the cream sauce, and when boiling add one pint of nnisli- 
T'Oom.s cut into pieces. Let boil .a few minutes. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

CHICKENS BROILED IN A HOT OVEN. 

Take spring chicken, have split open on back. Wipe perfectly 
dry. Put in baking pan and broil in very hot oven twenty five min- 
utes. Season after removing from the fire with pepper, salt and 
melted butter. Garnish with thin slices of lemon and parsley. 

Mrs Spelman. 

SMOTHERED CHICKENS. 

Flour, pepper and salt thoroughly spring chickens. Put a good 
sized lump of butter in the pan, and let it get hot on top of the 
stove. Put in the chickens breast downwards and brown, then put 
in the oven for about thirty minutes. Add then half a pint of water, 
cover with a pan, cook another thirty minutes, basting occasion- 
ally. Let them cook with breasts down until the water is added. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

CHICKEN SAUCE. 

Cut up one uncooked chicken. Have ready a hot frying pan 
with a tablespoonful of butter in it. Place the chicken in the pan 
and brown, first on one side, then on the other. Season, cover tight- 
ly, set on the back of the stove, and cook slowly forty-five minutes. 

Mrs Henry Powell. 

ROAST CHICKENS. 

Having picked and drawn them, wash in two or three waters, 
adding a little soda to the last. ' Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, 
butter, pepper, salt and a little onion. Fill the chickens, which 
should be young and tender, sew them up and roast an hour or more, 
according to their size. Baste often with butter and water, after- 
wards with their own gravy. 

Miss Hoge. 



POULTRY AND GAME. ;^ I 



STEWED CHICKEN. 

Cover chicken with cold water, and when it boils skim well, then 
add pepper, saU and if chicken is not fat. add one-half cup of biittei-. 
let Ixjil until tender. Stir until smooth two tablespoonfuls of flort 
with a little cold milk. Add a pint of cream, then the flour; let cook 
ten minutes and poui" over buttered toast, baking powder, biscuit. 
or dumplings. 

CURRIED CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

Stew chicken as in above receipt. Place chicken on platter, gar 
nish with rice. Stir curry powder to taste in gravy and jiti.r 
over all. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Proceed the same with turkey as wMth chicken, allowing fi tee 

minutes to a pound. Roast slowly and baste often, It is we!l 

to cover the breast with a well greased paper. Stuff' the tuikt v 

with a dressing made of bread-crumbs, sea>^oned with pepper, sa!'. 

butter, onion, thyme or sage. Or mix oysters with the breac: 

crumbs, or use oysters only. Another way, add raisins and sage 

to the bread-crumbs, and omit onion. 

Miss Hoge. 

BROILED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Broil with the breast down about twenty minutes, ba.ste with 

melted butter. Turn to keep from scorching. 

Miss Hoge. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Stew the chicken until tender, remove chicken, and add to tin- 
gravy pepper, salt, cream and flour, let it come to a boil. Plac • 
in your baking-dish first the back of the chicken, then the wiivj^ 
and any other pieces of chicken, and some small pieces of potato: 
then pour on some of the gravy. Have ready a rich baking-povvde 
biscuit dough, roll out half an inch thick and put over the chicken; 
add the rest of the chicken, and cover again with the dough, cut 



POUL'IRV AND GAME. 



;i slit in the middle of the dough, pour the rest of the gravv 
through the slit. Place on the top of stove, cover lightly, and 
Isoil ten minutes; re. xiove the cover and bake in the oven half an 
hour. 

WILD DUCKS. 

Clean the ducks and stufl' the body with a dressing of bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, melted butter, sage and onions, 
or a stuffing of onions alone. Fry the onions brown and season 
vvith pepper and salt. Place the ducl<s in a pan and pour about 
a half-pint of boiling water in the pan and baste often. Keep 
covered. If the ducks are young three-fourths of an hour or one 
hour will cook them long enough. When the ducks are old. thev 
should be steamed an hour and then roasted thirty minutes. If 
the ducks are not fat, lay thin slices of bacon over breast. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Split them at the back. Broil, basting them often with butter, 
over a hot fire. As soon as the birds are done add a little more- 
butter, pepper and salt. Can be seived .)n butteied toast. 

Mrs. Innes. 

SMOTHERED QUAIL. 

Smother quails after the receipt for chicken. Be careful to put 
the breast down in the hot butter and baste often; add moreboilin^ 
water if necessary, as they must be kept moist. 

Miss Robinson. 

ROASTED SNIPE AND WOODCOCK. 

The following is the epicure's manner of cooking them: Care- 
fully pluck them, and take skin off the head and neck. Truss them 
with the head under wing. Twist the legs at the first joint press- 
ing the feet against the thigh. Do not draw them, but tie a 
thin slice of bacon around each; run a small iron skewer through 



ENTREES. 33 

the birds, and tie it to a spit at both ends. Roast them at a p^ood 
tire, placing a dripping pan with buttered slices of toast under them 
to catch the trail as it falls. Baste the snipe often with a paste- 
brush dipped in melted butter. Let them roast twenty minutes, 
then salt the birds and serve them immediately on toast. 

The majority prefer snipe drawn and broiled, and served on 
toast. 

PHEASANTS 

Are cooked as quail, either broiled or smothered. 



ENTREES. 

TO FRY CROQUETTES. 
Have a deep skillet or ftying-pan for frying croquettes, and use 
plenty of piu'e, sweet lard, three-quarters to one pound is not too 
much. Have it boiling hot before dropping in the croquettes. 
When it smokes in the center it is just right. 

SWEET-BREADS. 

To clean sweet-breads, place them in cold w'ater immediatelv 
on their arrival from market. In an hour drain ofl' water, no 
matter what the mode of cooking is to be. After they are cold, 
pull off all the tough and fibrous skin. 

Mrs. Innes. 

FRIED SWEET-BREADS. 

Cut the sweet-breads into small pieces, after they are boiled and 
cold. Put a tablespoon^ul of butter into a frying-pan; when hot 
add sweet-breads, pepper and salt. The sweet-breads can be 
rolled in egg and cracker-crumbs before frying, if one wishes it. 

Mrs. Innes. 



34 ENTREES. 



BROILED SWEET-BREADS WITH ORANGES. 

Choose a pan of the largest sweet- breads; parboil; when cold, 
gash them in two or three places, then squeeze an orange carefully 
overthem, so that the juice will run into the gashes; sprinkle with 
pepper and salt. Broil over the hot coals, basting frequently with 
melted butter. Squeeze the juice of another orange over them as 
they go to the table. Garnish with lounds of oranges. Lemons 
can be used in the same way. 

Miss Hoge. 

STEWED SWEET-BREADS. 

After they are parboiled and cold, cut them up into fine pieces. 
Make a dressing of cream, thickened with flour; season with butter, 
pepper and salt; boil slowly for ten minutes, then add sweet- 
breads; cook five minutes longer, they are then readv to serve. 

Mrs. Innes. 

SWEET-BREAD CROQUETTES. 

After they are well boiled, and cold, chop into verv fine ))ieces, 
season with salt, cayenne pepper and celery salt; add sufficient 
cream to make very moist, roll in egg and cracker-crumbs well 
sifted, and fry in hot lard to a light brown. They may be served 
alone or with pease or tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Innes. 

ROASTED SWEET-BREADS. 

Parboil, then throw into cold water to harden. Wipe perfectly 
dry. Lay in a dripping-pan and roast, basting with butter and hot 
water (mi.xed), until they begin to brown. Then withdraw from 
the oven an instant, roll in beaten e.^^, then in cracker-crumbs; 
return to the oven for ten minutes longer, basting meanwhile with 
butter. Lay in a chafing dish while you add to the drippings half 
a cupful of hot water, some chopped parsley, a teaspoon ful of 
browned flour, and the juice of half a lemon. Pour over the 
sweet-breads before sending to the table. 

Miss Hoge. 



ENTREES. 35 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Boil one chicken until tender, and when cooked have about one 
cupful of broth When the chicken is cold divest it of all skin, 
f;it and gristle, and chop as fine as possible. Put half a cupful of 
butter with two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth, 
into a saucepan and cook together, stirring constantly until as 
thick as cream; add the broth, after removing the fat, and a cup- 
ful of cream, boil five minutes. Take from the stove and add 
chicken, a little minced parsley, the juice of one lemon, salt, pep- 
per, a very little cayenne, one half onion grated, one-fourth of a 
nutmeg, and set away to cool. When cold make into pear-shaped 
cones or little rolls, put into beaten ego;, then the rolled cracker, 
and let stand about two hours before frying in hot lard. Veal, 
tenderloin of pork, and cold turkey can be used in place of chicken, 
and are very nice. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

BREADED CHEESE, For Tea or Luncheon. 

One cup of coarse bread-crumbs, three cups of milk, one cup 
of grated cheese. Put into a pudding-dish with crumbs and butter 
on top. Bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Innes. 

LARDED SWEET BREADS. 

Take a pan of sweet breads, soak one and a half hours in cold 
w^ater; plunge in boiling water and cook five minutes. When 
cold and carefully skinned, make incisions through them one inch 
apart, into which insert tiny strips of salt pork and a little force- 
meat made thus, — one teaspoonful of dry and finely rolled bread 
crumbs, one ounceof butter, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley; salt and pepper to taste. 
Put about a teaspoonful of this mixture in each incision; put bits 
of butter over the sweet-breads and bake to a pretty brown. Ten 

to fifteen minutes should cook them. 

Miss M. W. Gumming. 



36 ENTREES. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a 
little grated onion. Beat to a cream, with a tablespoonful of 
butter to every cupful of potato, add some minced parsley, and 
bind with two or three eggs. Roll into oval balls, dip into beaten 
e^g, and then into cracker crumbs, rolled very fine, and fiv in 
boiling lard. 

Miss Hoge. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

For one dozen, use three-fourths of a pound of chicken cut fine, 
but not hashed, one-half a can of mushrooms also cut fine, one 
teaspoonful of grated onion, one tablcspoonful of butter and one 
of flour, yolks of two raw eggs and a glassful of sherry. Put 
onion and butter in a sauce pan over the fire, and fry until the 
onion begins to color: then stir in the flour, the liquor from the 
can of mushrooms, and a scant cut of chicken broth, the chopped 
chicken, mushrooms, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and a little 
grated nutmeg, and the sherry. Stir the mixture over the fire 
until it begins to boil, remove from the fire and stir in the eggs 
without beating them. Pour out the mixture on a dish, add a 
few drops of salad oil to keep from hardening while it cools. 
Form into finger-rolls, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in 
boiling lard. 

Mrs. S. L. Hoge. 

FRIED MUSHROOMS. 

x\fter removing stem and skin, wash them in two waters, and 
throw into salted water and let stand one hour. Put butter in fry- 
ingpan and let get hot. Drain mushrooms from salt water, throw 
into hot butter and let cook fifteen minutes, season with pepper. 
Pour on buttered toast. Always use silver spoon and if it turns 
black throw the mushrooms away. 



ENTREES. 37 



OYSTER PATES. 

Make ;i rich puff paste, roll very thin aiuUine your small tins; 
prick vour dough with a fork after Hning the tins, this allows the air 
to escape. Bake in a quick oven. M ike a cream sauce of one cup 
of cream, one tahlespoonful of hutter. ami one of flour; season 
with pepper and salt. Bring the cream to a hoil, add the flour 
which has heen made smooth with a little cold milk or water, 
then the butter, pepper and salt. Put a quart of oysters (no 
juice) in boiling water until they begin to swell, then drop into 
tile cream sauce. Fill your shells of paste and serve tr/y hot. 
The puft' paste is baked and taken out of the tins before tilling. 

Miss PIoge. 

VEAL PATES. 

Make a puff paste, loll very thin, and line your pate pans. 

Mince some cold veal, rojl three or four crackers to powder; also 

chop some cold boiled h.im in the proport on of one-third ham to 

two-thirds veal. Add the cracker to the veal and ham, wet well 

with gravy and a little milk. If you have no gravy, st!r into a 

cupful of hot milk two tablespoonfuls of butter and a beaten egg. 

Season well with salt and pepper. Have your pans lined with 

the puff paste, fill with the mixture, and bake. A little O) ster 

liquid iifiproves the gravy. 

Miss Hoge. 



RICE CROQUETTES. 

One large cupful of cooked rice, half a cupful of milk, one eg^ 
one tahlespoonful each of sugar and melted butter, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, a light grating of nutmeg. Put the milk on to boil, add 
the rice and seasoning. When it boils, add the egg well beaten. 
Stir till the egg turns a little: then take ofl' and cool. When cold, 
shape, and roll in egg and crumbs. Fry in boiling lard. 



38 ENTREES. 



CANNELON OF BEEF. 

Two pounds- of the round of beef that lias hung for several days, 
the rind of half a lemon, four sprigs of purslev, one teasjDoonful of 
salt, one- fourth teaspoonful of pepper, quarter of a nutmeg, two 
tahlespoonfuls of melted butter, one raw egg, and one teaspoonful 
of onion juice. Chop meat, parsley and lemon rind very Hne; add 
other ingredients, and mix thoroughly; then add one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. Shape into rolls about three inches in diameter 
and six in length. RoH in buttered paper, and bake thirty min- 
utes, basting with butter an^ water. Place on a hot plate and 
serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Innes. 

BAKED DEVILED CRABS. 

For one can of crabs make a dressing of two hard-boiled eggs; 
rub into the yolks three tahlespoonfuls of melted butter, add to 
this two tahlespoonfuls of vinegar, two of made mustard; season 
with cayenne pepper, salt, and the juice of one lemon, llien add 
the yolk of a raw e.^^ and the white of the boiled eggs, which has 
been chopped fine, and the uncooked white, which must be 
slightly beaten before adding. Mix w^ell through the meat; fill 
the shells lightly with the mixture, sprinkle the tops with cracker 
crumbs, pour over a little melted butter. Bake brown. 

Miss Hoge. 

RISSOLES. 

Roll the trimmings from pie crust into a sheet about the sixth of 
an inch thick. Cut this into cakes with the largest patty cutter. 
Have any kind of meat or fish prepared as for croquettes. Put a 
heaping spoonful on each cake. Brush the edges of the paste 
with beaten G'g^, then fold and press together. When all are 
done, dip in beaten egg and fry brown in boiling lard. They 
should cook about eight minutes. Serve hot. 

Miss Hoge. 



ENTUF.KS. 39 

HOMINY CROQUETTE. 

To one cupful ;mtl a lialfcooked of pearl hominy, add two table- 
spoonfuls of mt'ltec^ butter, and stir bard, moistenin<^ by degrees 
with a cupfull of milk. beatini>- to a light soft paste. Put in a tea- 
spoonful of .sugar and a well beaten c<i;<^. Roll into oval balls 
w ith floured hantls, dip in beaten egg, then cracker crumbs, and 
fry in /lut lard. 

CHICKEN AND HAM PIE. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until the meat falls 
from the bones, pick off the meat and chop it rather fine. Season 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg and lemon juice, one cupful of cold ham 
chopped fine. Wet the mould and line with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs; put in a layer of chicken, then thin layer of ham, another 
layer of chicken, ham and so on, until mould is filled. Boil down 
the broth, until a cupful remains, season with pepper, and salt, and 
i\ little cayenne. Pour this over the chicken, and it will sink througli, 
forming a jelly around it. Let it stand over night, or all day on 
the ice. If there is any fear of the jelly not being stifl" enough, a 
little gelatine may be soaked, and added to the cupful of slock. 
Turn from mould and garnish with lemon or parsley. 

Miss Mac Con .n ell. 



HAM CROQUETTES. 

Chop the ham very fine and season with pc))per antl mustard. 
With a little flour in tie haiid make up small balls. Dip in beaten 
egg^ then roll in bread or cracker crumbs and fry to a light 
brown in hot lard. 

Mus. Caxtwkll. 



EGGS. 

OMLETTE. 

P'ive eggs, four tablespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
of sugar, a pinch of pepper. Beat the yolks to a cream, add milk, 
sugar, salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Beat whites 
to a -e'^yj/ stiff froth. Stir lightly in at the last. Have a lump of 
butter in a skillet, when smoking hot pour in the eggs. When 
set in the middle, put the skillet in the oven until the eggs are a 
light brown. Turn out in a hot plate. Serve at once. 

Miss Hoge. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Have some butter in a skillet, when it smokes drop in the eggs, 
carefully. Fry three minutes; dust with pepper and salt, and 
ransfer to a hot dish. 

EGGS IN PAPER CASES. 

Make a box out of white letter paper. Take one or two eggs, 
break into box, add pepper, salt and a little butter. Place box on 
stove and stir eggs constantly while cooking. When cooked 
serve in the box in which the eggr were. 

Mr. J. S. Robinson. 

HAM OR TONGUE OMLETTE. 
Beat the yolks of seven eggs to a cream, add a teacupful of 
milk, a teaspoonful each of sugar and salt, a pinch of pepper. 
Add lastly the whites. Have ready in a hot frying pan a lump 
of butter, when it hisses pour in the egg';-; sprinkle the top thickly 
with minced ham or tongue. When set in the middle, put in a 
hot o\en, until brown on top, turn out on a hot dish with bottom 
part up. Serve at once; or it will fall. Miss Hoge. 



EGGS. 4t 

FRENCH OMLETTE. 

Eight eggs well beaten separately. Add to yolks one teacupful 

of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of baking 

powder, salt and pepper. Beat together well and then stir in 

whites. Have ready a skillet with melted butter, rather hot, and 

pour in mixture. Let brown or cook on bottom, then put in oven 

five or ten minutes. 

Mrs. Russel. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have boiling water in a skillet, break the eggs in carefully. Boil 
gently three minutes. Take out with a perforated skimmer, drain, 
and lay upon slices of buttered toast in a hot dish. Garnish with 
parsley, dust with pepper and salt. 

BREADED EGGS. 

Boil hard, and cut in round thick slices. Pepper and salt, dip in 
beaten raw ^^g, then in fine breadcrumbs, or cracker cru;nbs, and 
fry in hot butter. Serve with cream sauce. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Cut six hard boiled eggs in two. Take out the yolks and mash 
them fine. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter, one of cream, two 
or three drops of onion juice, a little grated horseradish, just a dash 
of cayenne, a teaspoonful of vinegar, salt to taste; mix all thoroughly- 
Fill the hollowed whites with this and serve on a head of lettuce or 
celery. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil the eggs hard and cut in two; remove the yolks, mash fine, 
adding pepper, salt, melted butter and mustard to taste. Fill the 
cavities and bind the two pieces together. A little . chopped 
parsley can be added or omit the mustard and add a little chopped 
chicken, in which case roll in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in 
hot lard. 



42 EGGS. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

To each egg one tablespoonful of milk or cream, a dash of salt. 
Beat the eggs, add the salt and milk. Have some melted butter in 
a saucepan, and when hot add the mixture. Stir over the fire until 
it thickens. About two minutes will be sufficient. 



PICKLED EGGS. 

Boil eggs twenty minutes; shell them and place in crock; pour 
over them spiced vinegar. Will be fit for use in twenty-four 
hours. If you use vinegar in which beets have been pickled, it 
makes the eggs a pretty color, and gives a good flavor. 



SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

Pour boiling water over the eggs and set them at the back of the 
stove, (covered) where the water will keep just at the boiling point 
but not boil. In five minutes they will be set all through and like 
jelly. Better than three minutes hard boiling, and more digestible. 



FLORENTINE EGGS. 

Cook two tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms (either can- 
ned or fresh) and one chopped onion in two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter for five minutes, add one tablespoonful of flour and stir well, 
then add gradually one cupful of white stock or hot milk, season 
with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth saltspoonful of cay- 
enne. Take six hard boiled eggs, separate the yolks and w^hites, 
into rings, then chop the other half until very fine. Cut the yolks 
into quarters. Mix yolks and chopped whites with sauce, turn 
out on a plate, and garnish with the rings of eggs and sprigs of 
parsley. A nice dish for breakfast or tea. 

Miss Dodge. 



SALADS. 

MAYONNAISE. 

A tablespoonful of mustard, one of sugar, one-tenth of a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of 
three uncooked eggs, the juice of half a lemon, a quarter of a cup- 
ful of vinegar, a pint of oil and a cupful of whipped cream. Beat 
the yolks and dry ingredients until they are very light and thick, 
with either a spoon or Dover beater. The bowl in which the 
dressing is made should be set in a pan of ice water during the 
beating. Add a few drops of oil at a time until the dressing is 
very thick and rather hard, you can then pour in the oil more rapidly. 
When itgetss o thick that the beater turns hard, add a little vinegar; 
after all the oil and vinegar have been used, add juice of lemon and 
whipped cream, place on ice until ready for use. The cream may 
be omitted if one wishes. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Let the celery stand in ice water twenty minutes and shake dry. 

Always cut celery cross- wise in pieces thi^ee-fourths of an inch 

long; if very thick celery, cut in smaller pieces, it is then ready 

for chicken and celery salad. 

Mrs. Innes. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil a chicken until tender. When cold separate the meat from 
the bones; cut into medium sized blocks, do not mince. Prepare 
celery as in previous directions. Take equal quantities of celery 
and chicken, sprinkle the chicken slightly with salt and pepper: 
then pour on the Mayonnaise dressing mixing thoroughly with a 
fork. 

Do not let salad stand over two hours after mixing. 

A rich salad like chicken salad is too heavy for formal dinners. 

Lettuce with French dressing is the best salad to use. 

Mrs. Innes. 



44 • SALADS. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

The yolks of two hard boiled eggs, one teaspoonful each of 
pepper and salt, ope tablespoonful of made mustard, three tahle- 
sp6ohfuls each of salad oil and of melted butter, two talilespoonfuls 
of white sugar, half a teacupful of vinegar, one raw egg, well beaten, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, half a cupful of whipped cream. Rub 
yolks to a powder, add salt, pepper and sugar, then the oil and 
l:)utter, grinding hard, and putting in but a few drops at a time. 
The mustard comes next, let all stand together while you beat the 
raw egg to a froth . Beat this into the dressing, pour in the vinegar 
spoonful by spoonful, whipping the dressing well as you do it. 
Add the whipped cream before the dressing is poured over your 

meat or fish. 

Miss Hoge. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one salt spoonful of 
salt, one-half a salt spoonful of pepper. Put the salt and pepper 
into a cup and add one tablespoonful of the oil. When thoroughly 
mixed, add the remainder of the oil and vinegai". This is dressing 
sufficient for six persons. Many like grated onion juice in the 
dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Prepare your chicken and celery as in above receipt; mix with 
the following dressing, — the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, one 
teas|yoohful each of pepper and salt, one tablespoonful of made 
mustard, three tablespoonfuls each of salad oil and of melted butter, 
two tablespoonfub of white sugar, half a teacupful of vinegar, one 
raw egg well beaten, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Just before 
serving, stir through half a cupful of whipped cream. Rub yolks 
to a fine powder, add salt, pepper and sugar, then the oil and 
butter, grinding hard, and putting in but a few drops at a time... 
The mustard comes next, let all stand together while you' beat the 



SALADS. 45 

raw C2,"<y to a froth. Beat this into the dressing and ponr in the 
vinejjar spoonful hv spoonful, whipping- the dressing well as you 
do it. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the meat and celery, 
toss up lightly with a siher fork; pour the dressing over it, mixing 
well. Adtl whippeti cream just before serving. 

Mrs. rioGE. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Bi'eak otr the leaves from the heads of lettuce, wash and throw 
into cold w«ter for half an hour, drain and lav upon a cloth to ab- 
sorb w'ater. Put lettuce into salad bowl and pour-over the French 
<lressing. carefully turning the leaves. Do not prepare your let- 
tuce salad until a few moments before serving. The dressing can 
be made an}- time. Crackeis, cheese and olives are passed with 
lettuce. 

Mks. Inxes. 

CHEESE SALAD OR MOCK CRAB. 

One-half pountl of p'clsltd shr'mps, one-fourth pound of good 
old cheese; one tablespoonful of salad oil; one teaspoonful each of 
cayenne pepper, salt and white sugar, and made mustard, four 
tablespoonfuls of celery vinegar. Mince the shrimps, and grate 
the cheese. Stir the various condiments into the cheese, adding 
vinegar last. Let all stand together ten minutes before adding the 
shrimps. Garnish with Icnion. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut up and season lobster as you would chicken ; use either 
celery or lettuce, if lettuce, take little crisp leaves, wash and lay 
them in ice water for a few moments, then put on ice. Take the 
leaves and make sheets and place salad in them with a tablespoon- 
ful of sala<l dressing on lobster. The little pieces of celery would 
be used as a garnish. Mayonnaise dressing can be used in place 
■of salad dressing- 



46 SALADS. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

To each person serve four shrimps on a lettuce leaf and pour 
Ma3onnaise dressing over the shrimps. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Pare smooth, ripe tomatoes; if large cut in half; if not simply re- 
move the core, and fill the space with Mayonnaise. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

Garden cress, radishes, beet-root, pepper grass, water cress, 
cauliflower and cucumbers can be used for salad. 

Miss Hoge. 

POTATO SALAD,— PLAIN. 

One dozen small boiled potatoes sliced thin, chop one onion and 
put with potatoes; add pepper and salt to taste, and one half cupful 
of boiHng water. Heat one half teacupful ot' vinegar with two 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil and pour over potatoes. 

Miss Robinson. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut sIk medium sized cold boiled potatoes in the form of dice, 
grate one small onion and pour over one half teacupful of boiling 
water; then add Mayonnaise dressing. Three finely cut stalks of 
celery are an improvement and some add a little parsley. 

Miss Robinson. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

To one quart of cut cabbage, one teaspoonful of salt, one- half tea- 
spoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
mustard; add hot dressing as follows, two eggs well beaten, three- 
fourths of a cupful of vinegar, butter size of a walnut: put on stove 
and cook until thick. Pour over cabbage and beat until light. 
Put out to cool and just before serving add one-half pint of cream 
whipped. 

Miss Robinson. 



SALADS. 47 

ORANGE SALAD. 
Remove skin from oranges and separate the orange into sections, 
tearing each section into little pieces. Serve with French dressing, 
leaving out onion juice. This is nice with meats and game. 

Mrs. Mac Connell. 

AN EASY MAYONNAISE. 
Into a small saucepan clean and bright, break the yolk of one 
f^^^, one teaspoonful of dry mustard, one salt-spoonful of salt, one- 
half salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, three tablespoon fids of rich, 
sweet cream, one tablespoonful of cider vinegar. Stir these in- 
gredients together until smooth, then set your saucepan into a vessel 
of boiling water on the stove, stirring the mixture all the time. In 
a few minutes it will begin to thicken; when it is as thick as butter, 
take from the stove and set awavtocool; when quite cool, you can 
stir in as much oil as you like; it will take a surprising quantity, 
and is quicker made and much more likely to give satisfaction than 
the old way of adding a drop at a time. 

Miss M. VV. Gumming. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

French dressing which must be first poured over the lobster, — 
called marinating it. Use French dressing after receipt given. 
Mayonnaise dressing made as follows, — mix one teaspoonful of 
tlry mustard, one teaspoonful of ^u^^ar. one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth salt-spoonful of caytnne pepper, then add yolks oftwo 
raw eggs, and stir well. Stir in slowly one pint of olive oil, 
udding two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or of lemon juice; put 
together as in Mayonnaise dressing receipt. Cut one pint of 
lobster meat, fresh, or one can, into dice, season with the French 
dressing, and keep on ice until ready for use then m'x; with it half 
the Mayonnaise. Make nests or cups of crisp lettuce leaves; break 
the fuller leaves, and mix with the lobster; put a spoonful of lobster 
on each cup, with a spoonful of Mayonnaise on top. Garnish 
with capers .«nd lobster claws when you use fresh lobster. 

Miss Dodge. 



48 SALADS. 

SWEET-BREAD SALAD. 

Boil sweet- bi-'eads thoroughly, until thev drop easily from a fork' 
Wheh cold' cut into small pieces. A half hour before serving pour 
over themMayonnaise dressing and set away in a cool place. 

Mrs. Innes. 
CELERY SALAD. 

Prepare celery as in previous directions. .vSalt slightly, and 
pour over it Mayonnaise dressing. Garnish salad bowl with 
small celery beans. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can of salmon with skin and bone removed. Six fresh crack- 
ers rolled fine. Mash salmon with a silver fork until very smooth, 
add crackers and the heart of two heads of celery chopped fine. 
Mix the juice of three lemons with the meat and add Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Miss Robinson. 
OYSTER SaLaD. 

One pint of oysters steamed fire minutes. When cold cut into 
not too fine pieces, one pint and a half of celerv cut in pieces, one 
pint of cracker crumbs. Mix well together with rich salad dress- 
ing or Mayonnaise. 

Miss Hoge. 
OYSTER SALAD. 

One pint of celery cut in small pieces, one quart of oysters, three 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar one of oil. half a teaspoonful of salt, one- 
eighth teaspconful of pepper, two tablespoenfuls of lemon juice; let 
oysters come to a boil in their own liquor. Skim well and drain. 
Season them with oil, salt, pepper, lemon juice and vinegar. When 
en Id And readv to serve, add celery which has been on ice, and one- 
half cupful of Mayonnaise dressing. One half of the dressing to be 
mixed with oysters and celery, and the rest used with celery leaves 
to garnish. The salad dressing after whipped cream has been 
added, can be used and is very nice. 

Miss Robinson. 



SANDWICHES. 



HAM SANDWICHES. 

Cut some fresh bread in thin sHces (cutting off crust) and but- 
ter. Cut some cold boiled ham very fine, also a fewl ittle cucum- 
ber pickles. Mix until moist with salad dressing, adding more 
mustard if you wish. Spread between slices of bread. The 
bread can be cut in large squares, spread with mixture and roll, 
pinching each roll at the end to keep it in shape, or tie each sand- 
wich with a ribbon. 

STUFFED ROLLS. 

Cut off the end of a roll and remove the inside, leaving only the 
crust. Fill with a mixture of cheese, ham or chicken sandwiches, 
covering top with the small slice cutoff. This is nice for picnics, 
or a lunch for traveling. 

CHICKEN AND VEAL SANDWICHES. 

Take equal parts of cold chopped chicken and veal with a little 
chopped pickle. Mix with Mayonnaise dressing and spread thin 
slices of buttered bread with mixture, and fit another slice of bread 
on top. The secret of nice sandwiches is in having the bread 
fresh, cut thin, and the meat well seasoned. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Take rich cheese and mash with silver fork, say one- fourth 
pound ofcheese, yolks, of two hard boiled eggsmixed with cheese; 
add enough Mayonnaise dressing to season well. Cut the bread 
in thin slices and butter, spreading cheese between slices. A leaf 
of lettuce can be placed with the cheese between bread. These 
sandwiches are nice served with salad. 



VEGETABLES. 

All green vegetables must be wasbed, tboroughly hi cold water 
before cooking. There should be a tablespoonful of salt for every 
two quarts of water. If the water boils a long time before the 
vegetables are put in, it loses all its gases and the vegetables will 
not have a fine flavor. The time for boiling green vegetables 
depends very much upon the age, and how long they have been 
gathered. 

The following is a time-table for cooking: 

Potatoes, boiled 30 minutes. 

Potatoes, baked 45 minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, boiled 4c; minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, baked i hour. 

Squash, boiled 25 minutes. 

Squash, baked 45 minutes. 

Green peas, boiled . 20 to 40 minutes. 

Shell beans, boiled i hour. 

String beans, boiled i 10 2 hours. 

Green corn 25 minutes to i hour. 

Asparagus 15 to 30 minutes. 

Spinach 15 minutes. 

Tomatoes, fresh i hour. 

Tomatoes, canned ... 30 minutes. 

Cabbage 45 minutes to 2 hours. 

Cauliflower i to 2 hours. 

Beet greens i hour. 

Onions i to 2 hours. 

Beets I to 5 hours. 

Turnips, white 45 minutes to i hour. 

Turnips, yellow i ^ to 2 hours. 

Parsnips 1 to 2 hours. 

Carrots i to 2 hours. 



VEGETABLES. 



51 



BOILED POTATOES. 

Twelve mediiiin sized potatoes, one tablespoonfiil of salt, boilintj 
water to cover. Pare the potatoes, and if old, let them stand in 
water an hour or two to freshen them. Boil fifteen minutes; then 
add the salt, and boil fifteen minutes longer. Pour off every drop 
of water; take the cover from the saucepan, and shake the potatoes 
in a current of cold air (at either door or window). Place the 
saucepan in the back of the stove, and cover until serving time. 

The sooner the potatoes are served the better. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Twelve potatoes, pare and boil as for boiled potatoes, and mash 
fine and light. Add one tablespoonful of salt and one of butter. 
Beat well; then add half a cup of boiling milk, and beat as you 
would for cake. This will give a light and delicate dish of potatoes. 
The potatoes must be perfectly smooth before adding the other 
ingredients. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Put a little butter in a baking-dish, then a layer of raw potatoes 
sliced thin, salt, pepper and bits of butter; then another laver of 
potatoes and seasoning, till the dish is full. Fill half or two-thirds 
full of sweet milk or cream, sprinkle bread-crumbs over the top 
and bake an hour. 

Mrs. Spelman. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Select two or three large potatoes and cut in thin slices on the 
cabbage cutter. These are placed for half an hour in ice water: 
see that the boiling lard in which they are to be fried, is of the 
proper temperature; fry quickly a light brown, sprinkle with salt, 
and put into a pan on a coarse cloth to absorb the grease. Do 
not fry too many at a time. The potatoes may be cooked early in 
the day, and can be warmed or eaten cold. 



52 VEGETABLES. 



BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Have them all as nearly the same size as possible; put 
into cold water without any salt, and boil until a fork will easily 
pierce the largest. Turn oft^ the water, and lay them in the oven 
to dry for five minntes. Peel before sending to the table. Or 
parboil, then peel and roast or fry. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

JERSEY SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil until tender, peel, slice lengthwise, sprinkle with granu- 
lated sugar, pour melted butter over them, and put in the oven to 
brown. Baste with butter a second time if they look dry. 

Miss Hoge. 

MINCED POTATOES. 

Boil potatoes with the skins on until almost done. When cold 
peel, cut in pieces the size of dice, season with cayenne pepper, 
salt, and parsley. Have a frying pan with some hot i)utter in it; 
pour in the potatoes, press together, cover tightly and cook ten to 
fifteen minutes. Turn out on hot dish with crust up 

Miss' Hoge. 

POTATOES WITH STOCK. 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes cut into dice, one pint of 
stock a little minced parsley, one tabiespoonful of butter, a little 
lemon juice, salt, pepper, and a little onion. Season the potatoes 
with pepper and salt, add stock and let cook ten minutes; then 
add lemon, parsley, and onion, cook three minutes and serve. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Stir two cup cupfuls of mashed potatoes, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, and some salt to a fine and creamy condition: then 
add two eggs, well beaten separately, and six tablespoonfuls of 
cream, beat it all well and lightly together, pile in the dish, and 
grate cheese over the top; bake in a quick oven until a delicate 
brown. 



\k(;kt.mu.ks. 53 

ESCALOPED POTATOES. 

Cut one quart ot' cold hoiled potatoes \nvciy thin slices and sea- 
son well with pepper and salt. Butteia puddinj^^-dish, cover the 
bottom with a layer of cream sauce, add a la\er of potatoes, sprin- 
kle with chopped parsley, and moisten with sauce. Continue this 
until all the material is used. Have the last layer of the sauce; cover 
the dish with fine bread crumbs, s^rated cheese, and small bits of 
!)utter; cook twentv minutes. This receipt takes one pint of the 
cream sauce, one tablespoonful of parsley, half a cupful of breatl, 
crumbs, pepi)er and salt \o taste. 

Mrs. Ixnes. 

RICED POTATOES. 

Press mashed potatoes through a colander, or Henis fi'uit press, 
into the dish in which they are to be served. Have both dish and 
colander hot; the potatoes resemble rice. Be careful not to press 
the potatoes after they are in the dish; serve hot. 

IVIASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

Take twelve medium sized potatoes, boil until tender. Peel, and 
mash like Irish potatoes; add salt, pepper and ihne tablespoonfuls 
o^jiot cream or milk ; lieat thoroughly. Pile in a baking dish, smooth 
over, make a hole in the top with a spoon, and fill with butter. 
Set in the oven and biown quickly. 

Mrs. J Powell. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Put the stalks into bundles, cut them the same length, tie up with 

cord, and boil in hot water without salt for twenty -five minutes; 

remove the strings and serve on buttered toast, pour over some 

melted butter, and season with pepper and salt. A poached egg 

is nice to serve in each slice of the toast and asparagus. The stalks 

must be scraped belosv the green head before boiling, and keep in 

cold water until ready to cook. 

AIrs. W. S. Romi.nso.v. 



«^4- VEGETABLES. 



STEWED CAULIFLOWER. 

Select nice heades of cauliflower, lay in salt water for half an hour 
if not perfectly fresh. Then tie the heads in netting and stew in 
hoiling water half an hour, or until tender. Remove the netting, 
place in a hot dish and serve with melted butter or cream sayc£ It 
is nice to serve the sauce in a sauce boat. 

Miss Hoge. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Pick, shell, and wash, put them mto boiling water previously 
salted; when tender take them up in a little of the liquor in which 
they were boiled: butter and pepper them. Some prefer a little 
sweet cream. If they are cooked immediately upon gathering, they 
will need no sugar, if allowed to remain twelve hours or more a 
tablespoonful of sugar will be found an addition. A sprig of mint 
or three or four green pea shells may be added while boiling. 

[FRIED APPLES. 

Pare and slice one quart of apples. Put butter into frying pan 
and let get smoking hot, then put in apples with one teacupful of 
sugar, and let cook slowly for half an hour. A little ground cinna- 
mon can be sprinkled over them. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Take tart apples; cut out the stem, and flower end also, but do 
not pare them; wash and place them in a pie dish; fill the cavities 
with sugar, sprinkle some over them and put pieces of butter on 
each apple. Pour a little boiling water in the dish and bake until 
done. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core and slice tart apples, just cover with boiling water and 
stew until tender. Mash fine, sweeten to taste, add a small piece 
of butter; season with nutmeg or cinnamon. Beat well together, 
and cook ten minutes more. 



VEGETABLES. 55 

BAKED APPLES. 

Take tart apples, pare and cut in hahes, sprinkle suoar, cinna- 
mon, and little pieces of butter on each half, and bake until done. 
Serve with cream. 

CINNAMON APPLE SAUCE. 

Make a rich syrup; and add to it some stick cinnan^on. Have 
the the apples pared and cut into quarters, droji into the syrup, 
x'lnd cook until clear. Pour into a glass dish. 

Mrs, Roiuxson. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Peel and cut tomatoes into small pieces; stew until tender; 
season with pepper, salt, butter, a handful of bread-crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, a httle flour wet with cold cream and a 
teacupful of cream, A little chopped onion is quite an improve- 
ment. 

Miss Hoge, 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One pint of fresh or canned tomatoes, one large pint of bread- 
crumbs, four small tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
•of sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of tomatoes into a 
baking-dish, dredge with salt, pepper and little pieces of butter, 
then cover with bread-crumbs; add 'more tomatoes, pepper, salt, 
butter and crumbs, until all the ingredients are used; crumbs and 
little pieces of butter should come last. When fresh tomatoes are 
■used, bake m\ hour; but for canned tomatoes, one-half an hour. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes in thin slices; sprinkle each slice with bread- 

. . ' 

crumbs, pepper and salt, broil eight minutes, put into a hot dish, 

and place in the oven for a few minutes. Small pieces of butter 

■should be put on each slice. A little sugar on each slice may be 

added. 



^6 VEGETABLES. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take eight or ten large, fine, ripe tomatoes; skin and cut out 
the core. Place in a baking pan. and fill the centers with butter- 
sprinkle with pepper and sugar. Dredge over with flour; pour 
small teacupful of cold water in the pan. Bake half an hour in 
a moderate oven. 

Miss A. Powell. 

MOCK OYSTERS OF CORN. 

Take a dozen and a half ears of young corn; grate all the 
grains oft' as fine as possible. Mix with the grated corn three 
tablespoonfuls of flour and the yolks of six eggs, well beaten; 
beat hard. Have ready in a frying-pan. a tablespoonful of butter; 
when hot drop in portions of the mixture about the size of an 
oyster. They should be quite thick and a light brown. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

To one dozen ears of grated corn, add the beaten yolks of five 

eggs, stir hard, then add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one 

and a half pints of milk, add milk gradually, stirring all the time, 

then one tablespoonful of sugar, and a little salt; lastly the whites 

of the eggs which have been beaten to a stiff froth. Bake slowly 

at first, covering the dish, for an hour. Remove cover, and 

brown. 

Miss Hoge. 

SUCCOTASH. 

This is made of green corn and Lima beans or butter beans. 
Have a third more corn than beans when the former has been 
cut from the cob and the beans shelled. Boil the beans in water 
until about half done; drain, add the corn, and a cupful of cream 
or milk, a lump of butter, a teaspoonful of flour wet with a little 
cold milk; pepper and salt to taste. Cook about twenty minutes 
after the corn is in. 



VEGETABLES. 57 



FRIED CORN. 

Cut tlie corn from the coh and scrape out all the milk. Have 
readv in a frying-pan a little melted butter; when very hot add 
the corn, cover, and fry for fifteen minutes. When it begins to 
brown, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Stir often. 

STEWED GREEN CORN. 

Cut from the cob, and stew fifteen minutes in boiling water. 
Turn ofl'the water, cover with cold milk, and stew until tender, 
then add a lump of butter, a little flour wet with cold milk; sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Boil five minutes, and serve. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

To one pint of grated corn, add one scant half cupful of melted 

butter, three tablespoonfuls of milk, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and 

one- fourth teaspoonful of pepper; beat well for five minutes. 

Have butter very hot in a frying-pan, drop batter fron a spoon, 

and fry until browm on both sides. 

Mrs. Modisette. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Six ears of grated corn, one egg, one tablespoonful of flour or 
rolled cracker, pepper and salt to taste. Fry in hot butter. 

GREEN CORN. 

Boil the corn on the ear; cut oft', and dress wath butter, pepper 
and salt; put into a dish in the oven, five minutes before serving. 

LIMA AND BUTTER BEANS. 

Shell into cold w^ater; let them stand awhile. Put into a pot 
with plenty of boiling water and a little salt; cook fast until 
tender. Large beans sometimes require nearly an hour's boiling; 
average time is forty minutes. Drain, season with pepper and 
salt; pour melted butter or cream dressing over the beans. 



58 VEGETABLES. 



OKRA. 

Boil the'pods in salted water until tender. Drain thoroughly; 
season with pepper and salt to taste. Pour melted butter over 
them before serving. 

Miss Hoge. 

SPINACH. 

Pick oyer, wash, and cut off the root; boil in salted water 
twenty minutes, drain and press through a colander, or chop. 
For a peck of spinach, add one tablespoonful of butter, two of 
cream, salt and pepper to taste. Lay slices of hard boiled eggs 
around it. 

CARROTS. 

Scrape, and boil from half an hour to an hour. When tender, 
drain and cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick; then make a 
butter sauce, and pour over them; or they may be fiied wjth a 
little butter. Young carrots two inches long, are excellent fried. 
They do not need a previous boiling when young. 

CREAMED TURNIPS SALAD. 

Slice six turnips rather thin, boil until tender in salt water, 
drain water off and pour over the turnips a pint of cream and 
thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth with a little 
milk; add pepper, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and just before 
taking from the stove, add half a teacupful of vinegar. 

Mrs. Russel. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Slice fine, half a head of cabbage on a slaw cutter; boil until 
tender and the water has boiled off, dress with salt, pepper and 
a pint of cream thickened with one tablespoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth. Let cook a few moments, and if you wish, just before 
taking from the stove, add half a teacupful of vinegar. 



VEGETABLES. 59 



STEAMED CELERY. 

Scrape the stocks and cut into pieces an inch long. Boil in 
salted water until tender. Drain and pour over them a cream 
sauce, let all boil up together a few minutes. 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrape and split them, and put into a pot of boiling water; 
cook until tender; dress with plenty of butter, salt and pepper. 
Or you may parboil them and dip into beaten eggs and grated 
crackers, and fry in hot lard. 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape the roots, cut into two inch pieces or smaller, and lay in 
cold water to keep from turning black. Boil in salted water from 
half an hour to an hour, according to size of root. Make a cream 
sauce and when boiling drain the roots and simmer gently for ten 
minutes. Salsify is rather tasteless until after frost. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Boil the beets until tender, with the skins on; then take out and 
put for a minute in a pai>of cold water; rub off the skin and slice 
into a vegetable dish; salt and pepper them, and pour over them a 
tablespoonful of melted butter. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Put in salted boiling water and cook until tender, pour off the 
water and cover with a white sauce. Let them simmer a few min- 
utes. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Parboil large onions, and when they begin to look clear, drain 
them and set in a baking pan, cover with a cream sauce, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and bake twenty minutes. 



6o VEGETABLES. 



STUFFED ONIONS. 

Parboil and cut out the heart of the onions. Fill with anv 
kind of meat finely chopped and highly seasoned. When the 
onions are filled put a bit of butter on each. Cover with bread 
crumbs and bake one hour. Serve with cream sauce. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Cut the plant in slices about one-third of an inch thick. Pare 
and lay in a deep dish; cover with salted water and let stand' one 
hour. Drain and pepper the slices slightly, and dip in beaten egg 
and bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for ten minutes. Or they 
can be fried in just enough butter to brown them. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Parboil for ten minutes. Slit down the side, and extract the 
seeds. Prop open the slit with a bit of clean wood, and lay in cold 
salt and water. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, minute pieces of 
fat pork, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and a /////^chopped onion. 
Moisten with cream, and bind with a beaten egg. Fill the egg 
plants, wind soft thread about them to keep the slit shut; put into 
a dripping pan with a little water and bake. Baste with butter 
and water. Test with a straw to see the}' are tender. Lay the 
egg plant in a dish, add to the gravy three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
thicken with a little flour, put in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
boil up once, and pour over the egg- plants. 

RICE. 

Wash carefully in cold water. Put into plenty of boiling water 
slightly salted. Boil hard until the rice is done, but not soft. 
Drain perfectly dty, and cover tight. Set on a double boiler where 
the rice will dry out, but not cook. Take out with a fork, each 
grain must be separate. To be eaten with roast beef. 

Miss Hoge. 



VEGETABLES. 6l 



STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Take a pint of imi.slirooins; cut ofr the stalks, and petl tlic top 
skin with a silvci' knilc: put into a saucepan and cover with cold 
water; stew gently fifteen or twenty minutes. Salt to taste, add 
a tablespoonful of butter cut into bits and rolled well in flour. 
Boil Hve minutes; stir in three tablespoonfuls of cream. A beaten 
egg also is an improvement, but care must be taken that it does 
not curdle. Serve on toast. All stirring should be done w^ith a 
silver spoon; if it turns black, they are not mushrooms, and 
shoukl be thrown away, ru-t-v^^-'.-if^'t^--: / 

(' • 

BAKED BEANS. 

Mash the beans in warm water. Put in pot with plei t / ot Jiwd 
water, and let simmer until they are transparent; or begin to sink, 
then throw in colander to drain. Put back in pot and pour on 
boiling water and let come to a boil. Place half the beans in the 
bottom of a gallon crock, and in the center a nice piece of un- 
cooked pork seasoned with pepper, cover with the rest of the 
beans within three inches of the top of crock and pour boiling 
water until you can see it between the beans. Cover with a plate 
and bake six hours in a slow oven. Whenever the water has 
cooked down so you cannot see it, pour on more boiling water. 
If, when you taste them, they are not seasoned enough, put a lit- 
tle salt in a cup and pour bailing water on it and pour over beans. 
The last water should not be poured on, over half an hour before 
the beans are done. A tablespoonful of molasses can be added. 

Mrs. Ri ssell. 

PEARL HOMINY, 

Wash a cupful of hominy in cold water; then stir it into one 
•quart of boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt, boil about 
tthirtv minutes. Stir several times. He careful that the hominy 
does not burn. 



BREADS. 



YEAST. 

One quart of pared potatoes, two quarts of water, one small pint 
of hops, tied in a thin muslin bag, and boil with potatoes. Take one 
tablespoonful of flour, and put in crock and scald with potato 
water. Mash potatoes and addjto flour. Add one small teacupful of 
brown sugar, one tablespoonful of ginger, and one tablespoonful of 
salt. If when all together, it does not make two quarts, add enough 
cold water to make that quantity. While lukewarm add one- 
half pint of yeast. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Six large potatoes grated raw, one teacupful of flour, one teacup- 
ful of sugar, one-half teacupful of salt, one small tablespoonful of 
ginger. Small handful of hops boiled in two quarts of water down 
to one quart. Pour hop water over the other ingredients hot and 
stir until it thickens when cold, add a small quant ty of yeast. 

Mrs. Spelman. 

BREAD. 

Take one pint of potatoes and boil in three pints of water; when 
potatoes are cooked, scald a small teacupful of flour with the 
potato water; mash potatoes and add. If the water has boiled away 
add enough lukewarm water to potatoes and flour to make two 
quarts; thicken with flour, and add small teacupful of yeast. Let 
rise over night in a warm place; in the morning add two small 
tablespoonfuis of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of lard, and flour enough to knead well. Let rise and when 
light roll into loaves and put into pans. Let rise until light, then 
bake from three-quarters to one hour. This will make three loaves. 



BREADS. 63 

BREAD. 

Peel three medium sized potatoes, boil in one quart of water.- 
Put a teacupful of flour into a j^^allon jar, rub the potato through 
the colander into the flour; then pour the water in which the 
potatoes were boiled over the mixture, and be sure the water is 
hot enough to scald the flour thoroughly. Then add water until 
jar is about half full, keep blood heat, thicken with flour, make a 
tolerably stiff' batter, put in one cake of good yeast, dissolved in 
warm water, or a teacupful ot home-made yeast, set-to rise in a 
moderately warm place; in the morning it will be to the top of 
the jar, possibly over. Sift into a bread-bowl four or five quarts 
of flour, make a space in center, put in a small handful, of salt, 
then beat sponge for five minutes, pour into flour and mix. 
Right here is the place to be very careful. If your flour is of the 
very best brands, mix in lightly and smoothly, only enough to 
make a moist dough. Set to rise where it will be warm, not hot. 
When light mold into five or six loaves; use only flour enough to 
keep from sticking to the board; knead five or ten minutes. The 
poorer or cheap brands of flour sometimes run and become wateiy 
in the process of rising; in this case use more flour. 

Mrs. Day. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One pint of Graham flour, one pint of wheat flour; mix well 

together, and add one pint of yeast sponge, oue-half cupful of 

sugar, lard the size of an egg, one teaspoonful of salt and one-half 

pint of warm water. Mix it as quickly and softly as possible. Let 

rise and when light knead quickly and put in pans. When 

light bake, 

Mrs. Robinson. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Thres cups whte corn me il, two cups graham flour, one cup 
inola&ses, one quart milk and salt. Steam four hours. 

Mks. a Foi.ger. 



64 BREADS. 

EASY BREAD. 

Two qtiarts of flour, half a cupful of yeast, half a tablespoonful 

each of su^ar and salt, about a pint and a half of warm water, or 

milk if preferred. The milk makes a richer, whiter bread, but 

dries out quickly. Take out a little of the flour for kneading^, and 

beat the other ing'redients well with a spoon. When thoroughly 

mixed turn out on the board and knead hard for half an hour. 

Put back in bowl or large pan, lub a little melted lard over the 

su,rface, cover closely, and let rise eight or nine hours, in the 

morning mold into loaves, set in a warm place and let rise an 

hour. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. These quantities will 

make two loaves. 

Mrs. W. S. Robinson. 

SWEET RUSKS. 

One quart of bieatl sponge, two coffee cupfids of sugar, three- 
fourths cupful of butter, four eggs, one-fourth -of a nutmeg. Beat 
butter in sponge, eggs and sugar together until very light, then 
stir all together. Stir in enough flour to make batter thick 
enough to drop from a spoon. Let rise until light. When light 
knead fifteen minutes, having dough soft. Let rise again, and 
and when light turn on bread board and roll an inch thick, cut 
with biscuit cutter and let rise. Bake in moderate oven fifteen to 
twenty minutes. When baked have the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiflf froth; spread over top of rusks, and sprinkle gran- 
ulated sugar and ground cinnamon over the egg. Put in oven 
and let brown. "Practice makes perfect'" with these ruhks. 

Mrs. Gage. 

MUSH BISCUIT. 

Take a quait of warm mush; have some sifted flour in a pan, 
put the mush in the center. Work in a tablespoonful each of lard 
and whice sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
soda. Mix with the flour until as stiff' as bread dough; let rise, 
work done, cut with a biscuit cutter; let rise the second time, then 
bake brown. Mrs. Hoge. 



BREADS. 65 

LIGHT ROLLS. 

Two quarts of Hour with four tablespoonfuls of hud mixed with 
one teaspoonfiil of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar. Make a hole 
in the middle of the flour, then pour in one pint of cold boiled milk, 
and one-half cupful of yeast. Fix in the evening, let it stand until 
morning, then stir until all the flour is thoroughly mixed; let it 
stand till noon, then lay on a bread board, roll as common biscuit, 
cut round, grease on the top, then fold over, let rise and bake. 

Mrs. Russell. 

SWEET MILK WAFFLES. 

Two eggs beaten separately, one pint of sweet milk, piece of 
butter size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, 
one pint and a half of flour, pinch of salt. Beat yolks, add milk, 
melted butter, flour and baking powder. Just before baking, 
add beaten whites of eggs. Have your waffle iron well greased and 
smoking hot. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

CORN CAKES. 

Two eggs beaten separately; to the yellows add one pint of sour 
milk, one scant teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, corn- 
meal and flour (three-fourths corn-meal, one-fourth flour) to 
make a good batter. Miss Hoge. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUIT. 

One pint of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, and flour enough 
to make a very soft dough. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

WAFFLES. 

Beat three eggs separately, to the yolks add one pint of sour 
milk, one scant teaspoonful of soda, and tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt, a heaping pint of flour. 

Miss Hoge. 



66 BREADS. 



CORN-BREAD. 

• Rub one teaspoonful of soda through two cupfuls of corn-meal 
and one cupful of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two eggs; add buttermilk or sour milk to make a stift' 
batter. Reat thoroughly, and bake c^uickly. 

Mrs. Fisher. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of Royal Baking Powder, pinch of salt, and graham 
flour sufficient to make a moderately stiff" batter. 

Miss Low. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One quart of graham flour, one-half cup of brown sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, add warm milk so 
that you can stir readily with a spoon; let rise, when light stir 
again and drop into rings and bake. Miss Hoge. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Beat two eggs sparately, to the yellows add one pint of sour 
or buttermilk (if very sour add a little sweet milk), one scant tea- 
spoonful of soda, flour sufiicient to make a thin batter, add beaten 
whites last, bake in large cakes on a griddle. Miss Hoge. 

WHITE MUFFINS. 

Beat two eggs separately, to the yellows add one cup of milk, 
three cups of flour, to which has been added three teaspoonfuls of 
Royal Baking Powder, one-fourth cup of sugar, piece of butter 
size of an e^g, stir quickly, then add the beaten whites; bake 
quickly in well greased muffin pans. Mrs. Hedges. 



BREADS. 67 

CAMP MEETING CAKES. 

Two cj^gs, two cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of 
corn meal, one-half cup of butter, one-fourth cup of sugar, add 
three teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder to the flour; bake in 
miirtin tins. Mrs. Hedges. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Sift through one quart of flour, four teaspoonfuls of Royal 
Baking Powder and one scant teaspoonful of salt, one small table- 
spoonful of lard; add enough milk to make a soft dough. 

Miss Hoge. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Beat two eggs separately, to the yolks add one cupful of milk, 
one heaping teaspoonful of sugar, one scant teaspoonful of salt, 
one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of Royal Baking Powder, one- 
fourth cupful of melted butter and lard, then the whites; pour in 
a buttered pan, bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 

Miss Hoge. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 

One-half pound of butter, rub in one pound of flour, four ounces 
of white sugar — rub and beat with hand until it becomes a smooth 
nice dough; pat in flat pan, bake in moderate oven for half an 
hour. 

Miss Matthews. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup cream, one cup yeast, 
six eggs, WMue glass brandy, wine glass rose water, sufiicient flour 
for stiff" batter; set eight hours before baking, let rise slowly, bake 
three-fourths of an hour. 

Miss Matthews. 



6S BREADS. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint buttermilk, one egg beaten up in buttermilk, one and 
a balf pints (scant) of corn meal, mix with it one tablcspoonful 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, one-third teaspoonful of salt; 
when all are well beaten together stir in one large spoonful of 

melted lard and bake at once. 

Miss Spelman. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one-third of a cake 
of compressed yeast, or one-third of a cupful of liquid yeast one 
and a half cupfuls of water — have the water blood warm; dissolve 
the yeast in one-third of a cupful of cold water, add it and the 
salt to the warm water and gradually stir into the flour; beat the 
dough thoroughly, cover, and let it rise in a warm place until it is 
spongy, (rise over night if for breakfast). Sprinkle the breadboard 
with flour, shape the dough into balls about twice the size of an 
egg and drop on a greased pan, set on the back part of the stove 
where there is not much heat; when the cakes have risen a little 
bake about twenty minutes, tear them apart, butter them and serve. 

Mrs. Innes. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One pint of graham flour, one pint of white flour, one pint of 
milk, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sugar, two tea- 
. spoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder. Be sure and have a quick 
oven. 

Miss Hoge. 

DROP BISCUIT. 

Ten tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, two teaspoonfuls of lard or 
butter; mix salt, baking powder and lard in the flour with a spoon, 
then stir in milk until you have a stiff" batter, drop on gem pans 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. BiNCKLEY. 



BREADS. 69 

QUICK BISCUIT. 

Mix one teaspoonful of salt into three ])int.s of flour, put one tea- 
cupful of milk with two tablespoonfuls of lard on the fire to warm; 
pour this on two eggs well beaten, add the flour with one cupful 
of home-made veast; when well mixed set in a warm place for 
about four hours to rise, then form into biscuit, then let rise two 
hours more, then bake. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

Mix one tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of salt 
into one quart of flour, work in milk enough to make a stitt' dough, 
beat the dough with a mallet or potato masher five hundred times. 

Miss Hoge. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour (measured before sifting), two tablespoonfuls 
of lard, one teaspoonful of salt; mix flour and lard thoroughly with 
hand, then use ice cold milk and water to make into a dry stift" 
<lough. so as to merely hold together, dredge the board occasion- 
ally with small quantity of flour, knead hard for one hour by hand 
or beat with ax on biscuit block for half an hour. The dough 
will become smooth as satin, and blister. Roll out an inch thick, 
cut. prick the tops and bake at once for half an hour in a moder- 
ately hot oven. Mks. Gakretson. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, four tablespoonfuls of yeast, one 

teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, warm water and 

milk enough to make a thin batter, beat well and let it stand over 

night — if the batter is the least sour in the morning stir in a pinch 

of soda dissolved in hot water. Mix your buckw heat in an earthen 

crock and leave some each morning to serve as a sponge for the 

next nioht instead of using fresh yeast, you add the usual supply 

of flour, etc., every night. In cold weatier this can be done for a 

week or ten days, then start fresh again. 

Miss Huge. 



70 BREADS- 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Scald two grills of Indian meal in one quart of boiling \vatei". 
add a little salt, when cool add one gill of yeast, and stir in enough 
buckwheat flour to make a thin batter, let it rise over night; if it 
should be a little sour in the morning, add one-fourth teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in hot water. 

SOUTH CAROLINA CORN PONE. 

Scald one pint of corn meal with boiling water, add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
mould with the hands into oblong cakes, lay in a well greased pan 
and bake quickly. It should be broken, not cut, and eaten very 

hot. 

Miss Hoge. 

BREAD GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One quart of milk, two cups of stale bread crumbs, one-half 
cup of flour, one tablespoonful of melted butter, three eggs beaten 
separately, one teaspoonful of salt; work bread and milk smooth, 
stir in butter and eggs, lastly flour enough to bind the mixture, 
one teaspoonful of Royal Baking Powder; bake on a griddle. 

RICE GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

One cup of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt, two eggs beaten separately, one scant teaspoonful of soda, 
enough sour milk to make a batter. Cold hominy can be used in 
the same way. 

PIKELETS OR RAISED PANCAKES. 

One pint of milk, one and a half pints of flour, one-half cupful 
of yeast, two eggs, two tablespoonfids of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, mix milk and flour and add yeast; let rise over 
night; in the morning add yolks of eggs, melted butter, salt and 

beaten whites of eggs. 

Mrs. Robinson. 



BREADS. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cups of sugar, oiie-h.ilf cu]:) of butter, three eggs well 
beaten, one pint of buttermilk, one teaspoon ful of soda, add gra- 
liam flour enough to make stifi' as cake dough; bake in gem pans. 

Mits. Janes. 



SHORT CAKE. 

One pint of flour, butter the size of an egg rubbed through the 

flour, one teaspoonful of salt, small teacupful of sugar, two tea- 

>poonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, moisten with sweet milk to 

make a soft dough. It can be rolled thick and split when baked, 

or baked in two la3'ers; the strawberries can be sweetened and 

mashed before using or put in the short cake whole with pow- 

■dered sugar sprinkled over berries, another layer of cake, more 

beriies and sugar. 

Mrs. Robixsox. 



RAISED WAFFLES. 

Make as raised paiicakes are made, only bake in waffle irons. 

Mrs Robinson. 



CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Sprinkle one pint of corn meal into three pints of well salted 
water and cook three hours, stirring occasionally; keep well 
coveied to prevent crust from forming. Mrs. Henderson gives a 
receipt for mush as follows: "Put one quart of water on fire to 
boil, stir a pint of cold milk with one pint of corn meal and one 
teaspoonful of salt. When the water boils stir in mixture grad- 
ually, stirring all well together. Let it boil for half an hour, 
stirring often to prevent it from burning. Pour in pans and 
when cold slice and fry in hot lard, or each shce maybe dipped in 
beaten egg, and rolled in bread or cracker-crumbs and fried in 
hot lard." Mus. Robinson. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 



APPLE CREAM PIE. 

Line your pie-pan witli puft" paste; have some apples (three me- 
dium apples for one pie) stewed or steamed until tender, place in 
the pan. Sweeten and flavor with nutmeg, one pint of rich cream; 
pour over the apples. Bake in a slow oven. The cream will be 
thick when the pie is cold. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare, core, and slice tart apples. Line the pie-pan with puft 
paste, put in a layer of fruit, then sprinkle well with granulated 
sugar, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, and some small pieces of butter. 
Do this until the pan is full; cover with a crust and bake. Do 
not forget to wet the edge of the under crust with cold water before 
adding the top crust. 

Miss Hoge. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Skin thestaliss, cut in lengths of half an inch; fill the crust with 
the fruit, strew tlvckly with sugar. Cover with top crust, and bake 
in a slow ovan three-quarters ofan hour. 

PEACH MERINGUE. 

Line your pans with puff paste, till with canned peaches cut in 
halves, sweeten to taste; bake fifteen minutes. Mal<e a meringue 
of whites of eggs and powdered sugar, put a tsblespoonful on each 
half peach, return to oven for a few minutes to brown slightly. 
Should be eaten the day it is made. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 73 



MINCE MEAT. ' 

Two pounds of lean beef, boiled, and when cold, chopped fine; 
five pounds of apples, pared and chopped; one pound of beef suet, 
cleared of strino^s and minced very fine; two pounds of raisins, 
seeded and chopped; two pounds of currants, washed and carefully 
picked over; three-fourths of a pound of citron, cut up fine; two 
tables poonfuls of cinnamon; one tablespoonful each of nutmeg, 
cloves, allspice and salt; one cup of molasses, two pounds of brown 
sugar, one quart of sherry, pne pint of best French brandy, juice 
and grated rind of three oranges, enough boiled vinegar to make 
very moist. This mince meat will keep all winter in a cool place. 
When making your pies add if necessary more liquor and season- 
ing. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

Eight tablespoon fuls of corn meal boiled in one and a half pints 
of sweet milk, w^hich makes a mush, three eggs, one cupful of 
sugar, one-half cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, one-half nutmeg, scant teaspoonful of 
cloves, one fourth teaspoonful of allspice, one heaping teaspoonful 
of salt, one cupful of seeded raisins add milk enough to make as 
thin as cream, stir often until it begins to bake. Bake about one 
and a half hours. 

Mrs. Russell. 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

One pound of boiled sweet potatoes after putting through sieve, 
one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, five eggs. 
Cream the butter and sugar, then add potatoes, slowly beating all 
the time; add eggs slowly (beaten separately), add the juice and 
grated rind of two lemons. Bake in pie plates w'ith or without 
crust. Miss Matthews. 



74 PIES AND PUDDINGS. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, beaten separately; two cupfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one pinch of soda. Bake in a but- 
tered pudding dish three-quarters of an hour. Serve at once, with 
a rich sauce. 

Miss Hoge. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of suet or butter, one of 
seeded raisins, one of sliced citron, one of currants, one of sweet 
milk, four and a half of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Royal baking 
powder. Steam five hours; serve with clear sauce. This pudding 
can be saved for weeks. Steam enough to heat thoroughly before 
serving. 

Mrs. Philips. 

LILLIE'S PUDDING. 

One quart of milk heated until boiling, remove from the fire 
and add gradually the beaten yolks of three eggs and one- half cup 
of sugar, stir in the beaten whites and heat until it begins to 
thicken. Have a pudding-dish well buttered, sprinkle the bot- 
tom with bread crumbs, pour over these half a cupful of straw- 
berrv or other jam ; cover this with bread crumbs, then pour on 
hot mixture carefully. Bake until brown. Eat cold with cream. 

Miss Hoge. 



QUEEN PUDDING. 

One pint of fine bread crumbs; one quart of rich milk, one 
cup of sugar; yolks of five eggs; grated rind of one lemon; butter 
size of an eg^\ one cup of raisins. Bake. Whip the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, mix in a teacup of sugar, the juice of one 
lemon. Spread a thin layer of jelly over the top of the pudding 
then the whites, replace in the oven until a light brown. 

Miss Hedges, 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 75 

RICE MILK. 

Tliiee even tablespoonfuls of rice washed, put in pan. add one 
cupful of sug-ar, one-fourth nutmeg, and pinch of salt, add to this 
two quarts of morning milk, bake one hour slowly, add one more 
quart of milk and bake another hour, stir occasionally during the 
first hour; one cupful of seeded raisins can be added. 

Mrs. Robinson. 



APPLE PUDDING. 

One and a half pints of apples when pared and steamed, mash 
through the colander, add scant teacupful of butter while apples 
are hot, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, one-half nutmeg, three 
eggs well beaten; make very rich baking powder biscuit dough, 
and line baking dish; pour in custard and bake until custard is firm. 

Mrs. Gage. 



STEAMED APPLE PUDDING. 

Stew apples until tender, season with sugar, nutmeg and a lit- 
tle butter. Fill a pudding dish two-thirds full with the apples. Make 
a baking powder dough half an inch thick and cover the dish- 
Steam from one half to three quarters of an hour. Serve immedi- 
ately with sugar and cream or a hot sauce. 

Mrs. Innes. 



SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of chopped suet or butter, one cup of molasses, one- 
half cup of sugar, one-half cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one egg, well beaten, one slice of bread crumbled, one-half 
cup of raisins, one-half cup of currants, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt; thicken with flour. Pour in a buttered mould and steam 
three hours. Serve with wine or lerrion sauce. 

Miss Hoge. 



76 PIES AND PUDDINGS. 



COTTAGE PUDDING, 

Rub one cupful of sugar and one tablespoonful of butter to a 
cream; add the yolks of two eggs, and one cupful of sweet milk. 
In three cupfuls of flour put two teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking 
Powder, stir this in, alternating with the beaten whites; flavor 
with nutmeg. Bake in a buttered mould. Eiit with a hot sauce. 

Miss Hoge. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, four and 
a half of sugar, five of scraped chocolate, and two of boiling 
water, two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt; reserve "one cupful of 
the milk and put the remainder on to boil, put sugar, chocolate 
and water in a saucepan and stir over a hot fire for about a minute, 
when the mixture should be smooth and glossy; stir this into the 
boiling milk, mix corn starch with the cold milk, beat the eggs 
and add to the corn starch and milk, add also the salt, stir this into 
the boiling milk, and beat well about three minutes, turn this into 
a mould that has been dipped into cold water; serve with cream 
and and sugar. 

Miss Hoge. 

RAISIN PUDDING. 

Boil two quarts of raisins in one quart of water until soft, add 
one cup of sugar, make a stift' biscuit dough and cut into small 
pieces the size of a penny and drop into the fruit while boiling; 
add one tablespoonful of butter; to make it very rich add half a 
glassful of currant or other ielly. 

Mrs. Falte. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of rich milk, one small teacupful of rice, one-half cup 
of sugar, teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg, and a handful of raisins; put 
rice in a pudding dish, cover with hot water and let it boil until 
dry, stir in sugar, nutmeg, raisins, one tablespoonful of butter and 
the milk; bake slowly until rice is done. 

Mrs. Hoge. 



PIES AND I'L DinXGS. 



BROWN BETTY. 



Oik- Clip of lirejid crumbs, two ciipfiils of chopped apples (tart), 
oiu'-lialf cu|)fiil of suiiar. one teaspo(.)iiful of cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfiiJN of butter cut into small bits; butter a deep disb and put 
in a layer of the chopped a[)ple at the bottom, sprinkle with suji^ar, 
a few bits of butter and cinnamon, cover with bread crumbs, then 
more apple, proceed in this order until the dish is full, having a 
layer of crumbs on top. cover closely and steam three-quarters of 
an hour in a moderate oven, then uncover and brown quickly. 
Kat warm with sugar and cream, or a sweeL sauce. 

ORANGE ROLEY-POLEY. 

Alake a light paste as for apple dumplings, roll in an oblong 
sheet and lay oranges (sweet ones) peeled, sliced and seeded 
thicklv over it, sprinkle well with white sugar, grate some 
of the peel over all and roll up closely, felding down the ends to 
secure the syrup; boil in a pudding cloth, or put in a steamer and 
steam an hour and a half, serve with lemon sauce. Cherries, 
applebutter or currants can be used in the same way as oranges; 
serve them with a sweet sauce. 

Mrss HoGE. 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Make a dough of one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, half a teacupful of butter, 
moisten with milk or water; roll as thin as pie crust, wet your 
cloth with boiling water, sprinkle it with flour, lay in a crock, 
place the crust on the cloth, fill with sliced apples, pinch the crust 
together, tie cloth but leave room for swelling; steam two hours. 

Mrs. RoHiNsox. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Use the same dough as above, line cups with the dough and fill 
with the apple-s, pinch the crust together and bake. 



7S PIES AND PUDDINGS. 



OMLETTE SOUFFLIE. 

Take a tin or porcelain lined bakinor dish and bu':ter it thor- 
oughly, put in the bottom to the depth of about an inch any sort 
of preserves, pineapple, peach, plum, etc., then make an ordinary' 
omlette. substituting for the salt one tablespoonful of sugar, and 
when beaten properly light pour over the preserves and bake in a 
quick oven. This is a delicious and easily made dessert, and can 
be made while the preceding course is being taken from the table. 

Miss Gumming. 



CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter a covered mould and decorate it with candied fruits or 
raisins which have been seeded, then put in a layer of lady fingers 
or stile sponge cake, then a little of the fruit, and so on until the 
mould is nearly full; pour one pint of boiling milk into the yolks 
of three eggs which have been beaten, with three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and one saltspoonful of salt; pour this over the cake in the 
mould, then steam for one hour and serve with wine or foamy 
sauce. Miss Dodge. 

APPLE CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Pare and grate six large apples, mix with them one-half pint of 
milk or cream, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one orange, 
juice and grated rind, one nutmeg grated, and the yolks of two 
eggs beaten with half a cupful or more of sugar to taste, pour into 
a buttered pudding dish and bake five to ten minutes in a good 
oven; meanwhile whi]> ihe whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add 
to it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, for the meringue to cover the 
pudding. This is best eaten cold with cream, but can be served 
hot; it is then better without the meringue. 

Miss M. W. Gumming. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 79 

PASTRY. 

Use none but best butter in pastry. A marble slab is a good 
things to roll out paste upon; next to this, the best article is a clean 
board of hard wood; have your butter cold. Make out a squicklv 
as possible. Pastry is always best when fresh. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven, and have the heat the same at the top, as at the bottom. 

Miss Hoge. 



PIE CRUST. 

One quart of flour, one-half pound of sweet, firm lard, one-half 
pound of butter, one small teacupful of ice water, one teaspoonful 
of salt. Work butter and lard into the flour until it is fine, add salt 
and the water b}- degrees. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, volksof 
two eggs, a little salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little very cold (or 
better, ice-cold) water. Sift and \\eigh the flour and put it on a 
board or marble slab, sprinkle a little salt and a very little sugar 
over it Beat the yolks of the eggs, and then stir into them a few 
spoonfuls of ice-cold water; pour this slowly into the center of the 
flour with the left hand, working it at the same time well into the 
mass with the tips of the fingers of the right hand. Continue to 
work it. turning the fingers round and round on the board until you 
have a well- worked, smooth and fir.n paste. Work the butter 
(which should be kept some minutes in very cold water, if it is at 
all soft) until the moisture and salt are wiped out, and it is quite 
supple, care must be taken, however, to keep the butter from get- 
ting too soft, as in this condition it would ruin the paste. Divide 
it into three equal parts, spread one part as flatly and evenly as 
possible over half of the crust, turn the other over half it, fokling 
it a second tiine from right to left; roll this out, spread the second 
])ortion of the butter on half of the crust, fold and roll it out as l)e- 



8o PIES AND PUDDINGS, 



fore, repeating the same process with the third portion of the 
butter. The paste has now been given what they call three turns; it 
should be given six turns, turning and rolling paste after butter 
is in; however after the first three turns, or after the butter is all 
in, the paste should be placed on the ice, or in a cold place to 
remain ten or fifteen minutes between each of the last three turns, 
this will prevent the butter getting soft enough to penetrate the 
dough. Each time before the dough is folded, it should be turned 
half round, so as to roll it in a different direction each time, this 
makes the la3'ers more even. In order to turn the paste, the end 
may be held to the rolling-pin, then rolling the pin; the dough will 
fold loosely around it; the board may be sprinkled with flour, then 
the dough can be imrolled in the side direction; this is better than 
to turn it with the hands, as it should be handled as little as possible. 
When folded the last time, put the paste on a platter, cover and 
place it on the ice for half an hour, or where it may be thoroughly 
chilled; then roll it out immediately, or so long as it is kept in 
a half frozen state it may be kept for a day or two. Firm, solid 
butter should be selected for puft^ paste. A light crumbling butter 
would be verv unsuitable. 



PUFF PASTE. 

Rub half a pound of fresh lard into a pound of flour, using just 
enough very cold water to bind together; roll it out rather thin 
and spread butter over the surface; then fold the paste, turning it 
twice. Roll it out again, dredging the board (a marble slab is 
preferable) with flour; spread on more butter as before and fold 
it again. The same process is continued a third time, using in all 
a quarter of a pound of butter, which should at first be divided into 
three equal parts. 

Four cupfuls of sifted flour are a pound: one cupful of lard or 
butter is a half pound. 

Mrs. Treat. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 8l 



CREAM PIE. 

One lar^^e pint of cream, one small tcacupful of white sugar, three 
tahlespoonfuls of flour rubbed perfectly smooth with cream enough 
to moisten, one-half nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Bake with lower 
crust. The whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, can be added to 
the cream, if the cream is not rich. ' 

Mrs. Gage. 

PUMPKIN PIES. 

One quait of cream, one pint of stewed pumpkin, six eggs, two 
cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of molasses, one nutmeg grated, one 
tahlespoonful of ginger, two tahlespoonfuls of cinnamon, one small 
teaspoonful of salt, one tahlespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth with 
a little of the milk. Then stir the flour in the pumpkin, add the 
sugar, molasses, spices and salt, the eggs thoroughly beaten; the 
cream last. This quantity will make three pies. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line the sides of a baking dish with pie crust the depth of an 
inch. Place in the center of dish a small teacup or sauce dish, 
inverted, fill with tart, ripe apples cut in quarters, sprinkle with 
sugar, pour in a very little water, add slices of lemon and cover 
with crust; bake about half an hour. 

Miss A. Powell. 

MOCK CREAM PIE. 

One pint of sweet milk, four tahlespoonfuls of sugar, one heaping 
tahlespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth, yolks of two eggs beaten 
with the flour. Put milk and sugar on stove and let heat, then add 
eggs, flour a little nutmeg and stir until it thickens. Have the crust 
in pan, prick and bake; pour in custard. Beat whites of eggs with 
three tahlespoonfuls of sugar to a stiff" froth, put on top of custard 
and bake a delicate brown. 

Mrs. Gage Carhn. 



82 PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One grated cocoanut, one quart of milk, three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one cupful of sugar; beat yolks and sugar, add 
three tablespoon fuls of flour. Cook cocoanut, milk, sugar, and 
yolks together, then add the beaten whites of the eggs. This will 
make two large pies. ' 

Mrs. H. S. T.wlor. 

LEMON PIE. 

Juice and grated rind of two lemons, two cupfuls of boiling water, 
two cupfuls of sugar, one scant teacupful of butter, two eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch. Wet corn starch with cold water 
and stir into t he boiling water, when it boils, pour over the sugar 
lemonand butter; when cool add the eggs. Bake with two crusts, 
or with a meringue on top. 

Mrs. a. Letson. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Three-fourths of a pint of milk, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth, yolks of two eggs 
beaten with flour, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one table 
spoonful of sugar. Put chocolate, sugar and a little water on stove 
to dissolve. Put milk and sugar on stove and let get hot. then add 
eggs and flour, stirring until thick. Stir in chocolate and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Pour into pie crust which has been baked and 
cover custard with meringue made from whites of eggs with three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Mrs. Gafe 

PEACH PIE. 

Peel, stone, and slice the peaches; line a pie plate with a rich 
crust, lay in the fruit, sprinkling each layer with sugar in propor- 
tion to their sweetness, and small pieces of butter. If peaches are 
not very juicy, add a Utile water. Bake with an up'j^er crust. 

Miss Hoge. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 83 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line the pie-pan with with a rich crust, fill with ripe cherries 
^vhich have been stoned; sprinkle well with sugar, regulating the 
ciuantity of sugar by their sweetness. Cover with an upper crust, 
and bake. Sift white sugar over the top. Eat cold. 

Blackberry, raspberry, and phim pics are made in the same man- 
ner. 

Miss Hoge. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line your pie-pans with crust. Beat four eggs with a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar to each egg, pour over. them one quart of scalding milk, 
stir and pour into the pans, grate nutmeg over the top and bake 
fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. W, Powell. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 



HARD SAUCE. 

One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, a little grated nutmeg, 
two tablespoonfuls of wine, brandy, or lemon juice. 

Mrs. VV. S. Robinson 

RAISIN SAUCE. 

One cupful of raisins, one-half pint of water and one-half cupful 
of sugar. Stir one- half hour or until tender. There should be a 
cupful of the syrup when cooked; add butter size of a walnut and 
two teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth. This is nice for rice and 
bread puddings. 

Mrs. Gage 



84 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 



CUSTARD. 

" One pint of milk, three eggs, one cupful of sugar, pinch of salt. 
Bring milk to a hoil; beat eggs and sugar together, stir into the 
boiling milk, add the salt, flavor with vanilla. Boil until thick as 
cream. 

PLUM PUDDING SAUCE. 

One teaciipful of butter with one pint of powdered sugar, and 
one teaspoonful of flour rubbed to a cream. Pour on just before 
serving one-half pint of boiling water, and add flavoring. 

Mrs. Gage. 

HARD PLUM PUDDING SAUCE. 

One teacupful of butter with one pint of pulverized sugar rubbed 
to a cream, add the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then 
one-half cupful of brandy. 

Mrs. Gage. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of water, the rind and juice 
of two lemons, yolks of three eggs. Boil together the sugar, lemon, 
and water, for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of eggs; put the 
basin containing the syrup into another of boiling water. Stir the 
yolks into this and beat rapidly three minutes. Take oft^ the fire 
and continue beating for five minutes. 

Miss Hoge. 

WINE SAUCE. 
One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of powdered sugar, one half 
cupful of wine. Beat butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, and 
when very light, add the wine, which has been made hot. a little 
at a time. Place the bowl in a basin of hot water and stir for two 
minutes. 

Miss Hoge. 



SAl'CES FOK PUDDINGS. 85 

CLEAR SAUCE. 

Haifa cupful ofl)iittcr, one tablespoonful of flour, two and a half 
cupfuls of sugar. Ruh flour and sugar together, then add the but- 
ter, pour a cupful of lioiling water over it, and boil until waxy, add _ 

then half a cupful of wine. 

Miss Huge. 

CABINET SAUCE. 

Yolks of three eggs whipped very light, one lemon, juice and 
half the grated rind, one glass of wine, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter. Rul) the 
butter and sugar together, add yolks, lemon and spice; beat well, 
put in the wine, still stirring hard. Set in a saucepan of boiling 
water, and beat while it heats, but do not let it boil. 

Miss HoGE. 

LEMON SAUCE No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, one egg, one lemon, 
— all the juice and half the grated rind, one teaspoonful of nutmeg 
three tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Cream the butter and sugar, 
beat in the egg whipped light; lemon and nutmeg. Beat hard ten 
minutes, add the boiling water a spoonful at a time. Heat zrjy hot, 
but do not boil. Stir constantly. 

Miss Hoge 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

Rub one-half cupful of butter to a cream, adding slowly one 
cupful of sagar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, two teaspofuifuls of 
wine or fruit juice. Just before serving add one-fourth cupful of 
boiling water. Stir well, then add white of one egg beaten to a 
froth and serve at once. Miss DontJE. 



DESSERTS. 



SAGO PUDDING. , 

Take one cupful of sago and soak a few minutes, one cupful of 
raisins stewed a very little, have a vessel with one quart of boilins; 
water, add a little salt and stir in the sago, and then the raisins 
with the water in which they were stewed, one cupful of sugar 
and a little nutmeg, dissolve a little jelly in the water before the 
sago is added; cook five minutes, stirring constantly. 

Miss Lewis. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

To one cupful of tapioca take one quart of water and soak over 
night, the next day add two and one-half cupfuls of brown sugar 
bake in an oven until it thickens like tafFv — say thirty minutes, 
when nearly cold add one tablespoonful of vanilla. .Fresh pineapple 
cut in shape of dice and added when vanilla is added makes a nice 
change; serve with cream. Mrs. Milton Taylor. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA. 

Soak a cupful of tapioca over night; in the morning pour on a 
pint and a half of boiling water, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, 
boil an hour or until like jelly, stir in just before taking off the fire, 
raspberry or strawberry jam or fresh fruit. 

Mrs. Innes. 

BAKED APPLE AND TAPIOCA. 

One-half cupful of tapioca soaked over night, pour on a pint of 
boiling water and two thirds cup of sugar, boil until the consist- 
ency of jelly; have half a dozen apples roasting in the oven, about 
fifteen minutes before they are done pour over them the tajDioca and 
bake for fifteen minutes. Flavor the tapioca with zest. 

Mrs. Benner. 



DESSERTS, 87 

APPLE TAPIOCA. 

One large coftec cup tapioca soaked over night, one-quarter 
])eck of apples pared and cut in small slices, then put in porcelain 
kettle and stewed until smooth, drain tapioca and stir in slowly, 
cooking until clear, stirring all the time, sugar to taste; with good 
cooking apples ten minutes will he sufficient, flavor with nutmeg 
or not. as desired; pour into molds wliich have heen dipped in 
cold water. 

Miss Matthews. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint of cream whipped, one-half box of gelatine dissolved 
in one pint of sweet milk; before be.iting cream sweeten with 
one-half cupful of sugar, wh'.tes of two eggs beaten to a froth 
with a little sugar, add eersfs, milk and gelatine to cream, beating 
all the time, and flavor with vanilla, sherry wine or almond ex- 
tract; if almond is used be careful not to use but a little, pour in 

mould and put on ice, serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Gage. 

BABA. 

Sponge cake baked in turk's head pan — any recipe will do, 
must be drv, at least three days old; turn upside down, make in- 
cisions with knife, pouring into incisions rum or brandy, three 
tablespoonfuls to a cake; ice with any sort of icing, but ice thor- 
oughly , remembering that bottom of sponge cake is to be the top 
of Baba; on this icing put in regular rows almonds blanched and 
split. Baha is prettier if put 'n flat dish considerably larger than 
cake; fill tunnel shaped opening of cake with whipped cream, 
whipped very stifl', heap cream also around base of cake, over all 
the cream scatter candied fruits, cherries and citn)n in forms of 
pears and strawberries, etc. Materials needed for one large or two 
small cakes are: One pint of cream onj-h:ilf pound of candietl 
fruits, one pound ot almonds, four ouiics of ra n or sherry and 
as much again if desired mingled with whipped cre.im. One 

small cake is enough for ten people. 

Miss Wahdek. 



88 DtSSERTS. 

• - ^- ^ 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Two cups flour, two cups su2^ar. four eg^gs, t.vo-thirds cup boil- 
itifT water (added to sugar and yolks), one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, add whites beaten stiff' last: 
spread thinly on biscuit tins, cut in strips and fit in oval tinor 
paper moulds. Filling — one scant ounce of Cox's gelatine soaked 
in one tea cup of cold water for an hour or more, set vessel in hot 
water to dissolve; make a custard of one and a half cups of milk, 
four yolks, one tea cup of sugar, when cool add the dissolved gel- 
atine, then one tea cup of wine, one tea cup of sugar, then whites 
of four eggs beaten stiff', last one pint of rich cream, flavor with 
vanilla. Congeals best on ice. 

Miss Matthews. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One quart of milk, yellows of three eggs, one-half cupful of 
sugar, one-half box of gelatine, put milk and gelatine together on 
top of stove and let get scalding hot, beat eggs and sugar together 
until light and add to milk, leave on stove five minutes, turn into 
a mould after adding one teaspoonful of vanilla. Serve with 
whipped cream. Miss Robinson. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Pare, core and bring to a boil in as little water as possible six 

tart apples, cool, strain, beat well and add the whipped whites of 

three eggs, sweeten to taste, beat fifteen minutes, flavor with 

lemon juice and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Juice of six oranges, quarter pound of sugar, one pint of boiling 
wafter and hix eggs; beat the yolks, add sugar, orange juice and 
water, stir over the fire until it thickens, pour in a mould and when 
cool put on the top the beaten whites of two eggs, sweetened and 
flavored with a little of the rind. Miss Hoge. 



DESSERTS. 89 



AMERICAN MERINGUE. 

On^ quart of milk, ^olks of three eggs, one-half cupful of sugar, 
one-half hox of gelatine; put inilk and gelatine on the stove and let 
get scalding hot, beat eggs and sugar until light and add to milk; 
leave on stove tive minutes and flavor with one-half cupful of 
sugar put in a small frying pan and stirred over the fire until the 
sugar turns liquid and begins to smoke; then add to hot mixture, 
turn into a mould and (when cold) serve with red raspberry jam 
and whipped cream. 

Miss Robinson. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

The juice of four lemons, four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one- 
third box of gelatine, one pint cold water; soak the gelatine two 
hours in half a cupful of the water, squeeze the lemons and strain 
the juice on the sugar, beat the yolks of the eggs and mix them 
with the remainder of the water; add the sugar and lemon to this 
and cook in the double boiler until it begins to thicken, then add 
the gelatine; strain this into a tin basin, which place in a pan of 
ice water, beat with a whisk occasionally until it has cooled but 
not hardened; now add the unbeaten whites of the eggs, and beat 
all the time until the mixture begins to thicken; remember that 
the whites of the eggs must be added as soon as the mixture cools, 
which should be in about eight minutes; pour at once into moulds 
which have previously been wet with cold water, serve with 
cream and sugar. 

WHITE JELLY. 

Put on to boil in a water bath one pint of sweet milk, new is the 
best. When scalding hot add to it one ounce of Cox's gelatine 
which has soaked one hour in a coffee cupful of water. Stiruntd 
dissolved, then add one tablespoonful of sugar and flavor with 
vanilla, sherry, or sherry and rum mi'ccd. Turn into a mould. 

Miss. E. Warder. 



90 DESSERTS. 



PEACH CUSTARD. 

Pare, and cut in quarters one dozen fine, ripe peaches, sprinkle 
with four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Let them stand about five 
minutes on ice. Put the peaches in a glass dish, and pour over a 
rich custard. Set on ice until ready to serve. 

Miss Hoge 

ORANGE SPONGE. 

Make orange sponge the same as lemon, using a small pint of 
water and the juice of six large oranges. 

FROZEN WHIPPED CREAM. 

Sweeten the cream and flavor with zest\ whip very stiff, then 
freeze. 

Mrs H. S. Taylor. 

SARATOGA ITALIAN CREAIV^, 

One ounce of gelatine soaked in a little water two hours, then 
melted; strain and let stand until nearly cold. One pint of the best 
cream put in a deep dish with the juice of two lemons, two oranges 
and part of the grated rind, two glasses of sherry wine, three- 
fourths pound of powdered sugar. The cream must be well whip- 
ped, then slowly add wine, sugar and gelatine. Turn in mould and 
when cold serve with whipped cream. 

Miss Philips. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Two-thirds of an ounce of gelatine covered with one-half pint 
of cold water, and let dissolve. Add three cupfuls of sugar, the 
juice of four lemons and the juice of four or six oranges. Peel and 
slice the four oranges and line glass dish. Then strain jelly, after 
adding one pint of boiling water, over the sliced oranges. To make 
wine jelly add one-half pint of wine to recipe, omitting the sliced 
oranges. 

Mrs. Merrill Miller. 



DESSERTS. 91 



WINE JELLY. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one of cold water, one pint of sherry, one 
package of gelatine, h»ice of tv\o lemons, one quart of hoiling water, 
add wine, lemon juice, and sugar. Pour into a mould that has 
previously been wet with cold water. Malaga grapes and sliced 
oranges mixed through the jelly, add to the taste and looks. 

Miss Hoge. 

RUSSIA CREAM. 

One quart of milk, fo^r eggs, one-half box of gelatine, one tea- 
cupful of sugar. Pour half the milk over the gelatine, set in the 
oven to dissolve. When dissolved add sugar, put in a sauce-pan 
of hot water, and let it come to a boil. Beat the yolks and add to 
the other pint of milk, add to the boiling milk. Set away to cool. 
Stir in the beaten whites when almost cool, flavor, and pour in 
moulds. 

Miss Hedges. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Four oranges cut in pieces, two-thirds of a cupful of white sugar 
sprinkled over them, yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, one pint of sweet milk made into a custard, and when cool 
pour over the oranges. The whites of the eggs beaten with one 
cup of sugar, spread over all and brown in the oven, 

Mrs. Leighton. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

One pint of canned pineapple, one teacup of sugar, one pint of 
cream, one-half box of gelatine, one- half cup of cold water. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in the water. Chop the pineapple fine, put it 
on the sJove with the sugar; simmer twenty minutes; add the 
gelatine and strain. Beat until it begins to thicken, add the cream 
which has been whipped to a froth. When all mixed pour into a 
mould to harden. 

Miss Thomson. 



92 DESSERTS. 

BANANA FLOAT. 

Take one box of Cox's gelatine and dissolve in one cup of cold 
water. Three pints of rich sweet niilk. two and a half ciipf^ of 
of sugar. Boil and when boiled dip out as much as will finish 
dissolving the gelatine. When all is dissolved, pour in the rest of 
the milk and boil ten minutes. When cold but not stiff, stir in six 
bananas, which have been previously cut up with a silver fork. 
Mix well and set on ice, or in a cool place. Anhour before serv- 
ing, take a quart of rich cream, whip stiff, flavor and sweeten to 
taste, and pour around the above mixture. 

Miss Julia Ayers. 

FLOAT. 

One quart of milk, one pint of cream, ten eggs, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, teaspoonful of flavoring, whites of eggs beaten to n 
stiff froth; slightly cooked in scalding milk, and kept in cdol place 
till time for using. Custard of the well beaten yolks, sugar, 
cream and milk allowed to come to a boil, flavor when cold. 

Mrs. Thomson. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound of figs, one-half pound of bread crumbs, six 
ounces of moist sugar (wet the sugar before weighing), six ounces 
beef suet, two eggs, a little nutmeg, a cup of milk, figs and sugar 
to be chopped very fine, mix all together and steam in mould or 
steamer two hours; serve with sauce. 

Mrs. T. J. Cantwell. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

One can of apricots, three-fourths of a pint of sugar, a quart of 

water, a pint of cream after it is whipped; cut the apricots in small 

pieces, add the sugar and water, and freeze, when partially fiozen 

add the cream; use only the peeled apricots. 

Mrs. Innes. 



.DESSERTS. 93 



SNOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve one- fourth box of <;elatine in onc-h:ilf cupful of cold 
water about an hour, then fill up the cup with boilintij water to 
dissolve thorouiihly. put the whites of three ego^s into a big bowl 
but do not beat, add to them the juice of one lemon, two scant 
cupfuls of su<yar and the gelatiue; beat half an hour; if it grows too 
stiff add a littleWater. put in mould and serve with sauce made as 
follows: Two cupfuls of milk, yolks of three eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of suirar. flavoring; scald the milk, add sugar and eggs, 
and boil until like float; sauce and pudding to be rather cold. 

Mrs T.J. Cantwell. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-third box of gelatine dissolved in a little cold water, and 

when softened stir into it oile pint of boiling water, one cupful of 

sugar and the Juice of three lemons (if not very juicy add more), 

when cold and beginning to thicken add the well beaten whites ot 

three eggs, beat all lightly and smoothlv together and pour into a 

mould to harden; serve with boileil custard. 

Miss Robinson 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can of peaches, three-fourths pint of sugar, tw^o cui)fuls of 

cream — after it is whipped; boil sugar and water together for ten 

minutes, add. peaches and cook twenty minutes longer, cut the 

peaches in small pieces before cooung them, when they are par- 

tially frozen add whipped cream. 

Mrs. Innes. 

CLARET PUNCH. 

The juice of six- lemons, one quart of water, sw^eeten to taste, 

one tablespoonful of gelatine, soak gelatine in a little of the water, 

boil one cupful of the water and dissolve the gelatine in it, mix 

together the sugar, water, gelatine, lemon juice and one pint of 

claret, ti.er freeze. 

Mrs. Innes. 



94 DESSERTS. 



CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

One pound of brown sugar melted and slightly scorched, stir 
and add one pint of boiling cream, beat the whites of three e";^-. 
add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, stir in the boiling 
milk and sugar; add one tablespoonful of vanilla, set away to cool, 
then freeze. 

Miss Kate Fisher, 

RASPBERRY SHERBET AND CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Sherbet — one pint of preserved fruit, one cup of sugar, one 
quart of water, two lemons, one tablespoonful of gelatine, soak 
fruit in part of the water and strain out the seeds, soak gelatine in 
one-fourth cupful of cold water, then add half cupful ot boiling 
water to finish dissolving, mix all together and freeze; have your 
charlotte russe made, put alternate layers of sherbet and charlotte 
russe in a tin box, pack in ice an hour before using. 

Mrs. Swartz. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

One pint of coffee, three-foiuths pint of sugar, naif pint of cold 
water' a box of gelatine, juice of one lemon, soak gelatine two 
hours in the cold water, pour the boiling water upon it; when dis- 
solved add sugar, coffee and lemon juice, turn into mould and set 
away to cool, eat with cream and sugar; sufficient for twelve 
persons. 

Mrs. Innes. 

LEMON ICE. 

Boil three pints of water and one pound of sugar until reduced 
to about one quart, when cold add the juice of eight lemons and 
the thin sliced yellow part, let stand half an hour, strain without 
pressing; when nearly frozen stir in lightly the beaten whites of 
two eggs. , 

Miss Hoge. 



DESSERTS. 95 

ORANGE ICE. 

Juice of seven oraiifjes, grated peel of three, juice of five lemons, 
three pounds of suj^ar. one gallon of water, whites of two eggs 
beaten fti when half frozen. Serve in orange skins. 

Miss Hoge. 

AMBROSIA. 

Seven sweet oranges peeled and sliced, one- half of a grated 
cocoanut. put in layers, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Miss Hoge. 

CURRANT ICE. 

Boil one quarti of water and one pound of sugar until reduced 

to about one pint, add one pint of currant juice; when partly 

frozen add the beaten whites of two eggs. A good ice for fever 

patients. 

Miss Hoge. 

TUTTl FRUTTI. 

Make either Mrs. Robinson's or the above recipe for ice cream 
and flavor with two tablespoonfuls of Sicily Madeira wine or 
Maraschina; when partly frozen add one pound of French candied 
fruit, cut fine;usea mixture of cherries, plums, apricots, pineapples. 
})ears, strawberries and angelica root, or use home-made preserves 
carefully drained from syrnp and cut into dice. 

Miss Sarah M.\cConnell. 



BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard with one pint of milk, two cups of sugar, and 
two eggs; when ct)ld add one pint of creim and six bananas 
mashed or cut into thin slices. Add lemon juice if the bananas lack 
flavor. Freeze. Miss Philips. 



^6 DESSERTS. 



FROZEN PUDDING. 

One generous pint of milk, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of gelatine, one quart of cream, 
eight tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, one pound of candied clierries; 
let the milk come to a boil; beat one cupful of sugar and eggs 
together and stir into the boiling milk, boil twenty minutes, then 
atld the gelatine which has been soaking one or two hours in just 
enough water to cover it, set away to cool, when cool add the other 
cup of sugar, wine and cream; when set in the freezer add fruit, 
can be used without fruit. Mrs. Innes. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatine in two cupfuls of cold 

water, finish dissolving in two cupfuls of boiling water, add one 

pint of sugar, juice of four lemons, and one can of grated pineapple; 

serve in orange or lemon skins. 

Miss Hoge. 

ICE CREAM. 

One gallon of cream, two and a half cups of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of gelatine soaked two hours in m'.lk (and then melted 
in a double boiler), one tablespoonful of vanilla; after it com- 
mences to freeze beat with a spoon. Mrs. J. S. Robinson. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Shell one pint of chestnuts, blanch, bjil one-half an hour, 
mash to a pulp and stir into ice cream strain, and when partly 
frozen add one pint of mixed fruit, cut fine. 

Miss Phillips (Miss Sarah M.\cConnell.) 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of cream, one pineapple grat.nl. two and a half cups 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in milk. When 
cream is partly frozen add fruit. 

Miss Gage. 



.DESSERTS. 97 



TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

One jjeneroiis pint of ricli milk, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of gelatine, one quart of cream, two 
teaspoonfuls of yanilla; when the cream is partly frozen add 
cherries, cunants, citron, and any other candied fruit that you 
wish. Add the same quantity of fruit as there is of ice cream. 
Let the milk come to a boil; beat one cupful of the sugar and the 
eggs together, and stir into the boiling mHk; cook twenty min- 
utes; then add the gelatine which has been cooking an hour or 
two in just enough water to cover it. Renlove from the fire. 
When cool add the other cupful of sugar and the cream which 
has been whipped. Freeze. 

Miss Hoge. 

CARAMEL ICE-CREAM. 

One generous pint of milk, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, two, tablespoonfuls of gelatine, one 
quart of cream. Let the milk come to a boil; beat the two eggs, 
one cupful of sugar and flour together iind add to boiling milk. 
Cook ten minutes in double boiler, and add the gelatine, which 
has been soaking two hours in a little water; flavor with the cara- 
mel while the custard is hot. To make the caramel take one 
cupful of sugar and put in fryingpan and stir over the fire until 
the sugar turns liquid and begins to smoke, then turn in custard. 
Let to cool, add one quart of whipped cream and freeze. The 
flavor of this cream can be varried by browning the sugar more 

or less. 

Miss Robinson.* 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of cream, two quarts of fresh berries put through 

the colander, three cupfuls of sugar, one generous tablespoonful of 

gelatine dissolved in a little milk. Add sweetened berries to cream 

when partly frozen. 

Miss Robinson. 



98 DESSERTS. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Make custard as for frozen pudding, and add to the boiling mix- 
ture two squares of chocolate (scrape the squares of chocolate ar.d 
add four tablespoonfuls of sugar and two of boiling water. Stir 
this over the fire until smooth.) Let cool add whipped cream and 
freeze. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of cream, two cupfuls of sugar, eight bananas, one 
large tablespoonful of gelatine, dissolved in a little milk and 
allowed to cool. Mash bananas with a silver spoon and add to 
sugar, cream, and gelatine. Put a little of the sugar with bananas. 

Miss Robinson. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of cream, two and a half cupfuls of sugar, one quart 
of sliced peaches (canned peaches can be used but are not as nice) 
one tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in milk. Press the peaches 
with a little of the sugar through the colander; add to the cream 
after it is partly frozen. Apricots, raspberries, oranges, or any 
fruit you wish can be used. 

Miss Philips. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint of rich milk, one-fourth pound of blanched almonds 
(pounded to a paste), one teaspoonful of vanilla, yolks of three 
^gs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of extract of 
bitter almonds in the meringue. Scald the milk, add the beaten 
yolks, the sugar, almond paste. Boil, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Stir up well; when almost cold pour into cups. 
Make a meringueof the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugf^r, flavored with bitter almond. Heap upon each 
cup. 

Miss Geraldine Hoge. 



DESSERTS. 99 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

One quart of new milk, yolks of five eggs, five tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, two teasj^oonfuls of vanilla or bitter almond extract. 
Beat the yolks well, stir in the sugar, and add the hot, not boiling 
milk, a little at a time. Boil until it begins to thicken. When 
cool, flavor and pour into a glass dish. Before serving add a tea- 
cupful of whipped cream. You can make a meringue of the whites 
of two of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

Miss Hoge. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

One pound of loaf sugar, one large cupful of strong black tea 
(made), two wine glasses of brandy and one of rum, one bottle of 
of champagne, juice of three oranges, juice of three lemons. Mix 
well together, and freeze. 

Mrs. Hoge, 

BLANCE-MANGE WITH GELATINE. 

One-third package of gelatine, one quart of milk, one teacupful 
of sugar, pinch of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of almond extract. 
Put the gelatine with a little of the milk and let stand two hours, 
then put milk with gelatine in double boiler and let get scalding 
hot; as soon as the gelatine is melted take from fire, add sugar, salt 
and flavoring. Strain and turn into mould. Serve with cream. 

JUDGE PETER'S PUDDING. 

Three-fourths box of gelatine, two oranges, two bananas, six 
figs, two lemons, ten English walnuts. Dissolve the gelatine in 
one-half pint of cold water, then add one- half pint of boiling water, 
the juice of two lemons, two cupfuls of powdered sugar; strain 
and let stand until it begins to thicken. Stir in the fruit, cut in 
small pieces and turn into a mould and let harden. Serve with 
whipped cream. More lemon juice will be an improvement for 
many. 

Miss Stone. 



lOO CAKES. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

One qiuyt of new milk, three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one 
teacup ful of sugar, pinch of salt; wet corn starch with a little milk. 
Add to the boiling milk the sugar, salt and corn starch, boil five 
minutes and when taken from stove, add flavoring and turn into 

mould,. Serve with cream. 

' *'~ Miss Hoge. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One-fourth of a pound of raisins stoned; stew in water enough 
to cover them. Beat whites of five eggs to a stiff froth with one- 
half cupful of powdered sugar, add one- fourth teaspoonful of 
cream-tartar; put into an earthen pudding dish and bake twenty- 
two minutes in a slow oven. Serve with soft custard. 

Miss Mary Powell. 



CAKES. 



CAKE. 

Use the best materials for making cake . Always beat eggs sep- 
arately and add the whites the last thing. Mix baking powder 
in flour. First cream the butter and sugar, then add alternately 
flour and milk. Have a steady heat. To test whether a cake is 
done, run a straw into the thickest part; it should come itp clean. 

Miss Hoge. 

GINGER SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three 
cups of flour, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, one cup of 
sour milk with one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it. Add juice 
and rind of one large or two small lemons. 

Miss Matthews. 



CAKES. tot 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Three cups of su<?ar, two cups of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
five cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon extract, three-fourths of a pound of seeded 
raisins, three-fourth of a pound of citron, one-fourth of' a pound 
of blanched almonds, one-fourth of a pound of grated cocoanut, 
one wine glassful of brandy, whites of eight eggs. Add fruit and 
brandy after the flour. Bake slowly. 

Miss Hoge. 

ICE-CREAM CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, on cupful of butter, one cupful of milk, 
one' cupful of corn starch, two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of Ro3al Baking Powder, whites of eight eggs. 

Mrs. Swartz. 

WHITE ICING. 

On two cupfuls of sugar, pour one-half pint of boiling water; 
boil (do not stir) until clear and waxy. Pour this on the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Flavor with lemon juice. Beat until cool. 

Miss Hoge. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of milk, one cupful of 

grated chocolate, butter size of a hickory nut; boil fifteen minutes, 

add one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Miss RonixsoN. 

SNOW CAKE. 

Whites often eggs, one and one-half tuniblerfuls of granulated 
sugar, one tiiml)lerful of flour, one teaspoonful c^f cream tartar 
stirred into the flour. Beat the whites to a stift' froth, add the sugar, 
then the flour. Beat just enough tomix well. Flavor with lemon. 

Mrs. PiiiLii's. 



I02 CAKES. 

VANITY CAKE. 

One and one- half cupfiils of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, 
one-half cupful of milk, one and one half cupfuls of flour, one-half 
cupful of corn starch, one teaspoonful Royal Baking Powder; 
bake in two layers, use any kind of icing. Mrs. Damon. 

NUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, three cupfuls of flour, 
one cupful of cold water, four eggs, two cupfuls of nuts (hickory), 
three teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder, 

Mrs, Childs. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of flour, one-half cupful of 
water two teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder, six eggs. Beat 
yolks and sugar together, add water, flour and lastly the beaten 
whites. 

Mrs. Damon. 

* CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of butter, two cupfuls 
of flour, one and one-half cupfuls of grated chocolate, one-half cup- 
ful of sweet milk with one teaspoonful o^ soda dissolved in it, whites 
and yolks of four eggs. Bake in jelly cake pans, ice with white 
icing. 

Miss V. Hoge. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar (dark brown), one of Orleans 
molasses, one of coff'ee, four and a half of flour, which allows for 
that on fruit, three eggs, one cupful of currants, one of seeded 
raisins, one-half of citron, one-half of whisky, two tablespoonfuls 
of cloves, three of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, or three ot 
Royal Baking Powder; mix as fruit cake is mixed, and bake. 

Mrs. Robinson. 



CAKES. 103 

GINGER DROP-CAKES. 

One cupful of molasses, or nuiple syrup, one-half cupful of 
sour milk with one half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it; 
j^inger and other spices, flour enough to thicken. Drop in a 
greased pan and bake quickly. 

Miss Hoge. 

• ORANGE SPONGE CAKE. 

One coffee cupful of sugar, one cofliee cupful- of flour, four eggs 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of Royar baking pcwder, pinch 
of salt, juice of one small orange, and half the grated rind. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

JUMBLES. 

One cofl'ee cupful of sugar, three-fourths of a cupful of butter, 
one-fourth cupful of sour milk, one scant teaspoonful*of soda, two 
eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg to taste, enough flour to 
make a soft dough. Roll and cut out with a cake cutter. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

ALMOND TART. 

One pound of shelled almonds grated, sixteen eggs, one pound 
of pulverized sugar; beat sugar and yellows of eggs together until 
light, add juice of one-half lemon with grated rind, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sifted corn starch with the almond flour, beat all three- 
fourths of an hour, bake on pan that opens, and leave on bottom, 
as it spoils it to turn it out. Mrs. Robinson. 

GINGER POUND CAKE. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of butter, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of sour 
milk or hot water, five eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one of cloves, 
one of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of ginger, three cups of flour. 

Miss Hoge. 



I04 CAKES. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Royal Baking Powder, three cupfuls of flour, whites of six 
eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla; bake in jellvcake pans. ' 

CsEAM FDR FILLING. — O .\e pint of rich SO ur cream, be iten 
until it becomes thick, three eggs, beaten separately, one-half 
cupful of sugar, one pound of almonds, blanched and beaten fine, 
three teaspoonfuls of vanilla, add the eggs last, spread between 
the layers of cake. 

Mrs. Bomford, U. S. A. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Six eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
Royal Baking Powder, two cupfuls of unsifted flour, one-fourth 
cupful of sweet milk, a little nutmeg, beat yolks of eggs and sugar 
until light, add other ingredients and beat twenty minutes. This 

will make three layers. 

Mrs. Gage. 

CREAM FOR LAYER CAKE. 

One quart of milk, butter size of an egg, one and a half heaping 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half cupful of sugar, wet flour with 
milk and rub until smooth, put in double holier and boil one minute, 
spread between layers and on top; over top layer sift a little pow- 
dered sugar. 

NUT CAKE. 

One cupful of butter worked to a cream, two and one-half of 
sugar mixed with butter, one cupful of sweet m.ilk, three and one- 
half of .flour, and one-half of brandy, four eggs, yolks with butter 
and sugar, three teaspoonfuls of Royal i3aking Powder, one pint 
of hickory or almond kernels, one pound of seeded raisins. 

Miss Robinson, 



CAKES. 105 

CREAM FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Beat one- half cup of sugar and one egg together, add three 
taMespoonfnls of flour, when thoroughly beaten pour in one cupful 
of boiling milk, keep stirring until thick; flavor to taste. 

Miss Hoge. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one full cup of butter, one and a half 
cupfuls of sweet milk, whites of twelve eggs, beaten to a froth, 
four and a half cupfuls of flour, and one-half cupful of corn starch, 
three teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder; flavor with vanilla 
or lemon, cream, butter and sugar, add a little milk, then flour, 
until all the milk is used, then add one-half of the beaten whites, 
the rest of the flour and the other half of the eggs; bake in mod- 
erate oven from one and a quarter to one and a half hours. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, two of milk, one of yeast, 
three esfsfs, and a little nutmeg; make a batter and let rise until 
morning, make into dough and let rise again, cut into shape, let 
rise until light, and then fry; while still hot roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. Robinson. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of bread dough, one cupful of butter, three scant 
cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of raisins seeded, one cupful of 
English currants, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half 
nutmeg, grated, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, and one wine glassful of brandy or whisky; mix- 
butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs well beaten and then dough, 
stir well, then add spices and brandy, and if the dough is 
very soft add an extra cupful of flour; grease the pan and pour in 
the mixture let it rise four hours, bake from one and a half to 
two hours. Mrs. Robinson. 



io6 



CAKES. 



EASY CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful 
of sweet milk, three eggs, twocupfuls of flour, one spoonful of 
Royal baking powder. Eat while fresh, 

Miss HOGE. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, two thirds cupful butter, three and one- 
half cupfuls flour, one cupful of milk, three teaspoonfuls of Royal 
Baking Powder, whites of six eggs, mix as soft as possible; will 
make three layers. Miss Lillie McConnei.l. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Dark Part — One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of brown sugar, 
one cupful of molasses, one cupful of strong coffee, yolks of eight 
eggs, four and a half cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of soda 
sifted in the flour, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of mace, one pound of raisins, seeded, 
one pound of English currants; three-fourths pound of citron. 

White part — One cup of butter, four cups of sugar, two cups of 
sweet milk, four cups of flour, two cups of corn starch, whites of 
eight eggs beaten to a froth, four teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking 
Powder sifted with the flovir, flavor with vanilla, use teacup for 
measuring; put one spoonful of light dough in pan and then one 
spoonful of dai k until the pan is almost filled. This recipe will 
make two cakes. It will keep for weeks. 

Miss Lillie McConnell. 

SPRINGFIELD ALMOND CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter and one of milk, four of flour, 

tive eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, and one of soda; bake 

in jelly cake pans. Make a cuslard, one cup of sour cream, one 

egg, one-half pound of almonds, blanched and chopped fine, one 

tablespoonful of sugar; flavor with sherry. Do not spread until 

cake is cold. 

Miss Sarah MacConnell. 



CAKES. 107 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

One quart of hickory nut kernels, picked out, one pound of 

granulated sugar, whites of three eggs, half a cup of flour; make 

cold icing with eggs and sugar, roll nuts with rolling pin, sift flour 

over them, make into balls the size of a hickory nut, or drop with 

spoon, onto buttered paper, put on top of a narrow pan and bake 

in a very cool oven, as for kisses. 

Miss Philips. 

SOFT COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, one-half cup 

of sour milk; one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, 

two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, five cups of flour. Roll as soft as 

possible. Bake in a quick oven. 

Miss Philips. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, four 

eggs, one cup of grated chocolate, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

Roll thin. Better with age. , 

Miss Leighton. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two squares of Baker's chocolate, the whites of two eggs, two 
cupfuls powdered sugar, four tablespoonfuls boiling water; beat 
one and two-thirds cupfuls of the sugar into the unbeaten whites 
of the eggs, scrape the chocolate and put it and the remaining 
one-third cupful of sugar and the water in a pan; stir over a hot 
fire until smooth and glossy, then stir into the beaten whites and 
sugar. Miss Powell. 

CRULLERS. 

Two cups sugar, one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, three 

eggs, lump of butter the size of an ^gg, flour enough to make a 

stiff' dough; cut out and fry in boiling lard. Sift powdered sugar 

over them while hot. 

Mrs. J. S. Robinson 



I08 CAKES. 

MAPLE FROSTING. 

One cupful maple syrup, boiled until vv ixy; beat the the white 
of one egg to a stiff' froth, pour on the syrup, and beat until cool. 

Mrs. Swartz. 

FRENCH CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls Royal Baking Powder, one cup of cold water. Flavor 
with lemon. 

Miss Minnie Damon. 

ENGLISH BUNN CAKE. 

One pint sugar, one pint flour, one cupful butter, one cupfid 

sweet milk, one tablespoonful cinnamon, and one-half teaspoon- 

ful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking Powder, four 

eggs leaving out the whites of two for icing. 

Miss Leigh. 

SAND TARTS. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, one-half pound butter, five 

tablespoonfuls sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful Royal Baking 

Powder, yolks of seven eggs; roll out a little thicker than pie 

crust, cut in squares about three inches, spread with the white of 

egg, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and stick with one or more 

almonds. 

Mrs. T. J.Skiles. 

LEMON-HONEY. 

Beat four eggs to a cream, add to one cupful of sugar grated 
rind and juice of three lemons, butter the size of an egg\ bring to a 
boil and add eggs, then boil five minutes stirring all the time. 

Miss Hoge. 

WHITE ICING. 

One large cupful of granulated sugar, four tablespoonfuls boiling 

water, boil until waxy, pour over the beaten whites of three eggs 

and beat until cool. 

Mrs. Swartz. 



CAKES. 109 

HONEY CAKES. 

Rub one egg inti) one cupful of brown sugar, add one cup 

molasses; in three tablespoontuls cold water stir one tablespoonful 

soda; add to the above; stir in flour to make a stifl' batter, let it 

rise over night; in the morning stir in just flour enough to roll out 

bke cookies. 

Miss Hoge. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups flour, one and a 
half teaspoonfuls R03 al Baking Powder, one-half cup sweet milk, 



Mrs. Swartz. 



MARBLE CAKE. 



»- White' — One cup white sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two cups floxir, two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking 
Powder, whites of four eggs. Black — One cup brown sugar, one- 
half cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one- half cup of sour milk, 
yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonful cinnamon, half a nutmeg, 
other spices to suit the taste, one tcaspoonful soda, two and a half 

cupfuls of flour. 

Mrs. Swartz. 

DELICATE AND FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three-fourths cupful of butter, two and a 
half cupfuls of flour, one cupful sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls 
Roval Baking Powder, whites of five eggs. 

Fruit Lining for above — Take four tablespoonfuls of dough, 
one-half cupful of raisins, same of currants and citron, half a cup- 
ful of flour, half a cupful of molasses or white sugar, made into 
a syrup; bake in layers, two of which white with fruit layer in 

the middle. Put together with white icing. 

Miss Hedges. 



no 



ORANGE CREAM FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Put in a coffee cup the grated rind of one and juice of two large 
oranges, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, fill up with with water, 
strain and put on to boil, add one tablespoonful of corn starch, 
which h.is been wet with cold water; stir until thick, then cook 
over hot water for ten minutes; beat yolks of two eggs, add four 
tablespoonfuls sugar, stir into the above mixture, cook one minute, 
add two teaspoonfuls of butter. When cool spread between the 

layers of your cake. 

Mrs. a. Letson. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One cup pulverized sugar; and one-half cup butter, beaten to a 
cream, add the well-beaten whites of two eggs, and beat ten min- 
utes; silt one teaspoonful cream of tartar and one-half teaspoonful 
soda through one and a half cupfuls of flour; stir flour in with half 
cupful of sweet milk, beat all together fifteen minutes. Bake from 
forty- five minutes to one hour. For a large cake truble the 
quantity. Mrs. F. Damon. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Dissolve two level teaspoofuls soda in one cup boiling water, add 
to it one cup Orleans molasses, two- thirds cupful butter, two-thirds 
cupful brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one of ginger, two cups flour; add last two well beaten eggs. 

Mrs. F. Damon. 

UNCOOKED ICING. 

Whites of three eggs, three cups of confectioner's sugar, three 

tablespoonfuls lemon juice; put the eggs in a large bowl, sprinkle 

with three teaspoonfuls sugar, add three teaspoonfuls sugar every 

five minutes, beating all the time; when it begins to thicken add 

the lemon juice and beat as before. Do not use all the sugar unless 

needed. 

Mrs. a. Letson. 



CAKES. Ill 

WHITE CAKE. 

One and a half cuptuls butter, two and a half cupfuls pulverized 
su'^ar, four cupfuls flour, whites of twelve eggs, juice of one lemon, 
half a teaspoonful of soda, mix soda in the flour and sift several 
times; beat butter to a cream and add flour very gradually until it 
is a smooth paste, beat the eggs to a stiflT froth and mix in the 
sugar, stir eggs and sugar into the flour and butter, add lemon 
juice and mix smoothly. Be careiul in mixing to follow directions 
exactly as given. Mrs. A. Letson. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One pint of Orleans molasses and one cup of lard, boiled to- 
gether; when cool add one tablespoonful of soda dissolved in a 
little cold water, one tablespoonful of ginger, a pinch of pepper, 
scant teaspoonful of salt, flour enough to thicken; roll out very 
thin and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. A. Letson. 

PHILADELPHIA CAKE. 

White part — One cupful of white sugar, one-half cupful of butter, 
one-half cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonful s ot Royal baking 
powder, whites of four eggs, two cupfuls of flour. 

Dark part — One cupful of brown sugar, one-half cupful of mo- 
lasses, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sour milk, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one-half nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful of soda, two and a half cupfuls of flour, one 
cupful of raisins, one of currants. Add figs and citron if you 
wish. Ice with white icing or lemon honey. 

Miss HOGE. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One cupful of boiling water, three cupfuls of brown sugar, one 
■cupful of sweet milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves, nutmeg, one cupful of seeded raisins, two 
ttaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder, three cupfuls of flour. 

Mrs. Innes. 



I I Z CAKES. 



FRUIT CAKE. 



One and a half cupfuls of butter, three cupfuls of brown sugar, 
one cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of whii^ky, one-half cupful 
of sour milk, one small teaspoonful of soda, four eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one and a half of cloves, one of allspice, 
one-fourth of mace, one nutmeg, six and a half cupfuls of flour, five 
pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds of currants, one and a half 
pounds of citron. Mix butter and eggs together, add sour milk in 
which the soda has been stirred, spices, wnisky and flour, leaving 
out enough flour to dredge fruit thoroughly; add fruit and molasaes, 
put two layers of heavy brown papar in pan and bake four hours 
in moderate oven. 

Miss Robinson. 

MUSTARD CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, 
one cupful of sweet milk, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of Royal 
baking powder. 

Custard — Two tablespoonfuls of corn starch dissolved in a 
little cold milk, one-half poimd of English walnuts broken in small 
pieces. Put in double boiler and cook until thick. Spread each 
layer of cake v\ ith sweet jelly, then custard; ice the cake with 
cooked icing; ornament with the small halves of the walnuts. Shell 
bark hickory nuts may be used in place of the walnuts. 

Mrs. John Carlin. 

OLD-FASHIONED POUND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 
eight eggs, one-half teacupful of brandy or whisky, one half nutmeg 
grated, two teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder. Beat butter, 
sugar and yolks of eggs until verv light, then add flour, brandy, 
nutmeg, and whites of eggs. Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

Mrs. Robinson. 



CRAWFORD & TAYLOR, 
CRACKER AND CAKE BAKERS, 



MANSFIELD, 



OHIO. 



Never before has there been such a splendid variety 
of goods offered to the people. 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR NONE OTHER. 



CHASE SiSANBORN'S 




IS THE BEST 

A RARE BI.END OF IRIVATK 
I'LANTATION JAVA AND ARABIAN 
MOCHA-GREAT STRENGTH- 
KXyiTISITE FLAVOR- ABSOLUTE 
PURTTV- UNIFORMITY AND RICH- 
NESS. 

CHARLES WENDT, 

Sole Agent for Kenton. 



CAKES. 113 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Pour one-half pint of boiling water over one scant teacupful of 
butter, stir until thoroughly dissolved, and w^hile hot stir in two cup- 
fuls of flour. When the whole is thoroughly scalded and very 
smooth, set away to cool; When cold break in five eggs, stir well, 
add one teaspoonful of Royal baking powder. Drop on buttered 
paper and bake. When cold, break open carefully and fill with 
the following cream. 

Cream — One pint of milk, one-half cupful of flour, one cupful 
of sugar, stir all together and cook until as thick as cream. Flavor 
with lemon juice. 

Miss Hoge. 



SNOW-DRIFT CAKE. 

One cupful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful 
of butter, three cupfuls of flour, whites of five eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Royal baking powder, one teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla. 
This can be baked as a solid cake or in layers. 

Mrs. Russell. 



FIG CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of confectioners sugar, one cupful of butter, one 
cupful of sweet milk, whites often eggs beaten to a froth, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Royal baking powder, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, 
four cupfuls of sifted flour. 

Fig filling. — One and a half pounds of figs chopped, one 
pound of seeded raisins, two cupfuls of sugar, with water enough 
to cover, boiled to a taffy, whites of four eggs beaten and stir in 
sugar while hot, beat until light. Put chopped raisins and figs 
between layers and then pour frosting over them. Ice the top 
with frosting alone. Mrs. A. W.Janes. 



114 CAKES. 

GINGER CRACKERS. 

One and one-half pounds flour, one-fourth pound butter, one- 
fourth pound lard, one half pound brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of ginger, one nutmeg, one-half ounce cinnamon, one-half cupful 
sour milk in which dissolve one- half teaspoonful soda, two eggs, 
thoroughly mix flour and spices, then eggs and milk, then use 
molasses enough to make a stiff' dough. Roll thin and bake in a 
slack oven. To work on the board without sticking, boil lard, 
butter and molasses for a short time, allowing it to become cold 
before using. Put your crackers in a cotton bag and hang up in a 
warm room to keep them hard and crisp. 

Mrs. Garrettsox. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, (powdered makes the smoothest cake) two 
cupfuls of flour, four eggs, half cupful hot water, one teaspoonful 
Royal baking powder. Beat yolks light, add sugar, then flour and 
beaten whites gradually, sifting baking powder with last half cupful 
of flour; when well mixed stir in quickly the hot water, and bake 
in a moderate oven forty minutes. 

Miss Berrai.l 

LEMON CREAM. 

TwQ lemons grated (entire), one coffee cupful of sugar (white) 
two eggs beaten well together, add one tablespoonful melted butter 
and let all stand in a vessel placed in boiling water. Let it stand 
till cool. Is best with plain one, two, three, four, cake. 

Miss Halliday. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful molasses, one cupful sugar, three cupfuls flour, one- 
half cupful sour milk, one-half cupful melted lard, one egg, one teas- 
poonful soda, two teaspoonfuls ginger. 

Miss Spelman. 



BEVERAGES. II5 



COLUMBIA CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of 
milk, three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of seeded raisins, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of allspice, half a tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of Royal baking pow- 
der. Bake in two layers, ice with white icing. 

Miss Hoge. 

MACAROONS. 

Blanch a pound of almonds, rub to a paste; beat the whites of 
three eggs to a stiff' froth, stir in gradually half a pound of pulver- 
ized sugar and the almond paste. Drop small spoonfuls on buttered 
paper, sift sugar over them, and bake slowly. Can flavor with 
vanilla, or rose extract if desired. 

Miss Hoge. 



BEVERAGES. 



COFFEE. 

The best coffee is made by mixing two-thirds Java and one- 
third Mocha. Coffee should be carefully and evenly roasted, 
not a berry being allowed to burn. CoflTee is best the first day it 
is roasted. Allow a heaping tablespoonful of coflTee and a cup of 
boiling water for each person, also a heaping tablespoonful of 
coftee and a cup of boiling water for the pot. Settle with the 
white of an c^^^, a tiny pinch of salt, and wet with a Httle cold 
water; beat thoroughly, then add the boiling water. Boil ten 
minutes, set back where it will keep hot, but not boil, ten 
minutes more. Miss Hoge. 



ri6 BEVERAGES, 



TEA. 

The most desirable tea is Formosa Oolong. Use none but 
earthen or china tea pots; those with inside strainers being best. 
The water must be absolutely boiling when poured upon the 
leaves. Allow an even teaspoonful of tea to each person. Put 
the tea in the strainer and pour the boiling water slowly upon it. 
To obtain the finest flavor, serve in one minute; if allowed to 
stand the aroma will be lost. Connoisseurs do not use cream. 
Russian tea is made in the same manner, only adding a slice 
of lemon to each cup. Of course no cream. 

Mr. Robert S. Innes. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To one quart of rich milk add twelve tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate. Bring your milk to a boil; rub the chocolate smooth 
with a little cold milk; add to the milk. Beat the white of an 
'i'^% with half a teacupful of sugar; add to the milk and choco- 
late. Flavor with vanilla. Boil an hour, two hours won't hurt; 
add more cream if desired. Serve with with whipped cream. 

Miss Hoge. 

COCOA. 

Cocoa has the same flavor as chocolate, but is richer and more 
oily. It is prepared the same as chocolate. 

GEORGE WASHINGTON EGG-NOG. 

Three quarts of milk, one quart of brandy or whiskey, one dozen 
of eggs, one and one-fourth pounds of finely powdered sugar, flavor 
it with Jamaica or Santa Cruz Rum, say two-thirds of a tumbler 
or full tumbler. Mix sugar and yolks to a cream, add whiskey, 
v^hites beaten stiff', milk and rum. Make and use the same day. 
The liquor must be of the best quality, the milk new, and the eggs 
fresh. 

This receipt was given to General Robinson by Mr. L. Q. 
Washington, a descendant of General Washington. 



BEVERAGES. 117 



LEMONADE. 

Rub loaf sugar over the rind ot'tlie lemon to absorb the oil; add 
to the lemon juice the sugar to taste. Two lemons will make three 
glassfuls of lemonade, the remainder of the ingredients being water 
and plenty of chopped ice. 

CLARET PUNCH. 

One bottle of claret, one-fourth the quantity of ice water, three 
lemons sliced, three-fourths of a cup of powdered sugar. Cover 
the sliced lemon with sugar, and let it stand ten minutes: add water, 
stir hard, and pour in the wine. Put pounded ice into each glass 
before filling with the mixture. 

Mrs. Newlon. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL WITH BRANDY. 

One quart of blackberry juice, three-fourths of a pound of white 
sugar, half an ounce each of grated nutmeg and powdered cin- 
namon, one-fourth ounce each of allspice and cloves, one pint of 
French brandy. Tie the spices in thiii muslin bags. Boil juice, 
sugar, and spices together fifteen minutes, skimming well; add the 
brandy, set aside in a closely covered vessel to cool. When cold, 
strain out the spices, and bottle, sealing tiie corks. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL WITHOUT BRANDY. 

Mash the berries, cover with water and let stand until the pulp 
rises to the top and forms a crust;' this will take about three days. 
Draw off the fluid into another vessel, and to every gallon of juice 
add one pound of sugar. Stir well every day for ten days, then 
for every gallon of juice add one quart of water, and to every 
quarter of a gallon of juice (measured before adding water) one 
pound of crushed sugar. Set on the stove, and let come to a boil; 
when the scum rise^, skim and bottle at once. This is good as 
soon as cold, but will keep for years and improve with age. 

Mrs. VV. S. Robinson. 



ii8 



BEVER^^GES. 



MILK PUNCH. 

Take sweet rich milk, and sweeten to taste, and add one to two 
tablespoonfuls of best brandy, add pounded ice, and shake. This 
is for one glassful. 

Mrs. S. L. Hoge. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Fill a two gallon jar half full of fresh raspberries, cover them 
with the best white sugar; let it stand four days, strain carefully, 
fill the jar again and with fresh fruit, pouring the liquor over it; 
let stand four days longer, then strain the vinegar through a jelly 
bag. Weigh the juice and take the same weight in sugar, boil a 
few minutes, remove the scum; when cold, bottle. This syrup 
mixed with water and ice is very refreshing. 



PRESERVING. 



Care must be taken that the fruit is fresh and firm. White 
crushed sugar is best to use, but granulated sugar will do very 
well. Always make a rich syrup before putting fruit in. Cook 
fruit until tender, take from syrup, and then cook syrup until very 
rich and drop fruit in for a few moments. The rule is one pound 
of sugar to one pound of fruit and half a pint of water. To clarify 
the syrup, put over the fire and before it becomes hot mix into it 
the well beaten white of an egg. When it begins to boil remove 
scum as it rises, and be careful that it does not boil over. Let 
boil until no more scum rises. When the fruit is ready for the 
cans take from the kettle and place in the jars carefully in order 
not to break the fruit, then fill up the jar with the hot syrup and 
seal. This rule for preserving will answer for peaches, pears, 
plums and all other fruits. 



PRESERVING. I I9 



CITRON PRESERVES. 

The citron can be pared, cored and sliced, or cut into fancy 

shapes with cutters which are made for the purpose. Put the 

citron in a preserving kettle and cover with strong alum water, 

and boil half an hour or until clear, then drain and let stand in cold 

water over night. In the morning drain and weigh, being careful 

to see that all the seeds have been removed, take an equal quantity 

of sugar. Take two quarts of water to six pounds of truit, and 

equal quantity of sugar, and one-half pound of white ginger root 

and boil for a few minutes, then add sugar and let cook until a rich 

syrup, then add fruit and cook until tender and transparent, tal-e 

from the kettle and cook the syrup until it is very rich and thick, 

then drop the fruit in for a few moments to get hot through. You 

■can add slices of lemon if you wish. 

Miss Robinson. 

YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Choose little plum-shaped tomatoes. Peel and prick them with 
a large needle, weigh tomatoes and to each pound of fruit take a 
pound of sugar and small cup of water; put sugar and water in 
preserving kettle and let dissolve slowly; boil until rich and put 
in tomatoes, when clear take out and place on platters for an hour. 
Put syrup on stove at the end of an hour, and clarify with the 
well beaten white of an egg, boil and sk!7/l well; then add the 
lemon sliced thin (one lemon to three pounds of truit), let boil 
until very rich and drop in the tomatoes, cook a few moments and 
can. If the tomatoes are too ripe they will break up. 

Miss Robinson. 

RULE FOR MAKING JAM. 

Mash fruit, put in preserving kettle and let bod fifteen minutes, 
stirring all the time: then ac\d sugar, pint for pint, and let it boil 
five minutes. This wav "fives thl' fruit a more delicate flavor. 



I20 PRESERVING. 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Take a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, and half a cup of 
water to each pound of sugar; boil the sugar and water to a rich 
svrup, drop in the fruit and boil until the fruit becomes transparent, 
skim out the fruit carefully, lay on platters; boil syrup down until 
very rich, drop in the fruit until hot through, pour into glass jars , 
and seal. Wrap your jars in paper and keep in a cool dark place. 

Miss Hoge. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Select large, fine peaches; make a syrup, taking a pound of 
sugar to each pound of fruit, with small cup of water; clarify it, 
and when the syrup is rich drop in the fruit and cook until tender 
and clear; then take from kettle and cook syrup until very rich, 
drop fruit in for a moment; fill jars with fruit, and fill half full 
with syrup, then add best French brandy to top of can. Seal jars 
carefully. 

TO JELLY FRUITS. 

Free the fruit from all blemishes and put into a porcelain pre- 
serving kettle with only enough clear water to keep them from 
burning. Let boil until soft, then strain through flannel jelly bag 
and then through a cotton bag; return juice to clean kettle and 
boil from ten to fifteen minutes, then add sugar, to a pound of juice 
one pound of sugar, and let boil from three to five minutes, then 
turn into mould and stand until cold before covering. This rule 
will do for all jellies. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Take ripe currants, mash, put over the fire in a porcelain kettle, 
letting them thoroughly scald, and strain through a jelly bag; for 
each pint of juice add one pint of white sugar, boil the juice fifteen 
minutes, skimming well, then stir in the sugar as you would tor 
corn meal mush. It is better to have the sugar in a bright pan in 
the oven a few minutes before using so that it will not cool -the 
juice. After the sugar is added cook until it boils, when it will be 
done. 



PRESERVING. 121 



BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Is made after receipt for currant jelly, but be careful not to make 
too stiff, as it grows tbicker standing. 

RULE FOR MARMALADE. 

Mash the fruit, put in a preserving kettle, add the sugar, to a 
pound of fruit one pound of sugar, and boil from three-fourths to 
one hour, stirring constantly. 

RED RASPBERRY JAM. 

Three-fourths of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit, one 
pint of currant juice to four pounds of fruit; boil the currant juice 
and raspberries together, mash and stir well, add sugar, and cook 
twenty minutes longer. 

Strawberries and blackberries can be made into jam in the same 
manner, only omitting the currant juice. 

Miss Hoge. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Twelve pounds of fruit, six pounds of sugar, one-half pint of 
vinegar, spices to suit taste. Mrs. Thomson. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

To nine pounds of fruit add three pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, spices to taste. Boil sugar and vinegar, add spices (stick 
cinnamon and whole cloves, and mace if you like), which must be 
tied up in thin muslin bags; put in the fruit and cook a few min- 
utes, take out carefully and place in a stone jar, pour the syrup 
over them; for five mornings drain off the syrup, heat, and pour 
over the fruit; the last morning cook the syrup until as rich as you 
wish, pour over the fruit, and cover the jar tightly, first with 
muslin, then a layer of cotton batting, then heavy paper. If the 
peaches are soft do not cook them, simply pour over them the hot 

syrup. 

Miss Hoge. 



122 PRESERVING. 



FOR SWEET PICKLES. 

Any Fruit. — Eight pounds of fruit, three pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, spices, cinnamon, cloves, one small teaspoonful 
each. Stew fruit till tender. Boil sugar and vinegar, with spices, 
to a rich syrup and pour over when cool. 

For Cucumbers. — Same syrup, lioiled only ten minutes, poured 
when cold over cucumbers previously soaked in salt water one 
night. Mrs. Thomson. 

SPICED PEARS. 

If the pears are hard, steam until tender, pour over the syrup 

the same as for spiced peaches. If Bartlett pears are used they are 

soft and do not need cooking. 

Miss Hoge. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Stone the cherries, make a syrup as for peaches, and pour over 
for five mornings in the same manner. 

Miss Hoge. 

WATER MELON PICKLES. 

Select a water melon with a thick rind and cut in large slices, 
taking out the soft center and all that is pink; pare the green rind 
from the firm white portion of the melon, and cut into such shape 
;is you choose, put in preserving kettle and cover with strong 
:ilum water, let boil until tender enough to run a straw through, 
then drain and throw in cold water and let stand over night. In 
tlie morning take in hand and squeeze all the water from each 
slice, put in a jar and pour syrup over. One quart of vinegar, 
three pints of sugar, two ounces of cloves, and two ounces of stick 
cinnamon, make this into a syrup and pour over melon, scalding 
hot, six mornings. When the pickles have stood some time they 
are richer. 

Miss Robinson. 



PICKLES. 123 

MARYLAND PEACH PICKLE. 

Pour boiling water over clinor peaches, then wipe dry, put into 
kettle of hot water, boil until able to penetrate with a straw; have 
vour svrup ready in another kettle, pour the peaches in, boil fifteen 
minutes, then put in air-tight glass jars. To make the syrup, 
three pounds of sugar and one pint of vinegar to a peck of peaches. 
This will be found a most delicious accompaniment to cold meats. 

Mrs. Garretson. 

PEACHES CANNED IN SUGAR AND VINEGAR. 

Take nice large peaches, either cling or free stones, throw a 
few at a time into boiling \n ater for a minute or two, take out and 
rub off the skin; take one and a half pints of sugar, and one-half 
pint of vinegar, stir well together and boil until clear, then drop in 
peaches enough for one can; cook slowly for about ten minutes, 
put in a glass jar, fill up with the syrup and seal. If there is a 
little syrup left add more eggs and vinegar for another can. 
Twelve or thirteen whole peaches will fill a one-quart jar. 



PICKLES. 

BORDEAUX SAUCE. 

Two gallons of cabbage cut fine, one gallon of green tomatoes 
chopped, one dozen onions chopped, one ounce of celery seed, one 
ounce of ground allspice, one ounce of black pepper, one of cloves 
and one of ginger, one-half ponnd of white mustard seed, three- 
fourths gill of salt, three-fourths pound of sugar, one gallon good 
vinegar. Mix well and boil fifteen to twenty minutes. Horserad- 
ish and cauliflower make it better. You can add five cents worth 
of turmeric powder if you wish. 

Mrs. Shixgle. 



124 PICKLES. 

SLICED CUCUMBERS. 

Slice two dozen cucumbers with eight onions; salt them for a 
few hours and then put in colander and press out all the water; mix 
one tablespoonfiil of white pepper, one of mustard, one of turmeric 
powder and one small teacup of sugar. Mix with cucumbersand 
onions, add vinegar enough to cover all and cook thirty minutes. 

Put in glass jars and seal, 

Mrs. Robinson. 

AX JAR PICKLES. 

Take a variety of young fruit and vegetables; put in strong salt 
water, let stand two or three days or until salty enough. Then put 
in cold water; wash carefully and let all the water drain off. Then 
to a three gallon jar add one-half pound of sliced horse radish, one 
hundred small onions, two ounces of mace, one ounce ofcloves, two 
nutmegs, two pounds of crushed sugar, one-half bottle of ground 
mustard, one-half pound of yellow mustard seed, one-half pound 
of ginger root and almost one-half pound of turmeric powder stirred 
up with enough cold water to liquefy. Pour this over the pickles, 
then take enough good cider vinegar to cover all, boil and skim, 
pour over while boiling hot. Good to use in a week. 

Mrs. Mac Connell. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pour boiling water over the pickles, when cold, drain, sprinkle 
dry salt (one-half pint to one hundred pickles) over them; cover 
again with boiling \vater; for seven mornings, drain off this brine, 
bring to a boiling point, and pour over the pickles: while in this 
brine cover well with grape leaves; then draw from the brine, cover 
with weak vinegar and keep hot (without boiling) for five or six 
hours, then wipe dry and put in Jars; then prepare your vinegar 
— to every gallon of vinegar add two pounds of brown sugar, one 
pound of black mustard seed, half an ounce of allspice, mace, celery 
seed, horse radish, red pepper, black pepper, cinnamon and a few 
small o.nions if you wish. Miss Hoge. 



PICKLES. 125 

EAST INDIA PICKLES 
Take enough small heads of cabbage and cauliflower to fill a three 
gallon jar. Pour over them a strong brine of salt and water; keep 
well covered with brine twt) weeks; then take out of jar, and lay 
in cold water for two or ihiee hours. (After removing the cauli- 
flower from the brine, boil until tender.) Cucumbers and saiall 
onions may be used instead of cabbage, they must be put in piclvle 
for three or four days, and then drained, and the following mixture 
poured over. One-fourth pound each of whole black pepper, all- 
spice, cloves; one-half pound of ground mustard, one gal'on of white 
wine vinegar, four pounds of sugar, one pound of zvkite mustard 
seed and one of black, one-fourth pound of celery seed, mace to suit 
taste, a little horse radish, two ounces of turmeric. Tie part 
of the spices in thin muslin bags, mix mustard and turmeric smooth 

with vinegar. 

Dr. Walton. 

* 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

One dogen sliced cucumbers, three good sixed onions sliced, '•alt 
as for table; let stand four hours and pour off salt water. One 
pint of vinegar, one cup of white sugar, one teaspoon ful each of 
ground white pepper, mustard, ginger and one of grain mustard, 
one of stick cinnamon. Boil hard fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. Shingle. 

CATSUP. 

One bushel of tomatoes, two quarts of vinegar, one-half pound 
oi whole black pepper, the same of allspice and cloves, two ounces 
■of ground mustard, twelve good sized onions, three pounds of sugar, 
■tw'.> handfulsot" peach leaves; boil three hours, stirring olte:i. Put 
onions, cloves, allspice and pepper, with the torn itoes at first Put 
in the mustard while cooking before straining; after it is strained, 
add the vinegar and a little cajenne pepper. Boil until thick as 
desired (about two hours). 

Mrs. IIoge. 



126 CANDIES. 

SWEET TOMATO CATSUP. 

To eighteen pounds of tomatoes, after having heen put through 
the sieve, take eight pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, more 
if desired, three tablespoonfuls of pepper, three tablespoonfuls of 
salt, three tablespoonfuls of ginger, three tablespoonfuls of cloves, 
eight tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. Cook to proper consistency. 

Mrs. Thomson. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

To one-half bushel of ripe tomatoes, (it is best to skin them) 
add one small handful of peach leaves, six chopped onions, one- 
half ounce of whole cloves. Boil these together until the tomatoes 
are well cooked; rub through a sieve fine enough to retain the 
seeds. Boil down until quite thick, stirring all the time to keep 
from burning; then add two quarts of strong cider vinegar, one 
ounce ground allspice, one nutmeg, one pint of light brown sugar, 
one-half teacupful of salt, one ounce of ground mustard, on§-half 
ounce of ground black pepper, one ounce of cinnamon, one drachm 
of cayenne pepper. Boil half an hour after the spices are in. If 
you want red catsup leave out the dark spices. 

Mrs. Philips. 



CANDIES. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cup of brown sugar, one half cup of water, one teaspoore- 
ful of vinegar, piece of butter size of a walnut. Boil twenty 
minutes. Flavor if desired. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Mold the cream into cone shape and with a fork dip into melt- 
ed chocolate, using Fry's chocolate. Miss Shingle. 



CANDIES. 127 

CREAM CANDY. 

Two cupfuls of sugar and one-half cupful of milk stirred to- 
gether. When dissolved, boil ten minutes. Take from fire and 
beat to a cream, flavor to t^fste. Add chopped nuts if you wish. 

Mrs. Swartz. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 

Three cups of white sugar; one-half cup of vinegar; one-half 
cup of water; butter size of an egg. Boil until it will harden 
when dipped in cold water. Pour on buttered plates, when cold 
enough to handle, pull until white, then cut into sticks. Do not 
stir while boiling. Mrs. Swartz. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

To one quart of water, one and a half tablespoonfuls of arrow- 
root, and two cups of sugar. Boil eight minutes, add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Take oft^ the stove, beat it fifteen minutes, or 
until it creams. Melt one-half sack of Fry's chocolate and roll 
the creams in it. 

ORANGE DROPS. 

Grate the rind of one orange and squeeze the juice taking care 
to reject the seeds; add to this a pinch of tartaric acid, then stir in 
•confectioners" sugar until it is stiff enough to form into small balls 
the size of small marble. Lemon juice can be used instead of 
orange, then leave out the tartaric acid. 

Miss Robinson. 

FRENCH VANILLA CREAN. 

Break into a bowl the white of one or more eggs, as the 
quantity you wish to make will require, add to it an equal quan- 
tity of cold water, then stir in confectioners' sugar until you have 
it stiff enough to mould into shape with the fingers; flavor with 
vanilla. This is the foundation for all French creams. Add any 
"kind of fruits or nuts, form into shapes and lay on buttered plates. 

Miss Shin(;i. 



I 38 MISCELLANEOUS. 



COCOANUT BALLS. 

Mix tlie cream not quite so mtiff as for other candied, then mix 
the cocoaniit thoroughly throu-^h the cream and mould into balls. 

Dates filled with cream m ike a very pretty and nice candy. 

English walnuts, almonds and figs can be used in many differ- 
ent ways. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One quart of molasses; one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
sugar. Boil fast, and when done stir in half a teaspoonful offoda 
just before taking from the fire. 

Miss Hedges. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch one cupful of almonds. When cold put one table- 
spoonful of salad oil or melted butter on the almonds and let stand 
one hour, then sprinkle with one tablespoonful of salt. Put them 
into a bright baking pan in a moderate oven, and cook them with 
an occasional stirring, until they are a delicate brown, about twenty 
minutes. Peanuts can be treated in the same way. 

Miss Robinson. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Shell the nuts, pour boiling water over them; let them stand in 
the water a minute, and then throw them into cold water. Rub 
between the hands. 

ZEST. 

Rub loaf sugar over the surface of the lemon or orange. The 
friction breaks the oil- ducts, and the sugar absorbs the oil. The 
sugar should then be pounded fine, or it can be melted. 



MISCELLANEOUS. I29 

The Cook's Table of Weights and Measures. 

I quart of sifted flour equals i ft. 

1 quart of powdered sugrar equals i ft. 7 oz. 

I quart of granulated suj^ar equals i ft. 9 oz. 

I pint of closely packed butter equals i ft. 

Butter size of an egg equals about 2 oz. 

10 eggs equal i ft. 

3 cupfuls of sugar equal i ft. 

5 cupfuls of sifted flour equal i ft. 

1 heaping tablespoonful equals 1-6 gill. 

4 gills equal i pint. 

2 pints equal i quart. 

4 quarts equal i gallon. 

TO CHOP SUET. 

Sprinkle flour over it while chopping, which will prevent the 
pieces from adhering. 

TO SEED RAISINS. 

Sprinkle flour over the raisins, or pour boiling water over them 
when seeding. 

TO MAKE ROUX. 

Roux is a mixture of flour and butter cooked. It is better for 
soups and sauces when cooked. When the butter is brought to 
the boiling point, the sifted flour is sprinkled in; mix well over the 
fire until the flour is well cooked. 

Parsley and mint can be dried and kept for use. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Haifa pound of mustard; pour boiling water on it until you can 
rub smooth; add one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful each of 
sugar, and of melted butter or olive oil. Thin with vinegar. 

Mrs. Robinson. 



130 MISCELLANEOUS. 



TO CRSYTALIZE FRUIT. 

Make a syrup of sugar and water, boil until clear and waxy, dip 
in Malaga grapes, segments of oranges, or fresh strawberries. 
Keep in a cold place. 

Miss Hoge. 
CHEESE STRAWS. 

The following is said to be a genuine, original recipe for the 
cheese straws that are now a fashionable delicacy at dinner parties; 
take two ounces of the best pastry flour, and mix in a little pepper 
and salt, together with just a dust of cayenne pepper, rub in two 
ounces of butter, as for pie crust, and when these are thoroughly 
incorporated, add two ounces of grated cheese, (Parmesan, pre- 
ferably, but any dry, strong sort will do). Work the mixture to a 
smooth paste with the yolk of an egg; should there not be sufficient 
moisture in the yolk of one egg. use part of another or a very little 
lemon juice, but on no account add water, which has a tendency 
to make the paste tough. Work the paste until it is smooth and 
stiff, and roll it out until about an eighth of an inch thick, then cut 
into straws about five inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. 

SOUTH AMERICAN MARMALADE. 

Take one dozen sour oranges. Cut the rind into quarters and 
peel off; scrape all the white from' the rind, cover with cold water 
and boil till tender. Scrape the skin and seeds from inner pulp; 
when the rind is tender, cut into thin shreds and mis with juice 
and pulp. Add to each pint of the mixture, ©■ne pound of gran- 
ulated sugar. Boil steadily thirty minutes. 

Mr&. Ryder. 

CORNED BEEF, 

To one hundred pounds of beef, fotrr and a half pounds of salt,. 

four gallons of water,, two and a half pounds of brown sugar, one 

ounce of saltpetre. Boil and sk'wn; when perfectly cool, pour 

carefully over the ni«a,t. 

Mrs. Russell. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. I3I 

FOR CURING HAM, 

Eig^ht pounds of salt, two pounds of brown sugar, three ounces 
of soda, two ounces of saltpetre. Make brine and pour over the 
meat. This amount is for one hundred pounds of meat. 

TO KEEP CIDER. 

Place your barrel on the side, bung-hole at the top; make a bag 
of a piece of unbleached muslin half a yard long and two inches 
wide; push the bag through the hole and pour into it, with a funnel, 
eight ounces of powdered mustard, two ounces of prepared chalk, 
and two ounces of salt This is sufficient for forty gallons of cider, 
and should be kept tightly closed. Rack off cider, into clean barrel 
before adding mixture. 

Mr. Snyder. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 

Disinfectant. — Five gallons of rain water, one-eighth ounce 
nitrate of lead, one-half ounce of common salt. Mix thoroughly. 
Good and cheap. Mr. Fred Day. 

Furniture Polish.— Take equal parts of olive oil, turpentine 
and vinegar. Apply with woolen cloth. Mrs. Snyder. 

Floor Polish.— To a pint of linseed oil, pint of turpentine, and 
generous half pound of parafine melted with the oil, when removed 
from the fire add turpentine. This is rubbed at once upon the floor 
with woolen cloths and polished with woolen cloths or brush. In 
cold weather set the pan in a pail of hot water. Wash or destroy 
the cloths that are used as they are combustible. 

Mrs. H. O. H. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 



Furniture Wash. -One third each of alcohol or ammonia, 
turpentine and linseed oil. Apply with flannel cloth and polish 
with dry flannel. Mrs. Shingle. 

Furniture Wash.— One and a half ounces of alcohol, one-half 
ounce of muriatic acid eight ounces of linseed oil, one-half pint of 
the best vinegar, one and a half ounces of butter of antimony. 
Mix, putting in vinegar last. Apply with flannel cloth and polish 
with dry flannel. Mrs. Shingle. 

Stove Polish. — One pint of asphaltum,one quart of turpentine, 
one ounce tincture of benzine. Mix with stove polish. 

Mrs. Shingle. 

Kettles are cleansed of onion and other odors by dissolving a 
teaspoonful of pearlash or saleratus in water and washing them 
with it. 

If you put a piece of bread on the top of your knife when peel- 
ing onions, they will not affect your eyes, or if you peel onions 
under water your eyes will not cry. 

To remove grass stains from white goods, wet with water, rub 
in some soft soap and as much baking soda as will adhere, let 
stand half an houi', wash out in the usual manner and the stain 
will be gone. 

Put camphor gum with your silver ware, and it will never tarnish 
as long as the gum is there. 

To drive away the little red ants sprinkle borax on the shelves. 

Rub kerosene over rusted stoves once or twice during the 
summer. 

To remove grease spots, rub magnesia on the spots, cover with 
two thicknesses of brown or blotting paper and apply a warm iron. 

If an egg is clear and golden in appearance when held to the 
light it is good, if dark or spotted it is bad. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. I33 

If tlie snucefian in which milk is to be boiled , should first be 
nioistcMied with water it will prevent the milk from burning. 

To clean paint, dip a flannel cloth into warm soapsuds, then in 
powdered whiting, rubofl'the paint and rinse with clean water. 

To remove paint from window frames, dissolve soda in hot 
water, wash the glass with it, and in half an hour rub the paint oiY 
with a dry cloth. 

Beat carpets on the wrong side first, then on the right, after 
wdiich spots may be removed with a tablespoonful of ammonia in a 
quart of warm soft water. 

Iron rust can be removed from clothes by rubbing with lemon 
juice and laying in the sun. 

To clean bottles, put into them fine coals, shake well either with 
or without water. Charcoal left in a bottle for a little time will 
take away disagreeable odors. 

To polish tin use whiting which has been moistened with 
ammonia. 

Brass Polish.— Rotten stone moistened with turpentine and 
applied with a flannel cloth will brighten brass quickly, rub br'.-skly. 

To clean straw matting, wash with weak salt watei'. 

To remove rust from stove or pipe, rub over with a very bttle 
linseed oil. Build a slow fire in it to dry, then blacken with good 
polish. 

Hartshorn will restore coloi"s taken out by acids. 

Sunshine on mirrors will injure th-eir lustre, therefore do not bang 
opposite a door or window. 

To remove blood stains, they can be removed from an article you 
do not care to wash by applying a thick paste of st.irch and cold 
water. Place in the sun and rub oft' in two hours; if the stainhas 
•not entirely disappeared, repeat the process 



134 DINNER-GIVING. 



A piece of dry bread put into a small bag and^placed in the|mid- 
die of your stewpan, in which onions or cabbage are being boiled, 
will absorb the strong flavor. 

To remove ink from carpets, absorb as much as possible with a 
cloth, cover the spot thickly with salt, in a day or two the stain 
will disappear. 

To Mend China.— This is a very old English receipt: Take 
a very thick solution of gum arabic in water and stir intoJ|it plaster 
of paris until the mixture bechmes of the proper consistency. 
Apply it with a brush to the fractured edges of the china and stick 
theiTi together. In three days the articles cannot be broken in the 
same place. 



DINNER-GIVING. 



A Few Suggestions on Dinner-Giving. 



Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast. 

— Comedy of Errors. 

— All human history attests 

That happiness for man — the hungry sinner — 

Since Eve ate apples, must depend on dinners! 

— Don Juan. 

Invitations for very formal dinners are sent one to two weeks 
in advance, for informal dinners any time within a week is usually 
customary. 

Invitations should be answered as soon as they are received. 
After having accepted a dinner invitation, let nothing interfere 
with your going except illness, and when that is the case, send ark 
immediate note to the hostess that she may fill your place. 

The hours generally selected for dinners are six, seven, and 
eight o'clock. Extreme punctuality on these occasions is to be ob- 



DINNKR-GIVING. I35 



served. A hostess is never required to wait over fifteen minutes 
for a tardy guest. 

One should alw^ays remember that a ceremonious dinner is the 
highest social compliment and should be met in a formal manner. 
When inviting friends who are visitors in a household where 
you have but slight acquaintance always include some member or 
members of the family in your invitations. 

Visits should be made soon after a dinner party by all who 
have been invited whether the invitation was accepted or declined. 
It is a subject for consideration in selecting guests for a dinner 
party, as one is always anxious to throw agreeable and congenial 
people together. Good talkers are an important feature, as the 
charm of an otherwise successful dinner has been destroyed by 
dragging. 

A great deal depends on the seating of the guests. In the hall 
should be a tray of cards with the name of gentlemen and the lady 
whom he is to take in to dinner. On entering the drawing room 
the lady precedes, not taking her husband's arm . After the an ival 
of the last guest, dinner should be announced, the host leading 
the way w^ith the lady who is the honored guest, seating her on 
his right, the hostess following last, with the gentleman she 
wishes to honor, who is seated on her right. Each season brings 
its changes in the arrangement of dinner tables so there is no 
imiform style. 

A thick baize or cotton flannel under the table cloth (for all 
tneals) is a necessity, it prevents noise, the finest table linen looking 
comparatively thin without its use. Do not starch napkins. 
Table damask should be white and perfectly fresh, colored linen 
is permissible only for breakfast and tea. Flowers are usually 
the chief decoration of the table; the m^st artistic effect obtained 
is in employing one color; flowers out of season are a costly luxury, 
as lilies of the valley in October and clover in January. 

The flat basket of flowers is not now popular, the high desgns 
in cut glass and china are preferred. Low cut glass dishes for 



136 DINXER-GIVING. 



boil bons and candied fruits, china or glass candlesticks with colored 
shades for candles are the usual decorations. 

It is a very pretty welcome to see a bunch of flowers at each 
lady's plate, a boutonniere for the gentlemen; with these, dinner 
favors are frequently given, simple or very costly according to 
one's purse. Chairs should be of equal height at the table. 

Avoid crowding guests, it destroys comfort and detracts from the 
enjoyment. Water and wine glasses should be carefully observed 
by servants, so as to .be refilled as required, but the over filling of 
them should be carefully avoided. One is at liberty to refuse a 
dish passed, and any course that is placed before you. 

Service a la Riisse, is to prepare each course out of sight of the 
guests. This may be done by tiie servants handing each course 
previously arranged at side tables. Nothing is seen upon the 
dinner table except silver, glass and decorations. In this method 
of serving a dinner, vegetables or any accompaniment of a course 
are never to be passed from guest to guest, but should be put upon 
the plate before hand and then placed before the guest. The ex- 
ceptions to this rule are in the serving of dessert, ices or creams, 
with cake. The latter are handed to guests as soon as the course 
is placed before them, and are afterwards placed upon the dinner 
table. 

Servants begin passing dishes to the guest at the right 
hand of host, each one being served in turn, no 
distinction being made further than at comnencement. For each 
course the servants should place a plate before each guest. The 
tray is held low for the convenience of the guests in helping them- 
selves to what is passed. If there is but one servant in waiting 
the silver on each plate after a course should be removed first as it 
saves time. Care should be taken that servants move as noise- 
lessly as possible, unnecesary noise in handling silver and glass to 
be avoided. Servants should never seem to notice the conversa- 
tion of people at the table. No accident at table should disturb the 
lady of the house. If her rare china and glass should be broken 
before her she mast not seem to be aware of it, as unconsciously 



DINNER-GIVING. I37 



her teelini^s are comm iiiicatetl to her fi;-iiests. All directions al)()iit 
servinij should be ex|)licitly explained beforehand, so that unnec- 
essary interchantje of looks and words between mistress and serv- 
ants may be avoided. Written directions for the order of courses 
(for any formil meal) should be tacked up in kitchen and pantry. 
Somi waitino^ miids are as thoroughly trained as butler or footman. 
A mistress of a house should always be capable of teaching^ her 
servants how to lay a table and wait upon it properly. Where 
there is only a maid servant for waiting the mistress Uiakes all 
necessary arrangements, [n a we ilthy family one will find a 
biitler and footman. In this country frequently a footman is 
erroneously called waiter, the latter being the name for a hotel 
dining room servant — not a private one. 

Menus should be provided for elaborate dinners, one being 
placed by each plate. Guests are thus enabled to partake more or 
less freely of dishes cJumn a son gout. Menus are of many fanci- 
ful and unique designs. It is perfectly proper for them to be 
taken by guests upon leaving the table as mementos of the occa- 
sion. The hostess gives the signal for leaving the tal:)le. the guests 
passing from the dining room in the order they are seated, without 
precedence. The wish that the gentlemen should remain at the 
table to smoke is shown by the cigars being handed whilst guests 
are at the dinner table, otherwise the host provides cigars in his 
library or smoking room. 

Never play with food or handle unnecessarily the glass and 
silver at your plate 

Flowers should not be put upon the table long before dinner is 
served as they are apt to be wilted by the heat. 

A carafe should be put on the table fresh from the ice chest. 

When a lady removes her gloves for a dinner it should be done 
as soon as she is seated. One of the latest fashions for very cere- 
monious dinners is not to remove the sfloves. 



MENUS. 



MENUS FOR BREAKFAST. 

The hours for a formal breakfast are from nine to twelve 
o'clock. 

SPRING. 

Sliced Oranges. 

Broiled Shad; Sliced Cucumbers. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Fried Chicken; Cream Sauce. 

French Peas. 

Omelet; Radishes. 

Rolls. 

Waffles; Maple Syrup. 

Tea; Coffee. 

SUMMER. 

Strawberries. 

Stewed Sweet breads; Cream Sauce. 

Minced Potatoes with Parsley. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Green Peas; Rolls. 

Frozen Peaches; Whipped Cream. 

Tea; Coffee. 



Nutmeg Melon. 
Fried Oysters; Celery Sauce- 
Rolls. 
Broiled Tenderloin Steak, 



MENUS. 139 



Mushroom Sauce. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes; Muffins. 

French Omelet; Buttered Toast. 

Rice Griddle Cakes; Maple Syrup. 

Tea; Coffee. 

WINTER. 

Baked Apples; Whipped Cream. 

Fried Smelts; Tartar Sauce. 

Milk Biscuit. 

Breaded Mutton Chops. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Escaloped Potatoes; Drop Biscuit. 

Eggs in Paper Cases; French Toast. 

Buckwheat Cakes; Maple Syrup. 

Chocolate; Coffee: 

LUNCHEON. 

The hours for a formal lunch are from one until half past 
two o'clock. 

Oysters on the Half Shell. 
Bouillon. 
Baked Crabs. 
Stewed Sweet breads; Green Peas. 
Maryland Biscuit. 
Chocolate. 
Claret Punch in Lemon Skins. 
Chicken Croquettes; Cream Potatoes. 
Quick Biscuit; Currant Jelly. 
Oyster Pate. 
Celery Salad; Cheese Sandwiches. 
Olives. 
Frozen Apricots; Cake. 
Fruit; Nuts; Coffee. 



Ask your Grocer for the famous 



GOLDEN FLEECE FLOUR 

This flour needs no recommencU^tion other than that thousands 
of families use it daily. If your grocer has not a supply he may 
ol)tain it from the mill for you. We guarantee sweet, white, 
moist i)reatl all the year round. 

WARDER & BARNETT, 

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO. 

CHARLES WENDT, 

Agent for "Golden Fleece," KENTON, OHIO. 



REFINED CORN STARCH 



FOR FOOD PURPOSES, 

Made by 



GEORGE FOX STARGH COMPANY, 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 



ABSOLUTELY PURE. 



Use no other. See that the "Fox's Head" is on every package, 
as there are many imitations of this famous starch. 



A honsp wliich stands as it wore in the street, which is not soiiarated ei'hcr liy a 
heiljre or fence from the i)uhlic thoroujrhfarc. is wanting, in niy oi>inion, in one of the 
important elements of a true home,— Boston Transcript. 



CHAMPION IRON FENCE COMPANY, 

KENTON, OHIO. 
The Urmi Iron Fence and llailinii: Works in the United States. 




rjil r I I I I I I I I I I I 
SPECIALTIES: 



Iron Stairs and Jail Work, 

Builders and Ornamental Iron Work , 

And the only manufacturers of Malleable Iron Cresting, guar- 
anteed against breakage, 




Also manufacturers of the 



Celebrated Ohio Champion Iron Force and 
Lift Pumps. 



In Europe the feeling that the first essential of a refined home is privacy is carried 
rather too far, for tlie high walls with which gentlemen's houses are so often siirroMn<ted 
are a sad drawhack to the hcanty of the country in general, l>nt I believe the pt i icipal 
is a right one.— Hoston Transcript. 

An Iron Fence is an Essentia! of a Refined horn 3. 



Send for [66-page catalogue. 



It has been wisely said that a well cook meal "civilize the 
wildest of men." 

Among the many things needed to prepare a well 
cooked meal none is more necessary than a good cook- 
ing stove. We present a cut of the famous 

JEWETTS WOOD GOOK STOVE, 




These stoves are made from the very best material, and 
for elegance of design, and good cooking and baking 
qualities cannot be surpassed by any stove made. You 
will find these stoves on sale at the popular Hard- 
ware Store of 

ROBINSON & SPELMAN, 

Who carry a full line of Cook Stoves, Heating Stoves. 
Gasoline Stoves, Stove Furniture, and a full 
line of House Furnishing Hardware. 
East of First National Bank KENTON, OHIO. 



GANTWiELL & BINGKLEY 



GENERAL HARDWARE, 

PAINTS, OILS, GLASS. 

SASH, DOORS, BLINDS, 

SCREEN DOORS. ETC. 
GARDEN HOSE, LAWN MOWERS. 

SIL\'ERPLATED KNIVES, FORKS ^: SFOCNS. 
And evervthing kept in a fiist-class hardware store. 

AGRIGULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, 

Cf all l^i3:id.s. 

BUGGIES AND CARRIAGES. 

Pipe and Fittings for Natural Gas a Specialty 
West Side Square, KENTON, 0. 



J. S. FRY & SONS, 

BRISTOL, ENGLATiD, 

Manufacturers of 

Hicrhest Grade CHOCOLATE & COCOA PREPARATIONS 




FRY'S PURE CHOCOLATE, 

Half pound cakes, each wrapped separately, uneqjljaled for 

ALL DOMESTIC PURPOSES, making cake and candy, or 

anything in which Chocolate is vised, 

and as a beverage. 

P"or sale by leading retail grocers and at wholesale by 

AUSTIN, NICHOLS & CO., 

Importers and Wholesale Grocers, NEW YORK. 



Happy Thought Soap 

Excells all others for the Laundry. It is pure, full 

weight, and can always be relied upon 

for its cleansing qualities. 



GLORY SOAP 

Has no equal for Toilet purposes or the Bath. It is ab- 
solutely free from all impurities. Nicely per- 
fumed, and leaves the skin soft and 
smooth and in a perfect 
healing condition. 



Buy NOiir household goods at the 

FIVE AND TEN CENT STORE. 

Whore you pan find everything in 

TINWARE, GLASSWARE, 

Q.UEENSWARE & KITCHEN UTENSILS 

Of all I inds at one-half the )irices charged Iiy other stores. 

5 & 10 CENT STOPE, 

East Side Square, KENT ON, OHIO. 

FOR THE BEST LINE OF 

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES, 

Fruits, Vegetables and Canned Goods, 

CALL ON 

J. A. MATTLER, 

North Side Square, Kenton, Ohio. 

For an entire outfit for the kitchen, in the way of 

Stoves, Dishes of all kinds, 

Knives, Forks, Shoe Brushes, 

And anything in the house furnishing line can be had at one 
place and the only place in Kenton is at 

C. C. BIDDLE'S. 

East Side Public Square. 



Ike Weston. Ed. Cranston. 

The Old Reliables 

WESTON BROTHERS & CO., 

GROCERS, 

West Franklin Strset, KENTON, OHIO 



Oysters and Fruit in Season. 

Good Goods, Large Stock, Fair Dealing. 



Kenton National Bank, 

Kenton- Ohio. 



Capital, $135,000.00 Surplus, $10,000,00 

Depositors Furnished witli Safety Deposit Boxes. 



OFFICERS : 

A. LETSON, Pres. HUGH L. RUNKLE, Cashier. 

N. AHLEFELD, V. Pres. JAS. H. ALLEN, Ass't, Cas'r. 



DIRECTORS: 

A. LETSON, N. AHLEFELD, 

JAMES YOUNG, Wm. YOUNG, 

D. W. SULLIVAN, J. M. WHITE. 



CORR.ESPONDENTS: 

New York— American Exchange National Bank; 
Western National Bank. 
Philadelphia— Penn National Bank. 

Cincinnati — First National Bank; Third National Bank. 
Cleveland— Ohio National Bank, 



1ST NATIONAL BANK OF KENTON, 

KENTON, OHIO. 



OFFICERS: 

S. L. HOGE, Pres., H. W. GRAMLICH, Cashier. 

J. S. RICE, V. Pres. H. BORN, Jr,, Ass't Cashier. 

Prompt attention given to Collections. 
Exchange furnished on all parts of the world. 



METELLUS THOMSON, 

DRY GOODS, 

KZEn^TTOlST, - OHIO. 

A LARGE STOCK OF 

Dress Goods and Silks, 

NEW GOODS RECEIVED DAILY. 



A force of seventeen Experienced Safesmen and 

Salesladies always ready to 

Show Goods. 

Your early attendance at our counters solicited. 



METELLUS THOMSON, 

DRY GOODS, 

One Price, C. O. D. - KENTON, OHIO. 






>v\ 



^V 



Vf, 



^/ 






Hk!?^^' 



^iH 



^r?: 



■If 






^^^s? 



».>^' 









>< 



;^^*tt: 



^'# 



^.^ 



>f^V ^- 







^J^^kA7\v>--^;vmU;^ 



