THE NEW 



Helping * Hanb 



A COLLECTION OF 



FAffilLzY RECEIPTS. 



THE NEW 



Helping * Hanb 



A COLLECTION OF 



Family Receipts. 



^ 



To be good, be useful. To be useful, 
Always be making something good." 



\ .APR 23 1881 



SMITH &. PORTER, PRINTERS. BOSTON. 



A* 



PREFACE. 



Q$?HESE receipts have been contributed by housekeepers 
qfeg who have used and proved them. The book is not 
intended to take the place of a scientific cook book. It aims 
only to do what its title indicates — help those who are accus- 
tomed to cooking, and who know just how and when to use 
judgment. Cooking is made much easier in these days, by 
the convenient cooking utensils which can be bought for a 
small amount, and which, once having, one would never be 
without. Among these conveniences are the tin "cup meas- 
ure," — there should be two in your closet, one divided into 
thirds, the other into quarters. One or two double boilers, 
either of granite ware or porcelain; a soup kettle; two tin 
sheets, nearly the size of the oven, for baking cookies ; a 
frying basket; at least three wire broilers, one for steak, a fine 
one for oysters or fish, the - third for toasting bread. A 
dozen earthen cups make a little change from the ordinary 
gem pan, for baking breakfast cakes, and ^are very nice for 
steaming fruit or suet puddings. A few receipts have been 
added in this edition for the benefit of invalids, and it is 
hoped they may be found inviting and useful. 



COPYRIGHT, BY MRS. ELIZABETH STONE, 1* 



BREAKFAST and TEA CAKES 



CORN CAKE— No. 1. 

One pint Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls flour, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, 
one egg, one pint milk, one tablespoonful melted butter. Bake in 
two shallow pans. 

CORN CAKE-No. 2. 

One and one-half cups Indian meal, one cup flour, one and 
one-half cups milk, one egg, one cup molasses, one teaspoonful 
soda, a little salt. Bake in one sheet. 

CORN CAKE-No. 3. 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups flour, two cups sour milk, 
one and one-half cups molasses, one teaspoonful soda, half teaspoon- 
ful salt. Bake in one sheet. 

BREAD CRUMB MUFFINS (Miss Parloa.) 

One cup rolled and sifted bread crumbs. Three-quarters cup 
flour, one-half tablespoonful melted butter, one cup milk, one egg, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt; soak 
the bread crumbs over night in the milk ; beat white of egg stiff 
and put in last. Bake in gem pans half an hour. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One pint sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
salt, two parts Graham meal, one part flour sufficient to make a 
stiff batter. Beat well together and pour into hot roll pans and 
bake in a quick oven. 



INDIAN MEAL GEMS (Mrs. R. G. Brown.) 

One and one-third cups Indian meal, two-thirds cup flour, one- 
half cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg y two teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda. Bake in gem pan in a quick oven. 

RYE GEMS. 

Four tablespoonfuls each of rye and wheat flour, one pint of 
milk, two eggs, a little salt. Bake in gem pans in a quick oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One cup rye meal, one cup flour, two cups Indian meal, one 
cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt ; mix with 
a pint of sweet milk and steam four hours. 

FLOUR MUFFINS. 

One pint milk, two tablespoonfuls butter, one cup yeast, a little 
salt, and flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. Rise over night ; 
in the morning add one teaspoonful soda. Bake in muffin rings. 

MRS. W.'S BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

Two cups water, two cups scalded milk, seven full cups flour, 
one-half cup yeast, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt. 
Rise over night. In the morning, add one-half teaspoonful soda. 
Bake in roll pans well heated. 

RUSK. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, six cups flour, two cups milk, two 
tablespoonfuls butter, four teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, two 
teaspoonfuls soda. Beat the eggs, add the sugar and one cup of 
milk. Dissolve the soda in the other, and stir in with half the 
flour having the cream of tartar well mixed in it; then add the 
rest of the flour; melt the butter and add last. Bake in two pans. 
Nice for tea. 



LUNCH CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, four cups flour, 
one cup milk, one scant teaspoonful soda, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, a little nutmeg. Beat together the butter, eggs 
and sugar; dissolve the soda in a little of the milk, adding the re- 
mainder and the cream of tartar, stirring briskly until it foams; 
then add to the butter eggs and sugar, stirring the flour lightly 
in last. Bake in one loaf. Serve hot. 

BERRY CAKE-for Breakfast. 

One-half cup sugar, one large spoonful butter melted and mixed 
with the sugar, two small teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one small 
teaspoonful soda, two-thirds cup milk, two cups flour, two cups 
berries, a little salt. Bake in one sheet. 

BERRY CAKE. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, one and one- 
half cup milk, two-thirds cup butter, one teaspoonful soda, six cups 
flour, one quart berries, a little nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in 
one large loaf, if to be used cold, or in two shallow pans and 
serve hot. Good either way. 

PANCAKES. 

One pint sour milk, one small teaspoonful soda, two eggs, a 
saltspoonful salt, the same of cinnamon. Add flour sufficient to 
make a batter which will drop easily from a spoon. Fry in hot 
lard. A good breakfast dish. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one tablespoonful 
butter, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, a 
pinch of salt, a little nutmeg, and sufficient flour to roll out and 
cut into shape. Fry in hot lard. 



BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES (Miss Parloa.) 

Three-quarters cup rolled or pouuded bread crumbs, one and 
one-quarter cups milk, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful butter, one 
teaspoonful baking powder, one egg. Soak the bread crumbs over 
night in the milk if they are to be cooked for breakfast. Beat the 
white of the egg and stir in last. A little flour must be added to 
the mixture to make a thin batter. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One pint flour, one pint milk, two eggs, scant half teacup 
sugar, same quantity butter, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls cream of tartar. Bake in shallow pan, in a quick oven, about 
twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Rub a piece of butter, size of an egg, into two quarts flour; 
add a pinch of salt, one tablespoonful white sugar, one pint of milk 
scalded and added while warm, half a cup of yeast or one small 
yeast cake. When the sponge is light, mould for fifteen minutes, 
let rise again, roll out and cut into round cakes. When light, 
flatten with the hand; place a bit of butter on top of each and 
fold each over itself; let them stand a few minutes, then bake in 

a quick oven. 

SMITHFIELD CAKES. 

Pour over one pint of sifted Indian meal sufficient boiling 
water to scald it; then add one scant tablespoonful sugar, two 
eggs w r ell beaten, eight tablespoonfuls milk, and flour sufficient to 
make a batter to drop easily from the spoon into hot lard, and fry. 
This is a good winter breakfast dish and is also very good with 

TYI P it" S 

QUEEN FRITTERS— Glen House. 

Boil one pint of milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a 
stiff" batter; let it cool, and then beat into the mixture five eggs, 
one at a time, a little salt, and fry in hot lard. 



SQUASH GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One and one-half cups squash, boiled and strained, one pint 
milk, one egg, one-half teaspoonful soda, same of salt, flour suffi- 
cient to make batter. Bake on hot griddle. 

BERRY GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Three tablespoonfuls of scalded Indian meal, one egg, one cup 
of sugar, four cups of flour, two cups of milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one pint of berries, a little 
salt. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

To two quarts of flour add half a pound of butter, well rubbed 
in, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, wet with milk to dissolve it; 
knead quite stiff and divide into four parts, roll about one inch 
thick and bake on round tins in a quick oven. Have ready two 
quarts of strawberries (or more), mashed and sweetened, and a 
half pint of cream ; stir well together. Split the cake when baked, 
put on a plate, and butter, then spread thick with the mixture, put 
on the other half, crust down, and do likewise. This will make a 
dessert for eight persons. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE-No. 2. 

Make a crust like cream of tartar biscuit. One quart flour, two 
teaspoonfuls cream tartar well rubbed in, one tablespoonful butter, 
one teaspoonful soda in one cup of milk, or enough to make a stiff 
dough. Roll out and bake on round tins ; when baked, split open 
and butter each half, and fill with strawberries well sweetened and 
mashed; spread the top with butter and sprinkle over white sugar. 

OMELET. 

Six eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, a little salt. Melt the butter in half the 
milk, wet the flour smoothly with the other half; beat the yolks 



of the eggs, and add to the milk, then stir it lightly, the whites 
"beaten to a stiff froth. Cook, on a hot spider, well buttered, one- 
third of the mixture at a time, turning one half over the other 
just as it is ready to take up. Serve on a hot platter. 

BAKED OMELET (Good.) 

Heat one dessert spoonful butter in three gills milk ; beat well 
four eggs; smooth a tablespoonful flour in a little cold milk, add 
a teaspoonful salt; mix the eggs with the flour and cold milk, 
add the hot milk, stirring briskly. Pour into a heated earthen 
dish and bake in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

TEA. 

Have the water freshly boiled, never use that which has stood 
boiling for hours on the stove. Scald the teapot, place in it the 
tea, allowing one teaspoonful for each person — reducing the quan- 
tity somewhat if there are more than five persons; pour over the 
tea in the pot sufficient hot water to rinse the tea thoroughly; 
pour off this water — if the pot is not provided with a strainer use 
common tea strainer — then pour over the grounds, the boiling 
water, one and a half cups for each spoonful of tea, and let the 
pot stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, for a few minutes. 

COFFEE. 

One cup ground coffee, one quart water, one egg. Beat up 
the egg^ shell and all, with the coffee, and add one-half cup cold 
water; let it stand four or five minutes; scald the coffee pot, 
put in the mixture and add one quart boiling water; let boil from 
eight to ten minutes; stir down once with a spoon. This quantity 
will serve five persons. 



9 

MEMORANDA. 



10 
MEMORANDA. 



11 



CAKE 



FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, one cup sour milk, 
one-half cup molasses, five cups flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
one pound fruit, raisins, currants, citron; clove, nutmeg and cin- 
namon, one-half teaspoonful each, one-half glass wine or brandy 
if liked. 

THE BEST (Miss Maynard). 

One and one-quarter pounds brown sugar, one pound butter, 
eight eggs beaten light ; mix with the hand, adding one cup of any 
kind of jelly or fruit syrup, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in a 
little water, one teaspoonful cream of tartar stirred into one pound 
sifted flour, one grated nutmeg, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one 
tablespoonful clove, juice and grated rind of two lemons, two 
pounds raisins stoned and cut, one pound currants, three-quarters 
pound citron cut into thin strips. Roll the fruit in a little of the 
flour and add last. This quantity will make three loaves. Bake 
three hours in a moderate oven, or steam two hours and then bake 
one hour. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Three pounds each, flour, sugar, butter; six pounds stoned 
and cut raisins, six pounds currants, one pound citron; the grated 
rind and the juice of two lemons ; one ounce cinnamon and nutmeg 
each, one-half ounce clove, one scant tablespoonful soda, one-half 
gill brandy and rosewater each, thirty eggs. Rub butter and sugar 



12 

to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, then the flour, taking out a 
little of the flour to sprinkle over the fruit ; smooth the spices in 
the brandy and add, then the fruit, and last, the soda dissolved in 
the rosewater or a little hot water. This will make four loaves. 
Bake slowly three hours. 

UNION CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups flour, 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonf ul soda 
dissolved together in one-half cup milk; flavor with nutmeg. 
This will make two sheets, and may be varied by slicing a little 
citron into one sheet, and frosting the other. 

POUND CAKE (old-fashioned). 

Five eggs, the weight of five eggs in flour, the weight of five 
eggs in sugar, the weight of four eggs in butter, one-third tea- 
spoonful nutmeg. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and a part of the flour; add the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, stirring quickly, then 
add the rest of the flour. Bake in a loaf or in hearts and rounds. 

CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, four 
cups flour, one scant teaspoonful soda, a little nutmeg. This makes 
two sheets. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

The whites of six eggs, well beaten, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half cup milk, one-half cup corn starch, one and one-half 
cups flour (mixed), one-half cup butter, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda; flavor with one-half teaspoonful 
almond. 



13 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, and one egg^ one and one-half cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of corn starch, one 
and one-half cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, nutmeg. Whites of 
three eggs well beaten, one and one-half cups of sugar; spread 
one-third of it on the cake, and to the remainder add six heaping 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate, and put all on the cake while hot. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Take receipt for "Bride Cake" and bake in three parts as for 
Washington Pie. Prepare a filling as follows: Boil two and one- 
half cups sugar and one-half cup (boiling) water, very slowly, until 
it becomes a thick syrup. Try it, by dropping a little into cold 
water (as for molasses candy) ; do not stir constantly while cook- 
ing. When it is cooked take from the stove and stir into it the 
well-beaten whites of three eggs, and stir occasionally while cool- 
ing. While it is still warm, spread it over each sheet of cake, 
sprinkling grated cocoanut over each ; then pile the cakes one over 
the other, covering the top with the mixture and cocoanut. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, 
piece of butter size of an egg (melted), two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda, a little nutmeg. This is a good cake 
for Charlotte Russe. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, one-half cup of water, 
the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three eggs, one teaspoon- 



14 

rind of one orange. Bake as for cream pie, split when cool, and 
fill with the whites of two eggs, one cup of sugar, grated rind and 
juice of one orange beaten to a stiff froth. 

ANNA'S SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, one cup of line sugar, one cup of flour. Beat the 
yolks and whites separately, beat the sugar with the yolks thor- 
oughly, add the whites, and then stir in very slowly and in small 
quantities the flour — abput a teaspoonful at a time. Bake in one 
( loa^Jn a jiegg pan. ^ XltYi the *™ s ' su - ar and " our > },dd the juice 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat six eggs two minutes; add three cups of sugar, beat six 
minutes ; two cups of flour, with two small teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar, beat one minute; one cup of cold water, with a small tea- 
spoonful of soda, beat one minute ; half the rind and juice of one 
lemon, two more cups of flour, a bit of salt. Bake twenty minutes. 

BRIDE CAKE. 

Two cups fine sugar, whites of four eggs beaten light, then 
added to the sugar; one tablespoonful of melted butter, two cups 
of flour, one quarter of a teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-eighth 
of a teaspoonful of soda, one cup of milk ; season with almond. 



GOLD CAKE. 

Take the yolks of the four eggs used for the bride cake, add 
one egg^ one-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, three cups of 
flour; flavor with lemon or orange. 



15 

NUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
and one-half cups of flour, with one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one-half cup of milk, one more cup of flour with one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda in it, three eggs, one cupful of any kind of finely 
broken nut meats ; one-half cup raisins, stoned and chopped. Bake 
in one loaf. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, piece 
of butter size of an egg^ two teaspoonfuls of soda, one tablespoon- 
f ul of ginger, flour sufficient to pour like stiff batter. Bake in sheet 
or loaf. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES (for children.) 

Two cups best molasses, one cup butter, one cup cold water, 
two teaspoonfuls soda, a little yellow ginger if liked, three full 
cups flour. Stir the soda into the molasses until it is thoroughly 
mixed and foamy, add a part of the flour, then the water and re- 
mainder of flour, and flavor; melt the butter and stir in last. 
Drop on to a well buttered tin sheet from the spoon enough to make 
a cake the size of a common cracker, leaving spaces between ; bake 
in a quick oven. When baked lay them flat on a large piece of 
brown paper to cool ; do not pile them over each other. This 
quantity will make thirty cookies. 

ROSA'S COOKIES. 

One egg^ two cups sugar, one cup cold water, one cup butter, 
one teaspoonful soda, the juice of half a small lemon, a little nut- 
meg; mix, and add sufficient flour to roll out very thin. Cut into 
long or square pieces and bake in a quick oven. These are very 
nice, and if packed carefully in cracker boxes will keep a long 
time. 



16 

HARD SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Three eggs, one quart flour, two cups sugar, one and one-half 
cups butter, one teaspoonful soda, one-half tablespoonful yellow 
ginger. Roll out thin and bake in rounds and squares in a quick 
oven. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Boil together, for two minutes, one pint molasses, one cup 
shortening, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful ginger; add 
sufficient flour to roll out easily in thin strips or round cakes. 
Bake quickly. 

AUNT MARIA'S COOKIES. 

Six cups flour, one cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, a 
little nutmeg. Roll out very thin and bake quickly. 

COUSIN MARY'S CRULLERS. 

Four eggs, six tablespoonfuls sugar, four tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, four tablespoonfuls milk, one scant teaspoonful soda, a little 
nutmeg. Roll out thin and cut in fingers shape and fry in hot 
lard like doughnuts. 



17 
MEMORANDA, 



18 
MEMORANDA, 



Ill 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 



MRS. TIRRELL'S LEMON PIE. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch made 
smooth in a little cold water ; then pour over it one-half cup boil- 
ing water ; let it cool ; add a saltspoonful salt. Line a deep pie 
plate with pastry, and pour in the mixture and bake. Beat up 
lightly the whites of the three eggs with three tablespoonfuls fine 
sugar, and when the pie is baked cover with the puffing and brown 
lightly in the oven. 

MARLBORO' PIES. 

One quart stewed and strained apples, eight eggs, one-half 
pound butter, one pint cream, one lemon (juice and rind). Bake 
the pies without upper crust. This quantity will make three large 
pies. 

GREEN APPLE PIE (without apples). 

Six soda biscuits soaked in two cups cold water, juice of two 
lemons, three cups sugar. Stir all well together and bake in a pie 
without upper crust. 

MINCE PIE MEAT. 

Two pounds of beef and suet, each boiled and chopped ; four 
pounds of chopped apples, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of 
currants, two pounds sugar, one-half tablespoonful cinnamon, two 
nutmegs, one teaspoonful ground cloves, a little mace and salt, one 
cup of molasses, one pound citron, one pint of good wine, one 
pint of brandy, one quart of cider. 



20 

MARIETTE'S CREAM PIE. 

One cup fine sugar, one heaping cup sifted flour, one table- 
spoonful butter, one-fourth cup of milk ; one-half teaspoonful cream 
of tartar, one-fourth teaspoonful soda, two eggs beaten well, a 
little salt ; when cold split the cake and pour in a filling, made 
with one-half cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of flour, one egg^ 
stirred into one-half pint of boiling milk. Let it boil, and when 
cool flavor with lemon or vanilla. Very good. 

FILLING FOR LEMON TARTS. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls flour, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, one-half cup water, grated rind and juice of one 
lemon. Boil all together until it thickens ; let it cool before filling 
the tarts. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

One pint peaches, fresh or canned, sweeten to taste. Boil one 
pint milk, stir into it the beaten yolks of three eggs and one table- 
spoonful corn starch; let all cook five minutes in the double 
boiler. Pour this custard over the peaches ; beat up the whites of 
the three eggs with half a cup fine sugar, and pile over the top. 
Any other fruit may be used. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pint milk, four eggs, one cup sugar, one-half pound 
suet chopped, one nutmeg, one loaf baker's bread grated, one- 
half pound currants, one-half pound stoned raisins, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, cinnamon and soda, each; one-half glass wine or brandy 
if you like; steam four hours and serve with pudding sance, 
No. 1. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING (Mrs. Keith). 

Six eggs, one pint milk, one-quarter loaf baker's stale bread, 
one cup raisins, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, half 
a nutmeg; grate the bread and pour over it the milk boiling hot; 



21 

beat the eggs and stir in, add the other ingredients, and bake 
in an earthen pan two hours in a slow oven, placing bits of 
butter over the top before baking. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One tablespoonful flour, two tablespoonfuls Indian meal, four 
tablespoonfuls molasses, a little salt, one-half teaspoonful ginger. 
Stir these well together and pour over, stirring briskly, two 
quarts scalding milk. Bake in a moderately hot oven two and 
a half hours. 

BOILED SUET PUDDING. 

One pint flndian meal, one cup flour, one-half cup molasses, 
one-half pound suet chopped, one scant teaspoonful soda, a little 
salt and ginger; mix with one pint sour milk, and boil or steam 
three hours. This is a good dish to serve with roast beef. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Cleanse one-half cup tapioca, and place in a double boiler with 
one pint of milk; let it soak and cook slowly until thick, then 
add five beaten eggs, leaving out the whites of three, a piece of 
butter size of an egg, one-half cup sugar, one pint cold milk; 
flavor with nutmeg, and add a pinch of salt. Bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour, then spread over the top the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, with one cup fine sugar, and brown 
slightly in the oven. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup milk, two cups flour, two 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda. Bake in quick oven half an hour. Serve 
hot with sauce. 



22 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, then mix and 
add eight tablespoonfuls line sugar, two tablespoonfuls powdered 
cracker, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, one cup of 
milk. Line an earthen dish with nice pastry, pour in the mixture 
and bake like custard. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Four eggs, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup milk, one- 
half cup butter, three and one-half cups sifted flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda. Serve hot with cream, 
or pudding sauce. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Beat lightly three eggs ; add three cups of milk, three cups of 
flour, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, a little salt. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour. Wine sauce. 

TAMER'S PUDDING (cheap and good). 

One cup of water, one cup of molasses, one cup of chopped 
suet, two cups of flour, one cup of chopped raisins, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, a little salt and spice to suit the taste. Boil two hours. 
Serve with sauce. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, three and one-half 
cups of milk, one grated cocoanut, piece of butter size of an egg, 
a little salt. Line a deep dish with pastry, pour the mixture in 
and bake. To be eaten cold. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

One dozen ears of sweet corn, split each row of kernels with 
a sharp knife and cut from the ear, scraping out with the back of 
the knife as much of the milk as possible ; then pound or chop 



23 

the corn flue, add two pounded crackers, one pint of milk, two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls sugar and a little salt. Bake two hours 
in a moderate oven. If the corn is young ami very milky, reduce 
the quantity of milk; if old and dry, do not use so much cracker. 
This is a nice tea dish. Eaten with butter and pepper. 

SNOW, ICE AND THAW. 

Soak one-half package of gelatine in one cup cold water; then 
add a pint of boiling water ; when dissolved, add the juice of two 
lemons and a scant pint of sugar; when cold, add the whites of 
two eggs well beaten; beat all thoroughly for half an hour, to a 
stiff froth ; put into moulds and let it stand until the next day. 
Make a soft custard of the yolks of three eggs and one egg, with 
one cup of sugar and a pint of milk. Beat up the whites of three 
eggs with fine sugar. Turn the gelatine into a glass dish; pour 
over it the soft custard, and pile the beaten whites over the whole. 
The custard may be flavored Avith lemon or vanilla. 

THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, a piece 
of butter size of an egg. Bake like a custard. When baked, 
spread over the top slices of jelly of any kind, and cover the whole 
with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with one cup 
of sugar, and the juice of the lemon. Brown lightly in the oven. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of rice boiled in water until very soft, one quart of 
milk, the yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar, grated rind of one 
lemon ; baked a light brown. Beat the whites of the eggs and one 
cup of white sugar together, add the juice of the lemon, spread 
over the pudding and brown it. This is a nice summer dessert. 
To be eaten cold. 



24 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Beat up lightly two eggs, add one pint milk, cut into slices a. 
loaf of bakers 1 bread, and soak five minutes in the milk and egg y 
adding a pinch of salt ; then fry in hot lard and butter, equal parts, 
until the bread is of a light brown on both sides, turning once. 
This dish is easily prepared for a breakfast dish, or may be served 
with a nice pudding sauce for dessert. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, yolks of two eggs, one and one-half cups flour, 
two tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, three- 
fourths teaspoonful soda, two cujds uncooked cranberries. Mix and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 

SAUCE FOR CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

Whites of the two eggs beaten to a froth, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoonful flour; wet the flour with a little cold water and stir 
it into one-half cup boiling water; when cold, add the other 
ingredients. Flavor with vanilla, nutmeg, or orange. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



HARD SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter beaten to a cream ; add the 
yolk and white of one egg beaten separately ; stir all w T ell together ; 
flavor with lemon, vanilla, or orange. Set in a cool place. 

Sauce No. 2. 

Beat together two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, and 
pour over the mixture, just before serving, one and one-half cups 
boiling water. Flavor with nutmeg or wine, if liked. 



25 

Sauce No. 3. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one egg, beaten together. Six 
tablespoonfuls boiling milk, added just before serving. Flavor 
with vanilla or rose-water. 

LEMON SAUCE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Two cups hot water, one cup sugar, grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, one tablespoonful butter, three heaping teaspoon- 
fuls corn-starch. Boil the water and sugar five minutes; add 
the corn-starch wet in a little cold water; cook ten minutes; add 
the lemon rind and juice and butter. If too thick, add hot water. 



FANCY DISHES 



GELATINE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint cream, one-half ounce gelatine dissolved in one gill 
of milk, whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one small tea- 
cup powdered sugar; flavor with bitter almond or vanilla. Set the 
cream on ice for an hour or more, and then beat it up with an 
egg-beater. Mix the beaten cream, eggs and sugar, flavor, and beat 
in the gelatine and milk last, which should be quite cold before it 
is added. Line a buttered mould with any light cake, sponge, or 
lady-fingers; fill with the mixture and set away to cool. 

LEMON CREAMS. 

One and one-half cups water, the grated rind and juice of one 
lemon, one cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch wet in a little of the water. Cook all together in the double 



26 

boiler until it is of the thickness of boiled custard. When the 
cream is cool, pour it into glass or china cups, filling about two- 
thirds full. Beat up the whites of the three eggs with one table- 
spoonful sugar, and pile over the creams. This quantity will fill 
half a dozen cups. 

ORANGE JELLY. 
One quart orange juice, one package gelatine, one pint water, 
juice of one lemon, two pounds sugar. Soak the gelatine in half a 
pint cold w T ater until soft, then pour over it one-half pint boiling 
water, stirring until the gelatine is dissolved ; add the sugar, lemon 
and orange juice, then strain into moulds ; or, it may be cooled on 
large platters. When cool, cut in small dice or break up with a 
fork and pile in cups or glasses. It must be kept cool. 

WINE JELLY. 

This jelly is made like orange jelly, substituting wine (sherry 
or Madeira) for orange juice. 

GELATINE ICE CREAM. 

Dissolve one-half package gelatine in a little cold water, just 
enough to cover it ; add one quart boiled milk, and sweeten to 
taste; when cooled, add one quart cream and flavor with vanilla, 
lemon or orange, and freeze. 

DISH OF SNOW. 

To a quart of whipped cream add the whites of three eggs 
well beaten, four tablespoonfuls sweet wine, one teaspoonful lemon, 
and sugar to suit the taste; whip the whole to a froth and pour 
into a glass dish. Serve at once. 

FLOATING ISLAND (Mrs. Warren). 

Beat the yolks of six eggs with the juice of four lemons, 
sweeten to taste and stir it in a quart of boiling milk until it 
thickens, then pour it into a dish ; whip the whites of the six eggs 
stiff and pile over the custard after it has cooled. 



27 
MEMORANDA. 



28 
MEMORANDA. 



29 

APPLE SNOW. 

Wash six large apples and put them into a stew-pan (without 
paring), covet with cold water and stew slowly. When they are 
soft, strain them thiough a sieve. Beat the whites of six eggs to 
a froth, add one cup line sugar, mix with the apple, and beat until 
white as snow. Then make a boiled custard of the yolks of the 
eggs, two whole eggs, one quart milk, sweeten and flavor to taste, 
and serve with the apple. A delicious dessert or lunch dish. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One quart can preserved pineapple, strained; add a cup cold 
water to the fruit and squeeze out all the juice; add the juice of 
one lemon, and one tablespoonful gelatine wet in cold water and 
dissolved. The preserved fruit is usually sweet enough, but more 
sugar can be added to suit the taste. Mix and freeze. This is a 
pretty summer dessert; it looks so like snow. 

It is very little work to prepare a sherbet of almost any of the 
canned fruits which one may have in the house: currants, straw- 
berries, peaches, pineapple. Strain out the syrup, flavor with lemon 
and freeze. Oranges and lemons make very good water ices made 
in the same way. 

GELATINE CUSTARD (Mrs. Rutter). 

Into three pints boiling milk stir five well beaten eggs and two 
cups sugar. The moment it thickens, remove and strain into a cold 
bowl, adding, while it is hot, one-quarter ounce gelatine dissolved 
in a gill of rose water. While it is boiling, a custard must not be 
left for one second. Vigilance is the price for a successful boiled 
custard. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One small bottle of sweet oil, the yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs cold, and rubbed very smoothly with the yolks of three raw 
eggs ; take two teaspoonf uls of mustard mixed with a very little 



30 

water, and a little salt, mix this slowly with the eggs and then mix 
thoroughly with the oil; then stir in very slowly one-third of a 
cup of vinegar, a very little sugar, a bit of red pepper, and a little 
cream. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

Stir together and place in a double boiler, three eggs, one table- 
spoonful sugar, one tablespoonful sweet oil, one-half tablespoonful 
mustard, and one scant tablespoonful salt, one cup rich milk (or 
cream), one cup vinegar; stir constantly, and as soon as it thickens, 
remove and strain it into a cold dish. Place in a Mason jar and it 
will keep several days in a cool place. Nice for salads, cold meats, 
fish and cold slaw. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Pare and boil four medium size potatoes. Place in the double 
boiler one quart new milk with a small onion. When the potatoes 
are cooked, mash, and pour over them the boiling milk, removing 
the onion. Return the soup to the double boiler and add one- 
half teaspoonful salt, a dash of white pepper, a tablespoonful 
flour, and a tablespoonful butter rubbed smoothly together; let it 
all boil for six or eight minutes and then strain into a hot dish 
and serve at once. A little more salt and pepper may be added if 
desired. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Boil a calf's head until tender, strain out the liquor and set it 
away until the next day, then skim off the fat; cut up the meats 
with the lights, put it into the liquor, stew slowly for half an hour, 
season with pepper, cloves and mace; onions if you like; just be- 
fore taking it up add a half a pint of white wine. For the balls, 
chop lean veal fine, with a little salt pork, add the brains, and 
season with salt, pepper, mace and cloves; make up into balls 
about the size of half an egg^ boil part of them in the soup and 
fry the remainder; and serve on a separate dish. 



31 

TOMATO SOUP (Parker House). 

Five pints of beef stock, two onions, one carrot, one turnip, 
one beet ; pare the vegetables and cut into small pieces : boil forty- 
five minutes, and strain through a sieve, being careful not to pass 
through any of the vegetables. Put over the fire, and add a two- 
quart can of tomatoes; boil twenty minutes and strain it. Put a 
quarter of a pound of butter (or less if the liquor is rich) into the 
spider to brown, stir in three tablespoonfuls of flour until it makes 
a paste; pour this into the boiling soup, and boil ten minutes, add 
a teaspoonful sugar and the same quantity of salt. Serve hot. 

SCOTCH SOUP. 

Two pounds lean mutton, three quarts water, one small onion, 
one carrot, a little turnip, one-half cup barlej' or rice, one tea- 
spoonful salt. Cut the meat into small pieces, and trim off the 
fat. Boil the bones in a part of the water, while the meat is cook- 
ing in a kettle by itself. Skim all carefully; cut the vegetables 
into small pieces ; if barley is used it should soak several hours in 
cold water. When the scum ceases to rise, add the barley and 
vegetables, and let all simmer gently until the meat is thoroughly 
cooked, (two hours) then add a piece of butter size of an egg- 
smoothed with one tablespoonf ul flour ; strain, and add the water in 
which the bones have been cooked, let all boil together for a few 
minutes, season with pepper, and serve without straining. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select the largest, remove all bits of shell and straw, and drain 
them on a coarse towel; dip each oyster in well beaten egg^ then 
in cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper; fry in hot lard 
until they are evenly browned; then lay them on a napkin over a 
hot dish, to allow the fat to drain off, and serve hot ; garnish with 
parsley. 



32 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Cleanse carefully large oysters, dip each one in melted butter, 
then roll in cracker crumbs, finely powdered. Place on a fine wire 
broiler and cook over clear coals until brown on both sides Serve 
hot. 

CREAMED OYSTERS (Mrs. Lincoln). 

One pint hot cream, one tablespoonful butter, two heaping 
tablespoonfuls flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful 
pepper. Melt the butter, being careful not to brown it, and add 
the dry flour, stirring quickly until it is well mixed ; pour in half 
the hot cream (or rich milk) and cook until it thickens; smooth 
all lumps, then add the rest of the cream. Cleanse one pint oysters 
and parboil until plump, skim carefully, then drain and add them 
to the sauce. Serve on toast, hot. 



POTATOES. 

It is a good plan to have on hand a few boiled potatoes. 
There are many ways in which they can be prepared quickly, and 
which make an inviting dish for breakfast. 

WARMED OVER POTATOES- No. 1. 

Place in the spider a generous slice of salt pork and let the 
fat fry out, acid a small piece of butter; chop four or five cold po- 
tatoes, not too fine, and brown them in the hot fat, stirring in a 
little salt and pepper. Remove the pork and turn the potato into 
a hot dish. 

TOASTED POTATOES. 

Slice the largest cold potatoes, place on the wire broiler and 
toast over a good fire until they are light brown on both sides; 
put them on a hot plate and season with a little melted butter, 
salt and pepper. 



33 

CREAMED POTATO. 

Place in the spider one cup of milk, a tablespoonful butter, 
and when it is hot, thicken with a teaspoonful flour wet in a 
little cold milk. Chop four or five cold potatoes and put into 
the spider with the milk; add a little salt, pepper if liked, and 
let it simmer until hot, being careful not to burn. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Chop three and one-half pounds (uncooked) veal, one-quarter 
pound fat salt pork together; add six common crackers Trolled or 
pounded), two beaten eggs, one-half cup butter, one tablespoonful 
pepper, a little clove, or mixed herbs to suit the taste. Mix all 
well together and form into a loaf; bake in a shallow pan, with 
bits of butter spread over the top, and a little water in the pan. 
Dredge with flour and bake slowly two hours, basting frequently. 
To be used cold cut in thin slices. This is a good lunch dish, or 
relish for tea. Keep in a cool place. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Wash thoroughly one-half pound rice; put over the fire in 
sufficient water to cover it; when it begins to boil, add one-half 
pint milk, and cook until soft ; add the beaten yolks of two eggs ; 
a little salt; when cool, roll into long round shape with the hand; 
dip them in powdered cracker and fry brown in hot lard. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

To seven pounds of fruit — peaches, pears, plums, citron, ripe 
cucumbers, etc. — allow one quart vinegar, one pint water, three 
pounds sugar (white or browh), two ounces whole mixed spices. 
Cook the fruit in the vinegar, water and sugar until it is soft ; then 
take it out. Put into the liquor the spices and boil for half an 
hour. Strain hot over the fruit. Place in small jars and cover. 



34 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

To live quarts of currants, free from the stems, allow three 
pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, one teaspoonful cloves, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon. Cook the fruit in the liquor until it is soft; 
skim out, and boil the liquor an hour; then pour it oyer the fruit. 
Place in cups or glass jars ; cover closely. 

CHOPPED PICKLE (Mrs. M. H. Young). 

One peck green tomatoes, one large cabbage, fifteen white 
onions, ten large cucumbers (remove seeds). Chop all, and pack 
in layers with a generous sprinkling of salt between; let stand 
twenty-four hours; drain thoroughly, throwing the water away. 
Boil together three quarts cider vinegar, one-half cup tumeric, 
three pounds brown sugar, one-half cup ground black pepper, one 
ounce celery seed, three-quarters pound white mustard seed, three 
red peppers chopped fine; pour this over the chopped vegetables 
hot, and repeat the operation three successive days. Then make a 
dressing of one-quarter pound mustard, one cup salad oil, one tea- 
spoonful curry powder, one quart vinegar; mix, and stir well 
through the pickle after it has cooled from the third scalding. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck tomatoes, cut into thin slices, sprinkle generously 
with salt, and let them stand two days, then drain off the water. 
Slice ten onions, mix half of a small box of mustard, one-half 
ounce of white mustard, one ounce of white cloves, a little celery 
seed. Put into the preserving kettle a layer of tomatoes, onions 
and spice ; cover with cider vinegar, and let them cook very slowly 
until the tomatoes are clear. This pickle will keep much better 
put into small jars covered close. 



35 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Eight quarts strained tomato, six tablespoonfuls black pepper, 
six tablespoonfuls salt, four tablespoonfuls mustard, one table- 
spoonful ground cloves, one tablespoonful yellow ginger, one quart 
vinegar, one-half cup brown sugar, one tumbler of brandy. Boil 
very slowly until the quantity is reduced nearly one-half. Put 
into bottles. 

SUE'S SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

Slice one peck green tomatoes; put them in layers, sprinkle 
each layer with salt; let them stand over night, and in the morn- 
ing wash them from the salt. To one gallon of good cider vinegar 
add two tablespoonfuls white ginger, two cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful celery seed, three pounds of sugar, one ounce of cloves, 
and a little sliced onion. Let this boil together a little while, then 
put in the tomatoes and boil all until it is clear. Put up in small jars. 

MARY'S CHILI SAUCE. 

One dozen large ripe tomatoes, six small green peppers, six 
small onions, one and one-half cups vinegar, one cup sugar, one- 
third cup salt. Chop the peppers and onions, and boil all together 
twenty minutes. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

This should be made as soon as the fruit is ripe, about the 
10th of July, before it becomes watery. Wash, and put into the 
kettle without taking off the stems. Do not add water. When 
the fruit is soft, strain out the juice, and for every bowl full, allow 
the same quantity of sugar. Put the juice into a kettle and boil 
gently for twenty minutes ; at the same time place the sugar in the 
oven to heat ; do not let it melt or brown : stir frequently. Then 
add the sugar to the juice, and boil together from three to live 
minutes. Take out a little in a spoon and as soon as it jellies 



36 

remove it from the fire. If boiled too long with the sugar it 
loses its bright color and becomes dark and tough. When a 
little cooled pour into jelly glasses and cover close with paper wet 
in brandy. Keep in a dry cool place. This is a good rule for 
making grape, quince and apple jelly, adding a little water. Bar- 
berry and crabapple require a little more sugar. 

CANNED FRUITS. 

Select fair, not over ripe, fruit. Remove skin and seeds from 
apples, quinces; the stones from cherries. Allow one-quarter 
pound sugar to the pound of sweet fruits; half a pound for 
peaches, and three-quarters for quinces and pineapple. If the 
fruit is hard, it should be cooked until tender in clear water, then 
placed in the jars and covered with the boiling syrup. Make the 
syrup in a preserving kettle, allowing a cup of water to two of 
sugar; skim carefully, then drop in the fruit, a little at a time, 
keeping it in shape. Take out when tender and place in hot jars; 
let them stand in a pan of boiling water, until the syrup is ready 
to be added ; then fill up the jars overflowing, and seal tightly. 

FRUIT PRESERVE. 

Two pounds Malaga raisins (stoned), one pint raspberry juice, 
five pounds sugar. Three oranges cut into small squares, with the 
peel left on them. Mix all together and boil twenty minutes. Put 
up in small jars or glasses. 

STEWED BLACKBERRY (Nantucket). 

One quart ripe blackberries; place in a stew pan without any 
water, let the fruit cook slowly a few minutes, then add one table- 
spoonful flour wet in a little cold water to smooth it, two table- 
spoonfuls sugar; let all cook together five minutes, then pour into 
moulds and cool. This is a good summer dessert. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

One pint molasses, one-half cup sugar, a pinch of salt. Boil 
all together until it is hard enough to handle; try it by dropping 
a little in a cup of cold water; then pour it on to a smooth tin 
baking sheet; when cool, divide in two parts and pull each until it 
is white and brittle, pulling straight, without twisting; make into 
flat sticks or squares. Keep in a cool place. 

MARY'S TAFFY. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-third cup butter, two-thirds cup 
water, the grated rind of half a lemon ; boil all together ; try it in 
a little cold water; when done, add the juice of half a lemon and 
a little vanilla. Pour into pans and cut in squares. 

SUE'S CHOCOLATE CARAMELS, 

One cup molasses, one and one-half cups sugar, one-quarter 
pound chocolate, one-half cup milk, piece of butter (egg size). Boil 
all together, trying it as you would molasses candy; stir all the 
time; when it is done, pour into shallow pans and cut in small 
squares. 

GRACE'S MOLASSES CARAMELS. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, two table- 
spoonfuls water. Boil all together until it is hard; test in cold 
water; pour into shallow pans and cut or break as you please. 

EMMA'S CREAM BEER. 

Two ounces tartaric acid, two pounds of white sugar, the juice 
of half a lemon, three pints of water; boil all together Ave 
minutes; when nearly cold, add the whites of three eggs well 
beaten, with one-half cup of flour,* and one-half ounce of sassafras; 
let this all come to a boil ; when cool, put in bottles and keep in 
a cool place. When wanted for use, take two tablespoonfuls in 
two-thirds of a glass of cold water, and stir in quickly nearly a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of cooking soda. This is a delicious 
summer beverage. 



38 
MEMORANDA. 



39 

RECEIPTS FOR INVALIDS 



CORN STARCH or RICE FLOUR GRUEL. 

(Gruels should be cooked in a double boiler). 

One cup boiling water, one saltspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
rice flour or cornstarch, wet and smoothed in a little cold water; 
then stir into the boiling water and cook eight minutes. Have 
ready a hot cup with a teaspoonful of cream, and sugar if desired, 
and turn into it the gruel. Serve at once. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

Wet one-half cup Indian meal with a little cold water, and 
pour it into three pints boiling water; add half a teaspoonful salt, 
and let it simmer two hours; strain into a hot cup with a little 
sugar and cream, if liked. 

BOILED RICE. 

Cleanse one cup rice, soak half an hour in cold water; then 
put into rapidly boiling water (salted) and boil until the grains are 
tender; do not let them mass together; drain in a cullender and 
pour over the rice and through the cullender sufficient cold water 
to separate the kernels. Set in the oven and let it heat up, stirring 
with a fork. If this is done carefully, you will have a dish of 
boiled rice thoroughly cooked, and all the grains separate. 

OATMEAL GRUEL (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Crush with a rolling-pin or pestle two-thirds tumbler oatmeal; 
put back in the tumbler and fill it up with cold water, stirring as 
it begins to settle ; pour off the water into a bowl ; add water again 
and pour off; do this three times; you will then have a tumbler of 
oatmeal water ; boil this twenty minutes, slowly ; then strain it into 
a hot cup having in it a pinch of salt and a little cream. 



40 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

One teaspoonful Bermuda arrowroot, one cup boiling water, 
saltspoonful salt, one tablespoonful cream; wet the arrowroot with 
a little cold water, smooth to a paste, and add to the boiling 
water ; cook five minutes ; have ready a hot cup, with the cream 
and a lump of sugar; or, omit the cream and flavor with lemon 
juice; or, if ordered by the physician, two teaspoonfuls of brandy 
may be added. 

BEEF TEA. 

One pound round of beef ; trim off the fat, cut into small pieces 
and place in a Mason jar, covering the meat with cold water. 
Place the jar in a kettle of cold water with a trivet or two sticks 
in the bottom to prevent cracking the jar; let the whole heat 
slowly, and be kept hot until the juice is extracted from the meat 
(which will then be colorless and tasteless), then pour off and 
cool; remove all fat, and keep the tea in a cool place, using a 
little at a time as needed. This tea may be served hot or cold; 
flavor with salt and pepper, or lemon juice, or cream ; or add a 
well-beaten egg to one cup of the tea. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Broil a piece of steak quickly (three minutes), then press out 
all the juice and serve on a slice of hot toast. 

CHICKEN BROTH and JELLY. 

Clean and cut into small pieces, one chicken, breaking the bones. 
Put all together in a kettle and cover with cold water; let it heat 
slowly and simmer for two hours, skim carefully, add one tea- 
spoonful salt. Strain into a dish and cool; remove all fat. This 
may be put into cups and served cold, as jelly ; or it may be heated 
and flavored with lemon; or you may add one cup rich milk, 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, let it come to a boil like custard, 
and serve cold in cups. 



41 

BOUILLON (Mrs. Lincoln). 
Four pounds round of beef, two pounds bone, two quarts cold 
water, one tablespoonful salt, four pepper-corns, four cloves, one 
tablespoonful mixed herbs. Wipe and cut the meat and break the 
bones into small pieces ; add the water, heat slowly, add the season- 
ing, and simmer five hours; reduce to three pints; then strain, 
remove the fat, season with salt and pepper. 

MUTTON and RICE BROTH. 

Two pounds lean mutton, one pound cracked mutton bones, 
one cup boiled rice, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one quart water. 
Chop the meat fine and place with the bones in the soup kettle. 
Cover with water and cook slowly until the bones are clean, and 
the meat white and tasteless; strain, add the rice, a pinch of 
salt, simmer together, then add the milk and beaten eggs. Cook 
five minutes and serve. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Place the chop in a piece of white paper, well buttered. 
Turn the edges in all around like a turnover. Broil over a clear 
fire from six to eight minutes, being careful not to let the 
paper catch fire. Remove from the paper to a hot plate, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut the steak one inch thick, at least. Grease the gridiron, 
and place the steak upon it over a clear fire, being careful not 
to scorch. Cook from three to five or six minutes. Count three 
slowly, turn and count until the steak is done. Season with 
butter, salt and pepper. Serve hot. 

BROILED QUAIL and other birds. 

Cut off the wings close to the body. Cut off the feet at 
joints, to prevent shrinking; cleanse shot wounds; draw, cleanse 
and wipe thoroughly. Cut down the back and open out ; spread 



42 

with soft butter, sprinkle salt and pepper, dredge lightly with 
flour. Place in a well buttered piece of writing paper, fold in 
the edges so as to cover well, and broil over a clear fire from 
eight to ten minutes, turning whenever the paper smokes. Serve 
on buttered toast and garnish with parsley. 

TOASTED BREAD. 

Cut the bread evenly in slices a quarter of an inch thick; 
place in a wire toaster and hold over a clear fire, turning fre- 
quently until the bread is a golden brown color on both sides. 
Do not leave it for one second. Never take to an invalid a slice 
which has been scorched; the "burned" flavor cannot be scraped 
oft 

TOASTED CRACKERS 

May be served in this way : Toast on both sides without a scorch, 
and pour over them a little scalded cream ; add a sprinkle of 
salt; place on the dish a nicely baked apple with sugar sprinkled 
over it; or a little apple or quince jelly. This makes a very 
relishing lunch for an invalid. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Place one quart rich milk in double boiler; when it is scald- 
ing hot stir in to it five well beaten eggs, one cup sugar, and 
cook according to directions for "gelatine custard." 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Beat lightly, four eggs, add one quart rich milk; allow one 
tablespoonful sugar for each egg. a saltspoonful salt; flavor with 
nutmeg, vanilla, orange or rose water. Pour into cups or a deep 
dish; place in a pan with a little water in it, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. Test it by inserting the handle of a tea- 
spoon, if the spoon comes out clear and dry, the custard is done. 



43 

WINE WHEY. 
Boil one-half pint new milk; while it is boiling stir in one 
enp wine, Sherry or Madeira; turn all into a bowl, let it stand 
ten minutes, then strain and sweeten to suit the taste. Serve cold. 

MULLED WINE. 
Boil together one pint wine, one pint water; beat the yolks 
of four eggs with one large spoonful sugar, adding a saltspoon- 
ful clove or cinnamon, and stir into the boiling wine; turn into 
a pitcher or dish, beat up the whites of the eggs and place on 
the top. Serve with hot toasted cracker. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE. 

Clean thoroughly one cup Irish moss; place in a kettle and 
pour over it one quart boiling water; let it steep (not boil) two 
hours; mix the juice of four lemons and one large cup loaf 
sugar ; strain the moss water over it and cool. This is excellent 
for colds ; may be taken hot or cold. 

JELLY and ICE. 

Any sour jelly, currant, barberry, plum, mixed with half a 
tumbler of chopped ice makes a refreshing drink. 

LEMONADE. 
Allow for each lemon, one tablespoonful sugar, one tumbler 
water. Boil the sugar and water together; mix, strain and cool. 

COLD WATER. 
Boil drinking water one-half hour, strain into clean glass 
bottles, and after it is cool set the bottles in the ice-box. It 
will be sufficiently cold for invalids or for table use. 

EGG NOG. 

Beat together the yolk of one egg and one tablespoonful 
sugar; add two tablespoonfuls wine, or one of brandy or old 
Jamaica rum, one-half cup milk. Beat the white of egg to a 
froth and stir in last. The wine, brandy and rum should be 
given only under instruction of physician. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 





Breakfast and 


Tea 


PAGE. 






Cake, Best, Miss Maynard 


11 


Cakes. 




" Bride 


14 






" Chocolate 


13 




PAGE. 


" Corn Starch 


12 


Breakfast Rolls 


4 


" Cup 


12 


Brown Bread 


4 


" Feather 


13 


Cake, Berry 


5 


" Fruit 


11 




' Berry, Griddle 


7 


" Gold 


14 




' Corn, No. 1 


3 


" Nut 


15 




' Corn, No. 2 


3 


" Orange 


13 




1 Corn, No. 3 


3 


" Pound 


12 




' Griddle 


6 


" Wedding 


11 




' Lunch 


5 


" White Mountain 


13 




< Smithfield 


6 


" Union 


12 


" Squash Griddle 


7 


Cookies, Aunt Maria's 


16 


Coffee 


8 


" Molasses 


15 


Doughnuts 


5 


" Rosa's 


15 


Fritters, Queen 


G 


Crullers 


16 


Gems, Graham 


3 


Ginger Snaps 


16 


" Indian Meal 


4 


Gingerbread, Soft 


15 


" Rye 


4 


" Sugar 


16 


Muffins, Flour 


4 






" Miss Parloa 
Omelet 

" Bread 


3 

7 
8 


Pies and Puddings. 




German Toast 


24 


Pancakes 


5 


Lemon Filling 


20 


Parker House Rolls 


6 


Mince Pie Meat 


19 


Rusk 


4 


Pie, Cream, Mariette's 


20 


Sally Lunn 


6 


" Green Apple 


19 


Short Cake, Strawberry 


7 


" Lemon, Mrs. Tirrell's 


19 


Tea 


8 


" Marlboro 


19 






Pudding, Batter 


22 


Cake. 




" Cocoanut 


22 






" Cottage 


21 


Cake, Anna's Sponge 


14 


" Cranberry 


24 


1 


' Berwick Sponge 


14 


English Plum 


20 



Pudding, Green Corn 


22 


Pickle, Chopped 


'« 


Indian 


21 


" Green Tomato 


•« 


Lemon 


22 


•• Sweet 


«< 


Peach 


20 


" Sweet Tomato 


" 


Plum, Mrs. Keith's 


20 


Rice Croquettes 


«• 


Queen of 


23 


Salad Dressing 


" 


Rice 


23 


" " Cooked 


" 


Sponge 


22 


Sherbet, Pineapple 


•« 


Suet 


21 


Snow, Apple 


" 


Tamer's 


22 


" Dish of 


» 


Tapioca 


21 


Soup, Mock Turtle 


Pudding Sauce, No. 2 


24 


" Potato 


•' 


No. 3 


25 


" Scotch 


" 


" Hard 


24 


Tomato 


" 


" Lemon 


25 


Taffy, Mary's 


Sauce for Cranberry Pudding 


24 


Tomato Ketchup 


Snow, 


Ice and Thaw 


23 


Veal Loaf 



Fancy Dishes. 



PAGE 
34 
34 
33 
35 
33 
29 
30 
29 



Receipts for Invalids. 



Peer, Emma's Cream 


37 


Beef Juice 


40 


Blackberry, Stewed 


36 


" Tea 


40 


Canned Fruits 


36 


Beefsteak 


41 


Caramels, Chocolate 


37 


Bouillon 


41 


" Molasses 


37 


Chicken Broth 


40 


Charlotte Russe, Gelatine 


25 


Cold Water 


43 


Chili Sauce, Mary's 


35 


Custard, Baked 


42 


Currants, Spiced 


34 


Boiled 


42 


Custard, Gelatine 


29 


Egg Nog 


43 


Floating Island 


26 


Gruel, Arrowroot 


40 


Fruit Preserve 


36 


" Corn Starch 


39 


Ice Cream, Gelatine 


26 


" Indian Meal 


39 


Jelly, Currant 


35 


" Oatmeal 


39 


" Orange 


26 


Irish Moss Lemonade 


43 


" Wine 


26 


Jelly and Ice 


43 


Lemon Creams 


25 


Lemonade 


43 


Molasses Candy 


37 


Mutton Broth 


41 


Oysters, Broiled 


32 


Mutton Chops, Broiled 


41 


" Creamed 


32 


Quail, Broiled 


41 


Fried 


31 


Rice, Boiled 


39 


Potatoes, Creamed 


33 


Toasted Bread 


42 


Toasted 


32 


Wine, Mulled 


43 


" Warmed over 


32 


" Whey 


43 



