CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monograplis) 



ICMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut Canadian da microraproductions historiquas 







I v/ 





historiques 




Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



□ 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any 
of the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming, are 
checked below. 



Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de eouleur 

Covers damaged/ 
Couverture endommagie 



Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restauree et/ou pellicuite 



Cover title missing/ 

Le titre de couverture manque 

Coloured maps/ 

Cartes giographiques en eouleur 

Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de eouleur (i.e. autre que bieue ou noire) 

Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en eouleur 

Bound with other material/ 
Relie avec d'autres documents 

Ti^t binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La reliure serree peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distorsion le long de la marge interieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have 
been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajouttes 
lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, 
mais, lorsque cela etait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas ete filmdes. 



Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires supplementaires: 



□ 

n 
n 

13 



n 



n 



n 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire qu'il 
lui a iti possible de se procurer. Les details de cet 
exemplaire qui sont peut4tre uniques du point de vue 
bibliographique. qui peuvent modifier une image 
reproduite. ou qui peuvent exiger une modification 
dans la methods normale de f ilmage sont indiques 
ci-dessous. 

□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de eouleur 

□ Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommagces 

□ Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
Pages restaurees ot/ou pellicultes 

I y\ Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
I 1 Pages dteolorees. tachetto ou piquees 

□ Pages detached/ 
Pages detachies 

0Showthrough/ 
Transparence 

r~~~j Quality of print varies/ 



n 



Qualite in^le de I'impression 

Continuous pagination/ 
Pagination continue 



□ Includes index(es)/ 
Comprend un (des) index 

Title on header taken from:/ 
Le titre de I'en-tfte provient: 

□ Title page of issue/ 
Page de titre de la livraison 

□ Caption of issue/ 
Titre de depart de la livraison 



D 



Masthead/ 

Generique (periodiques) de la livraison 





lOX 








14X 






IIUII If 


18X 


S CI-UC 


VSOUI 




»x 








26 X 








30X 




























/ 






















12X 16X 20X 24X 28X 







J 



32 X 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Hamilton Public Library 



L'exemplaire filmi fut reproduit grica A la 
g6n6rosit6 de: 

Hamilton Public Library 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. Ail 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impree- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



Lss images suivantes ont M reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition fit 
de la netteti de rexemplaire filmA, et en 
conformity avec las conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 

Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimie sont fiimis en commengant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniire page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, salon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmte en commengant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la derni^re page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol —4»> (meaning "CON- 
TINUED "). or the symbol T (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., mty be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ► signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symbols V signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent dtre 
film48 d des taux de reduction diff^rents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour dtre 
reproduit en un seul cliche, il est filmd A partir 
de Tangle sup^rieur gauche, de gauche d droite. 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mithode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 




4 


5 






6 





MICROCOPY RESOiUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 




^ yiPPLIED IM/IGE Inr 

~^ 1653 East Main Street 

=\S Rochester. New York U60!> USA 

'.■aa (716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 

== (716) 288- 5989 -Fox 







1ll>.illlilllllllllll:|||;il|{||ill||j|i|||!|||||;|i||||;|l 



THE 



im0il!l!t 




m^\smr& ^'. ^-^t^^ 



iWa 



RSmBD EDITION. 



^ 



1 "She lockslh well 
i to IKe 





'Wau£ of her 
Ko-aceKcld." 



^ 



I Compiled by the Ladies' Aid Society I 



^ 



■OF THE- 







mfeli i 



HAMILTON, ONTARIO. 

1888, 




i« f anzer Lamp aid GooM 




The Wanicr Lamp is positively non- 
explosive, gives the same light as three 
ordinary iiich wick lamps, and con- 
iumea only }i pint of oil for "Six hoars 
burning. 

The Cooker is set over the Lamp as 
here shown, and while the light is not 
impaired the heat is, utilized. The 
Cooker can be used for BoiUng, Baking 
.or Roasting. A whole dinner can be 
put on at once, covered up and let 
alone until ready to serve. 

A poor cook cannot spoil a meal. 

The meal may be kept hours without 



rt 



TON Public Library 



Reference Department 



Shelf ?iumberl^ • 5 
CANA C^-^% 



ThU Book is not to b« tak 
o' the room. 



en out 




jthe 

lore 
tted 
lods 

and 
Ivor 



how 
fiUe 
bam 
iong 
pok- 
jious 
["the 
(red, 
i the 
ined, 
auti- 



ful. " 

Meats roasted, potatoes baked, veg- 
etable steamed, all by the aid of one 
Wanzer Lamp. 



▲ Al 



M. WANZER k CO 



MANu > ACl UKEKS, 
HAMILTON, - CANADA. 



li 



GrCoi^^efeeepe^V efCefo 



R^VIS^D EDITION, 



^ 



''She looketK well 
to the 



^ 




;^ 



'"UTaqs of her 
household." 



^ 



COMPILED BY THE 



L/IBIES' AID SOeiETY 



-OF THE- 



Central Presbyterian Church, 



HAMILTON, ONTARIO. 



1888. 



W 



" "• HAMILTON, ONT. : 

RoBT. Raw & Co., Printers and Wood-Engravers, 28 & 30 John St. North- 



.-e^' 



^ i i3'*' 



« 



SOUPS. 

Corn Soup.— Cut the grains from one dozen ears of corn and boil 
the cobs for two hours in a little water, strain this soup and return to the 
kettle, the* add the corn and boil thirty to forty minutes, when nearly 
done, thicken with a cup of milk and two tablespooniful of flour, and a 
lump of butter. Season with salt and white pepper.— M. D. B. 

Tomato Soup.— Take one pint of milk and bring almost to a boil; 
melt one dessert spoonful of butter and mix with one dessert spoonful of 
flour and add to the milk. When you have brought this to a boil, put in a 
handful of cracker crumbs, a little salt and pepper. Have ready a can of 
tomatoes which have been boileu and strained. Before adding to the milk 
put in a teaspoonful of soda. Do not let the soup boil after the tomatoes 
are in.— MRS. M. M. F. 

Ox Tail Soup. — Two ox tails, two slices of ham, one ounce of' 
butter, two carrots, two turnips, three onions, one leek, one head celery, 
one bunch savoury herbs, one bay-leaf^ twelve whole pepper corns, four 
cloves, a table spoonful salt, two table spoonfuls catsup, half glass port 
wine, three quarts water mode. Cut up the tails, seperating them at the 
joints, wash and put in a sauce pan with the butter j cut the vegetables in 
slices and add them with the pepper corns and herbs ; put in a half pint 
of water and stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn, fill up the 
sauce-pan with the water, and when boiling, add the salt ; skim well and 
simmer very gently lor four hours or until the tails are tender, take them 
out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with flour and flavour with catsup 
and port wine ; put back the tails, simmer for five minutes and serve. — 
MRS. B. 

Oyster Soup. — Take one quart milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one handful of crackers, rolled. Season with a leaf of mace. Pepper and 
salt to taste. Put all in a saucepan and bring to a scald, then take off the 
stove for a minute. 

Take one quart of oysters, strain off liquor and save it. Wash oysters, 
put them back into liquor; then, having liquor and oysters ready, put 
them into the saucepan with ingredients named, bring all quickly to the 
s;:uiu anu serve. -L. ivi. 



Ox Tail Soup. — Take six or less tails, according to size, disjoint 
them, add three quarts cold water, half a turnip, one carrot, three onions, 
which should be sliced and browned in a little butter before putting in 



(^' 



I and boil 
urn to the 
len nearly 
)ur, and a 
J. 

to a boil ; 
joonful of 
il, put in a 
|r a can of 
the milk 
: tomatoes 



ounce of 
ad celery, 
orns, four 
glass port 
jm at the 
etables in 
L half pint 
Bll up the 
1 well and 
ake them 
th catsup 
I serve. — 



of butter, 
epper and 
ike off the 



ih oysters, 
eady, put 
:ly to the 



, disjoint 
e onions, 
cutting in 



Boup ; if celery is in season, put in pieces not used for table, if not in 
season, use two or three leaves of macp, a little grated nutmeg and pepper 
and salt to taste. Cook slowly until tails are soft, then lift them out and 
strain soup, then put back the tails into the clear soup ; if this soup is 
made the day previous to use, take off the fat from surface and re-heal the 
soup for use. — C. M. 

Vegetable Soup. — Take a neck of lamb and water in the proportion 
of a quart to each pound of meat, salt to taste, skim when it comes to the 
boiling point, then add to it one small cabbage, two or three small carrots, 
three or four onions, two small white •urnips, mince them all fine, then 
add later a pint or moie of green peas and a little rice. Boil until the 
vegetables are nicely blended. 

Plain Brown Soup. — Take a shank of beef, put into your saucepan 
with five quarts water, one Swede turnip, two carrots, three onions, one 
head celery, small bunch parsley, pepper and salt to taste, three cloves. 
(The onions should be browned in butter or dripping before being added.) 
Boil until meat drops from bone. Strain and cool ; skim fat off top ; re- 
heat and serve. This soup is better made the day before required — I.. L. 

Celery Soup. — Six heads celery, one teaspoonful of salt, one lump 
of sugar, one half pint strong stock, a pint of cream or rich milk, two 
quarts boiling water and a very little nutmeg. Cut the celery into small 
pieces and put into the water seasoned with nutmeg, salt or sugar. Boil 
till tender, pass through a sieve, add the stock and simmer for half an hour. 
Put in the cream, bring to boiling point and serve. — L. L. 

Pea Soup.— Take three pounds of beef suitable for soup, put it in 
three quarts of cold water, as soon as it boils add cne pound of split peas, 
three onions, a grated carrot if the flavor is liked, salt and pepper to taste. 
Boil two hours and a half, then strain. Have a slice of bread toasted 
crisp, cut in small squares, put in the tureen and pour the boiling soup 
over it. 



Veal Soup. — Two quarts of new milk, one pound loin of veal; the 
piece between the chump and kidney end, a large onion, a little mace, 
pepper and salt, &c., add quarter pound of rice ; put all together and stir 
it thoroughly, then pass it through a sieve when it will be like cream. 
Before it is sent to the table it must be warmed in a jar set in a saucepan 
of boiling water and then turned into a tui :• r — MRS. N. 



FISH. 

Devilled Lobster,— To one can of lobster, take the yolks of two 
eggs, one quarter loaf stale bread, grated ; mix all together and season 
with red and black pepper, salt and bits of butter. Put all in a pudding 
dish and bake brown. — M. B. B. 

Lobster Chops. — Have lobster boiled and picked, chop as finely as 
possible, add nearly a cup of milk, some fine grated bread crumbs to 



A. 




J 




d^chaMt ^ W.aitot' 



*F 



5@ lames %U M&rtL 



HAMILTON, 



WILLIAM LEES & SON, 

31 l^aizi Street Sast, 



MANUFACTURER OF- 



Bread*Kakes,*Br6akfast*Rolls, 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

Mutton Pies, Tea Buns, Etc. 
TT A TwTIXiTOJSr. 



s: 

S( 

h 
h 
it 



ci 

SI 



ei 
w 
til 
pi 



D( 

lie 

wl 
a 



t 



O't'. 



ON, 



thicken, one Ublespoonful Worcester same, salt and pepper to taste. Put 
all in a pot on the fire and L. ii come to a boil simply. Have ready fine 
bread crumbs, yolks of two eggs well bea'en. When ihe lobster has be- 
come cold, form into small chops, paint them with egg, dip into the bread 
crumbs, and fry light brown. Stick lobster claws in end of each chop.— 

To Roast Oysters.— Drain them, put Iheni in a spider which is very 
hot, turn them in a moment so that they may cook on both sides. Put 
them on a hot plate, in which there is hot butter. Sprinkle with salt and 
nepper.— MRS. M. M. F. 

• 
u J p'^.y-LED Oysters,— Twenty oysters, strain and chop them ; two 
hard boiled eggs, chopped fine; two cups bread crumbs, mix well together; 
season with salt and pepper, and wet with a little of the oyster liquor; 
butter twelve oyster shells, put in the mixture with a piece of buuer on 
each shell and bake brown. —MRS. R. H. 

Fish Soukklk.— After fish has been boiled and is cold, take about a 
pini of the cold fish, rub the piec >s fine wiih a potato masher, add a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, an.' a teaspoon of Anchovy sauce ; rub 
ma sauce pan butter the size nf a large .gg, melt it and stir in three scant 
tablespoons of flour, rubbing it very smooth ; add one and a half cups milk 
or cream, yolks of two eggs, pepper and salt, rook liU the mixture is quite 
thick, stirring all the time ; mi.x with the fish in the tray, then set aside to 
cool ; just before dinner, beat the whites to a stifT froth, add to the fish 
put m cases or shells in the oven frc m three to five minutes, till top is a 
light blown, fill the case half full. -I.. L, 

Baked F'sh — A fish weighing from four to six pounds, is a good 
size to bake. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, butter, salt, and some 
salt pork chopped fine, mix this with one egg, fill the body, sew it up and 
lay It in a large dripper with a pint of water and a little salt, bake it an 
hour and a half; after taking up the fish thicken the gravy ani pour over 



tolls, 



c. 



Cream Sauce for Fish. —Have ready in sauce-pan one cup of 
cream diluted with a few spoonsful of water, stir in carefully two table- 
spoons melted butter and a little chopped parsley ; heat this in a vessel 
filled with hot water ; pour in the gravy from fish. Boil thick.— MRS. J. C. 

Boiled Salmon.— Scale and clean your fish, lay it in fish kettle with 
enough cold water to cover it, adding a spoonful of salt to every quart of 
water used, bring quickly to a boil, take off the scum and simmer gently 
till done, dram it, serve with melted butter, garnish with cut lemon and 
parsley.— L. L. 

Cold Salmon Pickled.— Take the fish left from dinner, remove the 
bones, lay in a disii and cover to exclude air. Boil a breakfast cup of the 
Uquor m which fish was boiled, with same quantity of vinegar, half ounce 
whole pepper, half ounce whole allspice, one teaspoon of salt, if to be had 
a bay leaf, let stand till cold ; pour over fish, allow to remain ten hours 
before using. A very nice breakfast dish.— L. L. 



:t- 



Baked Haddock.— Clean the fish without cutting it up much, fill in- 
side with force-meat stuffing, brush over with egg, sprinkle over bread 
crumbs and baste with butter or good dripping. Serve with nice brown 
gravy or sauce. — L. L. 

Cod Pie, very cheap.— Any pieces of cold cod, after bones and skin 
are removed, may be laid in a pie dish with a dozen oysters, and as much 
melted butter as will moisten the fish j cover over with mashed potatoes, 
bake for about half an hour. When sent to table it ought to be a nice 
light brown color.— L. L. 

Fish Sauce— WHiiE-One-third cream or i^ch milk, two ounces of 
butter, one teaspoonful flour, salt and pepper to taste. If liked, a little 
lemon juice is an improvement.— L. L > "= 



MEATS. 

Boned Turkey.— One medium sized turkey, one tongue, (boiled), two 
lbs. sausage meat, one small loaf stale bread, % lb. suet, minced fine, two 
eggs, oiie tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful pepper, any kind of season- 
ing to taste, such as thyme, sage sweet marjoram &c. After the turkey is drawn 
take a sharp knife and beginning at the wings, carefully separate the flesh 
from the bone, scraping it down as you go, and avoid tearing or breaking 
the skin ; next loosen the flesh from the breast and back, and then from 
tne thighs It requires great care and patience to do it nicely When all 
the flesh IS thus loosened, take the turkey by the neck, give it a pull, and 
the skeleton will come out entire from the flesh, as easy as you draw your 
hand out of a glove. The flesh will then be a shapeless mass. Then pro- 
ceed to stuff with the dressing, the wings and thighs first, then lay the 
tongue in the breast, and fill in round it w.fh the dressing, sew up and 
skewer the turkey into its proper form, so that it will look as if it had not 
been boned ; tie with tapes and then put in a floured cloth, tie. boil about 
three hours or steam.— Mrs. McL. 

Cannelon of Beef.— Chop the remains of yesterdays beef mix 
with quarter of a pound of minced ham, season with pepper, salt, grated 
lemon peel and a little onion, moisten with yesterdays gravv, with a little 
flour stirred in and bind with one or two beaten eggs. Make good pie 
paste, roll into an oblong shape, put the mince into the middle and make 
the pastry mto a long roll, enclosing the meat. Close at the ends with 
round caps of pastry, the edges pinched well together, lay in a dripping 
pan, the joined side of the roll downward and bake to a good brown.-- 
JMrs. R. H. 



Breakkast Steak— Take a tender slice of steak, lay in a baking 
pan,;^redge hghtly with flour, salt and pepper and a little minced parsley 
put in the oven and bake twenty minutes ; take it up, put on the platter 
spread with butter, dredge into the gravy in the pan a little flour, season 
with butter, boil up and pour over the steak, serve very hot.— Mrs. M. M F 



nuch, fill in- 
over bread 
nice brown 



les and skin 
nd as much 
;d potatoes, 
o be a nice 



ounces of 
ked, a little 



Joiled), two 
jd fine, two 
d of season- 
tey is drawn 
te the flesh 
)r breaking 
I then from 

When all ^ 
a pull, and 
draw your 
Then pro- 
ben lay the 
w up and 
■ it had not 
boil about 



beef, mix 
salt, grated 
nih a little 

good pie 
and make 
ends with 
a dripping 

brown. — 



1 a baking 
;d parsley, 
he platter, 
ur, season 
. M. M. F. 



Smither & Berkinshaw, 



Importers anh Deai.krs in 

f ^aUni and 

Berlin and Fringing Wool, 
Fine Yarns, Plush Goods, Etc. 



SMITHEE & BEEKINSHAW, 

JWcJ-ean's Old Stand, 4 Jiing: ^i. past. 



6R0eERIES 

Of the Finest Quality can 
be had from 

JOHNJ.^AAATT 

ee iriia-iT street East, 
IV/io IS Agent for the great Indian Lentil 



cc- 



\LJ M Ij, 



The very choicest 1^ f iHilili TEf 13^ constantly on 



quality 



■»;«'* BCIllHl 



hand. 



llv 



,8 

Ham Croquettes. — One cupful of finely chopped cooked ham, one 
of bread crumbs, two of hot mashed potatoes, one large table spoonful 
butter, three eggs and a speck of either mustard or cayenne ; beat the ham 
(cayenne or mustard) butter and two eggs, into the potato, let the mixture 
cool slightly, and then shape into croquettes, roll in the bread crumbs, dip 
in beaten eggs and again in bread crumbs, plunge in boiling fat, cook two 
minutes, drain and serve —Mrs. L. S. 

Veal Cutlets, with fine Herbs —Melt a piece of butter in the 
frying pan, put in the cutlets with salt, pepper, and some spice, move them 
about in the butter for five minutes, have ready some mixed herbs and 
mushrooms chopped finely; sprinkle half over one side of the cutlets, and 
when fried enough, turn and sprinkle them with the other half; finish fry- 
ing, and add the juice of a lemon ; set them round the dish, with the 
seasoning m the centre.— Mrs. Wm. Y. 

Jellied Veal. — Boil a small knuckle of veal in plenty of water, 
slightly salted. When the veal is thoroughly done and will slip from the 
bone, take it out and pick into flakes ; place in a wet mould, inserting 
among the layers, three hard boiled eggs, sliced, at regular intervals. Season 
the liquor which is left in the kettle with pepper and a little lemon juice ; 
strain over the veal The liquor should be boiled away, so that there 
will only be enough to cover meat nicely. When cold turn out of mould 
and garnish.— Mrs. R. H, 

Veal Pudding —Chop cold cooked veal fine, put a layer in a baking 
dish, alrernating \«th a layer of powdered crackers, salt, pepper and bulter 
uniil the dish is filled. Bea' two eggs, add a pint of milk, pour it over 
the veal and crackers, cover with a plate and bake half an hour, remove 
the plate and let brown. — M. B. B. 

Stuffing for Veal, Turkeys, Hares, &c — Put an equal quantity 
of grated bread and beef suet "hred very fine, parsley and sweet herbs 
chopp:d small, a minced anchovy, some uutmeg, pepper and salt. Mix 
well together with raw egg or m'lk. — H. K. C. 

Partridge Pie.— Season the partridges with pepper and salt and lay 
them into a dish, breasts do'vnwards, either upon oeef or veal steak/s. If 
veal is used giale a little ham upon it, put in yolks of hard eggs, a little 
weak gravy and the giblcf, cover with a crust ; an hour and a-half will 
bake it. Have some gravy ready to pour in it when it is served.— 
H. K. C. 






Pigeon Pie —Season the pigeons well with pepper and salt, lay them 
into a dish with a beefsteak at the bottom of it, \,ith breasts downward, 
scatter in the giblets, and put in the yolks of some hard boiled eggs, pour 
in a little water, lay on crust and bake. A stuffing of chopped parsley, 
livers minced, and salt my be put into the pigeons if approved.— H.K.C. 

Pigeon And Beefsteak Pie —Take two pigeons and three quarters 
lbs. of rumpsteak ; quarter pigeons and slice the steak very thin; put in 
each slice a small piece ol bacon, pretty fat ; season with pepper and roll 
it up, Season pigeons with salt and pepper, or if liked better powdered 



Iced ham, one 
ible spoonful 
beat the ham 
;t the mixture 
1 crumbs, dip 
fat, cook two 



butter in the 
i, move them 
d herbs and 
; cutlets, and 
If ; finish fry- 
lish, with the 



ty of water, 
slip from the 
lid, inserting 
rvals. Season 
lemon juice; 
so that there 
)at of mould 



r ill a baking 
•r and butter 
pour it over 
our, remove 



[ual quantity 

sweet herbs 

1 salt. Mix 



salt and lay 
steak/ s. If 
eggs, a little 
a-half will 
is served. — 



lit, lay them 
I downward, 
1 eggs, pour 
)ed oarslev, 
d.— H.K.C. 

ree quarters 
iin; put in 
per and roll 
ir powdered 



spices; put a piece of butter over each piece, then arrange the pigeons and 
the rolls of steak in a pie dish with a few haid boiled eggs ; pour into 
this a small quantity meat or calves toot jelly ; just make liquid cover 
over the pie and bake for one hour in a well heated oven. Very good. — 
J. W. W. ' ^ 

Shepherd's Pie. — A nice wa; ij use up cold roast beef Slice the 
beef and mince fine, season with salt and pepper and put a minced onion 
to it ; make a gravy of the bones, then add the mince to it, let it boil a few 
minutes, then put it into a deep pudding dish, have some mashed potatoes 
prepared, lay the»a gently on the top of the mince until the dish is full, 
smooth over the top and bake a nice brown. — Mrs. Y. 

Pot Pie. — Put into an iron pot two quarts of cold water, two pounds 
of veal, quarter pound of fat salt pork and a little salt ; boil and skim ; when 
the veal is partly cooked, season with salt, pepper and butter the size of 
an egg ; then put the pot on the top of the stove, peel eight good sized 
potatoes and lay them on the top of the meat. Have a paste ready, made 
in this way : take one quart of flour, half a teacup of sweet lard and a 
little salt, rub thoroughly together, then add three teaspoons of baking 
powder ; mix perfectly ; add sweet milk enough to make a rather stiff 
paste ; mould into a loaf and cut it into slices about one inch thick, lay 
them on top of the potatoes, cover closely, boil slowly and continuously 
about an hour. Be careful about raising the cover, as the cold air will 
make the paste fall. Fresh p^tk, chickens or pigeons may be substituted 
forthe veal.— E. A. W. 

Sheep's Head Pie.— One sheep's head, half pound bacon, two hard 
boiled eggs, twelve ounces flour, four ounces butter, half teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder, pepper and salt, half pint cold water, half a pint of liquor that 
the head was boiled in ; have the head scalded or skinned, put in a pot 
with plenty of cold water, and when boiling skim carefully, throw in salt 
and cook slowly until the meat comes readily from the bone, cut the meat 
in small pieces and place a layer in a pie dish, salt and pepper, then a 
layer of bacon and eggs and a little of the liquor, and so on until the dish 
is full. Place in a bowl, flour, salt, butter, rub thoroughly, add baking 
powder and water, knead lightly. Bake in a quick oven half an hour- 
Miss D. 

Stewed Ox^Kidnev.- A beef kidney, pepper and salt. C ut the kidney 
into slices, season it highly with pepper and salt and fry it a light brown, 
then pour a little warm water into the pan, dredge in some flour, put in the 
slices of kidney and let them stew very gently for thirty minutes.— S.D.R. 

Jellied Chickens— Two large fowls, pepper and salt to taste, one 
ounce gelatine ; cut the fowls into joints, put into a stew pan with a little 
more water than will cover them and a pinch of salt ; let them come to a 
boil slowly, skim carefully and stew gently for two hours or until very 
tender; when done remove the large oones and place the meat in a bowl 
or pudding dish, as you put it in sprinkle with pepper and salt to flavor 
nicely, strain the gravy and have enough to cover the meat, then add to 
this one ounce gelatine thoroughly dissolved in enough cold water to cover, 
let this simmer for a minute, pour it over the meat and put in a cool place 
to jeUy.— S. D. R. v f 



itiHUtnemt/'js.i^iCitAKi 



Sift «. 



J. EASTWOOD & CO;S 

LIST OF COOKERY BOOKS. 



I A PM CQ f— Pi^aae select from the foUowincr list of Practical and 
L./AUICIO! Useful BoolM. 

Mrs. Beeton's "Book of Household Management" 

The acknowledged Best Cookery Book in the 
World. 1750 Pages. 4000 Recipes. 1000 En- 
gravings. PRICE, $2.50. 

Miss Par/oa'8 ''Kitchen Companion." 

Thoroughly practical, perfectly reliable, very 
comprehensive. PRICE, $2.50. 

Miss Parloa's ''New Coo/i Book.'' 

A very popular work. PRICE, $1.50. 

Pierre Caron's 'French Dishes for American Tables " 

PRICE, $1.25. 

"The Home Cook Book.'' 

By the Ladies of Toronto. The Canadian Cook 
Book merits a place in every home. PRICE, $1. 

Marion Harland's "Common Sense in the Household." 
An excellent Book. PRICE, $1.00. 

Marion Harland's "Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea." 
PRICE, 35 CENTS. 

Madame DeJoncourt's "Wholesome Cookery." 
PRICE, 50 CENTS. 

Warne's "Every Day Cookery." 

Containing 1500 Recipes and other valuable in- 
information. PRICE, 90 CENTS. 

Warne's "Model Cookery." 

PRICE, 35 CENTS. 

THE HOUSEKEEPER'S HELP, by the Ladies of Central Presbyterian 
Church, an excellent book, with many valuable Recipes, at a low price. 

FOR SALE BY J^ EASTWOOD & CO., 

BOOKStlURS, STATIONERS, BOOK-0INPERS, 

Importers of Wall and Ceiling Decorations. Fape^BaBetings, Etc. 
16 KING STREET EAST, -^ HAMILTON, ONTARIO; 



:o.'s 

3. 

Practical and 
t" 

k in the 
[000 En- 

•le, very 



ab/es'' 



ian Cook 
ICE, $1. 

old:' 
a." 



II 

Stewed Beef.— Cut rut the bone of small rump of beef, tie it firmly 
up with tape, put into you .aucepan with sufficient stock of water to cover 
It ; add two tablespoonsfuj of vinegar, two tablespoons of catsup, a good 
bunch of parsley and savoury, three onions, six cloves, pepper and salt to 
taste ; stew slowly for four hours, strain, skim your gra\/, add a liitU flour 
and butter to thicken and pour over meat. To the?* who like vegetables, 
a little carrot and turnip cut into dice and added is thought an improve- 
ment.— L. L. . 

Veal Loaf.— Three and one-half pounds of veal (boiled a very short 
time m a little water to make it easier to chop), one slice fat pork, chop 
both fine, six soft crackers pounded, two eggs, one-half cup of butter, large 
tablespoonful salt, teaspoon of pepper, little cloves, parsley or any herb to 
taste, mix all together and make into a loaf put into a pan with a little 
water, flour and a few bits of butter put on the top of the loaf; bake slowly 
for two hours basting with the waler in the pan as any other meat. This 
IS good for supper, cold, or sliced and fried in its own fat for breakfast- 
Mrs. L D. S. 

To Dress Beef or Sheep's Kidney.— Breakfast Dish.— Cut the 
kidney in slices, flour them and fry light brown, make a gravy in the pan, 
(after taking away the fat) of an ounce of butter, teacup boiling water, 
pepper and salt, one tablespoonful mushroom catsup ; let the gravy boil 
pour over kidney and serve ; sheep's kidney should be slit in half, not in 
slices, and the gravy added to the juice of kidney as they are not fat. A 
few bread crumbs is thought by some an improvement to this dish.— L.L. 

Cold Beef Cookery.— Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, lay in 
saucepan, set in pot of boiling water, cover them with a gravy made of 
three tablespoons of melted butter, one of walnut catsup, one teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, a little salt and pepper, one teaspoonful of made mustard, 
one tablespoonful of current jelley, and some warm water, cover tightly 
and steam for half an hour, keeping the outer vessel at a hard boil— L.L, 



uable in- 



'resbyterian 
w price. 



tc. 
4TARIO. 



SAUCES. 

Plain Sauce for Boiled Fish.— One cup boiling water, two tea- 
spoons corn starch, mixed in cold water, one tablespoon butter, one tea- 
spoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon anchovey sauce, or good catsup, 
juice of half a lemon, b^ iten yolks of two eggs, salt and cayenne pepper • 
stir the corn starch smoothly into this boiling water and set it over the fire' 
stirring until it thickens, add pepper, salt, butter, parsle". mix we!! '.narthi^r' 
put in the lemon juice and catsup, boil for a few^minutes, add the beaten 
yolks, stir quickly for a two minutes, pour over the fish and serve.-Mrs, B. 

Wine Sauce.— Equal quantities of butler and sugar. Beat half an 
hour. One wineglass of wine dropped in while beating, one cup of boiling 
water poured in just before serving. — J. F. 



ilajt^<>a»«i8MMiBiCte mmUmmttmi^mxaiiKmm. 



Fruit or Jelly Sauce. — One large tablespoonful jelly, two table- 
spoons sherry, six tablespoons sugar, six tablespoons water, half a lemon, 
one salt-spoon mace. Put jelly in saucepan, squeeze over it the 
lemon, add the sugar and water and place on fire to boil. When it boils 
remove from fire and add the mace and sugar. If too rich, add water. 
The sherry may be omitted. — M. E. G. 

Crak BERRY Saucb. — Three pints cranberries, one and-a-half pints 
sugar, one pint cold water. Put in porcelain kettle, boil eight minutes 
without stirring and let it stand in kettle until next day.— Mrs. L. D. S. 

Bread Sauce for Turkey, Roast Fowl or Partridge. — Put 
two onions in one pint milk, allow them to simmer until tender. Break 
into milk about a quarter of a stale loaf in small pieces and let remain to 
soak about an hour, then beat it until quite smooth, adding a little mace, 
pepper, salt, and one ounce butler. Give the whole a boil and serve. — 
L. L. 



BREAKFAST & SUPPER DISHES. 

Graham Gems. — Set your irons on the stove to heat, and heat well, 
whilst heating take one cup of water and one of sweet milk and two cups 
Graham flour, a little salt, and one well beaten egg, beat all the mixture 
thoroughly, when irons are hot and a good quick oven ready, grease irons 
well and put in batter and bake a good light brown, top and bottom. — 
Mrs. L. S. 

Brown Muffins. — One small cup sugar, one egg, one good sized 
cup of sweet milk two cups brown flour, piece ot butter, half size of an ^;g, 
little salt, two and half teaspoons baking powder. This recipe is equally 
good made of white flour. — Mrs. L. S. 

Baked Macaroni. — Take half pound of Macaroni, and break into 
inch pieces, put into boiling water slighil/ salted, and boil twenty minutes; 
strain and put in a buttered pudding dish, a layer of macaroni sprinkled 
with grated cheese and lumps of butter, and so on to the top, a large cup 
of milk or cream, a pinch of cayenne and salt, bake in covered dish, and 
then lift cover and brown. — M. B. B. 

Tip-Top Johnny Cake. — Two cups Indian meal, half-cup flour, one 
tablespoonful butter, two cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda, and pinch of 
salt.— Mrs. R. R. W. 



JTUI' V^VSKS. V/!IC ptlSl UI IlUtll, VllC piUl STTCCl UIIIIL, ITTU Cgg3, UUllci 

size of an egg, melted, a little salt, bake in gem irons well heated before 
mixture is put in, and have a hot oven, grease irons well. — Mrs. L. S. 

MuiFiNS. — Small half cup butter, one cup milk, two and a half cups 
flour, two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, bake in gem pans. — Mrs. 
M. M. F. 



;lly, two table- 
half a lemon, 
over it the 
When it boils 

h, add water. 



ind-a-half pints 
1 eight minutes 
trs. L. D. S. 

iTRIDGE. — Put 

:nder. Break 

d let remain to 

; a little mace, 

and serve. — 



ISHES. 

and heat well, 
k and two cups 
all the mixture 
if, grease irons 
1 bottom. — 



}ne good sized 
f size of an egg, 
cipe is equally 



nd break into 
wenty minutes; 
ironi sprinkled 
}p, a large cup 
^ered dish, and 



f-cup flour, one 
I, and pinch of 



nrO egj^s, Jjuttci 

heated before 
Mrs. L. S. 

nd a half cups 
m pans. — Mrs. 



TriE 6L0BE • 
• WASriB©Ar<D 



MAY BE HAD FROM ALL 



<lo*@®o soldi la iSS7.— Buj One. 



w/iLTEH W0ODS & ee., 

MANUFACTURERS, 

XZamlltozi. Oxxtaxlo. 



"FOR GOOD VALUE" 



IN 



Dr^Y "60098 



GO TO- 



Campbell & Pentecost's, 

43 McNab St. North, 



OPPOSITE THE MARKET. 



)? 



\^> 



t4 

SiUKFEu Potatoes. —Take nice large potatoes, bake until soft, then 
cut a round piece off ihe top of each, scrape out the inside carefully so as 
not to break the skin, mash the potato smoothly, working into it while hot 
butter and creami as for ordinary potatoes. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper and grated cheese, make it very soft with milk and put in a sauce 
pan to heat, when very hot, stir in one well beaten egg for every six 
potatoes, fill the skins with the mixture and return to the oven until they 
are brown on top. — M. B. B. 

EscoLLOPED Potatoes. — Pare half a dozen large potatoes and slice 
in round thin slices, butter the dish and put into it a layer of potatoes, then 
a layer of bread crumbs, salt, pepper and lumps of butter and so on, until 
the dish is filled, leaving the bread crumbs on the top : fill the dish half 
full of milk and bake three-quarters of an hour, sufficient foreiaht persons. 
— M. B. B. 

EscALOPED PoTAiOEs. — SUcc enough raw potatoes to fill a two-quart 
pudding dish, put in layers of potatoes and between each layer a little 
pepper, salt and butter, until dish is full ; one teacupful of milk poured 
over top, then put in oven and bake for threequarters of an hour. — E. 
R. C. 

Delicate Griddle Cakes.— Make a batter of one quart flour and 
one quart sour milk, yolk of two eggs, a pinch of salt, beat thoroughly, 
dissolve a teaspoon soda and add ; beat whites of the two eggs to a stiflf 
froth and stir in lightly.— Bake in hot buttered griddle.— C. 

Corn Meal Jems.— One cup corn meal, one half cup fiour, two cups 
sweet milk, two eggs beaten separately, with whites added last, half cnp 
brown sugar, two teaspoons baking powder, one tablespoonful melted 
butter and a little salt.— C. 

Pop-OvERS. — Two eggs, two cups flour, two cups milk, a pinch of 
salt, beat well together ; have gem pans hot by setting on top of stove, 
grease well and All with batter. Bake in a hot oven.— C. 



Macaroni and cheese. — Five ounces macaroni, five ounces grated 
cheese, two eggs, a little pepper and salt, one-sixth grated nutmeg, half 
pint of milk, two ounces butter. Wash the macaroni, cover with cold 
water, boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then pour water off, add the milk 
and boil slowly half an hour, place in a bowl three ounces grated cheese, 
add two eggs well beaten, mix thoroughly together, add pepper, salt 
and nutmeg, pour over this the hot macaroni, stir well together, place 
on a flat dish the remaining two ounces of cheese, put the bu !:er in 
small pieces on the top and brown quickly in the oven. — S. D. R. 

Scrap Pancakes. — Bowl of crusts well soaked in boiling water and 
bruised, four eggs, one pint milk, one saucerful of flour, one tablespoon 
sugar ; beat lightly together and fiy of a delicate brown.— E. M. T. 

Potted Hare. — A nice Breakfast Dish.— One hare, skin and 
wash it, cut it open down the middle, put in your saucepan with a few 



til soft, then 
refully so as 
it while hot 
vith salt and 
t in a sauce 
)r every six 
n until they 



IS and slice 
;tatoes^ then 
so on, until 
the dish half 
ight persons. 



a two-quart 
ayer a Utile 
milk poured 
n hour. — E. 



rt flour and 

thoroughly, 

ggs to a stiff 



ur, two cups 
ist, half cnp 
nful melted 



a pinch of 
op of stove, 



mces grated 
lutmeg, half 
r with cold 
Id the milk 
ited cheese, 
pepper, salt 
ether, place 
le bu ter in 
, R. 

g water and 
: tablespoon 
^. T. 

:, skin and 
I with a few 



• »5 

slices of bacon, a bu i of herbs, four cloves, half a teaspoonful of whole 
*r iu'^1' *^° '^*""°*'' ^^""^ onions, salt and pepper, one pint of water and 
if liked, add two glasses of sherry, stew very gently until flesh separates 
from bones, remove the bones and pound the meat with the bacon in a 
mortar until it is a perfectly smooth paste ; taste and if not seasoned 
enough add a little cayenne, salt, and lump of butter ; press tightly into 
pots or jars. Keep in a dry place.— L. L. 

Delicious Sandwiches —Half pound nice butter, two tablespoons 
mixed mustard, two teaspoons oil, a little white pepper and salt, yolk of 
one egg, beat all to a smooth paste and put on ice, chop fine tongue and 
ham, one third ham and two-thirds tongue; spread the above dressing 
on very thin fresh twist bread and lay the chopped meat between. Keep 
covered so as not to dry up. They are very nice.— S. M. M. 

Mock Terrapins.-Supper Dish— Half a calfs liver, season and fry 
brown, hash it, not very fine, dust thickly with flour, a teaspoon of mixed 
mustard, as much cayenne pepper as will lie on half a dime, two hard 
boiled eggs chopped fine, a piece of butter size of an egg, a teacup of 
water, let all boil a minute or two, then serve. Cold veal is also nice 
dressed in this way. — Mrs. J. C. 

Cheese for Supper.— A quarter of a pound good, soft cheese cut 
small, put into a saucepan with two rolled soda biscuits, half a teacupful 
of milk, one egg, stir on the fire until thoroughly melted, then dish into 
an ashet and brown in the oven.— B. G. 

Breakfast Cakes, i— Boil half a pound of rice very soft, drain off 
the water, mix the rice with four ounces of melted butter, let it cool, stir 
into it a quart of milk, a little salt, stir in alternately six eggs and half 
pound of flour, beat well together and bake on griddle. 

Breakfast Cakes, a.— Pint of unsifted flour, three teaspoonsful 
baking powder, one cup of milk, one egg beaten with two tablespoons 
sugar.— Mrs. L. D. S. 

Breakfast Dishes.— An excellent dish is made of six eggs and 
three tablespoons of ham chopped very fine ; beat the eggs, and after 
melting a lump of butter in the fryingpan drop the eggs into it and stir 
the ham in ; the ham has of course been cooked, either fried or boiled ; 
season with pepper. This is a good way to use up pieces of meat that are 
left from dinner. A nice dish for breakfast or for tea is made of sweet 
potatoes boiled. Remove the skins, rub the potatoes through a coarse 
colander, make into flat cakes, dip into flour and fry in hot bua«r. 

Potato Croquettes,— Three cups mashed potstoes, warm half 
a cup of flour, two eggs beaten, mix all well together ; flonr the hands, 
roll the potatoes into rolls the size of a sausage. Fry in butter.— M. E. G. 

Gems.— Stir together Graham flour, and cold water to about the con- 
sistency of ordinary cupcake batter ; the more the batter is beaten the bet- 
ter the gems. Bake in a hot oven in small pans (two inches square and 



W^' 






' ! 



Cor. Sing and McK ab Sto.) 

HAMILTON, ONT. 



TELEPHONE NO. 18. 



•^eSTABLISHep 1879.^- 



JAMES * DAVIDSON, 

PRACTICAL GOLDSMITH 

AND 

-^MANUFACTURING JEWELLER.^ 

73 Eaat ISine* Street, 

HAMILTON, - - ONTARIO. 



Watches, Clocks and Jewelleiy Carefully Repaired. 



1-an. 



1 



Sto. 



;oN. 

TH 
ARIO. 

aired. 



«7 

three quarters of an inch deep). No definite rule as to the proportions of 
flour and water can be given owing to the difference in the absorbing 
power of various brands of f ur— cne essential requiiite is the size of the 
pans— but made this size and nUed evenly full, if the batter is of the right 
consistency, the oven hoi and the pans hot, they will rise almost one-half 
and be as light and porous as sponge cake-C. H. fi. 

Rolls.— One coffee-cup new milk, one large tableapoon butter, put 
the butter in the milk and heat till near boiling, when lukewarm, add one 
large tablespoon good yeast, mix in flour to make a soft dough, cover 
warm and leave till morning, roll in a sheet about half an inch thick, cut 
with a biscuit cutter, spread over them melted butter with a feather, fold 
each one and apply the butter to the upper side, fill a pan, let raise thirty 
minutes or till very light. Bake in a quick oven.— B. H. 

Spice Buns. — Add to the above one cup white sugar, two eggs, spice 
to taste, mould and put in a pan in a warm place, when baked cover the 
tops with sugar dissolved in milk.— B. H. 

A Pretty Supper Dish.— Snow Eggs.— Put in a white lined flat 
pan a quart of milk, bring it to the boil, take the whiles of six eggs, beat 
them to a stifT froth, take a large tablespoon and fill it with beaten whites, 
drop into boiling milk, allow to remain a few minutes to set ; when all the 
whites are dropped in off the spoon, ihey appear a number ot light eggs ; 
lifk the eggs out with strainer, lay them on a dish till cold, make a custard 
of the milk the eggs were boiled in and yolks of eggs, sugar and vanilla 
flavoring ; put the custard in a glass dish and lay the eggs gently in ; they 
float on top and look very pretty. — L. L. 

Johnnie Cake. — One cup flour, two cups corn meal, butter size of 
o'>e ^K. salt, two eggs, two teacupfuls milk, two teaspoonfiils baking 
powder.— H. R. C. 



SALAD. 

Potato Salad.— Have a dinner plate of potatoes, which have been 
boiled with the skins on, when cold peel and cut in thin slices, add about 
two teaspoons onions, chopped fine, a few strips of celery, chopped fine, 
a tew small cucumber pickles, chopped fine, one small bottle capers. Pour 
over this the dressing and let stand several hours before using. 

Dressing.— The yolkes of two eggs, while beating add slowly three 
tablespoons olive oil, or a little more of melted butter, two dessertspoons 
made mustard, one teaspoon salt, five tablespoons vinegar ; set the bowl 
over the boiling teakettle and cook like custard, stirring constanllyj 
when cold, add half cup of cream and the beaten whites of two eggs.— 
o. " . W, 

Boiled Salad Dressing.— Three eggs, two taUesp' ons salad oil, two 
tablespoons (scant) sugar, one tablespoon (scant) made mustard, one 
tablespoon (scant) rah, a little cayenne pepper, one cup milk, one cup 



the milk I M ' r k', " k*^ I''"" •l'' P'PP" »"*^ ^*"^8"- ^"^ fi"«»y 

i r7 .1 .rt * ^^"^'* ''^''«'' »"<i <:ook until the drawing thickens 

weeks ^:^\ '"^ Tu^ tteqmntW Will keep for two^r three 

weeks a -M\x:d tighi and kept in • edd plif«.-S. A. G. 

hdt 2jf"i^^ /OR^SALAD.-Tvvr) eggs, piect 01 hutter size of an ena 
IfJ^ '"'"':, t"^ '"P ^'""8a.. beat the eggs very lighr add th^e 
T. '^'*!i\"^ ''""''• P"*' «" ^^'e fire, stifring all he time tUl 
of a tnc«ny thickness ; pour in hot. -Mrs. W L. 

there^u'sc'a'^el?' ^'^niTt^'of *.* '''J'l'? "^"^-^'^ ' '^ ""^h ^'"^^^ «"d until 
inere is scarcely . pint of liquid left on it, take off the skin cut the 

chicken into pieces quarter of an inch iquare. t«ke two parts of 

chicken and one part of celery, the celery to be St finer than the 

taste, then take off all the grease from the gravy and add to the rSt if it is 
no moist enough, add a little boiling water Ipd if not sharo Tno ah » 
htlle more vmegar ; use a very little cayenne peTper!-M. EG. ^ 

sufa? h^lf^rS" • " ^"l ^,f^' "^ "88'"' °"« ^"P of """>. half cup of 
siigar, half cup of vinegar, half teaspoon mustard, salt and peoDer to taste 
stn^to^a^boil. This dressing is very nice on raw cabbage cu'tTn' fine sU^;! 

thrt'tlh..?n ^''"'"'.•"'^'^f y°"'l °^ ^''^ ^8gs. while beating add slowly 
Doon sal C ?fh?"'' ''"' '^° dessertspoons of made musLd. one t«i^ 
spoon salt, five tablespoons vinegar ; set the bowl on the boiline tea ketlle 
and cook until thi^k as custard, stirring constantly, when cool add half 
cup fi-eam (less will do and the beaten whites of two eggs -SHW 



CAKES. 

Yankee Cake -One egg. well beaten, piece of butter size of an egg 
one and a-haW cups sugar, one cup milk, one pint flour, heaping teaspoon 

^ Corn Starch Delicate CAKE.-Whites of seven eggs, three ;- - 
sugar, one cup butter, one and a-half cups flour, one cup milk ur*;;. 
quarter teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon cream of lartar. Sifuhe c earn 
of tartar wiih the flour and add whites of eggs lastly. Rub butter and 
sugar to a cream, Beat eggs separatclv. Dissolve L» T„^;!L'^ul". 
iigniiy wifch iemor > rose water.— Mrs.' C. Y" C. '~ "' ' "'^"' 

Sponge Cake, -(, vu . cc'p butter, one and ahalf cups sugar one 
aip rmlk or water, ..^ .. 1 .- v,i^ cups flour, two teasp^ns SkiS^S^ 
Beat butter, eggs .^ . , ,r «ether f. n:y minut^. add milk^Jj^ 



fl 



HE 



as { 
III. 
Lifl 
Ho 



I 



Kee{ 
large 
Publi 
Bon 
and i 

Trifl< 

in thi 
guest 

Ca 



TEL 



erfectly imooth, 
egar. and finally 
Iresiing thickens 
or two or three 



size of an egg, 
' light, add the 
1 the time till 



ender and until 
e skin, cut ihe 

two parts of 
finer than the 
solve them in 

put with the 
easp(X)nsful of 
t and pepper to 
I the rest if it is 
harp enough a 
E. G. 

im, half cup of 
►epper to taste, 
t in fine strips. 

ig add slowly 
stard, one tea- 
iling tea kettle 
cool add half 
-S. H. W. 



ize of an egg, 
ping teaspoon 
Bake in four 



}, three ;v ■ 
' milk, iurce- 
)ift the cream 
• butler and 



lit 






•one 



s sugar, 
king powder, 
lilk and two 



I 



Hunter's ^ Lending ^ Library. 

52 James Street North, opp. Arcade. 

NEY/ PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED EVERY 7/EEK. 

The following Magazines are added to tlie Library 
as soon as published :— Chambers, Blackwood, English, 
111. Nineteenth Century, Harpers, Century, Scribners, 
Liffencotts the Fo; im, Art Amature, Art Interchange, 
Home Decoration, The Decoration and Furnishers. 

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION. 



Monthly, $030. 

Quarterly, 0.75. 

Yearly, 3 00 

150. 



2 Books per week. 

2 " " 

^ •« •« 



NE\VPORT 



OATERER' 



Keeps in stock the best Wedding Cakes and Wedding Cosaques. The 
largest stock of French, English, German and American Novelties, for 
Public and Private Parties and general use. Also pure choice Candies, 
Bon Bons, Chocolate, Buiter Scotch and Taffies of our own manufacture' 
and imported Cakes, Pastry and Buns of every description. Fresh daily. 



Jellied Meats, Entrees, Oysier Patties, Jellies, Charlotte 



l.dsse. 



Trifles, Ice Cream, Etc. 

We have the largest and most elegant Oyster and Ice Cream Parlors 
in the City. Also a spacious Dining Hall, with a seating capacity for 150 
guests, at 

ISTETVI^OJEIT'S 

Caterer and Ice Cream Manufacturer, 

180 KING STREET EAST. 
TELEPHONE NO. 775. 



ao 



*i I 



1i 



cups flour, beat well again, lastly the half cup with baking powder, beat 
again. This will make two layers, nice with jam or frosting. Bake in 
rather a quick o?en. — S. W. W. 

A Delicious Layer Cake.-- One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, beat 
to a cream, one-half cup milk, one and three quarter cups flour, three yolks 
and one white of eggs, two teaspoons Cleveland baking powder. Bake in 
three layers. 

Filling. — One cup white sugar, two tablespoons water, boil together till 
it strings, then pour into the beaten whites of two eggs and beat till it is 
creamy, and add one-half cup of chopped raisins and figs, or if preferred 
use jelly or a lemon filling. — Mrs. C. Y. C. 

Cream Icing.— White of one egg, add the same bulk of cold water 
and then stir in confectioners' XXX sugar till thick enough to spread 
nicely. Flavor with lemon juice. — Mrs. C. Y. C. 

Lydias " Good Cake."- -One and a-half cups white sugar, one-half cup 
butter, beat to a cream, three whites of eggs beaten stiff", one cup sweet 
milk, one pint flour, two teaspoonsful of Cleaveland baking powder, one 
saltspoon of salt. Flavor with grated lind or extract lemon. Bake in a 
four quart basin about half an hour in rather quick oven. Use the yolks 
for another cake made just the same only flavor with vanilla and use a little 
more milk. — Mrs. C. Y. C. 

Fruit Cake. — Stir one pound of butter and one pound of brown sugar 
to a cream, the whites and yolks of ten eggs beaten separately, one pound 
of flour, two teaspoons of biaking powder, two wine glasses of brandy, and 
one of wine, two pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds currents, one 
pound of citron, one quarter pound blanched aknonds. — Mrs. R. H. 

Filling for Cocoanut Cake.— One cocoanut grated and the milk, one 
half cup of sweet milk (if dessicated cocoanut is used, one cup of cocoa- 
nut, three quarters of a cup of milk), one cup of sugar, the yolks of two 
eggs. Boil slowly until it thickens. — £. M. E. 

Filling for Lemon Cake. — One large apple grated, one cup sugar, 
one egg, one large lemon grated. Boil three minutes.— £. M. £. 

Huckleberry Cake. — One cup butter, three cups sugar, three cups 
flour, five eggs, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, one teaspoon nutmeg, one cinnamon, one quart ripe, fresh huckle- 
berries thickly dredged with flour, stir in the berries with a wooden spoon, 
not to bruise them. Bake in a loaf or cake in a moderate but steady 
oven until a straw comes out clean from *\\e thickest part. — S. W. W. 

Ceullers.— Two cups sugar, two well beaten ^s, one cofl'ee cup thin 
cream, one and - half teaspoons soda, one heaping teaspoon cream of 
tartar, one teaspoon salt, a pinch of mace and cinnamon. If you have 
not cream use sweet milk and one tablespoon mdted butter. Knead till 
smooth, roll out quarter of an inch thick, cut in shapes and boil in lard, 
salted—Mrs, C. Y. C 



it 



jng powder, beat 
resting. Bake in 



f cup butter, beat 
flour, three yolks 
owder. Bake in 



I boil together till 
md beat till it is 
s, or if preferred 



Ik of cold water 
lough to spread 



gar, one-half cup 
f, one cup sweet 
:iDg powder, one 
non. Bake in a 
Use the yolks 
a and use a little 



1 of brown sugar 
utely, one pound 
i of brandy, and 
is currents, one 
Mrs. R. H. 

md the milk, one 
e cup of cocoa- 
he yolks of two 



one cup sugar, 
. M. E. 

igar, three cups 
dissolved in hot 
pe, fresh huckle- 
wooden spoon, 
rate but steady 
-S. W. W. 

coffee cup thin 

poon cream of 

If you have 

ter. Knead till 

nd boil in lard, 



Delicious Pound Cake.— Six eggs beaten separately, one pint flour, 
two cups fine sugar, one cup butter, beaten to a cream, flavor, beat thor- 
oughly. Bake in a four quart basin about half an hour.— Mrs. C. Y. C. 

Doughnuts. — Two cups sugar, three eggs, one cup butter-milk, or 
sour milk (butter-milk is best), one teaspoonful soda dissolved in the n^ilk, 
one small tablespoon butter, nutmeg. W<Mrk in enough flour to make 
a dough, roll out, cut in any shape, and fry in hot lard.— B. H 

Layer Cake. — One good cup flour, one scant cup fine white sugar, 
three eggs beaten, three good tablespoonaful sweet milk, one tablespoon 
butter, essence vanilla, one small teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, put 
into flour and sugar and mix soda into the milk, stir all together, divide 
into three layer pans and bake in rather quick oven.— B. H. 

Cup Cake, — Two cups flour, one cup sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, 
two eggs, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, mix 
all together, bake in moderate oven. — M. B. B. 

Corn Starch Cakes.— One pound corn starch, one-half pound gran- 
ulated sugar, half pound butter, six eggs, beat the butter well, then add 
the sugar, then the eggs (well beaten), then the corn starch, beat all to a 
cream and add one teaspoon essence lemon, bake in patty pans in a quick 
oven.— E. T. F. 

Spanish Bun. — Three eggs, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup water, 
one and a-half teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, allspice, one-half nutmeg 
grated, two teaspoons baking powder, one cup flour. Icing — Take whites 
of two of the eggs, sweeten with brown sugi|r, flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
spread on the cake, then return to the oven for a few minutes to harden. — 
Mrs. G. A. Y. 

Lemon Jelly for Layer Cake. — One coffee cup sugar, one table- 
spoon butter, two eggs, juice of two lemons, beat all together and boil till 
it is jellied. Use oranges instead of lemons if preferred. — Mrs. C. Y. C. 

Layer Cake.— Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, three- 
quarters cup sugar, one teaspoon butter, one cup flour, one teaspoon milk, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Filling— One lemon grated, one egg, two 
tablespoons sugar, one or two apples grated, stew altogether.— Mrs. R. H. 

Oat Meal Cookies. — Two cups of flour, one of oatmeal, one of 
butter, half teaspoon soda, one cup white sugar, three-quarters cup sweet 
milk, roll out, moderate oven.— Mrs. J. Y. 

Ginger Drops.— One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter, 
boil the butter and sugar together, a teaspoonful of black pepper-, one of 
ginger, one of cinnamon, a little nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, two eggs, 
quarter cup milk, about three cups of flour, drop into a buttered pan, and 
bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. J. Y. 

Scotch Short Bread. — Two pounds flour, one pound best butter, 
half pound sugar. Wash butter free from salt, rub butter and sugar to a 



ai 



cream, slightly warm the flour and mix it gradually into the bulter and 
sugar with the hand, the longer the better. Lay on your board and press 
into shape with your hand, half an inch thick, don't touch with rolling pin. 
Bake slowly till crisp and of a fine yellow brown and put sliced peel on 
top if wished. — C. 

Fig Cake —One cup of butter, two cups sugar, three and a-h|ilf 
cups of flour, half cup of milk, whites of seven eggs, two teaspoonsful baking 
powder. Bake in layers Filling.— One pound of figs, chop fine and put 
in a stew pan on stove, pour over them one teacup of water and half cup 
of sugar ; cook until soft and smooth.— Mrs. R. H. 

Christmas Cake —vert fine. — One and a-half pounds sugar, one 
pound butter, fifteen eggs beaten separately, two pounds currants, two 
pounds raisins, quarter pound candied pt 1, half pound almonds, one tea- 
spoonful soda and two of cream tartar, half pound or more of flour, oi. e 
nutmeg, allspice, two wine glasses of brandy. 

Ice with almond icing, thus : whites of four eggs, one pound sweet 
almonds, one pound powered sugar, a little rose water. Blanch the 
almonds by pouring boiling water over them and stripping the skins. 
When dry pound to a paste, a few at a time, in a mortar, moistening with 
water as you go on. When beaten fine and smooth, beat gradually into 
the icing, put on very thick and when nearly dry cover with plain icing, 
whites of four eggs, one pound powdered sugar, lemon, vanilla or other 
flavoring. Use at least a quarter pound of sugar for each egg. — J. W. W. 

Neapolitan Cake. — Three quarters cup butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup milk, two and a-half cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, whites 
of five eggs. Bake in two layers, reserving four tablespoonsful, to \.hich 
add two tablespoons molasses, one cup raisins or mix with currants, one 
half cup flour, soda size of a pea, spice to taste. Bake this in one layer 
and place between the others with jelly or frosting. — S. H. W. 

Genuine Scottish Short Bread.— Take two pounds fine flour, 
one pound fresh butter, half pound white sugar ; thoroughly knead these 
together without one drop of water, roll out the cake to half an inch in 
thickness and place it over a paper in a shallow tin j bake slowly until of 
proper crispness. It is usual to insert in upper surface a few caraway 
confections and small pieces orange peel. Good cake should be most 
brittle.— B. H. 



Cake Without Eggs. — One pound Sultana raisins, quarter pound 
moist sugar, one pound flour, quarter pound butter rubbed into the flour, 
quarter pound candied peels, two dessert spoonsful baking powder, then 
add one half pint new milk, lukewarm. This cake must be put into the 
oven immediately.— E. T. 

Lemon Jelly.- for cakes —Wet one large tablespoonful corn starch 
and add one cupful boiling water. When clear, add one cup granulated 
sugar, one egg well beaten, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, a little 
salt. Use when cold.— E. M. T. 



) the bulter and 

board and press 

with rolling pin. 

siiced peel on 



hree and a-hftlf 
spoonsful baking 
lop fine and put 
er and half cup 



lunds sugar, one 
Is currants, two 
(nonds, one tea- 
re of flour, ot'e 



le pound sweet 
ir. Blanch the 
ping the skins, 
moistening with 
t gradually into 
with plain icing, 
vanilla or other 
egg— J. W. W. 

cups sugar, one 
I powder, whites 
nsful, to '.»hich 
h currants', one 
lis in one layer 
W. 



inds fine flour, 
ily knead these 
half an inch in 
slowly until of 
a few caraway 
should be most 



quarter pound 
[ into the flour, 
g powder, then 
be out into the 



)nful corn starch 
cup granulated 
e lemon, a little 



CANDIES 

Manufactured by us are guaranteed 



As we manufacture for our own retail 
trade and allow 

NOTHING INJURIOUS TO BE USED. 



Lunch and Oyster Parlors. 

Wedding Cakes a Specialty. 



Jas. Crawford, 

38 KING STREET WEST. 



The Leading Millinery House. 

MRS. HI N MAN 

Is noted for her choice stock of 

Millinery end IVIillinEry TrimmingB. 

Always the latest novelities the maiket produces 
are here to be found. 

ALSO LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S UNDERWEAR, 
* WOOLEN GOODS IN EVERY VARIETY. 
CALL EARLY. 



MRS. M. G. A. HINMAN, No 8 James St North, 

DRESS, MANTLE MAKING AND STAMPING DONE. 



mi 



Hici YNUT Cake.— Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, stir to 
a cream, \. aites of six eggs, quarter cup of milk, three cups of flour, two 
teaspoons powder, two cups hickorynuts meats.— Clara B. W. 

Chocolate Cake —One cup sugar, butter size of a walnut, four eggs 
well beaten, three tablespoonsful sweet milk, one and three-quarter cups 
sifted flour, three teaspoonsful Cleveland baking powder. Bake in three 
layers. 

Icing for Same— One and one-half bars Cadbury's chocolate 
dissolved in one tablespoonful of water, let it boil and cool. Beat the 
whites of three eggs and add by degrees the above mixture and sugar. 
Make into stiff icing. Flavor strong with vanilla — M. E. G. 

Orange Cake— Two cups sugar, three-quarters cup butter, one cup 
milk, three cups flour, five eggs (yokes of two, whites of five, well beaten), 
three teaspoonsful Cleveland baking powder, grated peel and juice of one 
orange. Bake in layers. 

Filling. Whites of two eggs, juice of one orange, suflScient sugar 
to make icing. Beat together and spread between layers and outside 
of cake. Pare and pull in smail pieces one orange and put on top of 
cake.— M. E. G. 

Sponge Cake.— Tak** nine eggs, their weight in sugar, and the 
weight of six in flour. Beat the whites and yolks separately, the whiles 
till they are a stiff" froth, then mix them and add the sugar, flour and flavor 
with the rind (grated) and juice of a lemon.— Kitchen. 

HicKORVNUT Cake.— One and a half cups of sugar, a-half cup butter, 
two cups flour, three-quarters cup milk, two teaspoons of baking powder. 



one tumbler of meats, whites of four 
separately and added last. — L. F. 



eggs. 



which are to be beaten 



Lady Cake.- One pound of sugar, three-quarters pound sifted flour 
si" ounces butter, the whipped whites of ten eggs. Flavoring with bitter 
almonds and the frosting with vanilla makes a pleasant combination. 
Bake in shallow pans. — L. F. 

Sponge Cake.— Six eggs, three cups sugar, one lemon, four cups 
flour, one cup water, a little warm, two teaspoons cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda, salt. — Mrs. L. D. S. 

Splendid Cookies— Twelve ounces butter, twelve ounces white sugar, 
half pint cold water in which dissolve one teaspoonful soda. Use carra- 
way or cinnamon for flavoring, add flour enough to roil evenly and 
bake in a quick oven. The longer these cookies are kept the better 
they get.— C. H. B. 

Doughnuts. —One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, three tablespoons 
butter, tnree teaspoons baking powder, two eggs and a quart of flour.— 
Mrs. L. D. S, 



of butter, stir to 
ps of flour, two 
W. 

ralaut, four eggs 

ree-quarter cups 

Bake in three 



tury's chocolate 
cool. Beat the 
cture and sugar. 
G. 

butter, one cup 
ire, well beaten), 
and juice of one 



sufficient sugar 
ers and outside 
1 put on top of 



sugar, and the 
itely, the whiles 
, flour and flavor 



i-half cup butter, 
'baking powder, 
: to ht beaten 



)und sifted flour 
3ring with bitter 
nt combination. 



>mon, four cups 
tartar, one tea- 



nces white sugar, 

oda. Use carra- 

roii Cvcniy sna 

kept the better 



[tree tablespoons 
quart of flour.— 



•S 

Sand Tarts. — Two pounds flour, two pounds sugar, rubbed together, 
one and one-quarter pounds butter, wet with four eggs, a little salt roll 
out thin and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar.— Mrs. L. D. S. 

Chocolate Icing.— Two whites of eggs, two tablespoonsful sugar, 
three tablespoousful grated chocolate, one teaspoon vanilla, beat till the 
chocolate is perfectly soft and smooth.— J. F. 

Angel Cake.— One gill flour, one and one-half gills sugar, the whites 
of eleven eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar (just even full), one teaspoon 
vanilla. Beat the eggs lo a stiff" froth, then add sugar, after sifting twice. 
Sifl the flour five times and mix the cream tartar in as well. Put a pan in 
the oven and set your tin on that or it will bake too fast. Bake m a new 
tin and don't grease. Time, one hour in a slow oven. A very nice and 
delicate cake.— Mrs. J. C. 

Filling for Jelly Cake— Fjj^e eggs, two cups sugar, two lemons, a 
small piece of butter size of an egg ; simmer all together until it thickens 
and put in a jar until needed. — J. F. 

LoRNE Icing, — Whites of five eggs, fourteen ounces sugar, a few drops 
essence lemon, and as much tartaric acid as will lie on the point of a pen- 
knife. Beat all to a froth, then, if you wish, add a few drops of blue 
mixed in vinegar to improve the color, and beat a little longer.— J. F. 

Ribbon Cake. — Two and a-half cups white sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup milk, four cups flour, four eggs, flavoring to taste, five teaspoonsful 
baking powder. Bake two sheets of this, and add to the remaining third 
one large spoon molasses, one cup currents one cup chopped raisins, citron 
and spice to taste. When baked put together with jelly, with fruit sheet 
in the middle, and put a light weight on it for ten minutes. Put together 
while warm. — Mrs. R. H. 

Soft Gingerbread.— One cup of butter, one cup of sugar to be mixed 
together, one cup of molasses, in which dissolve a teaspoonful of soda, 
one cup of milk, three teaspoons ginger, three cups flour, two eggs. Bake 
half an hour, not too fast at first.— C. Mc. 

Cup Cake.— One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
four eggs, cup of sweet milk, three teaspoons baking powder ; flavor to 
taste.— C. Mc. r s> f , 

Cup Cake.— One tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar (light brown), 
three eggs, one cup of milk, a little salt, two teaspoons of cream tarta;- 
mixed in the flour, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a dessert spoon of boil- 
ing water, one teaspoon of vanilla or lemon essence, flour lufficient to 
thicken. Bake in a pretty quick ovtn. — Mrs. E. 

Lemon Preserve.— For Cakes.— Quarter pound butter, one pound 
loaf sugar (or light brown), six eggs, leaving out the whites of two, rind 
of two lemons minced fine, juice of three lemons Put all in a sauce pan 
and let it simmer over the fire until it becomes as thick as honey. Keep 
in ordinary preserve jars.— Mrs. E. 



36 



PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Lemon Pudding.— One-half pound suet, one half pound bread crumbs, 
one half pound moist sugar, two eggs not beaten, juice and rind of two 
lemons, grated rind, mix the suet ^nd bread crumbs together, make a hole 
in the middle, into which put the sugar, lemon juice and eggs, mix, steam 
three hours. For the sauce — The juice of a lemon and sugar to taste. 
Stew the lemons which you have used the juice of with a little sugar, and 
just before sending to table pour the juice of the lemon in to heat suffi- 
ciently. — M. W. 

Swiss Pudding. — Grate rind of one lemon into one pint of milk, put 
in double boiler. Rub together one teacup of flour and four tablespoons 
of butter, and pour milk over as soon as boiled ; all put together into 
double boiler and cook for five minutes, stiring during the first two. Beat 
together 1. yolks of five eggs and three tablespoons of sugar, and stir 
into the i-iiing mixture, then take off ^d put away to cooL When cold 
add whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, turn into buttered three quart 
mould and steam fourty minutes. 

: Sauce for Swiss Pudding. — One half cup butter beaten to a cream, adding 
gradually one-half cup powdered sugar. When the mixture is light add 
four tablespoons sherry wine and a cup of cream, a little at a time. When 
smooth set the bowl containing mixture in a basin of hot water and stir 
until light and creamy ; a few minutes will ' sufficient. — Mrs. I. A. S. 

Tapioca and Fruit Pudding.— To two pints of cold water add one 
teacupful of tapioca, put on the back of the stove where it will be warm 
but not get hot, and let it remain until soft. It will take from one and a- 
half to two hours. Then add one large breakfast cup of canned peaches 
and one of sugar, bake in oven until the tapioca becomes like jelly, allow 
to cool, then serve with boiled custard. — Mrs. G. A. Y. 

Washington Pie.— One teacup sugar, half teacup butter, half teacup 
milk, two teacups flour, one egg, one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon 
soda, cut through the centre when done, spread with jam or jelly, cover 
with whipped cream. This is nice for dessert. — Mrs. L. S. 

Raisin Puffs.— Two eggs, scant one-half cup butter, three teaspoons 
baking powder, two cups flour, two tablespoons sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup raisins chopped fine ; steam half an hour in small cups and serve 
with liquid sauce. — C. G. C. 

Fig Pudding.— One and a quarter cups bread crumbs, one and a quar- 
ter cups figs, cut quite small one cup suet, two eggs, three-quarters cup of 
sugar, three-quarters cup sweet milk, one and a quarter cups flour, one 
teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, nutmeg, cinnamon and a little salt, pour 
into a buttered mould and steam one hour and three quarters. — Mrs. B. 

Plum Pudding.— Suit six ounces ; raisins, six ounces ; bread 
crumbs, three ounces ; currants, eight ounces ; flour, three ounces ; sugar, 
four ounces ; three eggs, half pint of milk, half teaspoon salt ; lemon peel 
and citron, two ounces ; a little nutmeg and cinnamon ; steam in buttered 
mould. — B. H. 



s. 

[ bread crumbs, 
nd rind of two 
er, make a hole 
ggs, mix, steam 
sugar to taste, 
little sugar, and 
in to heat suffi- 



int of milk, put 
3ur tablespoons 
t together into 
Urst two. Beat 
sugar, and stir 
jL When cold 
red three quart 



a cream, adding 
ure is light add 
a time. When 
t water and stir 
^rs. 1. A. S. 

water add one 
it will be warm 
rom one and a- 
canned peaches 
like jelly, allow 



ter, half teacup 
-, half teaspoon 
1 or jelly, cover 



three teaspoons 
cup sweet milk, 
cups and serve 

one and a quar- 
quarters cup of 
cups flour, one 
little salt, pour 
!rs. — Mrs. B. 

lunces ; bread 
ounces ; sugar. 
It ; lemon peel 
tam in buttered 



A TOTAL ECLIPSE. 



BE ON THE LOOK OUT 

Fo» the great break in prices at Woods Fair for we have decided to 
tetotally eclipse all our other great sales. Our first great offering will be 
aooo Gilt Band Coal Scuttles, made from Gage's best iron, rivited handle, 
only 35 cts. each, worth $[. Lamp Burners, medium, 7 cts, large Bur- 
ners 10 cts, usual price 25 cts. The very best lantern made, 65 cts, usual 
price $1.00. Jewelery, Fancy Baskets, Plush Albums, Plush Boxes, Plush 
Perfumery Cases, Frames, in Brass and Plush, a good one for 7 cts. and a 
beauty for 15 cts, in Brass. Mirrors in all sizes. Gilt Mirrors 7 cts. Vases 
China Ornaments, Cups and Saucers, Glass Ware in hundreds of differeut 
styles. Musical Instruments, Tin goods, large pieced Dipper, sets. Square 
Cake Pan, 7 cts. Tea Kettles, Copper Bottoms, 43 cts. Dish Pan, 14 cts. 
Milk Pan, 7 cts. Hardware Brushes, Brooms, two fine green corn Brooms 
for 25 cts. worth double the money. Wooden ware, all kinds. A full 
size Wash Board worth 25 cts, our price 10 cts. Wash Tubs, Mops, Clothes 
Lines, Lamps, 14, 25, and 50 cts. worth double ihe money. Buttbns, 
Dolls for the little ones. The finest lines ever imported in the City and 
so cheap. A dressed Doll, 7 cts each. Knives Forkes, Spoons, Carving 
Knives, a good one for 35 cts. the very best buck handle for 98 cts. Pipes 
Brier Root, a good one 10 cts. and a 75 ct. Pipe for 25 cts, with three 
inch Amber mouth piece. Pocket Knives, a fine line. Glass Chimneys, 
Flint 4 cts. large size 5 cts. Soap, 7 bars best Electric Soap in the world 
for 25 cts., 10 bars Ruby Soap 25 cts., this is one of the finest soaps in 
the market and regularly retails for 8 cts. per bar, our price 10 bars for ae 
cents. A 3ji lb bar Family Soap for 10 cts., a 10 ounce bar White Cas"- 
tile or Oatmeal for 7 cts., A fine wrapped cake Oatmeal Skin Soap 5 cts. 
usual price 14 cts. Babys own Soap 10 cts. Fatherland, 3 cakes in a 
fine box 10 cts. per box. Rose Boquet, this is a very handsome Box 
Soap, regularly retailed at 60 cts., our price 28 cts. Eddys celebrated 
Matches 7 cts per box, 3 doz. best hard wood Clothes Pegs 5 cts. A 
new importation of Combs, over 100 different styles. See our unbreakable 
Comb at 14 cts., a great bargain, guaranteed to saw cordwood without 
breaking. School Books, a full line. Scribbling Books, 100 pages, 3 cts, 
200 pages s cts, with each book we give an oil chromo. Copy Books, all 
numbers 7 cts., 36 Sheets Note Paper 5 cts. Envelopes, 25 for 3 cts. 12 
sheets Foolscap for 5 cts. two fine Cedar Lead Pencils for i ct. Rubber 
Tipped Lead Pencils, five for 5 cts., the best lead pencil in the world, 
usually sold at 8 and 10 cts each, will be sold this week for three cents. 
Automatic Pencils 5 cts. Fens, Ink, Mucilage, Glue, Time Books. All 
kinds of Fishing ^ckle, Hooks, Lines, Floats, Sinkers, Reels. A fine 
Trolling Spoon 10 cts,, usually sold at 25 and 35 cts. We can enumerate 
but a very few of the bargains we will offer this week, but come and see 
for yourselves and you will find our counters loaded with bargains. We 
are preporsu to supply tuc irudc wUh special jobbing prices. 



WOODS FAIB, 66 & 68 EIHG STEET WEST, 

HAMII.TON, ONTARIO. 



38 

Amber Pudding. — Mix together quarter pound sugar and the same of 
butter and bread crumbs, add three eggs and three tablespoons marmalade; 
mix butter and sugar together, then eggs and bread crumbs, and lastly 
marmalade, put the whole in a mould, cover closely and steam for two 
hours.— E. J. F. 



SuBT Pudding. — One-half pound flour, quarter pound suet, one cup 
sugar, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
raisins. — L. L. 



Mince Meat roR Pies. — Six pounds of raisins, three pounds of cur- 
rants, four pounds sugar, three-quarters pound of mixed peel, one-half 
pound of suet, two por nds of beef, one pint of brandy, six lemons, one 
peck of apples, one teaspoonful of salt, spice to taste with, mace, nutmeg, 
ginger, cinnamon, cloves (a little). Boil in a preserving pan five h -^urs, the 
brandy to be added when ready to take off the stove.— E. M. E. 

Derbyshire Pudding. — Two tablespoonsful flour, one pint milk, boil 
until thick, set it to cool, add three ounces melted butter, quarter pound 
of sugar, a little salt, the rind of half a lemon grated, half teacupful 
blanched almonds cut fine, four eggs. Bake and serve cold with icing or 
jelly on top. — Mrs. W. L. 



'•}! 



BiDDLE Pudding. — One pint milk, four tablespoonsful flour, four eggs. 
Bake twenty minutes. — Mrs. W. L. 

Frozen Cabinet Pudding.— Greace the mould and sticTc with pitted 
raisins, fill with sponge cakes soaked in wine, between the sponge cakes 
put some dry preserves, fill up with custard, with a little isinglass to make 
it stiff, when you turn it out pour some custard over without isinglass. — 
Mrs. W. L. 






Manchester Pudding. — Two eggs, one cup milk, one tablespoonful 
butter, one cup sugar, two cups flour, two teaspoonsful Dunn's baking 
powder ; line a deep pie dish with paste, spread with fruit, pour in the 
mixture and bake forty-five minutes. To be eaten hot with sauce. — 
K. R. 



Sauce for Pudding. — One and a-half cups milk, one egg, one tea- 
spoon corn starch, juice and rind of lemon, boil well and add sugar. — 
K. R. 

Cocoanut Pie. — One quart milk, one cocoanut, one teacup of grated 
bread, six eggs, a little butter, soak the grated cocoanut and bread in part 
of the milk until warmed through, add remainder of milk and beaten eggs, 

A 4.- 4. »_ . I 1 u-ir «_ u_... %r.y . ; ic-i-- ; 

(for one pie) of whites of two eggs, three tablespoons of sugar, spread 
over the top and brown slightly. — S. H. W. 

Sponge Pudding. — One cup sugar, three eggs, two andahalfcupsof 
flour, half cu^^ milk, two teaspoonsful C. B. powder ; steam half an hour. 
To bie eaten wi^h fruit or sweet sauce. — M. E. G. 



1 the same of 
s marmalade; 
bs. and lastly 
team for two 



uet, one cup 
cream tartar, 



)unds of cur- 
peel, one-half 
lemons, one 
lace, nutmeg, 
ive h ■'urs, the 
. E. 

int milk, boil 
uarter pound 
alf teacupful 
with icing or 



ur, four eggs. 



k with pitted 
iponge cakes 
{lass to make 
t isinglass. — 



ablespoonful 
unn's baking 
t, pour in the 
rith sauce.— 



igg, one tea- 
add sugar. — 



up of grated 
bread in part 
[ beaten eggs, 

sugar, spread 



a- half cups of 
lalf an hour. 



»9 

Brown Pudding.— Quarter pound beef suet, quarter pound bread- 
crumbs, quarter pound flour, teacup sultana raisins split open, one of 
currants, teaspoon of cinnamon, one of ginger, one of nutmeg, half tea- 
spoon carbonate ioda, four apples minced ; moisten with milk and steam 
three hours. 

Sauce for Same. —Water, piece of butter, grated nutmeg, sugar, one 
tablespoonful white wine vinegar. — Forres. 

Economical Pudding,— Very cheaj) and suitable for large family and 
most excellent. Three-quarters of a pound of suet, three-quarters of a 
pound of raisins, weighed after being stoned, three quarters of a pound of 
flour, half pint milk, quarter saltspoonful of salt, mince the suet fine, cut 
your raisins in half, and mix with the salt and flour, moisten the whole 
with a half pint of milk, stir the mixture thoroughly and tie the pudding 
in floured cloth, let it boil without ceasing from four to five hours, not 
less than four and a-half, better five. Excellent.— L. L. 

Baked Indian Pudding— Two quarts sweet milk, three heaping 
tablespoons of sifted corn meal, golden syrup to sweeten to taste, one 
teaspoon ginger, a little salt ; bake four hours ; for three hours stir oc- 
casionally ; bake slowly. When served put a small bit of butter on each 
dish.— E. A. W. 

Queen or Puddings.— One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, 
one cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs beaten with the grated rind of one 
lemon, a piece of butter the size of an egg, b .ke until done, whip the 
whites stiff", add a cup of sugar in which the juice of the lemons has been 
stirred, spread over the pudding a layer of jelly and then the whiles : bake 
slightly.— J. K. 

Grandmother's Pudding.— Eight eggs beat well with yolks and whites 
together, half a pound of butter, half a pound of white sugar, put them 
into a saucepan, stir on the fire till it begins to thicken, do not let it boil, 
take great care that the eggs do not break, stir in a bowl till cool, then add 
a large cupful of marmalade, pour into a dish lined with paste, put into 
oven for twenty minutes or half an hour ; let cool. 

Fig Pudding.— Half pound bread crumbs, half pound figs, six ounces 
suet, six ounces brown sugar, mince the figs and suet, little salt, two eggs 
well beaten, nutmeg to taste, boil in a mould four hours Serve with wint 
sauce. — Mrs. L. D. S. 

Molasses Pudding.— Beat six eggs lightly, stir into them half pound 
of flour, three quarters of a pint molasses, quarter pint of cream, half 
pound melted butter, one teaspoon soda, spices to taste, one wine glass 
brandy. Bake oae and a-half hours. — Mrs. L. u. S. 

Boiled Lemon Pudding.— (Most excellent).— Three-quarters of a 
pound of bread crumbs, half pound beef suet, half pound sifted sugar, 
four eggs, juice of two lemons, rind of one, boil three hours, mince the 
suet very fine, mix it with bread crumbs and sugar, press the lemon juice 
into a cup, strain into your pudding, add eggs after being well whisked, 



■'■' 'I I 



■r 11 



Where to Find It. 

Corner King and MoHab Streets. 

Hazell & Son. 



V 

Choice English Breakfast Tea, 
Very Fair " *• •' 

Extra Blend Coffee, - - - - 



6oc. 
50c. 
40C. 



For all Scouring Purposes Try 



rntOS 8t ihs KXTCKSN SOAP. 



Pure Spices, choice brands of Family Flour and pure 
Wines and Liquors kept constantly on hand. 



If you don't see what you want, ask for it, as we keep in stock 

everything that goes to make up a first-class 

General Grocery Store. 



HAZELL & SON, 



(LATE T, MACP;AY.) 



Oor. Klliie: and. Iwd:c3^si"b Sts. 



TELEPHONE 182. 



HAMILTON. 



It. 



s. 



3N. 

- 6oc. 

- 50c. 

40c. 



OAP. 



and purt; 
nd. 



p in stock 
s 



Its. 
LTON. 



3^ 

?l!?%"l^K'J''*'""''J^r8'"*'*"" '^^ "°^ •ufficiemly moist, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, butter your tin or shape well befoie putting in 
your pudding ; to sprinkle your shape after it is buttered with brown sugar 
gives pudding a prettier appearance when turned out. Sauce to be used, 
one and a-balf teaspoonsful corn siarch, fully half a cup of sugar, rind of 

walrT°V 1. P"lP °^ ^^^- , ^°" •'^'"°"" •" '"^'K* ^"Pf"' »"d ahalf of 
water for half an hour, dissolve corn starch in water, pour over it your 

SngTtTw^^^^^^^^^ """ ^"* '" ^'^"^ p«" ^'' -«-• -»>- 

Poor Man's Pi;dding.~To one quart new milk add three tablespoons 

of Carolina rice, a little salt, sugar and flavoring to taste ; wash theVice 

horoughly before putting into the milk. Bake slowly, stirring frequently. 

fJuTt -e" a" W ''^'^ *''^*'"" ^^"^^ "^'^^ ''"^ ^^^""^"^ °' preserved 

Island Pudding -Line pudding dish with white cake, beat yolks of 
^IrX^^^'f ''"''. ^»'^P'"; of J^hite sugar, dissolve one tablespoonfu! corn 
staich in four wine glassfuls of water, adding juice of two lem^s, cook in 
saucepan set in boiling water, stirring all the time, pour over cake. 
sprinkle grated cocoanut oyer, beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth with a 
small cup of sugar ; place in oven a moment to set.— Forres. 

bakings Jtwr^oK^ ''°"' f" ""'^^ °'.^'"'"T' P"»*«' ^"<* 'hile this is 
Dakmg take two tablespoons of corn starch, wet with a little cold water. 

Wnf ""■ TZ^^" \ '^"P °^ ''°."'"8 water and the grated rind of one 

hZ oL^^i r ^)^ ^^""^ ^^ ^°" ^'" ^'^»'' ''^•"•"g »» the time, when 
done add the yolki of two eggs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar and the 

Jw^S® T® ^'"^" ' "J?^*.^ ^^'^ "" '**« P*''*^ ^"d ^:overwith the whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and sweetened to taste ; place in the oven 
for a minute or two to brown a little.— Mrs. E. > v ^ ^" ^ne oven 

cI.v^h'''^'' JONATHAN.-Fill a pudding dish about half full with thinly- 
sliced sour apples, cover with a crust made of a pint of milk, two eggs, 
one cup of sugar, butter size of an egg. three teaspoons of baking powder 
some grated nutmeg; bake a nice brown, and if fbr tea, turn upside down 

a few^mbites -b"h ' ^"^ '"^'"" °" *°^ *"*^ '**"'" ^° *^® °''*" ^°' 

of ?h?.!!w!.''° P^^.^^'^G— 0°e quart milk, four eggs, (leave out the whites 
of three), three tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons of corn starch, one 
cup of cocoanut and a little salt ; put the milk in a farina kettle to si:ald, 

TrLinaS 'a/^u^ ""'''' ^^** ^^^ *«g» *"<^ ""B" ^""^ »tir all into the 
scalding milk, add the cocoanut. and pour the whole into a pudding dish • 
whip tne three whites dry wilh three tablespoons of sugar and flavEr wi.h 

hoTorcold-Mr«T^r °''^' ^^^ P"***''"^ *"*^ ^'^^ * ''«*'^ '''°^"- ^at 

nr.t^'^i'' Baxter PuDDiNG.-One pint scalded milk, six tablespoonsful 
flour, three eggs.— Mrs. L. D. S. *^ 

r^l^tZT'''''''' P"^»'^G.-Whites of six eggs beaten stiff, one cup of 
powdered suga^, butter size of an egg, melted, two cups of (lour, thr« 



cupa of milk, scalded. 
L. D. S. 



St 

Bake in a quick oven and eat with sauce.— Mrt. 



Orange Pudding.— Four sweet oranges, peeled and picked lo pieces 
and put in a deep pudding dish with two small cups of sugar. 

Put one quiirt of milk, the yolks of three eggs and two dessert spoons- 
ful of cornstarch on to boil. Take off, cool it and pour it on the oranges. 
Then beat the whites to a stiff froth, add a little sugar and essence of lem- 
on, put it over the pudding and place it in the oven until it is of a light 
brown color.— Mrs. R. H. 

Canary Pudding.— The weight of three eggs in sugar and butier, 
the weight of two eggs in flour, the rind of one small lemon. 

Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil. Stir this 
to the sugar and finely-minced lemon peel, and gradually stir in the flour, 
keeping the mixture well stirred. Whisk the eggs, add these to the pud- 
ding, beat all the ingredients till thoroughly blended, put in buttered 
mould and boil for an hour. Serve with sweet sauce. — L. L. 

Bake Well Pudding.— Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, three quarters cup of milk, two cups of fiour, two teaspoons 
Dunn's baking powder. Beat five minutes, bake in a deep dish lined with 
paste and a layer of jam. To be eaten hot. 

Sauce for Bake Well Pudding.— One and one-half cups milk, 
one teaspoon of butter, one egg, half cup sugar, two teaspoons corn starch, 
one lemon, grated. Boil the milk and starch iogether, wheh nearly cook- 
ed mix all together. 

Railway Pudding.— One teacup granulated sugar, one tea cup flour, 
one ounce butter, one desert spoon of baking powder, three eggs, a few 
drops of essence of almonds, one small cup of milk. 

Grease a cake tin with the ounce of butter, mix the flour, sugar and 
baking powder in a bowl, mix the eggs in another bowl with the milk and 
flavoring. Stir all quickly together and pour into a shallow tin. Bake in 
a quick oven ten minutes. 

This pudding should be put in the oven immediately after being 
mixed. — Miss Dodds. 

Cocoanut Pudding,— Excellent.— Half pound grated cocoanut, one 
cup stale sponge cake, crumbed, one cup sugar, one large cup rich milk, 
six eggs, two teaspoonsful of vanilla essence. Cream the butter aud sugar, 
add bealcn yolks, mix well and stir in the cocoanut. Add milk, cake 
crumbs and flavoring last, and stir in the whites of three eggs. Whip the 
remaining three whites stiff with three tablespoonsful of powdered sugar 
and flavor with vanilla. Before taking the pudding from the oven spread 
the meringe over the top. Before the meringe is put on the pudding it is 
baked in the oven half tn hour.— L. L. 



luce. — Mrt. 



ed lo pieces 



isert spoons- 

the oranges. 

:nce of lem- 

of a light 



and butier, 



. Stir this 
in the flour, 
to the pud- 
in buttered 



tablespoon - 
9 teaspoons 
1 lined with 



cups milk, 
;orn starch, 
early cook- 



B cup flour, 
iggs, a few 



sugar and 

e milk and 

Bake in 



ifter being 



oanut, one 
rich milk, 
aud sugar, 
ofiiik, cake 
Whip the 
ered sugar 
^en spread 
dding it is 



33 

Ginger Puddikg.— One teacup suet, one cup bread crumbs, one cup 
of milk, one cup molasses, one tablespoon oi ginger, one tablespoon sugar, 
one teaspoon baking soda, flour enough to make a nic« ..er. To be 
used with sauce.— E. M. 

Cabinet Pudding —Three ounces raisins, four eggs, peel of a lemon 
grated, one pint rilk, slices of bread md butter, sugar to taste. 

• Stone the raisins (best) and ar ngc them over the inside of a but- 
tered pudding basin, then nearly fill the basin with slices of bread and 
butter, crust cut off", sprinkle grated lemon peel over each slice, add eggs 
beaten to milk, sweeten to taste and pour over bread and butter. Let 
stand for quarter of an hour, then tie floured cloth over pudding. Boil 
one hour and serve with C. P. sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding Sauce.— Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, four or five spoonsful of white wine ; well beat the yolks 
and mix with sugar and wine ; simmer over a slow fire for a few minutes ; 
stir constantly ; pour around pudding.— B. H. 

Westbourne Pudding.— Half pound suet, half pound flour, quarter 
pound bread crumbs, two tumblers of plumb jam, one teacup of milk, 
half teacup sugar, one teaspoonful of sail, one teaspoon of baking soda. 
Boil three hours. 

Sauce.— Half pint boiling water poured on half a pot ot red currant 
jelly.— Miss T. Toronto. 



FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

jBLLv Oranges.— Twelve fine deep colored oranges, one package 
Coxes gelatine dissolved in one cup cold water, three cups white sugar, 
juice of the oranges and grated rind of three, two cups boiling water 
quarter teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Soak the gelatine three hours in the cup of cold water. Cut from 
the top of each orange a round piece, leaving a hole just large enough to 
admit the bowl of a small spoon, or the handle of a larger. The smaller 
the orifice the better your dish will look. Clean out every bit of the pulp 
very carefully, so as not to tear the edges of the hole. Scrape the inner 
skin from the sides with your forefinger, and when the oranges are emptied 
lay them in cold water, while you make the jelly. Strain the juice and 
grated peel through coarse, thin muslin over the sugar, squeezing rather 
hard to get the coloring matter. Stir this until it is a thick syrup, and add 
the spice. Pour the boiling water uoon the soaked ffelatino • sHr n«Ar th^ 
fire until well dissolved; add the juice and sugar, stir all together and 
strain through a flannel bag into a pitcher, not shaking or squeezing it. 
lest It should be cloudy. Wipe off" the outside of the oranges, set them 
close together m a dish, the open ends uppermost, and fill very full with 
the warm jelly, as it will shrink in cooling. Set away in a cold place where 
there is no dust. Next day cut each in half with a sharp penknifCj taking 



A FEW OF 

SEWELL'S SPECIALTIES 

Which are actually necessary in order to obtain PERFECT 
satisfaction in using the excellent RECEIPTS contained in 
this VALUABLE BOOK. Use Sewell's Italian Baking: Pow- 
der, now before the public over seventeen years. We hare 
received most FLATTERING TESTIMONIALS from all 
the LEADING ESTABLISHMENTS in our City, besides 
endless numbers from PRIVATE FAMILIES, wholspeak of 
it in the HIGHEST TERMS. 

PURE. HEALTHY. QUICK ACTIHC. ECOHOMICAL 



» ♦ «- 



We import the finest ((uality of Italian Maccaroni, Vermicelli, Italian Paste, 
Nouilles, Etc., that is brought to this country. Try them and see what grand results 
you will obtain. 



^«» 



Always in stock a fine assortment of Thorn Smith's, (London, Eng.,) Fish 
Papers, Ham Clips, Pink and White Ham Frills, Dish Paper, Paper Ice Cups, 
Fruit Cases, Gold and Silver Cake Bands, also Cosaques and Bon-Bons, in great 
vaiiety. 



-••♦- 



White and Pink Icing Sugars, Pink Sand Sti^ar, Pis-Tachio Nuts, 
Blanched Almonds, Etc., Etc. 



ITALIAN WAREHOUSE. 



SEWELL BROS. 



THE WENTWDRTH WAREHDUBE. 

39 McNab Street North. 

We have just now one of the largest and best assorted stocks of 

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES 

in the City. We would direct special attention to our 
great values in 



WE WILL GUARANTEE SATISFACTION. 



BUUER, EGGS AND CHEESE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 

It is a well-known fact that we lead the trade in this City for No. i Butter. 

NEW FRUITS ARRIVING TO-DAY. 
If you want the best Baking Powder in the World, try the Gold Dust. 



TELEPHONE NO. 91. 



Oi H. r»B3HIBIlxElS. 



lRFECT 
ained in 
[ng: Pow- 
Wt hare 
from all 
, besides 
;speak of 



lian Paste, 

grand results 

Eng.,) Fish 
ir Ice Cups, 
)ns, in great 



chio Nuts, 

. BROS. 

lUBE. 



:ks of 

RIES 



RETAIL 

i. I Butter. 
>ld Dust. 



35 

care to sever the skin all round before cutting into the jelly. If neatly 
divided the rich amber jelly will be a fair counterfeit of the orange pulp. 
Pile in a glass dish, with green leaves around, as you would the reel fruit 

This is a beautiful and delicious dish, and easily made. — M. M. F. 

Gatean de Pommes. — Boil in a pint of water one and a-half pounds 
of loaf sugar till it becomes a rich syrup. Weigh two pounds of apples 
after they have been peeled, cored and cut small, boil them in the syrup 
with the grated peel and juice of a lemon till they are reduced to a pulp ; 
put in a mould. The. following day serve it turned in a glass with custard. 
—Mrs. R. H. 

Spanish Cream, — One pint of milk set in a kettle of hot water to 
boil. Dissolve nearly half box (small) gelatine in a little milk, then add 
to the whole the yolks of three eggs and one cup of sugar ; boil, flavor 
with vanilla. Remove from fire and stir in the whites very well beaten. 
Pour in a mould to cool. — Mrs. R. H. 

Charlotte de Russe. — Butter the tin dish well, then line sides and 
bottom with " lady fingers " or light sponge cake ; soak one box of gela- 
tine in a little milk, whip one cup of cream into a froth, add to the cream 
two cups of sugar, then if gelatine is not dissolved put it on the fire a 
minute and when cold put into the cream, add the whites of three eggs 
and two teaspoons of vanilla and pour into the mould. Set in a cool 
place.— L. F. 

Charlotte Russe. — One pint of cream, four tablespoonsful sheny 
wine, one teaspoonful vanilla essence, one teacup granulated or powdered 
sugar, half box gelatine, one-quarter lady fingers. 

Trim your lady fingers, and line your mould, after having joined them 
together with white of egg. Whip the cream until light, add sugar, wine 
and essence. Put the gelatine in a bowl with a little hot milk to melt, 
and when melted add drop by drop to the cream, stirring all the time. 
Pour the mixture into mould and set in a cool place to firm. 

If the lady fingers in mould are not quite firmly closed together, put 
the mould in the oven for a few minutes to set. — E. M. 

Jelly. — One shilling package of gelatine ; if the jelly stands two days 
before being used this will be enough ; if only one a little more may be 
put in, especially if the weather be warm ; pour on it three-quarters of a 
pint of cold water, after waiting ten minutes add three-quarters of a pint 
boiling water. When the gelatine is dissolved add one and a-half pints of 
sherry wine, one large or two small lemons, half pound of white sugar 
and the whites of two eggs well oeaten, stir the eggs in briskly, bring it 
gradually just to the boiling point, take off and allow it to stand a minute 
or so before straining, return to the bag a few times the first portion of it 
till it runs clear. Half native wine and half sheny makes it a pretty 
color, but if all sherry is used it may be darkened by a little burnt sugar 
if preferred.— Mrs. F. 



Telephone 610. Telephone 610. 



B. B. & WH. J. BALLENTINE, 



DEALERS IN 



WINES AND LIQUORS. 

No. gy and gg James Street Souths 



HAMILTON, ONTARIO. 



Sole Agents for Wilson's Belfast Ginger Ale. 



Butter and Eggs a Specialty. 



GOODS DELIVERED TO ANY PART OF THE CITY, 



Best Brands of Pastry Flour Al- 
ways ON Hand. 



SPECIAL ATTENTION TO TELEPHONE ORDERS. 



610. 



INE, 



31/V^ 



ii 



! 



Lemon Jelly. — Pour one pint boiling water on hal box gelatine, 
add juice of one lemon, two cups sugar when nearly cold, strain it, add 
the whites of three eggs beaten stiff, then beat all well together and pour 
into a mould ; take yolks, one pint of milk, one teaspoon corn starch and 
make like soft custard ; vvhen the shape is cold pour custard over it. — 
E. J. F. 

Orange Souffle. — Peel and slice six oranges, place in a deep glass 
dish a layer of oranges, then one of sugar, alternately, until all the oranges 
are used ; set aside for two hours ; make a soft boiled custard of the yoiks 
of three eggs, one pint of milk, sugar to taste ; flavor with grated orange 
peel, pour over oranges when cool. 



Icing. — Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and sweeten.- 
A. V. 



-Mrs. 



U^A, 



3r Ale. 



ilty. 



rv. 



R Al- 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 

Vegetable Marrow Preserve.— Take one large marrow, peel and 



core It, cut mto 
over night. 



large pieces, sift some sugar over it and allow to stand 



RDBRS. 



In the morning cut the marrow into pieces an inch or more thick, put 
into preserving pan with one ounce whole ginger bruised, quartei: ounce of 
Cayenne pods (tied in muslin bag), the rind and juice of two lemons. 
Boil for twenty minutes, or until the marrow is perfectly clear. — L. L. 

Brandied Peaches or Pears, Very Nice. — Four pounds of fruit, 
four pounds of sugar, one pint best white brandy. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and a quart of pure water. Let them come to x boil, then put the 
pared fruit iiito it, and let it boil for five minutes. Having removed the 
fruit carefully with a perforated ladle, let the syrup boil fifteen minutes 
longer, or until it thickens well. Lastly, add the brandy, and then take 
the kettle at once from the fire. Pour the hot syrup over the fruit, put in 
glass bottles with wide mouths, and seal up tight. If, after taking the 
fruit from the fire the first time, a reddish liquor oozes from it, drain this 
off before adding the clear syrup. — ^Mrs. R. H. 

Bitter Orange Marmalade, — Take one dozen and a half oranges 
and four lemons, cut them in two, take out the insides and boil the skins 
till soft enough for a pin's head to go easily through ; meantime carefully 
separate the pulp from fibres and seeds, putting them into one quart of 
cold water, which strain off when required for boiling ; cut the skins (when 
boiled enough) into visionary slices, throwing away the soft inside scooped 
out with a spoon ; now take the quart of water strained, and one pint of 
the boiling bitter water and add to these the pulp and slices along with one 
pound of sugar. For the cold water, one pound and a-half of sugar for 
each pound of fruit ; boil steadily for half an hour. Be sure to tiUce the 
top off carefully as some of the pulp resembles chaff. One dozen and a- 
half oranges, weighing about five pounds, four lemons, one quart cold 
water, one pint bitter water, eight pounds sugar.— E. M. T. 



Orange Marmalade.— Nine bitter oranges, three sweet, four lemons, 
cut across the grain in the thinnest possible slices, take out the seeds and 
my the slices m four quarts of cold water for thirty six hours, then boil 
qulc^-ly for two hours, add eight pounds of sugar and boil again for two 
hours or until it jellies.— C. B. W. 

Orange Marmalade.— Three lemons and fifteen oranges, (sweet), 
cut very fine and soak twelve hours in four quarts water, boil two and a- 
ha^ hours, then add nine pounds white sugar and boil an hour longer.— 
J. t. 



PICKLES. 

Cucumber Pickles.— For Six Hundred small pickles, make a brine 
s.rong enough to bear up an egg and pour over them hot, let them stand 
iwenty-four hours, pour oflF, rinse and dry the pickles. Take vinegar en- 
ough to cover them, add one ounce of alum and pour over them hot and 
let stand again twenty-four hours. Pour off, take fresh vinegar heat with 
one-half pint white mustard seed, one tablespoon cloves, one ounce celery 
seed, ciannamon and a little horse radish, a piece of green ginger, four 
green peppers, pour hot on the pickles.— S. W. W. & e ^ 

Pickled Peaches.— Four pounds sugar to one pint of vinegar, boil 
with spices to a syrup, then pour over peaches and let stand till next day. 
pour off syrup, add little more sugar, boil and pour over peaches unti 
heated through. —Mrs. G. M. ^^ r 

East India PiCKLKs.-One half peck of sliced green tomatoes, one 
halt peck s iced white onions, twenty-five small cucumbers, two cauli- 
nowers cat In small pieces, sprinkle salt over these plentifully, let stand 
twenty.i:»ur hours and then drain well. Mix one half cup of grated horse- 
radish rcoi; with half an ounce of turmeric, half an ounce each of ground 
cinnamon and cloves, one ounce ground pepper, one pint ground mustard 
seed, one pint of brown sugar, two bunches chopped celery ; put this 
mixture into a porcelain kettle in layers with the vegetables, cover with cold 
cider vmegar and boil slowly for two hours. The turmeric gives the 
pickles the yellow color peculiar to East India pickles, and in taste and 
appearance they cannot be distinguished from the genuine.— Mrs. E. Z. 

Tomato Catsup.— One bushel of tomatoes, boil till soft, squeeze 
through a sieve, add half a gallon of vinegar, one pint and a-half of salt, 
two ounces cloves, one-quarter pound allspice, one-half tablespoonful of 
Cayenne pepper, three tablespoonsful black pepper, five heads of garlic, 
skin and cut fine, mix all together, boil till reduced one half. Spices all 
ground except black pepper. This catsup will not ferment when opened. 
— Mrs. III. Z. 

CHOw-CHOw.r— Three hundred small cucumbers, eight large green 
peppers, three small heads cauliflower, two quarts small onions, one root 
of horse-radish. Put this mixture in a brine until next day. Take out 
and drain three hours, then sprinkle in a quarter pound each of black 
and white mustard seed. 



four lemons, 
le seeds and 
rs, then boil 
ain for two 



;es, (sweet), 
I two and a- 
ar longer. — 



ike a brine 
them stand 
vinegar en- 
im hot and 
r heat with 
Lince celery 
inger, four 



inegar, boil 
11 next day, 
aches until 



latoeS; one 
two cauli- 
^ let stand 
ated horse- 
of ground 
d mustard 
; put this 
r with cold 
gives the 
1 taste and 
•s. E. Z. 

t, squeeze 
alf of salt, 
poonful of 
I of garlic, 
Spices all 
n opened. 



rge green 

, one root 

Take out 

1 of black 



For the dressing take two gallons of vinegar, one teaspoonful of 
Cayenne pepper, one-half ounce termeric powder, a quarter pound of white 
ground pepper, scald this and pour while hot over the pickles : when cold 
add half pmt prepared mustard. 

Slice the horseradish, divide the cauliflower, and do not use any but 
small cucumbers and leave them whole.— Mrs. R. H. 

Tomato Catsup— will keep for years.-BoII half a bushel of 
tomatoes until soft, force them through a fine sieve, add one quart vinegar 
and half pmt salt ; put two ounces whole cloves, two ounces whole all- 
spice, one tablespoonful black pepper, half ounce Cayenne pepper, six 
onions together m a muslin bag. Boil all together for three hours. Bottle 
when cold.— Mrs. R. H. 

Spiced Plums.— One peck plums, one and a-half pints vinegar, ten 
pounds sugar, two tablespoons ground cloves, two tablespoons ground all- 
spice ; stone the plums, allow the vinegar to dissolve the sugar, when it 
boils put m the p'-mis. Boil from one and a-half to two hours, stirring 
very often. After it has cooled one hour put in the spices.— Mrs.!. A. S. 

Ripe Tomatoes —One peck ripe tomatoes, one quart onions cut 
fine, one pint vinegar, one pound brown sugar, one ounce each of mustard, 
allspice and cloves, three red peppers, salt to taste. Boil two and a-half 
hours. — S. W. W. 

Chili Sauce.— Peel and cut in pieces nine large tomatoes and four 
onions, add four cups vinegar, one pound sugar and spice, salt, pepper, 
allspice, and a little ginger and nurmeg. Stew it for one hour. 

Chili Sauce —Thirty large ripe tom^itoes, four red peppers, eight 
onions, two teacups good vinegar, three tablespoons salt, two teacups 
sugar; chop onions and peppers, slice tomatoes after peeling, boil together 
one hour, then add vinegar sugar and salt and boil a few minutes loiiger.— 

Governor Sauce,— Slice one peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle a cup 
of salt over them and let them stand until next morning. Drain off the 
liquor and put the tomatoes in a preserving pan, cover with vinegar, add 
one cup brown sugar, one cup ot grated horse-radish, four large onions 
and SIX green peppers chopped fine, one teaspoonful each of cloves, cin- 
namon, allspice, white pepper, simmer until soft and keep air ticht — E 

M. E. r o . 






rake unc peck of tomatoes and six red peppers. 



boil one hour, then strain through a colauder. To this add one and three! 
quarters ounces black pepper, one ounce ground allspice, one-half ounce 
ground cloves, two onions chopped fine, salt to taste ; when boiled to a 
proper consistence add quarter pound mustard, and, if liked, half pint of 
vmegar, then boil all together. A little curry powder is an improvement, 
and It IS just as good without vinegar.— Mrs. C. S. 



/ / 



CANDIES. 

BuiTER Scotch.— One cup sugar, half-cup of water, one teaspoonful 
Of Vinegar, buttet size of a walnut. Put the sugar and water in a kettle to 
boil, add the butter and vinegar and let all boil twenty or thirty minutes, 
when done add flavoring, if desired (vanilla is best), and pour into enough 
buttered tins to have the candy not more than one-fourth of an inch thick, 
and when partly cold mark off into butter scotch strips,— B. H. 

Walnut Creams.— White of an egg, cold water,, powdered sugar, 
vanilla, make the cream same as for chocolate creams, but mould into 
balls instead of cone shaped forms ; have ready a quantity of nice english 
walnuts, which should have been cracked so carefully that the meats will 
be entirely whole, do not set the balls away to cool, but press two halves 
of the walnuts on two opposite sides of each ball while warm. 

Chocolate Creams— White of an egg, cold water, powdered white 
sugar, vanilla ; beat in a bowl the white of one or more eggs, (according 
to the quantity of cant, /ou desire), and add to it an equal amount of 
cold water; add to this enough very fine powdered confectioners' sugar to 
form a mixture stiff enough to mould into cone shaped forms ; set them 
on waxed paper away to harden, and when ready cover with chocolate 
(which should have been broken into pieces and melted in a basin set in 
hot water), by dropping in the cream balls and turning them over until 
they are thoroughly covered, fish them out with a long pin.— B. H. 

Chocolate Caramel.— Half pound chocolate, one cup molasses, 
one and a-half cups sugar, butter size of walnut, one cup boiled milk 
Boil until It hardens in water.— Mrs. L. D. S. 

Sugar Candy.— Three cups sugar, one cup hot water, half cup of 
vinegar, three-quarters teaspoon cream of tartar ; worked and spread out 
thm. — Mrs. L. D. S. 

Russian TAFrv— One teacupful of cream, one and three-quarter 
pounds soft white sugar, two teaspoonsful vanilla ; Boii from half to 
three-quarters of an hour.— E. T. 

CocoANUT Tablet.— Two pounds white sugar, four ounces grated 
cocoanut, half teacupful water or milk of nut ; put on the sugar with the 
water, stir to a good boil and boil one minute, let it settle and skim, then 
boU till ready, when nearly so put in the cocoa and stir.— E. T. 



Cheese Omelet. -One cup milk, two eggs, pepper, salt and a Uttle 
butter, cover bottom of dish with grated cheese and bake in a hot oven 
for at least twenty minutes. Bake like a custard.— Mrs. James C. 



41 



y^%r 



le teaspoonful 
in a kettle to 
lirty minutes, 
r into enough 
m inch thick, 
H. 

rdered sugar, 
mould into 
' nice english 
le meats will 
s two halves 



wdered white 
I, (according 
il amount of 
lers' sugar to 
IS ; set them 
th chocolate 
basin set in 
n over until 
B. H. 

ip molasses, 
boiled milk 



half cup of 
spread out 



hree-quarter 
om half to 



aces grated 
;ar with the 
1 skim, then 



and a little 
I hot oven 
C. 



Cheese OMELEx.-One cup bread crumbs'*lfery dry and fine two 
scant cups of milk, fresh, half pound of dry old cheese grated? three e«s 
whipped very light, one small tablespoonful melted bStter, pepper and 
salt apmchofsoda disolved in hot water and stirred into'^TemiUc 
soak the crumbs m the milk, beat into these the eggs, butter seaso^ na 
and lastly the cheese, butter a baking dish and poS ^nto it strew S^ 
£rlTer^e°aVot:::LSrltY;" "^'" ' ^"'^' °^^'^' ^"^^ ^^"^^'^ 

Esthetic Eggs.— Boil hard six fresh eggs, take shells off carffniw 
put eggs in cold water a few minutes to prefln't burning blue, cut each 
egg m half cut little off the end of each to make them stand fi'm 
i^i ''^'^/°''^s m a bowl and mash smoothly with a little cream or but S' 
add half as much stale bread, mix with chopped p 'sley%inegTr saU and 
mustard, add nutmeg if preferred, {/ ^MnZn'sno^ aLmTr^^;^^^^^ 
the m.x.ura into the cavity of the egg. filling it up high to loonkracorns 
garnish with parsely or celery and serve on lettuce leaves 

let it holi't'ln h.r^''^ ''"• ^ ""'^^ '"'"'• ^""''' ^'^'■^'^e" *5'h corn starch, 
let It boil well before pouring over the acorns. Serve at once • the eeas 
may be prepared m the morning for tea. This sauce is very hot warms 
them sufficiently. A very pretty dish.— Mrs. R. H. 

Egg Nests on ToAST.-For six r-sts use half a-dozen eggs half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful . d a half of butter anfsx smaU 
pieces of toast. Separate the two parts of the eggs, putting the whitesTnto 
a bowl and keeping the yolks whole by letting them remfin in the ha f 
shells until the time comes for using them. Put the salt .<Jth the whhes 
and beat until a stiff froth is formed. Toast the bread and after diptine 
the edges ,n hot water, spread the slices with butter and place them oif 
tin sheet or pan. Heap the whites of the eggs on the toa ? rnak?a de 
pressionm the centre of each mound and drop the whole yolks into the 
hohows. Race the nests in a moderate oven and cook for three miLutes 
Serve immediately on a warm dish.— Miss P. minutes. 

n„in^,HH f'" OMELET.-One dozen apples peeled, cored and stewed to a 
pulp, add four eggs well beaten, one ounce of fresh butter and a half pound 
uJ^aTI' Jemon peel according to taste; mix well and put into a well 

^^t'f tu^' '^'^'' ^'f^^ """'^^ '^^^^y o^" the top. bake t Use for 
dessert with cream and sugar.— Mrs. N. 

ter nf^rf n/lT^^'~y°^'''' °^ '^° '^^'' ''^'^^^ °f ^^ree. half ounce but- 
S;.; ^° ,f^*' o°e teaspoon sugar, small teaspoon vanilla : separate 
whites and jolks, put the yolks in a bowl with sugar and van 11a, bSS 
like cream, add the whites after beating them to a stiff froth nut 7 JnrK 
of salt in the whites while beaung ther!, ludt in a frying oan^hLf ounce 

on th^T'^f r.^"'' ^^ '^J^y^'^ ^"y "g^^t'y, pourimofhfpan and leave 
on the top of the stove for a mimu*. »k<.« ^i :_ ^l. " r _ ^ 

minutes.— S. D. R. ' *'''" ^'""" ^' '""= "^'^^ ^o'" ^"^ 

«i h.m^^h^''^° EGGS.-P!ace an iron spider upon the fire, put in a piece 
of butter the size of an egg and a large cup of Vieet milk, break six ee^! 
in a small bowl, cut the yolks with a tpoon^ and pour them S the Sfk 



Me 



4» 



and butter, and stir a iTflTe so that they may present a marbled appearance: 
add salt to taste, as soon as the mixture begin, to thicken on the bottom 
of the spider scrape off with the side of the spoon and continue to do so 
until the whole mass is thickened, then turn into a dish quickly, sprinkle 
over It a little pepper, and serve at once.— E, A. W. 

Omelette Fried.— Six eggs beaten very light, the whites to a stiff 
froth and tne yo ks to a smooth thick batter, add to the yolks a small cup 
of milk salt, lastly, stir in the whites, have butter hissing hot in the pan. 
pour in the mixture and set i^ over a clear fire, do not stir it, but slip a 
broad bladed knife under the omelette to prevent its burning, when done 
turn on a hot platter and serve at once.— C. H. B. 



■^ 



anSCELLANEOUS. 

Lemon Shirbet.— One quart sweet milk, nearly one pound of white 
sugar, dissolved in it. (cold.) Put into the freezer, and when half frozen, 
put in the juice of five lemons, and the whites of three eggs, beaten to a 
froth, then freeze like ice cream.— Mrs. C. Y, C. 

Soft Soap.— Eight oun ;es borax, eight quarts water, .ne bar soap, 
one tablespoon salt, cut the soap into water and boil.— Mrs. M. M. F, 

Pickle for Curing Hams and Beef.— Eight ounces of crude 
saltpetre, eight pounds of salt, one gallon of New Orleans molssses, eight 
ounces of baking soda. Take a three gallon vessel, put into it the salt- 
petre, pour in two gallons of boiling water, then add the soda, then the 
molasses ; stir thoroughly ; to this add three gallons of cold water, stir in 
salt until it will bear a potato the size of an egg; if this does not make 
sufficient quantity add brine same as above until the meat is covered 
Lay hams rind side down and turn them once in ten days. Let beef for 
drying remain in the brine fifteen days ; hams from thirty to thirty-five 
days before smoking. Wash the hams in warm water when taken from 
the brme. — J. W. 

■ Water Gruel.— One tablespoonful of oatmeal, boil in three pints 
of water until Ane and smooth, then take off the fire and let it stand and 
settle, pour into a bowl and add sugar and nutmeg to taste , serve it up 
hot with toast or crackers on a soup plate.— C. H. B. 

Junket.— Put warm milk into a bowl, turn it with rennet, then put 
scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg on the top without breaking the curdT 

Hop Bitters.— Four ounces hops, two ounces mandrake root, two 
ounces dandelion root, two ounces buchu leaves, one imperial quart 
whisky, half pound rock candy. Get the herbs giound and put two or 
three quarts of watci o« them and steep one day and night by slowly 
simmering on the back of stove, then strain, when cold add the whisky 
and rock candy, the latter to be dissolved in as little water as possible. 
You should have from three pints to two quarts of liquid before adding 
whisky. Take one tablespoonful half an hour before each meal. - Mrs F 



:d appearance; 
)n the bottom 
tinue to do so 
ickly, sprinkle 



hites to a stiff 
cs a small cup 
ot in the pan, 
it, but slip a 
g, when done 



)und of white 
n half frozen, 
i, beaten to a 



<ne bar soap, 
tf. M. F. 

es of crude 
classes, eight 
it the salt- 
•da, then the 
water, stir in 
es not make 
It is covered. 
Let beef for 
to thirty-five 
taken from 



three pints 
it stand and 
, serve it up 



et, then put 
: the curd. 

ke root, two 
perial quart 

put two or 
t hy slowly 

the whisky 

as possible. 

:fore adding 

Jl.-Mrs. F. 



SOME RULES FOR ROASTINg, BOftlNg & BMINg. 

beef. """ ^°''"""' ""=*"■ -0°« ".>'•"•« of a- hour for each pound of 

ducj„"gx:T:en^^vf[rfiTs„r" '•""■ ^p*^ "■'*=•>- 

Veal and while meats require longer lime than beef or mutton. 

wa.erfX-bo'SS'gToralet minut!^ flVlT 2'™".^^ P"' '" "-""8 
to rimmer. Meat to be iTad^SMn J ^ f "" ''»* '"^ allowed 

All meau while boilbg rhS/^rcaJSylffm^ P"' """ "'" "'"• 

.llow^oltatrumSVnder" aS oSe h^'f ""•,"«■" J° "■= "»"■ '"» 
from twenty to thirty minutes. °" ''' ' "*'«' f""'' Chickens 

thoroughly whileboii;;!"'"""' '' """ ''°' '"'" "P'" *"" '"" ^n-""* 

of fish,ldtoil r' pSf. "'"• ""°** ""•"' "*"' ■""■"'« 'o ^x^h PO"»d 

ing porn:'lhe*,re°.hen3; t seJv ™'"' """ ""^ "^ -^'d boil- 
Vinegar and salt added to the water i, an improvement 

-ith rSX «U aSej"""" "' """""" """•I" •« P"' in boiling water 

«.d n-« S;Td!!ng"'?Prh'rbc2lSi"'iSSP''' ™ '" ^'«°« ~'" 
out of the pot dip it imo a basii of ™h »..P ''L"8J »' =«>" »» " «mes 
no. adhere to it. Time • from ^hree "tlf fZ W *' ** " ""'»"' ""> 

ThisSnT^^rt^tdTdte .?a"i"'"'""r'if '"'""^ l-ot. 
seconds if it gets (irm and ad=fra„ •. ■^" P'"* "' bread for a few 

.«d Should A puce's ^Slfottl Sp"r '4 l^^it^Lf^^^^ '" 

— — — * _ 

-^WEIGHTB AND MEASURES.^ 

Two cups of sifted flour weighs. . 

One Dmt of sHi/^A flr.iir -.-:~L_ One nmmH 

One pmt of white sugar weighs. ^°® pound. 

Two tablespoons of liquid. . . ^'^^ pound. 

Eight teaspoons of liquid. . . . , * ^^^ ounce. 

One gill of liquid ^'^^ ounce. 

One pint of liquid : ^o"' ounces. 

Sixteen ounces. 




PAGE. 

Breakfast and Supper Dishes 

' 12 

Cakes 

18 

Candies 

-. 40 

Eggs 

40 

Fish ^ 

Fancy Dishes for Dessert 

Meats 

6 

Miscellaneous 

4a 

Puddings and Pies , 

Preserved Fruits 

Pickles ^l 

• 38 

Rules for Roasting, Boiling, Baking, etc 4, 

Sauces 

: II 

Soups 

Salads 

17 

Weights and Measures 

4S 



Vlwayv .^^i 
?ANCY D 
o be found 



STA] 

Cottons, '. 
ings, Table ] 
Ducks, Drill 

FANCY 



' This beini 
iepartments 
iortment will 



In Silks, 
fforth, represi 




In this <j 
[Our trade is 1 



In this ( 
ids empioy 



This depi 
by experts of] 



PAGE, 
, ..I» 
...18 
. ..40 
..40 

• 3 

•35 

.. 6 

..4a 

..36 

■37 
..38 

•43 
. .11 

. . 3- 
.17 

•45 



WEST ENd DRY BDDDS HCUBE, 



»♦■>■■■ 



.RKerr&Co. 

34 KING STREET WEST, ' 



Uways _'p on hand one of the best assorted stocks of STAPLF and 
^ANCY PRY GOODS. MILLINERY. MANTLES and COSTUMES 
[o be found in Western Ontario. 



" «♦'» 



STAPLE GOODS. 

Cottons, Prints. Sheetings, Shirt- 
ings, Table Linens, Towels, Denims 
lOucks, Drills, Etc, Etc. 

FANCY DRESS COODS. 

This being one of the principal 
iepartments in the house, the as- 
sortment will be found splendid. 



DEPARTMENTS. 



HOSIERY and GLOVES. 

Rouillon Kid Gloves in a, 3, 4, 
and 6 Buttons. 

Gent's Kid Gloves. 

Ladif V and Gents' Hosiery and 
Underclothing in variety. 

Ribbons, Laces. &c., &c. 

Smallwares in great variety. 



SILKS AND VELVETS. 

In Silks. Satins, and Velvets we keep a stock of over lo.oco dollars 
Morth, representing every new idea as they appear in the French Markets. 

MILLINERY. 

lour ^t t:^^' " "' " acknowledged authority in Hamilton. 

DRESSMAKING. 

In this department we acknowledee no annerJnr /^»i„ «-=*_.._. 
lainds eoaployed. " ' ""' 

MANTLES. 

by experts of known abiUty. Try us for your mantles. "*»»8«» 






ROBERTxDUNGANx&xGO.J*' 

ZoT. ^ames and :?vi:arlcet Streets, ''■' 

HA«tLTON. ♦ ♦ Ontario. 5 

■ ' . i 

Books. Standard and Miscellaneous Books, Maga- 

zines, etc., Bibles, Prayer Books, Hymn Books J 
School and College Text Books. 



Stationery, staple, Commercial and General Sta- \ 
tionery, School Stationery, etc. , L 

1^ 



Account Books. We manufacture every descrip. 
tion of Account Books, Memorandum Books, 
Pass Books, etc. 



I 



Importers of Photograph Albums, Autograph Album. 
Wallets, rocket Books, Purses, Ladies' ani 
Gents' Card Cases, Velvet Photo, Frames, etc. 



Wall Papers. Our stock of Wall Papers, Dade S 
Decorations and Borders is the largest and best | 
selected in the Province. *' 



